<-No. LXXXV.j
THE TABLET
No. LXXXV.
" From annexing different ideas to words, men muji
always be at variance in their speculative reason-
ings."
A LITERARY correspondent has favored the
editor with the following Eflay refpedling
the use of certain terms as applied by some reli
gious fedts. The learning and good sense it dis
covers, induce us thus early to lay it before the
public.
FOR THE TABLET.
"TT is laid that the inanichean system of The-
X ology, excluding a few absurdities, forms a
part of our orthodox creed. The principal dif
ference in the two systems is this—that the Ma
nicheans believe the evil principle to be co-equal
with the good principle ; and both supreme in
their refpe<flive departments ; one the sovereign
author of good ; the other, of evil. The chris
tian scheme places this point on a confident foot
ing, by informing us that there is but one supreme ;
but at the fame time, it makes the devil, afubor
dinate being, the immediate author of evil. It
informs us that the firft fin in paradise was caused
by the instigation of this evil spirit or principle,
and the whole tenor of scripture proves that he
has ftilla material influence over human adlions.
The heathen systems of mythology all supposed
a number of created inferior deities, or demons,*
both good and bad spirits, which were inftru
lnentalin executingtne purposes of the Supreme
Being. The scripture declares this tobe a faift—
the angels are minillering spirits, and the devil
and his fellow apoftatesmay be permitted to ex
ecute the decrees of heaven upon the wicked.
All nations feein to have had some notions of a
chaos, prior to the creation. The scripture fays
the earth was without form and void, and dark
r ess was upon the face of the deep ? The Edda, ■)■
which contains the opinions of our Gothic ances
tors, fays, " Before creation, all was one vast
" abyss."
The scripture tells us that the " world and all
" things that are in it shall be deftroyedby fire."
The Kdda fays, " Surtur, the blacks, shall come
tl at the end of the Vvorld—vanquish the Gods,
" and give up the universe a prey to the flames."
'1 he bible informs us, that woman was made
out of the man's fide or rib. The Edda, repre
sents, that " Ymer, the firft man or giant, slept
" and fell into a sweat, and from the pit of his
" leftarin were born male and female."
The scripture gives us a particular account of
a deluge that deltroyed the whole human race,
except tight persons. The Edda fays, " the ions
" or Bore flew the giant Ymer, and all the giants
" of the froft were drowned, except Bergelmer,
" who was saved in his bark." In all tliefe par
ticulars, we can fee a striking analogy of ideas ;
and a strong proof of some briginal revelations,
from which these notions were derived.
The ancient northern nations believed in one
fnprenie being ; but they supposed that in the
Agdrdor divine abode, he had twelve names, of
which Allfadcr\ was the firft or molt considera
ble. They had likewise foine idea of a place of
misery, as oppoled to the Agard, the abode of the
Gods. This they called Hela, which fignifies,
Death, and is the origin of our word hell. The
English therefore, like the Latins, who used infe
ri or imus, for the inhabitants of the lower re
gions, as well as for the regions themfelvea, have
no word for he/1 which fignifies any thing more
than th£ place of the dead.
The opinions which nations had of a Deity may
he collected from the names which they used to
denote his exiitence. The Greek word Tbeot is
derived from a verb that flgnifies to run, to move-,
ones sets- —a term that proves they considered
hiin as a setf -moving power ; but it is said this
■word was originally appropriated to the stars
which they worshiped as deities. The Latin
word Dens is perhaps a derivative of Theos ; the
Romans however did notufe ittoexprefsthe One
Supreme ; but generally to denote one God of
many. It was equivalent to le Dteu in French, or
the Co J ; and it implied a plurality of Gods. The
* The word dxtnon originally fignified a good spirit as well as
cad one. So it is used by Herodotus, Book 7, ("peaking of the
Grecian oracle, he fays " Such was the will of the Daemon."
+ This is said to have been written in Teutonic or Scandanavian
language, by Snorro Sturlefon, an Icelander, -who lived in the
J.uli century. It was trail(lated into French by Mon. Mallet.
+ I his void may be a compound of all-father, that is father oj
. like rlu? Jupiter of the Greeks ; or it may be a Hebrew-Gothic
word, from el and Jaier\ elfignii'ying the beneficent.
NOTES.
WEDNESDAY February 3, 1790.
Greeks and Romans seem to have had some idea
ot afupreme, independent, felf-exifting power ;
but their Theoi, Dei,Divi and Demotict, were con
sidered as spirits merely superior to man, and
having an influence over their a&ions and the e
vents of the natural world.
Were the English to found their theological
creed upon the literal meaning of the two words
Cod and Devil, they must all be Manicheans ; for
originally God was the fame word as good, and
Devil it but the contrallion of the evil, or de
evil.
Our northern ancestors therefore made use of the
word good, to convey their idea of the cause of all
good ;&oftheword<?i>//,to exprefstheir belief of the
existence of a malignant spirit or principle. They
were not indebted to christianity for the names,
nor the ideas exprefled by the names ; for both
existed among the ancient Scandanavians, long
before their knowledge of the christian religion.*
Christianity has corrected our ideas of those be
ings, and the appropriations of the names—for
we do not use the word Cod by way of eminence,
merely to express an idea of superior excellence ;
but we use it to express the scripture ideas of Je
hovah,the fupreine felf-exillent being. The word
devil, or the evil one we use to denote the demons
or bad spirits mentioned in scripture, and parti
cularly to denote the chief of the apostate angels.
Much depends on the copioufnefsof a language.
The Ethiopeans had but one word for nature and
person ; consequently were not capable, on the
promulgation of christianity, of comprehending
the dodtrine of Christ's incarnation. The Chi
nese, it is said, have no word for Deity but that
which Signifies sky
Mr. Heviot, who was oils that attempted a fet
tleinent in Virginia, under Sirßicliard Grenville,
in 1585, observes that in explaining the christi
an religion to the savages, he found their curiosity
excited, but he could not make them understand
the scheme, on account of the poverty of their
language. Hence the absurdity of an attempt to
christianize the savages, before their languages
are enlarged and rendered capable of exprefling
metaphifical ideas. It is doubtless impoflible to
convert rude nations into rational chrjftians, till
their minds are in some degree improved by sci
ence, and their languages enriched with words
for expreffingabftra(stideas."j-
* The ward food was originally fpclt Gtd, and varied in the
Saxon form. Norn. god. Gen. godis, &c. See Hicke's Saxon
Grammar. In the German, the name of the Supreme Being is
Cell; d being changed into t after the usual manner.
+ I.anauagrs, in their infant ftatc, contain few words but names
of sensible objects.
THE OBSERVER—No. XV
AN aflumption of the State debts, is an event
which many think must eventually take
place : there may be doubts, and difficulties to
obviate, which will occasion a delay ; but the ef
forts of the Union, and of the States, to systema
tize their treasuries, will probably ultimate in
this measure.
Doubtless there will be persons enouglito raise
objections, and with an honest design ; for there
needs much deliberation to fee the propriety of
new measures, which will have so extenfire an ef
fe<t. If any of the States should now think the
measure againlt their interest, a short time will
open their eyes, by the confufion which must en
sue from a continuance in their present situation.
I f the State debts should be aflumed,it will become
a serious question, how shall funds be provided for
the aggregate sum ? Every poflible revenue from
trade will be inadequate, and the Treasury of the
United States, must befurnifhed with other ways
and means. The people will cheerfully pay
what justice requires, for it must be as much their
interest as it is their duty ; and a principal diffi
culty will be in conciliating the public feelings to
a system of uniform operation thro the whole.—
I will mention the several propositions which have
occuredtomy hearing. There yet remains a
very small number, who tell us that the old me
thod of requisition is best ; leaving every State to
its own way of taxing and collecting the sum de
manded—They fay further, that Congress now
poflefles the power of coercion, and after a State
hath proved delinquent, will be a proper time
for the general government to exert its coercive
authority, and enforce apayment.
The very proposition appears to me to be
fraught with evil, and must soon end in afubver
fion, either of the general, or of the State govern
ments, and probably of the latter. To make a
requisition on the States will be easy ; but
there is every reason to suppose sonic of them will
prove delinquent, which must lead to universal
NOTKS.
£>uus.
\_PubliJhec■ on IVedriefday and Saturday.]
delinquency. In this cafe who is the fiibjeift of*
coercion ? If it be the delinquent State in its cor
porate capacity, it can be done only by levying
war on the whole people, and fubvei ting their ex
iltence as a State ; if the private citizens coniid
ered as fubjetfts of the United States are to be
coerced, the process will be loaded with a thou
sand difficulties, for which an antidote cannot be
provided. Perhaps the delinquent State has made
a grant of the demanded sum ; part is collected
and in the State treasury, part in the hands of
fpecuiating collectors, over whom the gene
ralgovernment hath no power, and part un
paid in the hands of the people ; some di
striCts have contributed their whole quota, and
others no part of it; in this stage of the buftneis
how lhall the general government take hold and
coerce a collection ? and to new allefs the whole
sum on the people, would be a manifeft inju
llice by the operation of the two governments.
Or suppose the delinquent State nejajleCts to
make any grant of the requisition j will it not be
an ungrateful business, and have a most powerful
tendency to destroy all respeCt to State authority,
for the United States to come in and tell the peo
ple " we have made our demand on your Jegilla
" ture, and they have not done their duty—they
" have {hewn themselves to be either ignorant or
" dishonest ; we are therefore under a necessity
" of taxing you direCtly without their interven
" tion, your fitter States have paid their propor
" tion, and criminate your delay, blame not us
" but your own aflembly." Will a measure of
" this kind be pacific in its tendency ! Will it not
looklikeakingdomdividedagainftitfelf? will it
not be a source of contention, and either destroy
the union, which I think cannot now be done, or
annihilate all respeCt to the State government
where it happens ? Ye friends to the dignity of
your own States, be careful how you fprcad
a snare to destroy their legislative reverence?—
The doCtrine of requisition on the States, in every
point of view, is a dangerous and impracticable
one. Those who tells us, that it is become fea
fible, since the general government have a power
of coercion, either do not forefee consequences,
or intend gradually to subvert the government of*
individual States.
That the general government poflefles a coercive
power over an individual State, is allowed on all
hands ; but the matter ought to be so conducted,
that they may never have occafionto ufeit. In a
conflict of this kind, we know that any one State
mull ultimately bow to the joint decifionof all
the others ; but I should consider such an event
unpropitious. If we intend to preserve a refpec
tablenefsto thefeparate States, we muftgive the
United States, original and sole jurifdicftion and
executive power of all matters in their nature na
tional ; and a general system of finance, and pro
viding for the payment of the whole debt, by
whatever name called, is conceived to be such.
If the general government mult ever use coercion,
let it be to execute their own laws and grants ;
and let individuals and not States be the fubjeits
of it. These truths must lead every friend of the
union and of the separate States to reject the idea
of requisitions. If we defrgn to preserve a refpec
tablenefs to the State legislature and executive,
let us cordially, and in the firft instance give up
all those matters,which may be better conducted,
by a national aflembly and executive.
I have also heard another proportion which is
this. Let there be an apportionment to each
State of its quotaof the sum needed ; letCongrefs
directly tax the inhabitants, following in each
State the mode of taxation and collection, which
is used by their own government. This, it is
said, will be more familiar and pleasing to the
people than any other poflible method. On this
I observe, that the proposition keeps up the idea
of a previous apportionment on the States ; which
ever hath been, and while continued must be a
fourr.e of jealousy. By such jealousies nothing
is gained and much endangered.
This planpropofes as many modes of taxing
and collecting, as there are States, for no two
have a similar procedure—there must be thirteen,
bodies compleatly organized with limbs, joined to
one head, the treasury board of the United
States—is It poflible for this head to preserve or
der, cdntroul and give motion to so great a num
ber of bodies ? Is it poflible for the treasury
board to comprehend and a<ft on so complex a sy
stem ? Is the general government to have a com
pleat set of officers of their own appointment, ot
to make use of those appointed by the States ? If
the former, their number will be immense ; if
the latter, they will feel no dependence on the
union and cannot be brought to account.
The operation of a taxing system is much more
expeditions in some, than it is in other States;
in some it often runs into an arrearage of years.Can a general system (land with any punctuality
upon such uncertainties ? Will it not be in the
power of a fingleftate, by altering its own laws,
at any time to disconcert the general treasury ar
rangement ? Will the treasury officers ever be a-,
ble togive an exadl account of the national re
venue, in whose hands monies are, or whether in
afafe situation ! I will propose a question which
to the people is still a more serious one—Those
public officers intruded with the revenue, and
with the disposition of monies, ought to be placed
in the most accountable situation ; from the inte
grity of those now in office, we cannot infer the
honor or honesty of their lucceflors; and will
not so complex a plan as we are now considering,
give the greatest room for evasion and fraud,
that can never be detected ? Whoever considers
these queltions, in fomeof thein, will find unan
swerable objections, against Apportioning to the
Stares, and adopting in each one, its own method
of taxing and collecting.
If neither of the above methods are feafible,
the general goverment must adopt a system of its
own, on plain principles, which may operate
thro' the whole with equal expedition and justice.
The greateftevil is to be expected from a plan
which either gives difcretiojiary power to subor
dinate officers of government, in dividing the
taxes on the people ; or is so complex in its
principles and operation that they cannot under -
stand it. No good man will murmur when he
fees himfelf treated on principles of equality ;
hut lawgivers ought to remember, that for the
common citizens to fee this, the mode of taxation
mud be very plain. It is butafew, who have a
thorough knowledge of the principles and influ
ence ot the tax laws in their own States, and this
they have acquired by living long under them.
Should the general government adopt a complex
system, by detaching the most eligible pans, from
all the local customs within the union, it would
still appear to the people a proper objeCt of jea
lousy, and not feeing an equal operation on o
thers, they would suppose theinfelves injured.
If there be any kind of property which is the
bafisof wealth throughout the union, and bears a
near proportion to the ability of the people who
must pay ; if this kind of property cannot be fe
cretecl, and may be charged on principles of
greater equality than any other,- if the nature of
the propef-ty be such that every man may previ
ously calculate his taxes, and detect an over
charge; if it admits a more easy and cheap col
lection than any other ; if its produce must forever
be in demand, which will enable the pcrfon
charged to pay his taxes; this property on some
plain principles ought to be the subjeCt of direCl
taxaation.
PARIS, Nov. 5
r "T , HE final decision of the grand qneftion on
X the property of the Clergy, wasagitated in
no less than nine different Afiemblies, and has
produced moll violent debates. The importance
of the decision, brought back all ranks of people
to Paris, and it was finally determined in the ful
left meeting that has aflembled fincc the firlto
pening of the States General, there being no
fewer than 964 Members present.
The Count de Mirabeau, clofecl the debate
with the following pertinent remarks, temling
to {hew the revenuesof the Clergy were the pro
perty of the people.
" These revenues fays he, have been given to
the Clergy,either by Monarchs or private per
sons, or purchased by them. If Monarchs gave
them, in that cafe, they originally belonged to
the people; if private peifons—they bellowed
them on the Clergy for the use of the public
worlhip, which belongs to the people ; if the
revenues have been purchased, it was done with
the saving of money, the amount of which be
longed to the people.
Thequeltiou was then carried in the following
words :
First, " That all the Ecclesiastical property is
at the disposal of the nation, at the Charge of pro
viding in a proper manner for the propagation
of religion, co maintain its Ministers, and eale
the poor, under the infpedtion, and conformable
to the inftrutftious of provinces.
Art. 11. " That in the dispositions to be made
for maintaining the Ministers of Religion, no
Curate Ihall have leTs than 1200 livers per annum,
excluiive of his lodging and garden "
In favor ofthe Decree
Againlt it
Majority
The Caifl'e cl'Efcompte ft ill docs honour to
its notes ; about 30,000 of them are daily paid ;
they arc chiefly of 1000 livers each (about 40
guineas.) Foreign billsot exchange, and drafts,
are generally paid at the Caill'e d'Efcompte ; bank
ers have fentahnoft all their cafli to that bank.
L O N D O N, November 9.
The Imperial forces in Brabant under General
d'Alton, have hung up every person they have
found in arms. At Lonvaine, several ofthe In-
fuvgents hnve been executed on a temporary gal
lows.
MR. fLKXO,
IX looking over the letters I received a few weeks ago from Europe,
I find one of my correfpor,dents has made fomcjlriflures on the debate.) oj
Congref. As his remarks are diElated with candor, and perhaps may
not bedecnea unintereflivg, 1 fend you an extradfrom this letter, which
if you please \ou may ufert in your paper. %•
New-\erk, Feb. 2, 1790,
" DEAR SIR,
" T THANK you for the news-papers you font me, containing the
JL debates of Congress. Your Legiftature, in their firft session.
made good progress. The most intcrefting fubjefts however aie
yet to be brought forward. The present complexion of your pub
lic affairs appears favorable, and it Congiefs in their fee on d feflion
pursue their determinations expressed in the jirjl, your system wil
be complete ; your friends in this country haveftrong expeftation
that the American government will loon affumethc moil refpeft
able eharaftcr of anv on earth. There are now no difficulties in
the way. If your Legislature make the molt of their situation,
your country will rife into honor and prosperity.
" I have peiufcd the debates of Congiefs, with most critical at
tention. They do honor to your Repiefentativcs, who genera Ih
have given indications of abilities and integrity ; but I mull con
fefs lam in some refpe&s a littlt disappointed. The debates dil
covcr less independence of spirit than I expected from men so fa
vorably situated for giviug scope to their talents : I will explain to
you my ideas on this fubjeft.
41 In the firft place it may be remark'.d,that the speakers in Con
gress have not yet acquired confidence in themselves ; They lp< k
as if they thought themselves unequal to the talk they had to a -
complifh. In many instances, we hnd good arguments loTe tht r
weight from not being more confidently urged ; and the mem
bers appear to want resolution more than feufe or honefly. They
vi w their situation in a light, so new and untried, as to create a
distrust of their own abilities to ast in it with propriety. This
diffidence mav be commendable from the motive that gives rif<
to it, but it will retard public meafurcs and beget unreasonable
precautions. Your Legislators have good ground of confidence in
themselves. The world think favorably of them, and believe
them ccmpetent to the part they have a (Turned.
" Another <r.ircumftance obf rvable in the debates is, that your
representatives appear not to have confidence intheir constituents.
The speakers often express fears how a measure will afFe€l the fee -
ings of the people. There is more evil to be apprehended from
this kind of diffidence than from any other fouree ; and yet thert
is little foundation for cherishing such a diffidence. The people
of your country will submit to any thi that promotes the pub
lic good. There is no formidable oppoiition againlf the govern
ment ; and your Legislators have no reason to doubt that fuc
measures, as are intrinficaHy the best, will be the most univerfallv
approved. Whatever is juil and ufeful will not among so enlight
ened a people, for any length of time, be unpopular. The dfpo
fition of your citizens is as favorable as can be wished, and they
will £hearfully acquielce in all the honest measures of the govern
ment. The resources of your country are nnmenfe, and r.o part
of the globe has such inherent advantages for revenue. Where is
the mighty difficulty in eftabliffiing publiccredit, and in that way.
acquiring an honorablecharafter and realizing all the benefits that
your situation affords ? The Legislators of the United States have
nothing to fear from their conllituents while the plans of the go
vernment are founded in wisdom and honesty. The public opin
ion is scarcely formed on the moil important fubje&s, and it is
the business of the Legislature to iinpiefs the public mind with
virtuous principles, before vicious ones have gained ap» cvalence."
(To bp concluded in the next papyr.)
FROM THE CONNECI hUf JOURNAL
THE common custom of Farmer* in tliis State,
is to sow on land, from one to one
bulhel and an half bushel of feed 011 an acfre of
ground. " They that low sparingly shall reap
sparingly," is a maxim well applicable to our
farmers who raise flax.—l believe the general
produce of an acre sown at this rate is, 011 an
average, one hundred and sixty weight of flax
when drefled. And this flax is generally fliort
and coarse.
A Gentleman of undilputed veracity, in a neigh
bouring State, lately gave this account.—" 1 hat
he had two acres of good ground, which he de
signed to sow with flax ; and that one of his
neighbors alked theprivilege offowing it to halves,
which he. granted, on condition that he lhould
put five bushels of feed upon it ; —he accordingly
did—and that in autumn he received for his half,
five hundred weight of w£ll drefled flax;—that
it wns very long, and much finer than common."
This is more than three times the quantity of
flax that is commonly raised from an acre of
ground, with only the additional expence of one,
or one and a half bulhel of feed. But this ex
pence would be more than compensated by the
additional quantity of feed produced.
If this hint fliould prove of any fervjce to those
who cultivate flax, 1 fliall think this not written
in vain
KAYETTEVILLE, Jan. 1790.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in London, to
I;. y.:_ . J • ./•
" The new federal duties are smart, but they
will aflift Congress to bring about an efficient go
vernment—your (late keeping aloof froin so ref
peiftable a body is too ridiculous to make any
comment upon the absurdity of the idea. This
country will not long tamely submit to America
laying duties on our shipping ; this I can tell
you of a truth, having been the other day closet
ed with some of our great men on that head.
This idea was received, I could plainly fee, from
a felf-interefted merchant, and not the breath
ings of a liberal patriot and politician ! indeed I
was told foine thing mult be done, and if America
had any thing to offer, let her do it, for that o
ther alien nations had aflced the ininifters of this
kingdom, and requested an answer— " Why is
not America treated as an alien nation, fuppo
sing her a favourite one too, and the fame alien
duties imposed upon her exports as are levied up
on ours." You fee how the pliyfic works, our ge
ral committee is this day funimoned upon the
bufmefs by the laws of trade; your pot-ash will I
am afraid, be an object."
5 73
346
232
338
" London, November 2, 1789.
Jo
his friend in this town
Sir,
AT a friend's house where I was lately visiting, some peifon
present obfervmg a negro child capering in thn yard re
claimed—what alp rightly little devil it is !—the circumihnce led
to a train of rrflc&ions, of which I fend you the result.
It is a very general observation that mulatto and negro children
difcovcr a greater degreeof vivacity and cunning, than white chil
dren of the fdme age ; and many persons arc at a )ofs to account
for the difference, when they obfervc that as the former encreafe in
years, the reverse appears to he the cafe,—for a negro who w?s
lively and ingenious in childhood, is observed to lose these quali
ties as he advances in life—and old negroes are generally reserved
dull and ltupid.
The hiltory of this business I conceive to be this—the Creator
lath endued all animals with a principle of a&ivity this dif
. overs itfelf with the greatest force while they are hence
children of all colours, arc forever in motion, when awake tins
attivity is equally observable in a//--and affords one inconteftib'.e
vidence, that in the distribution of active, and ingenious powers,
nature does not confine its gifis to hair, or wool—what then occa
'ions the difference in after life ? Education entirely—education
is but another word for discipline—the natural versatility of the
tuman mind by the influence of rules and orders is corretted •
he wanderings of the fancy is retrained : and that propensity,
vhich unchecked, ripens into mischievous ingenuity, and mon
k.yilh adtoitnefs, is made fubfei vient to ufeful acquirements, un
fertile hand of parental tcndcrncfs, and unremitted care, and vi-
g;ilance—But the ill fated fable race, are generally negle&ed, or if
attended to, the attention has a verv unpropitious afpeft on their
f uture fate—accuftrmed to consider Africans as property, but little
r uperior to four legged animals, their proprietors too often treat
icra as such—as mere machines of temporary amusement hence
'heir infant gambols, monkey tricks and pcrtnefs, are encouraged
.»y smiles and laughter—some carry the fatal humour so far as
never to discourage the infant buddings of artfulnefs, tricking and
lying—thus nurturing and hardening them in vice—without the
fmallefl effortsto instill into their minds, contrary principles.
This is the mode of treatment generally adopted towards black
and yellow children—the consequences are such as all the world
s acquainted •with—the wrctched cffe&s have given rife to an
idea, that blacks are deficient in mental powers—but I leave it
o thefober judgment of every candid white person, whether si
milar treatment would not neccHarily produce the fame apparent
ncomp< t 'ney in the whites. There arc some persons, who,*in
many refpe&s conduct towards their children, agreeable to the
above mode of treating blacks—eflcntial inflruttions are omitted •
but what is called fprightlintfs, manhnefs, &c„ are encouraged
f!l a pert boldness, a knack at fwearipg, and a tacts for diflipa
:ion f comprehend the whole circle of the sciences to young maf
er. Yon fball hear from me again fliortly. Your's, C.
MiR. GALE, member from Maryland, took his
■ feat this day.
The bill for defining and punishing certain
crimes against the United Stat°s, was read a se
cond time, and made the order of the day for Fri
day next. Ordered, that 100 copies be printed
for the use of the House.
The order of the day being called for, the
House went into a committee of the whole on the
bill for securing to authors and proprietors the
copy i ight of their works.
The bill was read and difended in paragraphs.
The committee thenrofe, and reported the fame
with amendments. It was moved that the bill
lhould be re committed. This was obje&ed to.
The motion for re-commitment was withdrawn,
and the House proceeded to consider the amend
ments—to all of which they agreed. It was then
ordered that the bill be engrofled for a' third
reading to morrow.
Mr. White of the committee appointed to ex
amine into the measures taken by Congress ref
peifting lands granted by the State of Virginia,
for the troops of that State, brought in a report
which was read.
A meflage was recived from the President of the
United States, by his Secretary, communicating a
letter from the Gov. of North Carolina, with a
copy !of the act of that State, ceding to the United
States, certain Weitern Lands, therein described.
The meflage with the accompanying ast were
read—and on motion of Mr. Smith, (S. C.) re
feredtoa committee to report thereon. The fol
lowinggentlemen were appointed accordingly,
Mr. Clymer, Mr. Tucker, Mr. Gale, Mr. Madison,
and Mr. Matthews.
AGRICOLA
Mr. Hartley moved that a committee Ihouldbe
appointed tobringin a bill providing foragener
alfyftem of Bankruptcy in the United States.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) objected to taking up the
fubje(ft immediately, as he conceived the present
{trust ion of the country is such, as to render age
neral law on this fubjedl a more intricate and per
plexing business than the gentleman is aware of.
He thought it. bed to defer the business till the
public debt should be funded, and banks e'ftablifli
ed, without which it is difficult to conceive how
arrangements can be made to facilitate the pay
ment of debts, or the operation of such a law. —
He said the insolvent atfts in the several States
would answer at present.
Mr. Hartley replied, that the constitution
required that an acftlhould be pafled by Congress
on the subject ; but he was not for hurrying it
through the house the present feflion, he was de
sirous however thatfonie Heps should betaken
to (hew that the Congrels had the credit of the
country in view.
Mr. Sedgwick followed Mr. Smith in a similar
train of observations, and adverting to the present
state of that country from whence many of our
THE GUEST.—No. XV,
To tht Author of the Guejl.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, FEB. i, 1790.
Mr. Baldwin in the chair.
sprecedents are derived, said, that since tlic adop
tion of their prelent system of bankruptcy, that
nation had enjoyed a degree of tranquility and
domestic happiness, unknown for a century be
fore ; but recuring to the obvious difference in
the circumstances of the two countries, with ref
peiffc to commercial tranlacftions within that king
dom, said, that in his opinion we are not prepar
ed at present to go fully into the lubjetfl, or to a
dopt liinilar regulations. When there appeared
to him to be a greater facility in recovering debts
he would not be backward in voting for the mea
sure.
Mr. Hartley consented that the motion should
lie on the table.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) recited the following clause
in the couftitution, viz : Full faith and credit
iliall be given in each State to the public a<sis,
records and judicial proceedings of every other
State, and the Congreis may by general laws pre
scribe the manner in which fncii aifts, records and
proceedings shall be proved,and the cifedt thereof.
—and moved that a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill or bills pursuant thereto ; this mo
tion being adopted, the following gentlemen
were appointed the committee, viz. Mr. Page,
Mr. Jackson, and Mr. Thatcher.
Mr. Heifter moved that a committee be appoint
ed to bring in a bill or bills, making provision
for the inyalid pensioners of the Unired States,
this being adopted, Mr. Heifter, Mr. Partridge,
and Mr. Hathorne were appointed.
On motion of Mr. White, a committee of elec
tions was appointed, viz. Mr. Ames, Mr. Sherman,
Mr. Benfon, Mr. Stone, Mr. Page, Mr. Wynkoop,
and Mr. White.
A meflage from the Senate by their Secretary
with a bill for giving efFe<sl to the laws of the
United States, in the State of North-Carolina,
returned with amendments, in which che Senate
requested the concurrence of the Houfe.—Tliefe
amendments were concurred in, with one amend
ment only.
By the amendments of the Senate to the fore
going adt, a claule is introduced for the purpose
of farther suspending Ihe operation of the ton
nage atfr with refpetfl to vellels of Rhode-Hland
till the firft day of April next. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Mr. Bland of Virginia took his feat this day.
The engrolled bill for securing the copy right
to authors and proprietors was read the third time.
On motion this bill was recommitted to a fe
left committee, and Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Sherman,
and Mr. Sylvelter were appointed.
Several petitions were read and laid 011 the table
Mr. Foster of the committee on the bill provi
ding for the atftual enumeration of the inhabi
tants of the United States, reported sundry a
mendments to said bill, which were read—'l hefe
amendments included the schedules proposed by
Mr. Madil'on.—TheHoufe proceeded to consider
the fame.
The amendments preceding the schedules were
agreed to—thof'e being read.
Mr. Liverniore observed that he wasapprehen
five it was impracticable to effect an enumeration
upon a plan that was to fpecify so many particu
lars.—He conceived it would be extremely dif
ficult, if not impoliible to make the diitin&ions'
proposed—the schedules contemplate too minute
an enumeration of the various arts, and profefli
ons,if it comprized a smaller number it might an
swer—but he was afraid that calling for so parti
cular a detail might excite some disagreeable ideas
in the minds of the people.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that the object which
the Hon. Gentleman had in view in moving for
the recommitment of the bill, was to obtain
more accurate information, not only with refpedt
to the numbers of persons, but alio to as ertain
more particularly the acftual state of society in
the United States.—He could have wished there
fore that the learned profeflions had been inclu
ded, more particularly the lawyers, as he thought
it would have contributed materially to the objecfl.
Mr. Madison observed that the molt important
advantages would be derived to the government
in all its future operations, from knowing the
atfual Hate of the various numbers employed in
the several arts and profeflions. It would aflill
the legislature in forming the laws, and enable
them to do more equal juflice : and had they
been in pofleflion off acfts in thisline in times part,
it would perhaps have led to different decisions
in many points.—With respect to including the
learned profeflions he should be in favor of the
addition.
Some further objections were made to these
schedules, but onthe question being put they were
adopted—as were the other amendments propo
sed by the committee. .
The bill as thus amended, was then read by
he Speaker.
Mr. Burke moved an amendment so as to en
creafe the allowance to thq afiiftants employed in
this business, viz.—To receive one dollar for eve
ry ijo persons returned from the country, and
one dollar for every 2jo in towns of more than
jooo inhabitants.—A considerable diversity of o
pinion appeared on this motion—and the ideas
formerly fnggefted were again repeated- The
motion was at length adopted.
Mr Jackson moved that the clatife which em
powers the marshals, bypermiffion of the diftrkt
judges, to allow the afiiftants one dollar for enu
merating ioo persons, in parts where the in
habitants are greatly dispersed, fliouldbe amend
ed, so as to allow that sum for enumerating 50
persons. 0
This motion after considerable discussion was
carried in the affirmative.
Mr. 1 hatcher moved, for a variety of rea
sons which he offered, that 150 dollars, the al
lowance to the marshal of the diftridt of Maine
fnonld be llruck out, and 250 inserted.
Mr. Boudinot objected—as the adaption of this
motion would lead to enhancing the allowances to
the other diftriifts—which would encreafe the
expence beyond the ideas of gentlemen, and
the abilities of the United States in the present
state of the Treasury.
Mr. Wadfworth supported the motion, and
faicl he did not think t..e business could be per
formed for a less sum than 250 dollars.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that the whole ground
of the motion was 011 the idea that the marshals
must peregrinate to all parts of the diftridl,
whereas 110 such principle is contemplated in the
formation of the bill , the marshal is merely to
receive the returns—l think the allowance in
full propoi tion to what the others are to receive.
Mr. Goodhue said, that comparing the diftrift
of Maine with that of Maflachufetts, and taking
into consideration the difficulties which mull at
tend tranfatfling the business in the former he
lhonld rather undertake to number the people
of Maflachufetts for 250 dollars, than those of
Maine for that sum.
Mr. Livermore wasoppofed to the motion, and
thought that gt "tlemen magnified the difficulties
beyond reason—. cfcribed the duty which he
supposed the inarfhal would have to perform, and
made it appear so inconsiderable, as that ijo dol
lars would be an ample compensation.
Mr. Jackson spoke in favor of the motion.
The motion was divided, and r jo dollars were
(Iruck out.—lt was then moved to insert 2jo dol
lars—this was negatived, and 200 iuferted.
Mr. Boudinot moved that I>o dollars, the al
lowance to the maflhal of the diftridt of New-
Jersey, should be (truck out, and 200 inserted—
which was carried in the affirmative.
The bill being gone through, and sundry a
mendments adopted, it was ordered to be en
grofled for a third reading to-morrow.
A mcflage from the Senate by their Secretary,
with the bill for giving effe<ft to the laws of the
United States, in the State of North-Carolina—
and concurring with an amendment, to the a
mendment proposed yesterday by the House, —
which amendment of the Senate was agreed to.
A committee 011 enrolled bills, confiding of Mr.
Gilman and Mi*. White was appointed.
CINCINNATI PROCEEDINGS
At a general meeting of the New-Tor k State society
of the Cincinnati, held at the Holland Lodge Room,
in the City of New- Tori.
February ift. 1790.
A Petition having appeared in the public pa
pers, as proposed to be signed by a number
of officers of the late army of th« United States,
and prefentedtothe national legislature, praying
that in the system for funding the national debt,
a discrimination may be made in favor of the
original holders of public securities.
The petition was read—whereupon it was
Resolved unanimoujly,
THAT this society disclaim the principles
contained in the said Petition—conceiving it in
continent with the character they have uniform
ly maintained, to seek any advantage to them
selves, which might be incompatible with the
principles of an honorable policy.
Resolved unanimously,
That the foregoing lefolution be publifhedin
thefeveral newspapers in this city.
Ext rati from the Minutes.
JOHN STAGG, jun. Sec.
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 3
Extratt of tetter from a Houf ; of refpett ability in
Bordeaux, dated Nov. 17, I 789, to a Gentleman
in Philadelphia
" Matters are now perfectly. quiet and peace
ible at Paris, and the National Aflembly daily a
iopting measures to render this oneof the molt
ref|se<ftable and flouriftiing councries in Europe—
There is not the shadow of danger of a national
bankruptcy, and private property is as secure as
in any part of the world."
On Thursday last arrived in this city, from
Maflachufettsthe Hon. William Cujhing,one of the
Judges of the Supreme Court of the United
States.
On Saturday the Hon. James Wilson, one of
the Judges of the Supreme Court, arrived here
from Philadelphia.
Yelterday the Hon. John Blair, and the Hon,
Edmund Randolph, arrived in this City from Vir
339
ginia. The formei Is a Judge of the Suprems
Court—and the latter Attorney General for tlis
United States.
THE SUPREME COURT,
Of tne United States, convened on Monday in
this City ; hut a fufflcient number ot' the fudges
not beingprefent to form a quorum, the fame
was adjourned till yefkerday.
The Hon. John Jay, Chief Jiitice of the Uni
ted Stares.
f ne Hon. William Cuihing, and
The lion. James Wilson, Aflbciate Judges,
appeared on the bench.
John M'Kefl'on, Esq. adted as clerk.
J he Court Room ac the Exchange was uncom
monly crouded—The Chief Juflice and other
Judges of the Supreme Court of this State ; the
federal Judge for the diUriel of New York ; the
Mayor and Recorder of New-York ; the Marshal
of the District ofNew-York ; the Sheriff and ma
ny other officers, and a great number of the gen
tlemen of the bar attended on the occaflon.
Yesterday the Supreme Court of the United
States met at the Hall in the Exchange, a quorum
of the Judges with the Attorney-General attend
ing, their refpe<ftive commifTions were read—and
the court then adjourned till this day at one
o'clock.
I heluhjcft of the Secretary's Rep rt engross the public at
tention univerlally : It is the topic in all companies : Tne piinci
ples of ihe proposed fyftctn are perpetually in discussion—and t
is highly probable that the legiflalure will take up this bufmefs un
dergreater advantages the prefrnt session, than they could have at
any tormer period—or than there is any reason to suppose they,
can at any future time.
Wc have long been ftudving the book of experience, and bitter
trunks are therein written against us; especially in the chapter on
I übbc Credit. It is high time to turn over a new leaf, and fe<:
what can be n:f i ibed on the fair pages of the future history of our
country. The American chara&er Itands high in every particular
but one, and it is in our power to wipe off every stigma, and to
convince the whole world that wc are as honest, as we are brave,
enli jhtened and free.
The fuuation oi our public debts, and the very great embar
rafsmcms which attended all our concerns on that account, were
ihepriiioplt uiufes oltiiat revolution which hath given us the Con-
It it ution : The affirmative therefore of the question, Whether the
public debt (hall be placed on Inch a footing, as to retrieve and
eftablilh the honor and credit of the United States, is in fa£l antici
pated, by the adoption of the Conifitution—and from this conii
deration it lollows, that the great quell ion on this fubjeft, involves
a cifcnniiiiation not only between the friends and enemies of the
General Government; but also between those who wilh the
peace, honor, and happiness ot our country, and those who would
rtjoice to fee it in the moll contemptible Rate ot degradation, and
involved in alt the horrors ot confuli-m and bankruptcy. The
mode to be adopted is therefore the only fubjeft of difcullion ; for
the Constitution hath preclude tl ai 1 altercation 011 the principle.
The Commonwealth of Mairachufetrs has latelyextinguirfied its
foreign debt. Tiie lalk payment was 6cooo dollars specie.
EXTRACT.
Why has the world through all ages and na
tions universally ascribed heroism and glory to
conquelt ?—lt is through the refpedt that they'
have for power. Man is by nature weak ;he is
born in and to a state of dependance ; he there
fore naturally seeks and looks about for help ;
and, where he observes the greatefl power, it is
there he applies and pray* for protection. Now,
though this power fliould be exerted to his dam
age, initead of defence, it makes no alteration
in his reverence for it ; he bows while he trem
bles, and while he detests, he wodhips ; in the
present cafe, it is with as it is with God ;
he is not i'o awful anditriking, he is not so much
attended to, in the funihine and gentle dews of
his providence and benignity, as in his light
nings and thunders, his clouds and his tempests.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The " Fracments of Ancient Ballads" does not come
within the limits of our plan— besides it would be a " twice told
talc" to a great proportion of our readers.
41 A New-Jersey Man" came too late for this day's Gazette.
The ftriftures on 44 Justice" in the Daily Gazette,do not ap
ply, as the refle&ions on the Printers of this city, area figment of
the author's own brain.
The' 4 Lines to a Lady" in our next,
ARRIVALS.- NEW-YORK.
Saturday. Brig Chatham, McLean, Port au Prince.
Brig Charles, Pigeon. St. Pcterfburgh, 4 months.
Schooner Rambler, Wheeler, St. Martins, 24 days.
Schooner Hope, , Cape-Fare, N. C. 12 days.
Tuesday. Sloop Maria, Elliott, Charleston, 8 days.
BOOKS.
At the Auttion Room of Mejfrs Smith and Bradford, No.
22, Wall Street, will be disposed oJ\ at public Jale, on Friday Evening
the Kth of February, a large and very oj BOOKS—
conjijhng of Hifior\, Divinity, Law, Phxfic, roct>y, Novels, Miscellany,
tfc. Catalogues will be delivered previous to thefale.
New-York, I^9o.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
Among which are the following Articles :
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,j| Cartas,
Chintzes, || Seerfuckcrs,
Ginghams, || Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for calh.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January q, 1790. t. f.
1REPORT
Of the SECRETARY of the TREASUR Y to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. 9, 1790.
[continuation.]]
TH E general principle of it seems to be equitable, for it ap
pears diilkult to conceive a good reason, whj the expenccs
for the particular defence of a part in a common war, should not
be a common charge, as well as those incurred proleffedly for the
general defence. The defence of each part is that ot the whole ;
and unlefc all the expenditures are brought into a common mass,
the tendency roust be, to add, to the calamities fullered, by be
ing the mofi exposed to the ravages of war, an increase of bur
thens.
This plan seems to be susceptible of no objcftion, which does
not belong to every other, that proceeds on the idea of a final ad
justment of accounts. The difficulty of fettling a ratio, is com
mon to all. This mull, probably, either be fought for in the pro- !
portions of the requilitions, during the war. or in the decision of
commissioners appointed with plenary power. The rule pre
scribed in the Constitution, with regard to representation and di
rest taxes, would evidently not be applicable to the situation of
parties, during the period in question.
The existing debt of the United States is excluded from the
computation, as it ought to be, because it will be provided for
out of a general fund.
The only difcuflion of a preliminary kind, which remains, re
lates to the diftinftions of the debt into principal and interest. It
is well known, that the arrears of the latter bfcar a large proportion
to the amount of the former. The immediate pa) ment of these
arrears is evidently jmprafticable, and a quelhon arifet, what
ought to be done with them ?
There is good reason to conclude, that the impressions of many
are more favorable to the claim of the principal than to that of
the interest ; at least so far, as to produce an opinion, that an infe
rior provision might fuifice for the latter.
But to the Secretary, this opinion does not appear to be well
founded. His investigations of the fubjtft, have led him to a con
clusion, that the arrears of interest have pretentions, at least equal
to the principal.
The liquidated debt, traced to its origin, falls under two prin
cipal discriminations. One, relating to loans ; the other to ser
vices performed and articles supplied.
The part arising from loans, was at firft made payable at fixed
periods, which have long since elapsed, with an early option to
lenders, either to receive back their money at the expiration of
those periods, Or to continue it at interest, 'till the whole amount
of continental bills circulating (hould not exceed the sum in cir
culation at the time of each loan. This contingency, in the sense
of the contra£l, never happened ; and the presumption is, that
the creditors preferred continuing their money indefinitely at in
terest, to receiving it in a depreciated and depreciating state.
The other parts of it were chiefly for objrfts, which ought to
have been paid for at the time, that is, when the services were
performed or the fupplics furnilhed ; and were not accompanied
"with any contract for interest.
But by different acts of government and adminiflration, con
curred in by the creditors, these parts of the debt have been con
verted into a capital, bearing an interest of fix per cent, per an
num, but without any definite period of redemption. A portion
of the loan-office debt has been exchanged for new securities of
thai import. And the whole of it seems to have acquired that
character, after the expiration of the periods prefixed for repay
ment.
If this view of the fubjcfl be a just one, the capital of the debt
of the United States, may be considered in the light of an annuity
at the i ate of fix per cent, per annum, redeemable at the pleasure
of the government, by payment of the principal. For it leems to
be acltar position, that when a public contrasts a debt payable
with interest, without an/ precise time being ftipulatcd or under
stood for payment of the capital, that time is a matter of pure dis
cretion with the government, which is at liberty to confnlt its
own convenience refpefting it, taking care to pay the interest with
pun&uality.
Wherefore, as long as the United States should pay the interest
of their debt, as it accrued, their creditors would have no right to
demand the principal.
But with regard to the arrears of interest, the cafe is differ
ent. These are now due, and those to whom they are due, have
a right to claim immediate payment. To fay, that it would be
impraflicable to comply, would not Vary the nature of the right.
Nor can this idea of impracticability be honorably carried further,
than to juftify the proportion of a new contrast upon the balis ot
a commutation of that right for an equivalent. This equivalent
too ought to be a real and fair one. And what other fair equiva
lent cm be imagined for the detention of money, but a reafdrtable
interest? Or what can be the standard of that interest, but the
market rate, or the rate which the government pays in ordinaly
cafcs ?
From this View ot the matter, which appears to be the accurate
and true one, it will follow, that the arrears of interest are entitled
to an equal provision with the principal of the debt.
The result of the foregoing difcuflion? is this—That there ought
to be no discrimination between the original holders ot the debt,
and present possessors by purchase—That it is expedient, there
(houldbe an aflumption oftheftate debts by theUnion,and that the
arrears of interest Ihould be provided for on an equal tooting with
the principal.
The next enquiry, in order, towards determining the nature of
a proper provision, refpefts the quantum of the debt, and the pre
sent rates of interest.
The debt of the union is diftingmfhable into
foreign and domestic.
The foreign debt as stated in the schedule B.
amounts to principal
bearing an interest of four, and partly an in
terest of five per cent.
Arrears of intercll to the fact oT December,
1789,
Making together, dbllar# 11,710,378 62
The domtflrc debt may be tub-divided in
to liquidated arid unliquidated ; principal and
interest.
The principal df the liquidated part, as dated
in the schedule C, amounts to
bearing an interefl of fix per cent.
The arrears of jntereft as stated in tiie schedule
D. to the end of 1 amount to
Making together, dollars 40,414,085 94
This includes all that has been paid in indents (except what has
come into the treasury oFthe United States) which, in the opinion
of the Secretary, can be considered in no other light, than as inter
cft due.
The unliquidated part of the domestic debt, which consists
chiefly of the continental bills of credit, is not afcertaincd, but
may he estimated at 2,000,000 dollars.
These several sums conllitute the whole of the debt of the Uni
ted States, amounting together to 54,124,464 dollars, and 56
cents.
That of the individual dates is not equally well afcertaincd.
Thefchedule E. shews the extent to which it has been ascertained
by returns pursuant to the order of the House of the 2 ill Septem
ber last ; but this not comprehending all the Hates, the rcfidue
must be cftimatcd from less authentic information. The Secre
tary, however, presumes, that the total amount may be faiely ftatco
at 25 millions of dollars, principal and interest. The preient rate
of intcreft of the state debts is in general, the fame with that of the
domestic debt of the union.
On the supposition, that the arrears of interest ought to be pro
vided for, on the fame terms with the principal, the annual amount
of the interest, which, at the existing rates, would be payable on
the entire mafsof the public debt, would be,
On the foreign debt, computing the- interest
on the principal, as it (lands, and allowing
four per cent, on the arrears of intcreft,
On the domestic debt, including that of the
states,
A FUNERAL ORATION,
On the Most Worfhipfuland Hon. Major-General
RICHARD CASWELL, Grand Master of the
Masons of North Carolina.
And all Judea and Jerusalem mourned for Joftah. Ch. B. 2, t>. 24,
By Francois-Xavier Martin.
Worjhipful SIRS,
And worthy BROTHERS,
BEREFT of him who conducted our works, we
are met to discharge the tribute of a tear due
to his memory. How deeply the reft of the com
munity fimpathizes with us, on this melancholy
occasion, the attendance of a refpetftable number
of our Fellow-Citizens fully teftifies.
Shall our griefs terminate in sterile tears ?
Shall this Discourse, sacred to the Memory of the
Mod Worfhipful and Honorable Major General
RICHARD CASWELL, Grand-Master of the Ma
sons of North-Carolina, be, like the song of the
untutored savage, the mere rehearsal of a War
rior's achievements ? No. In admiring the vir
tues that have rendered his death, like Jofiali's,
lamented in Judea and Jcrufalem, let us, asChrif
tians and Masons, be stimulated, not to offer idle
adulation to his Manes, but, to imitate, in the
pra(ftice of every virtue, so bright a pattern.
Nothing excites more powerfully to virtuous
deeds,than the examples of those whom they have
rendered conspicuous. Man generally desires
what he finds, applauded in others. And, either
because Virtue appears more noble, when he
hears it praised, or less difficult, when he fees it
practiced, he is stimulated thereto—as the labour
is not without reward, and remifliiefs would be
without excuse.
The examples of the Dead are no less powerful
than those of the Living. We look upon the
Virtues of the former with a greater degree of
veneration. As we view those of the latter with
a greater degree of envy ; perhaps, because,
Death having crowned them, we are willing to
believe that posterity praiseS without flattery, as
it praises without interest—or rather (for, why
fllould the real reason be concealed in this tem
ple of truth ?) becaufe,our pride will not fuffer us
to acknowledge them.
To convene the people when fonie illustrious
popular Character had terminated his career, and
to improve the opportunity of exciting them to
Patriotic Virtues, is an ancient cuftoin, frequent
instances of which occur in sacred and profane
history. The herr: of man, however obdurate,
when operated upon by grief, or the idea of a
future ltate is prepared to receive such favoura
ble impressions ; as the ftiff and close grained
stone becomes pliant and dudtile, when heated by
the fire of the furnace.
Thus we read that the corps of Caesar, having
been brought iil'to forum of the metropolis of
the world, Anthony, holding up that Dictator's
garment, addrefled the Roman people. " You
" well know," laidhe, " this mantle. I reinem
" ber the firft time Caesar put it on. It was on
" the day he overcame the Nervii. If you have
" tears to ihed, prepare to lhed them now."
With as much propriety, can I rife to day, and,
addrefling yon, fay :—
You well know these Badges. They are the
Ilifignht of MASONRY—of a society which for
its antiquity and utility acknowledges no equal
among the institutions of the sons of man. Be
hold the White Apron that was girded on him,
the loss of whom we bemoan, on the day he be
came a Mason. He has left it to you, unsullied.
He has left it to you, decorated with those marks
of dignity, to which merit alone gives title.
If you have tears to shed, prepare to lhed them
now.
Dollars. Cents,
i0,07°,3°7
1,640,071 62
He is 110 more. No longer ftiall he, like the
eastern fun illuminate our Lodges ; no longer
lhall he plan or direift our works.
You well know, Fellow-Citizens, that Sword,
emblematical of Supreme Executive Authority.
I remember the firii time it was delivered hitn.
It was on the day we shook off the oppreflive yoke
of British domination and became a People.
If you have tears to flied, prepare to shed them
now.
Dollars. Cents.
271383>5»7 74
zo
He is no more. No longer shall he wield the
Sword of Justice attempered by mercy. No lon
ger shall he preside in your Councils, or lead you
to the hostile Field.
To enter here into a minute detail of the fer
viceshe rendered you, would be to premise that
they may be obliterated from your memory—You
remember them. Brothers and Fellow-Citizens,
they cannot have been forgotten.
340
Making together, dollars 4,587,444 81
(To be continued.)
It was he who headed you on the day you brake
down the superior phalanx of Scotch insurgents
at Moore's creek ; and thereby preserved the cause
of freedom from the deadly blow, this reinforce
ment would have enabled our enemies to strike.
It was he who presided in the aflembly of Pa.
triots, who framed that inltrument, which, defin
ing your rights and the authority of your rulers
hasl'ecured your liberties to this day.
It was he whom your united voices twice called
to the Supreme Magistracy of this State—and it
was he, whom, but a few days ago, still filled the
Chair of your Senate.
If his Public character affords a vast field to the
panegyrist's fancy, his Private one defervesnolefs
our attention and praise. In it we shall always
find an example worthy of imitation.
Dol. Cents.
<4 2 '599 66
4,044-845 '5
Public Virtue may procure a more shining re
putation, but Domestic Virtue gives a more solid
merit. The former, when unsupported by the
latter, is, in the Warrior, a thirst of glory—in
the Civil Ruler, a thirst of power.
A single instance of momentary intrepidity
may make a name to the Chieftain ; but a continu
ed spirit of moderation alone characflerifes the
Virtuous individual.
Valour is a noble paflion, which evinces a great -
ness of ioul. But too oft it is a vain generosity
excited by ambition, and which has for its aim
the mere gratification of a felfilh pride ; an in
considerate boldness juitified by success ; a blind
ferocity which ftifles the voice of humanity, and
by the tears it causes to flow and the blood of its
vitflims, tarnifbes the laurels of the vanqnifher.
Dotneftic virtue on the contrary, is so perfedr,
that it is laudable even in its excefles. It is
peaceable and constant ; and springs from a
meekness and tenderness which regulate desire,
and, giving the virtuous individual the command
of hisown,caufes him to reign over the hearts of
others. The one excites astonishment and fear ;
the other commands reverence and love.
The Swede boasts of the name of Charles
but blefles that of Guftavus Vafa.
In him, of whom the hand of death lias bereft
us, public and domestic virtues were ever united.
Not fatisfied in watching with unremitted atten
tion over the welfare of the community,he anxious-
ly endeavored to promote the felicity of its mem
bers. Blest with a coinplaency of disposition and
equanimity of temper, which peculiarly endeared
him to his friends, he commanded refpeft even
from his enemies. The tender sensibility of his
heart was such, that he needed but to fee diftrels,
to feel it and contribute to its relief. Deaf to the
voice of interest, even in the line ofliisprofeifion,
whenever oppreft indigence called for his aifift
ance, he appeared at the bar without even the
hope of any other reward, than the consciousness
of having lb far promoted the happiness of a fel
low man.'
Such is, worfhipful firs and worthy brothers,
the character of one, whose leflons shall no lon
ger inftruift us, but the remembrance of whose
virtues will long continue to edify us.
Such is fellow-citizens, the charatfler of one
who bore so great a share in the revolution by
which you became anation, who, during his life,
was ever honored with fonie marks of your ap
probation, and whose memory will, I doubt not,
be embalmed in your affetflions.
Shades of Warren, Montgomery, andMerCer!
and ye Shades of those other Columbian Chiefs,
who bore away the palm of political martyrdom !
attend, receive, and welcome, into the happy
mansions of the just, afoul congenial with those
of your departed heroes, and meriting alike our
esteem, gratitude and tears.
ALL persons who have not accounted for the expenditures of
public money and stores, received from Hugh Huches, ei
ther in the capacity of Commiflary of Military Stores, All:flan' ana
Deputy Quarter Walter General to the army of the United States,
or Deputy Quarter Mafterfor the State of New-York, &c. or De
puty Quarter MaftertotheEaftern and Main Army, are requested,
by the said Hughes, to exhibit their accounts and vouchers, pro
perly dated, asearlyas poflible, to the auditor of the Treasury of
the United States, in the city of Netv-York, that a final settlement
of the fame may be trtade.
The Executors, or Administrators, to the estates of any of'hi
pcrfons firft mentioned,will be pleased to attend to this notification
N. B. The Printers in the different States in the Union, will render
n ejfential service to the public by inserting this in their neuijpapers.
NOTICE is hereby given to all the Creditors
of Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Ja
bez Sayrs, Anthony Sayrs, and George
Welch, Insolvent Debtors, now confined in the
common goal of Newark, in the county ofEflex,
and State of New-Jersey, that they
to appear on Monday the Twenty Second Day of
February next, at Nine o'Clock in the forenoon,
of Taid day, at the Court-House in Newarkafore
faid, before the Judges of the Inferior Court, and
(hew cause, if any there be, why an assign ment or
the above Insolvent Debtor's Estates should not be
made, and they the Insolvents be difcliarged a
greeable to law.
Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Jacob Sayr'i
Anthony Sayrs, George IVelch.
4 w - >
NOTIFICATION.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Newaik, 18th January, 1790.