&(\zojc///^n\ feb
[NO. LXXXIX. j
THE TABLET
No. LXXXIX
44 All human virtue to its latest breath,
44 Finds envy never conquer'd but by death ;
44 The great Alcides, every labor past,
44 Had still this monster to subdue at bft."
I NEVER was acquainted with a perfonwho
would confefs that any of his actions were
prompted by envy. From this I infer, thatevery
man deems it one of the ruoft hateful qualities
of human nature. The mind of man isloconfti
tuted that several emotions may be kindled at
the fame moment; and it may be difficult, in any
given instance, to diitinguilh the component parts
of a motive with so much precision, as to deter
mine which preponderates. A person may be
stimulated by envy, when he supposes himfelf free
from it ; and he may be fufpe&ed of it, when he
is, in fa<fl, free from it. We ffiouldnot therefore
too hailily acquit ourfelvjs, or charge others, of
being und?r the control of this detestable pallion.
There is perhaps no occasion where the fym
toms of envy are more striking, than in the op
position that is frequently made to conlpicuous
characters. This restless agent of the foul darts
its envenomed arrows onlyagainft objeds of dis
tinguished merit. When a bad man is attacked,
theaflailant may jnftly be impelled by indigna
tion ; when a weak man is hunted down, the per
secutor may have 110 feelings but those of con
tempt. But when a good and great charader
meets with opposition and reproach, envy is ge
nerally at the bottom. It may be concluded,
without much risque of error, that an envious
disposition gives rife to a considerable part of the
censure and calumny that areaimed against men
in eminent stations. The propriety of such a
conclufionis obvious from the difficulty, in many
instances, of assigning any other adequate cause
or motive to induce iiander and oppolition. Be
sides, it will generally hold true, that men in ele
vated employments have inducements to promote
the public good, in proportion to their elevation.
A man promoted to a dignified office should con
sider himfelf as a mark, exposed to the sneers of
ignorance, the aspersions of envy, and the re
proaches of ill-nature. Some illultrious men
however escape the effeds of all the evil propen
sities of their fellow men.
Mankind seem, as it were by common consent,
to hulk all the turbulent paftions of the foul, in
their treatment of those few characters, to whom
all men are too much endeared, to render it fafe
for any man to oppose or calumniate. Such fa
vored individuals are extremely few. Moll men
who engage in public life must not expert to
eoinbine the affections of the whole community
in their favor. And however eminent may be
the knowledge or rectitude of a man, tkefe ex
cellent attributes afford no infallible security a
gainlt the intrigues of mysterious competitors, or
the invecftives of avowed opponents. How great
a portion of envy is intermingled in the motives
which prevail on those occallons, let those who
observe the actions of men determine.
If I have been intimately acquainted with a
man for years ; if during this time, I have been
often heard to applaud his abilities and honesty,
and ever lived on the most affectionate terms of
friendftiip and good humor with him ; and if on
his being suddenly elevated to a station far above
me, I endeavor to raise a party againll him by io
finuations and reproaches, do I not authorise a
luppofition that 1 feel an envious temper towards
him ? Why else do I fuffer my friendlhip to be
co'me cold and distant ; and my confidence to as
sume the appearance of distrust and mystery ?—
"Why else do I check the tribute of applause, I
have been accuftonied to pay my friend and com
panion ; and even depreciate those qualifications
which once I could not fail to admire ?
If the government of the United States fliould
not be established on such a firm and honora
ble basis, as to promote the prosperity of its citi
zens, and procure the rei'ped: of mankind, it will
be owing to the prevalence of this fame paflion of
envy, more than to any other cause. Rival cha
racters cannot bear the idea of superiority. No
government can be refpedtable and prosperous in
which eminent men do not take the lead, in their
different departments. When the people of this
country are convinced of the truth ofxhisremark,
they will nor, I hope, lose their circiimfpe<flion,
but they will be less perplexed by the suggestions
f>f envy and fufpicioii.
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. g, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1790,
THE OBSERVER
HPHE report of the Secretary of the Treasury, being now before the
-1 public, contains information which must remove the reluctance of
some % who doubted the propriety of funding the debt, and re-eflablifhing
public credit. Injidious means have been used to lead the people into an
opinion, that a great part of the domejlic national debt, has been pur
chased by foreigners at its lowefl price.
In Bujlon, it has been published, andfaid to be under the fanflion of a
member of Congref y that 44 the national debt is jive eighths owned by fo
reigners, and is thus regiflered in the treasury of the United States."
I much queflion whether any member of Congress ever gave such infor
mation, and Juppofe it rather a fabrication of design ; but if it be true
he is corrected by the treasury report.
Many i nfinuations of the fame nature circulate, and cause a fear in some
minds, that their country will be facrificed to the emolument of a few
rich foreigners. The Secretary's report furnifhes means to detect these
mifreprejentations—any person holding national securities or bonds, may
have their amount regiflered in the treasury books, the original bonds are
given up, and an account opened between the United States and the credi
tor, to whom is given a new certificate of the amount due to him. The
debt thus modelled is called the rtgiflered debt. Many of our citizens
have regiflered their national paper, and it is welt known that all purcha
fedfor foreigners or to fend abroad on adventure, hath been entered on
the treasury books in this manner.
By the Secretary's report we find that the whole dome/lie debt of the
United States, is Dollars. Cents.
42,414,085 94
The whole reg'flercddelt is, 4,598,462 78
The regijleied debt is not one ninth part of the whole, and only apart
oj this is owned by foreigners.
Several gentlemen oj veracity, who are profeffionally acquainted with
the circulation of paper,and the manner of its negotiation, inform me that
by enquiry at the rcgifler office, three months paji, confieUrable I els than
3,000,000 dollars had been registered on account of foreigners \ butfup
pofe three millions of dollars is the sum, this is but one fourteenth part
of the national debt.—The d:bt of the particular States hath not to my
knowledge, unless it be within a few weeks pajl, ever been purchased for
foreign adventure, and ij this be confdered as part of the national debt,
which it ought to be both injuflice and policy, not more than one twenty
seventh part of the whole is vefled in foreign owners, and a considerable
proportion of this was taken by them, either in payment of debts due, or
at a price of purchase much higher than it has been in the country.
Some persons have laborioujly circulated an idea, of a prodigious jo
reign sale of paper, to prejudice the minds of the people againjl ajund
ingfjlem ; but I think fueh attempts base and difhonejl; even allow the
fafls, such as they wish to reprejent, it would be unfortunate for the
country, but is nofubjlantial argument againjl funding the debt. Jvjlice
jlands on fixed principles, not on a man's combledion, the tone of his
voice, or the country in which he zoas born. Other things being alike,
that which is justice to a native citizen is also jujlice to a foreigner.
The quantity of regiHered debt, is alfofome guide to determine the
sum, which hath been alienated by the original holders at a low price.
The brskers and great speculators in paper, in the middle States ; where
mofl of this traffic hath been managed, have regiflered in the treasury
much the larger part of thefums purefwfed by them, and the whole of
this we fee to le a sum, comparatively fnall.
The alienations which have taken place between citizens removed fom
the course of speculation, have generally been at a price much nearer the
original value. Continuedexamination of this fubjeff gives me new con
viction, that the alienations which have happened are far less than many
suppose. Ido not mention this as supposing it a matter which ought to
influence in the provision of funds, but ij eafecan be given, in confiflen
cy with truth, to those persons whose opinion is different from mine, they
ought to receive it.
In the Secretary's report there is an argumentfor the re-eJlablifJiment
oj national credit, which Ido not remember to have beforeJeen publicly
noticed—he fays, " The effefl, which the Junding of the public debt, on
1 right principles, wouldhav: upon landed property, is one of thecir
" cumflances a'tending such an arrangement, which has been leafl at
" tended to, tho it deserves the mojl particular attention. The present
" depreciated/late of that f)ecies cf property is a serious calamity. The
" value of cultivated lands in mofl of the States has fallen since the revo
" lution from 35 to 50 p:r cent, in those Jarthejl south the decrease is
lt flilimore conjidcrable. Indeed if the representations continually re
" ceived from that quarter, maybe credited, lands there will command
" no price % which may not be deemed an almojl total facrifice. Thisde
" crease in s he value of lands, ought, in a great meafure,to be attributed
" to tie fear cits of money. Confequentiy whatever produces an augrnen
lt tation of Vie moniedcapital of the country, mufl have a proportional
u effcEl in raising that value. The beneficial tendency of a funded debt.
"in this refpeft has been manifefied by the mojl decisive experience in
<( Great The evil here mentioned Is mofl sensibly felt, and
has come near ruining many thoujands of our fnall planters, and if a
remedy be possible it ought to be immediatly applied. The opening of *n
immense new territory is the cause, which hath been commonly ajjignrd \
this may have its influence, but is not proportioned to so great an effect.
The fear city of money is a cause greater and more immediately op'rating.
To give a value to fixed or landed property, there mufl be a certain pro
portion of property, in its nature negotiable,fuch is money, and theprin
ciple in public funds, which by its credit, is received as money. The dif
truflion of negotiable property injlantly towers the value of landed pro
perty. tVhen bufivef flagnated by the commencement of zoar, the whole
negotiable property oj'the people was throne into the hands of thepubhc,
and has in cffeEl been annihilated by the failure of credit. At the return
ofpetce, habit, and other causes. for a short season, prefcrved a decent
price, but the depreciation oj lands joon took place> and is now become ex
treme. Unless a remedy can be in part effected, by the mec-fares recom
mended, th'fii!cable valve of the farmers property is half deposed. The
argument addrcjfcsitfcjflrongly tc the policy and inter efl of all our plan
ters who feel the evil. If a small number of people were to be benefited, it
would be less material; but the cl fs of citizens zvhofe cafe we are now
Confidently, contains nine parts, in ten, of the whole people.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, FEB- 11, 179°-,
MR. BURKE having withdrawn his motion
for discrimination.
Mr. Madison rofc and observed, that no person
had exprejfed more itrongly than he felt the im
portance and difficulty of the fubjeA. That
although he had endeavoured to view it under
all its and analyze it in all its princi
ples, yet he had kept his mind open for the light
to be expected from the gentlemen who had en-
No. XVIII.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
tered Into tiie difcuilions. That he would gladly
have remained (till longer a hearer; not a Speak
er, upon the lubjetl: ; but that the turn which the
arguments had taken made it requifire for him
then, if at all, to trouble the committee with his
refleiftions, and the opinion in which they had
terminated.
In order to understand fully the debt due to
doineftic creditors, he thought it proper to look
back to the circumstances under which it was con
tracted. He Remarked that it was the debt, not
of the government, but of the nation ; that the
United States contra&ed the debt 5 the govern
ment was the agent, or organ, only. That for the
purpose of this contrad:, the United States had
then a national capacity. That although, by the
revolution just eft'e<fted, other national capacities
had been added, and a material change had taken
place in the government ; yet that the national
identity of the United States, relative to the
debt, was not affed;ed ; nor was the present; go
vernment any thing more than the agent or organ
of its constituents. That the political 34 well as
moral obligation, therefore,to discharge the debt,
had undergone no variation whatever. That this
was the language of the constitution, which ex
prefcly declares, that all debts fhallhave the fame!
validity against the United States, under their
new, asunder their old form of government.
A question had been llarted, as to the jaft
mount of the debt due from the United States.
This, he thought, admitted of a ready answer :
the United States owed the value which they had re
ceived, which they had acknowledged, and which
they had promised. No logic, no magic, could
diflolve this obligation.
The true question to be decided was, to -whom
I the payment was really due. He divided tliof®
connected with the liquidated debt into four clas
ses :
1. Original creditors who have never alienated
heir securities.
2. Original creditors who have alienated.
3. Present holders of alienated securities.
4. Intermediate holders, tfhrongh whose hand 9
securities have circulated.
The only principles that could govern the de
cision on their refpediive pretensions, he stated to
be, 1. Public judtice ; 2. Public faith ; 3. Public
credit ; 4. Public opinion*
VVith relped: to the firft class, there could be
110 difficulty. Justice was in their favor, for
they had advanced the value which they claim
ed : public faith was in their favour, for the
written promise was in their hands ; rcfpecl for
public credit was in their favour, for if claims so
sacred were violated, all confidence muftbe at an
end ; public opinion was in their favor, for eve
ry lioneft citizen could not but be their advocate.
With refpecft to the last class, the intermediate
holders,their pretensions, if they had any, would
lead into a labyrinth for which it was impofli
ble to find a clue. This would be the less com
plained of, because this class were perfedily free,
both in becoming and ceasing to be creditors ;
and because, in general, they must have gained
by th'eir speculations.
The only rival pretensions then, are those of
the original creditors who have alfigned, and of
the present holders of the alignments,
The former may appeal tojuftice, because the
value of the money, the service, or the property,
advanced by them, has never been really paid to
them
They may appeal to good faith, because the
value stipulated and expecfled was not fatisfied by
the Heps taken by the government. The certi
ficates putinto the hands of the creditors, on clo
sing their settlements with the public, were of
less real value than was acknowledged to be due ;
they may be considered as having been forced, in
fatft, on the receivers. They cannot, therefore,
be fairly adjudged an extinguishment of the debt.
They may appeal to the motives for establishing
public credit, for which justice and public faith
form the natural foundation. They may appeal
to the precedent furriifhedby the compensation al
lowed to the army during the war, for the depre
ciation of bills which nominally discharged the
debts. They may appeal to humanity, so? the
fufferings of the military part of the creditors can
never be forgotten, while sympathy is an Ame
rican virtue. To fay nothing of the lingular hard -
ship, in so many mouths, of requiring those wha
have loft four fifths or seven-eighths of their due,
to contribute the remainder in favor of those
who have gained in the contrary proportion.
On the other hand, the holders by alignment
have claims which he by no means wifiied to de
preciate. They will fay, that whatever preten
J
Wlions others may have sgainft the public,t.:icfe csnnot afFe&thc va
lidity of theirs ; that it ihey gain by the riik taken upon them
selves, ii is but thejuft reward of the rifle ; that as they hold the
public promise, they have an [undeniable demand on the public
faith : that the best foundation of public credit is that adlitrence
to literal engagements on which it has been e retted by the mo ft
flourifhing nations : that if the new government ftiould swerve
from so eflential a principle, it will be regarded by all the world
as inheriting the infirmities ot the old. —Such being the interfe
ring claims on the public, one of three things must be done ; ei
ther pay both, rejeCt wholly one or other, or make a compp/ition
between them on some principle of equity ; To pay both is per
haps beyond the public faculties; and as it would far exceed the
value received by the public, will not be expe&ed by the world,
rtor even by the creditors themselves. To reject wholly the claims
of either is equally inadmiflible. Such a fa< rifice ot tnofe who
possess the written engagements, would be fatal to the proposed
establishment of public credit. It would moreover punish thole
who had put their trust in the public promises and resources.
To make the other class the sole vittims, was an idea at which hu
man nature recoiled.
A composition is the only expedient that remains ; let it be
liberal one in favor of the present holders; let them have the high
price which has prevailed in the market; and let the residue
belong to the original fufferers. This will not do perfedl justice ;
but it will do more real justice, and perform more of the public
faith, than any other expedient proposed. The present holders,
"where they have purchased at the lowest prise of the securities,
•will have a profit that cannot reasonably be complained of ; where
they have purchased at a higher price,the profit will be considera
ble ; and even the few who have purchased at the highest price,
cannot well belofersw'th a well funded interest of fix percent.
The original fufferers will not be fully indemnified ; but they will
receive from their country a tribute due to their merits, if
it does not intirely heal their wounds, will afiuage the pain of
them. He was aware, that many plausible objections would lie
against what he fuggeftcd ; some, which he forefaw, he would
takefome notice of. It would be laid, that the plan was imprac
ticable : should this be demonstrated he was ready to renounce it;
but it did not appear to him in that light. He acknowledged
that such a scale as had often been a fubjett of convcrfation, was
impracticable—
The discrimination proposed by him, required nothing more
than a knowledge of the present holders, which would be shewn
by the certificates ; and of theoriginal holder?, which the office
documents would shew. It may be objected, that if the govern
ment is to go beyond the literal into the equitable claims against
the United States, it ought to go back to every cafe where injuflice
had been done. To this the answer was obvious : The cafe in
<Jueflion is not only different from others in point of magnitude
and of practicability, but forces itfelf on the attention of the com
mittee a? necefTarily involved in the business before them. It may
be objected, that public credit will fuffer, especially abroad: He
thought this danger would be effe&ually obviated by the honefly
and disinterestedness of the governnynt displayed in the measure,
bv a continuance of the pundual discharge of foreign intercft, by
the full provision to be made for the whole foreign debt, and the
equal pun&uality he hoped to fee in the future payments on the
oomeftic debts. Hetrufted also, that all future loans would be
founded on a previous establishment of adequate funds ; and that
« situation like the present would be thereby rendered impossible.
He could not but regard the present cafe as so extraordinary,
m many refpc&s, that the ordinary maxims were not ftriftly ap
plicable to it. The flufryations of stock in Europe, so often le
lerred to. bore no cdmparifon with those in the United States.
The former never exceeded ,50, 60, or 70 per cent : can it be said,
that because a government thought this evil infutficient to juflifv
an interference, it would view in the fame light a fluctuation
amounting to 7 or 800 per c?nt. ?
He was of opinion, that were Great Britain, Holland, or any
other country, to fund its debt precisely in the situation of the
American debt, some equitable interference of the government
■would take place. The South Sea scheme, in which a change a
mountingto 1000 per cent. happened in the value of flock, is
"well known to have produced an interference, and without any in
jury whatever to the subsequent credit of the nation. It was
true that, in many refpefts, the cafe differed from that of the
United States ; but, in other refpe&s there was a degree of fimi-
Jitude which warranted the conjecture. It may be objected, that
such a provision as he proposed would exceed the public ability :
He did not tinnk the public unable to discharge honorably all its
engagemenr.% or that it would be unwilling, if the appropriations
should be fatisfa&ory. He regretted, as much as any member,
the unavoidable weightand duration of the burdens to be imposed ;
having never been a proselyte to the doctrine that public debts
are public benefits. He confiderea them, on the contrary, as
evils which ought to be removed as fail as honor and iuftice would
permit, and should heartily join in the means neceflary for that
purpose. He concluded with delating his opinion, that if any
cafe were ro happen among individuals, bearing an analogy to that
of the public, a court of equity would interpose for its rcdrefs ; or
that if a tribunal existed on earth, by which nations could be
compelled to do right.the United States would be compelled to do
something not difiimilar in its principles to what he contended for.
FRIDAY, FERRUARY 12.
rf tic Delate on the queflwn for the Memorials on :\r
Mr. Ti'cker said, that he was forrv there appeared to be To
f reat a majority of the House in favor of giving the Memorial a
second reading as lie conceived it to be foglaringan interference
with the Confiitution. that he had hoped the House would not have
,*;iven so much countenance to a request so improper in itfelf.—
He was sorry that the society had discovered so little prudence in
their memorial, as to wish that Congress (hould intermeddle in
the interna! regulations of the parti cular States. He was forrv that
another Memorial on the fubjrft, signed bv a pcrfon who ought
to have known the Constitution better, had been offered to the
House. He hoped the petition would not be commited, as it would
operate direttly againftthe interest of those it was designed to be
nefit : This is a business that may be attended with themoft serious
consequences : It may end in a subversion of the government, be
ing a di reft attack on the rights and property of the Southern
States.' He then enquired what fatisfaftion was to be made to
the proprietors of Slaves : He believed it was not in the power of
the States, to make indemnification for the loss that would attend
their emancipation : He leprobated the 'interposition of the socie
ty, and denied that they poficfied any more humanity than other
denominations.
Mr. Seney replied to Mr. Tucker, and defircd the gentleman to
point out any part of the memorial which proposed that the legi
slature (hould infringe the Constitution. For his part he heard
nothing read that had such a tendency : Its only object was, that
Congress (hould exert their constitutional authority to abate the
horrors of slavery so far as they could. He hoped the petition
■would be committed—indeed heconfidered that all altercation on
the fubjeft of commitmentwas at an end. astheHoufe had efienti
all v determined, that it should be committed.
Mr. Burke reprobated tbe commitment, as fubvcrfive of the
Constitution, as founding an alarm, and blowing the trumpet of
fed it ion in the Southern States. He fhouldoppofe the business to
tally, and ifcho'en on the committee he (hould declinc serving.
Mr. Scot was in favor of the commitment.
Mr. Jnckfon was opposed to it, and painted in flrong colors the
alarming confluences to be apprehended from taking up the bu
siness—revolt, infurre&ion. and devastation—and concludcd by
an observation similar to Mr. Burke's.
Mr, Sherman could fee no difficulty in committing the memo
rial : The committee rnav bring in such a.report as may prove
fatisfaftory to gentlemen on all Ades.
Slave Trade.
Mr. Baldwiri referred to the principles of accommodation
which prevailed atthetimeof forming the government. Those ,
mutual conceflions which then took place gave us a constitution
which was to ensure the peace and the equal rights and properties
of the various States : And to prevent all infraction of tiieir rights
in this particular instance, they precluded themselves by an ex
press stipulation from all interpolation in the slave trade. Congress
are not called upon to declare their lentiments upon this occasion ;
thev cannot conftiiutionally interfere in the business. He depre
cated the consequences of i'uch a measure in very forcible terms ;
and hoped the House would proceed no further in the iuveftiga
tion of the fubjeft.
Mr. Sylvester laid, that he always had been in the habit of re
fpefting the society called Quakers ; he relpetted them for jjtheir
exertions in the caufc of humanity; but he thought the preient
was not the proper time to enter into a consideration of the fub
jett.
Mr Lawrance observed that the fubjett would undoubtedly
come under the consideration of the House, and he thought that
as it was now before them, the present time was as proper as any ;
he hoped therefore that the memorial would be committed lor
the purpose ot examination ; when this examination has taken
place, Congress may determine how far they may conllitutionally
interfere; and surely there is no danger of our exceeding our
powers, we know what they are, and (hall undoubtedly keep
within their limits in all our deliberations and decisions.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) recurring to the memorials,obferved that Con
gress could not conllitutionally interfere in the business upon the
prayer of the memorialists, as that went to an entire abolition of
slavery : Ii could not therefore with propriety be referred to a
committee.
In the southern States, difficulties on this account, had ari
sen in refpeft to the ratification of the constitution, and except
their apprchenfions on this head had been diftipated by their pro
perty's being secured and guaranteed to them by the constitution
ltfelt, they never would have adopted it. He then depicted the
miseries that would result from the interference of Congress, in
the southern governments—he after ted as his opinion that if there
were no slaves in the southern States they would be entirely de
populated—that from the nature of the country it could not be
cultivated without them—that their proprietors are persons of as
much humanity as the inhabitants of any part of the Continent—
they areas conspicuous for their morals as any of their neighbors.
He then afterted that the Quakers are a society not known to the
laws ; they stand in exa£lly the fame situation with other religious
societies ; their memorial relates to a matter in which they are no
more interested than any other feft whatever; and it must there
fore be considered in the lic;ht of advice ; and is it customary to
refer a piece of advice to a committee ? He then contrasted this
memorial with one which might be presented from the sett called
Shaking Quakers, whose principles and practices are repiefented
in a very exceptionable point of light, and asked, whether Con
gress would pay any attention to such a memorial. He hoped
that the memorial would not be committed.
Mr. Page was in favor of the commitment—he hoped that the
benevolent designs of the refpefiablc memorialist? would not be
truftrated at the threshold. so far as to preclude a fair difcullion of
the prayer of their memorial—he observed that they do not apply
for a total abolition of flavcry—they only request that such mea
sures may be taken confident with the constitution as may finally
iflue in the total abolition of the slave trade—he could not con
ceive that the apprehensions entertained by the gentlemen ftom
Georgia and South-Carolina, were well founded, as they refpe&ed
the proposed interference of Congress.—He observed that he was
interested perhaps as much as any person in the consequences of
the measures which may be adopted, but still he had no appre
hensions of any disagreeable effects—on the contrary he thought
it probable that the reverse would be the cafe—for if he was a
Have he should think his condition much altered for the better in
the profpe£lof a future liberation—Mr. Page spoke low, we did
not hear all his observations—they were extended much further.
Mr. Madison observed, that it was his opinion yesterday, that
the best way to procerd in the business was to commit the me
morial without any debate on the fubjc£}, from what has taken
place he was more convinced of the propriety of the idea—but as
the business has engaged the attention of many members, and much
has been said by gentlemen, he would offer a few observations
for the conficieration of the House—he then entered into a critical
review of the tircumftances refpe&ing the adoption of the con
stitution, the ideas upon the limitation of the powers of Congress
to interfere in the regulation of the commerce in slaves—and (hew
ed that they undoubtedly were not precluded from interposing in
their importation—and generally to regulate the mode in which
every species of business shall be tranfa&ed—He adverted to the
western country—and the feflion of Georgia in which Congress
have certainly the power to regulate the fubjeft of slavery, which
thews that the gentlemen are niiftaken in supposing that Congress
cannot conditionally interfere in the business in any degree
whatever—He was in favor of committing the petition, and juf
tified the measure by repeated precedents in the proceedings of the
House.
Mr. Gerry entered into a juftlocation of the interference of
Congress—as being fully compatible with the conflitution—he
defcanled on the miseries to which the Africans are fubjefted bv
this traffic, and said that he r.cvcr contemplated the fubiefl,
without reflecting what his own feelings would be in rase him-'
felf, his children, or friends were placed in the fame deplorable
cireuinftances—he then adverted to the flagrant afls of cruelty
which are committed in carrying on that traffic, and asked whe
ther it ran be supposed that Congress has nopowcrto prevent such
tranfaftions as far as possible—He then referred to the constitu
tion and pointed out the reftriftions laid on the general govern
ment refpefling the importation of (laves—it is not, he pvrfumed,
in the contemplation of any gentleman in this House to violate that
part of the constitution—but that wc have a right to regulate this
business is as clear as that we have any rights whatever nor has
the contrary been (hewn by any person who has spoke on the oc
casion—Congress can agreeable to the conflitution, lay a duty of
tdn dollars a head on (laves—they mav do this immediately he
made a calculation of the value of' the (laves in the southern States
—he fuppo<Vd they might lie worth about 10 millions of dollars,
—Congrels have a right if they fee proper to make a proposal to
the southern States to purchase the whole of them, and their re
sources in the western territory may furnilh them with the means
—he did mean to fugged a measure of this kind—he only inftan
ccd these particulars to shew that Congress certainly have a right
to intermeddle in this bufinefs—hethought that no objection had
been offered of any force to prevent the committing of the me
morial.
Mr. Boudinot was In favor of the commitment and enlarged
on the idea suggested by Mr Gerrv, and observed that the memo
rial contained only a recjueft, that Congress would interfere their
authority in the cause of humanity and mercv.
Mr. Gerry and Mr. Stone, severally fpoke'again on the fubjeft,
tne latter gentleman in opposition to the commitment said, that
this memorial was a thing of courfe—for there never was a society
of any considerable extent which did not interfere with the con
cerns of other people, and this interference has at one time or o
ther deluged the world in blood—on this principle he was op
posed to the commitment.
ERR ATUM In Mr. Gerry's Speech, in our lajl,f o r " ultima rex
reg urn, reaa ultima lex regum.
MOVDAY. FEBRUARY '15.
Mr. Goodhue presented the petition of Hannah Treat, which
was read and laid on the table.
Mr Thatcher prcfentcd the petition of John Stone, dating that
lie had invented an improved method of dHVVQ® Piles b v which
the erecting bridges over rivers may be greatly facilitated— laid on
354
On motion of Mr. Benfori, the memorial of Brigadier Gen
Donald Campbell was read a second time, and referred to a com*
mittce, confuting of Mr. Bland, Mr. Cadwallader and Benfon m ~
On motion of Mr. Wadfworth, the petition of Isaac TrowbricU
was read a second time, and referred to the Post Master General '
In committee of the whole on the Report of the Secret m ' c
the Treasury.
Mr. Madiforrs motion for a discrimination under confid fra( ; 0
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that the proportion contained a queltior"
of the utmost importance : That the committee mull be obho a
to the gentleman who brought it forward, for bis very 1:. -- n
difcuOion of the fubjeft of the Domestic Debt.
With rclpeft to the question now before the Committee f 0
much has been said, he thought it would not be neceflary to con
sume much ot their time in the invelligation.
On the fubjeft of Contracts he observed. When ever a volun
tary engagement is made for a valuable confidfcration, for proper
ty advanced, or ferviccs rendered, and the terms of thecontraft are
understood, if no fraud orimpofition is pra&ifed, the party enwe
fing is bound to performance according to the literal meaning of
the words in which it is exprefTed.
That such contra#, whether of a government or an individual
might be either transferable, or not transferable.
That the latter species ofcontratt received an additional value
from its capacity of being transferred, if the circumstances of the
pofleffor ftiould render a sale of it neceflary or convenient to him.
That to render the transferable quality of such evidences of conl
tra&, in any degree advantageous to the pofTcffor it was neceflary
to consider the alienee poflefled, in cafe of sale, of all the property
of thcoriginal holder ; and indeed that it was highly absurd, and
even contradi&ory to fay, that such evidences of debt were trans
ferable, at the fame time to fay, that there was in them a kind of
property that the holder could not convey by bona fide contrast.
That this was the conftruftion which had invariably been given
to these contratts whether formed by government or by individuals.
That to deprive the citizen of the power of binding himfelfby
his own voluntary contrafr, or to prevent a disposition of proper
ty in its nature alienable, would be a violent and unjuftifiable in
vasion of one of those rights of which man as a citizen is the most
tenacious, and would indeed break one of the strongest bonds by
which society is holdcn together.
That in the transfers which had been made, the contrasts were
fairly made ; the whole rights had been transferred; that it was
not pretended any fraud or impofuion had been pra&ifed : the
risque was calculated by the parties, and it was obfervcd, that the
risque contemplated a revolution in the government.
From the foregoing dedu&ion of particulars, it was presumed
to have been proved that a property was vested in the transferees.
That if this property was diverted by the government, the law for
that purpose would have a retrofpe&ive operation, and that no
ex pojl faflo\?.v/ could be more alarming than that by which the
right of private property was violently invaded.
Having considered the nature of the contratt, and of the obli
gations which resulted from it, the attention of the committee was
called to advert to those circumstances by which that obligation
might be deftroved, impaired or suspended. They were stated
to be i. Performance.
2. Voluntary discharge.
3. Composition.
4. Inability.
And gentlemen were called upon to give information of any
other caufrs which could produce either of those effects.
With regard more particularly tothe proposition before the com
mittee, it was observed, that with regard to these contra&s, there
had existed a depreciation in confequenceof the failure of govern
ment regularly to pay the interest : That in this depreciated Hate
the ferurities had been alienated ; that of course the original hold
ers had sustained a loss ; that if the loss resulted from the fault,
and not the mislortune of the government, the creditor had unde
niably a demand againftthe government for compensation ; that
this demand however well founded could never authorise the go
vernment to invade the honestly acquired property of the prcfent
pofTeflors, a property warranted by the terms of the contratt itfelf,
and fanftioned by the Ast of Congress of April 1783. and the va
lidity of it recognized by the Conllitution wehad fworntofupport.
With regard to the claims of the original holders it wa?, how
ever. observed, that the domestic creditor at the time the contrast
was formed, well knew the nature of the constitution of the go
vernment administered by the other contratting party, Congress;
that its power of performance depended on the ability and good
will of the States ; that Congress had always performed its duty,
had made the necedary requisitions; that this was its utmost pow
er ; that the failure had arisen wholly from the ncgleft of the States.
He therefore submitted to the committee, whether, if the ori
ginal holder had a jufl or equitable demand, he should not resort
to the state of which he is a member ?
It was admitted that the cafe of an original holder was indeed
a hard one ; that thefpeakcr had a refpeft for his misfortunes and
for his pretensions : That if fatisfa£lion was difcovercd to bejuft
and practicable, he would not hesitate to go to the utmost ability
of the government for that purpose. But it was asked, what mer
it would the government pofTefs, if it ft ripped one class of citizens
who had acquired by the knowh and eflablifhed rules of law, pro
perty, of that property, under the specious pretence of doing jul
tice to another class of citizens.
It was observed, that it was implicitly agreed, that 80 per cent,
depreciation would not authorize the interference proposed by
the motion. It was asked that some point of depreciation should
W pointed out which would authorise such interference.
It was observed that the fide of the queftionfor which he con
tended, had received the universal approbation of mankind ; that
there was no instances of interference contended for, and that
this general sense of mankind afforded some evidence of truth.
It was said, that this contrast was founded on a valuable con
fidcration. It was the price of ourliberry and independence.
1 hat the pofleffor claimed according to the very terms of the
contract. That it was not pretended that the engagement of go
vernment had been performed. No composition with the credi
tor was proposed ; nor was the proposition founded on any pre
tended inability of the government; for to comply with the in
tention of it, 1,600,000 annually more, was neceffaiy
than was proposed by the report of the Secretary.
It was observed that by reason of the circumstances which had
taken place Mr. Madison supposed that if the whole amount of
a fecuritv (hall be paid to the present podeflor, he will have a sum
of money to which the original holder is equitably entitled. It
this is true then no interposition is necefiary, it being a well
known rule of law, that an a£lion will always lie to recover
money out of the hands of another to which the plaintiff from
the principles of equity and good conscience is entitled.
With regard to the effe&s which would probably rcfult from
this measure, it was observed that it would be deflruftive to our
national character : That the world was now willing charitably
to impute our former miscarriages to events we could not con
troul. But Ihould our firft measures in regard to public faith be a
violent mfraflion of our contra&s, it would fan£tion all our
bitterest enemies have said to our disadvantage.
With regard to its effe&s on credit, it was observed, that litt*e
dependence would be placed on the plighted faith of a govern
ment which under the pretence of doing equity* had exercised a
power of d ifpenfing with its contrasts, and had thereby formed
for itfclf a precedent of like future violations both with iefpefl to
its funds and contrails.
I hat With regard to discovering who was the origina? holder,
except so far as refpe6led the army debt,it was declared that there
were no documents by which the neceltary fatts could be disco
vered.
It was dated as a facl that with regard to much the greater part
of the debt, any fictitious name was inserted. That with regarthe army debt the soldiers generally, who were Jri service at the
vonclufionof the war, had received ample fatisfadlion tor their
services at the time of their inliftment, having been paid on
an average, than 250 dollars per man.
It was farther declared, that the proposed fyftcm would lay a
foundation for infinite frauds and perjuries, and that it would,
beyond all powers of calculation, multiply the evils of fpeciiJation.
(To be continued.)
TUESDAY, FEB. 16.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States,
with a letter from his Excel. President Sullivan enclosing the a£t
of the Legislature of the State of New-Hampshire, for adopting
the amendments proposed by Congrei's to the Constitution—
except the second.
Mr. Livermore of the committee to whom was recommitted the
bill for cftablifhing a uniform fyftcm of naturalization, brought
in a report, which was read and laid on the table.
Mr. Burke of the committee appointed for the purpose, bro't
in a bill for the encouragement of useful arts.
This bill is lengthy— jnd is designed to comprehend a provision
for every fubjeft of invention and discovery that may be thought
worthy of public patronage —read and laid on the table.—The
order of the day was then called for, and the House went into a
committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury ; Mr. Madison's propofitton under dif
cuflion.—The debate was continued till near three o'clock this
day—Mr. Jackson, Mr. White and Mr. Moore spake in favor of
the motion—Mr. Benfon, Mr. Hartley, Mr. Wadfworth and Mr.
Goodhue in opposition to it. The committee rose without com
ing to a vote—and the House adjourned.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
Saturday, November 14.
APropofition was read from the province of
Anjou, offering a commutation in lieu of the
Cabelle, the full amount of that tax.
This gave rife to a debate on a general com
mutation of the Cabelle, which was interrupted
by the arrival of M. Necker.
He read a memorial, stating that, notwithstand
ing the facrifices which had been made, there
would be occasion for ninety millions over and
above the produce of the taxes for the service of
the year 1790 ; and for eighty millions, to make
good the sums due to the Caiffe d'Efcompte, with
out which that bank could not fulfil its engage-
ments
To provide for these funis, he proposed eftab
liihing a national bank, and incorporating the
Caifle d'Efcompte, with it ; that ijo millions
should be subscribed by the new company ; 011
which capital, added to that of the capital of the
Caifle d'Efcompte, notes, not exceeding 240 mil
lions, should be iflued ; that the national faith
ihould be solemnly pledged for the credit of this
bank ; and fix Commilfioners appointed, by the
National AfTembly, to take care that the funda
mental rules of it are never departed from.
He concluded with requesting, that the Aflem
bly, in difcufling this plan, would not be influ
enced by confidence in the proposer, but by fucli
lights and information as vigorous enquiry, and
the wisdom of the National Representatives, could
not fail to afford.
Tuesday, November 17.
It was this day decreed, that the number of De
puties sent to the National Aflembly by each dif
triifb, {hall be in proportion to the population,
territory and taxes jointly considered.
Thursday, Nov. 19.
A report was read from the Committee of War,
the beginning of which deserves to be noticed.
" Although it be neither the interefl of France, nor
the ivifi'? of Frenchmen to make conquefls, we mull
nevertheless have an army always on foot, and
ready for atftion, to refill the attacks, of power
ful and armed neighbors, &c.
Friday, Nov. 20.
A deputation was admitted from the city of
Jffondein, with a patriotic offering of all the fiber
buckles of the inhabitants, to the value of 11 j
marks.
M. Dailly moved, th.it all the members of the
Aflembly ihould make a fiinilar facrifice, which
was instantly agreed to.
This vote ftidecrous as it may seem, will pro
bably produce effe<fts ofconfiderable importance.
It is expe<sted to be followed by the voluntary fa»
crifice of all the silver buckles in the kingdom,
computed to be worth above three millions of
livres.
Wednesday, November 2;.
The Address of Congratulation from the de
volution Society was read ; and the Aflembly de
creed, 011 the motion of the Duke de Liancourt,
that the President ihould write a letter of thanks
to Lord Stanhope, as Chairman of the Society ;
and that the address and the letter should be
printed.
LONDON, December 5.
It now turns out, on proof, exa<ftly as ive ex
pected, that the mighty and dreadful ftpries of
tumults in Paris—of the llreets running in blood,
—of 12000 being flaughtered,—of the King and
Queen being belet, ike. See. &c.—are mere fa
brications. Yesterday the mails arrived, —and
our letters came down to Monday last ; we have
also the journals and newspapers of Paris, and to
that time, not the smallest tumult had been seen.
It is not easy for the plain sincerity of a Briton
to account tor the sinister motives that can thus
induce men, time after time, to frame and pro
pagate these attrocious fables. They can impose
on the most credulous natures but for a day or
two, and what benefit or triumph they can derive
from such filly machinations, we are utterly un
able to divine.
It was yesterday confidently afierted, that O
ltend, Bruges, Ghent, Oudenarde and in ihort
all the Aultnan Netherlands, except Luxem
burgh, Antwerp, and Brnflbls, had avowedly quite
thrown off the Emperor's authority, and are in
the hands of the patriots. The imperial troops
have marched out of Brulfels, and are encamped
in its vicinity.
1 he Emperor, in order to recover the minds of
his late fubjerts, has disgraced Count d'Alton,
and removed him from the command of the
troops, which arenowto obey Trautmanfdorf.
Schroeder, who commanded at Tournhout,
though mortally wounded, has been difmifled
the service, and declared incapable of ever serv
ing the Emperor again.
Peace, pardon, and compromise, have been
likewise offered, in the Emperor's name to the
patriots under any guarantee they may chufe,
and an armistice proposed till the terms of accom
modation can be fettled. All these proposals
have been unanimously rejected by the people, who
will not fuffer the Emperor's name to be any
more henceforward mentioned in the country.
FOR THE GAZE ilt. OF THE UNII ED STATES
MR. FENNO,
Pie ast to inferttbe following Remarkt in your paper.
MR. M aliens that we were forced
to receive certificates in payment of our
demands against the public There is great fal
lacy in the idea itfelf, and still greater in his mode
of applying it. He iniinuatesthat the certificates
were of less real value than the sum acknowled
ged to be due ; and therefore they should not
extinguish the debt. Who ever supposed that a
transferable note given for the balance due on
account, was considered as payment of the debt ?
It only alters the form of the demand, and places
it on a more convenient footing for the creditor.
The demand still exists, and payment still remains
to be made, either to the original claimant or his
aflignee. The certificate is the legal evidence
of the debt, and the holder of it is the only per
foil to whom it is jufi/y due. Tho it is true a time
was limited for the liquidation of our claims ;
and if we did not offer them within that period,
we mull forfeit them, we still supposed this no
hardship. This regulation was not for the pur
pofeo £ payment, but for the purpose offettlement.
We always thought it was an accommodation and
not an injury.
Delays in fettling accounts are detrimental to
all parties, but more especially to the creditor.
By a delay, the facfis maybe forgot, and the pa
pers loft, which relate to a claim. The certifi
cates we took on the liquidation of our accounts,
weviewedasan evidence that a settlement was
efFeifted and a balance ascertained. We believed
no new liquidation was to take place ; but in point
of payment, we were exa<ftly in the fame lituation
as if the account never had been fettled. We
could,and in many instances, did aflign our claims
previous to a liquidation ; and in fucli cases the
aflignees attended to the settlement. Now in
what refpecfl have we fufFered by the mode of
conducting this business ? It was unfortunate that
the public could not pay our demands when they
became due ; but we never considered it a grie
vance that our accounts were permitted to be li
quidated. Had no certificates been given, we
Ihould have transferred our claims notwitliftand
ing. Every body knows that soldiers never keep
any thing 011 hand, that they can fell. Whether
our claims had been liquidated or not, we should
soon have transferred the property, in them, to
other hands.
'1 here seems to be a great clamor against specu
lators. Those who raise this outcry are very
weak or very dishonest mtn. Had there been 110
speculators in the time of the war, the army must
have disbanded. It was not ail evil that we had
some speculators ; but it was a gre.it evil that we
had not more of them. If there had been a great
er number of men who had confidence in the go
vernment, we should probably have obtained an
higher price for our claims ; if there had been
fewer such men, we should have obtained a less
price. Consequently our adantages were great or
small, in proportion as speculators were few or
many. We seriously mistrust that the advocates
for difcrimination,have other objedts in view than
to help us,
New-York, Feb. 16, 1789.
HARTFORD, Feb. 11
A correspondent a/ks, why certain gentlemen in
a great aflembly would postpone the considerati
on of the Secretary's Report, until they can know
the minds of their constituents. Do they suppose
that deputies in legislatures are bound to submit
to the opinions of their conjiitr/ents ? There are
men who d 6 not or seem not to know, that dele
gates from all parts of a state or republic meet
together, not merely to bring but to acquire the
information neceflary to be thebafis of laws. A
delegate is bound to state fatfts refpe<fiing the fi
ttiation and interests of his constituents—this is all
he is bound to do —the opinions of constituents
ought to have little or no influence in legislation ;
for a reason that every body may nnderltand, viz.
that the opinions of constituents are formed on,
355
SOLDIERS
local or personal views ; whereas, n genera! view of
alt the country to be governed, of alt the rtrcumjidu
ces and inter efts 0 J the whole body ,Jhouldbethe bafij 0 f
Lines. Repref'entatives Ihould not carry opinio,n to
Congrcfs ; they Should carry falls, throw them
into a general view, and form opinions on tins
view. It is laughable to hear the venerable di'ien-
members of the Senate in the old devtbthn.
infilling on a right in conitituencs . '
prej entatives \ that is, the eonftituents have a
to legijlate for their Representatives in legiflaturi.
SAYS A to B " why look so f.itl >"
Says B to A " I'm almost mad,
" To hear an orator of reason,
" Advancing things To out of season ;
" Sure if I buy certificates
They're mine in spite of all their pates—-
" Why fhould'n'c 1 be paid that liold'em
" As much as those poor Dogs that fold'em r
" To hear these people talk and prate so !
" —7" —there's nothing that I hate so—
Making confufion of a cafe,
" As plain as nose upon my face
" Or fpedtacles upon that nose :—
" Why sure the secretary (hows
What {hould be done ; as clear as day light :
" And he you know does always fay rio-ht.
"1 in the Gall'ry have been fitting °
Between ourfelves—l've had a sweating—
" But if ye do'n't adopt this plan,
" Why—Get abetter if ye can
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 17
Extrafl of a letter Jrom an American in London, December 2.
" rhe prohibition laid last year on the importation of Ameri
can Wheat, lrom an apprehension that the Heflian Fly or Weavil
might be propagated from it, in this country, has within a few
day< been taken oft : it being now acknowledged that there was
no grounds for such an opinion. They have been further induced
to this measure from the profpeft of a fcaruty theenfuing spring.
"It muil give fatisfaftion to every American to fte the n.'w go
vernment get on so well: 1 trull our country will become resec
table and happy under its fuperintendance. You cannot conceive
how much more refpe&able the government and people appear in
the eyes of Europe, than before the united government was put on
its present footing.
This country seems anxious to have a commercial treaty with us,
3nd I think an advantageous one may be had.
Will not Congrcfs think it reasonable that the Packcts between
Falmouth and New- York should be alternately Britilh and Ame
rican ? If there were two in each Month commerce would feel
ihc advantage."
The President of the United States, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
has been pleased to appoint the following per
sons to office :
Samuel Shaw, Coiiful of the United States
of America, at Canton, in China.
James Iredell, to be one of the Aflociate Jus
tices of the Supreme Court, in the room of Ro
bert H. Harrifon, who declined.
William Paca, to be DiftriJt Judge of Ma
ryland, in the room of Thomas Jolinf'on, who de
clined.
Cyrus Griffin, to be DiftricTt Judge of Virgi
nia, in the room of Edward Pendleton, who de
clined.
William Nelson, jtin. Attorney for the Di
ftri<ft of Virginia, in the room of John Marflial,
who declined acceptance.
William Drayton, Diftriift Judge of South-
Carolina, 111 the place of Thomas Pinckney, who
declined acceptance.
Christopher Hillary, Collector of Brunf
wick, in Georgia.
Richard Taylor, Collector of Louisville,
Kentuckey.
Comfort Sags, surveyor of the port of Mid
dletown, ftateof Conne«fticut
A Correspondent wishes the gentlemen who
patronize the idea of a discrimination between
the original and purchafmg holders of certificates,
to consider whether, in cafe of £ven a total loss,
they would think the purchaser had an equitable
claim upon the original holder for the whole, or
any part of the money he paid for the certificate:
Jt is a bad rule that "will not work both ways."
That those who advocate a discrimination are perfect volunteers,
is evident from this consideration, That there is in fa& less uncafj
nefs upon solid pt inciple, exidmg among the people on account
of the fettlemcntof the late war, than there is refpe£ting the fettle
rnent of the war in the year 1745.
The Birth-Day of the President of the United
States, was celebrated at Philadelphia, the nth
inft. under the direction of his Excellency the
President, and Supreme Executive Council of
Pennsylvania.
By the Boston Gazette of last week, it appears
that preparations were making to celebrate the
auspicious anniversary in that place.
A Correspondent observes that he always was
puzzled to account for the outcry againfl. the sal
aries under the National Government. If we are
toiudge from fadis, the clamor has been unrea
sonable—resignations, and declinings to serve,
form frequent paragraphs in those papers that
have founded the highest note on this key.
DIED, the 7th inft. at Charleflown, MafTachufetts, Richard
Carry, Elq. aged 73.
(pj* Wanted by the Editor of this fjfer, a Houje that will ac
commodate a large fimih. and the printing btT'iefs—fram the f.rft J'
May next.
SPEC.
W.N.DREPORT
of the SECRETARY of the T R E A S U R Y to the
HOUSF. of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. g, 1790.
[continuation.]
TH E Secretary thinks it advifeable, to hold out various pro
portions, all of them compatible with the public interell,
because it is, in his opinion, of the greatest consequence, that the
debt should, with the consent of the creditors, be remoulded into
fnch a shape, as will bring the expenditure of the nation to a le
vel with its income. Till this ihall be accomplished, the finances
of the United States will never wear a proper countenance. Ar
rears of interest, continually accruing, will be as a continual mo
nument, either of inability, or of ill faith ; and will not cease to
have an evil influence on public credit. In nothing are appear
ances of greater moment, than in whatever regards credit. Opin
ion is the foul of it, and this is affected by appearances, as well
as realities. By offering an option to the creditors,bet ween a num
ber of plans, the change meditated will be more likely to be ac
complished. Different tempers will be governed by different
views of the fubjeft.
But while the Secretary would endeavor to effett a change in
the form of the debt, by new loans, in order to render it more
susceptible of an adequate provision ; he would not think it pro
per to aim at procuring the concurrence of the creditors by ope
rating upon their neceflities.
Hence whatever surplus of revenue might remain, after fatiafy
ing the intereft'of the new loans, and the demand for the current
service, ought to be divided among those creditors, if any, who
nav not think fit to fubferibe to them. But for this purpose,
under the circumstance of depending proportions, a temporary
appropriation will be mofl advifeable, and the sum mufl be limit
ed to four per cent, as the revenues will only be calculated to pro
duce, in that proportion, to the entire debt.
The Secretary confides for the success of the proportions, to be
made, on the goodness of the reasons upon which they reft ; on
the fairnefs of the equivalent to be offered in each cafe ; on the
discernment of the creditors of their true interest ; and on their
disposition to facilitate the arrangements of the government, and
to render them fatisfa£lory to the community.
The remaining part of the talk to be performed is, to take a
view of the means of providing foe the debt, according to the mo
dification of it, which is proposed.
On this point the Secretary premises, that, in his opinion, the
funds to be cftabliftied, ought, for the present, to be coufincd to
the cxifting debt of the United States ; as well, because a progref
live augmentation of the revenue will be moll convenient, as be
cause the consent of the State creditors is necessary, to the assump
tion contemplated ; and though the obtaining of that consent may
be inferred with great alTurance, from their obvious interest to
give it ; yet till it shall be obtained, an atkual provision for the
debt, would be premature. Taxes could not, with propriety, be
laid for an object, which depended on such a contingency. ,
All that ought now to be done, refpe&ing it, is, to put the mat
ter in an effectual train for a future provision. For which pur
pose, the Secretary will, in the course of this report, submit such
propositions, as appear to him advifeable.
The Secretary now proceeds to a consideration of the necclTary
funds.
It has been Hated that the debt of the United States consists of
Dollars. Cents.
The foreign debt, amounting, with ar
rears of interest, to - 11,710.378 62
Ana the domestic debt amounting, with
Jike arrears, computing to the end of
the year 1790, to
Making together, Dollars 54,124.464 56
The interefl on the domestic debt is computed to the end of
fhis year, because the details of carrying any plan into execution,
will exhaust the year. ' Dollar J. dents.
The annual interest of the foreign debt has
been Stated at
And the interefl on the domcftic debt at four
per cent, would amount to
Making together, dollars, 2,239,163 09
Thus to pay the interest of the foreign debt, and to pay four
per cent, on the whole of the domcftic debt, principal and inter
est, forming a new capital,
will require a yearly income of 2,239,163 dollars, 9 cents.
The sum which, in the opinion of the Secretary, ought now to
be provided in addition to what the current service will require.
For, though the rate of interest, proposed by the third plan, ex
ceeds four per cent, on the whole debt, and the annuities on the
tontine will a]fo excecd four per cent, on the sums which may be
fubferibed ; yet, as the a£lual provision for a part is, in the for
mer caff, suspended ; as mcafures for reducing the debt, by pur
chases, may be advantageoiifly purfucd, and as the payment of the
deferred annuities will of courie be postponed, four per cent, on
the whole, will be a fufficicnt provision.
With regard to the nftalments of the foreign debt, these, iu the
©pinion of the Secretary, ought to be paid by new loans abroad.
Could funds be conveniently spared, from other exigencies, for
paying them, the United States could ill bear the drain of cash,
at the present jun&ure, which the mcafure would be likely to oc
casion.
But to the sum which has been dated for payment of the intcreft,
must be added a provision for the current iervwee. This the Se
cretary eltimates at fix hundred thousand dollars ; making, with
the amount of the intcreft, two millions, eight hundred and thir
ty-nine thousand, one hundred and sixty-three dollars, and nine
cents.
This sum may, in the opinion of the Secretary, he obtained from
the pre fen t duties on imports and tonnage, with the additions,
which, without any ptfflible difodvantage either to trade,oj agricul
ture, may be made on wines, spirits. including those diftillcd
within the United States, teas and coffee.
The Secretary conceives, that it will be found policy, to earrv
the duties upon articles of this kind, as high as will be confident
with the pra&icability of a fafe collection. This will lessen the
nrceflity, both of having rccourfe to dircft taxation, and of ac
cumulating duties where they would be more inconvenient to
trade, and upon objc&s, which are more to be regarded as ne
cellaries of life.
That the articles which have been enumerated, will, better than
mod others, bear high duties, can hardly be a question. They
are all of them, in reality—luxuries—the greatest part of them fo
reign luxuries ; some of them, in the excess in which they are
used, pernicious luxuries. And there is, perhaps, none of them,
which is not consumed in so great abundance, as may, justly, de
nominate it, afource of national extravagance and impoveriflimenr
The consumption of ardent spirits particularly, no doubt very
much on account of their cheapness, is carried to an extreme,
which is truly to be regretted, as well in regard to the health and
the morals, as to the economy of the community.
Should the increafeof duties tend to a decrease of the consump
tion of those articles, the effect would be, in every refpeft desirable.
The saving which it would occasion, would leave individuals more
at their ease, and promote a more favorable balance of trade. As
frr as this decrease might be applicableto distilled spirits, it would
encourage the substitution of cyder and malt liquors, benefit agri
culture, and open a new and productive source o! revenue.
It is not however, probable, that this decrease would be in a
degree, which would fruflrate the expected benefit to the revenue
from raising the duties. Experience has shewn, that luxuries of
every kind, lay the strongest hold on the attachments of mankind,
which, especially when confirmed by habit, are not easily alienat
ed from them.
.<I\.RISE ! ye pimpled, tippling race, arise !
From every town and village tavern coine !
Shew your red noseS, and o'er flowing eyes,
And help your poet chant the praiie of Rumi
The cordial drop, the morning dram, I sing,
The mid-day toddy, and the evening fling.
Hail, mighty Rum ! and by this general name
I call each fpecies—Whijky, Gin, or Brandy :
[The kinds are various—but the cffeft the fame ;
And so I chufe a name that's (hoit and handy :
For reader, know, it takes a deal of time,
To make a crooked word lie smooth in rhyme.J
Hail, mighty Rum ! thy song-inspiring merit
Is known to many a bard in these our days :
Apollo's drink, they find, is void of spirit—
Mere chicken broth—insipid as their lays :
And pleaf'd, they'd give a riv'let —aye, a sea
Of tuneful water, for one quart of thee !
Hail mighty Rum ! how wond'rous is thy power !
Unwarm'd by thee, how would our spirits fail !
When dark December comes with afpe£fc four,
And, (harp as razor, blows the northern gale !
And yet thou'rt grateful in thatfultry day,
When raging Sirius darts his fervid ray.
Hail mighty Rum ! to thee the wretched fly,
And find a sweet oblivion of their woes :
Lock'd in thy arms, as in the grave, they lie
Forget their kindred——-and forgive their foes :
And Lethe's ft ream ffo much extoll'd by some
In ancient times] I mrewdly guess Rum.
Hail, mighty rum ! what can thy power withstand !
t'en lordly Reason flies thy dreadful face ;
And Health and Joy, and all the lovely band
Of social virtues, Ihun thy dwelling place,
For in whitever bieaft it rears it 9 throne ;
Like Turkish monarchs, Rum must rule alone.
When our bold fathers crofs'd the Atlantic wave,
And here arriv'd—a weak defencelefs band,
Pray what became of all the tribe so brave—
The favagc owners of this happy land ?
Were they lent headlong to the realms below,
11 By doom of battle ?" friend, I anfwcr no.
Our Fathers wcie too wife to think of war :
They knew the woodlands were not quickly pad :
They might have met with many an ugly fear—
Loft many a fore-top—and been beat at last.
But Rum, allifted by his son Disease,
Perform'd thebuftnefs with surprising cafe.
And would our western brethren be less proud, or,
In other words, throw by the gun and drum—
For ducks and squirrels save their lead and powder,
And fend the tawny rogues some pipes of Rutn—
Idarepredift, they all would gladly fuck it,
And every mother's son soon kick the bucket.
But,lo ! the ingratitude of Adam's race !
Tho' all these clever things to Rum we owe—
Gallons of ink are squirted in his face,
And his bruis'd back is bang'd with many a blow :
Some hounds of note have rung his funeral knell,
And every puppy joins the general yell.
So have I seen (thcfimile is fine,
And wonderfully pat, tho' rather old)
When rising Phoebus shot his rays benign,
A flock of fticep come skipping from the fold :
Some restless (hecp cries baa—and all the throng,
Ewes, rams, lambs, wethers, bellowing pour along.
But fear not, Rum ) tho' fiercely they assail,
And none but I, the bard, thy cause defend,
Think not thy foes, tho' num'rous, (hall prevail,
Thy power diminifti, or thy being end :
Tho' fpurn'd from table, and the public eye,
In the snug closet Oafely (halt thou lie.
And oft, when Sol's proud chariot quits the sky,
And humbler Cynthia mounts Jicr one-horse chair,
To that snug closet shall thy vot'ry fly,
And, wrapt in darkness, keep his orgies there—
Lift the full bottle joyous to his head,
Then, great as Ciefar, reel sublime to bed.
Burlington, Dee. 1789.
42,414,085 94
542,599 66
1(606.563 43
NASSAU (N. Providence) December 30.
THE Sloop two brothers, belonging to Capt.
Chris. b'ilher, of this place, taken by Juan
Gregorio, at Heneaga, in April last, arrived here,
from the Havannah this morning. By her we
have the following intelligence :—That the a
bove named pirate was under sentence of death,
and the (loop ordered to be restored to the own
ers, together with full compensation for the in
juries sustained by her capture That afuit had
been commenced against the Intendant,in whose
employ Gregorio was, and the governor of Ba
raca had been broke with disgrace for being con
cerned in that infamous tranfa<ftion That all
the guarda coftas had been called in, and the
captains broke for capturing vellels without any
jull pretence, which had involved his Catholic
Majesty in unneceflary lawl'uits ; and that the
soldiers mentioned in a former Herald to have
been put on board an English Guineaman had
been removed, and permission given to the cap
tain to diipofe of his Negroes, agreeable to the
express terms of his Catholic Majesty's procla
mation.
The legislature of this State adjourned on Wed
nesday last, Jin; die, after a short feflion of fif
teen days.
The amendments to the constitution of the
United States, recommended by Congtels to the
levei al Hate legislatures were difcufled and adopt
ed ; and a resolution agreed to, that thedelegates
irom this State be inftrudted to use everv poiiible
exertion to obtain the alteration which was re
commended by the State convention in May,
1738, respecting the interference of Congrels in
regulating elections to the federal legislature.
-356-
IROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM
FOR. JANUARY 1790.
EULOGIUM ON RUM.
CHARLES lON, January 28
BALTIMORE, January 29.
At the Anniversary Meeting of the Revolu
tion Society, held in London, (at the London
Tavern) on the 4th of November last (the Right
Honorable Earl Stan hope in the Chair) the fol
lowing Resolution was moved by the Reverend
Doiftor P,! 1c e , and unanimoufty approved, viz.
The Society for commemoratingthe Revolution
in Great-Britain,difdainingNational Paniali.ies
and rejoiceing in every Triumph of Liberty and
Justice over Arbitrary Power, offer to the Nati
onal Assembly of France, their Congratulati
ons on the Revolution in that Country, and on
the Profpedt it gives to the two firft Kingdomsin
the World, of a common Participation in the
BlelEngs of Civil and Religious Liberty ; they
cannot help adding their ardent Wiflies for a
happy Settlement of so important a Revolution,
and at the fame time exprelling the particular
fatisfa<ftion with which they reflect on the tenden
cy of the glorious example given in France, to
aflert the unalienable Reformation in the Govern
ment of Europe, and to make the World free
and happy."
On the fame Occasion, it was also unanirnoujly
rcfohcd, " That the said Resolution be signed by
the Chairman, in the Name of the Meeting, and
that it be transmitted by him to the National Af
feinbly of France."
PORTLAND* January 2s.
To FARMERS.
" Experience has proved, that smoking your
Seed Corn, thoroughly, before planting, will ef'
feclually prevent the worms or any other infect
from touching it whilst growing. Care must be
taken that it is not heated in the smoking left it
ihould destroy the vegetation. It will therefore
be best to hang it where the fnioke may gradu
ally impregnate the kernel during the winter
season.
" Probably the fmoaking of other feeds may
have the fame happy efteift. Should this be the
cafe, it would save much labor and care in railing
Squalhes, Mellons, Cucumbers, &c.
A Friend to Agriculture."
BOSTON, Feb. 4.
AMENDMENTS.
The Amendments recommended by the Legis
lature of the United States, were adopted, ex
cept the firfl and second articles, by the Senate of
this Commonwealth, on Friday last.
Tuesday the above Amendments were taken
into confederation in the House of lieprefenta
tives, and after mature discussion, were adopted,
except the ift, 2d and 12th
The Senate afterwards concurred with the
ioufe in rejecfting 12th article.
Mr. Thatcher, Mr. Aaftiv, Mr. Fowler, of the
Senate—Mr. Hill, Mr. Goodman, Mr. Siwall and
Mr. Bacon, of the House, are appointed a joint
committee, to take into consideration what fur
ther Amendments to the Federal Constitution are
neceflary to be proposed to Congress, and report.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 17.
Extrad of a letter from Boftou, Feb. 2.
" The Secretary's Report I think a nioft mas
terly performance—it must have cost him an im
mensity of study and application—l believe it will
be generally acceptable when it is rightly under
stood—His reasoning upon the fubjed: in general
I think is inconteftible, and fliould Congress adopt
his plans, I think the timeis not far diftant,when.
the credit of this country will eclipse all the
boasted powers of Europe."
A NEW MAGAZINE
THE Public are refpe&fully informed, that the firft Number of
this Magazine will be published as soon as a number of
fubferibers fumcient to defray theexpence shall be obtained : and
not on the firft day of February, 1790, as was formerly proposed.
This Work will be entitled,
THE PHILADELPHIA MAGAZINE,
AND
UNIVERSAL ASYLUM.
By a Society of Gentlemen.
PLAN AND CONDITIONS.
Ift. THE objefls of the Philadelphia Magazine and Universal Af\-
lum, are to enlarge the underjlanding, to reftfy the hearty and to please
the fancy, by fuck means as may bebejl adapted to the Jlate oj Jociety
and manners in this confederated republic.
2d. Ir.terejling and entertaining ejfays, in prose and verse, on phi
losophy, politics, commerce, agriculture, manvfaflures, polite learning,
wit and humour (uncontaminated with ribaldry or licentiousness) an ®
in a word, on all other fubje&s which may be deemed worthy of public
attention, shall be inserted in this Universal Asylum ot Literature.
This miscellany shall contain much original matter ; but a rage
for not prevent the insertion 0/ valuable extrafls from
other publications.
4th. A comprehensive and impartial abflracl of the Debates and
Proceedings of the Congress of the United States of America,
shall regularly be given, beginning with the firjl fefjion under theprefent
government.
tfh. Foreign and domejlic occurrencesJhall hefaithfully recorded.
6th. The Philadelphia Magazine shall be publxfhcd, punctually, on
the firfl day of every month.
7 th. Each number shall contain eighty pages, octavo, on an elegant
new letter, andfne paper.
Bth. The price to fubferibers zui llbe two dollars and two-thirds per
annum ; one dollar and one third to be paid upon the delivery of the
firfl number, and the famefimat the commencement of every succeeding
half year. 1
Sulfcript ions are received by mofl of the Printe r s and Booksellers m
the United States, and in other parts of the continent of America, in the
Wefl-Indies and in Europe, who are requefled to forward the names of
fulfrrihers, with their titles, and places of residence.
The usual allowance will be made to all who favor this work by eol
leSling fubferiptionsfor it. (
Philadelphi a, January 1,1790.