[No. XC.j
THE TABLET
" Legijlalors by overlooking falls, sometimes trouble themfilves tofct- (
tie principles, when there is no occajion for them.
TH E fir It obie& to be regarded in the examination of a prac- i
tical fubjeft, is to ascertain all the facts which relate to it.
If this rule were dr.ftly observed, many of the debates which take
place in public alfemblies would be avoided. There is no error
so which men are more liable, than taking things for granted
which are not true. Mistakes of this kind expose people to much
painful reflection, and produce a warmth and altercation of de
bate to no ufeful purpose. Why (hould one perplex himfelf to
assign a cause for an effect which exists only in imagination ? why
ihould we attempt to apply a remedy to an evil, before we exam
ine the faffs, and determine whether the evil we propose to re
dress, has any existence. A man must feel in an auk ward fixa
tion, who having employed several days in the difculTton of prin
ciples, (hould find that the cafe, to wh.ch he meant to apply
them, was merely a creature of fiction.
I can better illuilrate my ideas by a fpecific example, than by
general reflections. The very important question di (cuffed in a
refpeftable alTembly is not remote from the purpose. I allude to
the difcuHion relative to a discrimination between originalmd pur
chasing holders of public certificates. It does not come within
the design of my speculations to enter into political dilputes, and
I (hall wave a consideration of the principles that were adduced,
in support of either fide of the question. The debates on the oc
casion discovered good talents at investigation. The remarks
were judicious, and the reasoning ingenious. But it was evident
that the speakers were not generally acquainted with thole facts
that were the ground work of the whole business.
The point to be determined was, whether original creditors
had any demand in justice for the indemnification of the losses in
curred by the transfer of their certificates. It was pretended that
the assignee ought to relinquilh part of the sum exprefled on the
face of the certificate, for the benefit of the original holder. A
compromise, it was urged, ought to be made between them, and
the property divided. This pretence was founded on two pre
mises, which many of the speakers conceived to be fa£fcs, without
any enquiry into the matter.
One of these supposed fads is, that original holders have gene
rally fold their fecuritiei at about one eighth partof their nominal
value. ..
The other is, that they were compelled by ncceflky thustodif
pofe of their securities. ,
Few of the speakers, in the examination of the fubjedt, expref.
fed any doubt of the propriety of taking these fuppofuions for un.
disputed fafls. By a pifconception of the real (late of the cafe,
there was a most anxious effort to reconcile a difference of opinion,
which would not have exifled at all, had the f„£ts been previoudy
examined.
It may be proper in thd firft place to enquire who have been
the principal losers by the fluctuating price of public securities.
And, secondly what were the causes that generally induced ori
ginal creditors to transfer their certificates.
To the firll of these points, I reply that if the government pays
the possessor of a certificate, the amount exprefled on the face ot it,
no daft of creditors will fuffer an undue proportion of loss. In
such i decision all the creditors whether real or imaginary (hould
be put into claflcs, and an opinion formed upon an aggregate view
of each class. Some individuals in each division will no doubt be
found to have been diftinguiihed fufferers ; but I believe if the
lodes are fairly dated among the several clafles, ihe difference
will be too little to agitate the public mind with devising a mode
of redress. Forfeiting aside the question of the justice or injustice
of an interference of the government, the cases of real injury are
too few to constitute any claims for general remedy. It is not
probable that a twentieth part of the domestic debt is held under
such circumstances as to render it a doubt, viewed cither on prin
ciples of justice, or sentiments of generosity, whether any persons,
but the present holders, {hould receive the payment.
It admits of a tolerable degree of demonstration, that the ori
ginal creditors, who have alienated their securities, have fold them
on an average of twelve (hillings and fix pence on the pound. As
they have a longtime had the benefit of the money, their situation
is not less favorable than the present holders. It will here be ob
served, that many persons have in fact fold securities at two (hil
lings and fix pence on the pound ; and it may be asked what de
scription of persons fold at this low rate. This point is easily
made clear. It (hould firft be undfrftood that not more than a
tenth part of the domestic debt was in circulation, at the low fta
gesof depreciation. Thole who (old at the lowed ebb of dock',
and sustained the principal loss, were generally early pur chafers
and not original holders.
(To be continued.)
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15.
(continued.)
IN Committer of the whole on the report of the Secretary of
treasury. Mr. Madison's motion for a discrimination under
consideration.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that the proportion of Mr. Madison
derived force from the talents and knowledge of that gentleman
in public tranfattions ; but that, on examination, it would be
found to contain do&rines very repugnent to the interest and
prosper ity of the union.
Mr. Lawrance dated* that the debts contra&ed by the United
States were for loans of moiiey, supplies of articles necessary for
the public wants, and for a&ual service rendered indifferent em
ployments. These debts were ultimately adjuftcd and reduced to
their pre font transferable form. Every part of *he contra# was
rffential to it: The negocration was a material part, and the na
ture of the contrast was frequently recognized by the late govern
ment. That in 1783, Congress recommended certain funds to be
eftabUfhed to pay the interest and put the principle in a course of
discharge. This recommendation was unequivocal, as to the na
ture of it, and made no discrimination between the pofleflbr and
the original holder. The fubfequcnt condudl of that body was
conformable to this recommendation. They annually called on
the States to furnifti money to pay the interest, without discrimi
nating between the original holder and present pofleffor. They
paid interest on the securities, without makingany discrimination.
J?rovifion has been made for holders of loan-office certificates,
that weie fubjeft to liquidation, to have them cancelled and o
thers iflued for the specie value. And the holders ot certificates
were enabled to have them regifteredto guard against accidents;
& no diftin&ion was between the original holder and the alie-
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
No. XC,
CONGRESS.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1790,
nee. The transferable nature of the claim was for the benefit of
the creditor, because it gave it an a&ive value. He consented to
take it, and consulted his own advantage. The conduct of the
late Congress, since the war. has been uniform in the support of
thiscontratt, and they have done no a£l to impair its obligation
according to the terms of it. This contratt is valid against the
government ; for, notwithstanding the truth of Mr. Madison's
observation, that the nation was the fame tho the bodies that ad
ministered the government were different—there is yet a far great
er fesurity ; and to remove all doubt, a clause is inserted in the
constitution, that made all debts and engagements, valid against
the United States under the late general government, valid against
the present.
Mr Lawrance further observed, that this contract having de
scended upon the government, there is no right in the legislature
to impair the force of it. The particular governments are re
strained from pa fling laws impairing the obligations of contratt.
This interference would be a violation of the contrast between
the individuals when the certificates were transferred ; and it will
not be pretended that the States are prohibited, and the general
governmenthas power to do it.
Mr. Lawrance adverted to the principles of Mr, Madison, to
reft the obligation of the public on the original holder ; and ob
served that the fame principles arc in favor of the present pofleffor.
That public justice requires a performance of contra&s, when there
is no fraud on the part oI the holder. The pofleffor has been guil
ty of no fraud, no deception: the between him and the ori
ginal holder was fair, and a hazard and rifle, attended the purchase
adequate to the advantage; and nothing (hort of a revolution in
government could have produced payment. If there was an im
position, the public occasioned it ; and, between the original hold
er and the public, there might be a claim for retribution. Pub-
lic faith is as facrcdly pledged to the bearer, or present pofleffor,
as to the original creditor. Public credit results from fair and
upright conduct ; and the government, to support it, must perform
its contrails. Thi? is a contratt recognized by them, and as
such (hould be discharged. The situation we have been in made
it proper for us to be cautious on this fubjedfc ; and even at present
people doubt our disposition to establish our credit. This would
give a fatal blow to it. Much has been said about public opinion.
Public opinion is difficult to be ascertained ; gentlemen have dif
ferent modes to determine it. He supposed it was better ascer
tained by the a£ls of public bodies, than by squibs in the news
papers, or by a pamphlet written by any individual. The uni
form conduct of men, deputed by the particular States to repre
sent them in the late general government, was a standard ; and
their opinion, from 1783, was in favor of the present pofleffor.
Thecondudlof the particular States is another circumstance : I
do not know of aifv discrimination made by them, tho it has been
attempted : The general opinion of men of property is against it;
and thefc sources of public opinion are moll certain and unequi-
vocal,
Mr. Lawrance further observed, that altho he believed Mr.
Madison supposed no advantage would be derived to the United
States, from this discrimination, yet much would arise. Part
of the army had been composed of foreigners ; many had left
the country, others are dead and their relatives ; all their part
would be unclaimed. That certificates were issued to public of
ficers to a great amount, and were paid by them to persons from
whom they purchased. The difficulty of making proof of the
original creditor will be great; and from this circumstance great
sums would be gained to the public. Theie are persons enough
who would have sagacity to discern this ; and they would doubt the
purity of the public motive (hould the Gentleman's plan be adopt
ed.
Mr. Lawrance adverted to the circumstance of the new credit- |
or receiving paper : that this paper might be fubjeft to another li- ;
quidation on the fame principle as the present. That it would t i
introduce doubt and distrust of public engagements ; and there .
would be no greater security, although a fund was pledged, than
there is at present; for whenever the public pleased, they might
destroy the obligation.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that arguments were improperly ad
drcflTcd to their feelings; but that however hard it may be for the
original creditor, who had parted with his certificates, to contri
bute to pay the debt; yet it would be aqually hard on him who
had been injured by continental money, who had been plundered
by the enemy, who had his property burned by them in the course
of the war ; and instances of this kinds were numerous.
Mr. Lawrance adverted to the doftrineof the high court of e
quity ; and urged that this court must be governed by principle.
Was the committee this high court, and the United States' original
creditor and present pofleffor before them ; If there appeared no
fraud on the part of the poffeflbr, the original creditor would have
no just claim on him. Between the United States ?nd original
creditors, the United States were in fault; and the claim, if good
would be against them.
Mr. Lawrance also noticed the resolution of Congress of 10th
April, 1780, relative to the depreciation of pay to the army ; and
declared that this was limitted to persons then in service : those
who had left it, even the day before, had not this juftire done
them : But this cafe was between the United States, and the per
sons rendering them service. The ast did not affect third persons ;
it did not take from one and give to another, as the present mea
sure proposes and was therefore diflimilar.
Mr. Lawrance further observed, that his objection to the a
mendment was on the ground of thecontraft ; yet he would men
tion some instances to shew the impra&icability of the scheme.
In many cases a State has fold lands, for low value in these certifi
cates. by the law of this State, creditors residing within the
British lines during the A*ar, had received by law these certificates,
at their nominal value, from their debtors. British and domestic
creditore have received from their debtors large sums at their no
minal value. Foreigners are pofTeffed of large sums of the re
o-iftcred debts, in their names, for alienated certificates. These
and many other instances which might be mentioned, will shew
the difficulty of devising a scheme, with the checks and excep
tions that would be proper to render it in any manner feafible.
It has been objeftcd to the Secretary's report, that it proposes a
redu&ion of interest. He observed, that there is a material dif
ference in a plan that made the consent of the creditor ncpefTary,
and one that reduces his capital without his consent This part is
not now under consideration ; but the scheme of the gentleman
from Virginia will add a considerable sum to the provision pro
posed by the Secretary, from the increased interest to be provided
for, and the additional number of officers to be appointed to car
ry his plan into execution.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that he was still open to convithon ;
but that he was, at the time of speaking, against Mr. Madison's
proposition.
Mr. Smith (S- C.) next rose and remarked, that it vm neceffa
rv and proper the house should give the fubjefl the moll ample
difcuflion. The question had long agitated the public mind, and
the people should know that it had occupied the ferions atten
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
tion of their representatives, and be made acquainted with the
principles of their decifjon. For his part, having bestowed on it
the mod attentive consideration, he could aflert, that the more he
contemplated it the more he was imprrffed with a conviction that
the proportion was unjust, impolitic and impracticable. It con
fided of two parts : the one was to take away the property of one
person ; the other was to give that property to another : and this
by a voluntary interposition of the house, by a taere ast of power,
without the aflfent of the former, or without even the application
of the latter ; for it was remarkable that the original holders, who
had alienated their certificates, had not come forward with this
demand ; and it is presumable that, had they applied for redress,
they would rejeftany indemnification which was the result of such
manifeft injultice. To prove that this was taking away the pro
perty of a citizen by force, heobferved, that the purchaser had,
by a fair purchase, acquired a right to a full amount of the sum
expressed in the certificate, which it was not within the power of
the house to divest him of. No tribunal on earth could lawfully
deprive a man of his property, fairly obtained. The purchaser
bought under :he ast of Congress making the seCurities transfera
ble ; and having given the market price, without fraud or impo
sition, he was by virtue 6f such purchase vested with the complete
and absolute ownerlhip of the certificate, as fully as the original
holder ; and had as much right to demand full payment as the
original holder would have had, had the security been still in his
hands. Even should the house refufe, by an ast of power, to pay
him more than half, his demand for the other half would still re
main against the public ; it could not be extinguifhad ; the debt
would continue to haunt them ; the creditors would loudly cla
mour for justice, and sooner or later the balance would be paid.
Then would they mcur all the odium of a violation of private
rights, without derivin^tOL-the-public any advantage whatever.
Heconfidered the measure as doing a certain evil that a poflible
good might result from it : this was not, in his opinion, the pro
the proper mode of doing good. Justice cannot be founded on
injustice ; and to take money out ot the pocket of one man to put
it into that of another, is a precedent which may juftify future in
terferences. This step would lead the house to others : for if the
principle be a just one, then the government should look into all
the tranfaftion? and speculations of individuals, in order to cor
rect them, and make retribution to every individual according to
his lofTes. He was persuaded that the true policy of a legislative
bodv, was to pursue the broad road of justice clearly marked out
before them ; for it was an undeniable truth, that whenever they
deviated into these by-roads and trackless paths, without any other
guide than their own imaginations, they would get bewildered
in a labyrinth of difficulties, and rejoice to trace back their steps
and regain the plain road. Now the plain line of conduct was,
to do ftrift justice, such as is inforced in judicial tribunals between
man and man in a similar cafe. The debtor is bound to pay the
debt to the holder of the security ; the contrast, between the giver
of the bond and the person to whom it was given, is done away
the moment the latter afligns it to another person. If A. gives a
bond to B. who parts with it to C. there is no longer any obliga
tion 6n the part of A. to pay to B. but he must pay it to C. A,
has nothing to do with the pri\ate negociations between B. and C.
nor to inquire what consideration was given for the security. , All
that he has to enquire is, whether he really signed it and had value
received for it and the amount of it: he cannot fay to the holder,
you gave but 50 dollars for this security of 100, and I will pay you
only 50 ; for the law will compel him to pay the 100: This is
law and justice between man and man : is there another fort of
law and justice for the government ? By what rule is the govern
ment to square its conduct, if not by those sacred rules which
form the basis of civil society, and are the fafeguard of private
property ?
These observations fully refute the remarks of the gentlemen
from Virginia, that the orginal holders still have a claim on rhe
government, notwithftandingthey have transfered their securities ;
and that in cases of individuals bearing an analogy to the present,
a court of equity v. ould interpose and give redress. The direst
contrary was the fact ; there never was an inftancc of a court of c
quity afTuming such power. In cases of bankruptcy, which are
under the fuperintendance of courts of chancery, the debts of the
bankrupt are paid in equal proportions to all the creditors, whe
ther original holders orafllgn'ees, and the court never enquires in
to the terms of the alienation. It cannot be said that the original
holder has any claim of justice on the government; his claim must
be addressed to our humanity ; but the House have no authority
to gratify their humane inclinations at the expence of justice, and
by a facrifice of private rights. If the proicft was unjust in itfelf,
the application of the property to relieve the diftrefles of the ori
ginal holder cannot change its nature ; it must still be unjust ; the
mode of appropriation cannot alter the rcftitude or turpitude of
the measure. If therefore Congress have the right to take away
the property of the present holders, they may apply the savings tc>
public purposes ; and what appearance would such a scheme have
to the world ? Would it not ruin forever our national character ?
The gentleman from Virginia had (aid, that justice and good
faith were the substratum of public credit : but lie was persuaded
that the justice and good faith held out by this plan, would be a
substratum of sand, a foundation too weak to fupportour public
credit, which would soon crumble to pieces. If the object o£
the gentleman be to afford relief to thediftrefled, without impair
ing legal rights, let enquiry be made into the cases of those ori
ginal holders who fold from absolute distress—let those cases be
fele&ed and brought forward, and he would yield to no member
in his alacrity to give them every adequate compensation, and
to indemnify them for their fufferings ; —but he could not as
sent to a proposition which blended together the cases of aJI
the original holders, and gave them the propertv of others.
That there were various classes of original holders ; some had
fold for purposes of speculation or trade ; and had proba
bly made good bargains, and were now in a better plight than
if they had still retained their fecuritics ; others got rid of their
securities because they had no confidence in the government: these
the public are not bound to indemnify ; this plan would place
them on a better footing than those who having confidence in the
general government had, notwithstanding their diftrefTes, kept
their securities ; for supposing the former fold eight years ago for
4s. in the pound, it was not improbable they had by this time
doubled their money, and in addition to that they were to get io_
which would give them 18s. whereas the latter would be able to
fell their securities at the market for 15 or 16s. after they were
funded. Some had exchanged their securities for bonds of indi
viduals, of which the real value cannot be *fcertained, or for land
or other property, which may have risen considerably in value.
Some present holders have received their fccurities by way of le
gacy—Are these to have one half taken off ?—is their patrimonial
estate to be torn from them ? Had their parent been still living,
he would receive 20s. in the pound, but the circumstance of his
death is to strip the child of one half.
The gentleman from Virginia had said, that giving the present
holders, by alienation, the highest market price, would be doing
them ample jnftice ; but did the public mean to defraud them themoney they had a&ually advanced ? No—they were to receive this
ample justice by a bit of paper nominally for 10s. but which this
very measure would instantly depreciate to Bs. or 6s. They would
have this confolation> that, according to the gentleman's reasoning,
they would still have a claim against the government for the bal-
Jance ; for it the original holder, by felling his certificate for 4s.
has now a just claim against the government for the balance of 16s.
which it is afTerted he has, of course the alienee, to whom the
public should now acknowledge a debt of 10s. which he should
fell for only 6s. would hereafter have a just demand against the
public for 4s. This reasoning might be carried further* for it
would follow that whenever the public lhall pay in paper which
lhall depreciate, the feller will have a demand against the govern
ment for the difference.
From the diftanceof time at which these securities were ifTued,
it may be reasonably supposed that many of the original holders
are now dead : the average life of man is estimated at fcven years,
according to the mod accurate calculation on insurance of lives.
Some of them aredifperfed in foreign countries, or fettled in the
western territory ; and it Would be right before the Hou<e took
such a step as this, to understand clearly to what amount these a
lienations had been made ; at present they were uninformed on
thefubjett, and had no documents before them. If these aliena
tions were inconsiderable, this projett would be dangerous, even
admitting its justice. History affords no precedent for the mea
sure. The gentleman from Virginia, whose industry was equal
to his ability, would have produced some similar cafe, had any
exifled. The South»Sea fckeme was totally inapplicable : there
the dire&ors of the company having been guilty of the moll enor
mous frands and villainous prattices, the government confifcated
their estates and bestowed them on the company which they had
been the means of ruining, instead of promoting their interests of
which they had been appointed the guardians. Were the pur
chasers of securities chargeable with any crimes for which they
merited confifcation ? Were they appointed by law the guardians
of the property of the original holders ?
Nor was the other instance, refpefting the depreciation of pay
made good tothe officers during the war, more in point, for there
the public paid them with the public money, and not with that of
individuals.
The constitution itfelf, he said, wasoppofedto the measure, for
it was an ex post facto law, which was prohibited in express
terms. The transferance of public securities was lawful at the
time these alienations were made ; an attempt therefore to punifti
the transferees, is an attempt to make an ex post facto law, by
making that now unlawful which wa« lawful at the time it was
done ; it altersthe nature of the tranfaftion, and annexes the idea
of guilt to that which, at the moment of commiflion, was not on
ly perfectly innocent, but was explicitly authorised and encour
aged by a public ast of Congress. By that ast those who had mo
ney were invited to purchase of thole who held securities; and
now they were called upon to punifti the purchasers who bought
under that invitation. The constitution restrains the states from
parting any laws impairing the force of contrasts : a fortiori, is
the legislature of the union restrained. What an example to hold
up to the judiciary of the United States ! How could they annul a
Hate law, when the state would be able to plead a precedent on
the part of Congress ; The right of property was a sacred right ;
no tribunal on earth, nor even legislative body, could deprive a
citizen of his property, unlefsfor a fair equivalent, for the public
welfare. The purchaser was veiled, by the sale, with an absolute
right to the full amount of the security, and it was beyond their
authority to divert him of it. They might, indeed, by an ast of
power, declare that he ftiould be paid only half; but his right to
the other moiety would not be extinguiftied. It had been said
that the original holder still had a claim against the public, be
cause he had received only 2s. 6d. for services worth 20s. On
the fame principle, and with more justice, the present holder
would still have a claim for 10s. because he has the public bonds
for 20s. No ingenuity can overcome these stubborn principles of
Jaw and justice ; they are immutable and must ultimately prevail.
The house had been told, that if the government had defrauded
the original holders out of their due-s, it was fit the public Ihould
rcftify the fraud : the former government was not deficient in in
clination to do them ample justice, but from the imbecility of the
confederation had not the means. In those days of democratic
enthusiasm, the people were afraid of an energetic government:
having so recently experienced the severity of their former one,
the citizens of these states were cautious in trusting any government
with power ; and it is not improbable, that some of the original
holders, who fuffered these embarraffmenls from the want as a
government competent to the payment of its debts, would them
lelves have opposed the vesting Congress with powers adequate to
thisobjeft. Even the present constitution, which is a mild one,
met with confideiable opposition : had it been rejected, the pub
lic securities would have nevet been paid.
Public opinion had been mentioned,as favoring the plan: no
thing was so difficult to attain, as a knowledge of public opinion ;
but as far as he had been able to collett the public opinion, it was
against themeafure. Publications innewfpapers appeared indeed
on both fides, but a greater number against it. The legislature of
his state had strongly exprcfTed their sentiments, by rcje&ing al
most unamioufly a similar project; and in society he had met with
but few advocates for it.
Tho it had been admitted that no instance of a similar nature had ever
existed in other countries, yet it was alTcrted that this was because
the depreciation of public securities in Europe bore no comparison
■with those in the United States. The securities in England had
fallen to 70 per cent, without occasioning an interposition of the
government, and there was no reason to aflert, that a greater depre
ciation would have induced an interference ; if the measure was un
just in the one cafe it was equally so in the other ; the increaf. d
rate ot depreciation could not juftify it; for where would it cease
to be unjust and begin to be just ? What is the precise point of de
preciation at which the government could be warranted in step
ping in and depriving the holders of their rights? Right and
■wrong cannot depend on the amendment of depreciation ; they
are fixed principles which cannotfluftuate.
The hardship of requiring those who have loft four sixths of their
due to contributeto the payment of taxes has been noticed When
they fold their certificates they thought that the person to whom
they fold would one day or other receive fomthing for it ; and
they knew that he could receive nothing unless the debt were
funded, and that in such cafe they would be compelled to contri
bute their proportion of taxes. If they, on the other hand, were
imprefled with the idea that the purchaser would never be paid,
then the bargin was not a fair one on their part, for they took, the
purchaser's money and gave him what in their belief was not equi
valent.
The impolicy of the measure is evident, becaufc it will check
the negociability of public securities ; will enhance the terms of
future loans, ana injure the public credit. Public debts were said
by some to be public benefits; doubtful as this doctrine may
be, it is acknowledged universally that without a negociable qua
lity, instead of being of any utility, they would be a most griev
ous burden to the community. Who would purchase when he
had before his eyes the terrors of a discrimination ; a future occasi
on may arife,when, from the expences of a war or other emergen-
similar attack might well be apprehended. Purhafers there
fore will be rare, and the risk they will run reftrainthem from
giving the full value of the public securities. This will operate
then as a considerable injury to the original holders who never ali
enated their certificates, and who ought not to be involved in the
pcrnicious consequences of this measure. With refpett to im
practicability it was not the ftrongeftobje&ion with him, because
it he were persuaded that it was both just aud politic, he would go
every length in endeavouring to accomplish it ; but, even on this
head, difficulties innumerable appeared. Some which were un
answerable had been mentioned, and it had been clcarly Ihewn,
that it was absolutely impofliDle to trace the original holders.
He had chosen to combat the measure on its principle, because he
thought iL was not a just one, and the eftablilhment of it might
lead hereafter to future interferences and unhappy consequences.
It was the wisest policy of governments to adhere ltri£My to
their plighted faith, when it was in their power to do 10, even
should, such llrift adherence work an injury to some part of the
community : this was the prattice with nations in the cafe of a trea
ty, which, when made by competent authority, they considered
themtelves bound to observe, although they deemed it disadvanta
geous to them, at lead a refufal lhould deter other nations from
treating with them in future; it is by this line ofcondu£t that pub
lic credit can alone be supported. Whatever may be the merits
of the alienors, or the speculations of the alienees of public lecuri
ties, it was not the business of government to interpose ; there are
the contra£ls— they mutt be paid as far as the public resources will
extend. The claim of thofc unfortunate creditors whose distress
drove them to the necessity of facrificing their certificates, was a
claim on the humanity of Congress ; and he lhould not be oppoled
to giving them relief, provided the funds were taken out of the
public treasury, and not in the manner proposed. In whatever
light he viewed the project under consideration, he felt a strong
conviction that it was such a one osought to be rejected.
Mr. Ames agreed with Mr. Madison in regard
to the validity of the debt. There was proprie
ty in faying the nation is the fame, tho the go
vernment is changed. The debt is the price of
our liberties, and cannot be diininilhed a farthing
the gentleman fays—and why—becanfe the go
vernment, as one of the contracting parties can
not annul, or vary the bargain, without the con
sent of the other. If the measure proposed by
that gentleman corresponds with that found prin
ciple, he lhould have the pleasure of agreeing with
him on the ultimate decilion—hut if the measure
lhould be found, on a fairdifcuflion,to be subver
sive of that principle, it would not merit the coun
tenance of the committee.
A claim upon our justice is made on behalf
of the original holders of securities who have
transferred them. There is a benevolent pre
judice in their favor. Does the plighted faith
of the country stand charged to pay the difference
between the price their fecuritics fold for in the
market and the nominal sum ? In order to make
the affirmative appear, the worthy gentleman has
said, that the paper is the only evidence of a pri
or debt—and while the paper was fold, the resi
duary right to the debt still remained in the fel
ler. Supposing this novel doctrine to be true,
which cannot be conceded, it will not warrant
any conclusion in prejudice of any purchaser of
the loan office debt. For the paper was given
when the loan was made. As 110 prior defit ex
isted, the paper is the very debt. The gentle
man ought therefore to confine his motion to the
army debt, as his principle seems inapplicable to
any other. And even on liquidating the army
debt, the certificate extinguished the prior debt—
otherwise the public would be twice charged
—As when one man owes another on account, and
gives his bond for the ballance, the account is 110
longer of force. By the terms of the certificate,
the person transfering has loft his claim against
the public. He has freely transferred—for if vi
olence or fraud were pra<ftifcd, the law will as.
ford him redress. 111 society, as well as in a state
of nature, property is changed by the consent of
the last occupant. He may dispose of it by gift,
or at half price—and give a complete title. Nor
will the pretence that this transfer was free only
in appearance, avail—for the motives which dif
posed the owner to fell cannot affect the right of
the purchaser. Every such creditor risked some
thing—either that government would not pay
him at all, or not in due season. The risk com
puted in free and open market will be near right.
It is a kind of insurance against these risks, and
the insurers and insured will calculate the rate of
insurance better than government can do it. If
there is anew risk of government interposing, it
seems that the purchaser, who may be called the
insurer, did not rate his risk high enough. It
seems pretty clear, therefore, that there is 110
claim on the stipulated justice of the country.
Another fort of justice is set up—a different fort
from that which we were taught in the fcliools
and churches. It is called abftratft justice, and is
said to demand allowance for the loss sustained
by the failure of public payments. No man ref
pecfts more than Ido the merit of the army. But
the soldiers, at least, had something towards jus
tice by their bounty.
Stock has fold in England at 50 pr. cent, dif
count, and yet no retribution has been made.—
Where then does this new line of justice begin ?
It can scarcely be denied that their claim, if they
have any, is not a debt. The arguments alledged
by the gentlemen are addrefled merely to the
compassion and generosity of the government.
Nor do I know that there is any ground for faying
that public opinion is in their favor. It will be
allowed that ifjuftice is to be done, it should be
impartial justice. Partiality would be more cruel
than total neglect—Will you refufe to make a
mends for paper money, for property taken by
our army in Canada, for lofles sustained during
the war, for towns burned ? In this last cafe, it
is to be observed, that government has promised
protection—and inability to protect it as much a
debt as the cafe in question. The intermediate
holders who bought at 6/8, and defpairingof go
vernment fold out at 2/6, have an equal claim.
Are all these to be excluded ?—Let us not break
contracts for half justice. The example ofpaper
-358-
money is adduced to {hew chat the public made u>.
lofles—but this is an example of the public fulfil
ing it's con trad:—not annulingit. Paper monev
is a bad source to draw examples from. J
But is it true that jultice requires thepublic to
pay tor all the lolies fullained in times of calami
ty > 1 think not—for by fraud the government
would be obliged to pay for more than was loft,
The resources of the fufferers will more eafi!y re .
pair such lofles than the government can make
them good—and befides,in extreme cases, it would
extend and prolong the evil. If an army lhould
invade England, and the city of London lhould
be bnrned, and the country laid walte by order of
the King, all Europe could not pay for it. What
is justice—a line of public conduct which necef.
farily tends to utility. No pretence of abftra<ft
jultice can be valid, it it tends to evil rather than
good.
But if there subsists a claim on the public jultice
it cannot impair the debt in the hands of the pre
sent holder for which the public faith is pledged.
It is alledged that the feller, who fold for a trifle
will be taxed to pay the purchaser. He certainly
ought to fare as other citizens do. But taxesare
in proportion to property. If he has propertv
then the plea of neceliityis deft royed. If he has
none then his taxes will be a mere trifle.
The projed: is not justice, even to those whom
it pretends to relieve. If you allow less to the
purchasers than they gave, it is downright rob
bery. If you allow more, it is half way justice to
those who have fold. I would not rilk everything
to do justice, as it is called, and then not doit.
But this fragment of justice cannot be given
to some, without wronging others. You impair
the property in the hands of the present ori
ginal holders. It is not supposed that the alie
nated property is near equal to that which is still
in the hands of the firft holders. Be that as it
may, I believe with confidence that it would be
cheaper for the present holders to pay the mar
ket price ofthe paper proposed to be given to the
former holders, than to fuffer the shock which
this measure would give to the credit of their pa
per. I will not enter now into the merits ofthe
Secretary's plan, but 1 think it not difficult to
shew that he proposes better justice to the present
original holders than is contained in the motion,
and that the debt funded on his plan would fell
for more in the market. Great funis have been
lent to the public by trustees who adted for others,
and only lent their names. Many original cre
ditors were not firft holders—supplies were fur
nifhed to contractors for the army, who got cre
dit, and afterwards paid in paper, as they recei
ved it of the public. Many towns hired soldiers
for a gross fuin, and agreed to take the wages —
Private debts have been paid at par.—A man in
embarrafledcircumftances, instead of compound
ing with his creditors for ten or a dozen years
forbearance, paid them at par, or near it, in pub
lic paper, which in that period was iuppofed to
be as likely to be paid as his private note. No
less a sum than 214000 dollars were paid in this
way to one mercantile house, at about 1 js. in the
pound. Compare the gross injustice of these ca
ses with the pretended justice of the motion—con
sider that it pretends to pay the purchaser.—But
loan office certificates have fold from 1 js. and 18s.
in the pound to ys. Foreign purchasers gave
more than our market price. Before they bought,
they got certificates of the nature of the debt,
that it was not liable to any dedudtion, and that
the transfer would be valid. People in the firft
offices in this country and abroad signed them,
jooooo dollars were bought for one Dutch house,
and registered, and the partners in the sum have
divided the certificates by giving their own bonds.
What will be the effedt ? Justice or injustice ? In
these cases, the gentleman will admit, that the
rights of these people are perfedt. The debt he
fays himfelf cannot be diminished a farthing.—
Property is sacred. The right to a single dollar
cannot be violated. Let the gentleman then ac
knowledge that he inuft give up his project,or his
principles.
I have endeavored to shew what fort of abstract
justice this is. But if it should be allowed that
there is a claim of justice, what then ? Let them
claim justice of those who have done them injus
tice, not ofthe fair purchaser.
Let us examine the claims of the purchasers.
The gentleman's argument on this point merits
attention—if it is right, for it's novelty in Con
grefs—ifwrong, for it's tendency. Herel think
it neceflary to apologize—not for my fentiinents —
their apology must spring from their propriety—
but for the manner in which I express them. —
My zealous conviction may seem to arraign the
opinions of other gentlemen—whom I refpectas
I ought. I know that men of the best intentions
entertain a favorable opinion of a discrimination.
There is a wish to do more than justice to the one,
and the heart, betrayed by it's fympatliy, con
fentsto injustice to the others. But, Sir, I cannot
claim the merit of moderation on this point. I
will not pretend that I doubted firft and then de
cided. The principles of my education, and the
habits of my life, predisposed me to-believe, and
my short experience and reading have confirmedft, that nations cannot admit cunning into their
councils without it's iheuding a malignant influ
ence on their affairs. Experience teaches govern
ment, as well as men, that nothing is fafe that is
We have endured tender laws, and the
pitiful expedients of a trickiih policy. Our ex
perience has coll us dear. The old Congress,
however, were guided by other maxims—with
little power,and Icarce retaining the niockrepre
fentation ofit duringthe whole year, they prole
tilted the obje&s of an honelt policy with a zeal,
Which repulses and despair could not extinguilh.
They could fay with Francis the Ift. after the
battle of Pavia, we have loji all except our honor.
They refolvedagainftdifcrimination,and foreign
ers, as well as citizens, bought securities under the
public faith—But when the Constitution was fra
med, adopting the debts as valid, restraining ex
post fa<slo laws, and laws impairing contracts—
who entertained any suspicion ? The speech of
thePrefident, and the resolutions of the Houfein
favor of public credit baniihed it. Does this look
as if public opinion was hollile to thele purcha
sers ? Ifit really is, it is more a duty on govern
ment toprotedl right when it may happen to be
unpopular. That is what government is framed
to do. Ifinftead of protecting, it aflumes the
right of controling property, and disposing of it
at it's own pleasure, andagainlltheconfentofthe
owner, there is a cheat in the compadt.
It will be admitted that there is a right vested
in the purchaser—government cannot aiminifli it
a farthing, fays the gentleman—but he fays we
cannot pay both.—Then abide by your word of
honor—prefer perfed rights by solemn com pad;
to claims on your compaihon.—The claims of the
present holders you fay are just—are the others
more than just ? Treat all just claims alike, and
do not rob on the high way to exercise charity
—why make one creditor pay another ? He fays,
government is to get nothing by this—and yet he
fays, we owe these people, and our creditors
fliall pay them. Is paying a debt getting nothing ?
He talks of rival claims ; there is no rivalry—the
fellers agreed that there fliouldbe none.—lf go
vernment is bankrupt, compound with your cre
ditors—will this ad: of violence console the luf
ferers ? Will they enjoy, as a favor,the violation
of the rights for which they fought ? The South
Sea and Mississippi schemes have been adduced as
examples—ln the former, government interposed
to fulfil the contrad; the Mifliilippi is not parrallel
—what the gentleman calls public justice, I am
sure he would not practice in his own cafe.
I have chosen to conlider the principle of the
motion—but it cannot be carried into execution
—we have seen that justice in the abftrad will
not be done, nor can theineafure proposed be ef
feded ; we may very properly suppose that in
numerable difficulties will arise in pradice which
cannot be forefeen—but so many appear as ought
to deter us.—The detail will be endless—an ac
count mull be opened for each claimant, public
offices mult be opened, officers multiplied, and
great expence incurred—there is no clue by the
records to the cases of money deposited by a
gents for other people—l have enquired and am
told that it is not poflible. Will you admit oral
evidence—andofperfonsinterefted—will you fill
the land with discontent, corruption, suits and
perjury ? The new paper, if not transferable,
will be no great relief—if transferable, there will
be a new liarveft of speculation—the after crop
will be more abundant than the firft cutting.—A
purchaser keeps his note for 20s. By law, you
make it a note for 10s. How many frauds will be
pradifed on the unwary ? If the -mind balances
on these points let policy turn the scale.
Will not this measure ihake government ? In
fteadof doing as it has promifea, government is
10 do as it pleases.—Right is to depend, not on
compad, and sacred faith, and the constitution,
but on opinion, on a major vote, where nothing,
not even right, is fixed, will not the government
be liable to perpetual commotion ?
How will it affeifi our national character ? How
•will it effect public credit ? Welhall have to pay
for medling, if we in futurefhould have any cre
dit. The famous Colonel Chartres said, he would
give one hundred thousand pounds for a charac
ter—not for its own fake, but because he could
get two hundred thousand by it—Henry VIII bor
rowed money on his personal security, and his
bale parliament voted that as he had done great
things for the realm and church, he should be dif
cliarged from those obligations. Charles the se
cond fhuc up the exchequer—What was the con
sequence f King William paid 14per cent, on an
nuities, and at the rate of ioand x 2 per cent, in
tereft—bu: by good faith, in j or 6 years, money
fell to j per cent, interest.—By breach of faith,
we vote the government into a state of pupilage,
and deprive it of its powers.
I have thus endeavored to (hewthat there is not
a debt subsisting against the public in favor of the
original holders, who have fold out —that the mo
tion is chargeable with partiality—and is inade
quate to its pretended objedts—that it will do in
justice to many, and violate the sacred rights of
property—that the purchasers are secured by the
cqntrad:, by the faith of government and by the
constitution—that the nieafure is notpra«flicable,
and will produce confufion, corruption and ex
pence, and that it will weaken, disturb and dii
grace the government and impair its credit.
I have made this recapitulation of my argu
ment in order to bring it into one view—if it is
jult, or only plaulible, let us aik what will be the
effeJt ? Is this what was expected under the new
constitution ? Did we expe<3: it ? Is there one
here who has not told the people that an end
would be put to tender acfts and paper money,
and the ruinous effedts of government's interpo
sing in contracts ? Who, in or out of Congress,
did not suppose that the letter and spirit of the
constitution laid as much ? The spirit of the times
said more.—Will not the people charge us with
violating the constitution and the rights of pro
perty ? If we plead necessity, they will demand,
how came it that we were ignorant of it, and, if
it exists, what is there that breach of faith can
fave,that good faith would lose ? or what will that
be worth which may be secured by a measure that
will tarnilh our national honor, and trajifmit to
our children an inheritance of reproach? Js there
110 refuge but in dishonor ? We have borne ad
versity before, and we had rather submit to the
worst events of an honest policy—and this pro
je<ft is not to relieve any burdens, for govern
ment is to rob, notfor plunder, but to get the re
putation of justice.
If our own citizens fay thus,what will foreign
ers fay ? They will not be restrained, either by
the opinion of their fellow countrymen, or by at
tachment to our prosperity. They will detail
their losses, and the arts by which their confi
dence was gained—they will think that we have
been taught a species of immoral philosophy—that
we administer government by a kind of cunning
logic which confounds right and wrong—they
will rejoice that the Mahrattas and Americans are
at a distance; the ocean has not hitherto proved
abarrier against our depredations.—An American
abroad will be obliged to deny his country.
However, I ttill believe that justice is a law to
Congrels —but if justice and public faith and ho
nor have ceafedto be things, let them cease to be
names—let them be blotted from the vocabulary
of our nation. If they have no being, why should
they be made ufeofto conjure up church yard ter
rors, to haunt the hypochondriac imagination ?
I will not be so uncandid as to charge the wor
thy gentleman with such intentions. I think so
highly of his probity and patriotifni, that if he
can be made to fee that these consequences will
follow, or only be apprehended, he will give
up his scheme : but if government has this right,
what right of private property is fafe ? In the
East, government is said to be the sole owner of
property and may resume it at pleasure.—This
absurd doctrine will not find advocates—for it
would not do for practice even where it may not
be denied to be true, human nature revolts against
it—lt would (hock the morality of Bay,
it would exafperate,beyond fufferance,the patient
slavery of Indoftan—and who can give good rea
son why one fort of property Ihould be more fa
cred than another ?
If we pursue another kind of policy, fucli as
the preamble to the constitution declares to be
the objecfts of the government ; this government
and this country may expedfc a more than Roman
fortune.—The government may have more cre
dit, the people more knowledge, and the bles
sings of peace a longer duration than the world
has ever experienced. That gentleman helped
to frame the constitution—l have no doubt it is
the better for his eminent abilities—l hope that
his love of his own work and his zeal for the
cause which he has so ably supported, will induce
him to abandon a measure, which tends so fatally
to disappoint the firft wiflies of his own heart,
and the hopes of his country.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17.
The bill for a uniform rule of naturalization, was read a se
cond time and referred to a commute of the whole on Tuef-
day next.
The bill to encourage the ufefularts was also read a fecondtime,
and referred to a committee of the whole on WedneCday next.
Several petitions were read from persons praying compcnfation
for services.
Also a petition from John Ingraham, praying relief against the
seizure of his veflel and cargo made in the poitof New-York,
he being ignorant of the laws relative thereto.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the petition of Lucas Lincoln
was read a second time, and referred to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Scdgwick presented the petition of Jehoika Thompfon,one
of the Oneida Indians, setting forth that he had fervea «nder Ge
neral Sullivan in the western country, guided him in his marches,
and fought by his fide ; that he had received a certificate for his
services, but on his way homeward he was obliged to cross rivers,
whereby he wet his pack, and loft the said certificate ; praying,
that as he believed Congfefsto be very wife and just, they would
grant him art order on their money keeper, See.
The order of the day was then called for : Mr. Madifdn's mo
tion for a difctimination being under consideration-—
Mr. Page advocated the motion ; and Mr. Boudinot opposed
it, in a speech of two hours and a half. Thecommittee then rose,
and the House adjourned.
THURSDAY, FEB. 18.
On motion of Mr. Goodhue, the petition of Hannah Treat was
read the second time, and'referred to the Secretary at War.
The petition of Jchoika Thompson, was read the second time
and referred to a committee consisting of Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Van
Ranfellaer and Mr- Moore.
11l committee of the whole on the Report of the Secretary of
the Treasury ; Mr. Madi foil's motion for a discrimination under
confideration —A number of speakers pro and con this da^— which
terminated without any decision.
FRIDAY, FEB. 19
A metTage from the Senate was received by theirSecretarv, with
359
the bill providing for the enumeration of the inhabitants bf the
United States—returned with sundry amendments.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury—Mr. Madison's motion ior difcriminatioii under con
sideration. —Mr. Scot and Mr. Seney (pake in favor ot the propo
rtion—Mr. Livermore, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Bland and Mr Burke a
gainit it—the discussion of the fubje6t was continued till near the
moment of adjournment—the commute rose without comin» to «
vote—and are 10 refuinethe business on Monday next.
A letter was read from the commissioners for fettling accounts
between the United Slates and individual Slates, relpefling the
diminilhed rate at which the Clerks were employed in this buii
nefs are paid—compared with the fabrics in the other offices,and
requeuing the intcrpolition of Congress—that they may be placed
on an equality.
The lefolution of the Senate for appointing three commiflion
ers pursuant to the memorial of Hon. Robert Morris,late fupcrin
tendant of finance, Was read—
After some debate whether it Ihould be referredto a feleft com
mittee, it was ordered, that it lie on the table.
Adjourned till Monday li o'clock.
ERRATUM.—In Mr. Sedgwick's Speech in our lajl, $th paragraph
from the top, for il latter species" read former Ipecies.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE Legislature of every State have authority
to atfl in a three-fold capacity.
1. They have authority to make laws for thd
good government of the pejple of the State, and
to alter or repeal them as they may think fit.
2. They have authority as agents for the State,
to grant or transfer public property in behalf of
the State ; and to make contrad|s binding on the
State; but they have no authority to revoke, im
pair or alter any such grant or contract fairly
made and obtained, without the consent of the
other party.
3. When any question lhall come before them
refpetfing the construction or fulfilment of such
contracts, they have authority to decide thereon
in ajudicial capacity : and are in duty bound to
be governed in their judgement by the fame prin
ciples as a court of law or equity, as the nature
of the cafe may require ; nor are the individuals
composing the legillature, anymore interested in
such decision, than the judges of the courts of
law. When a State or the United States are plain
tiffs in a cause against an individual, the cafe is
to be decided by a court of law; but when an in
dividual has a demand against aStateor against
the United States, the claimant could not have
an adequate remedy in the ordinary courts of
law or equity, because their judgment could not
be executed against a State or against the United
States ; therefore when no provision is made by
law for the liquidation or fatisfadiion of such
claims, the claimant has no remedy but by a peti
tion of right to the legislature ; and such cases
often occur. The duty of the legislature in
such cases is more fully pointed out and inculcated
in the following extradl from an election sermon
delivered before the Legislature of the State of
Conne&icut,in May, 1787, viz;
" REMEMBER, Gentlemen, that whileyou are examining
the rights of individuals, and their claims on one another, or ori
the public, you drop the chara&er of legislators, and ihoulda&by
the fame fixed rules of law and equity, as the judge on the,bench.
In causes of ajudicial kind,your high cbarafter of sovereignty will
not excuse an arbitary decision, or denial of justice, any more
than the fame may be excused in the lowest executive court.
"In grantingfavours, you are only to consider, whether they are
equitable and confident with the good of the community ; but in
doing juitice you have no sovereign discretion. No wife man
thinks his lite and estate fafe in the hand of a tyrant, bound by no
restraint of law ; Excuse me, gentlemen, when I add, that the dis
cretion of a popular aflembly, acting by no fixed and known rules
of equity, is a different ex predion, but the fame in effect, as the
will ot a dtfpot. Sovereign power should never be perverted to
•a£U of unrighteousness: Let not therefore the notion of omnipo
t nee, and of being above controul, insensibly infinuatc itfelf in
to your deliberations, and lead to a different determination,
from what you Would give in a different charatter. With defer
ence to your high stations, I am warranted with all boldness to
afTure you, in the fear of God the Almighty and Eternal Judge,
that the consideration of not being accountable to an higher court
on earth, should be one of the molt forcible motives, to engage
you to the greatest uprightness and impartiality, not only between
fubjeft and fui>jc&i but especially between the fubje&and the pub
lic. Remember that as there is in this world an appeal from a
lower to a higher court, so when the most sovereign and uncon
trollable coutt on earth gives an unrighteous feritence and wicked
ly perverts judgment, there is immediately entered in the high
court of Heaven an appeal, which in the great day of general as
size, will be called, and mail be answered. Then you, my
honorable auditors, and all the kings and judges of the earth (hall
appear, and give an account of your conduct while you a&ed in
the character of Gods on earth."
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 20.
Yeftcrday arrived here in io weeks from Plymouth, England,
a Sloop of War, with dispatches for Lord Dorchester, and Sir
John Tfcmple.
Extratt of a letter from Bojlon, February 3.
" I thank you for the Secretary's Kepoit. I like it—and be
lieve the House won't mend it—therefore wifli it maybe adopted ;
at least, that Congrcfs mav not make any alterations, but such as
the Secretary shall approve—that he may feel his responsibility,
and exerthimfelf accordingly. I like a head to every department*
and that every head (hould have ample powers, ahd be responsible.
Such a system of government will at once be efficient and
free. You will fee by our papers the influence of certain
volatile and giddy chara&ers —their inconsistency and folly keep
the ignorant members gaping, and waste tbe time of the Court,
which ought to be employed in important business. Such con
duit serves to evince the importance and neceflity of the General
Government. How wretched would be our situation without it.
(£3T "Th E RePUB LIC AN, No. 3," " NECRAR,"fI«(/ d " POE
TICAL Essav" arc received.
To be L E T,
And pofTeflion given the ill of April, for one or more years, (two
miles and half from this city, on the Greenwich road,)
THHAT New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
Rooms on a floor ; -with fix fireplaces; a new Barn, and
Well of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of Fruit Trees, with
7 J acres of Land, themoft part Meadow. For particulars enquire
at No. 7, Maiden-JLanc. New-York, Tei/rwy so-FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER. No. I
*IR<
T HAVE Jeen in the papert accounts of large AJfoCiations, and appli
-1 cations to government for the abolition of Jlavery. Religion, human i
ty, and thegenerofity natural to a free people, are the noble principles
which dictate those meajures. Suck motives command refpeEl, and are
above am elogium words canbeflow.
Alt ho Ifully and join in the zvifk to fee slavery abolished,
/ mujl however confefs, that what Ihave collected, on the means jor ob
taining the end, out ofthofe channels has given me no JatisJaQion.
The JubjeEl is in wv opinion, oj higher moment than has been represent
ed : Slavery is not only contrary to the feelings of freemen, but to the
principles of a free government; it not only vitiates it, but it mujl alfobe
considered, that in America the evil is a deep-rooted and daily increasing
one ; that to cjfeEl a cure, palliatives are dangerous, and no more applica
ble to it, then they are in the mortification ojgangrenated bodies ; that to
heal this political and moral evil, and to doJlrid juflice on allfides, is a
difficult talk : For which reason, Iprefume, that this matter mujl only be
conjidered, and even decided, on the ground of philosophical and political
argument. On this very scale Ifkal l try toflate the nature oj the quejlion,
and the measures for a radical cure of the evil.
Agreeable to the order mentioned, I[hall take up the JubjeftfJirJl on
philosophical ground. Innumerable are the beings on the globe, yet the
eternal wisdom has clajfed them all, gradually dejeending Jrom animated
to inanimatednature ; diflinguijhable differences of form, Jize, Jlrength,
weaknefs,ferocity, mildness, sensibility, tnerty, inanimation, are exiflent.
rhofe difi Terences have been proved by philosophical enquiry, to proceed
byg entlc tints andfhadows, till observation on thofefubje&s is Jet at nought.
No less wonderful is a fome.hing simitar order in the vegetable and mi'
neral kingdoms : In those we Jind also, well divided clajfes, gradua
ted, connetled, yet all marked out in different charaflers ; Juch injlances
are numerous, but beyond my Jlrength to invejligate, and beyond the limits
of this paper ; however, in order to throw light on the ideas I have com
municated, I willfeleft, and consider at large, a few examples out of the
animal kingdom.
From the elephant to the fnullejl infect, vifble to the eye by a microscope
only, what a graduation of sizes, of animals, does there fland between
those two extremes ; flrengtli, sagacity, and temper, are objects no less
gradually diminfking, and form djlinci characters, between individuals
of the great sum of animated brings.
An other graduation is remarkable ; nature goes not Jrom one species
of animals abruptly to the next; there are beings who fepar ate one fort
from the othei, and par take in their form, and habit, Jomething of both ;
those I call intermediate beings.
Examples of this dejeription are plentiful; Jor injlance amphibious ;
of these, thefea-lion, thejea-cow, the sea-horse, the sea-dog, the beaver,
the otter, isc. partake at once of the nature of Jfh, and of some land
iifiimal they have resemblance to. Only one more of these I beg leave
to mention : on the Cape of Good Hope, a duck, at once fifh and fowl, is
often met with, the form is that of a common wild duck, but the wings are
conjlrufled like the Jins oja fijh ; thoje ducksJly horizontally over the wa
ter to hunt the Jfkfwfter in swimming than they are ; but their power
of flying is over a\ soon as their wings become dry, they lay their eggs in
chffs on shore, and there breed their young ones; this Iprefume is one of
the intermediate beings, between fowl and fifk.
In fcveral species of animals, altho likeness is apparently great, how
dfferent is their nature : This ive will exemplify by the lion, and a large
dog, of which there is in Asa afpecies of a kind andfhape, almojl next to
the lion, called the lion-dog: Ancient hijlory records that fuck an one
was given to Alexander, Ring of Macedonia ; this needs nojurther def
<r?p:ion, for even to this day the breed is not extinfl \ the Mogul, and
other Asiatic Princes, hunt the lionJtill with them ; a single one, armed
with ajleel collar, and breajl harness, f-ghts on equal chance, and two
of these vanquijh the lion eajily. The bull-dog, and the wo J with the
jfhprt muzzle, the fmallfpannel with the fox, the domejlic cat with the
tyger, have allJlriking refemblances t but how different are they in cha
racter, habit and temper.
Among animals avowed to be of the fame kind, the differences are no
left pcrfefth ascertained. This field is as extenjive as the former : It
rvould tire the attention to walk thro all the images it is able to furnifh ;
hence IJhall keep withinJhort bounds oj the mofl common objefls. From
the beforementioned AJiatic lion-dog, to the little long-haired delicate Span
ifhdog, which lies Jnarling in the lap of a lady, or cowardly barks out of
a bajlct, lined with cotton, what a difference oj chara6ler, Jlrength &c.
and how many Jizes, and fpecies,flandbetween these two dogs. The no
ble Arabian horse, thefwift tartarian, the barb, the Englijh hunter, the
heavy and large oflfries and the dwarf Norwegian horse, are all hor
fes,\et how differently are they marked out.
In the human fpecies,differences are no lefs flriking and absolute. The
Patagonian giants, the dwarfs of Laponia, the elegantly proportionedJi
gurc,and beautijul color of our ladies, and oj some European nations ;
the Chineje ; the copper-colored men ; the blacks with long hair ; the
white negro with redjpots and white hair, called kakerlak by the Dutch ;
the AJrican, andfouthern Papoe negro, with Jhort woolly hair, are all oj
the specie called mankind, but how greatly do they differ, not alone in co
lor andfigure, but also in original charader.
Plinius gives a dejeription oj men, living in the interior parts oj Afri
ca ; they have cars {landing upwards, like horjes' ears, their mouth is
a longfhaped wolfs muzzle, and they have nails like a bear,Jlanding
Jiff at the end of their fingers. This kind oj men carried on bloody wars
againjl the Ethiopians, and were jinally rendered tributary by the fatter :
they have been seen, in the armies of the Ethiopians, in their wars with
the Egyptians, and Romans. When I travelled in the Asiatic southern
Hemisphere.a Prince, foverign of one of {those i (lands, gave me a defer ip
tion of the fame kind oj men, living in some ijlands next to him : This
Prince was aflranger to Plinius's account, and the unprovoked narra
tive, andperfett resemblance of his description was thefrfl conjirmation I
obtained that Plinius had told no tale ; but I have since, in Europe, Jeen a
female of that monjlrous specie, brought from Africa to Marseilles. This
creature was thought to }>cofthc monkey kind, but her knees confrmed me
in the belief, that (he was of the intermediate beings, by which nature goes
from one specie to another, and probably those creatures fland between
mankind andthe monkey specie : The knees of this female floodforwards,
like those of men, but in general all quadrupedes have the knees of their
hind legsflan ding backwards : She answered also the description given
by Plinius, and by the Asiatic Prince.
From this perufallittle doubt can remain that all those quoted diflinc
tions are explanatory proofs of the immutable order of the universe, infti
tu'ed by the infinite wisdom of the Almighty : Can human law change the
fyflem, or by intermixing species, overthrow the fixed order of nature,
and improve the original ? Is it in the power aj men, to make out oj a
cur a bull dog ; out of a Norwegian dwarf-horje, a noble Arabian \ out
vf the voracious wolf, a companionable Neafoundland dog ; out of the
wild musk-bull, a domejlic or, to till his ground. ; out of the Laponian
dwarf,a Patagonian giant? If this can be done, then he can also make
out of the sheep-hairy African negroe, a spirited, noble, and generous
American Freeman !
Afv next Utter IJhall makejhortcr; the length of this I could not well
avoid. R U S T 1 C V S.
PARISIAN INTELLIGENCE.
Paris, Nov. 26. Frojly Nights.
MDppont, a Member of the National As
. fembly, is a great advocate for the Caifle
d'Efcompte. He pretends that it never flopped
payment ; on the contrary, he affirms, with con
fidence, that it daily pays now between three and
four hundred thousand livres, and refnfes no bills
or notes. lie farther remarks, that the Bank of
England, so renowned for its exactness, when the
Pretender was in Scotland did not cease payment,
it is true ; but discharged its notes in (hilling
and sixpenny pieces ; which operation went 011
so slowly in the payments, that not a thousand
pounds llerling were paicl in a day. And yet,
fays M. Dupont, it was never aflerted, that the
Bank of England had become bankrupt. Ihe
said member insists, that the nation ought in jul
tice and gratitude, either pay what she owes to
the Caifle, or aggregate it to the National Bank,
according to M. Necker's plan.
A new plan of a National bank has been pro
posed by a M. Cabains ; it is very concise, and
in all probability will be adopted. It excludes
the Caille d'Elcompte, which will be reimbursed.
A very generous present was sent to the Na
tional Alfembly by the Nuns of Maubeuge. They
are sorry, they fay, in the letter that accompanies
the gift, that it is not in their power to fend any
plate (they gave it all to Louis XV) to encreal'e
the specie ; but, to make amends, they offer to
the nation an annual income of 147,000 livres
(61251.) The national Aflembly received it with
demonitrations of gratitude and joy.
There is a scheme of melting the bells of all
the churches. They may be of some service.
Since the Members of the National Ailembly
gave their buckles, 110 silver ones are to be seen
in the llreets. It is true, that theapprehenfion of
being flopped by some daring fellows, who, un
der pretence of serving their country, strip you
of whatever visible silver or gold they can find on
you, does not a little contribute to render aln?olt
every individual generous. I have sent mine,
and my lifter her gold ear-rings, and thimble to
the Mint.
Yesterday, as it was reported, was the day ap
pointed by the Aristocratic party to produce a
counter-revolution. All the diftridts were under
arms from midnight till ten o'clock, in the morn
ing. Thank Goo, it was a falfe ; and I
do not imagine we lhall experience another ibock
within this year. The national Aflembly begins
to acquire a consistency, and the provinces :n
general fatisfied, and adopt all the articles
palled at the National Aflembly with Teeming fa
tisfadlion. His Majesty remains in ftatu quo, and
there is no probability of his hunting this autumn.
The Duke of Bourbon and his ion have left
Turin.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
Thitrfta? t Nov. 19.
We have already mentioned the Articles of the
Constitution decreed this day.
A Report was read from the Committee of War,
the beginning of which deserves to be noticed.
" Although it be neither the interest of France, nor
the ivifh of Frenchmen to make conquers, we mnil
nevertheless have an army always on foot, and
ready for action, to refill the attacks of power
ful and armed neighbours, &c."
To keep up such an army, two methods are
proposed. First.Personal ferv ice by every French
man, without diftinc r tion, for four years, at least
once in his life ; allowing such only as are inca
pable of personal service to find substitutes. Se
cond, Volunteers willing to serve for pay, to
open a field for tliofe whose inclination may lead
thein to the profeffion of arms. No man, after
serving once, to be ordered out a second time,
but by his own consent ; and in cafe of war, ba
chelors, to take the field before married men.
This report was ordered to be printed.
[The business of Friday is related in the for.
mer part of this letter.]
The Canons of St. Genevieve having offered to
present their magnificent library to the city of
Paris, it was this day proposed to ratify the gift;
but the Assembly declined giving any opinion on
the fubje<ft.
The Baron de Comere, who has long been em
ployed on calculations of finance, presented a
plan, which he requested leave to read at the bar.
This could not be granted ; but the plan was re
ferred to the Committee of Finance, with an 111-
flru<ftion to take it into immediate consideration.
IVednefday, Nov. 25.
The following articles of ConlHtution were de
creed :
" The present municipalities of all cities,
towns, pariibes, or communities, under whatever
title or qualification, are fupprefled and abolish
ed ; and, in the mean time, Magistrates now in
office shall continue their functions, till others be
appointed in their room.
On a petition from the City of Metz, setting
forth that the Parliament, by a new arret, had
acknowledged that liberty and union surrounded
the King and National Aflembly, and profefling
their lincere repentance for the error into whicli
report had led them, the Aflembly decreed, that
the attendance of the Members of that Parlia
ment at the bar ihould be dispensed with ; and
the petition from the City in their behalf print
ted in the minutes.
A discussion took place on the necessity of defi
ning, in clear and precise terms, the crime of
treason against the State ; but as this will make
part of the labours of the Committee of Consti
tution, the matter was referred to that Commit
tee.
The fiift part of the pension lift, containino;
wentv four quarto pages, is publiihed. The
360
Saturday, Nov. 21
plan of the work, is to divide the whole into
leven parts ; the lirlt to contain, in alphabetical
order, the names of all those who enjoy pensions
of 20,000 livres and upwards, with the age of
the pensioner, the date of the penlion, and the
reasons for which it was given ; the l'econd, from
8,000 livres to 20,000 ; the third, fiom 1,400 to
8000 ; and soon.
7 lie result of the firft part, which is said to lie
very incorrect, is that eighty-fix persons fuare
among them annually 2,895,623 livres. Of thel'e
ten are Ladies ; fifteen fuperanuated, or dis
charged Ministers ; twenty six-persons, whofefer
vices were never heard of ; five whom the nation
would recompence more liberally, and thirty,
for whose zeal and talents ten thousand livres
would be a liberal reward. The reasons most
commonly afligned for granting these pensions
are, to make good a pension no longer paid by
some foreign Prince, or tq reward political fer.
vices
Marshal Broglio enjoys four several penfigns,
making together 70,000 livres.
The fitting in the morning of this day was re
markable for the extraordinary progrefsmade in
the organization of the primary and intermedi
ate Afleinblies
A Deputy from Guadaloupe proposed, in the
name of the Welt India Deputies, to appoint a
Committee of planters and merchants to receive
and examine all plans of Conltitution for the Co
lonies ; to which, heobferved, the principles of
Constitution for the Continent where not proper
ly applicable. The consideration of this propo
lition was postponed.
A decree was paded, forbidding all persons
holding or exercising public offices to receive any
present or gratification of any kind or nature, on
pain of being punished as guilty of extortion ;
and it was ordered to be presented immediately
for the Royal fan<ftion.
The consideration of M. Necker's plan for a
National Bank was returned.
The prevailing opinion seemed to be, that the
general state of the finances is not yet fufficiemly
investigated to enable men to judge of tlie advan
tages or disadvantages of such a plan.
The Aflembly ordered the Committee of Fi*
nance, in concert with the firft Miniver, to draw
up a detailed account of the demands that require
ninety millions over and above the actual reve
nue for the year 1790, with an ellimate of ways
and means for railing that sum ; and adjourned
the further difcuflion till Saturday.
The Bishop of Treguier has publifiied a second
mandate, in which he retraces all that he said in
his former again ft the revolution and the proceed
ings of the National Aflembly. In conlequence
of this recantation, the fame indulgence has been
foliciced for him that was grantea to the parlia
ment of Rouen and Metz, but hitherto without
effect.
M. Guillotin called the.attention of theAflem
bly to some amendments which he conceived
highly neceflary to be added to the provisional re
form of criminal These were the
fame penalties for criminals of all ranks and con
ditions ; the fame punilhment for all capital of
fences ; a decapitation by a machine conftrufted
for the purpose, instead of an executioner : and
the proscription of the absurd prejudice w*J/:h
extends the infamy of a criminal to his family.
It was agreed to confkler them on Tuefay next.
A report was read from the Committee of Fi
nance, containing the state of the public treafijry
on the firft of November, and an eltimate of the
probable receipt from that time to the end of the
present year, which including the plate carried
to the Mint, and the fubfcriptiQns to the loan of
eighty millions, did not exceed forty millions of
livres.
LONDON, Dec. 3.
The affairs of Europe never wore so Angular
and even whimsical an afpecft as at present :
The Head of the House of Austria oppressing
the Catholic Church ; and the Catholic Church
offering the riches of the Sacred Temples at the
shrine of Liberty ! The Patriots of Holland Re
fugees in Brabant, and the Patriots of Brabant
Refugees in Holland ! Prussia the restraint of
Dutch, and the hope of Flemish freedom ! The
great Protestant Alliance of England, Prussia, and
Holland, considered as the shield of the most zeal
ous Catholics in the world.
The campaign is now intirely finiflied in the
North. The Swedish fleet is returned to Charlf
croon, and the Ruffian to Revel. The troops too,
of both the powers, in Finland, are put into win
ter quartes.
A very extraordinary circumftanee occurred
on Wednesday night, at the entrance of Covent-
Garden Theatre. A gentleman, who made an
unfuccelsful attempt to gain admiffion,was return
ing home,and on putting his hand into his pock
et for his handkerchief, difcoveredapurfe with
eight guineas and some silver. This must have
happened through the mistake of one of the light
fingered gentry, who, in the preflure ofthe croud,
mistook the gentleman's pocket for his own.
Thttrfday., Nov. 26.
Saturday, Nov. 2?.