[No. LXXXVI.]
THE TABLET
No. LXXXVI
« Popularity is a different thing from influence."
IT may seem a contradi&ion, but it is very
true, that a man may be a favorite of the
people at large, while he has little or no per
sonal influence over individuals. The causes
which make a man popular are not those which
make him refpecfted. A man by cherifhingthe pre
judices, and playing upon the weaknefles of the
populace, may rend*r himfelf the objed; of their
favors, though at the fame time, he may not be
supposed a person either of talents or integrity.
Popularity allures the imagination so forcibly
that it betrays us into errors, and tempts us to
depart from those principles, which alone can
procure real weight of character. There is no
point in which men deceive themselves so much,
as in the pleasure and advantage, they expedl to
derive from popular applause. This is a bubble
that will often burst ; a phantom that will dis
appear upon the slightest touches. It is easy to
perceive that the popularity of mod men is liable
to so much uncertainty and vexation, that a dis
cerning person can behold it without envy or
desire. How can it be otherwise ? Can it reason
ably be expected that applause or preferment,
procured without merit, and bestowed without
discretion, can be of any long duration ?
There may however be instances of men,
who may be the idol of the people, and yet pof
fefs such real excellence of character as to be
held in estimation by the wife and virtuous.
Such examples are rare and do not refute the
general remark, that popularity is no proof of
abilities or honesty. The only sure way to ac
quire and preserve influence is to observe a just
and honorable line of condudl. There may be
a more expeditious method to gain popular no
tice, but it will prove fallacious in the end.
Nothing can be more easy than to flatter and de
ceive mankind, and perhaps an artful man may
carry on the deception for years, but he will lead,
a life of risque and disquietude.
In a country like this, many person* wifli fame
and promotion. To obtain them,by fomemeans
or other, is one of the strongest inclinations an am
bitious man can feel. His iinpetuofity drives him
into measures that may for a while succeed ; but
it is only the prudent and virtuous character who
tan depend on maintainingan influence in society.
A man who a&s on consistent principles may
in moments of popular delusion be disregarded
and overlooked ; but take chances as they rife,
he will probably gain more honor and advantage,
than the n*an of duplicity who flatters the hu
mors, rather than promotes the interest of the
community.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
IHAVE fccn the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, and
considered it with the attention which the importance of the
fubjeft deserves. It is not to derogate from his merit, or with a
view to embarrass public measures, that I take up my pen. He
is a man of acknowledged abilities, must be poflefled of the bed
information, and I have no reason to doubt the goodness of his
heart; yet I cannot fay that lam fatisfied either with his scheme
or the reasoning upon which it is founded.
Politicks arenot my province, I have no right to guide the helm
of state, nor have I abilities to dire# those who have, yet thanks
to the united exertions of my countrymen I am a freeman, and as
such have a right to give my sentiments on public measures : if
they have no weight in themselves they will fall of course, their
being mine will not support them.
The grand proposition is 44 that an adequate provision for the
support of the public credit, is a matter of high importance to the
honor and prosperity of the United States." But how this pub
lic credit is to be honorably fupportcd is the important question, to
this he truly answers 44 by good faith, by a punctual performance
of contrasts," and he further observes that 14 It is agreed on all
hands, that that part of the debt which has been contracted abroad
and is denominated the foreign debt, ought to be pro
vided for according to the precise terms of the contra#,
and how clfe I would a(k, will any contra# be 44 punc
tually performed ?" But the domestic debt of the United States
is immensely large, and here the interesting problem occurs, " Is
it in the power of the United States." On this point we differ
widely, his reasoning tends to shew that it is not, in prudence. I
fliall endeavor hereafter to (hew that it is, but must beg leave firft
to make a few observations on his plans for the reduction of the
interest. Notwithstanding his observations on the sacred nature
of contrasts, and his declaration 44 that no change in the rights of
its creditors ought to be attempted without their voluntary con
sent, and that this consent ought to be voluntary in fa# as well as
in name," let us fee how the sequel of the plan agrees with these
observations and declarations. A fubfeription to a loan is offered,
with various inducements. If I voluntarily fubferibe to this loan,
on any of these inducements, all is well enough ; tho the old con
tra# is not complied with, yet a new one is entered into with my
voluntary approbation ; but if I do notchoofe to fubferibe to the
new loan, how then? Why then after the interest on all the reft
of the public debts is paid, I may come in for a fbareof what mo
ney is left, if there is any ; but am I to receive that (hare on the
terms of my contra# ? No, truly, I shall even then receive my
interest only at four per cent. Is this then supporting the pub
lic credit with honor ? Is this a sacred compliance with contracts
and a voluntary fubfeription ? Just as voluntary as the donations
made by the clergy on the demand of the Roman Pontiff or the
moll Christian King.
SATURDAY February 6, 1790,
But what have Americans done that they are not equally enti
tled with foreigners to a ftrift compliance with " the precise terms
ot their contrasts ?" Or what security ihall we have that we {hall
not, ten years hence be called upon voluntarily to enter into a nrw
contrail ? Can any obligation which iViall atprefentbe entered
into be more binding than the words of the present constitution,
which fays, art. 6, " All deKs contracted and engagements en
tered into, before the adoption of this constitution ihall be as va
lid * against the United States under this constitution, as under
the confederation."
But granting, what by the way I utterly deny, that the interest
of the public debt, computed at 6 per cent, is not in " the pow
er of the United States" to command,yet the scheme for the reduc
tion of it and the inducements held out are not so clear to common
underftandingsas I could with, it therefore opens a field for the
knowing ones to take advantage of the less knowing, and I think
we have travelled too long already in the road of speculation.
A considerable part of it is calculated upon the spirit of adven
ture, whereas private economy an i individual industry ought to
be promoted by every measure of government.
But it will be said that no man ought to object to a measure,
unless he will propose what he thinks better.
Let us therefore consider whether the interest on the public debt
is so immense, that an adequate provision for it is not " in the
power of the L'nited States." According to the statements made
by the Secretary, the principal of the foreign debt, is 10,070,307
dollars, the annual interest 54 2 »599 66
The prin. of the the domestic debt 27,383,917 47
the annual interest of which at 6pi . cent, is 1 >643i°35 5
The whole annual interest then is,
Add to this for current services,
The amount of the annual demand is then 2,785*634 71
An immense sum it is true, but who will fay it
exceeds the power of the United States, when by
the estimate of the Secretary's report it is stated
that one branch of the revenue only, viz. the im
port may be made immediately to neat the annu
al sum of
Which leaves a surplus of
annually, without the Poft-Office, estimated at
more, and both of these are considered as increasing branches of
the revenue.
It will be observed that in this calculation, I have not taken in the
state debts, true I have not, and for two very obvious reasons,
viz. That the United States have no more right to intermeddle
with the state debts than with the private debts of individuals,
and that the States are much more competent to this objett them
felvcs than the United States can be.
But it v. ill be (aid that I have made no calculation upon the
arrears of interest in the above statement, true I have not, my ob
ject was to examine whether our annual resources were not equal
to our annual expenditures, and I think I have fairly (hewn that
by the best estimates that can at present be procured they are ful
ly equal after making a very handsome allowance for failures and
contingences.
The interest on the domcflic debt to the 31ft December 1790 is
estimated at Dollars.
»3» 0 3°> 168 9 -°
From this sum deduct two years interest, viz
from December 31, 1788,
The remainder is
For the payment and redemption of which,meafurcs ought imme
diately to be taken.
I dedutt two years interest, as above, because measures ought
tobetakenfor the payment of the interest due for the year 1789,
within the course of the year 1790, and in future the paym. Nt of
the interest for every year ought to commence the firft day of the
next succeeding year, this, though but half a years interest (hould
be paid at a time, which by the way I think will be easiest for the
public and most advantageous for the individual, and will be a de
gree of punctuality of which no creditor will ever complain.
Byanumberof afls of ihe late Congress of the United States,
requisitions have been made upon the several States both in a£tual
money and indents; some of these have perhaps been fully com
plied with, and others in part, by particular States; there are how
ever large sums in arrear upon those requisitions from every State,
these ought never to be loft light of, because the several States not
having paid in proportion to each other, great injufticc would be
done by it to those States which have paid with the most alacrity.
I would propose therefore that indents (hould issue for the arrears
of interest on the whole of the domestic debt to the 31ft Decem
ber, i 788, that the several Stateslhould be immediately required
to pay in the arrearages of the rrquifitions made by the former go
vernment, and that the indents be received in payment as far as
they will extend ; the remainder in efficient money. I have not
at hand fufficient documents to make the necessary estimates, but
do not doubt these ariearagcs will be found fufficient to redeem
the whole of the indents and pay the arrearages of interest on the
foreign debt.
But it will be said you have proposed that the interest for the
year 1789 (hall be paid in the courleof this year, how is this to
be done feeing we have not the ca(h in hand ? I answer let im
port bills be struck, to the amount of one years interest, which
(hall be receivable, by the several collectors, for all duties both
on imposts and tonnage, except the duties on wine and spirits im
ported, which should be payable in specie only, and let those
bills be ifftied immediately for the payment of the laltycars in
terest. As this according to the estimates made by the Secretary
would all be collcCled within the course of a year, it would an
swer the United State every purpose of money in the
payment ot interest; it would answer the individual c
very purpose of money in the payment of duties, and, if
the necessary punfluality is kept up in the collection, it would be
ready in the public offices by the times at which it would be want
ed to pay the present years interest ; by this continual rotation
and demand it would be saved from depreciation and made to an
swer every valuable purpose. _ t
The amount of the duties on wine and spirits imported, ana
the neat proceeds of the Pott-Office (hould be reserved for the
payment ofthe interest on the foreign debt and the current expences
of government.
I cannot but be surprized to hear people cry out, and lometimes
men of information too, that the public debt is so great, that at
the present rate of interest, it would fink the whole United States ;
furcly these persons donot reflect on what they fay, for clear it is
from the statement which I have made, that the United States are
competent to making " an adequate provision for the support of
public credit," even on the present terms of the contrast, and
that without attempting at dirett taxation.—But fuppoftng the
whole of the revenue ariling from the impost and tonnage duties
and the poft-officc (hould be appropriated to the payment of the
* The numbers of the prejer.i Congress have all fevom to support this
article of the conjlitutim.
interest, and redu6lion of the principal, of the foreign debt, and
the current expences, yet internal taxation would prove a source
fufficient for th e interest of the domestic debt, and the land-office
under proper regulations might form a fund for us extinguifn*
ment: so that we need not even then despair.
The annual interest on the domestic debt, is but 1-643,035 $
dollars, and Mr. Jefferfon, in his notes on Virginia, if I mi Hake
not, fays,that State alone can raise one million ot dollars annually*
by internal taxation, and this observation will be supported by
what the State of New-Jersey has done and is actually doing; this
small State without impost or excise, or other resource, not with*
standing Ihe was at the fame time paying duties on imports to the
neighboring States of New-Yorkand Pennsylvania, to near the
amount of the present continental duties, by mere dint of inter
nal taxation, has, for four years past, annually paid interest on the
domestic debt of the United States, Dollars.
And for the fame time, to the receiver of
continental taxes, at the rate of
And for two years past has annually raised for
the payment of invalid pensioners,
Amounting to . 100,524 60
Besides which she has supported her own government, paya
£. 12.500 annually for the interest on the State debt, and has be
tween June 1787, and November 1789, reduced the principal of
that debt 477 18\f. * yet so far are they from considering
themselves overburdened when the public good is the object, that
the legislature at their lad fitting have ordered an additional tax of
to be raised within the course of the present year, for
finking fomuch of the paper money of the State now in circula
tion.
2.185,634 71
600,000
The amount of the State debt on the lft November, 1789, was
/~.266,277 6 u, —trom the above statement therefore it appears,
that New-Jersey is able to pay her proportion + of the interest on
the domestic debt of the United States, on the present terms of the
contratt, besides supporting the government, paying the interest
on the State debt, and extinguishing the principal in less than
22 years, and that if (he should be relieved from paying the in
terest on the continental debt, (he can extinguish her State debt in
about seven years—and this she has been enabled to do by a judi
cious i Hue of revenue paper, for the payment of one years inter
est in advance, which has been colie&ed every year for the pay
ment of the next year's interest agreeably to the mode which I
have proposed to be put in p»a£hce by the United States—l know
it will be objected that the Jersey paper has depreciated—true it
has, but the revenue paper did not until it was injudiciously bur
dened with an emiflion of £100,000 in loan-office paper, to con
tinue in circulation unredeemed for twelve years, and with it
made a legal tender—but suppose it had depreciated before that
time, it had one grand difficulty to encounter which continental
paper would not, viz. that there was no object to create a demand
for it in any State but our own, whereas all our trade was carried
on with our neighboring States, and the balance entirely against
us, of course it was to make payments in other States that money
was principally in demand. A JERSEY MAN.
2,843,400
57»765 19
100,000
* The flatement publjked with the Secretary* 5 report is unauthen
ticatedand very croneovs.
+ About one seventeenth part.
3,286,070 10
' I 'HO an Arclibifhop holds the great leal ofFrance
A the royal aflent was given, and the great
seal affixed lo the decrce of the national aflembly
almost the instant it was presented, by which the
church is (tripped of her immense pofleflions.
This decree will be feltby thbfe who probably
did not think theinfelves likely to be affected by
it, for the principle on which it is founded,
{hakes the tenure by which every corporate body
in France holds property.
The decree for suspending for a time, or provi
sionally, the power of eccleliaftical superiors to
admit any person of either sex to make religious
or monaflic vows, also received the royal aflent.
9,744,098 10
LONDON, November, 4.
Extract a letter from Madrid, ORobcr 6.
" In order to prevent the consequences of the
spirit of infurredtion, which is spreading from
kingdom, to kingdom, and has already made
some progress in this, our Monarch has resolved.
to aflemble the ancient Courts of Spain. His Ma
jesty has accordingly announced to all the towns
who have aright to fend Deputies to prepare for
fucii Purpose.
" This solemn Aflembly is to be held in this
capital, at the Place del Buon Retiro, in the great
Hall of the kingdom—thus named, because it
contains the armories of the seventeen king
doms which compofethis Monarchy."
GEORGE-TOWN, January 27.
Extratt of a letter from an American gentleman in
New Orleans,to his friend in this town, dated \2th
Dec. 1789.
" The sparks of liberty which were discovered
bme time past in South-America have now actu
illy broke out into a flame. Yes, my friend, the
American Fever, which has fliaken to its founda
:ions the thrones of enlightened Europe,has found
its way to this land of ignorance and superstiti
on :—by accounts received over land from Mexi
co, all bids fair for a revolution. The inhabi
tants of this rich and fertile country, who have
been the dupes and sport of prieft-craft for cen
turies past, begin to open their eyes—they have
relufed to pay the fourth part of the produce of
their mines to the king, inconsequence of which
the viceroy ordered the European troops to take
pofleflion of some of the moll valuable mines in.
fPublijhct in IVeduef day and Saturday.]
FRANCE
UNITED STATES.
®3:35®
6,500
10,666 6otlie neighbourhood of the city of Mexico—this
happened in October lad ; and about the 20th of
Nov. upwards of 7000 of the inhabitants appear
ed under arms, amongst whom were the molt ref
pecfled characters of the country ; they marched
and attacked the troops who had taken poflelfion
of their property ; an engagement took place—
thegreateft part of the kings troops fell a facri
fice, and the people retook their poperty —they
were afterwards joined by a large body of Indians
(who make the greater part of the inhabitants)
and then proceeded to the city of Mexico, where
they took pofleflion of the King's magazines,
arsenals, &c. the viceroy, the chief officers, the
priests andjefuits, the moil obnoxious to the na
tives, fled towards Carthagena. . Two exprefles
arrived here over land. Government wishes to
conceal it from the people, but time will disclose
the whole of this interesting affair."
N E W-Y O R K, Feb. y
The diftritft court for the di(lri<ft of New-York
was opened on Tuesday last by the Hon. James
Duane, Judge of said Court.
The following Gentlemen who had been sum
moned for the purpose, appeared and were
sworn as Grand Jurors, being the firlt Grand Jury
aflembled in this State under the authority of the
United States, to wit :
Jacob Le Roy, Ten. Foreman, Francies Lewis,fen.
John Broome, Richard Plate, John Blagge, Elea
zer Miller, Samuel B. Webb, Henry Reinfen,
fen. William Denning, Walter Livingfton, Wil
liam Maxwell, Comfort Sands, Alexander Ma
comb, William Edgar, Paschal Nelson Smith,
James Farquhar, Alexander Stewart, James Ni
cholfon, Frederick Jay, Nicholas Hoffman, Cor
nelius Ray, Abijah Hammond, Joseph Hallett.
His Honor the Judge then gave the following
Charge :
Gentleman of the Grand Jury
In a charge to the firft Grand Inquefl convened
for this DiltriOt, I tread an unbeaten path. We
are now become emphatically a nation. A new
Constitution pervades the United-States, with a
dequate powers for their government and pro
tetftion. New laws are promulged, both with
refpei.l to crimes and civil obligations ; and new
judicatories eftabliihed for the administration of
justice. To examine the nature of those inilituti
ons, and their aifetfts on our former fyitem, would
be a work of time, and indeed difficult to be ac
complished without further experience. But I
have no intention to enter upon a difcuflion so
extensive. For us it is fufficient that the conlti
tution and laws of the United-States, are the law:
of the land, fantftioned by the highest authority,
paramount to all political obligations ; and com
manding ourrefpedt and obedience. Happy are
we that thus bound to fubmiflion, this constituti
on, after the ftritfteft scrutiny, is so strongly
marked with the approbation of a vigilant and
enlightened people ! Happy that we may confi
dently trust it will anfvver the inestimable purpa
fes exprefled in its preamble, that it will " form
a more perfecft union, eltablifh justice, ensure
domeltic tranquility, provide for the common de
fence, promote the general welfare, and secure
the yeflings of liberty to ourselves and our poileri
ty "
After this introduction his Honor explained
the judiciary powers of the United States—the
Nature of the Courts instituted by virtue of those
powers —and the several laws of the union, vio
lations of which are the fubjeifts of cognizance to
the Grand Jury of this diltridt—and concluded
with the following interefting,and important ob
servations.—
" You have perceived how tnuch it must depend
011 you, and thole who may t'rom time to time suc
ceed you as grand jurors, to vindicate the au
thority of the United States, and particularly to
prevent abuse of office, and frauds in the reve
nue—evils offuch pernicious tendency.
" You will therefore be careful and diligent in
executing your high trult. Thefolemn oath which
lias been administered to you, will regulate your
conduct. Fromyour refpedlable characters lam
afliired that you will act independently and im
partially, as much uninfluenced by the fear, as
the favor of men.
• " You will present things truly as they exifl in,
or fhallcome to your knowledge, weighing every
circumstance with deliberation, so that the inno
cent may not be vexed, nor the guilty escape un
punished.
" I am happy that I have no particular accusa
tion to lay before yon ; and therefore dismiss
you to your duty : not doubting but you will dis
charge it conscientiously, and merit the thanks of
your country.
Thursday the Diftridl Court of the United
States, for the Diftridt of New-York, again met,
accordingto adjournment, when the Grand Jury
presented the following address to the Court, in
anlwer to the charge delivered to them at the o
pening of the court.
To the Hon. JAMES DUANE, EfiU Judge oj the
Diflritf of New-York.
SIR,
We, the Grand Jurors for the DitlricT: of New-
Yoik, beg leave to present our sincere thanks for
your excellent charge, in which the nature of our
duty, andtlie judicial system of the United-States
are described in the cleareit manner, and recom
mended by the molt cogent reasons.
Convinced that a government marked with the
approbation of a vigilaiK and enlightened people,
and calculated to extend the great blelfings of li
berty and union, to the lateftpofterity, is entitled
to our fulleft confidence and support. And sen
sible that we must chiefly depend upon the due
execution of the laws imposing duties, and an
iinpoft upon trade arid navigation, for the sup
port of our government,the payment of our debts,
and che re-establishment of public credit. We
conceive it our duty to declare, that our whole con
duflfhaM be regulated by these sentiments ; that
both by our influence and example, we will en
deavor to promote the colletSion of the public re
venue ; and that,not only in our present capacity,
but as private citizens, we shall exert ourselves
to bring offendersto the bar of public jultice.
Such sentiments as these wetruft are not pecu
liar to ourselves, nor confined to any rank 01- des
cription of Citizens ; but pervade and will govern
the whole community. They are the natural re
sult of universal attachment to a government
formed to secure the rights as man,and in which, by
neceflary consequence, public prosperity is con
ne<ftedwith thehappinefs and fafety of individu
als.
The Court in reply, thanked the Grand Jury
for their refpectful address ; and observed, that
the sentiments it contained were honorable to
themselves, and must produce great public good.
The Grand Jury were then discharged, and the
Court adjourned to meet again according to law.
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 3, 1790.
r T~ , HE bill providing for the adlual enumera
tionof the inhabitants of the United States
was read the third time.
The time for commencing the business, and the
period to be allowed the Marlnals for compleat
ing it, and making the returns, occasioned conii
derable debate. The firft Monday in August next
was agreed to, as the day on which the enumera
tion shall begin by virtue of this law. But the
House did not come to any decision refpecfting the
time to be allowed for making the returns. Se
veral motions were made, which met with vari
ous objections—and the further confidcration of
the bill was postponed.
lii committee of the whole on the bill to estab
lish a uniform system of naturalization. The
terms on which foreigners shall be admitted to
the rights of citizens, occasioned a lengthy de
bate— which turned principally on the questions
Whether residence should be a requisite to enti
tle to all the rights of citizenship ? and if neces
sary, for what time, previous to the enjoyment
of those rights ? A diversity, and opposition of
sentiment appearing to prevail, 011 motion, the
committee role, without coining to any determi
nation—and the House adjourned.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
The enrolled bill for giving effe<ft to the
laws of the United States in the State of
North-Carolina, was brought in by the committee,
who reported that they had examined the fame,
and found it correct—the speaker then signed the
fame.
Mr. T rumbull of the committee on the memorial
of Roger Alden brought in a report which was
read, and laid on the table.
The bill for establishing a uniform fyftein of
naturalization was again taken into considera
tion by the committee of the whole.
The motion made yellerday for striking out
the words from the bill " and fliall have resided
within the United States for one whole year"
was resumed.
Mr. Stone was in favor of extending the previ
ous of residence to four or seven years.
Mr. Jackson suggested the propriety of a term
of probation, and a recommendation from the
grand jury ofthe diflritft, before foreigners should
be admitted to the rights of citizenship. Hewifh
ed that such guards should be provided as would
prevent the privilege from being bestowed 011 un
worthy objects—for he hoped the time was nigh
at hand, when it would be deemed as honorable
to be a citizen of the United States, as it former
ly was to be a citizen of Rome when she was mis
tress of the world.
Mr. Lawrance observed that as the United
States contained vast tra<fts of uncultivated ter
ritory, it is their interest to have it fettled with
i nduftrions citizens—and as fucli citizens are to
be obtained by emigration,it becomes the duty of
government to hold out every encouragement,
they therefore ought not to make their terms of
admiflion difficult.
Mr. Huntington said that the terms of the bill
are indefinite—that it requires the emigrant to
take an oath that he intends to reside in the Uni
ted States, bnt how long and for what purpose
are not ascertained in the law.—He may deter
mine to reside here till he accomplices a particu
342
lar objed:—and may go into the mod obfeure part
of the Union to take this oath—'l he community
will not be benefited by such emigrants, and there
fore ought noc to admit them to the privileges u s
citizens.
The mode of naturalization pointed out bv
this bill is much too eafy.—ln the Hate ro which !
belong no peiTon can be naturalized but by an
aifl of the legifiature ; the fame is the cafe in i'eve
ralof the other States, and in England—and I ne
ver knew a good inhabitant who wifhedto be ad
mitted to the rights of citizenship that did not
find this mode firfficiently easy.
The term that the emigrant should refide,ought
to be long enough to give liim an opportunity to
acquire a knowledge of the principles of the'wo
vernment, and of those who are most proper to
adminifterit,other\vife he cannot exercise his pri
vilege to the advantage of himfelf or the com
munity. —He wiflied therefore that the clause
might be amended in such a way as to leave the
naturalization of foreigners to the State Legisla
tures.
Mr Clymer after some introductory observa
tions said, that in his opinion foreigners should
be gradually admitted to the rights of citizens,
—that a reiidence for a certain time should en
title them to hold property, &c. but the higher
rights of citizens, such as electing and being
ele<fred to oflice, should require a longer period
—permitting these rights to be aflumed s(nd ex
ercised at a shorter period would not operate
as an inducement to persons to emigrate—as the
gre.it object in emigration is generally to pro
cure a more comfortable subsistence, or to better
the circumstances of the individuals—and the
exercise of particular privileges is but a fecond
arv consideration.
Mr. Page and Mr. Lee, were in favor of art ea
sy mode of admitting foreigners—that the period
previous to their enjoying and exercising the
rights of citizens, should be short—as this would
tend greatly to encouraging emigrations intothe
United States.
Mr. Seney observed, that the United States
have a right to impose the qualifications on the
eledtors of officers for the general government—
but have 110 right to interfere in those of the
electors of officers in the State governments—and
while lain in favor, said he, of holding out proper
encouragement to foreigners, and would very
early admit them to hold property, yet I think
it would be of dangerous tendency, to admit
grangers suddenly to all the rights of citizens.
Hewas opposed to adopting any mode that should
interfere with the laws of the particular States,
and in favor of recommitting the bill to a feleft
committee.
Mr. Jackson, was also in favor of a recommit
ment. He said there were so many propositions
before the committee that he should not know
how to vote —he observed that the ideas of some
gentlemen with refpecfl to naturalization, will
fubjetfl the United States to the inconveniences
and impositions which take place in some of the
individual States ; where it has been frequently
the cafe, that in a warmly contested ele«stion, the
wharves and shipping have been stripped of sail
ors, and carried in bodies to vote.
Mr. Burke spoke largely 011 the fubjecft, and
reprobated a system that would produce corrup
tion and a violation of the rights of the citizens
in elections, and moved for the recommitment.
Mr. Clymer said he was in favor of the motion,
but thought it would be best to pass to the next
clause firft, which involved the cafe of that parti
cular class of persons denominated refugees.
Mr. Tucker proposed a clause by which fo
reigners should be admitted to the rights of ci
tizens, so far as to poflefs property, immediately
after their arrival into the country 011 taking ail
oath of fidelity to the United States, and giving
fatisfadlory evidence of their intention to reside
therein—and that three years residence should
be requisite to entitle to the rights of election.
Mr. Livermore said, that if he could get thro
the labyrinth oi order, he would move that the
committee should rife, and that the bill fhouli
be recommitted to a fcledl committee—he ob
served that in the committee of the whole the
bufinefe is now involved and perplexed, by mo
tion after motion, in such a manner, that it put
in hiin mind of a certain book which fays, that in
a certain aiiembly onehathapfalm, a second hath
a docftrine, and another hath a prophecy, &c.—
till the whole is in confufion.
He pointed out the difficulties that would re
fultfrom not making residence a qualification
of citizenship—upon the plan of some gentlemen
who would admit foreigners upon taking an oath,
it is not the United States who make citizens of
foreigners—they make themselves citizens.
Mr. Sedgwick was also in favor of the com
mittee s rising, and urged it from the considera
tion of the small progress that the committee had
made in two days discussion of the bill—motion
has been piled on motion in such a manner said
he, that we app ear to be involved in an inextri
cable labyrinth.
The motion fo 1 " rising of the committee
was rppofed by M r - Smith (S. C.) he said, that
several questions h at ' been difcufled so fully, thatthe committe could now co.-.ie ro adecifion as Well,
or better than at any other time—lt is a quettion
with some gentlemen whether residence lhall be
requisite to citizenlhip—this it appeared neceflary
to determine previous to any further difenffion
—as the question will continually occur, till the
sense of the committee is known—several other
questions which depend on this, may now be de
cided,intliis way the mind of the committee maybe
known, after which the bill may be recommitted
to a feletft committee who may arrange the se
veral parts of the bill so as to meet the general
idea more fully.
The motion for the committee's rising was car
ried in the affirmative.
It was then voted that the bill be recommitted
to a feledt committee confiftingofa member from
every State.
The House resumed the consideration of the
bill for the a<ftual enumeration of the inhabi
tants of the United States.—lt was moved to re
commit the bill.
Mr. Sedgwick adverting to the present rate of
representation of the several States in Congress,
and in which there is, said he, the most palpable
inequality observed, that it was absolutely
neceflary that such an enumeration as would be
competent to equalizingthe representation should
be made previous to the next ele<ftion—this is ex
pected by the people on the idea of right and
justice—and the constitution has wifely provided
for it—nor will the people who are not fully
represented be easy without enjoying that weight
and influence in the national legislature to which
they are entitled—Mr. Sedgwick then read a pro
position which he meant to offer as a clause to be
incorporated in the bill when it lhall be recom
mitted.
Mr. Jackson made some animadversions on
this proposition, and reprobated its principles ge
nerally, more especially as ic would not allow
fufficient time to complete the enumeration, and
particulai'ly as it proposes that the President of
the United States shall determine the number of
inhabitants from the returns he (hall receive from
the Marshals, and the ratio of representation on
ihofe returns.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) objected to the proposition
as not allowing fufticient time—he then went o
\er the several periods which mult probably
elapse before the business ot enumeration can be
compleated—from which it appeared that the
object of the motion cannot be effected so as to
make any alteration in the nexr, election pro
per
Mr. White mads Come observations on the pro
-sofition,and pointed out the difficulties that would
ittend the liieai'ure, as some of the States had
>a(ied laws regulating the time of elections—and
jrefumed that the Legislature would never dele
gate to any man, or men, the power of determin
ing the ratio of representation.
Mr. Lawrance was in favor ofrecommiting the
bill : He obfervcd, that it appeared to him, that
the rule or ratio of representation ought to be
determined previous to ascertaining the number
of inhabitants—as in all probability that rule
would be agreed to with less prejudice and par
tiality, while the contingencies which may affect
it, are unknown.
Mr. Jackson observed, that this suggestion is
an artifice, covered however with too thin a veil
not tobefeen thro—it is too unsubstantial to sup
port itfelf—the Constitution has fettled the point
already. He then recited those clauses which
particularly point out the number of represen
tatives which each State is entitled to elect, pre
vious to any a&ual enumeration—the Constituti
on plainly directs an enumeration therefore, be
fore the ratio of a future representation lhall be
fettled.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) observed, that the ratio of
representation is already proposed by Congrefsin
the amendments sent out to the Legislatures: He
hoped that nothing would be done to impede the
progress and ratification of those amendments.
Mr. Sedgwick said, that when he came forward
■with the proposition, he supposed it founded in
fiich fair and equal principles, that he did not an
ricipate the finalleft objection would have been
made by any gentlemen whatever.
It is a (imple proportion that juitice should be
done—that a more equal representation should be
attempted, and effected—lf inequalities do exilt,
and that they do, is very evident—can any gen
tleman object to a remedy ?
Some other observations were made, and then
the motion for recommitting the bill to a com
mittee of the whole House was put and carried
in the affirmative.
FRIDAY, Feb. j
A memorial of Joseph Henderfon, and John
Carnes, executors to the estate of Edward Carnes,
deceased, was read, and referred to the Secretary
of the Treasury
The report of the committee on the memorial
if Roger Alden, was taken into confederation—
this report after dating the services performed
by Mr. Alden, in consequence of the charge
which devolved on him by having the custody of
the papers and records of the late Congress, pro
poses rhat he should be allowed a f;dary at the rate
of rooo dollars per annum, during the time he
been employed as aforeFaid, alio necellkry
e^-i nCe3 — ailC * tl,att ' le clerk which has been his
alfiftant, be allowed at the rate of 500 dollars
per annum.
This report was amended by adding these words
after "per annum"— Until the Secretary of State
shall enter on the duties of his office —and then ac
cepted, and referred to the committee 011 appro
priations.
The Secretary at war having reported on fun
clry petitions and memorials referred to him—
the reports were read, and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill for the
remiflion, or mitigation of lines, forfeitures and
penalties in certain cases.— The bill was read and
di feu lied in paragraphs. A motion was made
that the following words, viz. " Offering to con.
fefs judgjnent for the fame" previous to relief
being granted, should be struck out.
Mr. Ames said h" was indifferent whether the
words were retained or struck out—he wished
however that the principles of the bill should be
well understood—he conceived that a ftricl ad
herence to rule even if it should foinetimes be at
tended with some degree of rigor, was a less evil
than a lax mode of executing the laws ; that it
may be considered as a great grievance to have
frequent recourse to qualified interpretations of
the laws—with regard to the revenue laws, it
mult llrike every person that a certainty in the
rule should be maintained in all pollible cases
still fines, penalties and forfeitures may be in
curred in such a way as may entitle to relief.
The objecl of the bill is to grant such relief with
the least risque to the revenue, and in such way
as that the person may receive it as soon as pof
lible.
Mr. Sedgwick was in favor of the motion, and
pointed out the injustice of requiring a confef
fion previous to granting relief, as it would
violate the feelings of a person not conscious of
guilt—besides fubjeifling him inevitably to the
loss of one halt his property.
Mr. Burke wished the whole clause fliould be
erased, he said it was like making a man confefs
murder and then hanging him for his confeflion.
Mr. Wadfworth stated a cafe to shew that this
law would make the situation of persons design
ed to be relieved by it, much worse than it now
is—and will eventually destroy the coasting
trade.
Mr. Lawrance Hated the process by the law as
it now stands, by which perlons absolutely vio
lating the laws intentionally or through ignor
ance, are precluded from all relief—he therefore
insisted that it is neceflary that this confeflion of
judgment ihould accompany the application for
relief, in cases designed to be provided for by the
bill—without this confeflion the application ap
pears to be absurd—he was therefore opposed to
the motion for ftrikingout the words.
Mr. Smith was in favor offtriking out the words.
Mr. Sturges observed, that he did not conceive
the reliefpropofed to be administered, ought to
be conlidered in the light of mercy, but ofjultice.
The mode of relief pointed out by this bill, let
the circumitances be as they will, leaves the fuf
fererin a situation that 110 person ought to be lia
ble to, who is not guilty of intentional and wil
ful violation of the laws—for at any rate he is to
lofeone half his property. He thought the cafe,
stated by the gentleman from South Carolina,
very pertinent to the present.
Mr. Fitzfimons said, he hoped if these words
are struck out, that the whole* clause would be e
rased, and that there would be a more equitable
mode pointed out. He adverted to the pra&ice
in England, where the application for relief is
made to the Commissioners after trial.
Mr. White followed Mr. Fitzfimons in (imilar
observations.
Mr. Ames entered into a full discussion of the
principles of the bill—and observed, that he
doubted not when the committee had poflefled
themselves of a more perfe<fl knowledge of its
operation and tendency, it would meet with ap
probation. With refpedlto the offender's losing
his whole property on confeffion, he observed,
that this inconvenience may be prevented, by the
person's filing his petition previous to the entry's
being made by theperfons feizingthe property —
and this he will always have it in his power t& do.
Mr. Burke said that the bill so far from afford
ing the relief proposed, would prove a snare to
to the citizens, for a confeffion of guilt would
inevitably involve the loss of one half of his pro
perty whether he merits punishment or not.
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Stone, and Mr. Scott Ipake
on the fubje<ft.
■ The motion for striking out the words being
put was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. Fitzfimons then moved that thecommittee
fliouldrife—the committee rose, and the House
agreed to the amendment.
It was then moved that the bill should be re
committed.—This motion was adopted.
The report of the Secretary at War on the pe
tition of Ezra Smith was taken into consideration.
This report went into a general consideration
of the cases of sundry officers of the late arpiy,
whose particular circumstances appear to call for
-343-
the interposition of government in their favor.
It was moved that this report should be referred
to a felei!t committee, who should be inltrucfed
to bring in a bill pursuant thereto.
1 his motion was oppoled aseftablifhing an im
proper precedent—it was contended that it ought
to be previously difcufled .n a committee of ihe
whole,and the refultof their deliberations should
be the basis of the bill that may be lie
ceflary. b
On the other hand, it was said, that the state of
lacts is before the House, 011 which they may form
a judgment, that the going into a committee of
tlie whole would not throw any new light 011
the iubje<ft and that the House is now prepared to
J eter ittoafeledl committee as fully as they can
be after the form is gone through.
The motion for referring the report to a felecfi
committee was withdrawn—lt was then ordered
that the report (liould lie on the table.
Adjourned till Monday 11 o'clock.
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 6
Wednesday laftthe Supreme Court of the Uni
ted States, met agreeable to adjournment. An or
der v/as read, appointing JOHN TUCKER, Esq.
[late clerk to the Supreme Court of the Common
wealth of Mallachufettsltheir Clerk—who was ac
cordingly qualified. Two other orders were al
so read, to wit.
Ordered that the seal of this Court shall be,
the arms of the United States engraven on a cir
cular piece of steel of the size of a dollar, with
these words in the margin—the seal of the Suprerie
Court of the United States Ordered that the
Seals of the Circuit Courts fliall be the arms of the
United States engraven on circular pieces of fil
ler of the size of half a dollar, with these words
in the margin, viz. In the upper part—The seal
of the Circuit Court—ln the lower part —the name
of the Diftri(t so it is intended—After which
the court adjourned until one o'clock 011 Friday.
Yesterday the Supreme Court of the United States met pursuant
to adjournment. Among other bulinefs tranfa&ed, we hear, that
The Hon. Eli as Bou di not, of New-JciiVy,
The Hon. Thomas Hart ley, of Pennfylvama,
The Hon. Ri c hard Har r ison, of New-York,
were admitted Counfellois at the Supreme Court of the United
States.
Ordered, That persons admitted as Counsellors fhail not appear
in the chara&cr ot Attorneys, nor Attorneys in that of Counsellors
at the Supreme Court of the United States.
Ordered, That no person ihall be admitted as an Attorney at the
Supreme Court ot the United States, who lhall nt have pra&ifed
three years in tiie Supreme Court of a particular State, and
who (hall not fuilain a just and fair chara&er.
Ordered, That the Stile of all Writs and P'rocefTes from the Su
preme Court of the United States, be in the name of THE PRL
SIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
The Court adjourned to Monday next.
Ef.tra(l of a letter frovt Baltimore, dated Jan. 31
" I received your letter in which you request
information in what light the Secretary's Report
is viewed here : It has not yet been so fully ex
amined as to produce a decided opinion 011 the
merits of the different propositions ; but it has
thus far made very favorable impreflions—and I
am confident it will be approved of in proportion
as it is examined. The truths it contains are great
and interesting, and will bear the test of the ftridt
eft scrutiny, while truth and justice are applaud
ed by men
" There are many considerations which give
ny mind perfetTt confidence and fatisfa&ion on
the fubjecft of the public debt—some of them I
will mention.
" ift. The fecnrity of property is one of the
firft objetfts for which government is instituted—
and it would be a molt flagrant infraction of the
Constitution of the United States should Congress
injure the property of a very numerous and ref
pe<ftable class of the citizens by a violation of
public centralis.
" 2d. It is found policy in government to be
honest—They cannot otherwise be refpedted—
and it would be in vain for them to pais laws to
secure good morals and make fubjedts and citi
zens honest, should they themselves set an exam
ple of public injustice and fraud.
" 3d. Those who know the characters which
compose the Legislature of the Union are fatis
fied that they never will be influenced by the
maxims and principles which have stamped infa
my on the name of Rhode Island. Could no de
pendence'be placed on the personal characters of
the Gefitlemen in Congress, the scorn, reproach,
and miifery, whiih Rhode Island has fuffered by
her dishonest policy would fufficiently warn them
against the consequences of a violation of public '
faith.
" We reft afl'ured that no law refpetfting the
debt will pals both Houses, and have the fandion
of the President, which is riot founded in that
righteousness whichexalteth a nation. TheCon
ftitution—the characters which compofeCongrefs
—the resolution which was past last feflion—the
President's speech—and the answers to it—and
the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, au
thorise the molt perfecft confidence in the mea
sures of government."
ARRIVALS.—NF.W.YORK.
Thurfdav, Ship St. James, Collins, Cadiz.
Friday/ Schooner Sally, Weft, Boftoo, 7 days.REPORT
Of the SECRETARY of the TREASURY to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. 9, 1790.
[continuation.]
TH E intercfting problem now occurs. Is it in the power of
the United States, confidently with those prudential consi
derations, which ought not to be overlooked, to make a provision
equal to the purpose of funding the whole debt, at the rates of
interest which it now bears, in addition to the sum which will be
neceflary for the current service of the government ?
The Secretary will not fay that such a provision would exceed
the abilities of the country ; but he is clearly of opinion, that
to make it, would require the extension of taxation to a degree,
and to objc&s, which the true interest of the public creditors for
bids. It is therefore to be hoped, and even to be expe&ed, that
they will chearfully concur in such modifications of their claims,
on fair and equitable principles, as will facilitate to the govern
ment an arrangement substantial, durable and fatisfaflory to the
community. The importance of the lafl chara&eriftic will
strike every discerning mind. No plan, however flattering in
appearance, to which it did belong, could be truly entitled to
confidence.
It will not be forgotten, that exigencies may, ere long, arise,
which would call for resources greatly beyond what is now deem
ed fufficient for the current service ; and that, fliould the faculties
of the country be cxhaufted or evenJlrained to provide for the pub
lic debt, there could be less reliance on the facrednefs of the pro
vision.
But while the Secretary yields to the force of these considera
tions, he does not lose fight of those fundamental principles of
good faith, which di&ates, that every pratticable exertion ought to
be made, scrupulously to fulfil the engagements of the govern
ment ; that no change in the rights of its creditois ought to be
attempted without their voluntary consent; and that this consent
ought to be voluntary in fact as well as in name. Consequently,
that every proposal of a change ought to be in the rtiape of an ap
peal to their rcafon and to their interest ; not to their necessities.
To this end it is requisite, that a fair equivalent should be afforded
for what may be asked to be given up, and unquestionable security
for the remainder. Without this, an alteration, confidently with
the credit and honor of the nation, would be impracticable.
It remains to fee, what can be proposed in conformity to these
views.
It has been remarked, that the capital of the debt of the union
is to be viewed in the light of an annuity at the rate of fix per cent,
per annum, redeemable at the pleasure of the government, by
payment of the principal. And it will not be required, that the
arrears of interest (houKl be considered in a more favorable light.
The fame chara&er, in general, may be applied to the debts of
the individual States.
This view of the fubjett admits, that the United States would
have it in their power to avail themselves of any fall in the market
rate of interest, for reducing that of the debt.
This property of the debt is favorable to the public ; unfavor
able to the creditor. And may facilitate an arrangement for the
reduttion of interest, upon the bafisof a fair equivalent.
Probabilities are always a rational ground of contrast. The
Secretary conceives, that there is good reason to believe, if effettu
al measures are taken to cftablifh public credit, that the govern
ment rate of interest in the United States, will, in a very (hort
time, fall at least as low as five per cent, and that in a period not
exceeding twenty years, it will fink still lower, probably to four.
There are two principal caufcs which will be likely to produce
this effect ; one, the low rate of interest in Europe ; the other,
the increase of the monied capital of the nation, by the funding of
the public debt.
From three to four per cent, is deemed good interest in fcvcral
parts of Europe. Even less is deemed so, in some places. And
it is on the decline ; the increasing plenty of money continually
tending to lower it. It is presumable, that no country will be
able to borrow of foreigners upon better terms, than the United
States, because none can, perhaps, afford so good security. Our
situation exposes us less, than that of any other nation, to those
casualties, which are the chief causes of expcnce ; our incumber
ances, in proportion to our real means, are less, though these can
not immediately be brought so readilv into a&ion and our pro
gress in resources from the early state of the country, and the im
mense tracts ot unsettled territory, must neceffanly exceed that of
any other. The advantages of this fituat on have already engaged
the attention of the European money-lenders, particularly among
the Dutch. And as they become better understood, they will
have the greater influence. Hence as large a proportion of the
cafli of Europe as maybe wanted, will be, in a certain sense, in
our market, for the use of governm. nt. And this will naturally
have the effett of a reduction of the rate of interest, not indeed to
the level of the places, which fend their money to market, but to
fomt'hing much nearer to it, than our present rate.
The influence, which the funding of the debt is calculated to
have, in lowering interest, has been already remarked and ex
plained. It is hardly poflible, that it should not be materially
affe&ed by such an increase of the monied capital of the nation, as
would result from the proper funding of seventy millions of dol
lars. But the probability of a decieafe in the rate of interest, ac
quires confirmation from fa£b, which existed prior to the revo
lution. It is well known, that in some of the states, money might
with facility be borrowed, on good security, at five per cent, and,
not unfrequently, even at less.
The most enlightened of the public creditors will be most sen
sible of the justness of this view of thefubjeft, and of the proprie
ty of the use which will be made of it.
The Secretary, in pursuance of it, will assume, as a probability,
iufficiently great to be a giound of calculation, both on the part
of the government and of its creditors—That the interest of mo
ney in the United States will, in five years, fall to five per cent,
and, in twenty, to four. The probability, in the mind of the Se
cretary, is rather that the fall may be more rapid and more con
siderable ; but he prefers a mean, as most likely to engage the as
sent of the creditors, and more equitable in itlelf; because it is
predicated on probabilities, which may err on one fide, as well as
on the other.
Premising these things, the Sencretary submits to the House, the
expediency of promifmg a loan to the full amount of the debt,
as well of the particular states, as of the union, upon* the follow
ing terms.
First— That for every hundred dollars fubferibed, payable in
the debt (as well interest as principal) the fubferiber be entitled, at
his option, either
To have two thirds funded at an annuity, or yearly interest
of fix percent, redeemable at the plealure of the government, by
payment of the principal ; and to receive the other third in lands
in the Western Territory, at the rate of twenty cents per acre.
Or,
To have the whole sum funded at an annuity or yearly interest
of four per cent, irredeemable by any payment exceeding five
dollars per annum on account both of principal and interest ; and
to receive, as a compensation for the reduction of interest, fifteen
dollars and eighty cents, payable in lands, as in the preceding
cafe. Or
To have sixty-six dollars and two thirds of a dollar funded im
mediately at an annuityor yearly interest of fix percent, irredeem
able by any payment exceeding four dollars and two thirds of a
dollar per annum, on account both of principal and interest •
and to have, at the end of ten years, twenty-fix dollars and eighty
eight cents, funded at the like interest and rate of redemption
Or
To have an annuity for the remainder of life, upon the con
tingency of living to a given age, not lefsdiftant than ten years,
computing intcreft at four per cent. Or
To have an annuity for the remainder of life, upon the con
tingency of the furvivorfhipot the youngest of two persons, com
puting interest, in this cafe also, at foui per cent.
STATE of RHODE-ISLAND and PROVIDENCE
PLANTATIONS.
IN GENERAL ASSEMBLY, JANUARY SES-
SION, 1790.
WHEREAS the operation of the Federal Go
vernment, according to the existing laws of
Congress, will prove greatly injurious to the com
mercial interests of this State, unless a further
suspension of the fame can be obtained. And
whereas this General Aflembly, at the present
session have pafled an A<fl recommending a State
Convention, in conformity to the recommenda
tion of the General Convention held at Philadel
phia, and of the Congress of the United States ;
and there is every reason to hope that the acces
sion of this State to the Federal Union will, in a
fliort time, entitle the citizens thereof to all the
benefits of the Federal Government. And where
as it is necellary that application be made in the
mean time, for a suspension of the Acfts of Con
gress fubjefling the citizens of this State to fo
reign tonnage and duties :
It is therefore Voted and Resolved, that his
Excellency the Governor be, and he is hereby
requested to make application,in the name otthis
State, to the Congress of the United States, for
reviving the indulgence granted to the citizens
of this State by an A<sl of Congress of their last
Seflion, during the good pleasure of Congress.
PRICE curren:
FEBRUAi
JAMAICA Spirits, 5/3.0 5/6
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a 5/
St. Croix, do. 4/4. a 4/8.
Country, do. yio. a 3/.
Molafles, 2//.
Brandy, 6f. a 6/3.
Geneva, 5/
Do. in cases, 28f. a 29/
Muscovado Sugar, Bos. a yzf
Loaf, do. 1/3.
Lump, do. 1/Is.
Pe PP". 3/3 ,
Pimento, if.a\f\.
Coffee, ifi- a 1/8.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f"6f
Do. French, >8/
Rice, 21 J.
Superfine Flour, 49 f.
Common do. 42fa 44 f.
Rye do. 2sf a 26/.
Indian Meal, 18f
Rye. 4J9- P r - hu P t -
Wheat, 9/3 a $J6.
Corn, (Southern) 4f.
Do. (Northern,) a \f6.
Beef, firft quality, 4fjfi & 48f.
Pork, firft quality, 70s. a -jsf
Oats, 1/7.
Flax-feed, $fg a 6f
Ship bread per cwt. 21fi
Country refined > 2g| a
bar-iron, )
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Russia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. a 91.
German steel, per lb. gd.
Nails American, by cask. £ j
per. lb. 4d. )
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd.
Do. do. do. lod.}
Do. do. do- 1 2 d7 i da v d .
Do. do. do. 2od.r /z *
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot a(h, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl ash, 481 a 501.
Bees-wax per lb. 2/2. a 2/3.
Mackarel per barr. 26f. a 30/ I
Herrings, 18\f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, > iqJ
per foot, >
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchippcd,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak ? . r
plank, perm. )10 ' 10 J'
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
ij inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. 1 of.
2 inch pitch pine do. 10J.
1 inch do. 61. iof.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. 8/!
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, 11. xof.
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 8/T
Cedar 2 inch do. 11. 10f
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
Among which are the following Articles :
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| I.ong Cloths,
Hankerchiels,of various kinds,l| Caflas,
Chintzes, |l Seerfuckevs,
Ginghams, || Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cash.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, mucn warmer than Blankets.
January 9, 1790. t f
-344-
: NEH'-YORK.
'Y 6. Dollars at Bs.
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 6/.
Do. 18. inch do. 18/"
Butt white oak (laves,
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hogshead do. do. 61. 10/?
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irish barrel do. (laves, 31. $f.
Hog(hcad red oak do. 51. $f.
Do. French do. 51.
Hog(head hoops, 41.
Whiteoak square timber } ,
per square foot, J '
Red wood, per ton, 28!.
Fuftick, 101.
Beaver, per lb. 12/! a i6J.
Otter per (kin, of. 32f.
Greyfox, 4/7.
Martin, 4/10.
Racoon, 3J6 a 7/6.
Mulkrat, 1 ad. a 14d.
Beaver hats, 64f.
Callor do. 48/
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, -jof. a 80s.
Cotton,
Tar, pr. bar. \\J. a \2f.
Pitch, 16/.
Turpentine, 18/. a 20/
I obacco, James River, 4d. <13fad.
Do. York, 4d. a
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a 3JI/.
Do. Maryland, coloured, $£d.
Do. We(lern-(hore, zd a 3Ad.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 60/.'
Do. bars, 68/7
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead,
White do. dry, 9jf.
White do. in oil, 5 /. nf.
Salt-petre hams, t\d.
Spermaceti candles, 3f.
Mould do. nd. a ij.
Tallow dipt, 9
Soap, sd. a Bd.
Castile soap, gd. a tod.
English cheefc, pr. Ib. 1 $d.
Country do. $d.
Butter, if.
Hyson tea, 11f. a 12/.
Sequin do. 6/6.
Bohcado. 2/6. a 2/8.
Ginseng, 3/ a 4/6.
Staich Poland, yd.
Snuff, 2J3.
Allum fait, water mea- } r
sure, pr. bush. £ 37"-
Liverpool do. 2/.
Madeira wine, > ,
pr. pipe, I 60/ - " 9°'-
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. s f.
Teneriff, 4f.
i Fyall 3 /3 .
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 8/.
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4f
t Whale do. pr. barrel, 50/ <256/.
I Spermaceti do, 61.
I Shake-down hhds. 3JS
WAR-OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the In
valid Pensioners of the United States, residing'
within the States refpedtively, that one moiety of
their aunual pension, commencing on the fifth
day of March last, will be paid at the places and
by the persons herein after mentioned, on the
fifth day of March ensuing, and that the second
moiety of the said annual pension will be paid at
the fame places and by the fame persons, on the
fifth day of June ensuing.
Places,
The States,
New-Hampshire, Portsmouth,
MaflTachufetts, Boston,
Rhode-Island, Providence.
Conne&icut, New-London,
New-York, New-York,
New-Jersey, Perth-Ainboy,
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Delaware, Wilmington,
Maryland, Baltimore,
Virginia, B. Hundred,
North-Carolina, Hillfborough,
South-Carolina, Charleston,
Georgia, Savannah,
January the 28th, 1 790.
By order of the President of the Ur.ittd States.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
IN order to prevent unfuccefsful applications
the following information is re publHhed,refpeift
ing the vouchers which will be required.
" THE returns which liave been or (hall be made to the
Secretary lor the Department of War by the several States of the
pensions which have been granted, and paid by them refpeftivelv
will together with the vouchers herein required, be conudered as
the evidence whereon the payments arc to be made.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
ill. The certificate given by the state fpecifying that the person
poifelfing it, is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which
as such he is annually entitled.
»dly. An affidavit agreeably to the following form : tb wit—
A. B. came before me one of the Justices for the county of
in the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B.
to whom the original certificate in his pofleflion was givtn, of
which the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to
be recited.)
That he served in (regiment or vessel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and county
of and has resided there for the last years, pre
vious to which he resided in '
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney must, besides the certificate and oath before recited
produce a fpecialletterof attorney agreeable to the following fonnj
I A. B. of county of state of do here
by constitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney
to receive in my behalf of (the firft or second moiety) of
my annual pentaon, as an Invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, One thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and Teal, this
Signed and fealcd
in theprefence of
Acknowledged before me
Applications of executors or administrators mull be accompani
ed with legal evidence of their refpeflive offices, and alfoof the
time the Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the President of the United States of America.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
War-Office, OSober 13. 1789.
Printers throughout the United Statesare requcjied to in
sert the above information, for the benefit of the unfortunate invalids, zvho
havefujferedfmerely in the cause of their country.
A NEW MAGAZINE.
THE Public are refpcttfully informed, that thefirft Number of
this Magazine will be publifhcd as soon as a number of
fubferibers fufficient to defray theexpence (hall be obtained : and
not on the firft day of February, 1790, as was formerly proposed.
This Work will be entitled,
THE PHILADELPHIA MAGAZINE.
AND
UNIVERSAL ASYLUM.
By a Society of Gentlemen.
PLAN AND CONDITIONS.
lft. THE objetts of the Philadelphia Magazine and Universal Asy
lum, are to enlarge the underjlanding, to rettrfy the hearty and to please
the fancy, by such means as may bebefi adapted to the slate oj society
and manners in this confederated republic.
2d. fnterejling and entertaining eJJaySy inprofe and verse, on plu
lofophy, politics, commerce, agriculture, manufactures, polite learning,
wit and humour (uncontaminated with ribaldry or licentiousness) and
in a wordy on all other fubjefls which may be deemed worthy of public
attentiony fhallbe in ferted in this Universal Asylum of Literature.
his miscellany shall contain much original matter ; but a rage
for not prevent the insertion of valuable extratts from
other publications.
4th. A comprehensive and impartial abflraEl of the Debates and
Proceedings of the Congress of the United States of America,
/hall regularly be given, beginning with the firfl fefjion under the present
government.
$th. Foreign and demejlic occurrences J hall befaithfully recorded.
6th. The Philadelphia Magazine shall be publifhedy punctually, on
the jrjl day of every month.
Ith. Each number shall contain eighty pages* oßavo, on an elegant
new letter, and fine paper.
Bth. The price toJubfcribers will be two dollars and two-thirds per
annum ; one dollar ana one third to be paid upon the delivery of the
firjl number, and the famefum at the commencement of every succeeding
half year.
Subscriptions are received by moflof the Printers and Booksellers in
the United States, and in other parts of the continent of America, in the
We ft-Indies and in Enrope, who are requejled to forward the names of
fubferibers, with their titles, and places of residence.
The usual allowance will be made to all who favor this work by col
lectingJubfcriptions for it.
The advantages that are to be exHetledfrom the united efforts of a lit
terary association, inflituted for the sole purpose offupporting the Phila
delphia Magazine and Universal AJyfum, mujl be obvious to every one. —
Such apian, while it engages the firfl abilities, ensures agreater variety
and a. more uniformfupply of valuable matter, than could be afforded h
any individual, however elevated his genius, or great his endeavors.
Philadelphia, January 1,1790.
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lans, near the Ofwego-Market, New-York.—[3 do!, pr. J '■)
avd per forts by whom the pen
/tons will be paid.
Joseph Whppile.
Benjamin Lincoln,
Jeremiah Olney.
Jedidiah Huntington.
John Lamb.
John Halfted.
Sharp Delany.
George Bash.
Otho H. Williams,
William Heth,
John Haywood.
George Abbott Hall.
John Haberfham.