[No. LXXXVII.j
THE TABLET
No. LXXXVII
" Responsibility is the main faring of public prosperity
MOST inen have too great a conltitutional
indolence ever to make distinguished ex
ertions. The vis inertia of our nature is one of the
most llubborn obstacles to be overcomein acquir
ing eminence. There is such anaverfion in the
general run of mankind against making vigorous
efforts, that we find few men who attempt to per
forin any thing bold or difficult. The greatell
incentives mult be suggested to induce men toen
fage in arduous undertakings. And unless in
ultry is kept awake by motives of afliinulating
nature, the higher employments of life would
be neglected, and the important affairs of the
•world would Hand still. It is therefore a wife
expedient to put the weighty concerns of govern
ment under the controul of responsible men.
When a public officer feels hiinfelf responsible
for the effect of his measures, it creates foflrong
an inducement to exertion and fidelity, that we
may generally exped: to fee the public prosperity
promoted in proportion to the weight of the
responsibility which is imposed. The languor
and inattention, which mark the movements of
so great a proportion of the men employed in
public business, result from the imbecility of the
motives which prompt them to perform their du
ty. There are always certain causes in opera
tion pto draw us aside from the public good, and
can only be removed or counteracted by in-
Itituting responsible offices, where the force of
the motive shall be in favor of the object to be
obtained. If an office affords honor and profit ;
if it is held only on good behaviour ; and if the
public eye is at all times open upon the officer,
we may calculate upon his being faithful and ac
tive. Those difficulties that would deter other
people, he surmounts with alacrity. Hisrefpon
libility absorbs those inferior confidcrations
which tempt other men to oppose or negledl the
public welfare.
It is well for the community to guard againlt
intriguing men ; but there is much more reason
to ftiinnlate the lazy and negligent. Wicked
motives are not so common as weak motives, and
there is more danger that men will negledt to do
what they ought, than that they will do what
they ought not. If the momentous affairs of
government are not accompliflied by responsible
characters, they will never be done well or in
season. The emoluments of office fiiould be so
alluring as to engage arefpeitable competition.
This will bring into view the ableU candidates ;
and those who are unfuccefsful will stand as cen
tinels over those who get the appointments. By
this means, the duties ofoffice will be vigorously
performed, and abules either prevented or pun
iflied with a good degree of certainty.
THE OBSERVER.—No. XVI.
The re-eflablijhment of national credit, a measure
both of juflice and found policy.
WE must expecfithe people win be alive to all
those national measures which have a di
rect influence on their property ; this I conlider
not as an evil, but a great fupportof government,
for give them time to be informed, and the whole
weight of their influence will come in to aid the
measures of a just and politic administration.
The pain of acquiring property, and the bene
fits which result from poflefling it, will make a
prudent man careful how it is taken from him.—
Avarice degrades human nature, but a love of
property is a political virtue ; remove this motive
awl civilized society, will be destroyed. An ade
quate provision for the debt of the nation, and
for a fixed public credit, is a fubjeifl which vastly
engages attention. Some diversity of sentiment
is not half so strange, as that so many are united,
and can think and converse amicably ; neither
is this diversity any evidence of diihoneft inten
tions on either part. The particular situation of
American credit, and the unhappy consequences
of its pad decline, have been fumcient to perplex
the opinions ofmany worthy citizens. They are
willing to be just even at the expenceofall fuper
fluiries ; but having only little property and
that hardly earned, and thinking greater taxa
tion needed to retrieve national credit, than will
eventually be found neceflary ; there is a strong
temptation to fay, let the scene end as it hath
begun
Accustomed to fee American paper of low value,
they have forgot that a vail number of citizens,
relying on the honesty of their country, deposi
ted the whole savings of their industry, ana de
pendance of their families ; and that tliei'e very
people or their children are now in deprefled
&mtti ofdMxlxt^
WEDNESDAY, February 10, 1790,
cii cumltances, and kept from despair, by a hope
of returning justice in their country. Many
hundreds of planters who had fold their lands,
that they might locate property more advantage
ously for a numerous family, were caught in that
unluckly moment when business stagnated, and
a frontier situation was dangerous ; all these be
came public creditors.
The molt honest merchants, whose feelings
forbid them to violate the laws of their country,
limiting the high price of foreign articles,thought
it more patriotic to consecrate their property to
its defence. The estate of many thousand or
phans, hath beer deposited in the public treasu
ry, by those who had their pa;rimony in trull.
A prodigious number of private funds sacred
to religion and science, have been loaned to the
public.
The price of the loldiers fatigue, limbs and
life is yet unpaid to hini. When the nation need
ed every exertion of its fubjedts, and could make
no pay, the most industrious and patriotic far
mers fold their provisions for the public faith :
but I will not go on with this recapitulation of
fufferers, for I know that principle, and the pos
sibility of what can be done ; and not passionate
feelings, must form the public mind 011 this fub
jed., and be the ultimate ratio of justice.
An objection against restoring credit, in the
minds of some, is that the debt hath palled from
the original creditors, at a low price, and that a
fulfilment of the public promises would not bene
fit the fufferers.
That conliderable sums have been fold at a low
price, and parted into circulation is a faift ; but
these are only a small prvrt of the aggregate debt.
As little iuins of money compared with the whole
cash of the country, make a great (how at the raf
fling table, in palling several times perhaps, thro'
every hand of the gambling circle : So it is a
small proportion of the national paper, which
hath made the (how in circulation. The specula
tion in paper hath been a kind of gambling, ar
tificially kept up between dillant parts ; a few fa
gacions ones have been fortunate, and many have
been losers. Thus circumstanced, by many times
palling and repafling, a small proportion of the
public paper hath made a great appearance ; and
those securities which have circulated molt, have
much found and little substance, being many of
tViein liable to a tenfold deduction by scaling.
The great weight of debt is still in the hands of
the original holders, men who loaned or did fer
vicc for the country from noble motives, who
were conscious that the nation received from tliein
an equivalent for its promile—men who had rather
brave fomediftrefs in their private circumstances,
than fell their just for a trifle ; who were
determined either to realize a moderate compen
sation, or die with the refle&ion that they had
become poor in a good ceufe, and with a right to
have this inscription over them, " here lies the
man who facrificed-liis all to support American
liberty and sovereignty "
* ° ' • /• _ _
What can the fupreine legislature fay to such
iiien, or to their children when supplicating their
remembrance ? Shall they be told the sum is great
and there will be foine difficulty in deviling
means ? This allowed, but a reply is ready >is
there not more difficulty and diltrefs, in having
the whole' borne by a few, than by the nation at
large ?
Among tliofe who have alienated their public
bonds, there is a variety of cases ; but a few have
been obliged by neceflity, from the tardiness of
the national faith ; the lot of such, is hard and un
fortunate —if wishing and trying to devise could
give them relief, every benevolent spirit would
join in the exertion ; but I do not know it to be
possible, and may the rewarderof virtuous fuffer
ing do them right.
But this is not the cafe with all who have alien
ated their national paper. Many have done it
on the principles and for the purposes of specu
lation ; and have no reason to murmur at the con
sequences.
Many by improving the price of their sale in
some lucrative business, have realized a greater
sum, than the parent holders will ever receive
from the public by the inoft favorable reinftate
tnent of credit, which can be supposed ; such per
sons may speak much of their loss, but have no
to wrangle with the event.
It is well known that the war called up a set of
charaifters, in various departments, and in seve
ral kinds of speculation, who were calculated to
thrive by public confufion, but not by persever
ing industry ; tliefe men held considerable sums
of national paper, which they have since aliena
ted. If the public had at that time paid them in
coin, it would long since have gone from their
hands, and been in pofleflion of the very pefons,
$kks.
[ ~ Publijhed on IVednefday and. Saturday.]
who now hold their public bonds. Men calcula
ted to gain by luch overturns of society as hnp
pened in the American war ; and deliitute of econ*
omy and hard industry, must fall into decline on
the restoration of order, and pcace. The poor
are fubjecfts of our humane commiseration, tlio
imprudence be the cause of their poverty ; but
such as would have scattered their property,
if the nation had early paid them in dollars of
Mexico, have no jull right to clamour againll a
re-establishment of public credit. The meafurcs
of a nation cannot be accommodated to the situa
tion of one or a hundred imprudent subjects ;
and to attempt it would be unjust to a tenfold
greater number, who have a sacred claim on pub
lic truth.
A power to alienate property, is one of the
rights of man,which government ought not to in
vade either diredlly or indirefty by
measures. Suppose [ hold a government bond of
100 dollars, fairly obtained ; isnotfuch bond my
own property ? Have I not the fame right to alie
nate this, as any other kind of property ? Am I
not my own judge of the time, place, and price
of exchange in sale ? Every man knows bell his
own opportunities, and may advance his interest
by felling at a large discount, and this has been
done by many who have fold. For government
to interpose arbitrarily in these matters is destroy
ing its own credit, and an indire<ft way of fraud
ing those who patiently depended on the public
truth. A power of alienating and transfering is
one cooluleration which gives value to any kind
of property, had there been more traflick in na
tional paper, it would always have brought a
greater price. So long as much the greater part
of the public obligations remains with the origi
ginal loaners ; as the transferals which have ta
ken place were without fraud ; considering also
that in many instances, it was more advantageous
for the feller to alienate than to retain his pro
perty ; I cannot determine that it is either just or
politic for government to intermeddle in the mat
ter.
It is not poflible for a nation, or any branch of
its executive to overlook all the private bargains of
jockies, speculators and dunces—No rule of right
can be ascertained—the expenceof attempting it
would bring a new debt on the country, ten fold
greater than all the savings which can be made :
these people must do their own business ; if they
pra&ice knavery the law is open, and the judges
of the land will punish them. The faith of a na
tion is sacred, and its measures ought to be ftabie,
and not diverted from their course by a little
traffick in public paper.
It is from seven to fifteen years since the national
paper was ift'ued ; in a period of this length, na
ture and theneceflary changes of society, in any
country, will produce a ronfiderable revolution
of property ; and I believe it to be a fad:, that a
less proportion of this paper, than of any other
kind of property which can be named, hath
changed its owners. Even in improved lands,
which are the molt liable kind of property ; fix
upon a number of contiguous acres in any inha
bited part of America, of value equal to the nati
onal paper when it issued, and we fliall find a
greater proportion of these lands than of the na
tional and States debts, hath been alienated and
palled over to other owners ; this appears to me
an irrefragable evidence, that there hath been in.
the body of the people, not withstanding all which
hath taken place,a serious dependence on the pub
lic faith, and that it is llill their expectation it
will be re-ftablifhed. Inthefaleof these lands,
there have been many unprofitable bargains to the
fellers ; and many who alienated have spent the
whole amount in folly ; but these are the matters
in which government cannot fafely interfere—
business, commerce and the exchange of property
mull have their course. One quarter of the bar
gains made are detrimental to one, and foine of
them to both parties ; they were made in folly,
but for national policy particularly to infpedi
them would be greater folly, and a molt unman
ageable andendlefs business.
The confiderationsfuggefted in this paper, with
many others which I may hint in future, lead me
to suppose, notwithstanding all the objections I
have ever heard, the re-establishment of public
credit, is a measure of justice due to the creditors,
and that it hath always been expected by the most
honest part of the community, and by those per
sons best acquainted with the nature, operation,
and events of political society.
In my next number, I will endeavour to shew,
that the relloration of credit which justice claims,
is also a meafureof foundnational policy, and the
only poflible means of preventing very extreme
evils.
\_Frcm the American Mercury.]FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. Ff.XNO,
\ CANDID view of thecircumftancesandcau
fes which have heretofore tended to give
.•mprefilons unfavorable to the American public
character, may probably lead to an investigation
of the means by which a remedy is to be effected
—a future confidence eftablifned—and the respec
tability of this country placed on an immovable
balls.
It is not the leafl surprising to the thinking
mind, that the critical situation of public affairs,
during a long and perilous war, should deprive
these States of an opportunity to examine nicely,
the texture of tliofe forms of government which
were ereifled during that period, or how far their
principles promised liability and firmnefs in their
operation—nor is it more to be wondered at, by
those who are acquainted with human nature,
that after the object which originated the late
contest was obtained, and before cool reason had
confirmed a Union which common danger only
had prompted, that each branch in the copart
nership should discover an inclination to rid itl'elf
of its proportion of the price of our Independence
—and a jealousy relating to the share each would
have in the advantages resulting from it, while
the collective whole should appear to have no
other idea of a future well established govern
ment," but as the erection of a tyranny at home
in lieu of the one they had just rid themfelvesof
from abroad, arising from the vibrations of the
pendulum to the opposite extreme.
' The aforementioned causes jointly operated
to produce imbecility, error, and in some instan
ces, fraud in our public a<fts—to destroy mutual
confidence among our citizens, and to bring up
on us the contempt of foreign powers ; the gener
al interest became a facrifice to the contracted po
licy of each State—the little views of some in
dividuals, and the licentious hopes of many others.
Happy for America a different scene now opens
to view—and the dark (hades in the picfiure just
given, are fait diflipating undtr the operation of
a free, but efficient national government —and
every heartmull dilate with joy at our profpeifts,
■while with reason we can anticipate all those
Bleflings which inuft neceflkrily accrue from a
speedy restoration of public faith and honor up
on the establishment of an adequate system for
funding the debt,of the United States.
As communities are but the collection of indi
viduals, the fame principles and practices which
tend to advance the interest of each individual
in his private capacity, must lead to their cor
porate welfare—nor can any thing morally
wrong be politically right—tho the contrary max
im has been often inculcated—its milchievous
consequences have ever been manifcit—while the
principle itfelf of adhering flriilly to the dictates
ofjuftice in public affairs, must influence the
well disposed Statefinan—he will find the policy
of hisconduft also evidenced in the former splen
dor of the ancient States of Greece and Rome, and
the modern one of Great-Britain, who by a sacred
regard to her public promises, has been able to
command resources astonishing to all the world,
and to carry on a series of wars which would have
made bankrupts of all the other powers of Europe.
Among the preliminary steps to an adequate
funding system in America, will be the ademp
tion of the State debts by the Union. The his
tory of France from the earliefl stage of her po
litical exigence, is pregnant with evils resulting
from the division of power in her government,
and the exclusive rights veiled in the provincial
parliaments : The present deranged state of her
finances maybe in a great nieafurd traced to the
fame sources—while the oppoilte of the whole
scene, as exhibited in Great Britain, is owing to
the reverse of her political economy. To pro
duce firmnefs, liability and vigor in national mea
sures, it is expedient that all interests should be
as far as possible united svith one general concen
tration of power—a division in either cafe, is pro
ductive of jarrings and dil'cord, and consequent
languor and indecision : From this it will appear
evident, that one uniform fyftein of Finance ill
this country is not only a neceflary but an indis
pensable measure— the mode once confirmed, the
next consideration will be as to the means by
which government shall be enabled to comply
with its promises, and appropriations—and here
the propriety of an excise, in addition to the im
port, appears palpable, as the former will be in
sufficient to answer the above purposes, though
(as I have observed in some former papers) a re
duction of the interell should take place under
the new establishment.
The produdt of borh Impift and Excise I also
concciveto be virtually depending on the exten
fionof our commerce, and having our intercourse
with other nations secured by explicit treaty or
contract—no longer to be fubjecft to the uncer
tain tenure of legislative adts—while commercial
agents are deputed abroad to guarantee the ob
servance offuch contracts, and to protedt the in
terests of individuals trading to foreign ports.
The necessity of these regulations become more
apparent when we refie<ft that the rapid increase
of this country in population and wealth, and the
enterprize of its inhabitants, will naturally ex
cite the oblervation of the European powers, and
soon give rife to all the jealousies of commercial
rivalfhip. Our commerce with them, unsupport
ed by treaty, would probably feel all thole in
jurious fluctuations which such jealousies have a
tendency to produce—while our commerce will
be greatly allilled by the foreign regulations just
attended to, the importance of a code of well con
ftrucftcd infpe&ion laws at home is equally obvi
ous—and tliefe ought no longer to be executed by
those who value neither faith or honor ; but by
men of eftablilhed reputation, and who will not
confentto facrifice their character at the Ihrine
of avarice—till this is the cafe our infpedtion
laws will only serve to encreafe the evils they are
intended to prevent.
Most of the nations of Europe, sensible of the
importance of commerce, are using every means'
for its extension and liberal eftablifhmerit, and the
removal of those impediments to it, which have
heretofore existed in France, are among the most
conspicuous improvements of her late enlightened
policy. The advantages reaped by Great-Britain
from this source need no comment.
Examples brought from abroad will have their
due weight—but the good information, and poli
tical knowledge poflefled, abftradtedly by Con
gress, must suggest the propriety of an early at
tention to the fubjecl here treated of, as involv
ingthe most eflentialobjedts whicngave rife to the
late revolution in our government, and as inti
mately conne<fted with the general prosperity and
welfare of the American Empire
PRESIDENT SULL IVAN's MESSAGE
To the Hon. Senate W House of Represen
tatives, \of New-Hampshire.]
Gentlemen,
TUTHyiNG been informed, that doubts have a
_ risen in the minds of some, whether my hav
ing accepted the office of Diftrid: Judge has not
difqualified me from adling as President of the
State, until a new election takes place, I confefs
that I have never been able to discover any in
compatibility in the two offices. But as some
have attempted toprove this by urging the words
of a Constitution framed for the purpose of esta
blishing over the people of New-Hatnpfhire a free,
sovereign and independent government—l must
observe, that thisgoverment hasftnee been changed
by the voice of the people, who have agreed that their
fafety depended on thesr retinquijhing many of the
powers retained by the people tn that Constitution, to
a General Government eftablijhed for the people oj
each and every State -who fnould adopt it ; -which to
them was to become the general law of the land. The
people of this State did, in the 7>iojl folejnn manner, a
dept and ratijy that Constitution ; and jrom that e
vent, THIS CEASED TO BE A FREE, SOVEREIGN,
and indetendent state ; and upon my being
elected to the office of President, Iwas only sworn
to perform and fulfil the duties incumbent on me
as President of a free and confederate State ; and
I was at or near the fame time sworn to support
the Constitution of the United States, by virtue
ofalaw enacted by yourselves.
While I was continuing to preside in this State,
I was appointed under that Constitution which
the people of New-Hampshire had adopted for
themfclves, a Judge of the Federal Court. My
own inclinations were far from leading me to
wish to continue in both offices ; but I was put in
by the people, and could not devise a way of re
signing the trust committed to me, but into the
hands who honoured me with it. I well knew
that the time for electing a new President was
near at hand, when the people might have an op
portunity of declaring who should preside over
them ; and all the public papers having been en
trusted to my care, and the affairs of the State un
folded to me, I could not, without an unpardona
ble breach of trust, neglect to lay them before
you. I also considered, that while I was living
in the State, no other person could, by your own
laws, adminiller the neceflarj oaths to you, to
qualify you to ast as Legislators, while the time
for which I was chosen was not expired ; and as I
knew that this would probably be the last session
of this Court, for the present year ; and I had no
inclination to propose myfelf as a candidate for
another— I concluded delicacy would have pre
vented some persons from pursuing the methods
they have adopted, for gratifying a spirit which
ought never to lodge itfelf in the branch of a Legi/la
ture. J a J
Gentlemen,
You will fee the ficuation I am in, anil may
ealily conceive of my feelings upon this fubjetft
being brought forward, at every opportunity, tofa'-
tiate that spirit which hat often, bej ore this fejjion of
the Court, displayed it ft If before vie, and used every
effort again ft me.
The Prciident and Senate ofthe United States
were, at the time of my appointment, well ac
quainted with my having to finilh my year in
presiding over this State ; but no hint has ever
been given tome of my acceptance of an office
under the present general government, rendering
346-
AMERICANUS.
void any State appointment; even though I have
had the honour of being often, since my accep
tance of the office of Diftrid; Judge for New-
Hamplhire, in company with the President of the
United States, who knew I was the President of
this State, and treated irte as luch, although he at
the fame time knew that I had long before accept
ed the office of Federal Judge.
I know the candour andjuftice of the members
of both branches ; and I have too high an opinion
of their integrity and uprightness to suppose,
chat they will fuffer themselves to be influenced
by the efforts of one or more, who cannot avoid at
•very opportunity, discovering the spirit -which ailu
itet them in their conduit. I have the honour &c
fee. JOHN SULLIVAN.
Dec. 29, 1789
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1790.
A Memorial from Hon. Robert Morris, late fuperintendant
of finance, enclosed to the speaker was read—the enclosure
contained a requefl that the memorial might be entered on the
journals of the House—laid on the table.
The mcmorialid after dating a variety of fa&s relative to the
business of which he had been appointed fuperintendant the dif
ficulties, delays, and embarrassments which had prevented a final
adjudment and settlement of his accounts—petitions that com
missioners may be appointed for that purpose.
Mr. Goodhue presented a petition from sundry inhabitants of
S .Icm—dating that thro' a very particular condruftion of a feftioi,
in the coading law, velTels owned by the citizens of the United
States, and as they thought properly qualified as such, had been
obliged 10 pay the alien duty in some of the southern States— and
praying relief or a refund of the duty so paid—laid on the table
Several petitions and memorials were read, from persons who
had made sundry discoveries, and invented certain machines pray,
ing encouragement, and a securing of the benefits of their in
ventiont—laid on the tabic.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick the committee of the whole house
was discharged from any further discussion of the bill providing
for the actual enumeration of the inhabitants of the United State?
It was then voted that the blanks in the bill Ihould be filled"
up.
The firft blank relpeaed the time to be allowed for corJkleat
mg the enumeration—6, 4, and 3 months were proposed. X
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that as so Idng a time is to elapse be
fore the affidants are to enter upon the business, the work of pre
paration will be completed in such a manner, that he conceived
three, two, or even one month will be fufficient.
Mr. White said that he was very sure that in many of the States
<w ? ,three or four months will not be fufficient— and fix month's
Will be found (hort enough to complete the enumeration in those
States—in the eadern States the business may be finidied in a much
Ihorter period—but when the time (hall be elapsed, that is allow
ed by law and the enumeration is completed in some of the
States, and the numbers fully returned, it cannot be supposed
that those States who have not completed theirs, (hould acquiefcc
in any regulations, and eilablilhments founded on so imperfect a
census. r
Ml. Burke was in favor of allowing the longest period—and
Itated a great variety of obstacles and impediments in the way of
compleating the ennumeration within so (hort a time, even as fix
months ; and the census when returned in so incompleat a state, it
could not be supposed would be fatisfaftory ; it would create
uneafincfs and terminate in absolute injustice.
Mr. Jacklon adverting to the peculiar circumftaoces of the
States, particularly Georgia ; and the recent acceflion of
North-Carolina ; the extenflvenefs of the territory of those States,
and the dispersed situation of their inhabitants— contended that
lix months would be but a (hort time to compleat the business in.
Mr. Madison observed that the situation of the several States was
lo various, that the difficulty of adopting a plan for effefline the
bulincfs upon terms that woulf 1 give general fatisfaftion, can only
be obviated by allowing fufficient time. Some of the States have
been in habits of taking an enumeration of their citizens ; others
have never done it at all ; to the former the business will be eafv,
and may be compleated within perhaps the (horteft period : in
the others, it will be attended with difficulties at present unfore
■ addition to these, there is a variety of other confuta
tions to be taken into view ; there must be a greater number of
a Imunts employed in the southern States ; there are many con
ingencies that cannot be provided against ; the afliftants may die,
and leave the business unfinifhed ; it may be neceffarv to appoint
others ; the returns from so many persons, from such cxtenfive
diitntts, will require filch a length of time, as leaves no probabi
lity that it can be compleated in a shorter period than fix months.
Mr. Sedgwick said he had no wi(h to precipitate the business •
the equalizing the representation ought to be a matter of serious
contemplation to every gentleman.it is peculiarly so to the delega
tion from those States who are so unequally represented : I wish
tor a lull and competent enumeration; and am for allowing full
time to compleat it in : But there does not appear to me to be
y ,u° rC Jrn ob J ca,on raised from the contingency of thedeath
of the afliftants : The longer the pctiod, the greater the proba
bility of such events : And I am clearly of opinion thatextend
•«g the period will not conduce to obtaining finally so accurate an
enumeration. 7
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Mr. Burke, and Mr. Jackfonmadea few ad
aitional observations, when
Ihequedion being taken on « fix months," it was carried in
the affirmative.
,J h ,< a " l(h . n ' 5 fa , ilin g to make returns to the marshals within the
time limitted by this ast to forfeit 200 dollars.
pJrl™ ar ! h . a ,! S '°- ma^, retUinSof the aggregate amount to the
Pre ident ot the United States, by thefirft day of June next, un
der penalty of 800 dollars. J
°tV b k la n u S - WCre si " cd in amendments which had been
adopted—The bill being gone through.
It was patted, tobeena&ed.
, was received from the President ofthe United States
United St",""*' u"? the for glvin S effe£l to the laws of the
nnf« ! Kil" SUte , oi North Carolina, and for other pur
poses, which has received the Prelident's assent and signature
,i„ x COI r mUtC ? wholc ' on lhe report of the Secretary of
rrpdl M "■ P rov,flon for the support of the public
credit Mr. Baldwin in the chair.
Mr. Smith (S.C.) after premising a mode which he deemed eli
g >,e in ta 'ing up the fubjc£ls contained in the report, read cer
tain resolutions which he proposed to lay on the table : These re-
Jolutions he luppofed would bring the several obiefts of difcuflion
01 . n k ' ,° }■ ,a *' committee might proceed vw ith more accu
racy in the business.
r,J, hC l C r j fO ' U, L° nS , r , cfcrred to the principal objects of the re
port—laid on the table. J
d,kf ® oud " ,ot c "tered into a consideration of the fubjeft of the
debt . He adverted to the resolution of the last session, and to the
answer of the House to the Prcfident's speech ; by which he con
eive i. it . ruted States have pledged themselves to make ade
quate provision tor the support of the public faith : He thought the
mo c po.ntc oui by the gentleman from South Carolina, wouldbring thebufmefs before the committee in a proper polnfofview:
He conceived the fuhje£l of his firft resolution, viz. to fund the
debt the present feflion, was the firft question to betaken into con
federation. In order to bring before the committcea just and ade
quate idea of the debt, he recurred to the journals of the late
Congress : He commenced his researches with the year 1779 ; and
read the resolves, declarations, addreffesand engagements of Con
gress from period to period relative to the loans, ferviccs, sup
plies, &c. He then said, that he conceived that there was not a
person within the found of his voice, poffefling the feelings of ho
nor and humanity, who would harbor an idea against funding the
debt of the United States : He touched on the public sentiment
the present situation of the country ; and after repeating some of
the observations contained in the report of the Secictary, said, he
doubted not that the question for funding would meet the ideas
of a decided majority of this house : The manner how this should
be done will be an after consideration : He concluded by observ
ing that he felt full confidence that before the present feflion should
be closed, the arduous and important business would be corn
pleated.
Mr. Fitzfimons read in his place several resolutions affirmative
of the great objects contained in the report of the Secretary, which
he laid on the table : They are as follow :
Resolved, That adequate provision ought to be made for ful
filing the engagements of the United States in refpe&to their fo
reign debt.
Resolved, That permanent funds ought to be appropriated for
the payment of interest on, and the gradual discharge of the do
mestic debt of the United States.
Resolved, That the arrears of interest, including indents, issu
ed in payment thereof, ought to be provided for on the fame
terms with the principal of the said debt.
Resolved, That the debts of the refpettive States ought, with
the content of the creditors, to be assumed and provided for by
the United States.
Resolved, That it is advifeable toendeavor to efTcfl a new mo
dification of the domestic debt, including that of the particular
States, with the voluntary consent of the creditors, by a loan, up
on terms mutually beneficial to them and to the United States.
Resolved, That for the purpose exprefled in the last preceding
resolution, fubferiptions toward a loan ought to be opened, to
the amount of the said domestic debt ; including that of the ref
pe&ive States, upon the terms following, to wit :
That for every hundred dollars fubferibed, payable in the said
debt (as well interest as principal) the fubferiber be entitled, at
his option, either
To have two thirds funded at an annuity, or yearly interest of
fix per cent, redeemable at the pleasure of the government, by
payment of the principal ; and to receive the other third in lands
in the Western Territory, at the rate of twenty cents per acre*
Or,
To have the whole sum funded at an annuity or yearly interest
of four per cent, irredeemable by any paymenr exceeding five
dollars per annum on account both of principal and jntercft ; and
to receive as a compentation for the reduction of interest, fifteen
dollars and eighty cents, payable inlands, as in the preceding
cafe. Or
To have fifty-fix dollars and two thirds of a dollar funded im
mediately at an annuity or yearly interest of fix per cent, irre
deemable by any payment exceeding tour dollars and two thirds
of a dollar per annum, on account both of principal and interest;
and to have, at the end ot ten years, twenty-fix dollars and eighty
eight cents, funded at the like interest and rate of redemption
Or
To have an annuity for the remainder of life, upon the con
tingency of living to a given age, not less distant than ten years,
computing interest at four per cent. Or
To have an annuity for the remainder of life, upon the con
tingencvofthe survivorship of the youngest of two persons, com
puting interest, in this cafe also, at four per cent.
Resolved, That immediate provision ought to be made for the
present debt ot the United States; and that the faith of govern
ment ought to be pledged to make provision, at the next session,
for so much of the debts of the refpeftive States, as (hall have been
fubferibed upon any of the terms expressed in the last resolution.
Resolved, That the funds which shall be appropriated accord
ing to the second of the foregoing resolutions, be applird, in the
firft place, to the payment of interest on the sums tubferibed to
wards the proposed loan ; and that if any part of the said do
mestic debt shall remain unfubferibed, the surplus of the said
funds be applied, by a temporary appropriation, to the payment
of interest on the unfubferibed part, so as not to exceed, for the
present, four per cent per annum ; but this limitation shall not
be understood to impair the right ot the non-fubferibing credi
tors totherefidue of the interest on their refpeftive debts : And in
cafe the aforefaid surplus should prove inefficient to pay the non
fubferibing creditors, at the aforefaid rate of four per cent, that
the faith of government be pledged to make good such deficiency.
Mr. Page moved that the report of the Secretary should be
read. The Clerk then commenced reading, and having proceed
ed as saras the 1 ith page—lt was moved that the committee should
rife : They accordingly rose, and the House adjourned.
TUESDAY? FEBRUARY 9.
The memorial of fundrv inhabitants of the town of Salem,
presented yesterday, was on motion ot Mr. Goodhue taken up for
a second reading, and referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Benfon presented the memorial of Brigadier General Do
nald Campbell, praying that an investigation ot his claims against
the United States may be made.
Mr. Boudinot presented a petition from the contra&ors for car
rying the mail through New-Jersey, which was read, and refer
red to the committee appointed to take into consideration the re
gulation of the poft-office.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretaryof the
Treasury.
Mr. Page proposed that those gentlemen who had brought for
ward certain resolutions, lhould direst the attention of the House
to those parts of the report to which they mean particularly to
refer, that such part may be read.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) withdrew the propositions which he laid on
the table yesterday.
The resolutions proposed by Mr. Fitzfimons were then read by
the Clerk.
The firft resolution being read by the chairman ; and the ques
tion being-taken on the fame, it passed in the affirmative unani
mously.
The second resolution was then read, on which Mr. Jackson rose
and observed, that tho he had as great a fenfc of the merit of our
public creditors, those who had fought our battles, and hadeffeft
ed the independence of America as any man ; yet there is a ques
tion on the fubjeft before the House, which he conceived of as
great consequence as any that had been fuggtfted, and that is whe
ther the present is the season for funding the domestic debt of the
United States. He then reprobated funding systems altogether :
Adverted to the effe&s which had been experienced from them
in Florence, Genoa, and Great-Britain ; and asserted that some of
those States had loft their independence through the debts which
had thereby been entailed on them. Great Britain by adopting a
funding system, has accumulated a debt which they never can get
rid of.
From these remarks he inferred the pernicious confcquences
of a system for funding the debt of the United States ; and refer
ring to the present unrepresented State of North-Carolina, and
the uncertainty with refpett to the quantum of the debt ; the state
of the western territory, &c. concluded by moving that the report
lhould lie on the table fur further consideration.
Mr. Sherman observed that the present question before the com
mittee is simply, whether the debt shall be funded : The various
particulars to which the gentleman last speaking alluded, are not
now before the committee : Whether the debt (hall be placed up
on irredeemable funds, is a fubje&of future confuleration.
Mr. Smith made some obfeivations in reply to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Jackson moved that the committee should rife, which mo
tion being put, was negatived by a great majority.
Mr. Bland enquired why there was a difference in the phraseo
logy of the two firft resolutions ? He could not fee the propriety
orjuftice of making a discrimination between our domestic and fo
reign creditors. We have pledged ourselves by adopting the firft
resolution to fulfil our engagements to our foreign creditors, before
we have ascertained whether we are able to do it; but the resolu
tion refpefting our domestic creditors, leaves them in a very differ
ent situation. He wished to be informed for what reason the dif
ference was made, as he meant to propose a substitute for the reso
lution now under consideration.
Mr. Fitzfimons in reply informed the committee that the cir
cumrtances of the foreign debt were such, as left no alternative,
but that of coming to a prccife and definite resolution upon the
fubjett. With refpett to the domestic debt, agreeable to the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury, a different plan of procedure
is offered ; still the modification proposed is to be submitted to
the option of the creditors.
Mi . Bland then read a resolution refpc&ing the domestic debt,
which was similar to that adopted refpe&ing the foreign debt; this
he proposed as a substitute for the second resolution.
Mr. Livermore entered into a consideration of the circumstan
ces under which the domestic and foreign debts were incurred, and
gave it as his opinion that the United States are not under obliga
tions to make a fpecific provision for the domestic debt agreeable
to the face of the iecurities which are considered as the evidences
of the debt. With refpeft to the foreign debt, it is for loans re
ceived from persons no ways interofted in the revolution of the
country, and it must be paid. He was opposed to the resolution
in its present form, as it went to make an unqualified provision for
the domestic debt.
Mr. Bland faid,there was no man who will go further than himfelf
in fulfilmg to the utmost of his power, every public contrast, and
to pay the bona fide debts, both foreign and domestic, of the Uni
ted States, to the utmost farthing. On this principle it was, that
he proposed the resolution he had offered, as it appeared to be the
only way of bringing the fubjeft fairly before the committee. He
could not fee the propriety of the discrimination made by the
gentleman last speaking, between the foreign and domestic debt,
as the fa£t is, that by transfers the foreign debt is now become in
part the property of the citizens of the United States, and on the
other hand great part of the domestic debt is alienated to foreign
ers. He therefore offered the resolution which he had read---if
he was fcconded he should be glad, if not, he should set down
contented.
Mr. Scott in a speech of some length on the fubjeft, observed,
that the legislature of the United States is to be considered on this
occasion as fitting as referees in a cafe of equity and justice—the
only enquiry therefore is, what is the sum which the United States
absolutely and bona fide owe—if on enquiry it is found that the os
tensible demand is double what ought in justice to be paid, they
will determine accordingly, andftrikeoff that half, nor can we
answer it to our constituents to make provision for paying one far
thing more than the sum which on a lull mveftigation of the fub
jc£t lhall appear to be due—He concluded by moving an amend
ment to the resolution by adding the following words, viz. as
soon as the fame shall be afcertiined, and duly liquidated.
Mr. Boudinot replied to Mr. Scott—and controverted the prin
ciple he had advancccd that Congress was to be considered as a ju
dicial body on this occasion—He ftatcd the terms on which the
debt had been corn rafted, the dependence which the creditors
had of obtaining final justice from their country ; the perni
cious consequences that would result from adopting such a
principle, as it would destroy every vestige of confidence in the
honor of the United States, and put it entirely out of our power to
effect any future loans, let the emergency be ever so great.
Mr. Lawrance said, that the obictt of the gentleman from Penn
sylvania, appears to be a le-liquiaation of the debt of the United
States, on a supposition that the evidences which the creditors have
obtained are for a larger sum than they ought to have received for
iheir supplies and services ; but what is the tendency of such an
mveftigation of the business—does it not involve the grossest im
peachment of that government under which the deVt was con
tracted—does it not tend to throw an equal proportion of the bur
thens incurred in the acquisition of our independence upon one
particular class of citizens, whose merits and services certainly en
title them to different treatment—the whole body of the people
have received an equivalent for the whole debt— and this scheme
of re-licjuidation will produce a discrimination which will prove
cruelly injurious to a class of citizens who have contributed per
haps the mod to the success of the country in their late arduous
struggles, by reposing the fulleft trust and confidence in the justice
and honor of the States.
Mr. Jackson observed that however the idea of a discrimination
may be reprobated by the gentleman last speaking, the question
■will certainly come before the House. There is a discrimination
between the foreign and domestic debt, which every man must
acknowledge. The foreign debt is due from those who are cre
ditors to the United States: Surely these creditors will be wiling
to pay, or make provision to pay their debts, before they will cla
mor against the government for their demands. This fhew.s that
the consideration of the domestic should be deferred, while the
foreign debt ought to be immediately provided for.
Mr. Ames went into a particular examination of the do&rine
advanced by Mr. Scot, and shewed the pernicious consequences
that would result from its operation, as being fubvcTfive of every
principle on which public contra&s are founded. That the evi
dences of the debt poffefTed by the creditors of the United States,
cannot in reason, justice, and policy, be considered in any other
light than as public bonds, for the redemption and payment of
which the lands, the property, and labor of the whole people are
pledged. The public in this cafe, is as it were perfonified ; nor
is there any conceivable difference, except it is in favor of the cre
ditor, betweenthe public and an individual in this cafe. On this
idea the public is trufled ; and for them to assume the office of
judge on the occasion, is a meer arbitrary a£t of power, which
never can be exercised, but to the dcftru&ion of theeffential inter
ests of the people, and must terminate in a dissolution of the social
compatt.
Mr. Sherman said that he agreed in sentiment with the gentle
man from Pennsylvania in part, but could not extend the opera
tion of the principle to such alength as he did. The Legislature
must necessarily ast in a judicial capacity in some cases : It judges
of accounts exhibited against the government, and determines up
on them : He instanced in a variety of particulars, the interference
of this power, and which, said he, cannot rcafonably be objected
to; but this power cannot be extended to judge upon debts that
are acknowledged by the government; in this light he consider
ed the liquidated dcDtof the United States : On which the Le
gislature can have no more right to judge than an individual who
is a party to a private contract : For if they can thus interfere, the
credit of the United States is placed in a rery deplorable situation
indeed. He moved to confine the provision to that part of the
debt which is already liquidated.
Mr. Goodhue reprobated the idea of discrimination, and reliqui
dation. He observed, that if the objett is to take advantage of the
depreciated rate of public securities, it will be wisest to defer all
further consideration on the fubjeft at present, for the purpose of
availing ourselves of a still lower rate of depreciation.
Mr. Scott enforced the general ideas of his former speech, and
to juftify the sentiment adduced sundry instances of the conduct of
the parliament of Great-Britain, in erasing houses and making
high ways over the places where they stood, and other invasions of
private propeity —he contended the debt stood on a similar foot- J
347
ing with other contracts on which qtteflions of equity and justice
may arifc and be determined with the greatest propriety.
The debate was continued, by fevei al of the gentlemen's speak
ing repeatly on the amendment—Mr. Stone, Mr. White, and Mr.
Sedgwick added a few remarks. Thetime being expended, and
several gentlemen exprefTing a wish to revolve the fubjeft flill fur
ther in their own minds—a motion was made that the committee
should rife—-which being put was carried in the affirmative—
The House then adjourned.
EXTRACT
Of a Letter from London, dated November 2, 1789, continued from
No. 85, of this Gazette.
HTHE objects that rife into view, in reading the debates of
A Congress impress a most favorable idea of the situation of
America. \ our citizens seem to be contemplating ufeful points
in the science of morality and government. Every fubjett is dis
cussed on rational grounds, and decided upon the real merits of
the question. she important truth seems to be acquiesced in ,that
public honcfty is the only basis of public happiness. What im
provements may not be be expe&ed from a people who are so fact
progrefling into habits of order, economy and justice! This is
the more pleasing to the philosophic mind, as this reformation ia
your affairs is effe&ed by the free consent of the people at large.
There is no force or deception in the matter. The citizens of
the United States, having experienced most bitterly the effe&s of
a want of public credit, and of deranged finances, come forward
voluntarily and enter into arrangements to bind themselves to be
honest and virtuous. It is a noble triumph of reason over error.
It refle&s the highest honor on your country, and if this spirit
of reformation can be kept alive till your public credit is effectu
ally established, your nation will be held up as a model to all the
world. The name of America will found gratefully in the ears
of every philosopher on earth.
" The approaching session of your Legislature will be an inter
cfting one. From the measures then to be adopted, your govern
ment must takeits chara&er. The executive officers will no doubt
faithfully collect information relative to their different depart
ments ; and I prcfume the Legislature will weigh with candor,
the plans that may be suggested. The greatest danger to be ap
prehended in your public affairs, is ajealoufy between the differ
ent branches of government. I could preceive by the debates that
the representatives were not free from a suspicion, that the execu
tive officers would establish too powerful an influence. It is very
certain that men of abilities and re&itude will have influence in
whatever department they are placed. This circumstance should
not create so much jealousy as to prevent men of talents from ac
quiring confidence, and promoting the public good bv their ex
ertions. All men in office should be controuled by certain checks
that are interwoven in the institutions, under which they a6l; but
it will always be found that a temper of suspicion indulged by
individuals against public charaders ; or by one branch of the
government against the other, will impede public business and be
attended with no ufeful consequence."
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 10.
Yesterday the President of the United States was pleased to no
minate, and by, and with the advice and consent of the Senate to
appoint the following persons to office in the State of N. Carolina.
Wilmington, James Ready Collector.
John Walker, Naval Officer.
Thomas Callender, Surveyor.
Newbern, Jfobn Daves, Collector.
Beaufort, John Eaflon, Surveyor.
Washington, Nathan Keais, Collector.
En en ton District.
Edenton, Thomas Benbury, Collector.
Hertford, Joshua Skinner, jun. 'Surveyor.
Murfreefboro, Hardy Murfree, Surveyor.
Plymouth. Levi Blount, Surveyor.
Skewarkoy, Henry Hunter, Surveyor.
Wynton, William Wynns, Surveyor,
Bennets Creek, John Baker, Surveyor.
Camden District.
Plank Bridge, on Sawyers Creek, Isaac Gregory, Colle&or.
Nixonton, Hugh Knox, Surveyor.
Indian-Town, Thomas Williams, Surveyor.
Pafquotank River Bridge, Edmund Sauyer, Surveyor.
Ncwbiggin Creek, Elias Albertfon, Surveyor.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
It was made an obje&ion to the new Constitution, that the elec
tions of Representatives should be biennial; but happy will it be
for our country, if we do not find that that period is too short.
To ensure their future ele&ion is often found the influencing mo
tive of condutl to too many in the last session of an existing Legi
slature : Hence that independency of spirit, that sacred regard to
truth, that inflexible adherence to the best measures, popular or
unpopular, which distinguish the real patriot, are seldom found to
govern thedecifions of those, who feel conscious that fortuitous
concurrence of circumstances, and not merit, has made them the
obje£ta of the people's fuffrage in times past.
The principle of responsibility has a very powerful operation
with such characters, when they are about to revert to the mass of
the people ; but what kind of responsibility is it ? Not to account
for the free and independent exercise of their own judgment, 011
the important fubjefts of deliberation in the Legislature ; but to
fatisfy their particular constituents, that they have made it theic
study to fulfil the particular wishes of their creators. Hence the
people ! the people! is often the burden of the fongto those who never
gave any other evidence of their patriotism but a prostitution o£
every piinciple of honor at the fhrineof popularity.
I remember to have heard an old veteran in the cause of free
dom fay, he always fufpe&cd the honeftv of that man's principles,
who is so devilifk peopleifh : For certain it is, that those Legislators
who are only solicitous to please the present humors of the people,
must often advocate measures subversive of their essential rights.
If Legislators are to be considered as the guardians of the pub
lic liberty, it necessarily follows, that as communities, as well as
individuals are liable to infatuation, the upright patriot muftftem
the popular impulse on fuchoccafions, tho he will thereby render
himfelf odious for a time.
On Monday the Grand Jury for the United States of this dijlri£l,gave
a very elegant entertainment to the Chief, Ajjociate, and DiflriEl Judges*
The Attorney General and the officers of the Supreme and Di/lriaCourts,
at Fraunce's Tavern in Courtlandt-Street. The liberality dif played on
this occasion and the good order and harmony whichprejidcd gave particu
lar fatisfattion to the refpettable guejls. After dinner the following
toafls uare drank.
1. The President of the United-States of America.
2. The Vice President of the United-States of America.
3. The National Judiciary. 4. The Senate of the United-States,.
5. The Speaker and House of Representatives of the United States.
6. The late National Convention.
7. The Constitution of our Country : may it prove the solid Fabric k vf
American liberty, Prosperity and Glory.
8. The Memory of those Heroes who fell in the defence of the Liberties
of America.
9. His mojl Chriflian Majefly and the People of France.
10. Their High MightmeJJes the States General of the United Nether
lands.
11. The friendly powers of Europe and thefriends of liberty through
out the Globe.
12. May the blessings of peace be long the happy lot of our Country,
and every Citizenof America, feel himfelf deeply interested, in the due
execution of the laws of the Union.
13. The Convention of Rhode-Iflard. May their wisdom and inte
grity soon introduce our firay filler to her flation in the happy national
family of America.©f the SECRETARY of the TR E AS U R Y to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. 9, 1790.
[continuation.]
IN addition to the foregoing loan* payable wholly in the
debt, the Secretary -would propose, that one should be opened
ior ten millions of dollars, on the following plan.
That for every hundred dollars fubferibed, payable one half in
specie, and the other half in debt (as well principal as interest) the
fubferiber be entitled to an annuity or yearly interest of live per
cent, irredeemable by any payment exceeding fix dollars per an
num, on account both of principal and interest.
The principles and operation of theie different plans may now
require explanation.
The hilt is simply a proposition for paying one third of the
debt in land, and funding the other two thirds, at the existing rate
of interest, and upon the fame terms of redemption, to which it is
at present fubjett.
Here is no conje&ure, no calculation of probabilities. The
creditor is offered the advantage of making his interest principal,
and he is asked to facilitate to the government an etfeftual provi
sion for his demands, by accepting a third part of them in land,
at a fair valuation.
Ihe general price, at which the woftern lands have been, here
tofore, fold, has been a dollar per acre in public securities; but
at the time the principal purchafcs were made, these securities
were worth, in the market, lefa than three (hillings in the pound.
The nominal price, therefore, would not be the proper standard,
under present circumstances, nor would the precise specie value
then given, be a just rule. Bccaufe, as the payments were to be
made by instalments, and the securities were, at the times of the
purchases, extremely low, the probability of a moderate rife must
be presumed to have been taken into the account. Twenty cents,
therefore, seem to bear an equitable proportion to the two con
siderations of value at the time, and likelihood of incrcafe.
It will be understood, that upon this plan, the public retains
the advantage of availing irfelf oi any fall in the market rate of in
terest, f r reducing that upon the debt, which is perfe&ly just, as
no present facrifice, either in the quantum of the principal, or in
the rate of interest, is required from the creditor.
The inducement to the measure is, the payment of one third of
the debt in land.
The second plan is grounded upon the supposition, that interest,
in five years, will fall to five per cent, in fifteen more, to four:
As the capital remains entire, but bearing an interest of four per
cent, only, compensation is to be made to the creditor, for the in
terest of two per cent, per annum for five years, and of one per
cent, per annum, for fifteen years, to commence at the distance of
five years. The present value of these two sums or annuities, com
puted according to the terms of the supposition, is, by ftrift calcu
lation, fifteen dollars and seven hundred and ninety-two thou
sandth parts of a dollar ; a fradlion less than the sum proposed.
The inducement to the measure here is, the redufclion of interest
to a rate, more within the compass of a convenient provision ; and
the payment of the compensation in lands.
The inducements to the individual are—the accommodation af
forded to the public—the high probability of acomplcteequivalent ;
the chance even of gain, should the rate of interest fall, either more
speedily or in a greater degree, than the calculation luppofes.
Should it fall to five per cent, sooner than five years; Ihoulu it fall
lower than five before the additional fifteen were expired ; or
should it tall below four, previous to the payment of the debt,
there would be, in each cafe, an absolute profit to the creditor.
As his capital will remain entire, the value of it will increase, with
every dccreafe of the rate of interest.
The third plan proceeds upon the like fuppofiiion of a fuccef
fivefall in the rate of interest. And upon that supposition offers
an equivalent to thecreditor. One hundred dollars, bearing an
interest of fix per cent, for five years; of five per cent, for fifteen
years, and thenceforth of four per cent, (these being the succes
sive rates of interest in the market) is
equal to a capital of - - 122 dollars, 510725 parts,
'earing an interest of four per cent, which, converted into a
capital, bearing a fixed rate of interest of fix per cent, is equal
v o 81 dollars, 6738166 parts.
The difference between (ixty-fix dollars and two thirds of a
dollar (the sum to be funded immediately) and this last sum
is - - 15 dollars, 0172 parts,
which at fix per cent, per annum, amounts at the end of ten
years, to 26 dollars, 8755 parts,
the sum to be funded at the expiration of that period.
It ought, however, to be acknowledged, that this calculation
does not make allowance for the principle of redemption, which
the plan itlelf includes ; upon which principle the equivalent in
a capital of fix per cent, would be by ftri& calculation,
But there arc two considerations which induce the Secretray to
think, that the one proposed would operate more equitably than
this : One is, that it may not be very early in the power of the
United States to avail themselves of the right of redemption re
lerved in the plan : The other is, that with regard to the part to
be funded at the end of ten years, the principle of redemption is
suspended during that time, andthefull interest at fix per cent,
goes 011 improving at the Jamc rate ; which for the UJI Jive years will
exceed the market rate of interest, according to the supposition.
The equivalent is regulated in this plan, by the circumstance of
fixing the rate of interest higher, than it is supposed it will con
tinue to be in the market; permitting only a gradual discharge of
the debt, in an eftablilhed proportion, and consequently pievent
ing advantage being taken of any decrease of interest below the
stipulated rate.
Thus the true value of eighty-one dollars and sixty-seven cents,
the capital proposed, considered as a perpetuity, and'bearing fix
per cent, interest, when the market rate of interest was five percent,
would be a small fraction more than ninety-eight dollars, when
it was four per cent, would be one hundred and twenty-two dol
lars and fifty-one cents. But the proposed capital being fubjett to
gradual redemption, it is evident, that its value, in each cafe, would
be fomewhnt less. Yet from this may be perceived, the manner
in which a less capital at a fixed rate of interest, becomes an equiv
alent for a greater capital, at a rate liable to variation and dimi-
nution,
It is prcfumable, that those creditors, who do not entertain a
favorable opinion of property in western lands, will give a pre
ference to tins iaft mode of modelling the debt. The Secretary
:s sincere in affirming, that, in his opinion, it will be likely to
prove, to the full as beneficial to the creditors, as a provision for
his debt upon its present terms.
It is not intended, in either cafe to oblige the government to
redeem, in the proportion fpecified, but to secure to it, the right of
doing so, to avoid the inconvenience of a perpetuity.
The fourth and fifth plans abandon the fuppofitioa which is the
bafisof the two preceding ones, and offer only four per cent,
throughout.
The reaion of this is, that the payment being deferred, there
will be an accumulation of compound intereft,in the intermediate
period against the public, which, -without a very provident ad
ininiltratHjn, would turn to its detriment. And the suspension of
the burthen would be too apt to beget a relaxation of efforts in the
meantime. The measure therefore, its objett being temporary
ccomrnodation, could only be advifeable on a moderata rate of
interest.
With regard to individuals, the inducement will be fufficicnt at
four per cent. There is no disposition of money, in private loans,
making allowance lor the usual delays and ca r ualties, wh e!\ would
be equally beneficial as a future proviiion.
REPORT
87 dollars, 50766 parts.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
The following lines were aidrejfed to a Lady, a Jhorl time before her
marriage.
FROM the bright regions of Oberon's nations,
Come I, by Oberon's orders, to you ;
From evergreen meads, where in fantaftic fafhions,
Sport loving Fairies to meafurcs dance true.
Some ride on bees, some on bars, some on swallows,
Some ride on watery beams from the moon,
Some playing hide and feek> skulk in the hollows
Made for wrens nelh, and whittle her tune.
Puck am I call'd ;—Robin Goodfellow named :—
Seldom by fin-fully'd mortals'l'm seen ; •
Ne'er fmce for Shakefpcare the wild bees I tamed,
Dancing with Mab, 'fore his eyes on the green.
Oft did I seal up his senses in {lumbers,
Waiting his foul to the filver-fac'd moon,
Oft did I teach him to sing in sweet numbers,
Fairy love songs, to the nightingale's tunc.
Oft would I show him my love-ruling maftcr,
Oft on mv mistresses state would he peep ;
Then would I hurl him down fatter and tatter,
Shewing him wonders that lurk in the deep.
Such lovely maid is the sprite who salutes you :—
My royal matter, well plcas'd with your port
Hitherward comes, and much damsel it boots you,
Fitly to seem in the eyes of his court.
Soon as the moon thro' the sorest trees peeping—
Speeding on bats backs we'll merrily fly—
More fwift than fancy in dreams when you're flceping,
Air cutting swallows we'll glide thro' the iky.
Dancing wild carrols the mansion we'll circle,
While Henry seizes your heart-giving hand :
Mine (hall the tafX be to crown ye with myrtle,
Much favor'd mortals, belov'd by our band. D.
Extrad from the NEW YEAR'S WISH of the CARRIERS oj the
Maffachufctis Ccntincl.
IN '89, kind Heav'n be praif'd
You've seen TWELVE ample PILLARS raif'd :
Seen fi.v'd as Fate, beyond mutation,
The grand PALLADIUM of our nation :
Beheld Columbia's hope and star,
Her pride in Peace—her strength in JVar t
Leave Vernon's ever rural feat,
The ills of publick life to meet :
And seen the Solon of our age,
Again with publick cares engage.
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL.
MR. CORE'S RESIGNATION.
Friday, Jan. 29.
The following letter from Christopher Gore,
Esq. one of the Representatives of Boston, to the
Hon. Speaker, was read.
SIR, Boflon, Jan. 29, 1 790.
THK last time I had the honor to address you,
on the floor ofthe House, I took the liberty
of declaring to you, and to the Hon. House, that
aftfr an examination of the Constitution of this
Commonwealth, I was of opinion, that the office
I had been honored with, from the President of
the United States, did not vacate my feat in the
Legislature. A question being then proposed to
the House, as I thought preparatory to a deter
mination, refpe<fting myfelf, I conceived it my
duty to declare my own sentiment—at the fame
time I retired, in expectation, that whether my
feat was vacated or not, would soon be judged by
the House.
The ninth article of the bill of Rights, declares,
That " all the inhabitants of this Commonwealth
" having such qualifications as they fliall establish
" by their frame of government, have an equal
" right to eledl officers, and to be elecfled for pub
" lie employments."
The offices, an appointment to which, and the
acceptance whereof, will 1 ender vacant a feat in
the House of Representatives are expressly named
in the Conltitution, and are offices under the go
vernment of the Commonwealth only.
My qualifications are the fame as when chosen,
and I cannot conceive that any conftrudlions of
the Conflitution can bring the office I hold under
the United States, within the difqualifications
pointed out in the Constitution. 1 fay this, on
the fuppolition that any man or aflembly of men
had authority to extend the dirqualifications by
conftrudlion, which I cannot admit, and which
must be coniidered inconsistent with the rights
of the people. These, Sir, are the grounds on
which I claim my right to a fear. On a further
investigation of the fubjedt, I am confirmed in the
opinion I declared to the House—and can fay,
with great truth, that I know no right to which I
have a more constitutional claim than to a feat in
the Hon. House of Representatives.
A fortnight has elapsed since I retired from the
House, and no determination has taken place de
claring my feat vacated. I mull therefore con
clude, that the House consider my right as une
quivocal—But, knowing, Sir, that the sentiments
of many Members are different from mine on this
fubjedi, and hearing that in some debates which
have been had in the House, they have been plea
sed to express their disapprobation of an officer
under the United States holding a feat in the
Legislature of this Commonwealth, convinced
that my feeble exertions for the public good,
would be rendered less efficient, I hold it an in
dispensable duty to that town which has honor
ed me with their confidence, to ask leave of the
Hon. House to resign my feat as a Representative
of the town of Boston.
At the fame time permit me to declare to yon,
Sir, and to the Hon. House, that, from the confil
-348-
dence which has been placed In me by the Govern •
merit of the Union, I feel conscious of new obli
gations to preserve the Conititution of this Com
monwealth, and the rights ofmy fellow citizens,
and sure I am, that no man can hold that Coniti
tution, and tliofe rights more Yacred than I now
do, and ever have considered them.
With great refped: for you, Sir, and for the
Hon. House, I am, Sir, your very obedient
Servant, * C. GORE.
Hon. David Cobb, Esq. Speaker, ire. ire.
INDEPENDENCE
THERE is a fort of Independence in condudl
and behavior which is afliimed many per
sons from motives, which strange as it may ap
pear, arise from the moll abjeift slavery to the
opinions of the world; left they should be thought
dependent on thole, whose counsels and opinions
it would conduce to their dignity and happinels
to follow, they lhamelefly fly in the face of every
moral and social obligation : Such conduct is
strikingly exemplified in the 71ft No. of the Wor
cester Speculator, which concludes thus
" The persuasions—the reproofs—and the
" commands of parents must be disregarded from
" similar motives. Chara«sters of this kind al
" ways remind me of the poor henpecked huiband
" who refufed to eat his supper because his wife
" told him it was ready—he had been in company
" from home, and had been rallied by his neigh
" bors for leting his wife wear the breeches, as
" they termed it—he returned with a determin
" edrefolution that no one should ever in future
" have any occasion to suggest the supremacy of
" his wife—lhe on his return like a kind and
" goodnatured wife, supposing him hungry, pre
" pared a bowl of milk, knowing him to be fond
" of it—crumbed the bread—set it upon the stool
" —and asked him to e3t his supper—he sprang
" like a mad man—swore he knew when to eat
" his supper without her direction—(he had wore
" the breeches, he said, long enough—and he
" would have her to know that he was master in
" his own house—and was not to be ordered about
" by her—kicked over the stool—broke his bowl
" —spilled the milk—and went tobedhalfftarv
" ed—but as independent as a prince.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
DOCTOR GOLDSMITH writing on the fub
jetft of free schools, among other observa
tions lias the following.
" It is hardly poflible to conceive the igno
rance of many of thole who take upon them the
important trust of education.—ls a man unfit for
any of tlieprofeffions,he finds his last resource in
commencing school-master.—Do any become
bankrupts in trade, they set up a boarding
school, and drive a trade this way,when all others
fail; nay, I have been told of butchers and bar
bers, who have turned school mailers, and more
furpridng still, made fortunes i*i their new pro
feflion.
Can we think ourselves in a country of civili
zed people—can it be conceived that we have a
regard for posterity, when persons wholly incom
petent, and with whom we ourselves would not
deign to aflociate, are permitted to take the charge
of the morals, genius, and health of those dear
little pledges, who may one day be the guardians
of the liberties of our country —and who may
serve as the honor and bulwark of their aged
parents ?—ls the care of our children below the
dignity of the State ? Of all profeffions in socie
ty, I do not know a more ufeful or more honor
able one than a Schoolmaster ; at the fame time I
do not fee any, more generally despised, or men
wliofe talents are so ill rewarded.—But while the
deserving ought to be rewarded, those who are
unqualified, should be difmifled from their em
ployment. In short, to make the business of
schoolmaster refpecflable, their salaries should be
adequate to inducing persons of abilities to enter
into the profeflion—when this is done, and proper
vigilance is exerted by the State, candidates of
this description will never be wanting."
ALL persons who have not accountcd for the expenditures of
public money and stores, received from Hugh Hughes,ei
ther in the capacity of CommiiTary of Military Stores, Affiftantand
Deputy Quarter Master General to the army of the United States,
or Deputy Quarter Master for the State of New-York, See. or De
puty Quarter Master to the Eafternand Main Army, are requested,
by the said Hughes, to exhibit their accounts and vouchers, pro
perly stated, as early as polTible, to the Auditor of the Treafory of
the United Starts, in the city of New-York, that a final settlement
of the fame may be made.
1 he Executors, or Administrators, to the estates of any of the
perions firft mentioned, will be pleased to attend to this notifica
tlon - January 1790.
NOTICE is hereby given to all the creditors of Thomas Ea
ton, William Pells, Jabez Sayrj, Anthony
Sayrs, and George Welch, Insolvent Debtors, now confi
ned in the common gaol of Newark, in the county of Eflex,
and State of New-Jersey, that they arc requested to appear on
Monday the Twenty-Second Day of February next* at Nine
o'Clock in the forenoon of said day* at the Court-House in New
ark aforefaid, before the judges of the Inferior Court, and shew
cause, if any there be, why an aflignment of the above insolvent
Debtor c Estates should not be made, and they, the Insolvents, be
discharged agreeable to law.
Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Jacob Sayrs.
Anthony Sayrs, George Welch.
Newark, 18ih Jan. 1790.