[No, LXXXVIII.]
THE TABLET
No. LXXXVIII.
" The mofl ejfefitialway to promote the good of the
people, is to prevail on them to perform their duty."
EVERY person who takes a fcrious review
of the incidents with which he has been
affetfted will confefs, that he has fuffered more
«vil from pretended friends,than from open ene
mies. Norisit difficult to aflign a reason, why
this should be the cafe.—We guard ourselves, at
all points, against those wefufpe<ft to be our ad
verlaries ; while we heedlessly expose our opini
ons, our character and our property to those who
make profefiions of friendfhip. No circumstance
more fh ongly marks a want of firmnefs in a real
friend, or a want of sincerity in a supposed one,
than his complimenting our vices, or encourag
ing our errors.
If individuals fuffer severely from the fickle
nefs or insincerity of those who pass for friends,
how much more liable is the community to be
imposed on, by those who afl'ume the name of
patriots > Artful politicians accomplish their views
by the warm wishes and patriotic concern they ex
press for the public good There is a much eafl
er way to gain public favor than bydeferving it.
The molt (lender talents are fufficient to please
and seduce the people, but it requires real abi
lities and fortitude to promote their belt interest.
Nothing can be more evident than that those who
clamor the moll, about the public good, promote
it the lealt. The rant and declamation of cer
tain blusterers who live among the ignorant parts
of the community beguile the people into falfe
notions of government, and keep them vexatious
and dilcontented. There are always some cur
rent prejudices of which designing men may a
vail themselves, and which in some instances
may recommend them more effe<stually to the po
pulace, thananhoneft independent line of con
dud:. Theadtions of such men however deserve
any other appellation more than that of patrio
tism. No man should be deemed a patriot who
has not given other specimens of public spirit,
than fair speeches and pompous profefiions. The
people will seldom do wrong, if influential cha
racters will endeavor to convince them what is
right. But when those who should inftrudt the
ignorant,and admonish the vicious,aft foperverfe
ly, as to flatter the one, and mislead the other,
how can it be expected that the public opinion
will be a fafe guide to dire<ft public measures ?
While there are so many men whose importance in
society depends on cherishing errors in the public
mind,how difficult is ittoproduce a perfecfl union
of sentiment in favor of a just and honorablefyftem
of politics ! The people, when they are honestly
informed and fairly advised, will acquiesce in
whatever will promote the public prosperity. It
requires some art and address to beguile man
kind into a belief, that confufion is better than
order ; that, injustice is preferable to honesty.
There cannot be a more plausible cover for bad
intentions, than a pretence that they correspond
with the public opinion. Such a pretext is the
more convenient as it cannot easily be detected.
In many intereftingqueftions the public opinion
is a very indefinite thing. It is often appealed to
refpecfiing objedts which it has never contempla
ted. A sentiment prevailing among a few men,
should not be called a public sentiment.
FROM THE INDEPENDENT CHRONICLE.
MR. ADAMS,
HOW far the spirit of the citizens of New-
Hampfliire is changed since the adoption of
the Federal Conftitntion, I cannot pretend to fay
—but the aHertion of thePrefident of that State,
that their government " has ceased to be a free,
" sovereign, and independent State" isfoalarm
ing, that it ought to put the citizens of every
State in the Union, upon the nioft serious reflec
tion. If that State has surrendered its sovereign
ty and independence, it follows that every State
has done the fame ; and provided this is the cafe,
to what a deplorable situation have we reduced
ourselves, by the adoption of the Federal Cojillitu
tion.—No man, however, has before been hardy
enough to come forward with so flagrant an afler
t«L>n ; the most violent partizans have been cau
tious how far they ventured on this ground, know
ing that it was too early a period to broach such
treasonable sentiments. By this declaration the
alarm has gone forth, and it has now become the
duty of the Jeveral States, in their legiilative ca
pacities, to remonstrate againftfucha bold attack
gfi&yfotub
PUBLISHI-.D WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. g, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK;
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1790,
upon their freedom, sovereignty, and indepen
dence—and tho the State of New-Hamplhire
lhould fuffer their President to proceed in his ca
reer with impunity, yet it is not doubted, but
thole States which ltill mean to support their free
dom, sovereignty and independence, will bear
public testimony against the declaration, and ear
ly check the wicked designs of men, however ele
vated their station. BRUTUS.
THE OBSERVER.—No. XVII
The re-eflnilijhment of public credit, a measure of found policy.
TNmylaftnumberlconfidercdthe re-eftabli(hment of public
A credit, as a measure of justice to the national and state credi
tors. It may also be inquired, is it a measure of polic) ? An ad
vantage to the creditors is apparent; but will this advantage be
equal to the injury which mud happen to the people at large by
an attempt ? If the mealure will be mutually advantageous,all
ground for questioning is gone ; and having no alternative, we
mult proceed in the molt wife and economical manner to provide
funds : But if it will be deftruftive to the people, if justice and
policy are opposed, the question yet remains to be new traced,
and lolved on political grounds.
There is an old adage, " honesty is the best policy," to which
I have not known an exception. The wisdom wliich instituted
the connections, dependencies and wants of society, doth not
commonly, if ever, fuffer an opposition between the moral dutv
and worldly good, either of individuals or communities. But as
the question in consideration is tooconfequential to be riflted on a
maxim,more frequently spoken than felt, we must call up proba
ble confcquences to determine it.
t-i/" l ?- ra i' ure! - P°'' c y' we m(,n have varying opinions:
This chicfly arises from different degrees of information, and from
a limitation of the questions, on which a judgment is formed.
Those who espouse various opinions, before they become warm in
debate,ought mutually to communicate every information,and ex
amine the whole extent and all the consequences of the question
to be decided.
Is It good policy, or for the benefit of the people at large to
reflore Ametican credit? Two persons of the fame honesty,
may give a different answer to this question, from the different
limitations which they affix to it in their own minds. One con
siders its present operation, without regard to distant and national
conferences, his education and connexions in business do not en
able him to comprehend these, without very particular informa
tion ; he appeals to the present moment only, and thinks it is bet
ter for himfelf and for a majority of his neighbors, not to pay,
than it is to pay taxes; he knows not the purposes for which pub
lic credit are necelfary, nor the great benefits which will accrue
by its restoration, to agriculture, commerce, and manufa&ures ;
he fees no present danger from foreign enemies, and thinks not
best to IT (tore it. Another person is acquainted with these fub
jefh, and knows that by avoiding a present small evil, we rilk
the danger of a thousand which are greater, and perhaps also our
very national exiftenee.
Theconfequencesof a depreciated credit have been too recently
felt, to need a very particular description. War is a complica
tion of calamities to the best appointed nation : To one dellitute
of finance and credit, it in a 1 moil certain ruin. Your late war
began in a sacred enthusiasm, breathed forth from heaven on the
great body of the people, which supplied a thousand wants, and
gave a circulation to a paper without foundation. As this enthu
siasm abated the public distress began; and half the mifchicf we
endured, arose more from want of credit, than from the policy
or power of Great Britain. A nation who can pay only in pro
miles, which are but half believed, loses a power over its own
internal resources. »
Was it not a want of credit which often nearly disbanded vour
army ? Was it not this which obliged you to execute every measure
inthe most expenfivemanner ? When you had brought intothe field,
a military force, of one third of the appointed compliment
Was it not a want of credit which obliged you to creatc a more
numerous and more devouring host of purchasers, and retainers
on the public supplies, and even to convert your town officers into
gentlemen of the public departments ? Why was your army but
half filled, which caused a protra&ion of the war ? Not from a
want of brave and hardy men : but by a want of credit. Hence
arose the neceflity of those vexatious calls on the militia, at a season
of the year most ruinous to the farmer, and which was a greater
drawback on his interest, than all the taxes h-' was called to pay.
It is true these things are paired, and we hope never to fee ano
ther war ; the wish is pious and pacific,but wishing is not fighting,
and will never defend our country. The principles of ambition
and violence ft 111 exist in the world, and the nations have not yet
beat their fwordsinto ploughfharts ; little crossings of interest, may
be strangely aggravated into bloody contention. The way to pre
vent war is a constant preparation to repel ; so good a country as
this without credit and a system of defence, is a strong temptation
to the avarice and ambition of the world.
Should the United States by any unforefeen event be drawn in
to war, how, without an established credit are they to make de
fence ? The richcft nation in Europe cannot support war without
having recourse to credit, and much less can these States do it. Past
events will not be soon forgot ; and if your promises are not ful
filled in some reasonable way, where arc the men who will again
loan their property to the public ? Where is the farmer or manu
facturer who will fell you his provision or cloathing; or the soldier
who will risk his life for papeT, when they know it is the custom
of the people, after danger is past, to forget their engagements P
Had another war overtaken these States before the organization of
our present government, defence would have been impoflib!e :
with a treasury destitute of money and credit, .we could not have
enliftcd, cloathed and fed five thousand troops. Many private
citizens were more capable of levying fuccefsful war, than the
whole Union : a nest of pirates might have destroyed our whole
trade, and laid many of our sea ports under contribution, ar.d there
was no public capacity to repel them. Our present government
begins to be revered abroad ; but denv them the means of estab
lishing credit, and we fink back to ignominy, and a state of dan
ger.
Suffer me next, to recal your attention from the danger of a fo
reign war, without credit to support it ; to consider the evils
which may arise within ourselves from the famecaufe. A people
destitute of credit, are in imminent and constant danger of being
enslaved by such bold ufurpcrs as may wish to wrest from them
their properties. By a late infurrettion, New-England was attu
ally threatened, and I pray that the other States may notice the
warning. Tho MafTachufetts was the feat of insurgency, the fame
spirit wrought in the neighboring States, and all wife men confi
dercd it as a common evil. The insurgents had doubtless some
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
real grievances, which might have been rcdrelTcd by a proper r.p .
plication ; but instead of this they put thexnfelves under the gui
dance of mad, base. and weak leaders. While we pitied the
people, we were obliged to condemn thtir eaufe. The f-ious
consequences and ending off this affair are well known. Had that
infurre&ion been headed by a in an of ambition, intrigue, exren
iivc popularity and wealth, it would probably have overturned ths
government of New-England, and laid a ioundation for some
kind of dominion moll dangerous for our liberties.
Were it either prudent or neceiTdry, I could name you many
gieat characters in America, who, it virtue had not prevented,
might have regalized themselves and families, and formed a civil
constitution in violence, suited to their own interests, and to their
adherents in success. The very fame people who are jealous for
their privileges, in the hour of confederation, at a time of madness
and infurrettion will give them all away ; and in this very manner
many free nations have loft their liberty. Had such a thing been
attempted by one, or by a coalition ot a few great and popular
characters ; neither Congress, nor the State assemblies, who were
wholly destitute of credit, could have repelled them. It ought to
be a firft maxim of policy with a free republic, to preierve an un
unfpottcd faith* by which they may command their own resour
ces, either against foreign invasion or domestic infurre&ion, and
purchase foreign afliflance.
The terrors of a despotic Prince, and the influence of a nobility
devoted to his will, may with little credit, draw out the refourccs
of kingdom ; but I trust the American republic will never
have such terrors or nobility ; (he must depend on the virtue and
information of her citizens, and the purity of her national charac
ter. Patriotism is a lacred name ! And I believe there is more of
it in this, than any other country, and the way to preserve it is to
uphold national credit. Patriotism doth not consist in a few men
giving their all for public purposes in the hour of danger, and
without an expe&ation of being reimbursed ; if it did, wait to the
time of trial, and an experiment will prove that we have few pa
triots. To be willing to contribute a just proportion, and pay an
equal share in the public expences—to be honest, and aflift our go~
vernment in honest, is to be a Patriot.
A fixed credit is the only means for economy in national ex
pences, which is another reason for its re-eftabli foment.
Certain expences, and to a large amount, are unavoidable in
every nation ; and these will be doubled on the people, as thev
are obliged to make payment, by a lax and depreciated credit. I
have inculcated in my former numbers, that high nominal taxa
tion imposed on the principles of depreciation, is eventually paid
by a great part of the people nearly equal to silver and gold. A
fu(picious credit always operates agaiuft the people ; all bargain
ing for the public is on disadvantageous terms; the man who deals
with them considers a risk, and a£ts from the fame motive as he
makes hazard in a lottery ; a derangement runs thro all public
officers ; it prevents responsibility and punctuality in all national
concerns; and when an honest man has the care of the peoples'
interests, he expe&s to manage them with loss ; and an idea is
gradually fprcad in the minds of men, that there is no evil in rob
bing the public.
Foreign nations, and merchants are eagle-eyed to difeern the
debilitated power of the country, and are not afraid to offend its
majesty by abusing its fubje&s—commerce languishes, produce is
low, and the farmer eventually pays the bill of national loss.
If the national debt be negletted, still there mail be provision
made for certain expenccs ; an enfeebled credit will greatly in
crease these, and I believe to as great a sum, as would be neceflarv
to fund the debt honorably, and support all other expences on the
principle's of a punctual regard to public faith.
A man who is flack, and has obtained a reputation of being
worse than his promise, lives poor at great expence ; it is the
fame with a nation, only in a greater degree. The falfe man may
be compelled by law, but the flack nation cannot ; these things are
considered by those who deal with them, and they are treated in
charafler.
Tho my paper be already too long, there is one among many
other confidcrations, which I cannot omit mention ng
A violation of national promises, or tardiness in fulfilling them,
hath a definitive influence on the morality of the people.
When the legislature of a nation sport with their engagements,
every lesser corporation catches the fame spirit and pra&ice. The
pi ivate citizen argues in fclf-juftification, if our lawgivers violate
the promises of a nation ; if the greatest and most informed men
will defraud for the public, because they have power ; I may do
the fame with impunity when an occasion presents. A depreci
ated public credit in its various operations, for a series of years,
hath done more to difleminate these dangerous sentiments, than
all the institutions of science and religion have done to retard
them.
Let government beware of that corruption in principle and man
ners, which by increasing, will prove its ruin.
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL.
AGRICULTURAL.
THE government of the United States,mayjuft
ly be denominated the " Landholder's Govern
ment" as at its head prefidesone of the most dis
tinguished Landholders and Cultivators in the
United States—who knows the advantages result
ing from the promotion and encouragement of
Agriculture—and who is well aware of the bur
dens under which it hath lain, from the absurd
and erroneous systems of taxation adopted in the
several States. The Farmers, therefore, are fatis
fied, that they shall yet fee good days > and while
the Farmer of Mount-Vtrnon, and the many re
fpetfable Hulbandmen now in the Legislature of
the Union, are their rulers, that the dry taxes,
under which they have laboured so long, will
fliortly be no more—but that every encourage
ment wisdom can fuggelt, will be given to those,
who by cultivating the earth, add moll eflentially
to the benefit and prosperity of our Republic.
, Under this, then, theirjgovernment,fecurity shall
reside under their Tines—and feeling the benefit
of a liberal system of laws, learning, science, and
the arts that adorn life, shall rife up spontaneous
in regions as yet untrod by the traveller,
by the poet —and unmeasured by the chain of the
geometrician.—The reign of religion unfettered
by superstition, and uncontroled by arbitrary es
tablishments, shall meliorate our condition as men.MEMORIAL of the Hon. ROBERT MORRIS, to
the Legislature of the United States..
SIR,
J TAKE the liberty to trouble you with the enclosed memorial,
and must pray you to lay it before the House of Representatives.
The requtil which is therein made, will be found lo consonant
with justice, that I cannot doubt of its being granted. Permit me
through you, Sir, to make another, which is, that the said memo
rial may be entered at large on the Journals of the House.
I have the honor to be,
with great refpeft and esteem,
Sir, your obedient humble servant,
ROBERT MORRIS.
New-York, Feb. 8, 1790.
To the Honorable the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the
United States.
To The President, the Senate, and Houss of Represen
tat 1 v es, of the United States of America.
The MEMORIAL of ROBERT MORRIS, late fuperintendant oj
the Finances of the said United States
HUMBLY SHEWETH,
THAT on the twentieth day of June, onethoufand (even hun
dred and eighty five, and subsequent to your memorialist's resig
nation of his office of fuperintendant, the Congress paired a relo
lution in the words following : " Rcfolved, That three commifli
oners be appointed to enquire into the receipts and expenditures of
public monies, during the administration of the late Superinten
dant of Finance, and to examine and adjust the accounts of the
United States with that department, during his administration,
and to report a state thereof to Congress which resolution, to
persons unacquainted with the nature of the office, and the mode
of conduttins the business of the department, gave occasion to the
supposition, that your memorialist had accounts both difficult and
important to fettle with the United States, in refpeft to his official
tranfa&ions. That though your memorialist forefaw the difagrce
able consequences which might result to himfelf from the diftu
fion o such an opinion, he not withstanding, not only forbore anv
representation on the lubjett, but scrupulously avoided every spe
cies of interference dirett or indiVett, left it should be imagined,
either thnt he was attuated by the desire of. obtaining from Con
gress those marks of approbation, which had in repeated instances
been bestowed on the servants oi the public, or that he feared to
meet the proposed investigation. Refpe&for the sovereign of the
United States, concurring with motives of delicacy, to forbid even
the appearance of asking, what if merited, it was to be presumed
would beconfered, (as being the proper reward of services, not of
folicitation)and a firm confidence in the re&itudc of his condutt,
leaving your inemorialift no inducement to evade any enquiry in
to it, which it might be thought fit to institute
That your memorialist taking it for granted, that the reasons
which had produced a determination to establish a mode of en
quiry into the tranfa£lions of the most important office under the
government would have ensured a profecutou of the object till it
had been carried into effect, long remained in silent expe&ation
of the appointment of commiflioners, according to the resolution
which had been entered into for that purpose. But it has so hap
pened, from what cause ) our memorialist will not undertake to
explain,that no further steps have ever been taken in relation to it :
And your memorialist has remained exposed to the surmises,
which the appearance of an intention to enquire into his conduct
had a tendency to excise, without having been afforded an oppor
tunity of obviating them. That the unsettled condition of certain
accounts of a commerical nature between the Unitel States, and
the late house of Willing, Morris and company, and your me
morialist prior tohis appointment as Superintendant of the finan
ces, having been confounded with his tranfattions in thru capaci
ty, your memorialist has in various ways been fubje&ed to
injurious imputations on his official conduct, the only fruits of
Cervices, which at the time they were rendered, he trusts* he may
without incuring the charge of picfumption, affirm, were general
ly eftcemrd both important and meritorious* and wereatleaft ren
dered with ardor and zeal, with unremitted attention, and unwea
ried application.
That your mcmorialift defirousof rescuing his reputation from
the afpcrfions thrown upon it, came in the month of O&ober,
1788, to the city of New-York, as well for ihe purpose of urgirlg
the appointment of commiflioners to infpeft his official transac
tions, as for that of procuring an adjustment of the accounts which
existed previous to his administration. But the firft objrft was
fruftrated by the want of a fuflficient number of members to make
a Congress, and the last was unavoidably delayed by the pre
liminary Hivefligations requisite on the part of the commiflioner
named by the late h«ard of treasury, towards a conjpet-ent know
ledge of the business. That in the month ot February, 1789,
your mcmorialift returned to New-York, for the fame purposes,
but the obstacles which he had before experienced, still operated
to put it out of his power to prcfent the memorial whichhad been
prepared by him in October, praying for an appointment of com
miflioners. That he was therefore obliged to confine himfelf to
measures for the fcttlement of his accounts refpe&ingthe transac
tions antecedent to his appointment as Superintendant, which he
entered upon accoidingly with the commiirioner appointed by the
board of treasury : and in which, as much progress as time and
eircumftances would permit was made until the fourth of March
last, when that commiflioner, conceiving his authority, by the or
ganization of the new government to have ceafcd, declined fur
ther proceedings, and of course, your memorialist was obliged to
wait the establishment of the new treasury department for the fur
ther prosecution of that fealerrient, which has been accordingly
refumcd, tind he hopes will speedily be accomplished. But in as
much, as no mode of enquiry into his official conduct has hitherto
been put into operation, and as doubts of its propriety have been
raised by'nn a£t of the government, your memorialist conceives
himfelf to have a claim upon the public justice, for some method of
vindicating himfelf which will be unequivocal and definitive.
Wherefore, and encouraged by a consciousness of the integrity of
his administration, youi memorialist is desirous that a ftrift ex
amination should be had into his condu£l while in office, in order
that if he has been guiltv of mal-adminiftration, it may be dc
tc&ed and puniftied ; if otherwise, that his innocence may be man
ifefted and acknowledged. Unwilling from this motive, that
longer delav (hould attend the object of the resolution which has
been recited, your memorialist humbly prays that an appoint
ment of cornm iflioners may take place, to carry the said refofution
intoeffett. And your memorialist as in duty bound, will pray,
ROBERT MORRIS.
New-York, Feb. 8 1790.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
At the second Seflion, begun and held at the City of New-York,
on Monday the fourth day of January, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety.
An ACT for giving effect to the fcvcral a£ls therein mentioned,
in refpeft to the State of North-Carolina, and other purposes.'
BE it enaffed by the Senate and Htm ft of Representatives of the Uni
ted States of America, in Congrefi alfemblcd, that the Jeveral and
refpeflive duties fpecifed and laid, in and by the aB, entitled, « An ast
for las ing a duty on goods, waies amd merchandizes imported into the
United Statesand in and by the a/1, entitled, " An all impojing duties
on tonnage," [halt be paid and collefled upon all goods, ivares and mer
chandizes,which after the erpirationof. thirty days from t't paging of this
all, Pall be imported it, to. the of North Carolina, from any foreign
port or place, and upon the tonnage of allfkips and vejfeh, which, afur
the fa d di\, flail he entered within thef.iidflaUpf North Carolina, fub
ecl to tin exceptions, qualijicaticits ', allowances, and abatements in the
fuid atls contained or exprejfed; which aSs jka.ll be deemed to nave the
like force an/i operation within the said Jlate of North Carolina, as else
where within the United States, _
And be it further cnailtd, That for the due collection ofthe J. nd duties
there Jhall be in thefridfiate if Aorth Carolina, jive dijtruts—one to be
galled the diJlriQ of Wilmington, andto comprehend all the waters,Jhores,
"bays, harborc, creeks and inlets, from Little River inlet, inchjive, to New
River inlet mclufive. Another to be called the dijlriS of Newbern, and
to comprehend ail the waters fhorcs, bays, harbors, creeks and inlets,from
New River inlet, exclufwe, toOccacock inlet, mclufive, together with Pam
ticoe Sbund (except that part of it into which the Pamtuoe or Tarr and
Machapunga Rivers empty thenijclves, and which lies between the Royal
Shea! extended to Machapunga blujf, and the shoal which projeffs jrom the
mouth of Pamticoe river towards the Royal Shoal.) Another to be called
the dt/iriß of Washington, and to comprehend .ill that part oj Pamticoe
Sound excepted, out of the dijlrid of Newbern, and the waters, shores,
bays, harbors, creeks and inlets adjacent to, and communicating with the
fame. Another to be called the dijlritl oj Edenton, and to comprehend
all the waters, bays, harbors, creeks ai d inlets, from the channel between
Pamticoe Sound and Albemarle Sound incltfive. The other to be called
the dijlriß of Cambden, and to comprehend North River, Pafquotank,
ipd Little River, and all the waters, shores, bays, harbors, creeks and
inlets, from the junction of Currituck and Albemarle Sounds,to the north
ern extremity of Back Bay. That in the diflriß of Wilmington, the
town of Wilmington /hall be a port oj entry and delivery, and Swanjbo
rourh a port of delivery only; and there shall be a collector, naval officer
anafurveyor,to reside at the fiidtown of Wilmington, and a surveyor to
reside at Swar.fborovgb. That in the diflricl of Newbern, the town of
Newbern shall be a port of entry and delivery, and the town of Beaufort a
port of delivers' only ; and therefhall be a collector to reside at Newbern,
and afurveyor to reside at Beaufort. That in the diflricl of Washington
the town of Washington shall be the sole port of entry and delivery, and
there shall beacolleßor to reside at thefame. That in the diflriß of Eden
ton, the town of Edenton shall be a port of entry and delivery, and Hert
ford, Murphcfborough, Plymouth, Windsor, Skewarkey, Wintonand Ben
net's (reek, ports of delivery ; and there shall be a collector at the town
of Edenton, and a surveyor at Hertford, another Surveyor at Murpheyf
borouoh, one surveyor at each of the ports of Plymouth, Windsor, Skewar
key, Winton, and Bennet's Creek. That all ships or vessels intending to
proceed to Hertford, Plymouth, Windsor, Skewarkey, Winton, Bennet's
Creek, or Murphey/borough, fhallfirfl come to, and enter at the port of
Edenton. That in the dijlriß of Cambden, Plankbridve on Sawyer's
Creek, shall be the port of entry and delivery, and Nixonton, Indiantown,
Newbiggin Creek, Currituck inlet, and Pafquotank River-Bridge, ports
oj delivery ; and there shall be a collector at Plankbridge, on Sawyer's
Creek, and a surveyor at each of the ports of Nixonton, Indiantown, Cur
rituck inlet, Pafquotank River-Bridge, ana Newbiggin creek. And that
the authority of the ojficcrs of each dijlriß shall extend over all the wa
ters, shores, bays, harbors, creeks and inlets comprehended within such
diflriß.
And be it further enacted, That the ports of Wilmington, ATew
bern, Washington, and Eden ton, fiall be the sole ports of entry within
the said State of North-Carolina, for ships or vejfels not regijiered or
licenced within the United States, according to law, and for all /hips or
vejfels whatsoever, which shall arrive from the Cape of Good Hope, or
any place beyond the fame.
And be it further enabled, That all the regulations, provisions, ex
ceptions, allowances, compensations, directions, authorities, penalties,for
feitures, and other matters whatsoever, contained or exprejjed in the act,
entitled, " An ad to regulate the collection of the duties rnpofed by law
on the tonnage of ships or vejfels, and on goods wares, and merchan
dizes, importedintothe UniteaStates," and not locally inapplicable, shall
have the like force and effect within, the said St Ate of North-iarohna,
for the collection of the said duties, as elsewhere within the United States,
and at if the fame were repeated, and re-enacted in this present act.
Provided always, and be it declared, That the thirty-ninth section of
the f*idact, and the third section of an act, entitled, " An act to suspend
part of an act, entitled, " An act to regulate tfie collection of the duties
impojed by law on the tonnage of ships or veJJcls, and on goods, wares
and merchandizes imported into the United States, and for other pur
pofi," did, by virtue of (he adoption of the conflitution of the United
States, by the said State of North-Carolina, ceafc to operate in lefpect
to the fame.
And be it further enacted and declared, That the act, entitled, "An
act for regijlering and clearing vejfels, regulating the coajling trade,
and for other purposes, ,} shall, afttr the'expiration of thirty days fiom
the pafjing of this act, hate the like force and operation within the said
State of North-Carolina, at elsewhere zvithin the United States, and as if
thefeveral clauses thereof were repeated, and re-enacted in this present
act. J
And he it further enacted, That the second section of the act, entitled,
" An act to ftfpevd part of an act, entitled an act to regulate the col
lection of duties imj'ofcd by law, on the tonnage ofJhips or vejfe/s, and on
goods, wares, and merchandizes, imported into the United States, and
for other purposes," pafed the sixteenth day of September lafl, shall,
with respect to the inhabitants and citizens of the flute of Rhode-ljland
and Providence plantations, be revived, and. afo, that the fourth section
of thefaid act shall be revived, and both continue in force until the frfl
day of April next, and vo longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States
and Prefidcnt of the Senate
Approved, February the Bth, 1700
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefidcnt of the United States
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 10.
ON motion,the memorial of Robert Morris was
read the second time.
The request which accompanied the memorial
that it may be entered at large on the Journals of
the House being alforead
Mr. Scot moved that it should be entered ac
cordingly, whioh pafled in the affirmative.
It was then voted that this memorial should be
referred to a fele<fl'committee, and Mr. Madison
M. Sedgwick and Mr. Sherman were appointed'.
In committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury— Mr. Scot's amend
ment under consideration.
Mr. Scot observed that the object contained in
the above amendment is of so important a nature
that two or three days more spent upon it will
be time well employed.— It involves the whole
doi r trineof discrimination and liquidation— those
great points once established, the way will be o
pened to proceed in the discussion of the princi
ple of the report.-—That reper:, provided the
principles of it are jufl and equitable, is a mas
terly performance, and does great honor to the
framer of it.—lt has been fan! that the domestic
debt of the United States must be considered in
the light of a fair and jull contract which cannot
be violated.—l never considered it in this view-
Let us revert back to the time when the public
lecuiiiies, so called, were received by those, who
350
had through blood and llaugliter eftablilhed the
liberties of the country.—Did they consider them
as a contract to be made good agreeable to the
terms exprefl'ed in the bills they received ? No
Sir—they did not—how did they eftiniate their
value? Why, Sir, taking into confederation the
circumstances of their country at the moment
they had compleated and eftablilhed its independ
ence—in addition to all their other laci ifices they
added this, they were contented to receive 2/6
in lieu of lof. He then -enlarged on jhe injus
tice that would accrue from funding the whole
debt agreeable to the face of the fee unties—and
of taxing those who had made lb great and noble
a facrifice, to make good the securities to their
present pofleflors—and observed that Uriel, yn
partial justice required that the securities fhoultl
be reduced to their real value, and a
tion of the whole made before funds are prcvi.
ded to pay the interel};. —When this confollda
tion iseffe<Sed, the interest ought to be pun&u.
ally paid at fix per cent.—From some valuations
which he had made, it appeared that some millions
of the debt were unliquidated. He controvert
ed the dodrine that the present poileftor of pnb
lie securities Hood in the place of the original
holder.
With refpedl to those characters of whom lie
spoken so highly, it had been said thai many of
them held sentiments different from those he was
now advocating—to which he obferved,thatfome
who were once soldiers, had loft all title to the
honorable appellation by commencing lpecula
tors.—Thefe, like a woman in marriage, having
changed their name, by wedding speculation, no
longer speak the language of soldiers but of /pe
culators.
Mr. Hartley said he was opposed to the amend
ment, not only on account of the mode of ex
prellion used in it—but also on account of the
very reasons urged by the gentleman in support
of it.— lam one of those said he, to whom the
gentleman alludes, having been in the army ;
though 1 never speculated in public securities—
but beg leave to differ from him with refpedt to
a difcriinination, or postponing the present bu
siness.—He then referred to the resolution of the
last session when they resolved that provision
ought to be made to support the public credit
the idea of a discrimination I believe never en
tered into the contemplation of any person lie
represented the injustice, difficulty, and expence
of the measure of a re-liquidation—the principle
on which the public securities were originally
iflued and received, he infilled were totally dif
ferent from the idea held up by the gentleman,
andtheaflertion that they were received by the
soldier on the idea of their being worth only 2/6
in the pound has 110 foundation whatever—
he shewed the capacity of the country to pay its
debts ; being in pofleflion of great resources
which have not been glanced at by the Secretary,
in his report —this circumstance of our ability,
greatly enhances the obligation to dojuftice.—
He defended the principle of a funding system
—as wife and politic in itfelf, and being faniftion
ed by the experience of the molt flourifhing
countries in the world—Great-Britain, by virtue
of her funds, and paper credit, has extended her
commerce and manufactures—and raised her cha*
racSler to the most refpeftable rank, in the scale
of nations—He then instanced in the history 'of
Frederick the 2d King of Prussia to shew the ef
fects of a contrary fyftein—that monarch accum
ulated in his coffers specie to the amount of joo
millions crowns—while his whole people were
poor and wretched—he added a few. other ob
servations—and concluded by faying, that' tbo
he wasforry to differ from his colleague for whose
judgment he had a high efteein, yet he muftvote
against the amendment
Mr. Sedgwick entered into a general considera
tion of the subject of providing for the eftablilh
nient of public credit—he laid he believed that
government had a right to interfere in certain ca
ses with contracts public and private, and inflan
ced the condudt of Congress on former occasions
with re(pe<si to paper money, and the confoliila
tion of demands against the public—the great
point to be fettled in the present business is our
capacity to fulfil the exilting engagements of the
country to its creditors—He should be in favor
°f fulfilling those engagements as far as our a
bilities extended—on this question there may be
various opinions—he should think himfelf bound
to acquiesce in the decision that shall be made
after a due invelligation of our refonrces ; but
was clearly of opinion that any further procras
tination of the business would encreafe the dif
ficulty of a final determination—the pernicious
confequencesof speculation will be encreafed—
for tho that business is neceflarjly connerted
with a transferable debt—and derives its value
from it in a great degree, and the public credit
is thereby promoted ; yet when persons are
seduced from the more ufeful occupations of
life, and commence gamblers in the public funds,
he thought the policy of any system that would
promote iuch ("peculation ought to be reprobated
he concluded by faying that very dangerous
consequences to the government were to be ap
prehended from delays in funding the public debt.Mr. Boudinot*'followed Mr. Hartley in repro
bating the objedt of theprefent amendment—He
said that if he could conceive with the hon. gen
tleman from Pennsylvania, that the public securi
ties had been received by the creditors of the U
nited States as being worth no more than 2/6 in
the pound, he should molt corclially acquiesce in
the inference he deduced from such a polition—
he ihould be for coniidering thein in the fame
light as he did the bills of credit, or old continen
tal money; as tliecircunillanceof its being'under-
stood that they were worth no more at the time,
would render it just and equitable to determine
their value accordingly—but a recurrence to the
resolutions of Congress under which the eviden
ces of the debt now under consideration were if
sued, will fulficitntly explode such a fuppofnion.
No idea of payment's being made, by those securi
ties, was ever entertained—they were in fac't, and
were so considered, evidences of the liquidated
and fpeeific sums due to the creditors of the Uni
ted States, hence it is inconteftibly evident, that
the securities were not considered as payment,any
more than the settlement of any private account
can be considered as a discharge of such account.
The firft evidences of the debt were not transfer
able, and had not Congress afterwards made those
certificates or evidences of the debt transferable,
they in lilt have remained in the hands of original
holders ; but for the particular accommodation
and advantage of the original holders, Congress
afterwards made them transferable—and thisftep
so far from benefiting the i reditois, would have
proved a real injury to them, if the assignee could
have been fuppofeu to itand in a less eligible si
tuation than the afllgnor. Upon every principle
of afiignation of debts and contracts, such an idea
ought to be reprobated. He adduced several in
ltances of the disadvantageous circuinftances un
der which the creditors ot the United States had
been paid—from which it appeared that manifeft
injustice would be done to many persons in the
payments they had received, fliould the full a
mount of their securities be paid them infpecie—
from all which, and many other considerations
which he added, he inferred, that no idea exill
ed in the mind of any person, either soldier or
citizen, that the securities were considered or re
ceived as a full discharge of the demands against
the public. Mr. Boiidinot founded many of his
observations on resolves of the late Congress which
he read, on his own knowledge of the particular
circumstances under which the public paper of the
United States had been ilfued, as he was in Con
gress at the periods referred to.
Mr. Scot observed, in answer to Mr. Boudinot,
that other resolutions ofthe late Congress might
be adduced which held a different language—and
the conduct of government in regard to the pa
per money at different periods, plainly proved
that it was considered as jnit and proper for them
to interfere and determine the value of those evi
dences of debt. Mr. Scot then referred to the
observation ofMr. Sedgwick, in which he had laid
that the molt alarming consequences w»re to be
apprehended from not coming to a decision upon
this important business the present felTion. He
wished that gentleman would point out the evils
•which were to be apprehended—for his own part
he did not suppose that the holders of public secu
rities would cut the throats of Congress, for a
neceflary delay in funding the debt.
?-Ir. Sedgwick replied to the enquiry,and point
ed out a great variety of confidera'tions which
mnft appear weighty and important if juflly con
sidered by the committte. A great and refpefta
ble body of our citizens are creditors of the Uni
on—their expectations are on ihe decisions ofthe
present session of Congress.
"1 here are various opinions prevailing refpeCi
ing the debt in regard to discrimination, inter
est, and funding—On these points there appears
to be a great diversity of opinion—Heats and ani
mosities will grow out of this opposition of sen
timent, and a spirit of party will probably termi
nate in forming factions among the people, that
may be pittedagainft each other,and may destroy
the public tranquility and blast the hopes and
prospeCts of the people under the government
now so happily established.—These are among
the many consequences to be apprehended—but
the reputation, the credit of the States, are at
stake.—The circuinftances that affeifl these are
often in themselves of small importance—at the
present moment the public expectation is alive to
the measures of government —it lays with the
legislature to realize this expectation,fo far as jus
tice, equity and the abilities of our country de
mand. If Congress pursue the present enquiry
and come to a determination, the general senti
ment w ill be brought to a point and a probable
acquiescence in \vhat is done—and all the evils
of faClion, disunion and disappointed expectations
prevented.
Mr. Stone was opposed to a postponement of
the business, as it involves a relinquiftiment of a]]
confederation of the fubjeft the present fefiion.
Mr. Stone reprobated al\ funding systems, as
productive ot mifchief and poverty —factitious
credit was but a li'ode of acquiring the means of
fliedcling the blood and cutting the throats of our
neighbors.—The credit of this country, he said,
does not depend on any paper schemes of credit.
It cannot be established suddenly, in a day, or a
year.—lt depends on the evidence we giveo'f an
honesty of principle. He observed that the situ
ation of the United States is fodiiFerent from those
of the countries who are proposed as models of
imitation in our financial arrangements, that
such fy Items are no ways applicable".
Mr. Smith (S. C.) made a few remarks on Mr.
Scot's amendment—And in a ihort reply to some
of Mr. Jackson's observations, quoted Blackftone
against Hlackftone.
Mr. Gerry afcer touching upon Mr, Scot's a
mendment turned his attention to an observation
which was made by Mr. Jackson, viz. that America
owed her independence principally to her joreign loans.
Mr. Gerry in contraftingthe foreign and domes
tic debts, exhibited in a striking point of light,
the injustice of this observation—and from accu
rate details from the public accounts, shewed
that the domestic debt is in fadl as sixteen to one
compared to the foreign debt: He reprobated
the suggestion that the citizens of the United
States were principally indebted to foreigners
lor their liberties—the reverse appeared to be
evidently the cafe, from their immense exertions
and annual expences during the war, which he
stated at five millions sterling.—So that the debt
of the United States bears no proportion to the
acftual expences and Sacrifices of the citizens for
theacquifition of their independence— A question
here arises, what has become of the reiidue of
the debt ? To this it may be answered, that the
great mass of the difference has been funk by de
preciation on the paper money, which can be
confulered in no other light than a tax upon the
people—and which has operated perhaps as e
qually as any that might have been affefled. Mr.
Gerrv contrasted the foreign and domestic debts
in various points of view—by which it appeared
that if any discrimination should be made be
tween them, it ought to be in favor of the latter.
He then adverted to the circumstances under
which the domestic debts were contrasted, and
from tliefe, deduced the injustice and ill policy
of a re-liquidation—he reprobated giving the
preference to our foreign creditors in the provi
sion to be made for payment of the interest.
He replied to the several objedtions against
funding the debt and procrastinating the buiineSs,
and by several familiar instances in common life,
enforced the absolute neceflity of the measure, as
the only possible expedient of doingjuftice which
presented.
He added many other observations upon the
fubjeOt—and concluded with this striking obser
vation, that if the United States while they
make provision for their foreign creditors Ihould
at the fame time abandon their domestic—it will
give occasion to fay, that the ultima rex regurn,
and not a principle of honor and justice, was the
influencing cause.
Mr. Tucker observed, that he was in favor of
a (lifcrimination among the creditors of the Uni
ted States—he did not however entirely agree
in the motion now before the committee—He
then divided the public creditors into three clafles
—the holders of old continental billsof credit or
paper money—the original holders of liquidated
(ecurities—and those who held the latter by pur
chase—the old paper money he said (liould be con
solidated at forty for one, principal—with inter
est at fix percent.—for these, and thefecond class
of creditors provision ought to be made without
delay to pay them their interest at fix per cent.
—with refpetfl to the third class, they are en
titled by the engagements of the country to an
interest of fix per cent.—this he said they ought
to receive when the country fliall be in circunj
ftances to pay— he therefore proposed that this
class should be referred to a future period for
payment —he thought that the second resolution
in the report would in some measure preclude a
discussion of the subsequent ones—he therefore
proposed an amendment by adding these words,
" as ftiall appear confifterit with equity and the
improving resources of the country."
The question being taken on Mr. Scots' motion,
it palled in the negative by a great majority.
Mr. Burke then moved the following amend
ment " provided a discrimination be made be
tween the original holders and their allignees,
and that a scale 6f depreciation be prepared ac
cordingly,"—This being seconded, was laid on
the table. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY u
A memorial from the annual meeting ofFriends
at Philadelphia, refpefting the Slave Trade, and
praying the interposition of Congress for the mi
tigation of the evils, and final abolition of that
pernicious traffic, was presented by Mr. Fitzfi
mons. Another memorial on the fame fubjedt,
from the meeting of Friends in New-York, was
presented by Mr. Lawrance. These were both
read, and on motion that they fliould be read a
fecondtime, in order to their being committed—
a warm debate ensued, which ended this day in
withdrawing the motion for a second reading.—
The order of the day was then taken up, and the
Honfe went into a committee of the whole on the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury.
-351-
Mr. Burke's amendment to the second reSolu
tion, which was laid on the table yesterday was
read, viz. Provided nevertheless that a discrimi
nation ought to be made between the original
holders of publicfecurities and aftignees, and that
a icale of depreciation be prepared accordingly"
After a few observations on this propofitioif.by
' • Smith, S. C. it was withdrawn by Mr. Burke.
A message was received from tlie Senate by
their Secretary, informing the House, that they
have palled arefolve .'empowering the Prelident of
the Uni ted States to appoint three commilfioners
to enquire into the receipts and expenditures of
public monies by, and to examine and admit the
accounts of, the late Superintendant of Finance
and requesting the concurrence of the House in
laid reiolve.
Mr. Burke s amendment being withdrawn, Mr.
Madison entered into a lengthy difculfion of the
iubjett of the public debt—towards the close of
his speech he proposed that a discrimination should
be made between the original holders of public
Securities, and those who hold them by purchase.
His plan is that the firft Ihould be paid the full
Sum promised, with interest at 6 pr. cent. The
aftignees or purchasers, to be paid the a
verage sum they have been fold at, and to thoSes
who have alienated them, the residue, and both
to receive interest at 6 pr. cent. Government not
to avail itfelf of the leall advantage in the tran
saction.
Mr. Livermore moved that the resolution should
be amended by infertiug after the word inter eft,
at a certain rate ' —this motion was negatived.
Mr. Madison propoSed an amendment to the
resolution, agreeable to the principles of his
speech. Thispropofition remains to be discussed.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12.
A memorial from the PennSylvaniaSociety, for
the abolition of slavery, signed by Benja. Frank
lin, President, was read.
Mr. Hartley moved that the memorials present
ed yesterday should be read the second time,which
was agreed to by a large majority. He then mo
ved that they should be referred to a feled: com
mittee—which motion brought on a debate which
lasted till near three o'clock.
The question being called for, Mr. Smith, S. C.
moved that it be determined by Ayes and Noes,
a fufficient number of members appearing in fa
vor of this motion, it was thus determined.
AYES—Meflrs Ames, Benfon, Boudinot,Brown,
Cadwallader, Clymer, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster,
Gale, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout,
Hartley, Hathorne, Heifter, Huntington, Law
rance, Lee, Leonard, Livermore, Madifon,Moore,
P. Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Partridge, Ranfel
laer, Schureman, Scot, Sedgwick, Seney, Sher
man, Sinnickfon, Smith M. Sturgis, Thatcher,
Trumbull, Wadfworth, White, Wynkoop. 43.
NOES—MelTrs Baldwin, Bland, Burke, Coles,
Huger, Jackson, Matthews, Sylvefter,Smith, S.C.
Stone, Tucker. 11.
The memorials were referred to a committee
offeven members.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, the petition of
George Bowne, of the society for the abolition
of slavery in this city, on the fame fubjed:, was
read, and referred to the fame commitee.
The House then adjourned till Monday.
We have prepared a (ketch of the Deba'es of Thursday
and yesterday, which want of room obliges us to defer til] Wed
nesday.
NEW-YORK, FEBRUARY 13.
Extrad of a letter, dated Paris, Nov. the 3d. 1789.
[The Editor, fearing it would not be in his power to introduce
into the translation the peculiar eleganceof the extract, flatters him
felf the perusal of it in the original language will not be unaccept
able to a considerable number of his read ers.]
■' Votre hiros devenu le notre, eft comme vous le spaves a la
'' 1• rr •'* cctte ca P'talle, ainsy queries troupes que la
neceilite a oblige le gouvernement d'y faire venir j vous fcaves fans
doute tout ce qui c'eft pafle icy depuis la premiere epoque, lorsque
deux centsmille hommesayant resolu d'acquerir leurliberie, pro
nonperent sonnom par acclamation & le nommerent leur chef;
quelle dcftinee quelle gloire ! Efperons que le genereux deffen
ieur de la liberie, n'aura pas inutilement foutenu sa noble cause,
que fes talents etfes vertus si dignement rcconniies en Amerique)
vont repevoirune nouvelle recompense dans son propre pays;
il fe montre de plus en plusdignedespoftes eminents, ou fondefiin
M pe i' e ' le Geniral Washington, devenu supreme
Magiftrat des etats rouvellement reunis n'apprendra pas fans plaisir
que son fils adoptif, son elcve, son imule, marche dans la carriere
de la vraye gloire, en imitant les vertus ainfy que les fucces de
son illuftre & refpeftable maiftre.
" Lefilsdu Marquis que je vois fouvent George Washing
ton la Fayette continiic demeritertoute la tendreffe de son
Pere ; il eft sous Lieutenant dans notre milice ; ah jeune hoirnnc
quels noms vous portes ! quelle gloire ! mais quelle tasche davoir
de tels parents & de tels examples a fuivre ! &c. &c.
Extract as alette from Bojlon, Feb. 3.
You have obliged me by the copy of Mr. Hamilton's system of
finance—he has so well digested and explained his plan, that I
am of opinion the opposition to it mud be feeble, and cannot pre
vail fofaras to effect any material alterations—the creditors in
MafTachufetts will cheerfully accede to his propositions ; but will
universally revolt at a reduction of the interest below four pr. cent.
Tney are confident Mr. Hamilton's abilities are adequate to
carrying his ideas into effect, with advantage to the community ;
and in particular that they will serve to create a beneficial me
dium, very much wanted, to put in motion the industry of the
country —the constitution of this State was preserved in the late
rebellion, through the exertions of the public creditors—and thev
contributed molt eflentially to the eftablilhment of the general
government—in this view, it appears of the lafl importance to the
liberties of the people, which are inseparably connected with the
constitution, to consolidate and I'ecure 'he attachment of so influ
ential a part of the communis.Of the SECRETARY of the TREASURY to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Depar t me nt, Jan. 9, 179°-
[continuation.^
\ Hundred dollars advanced upon the life of a person of ele
-i JL ven years old, would produce an annuity
Dollars. Parti.
If commencing at twenty-one, of - 10 346
If commencing at thirty-one, of - i 8 803
It commencing at forty-one, of - "37
If commencing at fifty-one, of - - 78 580
The fame sum advanced upon the chance of the furvivoilhip of
the youngtft of two lives, one of the persons being twenty-five,
the other, thirty years old, would produce, if the youngest of the
two, should survive, an annuity for the remainder of lite of
23 dollars, 556 parts.
From these instances may readily bed.fcerncd, the advantages,
which these deterred annuities atford, for securing a comfortable
providon for the evening of life, or for wives, who survive their
hulbands.
The sixth plan also relinquishes the supposition, which is the
foundation of the second, and third, and offers a higher rate of
interest upon similar terms of redemption, for the coniideration of
the payment of one half of the loan in specie. This is a plan
highly advantageous to the creditors, who may be able to make
that payment; while the specie itfelf could be applied in pur
chases of the debt, upon terms, which would fully indemnify the
public tor the increased interest. 4
It is not improbable, that foreign holders of the domtflic debt,
may embrace this as a desirable arrangement.
As an auxiliary expedient, and by W3y of experiment, the Se
cretary would pro pole a loan upon the principles ot a tontine.
To consist of fix claffcs, composed refpe&ively of persons of the
following ages :
First class, of those of 2© years and under.
Second class, of those above 20, and not exceeding 30.
Third class, of those above 30, and not exceeding 40.
Fourth class, of those above 40, and not exceeding 50.
Fifth class, of those above 50, and not exceeding 60.
Sixth class, of ihofe above 60.
Each (hare to be two hundred dollars. The number of shares
in each class, to be indefin'te. Persons to be at liberty to fub
icribe on their own lives, or on those of others, nominated by
them. Dollars. Cents.
The annuity upon a (hare in the firft class to be
upon a (hare in the fctond
upon a ihar. in the third
upon a share in the fourth
upon a share in the fifth
a fha r '»e sixth
upon a (hare in ~c lilt - - 12. jO
The annuities of those who die, to be equally divided
survivors, until four-fifths shall be dead, when the principle of
furvivotlhip (hall cease, and each annuitant thenceforth enjoy his
dividend as a fcvcral annuity di» the life, upon which it shall
depend.
Thcfe annuities are calculated on the best life in each class, and
at a rate of intereil of four per cent, with fomc dedu&ions in fa
vor of the public. To the advantages which thcfe cncumftances
present, the celTation of the right of survivorship on the death of
iour-fifths of the annuitants, will be no inconsiderable addition.
The inducements to individuals are, a competent interefl for
their money from the outset, secured for life, and the profpeft of
continual encreafc, and even of large profit to those, whose fortune
it is, to survive their associates.
It will have appeared, that in all the proposed loans, the Se
cretary has contemplated the putting the intercft upon the fame
footing with the principal : 7hut on the debt ot the United States,
he would have computed to the last of the pre Cent year : That on
the debt of the particular States, to the last of the year 1791 ; the
reason for whicn diftinttion will be leen hereafter.
In order to keep up a due circulation of money, it will be ex
pedient, that the intercftof the dabt Ihould be paid quarter-year
ly. This regulation will, at the fame time, conduce to the advan
tage of the public creditors, giving them, in fatt, by the antici
pation of payment, a higher rate of intcreft; which may, with
propriety, be taken into the estimate of the compcnfation to be
made to them. Six per cent, per annum, paid in this mode, will
truly be worth fix dollars, and one hundred and thirty-five thou
sandth parts of a dollar, computing the market interell at the fame
rate.
FROM THE AMERICAN MERCURY.
THE APOLOGIZER.
HOW happy, fays one, would the times be, if
we could all fee alike in politics. When a
young man, I was of the fame opinion, and used
to lose all patience with other people when they
contradicted me ; since which experience has con
vinced me I was in an error ; and I every day find
benefit from the different opinions of men. In
stead of faulting, it is now my business to frame
an apology for every one who opposes the govern
ment, and having applied myfelf with great in
dustry to the business, and examined a great num
ber of anti-federalifts, I have always foundafuffi
cient reason, either in the particular ftru<sture of
their heads, or in the qualities of their hearts.
The result of my inquiries Ihall be occasionally
laid before the public, illustrated with examples.
The firft articles of my apology, arises from a
generallawin thewifdom of nature, that perfec
tion arises from contrariey, or the joint opera
tion of opposite principles. In this part of my
{peculation, I have been much assisted by the
weekly labors, of a very eminent clergyman.
Tlio I am not divine enough, nicely to describe
his argument, for it is very long and required
more than tendifcourfesforacompleatdicuffion ;
yet I well remember the words in which it result
ed," that Satan was a great bleifing to the church,
and that Judas Ifcariot was an eminent inftru
nient of good to mankind."
In the course of argument, he seemed to prove,
that without moral evil, it is notpoffible for men
to fee either the nature or the benefits of virtue ;
and he told ur-Viat tho every man is eternally
guilty for his vices, yet that a little vice in the
universe, will forever give a relish to the happiness
of good people, as a small bowl of sauce will sea
son a large dish of meat, for that was his compa
nion. Now that I could not find this kind ofrea
foningvcry conducive to my piety, yet it come in
REPORT
good time, to afiift me in my favorite design, aii
apology for anti-federalifm —for the advantages
of this opposite principle to good government ai c
not a few, and without them political fociery
could not arrive to a Hate of perfection. While
my reverend guide returns pubilc thanks foi the
life and adventures of Judas Ifcariot, I can molt
heartily join with him, only by changing the
name 111 my own mind, to foine great man, who
has influence enough to get an election, into the
very government he endeavours to destroy.
When we fee contrarieties admitted into every
part of nature, as fire and water, honesty and
falfehood, and find it uleful thus to be, it Ihould
reconcile us to fomc dilTentients among our ru
lers, and doubtless they are as great blessings to
the State, as Ifcariot was to the church. 1 hefe
gentlemen who continue their opposition, certain
ly are lights inour political horizon, for they fay
and do things which no other men would ; and
they also appear to have a principle of heat. Now
tho severe heat be disagreeable, there are some
benefits from it ; heat as our almanacks suppose,
at a certain season of the year, is encreafed by
the burning rays of the dog star ; but what can
did man ever thought of blaming that sultry star,
which adts in its appointed time and place .• In
like manner I coniider those whooppoic national
measures asthedogftars of government, moving
in their own proper orb. They were not made
for funs to rule the day, and by attempting it,
would make Lee-way in their course ; in the dark
they can sparkle, and why should we expedl more
from a simple star. True it is, that they some
times cause a political heat, which is rather dis
agreeable, but this like an animal fever, purges
from the body those gross humours contracted by
a carelels way of living. I desire that no person
would think difrefpe&fully of star light, while
for certain purposes it is better than the light of
the day. The whole tribe of (hadowy substan
ces such, as apparitions and fpecftresof the imagi
nation, disappear under the lumination of the fun,
but half mankind are witnefles that they may be
seen in the dark by the twinkling of the liars,
and it is by these discoveries of the night that we
are enabled to guard against their encroachments
on the human race. In the fame manner it is by
the twinkling of ftar-liglit politicians, that our
jealous people are enabled to fee fpedlres of op
preflion, as they grow in the firft principles of
government.
The laws of nature in generating and tranf
miting evil are yet but little known, and if we
had not some lefler lights, to rule in the political
night, and fee by darkness, the numerous ene
mies of the people's rights, in their Ihadowy and
pre-exiftent state, unexpected deftrucftion might
come on the public. I therefore must esteem this
nebulous twinkling as necefl'ary in politics, as
it is in the planetary system ; and very comforta
ble to all weak eyes.
8. 4°
8. 6 5
9- °
9- 6 .5
io. 70
CHARLESTON, Jan. 13.
Extratl of a letter jromPhiladelphia, Dec. 24, 1789.
" A reflecting mind will take pleasure in con
templating the different situations of men (with
refpeifl to freedom of opinion, without penalty)
in England and America. In England, no dis
senter from the established religion is excused
from paying a taxtothefupportof such eftablifli
ment. In America, the civil power leaves the
conscience perfectly free, and a man may adhere
to any fetft he pleases, or diflent from all, with
out danger of fubjedting himfelf to the vexatious
process of ecclesiastical courts and the censures of
episcopal tyrants. lam informed from the belt
authority, that the Quakers in England only
have paid, during this year towards the support
of the national church, liolefs than five thoul'and
one hundred pounds sterling, and in Ireland one
thousand two hundred and forty seven pounds.
Add to this that very little regard is paid to the
pacific principles of the Quakers, several of them
having been imprifonedlalt year at Braintree and
elsewhere, for not having provided substi
tutes in the county militia ; others have been
fhutupinjail by the ecclesiastical courts on ac
count of tythes, and (unless contributations are
made) 110 one knows when they will get out of
prison. In my opinion a forced maintenance of
the clergy is evidently contraditflory to, as well
as utterly inconsistent with, the mild spirit, be
nevolence and dignity of the gospel, which has
bellowed its bounty freely upon all. But time
(it is to be hoped) will eradicate tliefe prejudi
ces and abufesin England and Ireland, where at
present, (as Hudibras fays)
" Every village is a fee
As "well as Rome, and must maintain
A Ty the-pig metropolitan,
Mere haughty andfevere in'/place
Than Gregory or Boniface."
Thanks be to the goodness of Heaven which has
inclined the great body of the people of this coun
try, to put matters of a religious nature upon a
different footing.—The Quakers in this neigh
borhood, who in 1777 ; gave fueh a hearty welcome
352
DOMESTIC ARTICLES.
to Sir W. Howe, had not a proper sense of these
matters; or they would have adted in a very dif
ferent manner from what they did ; and not have
declined to Ibare with the reft of the Americans
the burthen of the common defence."
NEW-YORK, Feb. 13
Saturday, the 6th Instant, being the anniver
sary of the alliance between France and the
United-States, the fame was celebrated by the
CHARGE DES AFFAIRES OF HIS MOST CHRISTAIN
majesty. On this occasion there was an enter,
tainnient at his House, at which were present,
his Excellency che Vice-President of the United-
States—the honorable Senate—the speaker of che
House of Representatives, the chief Justice, and
the Head* of the great Departments of the Uni
ted-States —his Excellency the Governor, ahd the
Honorable the chancellor of the State of New-
York, —the Diplomatic Bodj, and Foreigners of
diftincftion.
After dinner the following toasts were intro
duced.
1. The Alliance.
2. The King, the National AfTembly, and tlie
People ofFrance.
3. The Preiident, the Congress, and the Peo
ple of the United States.
4. The King of Spain.
j. The United Netherlands.
6. The King of Sweden.
7. The Cincinnati and the Soldiers of both
Countries who have fought 111 fuppor of the Alli
ance and of Independence.
8. Mr. Jefferfon and the preceding Plenipo
tentiaries of the United States in France.
9. The Count de Moullier and the preceding
Plenipotentiaries of France in the United States.
10. The Marquis de la Fayette, and all those
who cherish the connection of the two countries.
ir. May the encreafe of onr commercial inter
course daily confirm the alliance.
12. May the advantages of a free, consolida
ted and efficient government be felt in both
countries.
13. Perpetuity to the Alliance. Let us be ri
vals in Wisdom only and in National Honor!
WAR-OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the in
valid Pensioners of the United States, residing
within the States refpe&ively, that one moiety of
their aunual pension, commencing on the fifth
day of March last, will be paid at the places and
by the persons herein after mentioned, on the
fifth day of March enfning, and that the second
moiety of the said annual pension will be paid at
the fame places and by the fame persons, on the
fifth day of June ensuing,
The States,
New-Hampftiirc, Portsmouth,
MaflTachufetts, Boston,
Rhode-Island, Providencc,
Connecticut, New-London,
New-York, New-York,
New-Jersey, Perth-Amboy,
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Delaware, Wilmington,
Maryland, Baltimore,
Virginia, B. Hundred,
North-Carolina, Hillfborough,
South-Carolina, Charleston,
Georgia, Savannah,
January the 28th, 1 790.
By order of the President of the United States.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
IN order to prevent unfuccefsful applications,
the following information is re publilhed,refpeJl
ing the vouchers which will be required.
" THE returns which have been or (hall be made to the
Secretary for the Department of War by the several States of the
pensions which have been granted, and paid by them refpeftively
will together with the vouchers herein required, be considered as
the evidence whereon the payments are to be made.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the state fpeciiying that the person
pofTefling it, is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which
as such he is annually entitled.
2dly. An affidavit agreeably to the following form : to wit—
A. B. came before me one of the Justices for the county of
in the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B.
to whom the original certificate in his poffefiion was given, °'
which the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to
be recited.)
That he served in (regiment or vessel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and county
of and has resided there for the last years, pre
vious to which he resided in
In cafe an Invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney must, befidesthe certificate and oath before recited,
produce afpecial Ictterof attorney agreeable to the following form,
I A. B. of county of state of do here
by conflitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney
to receive in my behalf of (the firft or second moiety) ot
my annual pension, as an Invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, One thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this
Signed and foaled
in the prefcnce of
Acknowledged before me
Applications of executors or administrators must be accompany
ed with legal evidence of their rtfpc&ive offices, andalfoofthe
time the Invalid died, whose penfton they may claim.
By Command of the President of the United States of America
War-Office, October 13. 1789.
and persons by whom the pen•
Jions will be paid.
Joseph Whipple.
Benjamin Lincoln.
Jeremiah Olney.
Jcdidiah Huntington.
John Lamb.
John Halfted.
Sharp Delany.
George Bufti.
Otho H.
William Heth,
John Haywood.
George Abbott Hall.
John Haberftiam.
Places,
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of W sr.