[No. XCII.j
THE TABLET
No. XCII
«< In an unsettled flat, of government, property fre
quently changes both its J>oJ[e{[or and its value.
FROM the [Iketches contained in the two
preceding eflkys, I hope the reader has
been led into a train of reflexions on th» com
parative situation of original andpurchajing haldeis
of public securities. I hope likewise: thatth? re
sult of a [fair examination of the facts will con
vince an unbiassed mind;. that the different
fes of creditors have sustained a proportion ot the
losses, more equal than has been usually repre
sented. It mult be observed, that a very con
liderable part of the r<*al expence ol the late war
has fallen upon individuals in such a manner, as
to exclude the possibility of an equitable mode ot
recompense. If an attempt were made to in
demnify the facrifices, and reward the services
that have not yet been taken into view, 111 the
fettlemcnt of claims, it would create such knavery
and discord in society as to defeat every advan
tage we hope to derive from independence. In
a revolution that originated in patriotic enthu
fiaSin, and was conducted without fyftcm, it mult
be expected innumerable diSorders will prevail,
that admit of no remedy.
The advocates for discrimination, between the
different clafles of creditors, seem to fuppole that
the public Securities are engrolled by a very tew
people. It has been mentioned that the greatelt
part of the public debt is in the jjolfeffion ot a
bout one hundred perlbns. 1 llis iurinife is with
out any foundation. There are, it may be pre
sumed, not let's than twenty thousand proprie
tors of our domestic debt. The outcry agamit
Speculators is raised without a knowledge ot their
character, or their numbers. Indeed there are
some people under'fuch a mistake, as to ( uppote
that brokers are the only Speculators, who hold
large futns of the securities. This is l'o far from
being the caSp, that a broker, lb icily Speaking,
is no Speculator at all. The profits of a broker
accrue from the difference of prices, at which
he daily buys and fells. Cuilom has eftabliihed
a djffereace at market, between what is called
the buying and Selling price. This affords the
negotiator of paper, a commidion that compen
sates for his time and attention. If lie is a dis
cerning industrious man, he may acquire by the
extent of liis butineis a large accumulation of
gain. But he is Hill a different chara&er from a
Speculator. The broker buys for other people ;
the Speculator buys for himfelf. Both charatfter-
Utics are Sometimes blended in the Same per Son.
The real Speculator however purchases an article
to wait the event of the future market; and many
persons who purchased Securities at the cloSe ot
the war, have held them through all vicillitudes,
and determine to gain or loSe by the tinal ar
rangements of government. Some of the moll
reSpedable charadtcrs in the United States are
included in this description.
I now proceed tothe obje<flot thisEflay, which
is to enquire the cauSes that have generally in
duced original creditors to Sell their certificates.
The remark in my motto furnilhes the belt reply
1 can make tothe quell ion. All kinds ot proper
ty fluctuated during the war, and Soon alter the
close of it. Nothing preserved a liable value.—
Various motives excite people tq Speculate. A
Spirit of adventure is awakened. It can hardly
be supposed that people had any special reasons
for felling Securities, more than for felling other
property. Different men entertain different i
deas relpedling the future value of articles, and
this indriccs one person to buy and another to fell.
There is nothing mote extraordinary in the lie
gociations of certificates cither with reSpeCt to
3oSs or gain, than has occurred relative to many
descriptions of merchandize. —I will not pretend
but some perSons may have been compelled by
necelfity to alienate their Securities ; but where
one dollar has been fold from that caul'e, thou
sands have been Sold from other cauScs.
certificates copldnpt, in many inltan
ces, have been difbofed of, from neceliity. Men
who have money to loan, are not commonly poor
men. llie loans were, for the moll part, volun
tary ; and therefore the lenders cannot make the
plea of compulsion. When men could conven
ientlvSpare money, they lodged it in the loan
office ; and when it was more convenient tor
them to acquire money they fold their certificates.
It is Said that the Soldiers have been in indigent
»iicumtlances, and could not retain their Securi
lies till the preSent time. That Some of them were
necessitous 1 will not deny. But it (liquid not be
(pa~cftc iUb
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEMNO, No. g, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 179°
conjediured that the bulk of the army left the fer
vice,in a worse condition, than they entered in- |
to it. In the late period of the war the troops
were well fed and clothed. The army was com
posed inoftly of young and middle-aged men, who
were full of health and vigor, when they were
discharged. They mingled aipong the citizens,
and could ealily find employment. In such a si
tuation, it cannot be conceived that they were
reduced to extreme indigence. The fa<st is, it
does not comport with the character of a soldier
to keep loose property iu his hands. He has a li
beral spirit, and distributes freely what he pof
fefles. Circumfpeftion in money matters is a rare
•qualification among men who feel a high degree
ot military ardor.
I 1 has not heen my intention to consider the
queft*)|] 0 f discrimination on its general merit. I
only hi 4 it in view, to convince the reader, that
the relatyg situation of the different dalles of
creditors xasnot foitrikingly different, as to fur
nifh either vjjh a claim on government, to inter
rupt the course of discharging the public
engagements
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF-REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY,feb. ,6, 1790.
IN committee of the whole, t (, e Report of the Secretary of
the Treafurv. Mr. MadiCoi, motion for a difcriminatiou
{till under confideraiion.
(Mr. White's $P L 'h concluded.)
Mr. White then endeavored to obv» e s ome Q f obje&ions t.
the measure, on a?c unt of its impra£t. a bihty ; an d, in genera
terms, obi' rved, that much greater pai. been taken to fticv
the impra&ieability than the injustice of j-j.. f a id > if it wa;
jnft we ought to adopt it; and lie did not u t bt but the wisdom o;
the legislature would be able to carry it into,^ f Purchafeis,
he said had been reprelented as the fupporte. 0 f p U blic credit ;
but he could not consider them in that light, heofferinga tenth
or an eight part of the value ot a bond of an 'dividual, would
tend rather to blast his credit, than to support it a nd would
have the fame effr£l with refpeft to the public.
He said he had lived long enough to be convinced w jf c an£ j
great men, having the fame object in view, often diti, C( j o pj_
nion with refpeft to the means of accomplishing it: therefore
every proposition ought to be treated with candor ani refpe6t.
He made the observation in consequence of what palled j
a gentleman from MafTachufetts had introduced his fpeec j n a
manner somewhat new—with an apology for an
which he intended to commit; he pursued the arguments of tIZ.
who went before him, in opposition to the amendment ; but \
speech consisted principally in an effufion of approbious epithets j
Some of which Mr. White repeated, and said to detail the whole 1
would perhaps fill half a column of a newspaper. He said he
felt on the occasion, not for himfelf, for he had not exprefTed his
sentiments on the iubje£l under debate ; but for the honor of the
house, in which he thought no such language ought to be used.
It had been said we came forward as volunteers ; that the ori
ginal holders did not put in their claim. This might be easily ac
counted for : they were generally obfeure and indigent; had too
much modesty, or perhaps not the capacity, to come forward.
That he believed the crowd in the gallery did not consist of origi
nal holders. .
A gentleman from New-York (Mr. Benfon) had objeded to
multifarious proportions. He was not certain that he under
stood the word ; but had never considered it as applicable to two.
That the proposed amendment had brought the business to such a
state, that we had the choice of two systems. In order to detei
mine which to adopt, it is necessary to examine the merits of both.
That proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury he considered as
exceptionable; that the piopoftd redu&ion of interest was a
breach of public faith ; for although it was to be effe&ed by the
consent of the creditors, it would operate ascoerfion with reipe&
to the original holders. He doubted not but the purchaser* would
eagerly cmbrace the proposal of 4 per cent, on the nominal sum :
The original holders would not—they would wait for a more fa
vorable determination ; if they ever should consent it would be
with reluaance, and because they find they should get nothing in
any other way. The proposed disposition of the surplus levenue
among the nonfubfenbers, can have no effe& : If government do
lot chufe to pay more than 4 per cent, interest, they will levy
:axes only to that amount. The inducements to the acceptance
)f his fevcral proportions, in confidcration of the reduction of
ntcieft, are all futile. Western lands to the amount of one third !
It is well known that western lands are not a property in much
:ftimation among the holders ot certificate^.
With regard to his other propositions, of annuities and remote
payments, it mav be observed, that the proposed reduction is not
ounded on the inability of the States to pay, but on the princi
>le of expediency only, left taxation lhould be extended to a de
ice and to objeas which it might not at this time be proper to
ttcmpt. Now, what fccurity have we that the fame principles
>f expediency will nor operate ten years hence ?
He observed, lhat the purchase of annuities had not been prac
lfed in Amcrica, and did not think it would become an object as
t was in Europe. That in Europe there were many single men,
vho carried their views 110 farther than their own lives, and who,
is they advanced in years, became fearful ot difficulty and diftreis
11 old age : Hut thisfeldom happened in America ; there were
ew without families, and the eaie of procuring subsistence rcmov
d all apprehension of fuffering in old age. Befidcs, a man in
110 ft parts of the country could realize his money in iuch a mail
ler as to double its value in 15 years.
With regard to public opinion, he would fay nothing, as he
iad no documents to fuppoit what he might advance. He might,
lowcver conjecture from the operanon ot the feveial systems.
If the amendment should be adopted, the taxes would be en
reafed, but at the fame time rendered more eafv ; as the means ot
payment would be in so many more hands. The people would
ee their indigent neighbors relieved, and those who had rcndei
•d services to their country in some degree rewarded.
But if the plan piopoftd by the Secretary should be adoptee.,
he present holders ot certificates, men without public merit
lowevcr refpe&ablc they may be in their private charadcrs; wu 1
iplafe.
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
be raifcd to an enviable Hate of wealth ; the people, he presumed,
will very ill brook, the payment ot taxes, when they lee them ap
plied to such purposes. Besides, we are told, that 5,000,000
dollars have been purehafcd in Holland ; the interest of which
will perhaps equal the whole experices of our civil government
Will the people approve of such £1 tribute, unless we can convince
them of the justice of it ? If it isjuft, if We have received va
lue for it, no doubt but we mull submit to the burden, however
great it may be.
Mr. Hartley laid that from the observations which have fallen
from gentlemen on this occasion. he thought it his duty to give
his opinion ; tho he acknowledged that the gentlemen who lpoke
, yesterday had done better justice to the fubjefl than he could.
He then entered into a consideration ot the nature of coiura&s ;
and observed, the securities of the United States, are a fair and
absolute contract; and placing the fubjeft in a political and com
-1 mercial view, he shewed that an interference on the part of go
[ vernment would be subversive ol all those principles, on which
: every species of negociable paper is founded.
He reprobated the attempting a discrimination : He fa:d the
nearest and dearest connexions he had in life would be benefited
by the mcafure, but on general principles he mult be opposed lo
the idea. If any compenlation is to be made to the original hold
ers who have alienated their securities, tome other mode mult be
devised. Mr. Hartley concluded by some particular remarks on
Mr. Jackson's observations.
Mr. Moore supported Mr. Madison's proposition. He entered
into a particular difcuflion of the fubje£fc,among other observations
he said, that if public opinion was to be tairly taken, nine out of
ten would be found in favor of discrimination.
The ioldiers, who after the war had parted with their certifi
cates, were uninformed even of the resolves of Congrels ; and it
was the interest of the fpcculator to keep them inthe dark. They
had followed the poor soldier, and attended at the ipot where they
could the greatest advantage.
Mr. Moore concluded by expressing his approbation of the a
mendment, which he thought was founded on principles of justice
and equity.
Mr. Wadlworth said that it appeared to him the question was
totally milutiderftood ; the object appeared to be to benefit the ar
my ; and if this could be effeded to any fubftancial purpose, I
should be in favor of the attempt; but w hen I refled that it would
produce diredly the contrary eiieds, I mull entirely reprobate
the plan.
There is nothing further from the truth than the afTertion that
the soldiers in general of the late army fold their securities through
necelfity. It is true that a great proportion of the army lold their
securities, but they were of that description of men who rtzver
fail to divert themselves of all the property they get* immediately.
He entered into consideration of the circumstances that led to the
alienation of the securities : The exigencies of the country were
such as made the necefiity of (peculation apparent to every body ;
and, that there was great credit due to thole who in the darkest
times of public affairs confided in the public faith, greatly to their
own loss in innumerable iuftances : For it is a fad that the interme
diate holders of public paper have iuffered much more than the
original holders. He exprefTi-d his disapprobation of the term
lb frequently repeated, 44 the poor soldier," as a fair and impar
tial statement of fads would (hew, that the American soldiery
had been better paid than any other army whatever ; and much
letter than the officers : He made a statement of the actual amount
eceived by the folders in bounties from the Continent, States and
owns, which amounted* in the eastern States where the chief of
he army had beenraifed, to 250 dollar* pr. man upon an average
rom the state only. Mr. Wadfworth instanced a greatvariety of
Acuities which would arise to render ineradicable the plan
P'pofed. These were of a similar nature to those which Mr.
and other gentlemen had Hated.
M Goodhue observed, that the gentleman from Virginia, who
has au oca t e d this discrimination, having acceded to the propo
rtion, ' vt a contrad fairly understood between the contrading
parties, w herea proper consideration was given, ought upon
no terms \Vgtever to be violated,it becamethe committee to try the
question by standard ; and it sometimes happens, that we are
so blinded by^ifti ng c ircumftances,that by reversing the scene in
our minds, we morc likely to deted an erroneous sentiment
than by any othet V g Umcnt Ld us suppose for a moment, that
the late war had prolonged to a degree, that the debt con
traded in its profecui nnj became so enormously large, that the
abilities of the United v» ateSj would enable them to pay but five
{hillings in the pound, am a number of persons, who had purcha
sed securities at ten (frilling* should come forward, and pray they
might be authorized to call iVm the original proprietors, to re
fund five (hillings of the purei X f e money—hcan any body doubt
what the answer would be ? WotW they not be told, from all
quarters, that they purchased upouhe contingency of the public
ability ? That it might have happened that they would have got
twenty (hillings for what coftthem but'nn,it has turned out other
wise, they took the risque upon themfelvev an d therefore mull a
bide the loss ? This has been the underftandw, which has uni
/erfally prevailed, and every tranfadion ot theMnited States, rela
tive to afligned securities, as well as the security nfclf, in its very
lace, establishes such an understanding.
Mr. Goodhue further observed, that agreeably to Us idea, pub
ic credit, became a desirable objed chiefly for this that in
imes when great exertions became neceltary, the public might
ivail themselves ot lervices and supplies, beyond what thej may
lave money on hand fufficiently to command —this was to be done
Dnly by promiforv obligations, and in order to have any effed aud
mfwer the purpose, they mud be made aflignable—-he then alked,
f the principle of a discrimination, contended for, had existed
during the late war, 01 if it had been understood, any advantage
was afterwards to be taken of an afligned security, which aifign
nent was legalized in the very security itfelf, what would have
Deen the confeque&ces ? Would it not have put a period to our
:redit and exertions ? Would not such a principle now eftabnlh
:d, be an effedual bar to our future ciedit.
Mr. Goodhue acknowledged, that the cafe of many foidiers
md others, who from lieceffity were obliged to part with the
jled:es of their public service for a small consideration, was pe
:uliafly hard, and they were intitled to our compaflion and gene
■ofity. but not at the cxpcncc of our national honor and folcmn
engagements
The observation of Mr.Gerry, alluded to by iVI». facl Jon, was not
i ultima rex regum" or " ultima lex re gum" or '• ultima lex regnum '
is has been b\ mi [lake infer ted, but '• latio regum.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17.
Mr. Madison's motion under consideration.
Mr. Page said that he thought it proper to express some ideas
0 the committee upon the question, left it should be laid that cither
1 blind attachment to the mover on the one hand , or pusillanimity
m the other influenced his vote—lt has been said by some pri
ons that the motion is infamous, byotheis it. is supposed to be
ounded on ftridjuftice, I hope a fair and temperate difcuflion
vi 11 take place.—The enquiry is. wheiher v»c did not owe theofficers and fuldiers of the late army—and whether we have ever
paid them. If we have not, is it not justice that they should be
paid. This is bringing the matter to a point ; and I cannot but
agree with my colleague, that we are as a Court of Equity, from
whom these people have a right to expect justice ; and wc may re
member, that however zve may decide, there is a Judge who will
do justice.
The time is now arrived when justice should be done : Thistime
has been patiently waited for; and I don't fee how we can avoid
doing full justice to the uimoft of our power.
Hr then observed, that it appeared to him much greater injustice
"would be done in paying the speculators the full fuin ; it was more
than they ever expelled, for they had often expressed rheir doubts
of govCrnment'sever paying off the securities. Upon the plan pro
posed, they will gain a profit in general, befidesthe intereftot their
money. It has been said, the securities are a contract between the
holders and the government : This is ftri£lly true as it refpe&s the
original holders. The measure it is said will operate as an ex pojl
fa&o law : He had recurred, he Said, tothe Constitution, and found
theclaufehad reference to Bills of Attainder: On this idea, go
vernment may not interfere in any cal'c of fraud, for that unfair
representations were used with the unsuspicious and needy soldier,
cannot be doubted. He hoped that gentlemen would not be tax
ed with want of candor, for addrefling their arguments to the
heart as well as the head. When a cafe is doubtful, the heart is of
ten the surest dire&or. It is happy when they both concur in our
decisions.
Mr. Boudinot : I conlider the right determination of this qucf
tion, as the key stone to the fabric of the public credit: As we lay
this, will be the weakness of the ftru&ure. He had
thought differently, at different periods, on the present fubjeft.
He rejoiced that it had been brought forward, and hoped it would
be discussed with candor and deliberation. He wished that rhe
House should consider themselves as acting in the chara&er of a Ma
tional Legijlature. If we lose fight, said he,of this idea, we shall do
great injury to the fubjeft, and every step we take we (hall plunge
ourselves into still further difficulties. He observed, that there ap
peared to be a coincidence in one particular sentiment, and that is,
that the debt is just, honorable, and meritorious. It is also agreed
that great part of this debt has been liquidated, and flipulated terms
of payment given.
The incapacity of the United States was the only cause of that
species of evidences of the debt's being given, which have from the
fame cause depreciated. [Here he read thfc Ordinance of Con
gress, empowering the original holders of certificates to transfer
them; in which the transferrecs are considered as persons disco
vering u the mojlconfidence" in the government.] He then observed
that the proposition offered by the gentleman from Virginia, was
brought forward in such manner, as to demand the most fair, can
did, and decent investigation. [Here he read the several classes in
to which the creditors are divided by Mr. Madison.] With ref
pett to the firft class, those who have retained their fccurities, he
agreed with the gentleman. In regard to the second, those who
alienated, he said he could mention many persons in this predica
ment, as meritorious as any description of fufferers that can be na
med ; but as the gentleman had not held them up, as obje&s of
future indemnification, he should fay nothing more refpe&ing
them. He then adverted to subsequent parts of Mr. Madison's
fpcech, and observed, that gentlemen had used particular terms, in
such manner, as to induce foine confufion. He instanced Public
Faith, Public Credit, and Public Justice, &c. With refpeft to the
original creditors, he presumed that gentlemen would not contend
that the persons, in whose names the fccurities are issued, arc only
to be considered as such ; as it is demonstrable by inconteftible
facts, that far the greatest part of original holders' names do not ap
pear in the certificates. He then defined the term Justice, and
observed, that Public Justice is distributive justice ; and is often a
different thing from private justice; the latter may operate partially,
the former always generally—and in this way equally. He pointed
out the precise ideas on which the public paper was issued—that
the contrails were formed upon tho idea of the transferable quali
ty of the payments to be made ; th<* transferree is theiefore ipjo
Jaflo the original creditor. He then adverted to the do£trine of
insurance, and from a variety of dcdu&ions, shewed that the pro
bable value of the securities had been paid in all the stages of ne
gociation. He quoted D'Avenant, and the Secretary ot theTrea
fury, to fhew,thatftock on interest, agreeable to all the rules of cal
culation, is always less valuable than cash. Sir William Daven
ant fays, that a capital of ios. is worth only ys. cash. He reversed,
the prcfent situation of the count! y, and placed the purchaser of
the public paper in thecircumftances it would probably have be*
in, 'had the country loft its independence—and asked whether.* ie
fuffercr who had confided in the final success of the country,
conceive that the feller was bound to indemnify him for ■
He further insisted on the exillence of the contra&—and in» a n«cd
the common and universal practice of merchants, andoor^ rs t ,n
all transferable and ncgociablc business—and from a l'" lr " crrec '>
and insisted that the aflignee stands precisely in the %oe * l f lc
assignor. From this he adverted to the objeflion, a '* n S fro®! its
being an ex pojlfaflo buAnefs—and as weare expr* s ' v p re cluded
from passing any such law, the proposition a m °ft palpa
lle violation of the Constitution. The gentlcr jn speaking in
replyto this objeflion, fays, that on recurrin» to Constitution
he found that tneclaufe referred only to p<-> :It, S of attainder.
Mr. Boudinot then read the claufc, an-' remar^c " iat con
✓ceived the gentleman had given the cH fe b f ut a cursory reading—
the passage runs thus, " Congress P a^s no tx P°fi f ai '° ' avv
—or any bill of attainder"—He tK n pointed out the particular
operation of the measure—as bc**6 retrofpe&ive to the fulleft de
gree.
He combated the idea tha'£° n S refs has a to set as j ud g es
on this question—and infiM that this would prove such a viola
tion of the constitution a- must make every man fhudderatthe con
sequences— Congress not competent to determining questions
of justice and equity between citizen and citizen—this is such a
question and judicial courts are alone competent to deter
mining the mat*r.—Mr. Boudinot dilated largely on this senti
ment in this of his fpcech—and represented the evil effetts that
"would refu.'t, from Congress forming itfelf into a court of judica
ture.—H' then entered into a confideiation of the effects which
such a measure would have on the public credit-—he said in his
opinion it would be a fatal stroke to its very existence—all public
confidence would be deftroyed---the public fccurities would im
mediately fink below any price they have ever bcc<i at.
He exhibited in striking colours the wretched predicament that
all this property would be placed in ; a situation that would to
tally fruftrate all our hopes under the constitution—He repeated
the observation refpefting the imbecility of the late confederation
—and fhewr d that tho the individuals who composed that body
"were persons of the ftrilteft honor and probity—yet in the public
character which they held as legislators, judges and executors,
they were constantly discovering by their decisions that personal
property and private rights could not be protected in such an af
lbmbly—a full conviction of this, -brought about a revolution in
the government—-with refpeft to public opinion—he obfeivcd
that what W2i said in a private circle or by eighteen or 20 per
sons in a neighboi hod, could not with any propriety be consi
dered as the public opinion—there is in my opinion said he, a
better mode of ascertaining it—and that is by turning to the a&s
and doings of the people in the several state alfemblies—feveral of
them have been recectty in fcflion, and in consequence of the idea
being circulated that.their refpeftive debts would be assumed by
ttje general government—they have voted to provide for the pay
ment of the interest on their refpeftive debts, without faying one
word about difciimination, from whence it was fairly deducible
that the public opinion is not in favor of the measure.
■"d on tins article by faying, that no ev dence of any
,t has be<. n offered to the committee, to shew that the
HC CI:
kjud v.-. 1 '
public opinion is in favor of this idea—on the other hand, the to
tal silence observed on the part of the persons who are to be bene
fited, is-a negative proof to thc contrary—he replied to the rca
fons which had been afligned for this silence—and thought the
dispersed flatc and poverty of the soldiers could not be confidercd
is a fufficient rcafon.
He entered into a full consideration of the instance of the South
Sea bubble, whii h had been adduced on this question—and laid
that the circumllance did not apply, but on the other hand was di
re&ly opposed to thc present proposition—Mr. Boudinot here
shewed, that the interference of the government on this memora
ble occasion was altogether in favor of the public crcdit, and to 1
oblige the Company to make good their contrails.
He took notice of thc MifTifippi scheme—on this he said he
could not dilate so fully—but from the issue of that business, as
exemplified in the conduct of thc commiflioncrs employed on
that occasion, who plundered the public of millions—he deduced
the pernicious effe&s to be apprehended from appointing com
miflioncrs as must be the cafe, to fettle thc business on this plan.
Mr. Stone, after an introdu&ion which we did not hear—ob
served, that the members appeared to differ exceedingly in their
opinions upon the most eflential principles—on public justice laid
he we appear to differ very widely, the objeil therefore must be to
produce as great a union of sentiment as poflible—He went into a
consideration of the constituent parts, of a contrail—and insisted
that their validity depended altogether on the equivalent—where
no such equivalent can be adduced, contrails even in England,
have never been enforced—He applied this idea to the paper evi
dences of debt received by the officers and soldiers of the late army
—no man will fay that they have received an equivalent for their
services-—he supposed that no credit was due to the speculator for
his confidcnce in the public faith—as to the ri(k—between buyer
and feller, there was perhaps not more than one penny difference
—Mr. Stone observed, that if the speculator purchased a fecur-ty
of £ .100, for £'.io t on the idea or assurance of obtaining the
full payment, he was guilty of a fraud—therefore as this not
supposed to be the cafe, the speculator will have full juftA done
him, by being paid his own money with interest, and** f
would l>e as much against the feelings of the fpeculato 10 receive
10 for i for his money as against those of the soldi' to be rc ~
lmburfed what he had been so long deprived ot—tp inability of
the countiy to do full justice isnot to be admitted-.' as he observed,
that if there were purchasers to be found, the prP cr *y U
nited States would fell for 600 millions, and w- have only 80 mil
lions to provide for.—He enlarged uponthe -'erits of the soldiers
— and aflerted that they had for years, fuf» re d as persons who
had been guilty of some crime—and ihis i«*he Situation of men to
whom America is indebted for her independence— we e*o j
tice to these men we shall establish our grafter for humanity and
we shall always be able to command nC services of such persons;
but 1 f not, the defence of the countrv** ll devolve on mercenaries,
who will be paid.
On the fubjeft of difcriminatio* he laid it'down as a principle
that thc country could not ftan^ c foock of a governmental in
terference in alteringthe debt, by paying a less sum
than the securities fpecified—' would focontravene their habitual
ideas on the fubjeft that he«' as opinion the most fatal confe
quenccs were to be appreV n ded, should the measure be attempt
ed ; still it is a proper enquiry, to whom this amount is
juftlv due—this appear? 0 devolve upon the national Legislature
as the only authority to doing justice.
(To be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 24.
Sundry pctitio* were prcfented, read and laid on the table.
The bill for 'g'datingthe Poft-Office was read a second time,
and referred t a committee of the whole House, to be taken up
on Monday 4fXt *
Ordered nat 100 copies be printed for the use of the House.
On mo on f^e memorial of Thomas Barelay was read the se
cond tin:* anc * referred to a fcleft committee conftfting of Mr.
Clyme» Mr. a g c » Mr. Sinnitkfon.
S other memorials were read and committed.
j n jmmittce of the whole on the Report of the Secretary of the
TrH ur y-—The aflumption of the State debts under confidcration.
Ar. Stone, Mi. Sedgwick, Mr. Madison, Mr. White, Mr.
mes and Mr. Fitzfimons were the speakers. Mr. Madison pro
ofed the following addition to the resolution, viz.
And at the fame time, That effe&ual provision be made for the
liquidation of, and crediting to the States, the whole of the expen
ces during the war, as the fame has been, or may be Hated for
the purpose, and that the best evidence of the fame be taken,
the nature of the cafe will admit.
This proposition occasioned fomc conversation, but? the com
mittee rose without coming to a decision.
The House then went into a committee of the whole, on the
naturalization bill.
Mr. Baldwin moved that the clause which prohibits foreigners
from holding lands in the United States, should be struck out ;
this occasioned some debate, which consumed the time, w thout
producing a decision. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, FEB. 25.
Mr. Gilmao of the committee of enrollment, reported, that they
had examined the enrolled bill, providing for the enumeration of
the inhabitants of the United States, and found it correct : He then
presented it to the Speaker, who signed the fame.
Mi. Boudmot of the committee appointed for the purpose,
brought in a bill for securing to authors and proprietors, the copy
right of Books, Charts, Plans, Maps, &c. which was read the firft
time. *
Mr. Thatchcr presented a petition from the weighers, gaugers
and measurers of Portland, Maflachufetts.
The petition of David Cook was read a fccond time, and refer
red to the Secretary at War.
Sundry memorials were read and committed.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of
theTreafurv; Mr. Madison's amendment to the resolution for
the aflumption of the State debts under consideration
Mr. Huntington fdfd that he did not obje& to the tenor of the
"proportion : but thought the last clause, " That the best evidence
shall be taken that the nature of the cafe will admit" would af
ford a dangerous latitude, as it might open the door to innumer
able impositions, and would swell the public debt beyond all con
ception ; if there weieany peculiar cases, such as loss of vouchers
by fire, devaluations by war, and other casualties, provision might
be made by Congress tor such cases : he hoped the words would
be struck out.
Mr. White after a speech of moved that the
following Ihould be added to Mr. Madison's proportion, viz..
Provided such alTumption shall not exceed the sum which ag
itate may have advanced above its just proportion, as the fame
{Kail appear upon its liquidation ; this produced a debate which
lasted the remainder of the day—and an adjournment being called
tor, precluded any determination on the motion.
FRIDAY, FEB. 26.
The Repot t of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the petition of
Francis Bailey, was read the second time.
Mr. Burke moved lhat it be referred to a feleft committee for
the purpoQj of bringing in a bill to provide for the particular cafe
of the petitioner.
Mr. Livermorc objetted to a special committee. He observed
that Mr. Bailey is one of the last persons lhat needed a special in
terferrnce in his favor, as it is impofiible, according to his own
words, for any person to find out"his invention. He is therefore
perfectly secure from being injured by counterfeits.
Several gentlemen spoke in favor of the motion, and a fclcft
committee was accordingly appointed.
Mr. Gerry, to whom the memorial from the commiflioncrs on
-366-
the public accounts, refpe£ling the fabric of the clcvks in the
office was referred, reported,that the salaries ofthofeclerks Iho'7i
be raised to 500 dollars pr. arm. any law of the United States to
the contrary notwithstanding.
Sundry a&sand rcfolutions of the legislature of the State of
South-CaroJina were communicated by Mr. Burke, and read
mong others--
An to cede to the United States the Light House, &r.
Iu committee of the whole on the report ot the Secretary 0 f t|
TrCafury ; the aflumptionof the State debts under confidcratiorf
Mr. Madison's and Mr. White's amendments were read • th c
debate was resumed and continued by Mr. Stone, Mr. Burke
Mr. Clymer, Mr. Ames, Mr. Patndge, Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr'
Sherman and Mr. White': and the question being taken on Mr
White's motion, it pafled in the negative—32 to 15.
Mr. Madison's motion being again read—after a ihort introduc
tion, he moved, that the following proviso (hould be added to ir"
viz. Provided that in cafe a final liquidation and adjustment of the
whole of such expenditures, and provision for the payment ot the
ballances due from Debtor States to Creditor States,' Ihall not be
made before ihe-— day of the debts assumed fliall
be liquidated and adjusted, among the States, according to the
ratio of repicl'entation, and effe&ual provision be henceforth made
for payingthe ballances to the Creditor States, at the expcnce of
the Debtor States. This will be thc next fubjeft of difcuflion.
The committee rose and reported progress.
The committee on the petition of Francis Bailey, brought in
a was read the firft time.
U committee of the »vhole on thc naturalization bill • Some
rfogrefs was made in the difcufTion ; but the committee rose with
out finifhmg the business, and the House adjourned to Monday
IMPORTANT EUROPEAN NEWS.
Received by the latejl Arrival.
CALCUTTA, (East- May 20,
P.Y letters froin Bombay wehave been favored
-U with a more particular account of the opera
tions of Tippoo before Tellichery than has vet
appeared.
On the 23d of Marcli, Tippoo approached the
neighbourhood of Tellichery with a force so can
fiderable ae to be seriously alarming. On the
26th, he encamped on Tandatenny, within fight
and not more than four miles distant from the
town. One of the feapoys belonging to the ear
rifon, cutting wood 011 the banks of the stream
which separates the diftricfts of the English and
Tippoo, was wantonly shot by a party of his
troops. From the difpofnion of his army, and
some threatening appearances, an attack was
hourly expeefted ; the inhabitants, to the number
ot two tlioufand, were, in consequence armed
Several deserters came in from Tippoo's army
and these he required to be delivered up in the
moil insolent and unbecoming terms. Very pro
perly, his requests were treated with the utmost
contempt. Among other deserters was a party of
Frenchmen who belonged to Lally's corps ; that
these men fliould be delivered up, Tippoo was
particularly anxious ; however, to be out of dan
gei, they were lent round to the government
at Bombay 011 the Shah Syriah. On the evening
ot the 30th Tippoo, with his whole encampment
marched off, avowedly for Pimlipatani, but as
the veflel which brought this inteligence to
Bombay left Tellichery the fame night, it is un
certain where he has diretfed his rout.
he Government of Bombay have given pro
tection to great numbers of Nairs to whom Tip
poo has shewn a inoft implacable hatred, and 011
whom he has indiscriminately exercised the molt
ltudied cruelties ; many of these poor wretches
has he again and again, marched into wide and ex
tensive plains ; there ordered their legs and arms
to be cut off in his own presence, and in that mu.
tilated state left them laying on the ground, pro
hibiting under pain of death any relief being
afforded to the miserable f'ufferers. During the
march of I ippoo from Seringapatnam to Tilli
chery no less than five thousand have been facri
ficed to the vindictive caprice of this unfeeling
Tippoo.
MADRAS, May 10, 1759
The letters from the foiuhward, received yes
terday and to day bring an account of an oppo
sition to the detatchment under the command of
Col.Stewart,rather more obstinate than was expec
ted at so eaily a stage ; and of an adtion 011 the
14th inltant, bravely maintained by the Murdoos,
as they were called—Vellee Murdoo, in defence
of the fort at Collungoody.
The following are the particulars mentioned in
an extraifl of a letter from the Camp at Colun
goody.
" This morning at fix o'clock we began the
attack, and I am very sorry to add, it was despe
rate and bloody,beyond conception ; it lasted un-
near one o'clock in the afternoon, when the
principal village was taken ; but it was stormed
once or twice before this could be effected, and
our people were repulsed with the loss of some
men ; the artillery could not get up to support
them, ortheymuft have carried it thefirft attack.
Lient. Taylor was shot through the thigh by a
muiket ball ; Capt. Read slightly wounded in the
leg ; as near as I can guess, four or five of
our grenadiers are killed, and twelve wounded,
iome ot them mortally ; many of the 72d are kil
led and wounded, but none of their officers.
Mr. Freer is shot through the arm, and the bone
dangerously shattered. Ensigns Macklerah,
Ridge, and Cornack, are wounded, as is Lieut
Cuppage (slightly) in the hand. Several feapoys
killed and wounded ; the Nabob ; who is with 11s,
is also wounded." A deferterfrom the Murdoos fays, thatChin
na Murdoo has loft his son, and that another of the
family is Ihot through the neck ; a number of
their people have been also killed and wounded.
The artillery have had i 5 men wounded, but no
officer hurt. Some horses, alid a quantify of prain
were found in the place.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Sept. 22
WE learn that the Ruffian fleet has again ta
ken pofleffion of the island of Zea, after
defeating the Algerine squadron, and that the
commander of our fleet in the Archipelago has
loft his head, by order of his Highness, for not:
opposing the ravages of the privateers there.
VIENNA, Nov. i.j
A courier has this moment arrived with the
news that General Fabry has taken Cladova and
consequently the whole diltritft of Krafnia, coin
prifing 15:0 towns and villages. What renders
this conquett of more importance is, that it will
hasten the fall of Orfova, which receives nijft 0 f
its proviiions from that quarter.
An officer from Prince Potemkin's army
brought intelligence of the surrender of Gender
on the isthinftant, the garrison of which for
trefs, with as many of the inhabitants as were dis
posed to follow, were to be escorted to Ifmail.
LONDON, Dec. 31
By the Austrian accounts, it isfaid, that the va
lue of the stores taken from the Turks last cam
paign, amounts to twenty two millions of florins.
The veflels dispatched from England to Ame
rica for wheat, may be expecfled to return in the
middle of March ; but Ihould they be delayed e
ven a month after that, which is very unlikely,
their arrival then would destroy the combination'
the effeds of which mull have at that time, and
till the harvest, been (everely felt, had not go
vernment wifely opened the ports.
Extratl of a Letter from an English Gentleman as
' \
Br-ajfsls, Dec. i j.
" At half after three o'clock, while I was a
dinner, the town bells rang th« alarm, the patri
ots flew to arms, seized the critical moment, o
verpowered all the polls in the lower town, mas
tered the Mint, &c. This work was over by fix
o'clock, but the worse was yet to come ; neither
reason nor argument could prevail on the Patriots
to desist from attacking the grand place opposite
the Maifon de Ville/which they hazarded against
a whole battallion, furnilhed with eight pieces of
cannon, and every avenue guarded. At half af
ter nine the ailault began, and continued with un
remittingfury till halfafter 12 o'clock, when the
troops called for a parley ; but it was too late,
they were all captured. Thus the Patriots got
poUeflibn of all the lower town, andDalton aiked
a suspension of arpisior a few hours ; it was gran
ted, for reft was neceflkry to the Patriots. At
nine o'clock on Saturday morning, to the surprise
of every body, Dalton evacnatecTthe town in the
inoft precipitate manner, and the troops went out
ofthe Portede Namur, rather pell mell, than o
tlierwife ; and all this I saw, for I was about the
whole time. He had 4500 effe<flive men, and 18
jiiecesof bvafs cannon, besides howitzers. This
famous hero was with the advanced guard, his
hat flapped, and night-cap over his head, and by
that time the rear ofthe army got oat ofthe gate
he mutt have been three miles off. lam very Jure
there is not in history so difgraceful a retreat •
for if Dalton had been poflefled of/kill, or cou
ra£e > he might havedemoli/hed the town and Pa
triots together, which did not exceed 800 at the
commencement; and who supplied the want of
good arms and order by desperate courage. The
whole country is now in the hands ofthe Patri
ots, and the Emperor may bid adieu to the Pays
Bas. This Revolution is one of the most extraor
dinary in the annals of time, condudied with a
regularity and humanity that does the natives
grjat honor; not a Royalist has even fuffered the
finalleft inconvenience, their houses are guarded
with the utmost circumvention, and we are now
pejfeotly quiet and tranquil."
No lei's than 120 veflbls have already been dif
patchcd to America for corn. —Frogi Liverpool
54—Briflol 33.—lhe coasts of Devonlhire and
Cornwall 33. —
Letters by yesterday's Flanders mails brings us
the confirmation of the Anftrians having evacua
ted Machlm and Termonde. In the former place
the patriot? found a tra;n of artillery, with 60000
itand of small arms, so that they are abundantly
provided with warlike stores. On heariirWLthe
taking of Bruflels, the Imperialists left Louvain
Some, letters mentioned positively that General
Dalton is taken prisoner, with the whole body of
troops with which he was endeavoring to retreat
to Luxeniburgh from Bruflels. On his march, he
took many of the nobles out of their country feats
and sent them hostages to Luxemburgh. How
ever, the patriots have been even with him ; for
they have seized Count Cobenziel, Gen. Lelien,
and the Prince Starenberg, who were just arri
ved from Vienna to mediate a pacification of the
piefent troubles, and will keep them as counter
holtafres. s
Government have in contemplation a colony
tor the I'elew iftar.ds.
At Constantinople inch dreadful tumults are
reported to prevail, as have obliged the Sultan
k m to abandon that city. Much blood has
been Hied on the occasion, and it is luppofed the
infurreclion will end in the dethronement of the
Jkmperor.
His Majesty's packet-boat the Sandwich, Capt.
Dillon which brought over the mail of Friday
iron* New-York, has remittances to the merchants
to the amount of upwards of 60,0001.— 10001. in
specie, and orders for great quantites of goods of
The French Minister, it is said, has made a
proportion to the Dutch to fell them the debt
due them from the American Congress, for their
service iaft war, which, it is said, has been accept
ed ot. ihe Americans have given their consent
to the transfer, by which means a very consider
able sum of money will be raised at once for the
service ot the French King. Our Court had the
offer of purchafingthe debt, but refufed it
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
tu An- 11 i Paris, Dcce?tiber 17.
The Aflembly decreed, on the motion of the
Military that all French troops, ex
-.ept militia and national guards, (hall be levied
voluntary enlistment.
blvr C r rthUll jl. ap , peared in the Nati <>"al Aflbm
oiy s U cceed M. del a Baflide as Deputy of Au
verg„ >; It was the fidt, and will, in all proba
laft time thac such a monk honor
ea a Senate. He mounted the roftruin
fence for''t ' ■gT i »»«M- »
philofojihy religion, and
- i c December to.
This day, aftt, a warm j e b ate t lie plan of Fi
nance agreed on U M . Necker> th ecom.nittee of
ten, and the dire<ft Vs o{^i,e Ca j fl g D'Efcoinpte,
was decreed by a g,-„ t ma j oricy . P
- r r' December 2T.
Ihe new division of : * i
• • r Kingdom into depart
mem, great forwa, the Colnn;K ,' ce of
confti ution having bee, materia]] assisted Jn
their labors by the deputy from \ he several
provinces.
Trauflatton of a letter.fromCe v - al de p^ r tQ f , K .
National /j§?7nt s
" Mr Preficlent: It is with Sports c f joy
more easy to be imagined than w'efled, that I
entreat you to make known to th^ flbmbl r
winch you preside, the femimentt of ''ft
profound refpetf, and most lively ac no J{ ed
inent for the decree which you havt pa fled; n
favor ofmy country and companions.
" In admitting Corlica to the pertec en : oy .
ment of all the advantages which result frt« t he
happy constitution that you have eftablifhed)„ ou
have at length found the most efficacious mfc„ s
of securing for ever the attachment and fidefty
of its inhabitants : and in granting to my expa*.
triated companions the power of returning andi
enjoying all the privileges of French fubjedts,
while you manifeft your jultice and generosity,
you attach to your new Constitution a number of
individuals that will defend it to the last drop of
their blood ; and the beneficent Monarch, the
restorer of the liberty of his people, who has sanc
tioned these decrees, will have no fubjedls more
devoted to his glory.
" Permit me the honor to fay, that I am, with
the molt profound respect, yours, &c.
London, Dec. it, 1789.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LETTER. No. 111.
MR. FENNO,
BEFORE we can form a clear idea upon matters, we mujl jirjl ac
quaint ourselves with the name, the nature and circumjlnnc.es of the
thing. Thus I was comptlled to travel over large philosophical ana his
torical grounds, to Jind the place oj the wool hairy negro in the order of
nature. Animated beings, therein conjidered, in flrength of body, or in
their intellectual flrength, in either the one, or the other cafe, the tveakefl
is ruled by the JlrongeJl. As plainly as I conceive, that the ox is born
to plough my ground, as blainly aljo the philosopher will fee, that nature
has defgnated the wool hairy negro by innate inferiorities, in conse
quence of which, he is theJlave of other nations. But when nations have
attained a high degree of cultivation, and population, they fee! the im
propriety to have Jlaves, and J not compelled by circumjlances, they will
Jujfer none; this leads me to conftder Jlaves, on political ground.
Where Jlaves are numerous, plots, injur red ions, and war will be the
consequence ; for examples of these, the hijlory of the Jlaves in Sparta,
m ancient Rome, in Surinam, in the Weft-India islands, fuynifhfujficient
proof. Slaves are a contradiction to the taws of a free government, and
to those of a well regulated monarchy ; this is exemplijied by the proceed
ings oj the English and French ; these were for a while uniform, any ne
gro was free the moment he flood on French or Englijh eround ; but the
consequences arising from the acqujtion oj this new Jpecie of citizens
were soon perceived ; the English to get rid of the evil, try now to co
lonize them in Africa, and the French have without ceremony sent them
to the sugar islands ; probably they were fold for the Kings account,
what I know by experience gives ground foi this opinion \in the year 1786,
one of my negroes, a girl oj about eleven years,a pet of my wife's, was in
consequence oj that law in Fiance, taken up by the police in port lH)rievt,
and sent to the islands to bt fold for the Kings benefit. The reason oj
theje proceedings in both nations is, that when prompted by humanity to
make out of wool hairy negroes citizens of tHt realm, they did not con- j
fider, that they had given up their power to prevent the intermarriage of
the black citizens with their white women, &c. &c.—thus to mend what
inconsiderately had been done, the English. put themselves to trouble,
and e.rpence to colonize them, and the French, notwith/landing their ur
banity, did a manifcjl piece of injuflice.
In ancient tunes,the Portugueje and Spaniards,were as white as other
Europeans, ffut they were conquered by Carthaginians,Mauritanians,and
other African, fwarthy,and black people; the intermarriage was enforced
byconquefl, hence the dark colour prevails among the two nations ; their
mindi have not however been debafedby the intermixture, because, the con- \
queers were highfpiritcd, long haired tawnies and blacks.
-367-
DE PAOLI."
ROSTJCUS.
FROM THE VIRGINIA INDEPENDENT CHRONICLE.
tor the BIRTH DAY of THE PRESIDENT.
By the Rev. Thomas Thorntok
HAIL to the fun, whose circling ray,
Once more revolves the happy day
That gave our HERO birth ; * '
Prepare the feaft, in pairs advance,
To raise the song, or lead the dance.
To jollity and mirth.
Blow the trumpet, found the flute,
Tune the viol, llrike the lute,
And let ev'ry free-born foul
Chaunt his name from Pole to Pole.
Ambition fir'd the chiefs of old,
To fight for empire, or for gold,
How few for liberty;
But he was born, by Heav'n defign'd,
To scourge th' oppreiTors of mankind,
And set th' oppressed free.
Ca*far and Philip's frantic son,
With arms and chains, the world o'er j;un>
To gratify tlieir pride :
Benevolence and valor join'd,
Display the greatness of his mind,
And all his a£lions guide.
Nassau forfook his native land.
Great Britain's ruin to withstand,
And he the nation fav'd :
Great Mar lbro' led her conquering force,
Where nothing could retard his course,
And ev'ry danger brav'd.
William's high deeds a crown obtain'a,
A Prince's title Ma rl b ro' gain'd ;
But greater is h i s claim,
Thirteen United People's prayers,
Their Soldier's hearts, their Senate's cares,
Are offer'd all for him.
Propitious victory hasfpread
A grove of laurels round his head,
And Peace-his conquest crown'd :
May no malignant spirit dare,
With baneful breath, God grant my prayer.
His Fame or Peace to wound.
But may kind Angels near him wait,
To bear him late, O very late,
From hence to realms above ;
And may he be permitted there,
As with his arm he freed us here,
To speed us with his love.
Blow the Trumpet, See. &c k
RECITATIVE.
Had I my favorite Pr ior'j happv vein,
I'd sing his triumphs in a noble strain ;
Nassau or Marlbro' (hou'd not brighter fhinC)
In bolder figures, or a smoother line ;
Ensigns and Trophies IhOu'd adorn his bowers,
And Vernon's Mount i ife high as Blenheim's towers.
CHORUS.
Blow the Trumpet, Sec. See.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
Being in the gallery this dap, the rapidity of certain movements, gave life
to thefollowing, urhichpleafc topublifh, and oblige, S. Fib 26.
THE TYPE-NOSTRUM
THE maxim's held by all mankind,
That Quacks incv'ry trade we find ;
And yet how few are on their guard—
Pretenders fcldom miss reward :
E'en Senates—form'd of learned fages—»-
Have been bc-quack'd, informer ages.
All hail ye labor-hating crew,
Who keeping novelty in view,
Mankind bewilder and fur prize,
* fee with your's—not their own eye\
Th^' ght ° f noftrum > P ill and P«VVG
e i&ell of death was never louder.
B ut hid in broken JleeL ]
J t ° h€nc a \ the common weal- i
kcaftoicfeel . ,
n r ! » no mortal snout,
Can (cent th, S y ndrous fcclct |, ut _
And ev n C v to think> „
T hi ' h =W m^\h strokes in ink,
As ftiall defy all futu.
T' enrich th^lve,!^^^
Hence patents " ready?. and d
Confirm the maxim in myS-. e .
While B—'s meer chance fl ro \ t
Prove wit and genius all a jokbi '
NEW-YORK, FEBRi
A CORRESPONDENT.
The^S im , Ption Oft u heStStedebtSap P ,:arsto K attended V. ith
many difficulties, in the contemplation, but whileu i s V erv well
known that ingenious men can very ealily perplex ani embarrass
any bus.ness when under difcuflion—and although it i» conceded
that the present fubjea is attended with circumstances th»t require
consideration ; it :s without doubt a measure that involves the
justice, peace and (lability of the government—and it is connived
that the great and desirable event of a settlement of accounts be
tween the individual dates and the United States, can be brou°k
about in no other way.
One great advantage gained by the people of the United States
in the late revolution, is the almost total abolition of dry taxes ;
tor it is notorious that the laws for dire£fc taxation operated most
unequally, as the poor were the vittims, while the wealthy could
very easily evade paying any thing like their proportion : But in
imports, and especially excises, there is not such opportunities
to evade ; as the consumers must inevitably pay in proportion to
the confumptioji. In this view, every person becoms interested
in the punctual execution of the laws, for smuggling anl evasions.
cause deficiencies, which take money out of the pockets of the
poor.
The President of the United States, now resides in
Broad-Way, in thehoufe, that was lately improved by the Hon.
Charge de Affaires of his Moil Christian Majesty, who has removed
to Cherry-btreet.
QT " AFRICANUS" m our next.
03 s * Wanted by the Editor of this paper, a Houje that z<: ; /f ac
commodate a large family, and the panting bufnefs—from the firfl of
May next.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK.
Friday. Ship Peacock, Pearlon, St. Kitts, 18 days.
Ship Alexander, Woodard, St. Übes.
Brig Fedcralift, Maffh, St. Thomar.
ODE,
chorus
CHORUS.
■Y27.report
el the SECRETARY of the TREASURY to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. 9, J790.
[continuation.]
T H E Secretary conceiving, that he could not convey an ac
-1 curate idea of the plan contemplated by him, for the-collec
tion of these duties in any mode so effectual as by the draft of a
bill for the puipote, begs leave rcfpeatu.ly to refer the Houf
that, which will be found annexed to this report, relatively to the
article of distilled spirits ; and which, for the better explanation
of some of its parts, is accompanied with marginal remaiks.
It would be the intention of the Secretary, that the duty on
wines Ihould be collected upon precisely the fame plan with that
on imported spirits. . . ,
But with regard to teas and coffee, the Secretary is inclined to
think, that it will be expedient, till experience (hall evince the
propriety of goirtg further, to exclude the ordinary right of the of
ficers tovifit and mfpeft the places in which those articles maybe
kept. The other precautions, without this, will afford, though
not complete, considerable security. c
It will notefcape the observation of the House, that the Secre
tary, in the plan submitted, has taken the most scrupulous care,
that those citizens upon whom it is immediately to operate, be
fecurcd from every species of injury by the mifcomduaof the of
ficers to be employed. There are not only (Uong guaids aga.nlt
their being guilty of abuses of authority ; they are not only pun
ilhable, criminally, for any they may commit, and made anlwer
able in damages, to individuals, for whatever prejudice they may
fullain by their acts or neglects : But even where fe.zures are
made with probable cause, if there be an acquittal of the article
seized, a compensation to the-proprietors for the injury their pro
perty may fuller, and even for its detention, is to be made out 01
the public treasury. .
So solicitous indeed has the Secretary been, to obviate every ap
pearance of hardship, that he has even included a compensation to
the dealers, for their agency in aid of the revenue.
- With all these precautions to mamfefta spirit of moderation and
justice on the part of the government : And when it is considered,
that the objefl of the proposed system is the firm eltablifhment ot
public credit ; that oil this depends the charatler, iecurity and
prosperity of the nation ; that advantages in every light important,
may be expected to result from it tltat the immediate operation
of it will be upon an enlightened class of citizens, zealouuy devo
ted to good government, and to a liberal and enlarged policy,
and that it is peculiarly theintereft of the virtuous pari of them to
co-operate in whatever will restrain the spirit of illicit traffic ; there
will be perceived to exist, the jufteft ground of confidence, that the
plan, if eligible in itfelf, will experience the chearful and prompt
acquiescence of the community.
The Secretary computes the nett product of the duties propoted
in this report at about one million seven hundred and three thou -
land four hundred dollars, according to the estimate in the fched
dulc K, which it near the truth, will, together with the probable
product of the duties on imports and tonnage, complete the sum
required. But it will readily occur, that in so unexplored a held
there mud be a considerable degree of uncertainty in the data.
And that, on this account, it *rill be prudent to have an auxiliary
resource for the firft year, in which the interest will become pay.
able, that there may De no poflibility of disappointment to the
public creditors, ere there may be an opportunity of providing for
any deficiency, which the experiment may discover. This will
accordingly be attended to.
The proper appropriation of the funds provided, and to be pro
vided, seems next to offer itfelf to connderation.
On this head, the Secretary would propose, that the duties on
diflillcd spirits, should be applied in the firft instance, to the pay
ment of the interest of the foreign debt.
That reserving out of the residue of those duties an annual sum
of fix hundred thousand dollars, for the current feiviccof the Uni
ted States ; the surplus, together with the product ol the other du
ties, be applied to the payment of the interest on the new loan,
by an appropriation, co-exlcnfive with the duration of the debt.
And that it any part of the debt should remain unfubferibed,
the excess of the revenue be divided among the creditors of the un
fubferibed part, by a temporary disposition : with a limitation,
however, to four per cent.
It will hardly have been unnoticed, that the Secretary has been
thus far silent on the fubjeft of the poftrofftce. Tiie reason is, thati
he has had in view thp application of the revenue arising from th?
source, to the purpofesof a finking fund. The
Tal gives it as his opinion, that the immediate product ot it, u
a proper arrangement, would probably be, not less than one'
red thousand dollars. And from its nature, with 8 00^ )me a
agemenf, it must be a growing, and will,be likely to b"
considerable fund. The post-master-general is now c ® uion
preparing a plan, which will be tbe foundation of a )me 0
for a new arrangement of the eOablifhmpnt. Thjs, " . ,
ther points relative to the fubjeft referred to the See* ar )'
leave to reserve for a future report. f , ,
Persuaded as the Secretary is, that the pror* 1£ 1 _
present debt, will render it a national blernm; c , IC ls f °
from acceding to the position, in the latitu<*. , m u
times laid down, thaf" public debts benefits, a po
sition inviting to prodigality, and liabl-° max-
United States, the
creation of debt should alwavs b'" acco J T1 P anitc %vll 1 ,
extinguilhment. This he rega-" " < he m,c
public credit immortal. An.* 6 prcf"™". that it is difficult to
conceive a situation, in wh L ' 1 'here may not earll erc "' . .
the maxim. At lead he ecls an unlcigncd folipitude, that this
may be attempted by t" Un " tfl Sl *"> em
inence their meafu.e for the eftabl.lhment of credit, with the ob
lervance of it. . , .
Under this im/teflion, the Secretary proposes, that the nett pro
duct of the po*-office, to a sum not exceeding oik: million ot dol
lars be vefW in cominiffioncrs, to consist of the Vice-President
of the United States or Prcfident of the Senate, the Speaker of the
House of Jieprefentatives, the Chief Justice, Secretary of the I rea
fury andAttorney-Gcneralofthe United States,tor the time J)cing,in
trust übe applied, by them,or any three of them,to thedifcharge of
the rxifting public debt,either by pur chafes ot stock in the market,
or by payments on account ot the principalis shall appear to thein
most advifeable, in conformity to the public engagements ; to
contirtuc so vested, until the whale ot the debt shall be discharged.
As an additional expedient for cfFefting a reduction of the debt,
and for other purposes which will be mentioned, the Secretary
would further propose thai the fame commiflioners be authorised,
With the approbation of the President ot the United States, to
1 orrow, on their credit, a sum, not exceeding twelve millions of
dollars, to be applied,
First. To the payment of theintereft and inftalmen's of the
foreign debt, to the end of the present year, which will require
,923 dollai s, and 46 cents.
Secondly. To the payment of any deficiency which may hap
pen in the prodiift of the funds provided for paying the interest
of I he domeflic debt.
Thirdly. To the effeftinga change in the form of such part of
the foreign debt, as bears an interest of five per cent. It is con
ceived, that, for this purpose, a new loan, at a lower interest, may
be combined with other expedients. The remainder of this pirt of
the debt, after paying the instalments, which will accrue in the
course of 1790, will be j,8&8 ; 8#8 dollars, and 81 cents.
Fourthly. To the purchase of the public debt at the price it
(hall bear in the market, while it continues below its true value
This measure, which would be, in the opinion of the Secretary,
highly diihonorable to the govern men', if it were to precede a
provision for funding the deDt, wou.u
ccptionablc, after that had been made. Its effect would.be ata
vor of thep U bl,c creditors, as it would tend to raise the value of
stock. And ,11 the d,fference, between its true value, and the
actual price, would be so much clear gain to the public Th
payment of foreign mtereft on the capital to be borrowed tor this
pu. pole, (hould that be a necessary confluence, would not in
the judgment of the Secretary, be a good object .on to th m ■
furc. The saving by the operation would be ltfelf, a fuflkiem in
demnitv ; and the employment of that capital in a
tuatcd like this,would much motethan compcnfate for it liefide.,
if the government does not undertake this operation, the fame - ,
'convenience, which the objection in question supposes, would
happen in another way, with a ctrcumftance of aggravation As
ilong, at lead, as the debt lhall continue below its proper value,
.it will be an objea of speculation to foreigners, who will not on
lv receive the interest, upon what they purchase, and 'em.t
broad, as in the cafe of the loan, but will reap theaddif.onil pro
: fit of the difFcrence in value. By the government into a
competition with them, it will not only reap a part of h s P ro .
itfelf, but will contraathe extent, and lefltn the extra profit of
foieign purchases. That competition will accelerate the rife
stock; and whatever greater rate this obliges foreigners to pay,
for what they purchase, is so much clear saving to the nation I
the opinion of the Secretary, and contrary to an idea which is not
! without patrons, it ought to be the pol.cy of the goven,mcm,to
raise the value of stock to its true standard as tact as poflible Whe
'it arrives to that point, foreign fpecuhtionsfwhichtllthen
mud be deemed pernicious, further than as they serve to bring it
to that point) will tecome beneficial. Their money
this country, upon our agriculture commerce and
will produce much more to us, than the income they will re
ceive from it. r ,
The Secretary contemplates the application of this montf
through the medium of a national bank, for which, withi the jt
million of the House, he will submit a plan in thecoutfe o/
The Secretary now proceeds, in the last place, to
confide,at,on of the House, h,s ideas, of the ft.ps, «£»
attheprefentfeflion, to betaken, towards tl.e affony*°" ollne
briefly, that concurrent rejblutions
'with the approbation of the President, be enteru-*'»°. declaring
ThattHe'united te*s do
the year 1791, provide, of the refpec
of the United btatcs, for all P a " ° f Jb the firtt da) ofJanu
.tive slates, or any ot them, " a loan to the
lary m thefa.d year .791, of the plans, which
i United States, upon the F nncl P lCT °jttaining a re-loan of their
i (hall h«ve been adopted by them, tor ©
present.debt. Remade as aforefaid, (ball be
. Provided that anyfUte, which may have
suspended, with .efpefi to the X fm o(hm i(rued b
exchanged the f™es <,f• (hall, either be re-ex
, ltfelf, until the whole ot the *" • , '
changed, or n a(rumed b
And provided *»£„ iygi . * d lhat ,he in-erect to be
mm cc - *"**
1 "';„ „chedebt of each state Co affuincd and pro-
That the amount o^ fuch accollllt with U ,e United
States, upon the faV principles, upon which it shaH be lent to the
"thft"riolfrrir/> ns be opened for receiving loans of the said.
I J . .f times and places, and under the like regulations,
I havc prefenbed iu relation to the debt of the United
: St Th s /atary has now completed the object}, which he pro-
I fJ C ''lmfelf, to comprise in the present report. He has, for
1 f™' part, omited details, as well to avoid fatiguing the at
j of the Houfj, as becaufemoTetime would have been defira
[ m" 'ep to digest the general principles of the p' an - ' j C .
' be found right, the particular modifications will readily
1 f-cgeft thcmfelvesm the progress of the work.
The Secretary, in the views which have direGed his purluit of
the lubicft, has been influenced, in the firft place, by the considera
tion, that his duty from the very terms of the resolution of the
House, obliged him to propose what appeared to him an adequate
provision for the support of the public crcdit, adapted at the fame
time to the real circumftancei of the United States; and in the
next, by the reflection, that measures which will not bear the ten
of future unbiased examination, can neither be produOivc of in
dividual reputation, nor (which is of much greater consequence) A
public honor, or advantage
Deeply imprefled, as the Secretary is, with a full and deliberate
conviaion, that the eftablilhmcnt ot public credit, upon the basis
of a fatisfaftory provision, for the public debt, is, undei the pre
sent circuroftances of this country, the true desideratum towards
relief from individual and national cmbarraflments ; that without
: it, these cmbarraflments will be likely to press flail more severely
upon tli£ community—He cannot but indulge an anxious wirn,
that an elFt&ual plan for thai purpofc may, during the prclent fql
fion, be the result of the uuited wisdom of thf. lecifl-iture.
He is fully convinced, that it is of the greatest importance, that
no further delay should attend the making of the requisite provi
sion ; not only,' becaufc it will give a better imprelhon ot the good
iaith of the country, and will bring earlier rebel to the creditors ;
both which circumitances are of great moment to public credit::
but, btcaufe the advantages to the community, from railing ltock,
as speedily as poflible, to its natural\alue, will be incomparably
greater, than any that can result from its cpntinuancc below that
standard. No profit, which could be derived from P urc^ fes ,n
the market, on account of the government, to any practicable cx
! tent, would be an equivalent for the lols, which would be fuilain
ed bv the purchases of foreigners, at a low value. Not to repeat,
that governmental purchases, to be honorable, ought to be preced
ed by a provision. Delay, by diflcminating doubt, would fink
the price of stock ; and as the temptation to foreign speculations,
from the lownefc of the price, would be too great to be neglected,
mi lions would-probably be loft to the United States.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Sccrttary of tbt Tnafury.
fOR THE CAZiLTI t OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO, ..... .
THE management of the public debt in anlio
neft and suitable manner is a fubjedt. on which
much of our character, as a nation, depends. The
government under the confederation entered in
to solemn stipulations withthofe who loaned them
monies—served thenvin the field—fupplied them
with provisions, &c.—And the former CongreHes
(hewed a disposition on all occafionsto make good
those sacred engagements, but had not the power
to draw forth the refourcesof the country.
The good people of these States finding that
the powers verted in Congress by the former arti
cles of confederation were very inadequate to
thoie things which were indifpenfablv requiflte
to good government, have eftablilhed a New Con
fHtution. The scene is now changed, and we be
368
hold'wiili pie a (We a system of government, ade
quate to all the purposes of the nation. Justice
is expected to flow in pure ftyeams from this foun
tain, and that all the purppfes esprelTed in the
preamble to the Conflitution will be fully anfwtn -
ed. Now may the citizens of the .United States
contemplate with pleasure a government, chaste
anil pure —but any departure from public promi
ses would give a wound to thefvftem, whicli tiV.c
itfelf cannot cure.
By one of the articles in this NewSyltem -11
« debts contracted and engagements entered in
n t0 before rlie adoption of this Conftitucioy,
•' iliall be as valid against the United States
" under this Constitution, as under the confedev
" ation." Now may the public creditors, who
have so long waited for payment, and who harvc
exhibited examples of patience unknown in any
other country, expert that the promises made
them by the former government will be fulfilled.
No dotfrine of expediency can be admitted sos
any tbe least departure from the public engage
ments these proniifes mull be considered as qi>-
li s atory as those which the people are under to
ttpport the government.
But it is said by some persons that- the govern
ment must now be cautious what promiffes they
make, for a puntfiual fulfillment oftheir engage
ments will be expecfted—and any departure there
from would be attended with fatal confequenocs
to the nation, so tliis I would lay the
caution is neceflary in making the promiles, ar.d
an exatft fulfillment will, and ought to be expect
ed ; but let me alk, is not the present govei w
ment asfacr.edly bound to fulfill the engagements
made by the United States under the old confe
deration, as the members who may couipofe riic
government in 1796 will be to fulfil the engage
ments which may be made the prefeju year
moll certainly they ai c—and i t pall pj omiies ijiay
be departed trom,whowiU be furetylV the future.
But it is said revenue cannot be found to dii
charge die cxpence of government, and pay so
great interest on their debts (as they have pto
mifed) without too much burthening the people.
Suppose this to be the cafe at this time, are we not
rising in importance, daily increasing in number
—and is it not highly probable that m.onicd men
will emigrate to our country, when they find that
their property will be fafe here—that the publ/c
faith is sacredly kept—and that 110 deviation from
public promises has taken place lince the people
eltablifhed a government adequate to alltljfi pur
poses of the Union.
It has been frequently said tliat the Report, ol
the Secretary of the Treasury difcoyers great a
bilities—in this fentiiuent 1 mod readily join—
and add, that I have the liigheft opinion ol Ins
integrity—his determination to do honor to his
country—and justice to her creditors ; but at the
fame time 1 do not wholly approve of his plan rei
pefting the public debts, because I think it a de
parture from the promise of fix pr. cent, and that
the propofedloan must be considered, 111 a certain
degree as compulsory. . .
The Secretary propose* four pr. cent. "terett,
and this is equal to fix pr. cent. 011 two thuds ot
the debt. Let it now be proposed thattwo thuds
of the debt, in the hands of each mdividual, be
funded at fix pr. cent, and for the other thud
he receive a certificate, purporting that tie -
ted States are indebted in such luui, 11 c 1 *
promise to pay, with interest, at fix pr. cent, and
that in the firil feflion in the year 1 795' 1
provide funds for paying the annual i nterc "'
the rate of fix pr. cent, on such of those cerufi
cates as may be then unredeemed. ■>
venue from the Post Office, and the an
United States, be considered as a finking >
and employed in such manner as may be thong t
best, in purchasing the evidences of the debt so
the Union.—and lit all the debt, whether funded
or unfunded, be redeemable at the pletfure ?t
the government. By this means may t e
al Faith be preserved inviolate—public ere
be fatisfied when they fee government doni,, ■
in its power to make good fjrmer engagem '
and it is probable that the day may not e ,
distant, when the National Credit being ftwg
established, government may propose to ner ■
ditors to reduce their interest to f°ui pr- .
borrow money at that rate of intereft,an p.
the. principal to those who may not wifli tor
the interest :In such cafe, and only fucl 's a " f th
vernment propose a reduction of * f 3 ; t h
propriety, and without a violation of publi • •
.he
ight
f the
A LIVERY STABLE, ' '
Kept by BENJAMIN POWELL, at the upper end of J SJtEf
Striet, No. !ii, near iheTeaAVatlk _PP us■mf■ _ ,
7HERE hetakesinHorfes by the night,wec^.
VV month or year, at the ™oft moderate rates .hat can be
forded. Hethanks hisformer caftomgrs for their hvoii,■«£ «
ters himfclf that care and attention wll again be paid to g
tlemen, as may put their horses in his charge. Boar ing o
ing may be had by applying a& above. E • •. _——•
And poffefiion given the ift of April,' for one ot ir -°- >a,
miles and half from this city, on the > nur
-THAT New TWO STORI" HOUSE-four
Rooms on a floor ; with fix lire places; * ' w ith
Well of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of truu i - > .
acres of Land, themoft pail Meadow. 1 orpart^ 11 *
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane. l\w-iorß : < u .