[No. XCI.-j
THE TABLET
(Continued from the last number.)
<t are apt to form general couclufiotis from too
f mall a number of particular cases."
AS fonie striking instances can be produced
of the hardfliips fullained by original
claimants, it leads us to imagine that original
creditors, who have alienated their certificates,
are aclafs of people, entitled to general relief.
But those who are intimately acquainted with the
history of public securities must have farmed a
very different opinion. The heaviest lolles that
have accrued by the fall of stocks, have happen
ed to intermediate holders. 1 know a person
who purchased thirty thousand dollars in final
settlements, at the army, for ten ihillings on the
pound : He fold them, two years afterwards, for
one fourth part of the sum he paid for them.
This diftinguilhed fulfercr makes little complaint
and excites 110 pity. The soldiers who fold their
claims 011 unfavorable terms, excited attention
because they complained loudly. Many of the
certificates, it fliould be remembered, were ori
ginally ifiued in finall sums ; and an hundred
thousand dollars fold at a disadvantage brings
forward numerous individuals to complain ; and
yet the aggregate lodes complainantsbear
no proportion to the aggregate amount of certi
ficates, fold on beneficial terms by original credi
tors, Those who'negociated their paper early
got a good price. They are contented and no
thing is said about them.
The most considerable branch of the domestic
debt consists of loan certificates. These must
have fold without any discount, during the whole
period that the loans were opened. It is evident
that while the United States were daily making
new loans,certificates must have been negotiated at
par; for if a person could purchase at market,at any
given discount, why should he lodge his money
at an office and take out securities at par. The fail
proves itfelf, that while tlie public could fell cer
tificates at par, no person was compelled to fell at
much discount. The principal transfers that ori
ginal holders offuch certificates have made, must
have been while they commanded a good price.
The army debt L that, in which, the principal
injury is supposed to have happened to the origi
nal claimants. There are perhaps more hard
cases among the soldiers than among any other
portion of the creditors ; but Hill the aggregate
amount of their loss is not so considerable as has
been imagined. The soldiers of the main army
have not generally any reason to complain.
They anticipated their pay long before it was re
ceived, and obtained from eight to ten {hillings
on the pound. There were many traders and
{peculators about the main army, who raised
a competition in the purchases, that operated
in favor of the soldier. Tliofe troops that were
detached from the main army, had not the bene
fit of felling to {peculators, in such feafon,asto
obtain the bed price. It happened unfortunate
for the southern army under the command of
General Greene, that they were not in a country,
where adventurous monied men speculated in
public paper. By this means, that part of the
army made great Sacrifices, in the disposal of their
securities. This was unavoidable ; but it does
not authorize a conclusion that other creditors
who were not so situated, fuffered fhnilar incon
•veniencies. As these fads are generally known
to men of observation, 1 have no occasion to en
large.
In my next number, I will examine the quefti
on,whether original creditors have generally been
compelled byneceflity to fell their certificates.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENJCO,
THIS is an awful crifi?. The decision of Congress on the pub
lic debt renders it eminently so. To retain the confidence of
the zvife, the well-informed and the honeji of the -whole world, Ame
ricans and Foreigners, is the task afligncd them. To their native
flock of wisdom and virtue let them carefully, afliduoufly and
anxiously strive to add all the information they can obtain A
■well-informed confcicnce is the best human guide. The Legifla
lor who errs, with that conduttor, is lightly censured by his con
llituents, and will be forgiven by Heaven.
However solicitous Congress may be for public credit as the in
dispensable means of maintaining the future prosperity of the na
tion, they mud not lay themfekes open to opinions that they have
done more than the preservation of public credit requires. An
enquiry fliould be inilituted to determine the fubjlantialjujlicc of
the original contract, for public credit requires 110 more to be ren
dered to any man, whether a purchaser, a lender, or a Tenderer of
iervices. Gratitude may fugged more, but public crcdit will be
completely maintained by the performance of substantial justice
fairly ond accurately afcertaified. Far be it from rulers of a ge
nerous people to fi'!l the hallowed voice of gratitude ; but let us
PUBUSHF.D WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
No. XCI.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1790
suspend our obedience to its di&ates till the more sacred rc-quiG- |
tions ot juifice be fulfilled. It may be neceiTjry to exemplify the'
idea here contemplated. Many contratts were formed in August:
1777, for example, between the United States and individuals,
which, by the present regulations, are considered as specie, tho it
is a fatteafily to be ascertained, that the money by which the ob
ligation was created in some instances, and in which it could have
been justly discharged in all the reft, was really and truly worth
but 35 to 40 pr. cent. Does then substantial justice require more
to be paid ? Does public credit require more to be funded ? Will
a well-informed conscience permit the holder of the certificate to
ask more? Will a wife legislator, with a pcr/ctt idea of public
faith, if at the fame time he has a due regard for theeafe and pro
perty of the people, confentto give more. If Congress ihould fi
nally allow one hundred dollars in specie for that which in no way
whatever would have brought, on theday of the contratt, more than
thirty five or forty dollars, will they manifeft to their constituents
and to foreign nations, the necessary ability to cftimate the tfue
value of their obligations, and a fufnciency of that prudent regard
to economy, which, while it is perfettly reconcilable with itrift
and substantial justice, is indispensably necessary to preserve the
public confidence ? Will they not appear willingly to facrifice
their constituents to a fwoln demand of mistaken or miftated Jus
tice ? Let us consider what will be the consequence of such opin
ions arising among foreigners. It is to be feared that they will
think us an inconsiderate or neceflitous nation, with whom any
terms may be made for ready money ; or that our councils are
corrupted, and that from venal iMufes hath proceeded a law,
which, while it grants them unnecelTarily 60 or 65 pr. cent, pro
vides the fame for secret owners of certificates among the members
of our government. Let us also well consider what vtould be the
Gonfequence of such opinions Ihould they arise among the people
of Ahierica.
If an examination were carefully made into the operation of
this unexceptionable totich stone of substantial justice, upon the va
rious debts of the union and of the States, a great and rightful re
duction of their immense amount will be the consequence. Let it
not be said that it will produce too much delay, for justice is the
obje&. Let not an ill judged economy of time occasion a pro
fusion of public money. Let not the husbandman be twice con
demned to pav, by thefweat of his brow, the debts occasioned by
the late diftrefsful war. NECKER.
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, FEB. 16, 1790,
IN committee of the ■whole, on the Report of
the Secretary of the Treasury.—Mr. Madison's
motion for a discrimination under consideration.
Mr. J \ckson, observed that although as
young a politician as any on the floor, and that
he was convinced the weight of experience was
against hi in—on so important a national subject
he could not be silent 7 ysrticularly as he had the
honor of seconding the gentleman's niorijn (Mr.
Madison) now before the house ; that it would
be therefore expelled he should bring forward
his reasons, and the principles which actuated
hiin to it. He confefl'ed that had he not before
leaned to the fide of a discrimination, the argu
ments of that able gentleman would have induc
ed him to support the plan he had brought for
ward. He was induced ou another motive to
rife, ttjfhow that the numerous arguments of the
gentlemen in opposition yesterday, had not con
vinced him of the impracticability orinjuftice of
the composition.
The house said he, were told much yesterday of
the moral obligation we are under of paying our
debts, and the impolicy and injustice of interfer
ing with private contracts. The obligation, I |
believe is no where denied ; the debt is of the |
highest nature ; it is the price of our indepen
dence ; the only difficulty is, how that debt shall
be discharged. I would here observe, that the
jufticeof the plan before the house has not been
so fully objected to as the impracticability, al
though it has been aflerted unjust by some of the
gentlemen who have spoken.
1 will consider the justice of the proposition.
The house has been told the nature of those con
tracts, and the valuable considerations of them.
The contract, falls under the legal terms of do,
ut des ; 1 give that thou mayeft give—or, I give
that 1 may receive. In all contracts there are
three requisites : 1 ft. The agreement; ad. The
consideration ; 3d. The thing to be done or
omitted. The consideration is, to be an equiva
lent or full recompence for the thing to be per
formed Let us examine what this ihing to be
done is, and what these considerations are* The
creditor, who has to perform the third article of
the contract, held 20s. which was to be given for
a valuable consideration ; what was this considera
tion ! 2s. 6d. I argue, that if this 20s. was
worth no more than 2s. 6d. the contract was fair
and substantial ; but if gentlemen carry the idea
farther, and declare this 20s. was money of equal
value with the 2s. 6d. given, 1 contend that the
contract was destroyed : equity would believe,
would declare it an unrighteous bargain, that
there was not an adequate compensation, and
would set aside the contract.
But a gentleman (Mr. Lawrance) has rold us
that equity has fixed rules, and that none of those
rules would apply* I ngree with him, that it is
incite
PRICK THREE IJULLARS PR. ANN
as necessary for a court of equity to be confined
by rules as a court of law ; but exclusive of the
foimer cafe 1 have mentioned, there are two
others under which the prefeut cafe conies—mis
fortune and oversight. I would quote, Biack-
Itone, diftl not expecft, as in former instances, to
be complained of by that gentleman for it. Here,
lias been one of the greateit of misfortunes ; a
calamity attendinga whole community, a govern
ment unable to pay its debts. Here is likewise
an oversight equal to it. Is it possible for the
poor soldier, uninformed, to forefee, when he
fold his certificates, that they would rife to the
jirefent value ? or that he could anticipate the
present day, and a second revolution ? Equity,
then, requires some irtode of justice, and tlxe tri
bunal exists somewhere. 1 believe with my
friend from Pennsylvania (Mr. Scott) that we arc
the tribunal ; for equity multl exiit somewhere,
lor the government is at an end. The courts of*
law, and common courts of equity, have no power
to interfere ; tliey cannot compel, us to
mode of funding our debts. The injury cries
aloud for redress; iniquity is in tlicland, and we
are bound by every prinoiple of justice, to step
forward, and do what justice we can.
But perfect justice cannot be done, fay gentle
men, and therefore we Ihould not attempt the bu
siness at all. The consequences of this doctrine
are fatal—they tend to a deprivation ofall courts
of juftice—for there is no instance which can be
adduced, where what is termed perfect justice ii
reconciled to the opinions ofall, and where some
objection cannot be raised.
But there is no government on earth, fay gentle
men, which ever interfered with aifignable con
tracts. This doctrine has been both countenan
ced and denied by gentlemen in the opposition.
In their relation of the South Sea scheme, one
gentleman told us that it did not apply, because
the government was not concerned, and that it
was in consequence of their agents villainous prac
tices only ; another acknowledged the govern
ment was concerned, and bid us take warning
from it. I contend that the cafe is in point; but
if there is any difference, it is in its exceeding
the bounds of the present. Ihe government of
England were accefliiry—the parliament of ling
land received 7,000,0001. for the privilege of per
mitting the company to take in the public debts
—and allowed them to fund many millions on a
footing not subject to their private debts ; yet
after all this countenance, the omnipotence of
parliament aflumed the fuprcme powers of equity
—compelled coinpenfations, dilcharged debtors,
and punished those who had done no more than
comply with the letter of the law.
This do&rine was not then novel: ill 1712 par
liament interfered between the Royal African
Company, and its creditors—not when the com
pany was in a state of bankruptcy, but for years
before. The different nations of the world, be
tides, notwithstanding what gentlemen have ad
vanced with refpetft to the constitution, and the
impairing contrails—and the states here, have fol
lowed it, have palled statutes of limitation to ac
tions, although it was not implied in contratfjs.
The house has a right likewise to guard againlt
frauds.
Public justice, he observed, has not been done ;
the soldiers, the original creditors, have not been
paid; they have received but 2s. 6d. and there
was 20s. due them. Many ofthofe creditors, and
the war-worn foldier,are pining in retirement, in
the most cruel situations, and condemning the in
justice of that country which, in consequence ef
their exertions, are legislating here this day.
If then public justice (which he contended the
plan promoted) Ihould be done, public credit
would follow—for justice is reason, and credit is
a natural consequence of reason ; if the interest,
as gentleman have told the house, is paid in pa
per or not, I do not conceive that the plan would
in the least affedl it. It has not injured Britain
in the example before the house.
Public faith, the is informed, ir>akes no
diftin<£Hon ; the public faith, is pledged to the
soldiery and citizens, who furnifhecl supplies.
It never has been fulfilled, 2s. 6d. was not the
20s. they were entitled to. This principle was
even fettled at home by that very Congress, some
gentleman pay so much honor toi The soldiers
were paid with depreciated money during the
war ; that Congress reliquidated their accounts.
A gentleman (Mr. Smith) has observed, that
this plan places those who have alienated in a
better situation than the present original holder,
by adding the 10s. to what he formerly received.
I contend that the present original creditor would
not be injured, nor would thej grumble at feeingjiiftice done their more diftrelled bretherli; those
who fold, did 2: in molt instances from neceflity,
thoi'e who hold at present are the more wealthy.
The fame gentleman has observed, that had
the market price risen to 20s. that this plan could
not Liave been' adopted. 1 allow the difficulty
.which would arii'o, but contend that in that cafe
the public faith would not have been discharged ;
but the cafe is the reverse, the hoafe knows the
the market price, and has it within their compass
todo jultice. But, fays the gentleman, tliefoldi
er might have kept it to the present moment, and
then it would have been worth the 20s. Unfortu
nate, foolifh soldier, indeed ! Why didlt thou not
lteel thy feelings against the wife of thy bofoin,
and behold thy beloved children without a mur
mur or an exertion, ftrayingon a dunghill ? then
thouinigheft have kept thy nominal 20s. until it
became a real one. But is this the language of
jnercy, or of justice ? what will a man not give in
exchange for his life? and, if he has feelings,
for that of .his wife and children i
But public opinion is vague, fay gentlemen ;
and the house has been cautioned againit pam
phlets and newspapers, as if the plan had been
composed from thence. The abilities of the ho
norable gentleman will give a ferions refutation
to this charge. For ftij parr, I have the candor
to afl'ure the gentleman that I have takes hints,
and that I always will take hints, whilst in public
life, from any valuable information given in ei
ther : like the berry on the brier, if I could pluck
it wirhfafety, I would ; and, if a valuable hint is
encircled with a torrent of abuse, I would accept
the hint whilst I would despise the remainder.
Sir, fuid he, public opinioh divided us from
Britain ; public opinion induced us to oppose her
arms; public opinion induced us to change the
formerfor the present conllitution ; publicopini
on brought nshere tolegiflate; and public opi
nion can replace usinour former lituations ; and
however public opinion may be censured bj
some gentlemen, 1 trust she never will need an
advocate on this floor.
This public opinion is in favor of the original
creditor ; it is impossible to be otherwise. The
people of America are a grateful people, and
they cannot, with indifference, view the earnings
of those who cftablifhed their independence con
verted to the coffers of the weal thy and ambitions.
The speculator is already more than fatisfied, if it
is only on the principle of interest which has ac
crued for 6, 7 and 8 years pail, and which they
have speculated on since.
Conceiving the objections raised by the oppo
iition refuted, the next confederation is the im
practicability.
The gentleman that brought the plan forward,
is more cJpable of answering the numerous obAi
cles thrown in by the phalnax of orators yester
day ; burl lhall undertake to anfvver a few of
them.
A gentleman (Mr. Boudinot) has declared it
impracticable, because thequarter inafters of the
late army, and the clerks of office, received the
certificates in their own names ; and, as an in
stance, quotes himftlf as having received large
funis in that manner. Bur, are not the books,
the documents remaining Is there not evidence
still existing ofihe original creditor ? That gen
tleman's own objection proves it. We will call
him as an evidence ; and there is 110 doubt but
mankind are not so debased, but that many o
rherfimilar confeffions will come forward. Be
iides, there can be a touchstone applied equal to
what the highest court of equity used, and there
is little fear but the truth would be found out,
and a detection of the fraudulent claim. The
impracticability, is out of the question, with re
fpe<ft to the speculator, who would receive the
highest market price.
But the public accounts are many of them loft.
Make it worth the time of the oiigiual creditor,
anil this would be 111 a great measure obviated.
Again, fays a gentleman (Mr. Sedgwick) the
certificates are in ficftitious names, and he
knows an instance in Bolton : then that gentle
man is likewise good evidence ; and the claim,
from his eftimony, would be invalidated ; but if
nor, the fame equitable proof would be required.
Mr. Jackson observed, that here, Proteus like,
rhe gentlemen changed their reafoiiing, and de
clined the public would be gainers by the mode.
He) however, aflertcd that it would not be the
cafe by their account. If rhe claimant did not
come forward, lie could not contend that the
public, not the (peculator, ought to be the gainer ;
that the public here, would pofl'efsthe fame right
as to an eitate left without an heir.
But it has been advanced, that th: money would
ba again genet ally dillributed among the poorer
clasS of people, and that speculators would be fly
ing to every part of the union to reap second
crops. Sucli a dHli'ibution would be a public
Welling, and by the lueafure, the tears of the af
fliifted would be dried up, and the widowed heart
be made to sing for joy. The leflbn I believe
lias been now taught, and will prevent the ex
tremes of speculation in future. The second crop
cannot be fu injuiions to the coinm unity, or prove
so plentiftiJ au liarveli to the fpectilator, as the
'jfifU.
It is neceiTary, it is laid, and we shall confe
quenrly have an host of officers. Mr. Jackson
deuiedthat neceflity : and there are numbers of
officers in the treasury department who might at
tend to the business; and a small fee, which -mould
be cheerfully paid, would find officers, if necrjjary, oj
rcfponjibility and char after in the different jlates
But it is an ex pofl falio law. This I deny to be
the cafe : no law has yet palled for funding the
debt ; we have a right to fund the debt as we
please. §ome gentlemen, oppofedto the present
principle,join the Secretary in opinion for lower
ing the iniereft; we have leen threats, under that
idea, not to fund at all ; and we cannot compel
subscriptions without the holders consent.
It is again laid, that if government do this
now, they may take tile fame ltep hereafter : this,
is reasoning on lunnife. It is not probable, if
witnin the sphere of pollibility, that America will
ever have a debt in the fame lituation. Loans, if
exigencies should arise, will be procured on ade
quate provisions ; and foreigners, from viewing
our justice and the unanimous resolve refpediing
them, will place a value and dependence onus.
If America is wife, said he, few wars will arise;
fituatedas we are, in a remote country from the
warlike nations of Europe, the wars we may ex
pert will be with a few tribes of Indians ; great
loans will therefore not be required. But, fup
polingall these poliible exigencies, thefoldier is as
neccflary a requisite as the fupp/y : will hetruft
again your broken faith?
The gentleman from Maflachufetts [Mr. Ames]
has charged the favourers of" the motion with
church-yard terrors ; with what propriety I can
hot judge, unless that gentleman, like a man pas
sing through a church yard saw an apparition, and
had the iinpreffion so strongly on his mind that
he infilted on it that all his neighbours saw it also.
The dangers that have been magnified are on
the other fide. We have been told of the ijs. in
the pound, paid by foreigners in Holland ; and
one gentleman (Mr. Gerry) has denounced a
gainit us the terrors of the ultima lex rcgnum.
Are we, laid he, independent or not ? If we are,
we have a right to modify our own debt. What
would Britain or Holland fay, ftiould we interfere
with their funds ? Would they not suppose us
deprived of reason, or laugh at our imbecility in
attempting it ? Thole who have purchased in
our domeitic funds are on the fame footing with
our own citizens. If wc art not independent it
is high time to make ourfelvesfo, whatever pow
er might oppofeus. The gentleman who brought
forward the motion, has been charged with ad
drefling the palfions : this might be retaliated ;
for declamation has been used for argument on
the other fide.
Equity, said lie, if the cause be equal, will fuf
fer, in. many instances, the heart to decide. The
gentleman from S. C. (Mr. Smith) has declared,
that what he has seen written on the fubjeift had
been as much on the one fide as 011 the other ; if
so, the heart, in this instance, ought to govern ;
and gratitude and humanity,its noblest principles,
are in favorof the driginal creditor. 1 havebeen
said he, against the funding principle at this
present moment ; byt as the house has determi
ned on it, it becomes my duty to acquiesce, but
011 principles of honor and justice, And it is to
be remembered, that the landholder of America
is the person ultimately to pay this debt, and his
property will be mortgaged for it ; for although
commerce may immediately supply the revenue
the landholder' is the consumer : 1 therefore
hope the debt will be funded 011 principles coil
genial with their wilhes. That class of people,
when they contemplate their independent situa
tion and their domestic happiness, although they
would revolt at the idea of filling the pockets of
the speculator, will cheerfully advance their pro
portion for the payment of the soldier and the
citizen, whose exertions have procured them the
bleilings they enjoy.
Mi. White fail] he agreed with '.he gentleman from Massachu
setts (Mr. Sedgwick) in the principle, that if a contrast is made for
a valuable confederation, and with the understanding of both par
ties, the legiflaiute ought not to interfere in it; an<fihould it ap
pear that the tranfa&ion, between the original holders of certifi
cates and the purchaftrs, was a fair one, the dispute in his mind
was at an end ; but 110 gentleman had attempted to (hew that this
was che cafe, though all the arguments against a difcriminatiou
were founded on that supposition. Perhaps it might be said, that
every argument ought to be coufidered as fair, uniefs the contrary
be proved ; but wheie one man has obtained the property of ano
ther, to the amount of iool. for iol. orial. 10. the tranfa&ion, he
said, mult be explained to him, before he wou d belie- e it to' be
honcft. What was the prcrent cafe? The ; original holder.', who
have parted with the evidences of their debts, were principally
common soldiers, militia-men and farmers, in indigent circum
ftancts. Who were the puichafers ? , The Secretary°of the Treal
fury tills us, that the molt enlightened among our citizens are the
crcditois ot the Unittd States ; common soldiers cannot be com
prehended in this description. What mult have parted, he allied"
between the soldier, the militia-manor farmer, and the purchaser?
Whatrealon could the purchaser assign for offering iol. for a pa
per which lpecified an obligatisnto pay iool. ? I; mult be fomel
tl.ing like this : The dates will nrver pay you ; if they do, it will
be at a very remote period, so long as to be useless to vou • but to
relieve your present neceflities, I will take the rifle, on myfelf and
give you id. Now, could any enlightened man, he asked in
1783, or atanj lubfequcnt peiwd, in which time the transfers
took place, believe that the inuefjtudence of America was in dan
ger ? or that the debis wimid not be provided for ?
He laid he knew so many mfbncts of tranfaflions like that
which he had stated, that lie doubted not the greater part of cc
tificatsi had been obtained by limilar means. Indeed he could
:iut coucuVc any other by which they could be obtained
562-
Kc fa id we were perhaps without a prcccdcnt in any other n
tion that would be applicable ; but he dehred gentlemen to <l~
termine for them selves, whether, under such circumstances th"
man who had rendered fcrvict;, to his country should be deprived
of his reward, or whether the purchaser ought to receiver M
fa;d it was viry different In the common tranfa&ions of life If
a man purchaled a tra£bofland for toool. paid the money, and took,
a boud for the conveyance, a third peifou, by informing tnc uui
chalcr that the feller could «ot make a title, or by other taJi'c Jai
gcltions, should obtain a transfer of the bond iu consideration or
tool, and get a conveyance and polfcflion of the land ; yet, on re
paying the 1001. the conveyance would be fct aside, and he would
be rdlortd to his land.
Mr. While gave f ime other instances of a iimilar nature j'
said he believed, if a. bond, whether du;, or to becomc due '
aHigncd under such circumstances, that the obligee would b '' 'ft"
fiable 111 coiittftmg it in a lourtof law, and that the injured oaf ~
would, on application, obtain redrcfs. He laid, that m cases °f
extreme hardlhip, courts ol equity would give relief without
preli proof of fraud. That this was the law of the kincd"'
of Great Britain, and was agreeable to the principles Q f t |, e J??
law. That the Roman jurills, he believed, had fixed the pointof
extreme hardship to one half of the value of the property uansfc
ed ; in England the court was to judge.
He said he did not thinkthe present holders were (triply CWi _
tied to any thing more than the original purchafcrs: That her
the maxim quoted on the other fide of the question, that the it
fignce Hands in the fhocsof theafligner, properly applied : You
cannot place auother on more advantageous ground than that on
which you fknd yourfclf: That the plea of an innocent pufcha
fer could Hot take place; the nature of the transition must in
pear evident to every man concerned ill a transfer.
He said the reverse of this did not hold : That an affiance w *
not always in as advantageous a situation is the affigner -"and i''
ltanced the cafeof his testator's bond at an under value; and wt."'
he said, could not retain in his hands the amount of the sum fj'
cifiedtn the bond, which the creditor might have recovered hnr
only the sum which he actually paid for the bond.
Mr. White said, that though in his opinion the present holder,
of certificates were ftriftly entitled to no more than what had
been paid to the original holders, yet—as an invefti* ati on of th«
circumftanee would be involved 111 inextricable difficulties and
finee we were (as had been verv properly observed and we'll «
prefledbv a gentleman from S. C. Mr. Burke! fettling the bufinefc
ol a family—he was willing to acqutefce in the motion of his col
league. He said x that arbitrators often gave the injured pmv lels
than his due, for peace fake ; and he was willing t® afi oi» the
fame principle. He doubted not but courts ofjulhce would »ive
relief in particular cases; but, in a matter of that magnitude" he
thought the interference of the legislature very proper. The S
Sea business he thought, in that j-efpefl, a good precedent. Two
gentlemen had mentioned the bufin-fs: he would notlaythevhad
miftated the traufaaion, but he thought their accounts imnerfefl
They said they had the documents under their hands; he wished
they had been read ; he had t hem not, but would state from me
mory what he thought applicable to the cafe in question. The
directors of the S. S. Company, by variout arts, induce the peo
pie to give as high as toool. for 1001. (lock; in many ii.stances
the money was paid, in others it was contrasted to be paid. A
gentleman has said, that Parliament interfered not to violate but
to perfe&the contract: But whit did parliament do ? They' con
fifcatcd the eftatcs of the directors, and applied the amount to the
relief ol those who had aflually paid their money, and fufnendci
suits agamft those who had not paid ; and authorised the debtors
to discharge their debts by the payment of 10 per cent, er the
real value of the (lock fubferibed for. But if he was wrongin
fuppoluig the present holders ought toftand in che place of the firft
purchasers, they could be considered 'only as having purchased in
market, a paper of indefinite vjlue : if then tbey get the hieheft
market price, they arc not injured.
(To be continuedj
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22.
Mr. Schureman prefen'ted a petition of James M'Corab, rcta
twr to certain inventions, which was read.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for enumerating the
inhaoitants of the United States, were read.
The enumeration is to commence on the firft of August next,
and to be com pleated withinnine months. Returns to be made
on or before the firft of September, tjgr. The second schedule
was ftruek out by the Senate; these amendments were agreed to
excepting those which reduced the compensations
The oiderof the day being called for, the House went into a
committee of the whole on the report of the Secretary of the
Trrafury. *
The que ft ion being put upon Mr. Madison's amendment to the
second resolution, brought in by Mr. Fitzfimons, it was negatived
by a large majority.
Ihe question on the second resolution was then put; several
amendments were proposed, which were negatived,and the refo
uuon carried in the affirmative without amendment, viz,
Ke'.olved, That permanent funds ought to be appropriated
tor the payment of the interest on, and the gradual difchar-e ok*
the domestic debt of the United States."
The third resolution was then read, viz.
Resolved, rhatthe arrears of intereil, including indents.issu
ed in payment thereof, ought to be provided for on the fame
terms with the principal of the said debt."
Mr. Lee proposed an amendment, " (hat appropriations of the
lands in the Western Teritory be alfigned for the purpose of dif
chargmg the interest due on the debt of the United States."
This amendment was not seconded.
Mr. Gerry faid,that it appeared to him that the indents, in the
evera tate ireafuries, and which thro negligence have not been
paid into the Public Tieafury agreeable to the requifnions of the
ate Congress, ought not to be included in the provision. He mo
ved an amendment to the resolution to that purport ; Thisocca
10,"eu con siderable debate ; but the motion was finally negatived.
I he queltion on the third resolution was then put,' and carried
without amendment by a large majority.
Ihe fourth resolution was then read, viz.
" Resolved, That the debts of the fefpeftive States oaght.
With the con lent of the creditors, to be alTumcd and provided for
bjr the United States."
It was then moved that the committee rife, &c. which motion
was adopted.
A melfage from the Senate, informing the House that they recede
Iron, their amendments to the enumeration bill, which had been
dilagreed to by the House. Also, that the Senate have accepted of
the ceflton of territory made by the State of North-Carolina; in
which acceptance thev request the concurrence of the House.
memorial of the commissioners for fettling accounts be
ween the United States and the individual States refpefting the
a ariesof the Clerks in their office, was read the second time,
and referred to a committee of three, viz. Mr. Gerry, Mr. Trum,
bull, and Mr. Goodhue.
The House then adjourued.
TUESDAY, FEB. 23.
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury on the petition of
rancis Bailey was read—this report dates that the invention of
LP""' 0 "" 111 typographical printing may in their application,
e oer the pernicious practice of counterfeiting much more dil
icult than It has heretofore been—that the request of the peti
loner, to be employed in using his invention in the public fer
t"bl' " to 'he discretion of the Legislature—laid on the
In committee of the whole House on the report of the Secrs«
tarv of th- Treasury. r
Mr. 3cnfon in the Chair.The resolution for the aflumption of the State debts under con
federation.
The affirmative of this resolution was fupporttd by Messrs Law
ranse, Ames, Sherman, Clymer, Burke, Goodhue, Smith, (S. C.)
Fitzfimons and Gerry.
And opposed by Messrs Livermore and Stone.
The difcuifton was continued till 2 o'clock, when on motion of
Mr. Lawrance the committee rofc—fo that no decision was had on
the resolution.
Mr. Fitzfimons of the Committee appointed .'or the purpose,
brought in a bill providing for the regulation of the Poll-Office,
which was read the firft time.
lii committee of the whole on the bill to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization. The committee made Come progress in
the difcuflion of this bill : but rose without completing it, and
the House adjourned.
EUROPE
MANIFESTO of the PATRIOTS in AUSTRIAN
FLANDERS.
The People of Brabant, through the organ of the
Ecclesiastical State and of the third order of
the three chief Cities, in conjun&ion with ma-
Ny Members of the Nobleile, \
To all thofi who shall fts or hear read thsfc prtfents,
- HEALTH.
FINDING ourselves under the hard neceifityof
declaring the Emperor Jofephll. Duke of Lor
r»in, Brabant, and Lemberg, to have forfeited his
right of sovereignty and dominion over the laid
countries, it is our indispensable duty to exhort
and recommend to all in general, and to every
one in particular, to concur in the common fafe
ty of their country ; in consequence we exprelsly
warn and forbid every one to take part with thof'e
who belong to the government of the said late
Duke, or with the late Duke liimfelf under pain
of being puniflied as an enemy to his country. .
We in like manner forbid the disturbing of
the public repose and tranquillity under whatso
ever pretex , on pain of being prosecuted and
puniihed as enemies of the nation.
We exhort all and every citizen able to bear
arms in defence of the liberty of the nation to
fend their names to Chiefs established and known,
that inftru&ions may be given them, and they
may repair to the place ailigned them, and fub
niit themselves to the orders to be given them.
On the we forbid all crouds and
mobs tending pillage ; declaring morever,
that all convidlef e of pillaging, or attempting to
pillage any hou „• or shop, even belonging to an
en jmy of the country, (hall be punifheu the fame
as an enemy to tLe country.
We declare tl'at all who (hall be convi<fled of
layiug any plot, or holding discourse tending to
favour the defpotick plans of the said late Duke,
lhall be punished rigorously as disturbers of the
public tranquillity, and as enemies to the coun
try.
We command and order the present Maoifefto
to be printed, publiihed, and fixed up, in the Pro
vince of Brabant and its dependencies, to the
end it may be known, and that no one may pre
tend ignorance of it. We give it in charge to
all those whom it may concern to observe, and
caui'e to be observed, the contents of these pre
sents, for the good and fafety of the country re
quire it.
And as the great seal of the state is seized by
force by the said former Duke of Brabant, and as
we have authorized, by our manifelto of this day,
our Agent Plenipotentiary to make use of the
seal of his arms in lieu of the seal of the States,
until it be in our power, we have furnifhed the
said seal.
Done at Hoogftraten in Brabant, OA. 24,1 789
(Signed) H.C.N. VAN DKR NOOT.
PARIS.
Oil the ift of September a letter was read in
the National Ailembly of France from the officers
of the regiment of Touraine, of which the Vis
count de Mirabeau i 3 Colonel, Hating, that an
old soldier of 95 years old, was presented to the
King lalt year at Paris, and had a pension of 300
livres granted him, desires to resign that pension
to his country. So sublime an example was in-
Hantly followed by all the officers, and, amonglt
others, by M. de JYlontalembert, who had his for
the loss of an eye in a naval engagement last war in
America. The Aflemply, as might be amagined;
would not accept of the old warrior's renuncia
tion, but ordered the fac'l to be transcribed on
their regilters
Nov. 24. The harbour of Cherbourgh is now so
tar conipleateil as to be able to contain 103 fail of
line of battle lliips, atid to screen them from the
l'evereft gales. There are 200 veilels conllantly
employed linking stones and rubbish to Itrengtli
eii the foundation.
The American trade grows better in every
sense ; the order| increase, and the payments are
much more certain than heretofore.
The productions of our country increase in va
lue in America daily. TheJalt ftiips from Phil
adelphia, and other ports, brought large sums foi
our merchants.
The representatives of the Commons ot Paris
Jndifted, on Thursday lull, at the Chatlet, M.
JBarentin, the late Keeper of the Seals, M. Pay
fegur, late Secretary at War, Marflial Broglio,
and Mefl. Autichamp and Befenval.
Paris is supposed to bp provided with corn for
{yc months at leait.
LONDON, Dec. 6
A letier from Madrid, of the 9th of November,
fays that the Court had actually met tlie preced
ing day in the palace of the Arc'nbifltop of Tolede.
1 he Count de Campomanes, who prelided in the
Aflembly as the King's tonuniHioner, made every
Member take an oath of secrecy relative to every
thing that fliouldpals in the /lflembly.
Government has received an expreis from Ma
drid, containing, as we understand, very impor
tant intelligence. We have not yet heard all
the particulars, but we learn that the King, dread
ing the effects of the spirit of liberty, which all
his art and. power have not been able to ftifie in
the kingdom, has countermanded the proclama
rion for the aflembling of the Cortez. This in
dication of his terrorwill, however, not strength
en his cause. The people have caught the laci ed
flame, and, being fairly kindled, it is not in the
mercenary phalanx of an army that a King can
trust for the preservation of authority inconfiltent
with the rights of man. We {hall soOn be able
to give a full account of Spain. Intelligence,
that can betruftedto, from that kingdom, comes,
neceflarily, by private hands, for every poll let
ter is opened.
The flame of liberty is rapidly spreading. The
troops in Savoy are said to be in motion to alien
a claim to the Pays de Vaud, as is pretended ; but
as is generally believed, to prevent the growth
of a spirit among the Savoyards, which has al
ready (hewn itfelf in several places. Wherever
men feel themselves oppreiled, they want only
an example to allert their rights.
On Thursday lalt was effected the greatest ob
ject of internal Navigation in this kingdom. The
Severn was united to the Thames by an interme
diate Canal, afcendiug by Stroud, through the
vale ofChalford, to the height of 34? feet, by 40
locks: there entering a funnel through the hill
of Saperton, for the length of two miles and three
furlongs, and descending by 22 locks, it joined the
Thames near Lechlade.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF TIIE UNITED STATES,
THE LOVERS RAMBLE.
\ WAY! away ! ye giddy thfong,
£V. Lift not to my peaceful song ;
Come ye loves and play around me!
Busy care, no more confound me !
Lf t my thoughts be all at ease,
Kv'ry bub'lii.g palHon cease !
Love alone coine lei/e my foul,
Fill and now pofTcfs the whole,
WhiHl I sing ho«v hand in hand
On the sea-resounding strand,
I, with lov'd Louisa Itray'd,
Tender, beauteous, blue-ey'd maid.
44 See yon smoothly (helving plain,
* 4 Scarce descending to the main ;
44 So smooth so easy of defccnr,
41 So full of teeming sweet content,
44 Spreading wide and tempting play,
41 Is ruin's dl-alluung way.
44 So appears the sea of vice,
44 Calmy smiling to entice ;
44 Enter'd—deeper down ye go,
44 No more fhelviug, loft and ilow,
44 Mud the bottom ; chang'd from (and ;
44 Vain your wish again for land :
44 Mired in the filthy slime ;
44 Caughb like biids, in plcalure's lime ;
44 Soon the tide comes ruihing on—
44 Heedless mortals—ye are gone !"
ttlythe alotlg the bank we trip ;
44 See my love ! Sure that's a lhip,
14 Rising from this bed of tears,
44 Sails, and last the hull appears ;
• 4 Some one on yon deck may Hand,
44 Sending fiehs towards the land ; .
44 Hopeand fear and joy by turns,
44 Seize his heart, which chills and burns;
44 Slow the rapid lhip mull move,
44 Towards thefhoics where rests his love
44 Faithful he for five long years,
44 Bath'd her image with his tears ;
44 Morn and night thro toil or rclt,
44 Her image pendant at his bread."
44 Oh may he find Louisa cried,
44 Equal raptures in his bride !"
Fancy made the pidure real,
Down her cheek sweet sorrows (leal;
Scandal had no tatler near,
I, gently kifs'd the trickling tear.
44 Would you Hen RY (from me torn)
44 Five long years tie'er cease to mourn ?
44 I each morn and ev'ry eve
44 Would my sorrowing-joy receive,
:* 4 From this Toy which bofom'd near
44 I would gaze at with a tear,
4; Kiss and to my heart close prcfiing,
44 As.: for He nr y ev'ry blefling;
44 Would you althe riling morn,
44 Think of her that's from you torn ?
44 Drawing from your faithful breafl,
<4 Let this to your lips be preft ;
44 Thinking ; at the felf'fame hour,
44 If bountfeous Heav'n grant me pow'r,
4 * The felf fame a£tion would be mine, .
44 Love's tear I'd drop at virtue's ttuinc.
44 Fancy, you would to me watt,
44 Sweet'ning absence bitter draught:
44 Wond'rous pow'r of Heav'n bom art !
• 4 Thus to cafe the lover's smart :
44 Whilll I fee your form pourtray'd,
" Glowing health throughout difplay'd,
44 I'm atfur'd that so you look,
4 ' Reading peace in this sweet book."
While the much lov'd maiden spoke,
Sounds that all my foul awoke,
To gratimde and pure delight,
Other obje&s fled my fight :
The lhip forgot—no longer seen—
I view no more the beauteous scene ;
But all my senses lix'd on her,
I hardly breathe—l hardly llir—
Softly ngimg mute I flood,
While flic appcar'd mv fov'reign good.
-363-
W. D.
FROM THE FREE MAMS JOURNAL,,
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I R,
THE fubjeft, on which I have taken the liberty of addrefliag
you, is so important in its nature, that I think any apology,
for the freedom taken, is unnecefiary.
It the hearts of our benevolent citizens have been melted in
sympathy to our fellow creatures in Europe on account of their
being involved in the diftrefling scenes of famine ; what must be
our feelings when the fame dreadful calamity begins to threaten
our own country, or at lead the populous maritime cities and parts
adjacent ?
Wheat is now per bushel in Philadelphia, and flour pro
portionably high ; and it is generally believed, that, by the mont :i
of May next, wheat will not be less than 2 dollars a bushel, if
the exportation is not immediately flopped ; as the demand from
Europe is growing greater every day.
The moderate price of beef, mutton and other articles of pro-
./ifion has in some degree rendered the high price of bread leis
felt; but a dearth of these will soon foHow that of bread, and.
indeed in our last markets there is an evident advance in their
price ; which, if it continues, will Ihortly put it out of the power
of poor mechanics or manufa&urers, to purchase with their daily
earnings fubliftencc for themfelvesand families ; the confequencts
whereof, will be a depopulation of our citie , with all the train
of calamities incident to such a misfortune.
By a timely interference of the executive of the union, the dif
trefling scenes of misery produced by famine may be prevented.
It is therefore to you, Sir, that our manufacturers, mechanics,
and induflrious poor, look, to avert the impending danger, by
ftoppingtne exportation of grain andjluur, by an embargo, forfuclL
time, astoyou in your wisdom fhallfeem right.
HUM ANITAS.
Phi iadf.i phia, Feb. 16,1790.
NEW-YOIIK, FEBRUARY 24,
Extrail of a Utter from Benjamin Weft, to Doflor
Franklin, dated London, Oil. 8, 1789.
" SIR,
" The beat er of this letter is our ingenious
countryman, Mr. John Trumbull, who has reli
ded in London toltudy painting ; and I have the
happiness to acquaint you, and his countrymen
in general, thatthro force of genius, and industry,
he has already attained that excellence in paint
ing, which places him in the Srft class of men ot
that profeflion now living. He vilits Ins native
climate to perpetuate the faces ot some of his dif
tinguiflied countrymen, and I hope he will meet
with their approbation, both as a gentleman and
an artist, of equal worth and esteem."
Extrah of a litter from Philadelphia, Feb. 15.
" I found fault latterly with my correfpoiul
ents ill New-York, for not answering letters by
the return-poll, and they have informed me it is
in a great measure owing to a regulation of the
post-master of that place, by which the mail is
closed at 9 o'clock in the evening, although it does
not leave the city until 8 o'clock the next morning.
This regulation deprives us in a great degree 1 '
of the advantages we expedited to derive from n
daily pojt, and at the fame time diminishes the re
venue of the Poft-Office ; for instance, if the
southern Mail does not arrive at New-York until
the evening, there is not time to answer letters
and a poll: is loft,and we cannot get the debates of
Congress which are usually in the next mornings
papers, until the second post after they are pub-,
liflied. 1 his is conlidered as an inconvenience
and real injury both to the merchants and com
munity at large, and obliges people to look out
for private conveyances to fend their letters. We
have also to lament the very great irregularity in
the carriage of the Mail to the southward of this
City.
The Philadelphia society for promoting agri
culture have unanimously adjudged their premi
um of a Gold Medal for the greatest quantiryof
cheese, not left than 500 pounds weight, made
011 one farm in any of tliefe States —to Joseph
Matthewfon, Esq. of Coventry, Kent County,
Rhode llland—fourteen cheel'es presented by this
gentleman, weighed 500 pounds—and on his farm
is annually made from J to 6000 weight.
The society direded one of the cheeses to be
sent to the President of the United States—as a
fpeciinen of the perfection to which the manu
facture of cheese has attained in this country.
The public prints from all quarters contain ac
counts of the celebration of the birth day ot the
President of the United States.
The cominiflKoners appointed in behalf of this
state, have, within this few days part, been in
treaty with the commilfioners appointed 011 the
part of Vermont, in refpeift to the declaring of
the independence of that part of this state, but
we regret that they have terminated their busi
ness without effecting the purpose for which they
were appointed.
"Where there is charity (without which all reli
gion is vain) the general happiness of mankind
will be a dearer objetft, than felf intereft—there
fore let men be ever so specious in the formal pro
feffions, and externals of religion, if they are
guilty of such things as are agaiult morality, or
are deftrutftive of the happiness of fociety—lf
they unfeelingly violate the laws of justice, and
benevolence—if they fay to a fellow mortal in
distress, " be ye fed and be ye cloathed, but do
not the things they fay"—We may call theirpro
feflions craft or policy, but can with 110 proprity
call it religion.—Hypocriiy is the paint but not
the complexion of honest adtions.
(tj- THE 14th of April next zdll conclude ayear since this.paper
was fir ft fiublijhed. Tie terms were, that thifirji half yearJhoMht
paid in three Months.—The Editor luiUfivi himfiJ ebbgedto consider
thajcfubfcnbers, as difcontinv:vg the paper, who Jhzil not nuie made
any payment c.t the er,d ojthe Year.Of the SECRETARY of the TREASURY to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, J&n- 9> 1 79°*
[continuation FROM N'O. 89.]
THE fame fail affords a fertility to the merchant, that he is
not likely to be prejudiced by rontiderable duties oil such ar
ticles. They will usually command a proportional price. The
chief things in this view to be attended to, aie, that the terms of
pavmeiu be so regulated, as not to require inconvenient advances,
and that the mode of colletHon'be secure.
Toother reasons, which plead for carrying the duties upon the
articles which have been mentioned, to as great an extent as they
will bear, may be added these ; that they are of a nature, from
their txtenfive consumption, to be very produ&ive, and arc a
mongst the mod difficult objects, of illicit introdu6lion.
Invited by so many motives to make the belt use of the re
fourcc, which these articles afford, the tflVntial enquiry is—in
what mode can the duties upon them be mod efte£fcually collid
ed ?
With regard to such of them, as will be brought from abroad, a
duty on importation recommends itfclf by two leading considera
tions ; one is, that meeting the object at its entrance into the
country, the colle&ion is drawn to a pomt, and so tar Amplified ;
the other is, that it avoids the poflibilitv of interference between
the regulations of-lhc United States, and thofeofthe particular slates.
But a duty, the precautions for the collection of which tliould
terminate with the landing of the goods, as is essentially the cafe
in the existing system, couid not, with falefy, be carried to the ex
tent, which is contemplated.
In that fvftcm, the evasion of the duties, depends as it were, on
a Tingle risk. To land the goods in defiance of the vigilance of
the officers of the customs, is almofl, the lole difficulty. No future
puiiuit, is materially, to be apprehended. And where the induc
mcnt is equivalent to the risk. there will be found too many, who
arc willing to run it! Consequently there will be extensive frauds
ot the revenue, againtl which the utmoil rigor of penal laws, has
proved, as often as it has been tried, an ineffectual guard.
The only expedient which has been discovered, for conciliating
high duties with a fafe collection, is, the eltablilhment of a Jc
cond or interior scrutiny.
By purfuingthe article, from its importation, into the hands of
the dealers in it, the risk. of dete& ion is so greatly inhanced,
that few, in comparison, will venture to incur it. Indeed every
dealer, who is not himtelf the fraudulent importer, then be
comes, in fomc fort, a cerjtincl upon him.
The introduction of a system, founded on this principle, in
some shape or other, is, in the opinion of the Secretary, eirential
to the efficacy of every attempt, to render the revenues ot the Uni
ted States equal tD their exigencies, their fafety, their prosperity,
their honor.
Nor is it less < Hernial to the interell of the hoheft and fair tra
der. It might even be added, that every individual citizen, be
sides his snare in the general weal, has a particular interell in it.
The practice of-faniggliug never fails to have one or two effects, and
fonictimes unites them both. Either the smuggler underfelh the
frfir trader, as, by saving the he can afford to do* and makes
:t a charge upon him ; or he fells at the intreafed price occafloned
by the duty, and defiauds every man, who buys of him, of what
the public ought to receive. For it is evident, that the loss falls
ultimately upon the citizens, who mud be charged with other tax
es to make good the deficiency, and supply the wants of the ftaie.
The Secretary will not preiume, that the plan* which he fhal 1
fubmitto the confidcration of the House, is the bed that could be
devised. But it is the one, which has appeared to him freed from
objc£Hons of any, that has occurred ot equal efficacy. He ac
knowledges too, that it is susceptible of improvement, by other
precautions in favor of the revenue, which he did not think it ex
pedient to add. The chief outlines ot the plan arc not original,
but it is no ill recommendation of it, that it has been tried With
success.
The Secretary accordingly proposes,
That the duties heretofore laid upon wines, dillilled fpirit6,
teas and coffee, should, after the last day of May next, ctafe, and
that instead of them, the following duties be laid.—
Upon every gallon of Madeira Wine, oi the quality of London
particular, thirty-five cents.
Upon every gallon of other Madeira Wine, thirty cents.
Upon every gallon ot Sherry, twenty-five cents.
Upon every gallon of other Wine, twenty cents.
tJpon every gallon of diililled Spirits, more than ten per cent.
below proof, according to Dicas'shydrometer, twenty cents.
XJpon every gallon of those Spirits under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the fame hydrom
eter, twenty-one cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spitis of proof, and not more than
five per ccnt. below proof, according to the fame hydrom
eter, twenty-two cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirit? above proof, but not ex.
ceeding twenty per ccnt. according to the fame hydrometer
twenty-five cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more than twenty, an<
not more than forty per cent, above proof, according to th
fame hydrometer, thirty cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more than forty per cent
above proof, according to the fame hydrometer, forty cents
Upon every pound of Hyson Tea, forty cents.
tJpon every pound of other Green Tea, twenty-four cents.
Upon every pound of Souchong and other black Teas, excep
Bohea, twenty cents.
Upon every pound of Bohea Tea, twelve cen^s.
Upon every pound of Coffee, five cents.
That upon Spirits diflilled within the United States, from Mo
lafles, Sugar, or other foreign materials, there be paid—
Upon every gallon of tiiofe Spirits, more than ten per cent, be
low proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, eleven cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits under five, and not mor
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the fame hy
drometer, twelve ccnts.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits of proof, and not more thai
five pet cent, below proof, according to the fame hydrom
eter, thirteen cents.
Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not ex
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the fame hydrometer
fifteen cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits, more than twenty, and no
more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the sam
hydrometer, twenty cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more than forty per cent, a
bove-proof, according to the fame hydrometer, tnirty cents
That upon Spirits dillilled within the United States, in any city
town or village, from materials of the growth or production o
the United States, there be paid-~-
Upon every gallon of those spirits more than ten per cent, be
, c i- r\ i— J .— __ -
— / o ; *r " . »
•low proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, nine cents
Jpon-every gallon of those fpirics under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the fame hy
drometer, ten ccnts.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits of proof, and not more than
five per cent, below prooi, according to tire fame hydrometer,
eleven cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits above proof, but not exceed
ing twenty per cent, according to the fame hydrometer,
thirteen cents.
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more t'lan twenty, and not
more than forty perccnt. above proof, according to the farrr
hydrometer, seventeen cents.
REPORT
Upon every gallon of those. Spirits, more than forty per cent,
above proof, according to the fame hydrometer, twenty-five
ccnts.
That upon all Stills employed in distilling Spirits from mate
rials of the growth or produfction of the United States, in any other
place, than a city, town or village, there be paid the yearly sum of
lixty cents, for ever) gallon, Englilh wine mcafure, of the capadi
tv of each Still, including its head.
The Secretary does not distribute the duties on Teas into dif
ferent classes, as has been done in the import ast of the last feflion ;
because this distribution depends on conliderations of commercial
policy, not ot revenue. It is fufficicnt, therefore, for nim to re-;
mark, that the rates, above fpccified, are proposed with refer
ence to the lowcft class.
LETTER. No. II
MR. FEN NO,
IN my firft I believe I have (hown, that the beings of ani
mated nature have positive characters, marked out by ltrong co
lours, tints, and shadows, plain to theobferving eye, and, that the
eftablifhedorder, isincontrovcrtible. Confciousas I am, that these
features are founded on truth—in nature, I could here reft the fub
jett of philosophical enquiry. I mull however not leave untouch
ed an argument, which in the new, as well as in the old world,
has gained powerful advocates : it is in substance, that inftruftion
is able to correal the character of nations, and will make them all
alike.
Strong as this appears to be, it is but applicable, to single exam
amplcs of individuals ; these are of the inferior fpccies of mankind,
the diminutive Newtons, Franklins, and Rittenhoufes ; a more
particular review of nations, will show, that it cannot be admit
tited as a conclusive, argument.
When Europe was in the state of barbarity—when even the
names of the tribes therein living were unknown, then China was
eminent in sciences and arts. China has had but few civil wars,
arid it was but once conquered—by the ManchoeTartariahs ; except
the cutting of the hair, to which the Chinese were compelled ;
the conquerors adopted all other laws, morals and the language of
the conquered. In that empire, peace has almost constantly fof
tered the sciences, but ootwithftanding this, and that thQ Chinese,
were introduced feyeral thousand years since into the temple of
Apollo, they have made no progress, they fland nearly on the
fame ground, where foha and Confoefoe, their Solon, and Trip
tolemus left them—whilst in a few centuries, the Europeans have
set their oriental models far behind them.
The origin of the never conquered Arabians, is wrapped in
dark antiquity; in the remoteftages we find them acquainted with
sciences, and Europe has been enlightened partly by them : but
although their mind was itrenglhened by learning, the ordinary
consequence ot it, civilization, could never introduce itfelf among
the Arabians ; war is their element, and liberty their boast.
Our savage indigenous Americans,have lived, some among us, some
live dill next to oiir frontiers, treaties keep the connec
tion alive ; our civilization, cultivation, and the benefits arising
from it arc before their eyes, yet this makes little impreflion up
on them ; the American saVage is, and will remain, the devouring
wolf of the woods.
The African wool hairy prince, makes war for to fell his specie,
and when prifoiiers are wanting, will fell his fubjc&s ; the man
his wife and children, the mother her offspring, chiefly for (pi
nts ; want of energy, drunkmnefs and laziness, are the leading
features in that specie of men.
Imperfect as this sketch is, I believe however that it confirms,
my general theory. Among us a Julius Ca:tar, a Walhington,
a Locke, a Frederic the 11 Id. of Pruflia, &c. See. show—that even
in the specie avowedly the fame, the differences of powers and
genius are striking. In the national chara&er of the Chincfe, the
Arabian, the favagc American, the wool hairy negro, is exempli
fied, that nature has set diverse limits to the powers of mind in
the different species of men ; and the whole refutes the argu
ment, that initru&ion is able to fct the chara£lcr of nations on an
equal scale.
By drawing a picture of other nations, it would appear in a
still stronger light, that the wool hairy African negro stands in the
eftablilhed order of nature, in the lowest class of mankind ; but
then in lieu of fugitive letters, I should write ti eatifes ; thus, except
certain striking conclusions which I reserVe for my next, we will
therein investigate the fubjett of the wool hairy negro on political
grounds. RUSTICUS.
THE REPUBLICAN.
IN a former number it was incidentally remarked that'government
is an art rather than a science. This remark is 7q obvious,
that it needs neither explanation nor argument to support it. Go
vernment is well known to be in its nature more praQical then
fpeculativc ; and even its improvement and perfection depends
not so much on theoiy al experiment. The fame is true of almoil
all the fcvcral branches of knowledge. In the common affairs
of life experience is' acknowledged to be the surest guide. He who
relies upon the abftraft speculations of the closet, to govern his
conduit, makes frequent mistakes, and meets with a thou (and mor
tifying disappointments, Which are avoided by another, who has
no better natural talents, but has been educated in the school of
experience. Those writers too, who have been real fpeeulators
or aftots in the scenes, which they describe, easily command our
attention and belief. Who does not more credit toChefter
field's observations on men and manners, altho be i« juflly con
demned for the licencioufnefs of his principles, than to the dry
precepts contained in the writings of metaphydcians and mora 1-
ifts, or ihe fanciful inventions, tnat are to be found in romances
and novels ? Why are Cicero's writings on oratory read with so
much eagerness; unless it is, because they are believed to be the
refi'lt of his own experience ? We feel a peculiar fatilfaflion in
attending to Mr. Locke's dircfiions concerning the right conduct
of the undcrftanding, not only for their solidity and good sense,
but also, because they are recommended by the experience of a'
man, who conducted his own undcrftanding so judiciouflu, and.
so greatly enlarged the circumference of knowledge bv hisrefear-'
ches into the powers of the human mind. For a fim'ilar reason,
wc derive a double pleasure from Sir Isaac Newton's rules of phi
lafophifing, from Sully's memoirs of the art of negociation, or
Necker's maxims and calculations of finance. A rcfpe&ful at
tention is no more than is due to experience. For it* diftatcs are
infallible. They (land the tell of examination, and nevervanifli
before the light of new discoveries. But the systems of mere
theoriftsare in general little better than ingenious cafties in the air.
A historical review of the celebrated theories of philofbphy and
government, which have fucceflively had their day of admiration
and been exploded one after another, would afford matter of a
musement, and would not be entirely barren of inftiuckion. Plato
could discourse like an angel on truth, virtue, sentimental love
and other moral fubjefts ; but he seems to have been crazy or
certainly in a dream, when he projected his ideal republic. So
wild is the mod enlightened genius, when it isndl giifded by ex
perience ! The Utopia of Sir Thomas More, who Was a man of
letters and virtue too, is ncverthelefs so romantic that it has lon E
been proverbial for its imprafticablily. The learned Vice-Pre
sident of the United States has by historical deductions fuHy de
monstrated the absurdity of several other more modern fvftems
fornnd without any praflical acquaintance with the fubieih' But
perhaps there never was a more egregious cxamplc-of the 'impo
tcnce ol (peculation unaffified by praaice, than the juftlycelebra
ted Mi. Locke. That great and good mSn, who was confeffcdlv
the subtlest logician of his age, and the ablest champion of civil li
bciiV; lisv.ng boldly forght and fairly flaiii the giant of divine he
364
No.—lll
reditary right; afterwards, at the rtqwil of tU proprietors un
dertook to conftruft a Constitution for Carolina. Forthis'pu'
pose he retired to his study, and following the ignis fatuus ot ab
llraft speculation, iiiftead ofconfulting the oraclts of history, and
human nature, produced from his own brain a chimerical fchcm
which in its operation tended to the oppoute points of tyranny and
anarchy. The Carolinians struggled with its irnpetfe&ions, until
their patience was spent; and at length were impelled by the nr
ceflity of their situation to refill. A revolution ensued: and a ro\"
al government, with all its train of oppressions, was prefered to
their sine-spun proprietory form. A plain American Farmer of
common education and abilities, who has read the numerous pub.
lications contained in news-papers and pamphlets for ten yea s
pall in this country, and has attended and aflifted in legislative af
iemblies and conventions forfotming or adopting conftitutiont
might be more fafely cntrufted with the important business of
framing a government, than the illustrious Locke, with all his lo
gic and learning, but void of experience.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
FEBRUARY
JAMAICA Spirits, ,5/6.
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a SJ.
St. Croix, do. 4/8.
Country, do. 3/.
MolafTes, 2/2.
Brandy, 6/6. a 6/3.
Geneva, $f
Do. in cases, 28f. a 20f.
Muscovado Sugar, 80s. a jif
Loaf, do. if 3.
Lump, do. 1/14.
Pc pp"> 3/3 ,
Pimento, if. a IJ4.
Coffee, 1/7. a IfS.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a 6f.
Do. French, 18f.
Rice, 21 s.
Superfine Flour, 64 f.
Common do. ifif
Rye 'do. 26f. 028f.
Indian Meal, 18f. 20f.
R ye, 4J9- pr- W*-
\'/heat, iof6.
Corn, (Southern) 4f
Do. (Northern,) 4/3. a qfS.
Beef, firft quality, 4sf. a 48f.
Pork, firft quality,' "jof. a 7sf
Oats, 1/7.
Flax-feea, 5/9 a 6f.
Ship bread per cwt. 21f.
Country refined ) 2 g, a ,
bar-iron, ) 0
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. a 91.
German ftcel, per lb. gd.
Nails American, by cask. ) j
per. lb. 4 d. J **
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. g£d.
Do. do. do. tod.}
Do. do. do* i2d.( , j 01 ,
Do. do. do. 2.od.r^
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot ash, per tor, 391. a 401.
Pearl afti, 481 a 501.
Bees-wax per lb. 2/*.
Mackaiel per barr. 26/! a 30f.
Herrings, 18/T
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) ,
per foot, J
Dominico, do. gd.
Honduras, do. yd.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak ) , _
plank, pern,. J '"1. to/
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine fjlank, 81.
tj inch do. 61. tof.
1 inch do. gl. 10/.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
1J inch do. 61. 10/
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine fcantlihg, gl. Bf.
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, 11. 10/
Do. 22 inch do. 1). 8/
Cedar 2 inch do. jl. 10/
T ° be LE T,
And pofieflion given the xft of April, for one or more years, (two
miles and half from this city, on the Greenwich road,)
r New TWO STORY HOUSE—four
Rooms on a floor ; with fix fireplaces; a new Barn, and
We 1 of excellent Water ; a young Orchard of Fruit Trees, with
74 acres of Land, themoft part Meadow. For particulars enquire
at No. 7, Maiden-Lane. New-York, February »o.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings, bound and Uttered)
And to be fold, by appointment of the Author, by Messrs. Berk y
and Rogers, No. 35, by A. M'Lean, N0.41, (Franklins
Head) Hanover Square, and by the Editor hereof, No. 9, Mai
den-Lane,
GEOGRAPHY MADE EASY :
being AN abridgement of the '
AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY.
CONTAINING,
/\ STRONOMICAL Geography : Discovery and General Dc-
V fcription of America : General View of the United States:
Particular Accounts of the Thirteen United States, in regard to
their Boundaries, Extent, Rivers, Lakes, Mountains, Produc
tions, Population, Chara&ers, Government, Trade, Manufac
tures, Curiosities, Hjftory, See.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
. A Geographical Account of the European settlements in Ame
rica ; and of Europe, Asia, and Africa.
Illustrated with eight neat MAPS and CUTS.
Calculated peculiarly for the use of Schools in the United States.
BY JEDID IAH MORSE, A. M.
Minister of the Congregation in Charleftown, near Boston.
Second Editon. Abridged by the Author.
An } ork which has long been wanted, to accommodate Schools',
fortheufc of children in families. Geography now claims a very ge
neral attention—and that oj our country in a particular manner \ soT
in proportion as this is vnderjlood it will injpire the rising generation
with elevated ideas of their own chara&er> when contemplating the mag
njicent theatre on which they are to a£t the pajts ajfignea them : Heme
the propriety of the obfervaiien —
Let all foreign climes alone,
Till you undeiftand your own.
' 2 4- -Doli ars at Bs.
Do. 22 inch do. iL 6/.
Do. 18. inch do. 18f
Butt white oak Haves, otr
Pipe do. do. gj.
Hogshead do. do. 61. to/
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irilh barrel do. Haves, 3l.tr
Hoglhead red aak do. d. If
Do. French do. 51.
Hoglhead hoopi, A i.
Whiteoak square timber )
per square foot, \
Red wood, per ton, 281.
Fuftick, tol.
Beaver, per lb. \if. a
Ott r per Ikin, gf. 32/
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4/0.
Racoon, jjf, a nfi.
Mufkrat, tod. a nd.
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48/.
I Chocolate, 1
Cocoa, 70/ a 80/.
Cotton, 1/9.
Tar, pr. bar. itf.aiif.
Pitch, 16/.
Turpentine, iS/.atof.
Tobacco, James kiver, 4d. *aW.
Do. York, 411, a 3ld.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a 3
Do. Maryland, coloured, ${d.
Do. Welkm-lhore, 2d a 3W.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 60/
Do. bars, 68f.
Do W, 6#
Red 1 d 68/
White df). dry,
WhitcVr/'. in oil, 5/. i?/
Salt-pe c 'e hams, jfcd.
Sperm?* eti candles, §f.
uaf. a if
Tallow>dipt, q£d.
Soap, sfi. a id.
Castile soap, 9d. a iod.
English cheese, pr. lb. 1
Country do. tjd.
Butter, 1/
Hyson tea, 9/6. a 1 of.
Sequin do. 6/0.
Bohea do. 2/8. a 2fg
Ginseng, zf, a a/6.
Staich Poland* jd.
Snuff, 2/3.
Allum fait, water mea- )
sure, pr. bush. ) &
Liverpool do. sis.
Madeira wine, > fc/ , J
pr. pipe, 5
Port, 46/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. cj.
\ Teneriffj 4/!
I F ya». 3/3-
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 8/•
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34/. 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4f.
Whale do. pr. barrel, 50/. ass.
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. 3/6