PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, NO. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 4J, cf'Vol. ll.j
LAW OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
*( THS a»cowt> Milieu
.'.egun ind held «t the City of New-York, on Mandiy t'nt fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundred and nicety.
AN ACT to provide more effedlually for the Col
lection of the Duties imposed by Law on Good*,
Wares and Merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the Tonnage of Ships or
Veflels.
(CONTINUED.)
IN the Stateoflforth-Carolina (hill be five diftrifls I «ne to b
called the 41ftrid of Wilmington, and to comprehend ill th
■waters, (horn, bay*, harbors, creek* and inlets, frtftn Little Ri
ver Inlet jnchifive, to New River lulet incluflve : Another to b
calleti thedrftri&ot Newbern, and to comprehend all the waters
lhorei, bays, harbor*, creeks and inleti, from New River Inlet in
dufive, lo Qcracoke inlet inclttfive, together with that fart o
Pamptico* found, which lies westward of the Ihoa
projecting (rem the mouth of Pampticac river towarda the Roya
Shoal, and southward of the said Ro/al Shoal. Another to bi
called the diftrift of Wafbington, and to comprehend all tha
part at folifid not iackjHed in the diftrHfiof Newbern
as far aarth M the tnarfhet. Another to bs eailc4 the diflrifi o
Cdeoton, asfl to comprehend all th 4 wateis, bay*, harbor*, crceka
and inlets frotai the marlhes incluGVe, northward and weflward
except those included in the diftrid of C<mbden. The other t<
be called the diftrift ct Cambden, and to comprehend Nortl
river, Pafquotank, and Little river?, and alt che waters, fljorea
bays, hjrbors, creeks and inlets, from tfae jun&ion of Curritucl
and Albemarle founds to the north extremity of Back-Bay. Thai
in the aiflria Of Wilmington, the town of Wilminrton (ball b<
■ port of erttry and delivery, and there ill all be acolle&or, naval*
omcer, and fwrveyor, to tefide at the laid town of Wilmington.
That in the di&ritt of Newbern, the sown of Newbern (ball be i
port of entry aftd delivery, and the towns of Beaufort and Swanf
rough shall be ports of delivery only, vtd there (hall be ■ col
lector to rcfidfe it Newbern, -and a furveybr to reside at Beaiifort
and one at Swanfborough. That in thediftria of Wathiflgtofli
the town of Wafbitigton (hall be th.- sole port of entry and deli
•very, and there fliall be a colKftor to within the fame.
That in the dlflrift of Edenton, the toWnof fdeMon stall be »
port of-eMry »nd delivery, anil Hertford, Murfree(Horough,
PrinCftoa, Winlbn, Bennet's creek> Plymouth Wihdfcr, rot
Skewarkey, perls of delivery; and ihcre (hall be a collector tc
reside at the town ol Ldtnton, and a surveyor at each of -the porta
of Hertford, Winton, Bennet's creek, Plymouth, Windsor, and
Skewarkey ; and one at Murfrcc&orough, for said port and for
Princeton. That all (hips or veflYls intending to proceed lo Ply
mouth, Windsor, Skewarkey, Winton, Bennet's cfeek bridge,
Murfret (borough, or Princeton, (boll fii ft come to, and enter at
the port ol Edenton. That in the difti ift of Cambden; Plank
bridge, on Sawyer's creek, (ball be the port of entry and delivery,
and Nixonton. Indian-town, Ncwbiggin-crctk, Currituck inlet,
PaFquotank riveT bridge, ports of and there (hall bea
eolleftorat Mankbridge, ofl Sawyer's creek, and a fuiveyorat
C ach of the ports of JJixonton* lndian'®towto, Currituck inltt)
fafqiiotank river btidgej and Newbiggin tscek : and that the au
thority of the officers ol each diftria (hall extend over all the wa
ters, (hores, bays, harbors, eieeks, and inlets comprehended with
in such diltrifl. Provided, That any vessels comitig in at Ocra
coke inlet that may be under the neceflity of employing lighters
before'they pafcthe Rriyal Shoal, ma* be at liberty to enter at
any port of entr> connected, With the waters of (aid inlet, to
•which (uch vessels ire boundi And that any VeJTel coming in at
the said inlet in ballad, with the purpose or loading Without the
Royal Shoal (hall be at liberty to enter at any port of entry con
tie£ted with the waters of the laid inlett
In the State of South-Carolina, (hall be three diftnaJ, to wit :
Charleston, and Beaufort, each of which (hall be
• entry. Thediftria ot George-town (hall include the
(hores inlei rivers, from the boundary of Norih-Carohna
lo the poin? ov c Capeßomain. Thediftria ot Charlton (hall
include all the inlets and rivers, from Cape Romara to
Combahee river i,iclufive : and the diftrift of Beaufort (hall in
clude the (hores, roi£" an<J "vers, from Cotnbahee river to Back
river in Georgia) Tomp.-hending also the (hore, inlets and har-
Liwfnnnnl hv the diffcrfat bars and fca lflanda lying within
? At the port of Charleston (hall be a
collector, naval-officer and surveyor ; and a collefior at tach of
th ln't^ r Su of Georgia Ail! be four di(lrias,to wit : Sav»r,nah,
Wburv Brunfwick, and Samt Mary's, each of which ftiail be a
porto7e'nlry. Thediftria of Savannah (hall include Savannah
river, and all the waters, (hores, harbors, r,vers, creeks anA
- Vtj from the said rives to the north poyit of OffabaW Hand,
i rVeat Oeeeche rivers, incluflve : and a naval-officer, collefior
'"I ?L.on» (hall be appointed for thi said diftria, to reside at
ui<i furreyP djft of Sunbury (Hall comprehend all the wa-
Sav.nnah. Thr ai""« ° cr «lJ;, bays and inlets, south of the
lers, (bores, Jn( , Gr „, Ogeeche river, incluflve-,
itorth point of O gspelo iftand inclusive, and a col
and north of th appointed to reside at Sunbury.
lector for the fatd d.ftr^t Ml■ * PP wa<cr
v"hu bays and from the fomh point of
harbors, rrver S creek.', bay» , Qf ia Jn d, iqclu-
Sapelo island, cx s' u '" l "' r <J e |ivcrY only ; and a colleflor
five: Frederic* shall be a port of delivery on y . wjck Thf
for the diflria (hall be appointed to reUoe
Mary's : and in each of the said dtttnets it within
eolleftor to grant a permit to unlade at any port P
the diftria, and to appoint or put on board any (hip or
which a permit is granted, one or more searchers or infpeaor. as
maybeneCeiT^vforthefecurityofthertvenuj.
And It it further enaStd, That it (hall not be lawfol to make
enuy of an/(bi P « vtfTvl which (hsll arrive from any forergn port
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER iy, 179°-
or pltct within the UnitedStatet, or of the cargo on hoard such
(hiporveffel else whi re than at one of the ports of entry Herein
belore eflablilhed, nor to unlade the said cargo, or any part there
of, clfewherc than at one of the porta of delivery herein eftablilh
ed. Provided *lw*ys, That every port of entry, (hall be also a
port of delivery. And provided further, that none but Ihips or
v.fiVls of the United States (hall be admitted td unlade at any
other than tht porta following, to wit i Potifmouth, in the State
of New-Himp(hire, Portland and Falm 'J'h, New Bedford,
Diphton, Salem ami Beverly, Gloucester, Newbury-port, Mar
blehead, Sherburne, Bolton and Charleftowii, Plymouth, Bath,
FrenchmanVßay, WifcafTet, Mich a" JP- nobfcot, in the State
oi'J&alfachufctts; Newport »d Providence n the State of Rhode
-Ift and and, Providence Plantations; Nov ..ondon and New-Ha
ven in the State of Conoe&icut; New-si ,in the State of New-
York ; Perth-Amboy, and Burlington, ' 1 the State of New-
Jerfcy ; Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania ; Wilmington,
Newcaflle and Port Penn, Ih the Ststeof Delaware ; Baltimore,
Annapolis, Vienna, Oxford, George-tov-f on Potowmack, Ches
ter-town, Town-creek, Nouingham, Ced point, Land
ing, Snowhill, and Carroltoorough, in th. State of Maryland;
Alexandria, Kinfale, Newport! Tappahanttotk, Port-Royal, Fre
dericklburg, Urbanns, York-town, Weft-point, Hampton, Ber
muda Hundred, City Point, Kncket'i landing, Norfolk, and
Poitfmouth, in tht State of Virgimia ; Wilmington, Newbcrn,
Washington, Edenton, and Plank-bridge, in the State of North-
Carolina ; Charleston, George-tow*, and ficaufort, in the State of
South-Carolina; and in either of the diilrifks qf Savannah, Sun
bury, Brunfwick, Fred erica and Saint Mary's, in the State of
Georgia; or to make entry in any other diftii£t than in one in
which they (hall be so admitted to unlade: And provided lajlly,
no ihip or vessel arriving from the Cane of or
from any place beyond the fame, lhall be admitted to make entry
at any other than the ports following, to yit r Portrmouth, in
State of New-Hamp(hire; Boston and jpharleftpwn, Newbury
port, Salem and Beverly, Gloucester, Portland and Falmouth, in
the State of Newport, and >rovidence, in the State
of Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations ; New-London, and
New-Haven in the State of Conncflicut; New-York, in the State
ofNew-York; Pcrth-Amboy in the State of New-jerfcy ; Phi
ladelphia in the Slate of Pennfyfvaoia 1 Wilirtrtigton in the Stale
of Delaware ; Baltimore, Annapolis, and George-town, in the
State of Maryland ; Alexandria Norfolk, and Porlfmouth in the
Slate of Virginia; Wilmington, Newbern, Walhington, and
Edenton, in the State of North-Carolina ; Charleston, George
town, and Beaufort, in the Slate of South-Ca'rolina ; and Sunbury,
and Savannah, in the Sttte of Georgia ; Provided, That nothing
herein contained (hall prrWbt the tnafter or commander of any
(hiporveffel, from making entry with the collefior of any dif
tritt in which such (hip or vessel may be owned, or from which
(he may have failed on the voyage from which the (hall then have
returned.
And be it furlit' entSed, "that the matter or commander of ere.
ry (hip or vessel hound tr a port as deli*'ry ooty, in any of the
following diftriftl, lo wit: Portland ana Falmouth, Bath, New.
bury-port, Ncw-Lnhdon, (except the port of Stonington, in the
said diftrift) .Norfolk, and Portsmouth, Bermuda Hundred, and
City-point, York-town, or Tappahannock (except the port of
Urbanna; in the said diftrift) and Edenton, shall firft come to at
the port of entry of such dill rid, with bit (hip or vefTei, and there
make report or entry, and pay, or ftcure to be paid, all legal du
ties, port Feet and charges id mwner by this ast provided, before
such (hip or vcflel shall proceed to her port of delivery ; and that
any (hip or vcffcl bound to a port of delivery in any diftrift other
than those abovementioned, or to either of the ports of Stoning
ton, of Uibanna, may firft procerd to het port of delivery, and afi
terwardt make report or entry within the timebythii ad limited.
And it it further ei\a9M, That the matter or commander of every
(hip or veilc), if bowid to the diftrift of Nottingham, shall, be
fore he pafshy the port of 1" o wn-Cteek, and immediately after his
arrival, depolit with the surveyor of the said port, a true manifeft
of the cargo on board such flrp or vefTei; if bound to the diftrift
of Tapoahannock, (hall, before he pass by the port of Urbanna,
and immediately after hit arrival, deposit with the surveyor for
that port, a like manifeft; if bound to the dillrift of Bermuda
Hundred 01 City-point; (hall, before he pafa by Elizabeth-river,
and immediately after his arrival, deposit with the collector of
the port of Norfolk and Portsmouth, or with the collector of the
port of Hampton, a like manifeft ; and if b<*iud to the diftrift of
South-Quay, (hall before he oafs by the port of Edenton, and
immediately after his aniVal, deposit with the collector of the port
of Edenton, a like manifeft; end the said TurveyorS and collectors
refpeftively, (hall, after regiftrring the manifefts, transmit the
fame, duly certified to have been so deposited, to the officer with
whom the entxiej are to be made. And it the maftcr or com
mander of any (hip or vcffel (hall neglect or omit to deposit a
manifeft ih manner a(orefaid, and as the ciffe (hall require* he
shall forfeit and pay five hundred dollart, to be recovered with
coils of suit, one half to the use of the officer with whom such
manifeft ought (o have been deposited, and the other half to the
use of the collector of the diftrift to which the said (hip or veflel
may be bound. Provided, That if mamfefts (hall have been in
either of the said cafct prcvioufiy dclitered to any officer of the
cufloms, pursuant to the provision hereinafter to be made in that
helialf, the depositing of a manifeft at aforefaid (hall not be ne
cessary : And provided atfo, That no miller of any (hip or veflel
which was ab(cnt from the United Siatet on the firft day of May
last, and which hath not since returned within the fame, or of any
(hip or vessel not owned wholly or in part by a citizen or inhabit,
ant of the United States, (hall incur the said penalty, if he (hall
m ike oath or affirmation that he had no knowledge of or informa
tion concerning the regulation herein contained, unless it can be
otherwise proved that he had such knowledge or information.
Andbe it further endued, That allofficera and persons to be ap
pointed pursuant to this ast, before they enter upon the duties of
their refpeftive offices, shall federally take an oath diligently and
faithfully to execute the duties of their said offices refpeftively, and
to use their best endeavors to prevent and deleft frauds in relation
to the duties impoled by the laws of the United State s; which oath
if taken by a colleftor,'may be taken before any,magi!lrate, aufho
rized to sdminifter oaths within the diftrift to which he belongs,
but if taken by another, (hall betaken before the collector d! his
diftrift, and being ceitilicd under the hand and seal of the person
by whom the fame (haJl have been administered, (hall, within
three months therca(ter be transmitted to the comptroller of the
ireafury ; in default of taking which oath, the party failing shall
forfeit and pay two hundred dollars, to be recovered with costs of
suit, in any court of competent jurifdiftion, to the ule of the Urn
i ted States.
593
And he it further enafled, That the fevrral officers of the cuftonvr
sHall relpetlively perform the dutiea following, to wit : At f'K ft
ol the ports to which there shall he appointed a collc&or, nw»I«"
officer, and surveyor ; the colieftor shall receive all report!, roam
fcltsy and documents, to be made or exhibited on the entry of
ship or vessel, according to the regulation! of this ast; shall record,
in books to be kept for thatpurpofe, all such manifefts ; shall re
ceive the entries of all ships and vessels, and "of the good*, ware*
and merchandise impoited in them ; Hi a 11, together with the navel
officer where there is one, or alone where there is none, eflimaie
the amount of the duties payable thereupon, endorsing the fay*
amount upon the refpeftiVe entries; (hall receive all monies pa:d
for duties, and take all bonds for securing the payment thereof ;
shall grant ail permits/or the unlading and delivery of good*, shall
employ proper persons as weighers, guagers, measurer* and in
fpeftors it the several port* within hia diHritt; and shall provide
at the public expellee, and with the approbation of the principal
officer of the treasury department, llore-houfes for the fafe keep
ing of goods, and such fcalcs, weights and measures as may be n<~
ceUary. The naval-officers shall receive copies of all manifeft? ;
shall, together with the collector, estimate the dutiea on all good*,
waies arid merchandise fubjeft to duty, kaeping a separate record
thereof j and shall counterUgn all permits, clearances, certificate
and debentures to be granted by the colleftoi. The surveyor
superintend and direst all infpeftors, weighers, ineafurers and
guigers within his diftrift ; shall visit and infoeft the ships or ves
sels which arrive within his diftrift, and Hiall hsve power to pur
on board each of thetrt one or more infpeftors; shall afcrrtain the
proofs of distilled spirits, rating those which shall be of ihe proof
of twenty-four degrees as of Jamaica prool; and shall examine
whether the goods imported in any ship or vefTel, and the delive
ries thereof, are coriformable to the entries of such goods and the
permits tor landing the fame ; and the said surveyor shall in all
cases be fubjeft to the controul of the colleftoh And at such porta
to which a collector and surveyor only are assigned, the said col
lector shall solely execute all the dutirs in which the co-operation
ofthe naval officer is requisite at the ports where a naval-officer
shall be appointed, which he shall also do in cafe of the disability
or death of the naval-officer. Arid at the port* to which a coll c
tor only is assigned, such collector shall folcly execute all the du
ties iri which the co-dperation df the naval-officer is requifue as
atorefaid ; and shall also, ai far as itfay be, perform all the duties
prescribed to furvcyors at the ports where such officers are cfta
blifhed. And at ports to which only are assigned, every
such surveyor shall perform all the duties herein before enjoined
upon fbrveyors ; and Tnall Alio receive ahd record the cdpic,* ojF
all manifeAs which shall be transmitted to him by the collector ;
(hall record all permits granted by such collector, diflinguifhing
theguage, weight, measure and quality of the goods fpccified there
in ; and shall take care that no goods be unladen or delivered front
any ship or vefTel without a proper permit For that purpose. And
at such ports of delivery only to which no surveyor is assigned, it
shall be lawful for the colleuor df the diftrift occasionally ani
from time to time to employ a brdper or persons to do the
| duties of a surveyor, who shall be entitled to the like cOmpenf.Si
on with inTpeccuf* duiiag the tisnc they shall be employed. And
the said collectors, naval-officers and lurveyon shall refpeftivciy
attend in person at the ports to which they are refpeftively assign
ed ; and shall keep fair and true accddnts and records of all their
tranfaftions as officer! of the cufloms,in such manner and form a*
may be directed by the proper or officer having the
fupeHntendance of the colleftidn df the revenue of the Unted
States ; and shall at all times submit their books, papers and ac
counts to the infpeftion ot such persons at. may be appointed for
that purpose : And the laid coHeftors shall at all times pay to the
ofder of the officer who fliall be authontcd to direst the payment
thereof, the Whole of the monies which they may refpcftively r •
ceivc by virtue of this ast (such monies as they «ue otherwise by
this ast directed to pay, only excepted); and shall also once in
e/ery three months, or oftener if thev shall be required, transmit
their accounts for fettlcment to the officer or officers whofc duty
it fliall be to rnai;e such fettlcment.
And be it further ciiAfl'ed, That every collc&or, naval-officer and
surveyor, in cases of occaftonal and neceflary absence, or #f ficka
ness, and not otherwise, may refpettively exercifc and perform
their fevera! power?, functions and duties, by deputy duly confti*
tuted under their hands and seals refpe&ively, for whom in the ex
ecution of the trust, they shall refpcftively be tnfwerable.
And be it further enafled, That in cafe of the disability or death
of a colle&or, the duties and authorities vested in him (hall de
volve on hit deputy, if any there be at the time of such disability
or death (for whose conduit theeftate of such disabled or deccafed
collettor shall be liable) : And in defe& of a deputy, the said au
thorities and duties shall devolve upon the naval-officer of the fame
diftrift, if any there be ; and if there be tio naval-officer, upon the
lurveyor of the port appointed for the residence of such difapled
or deccafed collc&or \ if any there be ; and if none} upon the sur
veyor of the port nearest thereto, and within the fame diflrift.
And in every cafe of the death or disability of a turvcyorj it ftiall
be lawful for the colle&or of the dcftnft to nominate some fit per
ion to perform his and exercifc his authorities. And the
authorities Of the persons hereby empowered to ast in the (lead of
those who may be disabled or dead, (hall continue until fucccffors
shall be duly appointed, tftd ready 10 enter upon the execution of
their refpettive offices.
ifarf It it furtitr tH&ti, That from uid after the fifft. thy of
October next, no goods, ware* or merchandin Ikall be brought
into the United States from any foreign pttrt or place, in arty (hip
or Vetfel betOngidg In the Whole or in part to a citizen or citiaena,
inhabitant or inhabitants of tht United States unleb the mailer or
person having the charge or command of such ftiip ot- vessel (hall
have on board a manifeftor mamfefts ih writing) flgotd hy fuclt
matter Or other person, containing the name or name* of the pott
or porta, place or placet where the goods in such mJnifcft or RM
nifefts mentioned, Bull have been re(jiectively taken on board,»o4
the port or ports, place Or placet within the United .State* for
which the fame ate respectively consigned orde&ined, tmi the
name itid built of such (Kipor acffel, and the true admeaforemenr
or tonnage thereof according to tht register of the fame, together
with the name of the mafterdt other person having the' Command
or charge of such (hip Or Vessel, arid the port or place to I which
such (hip or vessel truly belongs, and a just and particethr account
of a|l the cargo so laden or taken on kjord, whether in packages
or (lowed lOose, together with the marks and numbers in word»
at length of the said packages respectively, with a description <>"
each, as whether leaguer, pipe, butt, puncheon, hogshead, barrc,
cafe, bale, pack, trufi, chest, box, bundle, or other calk or packjgc
describing the fame by its u<ual name or denomination.
Ttbt ctntiiwti.
[Whole No. M 9-]From the COLUMBIAN CENTINEL
[1 I lias been controvetted whether the capture of Gen. Corn
wallu was the result ot a plan preconcerted between' Gen. Wafh
mgton and Count de Gralfc ; or rather whether the arrival of.the
Count m the Chefapcak was predetermined and cxpcft.d by Ge
neral Wafliingtori, and confcquemly all the preparations to attack
New-York a mere tinclTe to drce.ve the encmv; or whether the
real , mention was against New-York, and the liege of Yorktown
planned upon the uncxpefled arrival of the French fleet in the bay
The following letter will set the matter in its true light.]
" Mount Vejinon, July 31, 1788.
S I R,
TDU LY received your letter of the 1 4 th instant,
X and can only anfweryou briefly and general'
y fromi memory : | hat a combined operation of
the land and naval forces of Krance in America,
01 the year i 781, was preconcerted the year be
lore; that the point of attack was not absolute-
Jy agreed upon,* because it could not be fore
known where the enemy would be mod fufcepti
of "fflpreffion ; and because we (having the
command of the wafer with fufficient means of
conveyance) could tranfportourfelves to any spot
with thegreateft cele.ity . tha t it was deter,nin
-11 1 j' nea, ' 1 >' tw ? lv e mouths betore hand, at
i , i" V tO , g]V f 0Ut > and cai,fe "to be believed
by the Jjigheft military as well as civil officers,
WaS the tle,line<l of attack,
ior the important purpofeofinducingtlieeafterii
and m.ddle States to majee greater exertions in
ianufhing fpecific supplies, than they otherwise
•would have done, as well as for the intercfting
purpose ot rendering the enemy less prepared
<liewhere ; that by these means, and these alone,
artillery, boats, (tores, and provisions, were in
Jealonable preparation to move with the utmost
rapidity to any part of the continent ;• for the
difficulty confilted more in providing, than know
inghow to apply the military apparatus ; that be
tore the arrival of the Count de Grade,it was the
fixed determination to flrike the enev'y in the moll
vulnerable so as to ensure success with
moral certainty, as our affairs were then in the
iiiDlt ruinous train imaginable ; that New-York
V 3! tllou ght to be beyond our effort, and conse
quently that the only hesitation that remained
was between an attack upon the B.itiih army in
Virginia, and that in Charleston : And finally
that, by the intervention of federal coinmutuca'
tions and some incidents which cannot be detailed
?" a J the l]oftile post in Virginia, from be
ing ap, ovifional and fit tingly expetiej, became the
definitive and certain objeit of the campaign.
I only add, that it never was in contemplation
IVhavehheW^ eW r Y £ k '. Un,ef - thc Sa' Hfon ffiould
firft have been so far degarnifhed id carry on ihe
iouthcrn operations, as to render our success in
the fiegeof .hat place, as infallible as any future
inil.tary event can ever be made. For f repeat
it, and dwell upon k^riu;f6tt,efplendid advao*
tage (whether upon a larger or f,nailer scale was
nlinoft immaterial) was so eflen.ially neceiTary
to revive the expiring hopes and languid exer
tions of the country, at the crisis in question, that
never would have consented to embark in any
enterpnfe, wherein, from themoft rational plan
and accurate calculations, the favorable illue
Jhould not have .ppearell to my view as a ray of
S ft C " c v t3llU ' e ° f an atre,n Pt again ft the
ports of the enemy, could, in no other possible si
tuation during the war, have beenfo fatal to our
, That ra" c '" trouble was taken and finefTe ufcd
to mifgtfide and bewilder Sir Henry Clinton in
reprcfto the real fictions
cations, as welj as by making a deceptive provi
sion of ovens, forage, and boats, in his neighbor
hood, is certain : Nor were less pains taken :o
deceive Ol ,r own army ; for I had always con
ceived, where the imposition docs not completely
" "" >uld
T t eß r ofob I rn .l ni,, S tn,th ' is *ery.laudable 5
I wifli (had more leisure to gratify it, as I an , e .
*l»a]]y folic umis the undrfguifed verity fhoukl he
.be m.lconce.vcd and mifieprefented.
ftandingmoft of the papers, which may proper
ly be deemed official, are preserved; y et P t h e
\CZ led fr 0f ,mU,mCrablc thi "S s > of a mote de
licaie and secret nature, is confined to the perish.
remembrance of fo.ne few of the present «
iteration. With eltcem, I am, Sir, you'r m o st obe"
diem humble fcrvant. "'"■oitooe-
'* it would he eafv for theConnt de C .air * i ■
before h.j departure from the Weft InH*. , C " ,ir, ''"H !™t
answer to a challenge
, T JS .:r thc f " r d " th > " or fniart,
Mak"* me avcrfr Jo fi«rht;
But'to prefcrve a tender heart,"
Xo! mint-, Sut'Celia's right. -
Then let your fury h- fapp rc ft
Not inr. but Ccha fpjrc ;
"ioui■ lwo r <; is wdcometo my breaG,
W nencver flic's not there.
G. WASHINGTON
i'ilnj TABLET*. -No 145.
That thenJh&tild be idle, vicious people in the com
"•unity is owing te bad injlitutions."
"jPHERE is a certain indolence of investigation
in the mind, that makes us apt to attribute
he evils that prevail in society, to some radical
lerects in human nature. Ir is incredible how
none we arc to Jcontratft an habit of afligning
uch causes, for every appearance, as will give us
he lead trouble of thinking. The zealous patri
)t charges all public evils to the mifinanagement
ifpuolic men. He is fatisfied that is the true To
ut.on of the difficulty, and searches for no cause
hat is more deep or rational. The recluse theo
■ogian accounts for vice and misery in a differ
-lit manner Hill. To the original depravity of
•he human heart, all the evil, that appears in the
. Wol ' niull » i" his view, be altribed.
lomluch a fountain he traces all the disorders
.hat toi, me in and disgrace society. lam nothow
' j '-ijling this queftioii on theological
''' 3 !! tl ' er , etole ven ture to assert that
< ckcts of molt of the evils that cover the face
f hemo'al world,nay be mitigated or deftroy
:d byjudicious initiations. *
I'e.t.nps my principles can noway be better!!-
V ,aI » y nil appeal to Ihe circum(lances
>t this cuy. > very person who has resided here
O'hx years p afl " Ul it have been a witness with
h 1 " / thC n " mber of abandoned
rs has duniniCied. This reformation
nuft be attributed in some degreeto the pood re
d! dalles of'' bCCI - :ulo i ,tc<i employing
ill dalles of citizens. The means of fiibfiftence
ne rendered so easy, that the temptation to
_omn.it enormous crimes may easily be refilled
Vnd when an hab.t of indultry i, formed „
s: to rar:
uniung, 0) the depreciations of fraud.
hole men who govern the affairs of tile cow
nunity, and are honored with the appellation*
"hers of the people, lay them felves P unde, the
i.uTmo ah of tT IO r S -° Watch ° Ver the happineii
morals of the society to which they belon-r
«a es may be deemed civil families, over whi'ci
ho fe who art as head, fhonld exercise pa e, tai
rare and v,g, Llnce . Arc inhabitants iiido
ent or Mcio.is, a patrioticlegillator will counter
.' I t0 ver r v 'S»'-ous motives to over.
•ted to & hUtt £ a£v<
Kcupations. This can belt be acconmlifl.c l h,
;,s ftssstsuy ** -
' art > "J'*' '"lis Itimulates induftt v whi 1
iives wealth and ltren<nh to the J
3ut a wife and virtuous one takes"l ppent(l
hen live view, and fees v°of mT®
REMARKS ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
TT is curious to observe — t
l^ssssssss^£L^
in modern mercantile ftilefa W?1 J
change is honored by the payor whi - •
cepted and paid. In u " ' Sac '
fvnonimotis with accept * The ZTdT
introduced by'an exoeri«F« v J? " or Was
or C o,„plair.S d u^',°k f e , 5
Ma. if ,r,„,fe r „d to ,h.'m]
tli ast is made upon a man whr> 1 ' Where a
drawer, but who it I r j M not owe thc
ssw&fcssi'• cr »&
touMEenanccd. tßatword. nU.btmlK?
proper meaning Did a t own
his acceptance of a bill bv wrV CVCr li ß ni o r
ceived and honored this j'" S u / on "> re "
is not probable : and fnL .• y°f ?Jt
sense will bring back our m»> 'T 6 ° r otller g°°d
.■« p.. in the & of
r " h
tew instances when an ha, e are a ver 7
convey a letter for him • butT\, * perfon ' to
an acst of kindneft a« ' always a favor,
introduced this abufeof word™ 0^01 has
T^funS^tArg?» t the use <"
wares and merchandize are c^IW^ nCe '*^? ds '
revenue, which to me anncar. • }eQs of '
594
je(ls of revenue ; the purposes to »i;.i • •
ed, are the oijttis of revenue Cm!/ s a P?ii*
,f,, pajnjeut of
nient are the objeits of revenue ],?n fioVe '«-
ticles on which,are subject;; ; tiiearr i?^' tJle ai '"
poses to which, are the objects. S 01 P ur -
Intelligible ..md intelligent are also f,„
confounded. We often hear persons
then, he is a very intelligible man, when J- a " 0 '
he is a man of underltandin? thai- ;? ,S
gent man. An intelligent man i. 1 *"
be easily uriderttood 1./othcS"'«
is one who has knowledge or nnrli ,i « ,!m
An intelligent man understands • a, '•
man may be understood. '
— _____ N. W.
LONDON.
EASTERN GRANDEUR.
THE proceflion of the Nabob from Cl,; f »
, Calcutta, in order to pay hb conm) P °' T ' t0
Lord Cornwallis, on his arrival in® • Cnt,to
thy of description, as k gives an id ea '?\u T r '
of magnificence of Eaftcrn Princes yle
Seven elephants, of the firftmairnitnrfp ,
ed by their Keepers, in like manner as our
terhorfes: leated on the backs ofwhlh
throne of indescribable splendor, was theN k'V
with a man behind him holding a ru l tr b b '
The throne was composed of P-old pearl- ' j
brilliants : and the Nabob's drfft
lovereignty : Nor was ever animal moreerJjj 3
capanfoned than the no less honored than S T
iug elephant on which he rode l *
Lt?' j "i"
nels sptrfbn to ihegreanlt po/Cblc a-lvaniiL™"
Arrived at the entrance oftheCovernor'shfufr
i °p V V knelt l^e h*lt reasoning animal for hl* '/
Juttrious matter to alight, who' proSSed *£»
immense retinue, drefled all in new turban" and
un,forms, to a breakfaft that had been
for this princely guett. p-^paiei
strange effect of music.
sic is continued, »; e will set un a L V-
AtzsL: r
2 e wh- u 1 ' 1 ' armS S' lve the c ' er Ry ,nan a
->T h,eh h f : "?g Perufcd, he immediately de
iveied n to the intended bridegroom, who was
so confounded at the contents, "that h'e ran out
a'tonilW * % fpeakmg 3 word, to the
bride. * mortification of his intended
n A L E M, September 7.
a - b^ gLeo P ard > Ca Pt- Woodbury,
aurhnrir e> r lll f 2 from Bilboa ; andon the
me cS -° f ,ettCr from Mr " to a
"r ~S. tOWn ' rece 'ved by her, we ate
Brit Tin' to ,l ?> . at t ' le d 'fp ute between Great
dlv.l. pain ' which has caused r " ch fornii
unnn IT \? men , ts >. ar "l kept expetftation folong.
•e. 1 et ™> 1S at length amicably fettled by
negociation This letter is dated the 22 d ofjuly.
Tj,_ j 0 S T O N, Sept. 8.
at ti,«. D°ftor of Laws, was conferred,
C FflK rF te iir°« I )! niencement ac Providence, on
SnSSc WASHINGTON, President of the
. States :—And the degree ofDothrofDi
mrl "rJ°"w 1C < ev - Hopkins, of Newport,
and the J Por ;,a n(li P
tlir 1" r"' f GH Williamson, Esq. one of
he. reprefentauves in Congress from North-Ca
olina, arrived in town yelterday.
C«„L NJ i AMIN Bo . Vrn > £<q. (and not Mr. J W
' .c' as "'entioned in our last, through the
dfrol °n 3 P c ' from Providence) is chosen Fe
. e P I c fentative for the State of Rbode-
L•' ' ,' ya ma joricy of near 300 rotes. The
oiteo t lis gentleman indicates the happyabo
lit on of ant,federal! si„ in Rhode-Mand.
r.io| IS , U PP 0 „5"> f' O'n the enumeration already
. \C' ' lac Msffachuf itts will be intitled to fend
/• ' ve . _ e P r -ftntattves to Congress : And for these
'here I'm may J ud & e fromprefent appearances,
„" ear y 1200 candidates.
Th„ c „ VlDENC£""sept." 4.
n r * oj { ow mg gentlemen were eie&ed to re
P'eient this town in general Membly, at O(flo
TrJnrP\ V,Z - Welcome Arnold, Esq. Col. Amo*
j tNeWcI, ' Ef q- an d Sylvanus Martin.
Monday evening Jaft, as a gentleman was
1 aveJmg fj.j,", Dighfon to Barrington (through
e >0 oth) he was met by three Ruffians on horfe
th ac / rom P by a footpad. After passing
em » the Horsemen instantly turned, and eager.
y purjued the Gentleman,fniackingtlieirwhips;
, lU a . er a cl'ace of about two miles, finding
i.eni e ' v es much in the rear, those noi'tuniai.
adventurers gave up the pursuit."it ft- the president
' THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION ■
nation, was made and concluded o„ the f £
day of the present month f /T nth
as I have, by and withrh. £ : , And where "
■S^rffhT°U„?"ls™r« T" S° 4d / a "' ""*«
Treaty to bejierewith publifte* °^ n TI
GI Y £ N »nder niy hand and the Teal
G. WASHINGTON.
Bjr the Prefideni,
Thos. Jefferson.
[For the aforefaid Treaty fee our p 3per of August , 4 ]
or ™ BY THE president
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
WH**TM- P i. RoCLAMATloff
enforce an afl, emUl'cd « ,„"V" °! lndilni ■ «"<• to
with the Indian tribes" cooir.' mercourfe
tht>n f' fit 'o'rcqult.'a'.d"?
in the year of our LORD one thousand fcven hunTed
and ninety, and in the fifteenth, vrar of the fovcreientv
. «nd indcpcndeuce of the Sl.tcs, 8 y
p,c„ B .) G WASHINGTON.
By The Prefidrnt,
(SiCNtD.) THOMAS JEFFERSON".
ARTICLE B of a TREATY concluded at Hofewelf,
a' BV""' i " wee » Benjamin Hawkins, An'.
w V lckens > Martin, and Lachlan M'
mtoih, Ctmntiffioners Plenipotentiary of t/Se United
°f, "r' C - a ' "f ' h J P " rt ' and The Head-
Men and Warriors of all tlic Cherokees, oj the
T f r™.Tr™'Tr n< u7 ?lcni t ,o,cn,i « r y °f the United States in
° U ,ffcrnhl f c « g ,v c pcacc to all the CHfcROKKES
receive them into the lavor and protection of the United Sutci
of America, on the following conditions :
ARTICLE I.
a ,i™ E H " d - M<-nand Warriors of all the Cherokees, (hall restore
! i !™e"' citizens of the Un.ted State,, o, f u beets ot their
nth ' ' ' ,bC "y : Thr y (haM alf ° ««or ea ]l the negroes,
Ifurh nI r pro[ !, erty dU "" K thC 13, C war ,rom lhc ci.^ens,
appoint"' ' " such " me » nd P'»«> « the commiflioner,
„ ARTICLE 11.
The CommilTioners of the United Sia.es in Congress affcmbled
jhall restore all the prifoneis taken from the Indians, during the
late war, to the Head-Men ,„ d Warriors of the Cherokee, «
early as is practicable. ' "
.... .. ARTICLE 111.
The (aid Indians sos tliemfclves, and their rcfpective tribes and
towns, do acknowledge all the Chcioke-s to be under the protec
tion of tne Lnitcd States of America, and of no other fovereicn
•Whosoever. ARTICLE IV B
The boundary allotted to theCherokees sos their huntingground,
between the Did Indians and the citizens of the United States
Within the hmits of the United States of America, is, and (hall be
the following, viz. Beginning at the mouth of Duck river on the
leneiiee ; thence running north-east, to the ridge dividing thewa
ter, running into Cumberland from thole running into the Tenef.
r, C „ ! k" rIl > "n r n' y , illong tt,c f '"' l " A & lo a north-east line to be
run, which fh ill ftnke the river Cumberland forty miles above
Naflwillc; thence along the said line to the river ; thence up the
kid river to the ford where the Kentucky road erodes the river
thence to Campbell's line, near Cumberland gap; thence to the
mouth of Claud's creek on Holftein ; thence to the Chimney Top
mountain ; thence to Cramp creek, near the mouth of Big Lime
itonc, on Nolichuckey ; thence a foutheily course fix miles to a
mountain ; thence south to the North-Carolina line ; thcnce to
the South-Carolina Indian boundary, and along the fame south
west over the top of the Ocdnee mountain, till it Ihall Arike Ttu
Ralo river ; thence dirrct line to the top of the Carrohee moun
tain ; thencc to the head of the South fork of O conee river.
ARTICLE V.
■■' an y fi'ifwof the United States, or other person not being m
Indian, fhal! attempt to fettle on any of the lands wclWard or
iouthward of the f»«i boundary, which are hereby allotted to the
Indians for Iheir hunting grounds, or hating already fettled and
•will not remove from the fame within fix months after the ratifr
tt ' on i°c tre,t >'» uc h person shall forfeit the protection of the
nite States, and the Indians may puoifh him or not as they
peae. Provided nevtrlh/eji, that thit artidc (hall not extend to
the people fettled between the fork of French Broad, and Hotftein
T, vers, whose particular filiation (hall be transmitted to the Uni-
H,. ST m on S rc '' a fTe , "bled, for thrir decision thereon, which
iDQiars agrct lo abide by.
Tfan,, T J" ARTICLE VI.
who (hall Ukc *" 10 "° ll,em * or
murder, or other ' cor " mitt a robbery or
or P crro;un^r t \l7r '" n ° f ' he U r" Cd St ""'
such offender or offenders il i rfpt1 1 ? n » orthe tnbe *<> which
h 'm or them up to bepuniflif/ 9 *\ ? ' be bound to dclivei
United S.ate, ; ' e ° rd,na " c « " f «'«
than if the robber 2 puniihmem (hall not be neater
Tf, • , ARTICLE VII.
'iou, oth Un<^ei ' '^ e ' lr . P r(^e , e *
h >d hcen committed <«her capital crime,
punilhment (hall be In ~ r "" f the United Statej ; and the
stall attentat tl ' ti^/;'J 1 "° f f ? me ° f Cherokee*, ,f any
portunity so to do due noti f' ? that may have an op.
ment 1»'l be fen, ',t> fomeTe t "he imended pUni(h -
» . ~ article viii
idea of £*. P Un^T nt of thc i»»oc«nl under the
Mi»e«2SwCVh«T?* on either
then it shall be pre eded t T"< trsat >' ; a " d
fed, then by a dUat J, o ho'ji " """
TV, ,w l , ARTICLE IX.
"n oh t heJnd " f n ' '■ 3nd f ° r lhc P—ntK
1 'he Uniteds'ates ui ' S or Indians,
clufive right of resnilatmr the T i. ! C thc sole and ex "
ing 811 thc ' r affa '» f«ch manner proVr" 4
ARTICLE \
and kindly treated. ' P c, l°ns and property,
Th- f, ,T , „ ARTICLE XI.
States, ot'any" designs whifh'hev'" % citl " ns of ,he United
"i in a»ync, y ghboa S ri n rtibe or y bT. ay know r or fuf P«' l>e form
'he peace, trade or intcKft oflbe UnitJ JuL?" Wh " loCT "' a S a "'«
That fh/» y n j• ARTICLE XII.
| C ft °" fi e nCe J n
'to fend a deputy of [1,c,7 choice wh Cy .. L h,V ' : the "S ht
£ ' th , , , ARTICLE xVIV.' fit, to Con-
Unitad aftd fi'icndfliip're. eftabh'th P "" (IT n , by thc
on the one part and all the Ch ! abl,( ' lfd 'between thefa.d Sates
blilhed. 6 aforeCltd, ami frtcndlhip re-cfta-
betwfrrn fa Stota of A* 1 ' ,lcr< "' n determined,
fa'r underwritten Col a " d "" Che «*«». We,
have (igned this Definitive Tr *>"'*' !i'i. VlrtUe ° f ° Ur ' u " P owert
hereunto affixed. .. " ty » and h " vc "W fcals to be
(S,6A ."J BENJAMIN HAWKINS, •
ANDREW PICKENS,
JOSEPH MARTIN,
LACHIAN M'INTOSH
And by thirty-faren Head-Men of the Cherokee nation.
CHAMJUIRSJJURGI* Sep* ». ~
nor^t^Clair Tor*'form^tfab?' ie Gover.
Supported bv a nf <- . Xen.uckey, to be
rendezvous about io miles below Wh™! J. 1 " 00 ? 5 —the whole to
gujning of ,h„ momh Whethe" so? ?"* j" < hc b
l-me negocution with the Indian, on that o'L-te ° """
mence hoftil,tie, againfl them is not vet r, , "to com "
lattcriaexpefted, and hoped for bv the ul y known I ''ut the
Water.. Q ,or . 'he inhabitant, of the Western
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER i 5.
*^S&!ZS3SS£tZ*!z2.
That tver.y Hawk the prey will f tizc o ' n .
i? d jj nce rcn r° d ( " h, £ hcr
W,Udream of nought but- compensation !
w J h h 3 e „ W 7j er °K the above ' s doubtless in opinion
! f , u i hor ' who faid >" w"
■it it may be worth while to pause a little—
and not g,ve unlimited f tQ f
they involve a grofi reflection on oar indMdual
and national character:- How wretched thefatj
of that country, which in its infancy is ft, denra
trufted n ° C t0 Pl '° d>)ce an ind i"idual that may be
No government that ever existed commenced
its operations upon a more candid, open and li
beral plan than that of the United States The
lreedom of the press was very early an obietl of
attention to both Houses of Congress—not' an in
dividual of either was ever known to utter a fen
t».nent hostile tc the freeft discussion of every po-
Imcal fubjecfl .- The publication of the deLfes
of the House of Representatives was encouraged
Ur Jl 6 P u PerS ' c ? ntainin g th <>fe debates, cifcu
lated by the members to all parts of the United
States ; a "d that the fuJleft information miaht
beobtanied by their constituents, the refult°of
congressional deliberations, the Laws of the Union
are not only publiflied in volumes, and sent to the
Lxecunves of the several States ; but a perpetual
publication ot them in the newspapers is provi
ded for by the ast which constitutes the Depart
ment of the Secretary of State. These jolt and
salutary regulations hive been attended with the
happicft effects ; every candid enquirer after
truth, is hereby provided with the means of form
ing a competent judgment of public men and
595
f N f OftMATION it 9 '*' <79°.
' he U " ,te ? St "«. «h« the w"ich e «ir ' t,r)r ,nvali d'of
titled, and which will become due i* ?k / he ? ltc annually en
™T'> Wi ". *? C P aid °» ** ftidd S y, by the'eo
the Loans within the fates j Commiffiorttr# of
" the ***>«« of the Ced mr;
(The Printers in tht rttbt&iveStJ? (f War.
ih»t >* their nctufpaptrs,sr tke/pece'of'txt Mm'tt' "*
public mcaftires—and of refuting the hnfrepn*
lentatiom of the enemies of our peace and na
tional honor. If we turn our attention to the
Executive, horn him who presides, to the several
lubordinate departments, we find every public
communication liramped with a free, liberal, and
independent afpeer-induftry to ascertain, and
lolicitude to promote the best interelb of our
dnrt U 7h ar r tllC iltin S Hifl "ng "aits in the con-
the Executive officers of government—and
ofthe heads of the several departments it may
e generally observed, that their difcutfions of
the lev era! fubjedts specially committed to them
are among the firft performances oil which on
terary character is founded.
What are the weapons with which the admini-
te"? w gen ! ral B overnme »t has been af
ailed .—Have truth, candor, and fair argument
been employed '-No-Can they ever he Soy
falft i an , occ afion ?—No—Are spleen, vanity
ftl(hood and nufreprefentation equal to under-
S n -! H ' C ° nfide " Ce of the in the abi
lit.es and integrity of their long-tried and appro
vedfervants? God every ?£
nram!na!' lnt i brought to a fair and impartial
mSto h?" : ~ L . et , cv . er y fuptrjative
patriot be weighed in the balance; many will
prove than v , nity ._„ B y their £Jt.£
?rr h f m -'^ Thanks tothe wird ° m
infJuM? ° Fo ? r l onmr y> we have fecuredan
Rin rem ' y f ° r ° U1 P oli »cal disorders—it
I fnp *si Ese "" ti ok-every new election this
on^v? p C r'T y #-^ e a PP ,ied : —This is the last and
nly re fort of freedom ; and if fiie cannot be pie
served through the efficacy of this alternative,
kind a l. here lsnohoneft y left among man
kind: Anarchy and confufion, the object of the
defpoSfm. " d f "^ ioU8 ' f ° reVer te ™ inate
Fl J har diftindtion of ranks in France has
impoHtich •C h 3 . rif,icu7ous » and unnatural,'and
been abnfi.,l k • • , em ' because it has
vernmen/ X. 3 P" nc, P le of '»•"> present Go,
rejioion *a aX to tlle root
nets and! rl« M "n. annihilate coro.
level their ,h' Un tl,e ralne P ri,ic »l>'e
level their churches with the ground.
fpirifbf Vh, CominuzU y chat the mad
in the pnrl now prevalent in France, will,
|in the end, destroy , ts own objedt. and we are
« cerfS o n^^ at the P r °P hec /. Reformation
be flow in its «r bu s tobe effeiftual ic ■»»»
tions vinl P , a "d moderate in its exer.
like ? C ' C » and win operatb
Tub who in ril J l ack ' i» the Tate of a
thee'mbroiH- / l Ur ° f his zeal t0 Separate
with it. lOm COat ' *° rt coat "ling
pcndcl^„ C « s C j; rrCnt ? f r ub,ic S <™'• Re
apply to the public paper of o,u, r °" ch ' ftrl£ll > rf Pc«king,
probably exceed the effima td amount—-and a" 1 * d °«
contingfc nc i es w ] li h j, ,°j gt"t variety of
"'tence in this country our t>ubCf l " r Kuro P<'
tinue to appreciate till I £ -eciiritiei mult therefore con
on }T-" lu ? t0 <P"le eipl
justly to be ascribed either to the rxi 'e "7' hc pr ' CCS ar *
.nc,dcn,al, nfiux ofpJprr „ mdmdua,, ,
P<-'ty, not to be in haste to fell -"so ,h 'u®' Va ' UC of thclr Pro
tnjufed by, present fall of the market vet <^ar "" / '
at the Treafiiry a f cw mon ,h. the payment of interelt
h ' sl,tf P ri ™ ««» h„ h,ito(V'b"cn ,™5 so,'. 1 "™ """" '
S-fX'S 2-""' 6
Bt.g Somerset, Darrel, Bermuda, 9 .
r " m Z"**u r r—' mUC S «URltm
riNALSettlements i?A
Indent. "Ji.ayfi. J *
St ate ktt \ts Sf.
advertisement
t,?zz'; " T " c *"'" " "
.. „„ *• to "
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude the «. n
ment of the public anrl f u ° erou3 encourage
cty are founded on a firm basis that it, " P .? fp<cM ° f thil
men. to g ood government may encre* "*
- s to
EXTRACT.
The EditorDISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
No. XX.
.raible «bnt, qui de Guifc .dota.t Its Clf***
Et dont on ignorait lcs vcrius ct Ics vices.
A T THOUGH the insurgents were dispersed
Aand their leaders executed, the Bourbon
and the other grandees of t heir party, the fecre
authors of the confp.racy ft.U lived, coun
oil of the King, in examining into te ffi rn °" V^ h ° al
the late troubles, agreed without dithcuity, tp»
they were the work of the Princes of the blood :
and that, to maintain the authority of the King
„ilt, v the only sure means would bt
SM3S& 5 &U»
»i,#. rnnfoiracy, as perturbators of the public re
Sfc.& orne,rf,, »»d » r«Vh.wk.
SffiSine the person of their fovere.gn, had
Sated the fundamental laws of the '"onarchy.
Put the Princes of the blood, were too nearly on
n level with the King ; they had too much inftu-
Nothing but dillimulution and irresolution pre
disguising under veil oi
■deep dissimulation, its real design rctoljc? 1
length to convoke the aflembly oi the States u
„"at in whom refit" the whole authority ofth:
Kingdom Two reasons determined them . fiiit,
St o execute the important resolution of the
Kinc a-ainft the Princes of his blood, it would
Tje useful to have it confirmed,by the unanimous,
r it lealt the apparent consent of the nation
The second reason was, that by declaring that
thev meant to deliberate in this aflembly on the
measures necefl'ary to compose the present ti ou
bles to regulate the affairs of religion, and tc
adiuft the administration of the state, for the u
ture the King would have a plausible pretext
to summon about his pel son, all the Princes ol
the blood, and all the officers of the crown, with
out giving them umbrage ; and that they would
le inexcusable not to come, l.nce they we.e pro
ti.ifed that the deliberations ffiould be concern
j a reformation of government, which they ap
peared so much to desire. Kings fays Davila.
rt-jer fee with pleasure, or indeed voluntarily), tn.-ft
ajfembties of the. Statu General, where their
/terns to beeclip/cd, by the sovereign power of the na
tion whose deputies represent the whole body.
Upon this paflage, the French writers cry out
« It is a ft ranger who speaks, ill informed of th<
fundamental constitution of our monarchy.
« This Italian imagines that the
y,as suspended, during the fefl.on of the SW«
General. But it was the royal authority whicl
called them together : without it, they could not
have afiemWed : and the fame authority had <
-right to dismiss them at its pleasure : it "S there
fore evident that their power was always subor
dinate to that of the Monarch. But this con
sequence does not follow. The royal authority
in England, has the power of convoking, p»o
rojruing and diflolving Parliament : yet Parha
mfnt is not subordinate to the royal authority,
but superior to it ; as the whole is fupenor to .
third part. The sovereignty is in Parliament,o
the legislative power ; not in the or
executive. So the sovereignty might be in
States General, comprehending the King. 11
there are " twenty examples of the States Gene
ral convening and separating, by the fimpje or
ders of the King s " if ".the Dauphin Charle
Vth, during the detention of King John hi.
father, convoked several times the States Gene
ral, and difmilTed them when he judged proper
it will not follow from all this, that the State,
■were not apart of the sovereignty s nor will it
follow that they had no authority but to adviit
and remonstrate. " If the fem.ments ofth«
Italian author were true," add
« it would follow that the authority of Parlia
tnents and courts or companies, whose power is
nothing but an emanation from the royal autho
rity would be suspended, during the session oi
the States General ; a pretension absolutely con
trary to the usages and maxims of the kingdom.
But how does it appear, that the power of the
Parliaments and courts or companies, were ema
nations of the royal authority ? There is more
probability that they were originally committee:
of the States General, and in that cafe their pow
er would not be suspended, unless it were ex
prefsly suspended by a resolution or order o
the Hates. But ifthefe tribunals were only ;
part of the executive power, and constituted bj
the King, it would not follow from this concel
fion that the States General were no part of tli.
sovereignty or legislative power. Is there on<
national acft upon record, which acknowledge
the King of France to be an unlimited sovereign
If not, the opinion of Davila appears ti
be better founded, than that of his Critick
There was alwavs a rivalry between the roya
authority and that of the States, as there is now
between the power of the King and tliat of the
National Aflembly, and as there ever was, and
will be in every legislature or re
eonfifts of two branches only. Ihe prop
medy then would have been the fame as it must
be mow to new model the legislature make it
conlift 'of three equipenderant independent
branches, and make the executive power one of
them • in this way, and in no other, can an equi
librium be formed, the only antidote .against ri
valries The rivalry between the Kings and
States General in France, proceeded in the rtrug-.
gle for superiority, till the power of the former
increafinrand that of the latter diminifliing, the
States General were laid aside after 1614. and the
crown on the head of Lewis XlVth, in fadt, but
not of right, became absolute : in the fame man
ner as the rivalry between the Popes and general
councils proceeded till the latter were aifconti
nued and his Holiness became infallible—in short,
every man, and every body of men, is and has a
rival. When the struggle is only between two,
1 whether individuals or bodies, it continues til
one is swallowed up, or annihilated, and the
other becomes absolute matter. As all this « a
necefTary confequenceand eftedt of the emulation
which nature has implanted in our bosoms, it is
wonderful that mankind have so long been igno
rant of the remedy, when a third party for an
umpire, is one so easy and obvious.
I (To be continued.)
ADDRESS
Of the HEBREW CONGREGATION in New
port, Rhode-lfland. JtT .- e c
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of
AMERICA,
SIR
PERMIT the children of theftockof Abraham,
to approach you, with the moll cordial affec
tion and ellecm for your person and merit—and
to join with our fellow citizens in welcoming
you to Newport. , , . r
With pleasure we reflect on those days—thole
days of difficulty and danger, when the Godot
Israel, who delivered David from the peril of the
sword, fliielded your head in the day of battle ;
and we rejoice to think, that the fame fpmt who
retted in thebofora of the greaily beloved Daniel,
enabling himtoprefide over the provinces of the
Babylonish empire, rests, and eter will relt, up
on you, enabling you to discharge the arduous
duties of CHIEF MAGISTRATE in thele States.
Deprived as we heretofore have been of the in
valuable rights of free citizens, we now l> u b a
deep sense of gratitude to the almighty disposer
of all events) behold a government ererted by
the MAJESTY OF THE PEOPLE—a govern
ment, which to bigotry gives no fan<ftion—to per
secution no assistance ; but generously affording
to ALL liberty of conscience, and immunities of
citizenship: Deeming every one of whatever na
tion, tongue or language, equal part* of the great
govermental machine. Thi» so and ex
tensive federal union, whose base is philanthro
py, mutual confidence, and public virtue, we can
not but acknowledge to be the work of the great
God, who ruleth in the armies of heaven,and a
mong the inhabitants of the earth, doing what
soever fcemeth to him good.
For all the blessings of civil and religious li
berty, which we enjoy under an equal and benign
administration, we desire to fend up our thanks
to the ancient of days, the great preserver ofmen,
beseeching him that the Angel who conducted
our forefathers through the wilderness into the
promised land, may graciously conduct you thro
all she difficulties and dangers of this mortal life
—And when like Joshua, full of days and full of
honors, you are gathered to your fathers, may
you be admitted into the heavenly paradise, to
partake of the water of life, and the tree of im -
mortality.
Done and Signed by order of the Hebrew Con
gregation ,in Newport, (Rhode-1/land).
[Signed] MOSES SEIXAS, Warden.
Newport, Aitguft 17, 1790-
To the HEBREW CONGREGATION, in Newport,
GENTLEMEN,
WHILE 1 receive with much fatisfaiflion your
Address, replete with expreflions of affec
tion and esteem, I rejoice in the opportunity of
afluring you, that, I ihall always retain a grateful
remembrance of the cordial welcome I experien
ced in my visit to Newport, from all clafl'es of
citizens. The reflexion on the days of difficul
ty and danger which are pad, is rendered the
more sweet from a consciousness that they are |
succeeded by days of uncommon prosperity and
security.
If we have wisdom to make the best use of the
advantages with which we are now favored, we
cannot fail, under the just adininiftration of a
good government, to become a great and a happy
people.
The citizens of the United States of America,
have a right to applaud themselves for having
liven to mankind examples of an enlarged and
liberal policy : A policy worthy of imitation.—
All pofl'efs a like liberty of conscience, and im-
596
Rhade Jft and,
munStitt of c 4 nJzenlhlp. It is How ab more ttiaft
toleration is spoken of, as if it was by the indul
ecnce of one class of people, tliatanother enjoy,
eel the exercise of their inherent natural rights.
For happily the government of the United states,
which gives to bigotry no fandhon, to perfection
no alliltance, requires only that they who ive
under its protection, should demean therafelyM
as good citizens in giving it on all occafionj their
| effectual support. e
It would be inconsistent w.th the fianknefsof
my character not to avow that 1 am plcafed vmlj
vour favorable opinion of my adminiftrat.on, and
fervent wilhes for my felicity. May thech. dre*
of the stock of Abraham, who dwell in this land,
continue to merit and enjoy the good w.l o, the
other inhabitants—while every one shall fit ,a
fafety under his own vine and figtree, and there
shall be none to make him afraid.
May the Father of all Mercies scatter light,ana
not darkness, in our paths, and make us all in
our several vocations urelful here, and in his own
due time and way everlastingly happy
(Signed) WASHINGTON.
" treasurt department,
July i 3, 1790.
NOTICE is hereingiven, that Prlpofals will he received at the cfiti
of the Secretary of the Treasury, to thcfir/day of OMer next,,.
M!«' for thefupbly oj all rationi, which may be required for H"'f"f
,h,United States, from the firjl davaf January U tie
December 1 79 \,both days fnclufve, at the places, and within the
herein after mentioned, vii. . ..
Many place or places, betwixt J oritown tn thejlaie of Pcnnfyha,
and Fort Pitt and at Port Pitt,
At anv place or pkces, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fore M Intofk, on the
Rii'er Ohio, and at Fort M'lntoJh. ~,•%•
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntoJh arid the mntk oj tut Rt.
ver Mvjkinpum, and at the mouth oj the River Mvfiingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Mupngum, nni
up the Jfaid River to the Tu/carowas, and at the Tu/carowas, and tlmce
over to the Cayoga River, arid down the /aid River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth oj the river Mvjkmgum, and
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth oj tie/aid River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the month 0/ Scioto River, an d the aoM
of the great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from Ihenct to
the Raids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the/aid Rapid,.
At anv place or places, betwixt the mouth 0/ the great Miami, up Iht
fiii Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Miami hllagi,
on the river efthe fame name which empties into Lake Erie.
At anv Place or places/rom the rapids 0/ the Ohio, to the mouth of tit
Wakafh thence up the /aid Wabafh to Poll St. V inrt»#«, at PcJISt. hit
cennr.'avd thence tip the said river Wabifh, to the Miami tillage, be
' or places, from the mouth oj tic IVaUJh river to the month
At Tnv T pl* h ct"or pldees, on the call fie of the river Mifflppi.frm the
mouth ef the Ohio river, to the mouth 0/ the Uinois river.
At any place or places,_ from the mouth of the Miami river to the Miam
' '"AtaHy place or places, from the Miami Village to Saniujky, and «
Sandujiv, and Jrom Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga rlwr.
AtJplJ or places, betwixt Fort P,U "/LZ%
.. At any place or places, betwixt Venango anile be,}, M
betwixt l e BeuJ and and Frefq'lJlc, at Prefj IJIc, and ietmrt Prejf
Jfle and the mouth of Cayoga river. . .
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the way f g
At any place or places, on the eafl fide of the Miffjipp', ti "'
mouth ofthe Ohio andthe river Marrot inclvjively. , ■ Y imt
At anyplace or places,/rom the/aid rtver Margot, to the
At anyplace or places from the mouth of the river Tenr.c/cc, toOcich'f'
to or Bear creek, on the Jaid river inclvjively. iiltrills.
f Should any rations be reared a, any places, or
not fbeeijied in these propofnlsjhcprice of the fame tote Jo
on, oftwixt the public andthe contractor. rizt
The ration r to be fupplud are to conjijl of the f discing »
One pound oj bread or flour,
One pound of beef or J of a pound ofpoik,
Jlalf a jill of rum, brandy or uihijky>
One quait o[fait, J
Two quarts of vinegar, ( p gr joo ration!)
Two pounds ojfoap) C
Tk
< U,red - Secretary of the Treafur,
By Order of the Honor Me Richard Morris, £/f. CJiiif
State of New-York. _ _
NOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M' Donald, of
an ibfent debtor, that upon .ppUcat.on and doe
to the said chief iuftice by a creditor of the said L «ntKW»
p*rfuant to in act of the Legiflatilre of the ai > „w.
"An ast for relief against absconding and abfcnt Jigged
fed the 4th April, , 786; he, the said chief juft.ee, h-
all the said Lewis M'Donaldi estate, within this SMW,«"
ed, and that unlef. he fti.il discharge his defeu within
months after the publication of this not, "v' ?7|.„ lrto .
for Ihe payment of his creditors. Dated the jd M«y, W:
Nrto-Ycrk, May}, 1790. (> 7 'y-
NOTICE. t . „
IC7' ALL persons having demands "£ a '!'L.
Household of the PRESIDENT of
are requeued to exhibit their accounts for J
at his late Dwelling in Broad-Way, before
oj September. & Aug«ftjV^_
notice.
• .. of the Neu-
THE Managers give Notice, that the D raw "}&, tan accurate
VorK City Lottery, concluded this day, and o( £ble
lift of the fortunate Numbers will be publilhed Managers,
expedition. The Prizes will be paid by the''Pj itioni of thr
on Monday the 20th instant, agreeable to the jc j tJ ,
TO BE LET, , .
On very lorn term—and entered upon immediately, '
'T'HAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE,
I Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by R°»* h f good
Livincston, deceased ;«L has seven Fi outHou f e in the
Cellar under the whole House—a convemCT eB .
rear, with a Coich-Hdufe* a wl mqlE MINTHOW®"
quire of Corporation J)*&-
(a wr. t. f.J