PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATVRDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YOKX
[No. 42, cf Vol. ll,]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
No. XIX. CONTINUED
Mais i'u.i et l'autrc Guise oik eu moins de furnpulc,
Ce* chci's ambitlru* d'uii pcuplc trop crcdux,
Cowvnnt !curs inic<4is de l'luie.ei de* cicuv
Ont conduit Am- U p:e,;« an pcuptc fui huk.
'"l nr> fii ft meal 11 re advised by Dantlelot an<
t' ,e Villain® dc Charires, was tliat a lare,.
number of those who profefled the Pron.ftant le
'igion, Ihould aftemhJe and present themfelve:
without arms at court, to petition the King foi
■liberty oi confcience,the publicexercife ofiheii
icligipn, and periniliioli to have temples for that
jnnpu.e. l)avila 7 the Catholic and Italian, has
recoided in this place, all the party exagrerati
on of hie mistress and the Guises. He fays, thai
it the petition of the Protestants was severely and
naughtily rejeifted, as it indubitably would be,
they were to march immediately troops alien)-
bled secretly from all the Provinces ; that these
should suddenly appear under different leaders
who should be appointed for them, that finding
the King unguarded and the court without de
fence, they were to 111 aUlicre the duke of Guise
ana the Cardinal ot Lorrain, with all their crea
tui es ; and oblige the King to declare, regent
and lieutenant-general of the kingdom/ the
Prince of Conde, who (hould grant them a cefla
tion of puriifhment and libcity of conscience.
It was believed at the time and publifhcd, thai
the chiefs of the coiifpiracy, had g;iven secret or
ders, it every thing fuccedcd to their v.ilhes, to
put toihe (word the Queen-mother, th&
himfelf, and his brothers, that the croyvn in this
way might descend to the Princes of Bourbon.
LutDayila himfelf acquitsthem of this attrocions
accusation, by adding, that none of the accom
plices having avowed this horrible deflgn, nei
ther when 011 the rack, not of their<own accord,
but all on the contrary having formally denied
it, 1 cannot relate it as a fart. W'e know very
weil that fame, aided bv the vain terrors of the
people, and the malignity of the great, takes a
pleaiurein magnifying objects to infinity.
1 he plan beino; thus concerted among the con
fpiiators, they uivided the provinces and em
ployments, among the principal Culvinifts, that
the execution might be atiended with ns much or
der and secrecy as poflible. Barri, fie la Renau
die aflumed the principal part, and put himfelf
attue head of th« euterprize. This was a person
celebrated tor his travels and adventures. His
wit and courage had acquired him credit among
the Huguenots. He wanted neither fpiric to un
dertake nor vivacity to execute. The disarrange
ment of his fortune had reduced him to the al
ternative of procuring himfelf a better condition
by some daring attempt, or of terminating his
misfortunes by a sudden death. Although ift'ued
from the firft nobility of Perigord, lie had wan
dered long in different countries, and had at
length taken refuge in Geneva, where by his
lubulty he had acquired some consideration.
Such was the birth and character of the principal
leader of the conspiracy, who was soon followed
by a great number of aflociates, some excited by
a zeal for religion, others by the attractions of
novelty, and others limply by that natural inqui
etude, which never permits the French to lan
gaifh in idleness.
La Renaudie confided to the chiefs among them,
the care ot afleuibling their partizans and con
duffing then) to the rendezvous. The intelli
gence with which he diltributed provinces, intro
duced tt kind of order into this confufion. Caf
lelneau had the departinent ofGafcony, Mazers
iliat. pf Bearp, Duniefnil that of Limofin, Mira
ueau that of Saintonge, Coueville, Picardy ;
Mourans, Provence ; Maligni, Chainpaine ;
Saint-Marie, Normandy ; and Montejean, Brit
tany : all famous lor courage, diffinguifhed bv
their Uobilitv, and considered in their cities and
cantoiH, as iii-ads of the party. These fat-liona
i ics, after having aiienibled at Nantes, a city of
Brittany, fotne under the pretext of a lawsuit,
and others under that of a marriage, repaired
with grejt diligence to the polls which were af
iigned them. In a few days, and with admirable
iecrecy, thev there gained an infinite number of
perfon3 of all conditions, ready to facrifice their
lives for an enterprise, which their preachers af
lured them tended to the advantage and tran
quility of the Hate.
(To fc (untir.iitd.)
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1790
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES'
PUBLISHED
A
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES ;
AT THE SECOND SESSION.
rtegun and held at the City of New-Yo, k, on Monday the foutt
of | nnary, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
in AC T lor the relief of the persons therein
mentioned or described.
T) £ rftnaßtdbythe Senate and Ikaf, <sf Rej,r : fentatives of the United
r I"J America in Congreji ajjenblti, That the register of the
treasury (hall, and 1* hereby required to grant unto Sarah, the
widow oi the late inaioi-general E-rl of Stirling, who died in the
ervice of the United States, a certificate to entitle her to a sum
tqual to an annuity for seven years half pay of a major-general, to
.ommenca as from the fourteenth day of January, one thousand
'even hundred and eighty-three, in conformity to the ast of the
late CongreU, patted on the twenty-fourth day of August, one
noufand leven hundred and eighty ; tile amount for which the
aid certificate is to be granted, to be afr.ertained by the secretary
ol the treasury, and on similar principles as other debts of the
United States are liquidated and certified.
And be it further cnaSed, That the said register shall grant unto
Frances Eleanor Laurens, the orphan daughter of the late lieute
nant colonel John Laurens, who was killed whilit in the service
of the United States, a certificate to entitle her to a sum -jqual so
an annuity for seven years half pay of a licuteiiant-colonel, to
commence as from the twenty-fifth day of August, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-two, according co the ast of the late
Congrefc of the twenty-fourth day of August, one thousand seven
hundred and eighty ; the amount tor which the said certificate is
o be granted, to be«afccrtaincd by thcfecrctary of ihc trcalury in
manner aiorefaid.
And whereas no ptovifion hath heretofore been made for dif
<"haigir.g ihe rreats of pcnfions due to officers, nnn-commiffinued
officers, and soldiers, who were wffumlrd and aifabled whilfl in
the t'rviceof the Uo-ted States : Therefore, '
Be jtfurther etirftd, That each of the officers, non-commiflion
ed officers and foidicrs, who were so wounded and d'fabled, and
who aie now placed on the books in the office of the secretary tor
the department of war, ax a pcniioner, or to be so placed in con
formity to any law of thi# Congress, (hall receive from the register
of thetreafury, who is hereby required to ({rant the fame, a certi
ficate, to be liquidated and fettled in such manner as the secretary
of the treasury /hall direct, for a sum equal to the penfton annually
due to him, to commence from the time he became entitled there
to, or f:om the timeto which the fame had been paid, as the cast
may be, which shall be afcrrtamed and certified by the said secre
tary for the department of war, and which annuity shall be li
quidated to the fourth day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, from which day the United States have assumed
the payment of the prnfions certified by the several ftatea. And
111 cafe of the death of any person so entitled, the certificate shall
pass to his heirs or legal representative or reprefeyitatives.
And be it further ena&ed, That the widow or orphan of each of
ficer, non-commiflioned officer or soldier who was killed or died
whilst in the service of the United States, and who is now placed
on the books in the office of the said secretary, as entitled to a
prnfion, by virtue of any ast of the said late Congress, or any law
of this Congress, and for whom provision has not been made by
any state, and to whom any arrears of such pension are due, and
which have arisen prior to the said fourth day of March, one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-nine, (hall receive a certificate
therefor in like manner, and on the fame principles, as certificates
are by this ast direfied to be given to officers, non-commiflioned
officers and soldier*, who were wounded or disabled as aforefaid.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker ofthe House of Representatives.
JOHIf ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, Aubust ths iieventh, 1700.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON. Secret*
RESOI.VKD Av the Senate and HouJ'e of Representatives ofthe (/•
nited States of America inCongreJs ajjembled, That all surveys
of lands in the Western Territory made under the direflion of
the late geographer, Thomas Hutchins, agreeable to contracts for
part of the said lands, made with the late Board of Treasury, be
returned to, and perfe&ed by the Secretary of the Treasury, so as
to compleat the laid contraQs : And that the said Secretary be,
and is hereby authorised to dire& the making and compleating
any other surveys that remain to be made, so as to comply on the
part of the United Sta.tes with the several contracts Sforefaid, in
conformity to the terms thereof.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Rouse oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Viu-Prtjiicnt ofthe United States,
and President of the Senate.
Apr roved, August the twelfth, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pujdtnt of the United States.
(TKIM COfV.J
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretin' of State.
ORIGIN Oh' CARDH
CARDS were invented in the reign of Charles
VI. king of France, to amufehim during the in
tervals of that disorder which conducted him to
the grave. The world would have fuffered ho
loss, had his niajelty been fuffered to die in peace
without this invention.
581
'l/iorit?,
PARI S.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
A Deputation was received from the conquerors
of the hail lie : The aflembly decreed, "iliac
each conqueror of the BaltilefhoulJ, in the name
of the Aiiembly, receive a suit of cloat lis and arms
complete, with his name inferibed pu the sabre,
and a mark of diltindtion puton the coat."
M. Alexanderde Laineth informed the Aflem
bly, that a deputation was coming to Paris from
French Comte and Alsace, which countries were
reprelented by slaves chained round the pedellalj
of statues. lie then moved, that all fuch'fym
bols of servitude fliould be removed.
This motion was seconded with a further de
mand, that,-as a consequence of the declared
Rights ot Man—the titles of Duke, Marquis,
C ount, &c. be fupprefled.
M. de Koucaulc enquired liow the Aifeinbi j
would recompense the ioldiers of the Bands of Pi
edmont,to whom Henry If. gave letters of Nubili
ty in these words—" 1 make you noble, and
count, for having f&ved the Hate."
The Marquis de la Fayette replied, "We
would put down that Jolin or Thomas had saved
the Itaie."
M. Alex, de Lainetli observed that Duke, Count
and Marquis, did not found better than Charles
Fox, George Washington, or"Benjamin franklin.
Alter a violent debate, and much opposition,
the Allenihly at last palled tw« decrecs, which
were in fubltance—
" The National Afl'embly, at the approach of
the great day oft lie General Confederation,wi/b
---ing to let all the French the example of fraterni
ty, decrees, That thefymbols of servitude at the
foot of" the statues of the Kings in the capital,
ihall be immediately deltroyed.
" Ihe National Aliembly, considering that
hereditary Nobility cannot lubfiit in a free liate,
enadts in consequence, that the titles of Duke,
Count, Marquis, Barwn, Ex«llcncy, Greatnef*,
Abbe, and the like, /hall be abolilhed. and that
all the citizens Ihall take, in future, their family
and patronymick names ; that no one Ihall in
future cause liveries to be worn, or take a coat of
arms; that incense ihall no longer be bufrit ia
the temples, unless in honor of the Divinity ;
that the title of Monfeigneur (hall not > be given
to any individual or body ; but at the fame time,
no injury Ihall be offered, under pretence of ex
ecuting the present decree, to property, or to
public or private monuments, nor ihall any one
be forced to lay aside his liveries in Paris till the
14th of July, and in the Provinces till the expira
tion of tiiree months."
June aj.
A deputation was introduced of 863 conque
rors of the Baftile, with Mr. Bailly at their head.
These brave fellows, finding that the honorable
decree pafled in their favor by the Affcmbly had
excited the envy of their fellow citizens, and the
snemies ofthe commonweal were making use of
his opportunity to disturb the public peace, ge
leroufly declined the advantages to'wliich they
vere entitled, rather than occasion any disturb-
ance
The meeting was terminated by a decree ex
prelled in theie ttrros : '
The National Membly, affetfted with the no
ble patriotism ot the brave citizens who conquer-
Baftilc, accejxs the renunciation of the
ailhiictions which had been granted them by the
decree of the i 9 th init. The National Aflembly
faither decrees, that there fliall be made in the
verbal process the moil honourable memivn of
their generous facrifice.
State.
LONDON, June 50.
Mr. Major, one of the King's meflbngers, ar
rived Lift mght at the Secretary of State's Of
fice, with dispatches from Mr. Fitzherbert at
Madrid.
A Council was immediately l.tld ; and if any
thing can be inferred from the proceeding 0 f
the night, and the present lituation of affairs,
the hopes of peace i'eem farther removed than
ever. *
s. 1-d a k s " o accon ; pan y' n g mefTenger to the
Sparn/hAmbaflador ; but agreeable ,« the conr
tefy of the tunes, Mr. Major was er.trufted with
dispatches for his Excellency the Marquis ciel
Campo also ; and, from every circumstance that
has fincetranfpired,the rupture that was before
011 y dreaded j longer problematic;^
[Whole NO. 452.]
June 19PHfLOSOPHICAL REFLECTIONS
ON THE LAII
REVO L.UT I O N I N FRANCE, ire.
C ON TIXUAT lON,
THE moll means fliould be inftamly
pursued to chock this growing niifchief ;
and perhaps rtorre eoold'btf better than re-ellab
lilhing the obsolete practice of ifluing geiteral
warrants, at the discretion of the Secretary of date.
If there lhuuld ilill remain anyabfurd prejudices
again (I the name, let them be callcd lettres de ca
chet. A late eminent inagiitijate recommended
the adoption of this measure, with great force of
reasoning, and nnanfvverable argument, in order
to check the migration of our manufacturers, and
and the export of our fj>inning-ieH>iys ; but now
the French revolution, and the wife extension of
our excise laws, have made it not only prudent,
but absolutely neceflary for the preservation of
the empire. The present member for Middlesex
has a glorious opportunity of making the amende
honorable to his king, country, and conitituents,
by bringing in a bill to legalize general warrants,
or lettres de cachet. Let the commons pais it, and
the lords will not venture to throw it out. The
lin ing menaces of the tobacconilts, in their evi
dence, may firve as a preamble to the art ; and
a special clause may be inserted to suspend the
pernicious operation of ,ihe habeas corpus art for
seven years; and at the end of that time it will
be totally forgot
In (hort, the expediency of llrengthening the
arm ofexecuiive power is universally admitted ;
and as we have hitherto derived all our riches,
and happiness, by keeping up a cordial
enmity, and provoking rivalfhip bet ween us and
France, by a total diversity of laws, opinions, and
conltitution ; let us still, with patriotic pertina
city, adhere to our old fyftein, and we may yet
bid defiance to all our enemies, foreign and do
mestic. On this principle, the following hints
may be of use.—
Let the whole of the British revenue be farm
ed to that great comptroller of finance, Monf. C.—
Let a royal imprimatur be eftabliihsd ; (nibbling
at the newspapers, by forbidding them to be hut,
is a nagatory policy ;) let both honfesof convo
cation meet ro recommend lotteries, and his Ma
jofty's proclamation for the reformation of man
ners ; let them appoint a committee, (Doctor H.
in the chair) lo cite, degrade), and deprive such
of the clergy of their benefices who fliall prefunle
to iuppor: any of the present members of tlia
lioule of commons, at the next:generAl eleiitioh,
■who voted for a repeal of the tell acft'; let them
examine, and'fentence to the flames, all publica
tions of an immoral tendency, and commit the
-authors, printers, and readers to NpwgAte ; let
the schism bill, which expired 011 the lft of Au
gull 1714, be revived ; let the authority of the
bilhops' court be extended, and no appeal allow
ed from their decisions, except to heaven. Some
thing of this fort has been already done, jufl fuf
ficient to provoke the animadversions of Doctor
Price ; and what more can be said in praile of
adininiltration ?
Even you, Sir, mud acknowledge that I spread
nofalfe alarms, when we are at this moment me
naced with a restoration of the. pagan divinities.
The Pantheon may receive the gods of Greece
and Rome; and perhaps we may fee tlie worftiip
which has been very lately abolilhed at Ilernia,
revived at Ranelagh. Our youth are early ini
tiated into the niylteries of the heathen mytlio
logy, and have too ftronga propensity to kneel at
the flirine of Venus, and pour out libations to
Bacchus. In (liort,the revolution in France, the
spirit of the diflenters, and the licentious wish
of a platonicphilofopher, ftrikc me with the ut
molt horror. The approaching calamities of
Britain lie heavy on my heart. At all events, I
ihall endeavor to aftSvith fortitude and refigna
lion :
" Such inthofc moments, asinthepaft,
44 O save my country, Heaven, (hall be my lift.'
But a con fide ration of the utmost importance
yet remains. The dangerous revolt of the mili
tary, on whom the liability and glory of the
French monarchy rested, hasexcited my indigna
tion, and almo'ii driven me to despair. if i'ol
diers once presume to consider themselves as ci
tizens, to enter into any difculfion and distinc
tions on this invidious fubjeft, there will be no
life in keeping up those large Handing armies, to
which modern governments owe their brilliancy
and power.—No similar instance has happened
tince the year 1688. " James drew out his ar
my," fays Lord Bolinbroke, " but in vain, for
it was an EngTifli one 1 " Louis did not draw out
his army, for it was 110 longer a French one !
/ind thus "kings have been deserted, and deliver
ed up into the hands of their revolted fubje<fts,
r»nd a fatal revolution brought about in France
and England, by the (hanieful defection of the
troops. But an extension of the evil is (till to be
dreaded, and has already taken efFecft. Papers,
called le SoLiat Patrhtiqfrt, are di("perled among
the military 011 the continent, exciting the pri
vates of every battalion to mutiny;* and taunt
ingly alklnc tlieai, whether they are not degra
dtd, by fubmittinjjj to the caprice of puerile aris
tocrats, who are wifely commiflioned by their lo
vereign to drill and chaltife thein ififp military
discipline, by the magical effects of a rattan ?—
These inflammatory addrefles have already had
fucti a fatal operation, that -I 1 queft'ion whether a
German pritics could now induct his troops, by
double pay, to fulfil acoutras«ft with us or Spain,
if the flame of rebellion should spread to her co
lonies in South America, or to the Isle of Man.
On the whole, Sir, 1 own myfelfterrified at the
very idea of innovation. The fermentation of
democracy, begun in Frajice, may extend here,
and excite a fatal change in our tempers and dis
positions Your pliilofophical pursuits incline
you to be less tremblingly apprelienfive ; you
falfely conclude from analogy, that our conftitu-
tion inay be improved by impregnating it with a
new principle, as yok have given common water
the spirit and flavor of Pyrmont, by a lucky in
fulioii of fixed.air. But the ancients were wife
ly, and evcu timidly circumfpe&on this eflentia'
point of p -licy. '1 he kings and ephori of Spar
tahave jultly Merited and obtained tliepraifesof
all poilerity, for ifluing a deeree again ft Timo
theus, and fining liirn, tor adding another ltring
to the harp. Th#fe profound judges of human
nature in It ant ly -perceived that thelawsand con-
Ititutions ofLycurgus would soon be defpiled,
and rendered oblblete, by the wanton vibrations
excited in [he ears of their sober and uncorrupt
ed youth, by this uuconftitutional string. They
exprelsly fay, " He has given to our music an ef
feminate and artificial dress, inilead of the plain
and orderly one in which it has hitherto appear
ed ; rendering melody infamous, by compoiing
in the chromatic, inilead of the enharmonic. Be it
therefore enadted, by the authority aforefaid,
that Timotheus be baiiifhecl from our city, that
men may be warned for the future not tj intro
duce any innovation into Sparta !"
1 only quote this very Angular historical anec
dote, to convince our felf-opinionated, lceptical
reformers, that nothing was deemed trifling by
ihe wil'dom of antiquity,which could in the flight
ed degree tend to any alteration in the govern
ment.
In the pvefent wiklnefs of political speculation
in Fiance, 1 should not be l'urprifed if some de
claiming demagogue proposed the eating of raw
flefh, a ia mode d' Aiyjjinie, in order to keep up the
rage and violence of the commons in unabated
vigor. An aift of the National Aflembly (conlt
deringtheir unhappy influence) would soon make
thi» lavage custom fafhionable, under the falla
cious pretence of reducing the price of wood;
and rendering one article of the commercial
treaty of no effect, by preventing the importa
tion of coals. This barbarous nutriment would
soon be relished here, as we have always had a
propensity to that lort of food ; and would in
fallibly produce every atrocious act of ferocity
which has already desolated that devoted land.
As the paflions, taite and appetites, principal
ly originate from the physical properties of our
diet, our -virtues and vices may be traced to the
fame source, and improved, or counteracted, by
a moral, regimen, fhis fentiinent is neither new
nor paradoxical ; it has been already elucidated
with philosophic truth and poetieal* beauty, by
one of our elegant and plealing poets :
" Was e*«r Tartar fierce or ciuel
" Upon the ftrengthof walcr gruel ?
" But who (hall Hand his rage and force,
" If fir 11 he rides, then eats Ins horse."
The cruelty or mildness of animals depends 011
their either being graminivorous or carnivorous ;
man, by his dignified nature, enjoys the option
al privilege of being either ; but as he isalfo dif
tinguiflied by enjoying the superior faculty of
ctokiug, the direful effects of a raw-fleih diet is
counteracted by this humane refinement. The
Hindoos are meek, gentle, uncommonly patient,
and fubinit to every ast of extortion and rapine'
with aftonilhing composure, and the mod lauda
ble resignation. Our countrymen, who, by their
travels and indefatigable researches, have acqui
red a perfect and accurate knowledge oflndoftan
all agree (however they may differ on other
points) in giving the natives this very amiable
character, and universally ascribe it to their Am
ple vegetable diet. This phyficai principle is so
well understood, that the fighting cajh are com
pelled to eat flefli, as aneflenrial part of military
discipline ; otherwise they would soon lose their
courage and the esprit de corps, and meanly degen.
ernte into tlic tsiiicncls of mere citizcns.
I could adduce Itrong reasons for throwing out
tins alarming hint, and have now in my poflfef
flon letters from a leading member of the Nation
al Assembly, to prove that this horrid scheme is
in agitation. The vanity of Frenchmen induces
them to think, that as they have long given the
ton, en fait de manger, the 1110 ft aristocratic peo
ple m Europe (even Spaniards and Germans)
will soon eat themselves into a republican fren
zy, as they will be Simulated Toy a frefh incentive
at every meal. This is the favorite project of
our reltlefs and ambitious rivals at present who
a flatter themselves with the hope of
edabljflnng a shocking system of universal demo
582
ciacy, by this infambus expedient. Our bed
preservative, infuch an emergency, would be a
genera] man of the ri*ht&
and privileges of a citizen, besides fubjeftinr
Him to a fine, at the discretion of the judges, and
imprisonment till it was paid, who did not pro
dace and lodge a certificate weekly at the excis e
ollice, signed by the re<ftor, curate, and church
wardens of exacft compii.
ance with the obligatory clauses of the said ua
to wit, " That A. or B. had duly and regularly
eaten his fieih or filh, either boiled, roalted ba
ked, broiled, or fryed." Yet lam fully persua
ded, that you, Sir, and your brethren, the difleu
ters, would still remain stubborn and refradtory
and fadtioufly coipplain of this salutary reltrainr'
as a new grievance, and again expatiate on the
natural and abltradt rights of man, to eat lus
meat according to his own whim, either raw or
roalted. To be continued.
CONGRESS. I
HOUSE OK REPRESENTATIVES
iHURSDAY, July 29.
The Amendments to the Funding Bill itn
deration.
r ~T~ , HE hnufc having agreed to insert ftvtn years in lieu of
X infilled on by the S.-nate, as the time at the expiration of
which, mtercllon the deferred part of the debt fhouldcommeuc-•
it was moved that the house should recede.
Tliis motion was opposed by Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Gerry, and
Mr. Ames ; Mr. Sherman, Mr. V'ltzliitions, Mr. Slone and' Mr
Sedgwick, supported the motion.
Mr. Ames observed that it gave him great fatisfaaion when he
reflettcd that the house through the lopj; difcuffionof this lmpgr
taut fubjrft had difcoveied an uniform uifpfcfuiou to fnppon i n
public faith ; not an inflance m our contitifl I believe (laid hrj
has occurred, through the whole conrfe of this buGnct at which
we have cause to blufb ; this firninefs and conliftency has re
flected the giealcfl honor on thehoufc—and I would fondly hop
lavs a happv foundation for the public mind to reft upon. He
then offeied some general oblcrvations on the immutability a
public justice, the facredncfs of public comrafli—and apply nig
the principles to the proportion of the Senate infilled that it was
a manifeft and glaring violation of the tiontraft between the go
vernment and its creditors, and a departure from principle ; lor
the S. nate have agreed to the rate ol redemption, viz. 8 pi. cent,
pr. annum, agreeable to th: lirfl part of the amendment propof.d
by the House : the time lor the commencement of intcicft, seven
years, ought to follow of course.
He then shewed (he operation of the proportion adopted by the
Senate, and by calculations he had made, it would, he faitl, de
prive the creditors of 18 pr. cent, of their deferred capin;.' Uc.
•nlarged 011 the present and piobable rate of inteteft, and from
t,i iousdcdu£lions he Ihcwcd'.hatth. original piopofiuonittthe Se
crctary's report was more consonant to justice than any fubllnute
which had been offered ; and as that which the house had agreed
to deviated lei's from it than that modified by the Senate, he ho
ped for these and other reasons, which he offered, tint the house
would not recede, but infill on their amendment, and requefl a
confer en cc.
Mr. Sedgwick said that the fubjeft now before the house wa*
of all others the mod important, and that about which men
of the! moll pure intentions might be supposed most to differ, with
out the imputation of improper motives. To this body was refer
red the important and arduous task of providing for an iiumeu/a
debt, to do this in such manner as to give fatisfa&ion, an infinite
variety of circumstances attending the creation of the debt, and
what had been the operations with and upon it, were to be con
templated. The house had not only to determine what thev ou§hi
to do, but they were also to guess what they could do.—What
were the resources of the country, and the abilities of the govern
ment under th':fe circumstances ? He feared that the speculations
of the clofct, had produced fvftems, which prevented a spirit of
accommodation and conceflion, which he believed was never more
necessary. He besought gentlemen to reflcdt, that the utmost de
gree of certainty they could obtain that they were light, was a
eonje&urcthat they were so. Under these circumstances, he hoped
that gentlemen would companionate the circumftanccs of their
country ; he begged them to reflect that the commcrciai capital of
this country was diverted to objects not only unproductive of any
benefit to the community, but deftru£live of its moil important
inter ells ; that the paftion of avarice, the most fordid of any which
can possess the human heart, was now raging to a pitch, of which
the history of our country afforded no precedent. Men not only
fpcculated in the funds, but they gambled even in contracts of
speculation ; bargains refpefting the debt were fold in the market
almost as frequently as the debt iifelf.—He aficed if it v. as not the
duty of every good man to exert himfclf to relieve this country
from the effects of this unhappy situation. He observed that the
difference In value between the provision proposed by the Senate,
and that heretofore adopted by the House, was about one twelfth
pait. lempcrate reflection he believed would prevent on thu ac
count one moment's pertinacious adherence to the conjectural cal
culations of the house.
Mr. Sedgwick said that his colleague (Mr. A.) had jealously
contended that the amendment of the Senate was a departure
from principle—this he did not understand to be the cafe. The
Secretary had attached to his proposition so- which this was a fub
lutute, a quality of irredeemability ; the house had varied this
propofition—tht Senate have done the fame. Whether any or
which of these calculations Were right, no gentleman could with
cei tainty predict. They are dependant on future events, known
only to that being who had the fupremc controul of them. He
never could comprehend how this irredeemability, the worftquali
ty m the opinion of the people of this country annexed to the
terms of the loan, could justly be considered as an equivalent for
that part of the debt of which the creditor was to bedeprived for it.
Notwithstanding he had always considered this as a principle un
derflood by few, and desired by none—yet from a disposition to
accommodate to the opinions of others, he had acceded to it;
because without such a spirit of accommodation, every effort to
effett the funding of the debt, would be found vainand ineffectual.
—He wished other gentlemen would be equally disposed to con
ciliate ; and he had no doubt but a majority would ; for he would
not fuppofc that they would endanger the loss of the accorn
plifbment of the great business we had so long and painfully la
bored to effeCt—becaufe a majority in the other house, who had an
equal right with them to think and a£l for themfelvcs, were not
disposed io resort la their ftandaid of truth.
' V > (
jftf ' . * V
' 4» «-;*
■ 'llrrextinction of titles.
Dukeand Marquis, Count and Abbo,
JL Are riTL ES lately grown so (habby,
The people will no more refpeft e'rn,
t. en Noblementhemfelves reiefte'm—
for by the magic ot a found,
1 he world has been in fetters bound,
To keep all futureevil from u.,
Ourfafety lies in T.m and Thomas.
Hail happy age long since foretold,
I hat turns all baser coin to gold:
Udil deep humility of spirit,
1 hat forms a common Hock of merit;
Alligns the fame exalted llation
To liim who Jaues, or Jink s, a nation.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 4,
IN DI^V L i GENCE receive(l b y the GRANTHAM
rACKET, which arrived here on Thursday in
49 clays from Falmouth .
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, June 27.
A T t l I ! ? N f | r ° m j ir,habitan,s of Avignon informed
J. X. the affeinblythat tin y bad emancipated thcmfelves from the
tlZ a 7T, ?l' °" "T h,d f ° lon? S rHi,ncd " ndcr - a "<» cam
to throw thcmfelves into the arms of Fiance and be ...corporate
Th C 'i' a" S (T, J C a dlrls W " reived with great pleasure
atJn h°, k de . M,rabeau then the fubjeft of deliber
wrh AV" r' B l y dc P uti « of the City of Pel pi K nan
with a design to fct the city by the ears. P g
Wn M '« dt Mirabcau made his appearance at' the bar; and used his
fence tho it^dif 1 ' 3 '° !" V,hda ' ell " char g« against him : His de
thf whil , f pr ° v e, mcof thi allc R a »c"». did not appear on
the whole to becomplcat— A dccifion was deferred.
June 29.
„ Affembl y'ook the situation of the .(land of Tobago into
confederation, and ordered relief to the fufferer, by the la,® fire.
ft* ™ = "'»'•« w S&5
„s ! ', eral ? f the ■"e'nbert delivered up their patents of nobilitv,
and the infigma of their refpeftive orders and ranki.i
LONDON, July io.
The Marquis de la Fayette lias lately perform
ed an a<st, which has deservedly acquired him
JJ>uch popularity. He made a motion in theAf
lembly, that the command of the national troops
was too great a truftto be entirely veiled in one
rl l e motion was adopted by the Senate.
The Marquis therefore, so far from being ap
pointed Grand Prevot, is not near so great a man
as before. He now commands only a part of the
national forces.
The Queen of Spain's party, which is much the
ltrongelt, are determined, as is generally nnder
ltood, on a war. The King's party seethe necessi
ty ot arming, but wi/h to protract giving any
answer to England. 6 3
The signal tor war it is supposed will be given
by the King ofPruflia, and intelligence of his
.having commenced hollilities againit Austria is
every hourexpecled. '
The Prince 101 l between eight and ten thou -
land pounds ot Afcott Races, the greatest part of
whjch was betted against Mr. Fox's Sea gull.
T he Prince is laid to have been so irritated against
iome of the jockeys for unfair play, as to have
declared, he will never make another bett on
Afcott Race Ground.
Ihe Bnt.ih fleet was ,n port 7 July ; on which day the Dutch
lquadron of 10 fail, 8 of the line, arrived hi St.Hcllcns under the
command ol Mon. le Chevilier de Kinglt-r K cn.
1 he-Ferret Sloop of War arrived at Kalmouih from Gibraltar
on the 20 June liw 33 Pendants flying in harbor ol Cadiz—of
>nat number Ships were of the line.
Dispatches have again been teceivrd fiom Lieut. Riou of the
Ouardun, which put it beyond doubt thai lie bad reached th-
Cape.
tiarfaw June ii : The frrotid of this month the City of Liffa
was delinked by fire. The whole, excepting 12 houses was
swept away by the flames.
"t he Swedes are pudiing the warajiainft the Ruflians with great
ardor—and have been generally fuccefsful.
1 he demolition of the Boftile cost 200,000 livres : The materi
als fold have produced hardly 36,000.
Agreeable to orders from the National AfTembly, the Nunne
ries it) France have been vifitcd ana infpefted—and the Tefult is
• hat the most humiliating remains of bigotry ignorance andfupcr-
Ition are found tocxift in those receptacles.
A strong democratic spirit has discovered iifelf in some late re
pafTed by the Diet of Hungary—They have annihilated
all diltm&ion between their upper and lower house of ailembh,
Frequent fkirmilhes take place between the Auftrians and Pa
v^ ,0 i! S r j counlr * t * s —in which great numbers are killed on
both fides : Die ports ot the Patriots according to a late survey
ordered by the Congfefs of the ttates are said to be in excellent
order.
The seventeenth June—nothing decisive receding Spain had
transpired : Mr. I itznerbcrt waj> then negotiating at the Com t
of Madrid.
A fcvcre a£hon has taken place between the Auftrians and
Turks ; which terminated the defeat of the latter. The Au
ftrians were commanded by General Spleny : 7"he Turks rallied
jeveral times but wcte finally driven off the firld—the Auftrians
loft so officers.
Mr. I itiherbert had his firft audience of the K;ng of Spain the
12 June : The fame day he dispatched a mcflrnger to the Court of
Great-Srhain.
The King of Hungary has aflembled an army of 150,000 men
on tbe frontiers of Prufiia.
Accounts from Leghorn mention that the white and red cock
ade has been a(Tume<l by the people of that city -the Churches
broke open; great diforderj prevailed, and many lives were loft;
the tumult was appeased by the governors fending off to the court
©f Vienna a flaicinem of the demands of the people.
The monft-r, alias the person who has been a terror to the fe
males of the City of London for several months, by cutting and
uiai-ning women in the Streets, has been 'rieJ, ant found guiltv ;
pcrfon turns out to be otic RenwicK Williams—several other
jndiftments are yet pending againfl him— is respited to
December feHions.
A SURPRISING instance OP iLltr WALKING.
. A person dreamt that hi was catching birds In the morn
ing he found a wnole nest of swallows in his bed. He had, in the
n.ght mounted fcn hi,;!, ladder, and uk;n the birds under the eve
the huufe.
Extratf if m letter from London, July 2.
. The greatest number of new jpertibei s will
e urned for the next parliament rhat e erwas
° W f : , ° I CCa Qoi»«<J by the debates on tht
repeal of the Teit 4«S. The eftibluhed Cleijn
have made. the molt extraordinary exertions t«
diJplace the fnend« to the repeal «f that acJt.-
Our fleet is yet in pore.
From the political Magazine for June 1790
A pamphlet published in France, upon the pn
ent lupture, contains the following very reason
able proportion-" Thaj neither Spain by the
1 ope s bull—nor England by the right of prior
°^ ta *ned any sovereignty at Noot
. property of the district, fays the writer,
in ,}l ,e '"habitants— and their penniflion to the
tl- i , to sett,e > constitutes a claim, acainft
which Spain has nothing to offer."
No exception being made from the Prince of
the blood to the Abbe, in the Decree of the Na
tional AlTembly which abolishes all Titles—the
JJuke of Orleans is now M. Bourbon, and the
French Ainbaflkdor is no longer Count, but M
Luzerne.
I• i To an ' mme ''fe Taving of time, paper,
ink, &c. See. to aboli/h titles, diffintftions, forms,
etiquette, levees, drawing rooms, balls, courts,
parties, &c. &c. in Great Britain : These form
the great volume of contents to all thenewfpaper
publications, and from which scarcely one impor
tant idea is ever gleaned.
The late grand Vifir Haflan Pacha is succeeded
by the Gov. of Widiit, who has already discover
ed a pacific-difpofition.
Macauley Graham intends to write the
lire or Dr. r ran klin.
Copy of a letter sent by M. de St. frieft to M. Cher
r 'tn chief genealogist ofthe Crown of France.
i, tl v i Paris, June 4, 1790.
The King has enjoined me, Sir, to inform
you that His Majesty does not intend you {hall
receive any longer the genealogical titles usual
ly remitted to you, by those who aspire to be pre
fented to him : ou will conform to his IVlajefty's
order. (Signed) St. Priest.
This ffiort note will make ah epoch in the mo
narchy of France : His Majesty by this gives
another proof of his approbation of the pnnci
pies of the New Constitution.
BOSTON, August 28.
CORRESPONDENCIES.
1 here are almost innumerable candidates in
this State for Federal IleprefeHtatives But it is
generally believed, that the people feel the ne
celhty there is, in order that the work well be
gun should be well finiihed, and that the " top
Hone should be brought forth with shouting " of
REELECTING those persons whose abilities hare
been matured by the experience of two years ;
and who alone can with efficacy finifh the great
work of establishing public faith and jufticefand
lecuring refpetf abroad, and happiness and prof
perny at home. When these great objects are
affected, ficklenefs will not be so likely to blast
our rising profpefts.
I3y Capt. Smith, from Port-au-Prince, we
learn tliat the demon ofinfurretfiion and riot had
again infefled that place, and had produced an
atfiay, 111 which several persons had been killed •
and which ended in the interference of the mili.
tary, who made prisoners of several of the rioters
and secured them in prison. We also learn that
in the absence 011 shore of the Captain of one of
the French 74 guns fliips lying there, the crew
rose on the Lieutenant and obliged him to con
duifi the fliip to sea ; previous to which she fired
on a frigate which lay in the harbour, and oblig
ed her to run out of the port.
The military preparations making in Spain
evince, that the English will not find it so easy a
task as they imagine to make the Spanish Mo
narch « couccde." However desirous they may be
of fingering the Carohjfes of Spain, i t j s pr e tty
certain that Charlesthe IVth will urge, what the
Spanish artillery bear on their muzzles', " Ultima
ratio Regum," rather than submit to any deora
diitg terms of accommodation.
IN .LW-YORK, September 4,
Slanders on private chafers arejuftly and universally reproba
ted : How much more ought unfounded aspersions on public bo
dies, or characters, to meet wiih general detestation !
Ii is the glorious privilege of freemen to think what they please
and to publish their (entiments with freedom and decency on all
fubjefts, with which their intercft is conneaed ; but it is an high
insult 10 the majesty of the people, to traduce those characters that
their free fuffrages haveekfted to public stations.
While a free pr< fs is an objrtf of sacred regard to an enlightened
people, a press that teems with lies and (lander , either thro ignor
ance or design in the ennduftor of it, is to be execrated as a pell!-
lent engine of mis hies.
Sychophants are of vanou* iptions : There are sycophants
of power, persons and opinions : Neither of them possess any fix
ed principles : Sycophants of power are the obsequious tools of
ambition ; fyrhophnn s of persons are the blind idolarors of indi
viduals, whose fmil sor frowns, or preftnt sentiments, however
variant or contradiftorv to former dfclarations, are the directory
of their faith and pr?&i ; fychophants of opinion are those,
who facrifice their own f nnmoits « n all nccalions to what they
conccivc 10 be the popular ideas of the moment : Allthefe cha
583
rafters are destitute of honortherefore detefh&le ; but-it
may he queried whether the last, which comprehends the e£T n
tals of a demagogue is not the most injurious to foeiety of the
hree. The views of the two firft. commonly terminate in perfon
-1 considerations, and frequently without affe6lincr foeiety ; the
ucrefsof the iar»er dep ndson anarchy and confufiort.
The PennfyJvania legiOatun is now in felfion.
The new ConfH:mu>n ps the C<*mfnfyiwealth of Ptnnfylvania
was proclaimed in due form, in Philadelphia, on Thurlda*' laR.
Phe President of the United States wasexpcflcd to arrive in that
city the fame- dav.
\eftcrdav No. 16789, was drawn a prize of f.'iooo, in tiie
New.York City Lottery..
VI e have been favored by a uentleman of this city with she
(rnftfinim. to the 10th of July—thole papers contain no ac
count of a Naval Engagement
Anccdfitc of tire late Dr. frank/in.—When the Doctor firft heard
o the Preftch Revolution, it was in the company of several per
sons who came to visit him at Philadelphia, when he coutd no
longer abroad ; everyone was worn!-ring at the circumft zncc r
and afkinjT whether it was not very fmgular. The Dotfor having
heard rhem for some time, with his usual patience, at last replied
\\ hy I Ire nothing lingular in all this, but, on the contrary,
what might naturally be expected ; >.he French have served ao
dpp-revticrjkip to Liherts in this country, and now that they are out
of their time, they have set ujj for them/elves."
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Packet Grantham. Bull, Falmouth. 40 daVa,
Brig Polly, Smith, Tobago, ae
Laritta, Siftare, St. Domingo, .30
Junus, Brutus, Sinimaa, Cape-Francois
Sloop Friend (hip, Bird, Philadelphia
Sally, Soy, St. Euftatia, ,6.
fRICE CURRENT -PUBLIC SECURITIES.
fIN'L StTTLIMINTi 12/56.
Indents jft.
State Securities 8/
PRIZES
IX THF. NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
Prize of 200/. 12,234
Pnterofiool. 6111 19573 21 ,062 22.611 16,717 20.670
10,865 3669 14,070
JW./50/. ,779 ,7,804 6309 ,6,761 *1,67,5
rrizes of ioi 644 5401 12,999 14,258 15,038 17842
902 r,' 9 i ' 9 0 577 961 4059 ' 2,2 ° 7 20 >5 a 9 »i 20 186u
2865 10 ;i ß } ,5,085 '7.335 21,700 * 09
ffi«V «o 6174 5321 7928 9,59 12 ' 801 '3.050
1 0-353 20 >4>3 «3.727 >343 «,79» >5,844 2.,750 2,,£
22 >379 23,589 24,964 2716 3206 18,748 20,982 20,84924'^!
Pr'fces of 4'. drawn on Saturday 28 ult. 1
398 2, 42 65,6 9770 14669 >7242 20868 23020
S'7 324 7,, 5 2, 20 2 0 J3*©
1% $ it, & gi «»? «
!" :s i ;i; I' 2 S r»
<% *«■ >»»> » si X 3, if: k
75® 037 606 10018 r1 ft 34
468 488 771 ?,! 53 54 9 "5 508
|7 3799 7 ? £$ - < & 44 f
& 2 $ IP « 7 ' S
V* !£ si? "$ s «« "4
879 fn c h u *1 ? f: <
8:? 201 545 39Q
i» g % r° f' i e ; 'f»
68 020 714 7., jj 7 2 39
807 96, ,63 „2J 744 189 " 2 9 5-9
546 >98 7* «5« 437 773
876 384 3>6 i«*°® 829 ««! 47 6
570 328 917 olr !o 7 297 438
424 366 4.3 M 4 , 5 1q 3 ; 4 86 '
938 4399 8,5 4 „ 4 ?' 3 ,9 £3 ««♦
?fi* 68? ! 4 ® 558 601 28?
. , ® 2 3°t B>o ciß
fij i;j a; ,s j;f *• <«• «»
.549 460 485 cn s 2 1 8 3 6 55
690 508 322 cB 4 5 43 4 59°
2593 03, 830 ,63 3 9 5 4 " 54 ®
87* 497 399 106 071 c,o tV*
2 3 ° l 55 dl It r 22- «4 400
304 i % Q V , & & 86*
44> 983 9747 6?q '782 f 3 ® ° 9 '
380 208 524 ,4836 l 2i A, ! 9
508 6770 396 028 406 380 830
v Monday.
,I * 5 01 l 6qq6 976 a 4 13983 16 «4> »9>7 5 >242,
J 9 2 '48 937 112 922 23848
8 5 ? „» s js 3 I
4 «•! 4! % S 1,8 :s
?<8 86? 7 ?8 « 42 479 173 ®' 20 ° 2 9 941
o,!o IV 96 900 49> 806 24075
88 firfi fa 2 144 364 316 >69 591
882 656 98, 4 0 7 » g
742 788 026 94 7 figs 90 8 4 f£ g°3
8.2 .6. 267 593 .4483 * 0 4 6?J 4 |
97 796 7590 759 472 35 9 c^B
f, 755 093 772
s!fi f! 4 9 11574 366 58. .6? 33a
8 56 733 393 421 780 ~8 „6 8-?
979 973 505 M 4 g,o 5 33 8/ 3
>30 4782 o, 4 6 4 | • 9 ? g s 'l 747
727 686 348 578 586 f a 7 |
*° 73 i°* 4i « 706 525 >8483 21 77 , IT.
4 3 076 0.6 092 4 23 BCQ ,83
>02 065 935 952 468 634 e.f
146 642 2,2 830 022 353 4 f
364 °37 974 7'5 382 439 480
352 626 8000 225 15463 7v> 8i»
-9 662 5,9 %? 7 : 0 °
ft 50 tP i 6' 900 898 454
548 532 463 693 496 0,8 ,fi 4
060 54 s>° 868 274 3 ?0 8 ®"
377 287 2is si 9 ° 2 49 358 91.
J77 207 21 5 011 ccq 910
*770 .85 698 12,95 482 5 ? 22190
«5> 737 735 8,5 839 .gfjg %
774 8.3 097 798 16835 758 & 6
751 09 'ii 069 2 76 543 700
455 5736 236 976 326 pi 79
773 045 9773 558 463 64? 11l
>6° 79° 997 624 , 90 X g 9
678 7,0 , 4l 022 812 sL» y
t* 385 309 >38 S; 523
803 1,3 9 8 4 33 , 014 904 3
0FROM THE FARMER'S JOURS AL.
A Paper, recently c&UblttHcd -t Danbury, Slate of Conne&icut.
SONG,
Tunc " The blunt [man is up
7 WRITTEN BY A LADY.
XN a mouldering cave, in desert retir'd,
Bright Genius Ut fishing alou'e,
Since Shakespea r herfri>ud, and great Mi lton expir'd,
Only echo attends to ht r moan.
By Home r and Virgil (he once was addrefs'd,
And fought for by all in that a^e,
By Athens rever'd, and by Gay was carefs'd,
And Pope try'd her heart to engage.
Shedtrgil'd to give laws id the Ptrfians and Medes ;
To cr.tunniu ihe then took her ilight ;
The sages with pleasure recorded her deeds,
And ADDisyN prov'd .they were right.
Jove call'd her a coquet—declar'd in his rage
He would humble her arrogant pride,
Th.it modern bards lhould rciufe her a page,
And with poverty Ihe lhould reside.
"Then wept the fair GoddeCs with transparent tears,
At tlie harsh and uuwelcomc decree,
When TrCmiull and Barlow in viiion appear ?
With power to fct Genius free.
The Conquejl of Canaan they laid at her feet.
The author adores her they fay ;
Brave Humphrey s found out htr f acred retreat,
That'* often frequented by Jay.
Shr fmil'd approbation on patrons io kind,
Politely to each gave her hand ;
The hill of Parnajfui to them lhe reftgn'd,
And their worth (he proclaim'*! thro the land.
VIENNA, June 16.
AS foonasthe news arrived here that the Bra
banters had deiired assistance from Pruflia, a
Council was held by his Majelty with all his Mi
nisters, when it was resolved to require a catego
rical anfwerfrom Prussia upon this fubjedl.
PARIS, June 26.
The Court of Spain have demanded of our
Court, the succours ftipulatrd by the family coin
pa<st,and esiiling treaties, in cafc it should be
involved ill a war. The general voice feeuts to
reprobate a compliance ; and it is believed the
Aifembly, when the affair comcs before them,
will give a flat negative.
LONDON.
THE question, " arc we to have a war ?" has
thrust "liow d'ye do?" out of place; and
as no pcrfon can give a proper answer to this
queltion, the quantity offuppofes, conjeClurcs and
ifs, are really wonderful.
The moll notorious and notified Prince of pick
pockets has given inflructiqns to his attorney to
prosecute a printer for a libel 011 his character—
and why not he, as well as other great men >
It is not generally known, that those perilous
rocks on the Welih coast, called the 41 biikop and
his clerks," derive their name from an incident
which happened near 200 years ago. A fleet of
merchantmen, coming home from Spain, were
wrecked upon them, and only Miles Bifliop, with
John and Henry Clarke, were preserved on the
fragment of a malt. Hence the appellation took
its rife.
' Thanks to the constitution of the government
under which we live, that the liberty even of the
Jovvell fubjedt ihall no more be invaded -with im
punity than that of the highelt.—A verdict was
lately'given againltthe Mayor of Londonderry for
illegally imprisoning a poor man five days. Da
mages 3001.
The art of making perukes was invented at Pa
ris,about the end of the reign of Lewis Xlll,and
people then gave over the use of Calottes orna
mented with a double row of hair, quite ltraight
or frizzed. The Abbe la Riviere firlt let the ex
ample : His peruke weighed two pounds. These
head drelles were heavy, and of an enormous size,
until i 630, when the Sieur Ervais devised a me
thod of curling the hair. Perukes then became
real ornaments, and seemed to baniflx the marks
of oivi age.
Antimony, the remedy so celebrated, was dis
covered by a German monk, named Basil Valen
tine, who, searching for the philosopher's (tone,
and having thrown to the hogs what remained
after some of his experiments, oblerved, thatthofe
who swallowed it, after being violently purged,
became much fatter. He took it into hishead to
make a trial of it upon some of his brother monks ;
but, as the dose was too ltrong. they all died.
Hence comes the name of antimoine in French,
■which has been given to this mineral fubltance.
Burying grounds were not eftabliflied until
the year 200. People before were interred in the
highways, and ancient tombs are Itill to be seen
011 the roads leading to Rome. Hence these
words, so often repeated in epitaphs, Sta victor :
Stop traveller.
In 1474, the physicians and surgeons of Paris
represented to Louis XI. that several people of
diltinftion were afflicted with the Itone, and that
it would be of the highelt utility to anatomy to
examine, in a living fubjetft, that part of the hu
man body which is the feat of this disorder. They
therefore requelted his majesty, that he would
order a person, named Franc Archer, who had
been fubjeifc to this malady, and who was con
demned to be hanged, to be delivered into their
hands. This being granted, the firlt operation
of cutting for the stone was performed publicly
at Paris, in the burying ground of St. Severin.
The criminal was completely cured in the space
of a foitnight, and obtained, besides his pardon,
a coniiderable reward. We cannot here help ob
serving, that this is a striking instance of the vi
ciflitudes of life, flnce, to be cured ot his disorder,
it was necedary that this unhappy man should be
condemned to the gallows.
ADDRESS
TO THE PRESI DENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
SIR, *
IMPRESSED with rhc livelirfl sentiments of gratitude and af
fection, the citizens of Newport ialute you on your arrival in
this State, and wish to exprels their joy on this mtercftiog occa-
10,K
The prcfent circumstances of this town forbid some of those
detnonllrations of gratitude and ritpeft, which the citizens of our
filler Stales have displayed on a similar occalion; yet we rejoice
in this opportunity of tendering the licheft offering which a tree
people can make—hearts sincerely devoted to you, and to the go
vernment Over which you preside.
We anticipate with plealing jxpe£lation the happy period when,
under the auspicious government of the United States, oui lan
guishing commerce fWall revive, and our lofTes be repaired when
comnicrce at large ihall expand her w:ngs in every quarter of the
globe, and arts, manufactures and agriculture be carried to ».he
highest pitch of improvement.
May kind Providence long continue your invaluable lite, and
in the piogreflive advancement of the United States, in opulence,
order and felicity, may you realize the molt glorious profpeft
which humanity can exhibit to an enlightened and benevolent le
gator ; and when you (ball cease to be monal, may you be as
sociated to the most perfed focietv m the realms above, and re
ceive that retribution lor your difmtereflcd and exteufive services,
which the Judge ot all the earth will bellow on the frieuds ot
piety, virtue aud mankind.
By Order,
H. MARC HA XT, Moderator.
THE ANSWER.
TO THE FREEMEN OF THE TOWN OF NEWPORT.
Gentlemen,
I Receive with emotions of fatisfa&ion the kind address of the
citizens of Newport on my arrival in this State. A
Although I am not ignorant how much the worthy inhabitants
of tins town have been injured in their circumstances by their pa
triotic fufterings and service* ; ytt I muftbe allowed to Cay, th.it
nothingoii their part has been wanting to convince me of their af
fe£bion to myfelf, and attachment to the government over which I
am appointed to prefidc.
I request, gentlemeif, you will be persuaded that I take a due
intereli in your particular (ituanon ; and that I join with you in
anticipating the happy period, when, in ourcountry at large, com
merce, aris, manufactures and agriculture, (hall attain the highest
degree of improvement.
My exprcliions would but faintly communicate my feelings,
should I enlarge beyond the proper limits of an answer to your
address, in evincing my (coflbiHty of your afle&ionate withes for
my felicity in the present and future ftaie of ex 1 Hence. —It will be
a better proof of my zeal for the prosperity ol the inhabitants of
this town, and their fellow-citizens of this Staie, to lose no op
portunity of atteudiug to the advancement of their interclls. in
combination with thegeheral welfare of the community.—This
I (ball do with unfeigned fatisfa&ion — And ma) all the happir.efs
be theirs, which can relult, in their social chjratter, trom the uni
form practice of induflry, virtue, fraternal kindness, and universal
philaaihiopy
ADDRESS FROM THE CLERCT.
TO GEORGE WASINGTOX PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES Of AMERICA.
S I R,
WITH Mutations of the moil cordial eftcem and regard, per
mit us the Clergy of Newport, to approach your perlon,
intreating your acceptance of our voice in conjunction with that
of our fellow-citfz ns, to harl you welcome to Rhodc-Ifland.
Shielded by Omnipotence, during a tedious and unnatural war,
—wile, as a mclTenger fcntfiom Heaven, iu conducing the coun
cils ot the cabinet—and, under many embarraHincnts, directing
the operations of the field ; Divine Providence crowned your
temples with unfading laurels, and put into your hand the peacc
tully-waving olive-branch. Long may you live, Sir, highly fa
vored of Goo and beloved ol men, to preside in the grand coun
cil ol our nation, which, we trull, will not ccafe to iupplicaie
Heaven, that its felc& and divine influences may descend and red
upon you, endowing you with " grace, w;fdom, and underlland
iug," to go out and in before this numerous and free people ; to
prelide over whom Divine Providence hath railed you up.
And therefore—before God, the Father of our Lord Jesus
Cliriit, in whom all the families bosh in heaven and earth are na
med, accordiikg to the law of our office and in bounden duty—we
bow our knee—beseeching him to grant you every temporal and
foiritual blelling—and that, of the plentitude of his grace, all the
families of these wide extended realms, may enjoy, under an e
qual and judicious admimftration of government, peace and pros
perity, with all the blcflings attendant on civil and rcltgious li
berty. SAMUEL HOPKINS,
Pajlor oj the lji Congregational Chut ch.
GARDNER THURSTON, Pajloi oj the 2d Buptji Ciii+rch,
FREDERICK SMITH, Pajlor of the United Brethren.
WILLIAM BLISS, Pajlor of the Sabbatarian liuptijl Chuhh.
WILLIAM SMITH, Retlor oj Trinity Church.
MICHAEL EDDY, Pajlor of the xjl Baptijl Utunh.
WILLIAM PATTEN, Pajlor oj the 2 d Congregational Church.
Nc&porty Augiijl 17, 1790.
THE ANSWER.
TO THE CLERGY OF THE TOWN OF NEWPORT IN THE
STATE OF RHODE-ISLAND.
Gentlemen,
THE salutations of the Clergy of the town of Newport, on my
arrival in the State of Rhode-Island, are rendered the more
acceptable, on account of the liberal sentiments andjuft ideas which
they are known to entertain refpetting civil ar«d icligious liberty.
I am inexpreflibly happy, that, by the smiles of Divine Provi
dence, my weak but well-meant endeavors to feive my country,
have hitherto been crowned with so much success, and apparently
give such fatisfattion to those in whose caufc they were exerted.
The fame benignant influence,'together with the concurrent sup
port ot all real Iriends to their country, will still be neceflary to
enable m<s to be in any degree ufcful to this numerous and free
people, over whom I am called to preside.
Wherefore I return you, Gentlemen, my hearty thanks for your
foleinn invocation of Almighty God, /that every temporal and
spiritual blcfling may be dispensed to me; and that, under my
adminiflration, the families of these States may enjoy peace and
prosperity, with all the bleflings attendant on civil and religious
liberty.—ln the participation of which bleflincrs may you have an
ample fhuic. GEO. WASHINGTON.
584
NW/okt, August 19.
GfcO. WASHINGTON,
Ntw-YoRKj Sept.
'lie PriTidfOt htmng Jifciy Arrived at Powles'-Hook, icji pl tJ f r j
to return the elegant barge which conveyed him over, Ui the citizt s
who presented it ; with the following letter [» Captain Thom d
Randall, of this city, a copy of which has ken kindly commanicttiii
for injertion.—
New-\ork, AugvJ} 30/^,7^.
S I R,
ON the 2d of May, 1789, I wrote you, requesting that my ac
knowledgments might be offered to the gentlemen who
prelented an elegant barge to tne, on my arrival in this citv. a.
I am, at this moment about commencing my journey to Virgin, d
and consequently (hall have no farther occasion for theufc of i u J
barge, I mult now desire that you will return it, in my nam.
and with my i It thanks, to the original proprietors ; A\ u '
fame time I shall be much obliged if you will have the
to add, on my part, that in accepting their beautiful prciem, l
considered it as a pledge of that real urbanity* which, I am happy
in declaring, I have experienced on every occasion during my n.
(idence among them ; that I ardently wish every species of p lol _
verity may be the constant portion ot the reipe&able citizcbs oc
Vew-York ; and that I (hall always retain a grateful rcmerij
ranee ot the polite attention of the citizens in general, and ot*
lose in particular to whom the contents of this uote arc addnf..
d -
I am, with sentiments of regard and esteem, ~i r mo ■;
obedient and very humble servant,
Thomas Randall, Ffq. &c. &c. &c.
Doubts and uncertainty reft on the politics of
Europe : War or no war is the question—even
conjecture is at fault— and probability can find 210
objed: to fix 011—Ere iliis, Spain hasdoubtlefs.
given'a categorical answer to Great-Britain—The
of public affairs in the Eastern Hemisphere
is very interclting.—France can hardly keep her.
felfout of a quarrel betwixt Spain and England;
and there are some circumstances which induce
an opinion, that both Democrats and Ariftocrais
may think it for their interest at this juncture to
have the attention of the people employed on
some w objetfl.—Should boih parties, tho' on
different principles, unite to urge a war—the
profpedl ofthat event will be strengthened.
Accounts of a warlike complexion aboundia
every foreign publication—and the concurrence
in the fame idea from all quarters,is strikingly ob
vious.—Should they finally evaporate in fumn —
the expences incurred will fall little/hort of tliofe
attendant on actual lioftilitics.
JC?' -4LI. ferfons having demauis againsl the
Household of th e PRESIDENT of the
ar: requefleJ to exhibit their accounts for ftttUment
at his hte Dwelling in Broad-Way, before the IJ ik
oj September. August ;r, 1790.
JWE R TJS EM EXT. Hhbh
PURSUANT to a Resolve or a£t of Coogref* of the lothday
of May, 1780, relative to the deftrudcion ot Loan-Office Cer
tificates by ac* ident ; notice is hereby given to ail whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of Januarythf "
by the fubferiber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the find
fir<? : Therefore if any person, hath any obje&ion why the fuid
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves or
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoice ojLoan-Ojice Certificates dcjlroyed in the hovjt oj John Holkcr
on the idduy of January 1780.
1778. No. D ° ,s '
March 13. 1636 1 Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 6c»
1673 1 ditto. w 600
Dollars, 1200.
1 —
In tcftimony whereof I have fijned riie prefect for_pub-<
lication. HOIKER.
New-York, July 26th, 1790.
•1" O B K LET,
On very low terms—and entered upon immediate!), until th j r j< rf
May nert.
THAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, w the
Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, deceased ; it has lev en FirePlaces withi a goo
Cellar under the -whole House—a* convenient out-Houlc in t e
rear, with a Coach-House, and Stables ; for further particulars en
quire of MANGLE MINTHOR.N.
(a w. t. f.) Corporation Doit.
JuJl publified, . £,'
(In II Vols, bound and lettered) and to be fold by t» c '
this paper, Price 131.
MEMOIRS
BLOO MS G kWVE FAMILY,
Ina series of LETTERS to a rcfpeftable Citizen of Phu a
DELPHI A.
Containing Sentiments on a
MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION,
Suited to the present (late of Society, Government, and lUnfiWt 10
the United States of America,
And on the Dignity and Importance of the
FEMALE CHARACTER.
Interspersed with a variety of intcrefting ANECDOT
By ENOS HITCHOCK, D. D.
The following account of the above, is contained in a letter to *£*
tleman in this city. _ 0 f
" The design of this work is to (how the great imp o ' a
early education, by exhibiting the portrait ot a tamilv in
this great objefl was attended to. In this family were a
daughter, whose early education was superintended by 1 e^- c k
rents, and particularly by their mother. The leveral' tuf>
were taken to in(*il into their young minds, sentiments v
and to form good habits, are reprefeuted in such a manner,
render the whole a pleasing pi&ure. The letters are
fperfed with judicious observations, interefttnganecdotes,^
fined sentiments, tending to develope the fubjeft. I c ,s . cn .
in an agreeable mannner, and a familiar style : Pr^ cc P . .
forced by a pleasing narrative ; the best way of cotnm »
inftruftion. Thefcene is not laid in any particular p Amc
is left to the reader's imagination to place it in what
lica he pleases. —
nca nc pieaies. . ||'(V — j
gC?* Dr. Price's Revolution Sermon
the Editor. —Price ij%? , 4 ;.|
■•I <Mr. your v
G. WASHINGTON'
NOTICE.
)
).
'i