©azgfe pfil)
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41, HJtOAD-STRKET, J(EAR THE EXCHANGE,NEW-YORK
[N<». 46, c/Vol. ll.j
COLLECTION LAW Continue J.
ANDis itfurther entitled, That if any goods, wares or merchan
dize (hall, after the kid firll day of Oflober next,be imp'i t
ed or brought into the Uuited Statu, in any (hip or vellel whate
ver, belonging in the whole or in part to a citizen or citizens, inha
bitant or inhabitants of the United States, from any foreign port or
place, without such mantled or manilefts in writing, or (hill not
tjC included and delcribed therein, or H all i.ot agree therewith ;
in every such cafe the matter or otherperfon having the command
orcharge of such (hip orveffel, (hall forfeit a turn of money equal
to the value of tuch goods, not included in I'uch manifett or marii
fcfts ; Proiniedalways. That if it (hall be made appear to the lan
/a44jt>r. of tlx coHefikur, naval-officer and fnrveyor, or tho major
r. rt ui tl»-in, whrre tbc-fr oflice« arc efatrtii' '' J( .-v p.,*t, bt Ut
the fatisfifiio® of the collefi-r aione, >■« _ ( e i.tbt- of i''< o<her <>;
the laid offices is not cftabiiftied, or to the fatisfa&ion of the court
in which a trial (hall he had concerning such forfeiture, that no
p»rt of the cargo of such ftiip orveffel haa been iinfhippcd, alter it
was taken on board, eicept such as (hall have been fpecificd snd
accounied for 111 th« repoi; of the m»ftcr or oilier pcrfon having
the charge or command of such Ihip or vefiel, and that the mjni
feft or manilefts had beealolt or miiixud, without fraud or collu-
Aon, or that the fame was or were defaced by ac£ioent, or ineor
ie£t l»y 1111U J:e, 111 every fuchcafethe forleuure aforrfaid (kail not
be incurred.
And be itfmrther ctia&ed, Thai every matter or other person hav
ing the charge or command of any thip or vessel belonging in the
whole or in part to & citizen or citiiens, inhabitant or inhabitants
of the United States, laden with goo(* a a» aforefaid, and hound to
any port or place in the United States, (hall oft his arrival within
tour leagues ot the coast thereof, or within sny of the hays, har
bors ports, rivers, creeks, or inlets thereof, upon demand, produce
such manifeft or nianifefts in writing, which such master or other ;
person is herein before required to have on board his said fh»p or
vessel, to such officer or officers of the customs, as fhill firft come
on hoard his said ihip or vessel, for his or their infpe&iori, and
•ihall deliver to such officer or officers a true copy or copies there
of [which copy or copies ihall be provided and fubfcribcd by the
said master or other person having the command or charg-of such
(tip or vessel]; and that the officer or officers to whom ihe origi
nal manifeft or mamfefts shall have been so produced, shall refpett
ively cerlify upon the back thereof, that the fame was or were pro
duced, and the day and year on which the fame was or Wsic.fo
produced, and that i'uch copy or copies as aforefaid, was or were
to him or them delivered, and shall likewise certify upon the back
Ol such copy or copies, the day and year on which the fame was or
•weicdelivered, and Ihall forthwith transmit such copy or copies
tothe refpeftive colle£torsof theftveialdiftrifls to whichthegoods
by such manifeft or manifefls ihall appear refpettively to becon
ligncd t and that the laid master or other person so having the
charge or command nf any such ship or vessel, (hull in like man
ner produce to the oi3c*r or officers of the customs who (hall firft
come on board such ship o. vessel upon her arrival within the li
mits of any difti i$ of the United States, ui which the cargo or any
l&Qcuf jrf'Rci—b* or landed., f'ar his or
their infpe&ion, such manifeft or manifefts as aforefaid, and shall
*lfo deliver to him or them a true copy or copies thereof (such co
py or copies also to be provided ancl fubfcribcd by the laid mas
ter or other person having the charge or command of such (hip or
vessel) the oroduftion of which said manifeft or manvfofts, and the
delivery of which said copy or copies thereof (hall also
ed by the laic officer ot officers of the customs who Ihall so firft
come on board the kid ship or vessel on her arrival within the li
mits of any such diftrift, upon tne backot the said original manifeft
as maoifefts, with: he particular day and year when such manifeft
or manifefts was or were product d to such officer or officers, and
when he or they so received the said copy or copies thereof ; and
such officer orofficeis is and are hereby required forthwith to '
transmit or cause to be transmitted, the said copy or copies of the
said manifeft or manifests to the co lector of that diftrift, and the
said master or person having the charge or command of the said
ijiip or veflel, (hall afterwards produce and deliver the fai-i origi
nal manifeft or manif fts to the laid collector. Piovided always,
That nothing herein contained (hall be conftrucd to require of such
master or other person having the charge or command of such Ihip
or veflel, the delivery of more than one copy of each manifeft to
the officer or officers aforefaid, who shall firft come on board of
such ship or vessel, within four leagues of the coast of the United
State, aforefaid, and one other copy to such officer or officers as
/hall firft come on board, within the limits of auy diftritt for
which the cargo of such ship or vessel or some part thereof shall
be consigned or destined ; or shall be'eonftrued to require the de
livery of any such copy to any other officer ; but it shall be fuffi
cient in refpeft to any such other officer, to produce and {hew to
him the said original manifeft or manifefts, and the certificate or
certificates thereupon.
Andbt it further enafled, That if the master or other person hav
ing the charge or command fh'p or vessel laden as aforefaid,
and bound to any port or place in the United States, shall not up
on his arrival within four league® of the coast thereof, or within
the limits of any distriCt thereof, where the cargo of such ship or
vessel or any part thereof is intended to be discharged, produce
such manifeft or manifefts in writing, to the proper officer or offi
cers, upon demand thereof, and also deliver such cop) or copies
thereof as aforefaid according to the directions of this ast in each
•afe, or shall not give an account of the deftinaticn of such fhipoi
vessel, which he is hert by required to do, upon requeftof such offi
cer or officers, or shall give a falfe account of the laid deftinarion,
in order to evade the production of the said manifeft or manifefts ;
the said master or other person having the charge or command ol such
Ihip or vessel, shall forfeit for every such retufal, neglctt or offence
a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars. And it such officer or
officers fiift coming on board, it) each cafe within the distance or
Jimits aforefaid, shall nrg!t& or refufe to certify on the back of
such manifeft or pianifefts, the produ&iontherfcof, and the delive
ry of such copy or copies respeCtively, as are herein before dire£l
«d to be delivered to such officer or officers ; every such officer, so
ocgle&ing or refufing, Ihall forfeit and pay thefura of five hundred
dollar*. y
Andke itfurther enafled, That if after the arrival of any ship or
vessel so laden with goods as aforefaid, and bound to the United
States, within thelinuts of any of the dillritts of the United States,
or within four leagues of the coast thereof any part of the cargo
of such fliipor vessel shall be unladen for any purpose whatever,
from out of such ship or vcffefr as aforefaid, within the limits or
diltance aforelaid, before such ship or vessel fballcome to the pro
per place for the discharge of h fr ctfrgo or some part thereof, and
shall be* tl>cre duly authorized b) the proper officer or officers of
the Custom.v, to uuladc the fame, ih« master or oti»er perloft having
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1790,
ihe charge or command of such (hip or velfel, and the mate or
other peifon uext in command, shall refp.ftively forfeit and pay
t le sum of one ihoufand dollars ; and thc goods, wares and iner
handize so unladr n and unlhippe.:, ihall be io, (cited and loft, ex
cept in the cafe of some unavoidable accident; neceffitv or distress
»t weather ; of which unavoidable accident, ne.ffity or distress,
t_ie ma..cr or other person having the charge e- command of such
!h p or vessel, (hall give notice to, and toocth v with two or more
t the mariners on board such (hip or vessel, lhall make proof up
-0.1 oath before the collector or other chief otfcierof the customs of
the diftrift, \/ithinthe limits of which (uch resident, neceflity or
distress shall happen, or before the collector cr oilier chief officer
of the firft diftrifl of the United Stites wi;. 1 - he limits of which
such fh nor veflel (hsli afterwrtd ir-i">e, it;. : id accident, ne
( " -V-'.,:..a1i hav<,h»ppcneri not. n the limits of any
b.it wi.nin four Icagu so/..:, « thc United States
(which o.tli the said colleflor or other chief officer is hereby au
thorued and required to admipifter.)
Andbe it further enabled, That if any goo«'<s, wares or merchan
dize so unUden from on board of-any fu-h fii p or vessel, (hall be
put or received 1140 any other (hip, vessel o< boat, except in the
cafe of such accident, neceffitv or distress a» ai'orcfaid, to lie notifi
ed and proved (s aforefaid, the said maftet 01 other person having
the charge Or command of thc (hip, vessel of boat into which thc
laid goods (hall be so put and received, and every other person
aiding and affiAlog therein, lhall forfeit treble the valueof the said
go'jtls; and ihe said (hi;,, boat or vessel (hall also be forfeited and loft
And It: it further cnaß-d, That if any (hip 1 r veft'ej which ftiali
have arrived wiihm the limits of any diftritf of thc United States
from any foreign port or place, lhall dept. i* , attempt to depart
, r "' n i: ,c unlels to proceed o»i lit-rw vK> some more interior
di.trifl to which (he may be bound, befu < .eport orentryfhall
have been made by the master or other pcrlu I having the charge or
command ot such (hip or vessel, with thccoli ftor of some diftrifl
of thc L nited Slates, rhe fnid mafler or >n having such
charge or command ft>all forfeit and pay the «rifTi of four hundred
dollars. And it lhall be lawful for any coVc&ory naval-officer,
surveyor, or commander of any of thc Cutters ; tire in after mention
ed, to atreft and brinj; back, or cause to be arretted and brought
back, such ship or veff 1, to such port of ij>* United States to which
it may be moil conveniently done. That if it (hall be
made to appear by thp oath ol the said maftc; or other person hav
ing the charge or command of such Ihip or v« ffel, and of the per
foa next in command, or other fufficient pro >f to the fatisfaftion
of the colledor of the diftria within which such (hip or veflel lhall
afterwards come, or to thc fatisfaftion ot tl,c court in which the
prosecution for such penalty may be had, thai the said departure,
or attempt to depart, was ocjcaftoncd by dilti is of weather, purl
suit or duress of enemies, or other neccfliiy, ie said penalty (hall
not be incurred.
•And be it further (nailed, That within twenty-four hours after
tho arrival of any (hip or veflel from an j futiign port or place,
at any port of the United Stateseftablifted I ' law, at which an
officer of the customs resides, or v. ich-Ti amy ' aibor, inlet or creek
thereof, *f the hour* of bufinefg at the ofiicc o the chief officer of
the customs at such port will ptrmir, or as : n thereafter as the
tJ»d houis will pn nut, the mailer ur hMUfl£
charge or command of such ihip or vellcl, (hall repiir to the said
orticc, and (hall make report to the said chief officer of the arrival
of the said (hip or veirel ; ani within forty-eight hours after such
arrival, (hall make a further report to the colle&or of the diitrift
in which such port may be, of the name, burthen and lading of
such (hip or veflel, whether in packages or flowed loose, and of
ihe particular marks, numbers and contents of each package, and
the place or places, person or persons to or for which or whom
they arc refpeftivcly configried or destined, also of the place or
places where she took in her lading, of what country built, from
what foreign port or place (he last failed, who was master or com
mander of hei during the voyage, who is at the time of such re
port master ot commander of her, and (if a veflel of the United
Stares) who pre own -rs of her ; unless the whole of such informa
tion required on the second report as aforefaid, (hall have been
oiven at the time of making the firft report, in which cafe it ihall
not be neceflary to make a further report. And in the cases in
which the master or person having the charge or command of any
(hip or veflel herein before required to have on board at the time
of her departure from such foreign port or place for the United
States, a manifeft or manifefts of the lading of such (hip or veflel,
or of any part thereof, the said mailer or person having the said
(charge or command, (hall, at the time of making the said report,
deliver the said manifeft or manifefts to the collector to whom the
said report (hall be made, and (hall declare to the truth of such
manifeft or manifefts, as the fame ought to be, in conformity to
the directions of this act. And the said master or person having
the charge or command of any (uch (hip or veflel, (hall in each
cafe declare that no part of her lading, since her departure from the
said foreign port or place from which (he (hall be so reported to
>have last failed, has been landed or unladed, or oihcrwife re
j moved from on board of her, except as he (hall then fpecify, to
gether with the caiifc, time, place and manner ; and (hall further
t declare, that in cafe he (hall afterwards dtfeover or know of any
goods, wares or merchandize, other than those by him then re
ported, he will forthwith thereafter make report thereof to the
said colie&or ; which report and declarations refpeftively (hall be
in writing, signed by the party making the fame, and (hall bcat
tefted by his oath, to t,he best of his knowledge and belief; and
the said coile&or is hereby authorized and required to administer
the fame. And if said master or person having the charge or
command of any such (hip or veflel (hall neglect or omit to make
the said reports, or cither of them, and declaration or declarations,
or to deliver the said manifeft or manifefts, or to take the said
oath, as the cafe may require, he ihall for every such offence for
feit and pay the sum of one thousand dollars.
Provided avd be it further enafled, That it (hall not be
neceflary for the master or person having the charge or command
of any (hip or veflel of war, or of any (hip or veflel employed by
any prince or state, as a public packet for the conveyance of letters
and difpatthes, and not permitted by the laws of such prince or
state to be employed in the transportation of goods, wares or mer
hmdize in the way of trade, to make such report and entry as
aforefaid.
And be itjurthcr cnaftcd, That it (hall be lawful for the said (hip
or vessel to proceed with any goods, wares or merchandize brought
in her, which (hall be reported by the said matter or other per-
Ton having the charge or command of the said (hip or vessel, to
bi destined for any foreign port or place from the diftrift within
which such (hip or vessel (ball firft arrive, to such foreign port or
>lace, without paying or fecuringthe payment of any duties upon
luch of the f«)id goods, wares or mercnand re, as (hall be a&ually
re-exported in the said Ihip or vessel accordingly ; any thing here
597
in contained to the contrary not Provided aifvays.
That ti c laid naftcr dr person having the charge or command of
tic laid (hiporvclfel (hall firft give bond with one or more fartfv
Lifcs, in a fnm e<jual to the atnoant of the duties upon the said
joods, wares and merchandize, as the fame lhall beeftimatcd b r
the solicitor to whom the laid report lhall be made, to the fatis
faflioii ol the said colleflor, with comKtimi that the said goods,
waies or merchandize, or any part thereof, (hall not be landed
within the United States, unlets due entry thereof lhall have been
liift made, and the duties thereupon paid or fccured according to
law, which bond (hall be cancelled in like manner as bonds here
in after direflcd to be given lor obtaining drawback* of duties.
Provided rxeverihchjs, That such bund shall not be required in rc
fpcfl to the goods on board of any (hip or vessel which (hall have
put into the United States from neceflity, to be made appear in
manner herein after prescribed.
Anube Ujurthceaatled, That it (hall be lawful for any (hip or
vessel in which any goods, wares or merchandize (hall be brought
into the United States trom any foreign port or place, to proceed
with the fame from diftrifl to diftrifl within the United States, in
ord< r to the landing or delivery th rcof, and the duties on such of
the said goods only as (ball be landed in any diftrifl, (hall he paid
or secured to be paid within such diftrifl.
Andbe itfurthcr enatled, That before any (aip or vessel (hall de
part from the diftrift iu which (he lhall firft arrive, for another
dillrifl, with goods, wares or merchandize brought in such (hip
or vessel Ircmi a foreign port or place, the duties whereof lhall not
have been paid or (ccured, the mailer or person having the charge
or command ot luch (hip or velfel ihall obtain from the colleft'cir
ol the diftrifl from which (he Ihail be about to depart (who it
hereby required to grant the (ame) a copy of the report made by
such mafteror person having the charge or command of such (hip
or vclfcl, certified by the said colleflor, together with a certificate
of the quantity, and particulars ol the goods whith lhall appear
to him to have been landed within his diftrifl. And within
twenty-four hours after the arrival of such (hip or veffci within any
oihrr diftrifl, the said maftcr or person having the charge or com
mand of such (hip or vessel shall make report or entry to or with
'he colleflor of such other diftrift, producing and (hewing the
said certified copy of his said firlt report, together with a certifi
cate (rom each colleflor of any other diftrift w'tthin which any of
the goods, wares or merchandize brought in such (hip or vessel
(hall have been be/ore landed, of the quantity and particulars of
such ot the said goods, wares and merchandize as (hall hove been
so landed in each diftrift refpeftivcly"; except in the State of
Georgia, where such report (hall be made within forty-eight
hours: Provided a/uiayr, That the master or person having the
charge or command ot the said (hip or reffel lhall f.rft give bond
with one or more fureiics to the fatisfaftion of the colleflor of the
diftrift within which the (aid (hip or vessel (hall firft arrive, in a
sum equal to the amount of the duties on the residue of the said
goods, according to such cftimate cs the said colleflor (hall form
thereof, with condition that the fa d residue of the said goods
(hall be duly entered and delivered in such other diftrift or dif
trifts of the United States for whish the fame (hall have been re
ported to be destined. And the said bond (hall be cancelled or
dilc!'- ; ;ed by the production of a certiScate or certificates from
the colleflor or co'le&o:• of ij.; ui'-iakfor t^
said goods (hall have been reported, teftifying the due entry and
delivery of the fsid goods in such diftrifl or diftrifls, or upon due
proof to the lausfsflion of the colleflor by whom the said bond
lhall have been taken, thatTuch entry and delivery were prevented
by tome unavoidable accident or casualty*, and that if the whole
or any part of the said goods (liall not hove been loft, that the fame
. has been duly entered and delivered within the United States.
And !f the maftcr or person having charge or command of any
luch (hip or vessel, (hall fail by his neglei: or fault to obtain the
laid copy of his said report fiona the colleflor of the diftrifl from
i wli.ch he (hall be so about to depart, or of any certificate which'
Vhe ought to obtain a; aforefaid, or (hall neglefl to produce and
■ tTicw the fame to the colleflor of any other diftrifl to which the
laid (hip or vessel (hall afterwards proceed, within the time tor
, that purpose he-.ein before fpecified, he (hall forfeit and pay for
every such neglefl or omission five hundred dollars.
And be itfurther enatlcd, That the owner or owners, conlignes
or consignees of any goods, wares or merchandize on board of
ar.y such (hip or vessel, or in cafe of his, her or their abfencc or
sickness, his, hei or their known faflor or agent, in his, her or
their names, within fifteen days after report of the mafteror per
son having the charge or command of such (hip or vessel to the
col.eftor of the diftrifl for which such goods, wares or merchan
dize (hall be destined, (hall make entry thertof with the said col
leflor, and lhall fpecify in such entry the particular marks, num
bers and contents of each package or parcel whereof they (hall con
fid, or if ill bulk, '.he quantity and quality, together with the
nett prirre coftthereof ; and lhall also produce to the said collefl
or, if any such there be, the original invoice or invoices, or other
documents in lieu thereof, and bill or bills of lading ; all which
(hall be done upon the oath if the per ton by whom'fuch entry
ftiall be made, according to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief; who (hall thereby also declare that if he or (he (hall as
tcrwards di.cover or know of any other goods, wares or meichan
d izes imported in such (hip or vessel, belonging or consigned to
the person or perlons by whom, or on whose behalf (uch entry
ilia 11 have been made, he or (he will forthwith make known the
fame, in order to the due entry thereof, and the payment or fe
curing the payment of the duties thereupon : Provided always
I hat where the particulars of any such goods, wares or merchan
dize (hall be unkown, in lieu of the entry herein before direfled
to be made, an entry thereof (hall be made and received according
, to the circumftanccs of the cafe, the party making the fame, de
claring upon oath all that he or (he know, or believes concerning
the quantity and particulars of the said goods, and that he or (he
has no other knowledge or information concerning the fame-
Wh J ' C n TP'r l S r WC u 1"f" thc h[i > he •» writing!
and ftiall be fubfenbed by the party making thc fame.
(to be continued.)
EXTRACT.
IT is no: only the man of the world who idoli
zes power, tho in the garb of villainy, arid perse
cutes diihonefty when united to weakness bat
even those who bear the specious title of philof'o
phers are apt to bedazzled with the brilliancy of
iuccefs, and to treat qualities and characters dif
ferently according to the smiles or frowns of
fortune.
[Whoie No. i*°o»*
THE OBSERVER. No. XX.
When the political pot boils the (cum rises to the top.
TO THE FREEMEN OF CONNECTICUT
Gentlemen,
A and unbiaflcd Elector is a mod digni.
nified character. Ihe trust reposed in you
by God and the Conftitution,of felecftingthe moll
tic perrons to compose the national and state legi
llatures, if faithfully discharged, will preserve
liberty to you, and be the defence of your chil
dren against the attempts of wicked men. The
molt solemn situation in which a freeman can
llhtid, is when he gives his fuffrage for the ruler
of his country; and tranfa<!tion» of this kind ought
never to be dilated either by levity or party fpi-
Tit. If men, destitute of moral principles and
wisdom, are elected, the destructive meafuresmay
be theirs, but remember it is you who give them
the power ; and the greater lin will lie at youi
door, tor turnifhing them with the opportunity.
The electors ot this state have always proved
themselveS to be lionelt and enlightened men.—
You have generally preferred your belt and mofl
able citizens, and under a firm reliance on you
protection, they have advocated such public mea
lures, as are mod directly for your interelfc; and
have given to themselves and to their conlticu
ents, a dignity in the eyes of the whole union.—
It is already remarked by the moil sagacious ii
othei States, that it Connecticut continues fucl>
inen in the National Legillature, aslhehas alrei
dy furnifhed, she will in a manner hold the bal
ance of power between the opposing interests i
the Union, and continue to herfelf that influence
which the virtue and indultry of her citizen*
merit ; but if at any time she fuffers herfelf to be
duped by deligning candidates ; if she prefe
Tnfrn ofartifice and t he splendor of words, to thof.
whose political wifdoni and experience have be?'
proved ; if.lie forgets the merits of those, wliof
mercantile abilities are able to comprehend th *-
interests of foreign nations, and of the diffei en
states ; if she should be so far ins ituated, as to ele
vate men, whole practice infulis all the facre.
and purelaws of morality, from that moment she
must fink in the Union—her importance will b<
nieafured by her nar row limits, and her influence
■will fink into perpetual forgetfulnefs.
The motto I have chosen molt decidedly applie
to the present moment. The political bot is boil
ing, and calls up much scum The election o
y our federal representatives draws near,and thoft
lelt-feeking and ambitious men, who wish forthi
places of your present members, are by their in
ilruments, filling all the public prints with flan
der; they are casting every poflible reflection on
Congress—on the members of this state—on the
measures of the last feflion, and on the official
departments.— 1 hey would fain make you believe
that Congress .have been together fix months,
merely to carry away their wages, and done 110
public bufinefs-they have made use of fly delu
fion and low bufFoonry— and they endeavor to a
larm all yotir feelings by an insinuation that your
liberties and properties are endangered. That
jealous headed men, lhould do this occasionally
is not furpriiing—and their spleen and confe
quencc is diflipated with their blasts ; but when
we fee such attempts perpetuated in the face of
reason and flubborn fa<fts, it proves a desperate
design to succeed at all events in railing them
selves. If there be any one state in the Union,
particularly benefited by the measures of the last
feflion, Connecticut is the state. It is true the
feflion was long, and produced divifiou of opin
ion, and fometiines heat in difcuflion ; but the
measures which caused this protraction, were such,
that the Connecticut members ought to have con
tended for them through the whole, instead of
half the year, if they could not have been effect
ed sooner. We are told Congress have done
nothing. Is the funding fyftein nothing ? Is
the aflumption of the state debts, and the provi
sion of ways and nieans nothing{? Is the arrange
ment of a national system of national revenue
and its application nothing ? Is it nothing to
bring together and harmonize a thousand oppo
fiig interests, through adiflridt of country, 1200
miles in length,and half that in breadth > Is it
nothing to arrange a plan for the fettlemenc of
accounts between the States amounting to more
than one hundred millions > The two felfions of
Congress which we have seen, had to execute
greater duties than were ever done on earth by
one set of actors; to lay anew all the foundations
of a great nation. Could this be done in a hur
ry—or may we suppose the representatives from
any part ot the Union would fuller themselves to
be driven, in things so interesting to their confti
tuents ? These subjects required much discus
sion—light was to be collected from the condition
—from the advantages—and from the particular
preflures subsisting in every part of the empire.
Honest and great men had different opinions 011
all these momentous fubjecfts ; it was the cafe in
Congress, and more so in the country—and had
Congress proceeded with precipitation it would
have con v u lied the empire, and their own heads
would have been forfeited for rashness. Still w e
are told Congress have done nothing. It is now
eighteen months lince their power commenced—
they have been in felfion ten months—and in that
space have done more than the old Congress did
in seven years, when in conlVant felfion, antece
dent to the prefenc government.—We are told
that Congress lit but four liouts in a day. It is
granted—but the greater part of the fame mem
bers spend from four to eight hours in private
committees, in arranging and preparing bulinefs
tor the house—this is the molt expeditious me
thod which can be devised, and is a slavery more
than proportionate to the gratitude of their co
lumniators.
The business of compensation is again brought
up. I fliall fay nothing new, but refer you to
the second numberofthis paper, in which it was
Jhewn, that the present compensation, is less than
the average wages given by the assemblies of the
Hates under the old government; the fef
iion was then constant—and is now but part of
the time—and the members were then more nil
merous—fo that the expertces of government are
now greatly lellened.
I have 110 mind to trace out and repeat to you
til the insinuations which have been made, for I
consider the whole a dirty business, and the work
fa party—ami* have the confidence that
he Electors in Connecticut, will notat this junc
ture, give up toinfult, those gentlemen, who have
in f> decided a manner supported the interests of
the state. Had they >done otherwise than they
hive done, you mult have condemned them had
ley been the means of curtailing the session,
tnd left undone the great objeifis of your interest",
hey would have deserved rejection for their un
faithfulnefs.
1 am neither the inftrunient, nor the depen
lent ot any ol the present members, but a friend
o all of them, and to all men in the (late, whose
noral principle and practice is confident with
he public gooa.
Doulnlef; other men are as good and as capa
ble as those now in office ; but it is notfuch who
nake the pi efeut commotion. lam always an
nemy to change in government, without some
irgent reason : It is injnltice to those who serve
vou, mod of whom have quitted lucrative employ
inents, and other honorary profpefts to serve you
m this way, depending on your protecftion, when
ikehoneltmen they had done their duty—it will
>e injustice to yourselves, for it is noc possible
hat new men should meet the artifice of your
-nemies with filch success as those who have learn
ed their ways by experience.
i o the great body of fubllantial Freemen, who
are incapable of beingaftuated by a party spirit
I address myfelf Be steady, and vou will
be safe.
BY THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
PROCLAMATION.
.. Sit hath, at this time, become peculiarly necefTarv
of the Tr°ad«m^ C,t .'u" SOs ' h n Un ' tcd Sta '" a « ainll a ™ lal ™
eighth dav ot kj L V™ theKeowee, on thetwenty
fivc and on (h -tl j™' ,houfan d seven hundred and eighty
seven hundred and and tenth days of January, one thousand
Cherokee rh fl el g h l/- f " ( . between the United States and the
enforet anS ! J"" Chlc kafaw nation, of Ind.ans ; and to
w" h Indi'an": h'" "" t0 trade and
hereunto annexed - ul C ,° P 'r S ° f Whid ' trcati " and •« we
do hv rhrf c therefore thought fit to require, and I
- -
GIVEN under my hand, and the Seal of the United States
in the city of New-York, the twenty-sixth day of Au-uft'
•n the year of our LORD one thousand seven hundred
and ninety, and tn the fifteenth year of the fov«,
and independence of the United States. Y
(S ' GNED ' ) G. WASHINGTON
By The President,
(Sicned.) THOMAS JEFFERSON.
A *™ L f of" TREATY concluded at Hopewell
S-ST'""''
i J sim-rica, oj tbe cnt part and
Yockonahoma, great Medal ChiefofSoonacoha
lZ*° OPO ' e - eadi "g Chief ° F BugtoSoo'
Tobocoh ° P0 ' e ' »^T g Chief of Hafkfoqua'
pi ft g^ at Medal Chief ° f Congal too
roo/heniaftubie, Goreet CantaJn c„., '
andl thirteen Anal] Medal Chiefs of th/fiS
Claft, twelve Medal and Goreet Captains
rica, on the following condiu , ns • "of Ame "
T , ' ARTICLE I.
(hall rX™,\ «S^i£eTT
598
jefls of their allies, to their entire liberty !(,„ ,
rh° na "° n ' u Tl j y l>,all also all be the
other property taken during the late war, from -h! ' a " d ail
such person, and at such time and place as the P" Uens '
the United States of America (hall appoint if !" 10ner > of
Choflaw nation. j 'f any there be in the
™ „ article ir.
The Comm.ffioners Plenipotentiary of all the ri,„n
K led l e t ' le,r ' b,s -d 'owns na "> a '
and the lands with.,, the boundary allotted to the ft J.
live and hunt on, as mentioned in the ihird ar.irl lndla ns, to
the protection of the United Stales of America I°, bt un <l"
fovcreign whosoever. ' of no other
, article nr.
The boundary of the lands, hereby allotted to the C\ A
tior. to live and hunt on, within the limits of the Tlni, jo w na '
Amenca, is, and lhall be the following Vlz u„ ■ Jn,tc d States of
on the thi.ty-firft degree of north latitude, wh< J , ?oint
dary of the Natches diftiift shall touch the Ur- l'" Ml '
along the said thirty-full degree of north latit, nip h»' c,irk
ern boundary of the United States of Ameriri "s[hefouth.
ill ike the eastern boundary of the lands on which the"!J
the said nation did live and hunt on the twenty ninth r",,' 3 "® o£
ber, one thousand seven hundred and ci t hi,.t„„ ■ o,t| -
were und r the protection of the King of Great Rr'. " C tlw y
northerly along the said eaflcrn boundary until ft (V?i, P : ,hcnc =
northern boundary of the fa,d lands ; thence wefterlv T' the
northern boundary until it ihall meet the » r |l, ? 8 'he
thereof ; thence southerly along the fame to the be R inni n ,i
and reserving for the eftablilhment of tradine pod, , S ' i"" 1 *
pa.cels of lands, of f,x mtles Square each, "? ? u h ' ' or
United States in Congreli Ihall think proper ■ which thc '
lands annexed to tliem, ihall be to thc use, and uninW " "*
tiicnt of ihc United States of America. ® anm -
ARTICLE IV.
If any citizen of the United States, or sther person not V.-
Indian, (hall attempt to fettle on any of the lands hertHv n*'?
td the Indians to live and hunt on, such person (hall forfeit th!"
te£lion of the United States of America, and the Indians m
ifh him or not as they pleale. a y pun-
ARTICLE V. 1
If any Indian or Indians, or persons tefidttc imAi»tk. '
who (hall take refuge in their nation, (hall commit. " r
murder, or other capital crime, on any citiztn of die UoiJdsL* v
such nff'7 ° f P T , UndeT th " r P r< **°»> *be *-ft?
such offenders may belong,or the nation, (hall be bondtoddl
ver him or lhem up to be punilhcd according to the j
the United States in Congref. atfembled ; provided ihSf '
ment (hall not be greater than if the robbery or murder JtMhiJ
capital crime, hao been committed by a citizen on acitizeu. <
ARTICLE VI. ■
If any citizen of the United States of Alfcerica, or Mr<« ».J.
their protection, (hall commit a robbery Or murder, or other carv
ital crime, on any Indian, such offender or offenders IMlbtsiml
i(hed mthe fame manner asif the robbery or murder, or odwtahl
ital crime, had been committed on a citizen of the UnitedSuE
°f ; ,n<l 'he punilhment (hall be in prefenceof fan, P „f
the Choftaws, if any will attend at the time and Sid tkal
'f . y u m . ay ?r n °PP orU ; nit y foto do, due notice, iF wafticable
of the time of such intended punishment (hall be font -I
of the tribes. 080
ARTICLE VII.
It i. understood that the punilhment of the innocent,unit,lb.
idea of retaliation, is unjust, and (hall not be praaifed on eitker
tide, except where there is a manileft violation ofthiitiMc ■!*»
then it (hall be preceded, firft by a demand of jultice, toiif'refu
led, then by a declaration of hostilities. " ,
_ ARTICLE VIII.
For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and forthe preven-
£ n n„!Tc C! . or °PP;emon. on the part of the citizen, or Indians,
the United State, in Congress assembled, (hall have the sole and
Int r/ri M S h ' of rf S u ' atl "3 'he trade with the Indians, and manag
ing all their affairs in such manner as they think proper
~ ARTICLE IX.
Until thepleaTure of Congress be known, refpefting the eighth
article, all traders, citizens of the United States of America,(hall
have liberty to go to any of the tribes or towns, of the Choftawv
to trade with them, and they (hall be protected in their perfoni
and property, and kindly treated.
■J article X.
The Indiana (hall give notice to the citizens of the United
Mates of Amenta, of any designs which they may know or fufpcft
to be formed in any neighhoring tribe, or by any person whom
ever, against the peace, trade or interefl of the United Staei of
America.
, ARTICLE XI.
Jt ChCt ? a ." bcforcver buried, and the peace flvtn by the
I c tC$ America, and friendfhip re-eftabliined betweeu
e aic . talcs on the one part, and all the Choctaw nation on the
cr P ar j ali be universal; and the contracting parties (hall ufc
e " lm ? rL cn^ea vors to maintain the pcace given as aforefaid,
and friendihip re-established.
. IN u W t ! 1 of all, and every thing herein determined, be
tween the United States of America and all the Choctaws, We,
their underwritten Commtffioners, by virtue of our full powers,
hereum^affixd^ 6^1 "'^ 6 rCat y> ave cau ' our Seals to be
DONE at Hopewell, on the Keowee, this third Day of
January, in the year of our Lord one thousand feveuhun
dred and eighty fix.
( SICNID ) BENJAMIN HAWKINS,
ANDREW PICKENS,
JOSEPH MARTI.V.
°^ l<e " a ' lon,a i Yockehoopoie, Mingohoopoir, Tobocoh,
roolhemaftuby, Poofhahooma, Tfucoonoohoopoie, Shin
ncmafluby, Yoopakooma, Stoonokoohoopoie, Tehakuh
bay, Poofhcmaftuby, Tufkkahooraoch, Tu/hkahoomoch,
i ooltcnochha, Tootehooma, Toobenohoomoch, Oftiecoo
poohoomoch, Stonakoohoopoie, Tulhkoheegohta, Te/hu
henochloch, Poo (bona hi a, Okanconnooba, Autoonachuba,
angekoolock, Steabee, Tenttehenna, Tulhkementabock,
luntallay, Cfhnaangchabba, Cunnopoie.
1 WILLIAM BLOUNT,
4 I JOHN WOODS,
Witness) SAMUEL TAYI.OR,
I ROBERT ANDERSON.
J BENJAMIN LAWRENCE.
John Pitchlynn. ) r
James Cole, t Interpreters.
EXTRACTS.
POMP and splendor seem to be the faftionable
recommendations of the times ; whereas virtue
and integrity ought to be the criterion of merit.
1 hefe things have introduced a pernicious emu
lation in dress, which pervades all ranks of peo-
they influence the views and wilhes of
multitudes ; and have excited many to squander
away their estates on gewgaws and trinkets :—
Bankruptcy is invariably the consequence offuch
folly in all countries.
An injury unanswered, in course grows weary
of icfelt, and dies away in a voluntary remorse.
-aY LONDON, July ic.
ESTERDAY Lieut. Gen. Sirßober Boyd paid
lus refpetfts to all the members of the cabi
net who are in town. He is, it is said, appoint
braltar CCC Heathfield, as governor of Gi
v T i he w e T. e / al P acket . s the Weft-Indies, New
ork, Halifax, and Lilbon, which have been de
tained for government difpatchesat Falmouth
are intended to fail from thence to morrow if
the wind be fair. '
The formidable preparations throughout the
I VC » e 'P orts th ' s kingdom, as well as those
tnro Spain, and even those of our neighbours of
trance indicate, in powerful terms, alinoll the
certainty of an approaching war, and seem to
threaten, in the language of lioltile indignation
a general rupture ; yet notwiihltanding all these
■extraordinary exertions, there are extant at this
moment, circular letters of a late date, from the
Com pee de Florida Blanca, to the principals of
the several trading houses in the several seaport
towns of Spain, alluring them, that all intentions
of war are laid aside : advising them to continue
their traJhc with Great Britain asufual, a „d i„-
luurtg to them the fecttrity and fafety of their
property. J
Yesterday morning Mr. Shaw, the meflenger,
arrived at the duke of Leed's office, with dif!
patches from earl Gower, at Paris.
Mr. Sli.iw reports, that on the road between
Calais and Paris he saw several people who were
pointed outtohim, as being in wait toapprehend
the person of the late duke of Orleans, whom it
was further reported at Calais had received no
tice of this coufpiracy against him, and it is be
lieved he would in consequence return to Lou
don.
The duke of Orleans it is true did go to Brigh
ton—but from Brighton, on Friday last. he fail
ed for Dieppe.
A Chellea pensioner in Scotland, on his Maief
ty s birth-day, after getting hinifelf completely
drunk, out oi his abundant zeal, actually set fire
to his own house, by way of bonfire, which was
loon reduced to allies.
Sir Gerrard Vanneck's unfuccefsful attempt of
the county ofSufFolk, stands among the mod ex
pen live of electioneering contests. It is compu
tecl that 30,0001. will not repay him.
111 England, fays a Frenchman, humanity is
extended to the animals which are deltined to
the llaughter-houfe. Familhed dogs are not per
mitted to anticipate their tortures. Yet, the Ne
groes of the Englilh colonies are ltill more unfor
tunate than thole of the French. Butthei'e Ne
groes pollefs the lame virtues.
During the late American war, a Negro, be
longing to Colonel Laugdon, followed his matter
in a painful march : — Seeing the Colonel almott
overcome with fatigue, hefaid, Mafter,you fuffcr
great deal, but you fight for liberty ; mi too fuffcr,
•with patience, if me have liberty to defend ! The
Colonel gave him this precious gift on the spot ;
and he has not fiilce had a more zealous defen
dei, a more disinterested friend, 01* a more faith
ful fervanr.
1 here is no example of a Negro having return
ed ingratitude for the gift of liberty. They are
not, however, ignorant that you only relforethat
of which you had no right to deprive them. Who
can fee without being affected, .ihehonelf James
(the Negro whole ane dote is every where known)
approach the beneficent Quaker who hadjnlt
given him his liberty, and hear him fay : " Give
me thy hand, generoiSs man, that I may place it
On my heart, that this may be the firftaftofthat
liberty which you reltore to me.
In former times it was counted a hardship to
be elected member of Parliament, and the Mem-
bers were allowed wages, four (hillings a day for
members of counties, and two shillings for others.
—The cafe, foniehow or other, is ltrangely al
tered now.
ft surely is a desirable thing to be a memberof
Parliament, more to be " den red than gold, yea
tlian much fine gold." One candidate, for a coun
ty not far from Surry—and yet not Surry itfelf,
lias one hundred coaches in pEy,at four pounds pr. day
—and between one thing and another, this gen
tleman is supposed to spend three thousand
pounds a day.
At another ele(stion, for a borough, a voter was
imported From France, whither he had retired
fume years for the benefit of certain benefits,
which he could not receive ii: this country—in a
word, he was an outlaw—and the expedition
with which he returned after the poll, was there
fore none of the flowt«l.
Statement oftbs property of the clergy, translated from
an authenicated French paper.
IT is anxioully demanded, -what can be the a
mount of the property of the clergy.
A compleat sol ution of the quellion may be had
in Morery'j dictionary, publiflied in the year
1759- See tome page 71 5 —Art. France.
Archbifhopricl<s and bilhopricks portefs more
than 40,000 parilhes. There are 1356 abbies—
12400 priories—246 commanderies of Malta—
Ji3,Q®p chapels, each with a chaplain; ty which
he totjl revenue ok all tliefe properties a
mounts to 312,000,000 of livres. P P
the *<r C °u PU^ at i° n is taken from the records of
Cheaflemblyofthe clergy, held in Paris in the
annnal inn buC ,f nce . the Parties, pofleffions, and
annual income have increased in proportion with
the conquests of Lewis the XiVth, and the caufcs ,
hereafter mentioned. ]
Caufet of Irurtafe,
' r 1 • Val " e ? f ,? oin which was then 28 livres,
13 'ois, is now 56 livfes a marck.
tIJV Th rt ab ° V n declaratio " did not comprehend
the forefts, mills, prefslioufes, ovens, tile kilns
iron works, archbishops and biihops palaces, war
dens and houfei for the use of nuns" monki and
curates—therefore their value must be added.
3" revenues of fevera! congregations, such
as nnffionanes, feminaries,metropolitan and col
legiate chapters, nearly equal to a fifth of the a
rorefaid income.
4- The provinces and principalities,either con
quered, or annexed to the kingdom, since the
year 1655, areas follows: Alsace, tranche Comte,
RouffiHon, Trois Eveches, Hainault, Flanders,
Artois, Cambrefis, Lorraine, Burrois, Orai.sre
Monaco, Foix, Corsica, where there are five bifh
opucks. The churche's revenues in these pro
vinces and principalities amount to one half of
lion*" m the ab ° Ve mentioned declara-
From these observations and causes of increase
it may be ascertained that the annual income of
clergy is four tunes greater than it was, or
was fa id to be, m the deciaration made in the
year 165;, viz. 1,248,000,060 of livres, equal to
1,250,000,000 guineas in principal.
WHAT- A PRIZE i
TORBAY, Joly 9.
'— O- - «
Sailed this morning, the Southampton and M.
nerva frigates, in quest: of two Spanilh frigate*
cruising oft Scilly, one of which fired upon the
expedition cutter, lately come into Falmouth.
i he above veflbls are the primeft sailers in the
Brittlh navy, and in the event of their coming up
with theDons,a reasonable reparation of the injury
ottered to our flag, may be expe<fred.
Ibe Spaniards for several months pad have
been pouring troops into all their Wclt-lndia
i llancls.
A large fleet of Spnnifti fliips has been seen late
ly lteering their course for Hifpaniola.
The Spanifli fleet is reported to be well man
ned, and in much greater force than was at firll
Fufpected.
Four Hanoverian regiments are deflined for
Gibralrar, to join and aifift in the defence of that
garrison. Of courle everything wears each day
a greater semblance of hostility.
he Congress, for a genera] pacification on the
continent, is confidently said to be suddenly
broken up ; and the Mir.ifter of the King of Fruf
iia.has returned to his court re Should
this be true which we are warranted to believe
the treaty about Nootka Sound will of course go
ito the ground, and a general war be inevitable.
It is likewise said, that in confequencc of af
fairs taking this turn, fix regiments of Hessians
and Hanoverians arc taken up for the service of
Great-Britain.
On Tuesday last, at Aix la Chapelle, of a para
lytic ftroke,died the gallant veteran of the Rock.
Lord Heatlifield. v '
As long as valor can excite the tribute of vir
tue—as long as courage and condud; continue the
objetfts of veteran praise, and youthful emulati
on, so long fliall the fame of Elliot shine in undi
miniihed splendor.
BOSTON, September 11.
A FINE DAY's WORK.
We mention the following authentick parti
culars, as well to ijhew the spirit of enterprize of
our countrymen, as the fertility of the foil. Mr.
Willard of Charleston, No. 4, a short time since
built a barn, 40 feet by 28, raised it, covered it,
and put into it nine hundred shocks of wheat
and all in one day. The /hocks will produce at
leall one thousand bufliels of wheat ; and part of
the timber of which the barn is conftrudled, was
growing in the field 011 the above day.
THE PRESIDENT'S PORTRAIT,
Is finilhed by Trumbull—and a fine thing
it is ; designed and executed in his fuperiour
ltyleof excellence. It is a full length, in his uni
form of blue and buff—boots and spurs—head un
covered, —most nobly relieved, in contra<sl with
a luminous cloud and fine light sky—nearly a
front position, with his right hand and arm thrown
011 the (addle of an elegant white horse, with
inimitable ease—the beast in the action of biting
the middle-joint of his near foreleg :—This po
fition of rhe horse fhowshis neck to great advan.
tage, while it leaves the PRESIDENT'S head, as
it ought to be, the most confpicuoua objett in the
599
pidure. There are distant profpeds of particu
lar and interesting scenes, as accompaniments.
The whole piece is deligned 10 convey topofteri
ty an idea of 1 Hj£ MAN, at that molt inrerelting
peiiod, when he finilhed his career of military
glory—the evacuation of New-York. It is there
fore a warm, and highly animated business in
every refped:.
PHILADELPHIA, September 13
ExtraCl of a letter from Liverpool', dated 25th July
and received ij tLjhip Mau'cheft'er, Capt. "C/aj>
" War is still uncertain, although the utmost
exertions are making injfittingauttwo grand fleets
uiider the command of Howe, Barrington, Hood,
Extratt from another Hottfe 9 July 24.
Nothing appears to be,as yet absolutely de
termined on as to peace or war, but it is our opi
nion, and we think you may certainly . reckon,
that 11 AR will be the result of the present dis
pute with Spain."
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 18.
Under th* auspice» of the federal government, what a hippy
change has taken place in our country! Before the adoption of the
Federal Conftituuon •« every head was lick, and every heart faint"
—and It may be very fafely asserted, that our commerce, aericul
"7 and manufefturcs owe then present encouraging affect entire
ly to a confidence in government : Pe ac e and Sec uni r v fprinc
and n !hr f t r ° m f " C ' r P r °P er source iin P" ce > 'he arts flouring
nd the fccurity of la ws draws into circulation the portable pro.
trViL 0 Ve / y r ""r m ' communit y i>t is therefore to con
dict our senses to fay that we derive no national advantage* from
the general government-and he is an enemy to the bed interest
tLrn^r lTy W f ? a,tcm f ts 10 depreciate its blessings, or leflen
the confidence of the people in its administration.
Representation is the fafeguard of freedom : It is a disco
very of modern,eg, like other results of dear bought
experience, and longinvelligation, is proportionably to be valued -
It s Lb! VP ! Im P° rtant P r ' v ' le s e « " liable to be abused.--
I ness or , r,i:, "' hCpC ° plc lbufc thcmrdv «. when a fickle
of mind induces them to change old and faithful fe-vana for
new ones, who must necefiarily have a character to form It is a
hToffi * / ° f un P rlnc, P lc <l men, the idea of rotation
in office is made a (talking horse, under cover of which, persons
of .°hepe e o D pre. r ' ghttothepUbliC C ° nfidcn «-
The freedom of election is a (Wow without a substance unlefc
people feel themfelve, at perfect liberty to chufe SXt
—and in directing their choice, there is no guide so infalliMr ».
S|>t , ritncc of ,he worth . P r <>bity, and of
those who have already served them Tl,;. r ■ of
of the moll invaluable privileges Tf a free
that the principle of rotation, as contended for byfomVdTm^l'
gosues and ftekers for places, absolutely deftrovs •7, g
tainly the heigh,hof ba'd policy,, introduce nei men fn o offir"
Where experience „ one of the firft and most effential"eqTfi** '
Extrad eja letter ft on BoJlok, Sett.
Electioneering runs nigh here : I hardly think there will ..
alteration in Suffolk, Essex, or Middlesex : In the Xr
change is more probable. aiftncu,
Extraa ojanother letter tJ [<imc date
R,?n U r r m ne \ Paper ' k L "P il U P "to '""Pioneering : The *r«at Law
heaiviC:"hs'i/l t tonkas'fcLnf •''snccef""
a political enterprise, afford, the only a^L
£ .f.."rn - r °~* jsr^ss
and a merchant, and i, well acquainted with !h e
commercial interests of the United States. and
Ob a fubjectof
phfied than in the anfwcrs of The f
to the numerous add relies which havi- " of . the United States,
all parti of the Union. These I P rel ® nt ed so him from
loim in some predominant features fnl been un U
»e»t to the " gr Srb/l fc"?*" ° f it,4ch
ihefMlmgj ofthehem. Thefehwebeen
f h Fifi?F" S ' WiUianT Bradford,
FA William Finley.
"""" uJZZJ*?
s ;r
commcncec^X^o/A^™ 0 ' " nd twent V f ° u ' cand.d««
:n r :he C °Hon ed E- araon S ° th
and the HonOl. 'CT° T '
Th' W o L r L r f W f ' ndham - created DoVor'in
Moan, Veton n on Sa'u C f d^'L C ft Stat " W " «
the ] Re°v" Mr d Hill:r n M n .l la s' " "T"*'
daughter cf the .ate J oh "X^'waßE
Platt, of rh's ntv. 4- 10 Kichard
PRICE CURREM PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12fa , ,3/5
Indent, j/i. a j/t. JO
State Securities if.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. — -NW.YORK.
J5 Bctfc y; Mcfnard, London, 4g days
Hope, Hawley, Cape-Francoi,, y
' Brooks, St. Sebastian, 7 ,i
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
NO. XX. —CONTINUED
Faille enfant, quide Guise adorait les caprices
iudoot on ignorait les vertus et les vices.
FRANCIS lid, in this year, ij6o, issued a pro
clamation concerning the affairs of the na
tion, and declared that he had resolved to all'em
ble at Kontainbleau,all the Princes and the Nota
bles of his kingdom, in order to take their advice
concerning the urgent neceflities of the state.
He granted to all his fubjetfls full liberty to come
therein person or by deputies, or to lend memo
rials to lay open their grievances, with promifc
to give them a favorable hearing, and to grant
all their requests as far as equity and reason
•would permit.
The real intention of the Guises at this time,
was to take vengeance of their rivals : but to
conceal thisdefign under the most profound djf
limulation, until a favorable moment fliould ar
rive, to carry it into execution. A series of re
finement in artifice, was pra&ifed to put off their
the Prince de Conde, the Conitable de
Montmorenci, the Admiral Coligni, and all the
others ot their party : at the fame time that ar
rangements were made in all the Provinces, and
troops were allembled about the court, under
commanders who were in its confidence.
About this time died the Chancellor Olivier,
deitroyed, as was reported, by chagrin at the
cruelties pratftifed at Amboife, and was succeeded
by Michel de L'Hopital, who united to a pro
found erudition, a confum mate experience in bu-
linefs.
To show the universal prevalence of emulation
and rivalry, of jealousy and envy, not only be
tween opposite parties, but among individuals of
the fame party, it is necessary to observe here,
that De L'Hopital, notwithftaiuling his genins,
so penetrating and so fruitful in resources, was
elevated, with great difficulty to this eminent dig
nity by the Queen-mother, in opposition to the
Guises, who infilled long for Louis de Morvilli
eis. Catharine began to dread the too great
elevation of the Guises, and wished to confer this
important office on a fubjed; entirely devoted to
her interests.
At the aflembly of the Notables at Fontain
bleau, were found the chiefs of both parties, ex
cepting the Princes of Bourbon, one of whom,
however, the King of Navarre, sent his secretary
La Sague. After the customary speeches of the
King, Queen, Chancellor, Duke of Guise and
Cardinal de Lorrain, Coligni arose, approached
the King, and presented him a paper, faying that
it was a petition of those of the reformed religi
on, who had inftruified him to pretest it to his
Majesty, founded on the faith of edi&s by which
he had permitted all his fubjedts to lay open their
grievances. He added, that although it was not
fi'gned by any one, yet if his Majesty ihould or
der it, one hundred and fifty thousand men were
ready to fubferibe it. The petition demanded
only liberty of conscience, and to have churches
for public woritaip in the cities. The Cardinal
de Lorrain, with 31l that impetuosity, which,
the natural vehemence of his temper added to
the ardor of his spiritual zeal and temporal am
bition, inspired, called it seditious, insolent, raib,
and heretical : and added, that if to intimidate
the youth of the King, Coligni had advanced that
it would be signed by one hundred and fifty
thousand rebfels, he would be responsible for a
million of good citizens, ready to repress the im
pudence of the fa<ftiou», and compel refpesft to
the royal authority.
As to the differences of religion, those who in
clined to Calvinifui, proposed to demand of the
Pope, a free general council, where they might
dil'cufs and decide by common consent, the mat
ters of controversy : that if the Sovereign Pontiff
Ihould refufe to grant one, the King ought, after
the example offome of his wife predeceflors, to
agetnble a national council. But the Cardinal
of Lorrain,' answered that there was no occasion
for any other council than that which the Pope
had already called at Trent, which had already
reprehended and condemned the dotflrines of the
innovators, opposed to the Romish church.
As to tlie constitution and government of the
state, alter ail infinity of propofirionsand difcuf
lions, fu<rgefted by the variety of interests, Mont
lue or MariJtac, by the secret order of the Queen,
proposed an Aflembly of the States General : and
the two parties, with one voiceconfented. The
Constable, tbe Admiral and their partizans, by
the hope of obtaining a change in the ministry,
the Queen-mother and the Guises, because they
hoped to destroy their rivals. An edicft was ac
cordingly pa fled at Fontainbleau, for holding
the States General, and the lecretaries of state
expedited letters patents to all the Provinces of
the Kingdom, with orders to fend, in the month
ot October, their deputies to Otleans, there to
hold the States General.
JC7" Dr. Price's Revolution Sermon may be had oj
thi Qditzr. Price 1/7.
To be continued.
FROM THE UNITED STATES CHROSICL t,
Extratt of a letter from a gentleman in Gibraltar to
his friend in America, dated June 16, 179°*
« 'TnHE Effendi, who is the Prime Minister,
i. kept his [The Emperor of Morocco] death
concealed fevcral days, during which time he
sent the treaJ'ure with aftrongguard to the capi
tal,and dispatched a courier to Mali El-Azed,in
forming him of the death of his father. El-Azed
in an instant ordered himfelf to be proclaimed in
the tomb of Abfolem, Emperor of Morocco,
nißUiits his herfe, and goes dire<fl for Tetuan, at
which place I was at the time of his arrival.
He was received by every one with open arms,
and declared Emperor in all their places of wor
ftiip. The firft order that he gave was, that eve
ry Jew in that city should be put to death.—This
was nearly being carried into execution, but a
worthy fellow who had been with him during
his travels requested thai he would fufpeiul his
order, as being contrary to the laws of Mahomet
and God. The new Emperor they ordered every
man, woman and chHd of the Jewifti religion to
be ft ripped naked, their goods, money and pro
perty of every kind to be given to his troops.
This was a&ually done :—and of all the scenes
that ever 1 law, this was the most horrid.—Think
within yourfelf to fee thousands of beautiful wo
men going round the streets in the greatest dis
tress, without a single rag of clothcs upon them.
My rooms were as full of women as they could
How, and Ido declare to you, that every article
of clothes, blankets, sheets, &c. save what I wore,
were appropriated to their use. My pen cannot
describe to you the horrid fuuation they were in,
cut, beat, and abufedby every rascal they came
near. Many hundreds of their women were ra
vished by the black troops. This horrid scene
beinc over, he enquired for the Spanish and En
gl ilh Vice-Con fu'.s. who were both Jews. He or
dered them both to be tied up by their heels,
there to remain until they died. At the request
•f the Englilh Admiral, the Englilli Vice-Consul
did not fulFer, but a much better man, the Spa
nish, fuffered as above.
The many cruelties he has committed would be
too much for me to describe, or you to read. He
next proceeded to Tangiers, Sallee, See. but in
place of acting as he had done at Tetuan, he was
advifedto exa<S large fuins of money, which was
done all along as hepafl'ed. He is now created
Emperor all over the Empire. It was generally
thought he wouldmeet withoppofition fromfome
of his brothers, but in place of that wherever he
made his appearance they fled.
New-London, Sept. 8.
IT is recommended to those who put up beef
for a foreign market—ift, That in cutting up
their beef they would use a long lharp knife to
cutthefleih, and a steel plate back saw to cut the
bone, inllead of an ax or cleaver, as the cutting
and sawing leaves the meet fquareend unbruifed,
and fair to the eye *fter salting and packing.
2d. A sure way of putting up beef to remain
good and fit for any market for the lpace ofyears
—Apply to of pick'd or mess beef,cut in
4lb. or 61b. pieces, half bushel Liverpool fait, 2
or 3lb. coarfc brown sugar, 40Z. falt-petre—pack
it close—let your cask be well hoop'd and pickled.
This has been experienced by a friend this 40
years, who never lolt any so put up.
DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CIDER.
THE apples after being thrown in a heap
Should always be covered from the weather.
The later the cider is made the better, as the
juices are then more perfectly ripened, and less
danger to be feared from fermentation. No
thing does more harm to cider than a mixture of
rotten apples with the found. The apples ought
to be ground foclofe as to bieak the feeds, which
gives the liquor an agreeable bitter. The pumice
also, ihould be preflcd through hair bags, and
the juice (trained through two sieves, the upper
molt of hair, the lowermost of mullin. After
this the cider ihould be put into open calks,when
great attention is neccflary to discover the exart
time in which the pit take Hill remaining in the
juicc, rises on the topj which happens from the
third to the tenth day, according as the weather
is more or less warm. This body does not re
main upon the top more than two hours ; confc
quently great care should be taken to draw off
the cider before it fink?, which may be done by
means of a plug. When drawn off, the cider is
put into caiks. Particular attention is again re
quired to prevent the fermentation, when the
least inclination towards it is discovered. This
may be done by means of a small quantity of cider
lpirits, about one gallon to the hogshead. In
March the cider Ihould be again drawn off, when
all risk of fermentatidn ceases. Then it fliould
be pur into good sweat calks, and in three years'
from that time is fit for bottling. Old wine calks
are to be preferred ; those which contained rum
are ruinous to cider. Large earthen jars might
be made witlv or without glazing, which would
600
be preferable to any wooden veflels whatever.
Tliis is theEngliih method of making cider, and
when compared with the hasty procel's usual in
America, 110 wonder their cider I'o infinitely ex.
eels ours. Daily Advertiser.
ADVE RTIS EMENT.
THE Prnpofals for printing this paper (lipulated, that it fliould
" be pullifked at the Jeat oj the jedera!government —Purfuaut to
this engagement, 11 The Gazette of the United Stat*:,"
will, from the beginning of November next, be published at
P H"I LADELPHIA.
The s'ubfcribers, who may plcafe to continue their patronage at
the Publication, will befupplicd ffotn Philadelphia as focm aspof
tible after it is out of the press, on the present terras.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
'T I HE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, prefentrho PuU«
X wuh ihc First rif the femi-annuil State Xsft.
tcry, which will commence drawingin the Rtprtjntativti'Cta#J Vf
in Uoilon, on the Seventeenth of March next, or Junta, if tit
Ticket* (hall be disposed of. \
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125.000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes T iubjcft, 0a
dedu&ion of twelve and an half per cent, for the -use of the Com
monwealtb.
Frizes. Dollars. Dalian
1 of iocoo is 1000 a
2 3000 are sio 0?
3 200Q 600®
6 ioco > 6000
10 500 £00?
30 200 6oca
80 too Bom
9° 5° 450Q
100 40 <|ocq
12© 30 3603
161 20 322 a
200 10 200G
758,5 8 6068;
8388 Prizes.
1661 a Blanks.
$3~ TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, whnwill
pay the Pi ize& an demand—of the TREASURER of ilieCoinmon
wenlth—of JAMES WHITE, at bit Book-Store, Franklin's-Hid y
Court-Street, and at other places as ufaal.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, / i
SAMUEL COOPER, )■ Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, j
BoJlon, Jul) 28, 8790.
NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
s c
1 PRIZE of
1
2
6
13
4°
80
200
33°
7000
15324 f 2 3°°° Tickets, at 4 o». each. £. 4&X*
Subject to a dedu£lion of 15 per Cent.
THIS LOTTERY is for the purpose of raising '.he refidof 0
the sum,. granted by an Ast of the Legiilature of Ihe State of News
York, pal Ted Bth of February, 1790, to defray the cxpcnces in.
curred by the Corporation for repairing and eularging the CIT\-
HALL,
The drawing will commence on the Firjl Monday in January
next, or fooncr if filled, of which timely notice will be given.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publifhcd at the end of
the drawing ; and the prizes will be paid by the Managers.
Tickets are to be fold by the Subscribers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenbuugh,
Peter T. Curtbnius,
September i, 1790.
PURSUANT to a Rctolvc or ast of Congress of the lOthday
of May, 1780, relative to the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; noticc is hereby given to all whom it may
concern, that on the 2d day of January 1780, the house occupied
by the fubferiber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and.
was consumed, in which was lodged a number of 1 oan-Omce
:ertificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the laid
ire : Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the fai
Certificates fiiould not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves 0
Congress, they must make them before the expiration of three
nonths, from th>* date hereof. (
nvoice of Loan-Office C 1.7 txficatei dejlroytd in the house of John Hoi C
N on the zdday of January 1780.
•778. No. V, ,
VlarcH 1636 i Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York, 0#
1673 1 ditto.
Dollars, 12°°-
No.
1636
1673
In testimony whereof I Wave signed the
lication.
New-York, July 26M, 1790.
NOTICE. . , .
JC?' <*LL per Cons having demands againJ s
Household of the PRESIDENT of the United State/,
are requefled to exhibit their accounts for sett * mei ' '
at his late Dwelling in Broad-Way, before t e 15
of September. Augllft 3 r > *79°
THE Managers give Notice, that the Drawing of e
Kovk City Lottery, concluded this day, and that an a
1 tlof the fortunate Numbers will be published w 'tn a w^,~ cr s.
expcaicaon. Tli- Prizes will be paid by the refpeftive
hi Monday the 20th instant, agreeable to the conditions
Lottery. ' Seftumtcr *.
Bdlajs.
iocoo
3000
sooo
IOCO
500
200
too
5°
40
a®
20
10
6
II E M
£■ 3 ooa
2000
1000-s°<*
s°<*
300
200
lOd
5*
20
10
2 10s.
Abraham Hbkmhc,
John Pintaro.
NOTICE
Dollar} t
10000
fiooa
,W»
$o4
Sou
44»
9*4
3229
1004
606U
»jfX»
,W*
44»
9*4
$0f
3229
tOOft
60MJ
lajpbft
£. 300 0
2008
2 CO®
2009
1800
2400
40C8
4OO®
4COO
SS 0 ®
>7i°»