PCBLISJED •\V £DNESDA\ S AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 4,, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 49, x f Vol. ll.]
COLLECTION L'AW. Continued.
A a'D be it further ena&ed, That there (hall be allowed and
r*™ l< r co^e^ors j naval-officers and surveyors to be ap.
pointed pursuant to this ast, the fees and per rentage following,
teffe Vf° M T ,° e j Ch C °" Ca ° r for '"ranee of any IKip !r
anhaW f" 6 toils burthen or upwards, two dollar, and
?nn k : [° r CVe j ry clcaran « of an y <hip or vcfTel of one hundred
cniranff f" and upwards, two dollars and an half; for every
tonro"e 0 L"i n ,ar^;,ra:. V^'';1 er c :^ b of'a
ro "h hu '; dr f% brtthe^"e d ° u;,r a " d aa
I «Wery pe. mtt to land goods, twenty cents ; for every jond ta
ken ofhcally, forty cents and for every pe™it to load goods
for evr P rv o a ffi on '| W °r are enl,llcd to a drawback, thirty cents j
twentv Jem r Cert,flca1 '' 'wenty cents ; for every bill of health,
eauedh'Vh CVery ° th "" ft,c,al document (registers excepted)
°wneror mast " °f an y vefTel not before enumer
/ ' ?" ere a naval officer is appointed to the
j c ri j' .Cr a ! , J." be equally divided between the col-
na "'- offi « r . l««r paying one thud of the
J k <* allona ' y , and of the rent of an office to be
provided by the collector, at the place alligned for his refidcnce,
and as as may be for the trade of the diftridl; and
tees fhafl, at the option of the colleaor, be either received by
naval-officer, the party receiving to account month
ly With the other for his proportion or (hare 'hereof. To each
urveyor tor the admealurement of every ship or velTel of one
undred tons and under, one cent per tun ; tor the admcafurc
of every IK. p or vciiVl above one hundred tons, and not ex
ceeding two hundred tons, one hundred and fifty ccnts; for the
admealuicment of every ship or veflel above two hundred tons,
two hundred cents; for all other services by this ast to be peiforin
"> '" ch lur "y° r . board any ship or vcfTel of one hundred
tons and upward., and having on board goods, wares and mer
chandize fubjeft to duty, three dollars ; for the like lervices on
boaid any ship or veirel of less than one hundred tons burthen
having on board goods, wares and merchandize fubjeft to duty,
one and an half dollar ; or. all vefTels not having on board *oods
wares and merchandize fubjea to duty, two thirds of a dollar
all which fees shall be paid by the master or owner of the ship or
vcfTcl m which the said services shall be performed, to the furvev
or by whom tneyfhaU be performed, if performed by one only
l li' n l * but if performed by more than one, to him
■Who lh.ll have the firfl agency, to be divided in equal parts be
tween him and the other or others by whom the said services shall
be performed. To each mfpeftoi there shall be allowed tor eve
ry day he shall J?c actually employed in aid of the customs, a sum
not exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents, to be paid by
the collector out of the revenue, and charged to the United States.
1q the mcafurers, weighers and guagers refprflively, to be paid
hy the collector out of the revenue for the meafureinent of every
onenundred bufhcls of grain, thirty ccnts ; f»r the mcafurement
of every one hundred buflicls of fait, fortv cents; for the measure-
■ «tvery rnie titnidrcd bulhels of coal, fifty cents ; for the
weighing of everyone hundred and twelve pounds, two cents
tor the gauging and marking of every cask (to be marked in dura
tie characters with his own name and the quantity) ei -ht cents
tor computing the contents of, and (if rcquclfed by the partvi
marking caf.s contain.ngdiltillcd spirits and wines, three ccnts
per cafe ; for counting the number of bottles of cyder, beer, ale
or porter, one cent per du/cn ; and in proportion for any greater
or less quantity. There shall moreover lie allowed to the collec
tors of the diflrifts of New-York and Philadelphia, three-fourths
of one per centum on the amount of all monies by them rclpcdl
lvcly lecewed on account ol duties ; and to the colleaor of each
of tn« other dill, icts by this ast eltaohfhe.i, one per centum on
the amount of all monies by them refpcaively received on the
laid account of duties.
And whereas the allowances aforefaid will not afford an ade
quate compensation to the officers herein after mentioned, by rca
fon ot the small proportion of business done at the ports to which
they refpeflivcly belong, although the said officers arc necessary to
the accommodation ot the inhabitants, the facility of commerce,
and the fecunty of the revenue. Therefore,
Be it further enaded, That in addition to the fees and emolu
ments which thall accrue to the said officers from the provifioni
aforefaid, they shall fcverally have and be entitled to the rcfpedlivc
allowances following, to wit: The colle&or of the dilhids of
Saint Mary's in the State of Georgia, Brunfwick, Beaufort, South
Quay, Cherrystone, Folly Landing, Annapolis, Yeocomico,
Saifit Mary's, Oxford, Sagg-Harbour, Palfamaquody, the yearly
sura of one hundred dollars each. The colle&ors of the diftri&s
ot Sunbury and Penobl'cot, in MalTachufctts, the yearly sum of
iixtv dollars each. The collectors of the diflri&s of Hampton,
Snowhill, Bridgetown, Burlington, Frenchmans-Bay, and Edgai- >
town, the yearly sum of fifty dollars each. The surveyors of the ,
ports of Frederu kfburg, Smithfield, Port-Royal, Suffolk, Wcft-
Point, Richmond., Petersburg and Little Egg-Harbour, theyear-
Jy sum of eighty dollars each. The surveyors of the ports of
Swanfborou -h, Urbanna, Town-Creek, Albany, Hudson, Ston
ington, East-Greenwich, and Gloucester, fifty dollais each.
And be it further enafled, That every colle&or, naval-officer, and
surveyor, shall cause to be affixed and constantly kept in some
public and confpicuons place of his office, a fair table of the rates
of fees and duties dcmandable by law, and (hall give a receipt
tor the fees he shall teceive, fpecifying the particular.* ; and in
cafe of failure therein, shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars,
to be recovered with colls, in any court having cognizance there
of, to the use of the iuformer ; and if any officer of the customs
Jhall demand or receive any greater or other fee, compenfjtion
or reward, for executing any duty or service required of him by
law, he shall forfeit and pay two-hundred dollars for each offence,
recoverable in manner alorefaid for the use of the paity grieved.
And be it further enacted, That the duties and f cs to be col
lided by virtue of this a£f, shall be payable in or silver coin,
at the following rates, that is to fay : The gold coins of Fiance,
England, Spain and Portugal, and all other gold coins of equal
finenefs, at eighty-nine cents for every penny weight : The Mex
ican dollar at one hundred cents ; the crown ot France at one
clollaV and eleven cents ; the crown of England at one dollar and
eleven cents ; all silver coin of equal fincncfs, at one dollar and
< ieven cents per ounce; and cut silver of equal finenefs, at one
dollar and fix cents per ounce.
And be it further enacted, That all the drawbacks allowed by law
• n the exportation of goods, wares and merchandize imported,
shall be paid or allowed by the colle&or at whose office the said
goods, wares and merchandize were originally entered, and not
othefwife, retaining one per centum for the benefit of the United
States. And that the allowances on dried and* pickled tilh of the^
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1790,
fiiheries ofthe United States, and on failed provisions of the Uni
ted States, fhal be paid by the collcftor of the diftrifl from which
ic amc a be exported, without any deduction or abatement.
Provided always, and be it further enarled, That in order to entitle
i C £ x P"£ ter r exporters ot jny goods, wares or merchandize, to
the benefit of the said drawbacks or allowances, he or (he lhall'
previous to putting or lading the fjme on board of any Ihip or
ii n C ? P , ort *''„ on ' S' ve twenty-four hours notice at lead to the
collector of the Qiftrift from which the fame are about to be ex
ported of his, her or their intention to export the fame, and of the
particulars thereof, and of the calks. cases, thefts, boxes, and other
packages or parcels containing • fame, or of which the fame con
lilt, and ot their rcfpefhve nui*s, umbers and contents, and if
imported articles, of the (hip or to. p., vessel or vessels in which
the person or persons for or by whom, and the plac<- or places
from which they were imported. And in lefpeft to the said im-
P Ti le a artlc1 "' P roof 111311 bc m - lde «> th e latlsfaftion of the said
collector, by the oaths of the person or persons (including the said
exporter or exporters) through whose hands the said articles (hall
have palled, according to the bell of their knowledge and belief,
re pec mg the due importation of the said articles, according to law
and in conformity to such notice of their identity, and of the pay
ment or fecunng the payment of the luties thereupon. And in
refpeft to the said dried and pickled fill, and faked provisions,
proof (ball be made to the fatisfaclion of the laid cotleaor, accotd
!L' g c?i. C 'T" " C " ofthe cafr ' that the fame, iffilh,are of
the fiiheries of the United States ; if faked provisions, were salted
within ihe United Slates. And the said collector shall infpeft or
cau eto c infpetted, the goods, wares or merchandize so notified
tor exportation ; and if they (hall bc found to correspond with the
notice and proofcoucerning thefamc, the said colleaor (hall giant
a permit for lading the fame on boaid the (hip or velTel named in
such notice, which lading (hall be performed under the fupe.in
tendance of the officer by whom the fame (hall have been so in
ipctted. And the laid exporter or exporters lhall also make oath
that the said goods so noticed for exportation, and laden on board
the laid lhip or vefTel, are truly intended to be exported to the
place whereof . .jtice lhall have been given, and are not intended
to be relanded within the United States ; and (hall give bond, with
one or more sureties to the fatisfaftion of the said collcftor, in a
turn equal to the amount of the drawbacks or allowances on such
goods, with condition that the said goods, or any part thereof,
lhall not be relanded in any port or place within the limits of the
United States as fettled by the late treaty of peace.
And provided further, that the said drawbacks or allowances
(hall not be paid until at leafl fix mojihs alter the exportation of
the laid goods, and until the said exporter or exporteis (hall pro
duce to the colicftor with whom luuh outward entry is made, a
certificate in writing of two reputable merchants at the forci.n
port or place in which the fame were landed, together with the
oath of the matter and mate of the vessel in which they were ex.
ported, certifying the delivery thei-of. But in cafe any vessel
lhall be call away, or meet with fur.' unavoidable accidents-, as to
prevent tl.e lauding such goods, a protell in due torin of law, made
by the mailer and mate, or some of the seaman, or in cafe no such
proteit can be had, then the oath of the exporter or exporters, or
one of them (hall be received in lieu of the other proofs herein di
rected, unless there (hall bc good reason to fufpefl the truth of such
oath, in whieh cafe it lhall and may be lawful for the colliftor to
require uch farther proof as the nature of the cafe may demand.
froviiedlaftli That no goods, wares or merchandize imootted,
lhall be entitled to a drawback of the duties paid or feenre'd to be
paid thereon, unless fucli duties (hall amount to twentv dollars at
if n " ol unless they (hall be exported in the fame calks, cases,
chi'fts, boxesorother packages, and from the diftria or port into
which they were originally imported.
And be it further enabled, That the sums allowed to be paid by
law on the exportation of dried or pickled fi(h, and of salted pro
visions, shall not be paid unless the fame lhall amount to three dol
lars at lealt upon one entry.
And be it further enaflcd, That if any goods, wares or merchan
dize, entered for exportation, with intent to draw back the du
ties, or to obtain any allowance given by law on the exportation
thereof, (hall bc landed in any port or place within the limits of
!j 1C a! n l ~ taicsa * a f° rc f a id, all such goods, wares and mejchan
dize, thalll be fubjeft to fcizure and forfeiture, together with the
Imp or vessel from which such goods lhall be landed, and the ves
sels or boats itftd in landing the fame ; and all persons concerned
therein, lhall on indiament andconviftion thereof, fuffer impri
lonment for a term not exceeding fix months. And for discovery
ot frauds, and leizure of goods, wares and merchandize, relanded
contrary to law, the fevcral officers edablifhcd by this ast, (hall
have the lame powers, and in rate of fcizure the fame proceedings
lhall be had, as in the cafe of goods, wares and merchandize im
ported contrary to law : And for measuring, weighing or guag
ing goods tor exportation, the fame fees lhall be allowed as in like
calcs upon the importation thereof.
And be it further enaßed, That if any goods, the duties upon
which lhall have been secured by bond, (hall be re-exported bv
the importer or importers thereof, and it the said bond lhail be
come due before the expiration of the time herein before limited
for payment of the dtawback upon such goods, it lhall be lawful
for the colle£lor of thedilli i& from which the said goods lhall hive
been exported, to give fur her credit for so much of the (urn due
upon such bond, as shall be equal to the amount of the said draw
back, until the expiration ol the said time limited for payment
thereof. ;
(to be continued.)
War Department, Sept. gth, 179 c.
T MFORM ATION is hereby given to all the military Invalidsof
X Ihe United States, that the funis to which then are annually en
titled, and which will become due on the fourth day of March
enfuihg, willl be paid on the said day, by the Commiflion'eis o
the Loans within the ilates refp ftively, under such regulations
as the Prefidctit of the United States may direst.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
(The. Printers in the rejpeftive States arc requeflei to publijh the
above in their newfpapers,for thefpace oj two Months.;
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes iftei
Eight o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, >
B/oad-Way, ifixu-Ytrk June 4,179°. J
609
* '
i'RICE CURRENT. -MiJl-> ORA.
SEPT EM B
JrvMAICA Spirits, 5/6,
Antigua Rum, 4 J\j. a 5/
Croix, do. 4J&.
Country v d'>. .3/4.
M>laiTes, 2\J\o.
Brandy, 7/.
Geneva, $fG.
Do. u» cases, 3of.
Su mi , Bos. a 72f
I.oar, do. ifj.
Lump, do. 1/1 J.
Pepper, 2/10.
Pimento, If 6.
Coffee, 1 f : >. 1/4.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3 f a 6f,
Do. French, 18j. 10f.
Rice, 2 Gf.
Superfine Flour, 54f. ,
Common do. 46/". »
Rye do. 30f a 18/1 f
Indian Meal, 18\f.
Kve, 5/. pr. bufli.
Wheat, 8/. a qj.
Corn, (Southern) 3/6.
Do. (Northern,) 4 f.
Bee f , firft quality, 60s
Pork, (lift quality, 105/ I
C)at s, 2fi.
F.ax-feed, 4f6.
Ship bread per cwt. 21f. 2if
Country refined ) ft , ,
b„r-iron, \ ' 3°'-
Do. bloomery, 26'.
Swedes do. 451.
Russia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. a 91.
German steel, 9'/.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. \ 14d.
per. lb. 4d.
Do. do. do. 6J. lid.
Do. do. do. Bd. q\d.
Do. do. do. iod.")
Do. do. do* i2dY , , Q1 ,
Do. do. do. 20a.r 7 - adß^ J
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot afti, per ton, 401. 10/
Pearl ath,
Bees-wax per lb. 2f*.
Mackaicl per barr. «6/T a kv
M rrin v s, :Bf.
Mahogany, Jamaica, >
per foot, 1 *
Dominico, do. qd.
Honduras, do. yd. 81.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch wbite oak ) . .
plank, per m. \lu lo f'
1 inch do. $1.
2 inch white pine pi <r : k, 81.
i£ inch do. 61. 10/'
1 inch do. 31. iof.
?. inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 22 inch do. il. Bf.
Cedar 2 inch do. il. 10/
inch do. 61. \oJ.
1 inrh do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. 8/!
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, il. 10/.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. Chief jujlicc cf the
State of New-York. '
■VTOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Conneai<!u,
~a" ' bre , m b ' or > that u P on application and due proof made
to the fa id chiefjuft.ee by. creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald
pursuant to an ast of the Legislature of the said State entitle'
L'fc h A rC '| Cf . abrcondi ng and absent debtors," pa fl
fed the 4th April, 1786; he, the said chief iuftice has dir,fl„i
all the said Lewis M'Donaldscftatc, within this State, to be fciz
ed, and that unlcf, he ftiall discharge his debt, within twelve
months publication ot thi, notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditor,. Dated the 3d May, ,700.
New-York, May 7, , 79 q. J (iw iy
Treasury Department, Sept. 20, 1790.
TT 1, hereby made known, that the following arrangement has
1 been adop ed towards carrying into execution the Ast, mak
ing provision for the debt of the United States, viz
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofeifTued bv th'r r„ :ir
ers for the adjustment of account, in the fevcral States will'be re"
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the refpeftive Co'min (Tmn
of Loans within the States in which they were refDe£Kv.-lv 7T 5*
The Certificate, ifTued by the Register o'f thereat?
Master Genei»l and Commissioner of Arrnv Acroi.n.. E? *.u Y
Commissioner, for the adjustment of the Account, of the Quarter
Master s, CommifTary's, Hospital, Cloath'ng, Marine Demit
pmrnentslndem, of Imereft, and Bill, of Sid Eroiffion, w I
be receivable lndifcnmtnalely at the Treafurv and bv r
miffioners of all the States. The situation of the Check, ha, d.c£"
ted this arrangement for the greater fccrity ol the public ,«mfi
1 mpofitiori, by forged or counterfeit paper, and the detail, whirW
/I l r "r ? pted / romthef ? me . conf,dcration for the execution
of the business are such, that it will give facility and difnatrh F
application, from the Holder, of Certificate, the of
the Treasury and of the Paymaster General and t
Army Account,, and of tL Deoarf
menu above mentioned, are made in the firft i n fta ncc attteTre'*
fury ; and if application, from the Holders of Loan Office Cent"
ficatc., and Certifica.e, ilhed by the Commissioner, for The adiuft"
ment of Accounts m the refpe&ve States, are made in like m™
ner to the Commissioner, of Loan, within the State, in which
were issued. Transfer, can afterward, be made to any OI&. that
the Propi letor, of these Certificates may desire. 1
fIOT The Printers in the fever al State, are rejuejed t, inferttiOi
[Whole NO. I 53.]
ER 28——Dollars at Bs.
Do. inch do. I'. 6/".
Do. i'B. inch do. ißf
Buttjvhile oak staves, 35/
Pipe'rto. do. 91.
Hoglh ad do. do. 6!. lof.
Do. do. heading, B'.
Irilh barrel do. staves, 41.
Hogshead red oak do. 5 1, 5/
Do. freuch do. 51.
" hoops, 41.
Whiteoak square timber ) ,
per square foot, \ 10 *
KM wood, per ton, 18J.
FulUck, sol. >• "
B' - a -r, per lb. 1 16/
Ou 1 per (kin, of. 32/
Gr, : , fox, 4/7. "
Martin, 4 /10.
Racoon,; 3/637/6.
Mufkrat, loi. <114 J.
Beaver, hats, 64/
Castor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa. ! -jof. a Bos.
Cotton, lfg. 2](,.
far, pr. bar. 18/.
Pitch, 14/
Turpentine, 22). <123/!
Tobacco,J amcs Rivet, /i. a 3 <i.
Do. York, 4d. a &d.
Do. R.ippahaoock, a 3bd.
Dr.. Maryland,coloured, Yl'•
Do. Weflcrn-Ihore, 2d a3 V.
Lead in pigs, prcwt. 60/!
Do. bais, 68f.
Do. Shot, f
Red lead, 68/.
White do. dry, 95/T
White do. in oil, '5/.
Salt-petre hams, 7 j</.
Spermaceti candles, 3/ •
Mould do. n<f. aIJ '
Tallow dipt, 10d.
Soap, t- t d. a 87.
Caltile loap, 9d. a 10d.
PhglilH cheese, pr. lb. , -
Country do. $d. (id.
Butter, lc d.
Hyson tea, of.
rn qt in ,! , ijH. - — -
Bohea do. >fB.
Giiiferifr, s'f. a 9PS.
Starch Poland, Bd.
Snuff. 2/3.
Allum fait, water mea- >
lur.e, pr. bulh. $ 3r
Liverpool do. sJ.
Madeira wine, ) - ,
pr. pipr, $6U a 9°'
Port, 52/.
Lilbon, pr. gal.
Tcneriff, a fa.
Fvall, 3/3.
Spermaceti do, 6/.
Shake-down hhds.
Dutch g"npowder,pr.cwt. 160
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
1 intfeed oil, pr. gal. ,5 j\
Whale do. pr. barerl 50f.
•v.«THOUGHTS ON GOVERNMENT,
APPLICABLE TO THE
PRESENT STATE or thi AMERICAN COLONIES.
Written in the Year 1776,
By the VICE-PRESIDENT of the United States,
Then a Member of ;
In a LETTER to the Hon. GEORGE WYTHE,
o[ Virginia.
My dear Sir,
IF I was equal to the taflc of forming a plan for the government
of a colony, I (hould be flattered with your request, and very
happy to comply with it ; because as the divine science of politics
is the science of social happiness, and the bleflings of society de
pend entirelv on the const tutions of government, which are gene
rally institutions that last for many generations, there can be no
employment more agreeable to a benevolent mind, than arcfcarch
after the best.
Pope flattered tyrants too much when he said
" For forms of government let fools contefl.
" That which u befl adminiflered is befl.'*
Nothing can be more fallacious than this : But poets read history
to colle£l flowers not fruits—they attend to fanciful images, not
the effedls of social institutions. Nothing is more certain from
the history of nations, and the nature of man, than that some forms
of government are better fitted for being well aaminiftered than
others.
We ought to conudcr, whnt is the end of government, before
we determine which is the best form.—Upon this point all Ipe
eulative politicians will agree, that the happiness of society is the
end of government, as all divioes and moral philosophers will
agree that the happiness of the individual is the end of man. From
this principle it will follow, that the form of government, which
communicates ease, comfort, fccunty, or in one word happiness
to the grcateft number of persons, and in the greatest degree, is the
best.
All sober enquirers after truth, ancient and modern, Pagan and
Christian, have declared that the happiness of man, as well as his
dignity consists in virtue. Confucius, Zoroatler. Socrates, Ma
hornet, not to mention authorities really sacred, have agieed in
this.
Ifrhereisa form of government then, whose principle and
foundation is virtue, will not every sober man acknowledge it
better calculated to promote the general happiuefs than any other
form ?
Fear is the foundation of mod governments ; but is so fordtd
and brutal a paflion, and renders men, in whose breads it pre
dominates, so itupid, and miserable, that Americans will not be
likely to approve of any political institution which is founded on
it.
Honour is truly sacred, but holds a lower rank in the scale of
moral excellence than virtue. Indeed the former is but a part of
the latter, and confcquently has not equal pretensions to support a
frame of government produ&ive of human happiness.
The foundation of every government is some principle or pas
sion in the minds of the people. The noblest principles arid moll
generou affcclions in our nature then, have the fai re ft chance to
support the noblest and most generous models of government.
A man mul\ be indifferent to thefneers of modern Englishmen,
to mention in their company, the names ot Sidney, Harrington,
Locke, Milton, Nedham, Neville, Burnet, and Hoadley. No small
fc>rtrude is nercflTary to confefs that one has read them. The
•wrctched condition of this country, however, for ten or fifteen
years past, has frequently reminded me of their principles and
xeafonings. They will convince anv cancid mind, that there is
no good government but what is Rcp> lican. Tnat the only val
uable part at the Hritifh Conkru >so; because the very deft-.
nition of a Republic, is " an lvnpire of Laws, and not of Men."
That, as a Republic is t r be ft of governments, so that particular
arrangement of th:- v/crs of focietv, or in other words that form
*f government, which is best contrived to fccure an impartial and
cxatt r xecu'.ion of the laws, is the best of R publics.
0» l Republics, there is an inexhaustible variety, because the pos
sible combinations of the powers of society, arc capable of innu
merable variations.
As pood governments an empire of laws, how shall your laws be
made? In a large society, inhabitating an extensive country it is
impoflible that the whole should afTemble, to make laws : The
firft necefTary step then, is, to depute power from the many, to a
few of the mod wife and good.—But by what rules (ball you
choose your Reprefcntatives ? Agree upon the number and quali
fications of persons, who shall have the benefit of choosing, or an
nex this privilege to the inhabitants of a certain extent of ground.
The principal difficulty lies, and the greatcfl care should be em
ployed in configuring this Reprefentativc AfTembly. It should
be in miniature, an exa£l portrait of the people at large. It (hould
think, feel, rcafon, and ast like them. That it may be the interefl
of this aflembly to do ftrifljuflice at all times, it should be an
equal representation, or in other words equal interefl among the
people should have equal interefl in it. Great care should be ta
ken to effett this, and to prevent unfair, partial, and corrupt elec
tions. Such regulations, however, may be better made in times of
greater tranquility than the present, and they will spring up of 4
themfclves naturally, when all the powers of government come to
be in the hands of the people's friends. At present it will be faf
cfl to proceed in all eftablilhed modes to which the people have
been familiarifed by habit.
A representation of the people in one AfTembly being obtained,
a queflion arises whether all the powers of governmenr, legislative,
executive,and judicial, shall be left in this body? I think a peo
ple cannot be long free, nor ever happ), whole government is in
one AfTembly. My reasons for this opinion arc as follow.
1. A Angle AfTembly isliable to all the vices, follies and frailties
of an individual. Subjcfl to si'S of humour, starts of passion,
flights of cnthufiafm, partialities, of prejudice, and confcquently
produflive of hasty results and absurd judgments : And ail these
errors ought to be corrected and defeats fupplicd by some con
trolling power.
2. A (ingle afTembly is apt to be avaricious, and in time will not
scruple to exempt itfelf from burthens which it will lay, without
compun&ion, on its constituents.
3. A single AU'einbly is apt to grow ambitious, and after a time
•will not hefitateto vote itfelf perpetual. This was one fault of the
long Parliament, but more remarkably of Holland, whose AfTem
bly firft voted thrm f elves from annual to septennial, then for
life, and after a courfeof years, that all vacancies happening by
death, or otherwise, should be filled by themselves, without any
application to conflitupnts at all.
4. A Representative Alfembly, altho' extremely well qualified,
and absolutely neceflary, as a branch of the legislature, is unfit to
exercifc the executive power, for want of two cflential properties,
fecrecyand dispatch.
,5. A Rcprefentative /.ITembly is still less qualified for the judi
cial power ; bccaufe it is too numerous, too flow, and too little
{lolled in the laws.
6, Because a Tingle AfTembly, pofTefled of all the powers of go
vernment, would make arbitrary laws for their own intcreft,execute
all laws arbitrarily for their own intcreft, and adjudge all contro
verfics in their own favour.
But shall the whole power of legislation reft, in one AfTembly ?
Most of the foregoing reasons apply equally to prove that the le
gislative power ought to be more complex—to which we may add,
that if the lcgiflative power is wholly in one AUembly, and the ex
ecutive in another, or in a single person, these two powers will
oppofeand encroach upon each other, until the contefl shall end
in war, and the whole power, legislative and executive, be ufarped
by ihe ftrongcil.
The judicial power, in such cafe, could not mediate, ar liolJ
the balance between the two contending powers, becau.e t c egi
flative would undermine it. And this ihews the neceility too, of
giving the executive power a negative upon the legislative, ot ler
wifc this will be continually encroaching upon that.
To avoid these dangers let a diftinft Atfemblv be constituted, as
a mediator between the two extreme branches of the legmature,
that which represents the people and that which is veftcd with the
executive power.
Let the Representative AfiTembly then elect by ballot, from
among themselves or their conllituents, or both, a diitintt Atiem
bly, which for the fake of perspicuity we will call a Council. It
may consist of dny number you please, fay twenty or thirty, and
(hould have a free and independent exercise ot its judgment, and
consequently a negative voice in the legislature.
These two bodies thus constituted, and made integral pruts of
the legislature, let them unite, and by joint ballot choofc a Gover
nor, who, after being dripped of moll of those badges of domina
tion callod prerogatives, ihould have a free and independent cxpi
cife of his judgment, and be madealfo an integral part oi the le
gislature. This I know is liable to obje&ions. .>nd if you please
you may make him only President ofthe Council, as in Connecti
cut : But as the Governor is to be inveiled with the executive
power, with confentof Council, I think he ought to have a nega
tive upon the legislative. If he is annually as he ought tQ
be, he will alv. ays have so much reverence and aiteciion for the
people, their Keprelentutives and Counsellors, that although yOu
give him an independent exercise of his judgment, he will f< ldom
use it in opposition tothe twohoufes, except in cases the public uti
lity of which would be confpicuoua, and some such cases would
happen.
In the present exigency of American affairs, when, by an ast of
'arliomcnt we are put out of the royal prote&ion, and conicquent
y difchargcd from our allegiance ; and it has become necelTary to
flume government for our immediate security, the Gov. Lieut,
jov. Secretary, Treafurcf, Comm lTarv, Attorney-General, should
3e cho fen by joint ballot, ol both Houfrs. And thcle and all other
elections, especially of Representatives and Counsellors, should be
annual, there not being in the whole circle of the sciences, a max
im more infallible than this," Where annual elc&ions end, there
slavery begins."
These great men, in this refpeft, should be, once a year
<c Like bubbles on the sea of matter borne,
" They rife, they bteak, and to that sea return
(To be concluded in our next.)
FOR THE GALETTE OF 1 HE UNITED STATES.
MR. EDITOR,
SPECULATION in public securities, or the
debts of the United States, and the individual
States, began with the debts themselves—it is a
neceflkry and uniform consequence of paper re
presentatives of specie, on any principle what
ever, funded or not funded : In the former cafc,
it is seldom injurious when the funds are good
and sacredly applied : In the latter it is always
carried toexcefs—andi3 attended with pernicious
effects.
The United States, previous to the adoption of
the new Conltirution, poflfefled no funds—becaufe
they had no legislative power. A vain confidence,
however, in the success of congressional requifi
tionSy procured a circulation for a time, of the
many millions of paper which the old Congress
iflued. A failure on the part of the respective
States in complying with the lequifitions, laid
the foundation of that itnmenfe depreciation
which followed—and opened the flood gates of
speculation. For a considerable time before the
difTolution of the old government, the receipts
into theTreafury of the United States, were said
to be little more than fuflicient to pay the officers
of government : These, however, it is to be pre
sumed, were punctually paid, as very few of them
appeared anxious for a change.
A debt fit'jated as that of the United Stares was,
mud have been in desperate circuinltances—and
it is demonstrable, that before this day, it would
have totally funk in the hands of the pofleflors,
but for the new Conflitution. How far this was
the wish of many of the oppofers of a change in
our political fitnation, time may develope—but
at present, thank Heaven, it is not material to
inveltigate. The time is now come, when the
business of speculation, it is to be hoped, will be
brought to very narrow limits, and become so un
productive, as to be not worth pursuing : And in
order to effect this great and valuable object, it
is become neceflary that confidence in the faith
and honor of government, should take place of
that distrust and jealousy, which have led too
many of our citizens to facrifice their hard earn
ed property for a very trifling consideration.
The business of speculation, in its firft stages,
was carried on in a very exceptionable and difin
genuous manner : The country was filled with a
set of itiu erant {harpers, who gulled the unwary
and uninformed out of their property by every
species of deception : This mode of prosecuting
the business, was the only one in which it was
carried on for a considerable time—buttheellab
lifhinent of offices in the capital towns on the
continent, produced an open and fair market
and the fame principles which apply in other
branches of traffic, obtaining in this also, it then
became the interest of the negociators to buy and
fell on the lowest terms. This open market broke
up the itinerants in a great measure, and afford,
ed every pofleflor an opportunity to get the high
est price that could poflibly be obtained for liis
paper. It is however said, that the ambulatory
tribe is not extinct—but the late rife in pub
lie paper has added wings to their feet—and in
many mltances the credulous and nnfufpedinsr
have fuffered by sudden and hasty sales.
It is surely high time that confidence in the
government should poflefs the minds of the pub
lic creditors umverfally : Those whose faith has
not failed them for several months part, have ad
610
ded more tljan one hundred pr, cent, twieir
property—and iftlieylwill but hopi Uhtotlfc>nA
of March next, they inuft find their account in it
You, Mr. Editor have done well in puJbJifliiiiE
a price cnrrent of Public Securities, finpe the
Funding Bill pafled : It has been very frr»; < . Pa|ll
to many of my neighbors ; they are ho«cye r <, t
a lofsto account for the fluctuation which foibe.
times appears. I tell them to be steady—
possible reason can be given (thatfhould inflagnce
the creditors at large) why the public paperiSSiM
be at one price to day, and at a less price to i£»r
-row—l tell them alio that tliefe variation!are
owing to local confederations only, wViich may be
eaiily explained. You may hear from « ej .
gain.
MADRID, July 9 .
OUR dispute with England remains just i„ t | le
slate it was, and has not taken a more ami
cable turn since the arrival of Mr. Kitzherbert
the Spanish Ministry keeping firm to the follow
ing DECLARATION.
signed and delivered by theComte Florida Blanca
at Aranjuez, on the 4th of Junet79o,to theEuo!
lifli Charge des Affaires:
" THE King, informed of the Reprefenmion
presented at the office of his Miniilerson
of May, by the Sieur Matty, Charge its Negotia
tions of his Britannic Majesty, the dif.
putes arisen between this Court and thatofGreat-
Britain, on account.of the veflels detained at the
port of St. Laurent, or Nootka, on the coaftof
California, in the South Sea—lias ordered the tin*
derfigned, his firft Secretary of State, to peply to
the said Sieur Charge desNegociations of England
that which lie had the honor to inform hitg ver
bally of, and in writing, oil the r3th of May, viz.
" That his Majesty never did, or will prpteud
in this port, or in any other seas or places whatv,
ever, to any right s but such as belong lo his crou-jj
by foleinn treaties with all nations, and especial
ly with Great Britain, founded on luch treaties,
and on theconfent ot the people, well known
and immemorial poH'effion.
" That he will confentro an examination and
difcuflion of all these points, for the purpofeof
accomplishing a pacific and friendly negociation,
as soon as he can have an interview with the new
Ambaflador, and that his justice will indemnify
the parties concerned, and he will difapproveof
the condu<ft, and punish his fubjeifts, if it appears
they have exceeded their legitimate rights : Thi»
offer, and this fatisfadtion, is to ferveas an exam
ple to the Court of London, to do as much on it»
fide.
The two courts of London and Madrid notbav
ing yet received fufHciently detailed proofs' of
what has really palled in those distant places, ha*
caused fonte difference in the expofuion and ac
ceptation of fatfts ; for the process verbal drawn
upby the Vice-Roy of New-Spain, of whom they
have been required, are not arrived at this mo-
ment
" It is known by posterior accounts, that tfce
veflel or English packet boat l'Argonaut, was not
detained and confifcaced until after a judicial
animation had been made ; and also, that a by
lander, or final! veflel, named the Princefißoyiu,.
which arrived afterwards, would only havebeen
detained and not confifcated, and that the Vice-
Roy would have made restitution, or have fetier
at liberty, on the Capr. entering into an obliga
tion to pay the value, in cafefhe should be deem
ed alawful prize, being the fame terms on which
a Portugnefe (hip from Macoa, and two belong
ing to the American colonies, were fetat liberty.
In like manner, all, which ihall be proved not to
belong legitimately to this Court, will be given
up immediately, as soon as the pieces jufticativtt
are arrived.
" The fir ft time that our nmbafladordifconrfed
with the ininiftry of London (the roth February)
on this lubjecft, many circumuances couldnotbe
ascertained which are now certain, either of the
ref'petftive acfis of pofleffion of Spain on this coast
and ports, anterior and posterior to those cited an
the said office, and many others which will be
let forth, and submitted in a pacific negociation ;
and if the court of London, when it was anlwer--
ing the complaints made on the part of the
against the traders which Spain regard as afurjv
ers and violators of Treaties, bad made an ans
wer conformable to the desire at present mam*
fefted, of examining and fettling these contefla
tions amicably, conliderable expences and disa
greeable circumstances would have been avoided.
The disagreeable terms and conditions of-the
answer of the Britifli Ministry, and that at atime
when it is avowed no authentic information is ar
rived, threw the Spanilh cabinet into fulpicions,
which made them fear this difputewas only taferve
as a pretext to break entirely -with our Court, whici
has induced it to takefome precautions on the fubjtci-
VIENNA, July 17. ,
An Eftafette arrived here yefterday-at seven o
clock in the morning, with the melancholy inte -
ligence of the death of out illustrious General
Loudhon. , , -
He died on the 14th infl.. at eleven o clocK m
the forenoon. His impatience under the me
R I T 0.imjtetitotig ardor of "his cli*.
racier, and the knowledge, above all, of his im
portance in the war, contributed to irritate his
mind, and. promote the violence of his fever.—
He refilled the application of Cataplaf.n, before
and after the incisions made, with a fatal obfti
xiacy, which raised the inflammation to such a
lieight, that he. expired under the acceflion of
the fever.
1 he grief of the Royal Family is excessive.
Every breast here however echoes responsive re
grets for the loss of this great commander. His
corpse was brought hereyefterday, to receive the
honors due to his rank—and afterwards to be
transported tphis estate of Adeladorf, for inter
ment in the vault erected by himfelf in the parish
of Maria Brunn.
The command of his army is conferred, fortlie
present, upon his Exccllency theMarefchal Comte
de Coloredo.
A courier arrived here lately from Reichenbach
tearing, it is said, dispatches relative to the elec
•tion of a new Emperor.
ST OCKH OL M, July 13
An unfuccefsful attempt made by the King of
Sweden to deltroy tlie Ruffian coaftingfijuadron at
Viborg, and the approach of the Prince de Naflau
xvith the Cronitadt division, had already render
«d the position of the Swedes at the entrance of
Viborg Bay extremely critical, when the fcnrci
ty of ammunition, and the want of provisions,
made their return to their own ports a measure
of neceflity.
The King resolved therefore to avail himfelf of
• strong eaiterly wind, which fee in 011 the 3d,
wd to set fail with both fleets for Swenlk-Sund
and Sweaborg,
The grand fleet had to penetrate thro' a nar
row pass, and to sustain the fire of four Ruffian
line of battle ships, two of which were placed on
each fide of the Strait. After this it had to en
gage the whole of Admiral TfchitfchakofTs line,
which was drawn up along/the coast, at a small
•distance, while liis frigates were ranged among
the islands which lie nearer the shore.
The Swedish van, under Admiral Modee, pas
sed the Strait, without fufferingany ellential lol's,
firing with great spirit both broadiides againit
the enemy. The cannonade from the four Ruf
fian (liips was however so powerful, and continu
ed to be so well supported, that it was resolved
by the Duke ofSuderniania to make an attempt
to burn them. But this operation proved lo un
fuccefsful, that the fire lliips employed in it were
driven upon one of his lloyal Highnefs's own
line of battle ships, and a frigate, both of which
blew up.
This accident seems to havecaufeda degree of
confttfion among the ihips th it were to follow,
four, of which itruck upon the rocks, [and were
left to the mercy of the enemy.
On their farther coui fe along the coast, with a
climinifhed force, the Swedes loil ".vo more /hips
of the line, which were taken by the enemy.
The engagement cotitin ued all night, and part
of the ne*t day [the 4th], 011 the evening of
which the Duke of Sudermania arrived at Swea
borg.
, The fate of the coasting fleet is not so exaclly
known, no oflicial accounts having yet been re
•eived from it : But it is certain tliat the King
arrived the fame evening in Swenfk-Sund, with
a large part of the fleer, having loit fix gallies,
with eight hundred men (of the (ruards) which
taken by the Ruffians, besides a number of
finaller vellels taken or funk, reported to amount
to sixty. The whole Joss in men, on the part of
the Swedes, is estimated at seven thousand.
His Swedifli Majesty, having supplied the re
mains of his squadron with provjfions and am
munition, and having been joined by the divisi
on under M. de Cronftadc, which had not been
able to reach the Bay of Viborg, is already failed
again, with a view to prevent the Prince of Naf
fiu, who is said to be advancing with the Cron-
Itadt and Viborg squadrons, from getting into
the port of Fredericklham.
LONDON, July 16
Mr. Fitzherbert, weunderftand, will certainly
leave Madrid on the ioch Aug. The considera
tion of all terms of accommodation between the
Courts of Madrid and London terminate on that
day.—The answer then mud be final, and that
answer is already well understood : "Etiquette,
and the Treaty and Faith of Nations preclude
hostilities before that day—in the mean time,
the fleets of each power will be at sea, and wait
ing for their final inftrutftions in a certain lati
tude, which will be communicated to them by
fwift failing frigates or cutters.
Authentic accounts were received yesterday at
the Admiralty, of the Grand Spanish Fleet being
at this time cruizing in the Bayofßifcay, in con
siderable force.
As hostilities maybereafonablyexpe<fled forth
with to commence, it is more than probable from
the vigor of the Ministry, and the high and fu
perjor condition of our fleet, that an important
)»)ow inoy be ItrijcJc before ike aotfc of this month.
A DDR. ESS to tli e KING, by Monf. del a Payette,
in the name and at the head of the National
Guards of France, on the 13th of July :
SIRE,
TN the course of thofc memorable events which have redored
X to us our unalienable rights, and at a time when the energy
ot trie people, and the virtues of the King, have piefented fiich
great examples to the surrounding nations,'it is our happinef, to
revere in your Majesty the inoft glorious of all tides, that of Chief
ot the French, and King of a free People.
May you enjoy, Sire, the reward of your virtue ; and may this
pine refpefl and homage, which despotism cannot command,con
ltitute the glory arid recompence of a Citizen Kin".
It was yourdefire that we ftiould polTefs a Constitution, found
ed upon liberty and public order. All your withes, Sire, (hall
be accomplished :—Our liberty is fccured, and our zeal is the gua
rantee of public order.
The National Guards of France, fwcar to your Majesty an obe
dience that knows no other bounds than the law, and a love which
will end only with our lives.
Anfwir ef the King of the French,
To the Federative Deputies of the Eighty.three
Departments of the National Guards, at the
Thuilleiies, on the 13th inft.
T RECEIVE with much ienfibility the teftimonics of love
X and attachment which you give me in the name of the Na
tional Guards, united in ail parts of Europe.
" M a y the folcinn day, on which you are to renew in common
your oath to the Nation, pais over without diflention, and may
it serve to strengthen the cairn, and eftablilh the reign of the Laws,
and of Liberty, throughout the realm !
Defenders of the public Peace, of ihe Laws, and of Liberty !
confiJer rhat your firfl duty is the maintenance of order, and obe
dience to the laws ; that the benefits of a free Coniliiution ought
to be equal to all ; that the more free we are, the more serious
become offences again (I the liberty and property of others—the
more criminal become ass of violence and outrage, when they are
not committed by command.
" Report to your fellow-citizens, that I wish I could speak to
them all as I speak to you here. Tell them that their King is
their Father, their Brother, their Friend—that he cannot be happy
but in their welfare—great but in their glory—powerful but in
their Liberty— rich but in their profperily—and that he only fuf
fcrs in their afflifiions. Above all, make known the words, or
rather the sentiments of my heart, in the humble cottages, and in
the retreats ot the unfortunate. Tell them, that though I cannot
go along with you in theit asylums, I wifli to do so ; and that
both in my afie&ion, and by the laws which are the protection of
the feeble, I will watch over them. Say, in fine, to the different
provinces ot my kingdom, that the more that circumstances will
permit me to fulfil th .- wilh I have formed of visiting them with
my family, the happier it will make my heart."
FROM THE BOSTON GAZETTE.
AS Congress in the Import Law have conformed to the new
money of account established by the late Congrels, which
alone may make it interefling to many to become acquainted there
with, but (till more so, if this beginning lhould lead to the elbb
lifr- icnt of this new modeof reckoning, in the ordinary bufmefs
of life. With whatever advantage 1 l»e regular simplicity of this
mode may be attended alter it fhail become generally known, it
may, ncverthelcfs, like all other innovations, be produ&ive of per
plexity in the commencement, merely through want of the habit
ot a familiarity ; therefore some such table /is this below may be
found not altogether ufclels, but may contribute to the conveniency
ot a confiderablenumber of thegood people of these United States,
with this view it is publithcd.
CENTS turned into Jhillings, pence, and farthingr, with the decimal
fractions of a farthing in the currency of the several Stales ofthe Union
u>kere the dollar is rated at 4/8. 6/7 7/6. Bf.
I 4/8- I 6f. | 7/6- | Bf.
1/ d.q. 1/ d.q. \f. d. ? |/ i. q.
Cents. 1 o o 2. 4 o o 2.88 o o 3.60 o o 3.84
2 o t 0.48 o 1 1.76 o 1 3. 20 o t 3.68
3 o t 2. 2 o 2 0.64 o 2 2.80 o 2 3.52
402 0.g6 0 2 3.52 o 3 2.40 o 3 3.36
jo 2 3.20 o 3 2.40 o 4 2.00 o 4 3.20 •
603 1.44 o 4 1.28 o 5 1.60 o 5 3.04
t) 7° 3 3 68 o 5 0.16 o 6 1.20 o fr 2.88
3 8 o 4 1.1)3 o j 3.04 o 7 0.80 o 7 2.72
» 9 0 5 °->6 o 6 191 o 8 0.40 o 8 2.56
1 is 10 o 5 2.40 o 1 0.80 o 9 0.00 o 9 2.40
2 20 o it 0.80 1 2 1.60 1 6o 00 1 7 o»8o
3 3° 1 4 3* 20 1 9 2.40 2 3 0.00 2 4 3.20
4 4® 110 1.60 2 4 3.20 3 o 0.00 3 2 i.60
5 5° 2 4 °-°° 3 o 0.00 3 9 0.00 4 o'O.oo
6 60 2 9 2.40 3 j 0.80 4 6 0.00 4 9 2.40
7 7° 3 3 °-**° 4 2 1.60 5 3 0.00 5 7 0.80
8 80 3 8 3.20 4 9 2.40 6 o 0.00 6 43 20
9 9° 4 2i 60 5 4 3.20 6 9 0.00 7 2 1.60
10 100 4 8 0.00 o o.co 7 6 0.00 8 o 0.00
Scte. rhat ttie figures, whi.-h follow the point, or period, pla
ced after the farthings, are so many hundred parts of another tar
thing.
FREDERICKSBURG, Sept. 16.
The Hon. James Madison, jun. Richaio B. Lie, John
Pace, Alexander White, Wii.liam B. Giles, and Josi
ah Parker, Efqrs. are re-elcftea members of the House of Re
prtfentatives of the United States, from their refpettive diftrifls.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 29.
Extrall of a letter from New-London, dated September 26.
The brig , Captain Howard, arrived here yesterday from
Amsterdam ; on the ioth Auguli he spoke the Britilh packet,
bound to America, two davs from Falmouth, from which he was
informed that a compromise of all differences between Spain and
Great-Britain, had taken place.
On the2iltinft. Capt. Davis arrived at Boston,
in 6 weeks from London, and brings official ac
counts of the above intelligence.
Accounts from Pittlburg of 4th instant inform
that Mefli-s. Elliot and Williams,contractors,have
forwarded a number of Kentucky boats to Wheel
ing, to convey the Militia, drafted to go 011 some
I'pecial service, to their place of general rendez
vous.
The new parliament of Great Britain, which
was to have met ioth Augufl is prorogued to
12th October.
The principle of rotation does not appear to
have influenced in the late ele<slion of Represen
tatives for the State of Virginia: So far as accounts
have come to hand, the members of thoufe
are elected for thefeetnd. It can hardly be sup
611
PARIS.
posed that the people of that Stale, could have
chosen characters more attached to its interests,
or more competent to supporting them.—Why
then iliould they change f
William B. Giles, Esq. is the gentleman
who Was elected to supply the vacancy occasion
ed by the death of Col. bland—and will take his
feat at the next leifion in December.
Americans once gloried in the name of Englifh
mau—and there always has been a number of
characters in that nation, who are an honor tu
human nature : In all periods of the American
war, this country found intrepid friends there,
who advocated our canfe, as the cause of freedom
and humanity—Their virtues will ever be pre
cious, and iheir memories treasured in the bolotn
of philanthropy : The late celebration in London
of the Anniversary'of che French resolution does
honor to the distinguished characters concerned,
and adds a wreath to the chaplet which adorn*
those who have long signalized themselves as
friends to Universal Freedom, and the equal
Rights of Man.
if the account of the fleet contained in the let
ter from London, publilhed in our lalt, is authen •
tic, and we have every reason to suppose it is, ir
verifies an observation, made by foine enlighten
ed politicians during the late war, " that<Jreat
Britain, without a commercial connection witli
America, would not be able to man her fleets, or
support her naval consequence." It is difficult
to account for the Englilh fleet's being in port
on the 17CI1 Aug. "when the Spanish fleet put to
sea the 20th July, but on the idea of their not be«"
ing able toman their (hips.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. h'FJV.YORZ.
Sloop Delight, Wells, Curriicoa, 30 days
Fortune, 8001, Port-au-Prince, 21
Ship Harriot, Bond, George-Town, in dijlref> y loundfer
Amjlerdam. having sprang a leak.
Brig Sufannali, Derry, .Madeira, 35.
TO COR R ESPONDE M S,
The " Tab'ct, No. 145," —** D fcourfes on Davila, Xo. 21,**
and 4< Rionis Jdyllium Secundum, paraphafed," are unavoidaoly omit
ted. The Marriage Artie! is vet* injerted, bezauje ux
cannot touch Joy the atithept'citx of th • i
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12/2 a 12\f±.
Indents 7/1. a 7/2.
State Securities Bf.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sept. 28, 1790.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofa's will be received atth*
Office ot the Secretary of the Treasury, until the 31ft diy
of December next for the building ot a LIGHT HOUSF,
nearly of the di mentions proposed by the late Commilfioncis of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape ll< nrv, in
the County ot Princess Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ced?d for
that purpose to the United States. It is desired, that the propofali
may leave the eleflion, whet) er the building above the foundation
Hull be ol brick or faced with hewn orhammer-drefTcd fkonr, and
as the cost and charges of those materials vary, it is cxpetted, that
a corresponding difference will be made in the terms offered.
The foundation of the Light-House is to be of (lone, and funic
tn the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over the top of
which the pavement is 10 be laid. The diameter thereof is 10 be
twenty seven feet fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
the centre.
The diameter ofthe hafe isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thickness of the walls is to be fix feet. The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of theftone work is tobe
seventy two feet.wher- the diameter is to be fix feet fix inches, and
the thickness of the walls three fec-r. The form is to be an octagon,
having three windows in the east, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glafly kind, if of stone, it
is to be faced with hewn or hammer-di-eftcd stone.
On the top ofthe stone work is to be a floor of joists, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond ihe wall, thereby forming an eve.
which is to be finiftied with acornice.the whole having a descent
from the centre fufficient to throw off ihe water.
•The lanthorn is to be supported by eight polls of wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
aie to be wrought into the stone wall on the inner part at each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leavinga platform on
the oulide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the woik abovt
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is to be ten feet
high, having a semicircular roof of five feet more, with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the polls sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the falhes, which are'
to be made of iron, each fafti is to have twenty-eight panes of
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the sashes on the south'
well fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
plats"i in, from the outer pait of which to the roof of the lanthorn
is to bea frame of iron covered with a net work of flron» brafj
wire, to prefervetheglafs from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night. "
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be well fattened to an iron
hoop, over which is I copper funnel, through whi«;h the fmokc
nuypafs into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above it,
that the hole for venting the smoke may always be to the leeward.
£.ight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fix-d
in the roof of the lanthorn.
A close (love is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which
is to be furnifhed with eight lamps, cacli caoabli- of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other tr'anfverfely. There are
to be fix flights of flairs to afcenci to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which is to be oy a dooc covered with copper. The building is
of lightnin'g W tW ° condu & or! > secure it from the effeQs
A frame house is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet fquarr.'
wTh hth'and^iamer 1 : '° be fim,h£d
of ft™,"!', f ° r thC ftora ß e . i, " <! f ' ft k «P in S of the ° l 1 "be built
1 1 a 'a convenient d.stance, twelve feet wide, and twenty m
k ij' t0 be . a ed ' and covcrcd with earth m sand, over
which a shed is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
h,'^ n C r S " ith covers - «<* capable of containing two
doof ga 011, The en '«Qce isto be secured by a strong
be ?°° d i" Urit y for performance of the contrast will
be cxpefted. Payments on account will be made at proper fta
?" ° [ he f "°. , a " d ,he balance will be paid on it. completion :
or, if a suitable difference should be made in the terms, calh w4i
„ e P urc b?ie of mateiials and provisions.
ike Printtrj in thefeveral Statu tre requejlci it inf&t tkit*Celebration of the Anniversary
of French Freedom.
LONDON, JULY iG, 1790.
UPWARDS of fix hundred Gentlemen aflem
bled at the crown and anchor Tavern, 011
W ednelday. The great room was quite fall,and
many gentlemen dined in other apartments.
They all wore the national cockade.
Short and applicable invocations were made so
the Supreme Being before and after dinner, by
Dr. Ree's and Dr. Towers ; and the Earl of Stan
hope proposed the followingtoalts :
1. The Majesty of the People.
2. The Nation, the Law, and the King.
2. The glorious Revolution in France.
4. The Triumph of Liberty in the delirutflion
of the Baftile.
Wliile thistoall was drank, a ftonc, which was
a part of the Qallile, was exhibited, surmounted
by the cockade of freedom.
$. The National Alfembly of France.
Here tha following Song, written for ihc occa
sion, was lung.
I.
GALLANT Nation, foes no more f
Gen'rous Britons hail the day,
That from Gallia's cultur'd (hore
Chas'd tyrannic pow'r away.
11.
Late a band of Patriots rofc,
Firm in freedom's glorious caufc ;
Feeble Slaves in vain oppose
Rights fecur'd by equal laws.
111.
Myrtle wreaths entwine their brows,
Branchy myrtle decks the blade
While like us, they pay their vows
To each Patriot Hero's (hade.
IV.
Hampden, Sydney, names rever'd !
Uoaft of Albion's sea girt isle,
Martyr'd RulTell, (hade endear'd !
On this day propitious smile.
V.
Transatlantic spirits bend,
Pleas'd our feftive rites to fee,
Franklin ! freedom's ablest friend !
Warren and Montgomery !
VI.
Martial youths, in Britain bred,
Kindle with congenial zeal,
Freedom's path refolv'd to tread,
Jealous ot the public weal.
VII.
Should tyrannic force again
Raise her Hydra heads on high, .
Welcome, then, the hostile plain,
Freemen dauntless dare to die.
VIII.
Verdant Myrtle's branchy pride
Shall my thirsty blade entwine,
Such, Hakmodius, deck'd thy fide!
Such Arijtogiton bethine.
The Earl of Stanhope introduced the next toa.l
in a Itiort and pointed address, in which he said,
that the company was allembled together that
day io celebrate one of the greatest and moll im
portant Revolutions that had ever happened. It
had rellored to the rights of men twenty four
millions of human beings.—lt had dellroyed a
government of foul corruption, intrigue and ty
ranny—and, 011 the utter ruin of a fyltem of sla
very, it hail in the iliort space of one year ella
blilhed a government, founded on the natural
equality of men. They had even in this glorious
iy Item improved on the conititution of England,
for they had not only ellabliihed civil, but reli
gious liberty. They had 110 laws to complain of,
such as difgaaced our Statute hook. '1 hey did
not restrain their women from going out of the
kingdom, lell they ihould be converted from their
religion—nor had they any law by which their
clergy, by falling and prayer, were enabled to
call out devils. They had abolilhed tythes, and
they had made a provision, that no description of
men ihould be driven from offices of trull, be
cause they had the bad fortune or the good for
tune to differ from the eftabiilhed church.
Having concluded a very liandfome culogium
on tiieir conduct, by faying that in many things
they had given us a lesion, from which we ought,
in virtuous emulation, to improve, he gave as the
next toast.
6. An end to all jealouiles between Britain and
France—and may they vie with each other in ex
tending to all the other nations of the earth, peace,
virtue and liberty.
Dr. Price, in a ihort paper, paid an elegant
compliment to the grand fyfteni of liberty they
liad eltabliilicd. It was an union between pliilo
fophy aqd politics ; for in its spirit it not only
■went to give the people of France their just en
joyment of liberty, but it looked abroad to other
nations, and held forth peace and good will to
all people, as fellbw beings and as brethren.
The people of France particularly pointed to
England, as to the country with which, for their
mutual intereft,and for the interests of mankind,
they wiihed moll eagerly to be united. He knew
from the nioft refpecftable quarter, that they
were not only desirous of this, but that an offer
of such an alliance was likely to be made. Iffo,
what imilt not be the effect offucli an alliance on
all the nations of the earth ! Holland on this
lidc of tlie globe, and America on the otUei" ;
would join the grand confederacy, and, thus
united, they would ensure peace to the whole
world. He concluded with exprelling in a i'en
timent. what ni nit be the cordial wilh of all men
on the fubje<9i.
7. /i league between Great-Britain and France
for perpetuating peace, and making the world
happy.
8. To the memory of those Patriots 111 France
who have loft their lives in fighting for the liber
ties of their country
The Earl of Sian'.iope here read to the com
>any ihe oath which ihe National AHembly have
prepared for the King, to take on the day of the
General Confederation.
9. M. de la Fayette, M. Bailli, and M. de Mi
rabeau, M. de Rabau de St. Etienne, and the reft
of the Patriots of France.
10. M. Sheridan, and the reft ofthe Patriots of
E.igland, who have defended against prejudice,
the French Revolution.
Mr. Sheridan, in a most eloquent speech, re
turned. thanks to the numerous body, lor the ve
ry warm and gratifying manner in which they
had done him the honor to drink his health. It
was a most ample reward for his public conduct,
to oe so honored by a meeting of men, allembled
from their pure attachment to freedom ; and he
afiured them, that the sentiments he had exprefi
cd 011 the French Revolution, he should carry
with him through life. In every iituation he
should ad: on the fame principles ; for, in his
mind, though it would be a molt narrow thing to
objetft to the French Revolution, if it did nothing
more than secure to Frenchmen their jult and
natural rights, yet it was pregnant with the molt
beneficent consequences to this country, and to
humankind. We know from fatal experience,
that the old Monarchy of France, ever looked
forward to war as the means of preserving and
augmenting its tyranny. We already have a
proof in the conduct of the National Aflembly,
that they were actuated by a very different spirit.
The expressions of good will which the noble
Chairman had so truly afcribedto them, and tlie
intention which Dr. Price had slated, that they
entertained of proposing an alliance with this
country, were so advantageous to Great-Britain
and to mankind, that they demanded the most
marked return of kindness and good will from
us. It had Itruck him and other gentlemen, that
our feelings on the fubjeift Ihould be exprelledin
something more pointed than a toast, and with
the permiifion of the company he would move a
few words in the way of resolution. He then
moved that it be resolved " That "this meeting
does most cordially rejoice in the eftablilhment
and confirmation of liberty in France; and that
it beholds with peculiar fatisfacftion the senti
ments of amity and goodwill which appear to
pervade that country towards this ; especially at
a time when it is the manifeft intcreft of both
Srates that neither should interrupt the harmony
which at present subsists between them, and which
is so eflential to the freedom and happiness not
only of both nations, but of all mankind."
This resolution was received by the whole
Meeting, with the most vehement acclamations
of applause, and which were damped only for a
time by
Mr. Home Tooke representing himfelf, and
mounting the table to speak, a general murmur
ran through the room, and it was sometime be
fore he could be heard. At length he was fuf
fered to begin. He said, when he was a younger
man, he flattered the women, but he disdained to
flatter men. He was utterly careless of the ap
plause of the company. He knew of better re
wards than their favor, and he should be happy
even in their disapprobation. He desired they
would in their resolution, mark the diftincftion
between this government and that of France.
They had to build a ship from the keel. We had
a ship with a found bottom, but which had only
gathered foine concretions, and wanted to be
docked.
Mr. Sheridan then shortly animadverted on
some paflages of what Mr. Tooke had said. He
should not depart iroin what he had said, that
the approbation of a great public body.com'pofed
not of party men, but of men of all parties altera
bled from one principle, was to him the hicrheft
reward for political services that he looked to
Mr. Tooke might prefer other rewards : he did
not wish to envy him his gratification, whatever
it might be. He certainly, in his resolution, did
not point at any difference in thetwo countries
but lie was free to confefs, that though there was
much room for improvement in the British go
vernment, he should never,in any situation, coun
tenance the introduction of anarchy on the one
hand, neither should he support tyranny under
the pi etext of avoiding anarchy on the otlie.
The resolution was then put to the fhevv of
hands, and carried unanimously.
Mr. Sheridan then gave as a toast
winV-r^f^ 3 ' 1^813 " 110156 ' which was drank
with great joy. «««»•
Mr 1 T' l ' ,C ° '">>"Cl,ai r from
" P (" a ° d «™<l without
612
" Ecfolvca, That the company feel equal fe.
tisfaiTtioii, that the people of England by ti?-
virtuous exertions ot their ancestors, haven t f
arduous a talk to perforin as those of France h
now had ; and that they have only to mai.S
and improve the Conftituyon which their tncef
tprs have tranfuiitted to them."
It vvas then moved and resolved, that the res
lutions be tranfmicted to the National Aflemhl°*
and be published in our newspapers.
The President jlien gave the following toasts •
12. Equal religious liberty to all mankind
1?. All equal representation to the people in
Parliament. .
14. The sacred rights of men, and may all
nations have wisdom to understand, and
to defend them.
15. May th? glorious example of France tea 1
other nations the value of the blessing, t 0 fa / 01
16. May the enemies of freedom be draWj
full length, and the gallows be the frame of th
pitflure.
17- May the glorious Revolution in France
provoke in Britons the emulation never m
excelled in liberty.
18. May our Representatives be honest and
our people free, so that Britain may nevtr'ftand
in need of another revolution.
The Earl of Stanhope informed the company
that the fragment of the Baftile on the table was
really genuine, and had been presented to the
company for that days solemnity by Mademoiselle
D'Eon.
The reft of the evening was fpenr in the high
est conviviality. We never witnefled a more ani".
niared, or a more rriumphanc display of enthu
fiafin in the cause of freedom. There was a very
large appearance of the true and genuine friends
of libei ty—the Whigs of England—the men who
were the firft to feel and establish the rights of
men. And wetruft that those of another descrip
tion, who aflifted in this meeting, will be caught
by the fervor of the day, t,o refpedi and cherish ac
home the invaluable blessing which they joined
011 Wednesday in commeinorating, on being ob
tained by others.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
wish the First C'afs of the Majjachufetts ftm-tnnualStall Lot
trry, which will commencedrawingm the RcprefcntUivu'Chamitr
in Bolton, 011 the Seventeenth of March next, or funcr. if the
Tickets (hall be disposed of. J ' C
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
2J,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
1:15,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, (übicft to j
dcdu£hon of twelve and an half percent, for the ufeof the Com.
monwealth.
Fru "- Dollars. Dollar,,
1 °' 10000 is 10000
2 3000 are 6000
3 2000 6000
6 1000 6009
10 500 5 000
3° 200 6000
80 108 800®
9° 50 4500
100 40 4000
120 £0 3600
20 3220
200 10 200®
7 5*5 8 60680
8388 Prizes. 125000
16612 Blanks.
25000.
0C? IICKETS may be bad of the several Managers, who will
pay the Priies on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Siore, Frtnklu's-HtiU,
Lourt-Stnct, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, i- Manager*
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Bojion, July 28, 8790.
NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
S C H E M -E.
1 PRIZE of £. 3000 £.3000
1 2000 20QQ
* 1000 *00Q
4 500 " '4666*
6 300 1800
12 aOO >400
40 ,oo 4«°®
80 5 o • 4090
200 20 4 000
33° 10 33°°
7 000 2 10s. 175 00
15324 blanks. ( 'J OOO Ticket., at 401 each £. 4 60o °
Subject to a dedu&ion of 15 per Cent.
THIS LOTTERY is for the purpose of raifwg the residue of
the sum, granted by an Ast of the Legislature of the Stateol New
\ ork, parted Bih of February, 1790, to defray the expences in
curred by the Corporation for repairing and enlarging the CITY-
I he drawing will commence on the Firjl Monday in January
ncxty or sooner if filled, of which timely notice will be §' ven *
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published at the end 0
the drawing ; and the prizes will be paid by the Managers.
Tickets are to be fold by the Subscribers, who are appointc
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburgh, Abraham Herrinc,
Peter T. Curtenius, John Pintard.
New-York, September 1, 1790.