PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATUkbAYS BV frV.,/, L
_ " F£ *W?, *«>■ 4 J > BROAD-SThEET, NEAR TIIE EXi.ii/INGE, NEW-YORK,
£No. 48, tf Vol. ll.]
COLLECTION LAW. Continued.
AJh u - That ,f any S° ods ' or rtierl
'°" 1 n U "" V ?W ]e ' < I, " U d; '™g'
4Unhg the voyage, or (hall not be accompanied with the oru-1.
Ml invoice of their cost, it (hall be lawful for the colleflor (and
upon the requrft of the party he is required) to appoint l onc
merchant, and t)jf owner or configure la appoint another, who
te.ngfwom or affirmed by the collector, well and truly „ ,p.
praise such goods, [hall aopr.ife or value them J.cordinelv mi
the dunes upon such -ooris ft all be eß,mated agree, fact
c£7,£rh ° r 7'" a t" ; And in rcf P ta 10 fudl da.-naged arti
rneafurp h W r a P5 C '^ C ut y> *»y number, weight or
£ lhc jv d VP™ I '"* certify what fheir judgment
XT? " fe 'hey*.ad no, beenfc dama.
fl« diff ~ . rC "" abatc,T,t - nt j n duty in proportion to
!•« !r In value. Provided, That ,f the Owner or owners
co, (ignce or confignces of such goods not accompanied with on'
cafe the r m i° IC VI ? all^ h " fc to wait the receipt thereof, in such
fK nt r lltakeimohi » Cuftodv th<: said goods,
?f,° rCaUr V hC famc t0 bc kt P [ wi ' th a " d
e care, at the expense and nfk of the party or parties, until the
a d invoice ffiall arrive, or until the fail) party or panics (hall
consent to the valuation thereof. 1
And be it further watted, That if any (hip or vefTcl from any fo
reign port or place, compelled by distress of weather or other
iiecemty, (hall put into sny port or place of the United States,
not being deftmed for the fame ; »nd if the matter or person hav
ng charge or coi/irtiand of such (Hip or veffet, together with the
ma cor peifon next in command, (hall within tWenry-four hours
■ a notarv nuhl ' make P ro « " •'><• usual form upon oath before
LT» rP ( i"! "'her person duly authorized, or before the
eolleQor of the diltrrft where the slid (hip or vefTcl still r<> ar
r" , y<mpowered '° ad H'»'fter the fame, ( tun
forth the cause and cireumftanccs of such difltefs or fleceffity, and
shall within for,y-e.ght hours after such arrival, ma ke report to
mher e (■? ?"> y f VrflU 8 " d h" cargo as in
b And >f'»ftrall be made Appear so the said coHrijL>. %
ly the certificate of the wardens of the port, or other
Bfually Charged With, and .ccullomed to a(fcert s ioingthecona,;iX
of (hips and velTcls arriving in distress, if any fuel, there be, or by
Ihc Certificate of atry two reputable merchants, to be nam fir
th:t purpu.'r by the said collector, if no fitch wardens or other
officers there be, I.hat there 14 a necessity for unlading the fjid (hip
or vefTcl, the said coHftior (hall grant a permit for that purpjfe,
and (ball appoint an infpeflor or infpeftors to overfce such unla
•iing. And aH goods so unladen (hall be stored under the di
rection of the said colltf&or ; who upon request of tjic matter or
other person having charge or command of such (hip or velTcl, or
of ihc owner thereof, (hall grant a licence to dispose of such part
of the he of ,1 periffiabie nature 'if any there be)
* n '' UZtu * > y u> ciefrrv* iTit rXpeiifes attending such 111tp
or velfcl, and her cargo : PrmideJ, That the duties thereupon be
Brit paid And the said goods, or the remainder thereof, may
• Iterwards bt reladert oh board the said (hip or vefTel, and the fatd
Imp or veflel may proceed with the fame to the place of her des
tination, free from any other charge than for the storing and fafe
keeping of the said goods.
And be it further evaded, That the ad valorem rates of duty up
«n goods ware, and merchmd ze at ihe place of importation,
inall be effimaled by adding twenty per cent, to the aflual coll
i r ,' 11 ""ported from the Cape of Good Hope, or Irom any
place beyond tht(fame ; ind ten per cent, on the aitual cod there
of it imported ftom any other place or country, exclusive of
charges. *
« ./ , ejt f urt her cnifled t That all foreign coins and currencies
a )cc '''^ la ted according to the following rates : Each pound
cr I ng oP Great-Britain, at four dollars and forty-four ccnts;
cac livre toumoisof Franct, at eighteen ceiirs and an half; c'ach
Wof.norgu.lder of the Umted Netherlands, at thirty-nine cents;
eac i mark banco of Hamburg, at thirty-three ccnts and one third;
r > C ' r 'lf c at on " hundred cents : each rial.of
of Spain, at ten cen(s ; each milree of Portugal, at one dol
lar and twenty-four ccnts ; each pound fterlingof Ireland, at four
dollars ten cents; each tale of China, at one dollar forty-eight
«ents ; each of India, at one ninety-four cents ;
each ruj>ce of Bent*a! f at fTfty-five cents and an half ; and all other
denomiriatibTiS' of rtoricy in value as near as may be to the said
fates.
And be itfutthfr cnAfliifi That all duties on floods, wares and
merchandize imported, lhall be paid or secured to be paid, be
fore a permit lhall be granted for landing the fame. And where
the amount thereof on goods imported in any snip or veflel t on
acCorinf of one person onlv*,' < of fevcraf perfonsj intly interest
ed, Ihah not exceed fifty dollars; the fame shall be immediately
paid; but whee the said amount lhall exceed fifty dollars, the
Time may, at of the proprietor or proprietors, con-
o» configneVs, be either immediately paid or fecurcd by
bond, with condition (o, the payment thereof if accruing upon
articles of the produce of the WelUlndies, in foul - monlns ; if
accruing on Madeira wines, in twelve months; if accruing upon
any other good's, wares or merchandize, other than teas imported
from China in fix months ; which bond at the like option of the
laid proprie'toror proprietors, consignee or configfhecs, dial] either
include one or more furetics, to the fsjtijfattion of the collector
of the diftn& where the said duties ftiall accrue, or lhall be ac
«bmpnnicd with n dr*pofir, in the custody of the said colic ft ->r, of
so much of the Did goods, as fhalf in his judgment be a fu fncient
fccurity for the amount of the duties for which such bond fhSIl
have been given, and the charge of the fafe keeping and falc of
the goods so deposited ; which deposit (hall and may be accepted
in lieu of the said furcty or furetics, and lhall be kept by the laid
collc&or, with due and reasonable care, at the etfpefifc and risk
of the party or parties oh whose account the f_ <e shall have been
made, until the sum in fuchbond shall have become due,
at which time if such sum lhall not be paid, so much of the said
deposited godds as may be neceffaryj lhall be fold at public sale,
and the proeerds thereof, after dcdu&in£the chjrges of keeping
and fair, shall be applied to the payment of such sum, rendering
the overplus and the rcfidue of the said gooels, if any there be, to
the person or persons by whom such deposit shall h.ive been made,
or to his, her or their rcprcf-ntativcs. Provided, That no perlon
■whose bond for the payment of duties is due and unfat: f .fied, shall
be allowed a future credit for duties, until such bond ihJl be
lully paid or discharged.
Provided aluays t andbe it'further enafled, That all teas imported
from China, may, at the option of the proprietor or consignee
thereof, be depofhed in the custody of the colle&or with whom
the fame lhall be entered, or the duties the eon secured by bond,
with ore or more furetie?, ?g the f«:isfa£lion ot tUe cslleftor, with
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2J , , 79 0.
c indition for the payment of such duties within twelve months ;
rof tepoGting such. teas, they (h,ll be kept at the charge
(k depoiiti ng the fame. And the coltcftor
a e tver such teas, or jirt thereaf, from time to tipie, to the
perlon or perlons dcpofiting the Tame, or to hts ortheir order, on
payment of the duties for such part a, may be so dflivered, and not
otherwise ; and tn cafe the whole of the duties (hall not be paid
wuhtn eighteen month, frOm the time of the entry made, it (hall
f 1 C f "j y ° 1 co 'l«ftor to fell at public ati&ion so much
of the said teas as (hall ie lufficictit tn pay the duties than due, to
geyicr with the chargcs of falc and f a < • krepin*, and to return the
overplus to the person orperfons who (hall have depofued such
teas, or hi-, her or tVir representatives; ai 1 for such teas as have
een imported from China in the prefedt year, the owner or con
ligtiee thereof (hall be entitled todepofu the fame, or to give bond,
payable in like manner; and under like regulations, Si are here
in beforedirefled for te.s which (hall hereafter be .mported, not
red to be °" hivc bcen alr " d y kcu-
And be it further cnafai. That the duties impofea by law on the
tonnage of anv ffitp or vessel, lhall be paid tQ the collector by the
malier or person having the |charge or command of such ihip or
hrf« ' r d3y 'r,'!T„ hi ' rf P ort <° said colleaor ; and
e ore such (hip or velTel (hall be permitted to clear out; the !C
---m ,h, 0 fK W f .?' P Vn ' 1 shall at :he of "try be lodged
in the office of the collector, „,d there remain until such clearance.
7c V ' C ' or a "eroptto leave any dif
trta of the un.ted States, wrtfuut paying the said duties, the mafler
1 person having the charge or command of the fame (hall forfeit
and pay five hundred dollars.
And ic itfurtlurcnaHti) Tfnt to ascertain the tonnage of any
I *h'p or^velfeI the surveyor, or such other person as (hall t, c ap-
P ( °,V r j y n! co,lc ®° r , ° f thc dlllrlft to the fame, (hall,
il the said (hipor telle, be double decked, take she Irti-th thereof
iroin the lor, part of the main (lem to thc „ftcr part of the (lern
port above the upper deck ; the breadth thereof at The broa Jell part
above the main wales, hair of which breadth (hall be accounted
he depth of such 1 vessel, and (hall then deduct t.om the len-th
three fifths of the breadth, multiply the remainder by the breadth,
and the proditft by the depth, and (hall divide this last product by
ninety-five, the quotient whereof (h. II be deemed the true contents
or tonnage of such , Aip or vessel. And if such fliip or veftcl be
ingle deckcd, the laid surveyor or other person (hall lake the
le..«h and breadth as above directed, in refpeft to a double deck
°/> J , ' <Jcdua lr ° m the f - id lcn S ,h th rec fifths Of
, Breadth, and taking the depth from the under fide of the deck
plank to the c,cling mi he hold, (hall multiply and divide a,afore
veil el* thc< l uoucnt be deemed the tonnage oi such fiiip or
Artilc itfurthtr ya9ed, That where any bond for the payment
of dnt.r, hall not be fatisfic-J on the , , ,t beeame due, the col
lector (liall forthwith cause a proferuliort to be commenced for
the recovery of the money thereon by a£b,m or suit at law, in
the proper court having cognieance thereof; and in all cales of
mWvency or where anyeftatein thc hands of executors or ad ni
nillrators lhall be inefficient to p, y all thc debts due from the
n' C ML r\ h i C / (1 <! rfuC t0 United States, on any such bond,
lhall be firft fatisfied. '
And h it further enabled. Tli.it if any roods, warts or merchan
dize p which entry (h,ll haw been made in the office of a collec
tor, shall not be invoiced according to the aftnal cost thereof at
the placc of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereup
on, or any put thereof, all fuel, goods, wares or merchandize, or
r thereof, to be recovered of theperfon making entry,
ffia be forfeited. And in every cafe in which the said colledor
shall fufpettthat any fucli goods.' wares or merchandize, are not
invoiced at a futn equal to that for which they have uluallv been
Md in the place or country from whence they were i npor'ted, it
be theduty of such colUrffcr to take the said goods, wares .„id
merchandize into his pofleffion, and retain the lame, with reafon
ablc care, at the risk and expense of the owner or owners, cond '-
nee or consignees thereof, until their value at the time and place of
importation (hall be ascertained by two reputable merchants, to
be chofcn and appointed as in the cafe of damaged goods, or
goods not accompanicd with an invoice ; and until the duties ari
sing accordingto such valuation shall he firft paid, or fecura; to
be paid as required by this ast in other cales of importation :
Provided, That in cafe of for the forfeiture aforefaid,
such appraifcment shall not be conftrucd to exclude other proof
upon the trial, of the actual and real coll of the said goods at the
said place of exportation.
And be it further enaJcd,ThiL it shall be lawlu! for the colleflor
or other otneer of the customs, after entry made of any goods,
wares or merchandize, on suspicion of fraud, to open and exa
mine in the presence of two or more reputable merchants, any
package or packages thereof; and if upon examination they shall
he found to agree with the entries, the officer making such seizure
shall cause the fame to be repacked, and delivered to the owner or
claimant forthwith : and the expense of such exemination shall
he paid by the said collator or other officer, and allowed in the
[ fettleinent of his accounts ; but if any of the packages so examined
| shall be found to differ in their contents from the entry, then the
goods, wares or merchandize contained in such package or packa
ges fliall be forfeited : Provided, That the said forfeiture (hall not
be incurred, if it ftiall be made appear to the fatisfa&ion of the col
lector and naval officer of the diftrift where the fame shall happen,
if there be a naval-officer, and if there be no naval officer, to the
fatisfaftioi. of the said or of the court in which a prose
cution for the forfeiture shall be had, that such difference proc- ed
cd from accident or miftals.e, and not from an intention to defraud
the revenue.
jjnd be it further enafted y That every collcftor, naval-officer and
purveyor, or other pcrfon specially appointed by either of them
for that phrpoie, shall have full power and authority to enter any
jfiiip "T veffcl in which they shall have reason to fufpefl any goods,
wares or merchandize fubj?6l to duty (hall be concealed; and
therein to fcarch for,feizeand secure any such goods,wares or mer
chandize. And if they shall have caufc to fufpeft a concealment
jthereof in any particular dw> l,ing-houfe, flore, building or other
place, they or either of them shall upon application on oath to any
Jujtice of the pcace, be entitled to a warrant to enter such house,
•store or other place (in the day time only) and there to search for
such goods, and il auy shall be found, to seize and Cecure the fame
for trial ; and all such goods, wares and merchandize, on which
khe duties shall not have V>cen paid or secured, shall be forfeited.
And be itfurther enabled, That all goods, wares and merchandize
which shall be seized by virtue of this a&, (half be put into and
remain in the custody of the collettor or such other person as he
shall appoint for that purpose, until fech proceedings shall be had
as by this ast are required, to afccrtain whether the Tame have been
605
io teited or not ; and it ihall be adjud ed fjhat, they arc /iy>t i- -
feited they shall he forthwith restored to the owner or own -rsi
claimant or claimants,thereof. And if any pcrfon or perforu i)». II
conceal or buy any goods, wares or merchandize, knowing them
to be liable to Icizure by thisaft, fqch person or pcrfons (hall, on
conviflion thereof, forfeit and pay a fuin double i } .\? value of the
jjoods so concealed or purchased.
And be it further enacted, That it ftiall be the duty of the fevc
ral officers ofthe rußomsto make seizure of, and secure any (hip
orvcflel, goods, wares or merchandise, which (hall beliableto
fctzu/e by virtue ol this a£t, as well without as within their rc
fpective diftrifts.
And be it further cnaflcd, That if any officer or other perfon,:xc
cuting or aiding and assisting in the fciture of goods, shall be su
rd or molested for any thing done in virtue of the powers given
by this ast, or by virtue of a warrant granted by anyjudze or iuf
tice pursuant to law, such officer or other oerfon may plead the
general iHue, and give thisaft and the special matter in evidence ;
and it in such suit the plaintiff be non-suited, or judgment pal#
againlt him, the defendant lhall recover double cost ; and in ac
tions, fuirs or information to be brought* where any seizure fliall
be made pursuant to this if the property be claimed by any
person, in every such cafe the onus probandi fliall be upon such
Claimant. And if any person (ball forcibly rcfift, prevent or im
pede .--ny officer of the cultoms or their deputies, or any person
allimng them in the execution of thejrduty, fgch perfo.i b of
fending fiiall for every offence be fined in a sum not excecdnz
four hundred dollars.
And be it further enabled. That every collcaor, naval-officer and
urveyor lhall within th:cj months after he enters upon the exe^ -
cut.on ot his office, give bond with one or More fulficient farc
|'«.to be approved of by the comptroller of the t.eafur.y of the
United Mates, and payable to the laid United States, w;th condi
tion for thetrue and faithful discharge of the duties of his office
according to law ; that is to fay : ThecolleSor of Philadelphia,
in the sum offixty thousand doll, rs : The collector of Ncw-York!
filty thoufanddollars: The co lector ot Bolton and CUarlrflown,
forty thoiilariu dollars : The collt-ftorj of Baltimore, and Charlcf
ton, thirty thousand dollars, each : The collector of Norfolk and
Porttmotna, fifteen thousand dollars: The collectors of Ports.
mouth in New-Hampllure, of Sakm and Beverly, Wilnji, -ton
in the State ot Delaware, Annapolis, Georgetown , n Maryland,
Bermuda-hundred and City-point, Alexandria, Wilmington,
Newbern a„a Edenton in the State of North-Carolina, Newport
and Providence in the Stateol Rliode-lfland and Providence Plan
tations ten thousand dollars each : The condors of Newbury-
Port, Gloucester, Marblchead, Plymouth, Nantucket, Portland
and Falmouth, New-London, New-Haven, Fairfield, Perth-Am,
boy, Wktown, Dumfries, Wadiington and Cambden. Ceorze
r° W j n l",? 01 Beaulort and Savannah, each five thou
sand dollar, • And all the other colirflors in the sum o' tw.
i loufand dollars each The naval-officers tor the ports ol 3oftor,
and Charleftown New-York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and
Charleston, ten thousand dollars each ; and all the other naval
officers in the sum of two thousand dollars each. The furvevor.
ot the ports of Botton and Cha.leltown, New-York, Philadelphia
Baltimore, and Charlelton, five thoufai.d dollars each ; and. all
other surveyors one thousand dollars cach. Which bonds fh 11
be filed in the office of the said comptroller, and be by him feve
/ b u CnCf, J ° f th,! U " Ucd Slat «- any
breach o the,conditionthereof. And as no prov.fion has been
heretofore fpeciallymade concerning the officers of the cultoms
who may have been heretofore appointed in a. 1 for the States of
North-Carolina, and Rhode-Ill,ind and Provide, -e Plantations •
the fa,d officers refpefttvcly (hall, within four months after the
paflingof t h.s ast, gtve bond with proper surety or furctie. id
conformity to the provilion aforcfaid. T$ be continued. '
TT; ,. . Treasury Department, Sept. 20, .j 7 q o .
TT .s hereby made known, that the following anangemcm |,a,
been adopted towards carrying into execution t he Ast, malt
ing provision tor the debt of the United State,., viz
Loan-Office Certificates, andthofeiffued by the Commission
ers for the adjustment of accounts in the several States will he re"
ccivable only at the Treasury and by the refpeflive
ol Loans within the States in which they were refpeft.vely issued
The Certificates the Register of the Treasury, by the "ay
riiß r"k~TT n^°nCr ° f Arm >' Acc °«n's, by the
Comm ffioners for the adjustment of the Accounts of the OMr,«
Mafler s, Commiffaiy's Hospital, Cloathing, and Marine Depalt
partments, Indents of Interest, and Bills ot Old Emission, will
be receivable indifcnminately at the Treasury and by the Com
ted^h" e " ° /'"'l ThC fituatlon °f 'he Checks has dicta,
ted this arrangement for the greater security ot the public aeanift
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and the details which
h " e k b«n adopted from the lame co„fiderati„ n lor the execution
0 bufuiefs are such, that it will H i v e facility anddifpatch if
applications from the Holders of Certificates of tie Register of
the Treasury and of the Paymaflcr General, and Commiflioner of
Army Accounts, and of the Commissioners of the five Depart
ments above mentioned, are made in the firft inftanee at the Trea.
fury ; and if applications from the Holders of Loan Office Certi
si ate, and Certificates ifTued by the Commissioners for the adiuft.
ment of Accounts in the refpeAve States, are made in likeZn
T T" SOfL r Oa,lS W " h ' n thcStat « >" which they
were slued. Transfers can afterwards be made to any Office thM
the Proprietors of these Certificates may desire.
Pr "" rs the several Statu are requejltd to inf.rtthis.
PnfM UANT fi toa efolVeor L aa ° f Con S rcfs of tothda*
»si / u 17 5°» rclat,v . c the deftru&ion of Loan-Office Cer
tificates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom if
■bvThe"fubl" P h ttlC m d i y °e Ja " U3ry 1 7 80 ' the houfc occupied
y the fublcnber in Market-Street, Philadelphia, took fire and
wa, coined, m which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the fa id
fire Therefore if any person, hath any objection why the said
Certificates should not be renewed, agreeable to the resolves of
m r make them before the expiration of three
months, from thr date hereof. rce
greyed,,, the hcfc of J oh n Hoik#
g on the day of January 1780.
tfarch 1; ' 6.36 1 Samuel Cooke, jun. New-York,
1 d '«°- do. 600
Dollars, 1200,.
No..
1636
1673
In tcftimony whereof I have fijned the prefer,. for pub*
lication. t, OT k
A«w-York, July a6//i, 1790,
jS>O
1
[Whole NO. X 52.]MR. FENNO,
[7« the Connecticut Journal, printed at Nev:haven,
there lately appeared an address "to the people of
Connellicut," under the signature ej Cyrus, on the
important fubjcll of EUftion—the foil ruing extract
containing general observations on a republican go
vernment, an' that vital principle offreedom, repre
sentation —appears to ute -worthy of republication.
Tonr'j, Z.~]
ON ELECTIONS.
AFTER all the minute speculations of the ini
nuteft politicians, we feein to reft in this im
portant truth, that popular security, in republics,
principally conlilts in a certain fair division and
balance in the branches of the government, and
the eftablilhinent of a pure and equal fyftein of
representation. When you have provided pro
per checks, that is, when you have so arranged
the capital parts of the machine, as that, while it
is acting in a right direction, they will move :n
perfect harmony, and when in a wrong direction,
will produce an immediate and mutual resistance ;
and when you have secured such a frequency and
freedom of popular election, as that the democra
tic branch, in the government fliall feel withfen
fibility the interests of their constituents on the
one hand, and their own responsibility on the
other ; you have Sxed the main pillars on which
public liberty mult reft. When you have done
this, you may go on to organize tne Tmaller and
dependant parts of the fyftein, multiply the ob
jects of its exercise, and accumulate its powers
without limitation.
Power cannot of icfelf, render a government
•langerous ; because danger generally arises from
irregular operations ; and power, so far from
producing irregular operations, is, in well con
ltructed machinery, the belt preservative against
them ; as weight, imposed upon a perfect arch,
but augments the solidity and security of the
ftrucfture. That the truth of my com pari Ton may
not be mistaken, I mull explain it further. In
the form of a well adjulled republic, there mull
be an interior principle of mutual refiflatice, de
signed efTentially for the security of the people :
Theftronger this check, the more perfect is this
security. I suppose that power has in the poli
tic.il, as in the physical machine, a tendency to
flrengcheu the reciprocal resistance of the parts,
and consequently to augment the security of all
that depends upon it. The security which power
adds to the government itfelf, is derived from
the solidity it gives to the whole, by confirming
the union of its parts : The security which it
gives to the people, arises from its overcoming
all irregular tendencies in the government. The
danger to liberty must spring either from the
irregular operations of the parts, or from the
united and direct operations of the whole go
vernment : Krom the firft of these the admirable
system of balances, eflential in all republics, is an
effectual preservative ; for thelaft we have a free
system of election, as a (till more efficacious and
more radical remedy. This is the 1110 ft irrefifta
ble power in a nation ; it acts with universal and
perpetual influence ; it is a fpirit,which pervades,
invigorates and purifies every part of govern
ment ; the spirit of political regeneration, which
infofeslife, health and beauty into the most de
formed and debilitated body : It is our final re
source in all our painful apprehenhons : It is our
sweetest solace, t.ie firm foundation of our hope,
a relief, ever ready, accompanying the diltempers
it is designed to cure. Let us cling to our right
of election as to the rock of our political fafety.
Our Constitution has provided a system of repre
sentation calculated on the truest principles of
liberty. So ample, that the interest, the feelings
and the wants of all parts of the community are
exprelled in the administration : So equal, that
every citizen, whatever may be his rank or for
tune, has his voice, and every state its jult propor
tion of influence, in the public measures : so fre
quently ren wed, that the representative cannot
lose for a moment the image of his dependence,
nor the conllitucnt the pride of his creative au
•hr#nty. It belongs to us to give activity and
energy to this beautiful theory, and to maintain in
fall vigor its inestimable principles.
The design with which I have undertaken to
address you, is to point out and urge the extreme
importance of your right of election. If some of
the remarks I have already made fliould appear
to be foreign to this purpose, I beg you to recol
lect, that contracting thebafis of our security to
a finall conipafs, neceflkrily increases the impor
tance of the parts which compose that basis. If
our resources are few, do we not embrace them
with proportionable ardor ? If there is no dan
ger in bellowing powers, is it not on the ground
of the all powerful influence of election, which,
by operating on the prime interefls and more
fleady paflions of our rulers, gives a salutary di
rection to the public measures > Indeed no politi
cal axiom appears to my mind more demonftrably
true, than that, with a perfect system of elective
representation, no power can possibly be danger
ous ; bjt that, without Inch a system, every pow
er, that can be conferred, is pregnant with dan
•' * Sg
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
PA his, JULY 13.
M TALMA, an atftor in the French Theatre,
. complained that the Rector of St. Sri/pice,
had refufed to publifli the banns of marriage for
him, alledging that Comedians aiv deprived by
law of the holy sacrament of matrimony.
Several members exprefled their surprize at
this perverse opposition in the Re.lor of St. Slll
pice, adding that it was cultomaiy to admit the
people of the Theatre to the sacrament of matri
mony, under the charter of musicians.
It was decreed—•
That the comnittees of the constitution, and
of ecclesiastical affairs, do take this into imme
diate consideration.
The address made to the President by a depu
tation of Americans, was much applauded.
" The force of truth is irrefiftable ; the cele
rity of its progress, beyond calculation—
" We have long believed that the nations of
the earth would wake out of their lethargy ; and
that men would claim their rights in a voice that
men would not be able to refill. We believed
that religion would be d ifrobed of its borrowed
terrors, and thatfaniuicifm and intolerance would
fly at the presence of reason.
" We have but one wish on the present occasion,
and that is to aflift at the august confederation,
and to swear, at the feet of the fame altar, to be
faithful to the nation, to the law, and to the
King, and to vow eternal friendfhip with the peo
pie of France."
The answer of M. Bonnmy, the President, was
not less applauded—
" It was in aiding you to be free, brave Ame
ricans, that the French became acquainted with
Liberty and loved her. The arm which broke
your fetters afunder,difdains to be fettered itfelf.
" But in this refpedl we are more happy than
you were. We have a Patriot King to affilt us in
the recovery of our liberties.
" Liberty cost you torrents of blood, you won
her by your courage. We are free by following
the ditftares of reason, the Throne of Liberty is
now established in the two worlds."
The address and answer were both ordered to
be printed.
LONDON, July 13
THERE are flill idle whispers about the King
of France being rescued, as it is called.
They are wretched politicians who believe that
the King ofFrance, with the History of England
before hiin, will fly from his throne to make it
more secure. He knows that in any country a
King is more easily fonnd than public liberty.
The trial by Jury is much applauded by all
Englifhinen, ami in conjunction with the liberty
of the Press, is justly fuppol'ed to be theftrongeft
pillar of the British Constitution. But when in
dividuals at e called to attend 011 the public ser
vice, it is truly astonishing what trifling excuses
are made. One wilhes to be exempted because
he has served in the army ; another because his
eltate is not fufficiently large ; a third because
he has only a copy hold ; and a fourth pretends
he is deaf or has got the gout.
The determination against the notorious old
Mother Hajfe! does honor to the Jury who tried
the cause, and it is hoped will operate as a prece
dent now eltablifhed by several trials, that a bond
or note given by a fednccd female to the mistress
ot a brothel is invalid and cannot be recovered
and that those unhappy females who have unfor
tunately fallen into the clutches of those pelts
to society, are not bound to pay for either board,
lodging, or clothing, furniihed evidently for the
pur pose of a proltitution, from the profits of
which those Ba-xds exac r t about nine-tenths of the
whole.
Mr. Winne, a quaker, a man of the firft re
fpertability, who has a considerable plantation in
Jamaica, in a letter to a gentleman at Birming
ham, declares, that he knows several plantations
on that island, where slaves are treated with a
due degree of kiudnefs, which not only keeps,
but increases the number of their slaves, without
ever purchasing—His own estate is one of these.
Ar,d by this mild and gentle manner of encou
raging the negroes to perform their work,he has
increased the produce ot his lands four fold. In
deed Mr. Winne fays, " I am acquainted with
the proprietor of a plantation, whose negroes
have doubled their number in eighteen years,
and three over, whilst in that period the planta
tion has greatly increased its produce. On the
other tiand, fays he, 1 know another plantation
where, in three years, the slaves have been di
minished seventy-two, which was more than a
third of their whole number, merely by acls of
feveriry and cruel treatments—Mr. Winne con
eludes his letter with observing, he is well con
vinced the abolition of the slave-trade would be
of the highest advantage to the planters, consi
dered only m a pecuniary point of view
Bella horrida bella !— at present rages in the
Carnatic. Earl Cornwallis mod certainly hasfent
a bold defiance to the tyrant Tippoo, whom it is
earnestly to be wilhed may now meet the fate
nis inlolenceand cruelty deserve.
606
REMARKS dN* TH2 ENGLISH LAKGOAcijr
NOTHING is more common in our courts, than
the ule o( the word evidence for vituefs Th
person who teftifies is called an evidence "and *
unfrequently by men of considerable eminence'
But it is equally common to use the word cviderc't
for tejlimonj, a person gives hir evidence. This con
fufion of terms is altogether inexcusable anion?
profeliional men ; for technical language ihould
always be corre<ft.
The person declaring is a witncfs ; what he de
clares, is his t-flimony - the effect of what lie de
clares, is evidence. Evidence is the effect of /.,
mony in producing conviction, or it is the proof
ariling out of testimony. The diftiii&ion will be
clearly obvious in thisconcife phrafe,fA f evidence
produced by the teflimony oj the viitnefs.'
The oath administered to witnetlcs in this State
runs thus— " you swear that the evidence you Ihall
give to this court, fliall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth." Here the
word evidence is very improper ; for how can a
man swear to his evidence! Or can a man fay
what effedt his declarations will huve on another i
uiind, in makinga thing evident. The oath ihocid
run thus, " you swear to declare to this court the
truth, the whole truth, &c." or, " you swear
that the teflimony you shall give to this court, &c."
Whatever carelessness may have done in introdu
cing such confufion of words into use, the dif
tinc r tions ought to be known and observed.
In anew country like America, it is of conse
quence that words should have one uniform mean
ing through the country. It is a misfortune that
the word Court has very different figniScations ia
different States. In Maflachufetts, and Connec
ticut, General Court is the conflitutional name of
the Legislature ; in Maryland and Virginia, Ge
neral Court is the constitutional name of the Su
preme Judicial Court. I bave known persons in.
converlation led into material errors by this dif.
ference. The v ord Court, traced back to anti
quity, is found to figuify the afleinblics or coun
cils of men, who, in ages of simplicity, had both
legislative and judicial powers ; as the county
courts or shire motes of the Saxons in England,
and the cortes of Spain. But it is to be regretted
that in this country, the word should have diftiiuS
and opposite figuifications. N.- W,
(From a Lonneflicut paper. /
IN COUNCIL, Sept. 21, 1790.
A LETTER to the Secretary of Council, from
sundry inhabitants of Huntingdon County,
taken prisoners by the lndia»»,~»uJ cariicJ «-
Detroit, being read,
Ordered, That the said letter be pulilifhed.
Extrafl jrom the Minutes, >
CHARLES BIDDLE, Secretary.
" WE, James Crefl'well, and Ann hi; wife,
two children—Walter Crefl'well, and Margaret
his wife ind one child—David Mears, and Eliza
beth his wife and three children ; and John
Evans, lately l efidents in the county of Hunting
don, in the state of Pennsylvania, do molt earn
estly request, that your honor will have the good
ness to makepubllic as soon as poflible, that we
were made prifonersonthe2 7thdayof June last,
within seven miles of Limestone Landing, on tie
Ohio River, by a party of Saganan Indians, eigh
teen in number, who ttripped us of all our good*
and effe<fts, tied us together by the necks, and
brought us on the 25a of the present month ot
July to Detroit, on our way to the Saganan \ il
lage, on Lake Huron. That Major Smith, ot
the sth regiment, commanded at that post, af
fenibled the said Indians and us their prisoners,
and after a talk of some length, the war Chiet
made a present of us all to the said commandant,
who instantly gave us our freedom, ordered us s
house to live in, with new bedding and cloath
ing forourfelves and fami lies, together with pre
villous, kettles, firing and every thing necellary
for a comfortable fubliftence, until he (hall have
an opportunity of conveying us fafely back to
some of the American polts.
" We have no view in desiring this to be made
public, except for the information of our relati
ons and friends and that of acknowledging to all
the world, our gratitude and fenfeof obligation
for the inestimable blessing of liberty and happi
ness we now enjoy, through the ani
humane disposition of his Britannic Majesty*
commandant at this post.
JAMES CRESSWELL,
WALTER CRESSWELL,
JOHN X EVAN's mark,
DAVID MEARS.
Detroit, 26th July, 1 790.
To the Secretary of the state ?
of Pennsylvania. 5
" Be pleased to notify also, that John Canada,
half-brother to James Creffwell, was taken by
the fame party and left at Glaze-Town, on the
Toway river, and that orders will soon
from hence to hare him brough: to Detroit also. .
PHILADELPHIA} StfT. 12.m
SUMMARY of EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE
by arrivals which Ujt LONDON t:u lajl oj JULY. '
ACongrefs is fitting in S;leGa, the result of whose deliberations
is to dccide on the continuance of the continental war, or
the future peace of Germany. Prussia, Auflria, Ruflia, Poland,
&c. are represented in this Congress.
The affairs of the rerolutionifts are said to be in a very unpro
mising way: BrufTel. is shut up, and no one fuffered to g<> in or
out, without a patfport ; the port of Oflend is also said to be shut.
TJn the 14th July, the day of the grand federative meeting of
France, 600 per Tons met at the Crown and Anchor tavern in Ton
don, to celebrate this glorious anniversary of French freedom.
At this meeting it was proposed to Lord Stanhope, that he
should follow the example of several of the French Nobility, by
iurrendering his title, and the rights and privileges ot the peerage.
This his Lordihip declined to do.
War now rages in the East-Indies. Lord Cornwallis, in con
fluence of Tippo Saib's treachery, has determined to attack that
Prince.
A battle has been fought between the Turks and Ruflhns in
Cuban, in which the latter were beaten : A number of prisoners,
several heads, and a large sack of ears were brought to ConiUnii
nople.
The Ruffian fleet has been defeated in such manner as renders
the Turks afcfolutc Mafic-. <>f the Mcditeiranean : The Ruffians
have however gained a recent advantage over the Turks, near the
Khine, a body of them being defeated by 0 n. Clairfelt.
Leopold appears determined to bring the Brabanters to terms
by force : He declaims every idea of treating with fubjcQs in re
bellion. The Protestants of Hungary have made a claim to equal
privileges with their fellow fubjefts : This demand it is feared
will not be complied with without opposition by the Catholics.
The celebration of the grand anniversary of French Freedom
was followed bv a fcrics of rejoicings in Paris, to the fufpenliun,
in a great measure, of all kinds of bufiuefs. '
The abolition of Titles of Nobility in Francc, has not been fol
lowed with the extinttion of Clerical Titles and Diftinftions :
Perhaps the National Assembly had the uufucccfsful innovations
on the Church made by the late Emperor of Germany in mind.
Thcfe titlesarc however moreabfurd and dangerous than any other
—scripture and common sense are certarnly against them.
In the Grand Federative ProceiTion of France, there was a body
of 150 Englifhmm ; they wore a ribbon with this inlcription,
Übi ibi Put) in.
The elcttor of Bavaria has refufed to give his vote in favor of
Leopold, King of Hungary, at the ensuing elc&ion of Emperor,
at Frankfort.
In ronfequenceofa leport that a battle had been fought between
the British troops and some ot the Nabobs of India, India Siock
fell?, per cent, the 24 July.
The Parisians, according to the Englifti papers, arc touch dis
pleased that the King did not advance to the AltAr, and take the
Civic Oath.
In a violent florin at the Cape of Good Hope on the 12 April
last, the frigate C.uaidian, Lieut. Riou's ship, w;»s beat to pieces,
and many other vessels were destroyed
The Englifti they fay have now 52 fail of the line in commiflion.
Great tumults prevail in the city of Lyons, in France :
tifm and aristocracy are no more ; but licentiousness prevails in
their room : The National Assembly are sedulously employed in
adopting measures for the restoration of good order.
The rendezvous of the diffe-. Nt corps of the National Confede
ration was at the Boulevards du Temple, from thence they weat
to join the National Assembly at the place of Louis XV : This
proceflion was a striking fight, but nothing was more effecting than
when the Deputies of Bearne arrived at the spot where Henry the
Great fell by the hand of a fanatic. They all flopped for a mo
ment in fil' nee and then paid to the memory of this Prince,
ji ' people—military honors while the loudeii
plaudits (hewed how every citizcn intercfted himfcif in the mov
ing scene.
One of the most striking ensigns exhibited in the Grand Feder
ative Proceflion of France, was inferibed in letters of "old
THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS. It was the firft in order
in the proceflion—and plainly evinced, that the people'of France
have perfectly ascertained to what they are indebted for the free
dom they now enjoy.
Commerce in Fiance, will now r~ar its long deprefled head ;
the academy of Paris offer a valuable prire for the beft'eompofi
tion, eitherfn prose or verse—on the origin, progress and dignity
of commerce. Thus this great and important fubjeft, so long
held in contempt by the French nobility and noblcfu - , will (hort
ly excite the emulation ot the fii ft characters in that count 1 y, and
add ftrcngth and energy to freedom.
The Hotel de Villr at Paris diftiibuted copper medals to
the Deputies of the Provinces, commemorative of the Grand Con
tederation.
A solemn funeral Oration, to the memory of Dr. Franklin, was
delivered in the Church of Kotre Dame, in Paris, at which the
National Aflembly were present.
The King of Pruflia has inteidiftcd all communication between
Silesia and the Auiliian Territories.
Very few Pat ifian families of the higher order were in the citv
at the time of celebrating the Confederation ; having previously
removed into the country on account of the vast coucourfe of peo
ple aflembled from all parts of the kingdom.
It is fuppolcd not left than five hundred thousand persons were
afTemblcd in the Champ de Mars ; and ahho the weather was un
pleasant and rainy, fatisfa&ion and mirth were pointed on every
countenance.
The Irish it ferms have got the {tort of the Englifli in common
sense, being the firft to determine that Truth is no Libr l»
Lord raised the firft Regiment of Light Dragoons
—this was in the year 1750 :He had the command to the day of
his death: This was the only Regiment in Britain which never
changed its Colonel.
A Ipirited Addrefstc the people of Ireland« from the citizens of
Dublin, on the fubje&s ot reprcfcntation,taxation, Handing armies,
&c. See. was publifhcd the firft of June last, and is now circulating
in that kingdom.
Nearly 200,000 people were employed in preparing the Champ
de Mars for the grand scene 011 the 14th July : Persons of all des
criptions afiifted. The King himfelt to encourage and animate
the people, wheeled away three barrows of gravel
There were in the grand Proceflion 100 infants, carried in their
mothers' arms, decorated with the national cockade.
In the Kmg's Amphitheatre the Queen had a chair her,
in which she was seated with the Dauphin on her knee : She was
mo H beautifully diefled : Her capdecorated with pearls—a pearl
necklace and earnings—No diamonds ! Her appearance was en
chanting.
The Kinj; was seated in a chair of State : He was superbly dres
sed : The Crown had been removed from the top of the chair—
and the Cap of Liberty substituted : The President of the Nation
al Aflembly fat in a chair, placed in a line w;:h the King's.
At five minutes after four, the King rose, and waiting ti J every
tiling was Client, read very audibly, and with great majesty of ex
pieflion the oath alligned him—as follow*, viz,
I the King of French men, swear to the nation to make use of
all the power that is delegated to me by the constitutional laws of
the Rate, in maintaining the couftitution, and causing the laws to
be put into execution.
As scon as he had read it, he, as the reft had done, extended his
arm, looked flcdfaftly at the altar and pronounced Je Icjure —
and immediately the fhoutl of nearly half a million of people—
the clattering of fifty thoulajid fworcit, the waving of one hundred
>nd forty three banners and cnfljns-and the difcl.ar.re of jn i m .
Drefslnd C °f Vi"?' f xcitcd f « lin S'which words cannot rx
prels, and of which the human mind unaided by a view of the
grand and glorious scene, can form no adequate conception
~„f e ladl,:s ("'to tl,«m it is remarked) mftead of wsarin*
those enormous ha.., caps, a „d f ca , h e rs , which intercept the vievJ
of those who are placed behind them, on this oc.-afion appeared
vv itti a neat gauze or cambi ic handerchief rolled ro.md thiar hair •
10 that nobody was incommoded by their headdrcls.
u" a r Ural !-' Vtly cl,araftcrofthe Fren ch, had excited some
apprehensions ot tumult on this occasion—but the prurient prccau
'n" S of Mag.ftrates, or, perhaps, the fatigue and wetting, the
aftorsand fpeaators had undergone during the day rendered eve
ry thing to very peaceable, that almofl everybody retired to rell
even betore their usual hour.
Many persons had tak-a their Hand on the ground by 10 o'clock
tne preceding evening.
On the day previous to the Gallic Fete Chamhetre a mod bloodv
asd wide "tended slaughter took place in every corner of France:
and at one mltant commenced the moll inhuman, cruel and gene
ral massacre of- -pigs, geese, turkus, (heep, and oxen—that ever
stained the pages of History !!
FROM THE NEW-YORK DAILY ADVERTISER.
The following EPIGRAM ivas written on the recent marriage of a cele
brated BROKER.
NOW Love's final iettlemint surely takes place,
And iNTERtjT is given in beauty and grace :
May their joys be well iiinoed at full six per cent,
And paid at the tieasuhv of peace and content.
Seftmbtr 2 \
BOSTON, September 18
By a veflel arrived at Marblehead, from Spain,
letters have been received by gentlemen in this
town, from their correspondents at Cadiz, dated
as late as July 20, 1790.—The following are ex
tracfted therefrom, viz.
" Cadiz, July &th.
" We Ihall be relieved from the state of sus
pense, in which we are, in the course of a few
as the armament is finifhed, and every
thjng appears to announce a Ipeedy declaration
of war with England.
" July 20, p. m.
" Our fleet is now under way.—The Almigh
ty prote&, and give it success."
efterday Edward I ail and "John Bailey % a black man,
who have been leverally convifcfced of burglary, were brought to
the bar; when his honor Chief-Juftice Sargent, after 4 few preli
minary obfeivations, which did great honor to his head and heart,
pronounced sentence of Death on both of them.
The court-houfc, on this occasion, was crowdcd with citizens
—attia&ed by the uncommon fight, of a fellow citizen, as Brown
once was, the head of a family, who until of late years, supported
an unblemished character for probity and industry, and who once
b*d fair to be a man of affluence—arraigned at the bar of public
justice, to receive sentence of death for anattrocious crime. While
commiseration call a gloom on every countenance, a solemn silence
indicated the im predion which each one received from the scene.
Brown appeared in much distress, and whilst the sentence was
delivering, funk down on the floor.
In noticing the manufaflures of our country, we must not omit
the Bcdticking manufa&ory, at Nantucket - which has produced
Ticking, that haj commanded approb and a quick sale, both
in France and England.
We hear from Hardwick, that on Saturday the 28th ult. a child,
about five or fix years of age, was bitten by a rattlesnake, and ex
pired the next morning.
MIDDLETOWN, September 18.
Yeftcrday fe'nmght a boy aged 10 years, living near the river
in this city, leap'd troin a garirt-window and fell 26 feet Ki the
ground, with very little injury to himfelf, only spraining hi« wrist
ar.d otherwise tiilly brufing himfelf.—The circumflances ol the
above were as follows, viz. The lad had the preceding day made
tail fomc logs to a wharf, and being abed in the garret and asleep,
about 10 o'clock in 1- j evening, drcamrO that the logs had gone
adrift, and that he dove from the wharf to prevent their going oil';
instead of which it appears he dove out at the window. The fa
mily being al fmed by his groaning immediately discovered him
on the ground—he appeared as if jufl awaking from a lound deep,
and could give no account of what had pal Ted except his dreaml
which he perfectly recollected.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 2 j.
Extra (I of a letter /rem London, dated in July.
" Whatever report may fay on the fubjefl of tne naval arma
ment of Britain, you may rely 011 it, that uie fleet equipping con
fids of but sixteen fail ol the line, and which to this moment are
by no means manned, notwithftandingeveryfexertion by impress;
even the much talked of popularity of a war with Spain, has not
prevented their f weeping the prisons, and yet the fleet mull remain
unmanned till thearrival of their Weft-India (hips.
" You will hear much of ten fail of Dutch liueof battle ships,
haying joined the Englilh ; but in this report there is no truth j
neither is it pofCble for Holland to arm ten ships at present, weie
they so inclined; five fail of the line they can and will man. Lord
Auklapd is at the Hague, urging a compliance with the treaty :
Amftcrdam, however, gives every opposition to his measures, and
despises the Prince of Orange, as the tool and creatureof Britain.
" You will be told of counter-revolutions in France, but to such
reports, pay not the least attention, as every idea of the fort is in
tirely abandoned. The King of Spain demanded of the Count
Florida Blanca, to name an officer to command a body of
troops to re-instate his brother of France. The Count asked per
miflion to refer his Majeft) to Count D'Aranda, who from his
personal and accurate knowledge of the situation of France, was
well qualified to head an army for this purpose. With wha- body
of troop^,demanded the Monarch,can you penetrate into the heart
of France ? I believe, Sire, replied the Count, at the head of fifty
thousand men the thing is pratticable ; but I beg leave to add. as
my opinion, that not a man of them would return, because the Na
tional Assembly have thirteen hundred thousand troops devoted
to them : The difficulty was deemed insurmountable, and every
idea on the fubjett has been since rejected.
" As to Spain, it : well known they havebeen arming, without
intermiflion, since the commotions in Hol!and, in J 787 ; an>)
were powerful enough, before Britain wasalarnvd, to have crip
pled the naval nerve of England, by intercepting the E-(l and
Weft-India fleets j but they want enterprize, and in cafe of war
will have caufeto lament omiting this blow.
" America is rising very rapidly in consequence ; and since the
prominent national features that (he displays by her new consti
tution, the powers of Europe heretofore unwilling to do her jus
tice, discover symptoms of more than refpeft. This Court, I
aver, will concede many points that they have heretofore obsti
nately contended for ; and Spam is already foliating your fricud
fhip, by having ordered the Governor of New Orleans not to in
terrupt you in a free navigation of the Miififlipi."
607
K T otwitbftandl»g the reports of an amicable fettlcinent of t!i
differences between England and Spain, the ship George, Caot.
Hunter, which arrived here on Tuelday last, from St. Ahdcro, m
Spain, atid which place he left the Bth of Aug. account of
a liot preTs for mui, and of the inolt atlive preparations for war at
that place.
Notwithstanding the accdtints from Spain of
the failing of their fleet on the 2o;ii July—it ap
pears by Capti Watson's report that the EngliUi
fleet was laying at Torbay the i7ih August ; and
intelligence by him allocates that Mr. Pitt had
informed the Lr>rd Mayor of London that all
differences between the two powers Were com
promifecl.
The Legislature of Maflachufetts met in Eoflon
the ijth inft. and in conference of the afl'timp
tion of the state debts by the United States, re
pealed their excise law—which is to expire the
fitft of next month : on the 18th thtj' adjourned
to the last Wednesday in January next. Previ
ous to the adjournment the House voted an ad
dress to the National Assembly 6f France, on
the glorious revolution in that Kingdom.
Alexander White, and Richard B. Lee, Kfqitirr., are
re-elctled Members of the House of Representatives of the United
States, for the S:ate of Virginia. It is laid Mr. Pace and Mr.
Parker are also re-ele&ed.
The President of the United States and his Lady, arrived at
Baltimore on Wednesday the Bth inft.—at which p!ace they were
received with such demonstrations of pleasure, as manifested th
rneft unfeigned affe&ion and veneration of the citizens for the
ILLUSTRIOUS TRAVELLERS
They lclt Baltimore the 10th, and arrived i.l Georgetown on Sa
turday the nth inft. The Members of the Patowmac company
rtf Alexandria and of Georgetown, met their illufl ious President
at Mr. John Suter's, and notwithstanding the fatigue of a lon<j
journey, the Prifidcnt proceeded to business iefpe£iiug the naviga
tion of the Potowmac; after which he fat for Mount Ver
non, and arrived there the lame day.
The fcho • ler Experiment,Capt. Smith, is arrived at Charlrf
ton, from St. Mary's river, having fafely landed there General Mc
Gillivray, and the other Chiefs of the Creek nation.
The late grand federative aflociatioii of t!ie
French Nation at Paris, was one of the moll in
teresting, solemn and dignified tranfatftions, ever
exhibited 011 the Theatre of this lower creation.
If evei the celestials bend with delight to view
the triumphs of reason, humanity and freedom,
it mu(t be 011 such an occasion.
To fee theßeprefentatives of a mighty Empire,
with thefovereign at their head, emerging from
the depths of slavery and darkness, to light, liber
tyand happiness, itnprelles feelings 011 every phi
lanthropic mind, too great for utterance.
Some modern innovations in government do
not merit the name of improvements— they are
only the old ltory over again, which was told a
thousand years a~o—and have not advanced man
kind one fltep higher in the scale of happiness—
the truth is—knowledge is the only foundation
ol liberty : The United States enjoy the great
ell advantages tor the acquisition of science of
any people 011 the globe—and therefore they en
joy superior degrees of freedom—for as Mr.
Adams observes, in his Defence of the American
Constitutions, " In a tree government, kno\Vlege
mull be general, and ought to be univerlal."
The antient republics are often referred to a s
models for modem imitation—but what fort of
Republicans were the Romans, who often dragged
men at their chariot wheels, and made miserable
slaves of innumerable multitudes of as good, if
not better men than themselves .'—And the oft
en celebrated Athenian Republicans, bad so lit.
tie idea of the true principles of liberty, that ten
thousand citizens of Athens only, owned four
hundred thousand Haves.
There •» a strange idea that prevails in the world, that wari ard
necefTary at the return of «fferent periods in the age of a nation s
and on this principle there are those whojuftify a pleafine antici
pation of this most capital of all misfortune# : It will however be
generally found on examination, that this insensibility to the mi
tcry ol our fprties, anfes from an unprincipled love of rain—for
what are wirnn general, but robber)- and murder on an extenCve
plan ( ■■ The two principal inducements to all the wars which
world in blood, have been avarice and ambition.
The hrft has given rife to predatory excursions, and emending the
limits of particular States and Kingdoms s The latter has led to
that species of var, which, while it diverted the attention of the
people flora contemplating their domestic misery, enabled the ty
rants of the eaith to rivet the chains of (Wry—and extend the
limits of their dcfpetifm : Hence war., however fuccefaful, and
however advantage :>us to individuals, are always a losing buGnefs
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW.YORK.
Ship George, Hunter, St- Andero, 42 days.
New-York, Watson, London.
—— Diligence, Howland, Lisbon 36
Brig Friendlhip, Townfend, Briflol, c 6
— -lively, Clark» do.
Packct Le Suffrein, M. Lg Grand, l'Orient 56
' N " W ' ' "rf'Ariftid an indeednt
it Li\ Amenca - iu l residents in different Statej ■ avi
w I Jit,r " ' or tv "fT tack othtr •' m " hr Ar 'M'
' " uncertain—iut the ' remarks ' signed N. W
wllbe continued from a Conned,cut paper as usual, unlets then inutility
'sjroved-or mote important/peculations fhoutd be offered as afuhjli._
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Jinal Settlements n/i a 12/4,
Indents j/i. « 7 y,.
/ State Securities Bf.
JtZZ in/or ?'f fy' '*? ' a J l P u ">"'J< of Final Settlements made h
*« Treajurer ojtkeUmted State,, was at-,i »/6 on the found. "
November, THE HOUSE
a Board "T ih> " : ~ A fixation fir
bufinJf t lngf, " g f ormerl J> occupied in tbttGrand French Confederac
THURSDAY, 14th JULY, 1790.
SUCH a magnificent aflociation of Freemen,
emancipated from the lhackles of del'potifm
■within so short a space of time is hithe.-to -inpar
ralleled in the annals of hiitory. It is a pheno
menon 011 which surrounding empires look with
admiration. It is afnbje(ft that deserves the most
minute attention—and with no Iniall degree of
latisfaftion, we feel ourselves happy in being the
firft that announced with authenticity, tlieconclu
lion of the day, without any of those horrid con
sequences which were apprehended by many, and
•wiihed for by feme
Excepting theburllingof a cannon, and the fall
of a tree, by which one man loft his life, we have
not heard of any c:lier accident. The idea of
freedom w„s general, and as the ultimate end
was happinels, common lenfe and proper pru
dence directed e\ery man to keep the peace, and
rejoice in the event.
On the 11th inft. thi following PROCLAMATION
was iffiied.
" THE KING having been informed of the
ineafures taken, as well by the Mayor of Paris,
as by the Committee of the Municipality and t'e
derative Afl'embJy of the foid city, to regulate the
preparation for the ceremony which is to take
place on the 14th, and willing to prevent all dif-r
iiculties which might give rile to any troubles or
interruptions, has thought proper to myiifeft by
the present Proclamation, the order which i'eeui
eth best tofceobl'erveJ, as well forthe placingthe
Members of the Confederation, as for their inarch
to the place of the ceremony. So that no obfta
clc njay a rise to trouble the order of the day, or
to derogQte from its majesty.
'' The general rendcavous of the different
tQirpS, which might compose the confederation,
is appointed to be at the Boulevards da Temple,
at fix in the morning.
" They are to march and enter the Champs de
Mars in the order pointed out in the table an
nexed to this Proclamation, which has been ap
proved of by hi* Majesty.
" No troops but those on guard are to be arm
ed with guns. No carriages can be Suffered to
follow those of his Majelfy, the Royal Family,
and their train. If any Deputy of the Confeder
ation, or any perfou invited there, fliould be in a
slate to be unaole to go on foot to the Champs de
Mars, they ihall receive from the Mayor of Paris
a ticket, permitting them the use of a carriage,
and a Chevalier d'Ordonnance to escort them to
the military school.
'• M. de la Fayette, Commander General of
the Parisian National Guard, already charged by
a decree of the National Aflembly, and faiKftioK
ed by his Majesty, with the care of the public
tranquility, fliall fulfill under the King's orders
the functions of Major General of the Confeder
ation—~nd in that quality the orders he (hall gi*e
fhnll be observed as the orders of liig Majesty him
felf.
" The King has, in like manner, nominated
M. Gouvion, Major General of the Parisian Guard,
Lieutenant General of the Confederation for ihe
day of ceremony.
" When all perfpns are placed, the blefling
the flags and colors fliall be proceeded to, and the
celebration of niafs.
" The King empowers the said M. de la Fay
ette to pronounce the Confederation Oatli, in the
name of all the Deputies of the National Guards,
and those of the troops ari'l Marines, according
to the forms decreed by the National Aflembly,
and accepted by his Majesty; and all the Depu
ties if the Confederation shall hold up their hands.
" Then the President of the National Aflembly
ill" 11 pronounce the Civic Oath for tlie Members
of the National Assembly ; and the King shall in
like manner pronounce the Oath, the form of
which was dcrreed by the National Aflembly, and
accepted by his Majesty.
" The fc Dcuvi lhall be then sung, and con
clude the ceremony ; after which the procellion
lhall return from de Mars, in the fame
order it came.
Data at Pari , the iitb of July, 1790.
(Signed) LOUIS.
(And lower "own)
Par Le Roi, Guignard.
According to the notice which had been iilued
by the Marquis de la Fayette, the whole body ol
National Confederation met on the Boulevards
between the gates of St. Martin and Sr. Antoine'
at fix o'clock in the morning, in order to form a
procefiion from thence to the Champs de Mars.
At nine o'clock the procession being formed it
inarched along the Boulevards, down the Kue'st.
Denis, and through the streets Feroirnerie, St.
Honore, Royale, the Place ofXouis Quinze,' the
Courue la Heine, and the Qaai, as far as the bridge
ofboats, and being there met by other bodies
the whole procellion then entered the field in the
following order.
PARIS.
PROCESSION.
A troop of Horse, with a standard, and fix truni-
One division of the music, coml fling of fevera'
hundred initruments.
A company of grenadiers.
The Electors of the city of Paris.
A company of volunteers.
The Assembly of the Representatives of the'
Commons.
The Military Committee.
A company of Chi.lleurs.
A band of drums.
The Prefideuts of the dilVicfts.
The Deputies of the Commons appointed to take
for them the Federal Oath.
The Sixty Adminiltrators of the Municipality,
with the City Guards.
Second division of Music.
A battalion of children carrying a standard,
with the words.—
" The Hopes of the Nation."
A detachment of the Colours of the National
Gunrd of Paris.
A battalion ofVeterans.
The Deputies of the fiaiiy-two chkf Departments
of the Nation in alphabetical order.
The Gr'tf.amvie ; or Grand Standard of France,
borne by the
Marifchals of Prance.
General Officers.
Officers of the Staff.
Subaltern Officers.
Commiflioncrs of War.
Invalids.
Lieutenants of the Marifchals of r ranee.
Deputies of Infantry.
Deputies of Cavalry.
Deputies of Huflars, Dragoons, r-tid Chadeurs.
General Officers and Deputies of the Marine, ac
cording to rank.
The Deputies of the forty-one last Departments
in alphabetical order.
A company of volunteer ChafTeurs.
A company of Cavalry, with a standard and
two trumpets.
Each different department was preceded hy a
banner carried by the oldest officer of each de
partment, on which were written these words ;
on one fide « The National Confede ration of Pa
ris on the 1 4 th July, 1790/' and on the other
lide " The Constitution."
Being arrived on the Place de Louis XV. the
Standard bearers moved to the right and left, in
order to receive the National Aflembly between
two lines. It was then eleven o'clock.
The whole was not closed until mid
day, when there was a grand salute of 100 can
non.
The Field of Mars represented an immense cir
cle, round which were placed very large amphi
theatres, containing about 400,000 fpeCtators.
1 he proccllion entered the field under a tri
umph;'! arch, oppofire to the bridge of boats, on
which were painted the different infiguia of war.
The following inferiptions were conspicuously
eng-aved near the entrance.
[All th:fe inferiptiont were in French toetry, -which
vie omit for the fake of brevity, only infer tin? the
tranjlations inprofeA
" The power of the King confilh in the free
dom of his people. Che/ifli the liberty you have
now obtained, and by preserving its purity, make
yourselves worthy its continuance.
" The rights of man have been inveloped by
daiknefs for ages part—but humanity at lalt
found out the recedes of misery, opened the
door, and let in the light of jurtice. We are
now no longer in dread of that subaltern tyran
ny, which has so long opprefled us under its ma
ny hundred forms—ive are free.'*
On the fide of the bridge of boats, these other in
lcuptions were very conspicuously written:
" Under our prelent defender, the poor shall
t n a °„^ ng Xh r T f ° r the ' hfc 'y of ' his inheri
tance. The strength of the Great—the power of
the wealthy shall not tear it from him."
" Sacret ! to £ ' le S reac work of the Constitution
stance" 571? * hni<hin S f one - Each circuni
ltance u propitious to our happhiefs , every
thing flatters our wishes. May the gentle breath
of peace diifipate the storm of adversity, arid may
the mind glow with the ineffable delight of ac
knowledged Freedom. a
" Our country now, and its laws are the sole
authority that can call us to arms ; and wc will
die in its defence,for we only live t ' Q prefeTveit "
In the middle of the Field of Mars was eretfi
whe « thc
°Ti ep ft
caldefigns on the fubjettoftheday™Fourgfand
608
pets
paintings were Lung-one on er.di f, otl( . f .
The firlt, represented the Genius bf *
pointing to the word Ccnjlitution, Avith u
of Plenty, holding two com Utopias. ' tlUl
The second painting described s ome 0 f • '
glorious defceiuiants of Fi-ance,hlovTingrh et
pet of Fame, and bearing this infcripiio n • " ll " ,
" Hold in your remembrance these tiiree f
crecl words, which are the guarantee of v onr /'
crees ;-Tbe Nation the Law, and the KW
I lie Nation is yourselves—the L;iw is y our
for it is your will-anu the King is th, Guardian
or the law." 11
Tlie third painting reprefonced the National
Deputies taking the civic oath, and the fW f J
deicribed the aits and sciences. with the f,>n 1
ingverfes underneath. llow
" Men are equal : It is their virtue, and not
their birth which diitinguilhes them. The h
ought toforin the basis of every state—in j ls
fence all men are equal." "
Myrrh and frankincenfe were burnt in J ari r e
urns about the altar : The form ©fit was round
the cieling painted of sky bl.ie, and was orna'
mented with large chandeliers. At the end o t>
was placed the fwerd of jultice.
< At the bottom of the Field of Mars, opposite to
the triunphal arrh, was an amphitheatre allotted
for his Majelty, the Royal Family, the Foreign
Mm liters, the National Aflembly, the Municipal
ity of Paris, and other persons of diSinction.
_ While the ProceHion was advancing, theN*.
tional Parisian Guard antecedent to its arrival
pe: formed diiFerent evolutions, in order to di
vert the attention of the fpertators, and to bear
up their fpiriis against the heavy and inccfcnr
rains. Dances were likewifc performed.
At half part twelve the hte Marquis de la Fay
cttc, who had been nominated Major General "of
the Confederation, entered i,U;' field under sge
neral discharge of all the artillery, artoaipunitd
by t lie beating ol drums and other martial .mafic.
The company had no (boner taken their feat V"-'
than the King ontercd under a very large effort
of the National Guard. On his entrance lie was
met by the Major General, and conduced to his
I hrone. Jhe I'refident of the National Aflein
bly fat on his right hand. His Majesty was ve
ry magnificently drefiedin a fuitofgold and lil
ver J ilfue. the Queen, M. Provcnce, and the
Dauphin were fented near him.
The Proceilion did not finally close till half
palt three o'clock.
i he King being seated, there was another gc-__
neral clifcharge of artillery, and BtStlffg STuie
drums. The grand mass did not begin till to
wards four o'clock. Theßilhop of Metz officia
ted as High Aim oner, and was aliifted by 60 other
Priests, nominated by the 60 diftridls of Paris.
Previous to the commencement of this sacred
ceremony, the Grand Standard of France—
o riflatnme) and the banners belonging to each
district were carried to the .Jtar, and their re
ceived a benedidtion. This was followed by an
other general discharge of artillery, and the
found of martial music.
i he mass being over, the 60 banners belong
ing to the districts of Paris, vrere placed so as to
form a line between the altar and the amphithea
tre where the King was seated.
A long delay took place in the cxpe&ation tfcl3
the King would advance to the altar and there
take the Civic oath. But his Majelly remained
on the throne. M. de la Fayette then gave the
signal for the National Representatives to come
forward and take tH<? Ontli. He was the firft per
fou who ascended the Altar, and on the found of
tfoe trumpet, he took the Civic Oath, inthename
ofhimfelf and all tlie National Guards. The
Oath is longer than that formerly taken, and is
as follows :
" WE SWEAR to be faithful to the Nation -
the Law, and the King—to maintain with all our
power, the Conftituiion decreed by the.Aflembiy,
;nd accepted by the King—to p/otetf the indivi
dual, and preserve his property according to law
—to fee that there be a free circulation of grain,
throughout the kingdom—to enforce with all oui
power the collection of the public revennes —
toremain united toeveryFrenchman by the bands
of brotherly love."
The Prelident of the) National Afiembly, in the
■ name of the Municipal Bodies, afterwards pro
nounced the fame form of Oath as abeve.
The King then took the Oath, preferred tor
his acceptance, from the throne. . .
At the fame moment, all the fpe<ftators, with
uplifted hands repeated, I SWEAR IT—and 1111 •
mediately there was one general shout of < ,vc
la An'iou—la Lei—et le Rot ! . ,
This acclamation being fabftded —the lignal
that the ceremony was over, made by t ie
waving of one >f the banners, and at half pa
five o'clock, the company began to retire.
The principal company were invited to a sea -
at the Castle of la Murttre, whose tables were
spread under the trees in those gardens. At nig >-
there was a general illumination.
[The preceding Account was received by the New-¥ork, C -
Waifon } irom London.J