PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 41, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANCE,NEW-YORK
CNo. 47, c/Vol. ll.j
COLLECTION LAW.——C
A ND in order to ascertain what articles ought to be exempted
' r °ni duty, as the fca stores of a fhi por vessel,
' "further trailed, Tiiat the mailer or person having the c harge
or command of such (hip or velTel, ihall particularly fpetify the
laid aiticlesin the report to be by him made as aforefaid, defi"-
n«mg them as the sea stores of Uie said Ihip or vtlfcl ; and in the
aid oath to he taken hy such mailer or other person, he shall de
clare that the articles so fpecined as sea stores are truly luch. and
Vere boni tide put on board the fa.d (hip or veffci (oi the use ofthe
officers, crew and passengers thereof, and were not brought and are
•lot intended by way of merchandize or for sale ; whereupon the
ar "cles shall be free font duty : Provided alwavj, That if it (hall
appear to the colle£lor to whom such report (hall be made, toge
ther with the naval-officer where there is one, or alone where there
is none, that the quantities of the laid articles so reported as sea
ltores arc excessive, it (hall be lawful for the said collcftor jointly
with the said naval-officer, or alone as the cafe may be, in his or
their discretion, to estimate the amount of the duty on such ex
cess j which shall be forthwith paid by the said mailer or ptrfon
nav'nethe command or charge of the said (hip or velM to the said
colleaor, on pain of forfeiting the value of such excess, And il
iny of the said articles (hall be landed for the purpose of being
io.d, or to be otherwifc used than as the fca stores of the (hip or
vclicl in which they were brought, all such as (hall be so landed
lhall be forfeited, and the matter or commander of such fhipor
vefTel being privy thereto, (ball moreover forfeit and pay treble
the value of the articles so lartdcd.
And also to ascertain what articles oiight to be exempted from
duty, as the cloathes, books, lioufhold furniture, tools or implr*
meutsofthe trade or piofeiliouof persons arriving within the Uui*
ted States.
Be itfurther enafled, That due entry thereof, as of other goods,
wares and merchandize, but separate and dillinft from of
ftny other goods, wares or merchandize imported from a foreign
port or place, Ihall be made with the colle&or of thediftrift in
•which the said articles are intended to be landed by the owner
thereof, his or her agent, who shall make oath before the laid col
le&or, according to the best of his or her knowledge or belief,
touching the perfonto whom the laid articles ihall belong, and
his calling or occupation, ihe arrival or cxpe&ed arrival of the said
pcrfon wuhin the United States, and that the fjid articles are tru
ly intended for the ule ot the said owner solely, or jointly with
his or her family as the cafe inay be, and are not dircfclly nor in
dire&ly impound or intended for l'ale ; which oath Ihall be in
writing, endorsed upon the said entry, and fubferibed by the par
ty making the fame. And in caTe the hid party Ihall be other
than the owner of the said articles, he or she ih \W give bond with
one or more furetirs to the fatisfa&ion ol the said collector, in a
sum equal to what would be the amount of the duties on the said
articles if imported fubjtft to dutv, with condition that in a cer
tain time therein to be lpeoified not exceeding one yoar, a hk.c
oath as above direclrd shall be made by tbe said owner, and if not
made before the said collector, shall be produced to him duly au
thenticated ; whenupon a permit Ihall and may be granted for
landing the said articles. And a copy of every such entry, and of
the oath endorsed thereupon, ihall be tranimiited tuthe Secrctat y
of the Treasury for his information.
And whereas by the letter of the a&j intituled, " An a£l for lay
ing a duty on goods, wares and merchandizes imported into the
United State*," articles of the growth or manufadure of the Uni
ted Slates exported to foreign countries and brought back to the
Uuitcd States, are fobjeft to duty on theii importationjnto thefaid
States. And whereas it was not the intention of Cougrefs that tlicy
lhould be so fubjeft to duty.
Be it therefore furthet enacted, That in every cafe in which a du
ty may have been heretofore paid on goods, wares or merchan
dizes of the growth or manufallurc ot the United States, exported
to a foreign country and brought back to the said states, the amount
thereof shall be repaid to the person or perfous by whom the fainc
(hall have been paid, or to his, her or their reprcfcritauve?, and
that in e\ ei y cafe in which such duty may have accrued, but may
not have been paid the fame be remitted, and that 110 such duty
fnall hereafter be demanded, provided that the regulations herein
after prescribed for ascertaining the identity of such goods, wares
or merchandize'be obfepved and complied wiih, and that as well
in refpeft to those her- lofore imported, as far as may be practica
ble, as to those hereafter to be tin ported.
And also to ascertain the identity of articles of the growth, pro
<kia or manufacture of the United States, which having been ex
ported to any foreign port or place, (hail be brought back ■to the
said States :
Be it further enabled, That report and entry thereof (hall be made
as in other cases of goods, ware:, and merchandize, imported from
a foreign port or place, and proof bv oath of the perfou or per
sons having knowledge oi the falls, (hall be made to the (atisfa&i
on of the coilcdor of the diftnft, wilh whom futh entry (hall be
jointly with the naval-officer, if there he a naval-oHiccr, or alone if
there be uo naval-dfticer, th«*t the said aitides had been exported
from the United States, as of their growth, piodudl or manutac
tiire, and of the time when, by whom, in what (hip or vetfe!, and
for what port or placc they were so exported ; and if the said col
lector (hall be other thau the colle&or of the diftritt from which
the said articles (hall have been exported, a ccrtificatcof the Jac
tcr fhaJl be pioduccd to the torincr, teHitying the exportation
I hereof in conformity to the proof aforc said ; whereupon a permit
shall and may be granted for landing the fame : Provided., that if
the said certificate cannot be immediately produced, and if the
proof-other wife required (hall be made, and it bond lhall be giv
en, with one or more furetics, to the fatisfallion oftlie cotleltor of
the diftrift within which the laid articles are intended to be land
ed, in a sum equal to what the duties would be on the said articles
if they were not of the growth, produlk, or manufacture ot the
United States ; with condition that the said certificate (hall be
produced within the term of four months, it (hall be lawful for
the said colleftoi 10 granr a permit for the landing of the said ar
ticles, in like manner as if the (aid certificate had been produced.
And be it further rnafled. That the oaths to be tak.n upon ma
k ing of any of the reports or entries aforcfaid, whether by ihe ma
tter or other person having the charge or command oi any (hip or
vcflel. or the owner or confrgnee of any goods, waics or merchan
dize, h»s or her factor or agent, shall be adminifUrcd by the col
hr&or or officer 10 whom report or entry shall be maae, and where
there shall be a nnval-othccr, in the preience ot such naval-officer,
who lhall attend for that purpose, and shall be reduced to writing,
end fha|l be fubferibed by the person adffnniftei ing the fame, and
hy the said naval-ofucer, if any shall be prefen:: And the said col
hllor, jointly with the said naval-officer, where there is a naval
-01 aIoMC wlnre there is none, lhall accotdmgto the bed of
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1790.
his or their judgment 01 information, make a giofs elliinate of the
amount ot the duties on the goods, wares or merchandize to
winch the entry ot any owner or consignee, his or her fattor or
agent shall relate, which eftimateffiall be endorsed upon such en
try, and ngned by the officer or officers making the fame. And
t .e amount of the said duties according to the laid estimate, ha
ving been firfl paid or secured, pursuant to the provisions of th.s
' ,he collcflor shall grant a'permit to land thegoods, wares,
or merchandize, whereof such rniry shall have been made, and
then and not otherwise, it (hall be lawful to land the laid goods.
- n be itjutther enabled, That no goads, wares or mcrchandiz#
brought in any (hip #r velfcl from any foreign port or place, (hall
be unladen or delivered from luch (hipoj velTel, within the Uni
ted State!, but in open d-y, that is to fay, between the nfing and
iMtiug ot the fun, except by fpccial licence from the -chief officer
o! l he port tor that purpose, nor at anytime without a permit from
the collector for such ultladmg or delivery; and if any goods
warts, or merchandize (hall be unladen or delivered from any
such ship or vessel, contrary to the directions afotefaid, or any of
tliem, the mailer or person haviug the command or char e ol such
ship or vessel, and every other person who shall knowingly be
concerned or aiding therein, or in removing, ftcring, or otherwise*
lecurmg the said. goods, wares or merchandize, shall foifeitand
pay the um of four hundred dollars for each offence ; arid shall
he difabicdlrom holding any officc of trust or profit under the
United States, for a term not exceeding seven years ; and it shall
be the duty of the collcftor ot the dulnft, to advert.fc the names
ol all such pcrfons in a newspaper, printed in the state in which
he rcfides, within twenty days after each refpedive convidion.
And all goods, wares or merchant!,ze, so unladen or delivered,
shall become forfeited, and may be frized by any of the officers of
the cultoms ; and where the value thereof, according to the high
en inaHket pricc of the fame, (hall amount to four hundred dollars,
the vessel, tackle, apparel and furniture, shall be fuhirft to like fei.
zure and forfeiture.
nd be it further enafltd. That no goods, or merchandize
brought in any (hip or vessel from any foreign port or place, re
quiring to be weighed or guaged iu oider to ascertain the duties
thereupon, (hall be removed from any or place upon which
the fame may be landed, or put, before the fame shall have been
weighed or guaged, by or under the direction of a proper officer
' ll l ' ,at purpose ; and if any such goods, wares or merchandize,
mall be removed'from such wharf or place, unless with consent
o the proper officer, before the f„me (hall have been so weighed
or guaged, the fame shall be Forfeited, and may be seized bv°anv
officer of the cuflom*. 1 7
be it further enaclcd, That all gfcds, wares or merchandize
of which en ry (hali have been made, without fpecification of par
ticulars, Oi 1 11 be conveyed to some ware-house or flore-houl'e, to
be th lignated by the collector in the parcels or packages contain
ing the l.une, under the care of foa:c y oper offietr, until tl»r par
tkulaiS thereof lha!i be examined and afcertj.nrd ; agreeabfy to j
which the duties thereupon (hall be finally ad jutted and fatisfied.
And in every cafe, it the amount of the cutu-s ettiinated, or fc
cuied to be paid, shall exceed or fall short of the true amount of
the duties on thegood*, wares or merchandize imported, as the
fame (hall be finally afcortained, the difference shall be made
good or allowed where there Hlall be an cxcefs by return of the
money, if paid, or credit on the bond which shall have been given
fur the fame, it not paid ; and where shall be a deficiency, by
payment of such deficiency to the said collector.
And be itfurther cnafled, That it (hall be lawful for the collector
of any diftrift at which any ship or vessel may arrive, and for the
surveyor of any port where any such (hip or vessel may be, to put
and keep on board such ship or vessel, while remaining within
such diftrift, or in going from one diftrift to another, one or more
infpeftor* to examine the cargo or contents of such ship or veirei,
and to fupcrintend the delivery thereof, or of so much thereof as
(hall be delivered withiu the United States; and to perform such
other duties according to law, as they (hall bediiefted by the laid
collector or fuiveyor to perform for the better securing the collec
tion of the duties : Provide J, That collectors only (hall have pow
er to put on board (hips or veffjfs, infpeftors to go from one dif
trift to another. And the Lid infpeftor or infpeftors shall make
known to the person having the charge or command of such (hip
or vessel the duties he or they is of are so to perform ; and (hall
fuffer no goods, wares or merchandize to be landed or unladen
from such ship or vessel without a proper permit for that purpose,
and (hall enter in a book to be by him or each of them kept, the'
name or names of the person or persons in whose behalf such per
mit was granted ; together with the particulars therein fpecified,
and the marks, numbers, kinds and descriptions of the refpeftive
packages which (hall be unladed pursuant thereto. And the wa
ges or compensation of such infpeftor or infpeftors in going from
one diftrift to another, (hall be defrayed by the matter or person
having the charge of the veflfel in which they rcfpcftively go.
And be it further cnaflcd, That it (hall be lawful for all collectors,
naval-officers, surveyors, infpeftors, and the officers of the re
venue cutters herein after mentioned, to goon board of (hips or
veflels in any part of the United States, or within tour leagues of
thecoaft thereof, if bound to the United States, whether in or out
of their refpeftive diitrifts, for the purposes ot demanding the
manifefts aforcfaid, and or examining and searching the said Ihips
or veflels : and ihc said officers refpeftively (hall have free access
to the cabin, and every other part of a ship or vessel : And if any
box, trunk, chest, cask, or other package, shall be found in the
cabin, ftceiage, or forecaftle of such (hip or vessel, or in any other
place separate from the residue of the cargo, it shall be the duty of
the said officer to take a particular account of every such box,
trunk, calk or package, and the maikr, if any there be, and a de
fci iption thereof; and if he (hall judge proper to put a seal or
lea Is on every such box, chest, trunk, cask or package ; and such
account and description lhall be by him forwarded to the collec
tor of the diftrift to which such (hip or velTel is bound : And it
upon her arrival at the port of her entry, the boxes, trunks, chests,
calks, or packages so defcribcd, or any of them, lhall be miffing,
or it the seals put thereon be broken, the matter or commander o
such (hip or vessel (hall forfeit and pay for every such box,- trunk,
chest, ca(k or package so miffing, or of which the seals shall be
broken, two hundred dollars : And it lhall also be lawful for the
infpeftors who may be put on board of any (hip or vessel, to se
cure after sunset in each evening, the hatches and other commu
nications with the hold of such (hip or vessel, with locks or other
proper faftenings, which fattenings (hall not be opened, broken
or removed, until the morning iollowing, or after the rifui" of
the fun, and in presence of the iufpeftor or infpeftors by whom
the fame (hall hav<* been affixed, except by fpccial licence from
the chief officer of the poit. And if the said locks or other faft
enings, or any of them, (hall be broken or removed during the
night, or before the said rising ® r the fun, or without the pfcfence
601
;no lain inljx£tor or infpettor.s, the mailer <*r person having t*>e
charge or command of such fliip or V«ffel, (hall forfeit and pay
the furr. of two hundred dollars.
And be it Jurther enabled, That when the delivery of goods,
wares or merchandize from on board of any such (hips or vessel at
any port (hall have been completed, the account! or entries which
.hull have been kept or made thereof by the officer or o'ftcers who
ihall have been charged with fupeiintending; the said deliveries,
%hall be reported to the collector ot the d.llntt, who, together
with tbe naval-officer, where there is one, or alone where there ifi
none, shall com pare tbe said accounts and entries with the entry
or entries which (hall have been made by the owner or owneis,
consignee or conduces, his, her or their fa6tor or And it
any difference shall appear, the lame (hall be noted by endorse
ment on such entry or entries, fpecifying the paiticulars thereof ;
and it no difference Ihall appear, it shall be noted by like en
ciorlement, that ti-e deliveries have coriefponded with the entry - 4
which eudor foment or memorandum shall in each cafe be fub
fenbrd by the officer or officers by whom such comparison ffiall
have been made, and by thp officer or officers under whose infpec*
Hon the said deliveries lhall have been execuud.
And be it further entitled. That if at the expiration of fifteen
working days after the time within which the report of the mas
ter or person having the charge or command of any ship or vcflclj
is required to be made to the collcftor of a diftrift a* aforelaid,
there (hall be found on board any goods, wares or merchandize,
other than shall have been reported for some other diflrift or a
loreign port or pldce, the said infpeftor or infpeftors shall tako
poffeffiori thereof, and delivrr the ("ante to the order of the collect
tor ot the diftrift, taking his receipt therefor, and giving a certi
ficate thereof to the matter or person having such charge or cora.
mand of such (hip or vessel, dclcribing the packages and their
marks and numbers. " And the said goods (hall be kept with du
and reasonable care at the charge and risk of the owner or owners
tor a term of nine months ; ami if within that time no claim be
made for the fame,{the said collector lhall procure an appraisement
th"reol by two or more reputable merchants to be certified under
their hands and to remain with him, and shall afterwards caufo
the said goods to be fold at p&b!ic auction, and rotaining the du
ties and chaiges thereon, (hall pay the overplus if any there be,
into the treasury of the United States, thereto remain for the use
ot the owner or owners, who fliall upon due proof of hi<, her or
their property, be entitled to receive the fame ; and the receipt or
certificate of the collector (hall exonerate the mailer or command
er from all claim ofthe owner. Provided, That where any entry
(hall have been duly made of such goods,th : fame (hall not be ap-'
praised ; and that where such goods arc of a perUhable nature,
they lhall be fold forthwith. Provided further, That the said limi
tation of fifteen days (hall not extend to (hips orveff Is laden with
fait or coal ; but it the said matter or owner of any such (hip or
vi (Tel requires longei tunc to discharge her cargo,the wages or con «
penfationof the infpeftor for every day's attendance e/teeding tha
said fifteeen days, shall be paid by the said matter or owner.
And if by rcafon of the delivery of a cargo in different diftrift*.
more than the said term of fifteen working days (hall in the whoTe
be lpent therein, the wage* or compensation ot the infpeftor or tn»
fpeftors who may be employed on board of any lhip or vessel, in
refpea to which (he said term may be so exceeded, lhall lor every
day of such cxcefs be paid by the laid mailer or owner.
And be it further enacted, That if any package whatever, which
lhall have been reported as alorefaid, shall be want and noc
found on board such (hip or vessel, or if the goods on board the
laid ship or vessel shall otherwise not agree with the report of the
matter or other p.-rfon having the charge or command of any such
(hip or vessel | in every such cafe lie (hall forfeit and pay the sum
ol five hundred dollars : Provided nevertke/efs, That if , t lhall |> c
made to appear to the fati.faftion of the collector, naval officer
and surveyor, or the major part ofihem, where thole officers are
cltabhlhcd at any port, or to the fatisfaftion of the coliettor alone
where either of the laid other officers is not ellablilh d, or in caf
ot trial lor the fnd penalty, to the fatisfafUon of the couit thai
no partul the cargo of such (hip or vessel has been unffiipped since
it was taken on board, except as (hall h ve been fpccificd in the
laid report, or that the said disagreement is by accident or mis
take ; in tuch cale the penalty alorefaid lhall not be infi cled
And be it further tna.Vd That the following allowances {hall
be made for the drafts and tare of the articles fubjcft to duty by
weight, that is to fay: For draught on any quantity of one hun
weight, or one hundred and twelve pounds, and under one
pound ; on any quantity above one, and not exceeding two hun
dred wc.ght, two pounds; on any quantity above two, a„d not
exceeding three hundied weight, three pounds ; on any quantity
above- three, and not exceeding ten hundred weight, four pounds ■
on any qnanttty above ten, and nut exceeding eighteen hundred"
weight, seven pounds ; on any quantity above eighteen hundred
weight, nine pounds : For tare, on every whole chcft of bohca
tea, seventy pounds ; on every half chest, thirty.fix pounds • oa
every quarter chelt, twenty pounds ; on every chcß of hyfoii or
other green tea, the gross weight of which (hall be seventy pound,
or upwards, twenty pounds ; on every bo* of other tea, not Icfs
than fifty or more than seventy pounds gross, eighteen pounds;
on all other boxes ot tea, according to the invoice thereof - ori
coffee in bags, two per cent, in bales, three per cent, in calks
twelve per cent.; on pepper in bales, five per cent. ca fc,
twelve percent. ; on sugars, other than loaf sugar, in casks, twelve
percent, in btjxes, fifteen percent. ; on all other goods, accord,
ing to the invoice thereof. Provided always, That the ori
ginal invoices Ai any of the said articles are produced, and the
tare or tares appear therein, it lhall be lawful, with the confer
or the importer or importers, consignee or conSgnees, tocftimattf
Lhc said tare or tares according to such invoice
And be it further enaQed, That there (hall bean allowance for
takage of two per cent, on the quantity which ihall appear by
the gtltge to be contained m any cafkofliquou fubj.fl to duty bf
{TO Bl CONTIHOID.)
The following incident lately occurred in one of the cylern Statet.
A French Gentleman, totally unacquainted with our lan 'iiaer.
f X ° eln S introduced to a circle of young ladies and gemTemcrt
fc/ VuTPI af ' erthe usual compliments had pa (Ted, h.
teJtcdh.mfelfbefide a beautiful young lady ; and, ben, n deprived
oftheiatistaft.onof converftng with her, his countenance how.
vc , ex.nened the fcntiinenti of his heart, he setting her hy the
hand lhe requeued h.m to be »fy , which he m.Lok for the
n'irth n (7 I.' bcga " kiir ' n S flcr - 'o the great
that thp 1 r W company The conference however was,
[Whole NO. I Si]THE TABLET.
No. CXLIV.
" It is fane/, not the reason of things, that mates
life so uneasy to us as we find it."
I CAN think of no rule that will determine,
whether the evil or the good we anticipate,be
molt likely to turn out differently from what we
expected. The imagination is equally apt to ex
aggerate in both cases. Excels of fear and anx
iety is not less common, or less foolilh, than the
contrary extremes of hope and complacency.
We are fomuch controled by fancy, and whirled
about by passion, that it is difficult to acquire an
habit, of viewing things according to their real
character, or of regulating our hopes and fears
by any rational standard. Though lam not of
the opinion, that disappointed hopes are a source
of so much pain, as to balance the pleasure result
ing from the indulgence of such hopes, I never
thelel's think that barely to escape the evils we
have dreaded is 110 compensation for having clie
rilhed needlefe, and anxious fears. We are, as
has bfcen before observed, alike liable to meet
with disappointment when we are swayed by fan
cy, either as to objects of good or evil. The im
pulses of hope are lo lively and conllant, that
though they are frequently fallacious, they still
return with frefli vigour and delight. So that up
011 the whole, we may reckon hope as a precious
source of felicity. Nor do I conceive it very de
trimental to happiness, to give wing to the ima
gination in looking for the enjoyment of objects
which we may never attain. The only reltric
tion in thiscafe, is that we do not luffer ourselves
to be so much elevated with alluring prospects,
as to neglect ordinary duties, and to despise ordi
nary occurrences. A sacred regard to support a
clear conscience/and a fair character, will reilrain
the pernicious effects of hope, and make it the
source of much delight, intermingled with little
inconvenience.
But it is far otlierwife with refpeA to fear.
This paifion, though implanted as a natural guard
or forewarner against the various hurtful inci
dents to which we are exposed, becomes a won
ftrous enemy to happiness, when we surrender it
to fancy. If there be any cale, in which reason
fhouldeminently afiunie a sway over the passions,
it is in moderating the excefles of a fearful, anx
ious disposition. 11l health, lots of friends, and
n tholifaud other misfortunes are apt to give a
glooiny caf. ro the mind, and force it into an ha
bit of cheriftiing imaginary evils. By this means,
a fixed melancholy ensues, and a difrelilh for the
innocent enjoyments of life. Wearethus depri
ved of those gratifications which providfcnce puts
in our way, and become the slaves of a servile pas
sion. In this of the fubjetft, we can perceive
the neceflity of examining the reason of things,
when fancy suggests any circumstance that excites
fearful apprehensions. It is true, that it may be
desirable, to have a right view of objects, when
hope is {tiuiulariug ns to acflion, but an error in
this cafe is far less pernicious than an exceJTive
and unreasonable degree of fear. For as evil is
as uncertain as good, it is more eligible to hope
too much of the one, than to fear too much of the
other.
NEW-YORK, September 2_>
r Ky Captain Service, who arrived on Sunday
from St. Peterfburgh, we learn, that a severe
engagement between the Rullian and Swediib
fleets took place off Wyburg the latter end of
June —That the former had taken and funk five
fail of tUe line and two frigates of the latter—
The King of Sweden it is said had a narrow ef
eapeYrom being taken—Captain Service mentions
that there was a rumour of this intelligence at
Cronrtandc before his departure, but when he
torched at Copenhagen he obtained the above
particulars of the evenr.
Ou Saturday lafl arrived here the ship Union,
Capt. Whitlock, in 53 days from Liverpool, which
place he left the 26th of July ; nothing decisive
relative to peace or war had at That time taken
plate,but every thing was in the greatelt prepara
tion. Some days before Capt. Whitlock failed an
Envoy had been sent off from the court of Great
Britain to Madrid, with positive orders to return
vith an explicit answer from the Spanifli mini,
ller, whether his court would accede to the de
mands of Great Britain or not, and that any fur
ther equivocation would be deemed a declarati
on of war. Upwards of twelve hundred leamen
had been imprefled at Liverpool about the mid
dle of July. Amongst these were a number of
Americans, who were, however, released upon
their captains producing the proper tellimonials
of theirxit izenfhip.
We lienr from Rhode-Jfland, that a valuable
addition of cnriofities has been made to the Mu
seum of the college at Providence, by Capt. Jo
seph Ingraham, of Boston, which he hadcolleift
ed at Nooika Sound, and at the .'.andwich
islands. The corporation of the town have vo
ted him rheir sincere thanks, and ordered their
fecrerary to address him on the fubjeci as soon as
pofiible. Avertifer.
PICTURE OP fcEW- YORK—AUGUST W
THE observation is not new,
Bat still tho ancicnt, not less tru?,
That where men cluster thick together,
(Like cackling geese in stormy weather)
Arnidft the din of news and noise,
Some wond'rous theme cach tongue employs 1
Some oae great fubjeft thro the town,
Runs all inferior topics down.
As for example look at London,
Great Britain's heir by debt is undone;
Then poor Mad Peg, with carving knife,
Aims at great George's—<o*l—or life — \
A Pig,* or Cat+, as is the fafhion,
Gains the attention of the nation ;
Some boxing-match, to which the Prince
Flies, his great courage to evince ;
Where fomcgieat CobUr maims a Weaver,
Or Butcher fights a iam'd Coal-heaver;
Where bones are broke, and joints are put out,
Where bruises kill, arid eyes are cut out ;
Such glorious themes fill English papers,
Cure English ladies of the vapours ;
Nay, ot such consequence are grown,
That faith they nearly fill our own ;
Aiendoza's battles, or fad work
'Bout duel fought by Duke of York,
Of how his Higfrnefs' curl was hit,
Or when George wore his Epaulet,
Conve/ inilru&ions to our youth,
And teach them (entiment and truth :
Thus in all places some small matter.
Is found for uuiTerfal chatter—
Aflumption, Residence, M'Gillivray,
Treaties, trainings of Artillery,
Coweta's, Cufiitahs, and Cho&aws,
Tufkabatchees, and other Crackjawy.
When Congress wifti'd to go away»
Thus said our cits—ol feem'd to fay,
44 Ungrateful men, and will ye go,
44 And can ye—dare ye —leave us so ?
44 After we've turn'd Old City Hall,
41 Into fam'd Mansion Federal;
44 After difmifling all our pavers,\
44 Worne smooth by trampling fwcepsand
14 Those venerably ancient stones,
That bore our great forefathers' bones }
' 4 That made the ploughman, wbeq at work,
44 Remember, he had Teen New-York,
44 And limping, tell his neighbour Clods,
A 44 That city ftrcetsa'n't pav'd with sods.
44 After new mod'ling all our matters,
44 And treating ye, as if our betters ;
44 And fee ! Tnc lofty fort is down,
44 The harmlejs guatdian of our town;
44 All open to the bay and seas,
44 T'invite—for you—the summer breeze;
44 And fee yon tow'ring pilearife,
44 A Babel ! —threatening the ikies ;
44 Rising—on! mod unapt all ufion,
44 I do not mean to our confufion :
44 And can ye so ungrateful be,
41 From such kind patriots e'er to flee ?
44 Where will the foft, sweet, southern manners,
44 So soon allure to pleafure'x banners ?
44 So soon convince theartlefs maid,
44 That love at best is but a trade ;
44 Beauty, a saleable commodity,
44 Marriage, a state aid fafhion'd oddity;
44 For which free joy t may be exchang'd,
44 In cafe affairs flioQld be
4; But otherwise a girl of merit,
44 Should manage matters with moreJpirit;
44 Taile uncontroul'd the joys of love,
* For ever ?—that is—till ye move.
44 Oh think, and think, and think again,
44 Our thick, deep, complicated pain ;
44 How much we wifli, and wifli, to keep ye,
44 Altho long speeches make us flcepy ;
44 Remember all our anxious toil,
4% The Philadclphians arts to foil ;
44 That we to keep ye—glad and willing,
44 Gave fix pence, hoping for a shilling.
Thus rav'd the wife ones ot our city,
Some feiote t'was fhwne; fomeJuid t'was pity ;
iien iuddenly this topic dies,
A..d all the rage is blank and prize '
No longer bluster, bounce and zounds,
But ev'ry thought—three thoujandpounds :
J rom National Allcmbly prancing,
They seek th' Aflembly Roonl for dancing :
No longer loiter, nod and slumber,
But watch the wheel, and catch the number ;
No longer, peeping thro the grates,
See Senators desert their feats,
And walking forth as if for air,
Strait to the anti-ioom repair, ||
View Trumbull's forms sublimely blaz^,
/ftid fee! the paint—with wondering gaze.
Jnftlyadinirethe glowing work,
A laftmg honor to New-York;
An honor to our corporation,
A future honor to our nation.
Weft Lottery! Blest thirst of gain !
That makes us Idle all sense oi pain :
While our grave citizens were watching,
And every rumour's rumour catching,
Of who is blank, and who is prize,
Mine is four pounds young Noddy cries
I'll not put up with it, not I,
But oft to Roofevelts'and buy
Four pounds ! Why tis'n't worth a thank—
D n it, I'd rather have a blank.
While thus all ranks were deep engag'd,
And various war with fortune Wag'd ;
Congref's perceiv'd the lucky minute,'
Slipt off—left us—to bear and grin it.
" Slipt off! but pray what did they do,
" By way of recornpence to you ?
" You ! who in pur« good natur'd pity,
" Granted them house-room in your city ;
" And gave them beef, and fifli, and mutton,
" And genteel Congrefs coats to put on ;
" Their horses, cows, and goats, found hay for,
«' And ev'ry thing—that they could pay for ?"
What did they do ? Why Sir, I'll tell,
They gave what we deferv'd full well—
1 hey met in form—good Heaven guard us,
Refolv d nem. con they would reward us ;
Voted for gieat Potowmac's banks,
And gave us—" What They gave us—thanks.
•Thetarred P'g.-—> Lumrdi'sCat. \ Stone, for bavint
PtV'p I'""" W V d ' aZL '" thc dancing AJfemf/'y
h Tr~\ ■ Th ' the Senate Chamber, where Mr.TruZ
(I 1 " y hjlonca! portraits of The Pufiient, and Governor
n ' New-York, Sept. iy t 1790.
602
REMARKS ON THE ENGLISH LANGOAGE.
DRi Franklin remarks, that in modern times,
notice and advocate are become verbs ; a man
advocated a certain meafnre ; 1 noticed his argti.
menrs. It is doubrlefs true that the life of these
words as vet ht is modern ; but 1 queltion the pro
priety of dilcarding this use of them, iri this I
(honld differ even from so refpetlable an autho*'
rity as Dr. Franklin; altho 1 entirely concur with
him that progress nfed as a verb, is both " abom
inable and aukward." Let us carefully attend
to the idi6mi of our language, as well as to the
harmony of its confirmation.
It is observable that multitudes of our verbs,
perhaps one half of them that may be properly
called English, are mere nouns, used in the form
ot verbs. This is the cafe with love, fear, hope,
Jorm, fafbion, pen, interefl, provnf-, &c. which by
the prefix Jo, or the affixing the terminations of
verbs, become real verbs ; as to love, he /oveth,Hic.
It is evident to any person who looks into old
English authors, or examines the true ftrmture
of our language, that this was the original me
thod of forming our verbs ; it may therefore be
considered as the genius of onr language. When
ever therefore modern nouns or new words be
gin to be used as verbs, we have only to coufider
whether by afTuming a new form, or taking the
personal terminations of verbs, they do not be
come harsh, unharmonious, or of difficult accent
in pronunciation. If they donot, 1 feenoration
al objection to their use as verbs. The words
notice and advocate are not liable to this objection.
They are, in mofl vaiiations, of easy pronuncia
tion ; and as they abridge the number of words
necellary to convey certain ideas, I fiiould, with
deference to abler judges, suppose the use of them
as verbs, proper and admillible. The lame can
not be said of progress ; for to make it a verb it
would be neceflary to change the accent to the
lalt syllable, and even then it would be a harrti
and aukward word. The fame objection lies a
gainst the use of dijfculted, a word that cannot be
pronounced, without •violence to the organs.
The Doctor's remark on the use of opposed is
very just. For a man to fay "he is opposed to a
mcafure" is neither English nor sense. He may
oppose a measure and he opposed by another man ;
but not opposed to a meaOire ; tor this last pnffive
sense, fuppofesan agent which oppofei him to the
measure ; whereas the ast of oppolition, is limited
to the person, which neitter sense lhould not be
exprefied in the palfive form.
I am not a little surprised at the revival of the
word flricken, after being disused for centuries.
It may be fairly said that the word does not be
long to modern English, The participle offtrike
is jiruck ; the word flricken being used in one
phrase only in the vulgar translation ofthebible,
" flricken in years," and this phrase, as well as
the word, flricken, is wholly obsolete. 1 should as
soon have expected to fee the words wit and
trowed' revived in our national legiflavure, as flrick
en. For the honor of American Belles Lettres,
I hope the word may be permitted to reft in obli
vion. If Lowth's authority ihould be produced
against me, I would just observe, that he gives
Jlricken as an old participle of Jlriie, and Co he
does Jlrucken ; but where are the words used !—
Words are like leaves octrees, alwayscbanrhi*,
as Horace remarks ; but -when a word has
bs ufid by a nation, it no longer belongs to the but*
guage of that nation ; and thccompiler qf
mar has no right to fay it does. This is bdt of>4
of a j*reat number of egregious efrors* which we
find in Lowth's Introduiftion, a work which tea
done some good and some hurt. Evendn EwHW
authority we may as well use ftrucken a» firfekfr,
but neither of them belongs to the present SajWk
language. , N. W. •"
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED ST4TIS.
REMARKS OM THE ENGLISH WRITERS.
MR: FINS'O t
I WAS much pleased with the " remarks o*
the Englilh Language," and hope they will
be duly attended to ; 1 am determined to puofic
by them, being conscious of their being applica
ble to myfelf. The New-England people arc
not the only persons who might be defervedl*
laughed at tor such blunders—for their foutliern
brethren are not wholly free front them. That
attachment to ancient customs Ihould takeftrong
hold of the illiterate, and thereby prevent the
adoption of improvements in literature, or ufe
ful arts, tho it must pain every benevolent mind,
yet it is not surprising. But when we behold
those on whom the rays of jfcience have fallen,
whose understandings are expanded by cultiva
tion, and who consequently ought to be guided
by views of public utility—l fay, when we be
hold such persons acting a similar part,it not only
gives pain, bat must chagrin every philanthro
pist. 1 hefe refletflions have repeatedly occured
to me, when I beheld Englifli writers larding
their labors with fcrapsfrom other languages,by
way of embeHifhment—l think this practice, (so
justly branded with the epithet ofpedantry) ca" s
equally loud for ledrefs, with the blunders com
fliijed by common people in fpeaking —and is
/ xfar from being proper as " n'er a one by
which (tho I mean not to juftify it) the main pur
pose of language is anGivered—but the faults of
■which the learned are guilty, marks not, and
therefore cannot convey ideas to the majority of
readers. Sometimes a few Latin or French
"words are inserted in a sentence, and the connec
tion isfuch that the generality of readers would
be equally edified, if the space was filled with
Egypt' 3" hieroglyphics. lam convinced there
are many beautiful sentiments, and ufeful pre
cepts in the ancient writers, and among 110-
derns, not of our own language, that would be
difficult to tranllate in futh manner as to equal
the original in simplicity and precifiori ; I wo'uld
however suggest the propriety of inserting the
meaning in the body of the difcourfe—tho I
Ihould have no objection to have the original
given by way of notes, for the exquilite enter
tainment of linguists. ARISTIDES.
PARIS, June 10.
THE King will visit Paris only on Sunday's
the reft of the week he will sojourn at St.
Cloud or hunt at Rambouillet.
Our graver citizens do not approve of these
movements. To reside ac St. Cloud was a step
too far, in their opinions, but to haunt at Rain
bouillet is terrifying.
But do you not oßferve, the more temperate
Patriots ask them, do you not obserVe with what
warmth and zeal bis Majetty elpoufes the new
conftitntion ?
Yes, they reply ; and we also recoiled! the fa
vourite maxim of Lewis XI Vth. he who knows
not how to dilfemble is not fit to reign.
A deputation of twenty four members waited
on the King to thank him for his late proclama
tion, and to " express" their " unutterable" joy,
transports.and affetftion at his Majelty's goodness
" in thus inviting" the French to liberty and
happiness."
LONDON, July i.
Ext rati of a letter from Philadelphia, April 20,
" Dr. Franklin lived and died an ornament to
the Philosophic and literary world; the press
has already produced l'ome anecdotes (hitherto
unpublished) of this veteran and reverend sage ;
it is said his ftoie of MS papers, memorandums,
and correfpondatory letters will afford a valt
scope for literary publication upon Philosophy,
Mathematics, legiflativeand circuitous Politicks,
prior to, and during the late war. His cprref
jpoadence seems to have been with men of the
firft rate abilities and genius, and not confined to
any part of the globe. He found means to get
communications ni the firit authority even fiibm
Asia as well as Africa, and the principal places
in Spaniih and Portuguese America. It is said
his valuable collection is not a little added to by
a series of letters written to hiin when at Paris,
between the years 1775 and 1753, in a flrile fimi-
Jar to that of the Jewilh Spy, by a Mr. D s,
(who was employed in England during that time
as agent for America, and is Ancegone to India)
and are fraught with much political as well as
commercial knowledge,defcribing in a particular
manner the manufa&ures, and giving characters
and anecdotes of the leading men of Grcat-Eri
tain, &c."
On .Saturday arrived here Mr. Hallett and Mr.
Hayward, two of the officers of the Bounty arm
ed (hip, under the command of Lieut. Bligh,
who were put on board an open boat in th_* inidft
of the Pacific ocean by a mutinous crew, and left
"to the mercy of the seas. 7 hey relate that molt
of the hands in the boat that survived to reach
Batavia, were so exhausted that it was feared na
ture would never be recruitedin them. Four of
the unfortunate fufferers are dead, and all the
relt left in a very languishing state, and unable to
take their paflage to Europe, except two feainen
who returned with the above gentlemen from
Batavia, in a Dutch ship. Tliefe survivors men
tion with astonishment their preservation after
the ship quitted them ; left alone in themidft of
a raging ocean, in a small open boat that was eve
ry moment liable to be filled with water and go
down under the.m. Their only chance (being
then in a ftreng e«ftern trade wind) was to fleer
W. N. W. directly before the sea and wind, as
they would inltantly have foundered had they
attempted any other course. Having consider
ably upwards of 4000 miles before them till they
could expetft to fall in with any known land in
the Kaft Indies, despair (they fay) would have
taken full pofleffion of their minds had it not
been for the hope of falling in with some of the
unknown islands of the Western ocean. They
were not disappointed in this expectation, hav
ing at different times discovered several small
islands in that immeiife expanse of water, but all
of them inaccessible, owing to the natural rocki
riefs of the shores, and the prodigious furf that
broke upon them in every direction ; so that this
prospect only added to their misery, in present
ing them with the fight of herbage and cocoa nnt
trees in abundance, the fruit of which they could
yiiot enjoy ; at a time too when they were almost
penfhii>g for want of the least drop of inoilture,
excepting tliat which the ocean, thetr own urine,
or a transient lhower fapplied to thetn. Upon
one ofthefe islands they discovered savages, who
came down upon the rocks and seemed to coin
miferate their condition as they pafled by ; but
from the appearance of the- illand, which was
very finail and rugged, and,'£s Far as they could
fee, fuiVounded with broken reefs, these Indians
had 110 kind of embarkation, and probably till
that day had no idea that there were any hiAnan
beings in the universe except themselves.
July 17.
I eace alone can secure and maintain to the
trench nation that freedom of constitution they
have so long and ardently fough't after ; war
would divert the attention of the people, give a
large system of patronage in the hands of the
Kinrand his minifteis, and perhaps finally over
turn that beautiful edifice of liberty which the
Ailembly has alinolt completed. Hostilities would
also bring about the evil which has been so long
apprehended, nor could the entire pofleilion of
the Church property prevent the much dreaded
calamities.
PORTSMOUTH 'England) July ir
The exertions in the i<ock-yard are beyond all
belief great, and never before equalled ; and it
is a happy circumstance for this country, that
our naval arsenals contain at this moment stores
of every description in fufticient quantity tor se
ven year's war ; without requiring theafliftance
of a single rope yarn. Yeiterday no less than
fifty fine feainen came in a body from London,
at their own expence, to enter on board the (hips
of war. The poor devils begin to think it as well
to enter voluntarily aj not, it being next to im
poflible for them to pursue their profeffion in
merchantmen and avoid the press-gangs and
armed tenders, who are continually in quest of
them, and ready to snap them up the moment
they come upon foundings."
LITCHFIELD (Com fiicut) .Augiift 50.
Last week, before the Superior Court, now fit
ting in this town, Nathaniel Walker, Thomas
Johnson and Eliphalet Worthington, were con
victed of burglary in breaking the dwelling
house of Obadiah Wheeler of Soutlibury, in the
night season, with their faces blacked, abusing
the laid Wheeler, by knocking him down with
large clubs ; but no property was taken. Their
sentence is, to be confined to Newgate for life,
and there to be kept to hard labor. We are in
formed that Newgate prifo.i will be speedily rea
dy for their reception.
NEW-LONDON 1 , September JO.
We hear, that 011 Tuesday and Wednesday of
last week there was a collection of fevera] hun
dred people on Preston plain, when the noted
hoi le Recovery, owned by Pool, ran against the
finarteft horses that were brought on the ground
and beat them with the greatcft ease, and with
great odds in weight.
Married at Plainfield, Mr. Hezeki ah Spal
ding, a bachelor of a large fortune, aged 68, to
the amiable Miss Mary Williams, aged 22.
GEORGE-TOWN, September 11
Extract of a letter from a eentlsman at Na/hvtlle, to
• - • ■ r.i- j . j n ,J_ _ '
-- -J ------ J
the printers of this paper, dated July 27.
"Major Doughty of the federal ariny, with 1
detachment of the troops commanded by Gene
ral Harinar, is about erecting a fort at the moutl
of the Tennaflee on the Ohio, and is aflifted by s
number of Chickafaw warriors. This meafun
will render the navigation of Cumberland livei
much fafer ; and if another fort was eltablifhei
on the Tennaflee, at the mouth of Duck-River,
the diftaii.ee no: being over sixty miles from this
place, it would be of great advantage to families
moving to this country from the southern states,
as they could go with their waggons to the mouth
of French-broad, and from thence in flats to the
mouth of Duck-River in four or five days."
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SHOE STRINGS.
JN ancient times when firing, in {hoes were worn,
Your beaux cfprits turn'd up their iiolif in (corn ;
And wtsof Britain hui I'd the (hafuof satire,
To ridicule the [}ioe-ftring legislator.—
But vanquiffi'd by this brave, this ffioe-ftring foe—
And all their tow'ring scheme, of pride laid low,
Good humour'd grown, they take from us the fafliion,
And fhoe-ilrings now adorn the Britilh nation.
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 22.
On Tuesday, the 14th Augnft, there was a vio
lent hurricane at the Island of Tobago, which
did great damage ; among many other veflels
cTrove onshore, are the brig Olive Branch, Capt.
Brown of Portsmouth, and (loop Dispatch, Capt.
Wyatt, of Bofton—lt is feared none of thevellels
will ever be got off.
As we can get nothing decisive refpe<fting peace
>r war from Great Britain by accounts as late ai
26 July—and tbe intelligence from Spain, from
various quarters wears a pacific afpecft—we may
pretty fafely conclude that those two Nations will
not cut each others throats at present, for a few
603
acres of moon/Uine at Nootjta Sound ; —this ide*
is strengthened when we refle<ft that the feafoa
is too far advanced for extenlive operations ei
ther by sea or land.
By accounts received by ihe L'velv* from Bnflol, we are in
formed, thai the Grand Vecjt rative Meeting ot the Fiench nation,
was held at Paris on the July, and paiTid off with gieat eclat.
The Right Hon. Charfes Fox, accompanied The Duke of Orleans
from England to Paris, and was received there with the higheffc
marks of honor and refpc£fc.
The fubjetft of elections now engages the at
tention of the citizens of the United States in va
rious parti of the union. In Pennsylvania their
present Governor, Thomas MifHin, Ei'q ; and tho
Governor of the western territory, Arthur Sr.
Clair, Esq. are candidates fort lie fii fl office under
their new conflitution :—Thefe gentlemen are
openly, and fairly proposed to their countrymen,
as persons duly qualified to discharge the duties
of that high and important station ; —they both
very justly rank high in the esteem of their fej.
low citizens—having been distinguished patriots
in " the times that tried mens fouls.
Bribery and corruption are said to destroy the
freedom of elections in Great Britain :—ln this
country a party spirit has frequently the fame in.
auspicious efFed:. Electors adopt particular po
litical creeds—and make thetn the standard of me
rit j—this is easily perceived by an artful candi
date—and to be a democratic, a federalift, or a
republican in appearance, is a fubflitute for eve
ry other eilential requisite—and tliux|lionelt, con
hftent, inflexible Patriots are often neglected—
while those who poflefs the flimfy arts of accom
modation, and " becomingall things to all men,'*
can pretend to no fixed character, insinuate thein
felves into the public favor.—lt may be fafely
affirmed that the general interest never is pro
moted by persons of this description—they con.
ftaiitly disappoint our expectations, and are the
cause of murmurings against the government.
44 The Man of pure and Ample heart
Thro' life disdain* a double part;
He n< ver needs the icreen of lies,
His inward bofbm to di!*gu>fe ;
Withoutcontroul hrdaies impart,
The honest dilates of his hea; t;
Nor party, nor its frowns he fears,
But in his virtue perseveres ; •*
Such men, when hcav'n would favr the ftite-*
Ward off th' impending bolts of fate."
There is no Freedom without civil government
—In a ltateof nature, or which is nearly the lame
thing, anarchy, power alone gives law • This pow
er exists for a time in the hands of the majority
when the minority is compleatly crulhed—the
majority turns its power on each other, till the
oppreHion becoming intolerable, the miferaWe
people seek refuge in the arms of a single op
prefl'or, always finding the tyranny of a multitude
less tolerable than that of an individual.
Civil government may be defined tbe art of con
trouling and directing human passions every
attempt to eradicate those paflions, is Utopian in
the extreme, and involves an idea that the plan
of creation is imperfe>st.
At the anniversary Commencement of Dart
mouth College on the 25th ult. the honorary
Degree of Dotftor of Laws, was conferred on
Alexander Hamilton, Esquire, Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States of America.
ARRIVALS SINCE OL'R LAST. NEW-YORK.
Banyan, London, days
Whitlock, Liverpool, do.
Hayes, ditto, do.
Service, Peterfburgh, 70
Huntfr, St.Andcro, 42
Lawrence, Hull, do.
Clark, Bristol,
Wilson, 6
Ship
Montgomery,
Union,
William,
Hope*
George,
Hull-Packet,
Lively,
Schooner, Catharine,
Brig
PRICE CURRENt'. PUBLIC SECURITIES,
IINAI StTTUMIBTI I tfa a 1 s/6.
Indents yfi, a 7/2.
Stati Securities B\f.
• , let >f rom T-fl November, THE HOUSB
in which the Editor now Jives good situation for
a Boarding-Houfe~—being formerly occupied in that
I_. , , T*«a»ory Department, Sept. to, 1790.
,' s he " b y ™ de kno «". that the following arrangement**
been adopted towards earning into eltecntion the Aa, mak.
ing pi ovihon for the debt of the United States, vi*
e Ce " ifi " ,es ' "dthofeifTued by theCommiffion
?J. , d]uft T Cn^. of » ceoun » "1 the several States, will be re
ceivable only at the Treasury and by the tefpeaiveCommiffioner.
ot Loans within the States in which they were rcfpefti»el v issued.
The Cenificate, .ffijedl by the Register of the TreXry, by the
Matter General and Comroiffioner of Army Accounts, by thiT'
Comm.ffioners for the adiuftment of the Accounts of the Quarte#
Matter's, Commissary's, Hospital, Cloathing, and Mari.e Deoar«
partments Indents of Imereft, and Bills of Old Omission, will
be receivable mdifcriminately at the Treasury and by the Com
m.ffioners of all the States. The Gtuation of the Check, has dicul •
ted this arrangement for the greater security of the public aearaft
impositions by forged or counterfeit paper, and the details which
u"r ? P / rom thef » me consideration for the execution
ot the business are such, that it will giv* facility and difpwch, if
application, from the Holder, of Certificate, ot the R«gift« rf
the T re.fi.ry and of the Paym.fter General, and CommiHW V(
Army Accounts, and of the CommiOioaer? of the five Deoaru
mem, above mentioned, are made in the firll instance at the W
fury , and if ap p l,canon, from the Holders or Loan Office Certi
wVre°iffued Co,, T>alf f ne " ofL r 0 ' n ' theSutcs in whkhThey
(pr The Printers ,n thefeveral State, are to infer! t/ii*■
BY THE PRESIDENT
Ot tHE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
W PROCLAMATION.
HEREAS it hath, at this time, become peculiarly necessary
to warn the citizens of the United States against a violation
of the Treaties made at Hopewell, on the Keowee, on the twenty
eighth day of November, one choufand seven hundred and eighty
five ; and on the third and tenth days of January, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-fix, between the United States and the
Cherokee, Choftaw, and Chickafaw nations of Indians ; and to
enlorce an art, entitled, "an ast to regulate trade and intefcourfc
with the Indian tribes j" copies of which treaties and act arc
hereunto anflexed : I have therefore thought fit to require, and I
do by these prefonts require all officers ot the United States, as
wril civil as military, and all other and inhabitants there
of, to govern th< -mfelvet according to the treaties and ast aforc
id, as they will anfvvcr the contrary at their peril.
GIVEN under my hand, and the Seal of the United States,
in the city of New-York, the twenty-sixth day of August,
in the year of our I.ORD one thousand seven hundred
and ninety, and in the fifteenth year of the fovcrcignty
and mdependcucc of the United States.
(Signed.) G. WASHINGTON.
By The Prcfident,
|Siowed.) THOMAS JEFFERSOJJ.
ARTICLES of a.TREATY concluded at Hopewell,
on the Kcowee River, near Seneca Old Town,
•kstvieen Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens,
and Joseph Martin, Commiflioners Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America, of the onjs part,
Mtd PiomSngo, -Head Warrior and First Minis
ter of the Chickafaw Nation, Mingatufhka, one
of the leading Chiefs, and Latopoia, firft belo
ved Man of the said Mation, ComtHtfiioneri Ple
nipotentiary oj all the Chickafaws, oj the otberpart.
THE Commiflionerj Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America, give peace to the Chickafaw nation, and receive
them into the favor and protection of the United States of Amp
tica, on the following condi'i nt :
ARTICLE t.
The commifiioners Plenipotentiary of the Chickafaw nation,
shall restore al! the prifoncs, citizens of the United States, to their
entire liberty, if any there be in the Chickafaw nation. They
(hall also restore all the negroes,and all other property taken dur-
late war, from the citizens, if any there be in the Chicka
aw nation, to such person, and at such time and place as the Com
niflioners of the United States of America (hall appoint.
The Commiflionrrs Plenipotentiary of the Chickafaws, do here
by acknowledge the uib-s and the towns of the Chickafaw nation,
to be under the prote&ion of the United States of America, and
of no other fovereigu whomever.
ARTICLE 111.
The boundary of the lands hereby allotted to the Chickafaw na
tion to live and hunt on, ■within the l ; mits of the United States of
America, is, and shall be the following* viz. Beginning on the
lidgejhat divides the waters running into the Cumberland from
those running into theTennefTee,at a point in a line to be run north
cart, which (hall flrike theTenneffee, at the mouth of Duck River;
thence running westerly along the said ridge till it shall flrike the
Ohio ; thence down the southern banks thereof to the Mifliiippi;
thence down the fame to the Chn£law line on Natches diftri£t ;
thence along the said line, or the line of th« diftrift eallwardly as
fiar as the Chickafaws claimed and lived and hunted on the twen
ty-ninth of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
two thence the said boundary eaftwardlv, shall be the lands al
lotted to the Chottaws and Cherokeesto live and hunt on, and the
lands at present in the pofll-flion of the Creeks, saving and rcferv
ing for tne establishment of a trading post, a tract or parcel of land
to belaid out at the lqwer post of the MufcJe Shoals, at the mouth
of Oeochanpo, in circle, the diameter of which shall be five miles
on the river, which post, and the lands annexed thereto,
shall be to the ufc and under the government of the United States
of America.
If any citizen of the United States, or other person not being an
Indian, shall attempt to fettle on any of the lands hereby allotted
to the Chickafaws to live and hunt on, such person shall forfeit the
protetticn of the United States of America, and the Chickafaws
may punish him or nouas they please.
If any Indian or Indians, or persons iefiding among them, or
>vho shall take refuge in their nation, shall commit a robbery or
murder, or other capital crime, on any citizen of the United Siates
of America, or person under their protection, the tribe to which
such offenders may belong, or the nation, shall be bound to deli
ver himor them up to be punished according to the ordinances of
the United States in Congress affemblcd ; provided that the punish-
shall not be greater than if the robbery or murder, or other
eapitalcrime, had beet) committed bv a citizen on a citizen.
ARTICLE VI.
If anv citizen of the United States of America, or person under
their protection, (hall commit a robbery or murder, or other cap
ital crime, on any Indian, such offender or offenders shall be pun
ished in the fame manner as tf the robbery or murder, or other cap
ital crime, had been committed on a citizen of the United States
of America ; and the punillimeut (hall be id prcfence of some of
the Chickafaws, if any will attend at the time and place ; and that
they may have an opportunity foto do, due notice, if pra&icable,
of the time of Fuch intended punishment (hall be sent to some one
of the tribes.
It is underflood that the punishment of the innocent, under the
idea of retaliation, is unjust, and shall not be prattifed on cither
fide, except where there is a manileft violation of this treaty; and
tKen it shall be preceded, fir ft by a demand of justice, and if rcfu
fed/then by a declaration of hostilities.
For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the preven
tion of injurfe? oroppreffions on the part of or Indians,
the United States in Cougrefs alfcmbled, shall have the sole and
exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and manag
ing all their affairs in such manner as they think, proper.
ARTICLE IX.
I r.til the pieafure of Congress be known, refpe&ing the eighth
Article, all traders, citizens of the United States of America, shall
have liberty to go to anv of the tribes or towns, of the Cho&aws,
to trade with them, .ind fhey shall be protected in their persons
and property, and kindly treated.
ARTICLE II
ARTICLE IV.
ARTICLE V
ARTICLE VII
ARTICLE VIII.
ARTICLE X,
The said Indians fliall give notice to the of the United
States of America, of any designs which they may know or fufpeft
to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any pcrfon whoso
ever, against the peace, trade or intercft of the United States of
America.
ARTICLE XI.
The hatchet fliall be forever buried, and the peace given by the
United States of America, and frieridfhip re-eftablifted between
(he said States oo the one "parr, and all the ChiekafaW nation on the
Other part, {hall beuniverfal; and the contracting parties (hall ule
{heir uimoft endeavors to maintain the peace given as aforefaid,
and friendlhip re-eftabli(hed.
IN WITNESS of all, and every thing herein determined,-be
tween the said States and all the Chickafaws, We, the underwi ittn
Commiflioners, by virtue of our full powers, have signed this
Definitive Treaty, and have cauied our Seals to be hereunto affixed.
DONE at Hopewell, on the Keowee, this tenth Day of
January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty fix.
(Signsd)
BENJAMIN HAWKINS,
ANDREW PICKENS,
JOSEPH MARTIN.
PIOMINGO,
MINGATUSHKA,
LATOPOIA.
WILLIAM BLOUNT,
WILLIAM HAZRARD,
SAMUEL TAYLOR.
(Witness)
James Core, Sworn Intrcprclcr.
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA,
No. XX.— CONCLUDED.
Faible enfant, qui de Guise aJorait les capriccs
Et dont on ignorait les vertus ct les vices.
LA SAGUE took the road to Beam, charged
with letters and commissions for the King of
Navarre, from the Constable, the Admiral and
their adherents. At Etampes, he was arretted
and all his papers seized, and brought to court,
by order of the Qneen and the Guises. La Sague,
interrogated 011 the rack, confefled, that the
design of the Prince of Conde, to which the King
of Navarre was privy and consenting, was to
march from Bearn, uuder pretext of repairing to
court, and to make liimfelf niafter in his course,
of the principal cities of the kingdom, to take
polielfion of Paris by means of the Conftable,and
Marshall Montmorencie his foil, who had the go
vernnient of it ; to cause, in the next place to
revolt, Picardyj by the intrigues of Senarpont
and Bouchavannes ; Brittany, by tliofe of the
duke D'EftampeS, who, as governor had a pow
erful party there, He declared that the Prince
w9s in course to come to court, at the head of
all the forces of the Hugonots ; oblige the States
General to dismiss from the Ministry, the Queen
mother and the Guises, to declare that the King
cannot be of age, till twenty-two years old, and
finally to give him for tutors and regents of the
kingdom, the Constable, the Prince de Condeand
rlie King of Navarre. La Sague added, that by
moifteniiifr with water,the covering of the letters
of the Vidapie de Chartres, they would fee, in
writing, all that he h:;d revealed. The Plan of
the enemies of the Princes of Lorrain, was in
deed found upon tryal, written, upon the cover
of the letters of the Vidime de Chartres, in the
proper hand of Flemin D'Ardoy, secretary of the
Constable. This revelation of the fecrct by La
Sague, put the cifurc upon a tlioufand manoeuvres,
to ltrengthen their party in the Provinces, but
still they continued to diflemble their designs of
vengeance : The Protestants somewhat encourag
ed 011 one hand by hopes, and still tormented
wiih persecutions on the other, broke out in
arms in several places : But the Prince de Conde,
whofc anxiety must have been very great for his
present fafety, if his ambitition was not asinfati
able, and his natural inquietude as tronblefome
as is represented, made an attempt to seize upon
Lyonsas a strong hold, and an afyluin for hinifelf
and a place of arms for his party ; but he mis
carried, and many of his partisans, the poor Hu
gonots, were executed.
As soon as the King was informed of this enter
prize, he rcfolved not to give the discontented
leisure to form new ones. He left Fontainbleau
accompanied with a thousand lances, and two
regiments of old infantry, lately returned from
Piedmont and Scotland. He took the road to
Orleans, pressing the deputies of the Provinces
to repair to that city
The French nation is divided into three or
ders, or states, the Clergy, the Nobility, and the
People. These three orders are diftribnted into
thirty diftric r ts or jurifditf ions, called Bailliaces
or Senechalfies. When an aflembly of the Stares
General is ro be held, they resort to the capital
of their refped:ive Provinces, where they elect
each one separately a deputy, who afiiits, in the
name of his order, at the general adembly, and
who enters into all the deliberations relative to
the particular interests of each one of the three
orders, and to tlie general good of the state.
Each Bailliage furnilhes three deputies, the firft
for the Clergy, the second for the Nobility, and
the third for the People, under the name, which
in France was then considered as more lionoura
ble, of the third eitare. All these deputies af
femWed in presence of the King, of the Princes
of the blood, and of the officers of the crown
form the Body of the States General, and ad in
the name of the nation, whose power and autho
rity they represent.
604
TREASURY department.
''"/"f-'ll'SH'k 'fCKldJuktt.it,
L >1 of the Secretary of the 7 reafury, to the firfi da- <f OHober ■
k rr' j ' /"PP . y "J att returns, which met he retired for the Jr.'}
it I mted States,'from the firfi day of January to the tlurty firfi A.
December , 79 >. both days hclufve, at the places, and withinVedtfA
iertin after mentioned, viz. "'J'ridf
At any pUce or places, betrcixt Yorktouin in the [late „f r, .
ind Fort Pjtt and at Fort Pitt, cn 'J)hmm t
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'7„i„n
River Ohio, and at Fort M'htofh.
Many place or places betwixt Fort U'lrtojh end the miuth t f,y i,
-tr Mttjkwgum, and at the mouth of the River Mujkin o urn.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the Rivrr Mi, ft; ,
"P 'kfiiißiver to the Fufartrwas, and J,he
nerto the Cayoga River, and dowr, the faii River , 0 j ls m ' utk h ""*
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth of the river M,,fc,J i
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of the laid P,J. "'i""'
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth elf Scioto River, and it'""' ,
of tie great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and' from ,1"
the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio and at thefaid Rapids *
ft any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami ,» „
aid Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Mian; y.it,
on tae river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie
ir 7 T t'" C ° 0T P' aces f'° m rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth olil.
Hebefh, thence u P the fid Wabafhto Poll
fi7d'efcrfb!d"" r "" r A** fc"
oftZer'oZ. PUUl,l ''" n th n ° U ' k ° f,> " W ' UJh '"" r »«"»*>
At any place or places, «n the eajl fide of the river MMbhi f rm ,',k
mcuth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river
r,uLT PUCt ° r P laCes 'f rom ,he mou "' of M '"»" "v<r to the Mini
U any place or places, from the Miami Villa?, to SanduHy a,,<i *.
Sandufley, and from Sandufly to the mouth of Cavoga river
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt aud Venango, and at fW„
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and It Beuf, and at 11 B,JI
At the mouth ofCayoga river, and at any plate or places, on the mi
'reek t0 mou th °f Cayoga river, by the way of Big Beau,
rnjUhV/nl" t'l'f""'"JlfJofthe Miffifippi, between the
mout.i of the Ohio andthc river hargot incluftvely.
irdlUveh'' 1 " P U "''f r ° m the J aii """ Ma'rgot, to the river Yams
At any place or placesfrom the mou„f the river Tennefce, toOachib
po or hear creek, on the fiid 1 >ver inclufvely.
Should any rations be re J 'red at any places, or within other diflncis
notpeefied in thefetropofJs,the price of the fame to be hereafter ai, u
On, hetwixt the p'ibhc and the contraHor.
1 •• e r' • to '' si 'T' :d ire to conjjl of the ft'toidr* articles, vit
C i pout.i{t/J hreid or (lour.
One pound cj beef,\ or %of a p o und of pork,
sty a J if/ of rum, brar. dy or u-hifh\ i
One quart offait,
Tzco quarts of vinegar* f .
Two pound,iff4- f per '
One pound of Candles, )
The prop,fats muffpecifythe hutfi price per ration. Kocredtisr;.
quired. ALtXAKDLR HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treafirv.
By Order ojthe Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. Chief JuJlice cj the
Stale of New-York.
NOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald, of Conneflico;,
absent debtor, thct upon application and due proof made
to the said chief justice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
pursuant to an ast of the Legislature of the faid'State, entitled.
" An a6t for relief against abfeonding and absent debtors," oaf
fed the 4th April, 1786; he, the said chief justice, has dircfted
all the said Lewis eltate, within this State, to he fciz
cd, and that unless he shall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame Will be iold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1790.
New-York, May 7, 1790. (iw.iy.)
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—and entered upon immediately, vOUlie jtri f
May next. ' 1 ' "
'T'HATelegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in the
-L Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, deccafed ; it has seven Fire Places with a good
Cellar under the whole House-—a convenient out-Houfe in th
rear, with a Coach-House, and Stables ; for further particulars ci s
quire of MANGLE MIXTHORN.
(> W. t. f.)
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Proposals for printing this paper ftiputated, that it/houid
44 be pubiijlied at the feat of the federal government t»
tkis engagement, " The Gazette of the United States"
will, from the beginning of November next, be pubUfoed aS
Philadelphia,
The Subfcribcrs, who may pleafc to continue their patronage of
the Publication, will befup|>lied from Philadelphia as soon as pol
fible alter it is out of the press, on the prefcut terms.
War Department, Sept. 9tk y 179°*
IN FORMAT lON is hereby given to all the military Invalids oF
the United States, that the sums to which th<*? are annually en.
titled, and which will become due on the fourth day of March
ensuing, will be paid on the said day, by the Commiflio^ rs °*
the Loans within the states refpe£tively, under such
as the President of the United States may dircft.
H. KN"OX»
Secretary for the Department oj'' jr
(The Printers in the reJheUive States are requeued to fvblijh the
above in their the\fpdce oj twp Months./
The
Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes after
Eight o'clock every morning cxcept Sunday.
§l*ge Office, City TaverH, >
Hi o ad-Way, New-York June,5,1790. >
id" Dr. Price's Revolution Sermon may he hai ij
the Editor.
10° -d l*rge imfreftonyfif this pap'" teen
ft ruck off from the commencement of the •
April 14, —Those who incline to hecome ,
from that period, may be furnifhei with tit BKVucH ..
complcat.
I
!
A
*
!
Corporation Dacl.
■Price 1/7.
1