PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7OHU suawn m = „ . „ '
«AWO, No. 4,, BROAD-STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
QNo. 44, (f Vol. ll.]
LAW OF THE UNITED STATES.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION.
Begun and held at the City ol New-York, on Monday ffic fourth
January, one thoufond seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT to provide more efFe&ually for the Col-
Jecflion of the Duties iinpofed by Law on Go ods,
Wares and Merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the Tonnage of Ships or
Veflels.
BE it cnafled by the Senate and Houfc of Retirefcntatives of the Uni
ted States of America InCongrefs ajfenblcd, That for the collec
tion of the duties imposed by law on goods, wares and merchan
dize imported into the United States, and on the tonnage of ships
or veflels, there (hall be cftabJi/hed and appointed, diftrifts, ports
and officers in manner following, to wit:
The State of New-Hampshire shall be one diftrift, to be called
the diftrid of Poitfmouth, of which the townot Portfmoutli (hall
be the sole port of entry ; and the towns of Newcastle, Dover
and E*eter ports of delivery only : but all (hips or veflels bound
to or from either of the said ports of delivery Ihall firft come to,
enter and clear at Portsmouth ; and a collector, naval-officer and
surveyor for the said diftritl (hall be appointed to reside at Ports
mouth.
In the State of Ma Jachufetts fhal! be twenty diftri&s atid ports
of entry, to wit : Newbury-Port, Gloucester, Salem and Beverly,
as one; Marblehead, Bofton,and Charleftown, as one ; Plymouth,
JBarnftable, Nantucket,Edgartown, New Bedford, Dighton, York,
Biddefod and PcppereJborough, as one ; Portland and Falmouth
as one ; Bath, Wifcaffct, Penobfcot, Frenchman's Bay, Machia. and
P»fT«nia<]Uody. To the diftrift ot Newbury- Port shall be annex
ed the fcveral towns or landing places of Almfbury, Sjliftniry
and Haverhill, which (hall be ports of delivery only ; and a col
lector, naval-offictr, and surveyor for the diftrifl shall be appoint
ed, to reside at Newbuty-P >rt. To the diftrift of Gloucester
~ik*U W v ibrtowu of t. at aooxt of ddiw rv.4bl«
lv; and a collector aiul surveyor (half be appointed, to reside at
Gloucester. To the diftrift ©f Salem and Beverly shall be annex
ed the towns or landing places of Danvers and ipswich, as ports
of delivery only ; and a collc&or, haval-officer and flirveyor for
the diftrift fhajl be appointed, to lefide at Salem, and a surveyor
to reside at each of the towns of Beverly and Ipswich* To the
diftri£t of Marblehead Ihall be annexed the town of Lynn, as a
port of delivery only ; and a colle&or For the diftrift (hall be ap
pointed, to reside at Marblehead. To the diftrift of Boston and
Charleftown shall be annexed the towns Or landing places of Med
ford, CohalTetand Hmgham, as ports of delivery only; and a
colle&or, naval-officer and surveyor Ihall be appointed to reside
at Boston. To the diftritt of Plymouth (hall be annexed the fe
deral towns or landing placcs of Scituate, Duxbury and Kingston,
as ports of delivery only ; and a colle&or for the diftrift Ihall be
appointed, to reside at Plymouth. To the diftrift ot Barnftable
/hall be annexed the fever 1 towns or landing places of Sandwich,
Falmouth, Harwich, Welfleet, Provihcelown, and Chatham, as
ports of delivery only; and a collc&or for thv? diftrift Ihall be
appointed, to reside at Barnftable. To the fliftrift of Nantucket
the port of Sherburne flull be chclole port of entry and delivery
•within the fame, and a collector Ihall be appointed to reside at
Sherburne. In the diftri&of Edgartown a collector Ihall be ap
pointed to reside at Edgartown. To the diftritt of Kew-Bedford
Ihall be annexed Weft-Port, Rochester and Wareham, as ports
of delivery only ; ind a collector for thediftrift Ihall be appoint
ed to reside at New-Bedford. To the diftiift of Dighton Ihall be
annexed Swanfey and Freetown, as ports of delivery only ; and a j
colle&or for the diftrift shall be appointed, to reside at Dighton.
To the diHrift of Yoik Ihall be annexedKittery and Berwick, as
ports of deliveiy only ; and a collector for the diltrift shall be ap
pointed to reside at York. To the diftritt of Biddeford and Pep
pcrelborough shall be annexed Scarborough, Wells, Kennebunk
and Cape Porpoise, is ports of delivery only ; and a collector lor
ihediftrift shall be appointed to reside at Biddeford. To the
diftrift of Portland and Falmouth shall be annexed North-Yar
mouth and Brunfwiok, as ports of d#livery only ; and a collector
and surveyor Avail he appointed for the diftrift, to reside at Port
land. To the diftvift of Bath shall be annexed Hollowell, Pittl
town and Topfham, as ports of delivery only ; and a collector
for the diftritt dial Ibe appointed, to reside at Bath. To the dil
tri&of Wifcaffet fhalf be annexed Briflol, Boothbay, Warren,
Thomafton and Waldoborough, as ports of delivery only ; and a
cojle&or for the diltrift fiiall be appointed, to reside at Wi leaflet.
To the diftri&of Penobfcot Ihall b? annexed Frankfort,Scdgwick
J> 6 .inC and Decr-Ifland, as ports of Delivery ocly ; and a co!le6lor
for thf diftnft shall be appointed to reside at Penobfcot. To the
diftri£t of Frenchman's Bay shall be annexed Union-River, as a
port of delivery only ; and a collector for thediftritt Ihall be ap
pointed to reside at Frenchman's Bay. For each of the diftriCU
of Machias and PafTainaquody Ihall be appointed a collector to re
side at the said ports of Machias and Palfamaquody, refpe&ively.
The diftrift of Newburyport Ihall include all the waters and
ihores from the State of Ncw-Hampfhire, to the north line ot
Ipswich. The d:ftria of Gloucefler shall include all the waters
end shores in the towns of Gloucester and Manchester. Ihedil
tri& of Salem and Beverly shall include all the fhoret and water
■within the towns of Ipswich, Beverly, Salem and Danvers. Tin
<liftri& of Marbiehead shall include all the waters and fhou s
within the towns of Marblehead and Lvnn. The district of Bol
ton and Charleftown shall include all the waters and Ihores with
in the counties of Mfddlefex and Suffolk. The district o! Ply
mouth-ihall include all the waters and Ihores within the county
qii Plycco jch, excepting 1 jh? towns of Wareham an 4 Ro*hcfter.
PUBLISHED
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER n, , 79 0.
,!u ° ' hall >nclu-ic all the shores and waters
w.thm the county of BarnQabls. The d.llritl of Nantucket (hall
include theiftmd of Nantucket. Th diftria of Edgartown (hall
include all the w a ' c " and fll <"fs within the county ot Duke's
County. The d.ftr.flof New-Bedford, (hall include all the wa
rn and (hores within the towns of New-Bedford, Dartmouth,
Weftport, Rochester and Wareham, together with all the islands
w.th.n the: county of Br,ftol. The d.stria of D.ghton (lull in.
( U p C h v. u Water J ' a L " d <hor " °" Twmtoo river, and in the town
oißehoboth; and the colleaors of the Ceveral diftrias within
hat part of the S:ate ot Mallachufctts eaitward a? New-Hamplh.,c,
hall agree as soon as may be, upon a dlvifional luic between
the.r rcfpea.ve diftria., and tranlm. the fame to the Comptroller
• the Treasury; and such diftria. f, agreed upon, fhj.il include
all the Ihore.-, waters and iflaru'. ithin the fame. And in cafe
f . 1 d P rt . cmcnt an y of ! said colle&ors, concerning
fuel, div.fional line, the Secrelary aOk Treasury (hall determine
the lame. '
In the State of Rhodc-Ifl.nd rovidcnce Plantations, there
niaH betwodiftritls, to wit: th.- J.llria of Newport, and the
dillr.a of The diftria of Newport (hall co.npre
hena all the waters shores, bays, harbors, creeks and inlets, from
the weft lice of the said State all along the lea co.ft, and north
waid up the Narraganfet bay, as f,, as the most calterly part of
Kitin-.micut point at high water mark • and shall include the fe-
town., harbors, and landing places at Westerly, Charleftan,
South-Kia.ftown, North-KinglW ~, East-Greenwich, and all
that part or Warwick fouihward of l„ latitude of said Kinnim
icut point; andalfothe towns, ha hors and landing places ot
Barrington, Warren, Bnftol, Tivutorf, Lit.le-Compton, and all
IfLTT' a^ o,s landing p;, s of the island of Rhode
n A ' /"l" ovv "'^ rudcncc t Ni -Shorehain, and every other
fland and place within the laid State fouihward ol the latitude of
»dl \ inf ? ltnicut P°' n ** The di.'Li of Providence (kail com- I
prehend all the waters, (hor«, bay harbors, creeks and inlets
within the said State, northward of he latitude of Knnim.cnt
.H'T'm Ju C W r' x, Ncw P°" 'he sole po,t of entry in
the said diltnttof Newport; and a colleaor, naval-officcr and
lurveyor (hall be appointed to res.de at the said town of Newport ;
and. North-Kingstown, Eaft-Gre.i vich, Barrington, War.cn,
Bnftol, and Pawcatuck river in W, .crly (hail be ports of deli
very only ; and a (urveyor (hall be a jointed to res.de at each of
toe ports ol Nouh-Xingftown, Eaft-Ortenwich, Warren, Bristol
and Pawcatuck river, and the furveyur t<J reside at Warren (ha!l
befurveyor for the port of Bar. ingtn . The town of Provdence
(ball be the sole port of entry in the Cud diftria of Providence,
and Patuxet in the fame diftria (hall bea port of delive.y only;
and a colLaor, naval-officer and fij, ryor (hall be appointed to
tel.de at Providence, and a surveyor Hull be appointed to res.de
at Patuxet. r
In the State otConneft'cut (hall be three diftrifts,to wit: New-
London, New-Haven, and Fairfield. Thediftrict of New-Lon
don (hall extend from the ea(t lmeof he said State of Connecticut,
to the welt line of the town of Killiugfworth, and north to the
south me of the State of Mallbchuft ts ;. and Ihall also include the
fevcral towns or landing places of N wkb, Stonington. Groton,
f»J?R.ni»Middlitow;i,Chat l «ni,
GUficnbur,., Hartford, Eaft-Hattford, Windfer,
Eaft-\\ mdlor, and Klilingfworth, as potts of delivery only ;
New-London to be the sole/port of entry ; and a collector and
surveyor for the diftrift (hall be appointed, to reside at New-
London ; and a surveyor to reside at each of the ports of Stoning
ton and Middlctowii. The diftrift of New-Haven (hall extend
from the weft line of the diftrift of New-London welterly to
Oufatumnick iiver; to which (ball be annexed the fevcral towns
or landing places of Guildford, Branford, Milford and Derby,
as ports ot delivery only ; New-Haven to be the sole port of en
try ; and a collector and surveyor for thediftrict (Hall be appoint
ed to reside at New-Haven. The dift.ict of Fairfield (hall in
elude all the ports and places in tile said Slate of Connecticut welt
ol the diltuctof New-Haven; to which fliall be annexed the fc
veral towns or landing places of Norwalk, Stratford, Stamford
and Greenwich, as ports of dcljver? only; Fairfield to be the
lole port of entry f and a collector for the district Ihall be appoint
ed, to reside at Fairfield. And New-London, New-Haven, and
r shall severally be ports of entry*
In the State of New-York (hall be two districts, to wit : Saire-
HarboronNaffauor Long-Island, and the city of New-York,
each of which (hall be a port of entry. The diftrift of Sagg-Har
bor Ihall include all bays, harbors, livers and Ihores within the
two points of land which ate called Oylter Pond Point, and
Montauk Point ; and a collector lor the district (hall be appoint
ed to reside at Sagg-Harbor, which ihall be the only place ot de
livery in the said diftrift. The district of the city of New-York
Ihall include such part of the coasts, rivers, bays and harbors of
the laid State, not included in the district of Sagg-Harbor ; and
moreover the fevcral towns or landing places of Ncw-Windfor
Ncwburgh, Poughkeepfie, Efopus, city of Hudson, Kindcrhock'
and Albany, as ports of delivery only; and a naval-officer, col
lector and surveyor for the dift.ict (hall be appointed, to reside
at the city of New-York ; also two surveyors, one to lefide at the
city of Albany, and the other at the city of Hudfou ; and all
Hups or vessels bound to or from any port of delivery wiihm the
ialt named district, shall be obliged to come to, and enter or
clear out at the city of New-York;
In .the State of New-Jerky (hall be four districts, to wit :
P.tth-Ambov, Burlington, Bridgetown, and Great Egg-Harbor,
winch (hall severally be ports of entiy. The district of Perth-
Amboy Ihall comprehend all that part of the State ol New-Jersey,
known by the name of East New-Jtrfey (that part excepted which
is hereafter included in the district of Burlington) togethei with
all the waters thereof heretofore witnin the jui ifdiction of the said
S.ate ; in which district the towns or landing places o( New-
Urunfwick, Middlctown-Point, Elieabetn-Town, and Newark,
ill ,11 be ports df delivery only ; and a collector for thediftrict (hall
be appointed, to reside at Pmh-Amboy. The district of Bur
lington (bali comprehend that part of the said State known by the
name oi Weft Ncw-Jcrfey, which lies to the eastward and north
ward of the county of Gloucester, with all the waters thereol
h'reiofore within the jurisdiction of the said State, including the
river and inlet ot Little Egg-Harbor, with the waters emptyin •
into the (ame, and the sea-coast, found, inlets and harbors there
of from Earnegat inlet to Brigantine inlets, in which district the
landing places of Lamberton and 1 ittle Egg-Harbor (hall be ports
ol delivery ■ nly ; and a collecior (hall be appointed for the dis
trict, to reside at Builington, and a surveyor at Little Egg-Harbor,
thediftrict of Bridgetown (hall compiehend the counties of
Gloucester, Salem, Cumberland, and Capt-May (such part of
'he count its of Gloucester and Cape-May as Ihall be herein after
included in thediftrict of Great Egg-Harbor, excepted) and all
tie waters thereof iitrelofoi'S within the jurifdh<ion ol the fajc
589
0
, State; and the town of Salem and Port Elizabeth, on Maurice
fiver, (hall be ports of delivery only ; and a collector be ap
pointed to reside at Bridgetown. The district of Great Egg-Har
bor shall comprehend the river of Creat Egg-H »rbor, together
with all the inlets, bays, found, rivers and creeks, along the set
coaftfrom Brigantine inlet to C;»pe-May ; and a collector fliall be
appointed, to reside at Somers'sJPoint, on the laid river o! Great
Egg-Harbor.
The slate of Pennfylv&nia lhalJ be onediftrift, and Philadelphia
shall be the sole port of entry and delivery for ihe fame; aod a col
lector, naval officer and surveyor for the diftritl shall be appointed
to relide at the said port of Philadelphia.
The state of Delaware shall be One diftri#, r'nd the borough of
Wilmington shall be the port of entry, to which shall be annexed
Newcafllc and Port Penn, as ports of delivery only ; and a collec
tor for the diftrid lhall be appointed, to reside at the laid port of
Wilmington.
In the Hate of Maryland (hall be nine diftrifts, to wit : Balti
more, Chester, Oxford. Vienna,Snowhill, Annapolis, Nottingham
Cedar-Point, and George-Town. The diftrift of Baltimore Ihali
include Patapfco,Stlfquchannah, and Elk-rivets, and al! llie watcts
and (hores on the welt fide ot Chesapeake-Bay, from tlic mouth of
Magetty-rivci' to the louth fide ot Elk river, mclufivc, in which
Havre de Grace and Elkon (hall be ports of delivery only ; and a
collettor, naval officer and surveyor (ball be appointed for the said
diftrift, to reside at thetown ol Baltimore, which (hall be the Me
port of entry. The diftrift of Chester Ihall inclnde Chester river,
and all the waters and (hores on the eastern fide of Chefapeakc-
Bay, from the louth fide Of Elk-river to the north lide of the Ea!t
ern-Bay, and Wye river inclusive ; in which Georgetown on Sif
fafras river, (hall be a port of delivery only ; and a collector (or
the diftrift (hall be appointed to reside at Chester, which (hall be
the sole port of entry. The diftrift of Oxford shall inclpde all the
waters and (hores on the eastern fide ol Chclapcake-Bay, from the
north fide of Wye river and the Eastern 15ay, to the south fide Of
Great Choptank river inctufive; and Cambridge fiiall be a p?>rt of
delivery only ; and a collector tor the diftrift iliall be appointed
to rclide at Oxford, which (ball he the sole port of entry. The
diftrift of Vienna (hall include all th" waters and (horcs on the
eastern fide of Chefapeake-Bav, from the south fideofGreak Chop
tank-riyer, to the south fide ot Hooper's Streight, Hayne's Point
and Wicomicd river inclusive ; and Salisbury (hall be the port of
delivery only ; and a collettor for the diftrift (hall be appointed
to reside at Vienna, which (hall be the sole port of entry. The dif
trift of Srtowhill (hall include all the waters and (hores on the fei
coast, from the north line of Virginia, to the south line of Dela
ware, together with all the waters and (hores on the eastern fide of
ChesapeaKe-Bay, from the south fide of Wicomico river, to the?
south file of Pocomoke river, inclusive, so far as the jurifdifton of
the said state of Maryland extends ; to whichSinnipuxtetu (lull be
a port of delivery for Weft-India produce only ; and a collector
for the diftrift (hall be appointed, to refidr at Snowhill, which
fiiall be the sole port of entry. Tfie diftrift of Annapolis (hall
include Magetty river, and all the waters and (hores from thence
to Drum-Point, on Patuxcrit river; and a collector for the d drift
(hall be appointed, to reside at Annapolis, which (hall be the file
port of entry ahd delivo y for the feme. The didrift of Nostiu*-
hara (hall include all the waters »nd (hores on the welt fide ot
Chesapeake-Bay, to Drum-Point, on the river Pituxent, together
with the said river, and all the navigable waters emptying irfto the
fame, to which Bencdift, Lower Malborough, Town Creek and
Silvcy's Landing, (hall be annexed as ports of delivery only ; a
collettor for the diftrift (hall be appointed, to reside at Notting
ham, and a surveyor at Town Creek ; and Nottingham fiiall lio
the sole port ot entry. The diftrift of Cedar-Point (hall i iclude
all the wate-s of Potowmack within the jurifdiftion of the state of
Maryland, from Point-look-out to PoraonVy creek, inclusive ; to
which Nanj'imy,Saint Mary's and Lewelleniburg, (hill be annex
ed as a port of delivery onlv ; and a collator for the diftrift (hall
oc appointed, to reside at Cedar-Point ; also a surveyor to reside
at each of the ports of Saint Mary's and Lewelleniburg ; and Ce
dar-Point (hall be the sole port of entry. The diftrift of George
town Ihall include all the waters and (hores from Painonky creek
on the north fide of Potowmack river, to the head of the na'viga
blc waters ot the said river within the jurifdiftion of the state of
Maryland ; to which Dirges's landing and Carrolfburg (hall be an
nexed as ports of delivery only ; and a colle6lor for the diftrift
jhall be appointed to reside at Georgetown, which shall be the
sole port of entry.
In the Hate of Virginia shall be twelve diftrifts, to wit ; Hamp
ton as one port ; Norfolk and Portsmouth as one port; Bermuda
Hundred and City Point as one port; Yorktown, Taopahannock,
Yeocomtco river,including Kindle, Dumfries, including Newport
A cxandna, Foley-Land m gj Chcrryilone, South Quay and Louif
v.lle Ihe authority of the officers at Hampton (half extend over
all the waters, Ihores, bays, harbors and inlets, between the foutli
(ide of the mouth of York river, alon,; the wed (W of Chesa
peake-bay to Hampton, and thence up James river to the weft Tide
9 y nver ; and a collector (hall be appointed to re
-1 Z Ha f m P ton > which be the foie port of entry. To the
difti iff of Norfolk and Portsmouth (hall be anexed Suffolk and
Smithfield as ports of delivery onlv; and the authority of the offi
cers of the fa d diftriQ (hall extend overall the waters, ffiores, b«y»
harbors, and lnloti comprehended within a line drawn from Cane
Henry to the mouth of James nver, and thence up James river to
Jordan s point, and up Elizabeth-rivet tothehigheft tide water
tiiereoi ; and Norfolk and Portsmouth (hall be the sole port ofen
rt7ii ?® collector, naval officer and surveyor for the diftiift
(Kail be appointed to reside at Norfolk ; also a surveyor to reside
at each of the ports of Suffolkand Smithfield. To the diftr.fl of
Bermuda Hundred or City Point, (hall be annexed Richmond,
rif ,? f r ' ,s por,s of dclivcr y °»>y i and a col-
J, ? r and surveyor (hall be appointed to reside at Bermuda Hun.
dred or City Point, which (hall be the sole port of entry ; alio a
l U r„T r T, lt rg '° 'r C r C thtßai > and a for Rich
mond and Manchester to reside at Richmond ; and the authority of
he officers of the fa.d diftiift (hall extend over all the'waters.
shores, bays harbors and inlets, comprehended between Jordan'!
To" h"h ft Sf I u wanr „ on J ames and Appainattox rivers.
To the of Yorktown (half be annexed Weft-point and
ftriS £Hh P ° rtS °j ' V r7 ° nlv ; and a collcft '» for the di
ftrift (hall be appointed to reside at Yorktown, which (hall be the
sole port of entry ; also a surveyor for the two ports of delivery
f 'A A ft* fl n, /^" poln ' ; and the authority of the officers of the
said diftnft (hall extend over all the waters, shores, bays, harbrtri
and mlents, comprehended between the point forming the Couth
Woul * mOU w,° f lU P^ l r" oCk '"«> and thc PoL forming
the Couth Chore of the mouth of York river, and thence up the la *
river to Weft-point, and thence up Pamuiikey and Mattapony r
\ers to the highest navigable waters thereof. To the diftnft of
Tappahannock shall be aßncxcd Urbaopa, Port-Royal,,nd Freely
[Whole N0..148.]rickfburg (including Falmouth) as ports of delivery only ; ai*.d a
collector for thediitrifci shall be appointed to refideat Tappahan
nock, which shall be the sole port of entry ; also a surveyor tor
each of the ports of Urbanna, Port-Royal, and Fredei ickfburg ;
and the authority of the officers ot the said d-ftrift (hall extend
over ail the wattrs,fhores, bay.*, harbors and inlets,comprehended
between Smith's point, at the mouth of Potowmack river, arid the
point forming the south shore of the inouth of Rappahannock ri
ver, and thence up the last mentioned river to the hight ft tide wa
ter thereof. The district of Yeocomico river including Kinfale,
shall extend from Smith's point on the south fide of Potowmai k
river, to Boyd's hole on the fame river, including all the waters,
ihorcs, bays, rivers, crecks, harbors and inline.s along the fouih
shore of Potowmack river to Boyd's hole aforefaid ; and Ycoco
mico including Kinfale, (hall be the iole port of entry ; and acol
leftor shall be appointed to re fide on Yeocomico river. The di
strict of Dumfries including Newport, shall extend from Boyd's
hole to Cockpit-point on the south iideof Potowmack river ; and
a collector shall be appointed to reside at Dumfries, which shall
be the sole port of entry ; an.l the authority of the officers ot this
district shall extend over all the waters, fhorcs, bays, harbors and
inlets comprehended between Boyd's hole and Cockpit-point
alorefaid. For the district of Altxandiia shall be appointed a col
lector and surveyor, to reside at Alexandria, which shall be the
4 ole port of entry ; and the autlwrity of the officers of the said di
.trict fhaJl extend over all the waters, shores, bays, harbors and
inlets on the south fide of the river Potowmack, from the lad men
tioned Cockpit-point to the highest tide water of the said river.
"For the district of Follcy landing (hall be appointed a colle or,
who shall reside at Accomack court houle, and whose authori
ty shall extend over all the waters, fhorcs, bays, harbors and
inlets of thecounty,of Accomack. Foi the diflrictoi Cherrystone
be appointed a collectoi to xcfide at Cherrystone, whose au
thority shall extend over all the waters, shores, bay*, harbors and
inlets comprehended within Northampton county. For the dis
trict of South Qqav a collector shall be appointed to reside t ereat,
whose authority fhll extend over all the waters, fhorcs, bays, har
bors and inlets in that part of Virginia, comprehended within the
limits of the said state. For the district of Louisville a collector
ill all be appointed ro reside thereat, whose authority shall extend
over all the waters, shores and inlets included between the rapids
wid the mouth ot the Ohio river on the south fide thereof.
(To be continued.)
FROM THE (LONDON) POLITICAL MAGAZINE.
CHARACTER OF DR. FRANKLIN.
TT'EVV men have gained universal celebrity from
Ji- fucli an origin. The principal conductor of
the American Revolution, had been a journey
man Printer in Philadelphia. Such are the def
tinatiotis of that Providence, which lias ordained
the production of an oal: from an acorn.
IDr. Franklin came to London in 1726. The
love of science can be tiaced from this early pe
riod, though he appeared here in the line of his
business. He had procured letters to, and was
well received by Mr. Koikes,afterwards President
of the lloySl Society, and through him knew Dr.
Clark. He was not,however, gratified with a fight
of his friend, which he often lamented, and which
he had labored to obtain : great age and increas
ing infirmities prevented an introduction to Sir
I. Newton.
Of his origin lie made no fecrer. In a conver
sation at Paris, in company with the Compte
D'Aranda, and the Duke de la Rochefoucalt, he
replied to an Irifli Gentleman,who had aiked him
fcnne queitions about Americ'a, and particularly
about the state of the paper manufactory there,
lew men can give you more information on that
subject than in y fie If, for 1 was originally in the
printing trade.
The princi]>les and qualities of Electricity were
scarcely known in the lalt age. The Eledlric
Fluid was barely mentioned at the end of New
ton's opticks. It was reserved for Mr. Franklin
to investigate its properties, and of that branch
of science he may be confidefed as the father.
Theory was advanced to practice and utility, by
the invention of the Coudud'jr.
Nor were his observations coniined to this sci
ence. There were few fubjeiTts of common uti
lity,upon which he did not comment; none which
lie did not improve and illultrate ; of which his
advice to Servants ; to Tradesmen 5 to Settlers in
America ; on the cure of Suioaky Chimnies ;
'Rules for Clubs and for Conversation ; Maxims
to convert a Great into a small Empire, written
with the cauitic spirit of Swift, abundantly prove.
To be generally ufeful, that he might be univer
sally celebrated, seemed to be his ruling princi
ple.
The memories of the aped are now supposed to
be retentive. The truth, however, seems to be,
that the tablet of the memory becomes callous at
a certain period, nor is it susceptible of new im
preHions, and particularly of verbal knowledge.
Franklin was an exception to this rule : he ac
quired French after seventy ; he spoke fluently
and even fcientifically in that language.
In fociery he was sententious, but not fluent, a
liftner rather than a talker, an informing, rather
than a pleallng companion ; impatient of inter
ruption, he often mentioned the custom of the
Indians, who always remain silent lome time be
fore they give an answer to a quelHon, which
they have heard attentively, unlike fonie of the
polite{t societies in Europe, where a sentence can
scarcely be (iniflied without an interruption.
It is a testimony to truth, and bare justice to
his memory, that he used hi 3 utmost endeavors
to prevent a breach between England and Ame
rica. His Parliamentary examination in 1766—
itil his converfaiions till 1775, had the fame be
nign tendency—Had his councils been followed
ho would have proved a friend indeed to this
country. From the period cf the well known
aSo ft* before the Council, he entertained a moil
ardent refentnient, too often the cxcrefence of
great minds. Folitenefs and moderation Could
not restrain the most pointed and bitter sarcasms
againli the conducft of England in mixed compa
nies ; and it is remarkable, that when the (hip
in which he failed lalt to America had tQUchtd
at Portfmonth, he was requelted t<r refVefh hini
felfon shore ; but he declined it, faying he was
refolved never more'to set his foot upon Engliih
ground.
The testimonies of Franklin's merit were con
ceived in the highelt strain of penegyrick : In
the year 1777, Lord Chatham adverted, in a re
markable speech, to his forcible arguments
against the war, and to the sagacious advice of
the American Newton.
Upon his reception in the French Academy,
D. Alemberr, the friend and correspondent of
Frederick the Great, welcomed him with that
well known line which revived the boldness and
the sublimity of Lucan.
* Eripuit ccrlo fulmen, fccptrumquc tyrannis.'
The Congress of America have enjoined a ge
neral mourning, and the public hratitude has
celebrated his obsequies ; fciencc (hall hereafter
record the name of Franklin in the truest regis
ters of fame.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
Saturday, June 19.
A LETTER was read from M. Necker to the
Alleinbly, informing them, that the repub
lic of Geneva had supplied the territory of Gex,
(which was in great want) with 1400 quintals of
corn, on condition of having the fame quantity
returned them a few months after the harvelt.
M. Neckir added, that the Genevoi? had taken
that opportunity of renewing their offer of a pa
triotic donation to the state. This generous
proposal of a neighboring ftate,the ally of F ranee,
was warmly applauded, and ordered to be record
ed in the minutes. Some other offers of a similar
nature were afterwards made by fonie individuals
in the canton of Berne
M. Nouriffart, from the Committee ofFinances,
moved, that the Aflembly fliould anthorife the
CaiHed'Efcompte to pay into the public treasury
thirty millions of n»tes.
M. Camus rose and obierved, that altho he did
not mean to oppose this motion, he thought that
the utmolt precaution (herald be taken that the
national treasure should not be improvidently
squandered, and that an exa<si account should be
rendered of the expenditure.—This, heobferved,
had not lately been the cafe ; for the estimate
of the expence of the royal houfhold, for tlie firft
four mouths of the prelent year, was rated at
8,380,000 livrcs, whereas the futn aiftually paid
had b-en only 4,500,000 livres. He then Hated
fevcral fiinilar inttayres, and remarked upon the
impropriety of allowing the annual accounts to
lie over unsettled for so longa period, as from the
year 1775, to 1783. He cited the example of
Lewis XIV, who, at the end of every month, au
dited, with his own hand, M. Colbert's account of
the finances. He concluded his speech by propo
sing a plan of a decree to authorise the Caifle d'
Efcompte to pay in the sum moVed for to the
Royal Trcafury, and 10 effeel several other pur
poses of economical i cgtilations.
M. di Caiitclar then rose, and entered into a
vindication of the condu<ft of the Committee of
finances, and M. N~cker. He said their 1-abors
had been imnienfe—3nd that in a little time they
would be at an end.
The Abbe Maury then rose, and uttered the most
bitter complaints agdinlt M. Necker, for not com
plying with hisrequifition of producingthe three
accounts he had called for, viz. The expehce—
the receipt—the public debt. He said, although
the Minister had not had time to produce these
accounts, he had found time to write pamphlets
againlt hiiu. After the Abbe had -vented his ill
luimour in a number of (atirical observations up
on the Minister, he, all at once, surprised and
alarmed the Aflembly, byadvaneinga very hein
ous charge ogainft him. lie aflerted that M.
Necker had made a concealment of 600 millions
of livres. It was supposed that the Abbe would
hardly have brought forward an accusation of
this nature without some ground, the Afleinbly
were of courie conliderably agitated. The Ab
be in the mean time went on, and condemned in
very pointed terms the statements on the finan
ces lately submitted.by M. Necker to the Afl'ein
bly. He was equally severe upon those publiih
ed by M. Necker's two immediate predeceffbrs,
M. de Calonne, and the Arclibifhop of Sens, all
of which he alferted to be falfe, and abounding
in omillions and errors.
M. Regnault rose, and moved thar the memoir
and di (course the Abbe had juit delivered, (hould
be printed for the use of the members. This
Motion parted unanimously. Tlie Abbe was then
desired to deposit liis discourse at the table.
f his he refufed, and finding that this request was
likely to be infilled oil, he made a precipitate re
treat from the Hall, and the Assembly recalled
their order for printing it, and decreed that the
( aide D'Efcompte Ihould pay into the public
I realury 30 millions of their notes.
M. 3ouc!)s read a letter from Avignon, by
590
which It appeared, that the people hart com.
pleatly annihilated Papal tyranny and fuperUi.
tion in that country. The Ecclesiastics kept
their hold as long as pofiible, but were at laii:
compelled to yield ; and had it not been for the
efforts of the National Guard?, fonie of the moil
obnoxious would have been hanged. The peo
ple were in the greatest joy at being re-united to
France, andmolt of the Aritlocratics havino-] e ft
the country, peace and tranquility univerfaliy
prevailed.
MONT> AY, JUN 1" 2 [
M. Voulland rose, and gave amoli: melancholy
relation offonie late tumults in the ciry ot'Nif.nes
In this city the Aviftocratics have a strong party
which they have been at pains to strengthen by
every polhble means. On the igthinft. the dra
goons, who had refufed to afl'ociate with the re
giment ufGuienne, for the fafeguard ofthe ciry,
appeared in the streets with white cockades in
their hats. This conducfl gave rife to a tumult.
They were insulted in all parts ofthe city, and
M. Boudon loit his life. On the day following,
the patriots lhut thelnfelves up in the fort, and
being besieged by the dragoons, the place was ta
ken by rtorm, and a hundred persons peri/lied in
the atiault. In another part of the city a funilar
Icene of bloodlhed took place between the patriots
and their adversaries, and among the Wain were
found a number of Capuchi/is. It is ftronglyfuf
pe<fted that this horrid maflacre had been pre
vioully meditated, the greatelt part ofthe officers
of the dragoons having been provided with dou
ble charges of powder and fliot, above the usual
allowance. It is alio suspeCted that the Munici
pal officers were engaged. Two of thefeare ap
prehended, and the other has made his-efcape.
The Aflembly, in consequence of this relation,
immediately palled a decree, inverting the King
with authority to continue the powers of the com.
miflaries for the eftablilhment of the ad mini lira
tive Alleinblies of the department of Gar, and to
charge them to do their utmost to maintain peace
and good order in the city, and to call in the af
filtance ofthe National Militia, and other mili
tary corps if neceflary, and declaring the Munici
pality ofNifmes deprived for a time of that part
oftheir functions.
A celebrated artilV having presented 10 the
Afiembly a fine bull of M. Roulleau ; it was im.
mediately placed opposite to where those of
Franklin and Washington were intended to be
fixed. The resemblance is striking.and ftrong'y
expreflive of the genius and misfortunes of that
great man.
Wednesday, June S3.
The business of moment this day in the Mem -
bly, was a debate on the provision to 1m fettled
on the dignified Clergy nowcxiiling.— Mr Tliou
ret proposed a plan of a decree on a fcmewhat
larger scale than that of the Committee :—The
following articles were ultimately decreed.
Art. I. From the fiilt of January, 1790, the
provilion to Archbilhops and Sifhopsnowexifting;
(hall be as follows, viz. Tliofe whose revenues
do not exceed 12,000 livres, ihall remain as they
are
11. Those whole revenues exceed that sum to
a certain extent, shall enjoy 15,000 livres ; bat
the maximum is fixed at 30,000livres, theArck
biihop of Paris only accepted, who shall have
75,000 livres.
111. The Aarchbifnops and Bishops shall conti
nue, as usual, to enjoy the pofleffion of their hou
ses and gardens, situated in their Episcopal Ci:y
ov Suburbs.
Friday, June 2J.
" The National Afl'embly, confidenng that the
sale of the National Domains is the best method
ofextinguifhing a great part of the Public Debt,
of giving life to industry and agriculture, of in
creating the general mass of National wealth, by
the division of property into many parts, auiode
tending much to public improvement by the ta_
cility it gives to private citizens to become pro
prietors thereof, Decree, That all the National
Domains, of which the enjoyment has not been
reserved to the King, ihall, with the exception of
Forefbs, be alienated byvirtueof, and conformi
ty to the regulations of theprefent Decree."
The late Decree in favor of the Conquerors of
the Baflile having given rife to fouie jealousies
in Paris, a deputation from 863 of those heroes
appeared at the bar, to make a voluntary facrifice
ot the Decree in their favour, in order to prs
- the peace of the city. This was accepted.
Monday, July 19-
The Afl'embly were informed, by a letter from
M. Necker, that the Republic of Geneva had
madeofler to supply the territory of Gex, which
was reduced to extreme scarcity, with a quantity
of grain, and, at the fame time, had generously
j renewed their proposal of a patriotic contribute
M. Houdon, a celebrated artist, presented to
the AHcmbly the buds of WafliingtonandFranlt
lin.
I he Members were much pleased with tlus
mark of his refpe<t, and appoin' ed the Fref;Jf n J
to express to hiin their fatisfatfipn.
Tuesday, June 22\ _ BER L t June 19.
T ? 0n «!i p y " faid ' to havc declar-
X ed, tha.he is ready to return all the places
taken from the Turks to them again, provided
he is not depr.ved ot a village of his own here
fifPoland °" S " H 'f has objection
(if Poland approves of it) that Dantzlc, Thorn
tn°Pr\ Wn . h , tl j eir Wtrirts, (hould be ceded
of p '" ovlded " dld not put him (-the Kin«■
Hungary) to any expcnce. ,
This declaration, it is r a fy tQ Ipelieve, comes
'pon our court rather unawares, particularly as
the Porte.is perfectly fatisiied with the above pro
posals ofthe Hungarian Monarch, and declines
our mediation, by which the Grand Si«r„i or was
dJoff e r g nr C R 7 BelS " Jc - This ' t0 & eth 'r with
the ofti_r of Ruflia to return every thing they have
taken back again to the Porte, except the Crimea
makes it easy to forefee that the Congress, which
is to open the 21ft, will find many matters of i m
portance to discuss, and many different iiuerelts
to conciliate.
LONDON, June ii.
Extras of a letter from Paris, June 6.
ThU ft. laft « ing the feftival called the
tlv - lp K,n S' I ft. uee ? and National Alfem
f°ot ' frt »» lhe Thuil-
Icrtes to the church oi Sr. Germain Auxerrois
Oreat numbers of the National Guard were un-
UUnP ° n ° C r Caflon ' and tUe concourse
°t Ipertators was unusually great. The peoole
exprefled theu pleasure and loyalty by loud cries
of Long hv; the K„,g. Those of Long iL th■: Qj Ce:n
nTon Q T7 f h ,C M imer '7 hile the acclanl atioi)s
in honoi of the Marquis de la Fayette, were per
haps greater than either. This Commandant of
the National Guards is highly esteemed by the
Parisians, and he deserves ro be so, as no doubt
the tranquility of the dry is much owinjr to his
judicious exertions—For these ten days past a
perfect calm has reigned at Paris ; but the Pro
vinccs are far from being equally quiet. In Ie
Chatoloisa number of levellers have endeavored
to eltabl.ih an agrarian law, and when the ac
counts came away, had already began to maik
out the landed property. At Lyons the populace
have hung a young man who was detected pick
nig pockets, with the handkerchiefs he had jutt
before ltolen. At Nantz, in Brittany, there lias
alio been a tumult, in which several persons
were killed and wounded .-—And at B.iyoime,
three ofthe National Guard have been aflair.nai
ed by an officer of the regiment of Angoumais,
whole trial is now going on. However, it is hop.
Ed, that this fermentation will gradually fubfule,
the body of the nation being ltrenuous in the
support cf the National Allbmbly, asappears from
V' e . ,ne f nn £ of 49,000 delegates of the Nat ional
Ajkmbly ai Lyons, on the 30th of May, who rc
preiented five hundred thousand, and Avoie io
die or to btjrte. There have been similar meet
ings, iho 111 (mailer numbers, at Dejon, Auxerre,
&c. Nevertheless, there is still a very confide™'
ble number of enemies of the revolution called
Anftocratics ; many more indeed, than there
were in the firft moment ofenthufiafm, that over
turned the old government. This 1 conceive
may be attributed to several reasons.—Many be
gin to feel and repent the facrificcs they made in
the momentary fervor of patiiotifm ; many
others who offered to make them, are disappoint
ed by those offers being accepted. All thole who
wish tb fhengthen equivocal titles to nobility are
ariltocratics ; and all who desire to find an ex
cuse for not iubferibing to the patriotic contribu
tion, pi-offer themselves so whether they are or
not. It is the number of these persons that con
tributes to spread through Europe the lo(id cries
against the measures of the National AfTembly,
and to make the world believe, that the present
ills by which France is afßidied proceed from their
operations, rather than f.om the former vicious
form of government, though upon a fair enquiry
it fhonhl i'eem that the contrary is the cafe
" There is a noble paflage in M. Necker's late
men:ol ial to the Narional Aflembly, that may
merit trie attention of the makers of penal laws,
and of juries who decidi on life and death.
" Who, fays he, " fliall dare to determine the
value of tlie life of a single man who falls a vic
tim to injti(l:ce ?•—ln such calculations there are
no known l ules to go by, nor do I know that
man upon earth who has a right to lay them
down."
Lord Mansfield, 111 his decay, feels the grada
tions without any acutenefs of pain. Lady Stor
monr, with an affetftion that is exemplary, omits
Jiot for a day that consolation and comfort which
her co.'Tiprtny can give him—She drives her own
photon daily to Caen Wopd, to enjoy as long as
polfible ths fight offo venerable a relation.
The King of Hungary is in private life a molt
amiable character.—He is fond of his children,
and i'uperinter.ds inperlon their education.
The following instance is given of his good
sense and generofiry :—On liisarrival at Vienna,
he caused a lift to be made out of those who were
■detained in the prisons of that city. Not content
with reftm ing their liberty, he gave them also
a supply of money. *' It is not enough, said he,
that we make them free, we must take care that
or beohr n °. C ? eCO,nea £ ainbu "lenfoineto Society
or be obliged from want to commit crimes."
th~ Iw'V f,?" a j°«"» c yn.aii carpenter in
. Borough fold a woman that he had cohabited
with for five years to a brother chip for half a
guinea and a gallon of porter. The man set off
with his parchafe, which turned out to'be a ve
ry ortunate one, as the woman a few days aftei
had a legacy left her of I jool. by a deceased re
Tuesday. ihropfhlre - The / w ere married last |
ANNAPOLIS, September 2.
E xtrad of a Utter from Lijbon, ef the 2 9 tb ofjunt.
"7* C, J ° P °f wlleat in this kingdom proves
be ftand nioft abundant one we have liad for
many years ; the fame in Spain, and all over
" P^ ac s 15 li kely to be lafling,- as the advices
trom Spain mention matters to be fettled with
Great-Britain."
ELIZABETH TOWN, September 8.
The PRESIDEN T of the United States has been
pleased to appoint, Robert Morris, Judge for the
diftrjcftof New-Jersey, in tW of the Hon
David Brearly, deceased.
BOSTON) September 4.
* Ir - J° B c °mstock, we are told, is chosen a
federal Representative for Rhodelfland.
PHILADELPHIA, September 6.
The Prefidcnt of the United Stales, during hisfhort (lay in (his
C't}, leci iveil every maik of rcfp ft, attention, and affection to
OHhVlatt'r tbe public or individuals could demonstrate ■
th»f' we cannot om,t mentioning an elegant fHcChambetrc
fjmilv on'sT 'V"? *" u^r,ous P ei f°nage, hisatniableconfort and
ivTmn'r 0 j 37 ' 3 ' 1 / on the banks ofthe Schuylkill, in the hi-h
---onvT.c ° f MCffrS - Criy ' h * ' " Umb " of
iadir, .i company, amounting to near two hundred,
fai Jn gentlemen, afTeinbled about two o'clock, and at three
fto'7!' ° V^P'" 0 " 5 « nd ctfld collation in wh.ch
Iruits : W°r Wcrcglv^ n fonhe P re P»«tions,) all viands and
f f aflembled, and elegantly arranged. A
cellem f P 1 aurin g th = "P'ft. "d attheclofe, several ex
cellent song, were sung, and the following toasts were drank.
• ■ The United Stares.
2- Liberty and good government, to the French Nation.
3- nations in alliance with the United States.
4. M„y the people of the United States, be as sensible of the
r P rtlc,lt Couftitution as Khey were of the defects
o» »nci r former one.
Thcft -"col Pennsylvania, and prosperity to its new form
of governme nt. 6 . Few U„ well executed.
Hero Patriot be always blended in theChai-acter ofthe
~' c V 'fe-Prefident and other officers of the Union
9- The Fair, and the Brave.
io. May the Tingle be married, and the married happy,
n. Population, agriculture, manufactures, and commerce.
12. Ihe arrs, and sciences.
1 he Prcfidrnt and the ladies then wirhdiew ; when the follow,
ng toaii was drank with loud plaudits.
1 3* Inc Illustrious Thavillus !
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER n.
By the late legations and decree* of the National Affemblv
u" areobi, g et! torefide in their refpeaive parishes— whc
tner Bilhops, Vicars, Rectors, Deans or Prieftt; this law of re
lidcnce is calculated to remedy one of the greattft abufcs ever imi
or,fed on mankind ; that the people ii.ould be taxed for the sup
port of persons they never saw or derived any induction from is
an outrage on common feufe; the abolition of tvihe. completes
Innovation and reformation of Church polity in
Nothing can ihore flrongly mark the eligible state of society in
the United States, then the small number ol criminal causes that
art brouglw lor trial before the courts of judicature*. When this
country u brought into comparison with Great Britain, there is
perhaps no circumftjucc which (hews the relative character of the
two countries in a flrotijjer light, than the number of criminals
that are executed in each. If m that country there are, for exam
ple, ten times as many executions according to the number of in
habitants, as in this, may it, or may it not, be inferred, that the
uate ot locicty is tin times more depraved there than-here ? i
It must afford pleafurc, lo every friend of the real prosperity of
this city, to obfeive the great improvements which aie taking
in the Itrecu and buildings. The new pavements in many
of the ltrei ts add efTentially both to their convenience and elegance,
nr.d it appeals almost incredible, to a person who has been !ix
vcars absent from the city, and now returns, to find the numerous
buildings that have beeu crectcd in various parts of the city ; and
the valuable repairs 011 the Wharves and public buildings. These
circuit)ftaqces denote the profpeiity ot individuals, as well as the
public-fpinied ardor of thole gentlemen who have the manage
meet ot the public affairs appenaining to this city. In short, the
ditterence between the general appearance now, and fix years past,
excite the highest admiration in all who ftrictl) notice it.
PT CAUTION.
THE Kinth, Tenth, Eleventh, Mid Twelfth lections of the
Act of the last sessions of Congress, entitled " An Act to provide
" more effectually for the collection of the Duties imposed by
" Law on Goods, Wares and Merchandize, imported into the
" United States, and on the Tonnage" ot Ships or Vessels," res
pecting Mani rtiio'i, call for the particular attention of owners
and masters of vessels.
It will readily occur, that when the boats, for the protection
of the revenue, mentioned in the same Act, (hall kave been prepar
ed, (which it is to be presumed will be in the course of the present
year) the strict execution of the regulations, contained in those
sections, will be indispensable.
At the Isle of France, (India) Capt. William Pionikon, of
Newpoit.
At Roofegill, (Virginia) Ralth Wohm ly, Esq. aged 75 vears;
At Stratford, in the fame state, Mrs. Matilda Lei, wifeo'f Col.
Henry Lee.
At Kent Island, (Maryland) Miss Namcy Gist, daughter of
Ms. Jofuh Gift.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements 12/10.
Indents jfz. a
State Securities y.
591
DEATHS.
CAUSE OF THE DIVERSITY OF MANKIND
JN ev'ry fouJ, 'tis said, are seen the rife
And feeds of ev'ry virtue ev'ry vice :
'JHe careful man, fay they a survey s Ins lo: ; '
Drefles and cultivates his Jittle spot ;
Watches each virtuous tendril as it lhoot;,
Plucks up the hurtful brier by the foots ;
This, quoth the idle one, is fcarcc fair play,
Nature, heav'n's proxy, ought to have her way.
Mark thenth' event, one's culture bringeth forth
The vulgar man, t'other's the man of worth.
ARRIVALS SINCE OURLAST. NEW.YORK.
Brig Recovery, Irish, Cape-Francois, 16 days.
Aurora, Tweed, Hallifax, 12.
Rambler, Mulholland, Madeira, 42.
William, Reading, Cape de Verd , 42
Sloop (N. Y.) Packet, Corvin, Philadelphia, 4.
PRIZES
IN THE NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
Prizes of 41. drawn on Thursday Sept. 2.
No. 209 3 i 9l 6422 9651 12696 14804 17601 842
3«4 618 849 012 285 226 so 602
336 407 715 893 431 616 287 402
9 45' 7«j 55' 73' 125 7,6 468
°5- 2 54 034 993 7 , 2 , 6 g
'49 434 939 Bt,8 t , 674 28. 085
10 553 '' l 837 15991 921 928
050 728 7829 .33 Bz, 3T 6 524 825
739 7'7 276 636 985 4 g o , 168 008
4555 209 .0638 953 8 g
457 952 35' 815 984 a O2 L, 047
376 884 687 8 3s ? 8j 4 9 : 1% 2, '
'g 9 7.« 490 .84 692 Jh
869 394 406 384 738 ego 18082 341
554 7,2 175 756 628 4ql 109 6l+
085 226 s'« 2 5 6 ui 346 Dai qiS
992 33' 937 £88 1385, ,g 945 184
5>2 403 126 816 272 4 g 3 , " 0 0 3
08 23 6 c 7 * 6 f 239 203 663 045
989 40» 260 748 852 853 ~o ,74
998 5°50 42° 646 6c 5 565 3 88
260 93 J. 8° 7 ° fi 49 416 528 *4
26:7 500 8 43 3 640 395 792 762 yifi
962 909 2,3 8.9 332 109 19495 696
*95 545 250 1.005 860 334 4?3 6 ; 8
fion 7 i 3 374 135 9 8 7 '-83 685
"9 577 184 493 642 toy 007 8.2
907 9 0 2 984 3°s o% %i y 0
363 040 530 355 3.8 o6s g 55
IQ7 Kfifi "I 4 fi 359 768 188 734
197 866 036 969 4 - 0 943 pj6
7 i~ '55 22 3 14608 302 497 689
4 5 335 95 2 1 >93 358 706 987
4'3 93. 498 377 843 787 U
264 83. 239 ' 502 384 423 S7O
-Biq It* 377 071 5 68 °47 22122
38 9 699 293 466 779 .7579 733 80c)
4 5 "6 367 418 5 6g 378 517 89
»?6 976 8J 4 12387 68a io 3 383
5 4 6 " 8 133 648 c s o 840
22308 2372. 23200 235,4 23485 *439* a 4445 =43 5 6
754 480 455 ,53 ? , 5 409 g i 66
416 o?6 i 9 f' 7 47 f 6 J° 488 ijx
-6 3H 498 496
Friday*
'*■ .3a "* ■<»»?
452 033 6470 T 3 °, 5 4 S l s \ * 12 2 5»
B>3 918 08, 6j« 9 947
8 2 5 '73 596 4' 2 -88 100 6 5 1 51
558 7'B 45° <. j2 22 g l6 ® 4'4
o'3 602 518 c(j 3 ojj 5 2 55 4 6 9
876 706 196 000 i« 674 202 55 070
813 3734 509 224 J. 5 '37 50i
323 S«3 501 36l 3 J »36 so
984 385 452 10.45 1264 7 , ?" ® 92 644
830 £ 08 ?49 '30 620 ,9? At
2 34 830 7677 479 0,6 68. o«
■°« •" ™ 1% Si IS
"t I" »i "•»
73? 6B 7 4 i6 y7l c * ®«3 971
355 9°7 735 578 6 ,„ , 4 ' o 066
700 444 9.0 449 079 9 ° *° 01
207 .13 380 742 , * '35 .537
949 43 'O 634 on 11 *35 *°9
OS3 979 702 940 o, Q 3 9 ?3
2 7ti 55 ti 3° 6 fc«a 808 542 22 5®9
925 2 59 587 46a ? 9 o 9^ 3 « 6
151 812 825 77. 49 ° 467 725
9,9 60. 8.33 820 7b7 3 872
084 693 790 009 Jf o «48 0,7
o, 9 3.2 472 250 g 2l 3 b 9 b
543 5554 7°3 635 3g 4 "3324
974 3-4 990 793 29, 9 74 T
21.4 590 .'4 .2465 57 2 g ' 8 5
73' 433 39i 900 666 680 Xo?
206 .07 880 023 759 ig J '°
025 327 0.7 ,69
944 676 765 855 1657 g
7 885 $95 366 933 985
Saturday.
9 ,s 5674 1054. 13775 .5.17 20,5, B , stl
542 695 029 708 3660. 64Q 827
2.. 12 7 7 22 036 674 .13 929
2! 5 6351 .60 ,4675 030 855 Q„
43° 0.8 437 374 1? „ 691 97^
.050 065 374 ,3, 211 9 95
20 £° '434 ".29 372 402 057 247 4
083 2,4 93, 478 ,8490 888 59?
682 026 965 587 396 41t 59
955 593 966 ,93 563 2197 6 S 3 £
67, 864 79 o 4 0 3 og 54
2 33 83,3 4 b ß 123 i9# 5 347
7.5 300 12380 0,3 465 $ 9 953
9 8q 354 35056 80, lA
3'® 528 972 574 350 4
530 eB 9 4 58 3,9 646 22538
487 936 2 308 0 97 334 53 .
066 220 13005 ?74 116
4880 509 126 356 693 2 Xf
026 8:i 862 4 9 ! 'ft
5458 155 937
(Concluded.)1 '*
DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
NO. XIX. —CONCLUDSD.
Mais fun etl'autre Guifc out eu moins de fcrupulc.
chcfs ambiticuK d'un peuple trop credulc,
Couvrant leurs mterets de l'inteiet des cieux
Out conduit dans le piegc un pcuple furieux.
EAGLE EY£D, high foal'd ambition, feldam
mifles its opportunity. TheGuife3 refolvcd
to profit of a conjuncture so advantageous to ce
ment and increase their power, by causing the
fall of ilieir rivals to promote their own eleva
tion, as poisons are sometimes, by uncommon
(kill converted into remedies. They entered the
King's apartments, without the knowledge of the
Queen, affecting with terror to exaggerate the
danger; they declared all was reported to be plot
ted again ft: the government, his molt faithful fub
jetfts, and his royal person. They remonstrated
to him, that the danger was imminent, that the
confpiraiors were already atthe gates of Amboife,
■with forces much more formidable and numer
ous than had been fufpeifted. Finally they de
manded orders, the promptitude and energy of
which fhpuld be proportioned to the grandeur
and proximiiy of the danger. The King, na
tSwrally timid as well as weak, and at this moment
foicibly ltricken with the greatness of the dan
ger which threatened liini, ordered the Queen,
and all his ministers to be called, toconfult on the
means proper to repress the impetuosity of so vio
lent a rebellion. Nothing was seen on all fides
but fubjetfts of terror : Every measure that was
Jjropofed appeared hazardous. The Cardinal of
Lorrain exhausted all his artifices and all his elo
quence to exaggerate the danger and increase the
irrefolntion. The king incapable of deciding,
and of fuilaining the weight of government in
tircumftances so critical, nominated, of his own
mcie motion, the Duke of Guise, his Lieutenant
General, with full and compleat authority. He
added, that not feeling himfelf adequate to art,
lie abandoned to the prudence and valor of the
Duke, the conduct of his kingdom, and the care
of appealing the troubles which agitated it.
Catharine, although Ihe felt an indignation at
this bold attempt, could not oppose it, without
an'open rupture with the Guises, in a moment
when the fafety of the State depended on their
union. She perceived the occasion there was for
a Chief, whose experience and reputation might
take place of the imbecility and irresolution of
the king, as likely to enervate the courage of his
own troops,as to increafethe insolence of his ene
mies. Monafchs the most abfolate, and even re
publics the tnoft jealous of their liberty, had of
ten conferred the fupremc authority on a iimple
man, when the greatness of dangers had appear
ed to require a refburce so extraordinary. Be
sides these views, which regarded the preserva
tion of her son and his States, she forefaw the
carnage, which could ;iot fail to be made, and
that the hatred of the Princes of the blood, and
the enmity of the people would fall necefiarily
on the Duke of Guise commanding alone, with
an absolute authority.
The integrity of the Chancellor Olivier, was
dill an obstacle ; little fatisfied that an autho
rity so unlimited fliould be granted to a subject,
he appeared to suspend hisjudginent. His credit
and firmnefs might have prolonged, ifnot defeat
ed the liicafure. The Queen Mother however
determined him, by alledging, that as soon as the
storm fliould be diflipated, they might restrain
hy new edids and frefh declarations the excelfive
power to be given to the Duke, and confine him
within the bounds of duty and reason ; that it
was the iniereft of all, that the effufion of blood
fliould be done by the l'ole orders of the Duke,
•and that neither the King, his relations, or mi
nisters, fliould appear to dip their hands in it.
The Chancellor persuaded by these reflexions,
lealcd thecominiffion, giving to the Duke of Guise
the title and authority ot Lieutenant General of
the King, in all the provinces and territories of
his obedience, with absolute power, as well in
civil as military affairs.
The Duke as soon as he hail obtained the dig
nity and authority which he had always desired,
turned his attention to suppress the conspiracy.
He made able and soldierlike arrangements for
defending the caille and village of Amboife, and
lent out parties of cavalry as well as infantry to
attack the infqrgenfs. A detail oftheir lkirmifh
es would be as little interesting, as it would be to
the purppfe we have in view. Laßcnaudie fought
■with a bravery which well became the P rot eft ant
cause, and fell with Pardaillan, his antagonist,
in the combat—though his soldiers collected in
liajle, could not Hand against veteran troops.—
A Capt. L.igniers, one of the conspirators, terri
iied at thegreatnefs of tbedanger, in the moment
of execution, or stricken with temorfe, or desir
ous of making his court, abandoned his accom
plices, and galloped by another road to Amboil'e.
He detailed to the King and Queen, the quality
and number of the conspirators, the names of their
chiefs, and the roads by which they were ap
proaching. The Prince de Conde was iinmedi
ately put under guard, by order of the king, to
hinder liiiu in any manner from favoring the
enterprise of the insurgents, as heliad pr&fmfed
them* The conspirators in fine were defeated
and dispersed. Some perished in the flames of
the houses to which they fled—others weie han
ged upon the trees in the neighbourhood, or on
the battlements of the castle. Multitudes were
maflacied in the neighbourhood of Aniboife ; the
loife was covered with dead bodies—the blooil
run in streams in the ltreet—and the public pla
ces were filled with bodies hanging on gallows s.
The punishment of these inilerable men, tor
mented by the soldiers, and butchered by execu
tioners—feverities,which the Guises, thought ne
cellary, became the source of carnage, and of ri
vers of blood, which deluged France for many
years in a' rnoft tragical and deplorable manner.
FROM THE CHARLESTON CITY GAZETTE.
AS there are various accounts refpedtlng Mr.
M'Gillivray, the famous Chief of the
Creek Indians, the following iliort flcetch may
be depended on, it being related by one of his
old fchool-fellows About the year 1759, Alex
ander M'Gillivray, then a yonth of 10 years of
age, was sent by his father from the Creek na
tion to this city, and committed to the care ot
Mr.Farquhar M'Gillivray,arelation of his father's
by whom he was placed under the tuition of Mr.
George Sheed, who was then, and now is an emi
nent tnjrli/h master, having adled in that capacity
upwards of forty years in this city, with great re
putation. He was taught the latin language by
Mr. William Henderfon, one of the masters of
the free school, and who was lately one of the
Critical Reviewers in London. At theageof 17,
Mr. M'Gillivray was sent to Savannah, and pla
ced in the counting-house of General Elbert—he
was afterwards some time in the house of Mellrs
Alexander Ingles and Co. During his apprentice
fliip he was so fond of study that he devoted
much more of his time to reading of liiftory than
tothe acquisition of mercantile knowledge. On
this representation being made to his father, he
was sent for to the Creek nation, since which he
has been raised to his present exalted ftarion, his
countrymen, the Creeks, having chosen him their
king; and his Catholic Majelty, having, it is
said, promoted him to the rank of a Brigadier
General in his service. His letters, which have at
different times been made public, plainly evince
the ltrength of his understanding—and his gener
al character, as a man of undaunted courage and
unblemished integrity, is very generally agreed
on by such as have had the pleasure o'f his ac
quaintance. '
Newport, (R. I.) August 20, 1790.
ADDRESS
OF THE MASTFR, \yARbFNS, AND BRETHREN OF
KING DAVID'S LODGE.
TO GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
WE the Master, Wardens, and Brethren of
King David's Lodge, in Newport, Rhode-
Island, joyfully embrace this opportunity, to
greet you as a Brother, and to hail you welcome
to Rhode-Island.
We exult in the thought, that as Malonry lias
always been patronized by the wife, the good,
and the great, so hath it stood, and ever will
Hand, as its fixtures are on the immutable pillars
of faith, hope and charity.
With unspeakable pleasure, we gratulate you
as fiTling the Presidential Chair, with the ap
plause of a numerous and enlightened people—
wliilft at the fatne time, we felicitate ourselves
in the honor done the Brotherhood, by your ma
ny exemplary virtues, and emanations of good
ness proceeding from a heart worthy of pofleffing
the ancient mysteries of our Craft,being persuad
ed that the wisdom and grace, with which Hea
ven has endowed you, will ever fqutre all your
thoughts, words and a&ions by the eternal laws
of honor, equity and truth; so as to promote
the advancement of all good works, your own
happiness, and that of mankind. Permit us then,
illuttrious Brother, cordially to salute you, with
Three times Three, and to add our fervent (appli
cations, that the Sovereign Architect of the Uni
verse may always en-comj>afs you with his holy
protection.
MosesSeixas, Majler, l
Henry Sherburne, J
By Order, William Littlefield, Secry.
Newport, Augujl 17, 1790.
TO THE MASTER, WARDENS AND BRETHREN OF
KING-DAVID S LODGE, IN NEWPORT, RHODE-ISLAND.
GENTLEMEN,
I RECEIVE the welcome which you give me to
Rhode-Island with pleasure—and 1 acknow
ledge my obligations for the flattering exprefli
ons of regaid contained _iji your address with
grateful sincerity.— persuaded that a jnft
application of the principles on which the Ma
sonic Fraternity is founded, mult be promotive
of private virtue and public prosperity, I {hall
always be happy to advance the iiiterell of the
Society, and to be considered by them as a de
serving Brother.—My best wishes, Gentlemen,
:ye offered for your individual happiness.
592
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
PRICE CURRENT- MEW-YORK.
SEPTEMBER ,o-
Jamaica Spirits, 5/6.
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a 5/.
St. Croix, do. 4JB.
Country, do. 3/3
Molasses, 2jß'
Brandy, *J.
Geneva, 5/6.
Do. in cases, <pf.
Muscovado Sugar, 80s. a 72/.
Loaf, do. 1/4.
Lump, do. iAj.
Pepper, 3/
Pimento, 1 f6.
Coffee, 1/3. 1/4.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3_/I a 6f-
Do. French, tB/. 10f.
•lice, 26/.
Supwfine Flour, 54f. \
Common do. 46/.
Rye do. a 28f.
Indian Meal, 18/T 20/ I
Rve, 5/. pr. bujk.
Waeat, 8/*. a sj.
Corn, (Southern) 3/6.
Do. (Northern,) 4
Beef, firft quality, oof.
Pork, firft. quality,
Oats, 2/2.
Flax-feed, 4/6.
Ship bread per cwt. 2if. 24./.
Country refined > fl ,
bar-iron, ) u
Do. bloomery, 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Russia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10f. a gl.
Oerman steel, 9*.per lb.
Nails American, by calk. ) 14^-
per. Ib. 4d. >
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd.
Do. do. do. iod.}
Do. do. do- i2d.fl, RX j
Do. do. do. 5 2
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot dfli, per tor, 40!. 16f.
Pearl aih, 571.
Bees-wax per lb. 2/2.
Mackaiel per barr. 26f. & 3of.
Herrings, 18\f. 16f
Mahogany, Jamaica, )
per foot, 5
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchipped,pT.toti. 81.
Do. chippid. 141.
2 inch white oak ) , IQ ,
plank, per m. ) J
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plat):, 81.
i£ inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. \of.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
Do. 22 inch do. 11. Bf.
Cedar 2 inch do, 11. 10/"
iA inch do. 61. lof.
l inch do. 4!.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. 8/!
Cyprus 2 feet ftiingles, 11. 1 of.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers as the STATE LOTTERY, prcCent the Public
with the Fnrft C'afs of the Majf<xhnfctts fcni-dnnual State Lot
tery, which will commence drawing in the Reprcfcntatirts* Chamber,
in Boftorr, on the Seventeenth of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets shall be disposed of.
SC H E ME
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25",ooo Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lubjettto*
deduct ion of ttvclte and an half per cent, for the use of the Com
monwealth,
Prizes.
i oT
&
3
6
10
3°
8o .
90
IQO
I to
161
£00
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
$T TICKETS may be had of the several Managers,
pay the Prises on demand—of the TREASURER o'
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin 1-*" >
Couft-Slrect, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COEB,
SAMUEL COOPER, } Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—and entered, upon immediately, until the Jift °f
THATelegant new TWO* STORY BRICK HOUSE» in Je
Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robekt
Livingston, deceased ; it has seven Fire Places wu
Cellar under the whole House—a convenient out-Hou e
ha CoiCh " Houfe '
(2 w. t. f.) Cerfirttm Dock.
NOTICE.
IC7 7 ' 4LL ferfons having demands *
Household of the PRESIDENT of the Untied M""*
are re que fled to exhibit their accounts for fettle*™,
at his late Dwelling i* Broad-Way, before the i jl»
of September. 179°*
Dollars at Bs.
Do. 22 inch do. xl. $/.
Do. iB. inch do. iS/
3utt white oak staves,
Pipe do. do. 9 1. ™ 1 '
Hogffcead" do. do. 61. tof
Do. do. heading, 81,
Irish. barrel do. staves, 41.
HoglHead red oak do. c[.
Do. French do. ''
HogQiead hoops, 41..
Whiteoak square timber )
per square foot, C lo ®'
Red wood, per ton, 181.
Fufl-ick, 101.
Beaver, per lb. 15f. a i 6 /4
Ot( r per flcin, 9f. yj.
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4/io.
Racoon, 3J6 a 7/6.
Muflcrat, lOtt.ai^d.
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 34^.
Cocoa. 70s a 80[
Cotton, 2f.
Tar, pr. bar. 18J.
Pitch, 14^
Turpentine, 22/. a
Tobacco, James River, Aj.aoU.
DO. York, 4 i. a 3J.
Do. Rappahanock, 2d a $£</.
Do. Maryland, coloured, Ud.
Do. Weftern-lhore, ii a
Lead in pigs, prewt. 6of.
Do. bars, 68'</.
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 68f.
White do. dry, g
White do. in oil, 5/. jj
Salt-petre hams, yld.
Spermaceti candles, g\f.
Mould do. 11 d. a 3j.
Tallow dipt, gid.
Soap, tjd. a Bd.
Cailile soap, gd. a icd.
Englilh cheese, pr. lb. 15/.
Country do. $d. 61L
Butter, 10 d.
Hyson tea, gf.
Sequin do. 6f6.
Bohea do. 2f].
Giufeng, 2f. a 2f3.
Starch Poland, Bd.
Snuff, 2/3.
Allum fait, water mea- )
fuf.e, pr. bulh. )
Liverpool do. 2J.
Madeira wine, ) M u
pr. pipe, J *
Port, 4 8/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. (J
TenerifF, 4f.
Fya". a/3-
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. gJ6
Dutch gun-powder,
Nail rods, pr. ton, 34/, $1.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4/
Whale do. pr.baneJ, 5006,1#
Mi**
i;xa»
fiooa
1666*
ft**
Dtl/ars.
10000 »
3000 »ft
2000
1000
«°°
too
JO®
c»
4"
3°
20
8
50C0
6oo«
8oo»
45°°
4006
3 60t
3 JS»
£00»
60680