&az((U
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 4:, BRC&D.STREET, NEAR THE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
[No. 43, C f Vol. 11. j
philosophical reflections
ON THE LATE
REVOLUTION IN FRANCE,
and thi conduct or f P r >mitive church re vi ve, and the present raci
THE DISSEN TERS IN ENGLAND. of diflenters are the objedis of this wrath. Sucl
concluded. pious fervency was never equalled, ?xcept by th<
11 experiments in every branch of medical phi- orthodox zeal of the planters at Jamaica, who a
l lofophy were pursued on a liberal and com- bout a century ago, petitioned King Willian
ireheniive plan, new fot\rces ofknowledge would "to bani/h the Jews from that i and, becau(<
be opened lor our contemplation, and the evils they were the descendants of the ci acifiers of oui
of life greatly alleviated. The late Dodor John Lord."
ion's (peculations on this fubjedt were new and " will to the eftablifhtnent,' mult in al
curious, {remember when tin " hemr of fend- ' belong to r r* . if he be ar
ing Swilstrowp* to tbe i%a.i indit3 »>"•** uiik.-CT^i, 1 u v*" l " 'r l ' -jjsjaie ; " th<
a person in conversation censured it, bfcaufe on n,an himfelt all the while belie- -.j he is doinj;
foreign service they are liable to the malaite du God and his country service, ani! the harm h<
pays, and often languish away their lives, unless n,a y d o under this notion, will be only so mucl
they are permitted to return home. The Docftor t ' l f more, the greater we suppose his virtue ant
asked, whether there were any Scotch regiments abilities.'' This impressive truth (. :nnot buthavc
in India ?On being anfweredin the affirmative, S ,ta t weight with the public, wlmto the mora
<* Let the Switzers, then," said he, "be inocula- character of the diflenters is confi: ered ; if the}
ted with the Scotch, and, rely on't, the disease were vicious and profligate, then would be lef
wiJl never reach them." danger.
But, Sir, notwithstanding the strong symptoms ' c was confidently, indeed, alfe'ted in debate
of our approaching ruin, 1 rejoice to lee a revi- by Mr. I 1 ox, that "it was neither ast nor candic
■val of our ancient spirit. The corporation and to charge the diflenters with defi -ns which botl
test adts have not been repealed ; tife infurrec- their condudt and profeflions com adict. Onthi;
tion,irrelfgion, and anarchy, would have been the fallacious ground," fays he, " e\.?ry species ol
conlequence. 1 hole acts are our defence against persecution, from the maftacre ofS .Bartholomew
the encroachments of non-conformity i they are down to the corporation and test a»it, may be jufti
the shield ofonr faith,which protedts us against the fied. Such arguments are clea !y erroneous,
darts of fanaiicifm. What is the pre'byterian yet they are alwaysfct oft by this fubdolous ora
plea of merit ? The ftorin that overturned the tor with such delusive ability, en.-tgy of expref
state was raised by you ; otherwise we fliould fi° n > an d imposing candor, that they too ofter
have enjoyed at this moment the blefled calm oi* make a fatal imprellion on the house. Hence his
arbitrary power ; for it was a meritorious device powers of deception s his pofitiotis being frequent
in the clergy to convert, by a species of political 'X admitted as true, even on point' Of law and the
tranfubftantiation, that implicit obedience they practice of the courts, though contrary to th<
owed the pope, into an unlimited allegiance to opinion ol the moll eminent lawj Trs, who gene
the king : " And thus," fays the sarcastic Dodtor neglect or disdain to answer him. Yet, ir
Kurd, " arose in the church that) pernicious defiance oi thjs logic, 11 .11 fay, that tlx
fyfleni of divine indefealiblc right, broached in- protestant diflenters have entere into a 1 oleum
deed by the clergy, but no: from thafe corrupt 'eague and covenant to deltroy o: r civil and ec
and temporary views to which it has been impu- clsnaltical establishment j oecauf. I would do fc
led." Sir John Maynard betrays the vimlencc of ' l! a himlar situation ; therefore ■, hate and per
a whitr, in his answer This apology," fays ' ec Ote them, perfectly convince' I fliould merit
«e, it I.uUI Le mudc ?c. * treatment- wyWf* kit this ftridtly
but when one considers the baneful tendency of I tonilting tuac divine prec*j>c,o« d«in-tv^l
tliofe doctrines which were calculated to enslave what I would they should do unto me ? T"! 115 m "
the fouls and consciences of men, and, by advanc- * erllal convidhan, (as Hobbes finely observes)
ine princes into the rank of gods, to juftify their from the very constitution of human nature, inult
tyranny, one cannot help feelinga strong refe.it- °P era « Wronger on me than either the condudl
inent against the teachers of them, however they or profeffions of the diflenters. Allow me to elu
themfelves might be imnofed on by fcveral color- c,date t,ns , b X , 3 fat ! l,ha, J inft f l,c *, 5 .— I L " us su P"
-ible pi eteuies * pole a criminal arraigned at the Old Baily ; may
' 'it is my boali, Sir, to have already demonftra- "oc thejuryconfcieniioufly conclude, that if thej
ted the eHernial benefits resulting from despotism I,ad been |» situation with the pnfoner
and persecution, and to havefliewn the hierarchy ould committed the/<«r # came ; and
in a true light, confidently laboring to promote therefore find hnn guilty though contrary both
both: I therefore trull thole unfounded afper- to fa«a and evidence, and notmthftand.qg tb«
fions which have unguardedly dropt from the culprit sfolemnaffcve.ation of his innocence,
pen of the Bishop of Worcester, will have little this principle I joi» .(Tue withiMr. Fox, and
weight with the candid reader. Let us how ad- Wlth him that the fame orthodox argumen.
vert to the conduct of the dilfenters at that criti- Ojecies of perfecot.or ; therefore
cal period—lt is thus described by Mr. Hume, 1 have niade " the f°«»dation ofallmy reafon
with whiggifh rancour, and fanatical partiality : "•«<"» th ' s misrepresented and mistaken fubjetf
" Any or writing which tended towards The example of Ireland has been alledged, a«
heresy, schism, or sedition," lays he, « was pun- a triumphant instance of no bad conference,
ifhed by the high commiflioners, or any three of havi "S ensued from a repeal of the tell ad ; bui
them. They alone were jadgespf whatever ex- '«> a fatisfadtory answer has beengivet
pveflions hnd thou tendency ; They proceeded not the ,f u^ or of f th < C '{' f ht . D f"
bv information, but upon rumour, suspicion, or ' Jhe repeal of the Ir.fh test a«ft in . 779
according to their own fancy! The puritanical was probably, fays he, occasioned by th<
party, though disguised [men of clofi ambition,] dr r ea< ! ° f f S Pf n,fn mvafion But what is the tru,
,1 „ . ■ nle of Ireland s example i Eleven years are 1101
had a very sireat authority over the kingdom ;— r r j
and many of the leaders among the commons had >'« P assed °! er h the „ e P eal ook P lac f/ .I;
embraced the tenets of that fe«ft. All these were the «P cal c . f l . he test art J uft ' fie . d as . a P°. ht,ca
disgusted with the court, both by the prevalence ; " eal " rc . °/ ,S ' t "° t \ by h T e P Prr r e h fent fi ( i aat, ° n 0
of civil liberty tfntial to their party, and on ac- thechurch and kingdom ? Let the question sleep
c 1 ! a Lui~u its difcuflion mient be more unpleasant than i
count or the teitraints under which they were c D ,/*> * o ■ ' »
•.111 . /1 » T/i j u* . , »» tu -lu- could be prontable. Jaut let Ureat tfrttatn aware.
held by the eftabhfhed hierarc. y rhus hev.r- e J tremel lad that Dwftor H . has boldb
tuous aufter.ty of ArchbiJoP■ Laod, "d the no- n , y al ,J e | tQ the treasonable negocia
iha en attar line 1 5 P P. -. tion carried 011 between Spain and the Diflenter;
fatally counteracled by the rebelliousdiipoiition rr7lA • u r r
V, J »-\r . 1 > r n 14, r . 1 ofUlfter, in 1770, as the Iriih feClaries are ven
of the diflenters ; otherwise we fliould have had . . 9 j i- . j • n-i w
' irritable, and fore on this tender point. Tin
jin holy mquifitorial tribunal to tfratch over our - . 9 r , , , K Ar ,
«I 1 u«#ijr 1 • fad: is, that a synod, denominated the Northen
- and regulate our conlcicnces, at this day. . Ja . D^ir a n A r
-r i u ' • ij • r Ai\nciatton, was allembled at Belfalt, and fom<
flnoraia, then, that you are held in ab r. ' A „ , c ,
Is k Airpr.ii.. "-vnuaries of thechurch .' They propofit.ons actually moved, for delivering n,
horrenceby tl.e - heir lethargy ; the- no tUe P rov ' nee and llnen mam^ u , re 10 S P a,n (
lvave been roused from c ' ' / jf government any longer opposed the repeal oi
longer (lumber in their flat.- '" - l ' cen t he tdft It is reported, that Mr. Fletcher,
convened " from the four quarters Qt tne nea- vhQ reccnt l y saved the church and state, by dif
■vens" to stigmatise your proceedings. Ll«e tne ]oling the J rea dful conspiracy of the diflenting
Tewifli priests of old, who enjoyed the exciunve miniftersat Boston, in Lmcolnfhire.) was provi
irivilegeofblowingthefacred trumpet, Ur.H.nas dentially a mem ber of the Inlh synod ; and fe
founded an alarm from Mount S/o«, and gather- withdrawing iiimfelf fro V the allembly
ed the eleift together, to avenge themlelves or he too k po st, arrived in a few hours at Dublin
their enemies. castle, and laid this alarming intelligence before
a .Quo uon pracftantiunahus |# the Lord Lieutenant. —A council was fuddenlv
I crtM, the tods of a bill <!,»«» up and »■
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1790.
with yeuranceftors ? and do you ndt Well ilefei ve
a similar treatment ? I fee the geifffiue spirit
he pr ; - i "
excellent law beingtiien in force)
and tranfinitted to England, for a repeal ot the
telt art.—A copy wasdifparched to the fynod,en
treating them at the fame time to break oil all ne
gociation with Spain. After some debate their
requelt was complied with, and the motions of
the combined fleets in the channel became very
languid, as Count d'Orvilliers' proje<sts were ut
terly disconcerted by this wife and judicious mea
sure. The original papers, and the whole of the
correspondence between the prefiderit of the sy
nod and the Marqnif del C , I hear, will be
publiftied by Do<ftorH, as an appendix to his next:
addition of " A Review of the Cale."
Mow; Sir, permit me to ask you a plain ques
tion : Does not the church let an example to the?
diflenters how they should conduit themselves
on cafuiftica! difficulties ? Is it not perfedtly un
derstood, that numbers of the clergy ardently
wifti to be relieved from fubfeription. to the thir
ty-nine articles, and foine years ago stated their
reasons, with great force and precision, in a pe*
ticion to the house of commons Yet as the legi
slature did not think proper to comply with their
requcft, they submit patiently, and consider the.
coercion of the subsisting law as an ample juftifi
cation for their involuntary acquiescence. Tliey
conceive obedience, and holding,their living, to
be their priipary inclifpenfableduty, even on the
tenure of fubfeription to articles which they do
not believe. Yet theyftill maintain their confci.
entious objections in theory, and exhibit a lau
dable ingenuity, by reconcilingunfullied princi
ple with worldly \wifdoin.
Oaths are taken, and their obligation examined by them, with
the fame candor and fcbcrality, on the incontrovertible maxima
of moral and political philosophy, Co ably illustrated by Arch
deacon Palcy, who ftuewdly t»bfervs, u that members of Colle
ges, and other ancient foundations, are full required to swear to
the oblervance of their refpe&ivc statutes ; which observance :s
become in some cases unlawful, in others impYatticahUi in others
ujelefiy in others inconvenient.** But, if the ast you fwcar to per
form be absurd and impratticable, you are, ipfo JaEla. abfoived at
the moment you take it. So, if the cause for prescribing the oatft
originally no longer exiils, you are equally akfolvcd, as the effetfc
neceirarily ceases with the cause. If the fpccific a£ts enjoined arc
impra&icablc or absurd, you virtually and truly comply with the
genuine spirit of the oath, as far as you pollibly can ; which is the
utmost you could do, evco if ycu ftriflly arul literally fulfilled
tbev were neither absurd or impracti
cable. It may be iiivi4ioufly tfketi, then, is the utility of
such a solemn appeal to heaven ? Aod whether it would not b«
better either to form pra&icible oaths, or dispense with impra&j*
cable ones? My conllant answer is—the danger to be aporehen
ded from any innovation. Bcfides, one principal use of an
univerfit) education would be loft; which is, to inspire our in
genious youth with a due veneration for the reverend founders of
colleges, who framed both the statute and the oath. By this
students are also early acquainted with the refinement*
of logic, and the fubtilty of moral diflin&ions, and rendered Jcfs
scrupulous on trivial points, which might otherwise impede their
progreflive fortunes m life.
Thus, Sir, animated with the raoft ardent zeal for the pros per
ity and glory of Britain, I have exerted my utmofl efforts to in
spire my countrymen with a true spirit of obedience, fubmiHion,
and loyalty. The church is in danger ; the conflitution is mena
ced ; a puritanical iavagenefs of manners spreads among the peo
ple; the desponding seriousness of fanaticifm has contaminated
their hearts and infefled the land, Athcifm and democracy have
formed a new family-compact, and this new and formidable alli
ance will be our ruin : I fee nothing but clouds and darkness in
the air; for despotism has alraoft finifhed his splendid course, and.
scarce emits one refrsftcd ray, to cheer the impending gloom,
and prolong the twilight of his reign.
Liberty, as every true Englifliman knows, can only appear
" profufe of blik and pregnant withdelight," when seated on her
throne, with the crown and mitre in conjun&ion, on her head,
adorned in the sumptuous robes of the peerage, with the ted ast
in one hand, and the excise laws in the other. You will tell me,
perhaps, with republican enthusiasm, that you can admire her
dressed up in rustic simplicity, amidst the bleak mountains of
Switzerland, by a hardy peasantry ot soldiers, ferti
lizing the rocks, and turning the very (tones into bread. You
will tell me, that you can admireher in naked roving amidfk
the boundless forefts of America, diffufing her own spirit of at
traction through distant regions, and uniting them by its divine
energy ; where confcicnce is not shackled b/ bigotry ; where to
leration is profenbed, as only implying a suspension of petfrcu
tion ; where obedience to the laws is the test of allcgience, and
the virtue of the man does not stigmatize the citizcn. You wiU
tell me, that you can admire this favorite goddess of vour's, where
flic reduces all ranks, and levels all invidious diftinftions, by re-«
ftorin r man to his natural equality, dignified alone by those fuper
lor talents bellowed on him by the Divinity ; where all the bril
liant traits of the human mind, unsubdued by the uniform glare
and wide effulgence of monaichy, are displayed in their true aud
original colors.
I know you will tell me, that your eye it not microscopic enough
to discern the minute spots in the fun of liberty that has lately
r'jen in France ; which has deigned to revisit the deserted shore
otCorfiea, and, in its glorious progress, has illumined the whole
political atmosphere of Europe.
But, Sir, I fit down contented, and (hall enjoy theconfcious fa
tistadlion ot having performed my duty. I have painted the ca
lamities of France ; I have forewarned Britain of her danger.-.-
The sceptre trembles in the hands of kings ; the (lability of every
throne is lhaken, by the late political convulsion; the (hock is not
confined to France ; it afls like " the electrical returning ftroke,i
which often produces fatal effects at a vafl distance from the place
where the lighting falls."
I hope. Sir, you will cxrufe the freedom with which I haro
t 'US publicly addressed you, and be prrfuaded, that I can admite;
he celebrated philosopher in Doctor Prießley, though I have the
nu >itunc to differ from him so eiTemially on religion and poli
te ' I am, Sir, vour's, &c. J. COURTNAY.
London, April 26) 1790.
[Whole No. 147.]DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
NO. XIX.—CONTINUED
Ifais l'tm ct l'duire Guifc out en moins dc fcvupulc.
Ces chefs ambi;icux d'un peuple trop crtJule,
Couvrant lenrs imcr£is dc l'uiieiet dcs cie«:x
On: conduit dans 1c piegc un peuple iuncux.
THE Prince of Conde, whofecretly lighted UP
this conflagration, advanced by moderate
tlays journeys to court. He wiflied to be witness
ot the event, and to take suddenly, according to
circumitances, the part which ihould appear to
him the inoft advantageous. The Admiral, al
ways circumfpedt, feigned to remain neuter.
He retired to his estate at Cliatillon, under the
pretext of enjoying the fweCts of private life,
without meddling with affairs of the public, or of j
government ; but in reality it was as much to
aid the conspiracy, by his councils and informa
tion, as to avoid the accidents which might de
feat ail enterprize which he judged rafhand dan
gerous. The conspirators, who were not agitat
ed with similar anxieties, but full of the moll
flattering hopes, had begun their march infecre
cy, carrying their arms concealed under their
cloarhs. Thoy advanced separately by different
roads, and in the order which had been markecf
out by their chiefs, towards Blois, where the
court resided at that time. This city was open
011 all fides, and without fortifications, and the
conspirators were to meet in its suburbs, on the
fifteenth day of March, i j6o.
But whatever might be the activity of their
proceedings and the iecrecy of their councils,
tliey could not efcap© the penetration of the
Guises. The favors, penlions and employments
they confered, and their great reputation, had
attached to them so many creatures in the dif
ferent provinces of the kingdom, that they were
punctually informed of all the movements of the
conspirators. It was indeed impollible that the
inarch of so numerous a multitude could remain
unknown, when conspiracies whose lecrets are
confined to a final] number ofperlbns, ofthemolk
consummate discretion and fidelity, are aluioft
always discovered before theit execution. Whe
ther the secret was discovered by La llenaudie, or
Avenelles, or discovered by the spies employed
by the miniltry, even in the houses of the princi
pal conspirators, or whether information of it
came from Germany : as soon as the Guises had
received.it, they deliberated 011 the means of
defeating it.
The Cardinal of Lorrain, who was no soldier,
advised to atfeinble the nobility of the nearelt
provinces, to draw from the neighbouring cities
all the garrisons to form a body of troops, and
tofendordeis to ail the commandants and go
vernors to take the field, and put to the fworu,
all the men whom they should find in arms* He
prefutned that the conspirators, perceiving them,
selves to be discovered, and informed of the inea
fures taken against them, and which fame would
not fail to exaggerate, would dissipate of them
selves. The duke of Guise, more familiar with
danger, and despising the transports of a multi
tude, wichotit discipline or order, regarded the
advice of the Cardinal, as more proper to palli
ate the dillemper, than to cure it ; adding that
since it was so pernicious, and had infirtuated it
lelf into the heart of the kingdom, it was useless
to temporize, and give it opportunity to break
out with more violence. He thought it there
fore, more prudent to diflemble, and affect igno
rance.of the enterprize, to draw in the conspira
tors, and give them time to discover themselves ;
that in such a cafe, their defeat and punishment
would deliver France from a fatal contagion,
■which, as it discovered itfelf by symptoms so ter
rible, demanded violent remedies, and not sim
ple lenitives. He added, that in punishing sepa
rately only a part of the conspirators, they lhould
furniih matter to the ill intentioned, to calumni
ate the authors of this severity ; that the people,
little accustomed to such infurrertions, would re
gard this as a chimera, and as a table, invented
by the ministry to crufli tlieir enemies, and eita
blilh their own power and authority r whereas,
by overwhelming all the conspirators at once,
when upon the point of execution, they ftiould
dissipate all Calfe accusations, and jultify in the
fight of all the world, the rectitude and the lin
ceriry of the intentions of thole who were at the
Lead of affairs.
Catharine agreed with the duke. No extraor
dinary preparation was made, which could ex
cite a iufpicion that the conspiracy was known.
They duly removed the King and the court to
Amboifi ten leagues from Blots. This castle, situ
ated on the Loire, and in the inidit of forefts
which fortify it, naturally, appeared to be a laser
asylum : as it was easy to place in security the
King and the two Queens, in the castle, while a
small 'number of troops fliould defend the en
trance of the village, which was of difficult access.
(To be continue'!.)
WILMINGTON, August 28.
A mine of copper, which from experiments made thereon, gave
room to expe&a valuable portion of gold, was began to be work
ed upon the fuftof this inft. on the lands of Solomon Draper, fclcc
teoburg county, Virginia.
TJJE TABLET. No 142
" And at imagination bodie? forth
-Tlie forim of tiling - unknown, the poci's pen
Turua them to fhapos, and givti to airy nothings
A local habitation and.a name."
CURIOSITY is so active a spring of the loul,
that it can never be gratified by the contem
plation only of such things as have a real exiit
ence. It hurries the imagination through ail the
unknown regions ofjpace, in search of new and
extraordinary £.une, and conftituies darkness lt
felf, as the rclidence of a vast ot marvel
ous'beings. The magic delufiojis ot the fancj
have yieldedthe highest pleasure to men of ge
nius, and made them look with disdain on ordi
nary characters and occurrences. Perhaps no
problem better deserves afolution, than why men
of the malt sublime understandings, ihould so
often miitake the wildeftchimerasfor important
realities. A man of a vigorous genius is liable,
with all others, to imbibe errors and prejudices
in education. When these are carried into •Ma
ture age, in foite of reason and reflexion, it is
obvious thcii irfetfts will be eonfpicuouS' in pro-j
portion to thy U<ut h&sc&c
riflxed tfaem. «Ve accordingly find that men of
tlje most celebrated talents, have alio been diflin
guifhed for the most remarkable whims and An
gularities of opinion. There are so many sour
ces of deception to which we are exposed in edu
cation, that it is iinpoffible to guard the undfcr
ftanding against afl'ociating ideas which have no
natural connection. Fables and stories of leger
demain are put into the bands of children to sti
mulate their curiolity to read, and before instruc
tors are awareof it, the tender mind fofters a
thousand falfe conceptions, which perhaps are
never afterwards eradicated.
It will here naturally be enquired, whether
tlie productions of fancy are luitable ro be pre
sented to a mind before it is capable of looking
into the nature of what it conreniplates. The
imagination of every person creates a world of
its own, which is not only widely different from
the atftual state of things, but oppoiiie likewise
to the fictions which other people conceive. By
this departure from truth, men are not only at
variance with nature, but with one another.
I cannot suppose that falfliood ever allumes a
Jhape that can give it an eligible character. Nor
do I believe a youth can be indulged in imposing
on his own credulity, without exposing him to a
real inconvenience. The inind cannot be too
soon or too cotoftantly habituated to view things
as they really are. It is frequently suggested as
an excuse for allowing young people to imbibe
erroneous ideas, that when they are more ad
vanced in agtf, tbey will discern their errors and
eaii correct them. But there is something fofaf
cinating to the young mind in the charms of po
etry, and even in the rhapsodies of enthusiasm,
that it becomes a painful felf-denial todifmilsthe
errors that have entered through thole alluring
channels. There can be no effectual security
against the delusions of falfliood and error, but
by never fufferitig the inind to contract an habit
of viewing objects otherwise than their real cha
racter deserves. If we take a pleasure in read
ing the fictions of a poem or a novel, let us be
told, they are no more than a fiction. If the
images delineated be contrary to nature, or drawn
in too glowing colors, let the deception be ex
poled, that our ideas may not be warped from
the truth. Many of the most bitter misfortunes
which afflict human life, are occasioned, in a
great degree, by the ficticious value we affix to
objects through the ardor of an unchecked ima
gination. There is no purpose to which the un
derstanding can be applied that will so much
promote our real happiness and honor, as in dis
cerning the true character and the real value of
whatever offers itfelf to our consideration.
BOSTON, September i
We are happy to inform the public, that an
opportunity has been lately afforded of trying
the effect of prizes, in exciting the emulation of
Youth, in the public Schools of this town, by
the generous donation of Noah Webster, Esq.
of Hartford.—This gentleman, soon after the
adoption of the new system of education, in or
der to (hew his approbation of it, presented to
the School committee twelve copics of his " Ame
rican felettiQii oj" L.eJJ'ons in reading and J~pcaling,"
neatly bound, gilt and lettered,"to be distributed
in prizes, annually, at the several reading schools,
as the committee Ihould dired.
The school committee, accordingly, gave infor
mation to the refpetftive matters, of this donati
on ; iince which the committee have attended
the examination of the two upper classes in each
school, and having feledled fix of the most me
ritorious boys in each ofthofe clafles, conferred
four books upon them, and they drew lots for
the fame in presence of this committee.
Our latest account is, by Capt. Hall, from the
port of St. Andero, in Spain, which he left about
the 15th July—at which time every preparation
was making for war—and the declaration of it
by England, was momently expecfted :—The Spa
niards, he fays, were in high spirits ; and that
586
all the fifhertnen lrad been jmpreflcd a few clave
before he lefc Spain, to uiati the fleet.
Many elaborate volumes have been written ta
ascertain the rights of war ; as ifmarderand'de-,
vacation, things ellentially wrong, could be I*.
duced to right by fjftera. For what is w-r buc
theft and robbery on a great scale ? _Asbu r n] arT
is nothing but a liege in miniature- Yet we do
not find that the rights of theft, robbery, um r d ei
and burglary, have been as yet defended. The
numbers concerned in any aggrellion, are so far
from diminishing the guilt of the acftion, ihit
they iucreaieii in proportion to those numbers,
bfcaufe they can (Jo more mifchief than a few.
The number ofperfons in this town, taken iu
conformity to the acsl of the Legiilature of the
United States, at this period,/ exceeds ISOOO.
Three or four years liuce, the whole nunlber was
but 14200.
AMERICAN PRODUCE.
In tlie city of New Haven, in 60 families,
there have been railed the present season, 110 lei's
than four hundred and forty two thousand fills
worms. In the family of Mr. Abrahajn Tliomp-
Ton, 4o,acia ,o>" the above number wctc raised ;
and it was with much fntisfadtion, in perufinf
the names of these persons who raised these \a
luable and indnftrious animals, we saw, that se
veral young ladies had turned their attention
thereto—one of whom, Mil's Betsey Sherman,
actually raised this season twelve thousand—and
that one young lady; from 1200 ejeoons, or lxlk
balls, reeled eight ounces of the best of Silk.
PRIZES
IN THE NEW-YORK CITY LOTTERY.
Prize of 3000 J. No. 16,789.
Prizeofzool. No. 5704 Prizes of tool. No. 15,049,23063,
4°74. 23,758.
Prizrs of 50). 7719, 12650, 19780.
Prizes of 201. 5416, 16894, 17092, 18916, 21321, 5667, nß;'6|
i 8355-
'rizcs of id. 4224, 12571, .13213,15619,
12124, 19310, 22667. - .
Pibtfi of 41. drawn on Tuerday tft. ias.
A'a. 807 4q78 7716 10894 '393° *&$75 *"-sl6 2400 a
sbl5 bl .<65 495 755 47® ' »9i Mjllj ' ®|jj
944 867 447 693 985 oj ► 4M on
685 976 733 '1446 436 47* . Bfr»-
263 146 333 219 2 ,8 4& ,»io' it.
I 648 917 899 842 299 >?s6»''' for !
492- 55° 75« 087 074 «8t . -As::-
1473 057 054 131 j 5 , a2i.if,l||:i.- «n
918 683 8308 878 386 -jo* 4j»
857 3 16 44® 827 067 po| ii» .
126 961 253 14074 .jMjzSw-
Cl ° 3<»7 33 2 861 . *36
9°4 358 157 639 i:•
""3 5 6 9 8 580 'O? ' I ■
2°yß 426 651 ioj
507 185I 85 7 2 7 ?5 1 -> 3§3
192 824 081 364 3J7 ua ■; «J»
814 183 646 146 tjS oij, . fc«
954 105 538 916 . ZU .. M? ..
218 212 628 239 056 ~ Kjt..-.30. V
9°5 4°9 9058 Bcfl 886 iSaQ &~ ,
446 941; 364 518 155 4fi* »|*s» »•
364 6572 834 12540 15230 ;3» 9J*
21 5 838 434 !04 689 909
909 524 226 611 367 .505', 469 „
3909 892 816 817 767 tij',apt
706 423 539 599 649 7U ft
808 440 402 509 856 6)1 «#•
876 131 j 3l 870 227 1 54»„ ,48*;, •
404 880 044 688 489 68i. >JBs
780 704 38s 785 909 363, *3648 : '
2 49 43' i<?549 472 965 *96*6" 5&,
182 231 ~5 93 6 996. 35®- •S*' '
977 348 882 670 16210 140 aps." ;
25a 988 208 497 956 448 , • *
2.57 876 196 707 '692 135
466 376 692 779 650 325 0j»
548 502 673 408 978 '■ "#af r "
900 • 163 699 13333 799 309 6jh' 1
897 7°97 066 276 .470 938, 4®* ..
419 008 330 420 193 20733 «■ sH ,
126 2-9 959 546 215 010 $3f .
Wcdncfday. ' 4
***• 613 3369 6491 *,8603 12040 1545® *9®9i
524 698 290 9110 831 277 °» ♦«$
839 969 '52 505 092 74* ®j» ®»i
902 880 725 212 488, 975 -4*4 - 4<5
133 338 302 105 6ts 16982 4>< 3®5
826 299 532 , 45 ?ig 0480 48 W JJj
855 482 885 103 j9B 866 3" 971
212 43'5 236 246 13858 , *84 °6° ,in
374 76i 476 852 522 697' ®44 C S9
248 945 280 363 989 627 - - 8 "5 *4*
564 329 459 9% 203 902 20638
«i 4 014 7998 887 292 161067. "6o»
481 737 682 391 086 099 04*
'652 433 1 74 3°3 641 6 5» °*§ ** J S£
293 l *s ' 062 470 4C4 870 010 746
95° M 542 ,0473 984 17479 94*- 467
062 338" 775 75a 964 110 /M®-- '7*
407 357 oc>7 -66a 712 543 *?** 3°4
861 269 663 508 681 240 9*7 °4 7
174 6o 5 558 053 257 252 ' iS* »75
428 273 240 639 341 523 »49 . l bl
159 964 • 668 032 053 j)4 #1987 »4»
388 022 j s o 402 14127 239 S'y
859 5733 432 476 902 19a ?7« 1 0821
900 776 623 008 539 839 i't« 5,*?
180 147 880 85& 768 154 &5(
943 467 843 201 897 oa4 '065 -
027 873 8925 921 006 18244 3®4
2538 723 899 137 823" 242 811
426 355 374 267 278 376 22795
862 879 419 11246 9 3 352 776
* 297 816 894 884 378 374 065
442 706 585 19a 938 055 35° ,
077 6107 225 175 606 832 »3®
381 824 957 , 937 15802 469 359
5°3 592 230 189 048 182 579
462 064 S3t 283 886 119 999
946 251 141 12752 070 595 263
3549 9 2 9 73> 4°> »7° J 9 2 44 <97
on 94j 631 227 019 269 l 9*
6 74 653 139 674 764 '53 f 3791
243 894 249 so* 962 4& s'»
INATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
Saturday, July
A/? , NECKER'j Opinion on the Abolition of TITLES of NOBILITY
-..J at* UATI TAr nL'an r*t /-to
and ARMCMUAL BtARINGS.
A REPORT," fays M. Neckar, " having been circulated, thai
t u BaVe °P' n ' on Council against accepting the decrce
of the National AlTembly, relative to titles, names, and armorial
bearings, lam called upon to make known the funple fact. I
■was ot opinion, and I prelTed that opinion with much earncftnefs,
that the King, upon acccptin;; the decrce, (hould fend hrsobferva'
tions on it to the National alTembly ; and as I Jhall never dread
the publicity of my adions or my opinions, I avail myfelfofthr
King's permiflion to print those observations as they Rood in thi
draft presented by me. This Ido the more willingly, that th.
National AlTembly has already inftrufted the Committee of Con
uitution to prepare some explanations of this fame decree.
'"I was also of opinion, that the observations (hould be accom
panied by a letter from the King, expressing his Majesty's inclii a
tionto be guided by the knowledge of the National AlTembly
and as this letter formed part of my advice, a draft of it will bJ
found at the end of the observations. I may have been millaken
and I iuppofe I was, since my advice was not followed : But I
choose rather to afford an opportunity of judging clearly. 0 f ms
error, it I have committed any, than to fuffer a vauue fubieft of
reproach to remain, which malignity would daily extend by falft
conftruQions. I am confident of tiie purity of my intentions, I
am equally confident ot my attachment to the conftiiution, and
the true interests of the people ; and these sentiments,, which a,,
ground, of iny confidence, kill always in duct meSo with
cut disguise (Signed) NICKER.
tJI the observations, which extend to considerable length, the
following is an abftrait. "
rV " £ ftCn neccl,rar y. when lhc public good requires it, to im.
-pole "crifises on a particular class of citizens, which is always to
be done with circumfpeftion and delicacy, so dangerous is it to
infringe, in any degree, the right of possession and the ordinary
rules of justice. . '
" No deprivation ought to take place, from which no real ad
vantage is derived.
" When exclusive privileges were fuperceded, and taxes equal
ized ; when feudal rights were abolilhed ; when the road to
employments and preferments was opened toall alike ; when all
citizens were callcd together on a footing of equality, to form
National and Legislative AlTcmblies, what was loft by one class
■wis more than counterbalanced by what was gained by another.
But what benefit will the gr. at body of the people derive
from the Decree relative to titles, names, and armorial bearings ?
The numerous class who must live by the wages of their indulUy
employed in the service of otheis, far fro-n feeling hurt at the
lank of their employer, conceive it in some degree rcflcftcd on
them (elves.
" 1 hose whom fortune or education has placed but at a fmal)
diflance from men of title, may enjoy, perhaps, a momentary plea
lure in teeing those link-eminences thatobdrufted their own prof
pefls completely demol.fhed ; but for the fake of an imaginary
benefit so circurtilcribed in us nature is it equitable to dep. ive a
numerous class of citizens of honorary diftinftions, which form
a part of their inheritance, and ot which the loft will be mote pain
ful than that of all the pecuniary advantages they poffeft f
" Without inconvenience, and on juii grounds might the men
tion of titles be forgiven in all Aflcinblies, National or Municipal
•where equality is necessary even in appearances ; where it is of so
much importance that the ascendancy Ihould be always reserved
to realonandthe confidence which patriotism infpircs.
" It would also be proper to forbid all honorary additions in
the Magiflration ot citizens, to remind Frenchmen in the begin
ning ot their course, that being equal in the eye of the law they
will be equally fuppotted by it in their efforts to lei ve their coun
try. But, to purfne the diftindions farther, to follow them into
the commerce of private life, would be a severity without use, the
of which would be imprattirable', witiwut infhtutinz
an Inquisition inconftftent with the principles of liberty.
•' T he trappings of van:ty arc not lowered in price by an anxi
ous proscription ; but by a carclefs indifference, and by presenting
10 mens minds other objects of ambition.
*' Useless deprivations will induce meu of rank to seek for those
uiltm&ions in foreign countries, which are denied them in their
own, sumptuary laws are found to banilh the oftcntatious and the
wealthy.
" Ii is a hardOiip to oblige a numerous class of citizens to re
lume names, many of which are forgotten; and many families
wilh to be known by names which call to mind the services of
their ancestors.
" It Will be productive of confufion in manypubli<; proceedings.
" All thtle «bjeflions apply to the abolition of armorial bear
ings, and wuh greater force, in»fmuch as tliev are, if pofliblc, less
effenfive to th< people.
" Ihe abolition ot liveries might indeed be agreeable to those
■whose lortuue it has been to wear them, but would be a great loss
to the manufa&urers employed in the articles of which they are
sompofed. '
"In pursuing through the most minute details, all marks of dif
tmction, some lifk is run of misleading the people, refpe&ing the
true meaning of the word Equality, which in a civilized nation,
and focietv already formed, can never mean an equalization of
rank or of property. The divcrfity of labours and functions,'the
differences of fortune and education, emulation, industry, the gra
dation of talents and acquirements, all these difparitiei productive
of the facial movement, unavoidably bring with them external in
equalities ; and the sole objed of the Legillator is, in imitation of
nature, to direst them all towards a common good, equal to all,
though different in its form and appearances."
Draft ok tiii Kikg'sLetier.
I he decree of the National Aflembly, refpe6ling titles, names
and armorial bearings, affords jufl grounds of complaint to a nu
merous in focietv, without procuring any advantage to the
people ; and as, not withstanding its importance, it was pafled at
4 -nc fitting, these several considerations have determined me to
*°™"l unicatc l ° al * AfTembly some observations on the
fubjea. I desire the AfTembly to examine them, and if that body
should adhere in all points to its firft opinion, I will accept the
decree, as a mark of my relpeft for the wisdom of the Aflembly,
and bccaufe I seta great value on maintaining a perfect harmony
between the AfTembly and myfelf." .
LONDON, July 12.
THE PRESENT STATE OF EUROPEAN POLITICS.
Ruflia and Sweden, the only two powers that have a&ed with
any degree of vigour this campaign, appear on both fides as if
pretty well contented with what they have done, and desirous now
©f takingbrcath.
The Kings of Hungary and Pruflia, like two prize-fighters, con
tinue t'.ieir menacing posture, but without a blow being flruck on
eiriier fide.
Turkey (lands aloof, as if wishing for peace. The scattered
Clrength of that unwcildy empire always ill adapts her for war;
and the repugnance of her soldiery to discipline, with the blows
she lias lately received, qualify her still lets for it.
Poland, not fort feeing as yet any great benefits from her new
alliance with Pruflia, and dreading the loss of Thorn and Dantzic,
is now in doubt whether she ought notto put herfelf again under
the prote&ion of Ruflia.
France continues her deliberations in tranquility. If flie has
■wit enough to keep out of the broils of her neighbours, the regula
tions of the National Council may have the wilhed foreffeft ; and
a new conflitution be fecn to ?rife, firmly founded on the broad
hafts of liberty.
J* L ' e§Jla /"? ,n a „ fa,r wa y of getting rid of their fiifliop,
and lorming a freef couflituUou there.
L-1 -"'".'I or"'0 r "'| iba "r CrS A rC '„ n a f au \way of being again obliged to true,
rh a 6 r Austria. They may ttiank. their prieilhood and
the ariltocracy for this.
In the south ot Europe. be(ide» Avignon, some disturbances are
laid to have anfeu; at Florence, and in other paris ot Italy, but of
no confequrnce. The Pope's territories are in the higheil danrer.
In lefpect to England and Spam, tho the stocks ltill continue
rather upon the rife, many notwuhftanding are of opinion, that it
will yet bea war. TJ>e failingof the fleets on both fides seems to
denounce it, and and tie fmilleft hruih between them will effec-
L j L, a S ucll 'OD, which at prefciU fills some ot the bell
heads m this kingdom with doubt.
On Sunday last, a very curious and uncommon phenomenon ac
cruedin one of the gardens at Dumfries : A hive of bees having
' ha PP ei «;' d to light upon an adjacent oiie, and soon after began
to enter. The bees within perceiving the encroachmcut, and
ilarincd at the number of the intruders, immediately declared
'mention of repelling tho inwders, by a «neral hum, which
was no looner made, than they ,11 came forth in order'ot battle.
A dreadful conflifi then ensued, which lafled upwards of tliree
hours when the befie.gcrs were at last forced tftret' after a ve
ry obttinate with the loss of about 2000.
PHILADELPHIA, September 2
This day about two o'clock arrived in town
from New-York, tjie Pi-efident of the United
State.—h«» Lad y , U-eir suite. They were
joined on their approach by a number of refpett
able citizens—the city troops, and companies of
light infantry. r
Every public demonstration of joy was mani
felted ;—the bells announced his welcome—and
a feu de joye was fired
At 4 o'clock he partook of a repast (provided
by the Corporation at the City Tavern)—at which
prefentthe member! of our Legislature and
of the state Convention—the Piefident and other
executive officers of Pennsylvania.
WESTERN POSTS.
In 1784, Congress deputed Gen. Hull, to de
demand of Gen. Haldimanu, the Governor of
Canada, the surrender of the Polls within the
Uniced States, then and now garrisoned by Bri.
tifh troops. And this demand Great-Britain has
refufed to comply with, uotwithftanding the fo
leinn stipulations of treaty; and notwithftandinjr
every alledged cause for their retention has been
removed in the adoptionofthe Federal Constitu
tion. If a war should break out between En
gland and theHoufe of Bourbon, andif by acci
dent, or otherwise, Great-Britain should gain
any material advantage over its enemies, perhaps
the disadvantage of their holding our Frontier
ports may be more apparent, than it now appears
J-A . Columbian Centinel.
The disturbances in Cape-Krancois, are be
tween the friends to the National Afiembly, and
the people who will acknowledge no other supre
macy than the King's. The excesses committed
hay® be P n great—and hath been -
an almoil entire oi trade. ' '
NEW-YORK, SEPTEMBER 8.
THE Treas U rer of the United Slates has given notice, That pur
chases, pursuant to the " »a making p;ovifion for the reduction
of the public debt," will, for the prelent, be made in the city ot
New-York, commencing the 4th 'nft; Propofcli fcaleii, accom
panied with the Certificates, which must be of the prcknt debt of
the L mtcd Mates, including Indents are received by the Treasur
er ; Ihe Certificates, excepting thoi'e iifjed by the Re-ifier of the
madt 3 Inclents ' 10 be feg'Hercd before payment will be
Extract of a letter Jron Hoflon t Augufi^\.
" In a violent storm last fall, the beacon on the hill was blown
down; this was the third which liad been erefled since my re
membrance ; as it had always been a principal landmark, and
was fcen at a great distance at fe*—the utility of fame conspicuous
object on so fine an eminence, is fufficiemly obvious ; and to avoid
the rouble and ex pence of frequently ehiftinga wooden beacon—
the town has determined to erect a column of ftone—che pedestal
is already built, on which historical inscriptions are to be cut; the
work is prosecuting with such diligence that we (hall very fhortlv
have it completed-and a very great ornament it will be to the
towni ; when finilhed I will fend you a particular description of it.
i , M V " e 'S h bour, Mr. B hu purchased that fine spot of
land in the rear of his garden, which you know is in thecentre of
the town, and has now a very extensive work in hand— when
nmlhed it will be a great addition to the beauties and accommo
dations of his feat.—His plan is a large fifo pond with a fountain
m C , i . U " 1 * CCntrC : tf « s must Le an "Pensive undertaking,
but should it prove abortive it will answer one good" purpose at
lean d iff life property. Should it succeed it will bt a great no
velty and scarcely to be parallelled in any place equally populous.
To these works of ornament and taste, I have the pleasure to in.
form you, that fcveral new School Houses have lately betn erefied
which are very handsome edifices. ~ '
" I iejoicc at the fpiritof improvement which prevails at the
present day : The exertions which were making at New-York
when I was last tlwre, do honor to yam citizens ! The alteratibns
m your streets will prove a solid benSt to thecity for many Years
tor every convenience and accommodation tends to ertcreafe yoiu
trade and commerce. I was afraid that the removal of Conerefs
would have slackened your enterprise and fpirit { instead of which
I underltand you appear to go on with inc.eafing ardor, and are
completing the noble fabric designed for a government house •
[his building will be a capital ornament to the city, and worthy
the metropolis of a State, which is making such rapid advances in
population and commercial importance: As Mr. Morse I think
exprrflcs himfelf " in point oflocar advantages for trade, manu
factures and agriculture, no place in the United States boifts so fine
a fitiiat.on as youis; "New York must therefore always continue
as the capital of Connecticut and New Jerfev —without any dan
ger ot a rival darting up, within a hundred miles east or weft."
ExtraS of another Letter.
" The Governor has, summoned the Legislature to meet next
month : The principal bulinefs is to take into consideration the
excise law—which it is expected \yill be repealed; this will be a
great relief to the trade of the State.
" The federal disposition of this town and its attachment to go
vernment is strikingly evinced by the genera] detestation in which
fmugghng is held by all ranks All our Merchants unite in dif.
ountenancing every breach of the revenue laws. A certain Capt
was lately brought to the bar of the Court upon a charge of swal
lowing too large an Oath—some circumstances appeared to mitigate
his offence, or it would have proved* fcrious affair to him,
587
DELUDED Monks, who in dark cloi'fters hide
The pow'r for duties, and the will for use A
Who veil in seeming lowliness your pride,
Of works regardless, and of pray'rs pr©fufe :
No longer let your reason thus be chain'd,
Nor grov'ling bend to superstition's rod ;
'Tis not by loftng life that Heaven is gained,
Nor is it solitude which leads to God :
He form'd this beauteous earth our social home,
His sacred fane is uncondition'd space ;
The sky's whole concave is religion's dome,
Its mandate Truth—Benevolence its. $nucc.
A London Paper of June 7, contain* the following
CITY DEBATES. Admittance price 6d.
By authority of the Rev. Mr. WiNCHtsTEK.
The Sixth Evening's debate, on the following important
theme 9 will be this evcuing.
" Which is inoftconfiftent with revelation and
" reason the Arminian tenets of the Rev. Mr.
" John Wefley—the Calviniftic decrees upheld
" by the Rev. Mr. V\ liitfield and others—the
" Theology propagated by the late Emanuel
" Swedenburg, under the title of the new Jeru
" falem—or the doctrine of Universal Salvation,
" maintained by theßev. Mr. Wincbefter."
The Whig Club in the city ps London have late
ly had a Chair made for their President, by
Crotnpton, of Cockfpar street, which cost 270
guineas.
Counterfeit guineas and half guineas are men
tioned in Woodfall's register qf June 3 ; they
are full weight, and ar? distinguished from true
coin with difficulty ; on a close examination the
letters appear farther from the edge than on the
mint guineas, and the head is not so well execu
ted.
Exlraft of a litter fxbvi Edinburgh, May 29.
A person lately digging in a piece of bog, at
Birdlton, (truck upon a parcel of silver coin—
about 200 pieces ; among which are foine above
eleven hundred years old.
FURTHER EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS.
Several fkinnifhes have taken place be
tween the Swedes and Ruffians at Willikala with
various success—the Swedes finally were obliged
to evacuate that post with the lofsof several offi
cers and upwards of one hundred soldiers killed
and wounded. Capt. Wirgin under the'directi
on of the King made another attack on the Ruffi
an fleet in the bay of Frederick/ham—but with
out success. Pare of the Spanish fleet was out the
beginning of July: They have among their hea
\y Ships one carrying I five 124 gans ench;
and are bnilding une with four decks, said to be
the largest Ship ever built. Some of the London
papers mention that the Spaniards are repairing
and extending their works before Gibraltar;
and have 3000 men employed on them.
There has been a horrid scene of confufion
and bloodshed at Nifnies a large City in France ;
instigated by some traiterous characters, among
whom were several Priests, a large party oppo
sed the ordinances of the National Aflembly—the
National militia who went to its relief and to
quell the insurgents marched in over dead bo
dies— two hundred of the conspirators were kil
led and the reft dispersed—but UQt without confi.
derable loss to the National troops. The Englijh
papers further ltate, that a most virulent disor
der had broken out in the Spanish fleet which
swept of great numbers of the Sailors—it had
however received a check—by introducing stric
ter discipline, and greater cleanliness among the
men.
The celebrated Col. Tarleton is ele&ed menu
ber of the new Parliament for Liverpool.
The Commissioners on the part of the State of
Vermont are to meet those of the State of New
\ ork, in this city, the 28th instant.
The new constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, having been
agreed to by the convention and solemnly proclaimed—the legit*
lature which was then in feflion, conceiving that their authority
ceased with the old constitution, and coining in of the new difiol.
ved themlelvrs the fourth instant; they an addrclj
to their conftittKnts on the occasion.
We learn from Philadelphia, that the Pi efident of the United
States took his leave of that city on Monday morning,
pursued his journey to Virginia.
Married, last evening, by the Rev. Wlr. Sfirairgs, ,Capt. John
Armour, (of the (hip Grace) to the amiable Miss Maria Hof
son, daughter of Mr. George Hopfon, ot this city.
PRICt CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
Final Settlements
Indents
State Securities Bf.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Ship Merchant, Vredenburgh, St. Andero, ,0 day*
Schooner Three-Friends, Marfchalk, Curricoa, 21
Neptune, Jones, ditto ditto.
NOTICE,
Ty- S' ve k r °'' cc > 'hat the Drawing of the New
on Monday the
September 4.
EXTRACT.
article,ADDRESS
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
X TTE the inhabitants of Providence beg leave to offer )ou oar
W congratulations, on your fafe arrival in this P
We are fenf.bly atfeded by the honor co n fer rc d on the S t
and on us in particular, in the present visit: And be assured, bir,
we (ball think ourselves peculiarly happy, if, by ou» utmoa
tentions, it can be made agreeable to you. f mce re
We gladly seize the firft opportunity to cxprefs lhe most lmcere
fttisfaftion in your cleaion to the PreWenry of the U n t ,d S t atc .
-The unb.allcd voice of a great nation, which u " an ' m ° Un J "
led you to that important trust, is an event, of which theannals
of history afford no example ; nor will future time fee >
unlefi the most tranfeendant merit and the clcareftfame fbould be
Un As of the United States, and as their Pre
fldent we are attached to you by every
affection.—to the concUift and magnanimityof her <
Chief uniformly displayed in the course ot a long and arduous
war Amer°ca is y indcbted, under the fmilcs of H.aven for her
freedom and independence: And the
ability, manifefteS in the exerc.fe ot the ff f'"^laerof
President of the United States, exhibu to the world a charatter ot
no less celebrity in the cabinet than in the held.
From our mr.fl excellent constitution, and the benign 4 >°Q« nce
of thole virtues which charafterife y«ur admmiflration, we enter
tain the most pleating hopes of the cxtrnf.on o
eour.sement of agriculture and manicures, and of the eltabti
rtentff public fafth, and pKvate credit; and that the hbe.tie, ot
America will be traofmitted to very late pottenty.
We ardently pray that a life To conducive to the welfajx o m 1-
linns mav be long protracted ; and that, when the fatal lhatt than
be sped which will deprive America of
may ascend those regions where only cxal*d virtue »ill be tut y
!(^ ya[[t , d tkUSgnU cntk Day^
Auruft, A. D. 1790, and in the fjttcnth i«Jr of lndtpe
dencc.
Signed, at the request of the town by
5 ' n - lA3EZ BOWEN', Modarator.
DANIEL'COOKI?, Town-Clerk.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
TO THE. INHABITANTS OF PROUD IHCE.
THE congratulations wh.ch you offer me upon ,n
I "his place, arc received with no small degree of picture _
Tor vour attentions, and endeavors to render the town .greable
to me and for youi expressions, of fatisfaftion at my elefiion to
thePrefideocy of the United States, I return you my warmcft
ishighly excited,by your ardent declaration, of
attachment to my person, and the coimitution.
A* under the smiles of Heaven, America is indebted for free
dom and independence rather to the joint exertions of the cituens
of the several States, in which it may be vour boast to have borne
tto inconsiderable fhair, than to the cofiduft of the Commander
in Chief—fo i> Ihe indebted for their support rather to a con
tinuation of tho lie exertions, than to the prudence and ability
manifefted in tht exercise of the powers delegated to the President
of commerce, the encouragement
cf agriculture and manufaaure*, and the eftajjilhment of public
faith as reared upon our constitution, are well founded j and it
i< my earnest wilh th*t you may e«tenGvely enjoy the benefits an
tha°S for your prayer for my future welfare,
and offer up my bed wiftv, for yoor mdma Up
fiinefi.
TO THE PRESIDENTOFTIiE UNITED STATESOF AMERICA.
The Addref". of the Corporation of Rhode-IJI-in d College.
THOUGH among the lafl to congratulate you on your advance
ment to that d.gn'.fie.l and important station to which the
unanimous voice of a grateful country h« called you,
ration of Rhode-llland college cla.m to be among the firft in
warmth of aft'ea.on for your person, and to' '
lie chara&er. In placing you at the hcaa ot the Ln.ted .late,,
rCzardv. as had no less to the influence of your exam, 1c over the
rogara was , than to your ta enls in the adininiftration
"f Lit HaDDV are we to observe, that fitnilar motive,
WiXnced ybur cm.dust in filling the lower office, in the ex
.cutive depart mint. 2KSite;
this countrvlhas called yo,. forth to ellabl.lh, after having defend
*d. our rights and liberties. .
Agitated in the hour of doubtful confl.a, exult,ng m your v.c
toriel we watched your soot-step» with the most inxious solici
tude Our fervent (applications to Heaven, that you might be
furn shed with that wisdom and prudence necelTary to guide u. to
freedom and impendence, have been heard, and moll g.acioufly
a " For'tlie' preservation of this freedom, one gVeat object still de
mands our peculiar attention, the educat:on of our youth. Your
lent,menu,Sir, on this subjeCt, "that knowledge is in every coun
try the furcft bafu of public happiness," and the ftrongcfl barrier
arainft the intruding ban J of defpottfm, as they perfectly accord
W,th those of the most celebrated characters that ever adorned hu
man nature, so they leave no room to apprehend you will refute
the wreath with which the guardians of literature, here, would en
twine vour brow. .. r ,
By restoring your health, and protraftmg your life, so dear to
iliis country, Divine Providence has, in a late instance, furmfhed
to millions matter of thank/giving and praile.
That vou may long./emain on earth a blessing to mankind, and
the fupp'ort of vour country ; that you may afterwards receive
the rewards of viituc, by having the approbation ot God, is our
most finceri desire, and fervent supplication.
Signed, ky Order of the Corporation,
6 ' } lABEZ BOWEN. Chancellor.
JAMES MANNING, Prejidmt.
David Howell, Sec'ry.
F'ovidence, Aug. 19* 1 79 0,
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
TO THE CORPORATION OF RHODE-ISLAND COLLIGE.
h'e circurn (lances which have, until this time, prevented you
1 from offering your congratulations on my advancement to
the Ration I hold in the government of the United Siates, do not
ciminifh the pleasure I feel m«rcceiv.ng this flattering proof of
your affection and esteem ; for which I request you will accept
ray in h 'ep k eating thus publicly my sense of the zeal you delayed
for the lucccfs of the cause of your country, I only add a Tingle
suss a« to the general testimony, wh.ch all who were acquainted
vkh you in the mofl critical and doubtful moments of our drug
gie for liberty .and independence, have constantly borne in your
'"while I cannot remain insensible to the indulgence with which
vou rceard the influence of my example, and the tenor of my con
duct I rejoice in having so favorable an opportunity of fe ' ,c " at "
ing the State of Rhode-lfland ontiieco-opcraiion I am lure to find
Providence, August 20,1790.
in the metres adopted by th<
place, for improving the morals of the calcuUted for
culcating upon their minds pr P p .—You may rely on
..kn"-
that Heaven may protper .ne urrny u as m
in giving you the belt ot its bleftings 1 WASHINGTON,
the world to come. *
LAW Or THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLISHED
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
at the second session.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one tl.out.nd seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT for the Relief of disabled Soldiers, anil
Seamen 1 lately in the Service of the United
States, and of certain other Perlons.
BE it emitted by «*» S " a " ani /£ ' u / t °l
f.,i Sic tei of America in Cengrtfi ajfemiled. That Stfcphen Califte,
Jeremiah Ryan, Jofepk M'G:i»bon, SamuelGarretfon Ephra.m
M'Coy, Christian Kh.-.ti, David Steele, Joseph Shuttlief, and
Daniel Culvor, disabled fold.er. lately in the fcrv.ee of the United
States, be allowed pension* at the rate of five dollars per m £"
from the time .heir pay in the army refpefttvely ceased. That
Chriilian Wolfe, a d.fabl.d fold.er, be allowed a pens.on at the
rate of four dollars per month from the date of his difehargi.
That Edward Scott, a disabled Toldier, be allowed a pcnlion «
the rate of three dollars per mouth
That David Weaver and George Schell, disabled foldicrs, be each
allowed a pension. at the rate of two dollars per month, trom the
date of their refpeftive discharges. That Sell, Board man, a 4'f
abled soldier, be allowed a pension, at the rate of three colUti
andine third of a dollar per month, from the Seventeenth day ot
March, one thousand (even hundred and eighty-fix. llwtSeve
rii.us Koch, a disabled capiain ot colonel Jacob Klock's regiment
of New-York militia, be allowed a pension, at the fate ot five
dollar, per month, trom the twentieth day of Aoguft, one thou
sand seven hundred and seventy-seven. That John Younglove, a
disabled major of colonel Lewis Van Uoorft regiment of New-
York mi l.tii be allowed a prnGon at the rate ot fix -dollar. per
month, from the thirtieth day of JulV. one thousand seven hun
dred and cightv-onc That William White, m d.fab.ed private
of colonel William, regiment of New-York m.litia, be allowed
a pension, at the rate ot three dollars and one third of a dollar per
month, from the firft day of April, one thousand seven hundred
and eiffhty-fix. That Jacob Newkerk, a disabled soldier of co
lonel John Harper'a regiment of New-Yoik state troops, be al
lowed a pension, at the rate of three dollars per month, from the
twenty-second day of O&ober, one thousand seven hundred arfa
eighty That David Poole, a disabled seaman lately in the fcr
vifce of the United State?, be allowed a pension of five dollars per
month, to commence on the filth of March, one thousand seven
hundred and eighty«-nine. ,
And be it further entitled, That Caleb Brew Her, latch a lieu
tenant, who was wounded and difabied in the service ot the Uni
ted States, be allowed three hundred forty-eight dollars and hfty
feven cents, the amount of his necessary expenses for sustenance
and medical aflilboce, while dangerously ill of his wounds, in
cluding the imerell to tho firft of July, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety. And that the laid Brewfter be allowed a pen
lion equal to his half pay as from the third of Novem
ber one thousand f«ven hundred and eighty-three, he firlt having
returned his commutation of t alf pay. ~r l, ,*
Audit it further cnutlcd, That Nathaniel Gove, s disabled lieu
tenant, lately in the service of the United States, be allowed a
pension, at the rate of fix dollars and two thirds of a dollar per
month, from the twentieth ot May, one thousand seven hundred
and seventy-eight, to the full day of July, one thou land seven
hundred and eighty-fix, and that he be allowed at the rate of
thirteen dollars and one third of a dollar per month, trom the
said f.rft davos July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-fix.
And be it further enaded, That the commissioner of army ac
count be anthorized and directed to fettle the pay and deprecia
tion of pay of John Stevens, ahoftage in the late war at the ca
pitulation of the cedar*, as a captain in the line of the army, and
th3t he tffue certificates accordingly, That he l "J* c a ccrt,h
cate to Charles Markley, lately a captain in Armand's corps, for
the commutation of his half pay. That he also fetll? the accounts
of James Derrey, and Benjamin Hardifon, who were mads pn
foners in Canada, in May, oue thousand seven hundred and (e
---venty-fix, and forcibly detained in captivity among the Indians,
and Uiat he iffne certificates for the balance of their pay refpeftive
ly. to the third of November, one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-three.
And be it further enabled, That the several pensions mentioned
in this ast, due or to become due from the fifth of March, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, shall be paid according
to fucli laws as have been made, or (hall be made relative to in
valid pensioners : And that tHe arrears oi the said penGons, due
before the said fifth day of Mocch, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, (hall be paid-in such manner as Congress may
hereafter provide for paying the arrears of pensions.
And be it further enabled, That there (hall be allowed to Seth
Harding, for three months and ten days services on board the Al
liance frigate, during the late war, at the rate of sixty dollars per
month, being the pay of a captain, to be paid out of the monies
arising from imposts and tonnage.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Rcprefentativcs.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
hnd Prejident oj the Senate.
Approved, August the eleventh, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pufident of the Umied States.
(True Coty)
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PHILADELPHIA,
LEAVES the Ferry-Stairs, at New-York, Ten minutes after
Eight o'clock every morning except Sunday.
Stage Office, City Tavern, )
Biljad-\v&y t New-York June 5,179°. >
588
THOMAS JEKFERSON, Secretary of State
New-York City, Lottery.
SCHEME.
1 PRIZE of
1
8
4
6
12
40
80
200
33°
fooo
7676 Pritis. > MO Tickets, at 401. etch £. 48000
15324 Blanks. S 3
Subject to a deduflion of 15 per Cent.
THIS LOTTERY is for the purpose of raising the refiduc of
the sum, granted by,an Ast of the Legislature of the Stateof New-
York, patted Bth of Febiuary, 1790, to defray the expences in
curred by the Corporation for repairing and enlarging the CITY-
Tlie drawing will commence on the Firjl Hornlay in January
next, or sooner if filled, of which timely notice will be given.
A lift of (be fortunate numbers will be published at the end of
the drawing ; and the prizes will be paid by the Managers.
Tickets are to be fold by the SAfcribers, who are appointed
'Manager* by the Corporation.
Isaac SrouTiNtDtcn, Abraham Herrikc,
Pf.tir T. Curtikius, J° hn Pintarb.
I New-York, Stbtember j, 1790.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Me ns, tjq. ChieJ Jujitte of the
State »j New-York.
NOTICE is hereby given :o Lewis M'Donald, of Conneaicut,
an absent debtor, tliat upon application and due proof made
to the said chief iuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
pursuant to an ast of the Legiflaturc of the said Slate, entitled,
" An ast for relief against abfeonding and absent debtors," pas.
fed the4th April, 1786; he, the said chief justice, has direaed
all the said Lewis M'Donalds cftate, within this State, to be felt
ed, and that unless lie shall difchargj his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be fold
for the payment of his creditors. Dated the 3d May, 1790.
New-Yorl, May 7, 179°- ['»• iy )
TO BE LET,
On very low terms—and entered upon immediately, until the Jrjt tj
May next.
THAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in the
Bowery-Lane* formerly occupied by Rore r t Gilbert
Livingston, deceased ; it has seven Eire Placcs with a good
Cellar under the whole House—a convenient out-Houfe in the
real with a Coach-Houit, and Stables; for further particulars en
quire of MANGLE MIN'THORN.
(2 w. t. f.) Corporation Dock.
lr"y ALL ferfons having demands agttiitft the
Houfehotd of the PRESIDENT of the United SMft,
are re que fled to exhibit their accounts fir fettlimtol,
at his late Dwelling in Broad-Way, before the ijlA
oj September. Aqgnft ?!, 179°-
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
July 13,
NOTICE ij hereingiven, that Proposals will be receniedat the rftte
of the Secretary of the Treasury, to thefufiday ofOßobcr nixl'n
clullot, for the fubply ot all rations, which may be rr quired for the uje of
the United States, from the firj} dayaf January to the thirty M toy if
December >791, both day< inclujive, at theplacts,and withinlht djtrittr
herrin after mentioned, viz. . .
At any place or places, betwixt Yorltow* in thcjlatc of Pennjyutma,
and Fort Pitt and at Fort Pitt, ,
At any place or places, betuiixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntojh, en t>"
River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntoJh.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort M'htojh aid the mouth of the Ha
ver Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufhingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Mujknigum } a
up thefaid River to the Tufcarowas, ami at the Tufcauowas, and thciue
over to the Cayoga River, and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth ojthe river Mufltngum, art
\he mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the month oj Scioto River, and the mou
)f the great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from thence t$
he Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio 9 and at thefaid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,up *
Caid Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the Miami Village*
m the river of the fame name which empties into Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mou °f
Waba/J, ; thence up the said IVaba/h to Pojt St. Vincennes, at PoltU. rn
tennes, and thence up the said river IVabi/k, to the Miami i age,
At anyplace or from the mouth of the liabafh river to the mouth
of the river Ohio. u . ff£ ... r nm
At any place or places t on the eafl fide of the river Mtjfpphf
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river. u: nr its
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the j.
'At any place places, from the Miami Village to Sandnfky, and *
Sandujky, and from Sfoftflj to the month of Cayoga
At anyplace or places, F " rt Pitt aud Venango*' j"i'tj
At any place f aces, betwixt Prtff
betwixt Le Reuj and dim • re Jl '/"> ' ' .'> . J
IJle and the mouth of Cayoga f!tC T - , {!aceu „ the rout
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and •*' l * v ? P < 0 f Big
from Fort Pitt, W the month of Caytga rifP) I
reck. _ ' tain tit
At any place or places, on the eajt fide of the Mijfifippi,
mouth ♦/" the Ohio and the river Mar got inc/ufively.
At anyplace or places,fron theJ aid river Margot, to the river \azov
inclufivety*
At any place Or placesfrom the. mouth of the river Tennefee, toOcochaP'
po or Bear creek, on the said river iwclujtvely. . n
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other dijlrutt*
not fpeeified in these propofals,the price of the fame to be hereafter igTU
on, betwixt the public and the contrattor.
The rations to be supplied are to confjl of the following articjes t tfz»
One pound oj brad or flour.
One pound of beef, or % of a pound ofpork,
Half a jill ofrru t brandy or whisky,
One quait of fait, }
Two quarts ofvirtegar, ( pef ioorat ; ns ,
I / wo pounds of soap, Q
One pound of Candles, ) _ .
The proposals mufl fpecifythe lotoejl price per ration. No credit is
quired ALEXANDER HAMILTON,,
Secretary of the Treasury.
|q°> Dr. Price's Revolution Sermon may bt had of
the Editor. —-Price 1/7.
£'• 3°°o
*000
>000
500
300
goo
100
5®
so
10
2 10s.
NOTICE.
£ • 3 c c<»
"2960"
aWo
1000
1800
*400
4000
4000
33°°
17400