PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, MARKET-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHI; A DELPHI A.
[No. 71, of Vol. ll.]
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT, supplementary to the A<sl, intitled,
i( An A(fl making further Provision for the
Payment of the Debts of the United States."
WHEREAS no express provision has been made for extend
ing the ast, intitled, " An ast to provide more effectually
for the collection of the duties imposed by law on goods, wares
and merchandize imported into the United States, and on the
tonnage of ships or veflels," to the collection of the duties im
posed by the said " Ast making further provision for the pay
ment of the debts of the United States," and doubts concerning
the fame may arifeTherefore,
Be it watted by the Senate and Hsufe of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress ajjembledy That the ast, intitled, " An
ast to provide more effectually for the collection of the duties im
posed by law on goods, wares and merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the tonnage of fliips or vefTels," doth and
Ihall extend to, and be in force for the collection of the duties
fpecified and laid in and by the ast, intitled, " An ast making
further provision for the payment of the debts of the United
States, as fully and effectually as if every regulation, reftriftion,
penalty, provision, cl.aufe, matter and thing therein contained, had
fceen inserted in and re-enacted by the ast last aforefaid.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and PreJidentofthe Senate•
Approved, December twenty-seventh, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Seer State.
7'hi following remarks are (fubftatitialb ) copied from
the New-York Daily Advertiser.
IT is a very honorable proof of the patriotism
of the public creditors, that they discover so vo
luntary and general an acquiescence in the fund
ing system palled the la!t feiiion of Congress.
After the national legislature had so fully dif
cufled the fubjecft, and viewed all the circum
stances attending the public debt; it Ihould be
presumed, that their final determinations are,
upon the whole, best calculated to establish pub
lic credit, and protect the interests of public cre
oitors. Under this persuasion, and with an ar
dent desire to give effect to the operations of the
new government, the enlighted citizens of the
United States have generally demonstrated a
most lively approbation of the funding system,
as it now stands ; and it cannot be expected, that
Congress will depart from the principles upon
which the funding system has been modified :
For, whatever conclusions may be drawn from
rigid definitions of public faith, they now cease
to be llridtly applicable to our lituati'on. !t can
not fail to occur to every observing man, that
immense transfers of the public debt have taken
place since the funding system was established.
Those transfers have been regulated by the idea,
that the system was liable to no alteration—tha
jt was the result of a comprehensive \iew of th(
cafe, and would be as immutable by the legifla
ture, as the constitution itfelf. The question,
therefore, has assumed a different afpetft. Wha
would have been right the lall feflion, would be
wrong now. The bare difcuflion of the point ii.
Congress, whether the system should undergo an
alteration, would excite a suspicion with refpetft
to the final eftablifliment of public credit. The
great bulk of the creditors are contented, and
manifeft tjiie highest confidence that what is pro
mifed will be performed.
It is a favorable presage of the {lability and
vifdom of Congress, that the Senate of the United
States have pafled their laterefoluiion, with onl)
one diflenting voice.
Public creditors ! if ye be wife, be quiet where
ye are. ' CONSISTENCY.
BENNINGTON, Dec. 6
Lately a ball at Windham, in Connecticut, was
graced with the presence of about thirty younp
ladies, each of whom was drefled in a handfoine
muslin gown, wrought by their own hands. A
patriotic example worthy the imitation of every
lady among ui, who wiflies well to her country,
as, on the advancement of the manufactures of
America, depends her trued interest.
Saturday, January i, 1791.
ALBANY, Dec. 20.
By a gentleman lad evening from Quebec, we
are informed of the arrival at that place, of the
Hon. Gen. Alured Clarke (late Lt. Governor of
the island of Jamaica) who is appointed to fnc
ceed Lord Dorchester in the government : His
lordihip, however continues in it till spring—The
above gentleman farther informs that news of
the expedition against the Indians (mentioned
in the President's speech) under Gen. Harinar,
had reached Canada, and caused various conjec
tures, and various opinions were in circulation
respecting its real destination, some supposed it
was againlt Detroit, some one place and some
another.
NEWBURYPORT, Dec. Ij,
In this town, according to the late enumerati
on, the inhabitants amount to 4837 The dwel
ling-houses are 616. According to an enumera
tion taken in 1784, the number of inhabitants
was 4113 and the dwelling-houses 430. The
whole town nieafures but 620 acres, about 400 of
which are taken up for pastures, streets, &c. Its
greatest length is one mile and a half, and about
half a mile in breadth.
Lately died, on the coast: of Guinea, Captain
Wingate Newm an, of Philadelphia.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
" is gone," Columbia said,
Jl "My sage is now no more !"
Then drooping, hung her beauteous head,
His exit to deplore.
Bright genius flew on wings of wind,
Some comfort to address;
And thus she (pake in accents kind,
Whom she resolves to bless.
" Why wrepe Columbia ? Franklin's gone,
But ; s there then no more; —
Is Franklin then thy only son
Enrich'd with learning's lore ?
Or have I sent my che«ring light
T' illumine him alone P
My brightest ray now shines in Dwighf,
Thy long negle&ed son.
See Trumbull and fee Barlow raifc
Aloft their founding lyres ;
Columbia ! give thy sons that praise,
Which future aAs inspires.
Another Trumbull (hares my love;
His works of matchless art,
Will ev'ry patriot thought improve—
Nay,—form a patriot heart.
Ada ms, in council ever sage,
And blefs'd with eagle fight:
Adorns Columbia's faireft page,
And teaches man his right.
Nay look around on ev'ry fide
And wipe away those. tears
(Columbia feels an honest pride,
So bright the ftiow appears.)
" Call on yon youth, by me he's blefl,
And study makes him wife ;
Not Franklin's felf knew less of reft—
All nature meets his eves.
Arise and call my Mitchell forth :
For Franklin weep no more:
When you (hall know the living worth,
The dead you'll not deplore."
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Stitch of the Debates cn the MILITIA BILL
FRIDAY, Dec. 24.
r "T , HE amendments of thecomr.iitreeof thewhole
A to the miliria bill, were further difcufl'ed
this day by the house. The debate was conti
nued on Mr. Madison's proposition in favor of
:ierfons conscientiously scrupulous of bearing
a' nis. A majority of the speakers appeared to
be :n favor of their exemption's being left to the
leveral Hates : In support of this idea,
Mr. Bourn observed, that if the general go
vernment should take up the matter, and fubje<fl
he Quakers to a penalty as an equivalent for
-erforial feryice, their situation would be ren
dered less eligible than it is at prefent—for, in
( -veral of the Stares, he observed they are not
only exempted from militia duty, but from all
-659-
[Whole No. 175.]
fines and penalties in lieu thereof; he inft need
o h u e J Sta ' eS , of New-Hampfcire, Maflachulett.,
Knode-illand and Connecticut.
Another memorial from the society of Quakers
on the Eastern fhnre of Maryland, againlt the 16th
section of the bill, was presented by Mr. Smith
member from that State, and read.
A motion of Mr. Clymer, to amend the motion
of Mr. Madilbn, after some difculfion, was nega
tived—and the original motion being also put
was disagreed to ; so that, as the bill now stands,
the exemption of persons religiously scrupulous
of bearing arms, is to be provided for by the re
fpetftive states.
Mr. Smith, (S.C.) then renewed his proposi
tion refpedting independent companies—which
he informed the lioufe he had so modified, as to
avoid the objections before offered to it. It is
to the following effect : —
Whereas certain independent corps of artil
lery, infantry and dragoons, now exilt in thefe
y.eral Urates—lt is hereby enacted, rhat nothing
in this aift shall be confirmed to the dilbanding or
incorporating said companies in the militia ; t hey
at the fame time being liable to the performance
of the military duties herein required.
It being underllood that the biil ffiould be re
committed to a' felecft committee, it was voted
that this proportion be referred, with the bill.
On morion of Mr. Livermore, the 9th fecition
of the bill was expunged ; a motion by the fame
gentleman to strike out the 10th and uthfec
tions was negatived.
It was then moved that the bill be recom
mitted ; which being put, palled in the affirma
tive—and Meflis. Wadfworth, Giles and Tucker
were appointed the committee.
MONDAY, Dec. 27.
In committee of the whole, on the (late of the
Union. Mr. Livermore in the chair.
The report of ihe Secretary of the Treasury on
the eftablifliment of land-offices, for the sale of
the lands belonging to the United States, under
conlideration.
Mr. Boudinot offered the following resolve :
" That it is the sense of the committee, that a
land-office be established at the feat of the gener
al government, under the direclion of 'com
millioners.
Mr. Scot wished the house to take a general
view of the business, before they went into the
particulars of the secretary's report, Upon the
whole lie was pleafecl with the plan drawn up by
that officer ; one part however he objected to.
That part of the report which provided for the
didribution of the land He did not approve
offetling apart trac r ts for particular descriptions
of purchafcrs. As an amendment he offered se
ven propositions, which hewilhed for the prtefenc
to lie on the table,, and which he proposed to of
fer as f'ubliitutes to different parts of the Secre
tary's report, a* they came before the house. His
principal object was to let the tracts which Con
grels proposed to fell, be indifcriininately located.
Mr. Boudinot thought the committee could not
then enter into the minutiae of the business. It:
was enough to fix the general piinciples, viz.
Whether there shall be a general land-office, and
two subordinate—Whether they rhaJl be under
the direction of commilfioners—and whether cer
tain tra<fls of land should bereferved by Congrels
for certain purposes—and then to appoint a com
mittee to bring in a bill on those principles, arid
ro take into consideration the minutiae of the bu
siness. Great changes, he observed, had taken
place since the report was drawn up. The com
mittee, he said, might consider what should be
the greatest quantity fixed as a limit to the sales
made by the general office, and what for the su
bordinate.
Mr. Sherman offered a resolution, that there
be a general land-office eftabliflied.—Agreed.
Mr. Boudinot. That there be two subordinate
offices, one in the government to the North-Weft
—the other South of the Ohio.—Agreed.
Mr. Boudinot moved, that all sales made at the
general land-office fliall be above acres: Then
all below that quantity would be made at the su
bordinate offices. It should also be determined
whether Congress would fix the quantity, or
leave it to the commissioners. It appeared to him
a matter of importance.
Mr. Scott moved that the blank be filled with
one thousand.
Mr. White moved five thiufani.Mr. Boudinot thought the number too large.
Feifons, he observed, who wished to purchase so
large a tract, could afford, and would have 110 ob
jection toconie tothe feat of government to make
the purchase.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that it would be a great
advantage to have the contract for large purcha
ses made under the immediate eye of govern
ment. 'he house, however, he thought was not
prepared to fill up the blank ; lie wished it left
open.
I he motions for filling the blanks were with
drawn.
Mr. Boudhiot proposed that all smaller quail
tities be fold at the subordinate offices —To pre
vent the confufion thdt felling the fame quantity
at the different offices might occasion.—Agreed.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) wished it determined under
whose direction these offices should be ; whether
of one or three conuniifioners, or of any officer
already appointed. He thought one officer would
be moil eligible ; there would be more refpon
libility, and uniformity.
Mr. Sherman wished the determination of this
particular delayed. His mind was notmadeup.
—The motion was delayed.
Mr. Boudinot proposed that no lands should be
fold previous to fettling the indian claims—
Agreed.
That part of the report was read, which sets
apart certain lots, for certain particular purpo
ses anddiredts the manner oflocating them,
Mr. Scott moved as a fublHtutc his second pro
position, that such districts as (hall be set apart
for sale shall include the actual settlements, and
be left to be indiscriminately located. He said
it was improper to set aside different tracfts for
different modes of location, some in large trades,
others in small lots ; he conceived it would be the
interest of government to let every one purchase
where he pleased and as much or as little as he
chose. From experience he knew that those parts
were always fettled with the moll celerity that
were not bound down to any of those reftriftions
I or his part he could fee no good argument in fa
vour of them ; he wished some of the gentlemen
■who approved of this mode, to give him some
reasons for preferring it. There could be no
fear, he observed, of individual settlers flattering
and losing themselves in the back woods ; there
was a fufficient check to prevent it—the Indians
would keep them cornpadt, much more effectual
ly than any regulation Congress could make. If
certain scattered tracfts to individu
al settlers, a confutable tracfc including these
was wanted, he could fee no inconvenience in
granting it, reserving to the former settlers their
rights.
Mr. Williamfon rose to give the gentleman lafi:
up one reason for opposing indiscriminate locati
on. Hitherto he owned much mifchief had i.o'
anfen from this mode of settlement ; but now
there were persons rich in lecurities and ca/li
ready to take up conttderable quantities ofland
which if they were permitted to feleft here and
there, pick and chufe every choice tract they
could, ifindifcriminate location was the establish
ed principle, take upall the good lands, and leave
for future settlers, those who might not have the
fame means of purchasing immediately at com
niand, the indifferent parcels. Many he knew
had it in contemplation te do this if the opportu
nity offered. He instanced North-Carolina as an
example of the injurious tendency of this liber
ty ; whe.re many tratfs are unsaleable, ovvino- to"
this circnmrtance. If these tradts were to be pur
chafed by ac'tual settlers, the cafe would be dif
ferent ; but they would only be taken up by per
foils under the name of actual settlers. Such a
practice would be an impediment to such compa
nies of Europeans as might wish to fettle amon r
Mr. Scott raid he expedted the gentleman would
have offered more solid objections to his plan
and more forcible arguments in favor of the other'
Though the firft settlers had the the
land ; yet he conceived the remaining part would
acquire a considerable additional value from the
furroundmg settlements. As f or the European
companies who might be tempted to fettle amonp
us, he did not contemplate it as an object so de
ferable. A body of French people fettling in
that way would, hefaid, preserve their
and manners 2000 years perhaps ; this woufd not
be for the true interest of the country all its i n
habitants ftould by mutual intercourse become
affimulated and no name be known but that of
Americans. .«mi ox
Mr. Boudinot was against indiscriminate loca
tion . He Taid, he had seen the bad effetfts ofJr
in the State from which he came. Persons had
bough, up the lowlands, and r„,d
to Inch as absolutely needed a water lot to E
farm at enormous prices. He mentioned another
objection to the plan-the tendency it had to
create law-fmts. He said he was certain moll
money had been (pent at law in disputes arifin!
from that mode of settlement in New-Terfev
S . W0 " ld h * v ? b f. en neceflary to purehife the
Jand in the whole state. The late Congress, he
informed, had adopted a method to obviate
the inconveniences of the former mode—the lands
were laid our into mile-squares, these divided in
to four equal squares, and in that form fold.
Mr. White proposed that such as fliall not im
prove their purchases within a fixed reasonable
time, fbould forfeit the fame.
Mr. Boudinot wished it left to a committee to
determine. He had no objection to leave the
power with the commissioners.
Mr. Scott approved of the idea thrown out by
Mr. White, and agreed to amend the proposition
in conformity with the opinions of Mefli s Boudi
not and White.
Mr. Boudinot conceived it would be very diffi
cult to determine what an actual settler was. A
pui chafer could go and spend a few days oil his
land, and call himfelf an acftual settler.
Mi. White proposed that a man holding only
a certain proportion of uncultivated land to the
improved, ihould be called an actual settler.
Mr. Sedgwick disliked indiscriminate location,
He was confident if the diftricfis so to be fettled
were extensive, there would be too great room
for speculation aud monopoly.
Mr. Scott said there were traces of land which it
is lmpoflible to fell even by offering good parcels
with them. Between Philadelphia and his home
there were, he said, fpors, that were only intend
ed by nature for the birds and beasts—that could
be of no value for cultivation. He could not fee,
he faid,much probability, that the belt land would
be picked out—the difficulty of exploring a wild
and uncultivated defart, opposed a conhderable
banier to such attempts.
Mr. Scott's amendment was loft.
Mr. Fitzfimons moved to flrike out from
the clause the limitation of 100 acres to each
settler.
Mr. Scott disliked the limitation, he wished it
amended so as to leave it to Congress to fix the li
mitation by ad—Agreed.
„I? the " ext Paragraph in the following words.
The other tracts flial! from time to time be set
apait for (ales in town/hips of ten miles square,
except where they shall adjoin upon a boundary
of Tome prior grant, or of a trad so set apart; in
which cases there/hall be no greater departure
fiom such form oflocatton, than may be absolute
ly necessary."
Mr. Scott moved an amendment that the seven
■ anges which in laying off Congress had already
I Vrt 3 c ,°* rable expence, be fixed on for
by that article <""*« P'to b.fa apart
ir wn r ;,,l h r i,an J aS a s ainft the motion; hefaid
t would be confining the settlers to too narrow
bounds in making their choice.
rh^r r V C,ymer wi . <hed to kllow how much land
tliefe seven rages included.
Mr. Scott said, he could not give the exa<fc in
formation.
rose, and reported progress
TUESDAY, Dec. 28
In committee of the whole house on the state
-i'! e L " lon - Mr - Boudinot in the chair,
i ne report of the Secretary of the Treafnrv
on thefubjedsof a land office 7 and the
pnaied lands in the Western Territory, under
confiderauon. J> UiiUCI
Mr.Scott said he was readyro give fon.e informa
tion relative to the extentof the seven ranees • He
produced a map of them, from which it appeared
that they mcluded 35 ] ot s, each 6 milesTquare
Ihe traf. in the ffiape of a triangle, of which
one eg measured about 60, and the 42 1t
all about 1200 square miles His amendmen
was agreed to. uclli
[ 7he next article was agreed to with a triflinsr
amendment— without debate.
Then the following was read : " That- 1-JlO
price shall be thirty cents pr. acre, to b e pa id
either in gold or filrer, or public securities c^m
tPeTe!!S f f Which /ha ' l bear an '"'mediate in
reieit of fix per cent, as at par with gold and sil
ver, and thofe-which shall bear a future or less
1 Mr e s'cnrr any a*?*' at a P ro P ortio »al value."
Scott In ° v ed that 30 cents Ihould be struck
pr M acre en H, n f"? "J™ So cents
■ K , M : . re was every reasonable
probability, that the lands would be worth that
sum in a few years. '
La ,j rance f ? id tllat as the quality of the
and would vary, j t appeared proper to fix 011 two
prices, at which they foould 'be fold, viz Thlt
h .™,e,ha„ ■ ,z n - or T , h ; f ;
tnan He fubmuted the idea to the con
sideration of the committee
* Ir ' S prefered the insertion of a sum
below which the lands ftould not be fold.
Mr. Will 1 amfon fnggefted the propriety of
Pnth a g f, a i d,ffCrenCei . , V he P Hce tf thoS J who
pnrchafelarse quantities, from the price tothofe
who purchase fmalj quantities.
The motion for striking out was loft.
Mr Sedgwick then moved to amend the clanfe
bcleft e ;S'l that ! hCp, " ke P" ««<■»» "«
oc lei* man 30 cents pr. acre.
690
Mr. Stone objected to the motion. Hefaid the
operation of it would be, to leave it discretion
ary with the surveyors to fix the price of the v a .
rious tradls : This would be to constitute a tribu
bunal, in a measure independent of the govern
nient. He thought the policy of the govern
ment mould be, to fix on a price, which fhafl be
so reasonable, that persons m ay feel every induce
ment to pay it before they take up the lands for
it has been found by experience, laid he, that
oncea tra*ftof distant country is taken pofc
feflion of, you never can get any thing more than
the settlers are willing to pay. He infilled that
it was impracticable to fix the relative value of
unlocated lands—it had been repeatedly tried
without effect. He asked if any of the States had
ever established various rates for their lands ? He
knew of none.
Mr. Sedgwick answered the enquiry refpe<tin£
the relative value of lands being ascertained in
the several states : He said that so far as his in
formation extended, which refpe<fted only the
states of New-York, New Hampshire, and MalTa
cliufetts, this had invariably been the cafe: Every
man knows there is a moil eflential difference
in the value of lands : Those on navigable rivers
may be ten times as valuable as those on the top
of a mountain—this every individual is so sensi
ble of, that a difference in the price is constantly
m and government (heuld not make
a difference, it is impoflible to fay; any man, by
caitinghis eye on a map, can at once determine
that fonie part of the land is unspeakably more
valuable than other parts. He was certain that
veiling a discretionary power, in the disposal of
the land would be productive of the grearefl ad
vantage to the United States ; and on this prin
ciple he could not conceive why the furveyorg
ihould not determine the relative quality, that
the United States may fland some chance of get
ting the value of this property.
Mr. Livermore was in favor of Mr. Sedgwick's
motion—and enlarged on the unreasonableness
or fixing a particular price.
Mr. Jackson was opposed to inverting a discre
tionary power to determine the price with any
persons whatsoever ; _it had been productive of
mUchievous consequences in the state ofGeorgia.
—He was for fixing a price, and the highefl price
r u ° L lan(is would bear— when that is
old, if the residue will not bear the price efta
bliihed, xt can thenbe reduced.
? cott objected to the motion—he stated se
veral difficulties jthe principle was, that foreign
ers will be deterred from adventuring ; owing
to the uncertainty in the price : For when they
arrive in the country to fettle,they most purchase,
and they will then lie at the mercy offpeculators.
(To be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 29.
, Carrol took his feat this day.
1 he bill directing the mode in which the evi
dences of the debt of the United Stares, which
have been, or may be loft ordeftroyed, shall be
renewed, was read a second time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house on Monday
next, 100 copies were ordered to be printed.
The petition of Shubael Swaine, a prisoner
connn d in gaol for a breach of the revenue law,
praying Congress to rake his cafe into confeder
ation and remit his fine, was read, and on mo
tion referred to a committee confilting of Mr.
Goodhue, Mr. Livermore and Mr. Sinnickfon.
Mr. Firzfimons presented the petition of Philip
Buck, praying comper.fation for disability occa--
Uon d by services on board one of the row gal
lies during the late war, and for a schooner loft ;
which was read and referred to the Secretary at
War. J
: , H ® i(ter P resented the petition of Anna
Wilhelmina Elizabeth Longcanner,pitying com
peufation for services rendered by her late hus
band, during the war, which was read, and re
ferred to the Secretary at war.
Mr. Lawrance-prefented the petition of Win
throp Sargent, praying compensation for addi
tional services, whilst executing and performing
the duties of Governor of the Western Territory
which was read and refered to the Secretary of
the Treasury. J
Agreeable to the order of the day, the house
resolved ltfelfir.to a committee of the whole
to take into confideratioji the bill to provide for
the delivery of goods, wares and merchandize,
in the river Delaware, in the Stare of Pennsyl
vania, in cafe of obltruciion by ice.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The committee made sundry amendments
which were reported to the liotife, the fame were
read, other amendments were proposed in the
house which were agreed to, and the bill as
amended was ordered to be engrofled for a third
[ reading.
The lioiife proceeded to consider a motion
madeyefterday by Mr. Tucker, that the com
mittee appointed to prepare and bring in a mi
litia bill, be initru<fted to bring in a clause to
this effedt. " Be it enacted, That the militia of
the several States of the union confiftingof such
perrons as are, or may be enrolled by them rel
pc<shvely, shall be organized, armed and disciplined in manner following," and on the ques
tion to agree to this motion— The yeas and nays
eing called for, it palled in the negative. Ayes.
8, Noes, 43. 0 J
Messrs Aflie,
Bloodworth,
Floyd,
Grout,
Meffis Ames,
Bald win,
. Benfon,
Boudinot,
Bourne,
Brown,
Bui ke,
Cad wallader,
Carrol,
Fitzfimons,
Foster,
Gerry,
Oilman,
Goodhue,
Griffin,
Giles,
Hathornf,
Heifter,
Huntington.
Lawrance,
Lee,
Madison,
The house again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole on the slate of the union.
I he committee proceeded in the further con
lideration of the report of the Secretary of the
1 reaftirv refpeJiing the eftablifliing land offices
for the disposal of the vacant lands belonging; to
the United States.
Air. Boudinot in the chair.
i urther progress was made, bat the committee
role withoutfinifliingthe difcuifion. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Dec. 30,
An engrofled bill to provide for the unlading
of goods, wares and mercliandife in cafe of ob
ftr"<ftlo,ns l ce ' was rea( l a third time and patted.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committee appointed
for that purpose. reported a bill, repealing, after
a certain time the a<fl heretofore palled,impofine
duties on distilled and other spirits imported from
abroad, and laying others in their stead, and for
altering the mode of colletfting said duties, &c.
which was read the firft and second time, and re
ferred to a committee of the whole house on
Tuesday next.
A meflage was received from the President of
the Lnited States, communicating a report from
the Secretary of State, upon the fubjert of the
prisoners who are in captivity at Algiers.
Mr. Clymer presented a petition from the col
lege of physicians in Philadelphia, praying that
such heavy duties may be laid on distilled spirits
be effectual to restrain their intemperate
On motion, ordered, that the secretary of the
treasury be diredled to report to this house, the
amount of the exports from the several diftritfs
within the States refpe&ively, also the
amount of duties arising on imports and tonnage
from the hrft ofAuguft i 759, to the thirtieth of
September, 1790, and as soon as may be from
thence to the end of the year.
Mr. Bourne presented the petition of Simeon
I nayer, late a major in the continental army
praying to be placed on the lift ofpenfioners,on
account of disability occasioned whilst infervice
read and referred to the secretary at war. '
The speaker informed the house, that he had
lome communications to make, of a private na
ture. The galleries were ordered to be /hut.
f R I D A Y, Dec. jr.
Mr. Steele .member from North Carolina, took
his feat this day.
Several petitions and memorials were present
ed—read and referred. V
The Speaker communicated a report from the
feAoftheTT* 1 ° ft ' le , v United States > the fub
i ?7 S),llcin ' accompanied by a
Jetter-which, with the report, was read. 7
It was ordered that 300 copies of this report be
printed—and that it be made the order of thr
day on Wednesday week. the
w A P et, " on of Henr y Laurens, in behalf of his
Ward, the daughter of the late Col. Laurens
was presentedl by Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Read and
referred to a feledt committee, confuting of Mr
Smith, (S. C.) Mr. Gerry, and Mr. Carrol
Another petition was read from the fame gen
tleman, praying payment for a quantity of Rice
fornilhed on contract to the late continental ar
my. Referred to the Secretary of War
Mr. Good hue reported a bill for the'relief of
Shubael bwaine—Read the firft time.
In committee of the whole, on the report of
! Ki^ relative to the ef
tabhftiment of a Land Office.
The committee fini/hed the discussion of the re
port—and having agreed to a number of resolu
tions, rose and reported the fame—which it w-s
ordered fliould lie on the table.
Adjourned till Monday.
f e^e e d d '^' r t ' ?y ., the following Memorial was pre
-10 the Se "ate of the United States. '
* YEAS.
Messrs Livermore,
Thatchcr,
Tucker,
WiUiamfon,
NAYS.
Messrs Matthews,
Moore,
P. Muhlenberg,
Parker,
Partridge,
Van Ranfellaer,
Scott,
Sedgwick,
Seney,
Sevier,
Sherman,
Sylvester,
S'linickfon,
Smith, (M )
Smith, (S. C.)
Stone,
Sturges,
Trumbull,
Wadfworth,
White,
Wynkoop.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United Scares, in Congrels aflembled.
The Memorial of the College ofPhyficians of the city
of Philadelphia.
respectfully sheweth :
they have seen with great pleafurethe
I i operation of a National Government which
lias eltabhfhed order in the United States.
They rejoice to find amongst the powers which
belong to this government, that of restraining by
certain duties, the consumption of distilled spi
rits in our country.
It belongs more particularly to men of other
P ir i-°" St 0 enumerate the pernicious effects of
tliele liquors upon morals and manners. Your
memorialists will only remark that a great pro
portion of the moftobftinate, painful, and mortal
disorders which affe<sl the human body, are pro
duced by distilled spirits—That they are not on
ly destructive to health and life, but that they
impair the faculties of the mind, and thereby
ten equally to dilhonor our character as a nati
bei'ngs t0 dcgrade our J P eci « as intelligent
Your memorialists have no doubt that the rumor
of a plague or any other pestilential disorder,
which might sweep away thousands of their fel
0^" C <t ,lZCnS ' produce the inoft: vigorous
and effectual meafuresinourgovernment, to pre
vent or subdue it.
Your memorialists can fee no just cause why
the more certain and extensive ravages of diftl
led spirits, upon human life, should not beguard
ed against with corresponding vigilance and ex
ertions, by the rulers of the United States.
Your memorialists beg leave to add further
thatthe habitual use ofdiftilled spirits in any cafe
whatever, is wholly unnecelTary—that they nei
ther fortify the body againfl the morbid effedts
of heat er cold, nor render labor more easy, nor
more producflive— and that there are many arti
cles of diet and drink which are not only fafe
and perfectly salutary, butpreferable todiitilled
Ipirits for the above mentioned purposes.
Your memorialists have beheld with regert,the
feeble influence of reason and religion, in re
straining the evils which they have enumerated.
They center their hopes,) therefore, of an effici
ent remedy for them in the wisdom and power
of the legislature of the United States ; and in
beh ™£? f che of humanity to which their
profeflion is closely allied, they thus publicklv
intreat the Congress by their obligations to pro
tect the lives of their constituents, and by their
regard to the character of our nation, and the
rank of our species in the scale of beings, to im-
P n°u f,Utles upon all distilled spirits,
as shall be effectual to restrain their intemperate
ule in our country.
Signed by order of the College,
JOHN REDMAN, PreJident.
Philad. Dec. 27th 1790.
PARIS, oa. 18
Our new Municipality is now duly installed by
the present judges. M. Bailly, the newly chosen
Mayor, with 144 Notables, have ,taken the fol
lowing oath :
." You Avear and promise to abide by the con-
Ihtution, to be faithful to the nation, the law and
th i ln & and ™ o ully to fulfil your fungous."
Ma r° r afterwards made a speech suitable
to the occasion, and received a deputation of the
headd 1 ■ 5 C Vith , M - de la Fa^eCte " their
head declaring that through perfect obedience
Z th fjp ltl< : rs che 7 received, they would ensure
the e»cution of the oaths.
So '" e a S° ar ' ived in this city, Hu-rh Elli
ot, Esq. Envoy Extraordinary and Minister PJen-
Demnark ry f X- m Grea , t^, it^n }° the Court of
Denmark. Time muit determine the obiedl of
his appearance here.
On the 16th, M. de Noailles read a letter from
the Commandant of the Swiss regiment Chareau
vieroy, by which it appears that the soldiers
expreflive of their concern for what had lately
happened at Nanci, propose reftiturion of the
money they had forced from their officers. The
leading of this letter caused great ioy in the AT
fe,„ ~ who ordered i, bf .id
to all the regiments in the service.
NEW-YORK, Dec. 29.
Our latest accounts, rerpe<fting Britilh affairs
were yesterday brought from the Island of Gre
nada, by the Charlotte Capt. Holman, by which
we have a confirmation of a firft division of troons
■r° m ' re ' a nd being landed at Barbadoes ; they
were brought, as before described.by three for
ty-four gun /hips, accompanied by a number of
of the i^l* S ' WereC ® ,nonned at different posts
of the illand, wamng for the lecond division in
arrfved' ' . tta ° ,I f^ of 00t guards, which when
enable ;h e °^ ln , g " g sol diers, would
enable the whole to move under the artillery of
nanded by \ ice-Admiral Sir Alexander Hood
and Rear-Admiral Samuel Cornilh. The general
opinion is, that Count Miranda, of the Carraccas,
691
wXtadie>f„'°™';L S S'itm! mi ° iOM i "'"°
Philadelphia, Jan. 1.
1791.
<*«
has been the yearjuft cloftd!— All of th-m plctewi,h c vuits
country ! How bright our futu'i V rota> T' «° ° Ur
qu.l and happy at home-honored and refpcftrd a l ro H '
The labors of our patriots hav* abroad
success— while heaven has poured the rUh«"of Uncxam P led
fufton upon us May the Year w,„ m ' my m r™-
| equally propitious ;—foi no events in the a°™is of" A™" P ' ,>Ve
flea a fairer lustre on our charaftcrthan thnfr Amenca >
sand jcvcn hundred and ninety, ycar one
ExtraEl of a letter from a gentleman of the fir ft intel
■ tetsfittsg*
General Harmar has made a very fuccefsful
campaign tho you will regret with me the 2
of our friend Major Wyllys, who was facrificed
by the militia • They left him with his handful
ot continental troops to sustain the attack of a
largp body of Indians : Every man of them fell
? n U ! thr «—they fold their lives however dear •
Indeed there never has been any affair with the
Indians m which they loft so many men, as in this
campaign. W S have as yet no certain infor
mation from Major Hamtramck : Had he been
unfortunate, we lhould have heard of it lono-atm
fl^ PO, t t- frolnKentUck y are ' that the Indians
fled before him every where—that four of their
towns, and a vast quantity „f provisions had
deftroyed-and that part of the militia had got
home without the loss of a man." S
On Monday last the Hon. Mr. Hartley, a repre
sentative from this state in the Congress of the
United States, had his arm broken by a fall near
the state house in this city.
A bill has pa fled the Senate of North-Carolim
the present session, and is now before the liouCe
—for subscribing °n loan in the Loan-Office of
the United States, such continental monies, and
continental and State securities as are, or m"y
be in the hands of the Treafurerand comptroller
of that State, belonging to the public.
r & {[ ts "vjetttned that there are in the Trea
sury ofNorth-Carolina, State Securities to an amount
nearly fuffictent to balance the fuvi to be alfumed on
account ej that State by the General Government.
The cenfusof the inhabitants of the county of
SeTw ofth W - ChufettS) taken pursuant to the
late law of the Union, amounts to fifty nine thou
sand seven hundred and eleven : In
are ~ , h. T h.of bK
to contain fifty seven thousand, nine hundred and
seven inhabitants. ''no.
The following is a lift 0 f the feaveflels which
have arrived at this portfince January ift, i 7 o o :
Ships 129
Snows 18
Brigs 329
Schooners 264
Sleeps 324. Total 1064.
In No. 67 of this paper, we copied from a Daily Pabn r
the Commencement held in the College Hall, the \ c u/t CCOU " i ;'f
Doctor's DtgreuH Mcd,cine~,n Lch there arlt'Lttha
ders are requeued tocorred : bjiead of " Isaac Sayra A B Tn"'
frr s Bo 7 es ofMedictf r;
PRICE CURRENT PUBI.IC SECURITIES.
FU NDED DEBT,
6 pr. Cents 17/6. pr./.
3 pr. Cents 8/6.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/6.
UNFUNDED DEBT
F, n a l Settled °t hcr Certifies > 5 f.^ 15 J 6 . flr ,
State debts 12 /<j Q
PLEASE TO NOTICE.
FOR the accommodation of thoft who would
■mjh to become Adventurers in the First Clafsof the
Mas^chusettsSemi-annualSt/teLot/ekv
I n* P ° ft P a ' d ' Samuel Cooper
Phu!d2hfl° rt N f ' de Y Sta ' e - H ™f s > Lofton, enclosing
t J' ladel P h *«, New-Tori or Btflon Bank-Bills, or
Tick J OO / JT- be t" rticular b attended to, and
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790.
NB. Lift of Prizes will f, deposed with the
BENEZER HAZARB and JONAS ADDOMShave entered
L< into psrtnerfiiip. and opened an OFFICE, at No j-o m
Firm of CCt ' a d °°" ab ° Ve Fourth - Str «'. where, undcr'the
Hazard and Addoms,
r- r- d -1i ey P urchafc an d all kinds of
CEPiTIFICATES— PAPER MONEY, and BANK
STOCK
„ r % , B - ™ dc at lh « PublicOfficc, and Bufinef. in e«-
neral tranfa&cd on Comnj;flion. Detcmb'.r 29
e
873 pr. cent.
4 2 i do.
4 do.■
1
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
December 13, 1790. J
In obedience to the order of the House of Re
presentatives of the 9th Day of August last,
requiring the Secretary of the TrbasurY
to prepare and report, on this Day, such fur
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for eftabliftiing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
THAT from a conviction (as fuggelled in liij Report No. I,
herewith prcfented) thai a National bank is an initiation ot
primary importance to the prosperous admmiftration »f the Fi
nances, and would be of the greatcft utility in the operations con
nected with the support of the Public Credit, his attention has
been drawn to devising the plan of such an institution, upon a
scale which will entitle it to the confidence, and be likely to ren
der it equal to the exigencies of the public.
Previously to entering upon the detail of this plan, he entreats
the indulgence of the House, towaids some preliminaiy reflec
tions naturally arising out of the fubjeft, which he hopes will be
deemed neither useless nor out of place. Public opinion being
the ultimate arbiter|ot every measure of government, it can scarcely
appear improper, in deference to that, to accompany the origina
tion of any new proportion with explanations, which the superi
or information ot thofeto whom it is immediately addrelTed,
would render fuperflutras. r j j
It is a fail well understood, that public banks havu found ad
mission and patronage among the principal and most enlightened
commercial nations. They have successively obtained in Italy,
Germany, Holland, England and France, as well as in t£e United
States. And it is a circumftancc which cannot but haveconfider
able weight, in a candid eftimateof their tendency, that after an
experience of centuries, there exists not a question about their
utility in the countries, in which they have been so long establish
ed. Tbeorifls and meu of bufiaefj the acknowledgment
° f Trade and induftrv, wherever they have been tried, have been
indebted to them for important aid. And government has been
repeatedly under the greatest obligations to them, in dangerous
and diftreOing emergencies. That of the United States, as well
in some of the most critical conjunctures of the late war, as since
the peace, has received afliftance from those established among us,
With which it could not have difpenftd.
With this two-fold evidence before us, it might be expected,
that there would be a perfect union of opinions in their favor.
Yet doubts have been entertained ; jcaloufies and prejudices have
circulated; and though the experiment is every day dissipating
them, within the fphercs in which effefls are bed known; yet
there are fttil persons by whom they have not been entirely re
nounced. To give a full and accurate view of the fubjeft, would
be to make a treatise of a report; but there are certain afpefts in
which it may be cursorily exhibited, which may perhaps conduce
toajuftimpreffion of its merits. These will involve a comjjari
fon of the advantages, with the disadvantages, real or supposed,
of such institutions.
The following are among the principal advantages of a bank :—
Firjl. The augmentation of the active or produ&ive capital of a
country. Gold and silver, where they are employed merely as
the instruments of exchange and alienation, have been not impro
perly denominated dead flock; but when dcpofited in banks, to
become thebafis of a paper circulation, which takes their charadler
and place, as the signs or representations of value, they then acqui re
life, or, in other words, an active and productive quality. This
idea, which appears rather subtil and abftraft, in a general form,
may be made obvious and palpable, by entering into a lew parti
culars. It i« evident, for instance, that the money which a mer
chant keeps in his chest, waiting for a favorable opportunity to
employ it, produces nothing till that oppottunity arrives. But if
infteafttf locking it up in this manner, he either deposits it in a
invests it in theftock of a bank, it yields a profit during
the interval, in which he partakes, or not, according to the choice
he'may have made of being adepolitor, or a proprietor; and when
any advantageous speculation offers, inorderto be able to embrace
it, he has only to withdraw his money, if a depositor, or if a pro
prietor, to obtain a loan from the bank, orto difpofeof his stock;
an alternative seldom or never attetided with difficulty, when the
affairs of the institution are in a prosperous train. His money thus
or invested, is afund npon which himfelf and others can
borrow to a much larger amount. It is a well established fafl,
that banks in good credit can circulate a far greater sum than the
actual quantum of their capital in gold and silver. The extent of
the poflible excess seems indeterminate ; though it has bc.cu con
je&urally stated at the proportions of two and three to one. This
faculty is produced in various ways. Firjl—A great proportion
of the notes which are issued and pass current as calh, are indefi
nitely suspended in circulation, from the confidence which eech
holder has, that he can at any moment turn them into gold and
silver. Secondly —Every loan which a bank makes, is, in itsfirft
shape, a credit given to the borrower on its books, the amount of
■which it Hands ready to pay, either in its own notes, or in gold or
silver, at his option. But, in a great number of cases, no actual
payment is madein either. The borrower, frequently,by a check,
or order, transfers his credit to some other perfon,to whom he has
a payment to make—who, in his turn, is as often content with
a similar credit, because he is fatisfied that he can, whenever he
pleases, either convert it into cash, or pass it to some other hand
as an equivalent for it. And in this manner the credit keeps cir
culating, performing in every stage the office of money, till it is ex
tinguished by a discount with some person who has a payment to
make to the bank, to an equal or greater amount. Thus large sums
are lent and paid, frequently through a variety of hands, without
the intetvention of a ungle piece of coin. Thirdly—There is al
ways a large quantity of gold and silver in the repositories of the
bank, besides its own stock, which is placed there with a view,
partly to its fafe-keeping, and partly to the accommodation of an
institution. which is itfelf a source of general accommodation.
These deposits are of immense consequence in the operations of a
bank. Though liable to be re-drawn at any moment, experi
ence proves, that the money so much oftner changes proprietors
than place, and that what isdr3wnout is generally so speedily
replaced, as to authorize the counting upon the sums deposited,
as an cjfe£iive fund; which concurring with the stock of the bank,
enables it to extend its loans, ?nd to answer all the demands for
coin, whether in consequence ot those loans, or arising from the
occasional returns of its notes.
These different circumftancesexplain the manner in which the
ability of a bank to circulate a greater sum than its actual capita!
in coin, is acquired. This however must be gradual; and rauft
be preceded by a firm establishment of confidence ; a confidence
•which taay be bestowed on the irioft rational grounds ; since the
excess in question will always be bottomed on good (ecurity of
one kind or another. This every well-condu£ted bank carefully
requires, before it will consent to advance either its money or its
credit, and where there is an auxiliary capital (as will be the cafe
in the plan hereafter fubmilted) which, together with the capita 7
in coin, define the boundary that (hall not be exceeded by the en
gagementsof the bank, the security may, confidently with a!
the maxims of a reasonable circumfpeftion, be regarded as con
plete.
The famecircumftances illustrate the truth of the position, that
it is one of the properties of banks to increase the a&ive capital of
a country. This, in other words, is the sum of them. The mo
ney of one individual, while he is waiting for an opportunity to
employ it, by being either deposited in the bank for fdfe-keep-
ing, or inverted in its stock, is in a condition to adminifler to the
wants of others, without being put out of his own reach when oc
calion prcfents. This yields an extra profit, arising from what is
paid for the use of his money by others, when he could not him
ielf make use of it ; and keeps the money itfelf in a (late of incess
ant activity. In the almost infinite vicifiitudes and competitions oi
mercantile enterprize, there never can be danger of an iotermif
fion of demand, or that the money will remain for a moment idle
in the vaults of the bank. This additional employment given to
money, and the faculty of a bank to lend and circulate a greater
sum than the amount of its stock in coin, are to all the purposes
of trade and industry an absolute increase of capital. Purchases
and undertakings, in general, can be carried on by any given lum
of bank paper or credit, as effectually as by an equal sum of gold
and silver. And thus by contributing to enlarge the fwafsof in
duftiious and commercial enterprize, banks become nurseries of
national wealth : a consequence, as fatisfaftoiily verified by ex
perience, as it is clearly cleducible in theory.
(To be continued.)
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliflied a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boftou, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Good Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
Paflengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hours for darting from the refpefhve Stage
Houses is absolutely neceffary—from which there can be nodevia-
tion,
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thnrfdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Weftv/ard, leaves Boston— Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROW N.
69 —iw3m
WHEREAS a certain WILLIAM TUFF, of Salem County,
State of New-Jersey, has two nine pound notes of hand,
given by Samuel Hollinjhead, jun. and by certain information, it
appears that my name as a security for the fame is added to those
notes, unknown to me. I hereby forbid any person or persons
from taking any alignment of them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to answer those notes, or any alignment of them, as I
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame.
crland County i Nsv. go, 179©.
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
T) Y advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, ha
AJ opened an office for thepurpofeof buyingand felling, on com
million, the different fpeciesof Stock, and of liauidatcdind unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by the funding
law, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and transfer stock
from and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commissioners of
Loans, on moderate tenns.
Having for several years past been employed in the Treasury of
the United States, he is well acquainted with its operations and
forms ; and flatters himfelf that on that score he has "a decided ad
vantage in tranfafting business here. Heis fully impressed with
the truth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of bufincfs," and
will always make the intercft of his employers an object of the
nrft im poitance.
Philadelphia, December 29th, 1790.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY
HE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
W ' J . 'he First Oafs of the Majachufctts semi-annual Stale Lot
tery, which will commence drawing in the Rehrefnnatives' Chamber,
in Boston, on i the Seventeenth of March next, or feor.tr, if the
Tickets (hall bedlfpofed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
2J,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Doiiars, to be paid in the following Prizes, fubjea to a
deduction ol twelve and an half percent, for the life of the Com.
monwealth,
Prizes.
j ' Dollars. j
1 10000 is
2 3000 arc
3 2000
6 1000
10 500
3® 200
8° 100
9° 50 «
100 40
1 " 1 20
200 yo
7585 8
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
120
i6i
2 00
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
03"* IICK.ETS may be had of the several Managers, who will
pay the Prizes en demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth-os JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, IraMin's-Head,
lourt-Strcet, and at other places as ufua).
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.l
DAVID COBB,
SAMUEL COOPER, y Managers.
GEORGE R. MI NOT, !
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Bojlon, July 28, 8790.
This day is published,
I his day is published 9
By Thomas Lang,
No. 21, Church-Alley,
And fold by Fravcis Bailey, Joseph Crukshank, Wil
liam Pribhard, and Rice and Co. in Market-Street ; and
by Thomas Dobson, William Younc, and Robert
Campbell, in Second-Street, Philadelphia,
• Price 12s. 6d. (not ha/fthe price of the London edition) '
The Poems of Ossian,
SON OF FINGAL
Translated by JAMES MACPHERSON, Ess
Wanted, a good Cook,
Either Man or Woman Enquire at No. aoq, Second-Street,
opposite the New-Market.
692
Norwich, Dec. 14, 1790.
REUBEN ROBINSON.
100
5°
4 o
3®
20
the
PRICE CVRREtIT. PttILADEL tUIA.
DECEMBER 31. —Dollars at ;/G.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 6y
Allum, Englilh, pr. cwt. 36*
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tod
Ashes, pot, per ton, 35 a 37/10*
Arrack pr. Rail. icj 12s6d
Brandy, co*imon, js
Cogniac 8r 4d
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ a 161
Bricks pr. M 3 os
Bread, ship pr. cwt. 18s6d 19 s
Ditto, pilot 35s
Ditto, small water 6sr
Beer, American, in bot. ) ,
pr. doz. )
pr. bbl. 3 0s
c/i f Oak pr.M feet, 4/IOT 4/18J
® I Merch. pine 4/ 10s 4/15/
Sap, do. 2l'.ys6d 3/
Q | N. Eng. 2/5/ 2/7s6d,
l.Cedar 5 s
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard prices add 15/ pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 24J
fcu ( Irifli pr. bbl. 55s 6oj
§ < Boston 5 0s
ca ( Country 45 s
Butter pr. lb. is is 3^
in kegs iod \ 'id
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 11 d 12d
Coal pr. bufliel is 8d
Coffee pr.lb. is id
Cinnamon ißj zcs
Caflfia
Cheese, English \s6d
Country 6d 7\d
f Sper. pr. lb. 3/3 d 3J6 d
- I or
\szd
| Mould,tallow 11 d i'id
O icd
Cotton is \d ii 8d
Currants
Cloves i,5 f
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J 17 s6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 6256 d 6756 d
Duck, RufTia, pr. piece Boj 85J
Ravens
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 43s
Common, 39J
Bur middlings,beft 27 s
Middlings 34*
-Ship-Huff pr. cwt. 14.J 16/
Flax pr. lb. 8d gd
Fuflic
Feathers
pr. ton, 135J 15cs
pr. lb. 2J 4d
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 5s
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, white race 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50J
Ditto, ground pr. lb. is 2d
Ginseng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. £
quarter call;, J 3 0S
Ditto, fine glazed 37J 6d
Gin* Holland, pr. gall. 5s 6j
Do. pr. cafe, 28/ 30J
f Wheat pr. bush Ss^dCd
„ R y<= s>
5 I Oa-.s - '
< «• Indian corn
j Barley 4J qd
Best fuelled 20f
Buckwheat
Hams pr. lb.
Hemp,
pr. ton,
(head hoo;
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9d 10d
Hops
Indigo, French,
• Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f CailiHgs
£ | Bar pr. ton,
°<P'S
2 | Sheet
Nail rods
Junk, pr. cwt.
Lard, hogs
Lead in pigs
——in bars
Lead, white
Dollars*,
10000
6000
6000
6000
6000
8000
45°®
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
red 47J 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 2d is
Lignum vit«c pr. too 42s 45J
Logwood 7/ 5J 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 19J
Rye 28-f
Mackarel,bcft Cos
Common 30s*52s 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70s
Mustard 2s \d
Madder, bed u8fl? is§d
MolaflTes pr.gall. zsgd 2s xod
Marble, wrought, pr. loot, 13;
T.laft spars 6s 7 j 6d
Mahogany Sd 12 d
Nutmegs pr. Ib. 60s6js6d
Nails, 10J12d&c 20d— 8d Bidq d
12500©
Linfced, pr. gall. 3 j gd
1 Train U 10 d 1 s
Spermaceti 3/ ■jd
j I Whale is 10d 25
2 °|' ve 6d
1 Ditto pr. cafe 28.1 30/
Bellfweetin )
I flafks.pr. box, ) 5
t—balkets 12 bottles 28*
Oak timber pr. ton 40/
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London, pr.doz.l2j 6d 15s
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c,
Of the fiifl Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streeis.
The price of this paper js 3 dollars per ar.mm.
PER Y
Porjer, American pr. do*. 12/
Pitch, pr. bbl. 25s
Pork, Burlington, 805901
Lower county 70s 85*
m 75 s
7 s 6d 8j 4d
is gi
is 6d
Carolina
Peas, Albany
Pepper, pr. lb.
Pimento
Rice pr. cwf. 24/
Rosin pr. bbl. 2^
Raifms, heft, pr. keg 82J CJ 9oi
Ditto pr. jar 2'is 6d 30/
Ditto pr. box 17 s 6d 2
r Jamaica pr. gall. $s6d6s
Antigua 5 t
£ Windward 4 s6a
H Barbadoes 4 j 4 j4^
! Country, N. E. 3-f3Jii
LTaffia . 25 6d
Saffafras pr. ton 45* 6c#
Salt petre, pr. cwf. 6/io.f
Sulphur, flour 40/41*
Shot 50f
j ( German pr. cwt. 60/ jor
W jEnglifh, blistered 82J 6d
pr. ton 40/60/
£ Crowley's pr. fag. 4/ io.r
Snake root pr. lb. u6d 2s 8d
Soap, Common $d Sd
• Brown 6d
Castile 8d 9d
Starch 7
Snuff is6d isqd 3 s 6d
Spermaceti, refined, 3s
Sail Cloth, English, ) r , ,
pr. yard, '$»«»«*
• Boston, No.
No. 11. 2J 2d
RulTia ftieeting. pr. p. go*
I" Lump, pr. lb. 1S 5^
& j Loaf, Tingle refined is6d
<J Ditto, double do. isio±d
j Havannah, white 1 id
oo J Ditto, brown, Sd iod
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt.
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall.
f Allurn pr. bu(h. 2s is yL
2J 6i
< 2s
°° (Lisbon 2s^d2s6d
Ship build. W.O. frames > 80/
p.ton, \ Bsf
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5*
Shingles, (hort, p. M. 15* 20c
d long dreffcd 90 s 100s
s Scantling, heart, 90^1505-
d Sap 4 2j
d C Pipe pr. 1200 pieces
5/ £2 ! hoglhead 7/ c*
i > |R. O. do® 5/ %
s £ I Le °g a n S l >5 f
i u Barrel 4/ 15*
s L Heading 8/105
s C Otter, bed pr. piece 30/
Minks U2j6i
Fox, grey zs 6d 5/
J ——red 6s js6d
s £ Martins 35-
< 2s6dtjs
s £ Bears Ji6d2os
• Racoons 2s 4*
Musk-rats 9d is 6d
Beaver, pr. lb. js6d 1 u 3-/
Deer, in hair is6dps^d
is ls6
65s 70J
Scan;
issd2s6d
2 s
7 d Sd
> ,56/
>r. M d6l
jN.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbJ. 135
Carolina, 32 gall. 15*17/
Turpentine 20J 2256 d
Tar,
Spirits, pr.gall. 35 gd
'James R. new bed 35/'
inferior 26J 28?
o old 4 CyS $cf
" Rappahannock
O J Colo. Maryland 40J 60jr
Dark 20s 22s 6d
Long-leaf 22 j 6d
M liaftern-fhore 15s i6tf
X • Carolina, new 24J 26/
2J 9s 6d
ys 6d 12 s
4 s 7s6d
501
2256 d 3OJ
29/30/
IQ/
60/ 65/
361
27s 35 s
9<*
40J 42 j 6i
45 J 5 0i
Boj
L old 30s
( Hyson pr. lb. 7jßj4<£
co ! Hyson (kin, 4/ 4s 64
Souchong, best ns6d 8/
H ! Congo, 3* 3 J 9^
l_Bohea, 2j yd
Tallow, refined 9^
Tin pr. box, iioj 11256 d
Veidigreafe pr. lb. 41 4J 6d
Vermillion, 11*3^
Varnifti, 2J 2s 3d
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Lisbon 40/
Teneriffe 22/ioj 24/
w Fayal pr. gall. 3s id 3s 3d
2 Port pr. pipe 39/ 40/
Ditto pr. gall.
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30J
Claret 30J 45*
» Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd 9s
L Malaga 4 j 5/
Wax, Bees pr. lb. zs 2s 6d
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. U3<f
•short, pr. lb. \s io
Wax,
Whal
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
Ditto 60 days
Ditto 30 day*
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pi. guilder, 3
30 days 3x id
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 7s 2i
30 days 7*3*
2 f 3 d
go days, 66?
68J
72J