PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGIi-STRLET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 79, of Vol. ll.]
PARIS
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, OCTOBER 31
M DUBOIS de CRANCEY, in tlie name of
. the Military Committee, submitted to the
consideration of the AH'embly, a plan of a decree
relative to the arming of the French citizens in
habiting the frontiers. He was of opinion, that
no diftimflion (hould be made between the inha
bitants of the towns and those of the country —
that all citizens having-fwoi n to defend the con
JHtution, all have a right to arm in defence of it
—and that if the husbandman did not partake in
the distribution of the national arms, there would
be cause to fear that the inhabitants of towns
■would harrafs those of the country, under pre
tence of keeping thejp within bounds, or of pro
tecting them.
M Dubois, in the name of the Military Com
mittee, moved,
I. That the committee of constitution iliould
present, as soon as poflible to the A Hem My, a
plan for organizing the National Guard* of the
kingdom.
2. That the minifler of war should immediate*
ly be authorised to arm with mufquetsand bayo
nets, every active citizen doing the duty of Na
tional Guard.
3. That the fame minister ftinuld bedefired to
give an account to the AHembly of the obstacles
to the execution of the decree of the 28th July,
relative to the manufacture of new arms.
After some difcuflions, this plan of a decree
was adjourned.
M. Regnauld gave an account, that in the dis
trict of Saint-Jean-d'Angely, the enemies of the
public welfare exerted themselves more than
ever to perl'uade the people that they ought not
to pay taxes. One of these men, who thus blew
the flame of aifcord, being known, was pursued
by the tribunals, and ordered to be taken into
custody. The persons entrulted with the execu
tion of this decree, were accompanied with the
Marechauilee, and twenty-five regulars. The
man was arretted ; but as they were conducting
liiui to prifon,a numerous body of pealants, arm
ed with mufquers, came to his affittance. Firing
took place ou both fides, and many of the insur
gents were killed. The person arretted was
then conducted to prison. On the following day
the inhabitants of the counrry collected ir. great
numbers, with design to oblige the Marechauilee
to open the gates of the prison in which the pri
soner was confined. The Marechauilee opposed
the violation of the law ; but the Mayor, think
ing resistance dangerous, gave orders for libe
rating the prisoner. The people, not content
with this triumph, afiembled and seized the
Mayor, whom they cruelly maflacred.
r lhis affair is again to occupy the attention of
the Afiembly. It was then decreed, that the Af
-I'embly Ihould not have any fitting on Monday,
November I.
A protest ngainft the report made by M. Cha
broud, relative to the affair of the 6;h of Oifto
ber, and confequemly against the decree which
followed upon that occasion, has lately made its
appearance here, signed by a great number of
ariftocrates, in which they have made use of their
former titles of Dukes, Marquifles, Barons, Che
valiers, &c. and M. Serent has taken the title of
Deputy to the States General in behalf of the
NoblefTe of Nivernois.
The substance of it is as follows
" We declare that we disapprove, in toto, of
the report of the procedure of the Chatelet, as
delivered by M. Chabroud, in the name of the
committee of reports.
" We disapprove of ir, because it gives an un
just account of the depositions.
" We disapprove of it, because it appears to
have had no other objed: than to millate fa<fts,
to represent the victims as guilty, to traduce the
■witneiles, to render the tribunal odious, to excuse
the mod horrible attempts, by identifying them
with the operations of the National Afleiubly.
" AVe disapprove of it for fubllitnting, by wav
ofjuftification, an imaginary for a real plot', for
leflening the horror which every Frenchman
should have for a<ftions which criminate the
whole nation while they remain unpuniihed."
LONDON, Nov. 30.
A TITLE rliat has long extindt, is soon
to be revived in one of his Majeffy's Tons,
■viz. thatof Duke of Kent. Prince Edward, (now
Saturday, January 29, 1791.
at Gibraltar) is to be mads Duke of Cumber
land, and the next Prince, Duke of Lancalter.
A considerable part of the late summer and
autumn, has been fpenc by his Majefly in
hunting. The national desire, aud the opinion
of the physicians concur in recommending this
exercise, to prevent him, if polfible, from revert
ing into his late insane situation.
has puzzled some naturalilts to find out what
view nature could have had in creating lizards,
or whether ftie had any view at all. Nothing
(hews the weakness and folly of man more than
such dif'quilitions. It has been lately discovered,
and confirmed in many inltances, that the tail of
a lizard boiled, produces a broth or gravy, which,
after a few times drinking, cures, radically, the
molt inveterare cancer.
The door-money of the late battle of Mendo
za and Humphreys (two noted boxers) amount
ed to the trifling sum of seven hundred pounds.—
The door-money ai a charity sermon at Doncaf
ter, the subsequent Sabbath, amounted to the
sum of jour pounds five Jh'tllings ! So much for the
moral refinement of 1790.
M. de Calonne (fay our French accounts) was
blamed for having given a falfe calculation of
the expences neceli'ary to fiirrourd Paris with a
wall ; according to his estimate fix millions of li
vres would have been fufficient. It now appears
that fifteen millions, or 650 thousand pounds
sterling, will be neccflary to complete the under
taking. Nine millions have already been paid,
and fix millions remain due to the builders.
A boldness of general satire now prevails in
Paris ; nor is it deemed political to endeavur to
suppress it, however strong an inclination there
may be for fucli a measure. Caricature prints of
elevated characters are con tin uall v hawked about,
ar.d bought up with avidity. The kingdom be
ing still in a state of conftifion, the Aflembly think
it better to fuffer the spleen of the difaffected to
evaporate in this manner, rather than by the
more serious means which might take place,
were the publication of those caricatures proln
bited.
Wednesday morning, astheir Royal Highnefl'es
the Prince of Wales and Duke of York followed
the King's carriage just after the review, a fellow
who had climbed up in a tree to fee the fpeifta
cle, cried out, " God bless your Royal tligh
nefles! that's right, take care of your good fa
ther !"
December 3.
THE NETHERLANDS.
ON Tuesday eventning the Duke of Leeds received the-fol
lowing very important communication from Colonel Gardner at
Bruflels, which confirms the news of the fur render of Namur to
the Imperialiftsj and relates the confeqnences which it has pro
duced in every part of the Netherlands.
In our account of yesterday, we stated that General Schoenficld,
the commander in chief of the Belgic troops, had saved himfelf
by flight from the hands ot the Imperialists, and had ai rived at
Brussels. The latter part of this information we si.id to be prema
ture, for the Duke of Leeds's dispatches positively mention thaft
the whole Belgic army in garrison at Namur had -been made pri
soners, and among the reft General Schoenfield. This account is
certainly cot reft', though the particulars of the capture are not yet
known.
But the most important news is, that the Congrefsof BruHVls,
on hearing this intelligence, and that the Imperial army, amount
ing to 40,000 men, under the command of General Bender, was
in hasty march towards Brussels, immediately dispersed and took
to flight. Some of ihe Member* gpt away uriniolefled, but the
populace have seized on Van der Noot, and Van Eupen, the law
yer and the priest, who were endeavoring to escape in difgiiife,
both of whom they held in confinement, and their fate wili soon
prove an example of punishment to others who dare to i.ebej
against their lawful Sovereign, and usurp a Government by the
means of the most barefaced and wicked imposture.
The Imperial troops wereexpefted in BruffeU on Satucdiy lafl.
and the inhabitants are extremely well difpofrdto receive the n.
They wiil find no refiflance in re-taking poffcfliouof the Govern
ment of the Netherlands.
The congress of ambafftdor* at the Hague? for fettling the dif
putcs in Brjbatit, is diflolvcd rather abruptly. The Count .de
Merci d' Argenteau, the Imperial miniftT, had been entreated
by the other members of the Congress !o delay ihe entry yf. tht
Imperial troops into Brabant for davs, which he relufed to
do lor as many hours. The ministers of the three allied oow
crs openly protcftcd against this rash cpndua of M. de AW/, and
the Congiefs broke up. It is however", generally understood thai
Lord Auckland tacitly acquiesced in the proceedings ol this Mi.
riifter.
On th» very moment that the term given by the Emperor ex
pired, the States ot Brabant offered to submit on condition of re
ceiving the Emperor's third Ton as the Sovereign, bat all ojfei;
short of unconditional submission were refufed.
GEORGETOWN, January 19.
On the 13th inft. at Richmond, about 5 o'clock in the th'-
morning, a very severe shock of an earthquake was felt in that
city, which laftod about two minutes; it Ihook the hftufes (o fe
vercly, as to occasion many of the inhabitants to get up to f-e what
damage was done.—About the fame time a rumbling noise was
heard in this town, with an intcrmiflion of near half a minute.
The latter part so fevcreas to (hake the hoafes.
721
[Whole No. 183.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, Jan. 13
(Continuedfrom our lajt.)
MR. Smith remarked, that there appeared to
be so great a diversity of opinion on the
fnbje<ft before the house, that he doubted rlie
poiiibility of procuring a majority for either
of the motions that had been made. There
would be objections, he conceived, to any
fition that could be offered ; but the committee
(hould determine 011 that to which there were
few elf. To the Secretary of State he tho't there
were less than to any other officer proposed
Thole againlt the Chief Justice, lie thought un
answerable : Indeed the gentleman who propo
sed him, had not offered any answer to the ob- *
jetftions made to that officer.
The duties of the Prefideju of the Senate, and
those of the President of the United States, ap.
peared to hiin incompatible. The fir ft was tlw
representative of a particular state, and bonnrf
to obey the inftru<ftions of it. If he was to be
deprived of his feat in the his state wotlfcl
lose a vote there, and the balance of that bra»S|
of the legiilature would be destroyed.
He recapitulated the objections that had al
ready becnmade tothe Chief Justice's filling the
chair. His power of expounding treaties would
be improperly mixed with that ofmaking them.
1 hat of condemning for offences, with a power
of granting reprieves and pardons. Then the
Chief Juftiie could not atfl with propriety as
commander in chief of the army and navy, h
had been laid, he observed, that the judiciary
business might go on for fonie time without the
uffiftance of the Chief Justice : He thought nor.
There.were three circuit courts, and two judges
for each, including the Chief Justice : If he was
absent, the business of one of the. circuits coukl
nor proceed ; besides he fhoultl preside in the Af
preme court. ,1
He concluded by faying that the office of Se
cretary of State, and the duties of Prefidenr,
were analogous : He was a kind of AHiftant to
the Chief Magistrate, and would therefore very
properly ftipply his place; besides he was always
at the feat of government.
Mr. Burke (aid thai he had conrultpd a gen
tleman Hiilled in the doctrine of chances
who, after considering the fubjecft, had informed
him, that there was an equal chance that luohs a
contingency would not happen more than rt.nce
in 840 years. He hoped therefore thatthe com*
mittee would not spend any more tiine upon.[lie
fubjecS, but postpone it altogether. , , . t
J ' J i o
Mr. Giles conceived chat the probability ofth(
■vent's taking place was much greater than Mr.
Surke seemed ro think. According to the dec
line of policies, he said, ic was not more thanfif
y to one that it would not happen in two months,
iowever, even if the chance was much less, it
vas the duty of the lioufe to make provision for
he accident before it. occured. If it was lefc
ill the cafe actually took place, jt would Uien
>e too late to think of remedying the evil ; for
t was to be provided for by a legiflajivp ntTt,
vhich could upt be made complete without tho
rrefidejit 9 approbation and signature, and coiild
herefore riot be obtained when the chair was
/acant. Then if the event Ihould happen before
t was provided for, there would be, lie ton?
:eivod 3 an end to this.government.
He used another argument to urge thenecellii
ty of a l'peedy provision. Suppol'e, said he, the
Vice-President (ihould die, then the fate of this
government would remain ijj the hands of the
President, who. by resigning would dcitrov its
organization, without leaving a conltitmionai
mode of filling the vacancy.
In addition to the loss of this government,
would not every member of the legiflaryre, he
alked, lose his character, credit and reputation.
Having fiiewn the neceflity of making iminer'
diate provision for a cafe of so much importance
to the very existence of the government, Mr, Gile?he was in favor of filling tip tlie blank
with the Secretary of State He chiefly rested
his opinion on the idea, that if the constitution
had siot intended that the vacancy should be fil
led by fonie officer not there mentioned, they
would have determined who it fliould be.
Mr. Sedgwick was sorry that the bafinefs had
been brought forward, and more so that gentle
men ihould discover a zeal on the occalion, which
indicated too much of taking a personal iu;.erell
in the question.
He did not apprehend the consequences which
would follow, if the accident Ihould occur,
would be so dreadful as the gentleman la.lt up
appeared to think. There was more danger, he
conceived, in ruffling men's tempers now, by de
signating one officer heir apparent (if he might
be allowed the expreflion) to the office of chief
magistrate.
He objected to filling up the blank with the.
Secretary of State ; it would be putting in the
hands of the President (orof the Vice-President)
a power of appointing his fuccefi'or. The au
thority with which the Chief Justice is veiled,
the refpe<fl which his station commands, and his
independence, induced hini, he said, at firfl to
think him the most proper person to be at the
head of affairs in cafe of vacancy in the chief
magistracy.—However, if it could not be agreed
to postpone the business, he should now vote for
the President of the Senate pro tern.
Mr. Benfon said that an honorable gentleman
(Mr. Smith) hadremarked, that he had not at
tempted to anfvver the objections which were
made to the Chief Justice's being designated to
fill the vacancy, and had drawn the conclusion
that the objections were unanfvverable. He was
sensible that there might and would be objec
tions to any officer that could be mentioned ;
but those against the Chief Justice he did not
think unanswerable. It had been objedted that
there would be an impropriety in his condemn
ing as Chief Justice, and pardoning as President.
But something like this is frequently the cafe.
He supposed that whoever exercised the office of
Chief Magistrate, would for the time resign his
firft office. He only mentionedthis to ftiew that
the obje<slions made to the Chief Justice had not
been answered not because they were deemed
■unanswerable ; But his wish was to fee the va
fcancy filled by an independent officer ; he had
no objection to the President of the
Senate pro tern.
Mr. Jackson moved that the consideration of
this business be postponed, which was agreed to.
The committeerofe and reported.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 26.
Sundry petitions were read and referred to the
heads of departments.
Mr. Sedgwick, ffrom the committee appoint
ed for that purpose, reported a bill, providing
compeni'ations for infpe&ors and officers by them
appointed, which was read the fir 11 time.
The bill providing for the renewal of loft cer
tificates, was read the f'econd time, and referred
ro a committee of the whole, on Tliurfday the 3d
of February.
A message was received from the President of
United States, accompanied with the following
copies of a letter, addressed to him by the Presi
dent of the National Assembly of France, and of
a decree of that Aflembly, transmitted with it.
Mr. President,
The National Assembly has worn, during three
days, mourning for Benjamin Franklin,your fel
low citizen, your friend, and one of the most
ufeful of your co-operators in the eftablifhinent
of American Liberty. They charge me to com
municate their resolution to the Congress of the
United States. In consequence, I have the honor
to address to you, Mr. President, theextracft from
the proceedings of their felfion of the nth, which
contains the deliberation.
The National Aflembly have not been Hopped
in their decree by the consideration that Frank
lin was a llranger men are the fathers
of universal humanity their loss ought to
be felt, as a common misfortune, by all the tribes
of the great human family ; and it belongs, with
out doubt, to a nation still affected by all the sen
timents, which accompany the, achievement of
their liberty, and which owesirs.enfranchifement
effimuall'y to the progress of the public reason,
to be the firft to give the exafllgle of the filial
gratitude of the people towards "their true b'ene
fa<ftors besides that these ideas, iand this exam
ple, are lb proper to difleminate a happy emula
tion of patrotifm, and thus to extend more and
more the empire of reason and virtue, \vhich
could not fail promptly to determine a body, de
voted to the most important legislative combina
tions ; charged with assuring to the French the
rights of men, Sindcitizens ; it has believed, with
out doubt, that fruitful and great truths were
likewise numbered among the rights of man.
i he name of Benjamin Franklin will be im
mortal in the records of freedom and philofopliy :
but it is more particularly dear to a country,
where, conducted by the most sublime million,
this venerable man knew very soon to acquire an
infinite numbo- of friends and admirers, as well
by the fimpliity and sweetness ot his manners,
as by the puriy of his principles, t le exten o
his knowledge and the charms of his mind.
It will be remembered, that every success,
which he obt:ined in his important negociation,
was applauded a:«d celebrated ;fo to expie s it .
all over France, as so many crowds conferred on
genius and virtue. ,
Even then the sentiment of our rights exiited
in the bottom of our fouls. It was ealily P el^ e . 1N
ed, that it feelingly mingled in the inte) elt w 111
we took in behalf of America, and in the public
vows, which we preferred for your liberty.
At lalt the hour of the French lias an ived -
we love to think, that the citizens ofthe Unite
States have not regarded with indifference out
steps towards liberty. Twenty-fix millions ol
men, breaking their chains, and seriously occupi
ed in giving themselves a durable conititution,
are not unworthy theefteem ot a generous people
who have preceded them in that noble careei.
We hope, they will learn, with interest, the
funeral homage, which we have rendered to the
Nestor of America. May this solemn aift of fra
ternal friendfliip serve more and more to bind
the tie, which ought to unite two free nations !
May the common enjoyment of liberty shed itfelf
over the whole globe, and become an indillolu
ble chain of connexion among all the people of
the earth ! For ought they not to perceive, that
they will inarch more ftedfaftly and more cer
tainly to their true happiness, in understanding
and loving each other, than in being jealous and
fighting ?
May the Congress of the United States, and
the National Aflembly of France, be the firft to
furnifh this fine fpe(ftacle to the world ! and may
the individuals of the two nations connect them
selves by a mutual affetflion, worthy ofthe friend
fhip which unites the two men, at this day most
illustrious by their exertions for liberty—lVASh-
JNGTONand LA FAYETTE !
Permit me, Mr. Prefidcnt, to offer, 011 this oc
casion, my particular homage of esteem and ad
miration. I have the honor to be,
With refpe<ftful confidpration,
Mr-. I'refident,
Your rnoft humble
And
Mod obedient servant,
S 1 E T E S, Prejident.
Paris, 20th June, 1790.
Decree of ths National Assembly,»J the nth
of June, i 790.
The National AHembly decree, that tlieir Mem
bers {hall wear, during three days, mourning
for Benjamin Franklin, to coramencc on Mon
day next, —that the discourse, pronounced on this
occasion, be printed ; and that the President write|
to the American Congress, in the name of the
National Aflembly.
Compared with the original, by us, President
and Secretaries of the National Aflembly, at Pa
ris, 10th June, 1 790.
SIEYES, President.
GOURDAU, Sec.
FELIX DE PARDIEU, Sec.
(L.S.)
The House then proceeded to the considerati
on of certain papers, transmitted to them by the
President on Monday last ; which being of a se
cret nature, the doors were ordered to be ftiut.
THURSDAY, Jan. 27
The bill providing compensation to the inspec
tors, and officers by them appointed pursuant to
the ast laying duties on distilled spirits ; and for
other purpofes,was read the second time, and re
ferred to a committee of the whole lioufe, and
made theoi der of the day for to morrow week.
Mr. Bourne, presented the address and memo
rial of the people called Quakers, in the (tate of
Rhode-Island, refpeiting certain parts ofthe mi
litia bill.
Sundry petitions were read and referred
Mr. Gerry presented a memorial from the Ma
rine Society of Boston—proposing the eftablilh
ment of an Hospital, for the benefit ot sick and
disabled feamen—tobedivided intothree depart
ments—one for the Southern—one for the Cen
tral, and one for the Eastern states—being read
—Mr. Gerry moved that this memorial lhould be
reported to the committee already appointed on
the memorials ofthe merchants and others of the
town of Baltimore—this motion subsided, and it
was ordeied that the memorial iliould lie on the
table
Mr. Parker gave notice, that he ftiould to mor
row move that a committee be appointed to bring
in a bill for the general eftablilhuient of marine
Hospitals in the United States.
A njeflage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, in the
following words :
United States, Jan. 27, 1791
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
House of Representatives,
IN order that you may be fully informed of the
lunation of the frontiers, and the profpedts of
hostility in that quarter ; I lay before you the
722
DUMOUCHET, Sec
intelligence of some recent depredations, recei»
ed since my nieflage to you upon this f«bje<ft 0
the 24th instant. G. WASHINGTON
Mr. Secretary informed the Speaker that t hi
papers were sent to the Senate.
A nieflage from the Senate was received j,.
Mr. Otis, their Secretary, informing the hoiii
that they have pafl'ed a bill concerning Cou
fills and Vice-Consuls ; also communicarim
sundry papers, referred to in the meflkge 01
the Prelideut of the United States.—- flu
papers were read—viz a letter from Genera
Putnam to the Prefidentof the United Statu, da
ted at Marietta, Jan. 8, containing an account ol
an attack, the 3d inft. on Big Bottom, a fettle,
nient about 40 miles up the river, in which i<
persons were killed, and three taken pi'ifoneri<
a letter from fame person to Gen. Knox, and a
letter from Capt. David Zeigler, to Gov. St.Clair
corroborative of the above account. These pa!
pers were referred to the committee appointed
yesterday on the mefiage from the Prefide ntQ |
the United States.
The engrofled bill, repealing, after the lift day
of June next, the duties heretofore laid *n dif
tilled spirits imported from abroad, and faying
others in their stead, and also upon spirits distil.
led within the United States, and for appropria
ting the fame, was patted by a majority of fonr.
teen. The yeas and nays being called for, weri
as follow : YEAS.
Messrs. Atlies, B&nfon, Bouiinot, Bourns, CaJ
vjallader, Carroll, Clymsr, Fitzjimons, Floydjijlcr
Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Grout, Hunt:npn :
La-wrance, Lee, Leottard, Livermorc, Dladiftju, p Jr
tridgc, Schureman, Sedgttiick, Sherman, Sylve/ftrfiin
nickfon, Smith, (S.C.) Sturges, Thatcher, TruvAuli
Vini/ig, Wads-worth, White, Wynkoop. Total 3;,
NAYS.
Mefjrs. A/he,Bald-win,Blood-worth,Brown,Burt;
Giles, Hartley, Hathorn, HsiJ!er,Jackfon, Matkni
Moore, Muhlenberg, Parker, Van Ranfellatr, Stmj
Smith, (M.J Steele, Stone, Tucker, WiUiamfon. it
FRIDAY, Jan. 28. ,
The Consul Bill received ycfterday from thi
Senate, was read the firft and second time, anc
made the order of the day for Wednesday next
Ordered that 100 copies be printed for the use 0)
the house.
Mr. Heifter presented a memorial and peiiiiot
of a number of the public creditors holding Loat
Office Certificates, received in the years 1777 am
I 773, for money lent, far carrying 011 the late
war, read and laid on the table.
This petition refpec r ts Certificates received so!
loans of paper money, on the nominal ainountoi
which, interest, at 6 percent, per ann. had been
paid.
Mr. Ames laid the following motion on the ta
ble, That the Secretary of the Treasury be di
retfied to report, whether it is necefiary thatanj
provision should be made by law refpe&ing the
new emission money.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) brought in a report on the
petition of Henry Lauiens, which was against
granting the prayer of the petition ; laid on the
table.
Mr. Sturges brought in a report on the memo
rial of the inhabitants of Albany and Wafhingtbn
counties, refpetfiingthe pension granted to John
Younglove—which in substance was, that laid
pension appeared to have been improperly obtain
ed ; the committee proposed that the bnfinefs
should be referred to the Secretary of war to in
veltigate the fame and report.
Mr. Lawrance presented a memorial and pe
tition from the iufpeiftors of the city of New-York,
praying an encreafe of their compensation.
The report on the petition of John Church
man was taken into consideration ; the firft par'
of the report refpedted furnifliing him with mo
ney to prosecute his discoveries by a voyage t#
Baffin's Bay—on this part of the memorial tW
comnutttee offered no opinion. A motion
made to take the sense of the house, whether h
should be furniflied with a sum of money for t
purpose ; the question being put, it palled 1
the negative. . e At
On the other part of the report which relft
the" enhancement of the penalty for counterie
ing or copying original charts—a committee
appointed to bring in a bill to make pioviioij
for that purpose.
The committee 011 the petition of George '
son, brought 111 a report, which was in favor 0
the prayer of said petition. j
The Speaker communicated to the houle,®
port of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the u
je<£l of the eftabliihnient of a Mint. Or e
that 200 copies be printed for the use at
On motion of Mr. Browrt, the h° u^e J re '' o ! r
itfelf into a committee of the whole, and too
to consideration the bill providing for the
million of Kentucky into the Union.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The Chairman reported the bill to the hoM
without amendment —on motion the bill was r j
the third time, and pafl'ed./The house took into confideration-the report of the joint com
mittee in refpeft to the time when the next Congress shall com-
icnce its sessions.
ipcqcc 115 ICIUUHS.
/ The house after some debate, agreed to the report ; the firft
hart of which states that it will not be neceflary for the new Con-
Igrefs to commence its feflion i immediately after the 4th March.
The second part of the report proposes that the time for the an
nual meeting of Congress should be altered ; a committee con
fiding of Mr. Tucker, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Partridge was appointed
to report a bill for that purpose.
111 committee of the whole on the bill declaring the assent of
Congress to a certain ast of the Stateof Maryland.
Some amendments being agreed to by the committee, the bill
was reported to the house, and ordered 10 be engroifed for a third
reading on Monday next.
A motion made by Mr. Tucker, refpefting provision to be
made for fubferibtng, agreeable to the funding fyflem, certain cer
tificates lfTued in lieu of others, in fevetal of the Slates, subsequent
to the ill January 1790 —was referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury. Adjourned till Monday.
IS:
NEW-YORK, Jan. 24
Agreeably to census, the county of
New-London (Connecticut) contains 33,200 in
habitants, whieh is an increase of 1895, since the
year 1774.
There were exported from the distriCt of New-
London (Connecticut) in the year 1790, 7072
horses, cattle, and mules, it being 394 more
than was Ihipped the preceding year—3o odd fail
of vefl'cls are now frozen up ill Connecticut river,
bound to the Weft-Indies.
There are owned and chartered in that dlf
tridfc, 3 ships, I snow, 55 brigs, 50 schooners, 17
sloops. ■
The election for Representatives to the Con
gress of the United States commences to-morrow,
in the State of New-Jersey.
Speculating in funds goes on as brilkly as
ever—no less than four exprefles have pafled and
re-pafled, with Pegaflian fvviftntfs, from this ci
ty, to and from Philadelphia and Boftou, within
the week past.
The total of the taxes laid on Great-Britain in
the single year of 17S0, was 21,382,2491. lis. Bd.
sterling—above one third more than the whole
national debt of the United States. Let Ame
ricans consider these things.
ExtraCi from the Leyden Gazettt of Nov. 19
" Letters from Nanci mention the unwelcome
news ofthe death of M. Defilles, the brave young
officer who tied himfelfto the mouti»of a loaded
cannon on the 31 11 August, to prevent the muti
nous garrison of Nanci, from firing on the nati
onal troops. The wounds he received in that af
fair, have been the cause of his death. At Nan
ci it is regarded as a public loss, and a cause of
"liio&rning to th« whole city. Doubt lefc every
Frenchman, every man, whose saul is not steeled
to every sentiment of patriotism and humanity,
will feel emotions of grief and regret at the ear
ly death of a citizen, for whom all Nanci is in
tears. His name, which is already ranked with
the noblell in antiquity,will descend with their's
to the latest posterity, and obscure them in its
superior lustre, by the remembrance ofthe noble
a(ftion in which he facrificed his life to the peace
of his country. Let us contrast the conduit of
this young man with that of those Infernals, in
the fhapesof men, who, with deliberate coolness
can scheme scenes of disorder, anarchy, and ven
geance, merely to gratify their ambitious views,
and add, they care not how much, to the miseries
of man.—The National Aflembly in a letter di
re&ed to the friends of M. Defilles, have condo
led with them on the loss of so excellent a ci
tizen.
Philadelphia, Jan. 29.
Extrntt oj a letter from a gentleman at Fayetteville (N. C.) to a member
oj Congrefsy dated 15th December, 1790.
" I am now to inform you that the feflion of our Aflembly is
drawing to a period ; the adjournment fine die will take place this
eveniug. Next feflion is to be held at Newbern, the fiift Monday
in December next.
" Among the various bufmefs agitated this feflion, has been
that of subscribing the state securities now in the treasury to the
loan piopofed by Congress, and of opening an office for purchas
ing up the remaining debt, whereby the treasury might become
poflefled of a fufficient sum to fubferibe the whole amount to be
afTumed for this state ; but this scheme, I am happy in faying, has
not succeeded—the bill for the purpose is laid over, by a respec
table majority, to next aflembly, which by the bye will not hap
pen until two months after the fubfeription books are closed.
The beneficial effects of this decision already begin to.be experi
enced by the few who have had faith or obstinacy enough to in
duce them to hold up their certificates—ftate securities have risen
50 per cent, in twenty-four hours—the information will be im
mediately difleminated by the members among their constituents,
and we lhall henceforth know how to set a value upon the lmall
portion of certificates, out of which the knowing ones have not here
tofore duped us. Another circumstance which operates in favor
of our certificates is, that the report of the Comptroller, made to
the present Aflembly, states the amount in circulation to be barely
fufficient to fill the loan ; in which statement is included one-half
the Warrenton emiflion, which we all know are not attainable—
so that we have the fulleft aflurance the whole of our fubferiptions
will be aflumed. The Commifli*ner of loans has made applica
tion for the checks, by which to examine the certificates prefentcd
to be loaned ; his request has been negatived ; but at the fame
time a resolution was adopted, allowing him access to them, pro
vided he would go where they are (viz. Hillfborough) which we
have no doubt will be the cafe; as we cannot harbour a thought
that the Secretary of the Treasury, in whom we have the highest
confidence, will permit to become stationary in so remote a cor
ner of the State aa is Edenton, an office, established as well for
the general good and accommodation of the citizcns of the State,
as for the United States.
<£ Along with ihe foregoing information fuller me to intrude
the following, which, for the information of the concerned to the
Northward and Eastward, it may perhaps be well to publilh in
the newspapers of your city, as the Ast itfelf mav not find its
way among them iri due time : A Law has palled this feflion, for
doing an ast of justice to the holders of certificates, illued for just
claims by the Coinmiflioiiers of Army Accounts at Warrenton,
in the year 1786 ; by this Ast the Agent tor fettling the accounts
of this State, with the United States, is required to make return to
the Treasurer of the State, by the firft of May Dext, of all the set
tlements made by the said Commissioners in 1786, diftinguithing
the just from the unjust, the holders of Certificates are to bring
them in to the Treasury, before or at the next feflion of AlTembly,
and the I reafurer is to ilTue new Certificates of like tenor for all
such as (hall appear to have been fairly obtained. The ast ex
pires at the riling of the Assembly, and such who IHall not by that
period have presented their claims are foiever precluded."
Thursday an express arrived at the War-Office of th* 1 United
States, from the Western country. J*
The following extract of a letter trom Capt. Zcigler, dated Foi
Harmar, January 8, to the Secretary at War, contains the substance
of the intelligence brought by the express.
" I AM extremely sony to inform you, that the settlement
called Big Bottom, twenty miles up tKe Mulkingum, from this
pbft, was cut off by the Sivages on the ad- instant. Eleven men
and two children were kilied ; two men who were quartered in a
cabbiu a small distance from the Block-House escaped ; three men
it is supposed, are taken prisoners as bodies are not found.
Extract of a letter from Marietta, to a Member oA
Cougrefs, dated Jan. 6, 1791.
" When the settlers of this region had pui
chafed their lands and removed hither, they ha
not the least apprehension, that they had any di!
ficulties to encounter, except thofeof an unculti
vated foil—placing all faith and confidence ii
the hon. the Congiefs, of whom they purchafect
it—being as it were under the necellity of laying
out that which they received as pay for their past
services, in land, 1110 ft of the settlers here confi-i
der their purchase as bought with their blood :l
But, Sir, is it possible we lliouid have purchafecD
lands, which we cannot improve, by reason of a'
savage enemy, whom the United States can ex
tirpate with a nod ?—No. Surely we shall have
help in due time. You have doubt had the
particulars of the attack 011 the unfortunate fet
rlement up the Mu&inguai.—The groans of your,
flanghtered dyingcounrymen—the lamentation/
of parents for the loss of their beloved fons—thi
indignity offered to the United States by those
savages' murdering her sons, who were peaceably
improving the land she had fold them, will rouse
the indignation of the American Eagle, and pour 1
speedy vengeance on the guilty heads of those
murderers, who received not the least provoca
tion, but 011 the contrary every friendly office in
our pover. It is not my province to enquire in
to the particulars of the late expedition ; but this
1 can fay with propriety, that it has not had the
defii ed effetft—for in place of humbling, it only
irriv?ted—and instead of a partial, it has produ
ced a general WAR. To whom have we to look
for help and protection from the enemy, but to
the general government, whom, next to God, arel
the fathers and guardians of the lives and pro-/
perries of the people."
Extract of a letter from Brunfuiick, (N. J.) Jan. 34,
" I have just returned from feeing a great cn
riofity, at least to-mofl of us in this'part of the
country : On Sunday the 16th inft. there was
drove on fliore three miles E. S. E. of South-Am
boy, a young Calf-Whale, about 36 feet long,
16 feet circumference, jaw 7 feet in length, and
tail 7 feet 4 inches broad.. Various are the opin
ions of people on this occasion : Some fay it is the
sign of a hard winter : pthers, that it forbodes
a change in Congress—We (hall be better able
to determine after eledtion is over : Our exhi
bition comes on to-morrow—there will be a fad
shaking—You fee we have 42 candidates—and all
of them have their friend 3."
A vote of thanks to the four Senators of the
United States, who voted against the Treaty with
the Creek Nation, was pafled by the Senate of
Georgia at their late feilion, by the calling vote
of their President.
It seems, by the above, that the Treaty with
the Creek Nation is not without friends—even in
Georgia.
Seventeen hundred bolts of Duck, of 40 yards each,
have been fold from the Bojion Sail-Cloth Manufa&ory in the last
year, of a superior quality to any ever before seen in America.
The noble Ship President, of 1000 tons burthen, lately
launched at Provideace, is wholly clothed with Duck from this
manufactory. „ — v
We hear that the census of the inhabitants of the State of Mafc
fachufetts, including tke diftrift of Maine, amounts to four hun
dred and seventy thoufanl persons. -
The very refpettable majority of the house of Reprefentarives,
on pafling the new revecue bill—fuggefti ideas very favorable to
the enlightened policy, 3pd independence of that hon. body—
while it discovers a projsr confidence in the patriotism of their
constituents.
A certain distinguished chara&er in the United States, wrote a
book on the fubjeft of government.—*-He founded his fyoem on the
experience of mankind,in all couutries and ages—and the invaria
ble principles of human nature—the great obje&s of this work,are
to devise the most effettual barrjers to the encroachments of arbi
trary power, and the most perfect fafeguards to liberty. A cor
respondent observed, that in a late debate on the excise bill, the
principles of this work were very fully recognized ; when it was
urged as a reason for a certain amendment proposed to the bill,
" that human nature is always the fame—what has been, will be
again—and that experience is the only infallible guide in legisla
tion when the principles of emulation, rivaMhip and ambition
are brought forward as the great moving causes of a£lion to the
human mind, and a ballanced government is urged as the natural
and neceflary result ; it is very fafhionable to hear persons fay,
that modern human nature, is so very different a thing from ancient
human nature, that it will be universally found in future, I hat
723
every idea ot diftinftion and emulation is eradicated (romili. t
man conftitutior,! That every man, according m'lcripure wTu
prefer his neighbour's interest to his own ; that equality end'com
U.medV/. si Wlll render the condition of mankind ,n the
mer age m ° rC S""' """ " bce " <°"
The excise bills as it is termed, now before
Congreis, has met with much undeserved cen
tre troin a;i erroneous idea, that thofc men who
strenuously oppoled the fame fyilem of taxation
previous to the revolution, and. wliofe oppofuion
to the measures of the British government were
the cause of the liberty we now enjoy, would acit
inconfiftentjy by favoring a fyfteni of taxation
they then detested and resolutely oppofed.—ln
dependent of the wide difference between the
principles of the bill now before Congress, and
the British excise ; it may justly be oblei ved,'that
there exists some difference in bearing a burden
inipofed by a government in which we had no
paticipation, and in paying a tax laid by our im
mediate representatives, and for the support of
a government of our own choice. Gen. Adv.
The only plausible objection against the as
sumption of the excise by the general government,
is a supposition that the impost will so encreale,
that no other additional revenue will be wanted
—but this objection excludes all idea of linking
any part of the principal of the public debt ot*
making a certain provision to pay the interest a
greeable to the plighted faith of the United States
—or of a ruinous clashing of jurisdictions, in
cafe the states fhonld separately renew their ex
cif'e fyltems, ifCongrefs (hould wave the right to
that source of revenue.
According to the Csveral enumerationsotfjheO
inhabitants of various diflrids of the United
States, the population of this country exceeds all
the etti mates heretofore publiflied on the fub
jeci. Some persons may fay the amazing in
crease in particular places, is owing in ft great de
gree to emigrations— grant this to be the cafe—
where is the spot in those States which have fur
nifhed the largest number of emigrants, that lias
not also made advances in its population, The
fadl is, that this country is advancing to the so
vereignty of the globe with a rapidity that baf
fles all calculation. '
The illue of the Belgic Revolution fufficienily
evinces, that no system, which is founded on an
invasion of rights, can poflibly succeed.
—A levelling principle is the canker of a Tree
Constitution.
There is a profeffion, which it has become
la good deal fafliionable to rail again ft, to whom
'civil society is under no small obligations both
on aecounc of their public spirit, and as aflertors
of the rights of freemen—l mean lawyers ;it is
said the present glorious revolution of France
owes its rile in a great measure to the gentle
men of the bar—and in our own country they
have always borne a conspicuous part in the
council and in the field.
This is undoubtedly a fart, that lawyers have
always been held in low estimation in despotic
and arbitrary governments.
The Hon. Aaron Burr, of New-York, is elected Senator
the United States, to take the place of Hon. Philtp Schuyler,
in March next.
Yefterdav departed this fife, in ao advanced age, the Hon.
George Bryan, Eiq. one of the Judges of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania.
AT the late Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Society, for
promoting the abolition of Slavery, &c. held, agreeably to ihcir
Charter, on the 3d inft. the following persons wereelctlcd officer®
for the present year.
Prtfident,
James Pcmberton, Esq.
„ _,■ Rev. Dr. William' "K'oero; —
Vice-PrcfideJits, j Rcv £ r N; c hol as Colin.
5 Dr. Samuel P. GrifHtts,
J Mr. John McCrca.
Secretaries,
Mr. James Starr.
f Micrs Fiflier, Esq.
J William Lewis, Esq.
'J William Rawle, Esq.
j John D. Coxe, Esq.
| John Todd, Jun. Esq.
l_ Jofcph Thomas, Esq.
f James Pemberton, Esq.
| Rev. Dr. William Rogers,
| Dr. Samuel P. Griffitts,
■«j Richard Wells, Esq.
j Mr. Caleb Lowndes,
Treasurer,
Counsellors,
• . committee
lA/ of
| Correspondence.
| Dr. Casper Wifbr,
|_Mr. John MfC'efr.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
SINCE OUR LAST.
Sloop Industry, Allen, Virginia.
Brig Hawk, . Curwin, Liverpool.
Schooner Polly, Andote, Port-au-Prince.
Brig Virginia, Dott, Marfeillcs.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FU NDED DEBT
6 -pr. Cents 16/6. 17/ P'- L 8 5 pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents 8/9 ctf. 45
Defeicd 6 pr. Cents 9/. 45
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett!, and oiher Certificates 15/3 1,5/6 77i io -
Indents 8/9 9/ 45
N. and S. Carolina,debts, it/. 11/6. 574 do
The purchases of public debt by the Treasurer of th£ United
States 011 Monday 17th inlt. were at 17/4 lor 6 per ccnts, and 9/
for 3 per cents and 6 per cents.m
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
LINES on FEMALE GENIUS,
To PHILENIA ;* occajtoned by reading her POEM, entitled,
" Guabi, or the Virtues oj Nature
In former days, as ancient poets feign,
A strange contention fill'd th* etherial plain,
What gojdefs, faireft in angclic eyes,
Should o'er herb ight compeers in beauty rife,
In make and motion high 3bovc the reft,
Sov'reign of hearts and queen of love confef&'d.
All wakeful Discord the event improv'd,
And the whole sex a gilded apple mov'd.
O'er the blefs'd plain the friv'lous bauble rolTd,
" TotheJirJl Fair," inferib'd in gems and gold.
Who had the faireft face, fit (übje£l then,
For universal war of go J s and men.
A higher theme has now all hearts inclin'd,
Not who's the faircft form, but brightest mind,
And hark, how loud the mental contest rings!
Apollo's hand has set the tuneful firings,
Phi len i a's verse his living lyre divine
Admits, and calls upon the sacred nine
To name the fair pre-eminent in song,
To whose mild voice the dulcet notes belong.
To such enchantress he'll consign the lyre,
The bright credential of superior fire ;
From whose ftritt chords the diapason clear,
Mellifluous deep, shall charm th' arrested ear.
Extatick airs, that hymn the morning ray,
The lark's full note, and linnet's lighter lay,
Shall emulate Phi lenia's song in vain,
Pier heav'nly harp sublime and seraph strain.
And hence shall bigot pride conieft no more
The sex's equal claim to claflic lore.
Mean is the man who never can bestow
A leaf of laurel to a female brow ;
When sterling sense and tuneful di&ion join'd,
Are the twin-offspring of a female mind.
From Albion's cliffs what tides of music flow,
When heart struck Seward pours the plaint of woe,
When Carter's modulated numbers roll,
And Moor e and Aiki n moralize the foul.
O woman, favorite of the fowling skies !
\Be thy jufl rights asserted by the wife !
To thy fair fame impartial, they shall find
Genius is not to any sex confin'd ;
Bound by no Salic Law, to nature true,
u Shall give to merit, what is merit's due."
* A Lady of Bojlon.
BOSTON, Jan. i 5,
By an arrival at Salem from India, a Calcutta paper has been re
ceived, which gives accounts of the operatious of that inveterate
enemy of the English, Ti pfo Sa ib, the fucceflor of the famous
Hyder Ali, agairift the Rajah of Travencore. In one battle with
the Rajah, Tifipo is said to have been defeated, with the Joss of
1300 men—and in a he is said to have afTaulted the Rajah
lines with incredible ferocity and bravery, and after a long con
test, obtained a victory. The Rajah of Travtncore is a (lifted by
his ally, the Englifli, with considerable bodies ot troops, and ac
cording to the last accounts, Tippo, with 150,000 men, was pie
paring to attack them—between whom a serious battle was ex
pected.
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLX
Of France, at the date of the last accounts, was fact approaching
towards its diflolution—the consequent general election that will
take place throughout France, will be the true epocha for the per
manent establishment, or final deftruflion of the liberties of that
country. That the issue may be the promotion of the bed good
of the French Nation, forms the wish of every American. To
the.King, they fay,
" Hai/, thou that Jhalt a sceptre wield,
Unspotted long with human gore ;
Th\ rhnklrf y- '' a >
To regal tnanny no more.
Another Louis views thyJlate,
And the great Henry joys to fee
Ilis injured country blejl tho' late
With Louis and with Liberty."
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
So great has been the encouragement given to this Lottery, that
even bets were yesterday laid, that there would not be a Ticket to
be purchafcd for weeks previous to the time fixed for drawing.
BALTIMORE, January 18.
His Britannic Ma}efly hath been pleased to approve the Ap
pointment of Joshua Johnson, Efquirc, to be the Consul for
the United Statis of America, at the Port of London and Places
adjacent.
New Line of Stages.
r T^HESubfcriberhasefiabH{h ? d a line ofSTAGES from Hart
ii 1 b y w >vof Norwich and Providencc which
will runthro twice a week durmo- the c f ocnct ' w f lch
times a week duiing the Summer Selfcn Sear ° n ' " !d ,luec
Good Carriages, Horses, and careful Drive'rs are Provided
ftftngcr, pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed , 4 pound
Extra Baggage pays at the rate three Pence
per Mile for every 140 wt. .As the Mail is to go in thc fe Stmes
for the 79' fixed hours for ftartmg from the refoeftive Sta'g
Houfesisabfoliitelyneceffary-from which there can be nodcv.a-
The Stage for the Eaflward leaves W ' Cl '' * 4 ' ' 7^°'
Hartford Mondays and Thtirfdavs
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,' '
Tnr( , ... „ , Providence- Wednesdays and Saturdays,
Tor the Westward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays
Providence- Tuesdays and Fridays, '
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays
6g— jw3tn
TIPPO SAIB.
JESSE BROWN.
South-Carolina Lands for Sale,
ABOUT one hundred mile? from Charleston, for any kind
Goods. One third part of 63 Tracts of Land, conta I"* n S
51,900 acres, lying near the rivers of Savannah, Big and Litt e a
Lohachees, and the fork of the Edifto : These Lauds are a
dark, or a copper-coloured foil, in an inhabited part of the Mate.
Also 5 traftsof Land in Ninety-Six dilfrift, 4 inOrangeourg 1 -
tri&, 6 in Camden, all containing 7,600 acres, all good lan ,
streams of water running through them. TheleLands will e 0
so low, 'hat a man may make his fortune in buying them, tor the
purpose of again, as emigrants are daily arriving t ere
from Europe, to fettle.
Duplicate Plots and Grants maybe seen, and indisputable
will be given by the fubferiber. FREDERICK KJNG*
Morrijiown, Jan. 1791. (77 —6wiw.)
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST by the Subscriber, on the 12th day of Januarv 179*5 ke
tween Penollopon"and Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Certificates, issued by the
said State, to sundry for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of their pay ; all of which are signed by John Stevens,
jun. Treasurer, and countersigned by James Ewing, Auditor, viz.
No. Dated, Payable to Amount.
323 June 26, 1781, Powcl Alfion,
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long,
593 J une2 9> do. Oliver Cromwell,
664 June 30, do. James Kinfey,
740 July 2, do. George Long,
869 july 4, do. Ananias Clark,
938 July 30, do. Samuel Dotey,
1060 March 20, 1782, Ephraim Patten,
1128 August 8, do. James Coulfton,
1133 August 8, do. Moses Thompson,
1230 January 27, 1783, Asa Gilderfleaves,
1237 April 9, do. Michael Lane,
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark,
Any person who may have found the said Certificates, and wil'
retui n thetn to the fubferiber, living at Penollopon afore said, (hall re
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
All perfonsare hereby cautioned against purchasing any of the
above Certificates; as payment is flopped at the public offices.
II any of them (houid be offered forfale,the person to whom they
are offere.l ;s requclled to fiop the fame, and give notice thereof
to their humble fesvant. KENNETH HANKINSON.
Monmouth Ctunty, - Jerfcy, Jan. 15, 1791.
TREASL? Y DEPARTMENT, 1
Ja ;:<K- 25, 179 r - J
THE Public Creditors are renytiucd th , . order to the pro
per dispositions sos paying the Interefl'n the several States,
it is neceflary that the amount to be paid in -. eh fliould be pre
viously known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the firft
quarter is not far distant, it is wished that tho ! who have not yet
done it, may be expeditious in making and funifying their elec
tion, pursuant to the ast making provide for the debt of the
United States.
INFORMATION WANTED.
gCT* THE Subscriber requejls, if any gentleman
can give him information of a purchase of Lands made
by a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year i ySr and
1 782, in fume part of the United States, he will be ft>
kind as to inform his Brother, by directing a line tn
him, at the Pr'tnur's office. S. RICHARDET.
1791.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY
THE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, prcfent the PuWic
with the First C'afs of the MaJJackufetts firm-annual Stale Lot
tery, which will commence drawing in the Representatives' Chamber,
in Boflon, on the Seventeenth of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets ftiall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
2j,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to he paid in the following Prizes, (übjeft to a
dedutlion of twelve and an lib IJ percent, for the ufc of the Com
monwealth,
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
90
X 00
1 20
16l
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
25000,
(J3* TICKETS may be had of the several iManagers, who wil
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin' s-Head
Court-Street, and at other places asufual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.T
DAVID COBB, '
SAMUEI, COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
Bojlon, Juh 28, 8790.
C - Tickets in the above Lottery are to bcjold //Stephen Auflin,
corner of Front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.
PLEASE TO NOTICE
_Sp~ FOR the accommodation of those mho would
wijh to become Jdventurers in the First Class of the
MassachusettsSemi-annua l St ate Lottery
L- /f ZU post paid ' Samuel Cooper at
I htladelphta, New-York or Boston Bank-Bills or
other good Bills will be particularly attended to,'and
such t'JtT" immediately upon the receipt of
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790. 1
N - B. A Lift of Prizes -will be depof,ted with the
compleated'f ,mmtdiat ° l > «/>- drawing is
1 71 iaw tf
724
£.60 8 9
30 l 6 10g
60 ■ 8 9
57 12 6
5 4 4!
3 12 4i
'35 7
3 1 '3 9
30 7 10^
15° 5 9l
63 7 5i
61 16 io£-
4 >7 10 2
Dollars.
10000 is
3000 arc
2000
1,000
.500
'200
100
\ 50
40
30
20
10
8
f Managers.
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PER QUANTITY.
JANUARY 28.—Dollars at 7/6.
ANCHORS pr. lb. Qd
Allum, Englilh, pr. cwt. 361
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tod
Ashes, pot, per ton, 35 a 37^ 10J
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s 6d
Brandy, common, ys6d
"Cogniac 8f 4d
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ a 161
Bricks pr. M 30 s
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 18s6d 19J
Ditto, pilot 25 s
Ditto, (mall water 45/ 48;
Beer, American, in bot. /g j .
pr. doz. >
pr. bbl. 30 s
c/ 3 f Oak pr.M feet, 4/10* 4/1 8j
0 | Merch. pine 4/ ioj 4/ 15J
4* Sap, do. 21-y.s6d 3/
O I N.Eng. 2/5/ zlys6d
53 L Cedar 4/ 4/ S s
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard py ices add 15s pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 24*
I** ( Irish pr. bbl. 55J 60s
< Boston 50J
n (Country 48*50*
Butler pr. lb. 10d 12d
in kegs 10d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. lod \\d
Coal pr. bushel u 8d
Coffee pr. lb. u 2d
fin ana moist s
4*
Caflia
Cheese, English \s6d
Country 6d 7\d
fSper. pr. lb. &%d tybd
I U'... ~
P <( Myrtle Wax is 2d
| Mould,tallow 11 d 12d
U LDipped 9^9\d
Cotton is i«,Bd
Currants
Cloves 1 S s
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J \7s6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 6zs6d 6"js6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj 85J
Ravens
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 433
Common, 39 s
Bur middlings,beft 37J
34*
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 14J 16s
Flax pr. lb. Sd gd
Fustic
pr. ton, 135s 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2s 4d
Flaxfeed pr. bufii. 5x 3d
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whitertice 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 1s 2d
Ginseng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, ) 3 0J
Ditto, fine glazed 37s 6d
Gin? Holland, pr. gall. 51 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 30J 3 5 s
("Wheat pr. bush Bs/±d6d
R y e .5'
I Oats
< Indian corn 2s6d 3/
— 1 | Barley 45 9^
| Best fhellcd 20/
2s
Hams pr. lb. yaSd
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. gd 10d
Hops zs^d?s6d
Indigo, French, ys 6d 12s
— Carolina 4 s 7s 6d
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f Castings 2256 d 303
| Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
2 < p, s 10/
5 | Sheet 60/ 6 5 t
Nail rods 36/
Jarik, pr. cwt. 27 s 3 5 j
Lard, hogs qd 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42* 6i
in bars 4,5* sojsoj
bead, white 80s 8,51
r <?d 4; J 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 9,d isqd
Lignum vita pr. ton 42s 4ss
I.ogwood 7 / g/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. iq s
Rye 28/
Mackarel,bell g of
■ Common 30 s 52J 6d
Mace ps; lb. 70s
Milliard 2s 41i
Madder, bed isSdisgd
Molaflcs pr. gall. zsgd
Marble, wrought, pr.foot, 13}
Mast spars 6s ;s 6d
Mahogany $d \id
Nutmegs pr. lb. 6ot 67s 6d
Nails, 10d19.dSc9.0d- SdSUqd
Dollars,
10000
6000
6000
6000
500 c
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
125000
' Linseed, pr. galJ. 3s gd
1 rain 1 j iod 2j
Spcrmaceti 3i -d
j Whaie is 10d 2s
q <J ; Olive 61 6d
j Ditto pr. cafe 28.; qoj
• Best sweet in )
flafl<s,pr. box,
L—baskets 12 bottles 281
Oak timber pr. ton 4OJ
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
l° T> don,pr.doz.i2f 6d 15J
WANTED, TWO OR MOKE
Convenient ROOMS,
in Chefnut-Street, or as near the Bank as *pofTible. Enquire of
t he Printer. f cpt f.)
\j-3 7HE Subscribers Jor this paper t in the city of Ncw-Yoik,
are reJpe/fjuUy injormcd, that the charge oj the papers proving inconve
nient to Mr. Wetmore, at the Poji-Office, the Editor has engaged Mr.
. amuel Campbell, Book-feller, Hanover-Square, to receive them end
juper intend their delivery—by whom Subfci iptions and arrearages w'-H
Pt received. . ' \'
Porter, American pr. doz ,
Pitch, pr. bbl.
Pork, Burlington,
Lower county o <fi '
Carolina ' 7
Peas, Albany ;,6i
Pepper, pr. lb. «
Pimento J*
Rice pr. cwt.
Rosin pr. bbl.
Raifms, bid, pr. J'
Ditto pr.jar
Diito pr. box
f Jamaica pr. gall.
« | Antigua
i Windward ,J.
j Barbadoes 4 , J
• Country, N.E. 3i
c.A 2J W
S? T Pr ' ,0 " for
« F A P r - Cwt - 6/ ,oi
Sulphur, flour 4CJ
j f German pr. cwt. 601,0/
W )Engl,(b,bliftered 82,6 i
H J American pr. ton 40/60/
« (.Crowley 1 , pr. fag. 4 / IOJ
hnake root pr. lb. u6J ;,8J
Soap, Common y
Brown ' gj
—Caflile &J d
Starch \ {
SnulF isU 2sid yej
Spermaceti, refined, ~
Sail Cloth, Englilh, )
pr. yard, If ™
Boston, No. I.
, Wo. 11. 2iii
Ituflia fliecting. pr. p. acts
C Lump, pr. lb. ,fy)
j Loaf, finglc refined u(y
< Ditto, double do. ISioU
j- i Havannah, white i,J
si Ditto, brown, Siiod
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. va J
. Allum pr. bulh. 2J2J31/
j J Liverpool
< Cadiz 2J
(Lisbon
Ship build. W.O.frames) Boj
P- ton, } 8 „
Do. LO.&red C. do. 6/6/jj
Shingles, short, p. M. xsrtoj
long dressed gojioos
Scantling, heart, go/ijoj
%s6 2 s
65 J 70s
~Z M P .4" 45'
f pr. 1200 pieccs itl
2|W. o. hogfhcad jl r,
> J R- O. do. 5 ; 5 j
S R e ° ga ,"
</> Barrel 4 /, 5 i
L Heading 8/ I0;
Otter, best pr. piece 301
Minks U2j6</
Fox, grey 2*6i«r
red 6J isbd
Martins 3,1
2 Fiihcrs 256^5/
£0 Bears jsSdios
Racoons 2j 4*
Musk-rats u6<f
Beaver, pr. lb. 1 ij
Deei, in hair is(sd9ssd
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 13J
Carolina, 32 gall. 15517J
Turpentine 20i 2256 d
1 Spirits, pr.gall. 3 s gd
. r James R. new bed 3,55
'•£ ——inferior 26J28/
o old 45> 50/
is Bd2j 6d
~ I Rappahannock
C J Colo. Maryland 405 60.c
y Dark 20s 22s(id
Long-leaf 22 s6d
W Eastern-shore 15 s 16s
H j Carolina, new 24J26/
L- old 30^
.( Hyson pr. lb. 718/4*/
co I Hyson skin, 4J 4v 6</
Souchong, bed ns^dZs
H I Congo, 3 j 4d 3/ yd
(_Bohea, zs 7/
Tallow, refined
"in - bo v
•«i pr. box, 1 ioj 1 \2S u
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 4s 6d
Vermillion, 11/3/
Varnish,
W
2 <
$
I
Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Lisbon 40/
Teneiiffe 22/ioj 24/
Fayal pr. gall.
Port pr. pipe 39/ 40/
Ditto pr. gall.
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30 s
Claret 30J 45/
Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd 9 s
Malaga 4s 5s
, Bees pr. lb. 2s 2s 2d
le-bone, long pr. lb. is3#
short, pr. lb. 1 s iosd
< 1
WJ!
Wh'
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 70
Ditto 60 days
Ditto 30 day* 7
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3$
30 days 3s id
Francc, 60 days,pr.s liv. B.t 6d
30 days 6s iod
is 2i id