PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS PHII , nr ,
[No. 76', of Vol. ll.]
Of the Inhabitants of Trenton,
To His Excellency WILLIAM PATERSON, Esq.
GOVE tiNOR of Neiu-Jerfey,
I ''HE early, decided, and peifevering patriot,
whose councils and exertions have eminent
ly contributed toeftsbliflx the peace, liberty and
Safety as tlie public, deserves every diiHnclion
•whicjj a sensible ana grateful people can bellow.
Such services, and fiich principles, have placed
you, Sir, in the feat of government, with
out helitation or diflent: and New-Jersey nolon-
S er f ee l s the wound which fhc has received by
the death of a Livingston, when a Paterson
supplies his place.
The inhabitants of Trenton, and the vicinity,
equally sensible of your merits, and equally grate
ful for your past services, with the relt of :heir
fellow-citizens, would do injustice to their own
feelings, were they to suppress the fatisfadtion
and approbation they feel upon so happy and
unanimous a choice of a Chief Magistrate.
should think ourselves particularly favor
ed, if it might be confident with your Excellen
cy s private interest and choice, to honor this
place with your residence ; if not so fortunate,
vre fljall be anxious to make every transient Itay
agreeable.
With well-founded aflurance that your future
conducfl, like your past, will merit and perpetuate
the love and confidence oftlie inhabitants of New-
Jersey, we pray for you, all personal and domes
tic felicity hire, well knowing that hereafter a sure
reward awaits the benefactors of mankind.
In behalf of the Inhabit ants,
ISAAC SMITH, Chairman.
Trenton, Nov. 24, 1 790.
Gentlemen,
I SCARCELY know in what manner to make my
far your polite and affec
tionate address. Language fails ire 1 cannot
defcribethe emotions of gratitude and refpedt,
which rife in niy bread but believe me, gen
tlemen, I feel my heart lenfibly feels upon
the occasion.
The attention and hospitality, which, as a pri
vate individual, I have experienced from the in
habitants of Trenton, and its vicinity, I shall ever
retain in grateful memory ; and I have no doubt
that whenever inclination may lead, or the du
ties ofoffice may call there—or whether my ftav
be as a relident, or as a guest, I shall meet whii
a cordial reception, and be treated with every
mark of civility and politeness.
That my conduct in thedifferent offices, which
I have had the honor to fill, has met with the ap
probation of a free and enlightened people, gives
ine unfeigned pleasure ; andit is my fervent with,
that I may in future demean myfelf in fucli a
manner as to cherish and increase this favorable
opinion. My interest as a citizen conspires with
my duty as a ruler to advance the growth and
prosperity of this State, and to promote the wel
fare and glory of the Union at large. In this
sentiment I am sure of meeting with your hearty
concurrence, and that of every good and wife
man in the State, As Freemen, we have but
one common object ; as Citizens of the United
States, our interests and our rights are now the
fame. That narrow fyflem of local politics,
which, for a time, diftradled our counsels, distur
bed our repose, and tarnished our glory, is <rra
.dually disappearing, under the benign influc'nce
and diifufive operation of the new :
Our political horizon extends and brightens
As a people we are united and happy at-home
and as a nation refpe<fied abroad.——Mav New-
Jersey sustain her rank in the political scale of
the Union!—To realize this wish. ought to be our
aim—our study—and pur pride. May the ar
dour of patriotism be kindled into an active and
noble emulation—and may we, in our refpeiftive I
flat ions—and within the fpheie of ourinfluence
vie with each other, who shall contribute most to
the welfare and aggrandizement of our common
country ! In this generous contention, all the fo
etal virtues will be called into exercise—all the
bigq-toned passions will be enlisted on the fide of
duty, and whatever is amiable in character, or
sublime in acftion, will rife to view, and warm
and animate the portrait of an American citizen.
Tiius may we a<ft and after a life, full of be
neficence and years, may yon be translated to that
happy world, where the patriot, and friend of
Mankind, will receive a sure and InfHng reward.
WILLIAM PATER.SON.
ADDRESS
Wednesday, January 19, 1791.
SUMMARY
Of the Eftimares referred to in the Secretary of
the Treasury's Report to Congress of the 6tli
inftanr.
No. I. Refpe&ing the Civil List.
Executive ind Judicial Dt'iartvents.
0.-npcnlations to the '["reticle:'.', -President,
Chief Justice and his five AlTf>ciates-Judges ot the i)alh. Cts.
ieveral dillri£ts, and Attorney General, 72,000
Legijlative Department.
Cjmpenfations to the Members of Congress, and
their Secretary, Clerks, Chaplains, McHengers,Ser
jeant at Arms, and Door-K.eepers, ettimating the
attendance of the whole number for fix months, 113,400
Treasury Department.
Compensations to the Secretary, his Assistant, Clerks,
Mclfenger and Officc-Keeper, 8,200
Comptroller and his Cle.ks, - 8,800
Trealurer, his Clerks, Meffengerand Office-
Keeper, -
Auditor, and his Clerks,
Kegilfer, and his Cleiks,
Two Office-Keepeis and Meffirngers for the
Comptroller's, Auditor's and' Kegifter'i
offices, _
Loan-Officers of the several Diftrifls,
Department of State.
Compensations to the Secretary, his Clerks, Office-
Keeper and MeiTenger,
Department of War.
Compensations to the Secretary, Clerks, Paymaster,
Commiilioner, Messenger and Office-Keeper,
Comm'Jior.ers for Jettling accounts between the Uvited
States and individual States.
Compensations to the Commiflloners, their Clerks,
Meifcnger and Office-Keeper,
Government of Wejlern Territory.
Compensations to the Governors, Secretaries, Judges,
&c. ol the two Drftri£ts, - .
Grant to Baron Steuben,
His annual allowance, -
Penfioiif granted by the late Government,
Incidentaland coitingent expences relative to the Civil Lift.
Under this head arc included fire wood, stationary,
printing work, and all other contingent expences
ot the two Houfesof Congress, and the other de
partments, ...
Total in Dollars, 299)276.53
No. 11. Contains an Estimate of expences of the
Civil Lift Eftabli(Linear, for the year 1791,
arising from the following objects, viz. '
Deficiency in an appropriation heretofore made for buildino
and equipping ten cutters, a sum for building a large boat for
each cutler, pay and rations to the Mailers and mariners of the
fame, &r. ; for expences towards the fafe keeping and profecu-
Uon of persons committed for offences against the United States
tor thefupport, maintenance and repairs of light-houses, beaconsj
piers, flakes and buoys ; for converting the beacon of Georgia in
to a hght-houfe ; for printing the several descriptions of treasury
and loan-office certificates prepared in pursuance of an ast making
provision for the public debt ; for making 300 reams at 3J dol
lars per ream ; printing 200 reams, at > 5 dollars per ream ; pay
of two fupenmrndants of the paper mill ; pay offour fuperintend
ants of the prefj ; binding 2000 books, at 5 0-iooths each; for a
clerk employed in thetreafury department, for receiving the cer
tificates from the fuperintendants, and transmitting them to the
several loan-officcs, and attending to other parts of this business ;
for devices and contingent expences; for expences which will
attend Jurveying the tract of the Miami company, and running
the lines of division of the tracts of the Ohio and Sciota compa
nies, agreeably to a resolve of lath August, 1790; for the pur
chale of hydrometers for the ufc of the officers of the customs and
inipcclorsof the revenue : s
Amounting together tc Dollars, 50,756 7
No. 111. An Estimate of Money requisite for the
Department of War, for the year 1791
Stated annual Expcnces.
Pay of the troops,
Subfiflcnceof the troops,
Forage,
Cloathing for the troops,
Quarter-master's depai tment,
Hofpiial dcoartmenr,
Four extra furgeonb' mates,
Ordnance department,
Contingencies of war department,
Extra Expences.
Expedition of General Harmar,
Annual allowance to invalids,
Monies due for former ferviccs,
Amounting to Dollars, 39*i>99-,54
No. IV. General Estimate for the Services of the
ensuing year,
Civil Lift, as per No. i,
Additional Expences, as per No. 2,
War Department, as per No. 3,
FROM THE NEIV-YORK DAILY ADVERTISER
AN" ABSURDITY !
lias not a more curious circumstance
A- " a PP enec l> within the compass of my recol
letflion than the late resolution of the Legislature
of North-Carolina, on the fubjcdi of their state
debt. I his affair, fin whatever light it may be
viewed exposes such anabfurdity as admits nei
their of explanation, nor apology. Theftate.it
seems, propose to come forward with such certi
ficates as have been paid into their Treafury,and
709
4,200
10,600
11,55°
57. 000
1 3' 2 5°
6,250
6,500
11 >55°
10,000
2,500
2 .767 73
17,308 80
74.916
59»787
1 >°3-
23,772. 80
25.000
1,63,5. 20
4'73 2 * 8°
6 '3°3- 66
5,000
100,000
87,463. 60
556. 48
2 99.276- ,53
,50.756. 7
39°. 199. 54
Total Dollars, 740,232. 14
[Whole No. 180.]
ti i" t i l^ m to e afi »medbjrthe UnitedStatei
he law of Congress for aifuming theltate debts
acfant view, renders any such resolve a nullitv'
It cannot be thrown into any shape, in which k
will not contradict and destroy itfelf. Let me
alk what Congress have undertaken to do ? The
answer is ; they have undertaken to nfl'ume the
ltate debts. But when a ltate has paid any cerii
ficatesand got them into the Treasury, there no
longer exists a debt relative to such redeemed
certificates. A debt cannot cxift without two par
ties ; a debtor and creditor. When a debt is once
paid, both those relations are deftroved and the
debt is ot course annihilated. The alTumption.
law, m such cafe, has nothing to operate upon ;
because, the fubjet r t of that law, is debts ; andthe
agents who are to reeeive the payment, are cre
ditors. Now when the debt has once been dis
charged, there is 110 longer a debtor, and con -
fequently there can be no creditor, since one
cannot exifl: without the other. Adebt is a thin"-
which does not admit of a refurreiftion. Its pay
ment, by the person who owed it, is its final de
'trucftioii. I will put a cafe.
A ifHies anumber of notes payable to difFerent
persons ; and before he has discharged them all.
B undertakes the payment of such demands as
may lie against A.—lt is obvious, without any
arguments, that the engagement is not meant to
extend to those notes which A had himfelf dis
charged and taken up. This plain reason may
be aiiigned for it, that when the note reverts in
to the hands of the giver, the demand vanilhes,
andean never afi'ume a new existence. I once
more repeat, that it is a contradiction in terms,
to fay that an afl'umption of debts can be applied
where there is 110 debt.
In what character will a state come forward
witli its own notes Ifit comes forward as a.dtit
er. the ademption law can take cognizance of
creditors only. If on the other hand, the tfate
calls itfelf a creditor, it is cad out from the bene
fit of che affiimption, because the state in beino
a creditor ceases to be a debtor, and therefore
there can be 110 debt for the afl'umption to take
hold of. But it will be said, the ltate may ap
pear in the capacity both of creditor and debtor.
This is impoilible in the nature of things. Be
cause, debtor and creditor are counterparts of
such a kind, that when they meet in the fame
person, they destroy each other and ftarjdfor no
thing- CONSISTENCY.
Jan. 11.
Sacred to the Memory of the late Alderman BLAGGE,
of the City of New-York.
B
LAGGE! Thou art gone; nor haft thou left behind
A jufter being, or a nobler mind .
For honor and for probity renown'd,
In thee the Patriot and the Sage were found.
By moderation tempering rigid law,
Thou knewM poor to cheer, the rich to awe.
New-York beheld thy steady, gen'rous phn,
And all the world (hould blefsthe friend of ima.
Patron of commerce from thy youthful years,
No Tradesman left thy doors diffolv'd in tears.
Favour from thee th' industrious poor teceiv'd,
Their wants, when known, were generously reliev'd.
Religion reign'd in thy capacious heart,
And heavenly charity perform'd her part.
In private life each duty well difcharg'd ;
Strcngthen'd thy efforts, and thy foul enlarg'd ;
The parent's, hutband's worth, by thee difplay'd,
A bright example to the world convey'd.
To thee, since talents, piety, were given,
Earth's ornament may hope reward from Heav'n.
N E W B E R N, (N. C.) December 23.
, y>e Legiflaturt of this State, during their lall fefljon made the
following appointments.
His Excellency ALEXANDER MARTIN, Esq. Governor
The Honorable SPRUCE M'COY, Esq. one of the Tud»cs of
the Superior Courts.
JOHN H AYW ODD, Efn. Solicitor-General.
ANECDOTES
A COXCOMB asked a fluttering barber's
boy, in New-Haven—did you ever /have a mon
key ? No Sir, said he, but if you will set down
I will t-t-try.
■A FLOURISHING Coxcomb the other day
came into a Soemaker's ftiop to try on a pair of
boots. " These are too fliort for the Ton" said
he, "tlieyfhould be long enough to cover up
the Calf compleatly." " Then" said the flioe
xnaker " They mud be abont five feet ten inehts."MR. FENNO,
THE Secretary of State, in his Repoit on the fubjefl of eftablifh
incj a uniformity in the weight-., measures and coins of the
United Srates, has given us an ample testimony of his fcicntific abi
lities, and from a scries of public condutt, a proof, that refined
fcienee, and republican virtue, arc not incompatible.
The idea of using the Pendulum as a univcrfal standard for mca
lure, is not new ; but the public is principally indebted to the Se
cretary for the general application of it, and making it likewise
the basis of both weights, and cubical, or solid mensuration.
In order to make a universal standard for any purpose, it will
be found neceflary to have recourse to fomc unalterable principle
lor that purpose. The Secretary has chosen Gravity, which pro
duces nearly the fame efle£ts, over every part of our globe : From
■which circumftancethis importantconclufion refults,v!z. that two*
persons, in different parts of the world, will each, by the applica
tion of pendulous bars to their clocks, or regulators, of such a
length as to produce seconds, constitute the ftarxlard Yard of the
Secretary ; and so nearly of a length, that they may be indiicrim
inately used for all common purposes; but where great exa£fcnefs
is neceflary, it will be requisite to reduce the Pendulum to the
ftandaid of fomc particular latitude. This Rod, or Pendulum, the
Secietary divides into five equal parts, called feet, these feet into
ten equal parts, called inches, these inches into ten equal parts,
called lines, and lastly, these lines into ten equal parts, called
points. The Standard when thus graduated is compleat. The
foot, or one fifth part of this rod, gives the cubical dimcafions of
the capacity of the Buftiel, which becomes the Standard, or Radix,
out of which all the other cubical measures of capacity take their
rife. The inch of this rod, gives the cubical dimensions of the
capacity of a vefiel, the weight of which capacity, or cubic inch
of rain-water, constitutes the ounce ; which becomes the standard
of Weights. The money-unit, or dollar, with the alloy alieady
eftablifhcd by the United States, will be equal to the weight of
the ounce, or cubic inch -of rain-water.
Hence trom this universal standard, (which is nearly as fixed as
Gravity,) all kinds of Measures, Weights and Coins, may be re
gulated in the most harmonious manner. In forming the stand
ard for this plan, there is nothing left to caprice and whim, which
circumstance alone must banish discordance, and entitle it to a
ilc-cided preference over all the vaiious regulations now in nfe.
January 17,1791. E.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
IT is a republican principle that, the majority
shall Govern : In all communities this majority
is composed of the middling and poorei clafi'es
of the people; these clafles, united, arefuperior
to all opposition ; and whenever they are set in
motion, to pursue an objed: on just principles,
the general good is invariably promoted their
prosperity always includes that of the other class,
the rich and independent. I presume it will be
granted, that the education of the children of
every rank in society, is a consideration of the
firft importance, and ought to be an objeA of at- |
tention to every man whose bosom glows with a
spark of philanthropy, or good citizenlhip. The
affluent are so sensible of the advantages of learn-
that they never neglect a suitable proviiion
for their own offspring ; but this chaiity, which
beoiiii at home, is never extended but in a paitial
manner. I believe it will be found that no com
petent proviiion for an utiiverfal diffufion of the
means of education ever was or can be made, but
at the instance of those who constitute what is
denominated the niafs of the people. Oit the
middling and lower clailes then this business de
volves, and they are fully competent to the un
dertaking. Uniting their strength, and exert
-sn<r their force, they may accomplifli the desira
ble object. If the peotle fay that a law shall
be made obliging every town, consisting of a
(riven number of inhabitants, to support afchool
or schools, in which the children of every house
holder shall have a right to be inftrutfted, it shall
be done.—Or if the citizens of any corporation
unite in so laudable a design as to provide for
the establishment of public i'chools at the expence
of the whole community, every individual of which
to be benefited by the institution, if they chufe,
what is there to hinder the plan from being car
ried into execution ? As I laid before, this rnuft
be done by the middling class of people—in the
country, by the yeomanry, the labourers and far
mers—in the fta-poris, by the mechanics, the ar
tifls and inferior traders: These are immediately
interfiled the rich more remotely, tho efl'enti
ally j -but the affluent having it in their power to
provide for their tun, it is only from tisesfity,and
by bein°- out-vuiid\>y the majority that they will
ever be brought to contribute to the support of
such competent institutions, which they can do
without. We hear much about Charity-Schools—-
they are mere illujions by which the poor are di
verted from a proper attention to their interett;
thpy never were competent to the exigencies of
the poor in any country. If by united exertions
the free citizens of this country can provide tor
themselves, I hope they will never depend on
charity. ' , ,
I conclude the present remarks by a quotation
from an ingenious and animated address to the
citizens of" Delaware, which appeared in the
Delaware Gazette .of Bth inft.
" It is too notorious to need formal proot,that
" in those parts of our own and other countries,
*' where public schools, and places of liberal
<< education, are numerous, encouraged, and
« amply fupportecf, there without many excepti
-4S ons, flourifh improvements in society, and the
arts of life, and every thing contributing to
" national happiness and prosperity ; there go
« \erniuent is Ipirited and energeuck ; there
« wealth and eminence rife with equal and ra
pid strides ; there is molt permanency and
" tranquility. The l'eafon is plain—Every rank
" and order of citizens, in the mechanical as well
" as the liberal profefiions, are men ot inforniati
" on.difcernmentand reflection ; capable not only
" of managing their business in such a mariner as
" to procure themselves affluence and eaf«,butof
" making and communicating such interelling
" discoveries and inventions, asfhall be of exten
« five utility. Thus may the artill contribute
" his mite, with as much fncccfs as the more
" splendid character, towards encrealing the
" wealth and glory of his country."
A MECHANIC.
MR. FENNO,
As you publijhei the Resolutions of North Carolina
in their imtfiaturt state, it will be proper to do it
correctly. The Resolutions finally pajfed, areas
follovj. Tours, B. C.
North Carolina.
In General j4tftmbly, December 14, I 790.
WHEREAS, the secrecy of the Senate of th<
United States, the alarming measures oi
the late session of Congress, and thefilence obfer
ved by the Senators from this state, in not correl
nondir.g with the legislative or executive thereof
Irongly impress this general aflembly with th<
leceility of declaring their sentiments thereon.
Resolved, that the Senators reprelenting thi:
late in the Congress of the United States be,anc
hey are hereby directed, to use their conltani
nid unremitted exertions to have the doors oi
he Senate of the United States kept open, thai
he public may have access to hear the debates ol
he Senate, when in its legislative or judicial
apacity.
Relblved, that when in Congress they be di
ecfted to coi-refpond regularly and conilantly
vith the Legislature, but during the recess there
if with the executive.
Resolved, that they use their endeavours to
o have such of thejournals as are not of a lecrei
lat ure printed, and transmitted by post or other
\ife to the executive, regularly, during eachlef
ion of Congress.
Resolved, that the Senators of this state use
heirutmoft endeavours to effetfi ceconomy in the
■xpenditur'e ps the public monies, and to decreaft
he enormousfalaries given to the public officers
md others, who, however much they may be
leferving of the public gratitude or liberality foi
he eminence of past or present services, oughi
>nly to be compensated agreeable to republicai
economy.
Resolved, that they strenuously oppose every
rxcife and direct taxation law, Ihould any be at
empted in Congreft.
Resolved, that the Seuators from this state be
md they are hereby strenuously enjoined, to ex
;rt themselves to effect an alteration in the pre
et rout of the mail, or to eftablifli another gene
al post through the interior'jjarts of this state.
jy way of Halifax, Warrington, Hilllborough.
ialifbury, and Charlotte, so as to give that faiis
action which is not now experienced,but which i:
jfl'ential in such a government as that under wliicl
we now exist.
And whereas, from the present distribution ol
he federal judiciary, the inhabitants ofthisilatt
lo not receive the benefits intended them by
Jongrefs: Therefore resolved, that our Senators
>e dTrected to have the diitridt and circuit courts
ippointed at two places in this state, to make it
-.onvenient to the citizens.
Resolved, that his excellency the governor be
•equelted to transmit a copy of the foregoing re
olutions to Samuel Johnfton and Benjamin Haw
ciris, Esquires, the Senators representing this
late in the Congress of the United States, and
mother copy to the legislature of each state.
W. LENOIR, S. S.
S. CABARRUS, S. H. C.
A copy from the journal of the houfe.of Coin
nons. J- Hunt, Clk.
PITTSBURGH, Dec. 2j
Extratt of a letter from lieut. Ebcnezer Frotbingham,
of the Ift U. S. Regiment, to a brother officer, da
ted Fort Pitt, 23d Jtine last.
" I had determined to write to you very par
ticularly from this place, but you will excufeme
when you know the grief and pain oi lieui t 1
now feel. I arrived the day before yesterday ;
Mr. Ernest informed me that he had the evening
before received a packet of letters for me from
home ; my heart gladdened in expectation of hear
ing from my wile and friends ; but O ! the afto
niliiment of my foul, when on opening my let
ters I found my clear wife was no more : My
faireft, my brightest profpeifls oil this fide eter
nity are blasted in the very bud ; flie died sud
denly, only five days illness. ; went off in a faint
ing fit without a groan. The molt comfortable
afi'urance {he palled to her Saviour's arms,,is my
only consolation in this my hour of grief and
woe : why was (he removed so soon, even whilil
my fond heart was anticipating the help and ad
vantage I fhoukl receive from her virtue and pi
ety ? But (hould I complain, when (he is such
an infinite gainer ? Yet I feel as though my lo's
was irreparable. May my foul be well prepared
710
to go an 4 soon tojoin her spirit above, wliei-e lin
and i'orrow are known no more.
" My dear fir, do not place yourhappinefs on
calculations in this world, where grief and dis
appointments await us. May your hope and
mine be beyond the reach of all ti anfitory things."
Lieutenant Frothingham being 011 the late ex
pedition against the Indians, was killed in bat
tle ; his friend thought proper to publish the
above extract, in order to lhew the great piety
and.Christian dependance of Mr. Krothingham,
and liowfearlels he must have met death.
January i.
The arrival of Mr. Robias at this place from
Sandm'ky, and the accounts brought by him of
the difpoiition of the Indians, is rather unfavora
ble. It appears that they are early
in the spring to turn out for war, and commit
depredations on the frontiers ; that they are
greatly elevated with the ill'ue of the late cam
paign, and (when speaking of it) fay they are
more than men. It may be neceilary forthc in
habitants 011 the frontiers tolceep a watchful eye,
although there may be no great danger', as a re
port of this kind never loses by frequent re
peating ; and we flatter ourselves their attenti
on will be called toa more diitant quarter, 1 in or
der to proted: themselves.
The navigation of the Ohio has been closed
this sometime, so that all communication,by that
channel, is for the present stopped between this
country and Kentucky.
HARTFORD, Jan. 10.
Some of the public creditors in Pennsylvania, have presented
COngrcfs with a petition, the stile of which, in imitation of Gib
bon, is most sublimely and elegantly obfeure, but the design of which
is to induce Cougrcfs to the funding fyftein and give iix per
cent, interest on the whole public deot at once. They call them
(elves the patriotic viclimt of the war; when in truth three fourths of
them are [peculators, who have purchased most of the public paper
for less than half its value.
They begin their tedious address with charging the Secretary of
the Treasury with in recognizing the justice of their
claims m the utmost latitude, in the beginning of- his report, and
then recommending a plan of funding the debtat less thanjwas ori
ginally promised. They proceed to charge Congress with having
lojl the disposition to do jujlice, altho they had acquired the power.
After fouie common place remarks on the moral and political obli*-
gation of contratts and the importance of public credit, they enumerate
the many promiies made to the creditors by Congrcfs under the
confederation, and then charge the present lcgiflature of the Uni
on, with having clandeflinely obtained an unreasonable concejfion from
the creditoes, and with having infringed the original contract ur.d de
flroyedits principles. They charge the indire&ly with be
ing callous to their merits and fujferings, and tarnishing the glories of
America with broken contrails and violated faith. i hey declare the
old Congrels to have been a wife and virtuous body, v/bopratlfzd
right, as far as they were able ; but the present ast for
vilion for the public debt, thi-v fay. is nv
thepnbHcfaith, a flriking controfl to the il'ujlrious example of the
Cengref, and a dangerous infraction of the- fundamental laws 4fjujiict.
In short, the whole petition is bui a round about way ot leiling,
Congress they area nefl offcoundrels.
CHARLESTON, December it
Johoßoydcll, Esq. hie Alderman of Cheap Ward,..w.as elefl
ed lord Mayor of London, on the 29th September.
EDINBURGH, September 30.
Thurfdav laftarrived at Greenock., the Peggy, Captain Mar
quis, from Leghorn, on board of which came pafTenger, Charles
Colville, a native of Arbroath, from Algiers, from whom we
have received the following information:—ln July,
Ihip Dolphin, O'Bryen, matter, belonging to Philadelphia, was
captured by ail Algerine xebec, and the crew, consisting of .15
men, carried into slavery, four of whom belong to Scotland,
the above Charles Coiville, John Robertfon, lon of John Roberi
l in, cooper in Glasgow, George Smith, of Portfay, and William
Paterfon of Aberdeen. The three lad still remain in slavery, and
fix of the reil were cut off by the plague about two years ago, at
which timeabove 800 christian slaves fliared the fame fate. Col
ville obtained his liberty, upon his friends paying 3501. as 2ran
fom, part of which was obtained by a contribution set on fooc
by that ornament of mankind, George Dempfter,'Efq. of Duni
chen, who negociatcd the whole business with Charles Logic, Esq.
the liritilh consul at Algiers, as appears from the pass granted
Colville from that gentleman. He left Algiers,-in July lalt, and
has brought letters from the above mentioned persons to their
Iriends.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, Jan. 11.
In committee of the whole, on the bill repealing after
the last day of next the att laying duties oil
difiitkdfpirits, ire. and impofitig others sa tbzrf
flead_.
r pH£ 1 Jth fetftion was read, which refpetfts the
Jl duty on spirits distilled from materials the
growth or produce of the country.
Mr. Jackson moved that this fectioil {liould be
(truck out. He observed that this he conceived
to be the (tage of tlve bill in which aftand ought
to be made by its oppofers ; this clause respeCts
the produce of the country —and here the friends
| of American manufactures and produce ought o
make their exertions to defeat the bill. Het
read a particular estimate, by which he falu
appears that the proposed provision was emi
ufineceffary. He then, offered some general
fervations 011 the bill: Direct taxation, faia 1-»
has been objetfted to —this power is as fuJJy "
cognized in the conditution as the right of .■
ing excises—those therefore who are oppof «<
the latter, have as good a right to offer the'
jecftions as those opposed to the former.
Secretary fays we ought to leave direift taxi
a rcfource for a future emergency ; but is it 1
better to have tiro resources than one.? Thepost duties must increase, and a fuffieient revenue
for every, purpose from that source, is to be ex
pected. Why then should we lay this odious tax r
He concluded by faying he fliould lay his elti
inate before the house.
Mr. W adfvvorth fa id he had also made some
calculations which he fliould iubmit to the house :
In these he had taken pains to be as accurate as
pofiible. He then read his cftimate, by which
it appeared that the probable amount of the im
poli would be dimii.ifned even below the iuin
stated by the Secretary of the Trealury. ihe
tonnage he said would be diminished, owing to
the change in the present situation of Europe,
and the cefl'ation of the demand tor grain.
The importation of molafles and sugar mull be
ledened as the articles are not to be had. Great
' part of the European importations for the palt
year have been made on (peculation, and are not
to be again expected—and there will be, said he,
a very great decrease in the amount of the le-
Jienue 011 wines.
He adverted to the vVeftern Expedition, and
observed, a greater lutn than what has been men
tioned will be wanted on that account —and the
pension lift, he feared, would be encreaf'ed, ra
ther rhan diminiflied : On the whole he thought
there was no danger of a great excess in the re
venue. The duty on domestic spirits he consi
dered as proper—it is.a duty that will be sub
mitted to by the even a direct tax
would be paid without murmuring, if the necef-
fity was made apparenr.
Mr. Jackson replied to Mr. Wadfworth—lie
controverted the eltimate offered by that gentle
man and then entered into a recapitulation of
his arguments against the bill, and urged the
postponement of it to the next feflion.
Mr. Stone observed that the house had at last
got into a mode of considering the fubjett, which
ouglit to have been attended to at firit.
He adverted to the drawback Hated by the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania ; but he desired to
know why this f«m, which amounts to upwarrds
of 10,000 dollars, is not mentioned by the Se
cretary of the Treasury : He considered the slim
Hated by the Secretary for the year '89, as the
neat produce of the revenue—and he believed,
that would be found to be the Sum. With relpect
to the decrease in the importations, this had been
the cry for seven years back : He believed this
■would continue to be the cafe, tho the importa
tions, he was well fatisfied, would continue to
cncreafe—and this would be owing to our en
creafing population.
I he gentleman frora -Pcnnfylvajnia has noticed
• the probable oecreale in the importation of teas,
wines, &c. but takes no notice of the inereafe in
the importation of other articles. He said gen
tlemen had called our attention to the Mediter
ranean and Indian Expeditions ; but neither of
these fubjedls are now before the committee. If
these fubjedts are to be considered, let us go into
a committee 011 them, and fee what is neceflary
to be done. At present we are deviling ways and
means to pay the interest of the State debts—and
with refpecft to this object, he conceived the re
venue to be derived from the present eftablilh
inents, will be Aifficient for that and all the other
exigencies of government, till the year 1793. —
It is now said, that the Exclfe will be fufKcient
for all the demands of government ; but he fuf
pedted, that he iliould hear something 011 the
l'ubjedt of Tonnage before the end of the feliion.
(To bi conttuusd.)
M O N D A Y, Jan. 17.
Mr. Galetook his feat this day.
011 motion of Mr. Livermore, the memorial of
Andrew Brown was referred to the Secretary of
State-
The petition of George Glentworth, was read
and referred to the Sec.; ta> yat war.
The petiti'on of Brigadier General Donald
Campbell, praying compensation for fervices,was
read—a motion to refer this petition was nega
tived.
Sundry other petitions were read and referred.
Mr. Tucker gave notice, that to morrow he
should move for leave to bring in a bill that a
committee may be appointed to join a committee
of the Senate, to coniider and report a time for
the next meetingof Congress. , t
Agreeable to the order of the day, the Iloufe
proceeded to c,on(ider the amendments proposed !
by the committee of the whole, to the bill, re
pealing after the last day of next, tlie duties'
lieretofo'e laid on diftjlled spirits and laying
others in their Head—these amendments were
agreed to by the Hotife.
It was moved by Mr. Jackson to itrike out the
thirteenth section, and the eas and Nays on the
ipieiiion being taken, it palled in the negative,
Ayes 16. Noes 36 —the Ayes and Noes being' as
follow 1
MeflYs Bald win,
lii ood worth,
Brown,
Kurkt,
Heiftrr,
lackfon
2 I 'uiicwj.
I\ 10 ui k.
YEAS,
McffrS P. Muhlenberg,
Parker,
Scott,
Sevier,
Steele,
Stone,
Tucker,
Wuimii) fun.
MeffrsAmes, Meffis Madison,"
Benfon, Partridge,
Boudmot, "V .iu Rjnfellaer,
Bourne, Schureman,
Cadwaltadcr, S^d^wick,
Clymer, Seney,
Fitzfimojis, Shcrinao,
Floyd, Sylvester,
Toller, S'niiickfon,
Oilman, Smith, (M )
Goodhue, Smith, (S. C.)
Griffin, Surges,
Grout, Thatcher,
Giles, Trumbull,
Lawrance, Vining,
Lee, Wadfworth,
Leonard, White,
Liverniore, Wynkoop.
Sundry other amendments werepropofed, but
postponed until to morrow.
A message was received from the President of
the United States, with sundry papers, which
have not been lead. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Jan. 18
The papers communicated to the house yester
day, by the President of the United States were
read—which are, a ftatementof the expenditures
made out of the sum of 10000 dollars, appropria
ted for contingencies the lalt session—A letter
from the Governor of Virginia ; inclosing sun
dry resolutions of the legislature of that state,
refpedting the lands North-Weft of the Ohio
granced by an adl of Congress to the officers and
soldiers of that state—A petition from the officers
therein referred to—and a letter from the Go
vernor of Maryland, enclosing in acfl of the le
gislature of that state, empowering the wardens
of the port of Baltimore, to colled; the duty
therein mentioned.
A letter was read from the Secretary of State,
enclosing a supplement to his report on the fub
jedls of coins, weights, and measures.
Sundry memorials and petitions were read and
referred.
Mr Goodhue made the following motion,that j
the Secretary of the be direified to re
port tb the house whether any, and what further
provision is neceflary to be made for the respective
officers employed in the collection of the revenue
—which was agreed to.
A committee,confining of Meflrs. Seney, Smith
(M.) and Mr. Mathews was appointed to report
a bill declariag the aflent of Congrpfs to a certain
a<ft of the (late of Maryland Uierein mentioned.
Mr. Huntington laid the following motion 011
the table, that a committee ihould be appointed
to bring in a bill providing for the settlement of
the accounts of John Lamb Elq. late agent at
the court of Algiers.
The additional amendments proposed to the
new revenue bill were taken into consideration,
and after aconfiderable debate were all difa greed
to : an amendment proposed by Mr.Gerry was not
decided upon when an adjournment was called
for, and took place.
Philadelphia, Jan. 19.
Lxtrad. of a letter from a gentleman qJ dijliuttion in London, to a
gentleman in this city, dated Nov. 6, 1790.
" I have looked attentively over the proceedings of Congress,
which you have.lent me, and with, plcafure observe, that they are
marked with wisdom and moderation : The trade and navigation
bill, or something like it, I am of opintun ought to pass.
" I cannot fee why American veifels ihould be retrained from
a due proportion of the carrying business : II the pusillanimous
disposition, arid disregard td the interests of commexceof the Euro
pean powers, has induced them to submit to the Navigation
Laws of this country, it is no reason that America should do the
fame ; and the policy the latter seems now to be pursuing, I think
will at length oblige Great Britain to enter into a commercial ne
gociation, to fettle these matters, 011 a fair and equal foundation ;
for it is.certainly the intereil of both countries, to do fo-.
" The news of the Peace with Spain has occasioned a rife in
the Stocks here from 4to 55 pr. cent. A {loop of war was dis
patched yesterday from Portsmouth, in pursuit of Admiral Cor
nifti's fleet, which failed lately, supposed for the Weft-Indies, to
bring it back,"
Extract of a letterfrom Bojlon, December 28, 1790.
" The Secretary's Report of the plan of a National Bank ap
pears to be calculated for good national purposes, and, if adopted,
will completely establish the credit of the United States, I think
Ham 1 lton will rife to fame as a Financier. He has a fine field,
and if Congress support him, as I think they will, (policy and
experience bei.'ig inconteftiWy in Favor of the idea, and I may
justly add, the public opinion too,) he will become a star of the
firft magnitude in our polit'cal hemifphcre, and a luminary to the
world.
" The great rife in the funds'is beyond all calculation, and is
extremely auspicious to the national government. If the present
fcfiion of is wifely employed, it will unalterably fix the
established government, and make it illustrious.
" There is yet a small game to be played by foroe chara&ers in
the state-governments, who will attempt to sow the feeds of dif
atfe&ion between the and the general govern
ment ; but their efforts will be ineffectual. The people arc tired
oi these state empiricks, whose politics for feveu years past bavc
bten Ketrog.de to the public profperiiy."
We hear that one million and Half dollars of the continental
fccuritics have been funded by the Loan-OfEcer of this State.
On the ioth December one and halt million had been funded
in MaffachufeUs, and it is supposed that about two and half mil
lions have been funded by-t+m time ; a very-confideraWe propor
tion of the State debts is also fubferibed ; the non-fitbfcnbers who
have taken out new certificates, arc as the drop to tne bucket.
While the fupreine executives of the several
states are congratulating the people of their
charge, oil the peace and prosperity they enjoy ;
and the flattering profpetfts which their com
merce, arts, and agriculture exhibit—the aufpi-
711
NAYS
ciious effete' of the general government, is forci-
an all thef'e pleasing events—for tlio
the hajjpifiefs of the people is immediately con
ned ea with a righteous and patriotic administra
tion of the particular governments ; yet to the
prevailing influence of the general gov em en c
-—do the people principally ascribe the happy
contrail in their situation, compared with vvhic
it was a few years ago.
The convention between Great-Britain and
Spain was fignedthe 28th October, at the palace
of St. Laurence, Madrid—the ratifications tobc
exchanged infix weeks.
The Delaware is now <fa free from Ice,.that
great numbers of veflels put to lea from this
city yesterday. - •
The state of New-York is %uiul by the, late
census to contain 324, 127 inhafctonts.
A correspondent observes the'moft
extraordinary solecisms in modernwfcLics, is,the
proposition that apprentices, and Ihould
be debarred from the privilcdge
in the defence of their country.
Should the leglflature of the U
accede to this proposition, the
juftlyto be dreaded by every friend to awßttfP
ent militia.
Our young men are the vital spring of thev|
tional defence—and without them the prote<ftioq
of the country must devolve on a it an tog ami)
—that bane of freedom. :
As our young men are in general ihlpired with
high ideas ofperfona]indepeiiaence,andaglo\ving
ardour to defend tlieir country —it cannot be ex
pected that they will quietly Cubniit to a depriva
tion of the great privilege of acquiring the arc
military, by being immured in workfhops,while
their fathers and mailers are exhibiting their
military talents in the field.
It is expe&ed that the attempt to debar the flower of our coun
try, the rising hopes of thefc States, from an opportunity to perfect,
themselves in that most noble acquifuion, the science of military
defence, will produce a remonllrarice to 44 the powers that
re," on the part of those immediately concerned. If perfection
in the mechanic arts depends on being kept ignorant of military
discipline, this perfection will be deaily pUrchafed. It is theglory
of our country that the whole volume of nature and art is open to
the study of every freeborn American.
Extratt of a letter from Peter/burg, to the Editor, dated Jan. 7.
" As Congress have had it in contemplation to lay a imallpoft
age on newspapers, I have thought it necessary to acquaint you f
that if this ihould take place, that your fuhicribers here will pro
bably withdraw their subscriptions ; not from any wish of injur
ing you, or your paper, because they seem to give it a preference ;
but the idea of a postage on newspapers, however trifling, seems
to alarm them.
" For my part, I do not pretend to much knowledge in poli
tics, or in the policy of this measure ; but it appears to me very ex
traordinary, thatour political rulersfliould,To early, attempt to draw
a revenue from a source, that they ought, in my humble opinion,
to contribute to the support of—or at leafl to promote ibe circula
tion of newspapers with as much facilityas poflible.
" Peiiodical publications in this country (indeed in every
country) have heretofore been found extremely beneficial—and
are more particularly so at this period, when every one is anxious
to be "informed of the proceedings of Congress ; and should any
measures be adopted to deprive the people of that information, there
is no knowing what might be the confequence—for when the people
are in the dark as to what is going forward at the head of affairs,
they are apt to make enquiries, begin to grow fuf£icious< —and
designing men might take advantage of their ignorance, and lead
them to believe what might prove dangerous to the peacc of so
ciety.
" But I need not dwell on this fubjeft, because these are circum
stances that mud be apparent to every one. All I can fay is, that
so long as the people are well informed of the measures of Con
gress, they will remain perfe&ly fatisfied, as they will then judge
for themselves, from facts, and not be abused .by misrepresenta
tions ; but lhould any measures be entered into to check the cir
culation of newspapers, the only fonrce thro' which they can be
informed, I will venture to fay their measures will be rendered
very unpopular.
" I feel myfelf interested in the free circulation of well-con
ducted pei iodieal publications, because I am so sensible of the
great benefit our country derives from them—and I hope nothing
will ever be adopted to debar the people of this great source of
political information."
Aminidab to Joseph, tho a very gosd composition, yet, being
a reiteration oj the ideas of Joseph, the Editor pojlpones publishing it.
PRICE CURRENC. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 16/10. 17f. pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents B^9.
Defered 6 pr. Cents gf.
' UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificated 15/6. 76J . do.
Indents 8/*9«'
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 11J. 11f$. 57J do.
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they requests those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money ; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Silbfcribers, at their Coinpting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. yOSIAH HE, WES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadclphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abrtvcmentioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Cafiia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A lew Qafes old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham MuOard,
New England Rum in bt'gflieads and barrels,
A quantity of piime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and unoerj.' Oil,
Bed pickled Mackrel,
6 by B—7 by y—B by 10—9 by :i—and 10 by 12 Windj
Ciafs, ... >r r lt , . /
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And «ii elegant CHANDELIER.
85 pr. cent.
Martinlco Coffee,
(taw6\v')TREASURY DEPARTM
December 15, I
In obedience to the order of the House or Re
presentatives of the 9th Day of August last,
requiring the Secretary of the Trmsury
to prepare and report, on this Day, such fur
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, lie ne
ceflary for establishing the.PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(continued from our last.)
BANKS arc among the bed expedients for lowering the rate of
interest in a country ; but to have this effect, their capitals
must be completely equal to all the demands of business, and such
as will tend to remove the idea, that the accommodations they af
ford, are in any degree favors ; an idea very apt to accompany
the parsimonious dispensations of contra&ed funds. I* this, as in
every other cafe, the plenty of the commodity ougV.t to beget a
moderation of the price.
7 he want of a principle of rotation, in the constitution of the
bank, of North-America, is another argument for a variation of
the eftabliHiment. Scarcely one of the reasons which militate
agamfl this principle in the conflitution of a country, is applica
ble to that of a bank ; while there are strong reasons in favor of
it, in relation to the one, which no doubt apply to the other.
The knowledge to be derived from experience is the only circum
flance common to both, which pleads against rotation in the di
re&ing officers ot a bank.
But the obje&s of the government of a nation, and those of the
government of a bank, arc so widely different, as greatly to weak
en the force of that confider3tion, iu reference to the latter. Al
most every important caf; of legislation requires, towards a right
decision, a general and accurate acquaintance with the affairs of
the State; and habits of thinking seldom acquired, but from a
familiarity of public concerns. The adminiilration of a bank, on
the contrary, is regulated bv a few simple fixed maxims, the ap
plication of which is not difficult to any man of judgment, efpe
eially if inflru&ed in the principles of trade. It is in general a
constant fucceflion of the fame details.
But though this be the cafe, the idea of the advantages of ex
perience is not to be flighted. Room ought to be left for the re
gular tianfmiffion of official information. And for this purpose,
the head of the direction ought to be excepted from the principle
of rotation. With this exception, and with the aid of the in
formation of the subordinate officers, there can be no danger of
any ill effe£ls from want of experience, or knowledge ; especially
«ts the periodical exclusion ought not to reach the whole of the di
re£lors at one time.
The argument in favor of the principle of rotation is this, that
by leflening the danger of combinations among the dirc6lors, to
make the inflitution subservient to party views,or to the accommo
dation, preferably, of any particular set of men, it will render
the public confidence more firm, stable and unqualified.
When it is considered, that the diie£lors of a bank are not eie&-
cd by the great body of the community, in which a diversity of
views will naturally prevail, at different conjun£tures, but by a
small and fele6l class of "men, among whom it is far more easy to
cultivate a steady adherence to the fame peifons and obje£is ; and
that those dire&ors have it in their power so immediately to con
ciliate, by obliging the most influential of this class, it is easy to
perceive, that without the principle of rotation, changes in that
body can rarely happen, but as a concession which they may them
fclves think it expedient to make to public opinion.
The continual adminiilration of an institution of this kind, by
the fame persons, will never fail, with or without cause, from
their conduct, to excite diflruft and discontent. The necefTarv
secrecy of their tranfa£lions, gives unlimited scope to imagination
to infer that fomcthmg is, <;r may be wrong. And this inevitable
mystery is a lolid rcafon for inserting in the conflitution of a bank
the nr ceffity of a change of men. As neither the mass of the pai
ties intercfted, nor the public in general, can be permitted to be
■witnefits of the interior management of the,directors, it is rea
sonable that both should have that check upon their condu£l, and
that security against the prevalency of a partial or pernicious sys
tem, which will beproduced by the ccrtainty of periodical changes.
Such too is the delicacy of the credit of a bank, that every thing
■which can fortify confidence and repel suspicion, without injuring
its operations, ought carefully to be fought after in its formation.
A further confederation in favour of a change, is the improper
rule, by which the right of voting for dire&ors is regulated in the
plan, upon which the bank of North-America was originally
eonftituted, namely, a vote for each ftiare, and the want of a rule
in the last charter; unless the silence of it, on that pointy may fig
fiify that every stockholder is to have an equal and fir.glc vote,
-which would be a rule in a different extreme, not less erroneous.
It is of importance that a rule should be cftablifhed on this head,
as it is one of those things which ought not to be left to discre
tion; and it is consequently of equal importance, that the rule
should be a proper one.
A vote for each share, renders a combination between a few
principal stockholders, to monopolize the power and benefits of
the bank, too easy. An equal vote to each stockholder, however
♦rreat or small his interest in the institution, allows not that degree
cf weight to large stockholders, which it is reasonable they Ihould
liave, and vvhich perhaps their security and that of the bank re
quire. A prudent mean is to be preferred. A convitlion of this
has produced a bye-law of the corporation of the bank of North-
America, which evidently aims at such a mean. But ar< flection
arises here, that a like majority with that which cnatted this law,
may at any moment repeal it,
The last inducement which shall be mentioned, is the want of
>recautions to guard against a foreign influence infinuatiug itfelf
nto the dire&ion of the bank. It fecms fcarccly reconcileable
vith a due caution, to permit that any but citizens should be eli
;ible, as di'e&ors of a national bank, or that non-resident foreign
:rs should be able to influence the appointment of dire&ors, by
he votestheir proxies. In the event, however, of an incorpo
ration of the bank of North-America, in the plan, it mav be ne
ceflary to qualify this principle, so as to leave the right of f rsign
ers, who now hold (hares of its stock, unimpaired ; but without
the power of transmitting the privilege in question, v .o foreign
alienees.
It is to be considered, that such a bank is not a mere matter of
private property, but a political machine of the greatest. import
ance to the state.
There are other variations from the conftitutiori of the bank of
North-America, not of inconsiderable moment, which appear de
arable, but which are not of magnitude enough to claim a preli
minary difcuflion. These will be seen in the plan which will be
submitted in the sequel.
If the obje&ions which have been stated, to the conflitution ot
the bank of Worth-America, are admitted to be well founded, they
-will nevertheless not derogate fiom the merit of the main design,
or of the services which that bank has rendered, or of the benefits
■which it has produced. The creation of such an inftirution, at the
time it took place, was a mcafure d'ftated by wisdom. Its utility
has been amply cvinced by its fruits—American independence
owes much to it—and it is very conceivable, that reasons of the
moment mav have rendered those features in it inexpedient, which
a revision, with a permanent view, suggests as desirable.
The order of the fubjett leads next to an inquiry into the prin
ciples upon which a national bank ought to be organized.
"f Jic fituarioni of the United States naturally infpircs a wifli, that
the form of the institution could admit of a plurality of branches.
But various confederations discourage from pursuing this idea. The
complexity of such a plan would be apt to inspire doubts, which
might deter from adventuring in it. And the pra£licabilit)*of a
fafc and ordtrly adminiflration, though not to be abandoned as
desperate, cannot be made so manifeft in ncrfpe£tive, ai'to pro
mile the removal of those doubts, or to juflify the government in
adopting the idea as an original experiment. The most that would
feein advifeable, on this point, is to insert a provision, which may
lead f.o it hereafter ; if experience fhali more clearly demonstrate
i's utility, and fatisfy those who may have the dire£lion,that it may
be adopted with fafety. It is certain, that it would have fomc
.advantages, both peculiar and important, fides more general
accommodation, it would lessen the danger of a run upon the
bank.
The argument against it is, that each branch must be under a
fiiftinft, though subordinate direttion, to which a considerable la
titude of discretion mult of necefluy be entrnfted. And as th<_
property of the whole inflitupion would be liable for the engage-
ot each part, that and its cr dit would be at flake, upon the
prudence of the dire&ors of every'part. The mismanagement oJ
either branch might hazard serious dilorder in the whole.
Another wish, di&ated by t)ie particular fnuation of the coun
try, is, that the bank could be so conftitutcd as to be made an im
mediate inilrument of loans to the proprietors of land ; but this
wish alio yields to the difficulty of accomplishing it. Land is
alone an unfit fund for a bank circulation. If the notes iflued
upon it were not to be payable in coin, on demand, or at a short
date, this would amount to nothing more than a repetition of the
paper emiflions, which are now exploded by the general voice.
If the notes are to be payable in coin, the.land must firft be con
verted into it by sale, or mortgage. The difficulty of effecting the
latter, is the very th'ng which begets the desire of finding another
resource, and the former would not be practicable on a sudden
emergency, but with facrifices which would make the cure worse
than the difcafe. Neither is the idea of constituting the fund part
ly of coin and partly of land, free from impediments. Thefetwo
species of property do not, for the most part, unite in the fame
hands. Will the monied man confeat to enter into a partnership
with the landholder, by which the latter wi.l lhare in the profits
which zvill be madefy the money of the former ? The money, it is
evident, will be the agent or efficient cause of the profits—the land
can only be regarded as an additional security. It is not difficult
to forefee, that an union, on iuch terms, will not readily be form
ed. If the landholders are to procure the money by the sale or
mortgage of a part of their lands, this they can as well do, when
the itock confilts wholly oi money, as if it were Lo be compound
ed of money and land. •
(To be continued.)
PROPOSALS,
By JOHN TRUMBULL,
For Publishing by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
From original PiEluies painted by himjelf;
One representing the Death of General WARREN,
at the Battle of Bunker's-Ilill.
Theother, tht Death of General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN the battle of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced —
American. Britijh.
Major General Warren, Gen. Sir Wi lli am Howe,
Putnam". Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Small,
Major Pitcai rn, and
Lieut. Pitcai r n .
In the Attack of Quebec, are seen—
General Montcomfry, Colonel Thompson,
M'jor Macpherson, and Capr. Cheesman.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of the most eminent artists
in Europe. The size will be 30 inches by 20. The price to sub
scribers, Three-Guineas for cacn print; one half to be paid at the
time of fubicribing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
which will be as loon as the work (which is already conliderably
advanced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Joseph Anthony,
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Ma ket-ftrcet.
Thef prints are the firft of a series, in which it is proposed to
repr f.nt the most important events of the American Revolution.
No period of the history of man, is more interesting than that
in which we have lived. The memory of scenes in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which secures our
national and individual happiness, mult ever remain dear to us,
and to potter it y ; and if national pride be in any cafe juftifia'ple,
Americans have a right to glory 111 having given to the world an
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To a (lift in preserving the memory of the illustrious events which
have marked this period of our country's glory, as well as of the
men who have been the most important aflors in them, is the ob
ject of this undertaking Hiftoiy will do justice to an <era so im
portant ; but to be read, the language in -which it is written must
be understood—the language of painting is universal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a very considerable cxpencc,
are necefTary to accomplish this undertaking, it would bean im
prudent fact ifice to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate success : —That he may
j idge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and flatters himfelf
with a hope of meeting that p?tronage from his countrymen,
which willjuftify his pursuing the objefl with ardor; and with
out which it is impoflible that so expensive a work fliould bccon-
tinned
The fubie&s proposed to J>« represented,in addition to th* two
foregoing,, of Bunker' s-Hill and Quebec, arc—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle of Princetown,
Surrender of General Burcoyne,
Treaty with France,
Battle of EutaW Springs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
Inauguration of the President of the United States.
Each picture will contain portraits of the principal c'ha rafters
who were present at the scene represented. Those marked with
rtars, are confiderablv advanced; and the prints from the whole
will be executed of the fame size, and by the moll eminent cn
ravers.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS;.
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
712
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
BY advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, has
opened an office for the purpose of buying and felling, on com
miflion, the different fpeciesof Stock t and of liquidated and unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by thrfunding
law, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and travsjet llock
Irom and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commiflioners of
Loans, 011 moderate terms.
Having for (cveral years past been employed in the Treafuryof
the United States, he is well acquainted with i s operations and
foi ms ; and flatters himfelfthit on that fcorehc has a decii J .> d ad
vantage in tranfa6ting bufmefs here. Heis fully imprefied with
tne truth of theadage that dispatch is the foul of business," and
will always make the interest of his employers an object of the
firrt impoitance.
Philaddphia, December 29th, 179 c
EBKNEZER HAZARD and JOIiAS ADDOMShave entered
into partnership, and opened an OFFICE, at No. 173, in
Market-Street, a few doors above Fourth-Street, where, under the
Firm of
Hazard and Addoms,
Thev purchase and fell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BA
N. B. Transfers made at the Public Offices, and Business in ge
neral tranfatted on Commiflion. December 2g.
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER fafhionable Colours,
Manufa&urcd at Hartford, (State of Connecticut,) just rec«ivc^ (
and are now offered for Sale, at the
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North Third Street,
At which Store are also opening a large and general assortment of
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS.
CLOTHS,
Linens,
Cambrics,
Painted, sprigged, tambour,
ed book, and jaconet Muslins,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
A Variety of STUFFS.
And many other Articles, too numerous tqiafert in an Adver
tisement ; all of which are now felling by Wholesale and Retail, on
so low terms, as to make them an obje& to the purchasers.
N. B. A few Barrels of MACKAREL, and Nova-Scotia
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1791.
Philadelphia, January 1,1791
THE partnei(hip of John Dunlap and David C. C y
pool e having expired this day, David C. Clay foole pro*
pofesto publifti a Newspaper, entitled
The Mail,
New Daily Advertiser.
(To be continued every Evening, Sundays excepted.)
THE MAIL (hall be printed with an elegant new Type, pro
cured lor this paiticular purpof , on Paper, equal in (ize and qua
lity to any of the Newspapers of Europe or America—And the
Subscriber engages that 110 Means (hall be spared to render Uie
Mail and New Daily Advertiser in other refpe&s worthy
of the P iblic Patronage, which he now refpe&tully solicits.
The Price of the Ma i l will be Eight Dollars pr. annum, to be
paid at the end of the Year : And Advertifernents will be re
ceived on such moderate Terms as to prove fatisfailory to thofc
who may be pleased to favor the Printer with their Commands
in that line.
The Mail will be published at the House No. 2, Lower
Thud Street"(now occupied by Mr. J. D. Blanchard, who will
fh >rtly remove to the adjoining House, No. 4,) and at present
Subscriptions are thankfully received at No. 48, Ma>ket-Street,
To the Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, and the Public in geneial.
Gentlemen,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber submitted to
the public confederation, and under the most flattering afTur
ancc of public patronage, he takes the libe#y of announcing, that
THE MERCHANTS,
y and
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
is now opened at the corner of Mai ket and Water-Streets, for the
accommodation of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citizens of
Philadelphia.
The Subscriber deems it unnecefTarv to repeat the declaration
of his fin cere intention to urofceute his undertaking witK tt>o
refpettful assiduity : But forbear making a public eck
of his gratitude, for the encouragement he has alrea
dy/xpenenced ; nor suppress his invariable wish, thai those gen
tlgfncn who may honor hisCoffee-Houfe with their prefcncc, will
fucSMrticles of intelligence received from their cor
espondents as they'Tball think proper, and in preference, willup-
every occasion, point out the defeftsofhis plan, or favor him
with hints for improving its execution.
The Subscriber will prepare entertainments,either at noon, or in
the evening, for fcle£t parties, upon the fhorteftnotice, and on the
most reasonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and proposes at two o'clock on each day,
when the public bu'.inefs of the Coffee-Room is over, to provides
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guests as (hall
please to honor him with their company.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your most obedient and humble Servant,
THE Subscribers Jor this paper, in the city of New-York,
are refpeftfuUy informed,, that the charge oj the papers proving inconve
nient'to Mr. Wet more, at the Pofl-Office, the Editor has engaged Mr.
Samuel Campbell, Book-feller, Hanover-Square, to receive them and
Superintend their delivery—by whom. Subscriptions and arrearages will
be received.
Subscribers for Mn.'Warren's Poems, are requejlcdto callon the
Editor for their tools.
£""r fkr frice of this paper u 3' dollars per annum
STOCK.
ELEGANT Vcft Patterns—
adapted to the fealon,
Silk, Cotton, and Worsted
Hose,
Corduroys,
Vrlvcrctts, and Royal Ribs,
Best Buck, Beaver, and White
Kidd Gloves,
D C. CLAYPOOLE.