PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69rJUGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 75, of Vol. ll.]
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:
At the third session,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
-An ACT to provide for the unlading of Ships or
Veflels, in cases of Obftrudtion by Ice.
WHEREAS it fomteffrries happens, that {hips or vcflfch are
obilru&ed by ice in their paflage to the ports of their des
tination, and it is neceflary that prOvision should be made tor un
lading such ihips or vessels :
Be it enaEled by the Senate and House of Reprefntatives of the United
States of America, in Congrtfs affcmbled, That in all cases where a
ship or vessel shall be prevented by ice from getting to the port £t
-which her cargo is intended to be delivered, it shall be lawful for
the collector of the diftritt, in which such (hip or vessel may be f>
obftru&ed, to receive the report and entry of any fucli Pnip or ves
sel, and with the consent of the naval-officer (where there is one)
to grant a permit or permits for unlading or landing the goods,
wares or merchandize imported in such (hip or vessel, at any
place within his diftrift, which shall appear to him to be molt
convenient and proper.
And be it further £naßed % That the report and entry of such ship
or vefTel, and of her cargo, or any part thereof, and all persons
concerned therein, shall be under and fubjeft to the fame rules, re
gulations, reftri&ions, penalties and provisions, as if the said ship
or vefTel had arrived at the port of her deflination, and had there
proceeded to the delivery of her cargo.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States %
and President of the Senate.
Approved, January the'seventh, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President oftheUnitcd States.
•(True copy.J
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
n tin tie ail Ast, intituled, " an Atfi
v .ie aflent of Congress to certain Atfts
of the states of Maryland, Georgia, and Rhode
liland and Providence Plantations," so far as
the fame refpet r ts the (tates of Georgia, and
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
BE it enaded by the Senate and House of Rcprcjentativet of the United
States of America in Congress ajfemhte J, That the ast passed the
Jail session of Congress intituled, " an ast declaring the assent of
Congress to certain acts of the dates of Maryland, Georgia, and
Rhode-I/land and Providence Plantations," shall be continued,
and is hereby declared to be in full force, so far as the fame refpefts
the states of Georgia, and Rhode-Island, and Providence Planta
tions, for the farther term of one year, and from thence to the end
• f the then next feflion of Congress, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the 1.1 oaf e of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President ojtheUnited States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, January tenth, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Cory)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
Extradls from Brigadier-General Harmar's let-
ter to the Secretary of War :
" Head-Quarters, For t-Washi ncton,
November 23, 1790.
ON Thursday, the 30th Sept. I took the field, with such of
the Federal Troops as were then aflembled at Fort-Wafli
ington, confiftingol two battalions,commanded by Majors Wyllvs
and Doughty, with three brass pieces of ordnance, viz. a fix pound
er, a ihiee pounder, and a five and one half inch howitz ; together
with Capt. Fergufon's company of artillery ; making in the whole
,3to men, including non-commiHioned officers. With this force
I immediately proceeded to join the militia under the command
of Col. Hardin, whom I had put in motion the 26th, and order
ed to advance along what is called, " Clarke's Old Trace," for
ab"iut 25 rrvles, there to halt till further orders. The militia had
been draughted from Kentucky and Pennsylvania, and both to
gether amounted to 1133 men. Many of the former were fubfti.
tutes, and by no means equal, either in spirit or appcarance, to the
generality of their countrymen. My whole force then was 1453
(including two troops of cavalry) but from this number we may
lafelv deduct 200 of the militia as good for nothing.
14 Oft. 14th, I detached Col. Hardin with 600 men, composed
of 5° troops, and mi litis, 100 of whom were mounted.
The object was, to reconnoitre the country, and feel, at their towns
the enemy's pulse, while thcarmv advanced.
" A dispatch auived on the 16th from Col. Hardin, informing
me that the savages, and the traders, (who are, perhaps, the word
savages ot the two) had evacuatrd their towns, with appearances
of precipitation, and burnt the principal village, caHed the Omee
town, togeth'ri with all the traders' houses.
" On Sunday the 17th entered on the ruins of the Omee town,
or French village, at part of it is called. Appearances confirmed
accounts I have received of the conftemation into which the lava
ges and their trading allies had been thrown by the approach of
the army. Many valuables of the traders were dellroyed in the
confulion, and vast quantities of corn and other grain jud vegeta
bles, were fecrcted in holes dug in the earth, and other
places. Col. Hardin rejoined the army.
" BeGdcs the town of Omee, there were several other villages
fttuate upoa the banks of three rivcrt. One ps them belonging
Saturday, January 15, 1791.
to the Omee Indians, railed was (landing, and con
tained 30 houses, on the bank oppofit ; the principal village. Two
others, confiding together of about houses, lay a few miles up
the St. Mary, and were inhabited by Delaware*. Thirty-fix
houses occupied by other savages of this tribe formed another, but
Icattercd town, on the east bank of th- St. Jofcph, 2 or 3 miles N.
from the French village. And about the fame distance c'owu the
Omee river, lay the Shawance town of Chillakothe, confiding of
58 houses; oppohte which, on thr >'her fide bank of the river,
were i6htbit t on inoff, 'do; ■ savages of the fame nation.
All these I ordered to be burnt ftaythere, together with
great quantities of corn and vegetable- » hidden (as at the principal
village) in the earth and other" placc?, by the favagfes, who had
abandoned them. It is computed th.re were not less than 20,b00
buiheis of corn in the ear, which the army destroyed,
44 On the 18th two Indians were fulled and scalped by the ca
valry ; and another was killed at nignt. We loft a great number
of horses at this time, occaftoued by the negligence of the militia
guards, and their disobedience of orders.
On the 19th, Col. Hardin was e'etached with 180 men, taken
from the Pennsylvania and Kentuckey militia, and 3° federal
troops commanded by Lieut. Arrn&rqng. Part of the detachment
proceeded about 10 miles westerly of the main body of the army,
now polled at Chillakothc, (the Peni;fylvanians, who formed the
left column, having fallen foirie milei. in the rear) when a body of
Indians appeared, and advanced to the attack ; and tho the enemy'
did not, as it is believed, exceed a hundred and thirty, yet the
militia made no refinance, but fled, leaving the handful of feder
al troops to their fate ; seven only or whom escaped. The mili
tia loft but few men ; among these, 1:11, lamented by his acquain
tance, Capt. Scott of the militia, son to Gen. Scott of Kentucky.
I am not informed of thelofs fudainwd by the favarges; but I con
ceive it could not be great.
*• Incensed at the difWaccful conduit of the militia, and deter-,
mined to prevent,it poftiblc, a repetition of it upon any future oc
casion, I reprehended it in my next orders with great fevdiity.
This measure, tho harsh, will have been necefiary. It
operated as a stimulus to wipe off the foul stain, which the repu
tation ot the militia had incurred.
" *he great obje& of the expedition being now completely ef
fected, that is, the deftruflion of the v)mee towns, and the provi-
Hons laid up for their fuMTftence ; cn the 21ft the army began
to return towards Fort Walhington I y the route they came.
" It was originally my intention, ,0 have returned by the way
of the Ouiattanon (commonly callet the Weeah) towns on the
Wabafli ; and break them up also. M jor Hamtramck, command
ing at Fort-Kno;:, (Vincennes) had -oeei* previously ordered to
make a movement towards them wit!: the troops under hiscom
rnand ; 300 militia from Kentucky w te ordered to reinforce him.
Ihe movement was intended as well or a diversion to prevent an
union rf. tlv jL> J-. * £ v j*. j purnoff of *Kefb\ricT a
junffcion with our whole force, in cafe I should have judged it ad
vil'eableto enter the country of the Ouiattons. Circumftanccs
however rendered it impracticable tor me to attempt it, at this
time, with any tolerable profpe6t of success. The horses of the
army were now, by various caufts, reduced to two thirds of their
original number, and the remainder so worn down w?th hard fer
yice, as to preclude the poflibility of reaping much farther benefit
Irom them. I have not yet received any communication from
Major Hamtramck, notwithstanding the long lapse of time fmce
he was ordered to march.
"On the 2ill O&ober, the army decamped from Chillakothe,
returning on the rout we had come about 8 miles. Here we re
mained till the morning of the 23d. Finding, in the mean time,
that the enemy studiously avoided coming to a general afition ; and
conceiving it improper to leave them in the quiet enjoyment of
their late success, I rcfolved to make an effort to bring on another
partial engagement. For this purpose I detached, on the 21ft,
late at night, Col. Hardin, and Major Wyllys, with 360 men, 60
ot whom were federal infantry—the reft being militia,from Penn
sylvania and Kentucky. I had sometime before, mounted a com
pany of militia, and annexed it to the two troops of Kentucky
cavalry, giving the command ot the whole to Major Fontaine, a
brayeanddefervingofficer,at that time fcrving as my Aid-de-Camp.
1 his corps made a part of the present command.
I gave orders to find out and fight the enemy at all events,
and to be fparingof no means that might tend to lessen the num
ber of the savages.—Knowing of what importance the life of eve
ry warrior is held among them. The detachment reached the
confluence of the Omee and St. Mary, early next morning, and
filed oft in three columns. The left, under Col. Hardin and
Major Hall, eroded at Kegiiogue, and proceeded along the welt
bank or the S-t. Joseph. The centre, confiding of the federal
tioops, under Major Wyllys, having passed the Qmee at the
French village, moved up the eail bank of the S:. Joseph, at some
distance from the river, while Major M'Millan led the right co
lumn over some heights on Wyllys's right. The enemy now ap
peared in different quarters, and the columns were loon and i'e
yera 11 v engaged with various success. A body of the lavage* hav
ing appeared in Wyllys's front, and ch er idled the idea of an at
tackthere, suddenly gained the un cupied heights on the right,
and turned his flank. At this crisis fell Major Wyllys, an officer
who.e long and meritorious ferv:ces claim the grateful rcmcm
lance of his country. With the talents of a cultivated mind, he
united the beftvirtuesof the heart. The little party, unfupportcd,
and overpowered by numbers, now gave way, leaving c.) out of
60 dead upon the held. Free use was made of the bayonet,
which tne lavages experienced to their colt. Lieut. Frothincham.
°r rY l ff ,rncnt » Was k'Medin the a&ion. I have loft in him an
utetul omcer, and a worthy man. While this part of the buliaefs
was atting, the militia were not idle : they behaved with the
pint of veterans, and flew numbers of the enemy ; who met their
\z:: l VxT mo ? br o vcry - in iw > " ch f ' de <!">"-
oustoeflabhlha tJuMfter over the other.—The militia every
ere gave linking proofs ot determined courage. The lavages
were in no instances behind them,and the (laughter was reciprocal
Jiotn the heft information the enemy loft in the course of
this affair, upwards ot ,oo of their prime warriors,—mcA who
appeared to lear no danger. Not a squaw or a child was fee,,
this day to swell the number ot the flam. The enemy's loss can.
Cr i CP k iC Ours,too, was heavy. Maj. Fontaine who co.n-
L thc ." va,r y> W" a young gentleman ot the mod amiable
manners, with a foul formed for cnterDrize. Years only were
wanting to moderate hisardour in the field, and unite, in the ac.
compliihed gentleman, thecharaaer ot a good soldier. He fell
covered with wounds, in singly charging with his sword about 40
of the enemy. Some other officer, of the militia were killed,
and some few wounded Our whole loss in killed, wounded and
miffing, amounted to ,80, including officers. Upwaids of ;o
01 the wounded were brought off.
705
[Whole No. 179.]
, Among the officers who survived the (lighter, and difti
guifned thenifelves mors particularly on this day, 1 memmnwii.
, pleafuie the name, of Major M'Milkn, of Fayette, Major Hall
Jou.bon, and Brigade M«jor Ormlby, of Netfon county, ,n K \,
tuckey; together with Capt. Games, of the cavalry. The cor
dutt and peifonal courage of the rtrft demand my warmed ack
nowledgmcms. He flew with his own hand three of
and the column he led, made impreflive exertions, wherever 1
° F r°'? , T he recond wos 0,1 aU occasions obedient , nd br , v ."
and displayed great personal courage. The third
[ . a manner tnat does him honor, b r judrciotrfl r r a ]K-;,,» ,
broken body of militia, which, in conference, did great exefu
tion, under the tmmcaiate command of this gallant younn- officer"
Capt. Gaines is defervii.g of great praise, for his foldleily conduct
during the whole expedition, and particularly for the intrepidity
hedifplaycd in a personal combat of some duration, with a mount
ed lavage, whom he at lafl overcame, bringing oif the arms of his
antagoiuit as trophies of the victory.
" I am under many obligations to all the field-officers, both of
the Kentuckey and Pennl'ylvania militia, who gave me uniform
proofs of the befl: disposition to second my endeavors durin" the
expedition. Col. Haidin, who commanded the Whole militTa i»
in a particular manner entitled to my acknowledgments, as well
for his cool and determined conduit in aaion, as for his attention
and petfeveiance in the execution of orders. A« to the officers of
the federal troops under my command, I mud, in ju'ftice to them,
observe, that their whole conduct was marked bv a ftriff attention
to discipline, a promptitude to obey orders, and alacrity in the
execution of ihem.
" Aftci the action of the 2<id, the detachment rejoined the ar
my in its erfcampnienl; a'ucT at 11 next mortmgt'M troops refuni
ed the route towards Fort which we Cached by eal'v
marches on the 3d of November. No interruption w+iaiever ViJ
offered by th* enemy on our return ; a convincing proof this of
their having received a blow whi<;h they felt. I flatter my felt
good corileque'nces will be the re tuft. We have riot, f ciilcelve,
loft much more than man for man with the savages. Our fofscan
be repaired : their's is irreparable.
" On my arrival at this fort, the pack-horses of the line did not
exceed one half of their original number. Many had been ihoc
and liolen on the expedition ; others we're loft id (he woods ; anti
others again, being worn out with fatigue, Were either killed or'
left behind. The advanced state of the season having deprived us'
in a great measure of forage, I ordered them, at times, to be tied,
up at night, and flour to be served out at the rate of three pound*
daily to every horfc; hence you will perceive an extraordinary
consumption arof; of that article.
I detained in confinement here the Shawanoe prifonerwe
had taken, till the ißih inft. when I difmi.ffed him back to h i
nation; but in a way, I tiuft, that lmprefled him with ideas of
our fknertor power hi* own lof-jnificance, and •>. r COfl'StSpt or"
his brethren. I ordered him a tew trinkets, and an'eiconeio led
him fafely advanced on the road 25 miles, left any of our hizntcrs
might fall in with hiiri, and ul'e him lefstmderly than I wifhed'.
He appeared to be thankful, and departed from the gam foil with
a mixture of foriow, gratitude and joy."
N E W-Y O R K,
ARRJVALS at this port from jan,
Jan. i, 1701.
Ships
Brigs'
Snows
ii-j
26c
i ■
21'
39 (
Total
088 of which were Anierlcai
2 8 »
*4 Spamfft
8 Portueueze
8 French
° Dutch
1 Dane
Schooners
Sloops
ioi 3
Extrail oj a litter from Boston, Die. 29.
" Farts have proved, that they were in the
right who advised people to keep their public se
curities. 1 hey have been constantly 011 the rife
for foine time part, and are now riling as fait as
ever to be upon a par with money. I have heard
and it may be depended upon as ttue, that our
fix per cent, fecurkies, now fell in Holland above
par, and are riling still higher, and they certain
ly ought to be as valuable in America as in Hol
land and 1 have therefore adviledall my friends,
podefied of itace or continental notes not to fell
them for less than twenty shillings inthepound.
- Certainly 110 estate is so good as the public
(ecurities of this country, and every one who now
Jells them below par, will repent when they are
gone from him. lam allured by a commiflioner
for fettling the accounts between this state and
the union, there will be a balance due to Malla
chufetts, which will take up and fund all the
remainder of her debc, by which means it will
all be funded by the United States."
ALBANY, Jan. 3.
011 Thursday next, the convention of the state
of Vermont meet in Bennington, for thepurpofe
of taking into consideration the constitution of
United States. His excellency Governor
Chitrenden, chief justice Chipnian, Stephen R.
Bradley, Esq. the Attorney-General, Thomas
1 oilman, Elq. Mr. Jacobs, the Speaker of the
Ailembly, Major-General Ira Allen, and many
other principal characters 111 that flare are re
turned members to this convention/
Jan. 8.
X, 179°> '«
1013«
Commercial Intelligence.
FROM THE LONDON (,AZtU «J OCTOBER 9.
At the COURT at St. Jam es's, October 6, I 790.
TRESEST.
7'he KING'/ Mojt' Excellent "MAJESTY,,
IN COUNCIL.
"TT7HEREAS by virtue of an a<ft palled 111 the
W last feflion of Parliament, intituled, an
,<ft to continue the laws now in force for regula
ting the trade between the subjects ot his Majcl
y's dominions "and the inhabitants of the tenuo
us belonging to the United States of America,
so far as the fame relate to the trade and com
merce carried 011 between tbis Kingdom and the
inhabitants of the countriesibelonging to the fa id
United States," his Majesty by the advice oi his
Privy Council, did, by an order in Council, made
on the firtt day of April, 1790 amongst other
things, declare, That any unmanufactured
Jroods and merchandizes, the importation ot
which into this kingdom, is nor prohibited >y
law (except Fifli-Oil, Blubber, Whale-Fins, and
Spermaceti) and any Pig-Iron, Bar-Iron, Pitch,
Tar Turpentine, Rozin, Pot-Ash, Pearl-Ash, In
digo', Malts, Yards, and Bowsprits, being the
growth or production of any of the territories of
the United States of America, and no other goods
<vr merchandizes, might (until further order) be
imported directly from thence into any of the
ports of this kingdom, either in British-built
snips, owned by his Majesty's fubjeefts, and navi
gated according to law, or in (hips built in the
countries belonging to the United States of Ame
rica, or any of them, and owned by the subjects
of the said United States, or any of them, and
whereof the matter and three-fourths of the ma
imers at least are (objects of the said United
States, or any of them, and may be entered and
landed in any port in this kingdom, upon pay
ment of the fame duties as the like fart of goods
or merchandize are or might be fubjett and lia
ble to, if imported in British-built (hips owned
by his Majesty's subjects and navigated according
to law, from any Britifli Island or plantation in
America ; notwithstanding such goods or mer
chandize, or the (hips in which the fame may be
brought, might not be accompanied with the
certificates or other documents heretofore requir
ed by law :
And whereas doubts have arisen upon the true
intent and meaning of" that part of his Majesty's
order in council herein before mentioned,which
respects the importation of Fish-Oil, Blubber,
White-Fins, and Spermaceti, and such other
goods and merchandize, beingof the growth,pro
duction, or manufacture of the said United States
as are not therein enumerated or defciibed .
His Majesty by the advice of his council, doth
hereby order and declare, That Oil made from
Fish or creatures living in the Sea, and Blubber,
Whale-Fins, and Spermaceti, and all other goods
and merchandize, the importation of which into
this kingdom is not prohibited by law, being the
"rowth, production or manufacture of any or the
territories of the United States of America, and
not enumerated or described in the said order,
may be imported from thence into this kingdom
in British or American fliips, owned and naviga
ted as by the said order is required, upon pay
ment of such duties |of cutloms and excise as are
payable on the like goods or merchandize, upon
their importation into this kingdom, from coun
tries not under the dominion of his Majeftv, ac
cording to the tables marked A. D. and F. an
nexed to an Act, passed in the twenty-seventh
year of his [present Majesty's reign, intituled,
" An Ad for repealing the fev'eral duties oj cuj'oms
and excise, and granting at her duties in lieu thereof,
tic. ire." or by any laws in force, pafled fubl'e
quent to the said a<t, for that purpose ; and in
cases where different duties are therein iinpofed
tnon the like goods imported from different
countries, not under the dominions of his Maje
sty, then upon the' payment of the lowest of
such duties ; and such goods and merchandize
Jfcall be intitled to the fame drawbacks as are al
lowed upon the exportation of the like goods and
merchandize from this kingdom, according to
the before mentioned tables, or by any other
laws in force, pafled subsequent to the said Act,
for that purpose; and fliail be liable to the fame
rules, regulations, and reftridtiohs, as the like
• roods and merchandize are liable to upon impor
tation into any port of this kingdom, by any
laws in force for that purpose.
And tlie Right Honorable the Lords commifli
oners of his M 'jetty's Treasury, and the Lords
conimiffioners of the Admiralty are to give the
jiecetlary directions herein, as to them may re
flectively appertain. W. FAWKENER.
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. ij
The Governor of New-Jetfey has published the
names, purfuarit to law, of the candidates for the
office Representatives of the UnitedSiates inthat
state : they amount to forty five ! !
The General Aflembly of the state of Virginia
adjourned the 2Jth ult.. Daring the feffion,they
passed seventy-one acfts.
CONGRES
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, Jan. 10.
In committee of the "whole—on the hill declaring what
officer, in cafe of vacancy of the offices of President,
and Vtce-Prefident, jhall aCI as President.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
THE firft clause of the bill being read, which
contains a blank Co be filled up with the of
ficer, who ihall acft as President.
Mr. Smith( S.C.)obferved, that by theconftitution
ihe vacancy is to be fi])ed with an officer of the
United States : This narrows the difcuflion, said
he, very much. But conceived there was a
previous question neceflary to be- determined,
and that was, whether the person appointed to
supply the vacancy should hold the oflice during
the time for which the President apd Vice-Prefi
dertt was elected ; or whether he was to hold the
office only till a new election could take place :
He thought that by tGe Coiiftitiition, anew elec
tion was not to take place till the term for which
the President and Vice-President had been elect
ed, wns expired.
He 1 lien descanted on the refpedive offices of
t'.ie Chief Justice, Secretary of State, and Secre
tary of the Treasury—and by several particulars
ihevved, that the appointment would moll natur
ally devolve on the Secretary of State. He ac
cordingly moved that the blank be filled with
the words " The Secretary of State."
Mr, Livermore observed, that in considering
this question, lie thorglit no reference should
be had to the officers which had been mentioned
—for as it was supposed that the cafe contempla
ted would not happen once in a 100 years, he con
ceived that theprefeijt characters, who now hold
the above offices, woald be entirely our of the
question. He had in view a different person,
and that was the President of the Senate, protein
j pore—and moved that the blank be filled with
tliis person.
Mr. White observed, that the Conflitution fays
the vacancy fliall be filled by an officer of the
United States. The President, pro tempore, of the
Senate, is not an of\~ w«f the United States.—
Besides this will give one branch of the legisla
ture the power of eleifiinga President : Tliis he
conceived was contrary to the Constitution—as
both branches haye right to an equal voice in
the appointment in this cafe. This will intro
duce the very evil intended to be guarded against.
Mr. Williamfon said the motion was dire<flly
repugnant to the Constitution. Why not chul'e
the Speaker of this rfoufe ?
Mr. Liverinore said, he was well aware of the
objections offered by the gentlemen : He could
have wished the Constitution had pointed out the
person. But he conceived that the Senate was
theonly body that could do this business. If eith
er of the officers mentioned, fliould be the per
son designated to supply the vacancy, it would
be in the power of the Vice-President, by virtue
ofthe power of removing officers, absolutely to
appoint a fuccefior, without consulting either
branch of the legislature.
Mr. Sherman observed, that this matter is left
with the legislature—the whole power of the
people, in cafe of the vacancy, devolves on the
legislature. The particular officer is not pointed
out : It lays with Congress to fay who it shall be.
The President of the Senate is an officer of the
United States. In cafe of the death of a Governor
and Lieutenant Governor, it is common in the se
veral States for the oldest counsellor to preside.
He inltanced the cafe of the abdication of James
lid. Adverting to the constitution, he shewed
that the appointment of Vice-President, in cer
tain cases devolves on the Senate—who will of
courfc be President. The vacancy may be filled
for a longer or fborter time, and this appears to
be a question previous in its nature to be deter
mined.
Mr. Sedgwick said he fhouldbe in favor of the
motion of the gentleman from Nevv-Hampfhire,
if it was not for the express provision in tlie con
stitution—which fays the office lliall be filled by
an officer of the United States. Should the va
cancy now happen, there would be no officer in
the Senate that could be appointed.
He mentioned that the office of Chief Justice
was considered as next to that of President, and
therefore, o|ii the whole, he considered him as the
mo ft proper person to fill the vacancy. He
thought the bill relpetfling the votes for President
and Vice President lhould be fn-ft determined
He moved therefore that the committee lhould
rife, and take up the next bill.
Mr. Carroll and Mr. Livermore objected to the
motion for the committee's riling.
Mr. Madison was also opposed to the motion :
He enlarged on the fnbjet r t—and said he thought
706
it a duty, nrged by a variety of confiderati 0 n s
important in themselves, and more so perhaps " '
their consequences, that the decision Ihould be
now riiade.
Mr. Smith started a variety of objections to Mr
Livermore's proportion : He thought it uncon
stitutional, asft would, in its operation, deprive
a state of a vote in the Senate.
Mr. Bourne said he seconded the motion for the
committee's riling, because he conceived there
was other business of more immediate importance
to be considered—and he saw no necessity of com
ing to a decision on the present question at this
time.
Mr. Lawrance supposed the blank could be fill
ed up in the house : He was therefore in favor
of the coinmitree's rifintr.
The motion for the committee's rifin<* was ne
gatived.
Mr. Benfon was in favor of filling up the blank
with the Chief Justice. He observed that theob
jetf ion arising from the Vice Prafident's havina'
it in his power to name his fucdeflbryin cafe the
Secretary of State is interred, dtfes riot apply to
the Chief Justice. He is independent of the
Executive.
He pointed out several particulars—in which
there was an incompatibility in the offices of
Secretary of State, and that of President. He
obl'erved that the appointment to the regency
in all countries, is generally of the firft law officer.
Mr. Jackson objeifted to the Chief Justice, and
said, the Speaker of the House of Representatives
was, in his opinion, the next officer in point of
dignity, 10 the President and Vice President.
Mr. Madison objected to the Chief Justice, as
it would be blending the Judiciary and Executive.
He objected to the President, pro. tern, of tlie
Senate. I?e will be a Senator of some particular
State, liable to be instructed by the
will still hold his office : Thus he will hold two
offices at once. He adverted to the other ob
jections which had been offered against the Se
cretary of State, and fliewed the compatibility
of the two offices.
Mr. Stone stated sundry difficulties refpecfting
all the officers that had been named ; but on tl>e
whole, thought there were fewer against the Se
cretary of State than any other officer that had
been mentioned.
Mr. Seliey was opposed to coming to any deci
sion at the prefcnt time : He thought more impor
tant business was before the hotife : He was not
for making any decision that fliould give umbrage
to any officer in the government: The Secretary
of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, werei
equally entitled to the public notice. . : .s
Mr. Carroll was in favor of coining to a d«ci
fion—and if nothing more could be offered against
the motion for filling up the blank with the Se
cretary of State, he presumed the committee were
ripe for a decision—he referred to the fituatioit
of countries who had not io season made piovi
fion for a regent, &c.
Mr. Sherman said he was in favor of the com
mittee's riling and reporting the bill, and leave
the blanks to be filled up in the house.
Mr. White was in favor of filling np the blank
in the committee: He saw no reason for a delay.
The officers mentioned are as well known now,
as they will be 3 clays hence. The Prelident and
Vice-President being in health, is a reason why
the fubjecl fliould now be considered : It can be
done with coolness, and freedom from all warmth.
Mr. I-awrance said, he thought there was 110
necessity for precipitating the decision : With
refpecft to every person that has been named,
difficulties have been started : The fubje<ft is im
portant- —and time should be given to deliberate
on the several afficers that have been named.—
He hoped therefore that the Committee would
rife, and report the bill—and leave the blank to
be filled up at anothertime.
Mr Burke was in favor of the committee'*
riling': Heobferved, that tlie members in gener
al appeared to be very much undetermined:—
This is the firft day the fubjeA has been under
consideration : He hoped the members would
not be precipitated to v«te on the occasion.
Mr. Carroll said, if tlie Committee lhould rife,
he hoped the bill would not be reported; but that
they would fetagain.
Mr. Burke laid he hoped the committee would
set again.
The question on the committee's rising and re
porting progress, was carried in the affirmative.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 12.
The bill for granting lands to the inhabitants
and settlers of"the town of Vincennes in the
nois country north weit of the Ohio, and con
firming them in their pofleflions, was read a se
cond time, and referred to a committee of the
whole house this day week
Mr. Sedgwick presented petitions from anum
.ier of officers and soldiers in the Mafiachufetts
line of the late army, which were read and re
ferred to rhe Secretary of war.
Mr. Fitzfimons presented a petition|from a num
ber of tradelmen employed in the various bran
ches of fliip-building, in the city and liberties of
Philadelphia, praying that they may have fbaiespeedy remedy for recovery of their debts in
thole branches of business by |in(lituting suits in
the federal courts, which was read arid laid on
the table.
Alio a petition from Joflma Barney, late a capt.
in the navy of the United States, praying to be
reimbursed his expences, while a prisoner with
the enemy ; and that he may be put on the fame
footing with the other officers in the late Ameri
can navy.
Also a petition of sundry officers of the Jare
American navy, praying compensations for ser
vices, &c. the two last petitions were read, and
referred to a feleet committee of five members.
Mr. Cadwallader prelented a petition fromthe
pubjic creditors of Monmouth county, state of
Nevv-Jerfey, praying an alteration in the fund
ing fyltein, which was read and laid on the table.
Mr. Williamfon moved that the rule of the
houle in these words " that 110 bill amended by
the Senate fliall be committed" may be expung
ed, which was agreed to by the houi'e.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming that they have palled a bill for erediing
that part of the Hate of Virginia, called the dis
trict of Kentucky, into a separate slate, and for
admitting the fame as a member of the union to
which they dcfire the concurrence of the house.
In committee of the whole on the bill repeal
ing after the last day of next,. the duties
heretofore laid 011 distilled and other spirits im
ported from abroad, ana laying others in their
stead.
The committee proceeded in the difcufllon as
far as the 45th fetfion. Adjourned.
IJ
THURSDAY, Jan. 13
The bill for the admission of.the district of
Kentucky into the union,- was read the second
time, and made the order of the day for Monday
next. »
Mr. Sedgwick laid the following motions on
the table :—That a committee be appointed to
lining in a bill, to authorise the President of the
United States to cause the principal of the debt,
due to foreign officers, the interest whereof is now
payable in Paris, at the rate of fix per cent, per
annum, to be discharged.
That as it will be impracticable, during the
present season, to consider and decide oil the
report of the Attorney-General refpetfting the ju
diciary fyftein with that deliberation which the
importance of the fubjec r t demands, the consider
ation of the said report be pollponed.
Alio that the Attorney-General be directed to
report to this honfe a bill, making a temporary
provilion for the clerks, jurors, and other offi
cers of the federal courts—and that he also re
port to the next l'elfion, a bill, making a general
provilion for the officers, and jurors of said
courts.
In committee of the whole on the bill repeal
ing after the last day of next", the duties
heretofore laid 011 diltilled spirits—and laying
others in their stead.
The difcuJTion of the remaining fetflions was
finifhed—and the bill, with the several amend
ments, reported by the chairman to the lioufe.
On motion of Mr. Carroll, it was voted, that
the consideration of the biJl with the amend
ments be postponed, and made the order of the
day for Monday next.
In committee of the whole, on the bill declar
ingtlre officer, who, in cafe of vacancy in the of
fice of President, and Vice-President, shall exer
cise the office of President of the United States.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair
Mr. Smith's (S. C.) motion for filling up the
blank with " the Secretary of state for the time
being," was read—which occalionecl a renewal
of thedebate on the fubjeift.—The committeeap
peared to be much divided, as before—and amo
tion being made for their riling, it was carried
in the affirmative.—The committee therefore
rose and reported progress.
Mr. Livermore gave notice, that he flioiild
move for leave to bring in a bill to alter the lime
of the annual meeting of Congress.
The houle then went into comjnittee on the
bill declaring the time when the electors of pre
lident and Vice-President of the United States
fhnll be chosen ; alio when they fkall meet and
give in their votes.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair,
Some time was spent in difcnffing the firft fec
tiori of this bill ; but the committee iofe without
coming to any decision.
Mr. Ames' motion icfpertingfurther compen
sation to the commitfloners of loans, for extra fei
vices, was referred, on motion of that gentleman,
to tlie Secretary of the Treasury.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Bourne was
added to the committee on the navigation acl.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Jan. 14
Sundry petitions were read and referred
A ineir»orial of Andrew Brown was read, pin
porting that he intends publi(hin,g a corretft edi
tion of the Laws and Resolutions of the Legilla
tuie of the United States, beginning with the
fir ft fefiion of Congress„ and solicits the counte
nance of Congress to the publication.
Mr. White, of the committee appointed for the
purpose, reported a bill foi eftaßlifhing a land
office for the sale of the unappropriated lands in
the Western Territory—read the firft and second
time, and referred to a committee of the whole
house 011 Thursday next.
Ordered, That 100 copies be printed.
Mr. Fitzfimons, of the committee to which was
referred the petition of sundry offieers of the
navy, brought in a report, which was—That the
prayer of laid petition cannot be granted,and that
the petitioners have leave to withdraw their pe
tition. This report was accepted by the house.
Mr. Sedgwick's motion for appointing a com
mittee to bring in a bill providing for the pay
ment of the debt due to foreign officers, was ta
ken up, and referred to a committee, consisting of
Meflis. Sedgwick, Benfon and Seney.
Mr. Madifori laid before the house a memorial
and three refojutions of the legislature of the
State of Virginia, on the fubje*9 of the funding
law, which were read and laid&n the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill deter
mining the tirrle when tl>e Ele<ftors of President
and Vice-President fliall be chosen—and when
they lhall meet apdgive in their votes.
The committee, finifhed the discussion of this
bill and agreed to sundry amendments, which
were reported to the house—the house took the
fame into confederation, and adopted them with
some additional amendments ; it was then or
dered that the bill should lie on the table till
Monday. Adjourned till Monday.
LONDON, Oct. 28
A motion lately made in the National AfTembly,
that the French flag ftiould display the national
colours, occasioned a warm debate ; in which
M. Mirabtau distinguished hinifelf, by his usual
eloqueuce and address—so that the motion was
carried, notwithstanding the opposition, from the
aristocracy, was more open and bold than usual.
M. Mirabeati concluded his speech with adding
to the original motion, for displaying the nati
onal colours on the French flag, a further clause
directing that inltead of the usual shout of Vive
Is Roi, onboard the ships every'moriyng and even
ing, and on all important occasions, it lhall hence
forward be " VIVE LA NATION, LA LOI ET LE
roi."—This motion,as thus enlarged, was adopt
ed, after a clamorous and disorderly debate.
The three colours of liberty having been or
dered to decorate the naval flag of France, a mo
rion for flie like change in rh** oolnurs of the ar
my, was agreed to without debate. The nation
al colours are to be made of French manufactures.
A plan of national education has been report
ed to the National Aflembly, by three eminent
profeflors.
Mi. Rar7iavi, on rthe 25th Ocft. was eledled
President of the National Aflembly.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15.
CaptHigginfon arrived at Boflon the 4th inft.
from Milford-Haven, (England,) which he left the
11 ft November :He saw a London paper of 17, th Nov.
which contained the articles of the Convention, for a
reconciliation between Spain and England, Jigned by
Count Florida Blanca, and Mr. Fitzherbert.
The legislature of the state of Georgia have
pafled fun dry resolves on the Treaty formed by
the United States with the Creek-Indians :—
The firft rcfolve recognizes the legality of the
treaty —and fays it ought to be preserved invio
late, and the house engages to support the faith
of the United States pledged thereby.
The second resolve censures the treaty, as ma
king too great concessions to the Indians.
The third resolve fays, the third article of the
treaty is particularly liable to censure, as k ren
ders the restoration of the property, carried off
by the Indians, precarious, and fubjecftsthe pris
oners in their hands to a ten months longer con
tinuance of their captivity.
Thefourtb resolve censures tie treaty, asrelin
quilhing to the Indians, certain diltriifts, fold and
ceded by them to the inhabitants of Georgia.
The fifth resolve censures the fifth article, as
liable to a conftrudtion unfavorable to the sove
reignty of Georgia over, and pre-emption to, the
lairds allotted to the Indians.
1 lie lixth resolve, censures the seventh article
as not being founded on a principle of reciproci
ty, and equality—admitting the Indians to hunt
on the lands of the white people, while it re
itrains the latter from hunting on the Creek
lands !
The governor of Georgia, in consequence of
some murders and depredations recently commit
ted by the Creek Indians, has iflued a proclama
tion forbidding the Indians to come armed with
in the territories ofthat state, until the pleasure
of the President of the United States is known,
reipetfiing those ravages.
Ihe President—a new Ship, of iooo tons,
was lately launched at Providence; theproperty
ot Mefl'rs'. Brown and Francis.
707-
. The tranquility of the United States-theequal
rights of the several states— the apportioning
of the public burthens— and protecting theagri?
cuhuial states from the unjust impositions of the
commercial, are inseparably connected with the
exercfe or. the part of the general government
of the power ot laying and collecfting an excise
in Jonie such form as that proposed by the bill
now pending before the House of Representatives
01 the United States.
It is to be remarked, that the objections Gene
rally urged against an excise, do not apply so the
above bill—nor have such been offered by its op
pofets. A peal has however been rung upon the
•word—and it is very humorous to observe what a
climax may be founded upon a firing of terms
without any meaning, in refpeft to the fubjeft
under debate.
Six per cents were at 17f. at Boston the 6th
instant, pr. price current.
Amount ot TONNAGE employed in the Trade of the United
States, from ill Ottobex 1789, to 30th September 1790.
Tons.
New-Hampshire, -
Maffachufeits, -
Rhode-Island,* -
Conne&icut, -
New-York, -
New-Jersey,
Pennsylvania, ■?
Delaware,
Maryland, - -
Virginia,
North Carolina, +
* South Carolina, J
Georgia,
American,
Foreign Tonnage,
United States and Britijk,
United States and other Foreign,
Total,
Dollars, 165,465 93J Cents.
* The returns from this State commenced 21 June, 1790
t From North Carolina, nth March, 1790.
J Returns from S. Carolina for three quarters only received
ON the firft Friday of this month, the American Phi lo
sophic a l Society met, and agreeable to the fundamental regula
tions refpe&ing the election of their officers, chofethe following
Prefidcnt,
David Rittenhouse, L. L. D,
C Hon. Thomas Jefferfon,*
Rev. Dr. John Ewing,
( Rev. Dr. William Smith.
f Dr. James Hutchinfon,
J Mr. Robert Patterfon,
Mr. Jonathan Williams,
Dr. Samuel Magaw.
Vice-Prejidents,
Secretaries.
C Dr. S. Barton,
■< Dr. Samuel Dufficld,
(_ Mr. Charles W. Peale.
Curators.
Treasurer.
Mr. John Vaughan.
f Dr. Adam Kuhn,
Comfellors to hold their ) Mr. Jarrd Ingerfoll,
office for three years, j Mr. Andrew Ellicott,
( Dr. Samuel P. Griffiths.
< Dr. Nicholas Collin, in the place of
} the Rev. Dr. Duffield, dcceafed.
The Counsellors, whose period of office hath not yet expired
are the following, Hon. Thomas McKcan, Dr. Blackwcl!, Messrs
William Barton, Jfaac Cray, Charles Petitt, Dr. Benjamin Rujh, and
Br. John Jones. Extract from the Minutes.
SAMUEL MAGAW, Secretary.
* Secretary of State.
BANK OF NORTH-AMERICA.
Philadelphia, January 1, 3791.
BANK Accounts ate now kept in Dollars and Cents.
All persons trar.fa&ing business at BANK, are requcfted to
draw their Checks in the following way.
Iraw their uhe
100
Pence. Cents.
1 1
2 2
3 3
4 4
5 5
6 7
7 8
8 9
9 10
,0 11
.II >2
12 13
13 >4
>4 i 5
'5 '7
16 18
17 1 9
18 20
19 21
SO 22
21 23
22 24
23 2 5
24 27
iOO
Pence. Cents,
25 28
26 29
27 3°
28 3 i
29 32
3° 33
3* 34
3 2 35
33 37
34 38
35 39
36 40
37 41
38 42
39 43
4° 44
4i . 45
4» 47
43
44 49
45 5°
46 5 i
47 52
48 53
1-16 of a Dollar
i - 8 Do.
1-4 Do.
1-2 Do.
1 -8
1 -4
1-2
1-2 PISTAREEN
1 Pi STAR EEN
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 16/6. lyf. pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents 8/6. —8/9.
Dcfcrcd 6 pr. Cents 8/9.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/". 15/6. 76£ do.
Indents 8/6. —8/9. 431 do.
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 11/. 11/6. 57J do.
177,022
9>5 Z 5 54-25
30,616 79-95
48,274 I— 4
5,5>4 '—a
56,997 5-' 2
4>'4» 3—4
" 55,43° 78-95
43,5 2 8 65-95
2 9>94 2 45-95
'7,379 69-95
,0 > 6 34 33-95
502,526 40-95
262,913 57 -g 5
312 I—2
338 2—3
766,091 16-95
o /
100
Pence. Cents
-49 £4
5° 55
5 l 57
58
53 59
54 60
55 6i
56 62
57 63
58 64
59 65
60 67
61 68
62 69
63 70
64 71
65 72
66 73
6 7 74
68 75
69 77
70 78
71 79
72 80
100
Pence. Cents.
73 81
74 8a
75 83
76 84
77 85
78 87
79 88
"8° 89
81 go
82
83 9 «
it 93
°5 94
86 95
8 7 97
88 98
8 9 9,
9°
CENTS.
6 a-ft
12 1-2
2 5
5°
10
20
85 pr. cent.
43l d °-
431 do-
\
* -•***-TREASURY DEPARTMENT,I
December 13, 1790. J
In obedience to the order of the House of Re
presentati vESof the 9th Day of August lait,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, such fur
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, be lie
ceflkry for eltablilhing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(continued from our last.)
The payment of the ifttercfV of the public debt, at thirteen
different places, is a weighty reason, peculiar to oar imme
diate fituaiion, for desiring a bank circulation. Without a pa
per, in general currency, equivalent to gold and silver, a consider
able proportion of the specie of the country must always be sus
pended from circulation, and left tc accumulate, preparatorily to
cach day of payment; and as often as one approaches, there must
in several cafcs be an actual transportation of the metals at both
expence and rifle, from their natural and proper reservoirs to dis
tant places. This nect'ffity will be felt very injuriously to the
trade of some of the Slates ; and will embarrass not a little the
operations of the treasury in those States. It will also obftru£l
those negociations, between different parts of the union, by the
inftrumcntality of treasury bills, which have already afforded va
luable accommodations to trade in general.
Affummg it then as a contequence from what has been said,
that a national bank is a desirable institution, two enquiries em
erge—ls there no such institution, aJready in being, which has a
claim to that character, and which fupercedes the propriety or
neceflity of another ? If there be none, what are the principles
upon which one ought to beeftablifhed ?
There are at present three banks in the United States : That of
North-America, eftabhihed in the city of Philadelphia; that of
New-Yoik, eftablilhed in the city ot New-York ; that of Mafla
ehufetts, established in the town of Boston. Of these three, the
firft is the only one which has at any time had a direst relation to
the government of the United States.
The bank of North America originated in a resolution of Con
gress of the 26th of May, 1781, founded upon a proposition of the
fuperintendant of finance, which was afterwards carried into ex
ecution by an ordinance of the 31ft of December following, en
titled, u An oidinance to incorporate the fubferibers to the bank
of North-America."
The aid afforded to the United States by this institution, during
the remaining period of the war, was of cffential
and its conduct towards them since the peaee, has not wrakened'
its title to their patronage and favour. So far its pretensions to
the charatter in question are refpe&able ; but there are circum
flances which militate against them ; and confederations which in
dicate the propriety of an establishment on different principles.
The dire&ors of this bank, on behalf of theii*conftituents, have
fincc accepted and aded under a new charter from the State of
Pennfylvauia, materially variant from their original one; and
"which so narrows the foundation of the institution, as to render it
an incompetent basis for the extensive purpofesofa national bank.
The limit assigned by the ordinance ofCongrefs to the stock of
the bank, is ten millions of dollars. The last charter of Penn
lylvania confincs it to two millions. Questions naturally arise,
■whether there be not a dirett repugnancy between two charters so
differently circumstanced ; and whether the acceptance of the one
is not to be deemed a virtual surrender of the other. But per
haps it is neither advifeabie nor necessary to attempt a solution of
them.
There is nothing in the a£l* of Congress, which imply an ex
clusive right in the institution to which they relate, except during
the term of the war. There is therefore no:hing, if the public
good require it, which prevents the eftabliftiment of another. It
may however be incidentally remarked, that in thegeneralopinion
of the citizens of the United States, the bank of North-America
has taken the station of a bank of Pennsylvania only. This is a
flrong argument for a new institution, or for a renovation of the
old, toreftore it to the fuuation in which it originally flood, in
the view of the United States.
But tho' the ordinance of Congress contains no grant of exclu
sive privileges, there may be room to alledge, that the government
of the United States ought not, in point of candour and equity, to
cftablifh any rival or interfering institution, in prejudice of the
one already established ; especially as this has, from services ren
dered, well-foundbd claims to protection and regard.
The justice of such an observation ought within proper bounds
to be admitted. A new of the fort ought not to be
made, without cogent and sincere reasons of public good. And
in the manner of doing it, every facility ftiould be given to a con
solidation of the old with the new, upon terms not injurious to
the parties concerned. But there is no ground to maintain, that
in a cafe in which the- government has made no condition re
ilri&ing its authority, it ought voluntarily to reftrift it, through
regard to the interests of a particular institution, when thoft* of the
Sutc di&ate a different course; especially too after such circum
ilances have intervened, as chara&erue the adlual fuuation ot the
bank of North-America.
Th£ inducements to a new disposition of the thing arc now to
be corifidered. The firft of them which occurs is, the, at least
ambiguous, situation in which the bank of North-America has
placed itfclf, by the acceptance of its lalV charter. If this has ren
dered it the mere bank of a particular slate, liable to diflblution
at the expiration of fourteen years, to which term the ast of that
slate has reftri&ed its duration, it would be neither si». nor expe
dient to accept it as an equivalent for a bank of the United States.
The reflri&ion of its capital alfd, which, according to the fame
iuppofnion, cannot be extended beyond two millions of dollars,
is a conclusive reason for a different eftabliftiment. So small a ca
pital promises neither the requisite aid to government, nor the re
quisite fccurity to the community. It may answer ver" well the
purposes of local accommodation, but is an inadequate foundation
for a circulation co-exteiifive with the United States; embracing
the whole of their revenues', and affetting every individual into
whose hands the paper may come.
And inadequate as fiich a capital would be to the eflential ends
of a national bank, it is liable to b£ rendered still more so, by that
principle of the constitution of the bank of Nonh-Ameriea, con
tained equally in its old and in its new chatter, which leaves the
mcrcafe of the afilual capital at any time (now far short of the al
lowed extent) to the discretion of the directors or stockholders.
Jt is naturally to be expe&ed, that the allurements of an advanced
price or stock, and of large may difinclme those who
are intcrefted, to an cxtenfion of capital; from which they will be
apt to fear a diminution of profits. And from this circumstance,
the interest: and accommodation of the public (as well individu
ally as collettively) are made more subordinate to the interest,
real or imagined, of the stock holders, than they ought to be'. It
is true, that unless the tatter be confuhed, there can be no bank
(in the sense at lead in which institutions of this kind, worthy of
confidence, can be established in this country.) But it does not
follow, that this is alone to be confultcd, or that it even ought to
be paramount. Public utility is more truly the object of public
banks, than private profit. And it is the business of government,
to con&itute them on such principles, that while the latter will re
sult, in a fufficient degree, to afford competent motives to engage
in them, the former be not made subservient to it. To efFect this,
a principle object of attention ought to be to give free fcopc to
the creation of an ample capital ; and with this view, fixing the
Wounds, which are deemed lafe and convenient, to leave no diC
crction either to flop fliort of them or to overpass them. The
want of this precaution, in the establishment of the bank of North-
America, is a further aud an important reason for desiring one
differently constituted.
There may be room at firft fight for a supposition, that as the
profit* of a bank will bear a proportion to the extent of its ope
rations, and as, for this reason, the interell of the stockholders will
'not be difadvantageoufly affc&ed by any ncceffary augmentations
of capital, there is no cause to apprehend that they will be indis
posed to such augmentations. But molt men in matters of this
nature, prefer the certainties they enjoy, to probabilities depend
ing on untried experiments ;.efpecially when tbcfc promise rather,
that they will not be injured, than that they will be benefited.
From theinfluence of this principle, and a desire of enhancing
its profits, the dife&ors of a bank will be more apt to overstrain
its faculties, in an attempt to face the additional demands, which
the course of bufincft may create, than to set on foot new fubferip
t ions, which may hazard a diminution of the profits, and even a
temporary redu£tiunof the price 6f flock.
(To be continued.)
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER falhionable Colours,
Manufactured at Hartford, (State of Connecticut,) jult received,
aud arc now offered for Sale, at the
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North Third Street,
At which Store are also opening a large and general aflbrtment of
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS.
CLOTHS,
Linens,
Cambrics,
Painted, sprigged, tambour
ed book, and jaconet Muflms,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
A Variety of STUFFS.
And many other Articles, too numerous toinfert in an Adver
tisement; all of which are now felling by WhoUfalc arid Retail, on
fj low terms, as to make them an object to the purchasers.
N. A. A few Barrels of MACKARKL, and Nova-Scotia
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1791.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliftaed a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will fan thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
Paflengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hoars tor starting from the refpe£Hve Stage
Houses is absolutely neceflary—from which there can he no devia
tion. Norwich, Dec. 14,1790.
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For theWeftward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providcnce -Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
69 —IW3ITI
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY
THE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, prcfent the Public
with the First C'afs of the Majfachufetts ftmi-annual State Lot
icty, which will commencedrawmgin the Reprcjentatives'Chamber»
in Boftlon, on the Seventeenth of March next, or fooner t if the
Tickets shall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
2£,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lubjcft 10 a
dedu&ion of twelve and an half percent, for the use of the Com
mon wealth
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
9°
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
(£3~ TICKE TS may be had of the several Managers, who wil
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin*s-Head
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN" AUSTIN, jun.T
DAVID COBB, [
SAMUEL COOPER, ), Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
_ JOHN KNEELAND, j
BoJlon> July 28, 8790.
Tickets in the above Lottery are to beJold by Stephen Auilin,
corner oj Front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.
PLEASE TO NOTICE.
?Cj°> FO R the accommodation of thofi who would
w'tfh to become Adventurers in the First Class of the
Massachusetts Semi-annual St ate Lottery,
letters, poll paid, direßed to Samuel Cooper, at
his Office, North fide State-House, B oft on, enclosing
Philadelphia, New-Tori or Bojlon Bank-Bills, or
other good Bills, will be particularly attended to, and
Tickets forwarded immediately upon the receipt of
such letters.
Bolton, Dec. 22, 1790.
708
ELEGANT Veil Patterns—
adapted to the season,
Silk, Cotton, and Worsted
Hose,
Corduroys,
Velveretts, and Royal Ribs,
Best Buck, Beaver, and White
Kidd Gloves,
JESSE BRO W 4 N,
Dollars.
Jollars.
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
300
50
40
3 i
SO
10
£
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
JANUARY 14. —Dollars it 7/6.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 6ld Porter,Amencan pr. doi. 15,
Allum, Englifo, pr. cwt. 36/ Pitch, pr. hbl.
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. lod Pork, Burlington, y OJ
Arties, pot, per ton, 33 a 37/iOf Lower county 70/& ,
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12.16 d Carolina
Brandy, common, 7^6d P. as, Albany 7^
Cogniac B(4d Pepper, pr. lb. tl
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12 la 161 Pimento
Bricks pr. M 3°' Rice pr. cwt. s ,,
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. ißj6d 19s Rosin pr. bbll
Ditto, pilot 35* Raisins, best, pr. keg
Ditto, small water 6jf Ditto pr.jar
Beer, American, in bot. )gj , Ditto pr. box y
pr. doz. 5 * r Jamaica pr. gal!. S j6JC,
pr. bbl. 3 os _ I Antigua
n f Oak pr.M feet, 4/101 4/18/ £ j Windward 4164
| Merch. pine 4/ ioj 4/15J \ Harbadocs 4< 41^
%<, Sap, do. tl-.Tsbd 3/ ! Country, N.E. 3 i
3 | N. Eng. s/jJ 2/ 7J 6d iTaffia 2j.)i
a L Cedar 4' 5 s Saffafras pr. ton 451601
rile above are the Shallop prices ; Saltpetre, pr. cwt. t/icj
for tl, e Yardp> ices add isspr M. Sulphur,flour 40(41,
irimflone in rolls pr. cwt. 24* Shot oj .
f Infh pr. bbl. 560s j (German pr. cwt. 6oj' :w
|j < Boston s° s "j )Englifli, blistered Bzj6J
3 (Country 48150/ £ pr. ton 40/60!
lutter pr.lb. lod ltd </> (Crawley's pr. fag. 4 / la ,
in kegs ioj Snake root pr. lb. is 6J 2jBJ
ledar.red timber pr.foot 2szs6d Soap, Common s d 6J
chocolate pr. lb. 10d 11 d Brown gj
'oal pr. bulhel is BJ Caftilc Bdyd
Coffee pr.lb. Starch 71^
'innamon ißi 2OS Snuff is6d 2S\i Js6J
; a flia 41 Spermaceti, refined, u
Cheese, English
Country
2 f s P fr - p r - lb '
. i \\r.. ~
Q Myrtle Wax iS2it
I Mould,tallow nd i2c/
O I Dipped 9'i 9h<l
Cotton lsi» i» Bt/
Cui rants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 155 i"js6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 62^6d 6js6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj 851
Ravens 65J70J
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 43 s
Common, 39-f
Bur middlings,beft 37J
* Middlings 34'
Ship-ftuff pr.cwt. 14J 16/
Flax pr. lb. Bdyd
Fustic
Feathers
pr. ton, 1351 1505
pr. lb. 2j 4d
Flaxfced pr. bush. 3d
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, white race 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 1J 2d
Ginfcng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, ) 3 OS
Ditto, fine glazed 37J 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5s 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 30 s 35s
f Wheat pr. bush Bssd6d
R y e .5 J
I Oais
< Indian corn ts6d 31
I Barley 4 s 9d
| Bed ftielled 20s
(_ Buckwheat is
Hams pr. lb. 7a 8d
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 61
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. qd tod
Hops
Indigo, French,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f Cartings
£ | Bar pr. ton,
°< pig
2 j Sheet
{ Nail rods
Junk, pr. cwt.
Lard, hogs
Dollars,
10000
6000
6000
6000
SCOC
6000
8000
45°°
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
125000
Lead in pigs
in bars
Lead, white
red 47s 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. u2d is
Lignum vitae pr. ton 42s 4ss
Logwood 71 $s 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. ipJ
Rye 2 Sis
Mack a re I,bed 60s
Common 30 s 52J 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70s
Mustard 2s 4d
Madder, best tsßd isyd
Mo la Acs pr.gall. zsg d
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 131
Mad spars 6s js 6d
Mahogany 8d \id
pr. lb. 6056~56d
Nutmegs
'Linseed, pr. gall. 3* gd
Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 3J 7d
, Whaie u 10d is
jr Olive 6j 6d
| Ditto pr. cafe 28J 3os
Bellfweetin ) CJ£ .
I flafks,pr. box,
t_ —baskets 12 bottles 2&r
Oak timber pr. ton 40*
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London,pr.doz. \2S 6d 15/
EBifiNKZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMS have entered
into partnership, and opened an OFFICE, at No. 173? m
Market-Street, a few doors above Fourth-Street, where, under the
Firm of
Hazard and Addoms,
They purchase and fell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BANK
N. B. Transfers made at the Public Offices, and Business in ge
neral tranfaftcd on Commiflion. December 29.
?I Si QUANTITY
Sail Cloth, English, ) c .
pr. yard, •$«"«».
Boston, No. I. 213,
No. 11. 2i u
Ruflia (heeling, pr. p. gc.
f Lump, pr. lb. uy
P4 } Loaf, Tingle rtfincd is6c
<) Ditto, double do. uio£i
1 Havannah, white m
</3 | Ditto, brown, &diot
LMufcovada,pr.cwt 75J9CJ
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall.
f Allura pr. bufli. 2J2J3J
_j 2sbi
<! 2s
00 (Lisbon 2ssd2s6d
Ship build. \ty.O. frames ) Bci
P- ton, S #5'
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/55
Shingles, (hort, p. M. iss 201
—long drefled 90J 100*
Scantling, heart, 90J150#
-Sap 4 w 43 f '
r Pipe pr. 1 2od pieces id
JW. O. hogshead 7/ 5;
> J R.O. do. 5/ 5J
< I Leogan 5/ 15J
5 Barrel 4/15*
I Heading 8/iCf
1S 6d
6d 7
3/31/ 3i6d
i*6 2s
Otter, best pr. piece 30*
Minks isisbi
Fox, grey 2/ 6d $$
red 6/ 7/6/
Martins 3*
Fi/hers 2/6(/$f
Bears js6d 20s
Racoons 2/ 4/
Mulk-rats $d \s6i
Beaver, pr. lb. 7s6d iusi
Deei, in Hair
,N.Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 13 t
—Carolina, 32 gall. 15*17'
1 pentine 20J 22/6^
Spirits, pr.gall. 3s gJ
r James R. new best 35;
■ inferior 26/28/
old 45/ sot
Rappahannock
O J Colo. Maryland 40/6:/
Dark '20s 22/6 i
<; Long-leaf 22/6^
CQ Eaftem-fhore 15/16/
P i Carolina, new 24/26/
H L -old 3*
( Hyson pr. lb. 7/8/ \i
en 1 Hyson flon, 4/4/6 i
Souchong, best
H I Congo, 3/ 4d 3/9^
LBohea, 2/ "]d
Tallow, refined 9^
Tin pr. box, no/ 112s 6d
Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 414/6*/
Vermillion, 11/3^
Varnish, 2/ 2/ 3d
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Lisbon 4°^
Teneriffc 22/ to/ 24/
Fayal pr. gall. 3/3 3
Port pr. pipe 39/ 4°'
Ditto pr. gall. 5/10/
Do. in bottles, pr. dot. 3°s
Claret 45'
Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd 9s
_ Malaga 4 J
:,Bees pr. lb.
ile-bone, long pr. lb. 1/3*
snort, pr. lb. 1/
isSd2s6d
Tun
£ :
S I
2s 3d ?s 6d
7 j 6d 12 j
4' 7 s 6d
s°s
2256 d 30J
29/30/
101
60/65/
361
35'
9 d 10 d
40J 42s 6d
As s s°*
80s 8,5 s
Wax,
Whal
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 7°
Ditto 60 days 7 2 &
Ditto 30 days 7i
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3
30 days 3J'j
France, 60 dayj,pr.s li». "S 2 *
30 days 7 j 3^
STOCK.