PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 72, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, January 5, 1791
V I E N N A, Oct. 2.
WE learn from Wallachia, that the truce ra
tified by the Porte was publicly announced
in the army at Bucliareft on the 16th of Septem
ber. Prince Potenikin is laid to be expected in
this city soon.
On the 19th of la(l month, the truce between
the Prince ofSaxe Cobourg and the Grand Vizier,
•wasfo far concluded, that both parties ceased all
hostilities ; but each keeps the territory and
towns they are in poiFelfion of, till the figningof
the definitive rreaty of peace. The place is not
yet fixed for the holding of the Congress.
BERLIN, Oct. 9
A courier is jaft arrived from Count Lufi with
the news of a convention of Armistice having
been ligned, on the 19th ultimo, by the Prince of
Cobourg and the Grand Vizir, under his medita
tion and guarantee, as Prulfian Plenipotentiary.
Last night died, after a lingering illness, his
Highness Henry, eldest son of Prince Ferdinand
of Prulfia.
The day before yesterday, a courier arrived
herefrom general MollendorfFfrom Weft Prtifiia.
Since which we are informed that he has placed
ten regiments in the suburbs of Laiigfuhr, near
Dantzic, and that five other regiments have re
ceived orders to take their pofleffions in the
other suburbs, viz. Scotland, Stohzenberg, and
Oliva
Yesterday the people employed to take care of
the liorfes and waggons of the third army, who
were already discharged, received orders to
come back.
D A N T Z I C, Sept. 23
Our deputies are arrived at Wariaw ; and we
learn from thence, that there are hopes of the
treaty of commerce with Prullia being fettlc-J.fas
that the trade of Dantzic will not materially
fufFer by it. The three estates aflembled on the
ißch, at the council chamber, to debate 011 the
present lituation of affairs, when they resolved
to wait the answer of the King of Poland to the
requeftof the citizens, before any thing further
is proceeded upon.
HAGUE, Oct. is
Themarriage ofthe princess Frederique Louise
Guillelmine d'Orange, and the Hereditary Prince
of Brunfwick, took place yesterday with much
ceremony and magnificence.
The Comtc de Mercy Argenteau, his Apolto
]ic Majesty's Ambassador at the Court of France,
arrived here yesterday, for the purpose of at
tending the Congress aUembled at this place, on
thefubjed: of theAuftrian Netherlands.
PARIS, October 17,
, They write from Lille, an account, that M.
Quincy, who fonie time past blew up the pea
sants with gunpowder in Franche Ci»mte, was
ltopped and iniprifoned.
The King's letters patent, on the decree for
the fuppreliion of the Parliament, was presented
the day before yesterday, to the Chamber of va
cations, and inrolledin the regilfer of the Court,
bearing this ordinary clause—The a<t of inre
giftering will be repeated at the eltabliftiment of
the Court. This clause 011 which they would at
tach ideas of protestation and custom, the Cham
ber of Vacations could not dispense with.
The Parliament have consented to write to the
King to teltify their fubiniffion to his orders.
This letter is not yet published.
LONDON, Oct. 20,
Untler the expreflion, " for the dispatch of di
ners weighty and important affairs," in the pro
clamation for the meeting of Parliament, much
may be fpeculatecl, but more may be affirmed ;
the state of foreign negociation is become too fe
riaus for the Cabinet Council (consistent with
that liberal coincidence offentiment and concur
rence which should ever fublili between the le
gislative and executive branches of a good govern
ment) to continue the progrei's of difctiflion to
the extremity, without the open a;id approving
resolutions of the nation.
Monf. Calonne set o(Fon Saturday on his tour
to foreign parts. He goes fir 11 to Italy.
" M de Mirabeau's fpeecli, relative to the fa
mily compact, is to be translated into Spanish.
" M.de Cabarrus's imprisonment proves fatal
in its effedts to his relations and friends daily.
On the night of the nth inft. the Countess de
Galvez, Dowager of the Viceroy of Mexico, was
fcnt to Valladolid. M. Bathedas has been con
fined in the prison of Madrid. Two French fer
vanis belonging to M. Cabarrus, and two be
longing to Madame de Galvez,have been conduct
ed to tlie frontiers, and several others of M. Ca
barrus's friends, have been removed to different
places."
It is certainly the cordial wifli of Great Britain
to avoid war ; but the weight flie bears in the
f.ale of nations, and her honor, more than all the
relt of her importance,commands her not to bear
with impunity the insults or the attacks of any
power on earth. Those, therefore, who have
routed her spirit, in this point, may expect her
vengeance, or fubjetft tliemfelves to her power
and arms, or to their own mean and abjrit fub
millions and comprom'ifes.
A truce of fix months is said to have taken
place between the Emperor and his Belgic sub
jects.
The patriotic army at Namur is in great want
of horses : the officers are unable to procure
them to carry either themSelves or baggage; and
the artillery, &c. cannot be moveci from place
to place, as Jieir exigencies requite, for want
of them.
The Belgium forces are to be immediately aug
mented to jo,ooo men, and the Sovereign Con
gress has exprefled its clefire, that some effective
stroke should be made before the approaching
winter ihould render such an event impossible.
A man of polite manners, and a bigot to the
gloomy tenets of Cal 'in, happened to fall into a
religious dispute. " God Almighty (Said the
Calvinill) may,confidently with his justice, damn
you eternally, even forthebeft works which vau
are capable of performing." "He is more of a
gentleman, (replied the other) than to behave
in Such a manner."
M. de llfoms, Liie""TYem.-h has for
mally religned tlie command at Brest, declaring
as his reason, his uttter inability to keep the
crews under discipline, or of rendering service to
liis country. M. d' Eitaing is to be appointed in
his room—an officer more likely to conciliate
the sailors.
Lalt week the new iron bridge, coflftrui r ted
under the direction of Mr. Payne (the author of
Common Sense) for the use of the Americans,
was exhibited before a number qf virtuofl, and
gave infinite fatisfadlion. The bridge, consists
of one arch of call iron, ninety feet long, and
weighs but thirteen tons. Mr. Payne's firlt pro
posal was to conltrucft a bridge over the Dela
ware of 490 feet long, but his countrymen pau
flng on the impracticability of this mealure, the
above was undertaken as a specimen.
Proceedings of the General dffembly oj the State of
North Carolina,
HOUSE OF COMMONS,
Wednesday, November 24, J 790.
THE order of the day being called for and
read, Resolved, that this house resolve itfelf
into a committee of the whole house, to take un
der further consideration the propriety of giving
inftrudtions to Samuel [oil nil on and Benjamin
Hawkins, Efqnires, Senators of this State in the
Congress of the United States.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole accordingly.
Mr. Polk in the chair.
After fonie time spent in committee, the speak
er resumed the chair, and the chairman report
ed tlie following refolntions :
Whereas, when the General Aflembly of the
State of North-Carolina, in its feffien of 1789,
did nominate and appoint Samrel Johnfton and
Benjamin Hawkins, Esquires, to represent the
laid State in the Senate of the United States, eve
ry expectation that had confidence in their in
tegrity, opinion of their abilities, «r certainty
ot' their industry in discharging the trull reposed
with them, was entertained.
With regret do we add, that our constituents
ind o'irfelves too fenlibly experience the evils
uifing from a want of that exertion in them,
which, if duly made, could not have failed of be
ing highly beneficial to this State, and might
hive rendered aigovernment, adopted under ma
ny doubts, and with fonie difficulty, betcer adapt
ed to the dispositions of freemen.
RtfolveV, that the Senators representing this
State in the Congress of the United States, be,
693
[Whole No. 176.]
and they are hereby directed to life their con
stant and unremitted exertions until they effeift
having the doors of the Senate of the United
States kept open, that the public may have ac
cess to hear the debates of the said Senate, when
in its legislative or judicial capacity.
Resolved, that when in Congress, they be di
rected to correspond regularly and constantly
with the legislative ; but during the recefsthere
of with the execative.
Resolved, that they have such of the journals
as are not of a secret nature, printed, and trans
mit the fame to the executive, at leafb once a
month during the feflion of Congress.
Refuhed, that the Senators of this State life
their utmost endeavors to effect economy in the
expenditures of the public monies, and to de
crease the monstrous salaries given to the pub
lic officers and others, who, however much they
be deserving of the public gratitude, or liberal
it}' for palt or present Services, ought only to be
compensated agreeable to republican economy—
not enriched with the bounty of regal Splen
dour.
Ref Aved, that they Hrenuoufly oppose every
excise and dired: taxation-law, Ihould any be at
tempted in Congress.
The committee of the whole house further re
port, that they have appointed a sub-committee,
in order to take under their consideration any
further i nflrudlions to be forwarded to the Sena
tors of this State in the Congress of the United
States, and beg leave to recommend to the house,
that the said sub-committee be empowered tore
port to the house by their chairman, the several
resolutions they {hall think the molt proper to
recommend, and further that they be difcliarged.
The sub committee, Meli'rs. IVl'Dowell, Tay
lor, Jones, Mebane, lrvin, Cabarrus, Leigh, and
Play.
All which is submitted.
lir\ufo do ooncui' with til©
foregoing report of the committee of the whole
houle.
N. B. The foregoing were negatived by the
Senate.
ED E N T O N, December 17.
Extract of a letter from FayettiviUe, dated the Cth
December.
" You will observe in the proceedings of the
House of Commons of the 24th of Nov. some ve
ry curious and extraordinary resolves", feverelv
censuring our Senators in Congress. It seems
they have not regularly correlpended with our
Executive ; and this alone, as far as 1 am able to
learn, is the cause of the acrimony and malevo
lence shewn them.—Our friend Dr. J. Leigh, of
Tarborough, who, though a young member,
seems to take the lead in bufineft, and 1 think
has given a striking proof of what his country
may exped: from him in a political capacity,—
opposed thein with that manly and independent;
spirit, that I know not which molt to admire, the
talents of his mind or the virtues of his heart—
they, however, were carried in the lower lioufe,
but rejected in the Senate.—They seem in gene
ral to be violent against Congress, on account of
the afiumption, and refufe to give up the checks
in the treasury to the Loan-Officer. : hey pro
pose also to empower the Treasurer to subscribe
the whole amount of the debt afliimed for this
State by Congress, and to employ the certificates
now in the treasury, which have already been
liquidated and punched, for that purpose—it is
said there is nearly a futficiency. The deficien
cy they expeift to make up, by employing the
money now on hand in purchases in the market,
under the direction of the Governor and Coun
cil."
N E W-L OND ON, December 24
By a gentleman just arrived from Cape-Fran
cois, we are informed, that the infurretfiion of
the innlattoes and free negroes in the neighbor
hood of that place, which threatened very seri
ous consequences, is almofl wholly quelled, the
insurgents being collected in very small parties,
and many of their leaders taken, whom it is sup
posed vrill be condemned to fuffcr death in its
moll cruel forms.
PORTSMOUTH, Dec. 19
Married in this town, the Honorable Le SieUR
Jean Tuscan, Vice-Consul of France, to Miss
Elizabeth Parrot.
W. POLK, Chairman.m
Excra& from the New-York Magazine—for
November, i 790.
THOUGH v>faith may obtain refpeCl, and though
. talesits may gain admiration, yet it is the life of inte
grity and virtue which will alone secure to us the esteem
«f the world. This will command refpe* and regard,
though fortune Jhould rob ui oj her gijts, and though
faClion Jhould deny ui the dtfplay of our talents. Of
the importance that a virtuous character is towards
giving us public confidence, cach day's observation may
assure us. How many do we mat within life, on whom
nature hath beftovsedthe mojl diftinguijhed talents,yet
who remain undijlinguifhed by public honors, merely
because their countrymen have not a confidence in their
virtue and integrity ? while, on the other hand, how
frequently do we fee men of moderate abilities called
to public employment, from the refpeEl and veneration
which is borne to the virtues oftheir private char all tr ?
But as example is of more efficacy than precept, behold
in the char after of one whom you boajl of as your fel-
Jow-citizen, and who now directs the finances of your
country, a proof of the principle that I wijh to esta
blish, and let his success serve as a ft intuitu to your
virtue ana to your ambition.
Though even now at an age, at-which viojl charac
ters begift their political career, yet he hath for years,
received the mo ft fiatteri/ig marks of public diflinc
tion, and now holds one of the tnojl important offices
in any government. In hit appointment to that of
fice the wijhes of the public had anticipatid the judi
cious nomination of our firjl magijlrate, whose dis
cernment in ejlimating chatatters is not the leajl va
luable of his political talents.
Though his abilities, no doubt, firjl procured him
public diflintlion, yet to the uniformity of his political
condufl, and to his inflexible and unde-j'tating integ
rity, he ztnqueflionably owes that unbounded confidence
which he now enjoys, which is so honorable to hivtfe(f t
and so serviceable to his country.
SALEM, December ar
The contention in Martinique appears to have
110 reference to the late French revolution, as
both parties acknowledge the prefentgovernment
in France. From the revolution, however, the
colonies derived the privilege of constituting
Assemblies to legislate for them. The equal laws
made by the Colonial Aflembly of Martinique no
longer left any exclusive commercial privileges
to the town of St. Pierre ; and the free people
of colorfelt the enjoyment of the rights of men.
This equality excited the jealousy of the inhabi
tants of St. Pierre, and produced an enmity to
wards the reft of the colony, which continually
increased, till the maflacre of the Mulattoes <»n
the 3d of June last. The jullice of government
was now oh]ig#fl.tQ intcrpoft , and 4Vom bencc*
have arisen the parties, of thegovernment, plan
ters, free mulattoes, &c. on one fide—and the
inhabitants of St. Pierre, on the other.
ALBANY, Dec. 23
A letter from a young gentleman of this city,
now at Manchester, Vermont, dated the 20th in
stant, mentions the sudden death of two young
women of that town, (Patty Savage, aged 18, and
Lois Godrich, 16) who having agreed, on Wed
liefday evening the 15th, to <leep in a newly
plaiftered bed-room—on account of the dampnfcfs
of the walls the servant was directed to place a j
pot of charcoal in it; and 011 the morning follow
ing! melancholy to relate ! the latter was found
dead, and the former poflefled only some of the
remaining symptoms of life—lhe however lived
lhree or four hours
ELIZABETH TOWN, Dec. 29
Extract of a letter from Will/borough, (on Lake
Champlain) to the printer hereof, dated Dec. 10.
'f The crops of every kind of grain 011 the bor
ders of Lake Champlain, have been very great,
this year, winter and summer wheat especially ;
a farmer in Willfborough had, from one single
root of wheat, one hundred and.forty-eight ears,
1110 ft of them of a large growth ; one of the reap
ers cut the grain before the number of ears were
noticed, so that the number of grains could not
be counted ; but the field in which it grew, con
tains 28 acres, on which was sown 31 bu(h«ls, and I
it yielded upwards of 800."
NEW-YORK, January, 3.
The latest accounts from Martinique state the
affairs of that Island to be (till 111 the greateftcon
fufion ; the planters, and the inhabitants of the
town of St. Pierre being still in arms against each
other, and as often as opportunity offers com
mitting the greatest enormities. However, a
seventy four gun fiiip and a frigate having late
ly arrived from France to the aid of the country,
the town of St. Pierre is entirely blocked up both
by land and sea, and being cutoff from supplies
on every fide, it was thought, when the lalt ac
counts came away, it inuft foou be brought to
fubmiflion. The disputes in this island are said
to have no reference to the late French revoluti
on, as both parties acknowledge the present go
vernment. ; but merely arise from the general
Affejjjbly having taken away certain exclusive
comiheicial privileges from the town of St.
Pierre.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, Dec. 28.
(Continued from cur lafl.
LAWRANCE. Tlie people have great
LVA dependance or) tlie Wcftern Territory as
i fund to extinguish their debt ; it therefore be
oincs tlie duty of the government to obtain the
>eft price they can for it. The question is, whe
her we shall fix a price, or adopt the plan pro
lofed by the gentleman from Maflachufetts. He
vas in favor of the latter, and said he doubted
JOt it would be easy to make a discrimination
n the relative qualities of the lands. Tlirs dif
ference in price may render it worth while for
he commissioners to have the land of a parti cu
ar district explored. He replied to the objec
tion from the want of integrity in thefurveyars
Admitting the full force of the objection, it wa<
probable that the United States would gain by it
at any rate they would not lose; and it was moK
probable that, to avoid suspicion, if the f'urveyor;
(hould be inrerefted in the tracts surveyed, thej
would give more than 30 cents. Withrefpect t<
foreigners, after they ariive in the country, tliej
then will be on the fame footing with our owr
citizens. He adverted to the mode which had
been adopted by New-York—they had fold landi
in every way, at a certain price, at auction, anc
are now felling them at the discretion of com
iniffioners, at a rate not below a certain sum.
Mr. Stone objected to the mode of leaving the
price unfixed, as it would involve a complex fyf
tern, subjecting the purchasers to great inconve
nience, perplexity and uncertainty. He repro
bated the system adopted by New-York, and ask
ed the gentleman (Mr. Lawrance) whether New-
York had not been subjected to great loss and
vexation in consequence of the plan they had
pursued ? He wiflied the system of New-Yori
should be fully linderfbood, in order that the
United States may avoid it. He concluded bj
faying tliat he was in favor of fixing a price, anc
supposed that the Western Territory, fold at 3c
cents per acre, would whoi« of ttic na
d COT.
Mr. Lawrance replied to Mr. Stone: He faic:
that when the state of New-York fold their land:
at a fixed price, there had been complaints on ac
count of the bell tracts being taken up. When
they had fold them at auction, the value of the
lands had been generally realized in proportion
to the With 1 efpect to the lalt mode
adopted, the result was not yet known.
I Mr. White said, if the gentleman had propofec
i the amend mem to the clause which refpecfts large
purchases, he fliould not have objected to it. He
however objected to it in the present cafe; and,
in order to drew that a fixed price was most eli
gible for small quantities, he instanced the prac
tice of Lord Fairfax, who had been a great pro
prietor in Virginia—and also the practice of the
firft proprietors of Pennsylvania : These fold their
lands, good and bad, at one price—their experi
ence for fiich a length of time, near a century,
( he thought fufficient to shew that mode ro be
most eligible. He would not object to affixing
that condition to special contracts.
Mr. Sedgwick obviated the objection in the
firft instance, by faying that the officers will be
able to determine with very considerable preci
sion, what will be for the interest of the United
; States. He said experience had proved that there
were no insuperable difficulties in the cafe.
Mr. Moore observed, that the actual value of
the best lands in that territory was about 30 cents
per acre : When all of that description is fold,
the next will bringthe fameprice; from whence
he inferred, that there could be 110 difficulty
or loss attending fixing the price. He stated
some difficulties which would result from adopt
ing the mode proposed.
Mr. Sherman observed, that the committee
was now only fettling principles. The principal
objection to the idea of leaving the price discre
tionary, appearld to arise from the difficulty of
carrying it into execution.—He endeavored to
obviate the difficulties. He said there was un
doubtedly a, great difference in the value of the
lands : He had been informed by a fnrveyor that
some of those lands are worth a guinea per acre.
He doubted not that such information may be ob
tained by the firveyors as that a very great sav
ing may be made to the United States.
Mr. Bloodworth said he was in sentiment with
the gentleman last fpeakingfrom Virginia. Hi<
experience in the state of North Carolina was en
tirely in favor of fixing a price.
Mr. Sedgwick's motion being put, was loft.
Mr. Scot then moved that the clause whici
makes a discrimination in the fecuvities to be
paid for the land, fhoulcl be struck our. His ide;
694
was that all the securities fliould be received at
their face for the land : He said this he consi
dered as the only apology which the United
States could make to their creditors, for not pay
ing them 6 per cent, on the whole of their de
mand.
Mr. Fitzfimons objecfted to the motion He said
it would be reducing the price of ahe land to one
half the sum already agreed to.
Mr. Lawrance preferred to Mr. Scot's motion
striking out all that relates to public'fecurities,
and making gold and silver oi.ly a tender for the
land.
Mr. Sedgwick was in favor of the article as in
the report : He enlarged on the importance of
finking the public securities, and making provi
sion for extinguifliing thedefered (lock in a par
ticular manner
Mr. Scot's motion was negatived.
_ Mr. Lawrance then propoled that public feeur
ities flioukl be struck out. The gold and lilver
said/he, received for the land, may be appropri
ated to finking the debt, agreeable to the provi
sion already made for appropriating the surplus
revenue.
Mr. Jackson objected to the motion ; he ob
served that the lands in the Western Territory
had always been considered as a fund for fink-
ing great part of the public debt of the union ;
he wi/hed not to Jose fight of this objecfl—many
persons have securities in their pofl'eflion, who
may be disposed to apply them to the purchase
of lands ; those persons may not find it conveni
ent to turn their paper into gold and silver, and
1 fee no necefiity. said he, for this round about
process—a more Ample method is to be prefer
red. As the gentleman last fpenkinghad thought
proper to allude to the aisl palled the last feffi'on,
making provision for the reduction of the public
debt, beg'd leave to offer a few remarks on
that fubjedi : It is true said he, we appropriated
a lurplus revenue of one million of dollars, to
be applied to purcliafing the public debt in the
market, while at a reduced price ; but what is
the refillt ? By the report of the commifiioners
it appears that only 200,000 dollars of the debt
have been bought ; the securities have risen,
and one defcripcion of them is nearly up to par ;
why the whole sum has not been applied to make
purchases when the price was low, 1 ain not able
to fay but the benefit to the public derived from
the ineafure is so trifling, that it suggests a fnf
ficient reason to my mind for not Agreeing to
appropriate any more money in that way.
Mr. Lawrance, in answer to Mr. Jackson, ob
served that it is true the sum of one million of
surplus revenue was appropriated as a finking
fund the last fclfion ; but it was well known that
that sum was not then in the treasury, not* was
the whole expected to be realized till towarfts
the close of the year; this would account for the
whole amount's not being appropriaied. With
iefpe(t to the proceedings of the commiflioners,
lie was not so fully informed as to give the com
mittee full information 011 the fubjetft ; but
doubted not that their tranfacflions would be
round to be perfectly conformable to the spirit
and meaning of the law under which theyacfted.
The motion for finking out public fecuritias
was loft.
MONDAY, Jan. 3
The bill for the relief of Shubael Swaine was
read the second time, and ordered to be engross
ed for a third reading.
Mr.Hathorne presented the petition of William
Reynolds, a soldier of the late army, wounded at
the attack on tort Montgomery, praying to be
placed 011 the pension lift.
Mr. Fitzfiinons presented the petitionof Joseph
Huck. The above petitions were referred to
the Secretary of War.
A mefiage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, with
the copy of an adl of the legislature' of New-Ter
fey, ceding to the United States the lot of ground
at Sandy Hook, on which the light-house isereift-
The House then took in consideration the re
port of the committee of the whole house, on the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury relative
to the eftabliftiment of land-offices, for the faleof
lands in the Western Territory—The Speaker
read the report. The firft rel'olution provides
for the.eftablifliment of a general land-office, at
the feat of government. Thefecond, for two fu
boi dinate land-offices in the Western Territory
One to the South—the other to the North Weft
of the Ohio. The third, that all sales above
acres /hall be negociated at the general land-office,
tourth, Indian titles to be extinguished previous
to any sale. These resolutions were adopted byi
the house, without a division. The fifth refolu-
tion provides that convenient locations shall be set
off ior actual fcttlers.—This resolution on motion
of Mr. Scot was struck out. He proposed a sub-
Ititute, which after some debate was disagreed to.
1 he sixth resolution provides, that tliefe"en ran
ges already laid out fliall be surveyed and fold.
This was adopted. The seventh, that any quan-/
titles within natural boundaries, of lines, or both,may be fold. This was agreed to with an addi
tion proposed by Mr, Burke, that for every chain
surveyed and fold on the bank of a navigable ri
ver, the purchaser (hall be obliged to take
chains back. The eighth resolution states, that
the price of the land lhall be 3° cents per acre,
to be paid in gold or silver, or in the public secur
ities, eftimaiing the 6 per cents at par with spe
cie—and those of an inferior value, at a propor-
tionate rate
Mr. Boudinot proposed that this resolution
should be altered, Co that all the securities ihould
be received in payment for the land, as at par.—
He ltated sundry objections tothedifcrimination
between thefeveral denominations of the securi
ties, and urged the justice of making all an equal
tender for the land. By this means the' United
States will do some justice, said he, to the public
creditors, in refpecft to the deferred part of the
debt; besides it will conduce more rapidly to
linking the public debt, and expedite the felling
of large quantities of the land. He moved an
amendment to this purport —this was seconded
by Mr. Steele, and supported by Mr. Lee.
Mr. Livermoi-e was in favor of felling the land
for deferred stock and 3 per cents only.
Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Smith, S. C.
and Mr. Seney, were opposed to Mr. Boudinot's
motion. They coniideied it as interfering with
the funding (yftem—it would open the doors to
speculation, and in its effects would be giving a
doaceur to persons to whom the United States are
under no special obligations whatever.
Mr. Boudinot's piopofition so far obtained, as
to alter the resolution, to read that gold and iilver
or public securities, [without discrimination]
ihould be received in payment for the land.
A motion to ftrikc out 30 cents was negatived
l Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Jan. 4.
A petition from fnnclry inhabitants of Wash
ington County, in the state of New-York, refpei2-
ing a certain J.Younglove, who, by an act palled
the last fellion of Congress, is placed on the pen
sion lift, without any just pretentions to the be
nefit of that provision, was presented by Mr. Syl
•vefter, read, and referred to a feiecft committee.
Mr. Ames presented the petition of Andrew
Colten, and Lydia his wife, who had been the
widow of a Capt. White, of the Continental army,
killed at the siege of York Town, praying for
cammutation or half-pay on account of her
late liufband.
Mr. Parker presented the memorial of Joseph
Anderfon.
Mr. Vining presented the memorial of Eben
ezer Smith, a late surgeon in the American army
[ —The above memorials and petition were re'
jferred to the Secretary of War.
I The house this day finifhed the consideration of
the report of the committee of the whole, on the
fubjeift of the laud-office,
The eighth resolution, as amended yesterday,
jccafioned the principal part of the debate.—
A. motion offered by Mr. Sedgwick for llriking
out " gold and silver and public (ecurities," af
ter fom£ opposition, obtained—and the resolution
now thus, the price of the land (hall
be go c«nts per acre.
The remaining resolutions were agreed to, with
very few amendments—and a committee con
fining of Mr. Scot, Mr. White and Mr. Blood
rjvorth was appointed to bring in a bill pursuant
So the report.
[. Mr. Wadfworth of- tlie committee appointed
for the purpose, reported the new militia bill,
[which was lead the firft time.
A letter was communicated from the Trealurer
ot the United States, accompanying his accounts
—which were laid on the table. Adjourned.
BOSTON, Dec. 27
At the second trial for the choice of Federal
Rcprefenrative in Worcester Diltiicft, the Hon.
Artcmas Ward, Esq. was chosen. In Plymouth.
&c. Diilriift, the Hon. Shearjajhub Bourne, Esq.
Bristol, &c. Dillriift, and the biftricl of Maine,
No choice. The inhabitants are to meet again
the 25th Jan. for the choice of a Representative.
NEWBURYPORT, Dec. 22
From a Martinico paper of the 2C)th of OCI. brough
by Cnpt. Titcomb, oj this town, the following is ex
traded.
The garrison of Fort Bourbon and Fort Royal,
in order to preserve the Kind's Picture, which
was placed in one of the halls of government,
from itifult, and from being taken away by force,
removed it yelterday to Fort Bourbon, with all
the honors.due to tharauguft Portrait.
The carrying off the white colour of the regi
ment completely authorised this praise-worthy
Itep of the two garrisons.
;-?.w m/
Philadelphia, Jan. 5.
Yesterday a bill providing for the admiffio-n of
the diflrift of Kentucky into the Union, uas read
afirfl and second time in the Senate of the Uni
ted States.
The committee ofthe Senate to whicli was re
ferred the report of the Secretary of the Trea-
fury, on the fubjeclof a National Bank, reported
a bill on Monday last, which was read the fir 11
time, and ijo copies ordered to be printed foi
members of the legislature.
Extratt of a genuine letter from Paris, to a gentle
r j i.i.r »/->/»
tnan in London, dated the nth 0(1.
" M. Alert de Riom, the French Admiral who
was appointed to the command of the fleet fit
ting out at Brest, has resigned, in consequence
of the present dreadful ftateof the French Ma
rine,which has spread itfelf throughout the whole
fleet ; nothing but a continual icene of riot and
mutiny. They have discovered that much money,
and other inducements, have been pracftifed up
on the inferior officers of their navy. This evi
dently has been the work of the aristocrats ; and
to prevent discovery, they have had the artifice
and modesty to place the cause to the account of
Mr. Pitt, and which is really believed by a great
number in Paris ; but such is the unsettled state
of this country, that the people know not who
to trnft, believe, or 1 depend upon.—D'Eftaing,
who in the affair of Versailles, proved himfelf
such a (launch ariftocr»t and barely escaped with
his life, it isgenerally believed will succeed Ri
otns, and have the command of the fleet. This
situation, so desirable to himfelf and his party,
he certainly \vill get, by a stale trick, lately
played off upon the people—He has contrived
that some letters, wherein he proves himfelf a
strong democrat, fliould fall into the hands of
the public ; fhefe letters have been published,
and dispersed about, and the people are weak
enough to believe them genuine.
" There was a dreadful riot at Brest laftTuef
day night, and many lives loft. The captain of
the Leopard, lately arrrivefl from the Weft-In
dies, has been sent for to appear before the Na
tional AfTembly."
By an expirefs which arrived on Saturday at
the Poft-Office, from Lewiftown, nearlthe Capes
of Delaware, the following was received.
Gst>y of a Ictttr received by the Lord Mayor t of Lop
*»'■ ? n .1 "r\ j r r . i
don, from the Duke of Leeds.
I have the honor to acquaint your Lordlhip,
that the meflenger Dreffin, arrived here this
morning, with dispatches from Mr. Fitzherbert,
ambaflador at the court of Madrid, dated Sunday
24th Oilober, containing an account, that a Con
vention for terminatingthe differences which had
avifen with that court, had been agreed upon,
.between his Excellency, on the part of his Ma
jeity, and. the Counr de Fiori-da Bl.mca, on the
part of the Catholic King; and that the conven
tion was to be signed, and exchanged by those
Ministers, the 27th of the fame month.
(Signed,)
London, 4th Nov.
The city and county of New-York, agreeable to
the Census taken pursuant to a(st of Congress, is
found to contain of inhabitants, thirty thousand
and twenty two—ln 1786, the number was twenty
three thousand fix hundred and fourteen —Increase,
fx thousand Jour hnndred and eight.
APPOINTMENTS
The Preftdent of the United States, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, has been
pleased to appoint, Abraham Ogden to be At
torney for the United States, in the Ditlri(ft of
New-Jersey, in place of Richard Stockton, who
has religned.
Hon. George Thatcher, Esq. would have been
re-eledred Member of the House of Reprefenta
tives of the United States, for the Diftridt of
Maine, had all the votes been returned infeafon.
EXTRACT.
" There is a kind of affection for our nation or
cotemporaries which in fadt is nothing but felf
love : We extol it all others from a secret
pride, which appropriates to ourselves a share of
those liberal encomiunjs. The love of cur coun
try is free from this weakness. This affeAion,
which in other words may be called a zeal for the
public good, renders us fliarp-fighted, both with
respect to their faults and their virtues. It
prompts us to expose those, in order to corretft
them, because they exist only by not being known."
A number of citizens having met at the Ger
man School house in Cherry-Street, in order to
take into consideration the diftrefled state of the
poor, at the prfffent inclement season of the year;
but the company not being so large (on account
of several unrorefeen circomftances) as was ex
pected, it was agreed to meet again at the fame
place, on Wedijefday evening at fix o'clock, at
which time and place, the attendance of t lie cha
ritable and well disposed citizens of all religious
denominations is earneilly requested.
At die above meeting the following gentlemen
weie appointed to bring in a plan to carry into
effetfl the benevolent intention of their fellow
citizens, viz. Charles Biddle, Benjamin liufh,
Christopher Kucher, Afhbel Green, and William
Savery.— Published by order of the meeting,
ROBERT ANNAN Chairman
-695-
LEEDS.
11 Teach me to feel another's woe."—
There is in human nature a propensity to flirink
from mifery,'whether in relation to ourfelves'or
others : With refpetft to ourselves, the real'on is
obvious ; bat in both cases the effect is produced
by the famecaufe—the love of ease. Hence may
be deduced the difference between a person who
performs a benevolent acftion from principle, and
one, who, propelled by involuntary sensibility,
relieves the diftrefled to relieve his own feelings
—From the former we may expedt a fyHematic
exercise of benevolence—the latter is charitable
by accident.
I favv Bsnevoltts coming from the house of pe
nury and affliction—his countenance was irradia
ted with the beams of complacency—He had chear
ed the heart of despondency—he had fed the
hungry—he had clothed the naked—re-animated
hope, and inspired a firm confidence in that be
ing s who hears the young ravens when they cry'-—
In many a lone, and dreary cell,
The Tons of want and virtue dwell ;
There, when bleak blows the wintry gale,
And food, and clothes, and fuel fail,
The feeling heart will oft repair,
And chear the bosom of despair ;
For they to life's best purpose live,
Who know how blejjed tis to give.
Died at Albany, on the 26th ult. the Rev.
Elarpus Westerio, D. D. Rredlor of the Re
formed protestant Dutch Church of that city.
Sutfcribcrs for Mrs. Warren's Poems, are rcquejlei to call on the
Editor for their books.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 17/3- P r -/ •
3 pr. Cents 8/6.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/"6.
UNFUNDED DEBT
Final Settl.and ot'ncr Certificates 1 yf—ls/3.
Indents 8/6.
State debts ij/6
giZr' The the several States, to
whom the packet# of this paper are addrefi'ed,
are refpedtfully informed, that owing to the
great number of dispatches from the public
offices, which have been recently sent from the
Poft-Office in this city—newspapers have been
neceflarily precluded—as it has not been possible
to croud them into the mail-portmanteaus. This
is the only reason of their failure, as the Editor
has had the papers conftantJy left in season at
the office.
Gazette of the United States,
(£3"* THE Editor requests those of his Subscribers whose ar
rearages amount to six and twelve months subscription, to make pay.
ment as soon as possible. He trusts it will prove a sufficient a
pology for this application, when he assures them that his receipts
for the year 1790, do not amount to more than one half of the ac
tual cxpence of the publication during that period.
Upwards of two hundred thousand copies of this Gazette hav?
been published and circulated since 15 April, 1789, the time
when it commenced, Fiomthevfry general approbation it has
received, and the extensive and ample subscription which has of
fered, the editor has flattered himself with the possibility of its
being supported ; but at the present moment a most perplexing
uncertainty rests on that event —c wing to the d'faculties attending
the present mode of its circulation, and colle£ling subscription.^
from situations remote from the place of publication,
January 5, 1791
SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
03 s * A meeting of the fubferibers to the plan for ejlablifhing Sun
day Schools in this city, wi/lbe held at the Academy of Mr. Joseph
Sharplefs, in Second Sreet, between Market and Arch Streets, on TueJ
day next, at fix o'clock in the evening, for the purpefe of chcofing officers.
Jan. 5, 1791. Signed by order,
M. CAREY, Sec. P. T.
THE BEE,
Or, UNIVERSAL LITERARY INTELLIGENCER,
By DR. ANDERSON, cj Edinburgh,
Is to be publilhcd this month.
Among a great variety of queries propojed to correspondents by the Doc*
ji. L * l.- -
y -J 1~- - I—r -J- - " r " j [ ~
tor, in the profpcclus oj that work, theJollowing occur, v:z.—
WHAT is the state of the country in regard to the hberty of the
press? To what restraints are the people subje&ed in this respect ?
What have been the pretexts adopted for curtailing this liberty,
where it could not be dirc&ly attacked ? Have these encroach
ments been made under the apparent view of augmenting the
public revenue, or of serving the cause of religion, or of prevent*
mg immorality, or of promoting good order and public tranqili
ty, by prolcftini the innocent from calumny, 01 what else ? Ij
the post-office called in as an engine to effect this purpose ? Have
particular taxes also been imposed with this view ? What are
they ?
How is the poft-office regulated ? Is it condufled under the in
fluence of mercantile, of financial, or of political notions? Are letters
nevtr in danger of being stopped at the post-office, or searched
there, unless by the highest authority in times of eminent public
danger ? Are any persons or bodies of men exempted from the
charge of postage ? Who are they ? and what are the privilege*
they enjoy, and how limited ? Are any general regulations adopt
ed tor facilitating literary communicat'ons either altogether free
of expence, or at a moderate charge ? What arc they ? Are these
publicly known and invaiiable ; or do they depend in any case
on private favour, so as to be either granted or withheld at plea
sure ? Particulars this department are earnestly re-
quetfed
86§ pr. cent.
do.
42J do.
76J do.
42J do.
do.(continued from our. last.)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
J3, 1790. J
Iu obedience to the order of the House of Rf.-
pßESENTATivEsof'the9th Day of August last,
requiring the Secretary of the Trhasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, such far
ther Provifien a» may, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for efVablifliing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
Secondly. Greater facility to the government in obtaining pecu
niary aids, especially in sudden emergencies. This is another and
an undisputed advantage of public banks': One, which as air adv
remarked, has been realized in signal instances, among ourselves.
The reason is obvious : Thecapitals of a great number of indivi
duals are, by this operation, collected to a point, an'd placed un
der one dire6lion. The mass, formed by this union, is in a cer
tain sense magnified by the credit attached to it. And while this
mass is always ready, and can at once be put in motion, in aid of
the government, the interest of the bank to afford that aid, inde
pendent of regard to the public fafety and welfare, is a sure pledge
for its disposition to go as far in hs compliances, as can in pru
dence be dt fired. There is in the na ureof things,as will be more
particularly noticed in another place, an intimate connexion of
interest between the government and the bank of a nation.
Thirdly. The facilitating bfthc payment of taxes. This advan
tage is produced in two ways. Tkofe who are i;i a situation to
have access to the bank, can have the aflifiance of loans to answer
with punctuality the public calls upon them. This accommoda
tion has been sensibly felt in the payment of the duties heretofore
laid, by those who reside where establishments ot this nature exist.
This, however, though an exteniive, is not an rriiverfal benefit.
The other way in which the effe£t here contemplated is produ
ced, and in which the benefit is general, is the incrcafihg of the
quantity of circulating medium,and the quickening of circulation.
The manner in which the firft happens has already been traced.
The last may require some illustration. When payments are to
be made between different places, having an intercourse of busi
ness with each other, if there happen to be no private bills at mar
ket, and there are no bank notes which have a currency in both,
the confcquence is that coin must be remitted. This is attended
with trouble, delay, expcnce and risk. If on the contrary there
are bank notes current in both places, the tranfiniflion of these by
the post, or any otherfpeedv or convenient conveyance, answers
the puipofc ; and these again, in the alternations of demand, are
frequently returned very soon after to the place from whence they
•were at firft sent; whence t.ie transportation and re-lranfporta
tion of the metals are obviated, and a more convenient and more
expeditious medium of payment is substituted. Nor is this all :
The metals, instead ofbeing suspended from their usual fur)6Hons,
during this prpcefs of vibration from place to place, continue in
activity, and administer still to the ordinary circulation ; which
of course is prevented from fuffenng either diminution or stagna
tion. These circumstances are additional causes of what, in a
prattical sense, or to the purpofeuof business, may be called great- i
er plenty of money. And it is evident, that whatever enhances ,
the quantity of circulating money adds to the ease with which
every industrious member of the community may acquire that
portion of it, of which he (lands in need ; and enables him the
better to pay his taxes, as well as to supply his other wants. Even
where the cirlulation of the bank paper is not general, it mufl still
have the fame effe6l, though in a less degree. For whatever fur
nifties additional supplies to the channels of circulation, in one
quarter, naturallycontributesto keep the streams fuller elsewhere. '
This last view or the fubjett serves W>th to illuflrate the position,
that banks tend to facilitate the payment of taxes ; and to exem
plify their utility to business of every.kind, in which money is an
agent.
It would be to intrude too much on the patience of the house,
to prolong the details of the advantages of banks; especially as
all those, which mighc still be particularized, are readily to be in
ferred as consequences from thole which have been enumerated.
Their disadvantages, real or supposed, are now to be reviewed.
The most fcrious of the charges which have been brought againll
them, are—
That they serve to increase usury.
That they tend to prevent other kind l ? of lending,
'fhattheyfumifli temptations to over-trading.
That they afford aid to ignorant ac-venturers, who disturb the
natural and beneficial courfe"\f trade.
That thcv give to bankrupt 'and fraudulent traders a fictitious
crcdit, which enables them to fnaintaiu falfc appearances, and to
extend their impositions: And lastly,
That they have a tendency tc banifti gold and silver from the
country.
There is great reason to believe, that on a close and candid sur
vey, it will be dlfcovercd, that Ihefe charges are either without
foundation, or that, as far as the evils they suggest have beenfound
to exist, they have proceeded from other, or partial, or tempo
rary cau(cs, arenot inherent in the nature and permanent tendency
of such institutions, or are more than counterbalanced by opposite
advantages. This (urvey shall be had in the order in which the
charges have been stated. The fir It of them is,
That banks serve to increase usury.
It is a truth, which ought not to be denied, that the method of
conducing business, which is efTential to bank opeiations, has,
among us in particular instances, given occasion to usurious tranf
aftions. The punctuality in payments, which they neceffanly
exact, has fomctimes obliged those who have adventured beyond
both their capital and credit, to procure money, at any price, and
consequently to resort to usurers for aid.
But experience and practice gradually bring a cure to this evil.
A general habit of puuttuality among traders, is the natural con
fluence of the neceflity of observing it with the bank ; a circum
stance which itfelf more than compensates for Sny occasional ill
which may have sprung from that neceflity, in the particular un
der conlideration. As far therefor: as traders depend upon each
other for pecuniary supplies, they can calculate their expectations
with greater certainty; and are in proportionably less danger of
aifappointments, which might compel them to have recoinfe to (o
pernicious an expedient as that of borrowing at usury ; the mif
chiefs of which, after a few examples, naturally inspire great care
in all but men of desperate circumstances, to avoid the poflibility
of being fubjf&ed to them. One, and not the least of the evils
incident to the use of that expedient, if the fa ft be known, or even
strongly fufpc&ed, is loss of credit with the bank itfelf.
The dire&ors of a bank too, tho' in order to extend its bufmefs
and its popularity, in the infancy of an institution, they may be
tempted to go further in accommodations, than the ftri£t rules of
prudence will warrant, grow more circumfpeft of course, as its
affairs become better eftabliflied, and as the evils of too great fa
cility are experimentally demonstrated. They become more at
tentive to the situation and couduft of those with whom they deal •
they obfervc more narrowly their operations and pursuits; they
economize the credit they give to those of suspicious folitjity :
they refufc it to those whose career is more manifeitly hazardous.
In a word, in the course of pra&ice, from the very nature of
things, the interejl will make it the policy of a bank, to' succour the
wary and induftnous ; to discredit the rash and unthrifty ; to dis
countenance both usurious lenders and usurious borrowers.
There is a leading view, in which the tendency of banks will
be fecn to be, to abridge rather than to promote usury. This re
lates to their property of incrcafmg the quantity and quickcning
the circulation of money. If it be evident, that usury will pre
vail or diminifn, according to the proportion which the demand
for borrowing bears to the quantity of money at market to be
lent ; whatever has the property just mentioned, whether it be in
the (hape of paper or Coin, by contributing to render the supply
more equal to the demand, must tend to countera£l the progress
of usury.
But bank lending, it is pretended, is an impediment to other
kinds of lending ; which, by confining the resource of borrowing
to a particular class, leaves the reft of the community more dcfti
tute, zi.d therefore more cxpofed to the extortions ot usurers. As
the profits of bank stock excced the legal rate of intercft, the pof
feflors of money, it is argued, prefer inverting it in that article to
lending it at this rate ; to which there are the additional motives
of a more prompt command of the capital, and of more frequent
and exact returns, without trouble or perplexity in the collection.
7 his constitutes the second charge which has been enumerated.
The fatt on which this charge refls is not to be admitted with
out several qualifications ; particularly in reference to the Hate of
things in this country. Firsl —The great bulk of the stock of a
bank willconfift of the funds of men in trade, among ourselves,
and monied foreigners; the former of whom could not spare their
capitals out of their r ach, to be inverted in loans for long periods,
on mortgages, or perfonalfecurity; and the latter of whom would
nor be willing to befubjefted to the casualties, delays and embar
rafTments of luch a disposition of their money in a distant coun
trv. Secondly—There will always be a considerable proportion
o. those who arc properly the money-lenders of a country, who
from that spirit of caution which ulually charafterifes this des
cription of men, will incline rathei to vert their funds in mortga
ges on real cftate, than in the stock of a bank, which they are apt
to consider as a more precarious security.
Th fe cor.fiderations fervc in a material degree to narrow the
foundation of theobjettion, as to the point of- faffc. But there is
a more fatisfaftory answer to it. The c£Fe£t supposed, as far as it
hasexiftcnce, is temporary. The reverse of it takes place in the
general and permanent operation of the thing.
(To be continued.)
PROPOSALS,
By JOHN TRUMBULL,
For Publishing by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
From original Pi3ures painted by him J elf\
One representing the Death of General WARREN,
at the Battle of Bunker' s-Hill.
The other, the Death of General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN the battle of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced —
American. Britijk.
Major General Warren, Grn. Sir Wi lli am Howe,
Putnam. Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Smal l,
Major Pi tcai rn, and
Lieut. Pitcai R n .
In the Attack of Quebec, are seen—■ *-
General Montgomery, Colonel Thompson,
Major Macpherson, and Capr. Cheesman.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of the moll eminent artifls
in Europe. The size will be 30 inches by 20. The price to fub
fenbers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of fubferibing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
which will be as Toon as the work (which is already considerably
advanced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Joseph Anthony >
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Market-ilreei.
Tiiefj prints are the firft of a series, in which it is proposed to
reprcfent the mod important events of the American Revolution.
No period of the history of man, is more interesting than that
in which we have lived. The memory of fcencs in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which fecurcs our
national and individual happiness, mult cvei remain dear to us,
and to posterity ; and if national pride he in any cafe jtiftifiable,
Americans have a right to glory in having given to the world an
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To a (lift in preserving the memory of the illustrious events which
have marked this period of our country's glory, as well as of the
men who have been the most important actors in them, is the ob
ject of this undertaking History will do justice to an aera so im
portant ; but to be read, the language in which it is written must
be understood—the language of painting is uriiverfal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a very considerable expence,
are necessary to accomplish this undertaking, it would be an im
prudent facrifice fo-the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate fuCcels : —That he may
judge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and flatters himfelf
with a hope of meeting that patronage from his countrymen,
which will juftify his pursuing the object with ardor; and with
out which it is impoffiole that so expensive a work ihould be con
tinued.
The fubje&s proposed to be reprefented,in addition to the tw©
foregoing, of Bunker's-Hill and Quebec, are—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle of Princetown,
Surrender of General Burgoyne,
Treaty with France,
Battle of Eutaw Springs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
Inauguration of the President of the United States.
Each picture will contain portraits of tbe principal charadlers
who were present at the scene represented. Those marked with
(tars, are considerably advanced ; and the prints from the whole
will be executed of the fame size, and by the mod eminent en
gravers.
December 14,
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpeftfully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
No. 53, Fourth-Street, one door from Race-Street,
WHERE Gentlemen may be accommodated with
gekteel boarding and lodging,
By the II eek, Months or Ycar f and on the mod moderate terms.
Phila. Nov. 20, 1790. [2aw.3m.J
Wanted, a good Cook,
Either Man or Woman—-Enquire at No. 200, Second-Street,
opposite thfe New-Market.
696
EBEXEZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMSh-vc entered
into partnership. and opemd an OFFICE, at No. 173. in
Market-Street, a few doois above Fourth-Street, where, under the
Firm of
Hazard and Addoms,
Thev purchase and fell al! kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BANK
N. B. Transfers made at the Public Offices, and Business in ge
neral tranfa&ed on CommiflTion. December 29.
To the Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, ar.d the Public in general.
Gentlemen,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber fubmittcd r.®
the public consideration. and under the most flattering alfur
ance of public patronage, he takes the liberty of announcing, that
THE MERCHANTS,
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
is now opened at the corner of Market and Water-Streets, for the
accommodation of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citizens of
Philadelphia.
The Subscriber deems it unneceflary to repeat the declarations
of his sincere intention to prosecute his undertaking with the mod
refpcftful assiduity : But he cannot forbear making a public ack
nowledgment ofhis gratitude, for the encouragement he has alrea
dy experienced ; nor suppress his invariable wish, thai those gen
tlemen who may honor his Coffee-Houfe with their presence, will
communicate such articles of intelligence received from their cor
respondents as they shall think proper, and in preference, will up
on every occasion, point out the defers of his plan, or favor him
with hints for improving its execution.
The Subscriber will prepare entertainments,either at noon, or in
the evening, for feleft parties, upon the fhorti ft notice, and ofi the
most reasonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and proposes at two o'clock on each day,
when the public bulinefs of the Coffee-Room is over, to provide*
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guests as shaW
please to honor him with their company.
I am, Gentlemen,
Yortr most obedient and humble Servant,
Dec. 18.
PURSUANT to a Resolve or ast of Congrcfs of the 16th day
May, 1780, relative to the deftruftion of Loan-Office Cer
tiorates by accident ; notice is hereby given to all whom it may
Concern, that on the 26th ot December 1788, the house occupied
by Wi 111 am llase lton, of the Delaware State, took fire and
wasconiumcd, in which was lodged a number of Loan-Office
certificates as pr. lift below, all which were destroyed by the laid
fire : Therefore if any person, hath any objc&ion why the said
Certificates ftiould not be renewed, agreeable to the refolv.es of
they must make them before the expiration of three
months, from the date hereof.
Invoke of Loan-OJjie: Certificates deflroyed in the hovfe oJIVm. Ha Tel tony
on the above date.
1788.
O&ober 24, 4873? f , , Cr r,
87a C ° 00 "°'' ars cac "- )favor of James
6356 one of 4 co dollars, ( Haseltos.
ELIZABETH JHASELTON,
Administratrix of
James Hase lton, deccafed,
[62 61.1 aw.]
Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1790,
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
WHEREAS a certain WILLIAM TUFF, ot Salem County,
State ot New-Jersey, has two nine pound notes of hand,
given by Samuel HoUivJhead, jun. and by certain information, it
appears that my name as a security for the fame is added to thofe
notes, unknown to me. I hereby forbid any pcrfon or perfoi*
from taking any afiignment of them from him ; for I am deter
mined not to answer those notes, or any afiignment of them, as I
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame.
Cumberland County t Nov. gQ, 1790,
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
BY advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, has
opened an office for the purpose of buying and felling, on com
mifllon, the different fpeciesof Stock, and of liquidated and unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by thc funding
law, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and transfer stock
from and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commiflioners of*
Loans, on moderate terms.
Having for several years pad been employed in the Treasury of
the United States, he is well acquainted with its operations and
foYms ; and flatters himfelfthat on that fcorehehas a decided ad
vantage in tranfa&ing business here. Heis fully imprefled with
the truth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of business," and
will always make the interest of his employers an object of the
firft importance.
Philadelphia, December 29///, 1790.
Ssr THE Subscribers jor this paper, in the city of New-York,
are rejpettfully informed, that the charge oj the papers proving inconve
nient to Mr. Wetmorc, at the Pojl-Ojftce, the Editor has engaged Mr.
Samuel Campbell, liook-jeller, Hanover-Square, to receive them and
fnperintend their delivery—by whom Hubfcriptions and arrearages wilt
be received.
PLEASE TO NOTICE
ICT® FOR the accommodation of those tuho would
■wijh to become Adventurers in the Fir ft Class of the
MassachusittsSemi-annualSiatfLotierv,
letters, post paid, direCted to Samuel Cooper, at
his Office, North fide State-House, Boston, enclosing
Philadelphia, New-York or Boston Bank-Bills, or
other good Bills, -will be particularly attetidea to, and
Tickets jorwarded immediately upon the receipt of
such Utters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790,
N. B. A Lift of Prizes will be depoftted viith the
Printer hereof, immediately after the drawing is
complsatcd. 71 iaw tf
{p~ The frrice of this paper Js 3 dollars per ar.num
STOCK
VINCENT M. PELOSI,
REUBEN ROBINSON