PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY' JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 78, of Vol. ll.]
FROM THE GENERAL AD'/ERTISER.
Mr. Bache,
ACCORDING to prouiife I fend yon the peti
tion, and afl'ure you that the subscription
goes on rapidly; iooo having signed already.—
The total number of 10,000 is deemed fufficient,
although twice as many might easily be obtained.
The proceeding has been scrupulously candid ;
not one having set down her name without a
careful perusal of the contents. Much less have
absent or fictitious persons been added to the lift,
or school-boys and other trumpery taken in.
Your friend, C.
To the Honorable Congress of the United
7'he humble Address of ten thou/and Federal Maids
With a blufli of female modelty we present
this refpedtful address, in hopes that our federal
voice may in fonie degree fofteii the clamour of
discontent that Ituns your ears. We are grieved
to lee, that a glorious empire cemented by the
blood of gallant fellow-citizens, fathers and bro
thers, is jet in danger from licentious discord;
and we make you a folenin tender of all the aid
that faithful female hearts can give. Phlegmatic
pedants and flirting beaus may ridicule this lan
guage as the efFufion of enthusiasm ; we scorn
«r» &
the paltry beings who never felt the sublimity
and ardor of our country's facred love. We repeat
again, command our utmost efforts for the public
good. If the men will not fuffer your excise to
touch their darting grog, excess in which does
evety year destroy thousands, brings many hun
dred families to beggary, and breaks the hearts
of many amiable wives—tax then freely our fa
vorite tea, our caps, bonnets, cushions, biihops,
every piece of ornamental dress. If Hill more is
wanted, tax our very under-petticoats. If our
young men will not learn how to defend their li
berty and property, their hoary fire, the mother
who bore and suckled them—then order lis into
the field. We shrink indeed from violence ; fonie
of us cannot without pain kill a chicken : But
alas, tlie sword is yet in this civilized tera, the
ultima ratio. This charming country may invite
bold invaders ; it may breed vipers in its bosom.
This land of liberty tnuftbe defended against fo
reign and domestic foes. Some of us are of tlie
society called Friends, and we all refpedt the civil
virtues of this society; but we cannot believe
that a man does please the righteous judge of
mankind, and father of mercies, by fuffering a
savage to scalp his child, or burn the viife of his bosom
in flow fires. We all know the value of national
industry ; but gold must be defended by fleet. In
dependence muftnot be hazarded merely to make
an apprentice work some additional days more
in tlie year for his mailer. Learning is both
tifeful and ornamental to nations : But do not
our scholars know, that Minerva -was the Coddefs
of arms as -well as arts? Some of us will never
marry a fellow who cannot protedl his fweet
lieart, although he could chaunt all the battles
of Homer in Greek.
Your petitioners revere tlie rights of consci
ence. They know also that general regulations
require modification ; but every good citizen will
cliearfully bear his portion of the public burden ;
if he cannot fight, he will pay; if he drinks a
gieat deal, lie will not grudge the price of his
enjoyment.
Finally, as those that sow have a right to reap,
your petitioners request with due fubtuiffion a
few small privileges: as an order offemale hereifm,
like that of the Cincinnati ; the right of election
to all public offices ; and especially an absolute
command over non-paying and non-fighting hujbands.
Ten Thousand Federal Maids.
£X TRACTS
Fro:.'i Mr. Burke's Publication on the Revolution in
"TT is frtid that twenty-four millions ought to
i- prevail over two hundred thousand, true—
if th e constitution of a kingdom be a problem of
arithmetic. This fort of discourse does well
enough with the lamp-pott for its second : To
men who may reason calmly, it is ridiculous.—
The will of the many, and their interest, must
■very soon differ ; and great will fee the difference
■when they make an evil choice A government
of five hundred country attornies, and obscure
curates is not good for twenty-four million of
men, though it were chosen by forty-eight mil
lions ; nor is it the better for being guided by
States
France
Wednesday, January 26, 1791.
a dozen of persons of 'quality, who have betrayed
their trust in order to obtain that power. At
present, you seem in every thing to have strayed
out of the high road of nature. The property
of France ddes not govern it. Of course proper
ty is destroyed, and rational liberty has no exist
ence. All that you have got for the present, is
a paper circulation, ai)d a stock-jobbing conttitu
tion—and as to the future, do you seriously think
that the territory of France, upon the republican
system of eighty-three independent municipali
ties (to fay nothing of the parties that compose
them) can ever be governed as one body, or can
ever be set in motion, by the impulse of one
mind ? When the National Aflembly has com
pleted its work, it will have accomplilhed its
ruin. These commonwealths will not long bear
a Hate of fubje<flion to that of Paris. They will
not bear that this one body ihould monopolize
the captivity of the King, and the dominion over
the Afletnbly calling itfelf National. Each will
keep its own portion of the spoil of the church
to itfelf—and it will not even fuffer that spoil, or
the more just fruits of their industry, or the na
tural produce of their foil, to befent to (well the
insolence, or pamper the luxury of the mechanic
of Paris."
From the (London) Morning Chronicle
A Jhort Auf'jjer to Mr. BURKE's Pamphlet, by sb sw
ing the relative Jltuation of France and England,
undtr their new government.
France.
All Tythes abolished.
t
C
All Feudal Rights
aboliihed, and Lands a
granted as Free Lands, r
No Copyholds.
Nor Lords' Courts. t
No Herriots and Fines
The National Debt
paid off by the exceifivc
property of the Clergy
being fold, and France
relieved from Taxes.
Fanners general,—
and oppreflive taxes a
bolished a Trial by
Jury introduced.
A free representation
of the People annually
renewed by themselves.
The Corporations
open to the inhabitants
of the Towns.
A free Toleration—
Offices open—Refugees
recalled.
By tliis short, but incontrovertible statement,
the present lituation of the two countries will
more plainly appear, than by the arguments of
Sophistry.
LEGISLATURE of VIRGINIA.
In the HOUSE of DELEGATES, Thursday, December 16,
1790.
The Central Ajjembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to the United
States, in Congrefi ajjembled,
R IPRESEKT,
THAT it IS with great concern they find therofclves compelled,
from a ienfe of duty, to call the attention of Congress to an
ait of their lad feflion. entitled, 11 an ast making provifunfor the
debt of the Lnited States;' which the General AHembly conceive
neither policy, juftice,nor the constitution warrants. Republican
policy, in the opinion of your memoriahfts, could scarcely have
suggested those clauses in the aforefaid afl, which limit the right
of the United States in their redemption of the public debt. On
the contrary, they difcerna ftrikiiig refcmblancebetween this sys
tem, and that which was introduced into England at the revolu
tion. A iyflern which has perpetuated upon that nation an enor
mous debt, and has moreover insinuated into the hands of the exe
cutive, an unbounded influence, which, pervading every branch
of the government, beats down all oppofttion, and daily thuatenj
the drftruftion of every thing that appertains to English liberty.
The fa;ne causes pioduce the fame cffeQs ! In an agricultural
717
England
Tythes collecftcd in
kind, and Queen Ann's
bounty buying up large
tradls of land for the
Clergy*
All Feudal Rights
and base Copyhold Te
nures preserved.
Herriots exacted from
the Widow.
The Yeomanry ha
rafled with unprofitable
attendances at the will
of the Lord, at bis Ma
norial Courts
A debt of 263 millions
unliquidated, with the
addition of 5 millions,
from the late armament.
Taxes farmed
The Excise Laws ex
tended A Trial by
Jury curtailed.
A partial representa
tion, and once in seven
Years, principally by
the Lord*.
The corporations in
general closed, and c on
fifting of few people,
and having but little to
do with the people at
large
A partial Toleration
Offices (hut to a million
and a half of people—
Emigrations likely to
ensue.
[Whole Nc. i 82.]
country like this, therefore, to erect and concentrate and pern,
tuate a large mo tiled mtereft, i, a measure, which your memori ll
' apprehend roust, in the couife of human events, produce our
or other of two evils. The proftrotion of agticultu-e at the feu
of commerce, or a change m the present form of federal govern
ment, fatal to the exigence of American liberty.
The General Alfembly pafsby various other parts of the fubiefr
which they apprehend will have a dangerous and impolitic ten
dency, and proceed to (hew the injustice of it, as it applies to this
Commonwealth. It pledges the faith of the United States for the
payment ofceriain debts due by the several States in the Union
contrasted by them during the late war. A large proportion of
the debt thus coutrafted by this State has been already redeemed
by the collection of heavy taxes levied on its citizens, and mca
fures have been taken for the gradual payment of the balance. f 0
as to afford the-molt certain prolpeft of extinguiihing the whole
at a period not very distant ; but by the operation ofthe aforefai-l
aft-, a heavy debt, and confcquently heavy taxes will be iritailtd
on the citizens df this commonwealth, from which thev never can
be relieved by all the efforts of the General Airembly, whilst any
part of the debts contiafled by any State in the American Union,
and so assumed, Itaall remain unpaid : For it is with great anxietv
your memoria-lifts perceive, that the said ast, withont thefma:;-
cft neceflity, is calculated to extort from the General Affeiably
the power us taxing their own condiments for the payment of their
own debts, in fuel) a manner as would be bell suited to tlicir own
ease and convenience.
Your memorialing cannot suppress their uneasiness at the dis
criminating preference which is given to the holders of the prin
cipal of the continental debt, over the holders of the principal of
the State debts, in ihole instances, where Stales have made ample
provision for the annual payment of the inteieft, and where of
course there can be no interest to compound with principal, which
happens to be the filuation of this Commonwealth. The con
tinental creditors have preferences in oiher refpefts, which *I. e
General Aftembly forbear to mention, fatisfied, that Congress mull
allow that policy, justice, and the principles of public credit ab
hor difcrimination'a between fair creditors.
Your tnemorialifls turn away from the impolicy and iniuftice
of the said ast, and view it in another light, in which to lh:m it
appears still more odious and deformed.
During the wholedifcuflion of the federal constitution by the
convention of Virginia, your memorialists were taught to believe,
" that every power not granted was letained." Under this im
preflion andupon this positive condition declared in the instru
ment of ratification, the said government was adopted by the peo
ple of this commonwealth ; but your memorialists can find fw>
clause in the constitution, authonfing Congress to ailume the debts
of the States! As the guardians then of the rights and intcrefis
ot their constituents, as centmels placed by them over the minis
ters ot the federal government, to lhield it from their encroach
ments, or at least to found the alarm when it is threatened with in.
vafion, they can never reconcile it to their confeiences, silently to
acqui, fee in a measure which violates that hallowed maxim. A
maxim, on the truth and facrcdnefs of which, tie federal govern
ment depends for its adoption in this commonwealth. But this
injurious ast not only deserves the censure of the General Airem
bly, becaule it is not warranted by the constitution of the United
States, but because it is repugnant to an express piovifion of that
constitution—this provision is " That all debts contrasted and
engagements entered into before the adoption of this constitution,
ftiall be valid against the United States under this constitution, as
undei the confederation," which amounts to a constitutional ra
tification of the contrasts refpefting the State debts, in the Situa
tion in which they existed under the confederation. And resort
ing to that standard, there can be no doubt, that in the prcftrit
question, the rights of States as contracting parties with the Uni
ted States, must be confidercd*as sacred.
The General Assembly of the commonwealth of Virginia, con
fide so fully in the justice and wisdom of Congress upon tlie prc
fent occasion, as to hope they will rcvife and amend the aforefaid
ast generally, and repeal in particular, so much of it as relates
to the ailuinption of the State debts.
December pg, i;go.
Agreed by the Senate,
H. BROOKE, C. S.
CHARLES HAY, C. H. D.
Test
L O N D O N, Nov. 26.
ON the evening of the jth inft. the Sovereign
Congress at Bruflels assembled at the Town
houfe at Nainur, where they received the citizens ;
after the President, in an animated lpeech,had ad
drefledthem refpedtirig the Emperor's Manifefto,
he, in the name of the Sovereign Congress, re
quefled their sentiments, which were delivered by
one of their head, who spoke to the following
effect:
" We have considered the Emperor's Mani
fefto, which I have the honour to inform you the
citizens of Bruflels not only rejeifl but difpife ;
the people have drawn the fvvord in the cause of
God and their country, nor will they ever {heath
it but in the bodies of their enemies !
" They are firm and determined, they have
and will most chearfully expend the last portion
of their property in support of their's and their
posterity's liberty! They beseech you,therefore,
high and mighty Lords, to adt with zeal and at
tachment in your several august stations ; for
lhould a link of your great chain give way, our
cause must fall to ruin.
I lie Manifefto was then ordered to be produc
ed ac the table, where ic was pricked by the sword
of the President, and head of the people,and then
burnt in form.
This appeal from Congress to the people, has
been ordered to take place all over the States,
and there is but one voice, frcsdom or dtath.
A proclamation was ifl'ued, offering a pension
of twenty florins per ann. and a silver medal, t«every soldier fervlng the term of 3 years, from j
the Ift of December next. • v I
A very extraordinary appointment liasjul. ta- |
ken place in the French Miniltry. M. Duport
Dutere has been nominated Keeper of the Seals,
in the place of the Arclibilliop of Bourdeaux.
This Gentleman has been a Clerk to M. BaiUy,
the Mavor of Paris, and thusf'uddenly partes from
en income of fifty, to a revenue of four thousand
livres per annum. _
The Members of the National
though the body of them cannot speak theiu
felves, yet paid a proper compliment to thole
that can in .the perfuu of Mr. Erlkine, who in a
late trip to Paris was hoiioured with a dilun
<ruifhed feat in the center of the Aflembly.
° Were Mr. Burke to appear in Paris, the French
would probably honour him with a lantern, ior
the light he has thrown 011 their revolution.
Dr. Price has done himi'elf so little good by
aflerting the rights of men, that he might as well
have fullered them quietly to have blundered on
in their own way.
How can the National Aflembly boalt ot its
zeal for the rights of man—of its justice and its
humanity, when, standing 011 the ruins of the
Baftile, it fuffers the employment of torture and
the wheel.
Burke's Pamphlet has jufV made its appearance
here ; the aristocratic party are devouring it.
The Abbe Dupaty in quoting Monf. Necker,
pays him a compliment at once elegant andjuft :
<< 1 have seen the " Administration of the Fi
nances" in many hands—every man who can read
has read that work—every man who thinks, va
lues it; every man who feels, is enthusiastic in its
favour. And, in fatft, how important are its
principles ! How deep its reflections '.-How
just its ideas ! Its style is truly that of the ftiaf
terly writer.—lt breathes too a sacred love for
the liappinel's of mankind. This book fliall re
form the Governments of Europe—Envy in vain
intift gnaw the itatue of M. Necker—it is of
£°' d ! "
The restoration of the Prince Bifliop of Liege
could not have been effeifted without the tacit
consent of the King of Prussia, whose territories
extend to the very gates ot the town. ihe Im
perial troops have now taken pofl'eflion of it in
the fame manner as the Prussian army did a few
months lince
Mr. Bruce, the Supercargo at Canton, is ap
pointed Ambaflador to congratulate the Einperor
of China on his having attained the age of eigh
ty years. This cultom is always attended with
great pomp, whenever a circumfiance like this
falls out ; and it is imagined that, under the care
of Mr. Bruce, this embafly may prove of nofinall
advantage to the English Supercargoes fettled
there. Mr. Bruce carries with him foine very
■valuable presents as offerings on the occasion.
A MEDAL. The Liberty of the Press
THE very unwarrantable attack which has
lately been made upon this great engine of all
our liberties, civil and political, theprefs, has in
duced a number of gentlemen to request that a
medal may be struck in honor of an illustrious jury
of Ireland, who by their verdidt, eftabliflied that
truth was not a libel, insensible contradiction to
the fyftero laid down to us by Lord Mansfield.
Mr. Gray, of Sackville-ftreet, is to give the design,
which will be equally spirited and. just. Every
man literary, or not, who feels as he ought to do
for the liberty of the press, attempted to be borne
down by acftions at law, is requeited to fignify
his intentions of subscribing, to Mr. Ridgway,
Bookseller, at the Prince of Wales's Head, York
itreet, St. James's Square, London, for this med
al, thus instituted in honor of the late jury of
Ireland.
N. B. A lift of subscribers will be printed
THE NEW FRENCH FLAG.
The Jack on the bowsprit—three stripes of equal breadth, and
placed vertically; that nearest the Jack-ftaff, led ; that in the mid
dle, white ; and the other blue.
The Ensign the fame as the Jack in the upper quarter, encom
pailed with a narrow stripe ; one half the length, red, and the o
ther white ; the reft of the Ensign white.
The ships of war and merchant (hips are to carry the fame flag:
thofc of the lhips of war are to have in the largest part, the three
stripes vertical, red, white, and blue ; the reft of the flag to be
white : the flag and ensign will be hoisted on board, as soon as
the orders shall be given by the Kruc.
MIDDLETWON, Jan. ij
Extrafl of a letter from Capt. Jonathan Hart, dated
Fort-Harmar, Dec. 8, I 79 o- to the Pa-
rents and friends of Lieut. Frothingham.
The Serjeant who belqnged tothe party which
Lreut. Frotliingham particularly commanded,
fays, while they were retreating Lieut. Frothing
ham call'd to him, faying, " I am wounded, you
must take charge of the men." A foldierwho be
longing to the fame party, fays he was along fide
of Lieut. Frotliingham in the retreat, palled a
large stream, but did not observe that he was
wounded ; a militia soldier adds, he saw him af
ter he pafled the Itream and that he was taking
command of the men ; but another soldier fays
he saw him fitting near the banks of the river,*
pale, bleedmg, and said he was mortally wound-;
ed. From every circumstance I conclude lie wr.s
wounded before he palled the river ; but did not
bleed so much as to prevent making every eltort
to repulse the enemy, until further refinance e
came impracticable, and that by this time the
loss of blood had nearly doled the ftene and com
pelled him to feat himfelf and calmly to wait: the
expiring moment. There is a poilibilit> ot ns
being ltill alive, but I presume to hear he had
calmly reflgned his life to the great proprietor ot
all nature would be less gloomy than to entertain
the alarming idea of his being alive and fubjeU
to all the cruelties of more than lavage barban
ans, particularly under that full allin ance winch
every one acquainted with him mult have, that
according to the bell of his abilities, he had per
formed the part assigned by the great director
and answered every pui pose lor which lie came
into this world, and that he mud be now lately
landed on the blifsful fliore of a happy eternity.
'• Permit me to mingle a sympathizing tear
with the parents, relations and friends to his me
mory, and add as a tribute due from me to him,
that as a mail of abilities to which he had added
a handsome education, as a confidential acftive
and persevering officer, his death is moil sincerely
lamented in the army, and as a member of socie
ty, 111 him we have to lament the 1 ols of an amia
ble example of every moral and social viitue.
* Another' letter fays,—that at this place he dejn'-
ed the ferjeant to take charge of the men, adding, that
hs had received a fecottd wound.
ALBANY, Jan. 15
By a gentleman from Vermont we are inform*
ed, that tlie Convention of that state which al
fembled on Thurl'day last, for the purpoi'e of tak
ing into consideration the Constitution of the
United States, adopted and ratified it 011 Monday
the iotb, by an unanimous vote.
On the receipt of this pleasing intelligence in
this city, a detachment of the independent ar
tillery company met on the parade, and proceed
ed from thence to the Fort, where they welcomed
their long loft filler, Vermont, by a discharge of
fourteen guns ; after which they returned to the
parade and were dismissed.
By the accession of Vermont another link is
added to the federal chain ; and as a bill,for the
adinilfion of the difi.ncT; of Kentucky into the
Union, is now pending before the Senate of the
United States, we may promifeourfelves that we
fliall soon iiave it in our power to announce the
admiflion of that state also, when the union will
be compleat and firm ; combined as one great
family, enjoying such variety of healthy climate,
polleffing such fertile plains in which nature has
been prodigal of her bounty, may we not antici
pate the day that America will rival the molt
powerful kingdoms in the universe.
By the PRESIDENT of the United
States of AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS the General Aflembly of the State
of Maryland, by an Atsl pafled on the
twenty-third day of December, in the year one
tlioufand leven hundred and eighty-eight, intitu
led, " An Acft to ccde to Congrels a diltricft of
ten miles square in this State, for the Seat of the
government of the United States," did enact, that
the Representatives of the said State, in the House
of Representatives of the Congress of the United
States, appointed to ailemble at New-York, on
the Fiift Wednel'day of March then next ensuing,
should be, and they were thereby authorized and
required, on the behalf of the said Hate, to cede
to the Congress of the United States, any diftridt
in the said ltate, not exceeding ten miles square,
which the Congress might fix upon and accept for
the feat of government of the United States.
And the General Aflembly of the Common
wealth of Virginia, by an A(sl palled 011 the third
day of December, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, and intituled, " An Art for the
ceflion often miles square, or any lefi'er quantity
of territory within this State, to the United States
in Congress aflembled, for the permanent feat of
the General Goverment," did enacft, that a tract
of country not exceeding ten miles square, or
any lefler quantity, to be located within the limits
of the said State, and in any part thereof, as
Congress might by law diredl, ihould be, and
the fame -was thereby forever ceded and 'relin
quilhed to the Congress and Government of the
United States, in full and absolute right, and ex
clusive jurifdi(slon, as well of foil as of persons
residing or to reside thereon, pursuant to the ten
or and effect of the eighth fedion of the fir ft ar-
718
ricle of the constitution of Government of the
United States
And the Congress of the United States by their
Act palled the lixteenth day of July, one thuulan'd
seven hundred and ninety, ana intituled, •' An
Ad for eftablilhing the temporary and perma
nent feat of theGovernnieiic of the United States,"
authorized the President of the United States, to
appoint three commiflioners to survey under his
direction, and by proper metes and bounds to li*
niit a dirtric"t of territory, not exceeding tea
miles square, on the lliverPotowmac,at some place
between the mouths of the Eastern Branch, and
Connogocheque, which Bdiftrict. so to be located
and limited, was atccpterf by die laid A<ft of Con
:grefs, as the diftriift for the permanent feat of
Government of the United States.
Now therefore, in purluance of the powers to
me confided, and after duly examining and weigh
ing the advantages and disadvantages of the fe
vera] lunations within the limits aforefaid, I do
hereby declare and make known, that the loca
tion of one part of the laid diftritfc of ten miles
square, /hall be found by running four lines of
experiment in the following manner, that is to
fay, running from the Court-House of Alexandria
in Virginia, due South Weft half a mile, and
thence a due South East course, till it lhall strike
Hunting Creek, to fix the beginning of the said
four lines of experiment : ,
Then beginning tlie firft oftlie said four lines of
experiment at the point on Hunting Creek,where
the said South Ealt course fliall have struck the
fame, and running the said firft line due North
Weft ten miles : thence the second line into Ma
tyland, due North East ten miles : theme the
third line due South East ten miles : and thence
the fourth line due South Weft ten miles, to the
beginning on Hunting Creek.
And the said four lines of experiment being so
run, I do hereby declarc and make known, That
all that part within the said four lines of experi
ment which fliall be within the state of Maryland
and above the Eastern liranch, and all that pare
within the fame four lines of Experiment which
fliall be within the Commonwealth of Virginia,
and above a line to be run from the point of land
forming the upper cape of the mouth of the
Eastern Branch due South Weft, and no more, is
now fixed upon, and dire<ftedto be Purveyed, de
fined, limited and located for a part of the said
diftricft accepted by the said Acft of Congress, for
theipermnnent feat of the Government of the Uni
ted States ; (hereby expressly relerviiig the di
rection of the survey and location of the remain
ing parr of the said diftricft, to be made hereafter
contiguous to such part or parts of the present
location as is, or shall be agreeable to law.)
' And Ido accordingly diredt the said commissi
oners, appointed agreeably to the tenor ofthe
said Act, to proceed forthwith to run the Paid lines
of experiment, and the fame being run, to Purvey,
and by proper metes and boundsto define and li
mit the part within the fame, which is hereinbe
fore directed for immediate location and accept
ance ; and thereof to make due report to me,
under their hands and seals.
In teflimony whereof, 1 have caufedthefealoftit
United States to be affixed to these prefentlfid
signed the fame ■with my hand. Done df
city of Philadelphia, the twenty-fourth dnjij
January, in the y ear »f our Lord, one thoufurJ
seven hundred and ninety-one, and oj the inde
pendence of the United States the fifteenth.
By the President,
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, Jan. 13.
IN Committee of the whole, on the bill, declar
ing the person, who, in cafe of the death, in
ability, removal or resignation of the President,
and Vice-President, shall exercise the office ot Pre
sident of the United States.
Mr. Carrol renewed the motion, that the va
cancy in fach cafe be filled by the Secretary of
State for the time being.
Mr. Livermore observed, that the chara&er of
the gentleman who fills that office should have no
weight in determining the question, because tl.e
house was about lo provide for a cafe that niig' u
not happen before a number of years were elap
sed.
The house lhould fix on the officer who wouW>
from the nature of his officc, inolt naturally f uc "
ceed. He hoped they would not determine in
favor of an officer of their own creating, and ot
which no mention is made in the constitution.
The Chief Jullice, he remarked, had been fp°"
ken of—one great objetfiion he mentioned again*
him, the provision which the constitution makes
in cafe the President is impeached, viz. that he
ftould prefule. ,
As this was an elective government, he wilhe
its principles preserved, and not to fee the chie
magistracy filled by an officer, not the choice o
the people. The President of the Senate, pre.
G. Waftiington.
■»appeared to him n much fitter officer to fill that
station—He was originally chosen by the people
into the fenatc.
When amendments to the Conflitution came to
be thought of, perhaps it would be proper, he said,
to provide for this cafe by a fpccial clause in it,
impowering the electors, who had chosen the
President and Vice-Prefulent, in cafe of vacancy,
to meet again, and make another choice, only,
however, for the remainder of the four yeais ;
because at the end of that time the power of chu
fing theeleiitors ibould return to, and be exercil'ed
by the several Hates.
If the motion before the committee was nega
tived, he gave notice, that he would bring in his,
viz. to fill up the blank with the perfonlalt ante
cedently chosen President ofrhe Senate.
Mr. Baldwin said that he fliould vote for the
present motion, because lie conceived that the
conftitiuion is express, that an officer of the go
vernment, c'efignated either by the law or the
Conititmion, should be appointed to fill this va
cancy.
He dated some objeiflions against the Chief
Justice : He is an officer who ought to be entire
ly detached from all political agitations whatev
er : His mind oughtto be kept calm, and as un
embarrafled as poifible : He quoted the precedent
cftablifhed in the law, instituting the governor
of the We,tern Territory—there the secretary
is to succeed the governor. The secretary of
slate is an executive officer, an affiltant to the
President, and mult be supposed, from his situa
tion, to be the moil proper per foil to supply the
vacancy.
Mr. Sherman was of opinion, that putting the
chief magistracy into the hands of a subordinate
officer was by no means proper. As to the ob
servations made by the gentleman last up on the
arrangements in the government of the Western
Territory, he did not think they could be ap
plied to the present cafe : That government was
a subordinate one, and a kind of legislative pow
er was veiled in tlie governor, of fele&ing from
the laws, and regulations of the different States
such as he thought requisite for the goverjiment
of ihofe he had under-his care.
He was in favor of giving the fupreine execu
tive in cafe of accident, to the Prelident of the
Senate : The government would certainly fuffer
fevver inconveniences by that arrangement than
if the head of a department was put in. The
Vice-President, by the conilitution succeeds to
the President ; the President of the Senate to the
office of the firft, it is therefore very natural
that he fliould also exercise the duties ot the le
cond in cafe of vacancy
To designate any officer, as poflible fucceflor
o the President, he said, would be giving him
:oo much dignity, and raising liini in a manner
:ven above the legUlature.
Mr. Carroll observed that the vacancy might
happen in the recess of the legislature, or in the
abfenceof the President of the Senate: the Se
cretary of State would always be at the feat of
government. Besides the conllitution declared
the vacancy should be filled by an officer of the go
vernment ; the President of the Senate was on
ly an officer pro tern. If the framers of the con
llitution had intended the vacancy should be filled
by an officer named in it, they could have de
fignaied hiin ; but this they had not done ; he
therefore supposed they had in view some officer
then not in exiftencc.
Mr. Gerry regretted that the ,fubje<ft iTiould
have been taken up at this moment, when so much
important business is before Congress. He advert
ed to the motion, and said, that the character
which now fills the office of Secretary of State,
undoubtedly poilelled the confidence of the legi
slature in ihe fulleft manner—and very justly—
but when the exigency {hall arrive for which we
now are about to provide, a character may fill
that office, who would be a fceurge to the Union.
Besides said he, if the office of Vice-Preiident was
now to be filled, the Secretary of State would be
ineligible, coming from the fame State wth the
President. He itated other objections from the
Constitution : He thought thenomination ftiould
not be confined to officers of the U.S. He supposed
the views of government may be extended even tg
officers of the several States—He however wished
the whole business postponed ; but if this idea is
over ruled, he fuggelted the propriety of filling
the blank with the conilitutional clause relpeifi
ingthe highest candidates who are primarily vo
ted for as President and Vice-Prefident.
(To be continued.)
SATURDAY, January 22.
Mr. Lawrance, from the connjiittee to whom
was referred the petition of Seth Harding, made
a report,which w as read,and ordet ed to lie on the
table.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the lioufe
proceeded in the further consideration of the new
revenue bill.
An additional fedlion was proposed, pointing
out the purpofesto which the revenue, raised bv
the a<ft ftiould be applied. This was Superceded
by a motion to re-comrait the bill, which was loft.
Several amendments were offered to that fec r tion,
which underwent fouie difcullion, but were poft
poi)ed for further consideration.
Adjourned
MONDAY, Jan
Mr. Li vermore presented the petition of Peter
Johnson, praying to be placed on the pension lilt.
Referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented the petition of
William Lane, praying compensation tor lolles
sustained by him during the late war. Referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Madison presented t he petition of George
Gibfon—which was read, and referred to a feletft
committee, confiding of Mefi'rs. Giles, Vining,
Muhlenberg, Mathews, and Wadfworth.
Mr. Beni'on presented the petition of John
Cockran, which was read, and referred to the
Secretary of War.
Mr. Heilter prefenred a memorial and remon
strance, from a uumber of the citizens of Phila
delphia, againfl Exciie Laws, and particularly
againfi the bill now pending in the House, laying
duties on diltilied spirits.—Read and laid on the
table.
The following Meflages were received from the
Prefidentof the United States :
United States, January 24, 1791.
Gaitlemen of the Senate,
and Houfecj Representative:,
I LAY before you'a ftatcment, relative to the frontiers of the
United Stales, which has been Submitted to me, by the Secretary
for the Dcpaitment of War.
I rely upon your wisdom, to make such arrangements, as may
beeff ntial for the preservation of good order, and the effectual
protection of the frontiers. Q. WASHINGTON.
United States, January 24, 1791.
Gentlemen of the Senate,
and lioufe oj ReprefentativeSy
IN execution of the powers with -which Congress were
pleased to invest me, by their ast, entitled, " An ast for cftablifh
ingthe temporary and permanent feat of the government of the
United States." and on mature consideration of the advantages and
disadvantages of the several positions, within the limits preieribed
by the said ast, I have, by a Pioclamation, bearing date this day,
a copy of which is herewith transmitted, directed C«mmiflioners,
appointed in pursuance of the ast, to survey and limit a part of the
territory of ten miles fcjuare, on both fides the river Potowmac,
so as to comprehend Georgetown in Maryland, and to extend to
the Eadcrn Branch.
I have not, by this firft ast, given to the said territory the whole
extent, of which it is fulceptible, in the direction of the river ; be
caiife I thought it important, that Congress should have an oppor
tunity of conlidering,whether, by an emendatory law, they would
author ife the location of the residue at the lower end of the present,
so as to comprehend the eastern branch iifelf, and some of the
country on its lower fide in the state of Maryland, and the town
of Alexandria in Virginia. If however they are of opinion, that
the federal territory should be bounded by the water-edge of the
Eastern Branch, the location of the residue will be to be made at
the upper end of what is now directed.
I have thought best to await a survey of the territory, before it
is decided, on what particular spot, on the north-eallern fide of
the river, the public buildings shall be erected.
The lioufe then resumed the consideration of
amendments proposed to the new revenue bill.
Three additional feiflions refpe<fling the ap
propriation of the revenue to be derived from
the bill, which were offered on Saturday, after
some alteration, were agreed to.
Mr. Tucker proposed a clause to limit the du
ration of the bill : This occasioned a debate,
which continued till near the time of adjourn
ment. The motion was finally negatived. The
Ayes and Noes being called for by Mr. Jackson,
are as follow :
Mejfrs AJhe, Bald-win, Bloodworth, Brown, Burke,
Giles, Hartley, Heifier, Jaikfon, Matthews, Moore,
P. Muhlenberg, Parker, Scott, Seney, Sevier, Steele,
Tucker, William/on. 19.
Mefrs Amet, Benfon, Boudinot, Bourne, Cadwal
lader, Clyfiier, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Fojter, Gale, Cerry,
Gilman, Goodhue,Criffin, Grout, Hathorne, Hunting
ton, Lawrance, Lee, Livcrmore, Leonard, Madison,
Partridge, Ranfellaer, Schuremau, Sedgwick, Sher
man, Sylvefler, Sinnickfon, Smith ( M.) Smith (S.C.)
Stone, Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull, Fining, W adf
worth, White, Wynkoop. 39.
A motion by Mr. Jackson to expunge a clause
the Certificates' accompanying the du
tied article, was negatived. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Jan. 25
Mr. Heifter presented the petition of a number of the inhabitants
of Pennsylvania, praying for compensation for loffcs sustained du
ring the late war; referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Carrol presented the petition of two orphan children,
whose father was killed in the late war, prayingthat the half pay
which would have been received by their father, may be extend
ed to them ; referred to the Secretary of war.
A petition from the inhabitants of the county of Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, against certain parts of the bill laying additional du
ties on distilled spirits.
Mr. Jackson of the committee on the petition of the merchants
and inhabitants of Fayetteville refpefting the judiciary law, re
ported that a committee ought to be appointed to bring in a bill
pursuant to thefaid petition.
Mr. Ames prcfentedthe petition of Abiel Smith, praying com
pensation for a quantity of flour supplied the late continental ar
my ; referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Williamfon presented the memorial of William Poultney
praying compensation for lofles iuflained during the late war ; re
ferred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Lawrance of the committee appointed for the purpose re
ported a bill, directing the mode in which the evidences of the
debt of the United States which have been, or may be destroyed,
(hall be renewed ; read the firft time.
719
G. WASHINGTON
AYES,
NOES.
The house resumed the confiderstion of the new revenue bin
iundry amendments proposed by Mr. Jatkfon, bv linking out
certain clauses the bill—wets negatived ; other amendments
weie agreed to-alter confideiable debate, at halt after three
the quetlion forengroffing the bill was carried in the affirmative'
the ayes and noes being as follow :
AYES.
McJfrsAmtr, Benfon, Boudinot, Bourne, Cadwallaier, Carrol Clymer
Fttzfimoiu, Floyd, Fojler, Colt, Gerry, Oilman, Goodhue, Grout, Hun
tington, Lauranci, lee, Leonard, Liver,nore, Madison, Partridge
Hhureman, Scot, Sedgwick, Sherman, Syhejler, Sinniekjin, Sturee'
hatcher, Trumbull, Pining, Wadjicorth, White, Wynkoop. 35. '
MejfrsAJhe, Baldwin, Bloodwojth, Brown, Burke, Griffin, GiUu
Hathorne, Hartley, Heifter, Jackson, Mathews, Muhlenberg, Parker,
XenJJalaer, Seney, Sevier, Steele, Stone, Tucker. 20.
Mr. Tucker, of the joint committee appointed to confidcr and
report thetime for the commencement ot the nextCongrel's,brought
in a report, which is in substance, that the bufmefs now before
Congress may be finifhed by the 4th March, and that it will not be
necessary for the new Congress to commence immediately after ;
but the joint committee could not agree as to the preciie time!
when their firft fellion should begin.
Philadelphia, Jan. 26.
It is to be remarked that the oppofers of-tlie
revenue bill now before Congress, have never
come forward with a competent substitute .
Something has been said about a tax on law pro
ceedings, by which it is supposed a ftanip duty
was intended, and a direct tax has been faintly
whispered—but both these are found to fhriuk
from the touchstone of popularity.
The symptoms of aristocracy in the Eastern
States, are—agrarian laws—'simplicity of manners
—equality of circuinftances—a universal diffufiou
of the means of knowledge—public schools being
eftabli/hed by law, and I'upported by a general
tax throughout the country —elections by ballot,
and consequently free, being held on one, and
the fame day in Imall diftritfts, throughout the
refpediive governments —the foil cultivated by
its independent owners—reverence for the laws
—and refpe<it to their magistrates—the federal
government venerated—and the statutes of Con
gress obeyed—happy and tranquil because they
are informed and fres —and because they poflefs
the means of preserving their freedom, by malt*
ing every man, from jixteen to forty, a soldier-ci
tizen :—But the most alarming of all their symp
toms of Aristocracy is, the silence of their repre
sentatives in Congress, in refpedj; to the jealous,
uneasy, turbulent spirit of their conftitueius, as
to any law that the general government may, in
their wisdom, enaift.
It is a trite observation, that anticipation of
evil, is often the forerunner of mifchief : We
have, however, been happily disappointed in
times past—No thanks to the dismal cacklers of
the capitol. As the good sense of the people has
hitherto prevented them from imbibing a restless
spirit of complaint, from the oft repeated, tho
groundless jealousies and apprehensions of mors
than eagle-eyed politicians, so it is to be hoped
they will not in future be seduced to change the
solid blessings of the government, for the positive
miseries of discord and sedition, because some
persons fay t they are averse to measures that have
never been tried.
Extraß of a letterfromßoflon, Jan. If
Such a December has not been experienced
here for many years—Wood rose to twenty Jbil-
Ungs a cord ! But since this year came in, the
weather has moderated—provisions have been
very plenty, and very cheap—the fleying excel,
lent—Pot and Pearl-ashes, Hemp, Flax, ire. ire,
have been brought in from the back country
which have generally commanded good prices,
and sent much money to enliven the interior
parts of this state, Vermont and New-Hampflyre.
The attachment of the people of this Common
wealth to the general government daily encrea
fes ; and 111 the rife of the public credit—the de
mand for produce &c. they feel its superiority
over that of the late untied fyjlem.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBI.IC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 16/6. 16/9. P r * ,£ 83J pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents qf 4,5 do.
Defered 6 pr. Cfcnt* gf. 45 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 15/6 15J9 78J do.
Indents 8/9 o\f 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 11J. 11/6. 572 do.
INFORMATION WANTED.
|CP THE Subfcrtber requejls, if any gentleman
can give him information of a purchase of Lands made
by a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year 1781 and
1782, in some part of the United States, he will be so
kind as to inform his Brother, by direfling a line t»
him, at the Printer's office. S. RICHARDET.
Jaruary, 1791
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"!
January 25, 1791. J
THE Public Creditors are reminded that, in order to the pre.
per difpofuions for paying the Interest in the several States,
it is neceflary that the amount to be paid in eaeh should be pre
viously known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the firft
quarter is not far distant, it is wiftied that those who have not yet
done it. may be expeditious in making and fignifying their elec
tion, pbrfuant to the making provision for the debt of the
United States.
NOES,
45 do 'Ci
m
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
December n, 1790. J
In obedience to the order of the House of Re-
PRESENTATivEsof the 9th Day of August last,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, such far
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for eftablifliing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(concluded.)
The reason for the several provisions contained in the forego
ing plan, have been so far anticipated, and will for the mod
part be so readily suggested by the nature of those provifioris, that
any comments, which need further be made, will be both few
and concise.
The combination of a portion of the public debt in the forma
tion of the capital, is the principal thing, of which an explanation
is requisite. The chief object of this is, to enable the creation of
a capital fufficientlv large to be the basis of an extensive circula
tion, and an adequate security for it. As has been elsewhere re
marked, the original plan of the bank of North-America,contem
plated a capital of ten millions of dollars, which is certainly
not too broad a foundation for the extensive operations to which
a national bank is destined. But to collect such a sum in this coun
try in gold and fiber, into one depository, may, without hefita
be pronounced impra&icable. Hence the neceflity of an
auxiliary, which the public debt at once presents.
This part of the fund will be always ready to come in aid of
the fpccie : it will more and more command a ready sale ; and
can therefore expeditioufly be turned into coin if an exigency of
the bank should at any time require it. This quality of prompt
convertibility into coin, rendeisit an equivalent tor that neceflary
agent of bank circulation ; and aiftingniihes it from a fund in
land, of which the sale would generally be far less compendious,
and at great difadvantagc. The quarter yearly receipts of interest
will also be an actual addition to the specie fund during the in
tervals between them and the half yearly dividends of profits.
The objection to combining land with specie, resulting from their
not being generally in poffeflion of the fame persons, does not ap
ply to the debt, which will always be found in confiderablc quan
tity among the monied and trading people.
The debt composing part of the capital, besides its collateral ef
!e£fc in enabling the bank to extend its operations, and confe
quentiy to enlarge its profits, will produce a direst annual reve
nue of fix per centum from the government, which will enter in
to the half-yearly dividends received by the Hock-holders.
When the present price of the public debt is considered, and
the effe& which its conversion into bank-stock, if corporated with
a specie fund, would in all probability have to accelerate its rife
to the proper point, it will eafilv be discovered, that the opera
tion presents in its outset a very confidetable advantage to those
who may become fubferibers; and from the influence which that
rife would have on the general inafs of the debt, a proportional
benefit to all the public creditors, and, in a sense, which has been
more than once adverted to, to the community at largr.
There is an important fact. which exemplifies the fitnefs of the
public debt, for a bank fund, and which may fervc to remove
doubts in some minds on this point. It is this, that the bank of
England in its firft ere&ion rested wholly on that foundation.
The fubferibers to a loan to government of one million two hun
dred thousand pounds sterling, were incorporated as a bank ; of
which the debt created by the loan and the interefl upon it, were
the sole fund. The subsequent augmentations of its capital,
which now amounts to between eleven and twelve millions of
pounds sterling, have been of the fame nature.
The confining of the right of the bank to contrast debts to the
amount of its capital, is an important which is not to
be found in the constitution of the bank of North- Ameiica, and
which while the fund consists wholly of coin, would be a restric
tion attended with inconveniences, but would be free fiorn any if
the composition of it should be such as is now proposed. The rc
ftrittion exists in the eftabliftiment of the bank of England, and
•s a source of security, is worthy of imitation. The consequence
of exceeding the limit there is, that each stockholder is liable for
the excess, in proportion to his interest in the bank. When it is
considered, that the dire&ors owe their appointments to the
choice of the stockholders, a responsibility of this kind on the
part of the latter, does not|appear unreasonable. But on the other
hand, it may be deemed a hardship upon those who may have
diflented from the choice. And there are many among us, whom
it might perhaps discourage from becoming concerned in the in
stitution. These reasons, have induced the placing of the respon
sibility upon the dire&ors, by whom the limit prescribed should
be tranfgrefled.
ThG interdiction of loans on account of the United States, or of
any particular State, beyond the moderate sum fpecified, or of
any foreign power, will serve as a barrier to cxccutive encroach
ments, and to combinations in3ufpicious to the fafety, or con
trary to the policy of the Uuion.
The limitation of the rate of interest is di£lated by the consider
ation, that different rates prevail in different parts of the union ;
and as the operations of the bank may extend through the whole,
some rule seems to be necessary. There is room for a question,
whether the limitation ought not rather to be to five, than to fix
per cent, as proposed. It may with fafety be taken for granted,
that the former rate would yield an ample dividend ; perhaps as
much as the latter, by the extension which it would give to busi
ness. The natural effect of low interest is to encreafe trade and
industry ; because undertakings of every kind can be piofecuted
with greater advantage. This is a truth generally admitted ; jjut
it is requisite to have analized the i'ubjeft in all its relations, to be
able to form a just conception of the extent of that effe£t. Such
an analysis cannot but fatisfy an intelligent mind, that the differ
ence of one per cent, in the rate at which money may be had, is
often capable of maAing an essential change for the better in the
(ituation of any country or place.
Every thing therefore which tends to lower the rate of interest,
is peculiarly worthy of the cares of legislators. And though laws
■which violently fink the legal rate of interest, greatly below the
market level, are not to be commended, because they are not cal
culated to answer their aim; yet whatever has a tendency to efFcft
a reduction, w iihout violence to the natural couife of things, ought
to be attended to and put sued. Banks are among the means moll
proper to accomplish this end; and the moderation of the rate at
which their discounts are made, is a material ingredient towards
it ; with which their own interest viewed on an enlarged and
permanent scale, does not appear to clalh.
But as the mo ft obvious ideas are apt to have greater force than
those which depend on complex and remote combinations, there
would be danger, that the persons whose funds must constitute the
flock of the bank, would be diffident of the fufficiency of the pro
fits to be expe&ed, if the rate of loans and discounts were to be
placed below the poirit to which they have been accuftomcd ; and
might, on this account, be indisposed to embarking in the plan.
There is, it is tiue, one reflection, which, in regard to men attive
ly engaged in trade, ought to be a security against this danger ; it
is this—That the accommodations which they might derive in the
way of the«'r bufinels, at a low rate, would more than indemnify
them for any difference in the dividend ; fuppofiug even that some
diminution of it were to be the consequence. But upon the
whole, the hazard of contrary reasoning among the mass of mo
nied men, is a powerful argument against the experiment. The
institutions of the kind already existing, add to the dw.iculty of
making it. Mature reflection, and a large capital, may, of them
fslves, lead to the desired end. , ,
The laft'thing which requires any explanatory remark, is the
authority proposed to be given to the President to iublcribe to the
amount ot two millions of dollars on account of the public. Ihe
main defigu of this is to enlarge the specie fund ot the bank, and
to enable it to give a more early extension to its operations. Iho
it is proposed to borrow with one hand what is lent to the other ;
yet the difbut lement ot what is borrowed, will be piogrellive, and
bank-notes may be thrown into circulation, inflead of the gold
and filvcr. Bt fides, there is to be an annual reimbui femcnt of a
part of the sum borrowed, which will finally operate as an actual
i niveftment of so much specie. In addition to the inducements
[ to this measure, which results from the general interest of the go
vernment to enlarge the sphere ot the utility of the bank, there is
j this more particular consideration, to wit, that as far as the divi
dend on the flock iliall exceed the interest paid on the loan, there
is a politive profit.
The Secretary begs leave to conclude, with this general obser
vation—That if the Bank of North-America (hall come forward
with any propositions, which have for obje£l the ingrafting upon
that institution the chara&eriftics which shall appear to the legil
lature aeceirary to the due extent and falety of a national bank,
there are, in his judgment, weighty inducements to giving every
reasonable facility to the measure. Not only the pretensions of
that institution, from its original relation to the government of
the United States, and from theferviccs it has rendered, are such
as to claim a disposition favorable to it, if rhofe who are inteiefted
in it are willing, on their part, to place it on a footing fatisfa&ory
to the government, and equal to the purposes of a bank of the
United States; but its co-operation would materially accelcrate
j the accomplishment of the great object, and the collision, which
might otherwise arise, might, in a variety of ways, prove equally
disagreeable and injurious. The incorporation or union here
contemplated, may be effctted in different modes, under the au
spices of an ast of the United States, if it shall be desired by the
Bank of North-America, upon terms which shall appear expedient
to the governmenr
Ail which is humbly fubmitled
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secretary of tkcTrcafury.
l< AT a half-yearly communication of the Grand Lodge of
New-Jersey, and masonic jurisdiction thereunto belonging, the le
ver«nl members met at their Lodge Room in Trenton, on luefday
the 11th inft. and proceeded to ballot for the Grand Officers tor
the ensuing year—when the Right Worfhipful John Beatty, Esq.
was duly cle&ed Grand Mailer.
The Right Worfhipful Robert L. Hooper, Esq. Deputy Grand
M after.
The Right WorfhipfulSamuel W.Stockton, Esq. Senior Grand
Warden.
The Right Worfhipful Jonathan Rhea, Esq. Junior Grand
Warden.
The Right Worfhipful Thomas Bullman, Grand Trcafurer.
The Right Worfhipful Mafkel Ewing, Esq. Grand Secretary ;
and were duly installed in their refpe£Hve offices.'*
Trenton, 12th Jan. 1791
On Tuesday the 11th inft. at a meeting of the members of the
Society for promoting the establishment of Sunday Schools in this
city, the following gentlemen wefe ele&ed officers for the present
year,
Prcfident.
The Right Rev. William White, D. D.
Vice-Prefidcnt. Mr. James Pemberton.
Trcafurer. Mr. James Mendenhall.
Secretary,
Mr. Matthew Carey
Visitors. D. B. Say, Rev. Afhbell Green, Rev. Mr.
Bend, Mr. Pefcr Thompson, Junr. Dr. B. Rufli, Samuel Pow
el, Esq. George Meade, Esq. John Barker, Esq. M>. Thomas
Bartow, Capt. N. Falconer, Dr. Win. Curric, Mr. Samuel
Fiflier.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST by the Subscriber, on the 12th day of January 1791, be
tween Penollopon and Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Certificates, iH*ued by the
said State, to sundry Soldiers, for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of their pay ; all of which are signed by John Sievens,
jun. Treasurer, and countersigned by James Ewing, Auditor, viz.
No. Dated, Payable to Amount.
323 June 26, 1781, Powel Alston, / «6o 8 9
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long, 30 16 105
593 June 29, do. Oliver Cromwell, 60 8 9
664 June 30, do. James Kinfey, 57 12 6
740 July 2, do. George Long, 5 4 45
869 July 4, do. Ananias Clark, 312 4^
938 July 30, do. Samuel Dotey, 13.5 7 6|
1060 March 20, 1782, Ephraim Patien, 31 13 9
1128 August 8, do. James Coulfton, 30 7 10J
1133 August 8, do. Moses Thompson, 150 5 9!
1230 January 27, 1783, Asa Gilderfleaves, 63 7 5%
1237 April 9, do. Michael Lane, 61 16 10J
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark, 417 10J
Any person who may have found the said Certificates, and will
retutnthem to the fubfcriber,livingat Penolloponaforefaid,(hall re
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
All persons are hereby cautioned against purchasing any of the
above Certificates, as payment is Hopped at the public offices.
If any of them should be offered for sale, the person to whom they
are offered is requested to flop the fame, and give notice thereof
to their humble servant. KENNETH HANKINSON.
Monmouth Csunty, New-Jersey, Jan. 15, 1791
WANTED, TWO OR MORE
Convenient ROOM S,
in Chcfnut-Street, or as near the Bank as poflible. Enquire of
the Printer. (eptf.)
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
BY advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, has
opened an office for thepurpofe of buying and felling, on com
miflion, the different fpeciesof Stock, and of liquidated and unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by the funding
hw, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and transfer stock
from and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commifiioners of
Loans, on moderate terms.
Having for several years past been employed in the Treasury of
the United States, he is well acquainted with its operations and
forms ; and flatters himfelfthat on that (core he has a decided ad
vantage in tranfa&ing business here. Heis fully impressed with
the truth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of business," and
will always make the interest of his employers an objc£t of the
firfl; importance.
Philadelphia, December 29 tk 9 1790.
fCf Subfcribcrs for Mrs. Warren' f Poems, are requeued to call on the
Editor for their Looks.
720
THE Co partner ship of HEWES and AN! HOMY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they requelfc thole, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money ; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at then Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J OS I A H IIEWES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and tor SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
/HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A lew Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One task of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hoglhcads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Bell pickled Mackrel,
6by 8— 7 by 9 —B by 10 —9 by 11 —and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD, DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER fafhionable Colours,
Manufactured at Hartford, (State of Conne&icut,) just received,
and are now offered for at the
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North. Third Street,
At which Store are also opening a large and general afTortment of
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS.
CLOTHS,
Linens,
Cambrics,
Painted, sprigged, tambour
ed, book, and jaconet Muilms,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
Sheet in?s,
Table Cloths, of a superior
quality,
Muflinctt,
Patent Silk Hose,
A Variety of STUFFS.
And many other Articles, too numerous to insert in an Advcr T
tifement; all of which are now felling by Wholesale and Retail, oa
so low terms, as to make them an object to the purchasers.
N. B. A few Barrels of MACKAREL, and Nova-Scotia
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1791.
EBENEZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMShave entered
into partnership, and opened an OFFICE, at No. 173, in
Market-Street, a few doors above Fourth-Street, where, under the
Firm of
Hazard and Addoms,
Thev purchase and fell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BANK
N. B. Transfers made at the Public Offices, and Business in ge
neral tranfa&ed on Commiflion. December 29.
To the Merchants, Traders, Foreigners, and the Public in genet aL
Gentlemen,
AGREEABLY to the plan which the Subscriber submitted to
the public consideration. and under the molt flattering assur
ance of public patronage, he takes the liberty of announcing, that
THE MERCHANTS,
EXCHANGE COFFEE HOUSE,
is now opened at the corner of Market and Water-Streets, for the
accommodation of the Merchants, Traders, and other Citizens of
Philadelphia.
The Subscriber deems it unnecefTary to repeat the declaration*
of his sincere intention to prosecute his undertaking with the molt
tefpe&ful afiiduity : But he cannot forbear making a public ack
rowledgment ot his gratitude, for the encouragement he has alrea
dy experienced ; nor suppress his invariable wifli, thaithofe gen
tlemen who may honor his Coffee-Houfe with their presence, will
communicate such articles of intelligence received from their cor
respondents as they shall think proper, and in preference, will up
on every occasion, point out the defers of his plan, or favor htm
with hints for improving its execution.
The Subscriber will prepare entertainments,either at noon, or in
the evening, for felcfl parties, upon the fhorteftnotice, and on the
mod reasonable terms. He can accommodate two or three Gen
tlemen with lodgings ; and propoles at two o'clock on each day,
when the public business ot the Coffee-Room is over, to providea
cheap, but good and plentiful ordinary, for such guests as Chali
please to honor him with their company.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your most obedient and humble Servant,
Philadelphia, January 1,1791.
THE partnerfliip of John Dunlap and
pools. having expiredjthis day, David C. Claypoole pro
poses to publish a Newspaper, entitled
The Mail,
New Daily Advertiser.
(To be continued, every Evening, Sundays excepted.)
THE MAIL (hall be printed with an elegant new Type, pro
cured for this paiticuiar purpofj, on Paper, equal in fizeand qoa
lity to any of the Newspapers of Europe or America—And the
Subscriber engages that no Means (hall be spared to render the
Mai 1 and New Daily Advertiser in other refpe£lsworthy
of the Public Patronage, which he now refpc&tully solicits.
The Price of the Mail will be Eight Dollars pr, annum, to he
paid at the end of the Year : And Advertisements will be re
ceived on such moderate Terms as to prove fatisfaftory to ifaofc
who may be oleafed to favor the Printer with their CommacxJi
in that line.
The Mail will he publifoed at the House No. 2, Lower
Third Street (now occupied by Mr. J. D. Blauchard, who will
shortly remove to the adjoining House, No. 4.) and at present
Subscript ions arc thankfully received at No. 48, Market-Street,
by ' J) C, CLAY POOLE-
Martinico Coffee,
(eaw6w.)
ELEGANT Vest Patterns
adapted to the season,
Silk, Cotton, and Worded
Hose,
Corduroys,
Vclvcretts, and Royal Ribs,
Sattinetts,
Beu Buck, Beaver, and White
Kidd Gloves,
Fine Miiflin Cravats,
Black Ruffel,
Joan's Spinning.
STOCK