J
No. E'l.
EUROPEAN ARTICLES.
FRANCE.
THE French nation profeeuting with ardour
their plans of reformation in Legillation arid
Tiirifpr-jdence.—'The Common* resolute for their
liehts—th» Nobility jealous of the consequence,
Jthe patriot King balancing the contending inter
ests, by railing a deprefled Democracy.
SPAIN.
The people of this fertile and delightful region,
have lono-laboured under the fatal influence of bi
gotry-and blind zeal—The effects have been anf
werable —They are now emerging from darknels.
By recen' .ccounts, the arts begin to aflame a rei
pec-able J on among them—and as the rays of
knowled -m upon their minds, they will avail
themfelve. «i he advantages with which they are
favoured b nature.—Charles the Illd. who lately
tleceafed, ha ">een succeeded by his Son, Charles
the IVth. from wh.ofe adminiftraiion the nation
havt very ag-eeable anticipations.
It is faicl, that the new King has introduced his
O leen into his councils, and that Hie aflifts at the
opening of all the dil'patches. The Spanijh nat on
lijs long hcen celebrated for itr gallantry—lt feemsthe
new King is determined not to depreciate the nati
onal character.
UNITED NETHERLANDS.
Our allies, the Dutch, according to some late ac
counts; appear to be in an uneasy (itnation. 1 he
Prince of Orange, aided by the King of Pruflia,
has however, so effe(fled his design, that the Pto
\ince have' very little left, but the power of com
plaining. 9
PRUSSIA.
The Monarch of this warlike Kingdom, like his
predecellor, is active and enterprizing —as his late
movements, with respect to the Dutch, and more
recently in regard to the Poles, (ufUciently teftify
—and it appca; s from the publick documents, that
Poland will find her inte. eft in conceding to his
demands, in not complying with the requisitions
oftheEmprefs of Rufiia.
GERMANY :
This Empire appears to be Hred of the project
ing spirit of its Sovereign. —The Empe:or altera
tedious, and by inoft accounts, vexatious, and not
very glonous campaign, against the FuiLs, is re
turned to his capital—and if the latest accounts are
true, the Mufleluien appear to have no difpoiition
to abate of their ardour in profeeuting their advan
tages. The capture of Choczin, by the Kmprefs,
is the only event, which renders it probable that a
peace may be speedily rcftored. —1 he Lmperoys
dominions in the Netherlands, are yet in a fervent.
HUMANITY.
Emancipated Africans have been compl' :ined of as defeating the be
nevolent defi.ns of their friends, by unworthy conduQ. in a (late
of freedom: Admitting the fad, in some instances, the foil >w
iug is an attempt to aflign the caufc .
TO the enquiry upon the fubjccl of the Afri"
cans, principally with to the behaviour
ot these who have b :e : emancipated :—
It may be observed, That all circuinftances con
sidered, their condudt is as irreproachable, ascould
reasonably be cxnected—and nctwithftanding what
Iras been afierted, but fewinftances have occurred,
ot flagrantly bad chapters : It is however grant
ed, that many having obtained their freedom, be
come idle, vicious, and poor, and so a burthen to
I'ociery ; hut all this is to be accounted for, from
their forntt, fttuation ill life.
It is a general opinion among those who keep
Slaves, that ignorance is the heft feenrity for obe
dience— hence these child cn of misfortune, ar
brought up in an alienation from all inftruClion
and knowledge—and at an age, when the human
mind, is found incapable of imbibing ideas, or re
ceiving inftrtuftion, have been sent adrift,as it were
■without oars, fails, rudder, or compass to aflift thei,
progress in the voyage of life—or with li;tle nior.
to diftinguifli them from irrational animals, than
their lhape. I fay they are turned out to get their
living, in an inhospitable world, entirely destitute
of that knowledge, which is absolutely neceftary to
enable them to stand a common chance for a live
lihood—-Not only destitute of this knowledge, but
arrived to that advanced period of life, when ex
perience teftifies it is too late to learn.
, ' s incapacity is not a circumstance peculia,r to
c Africans : A, gentleman of my acquaintance,
w to was, at a former period, engaged in the bufi
of a publick In&ru<ftor, has allured me, that
s had both black and white scholars., who were men
j T 1 ~ ar ;d in p»oportion as they had been neg-
tn e early part of life, in that proportion
From SATURDAY, Armi. 18, to WEDNESDAY April 22, 1789.
it was found equally difficult to inttrudt either.—
Tliefe unhappy persons therefore ought not to be
irraigned upon the principles that apply lo those
who have enjoyed the blelling of an early educa
ion—for how can fruit be expedled, where 110 pre
paration was made for the harvest ?
The least attention to the condu<it of white per
sons, who labour under the disadvantages of ignor
ance, will Ihew, th;;t vice, indolence, and wretch
edness, are not confined to the colour of the
Ikin.—
It may bealked, Whether there is reason to sup
pose, that, enjoying equal advantages, in point oi
education, with the whites, they would make equal
improvements ?—Unfortunately, experience does,
not at present furnifti us with documents to decidi
he question upon 3. general scale ; but nevertheless
here are a great many instances to prove, thai
hacks, who have had their education begun at a
proper period, have proved goodrnechanicks,Jarmers,
raders, and t cjpettable members of society. A variety
of particulars in point might be, enumerated, espe
cially in the country towns.
This information applies both to those who were
imported young, and to those born in the country —
with this, difference however, against the kidnap
ped Africans, that they are, in general, past the
age when impressions are made to the greatest ad
vantage, when firft sent into slavery. C.
MR. ADAMS.
[The following letter, together with 25 others, was written in Hol
land, in the year 1780, by His Excellency the Vice-President of
the United State , in answer to 29 questions proposed to him, by
a Society of gentlemen in Amfterdjtn.—The advertisement an
nexed to them, will give the belt ideaof theirnature and operation
" ADVERTISEMENT.
" Dr. CALXOEN, an eminent civilian at Amsterdam, to whftm
hefe Letters were written,compofed, by the means of them, a com
parison between the revolt of the Low Countries from Spain, ant 1
he revolution of the United States of Amcrica j in which he con
:luded, upon the whole, that a 1 it aas a kind of mitotic that th '
farmer fucctedciy it would be a greater miracle Jltll if the latter Jhouti not.'
This composition was read by him to 3 Society of gentlemen of let
ers, about forty in number, who met sometimes at Amsterdam; and
by its means, jull sentiments of American affairs began to spread in
:hat country, and to prevail over the continual misrepresentations o'
:ertain Gazettes and emissaries. The publications of Gen. Howe,
ind Gen. Bur gov Ml, in vindication of themselves, were procured
o be translated into French, and prop a gated, together with many
3ther pamphlets, which a (Tided in the fame design, and contributed
.0 excite the citizens to thofeapplications, by petitions to the regen
:ics of thefeveral cities, which finallyprocured the acknowledgment
d( American indcpendency, the treaty of commerce, and a loan of
money." —— —■
Ext raft from a printed Pamphletl
LEJTTER VI.
Atnfterdavi, Gliober 10, 1730.
SIR,
THE sixth talk is to shew, " That no person, in
" America, is of so much influence, power,
" or credit, that his death, or corruption, by En
" glifli money, could be of any nameable confe
" quence."
This question is very natural for a stranger to
ilk ; but it would not occur to a native American,
who had palled all his life in his own country ; and
upon hearing it proposed he could only finile.
It lhould be considered, that there are in Ame
rica no Kings, Princes or Nobles; no Popes, Cardi
nals, Patriarchs, Arclibiihops, Bishops or other
ecclesiastical dignitaries. They are these, and
[*uch like lofty subordinations, which place great
bodies of men in a state of dependence upon one,
which enable one or a few individuals, in Europe,
to carry away after them large numbers, wherever
hey may think fit to go.—There are no heredita
ry offices, or titles, in families ; nor even any great
illates that descend in a right line to the eldest
sons. All estates ofinteftates are distributed among
ill the children ; so that there are 110 individuals,
aor families, who have, either from office, title,
n- fortune, an exienfive power or influence. We
ire all equal in America, in a political view, and
is much alike as Lycurgus's hay cocks. All public
iffices and employments are bellowed by the free
hoice of the people, and, at present, through the
whole continent, are in the hands of those gentle
men who have diftinguilhed themselves the most,
by their counsels, exertions, and fufferings, in the
contest with Great-Britain. If there ever was a
war, that could be called the people's war, it is this
of America against Great-Britain ; it having been
determined 011 by the people, and pursued by the
people, in every step of its progress.
But who is it in America, that has credit to car
ry over, to the fide of Great-Britain, any number
of men ?—General Howe tells us, that he employ-
Ed Mr. Delancy, Mr. Cortlandt ikinner,Mr. Chal
mers, and Mr. Gallon ay, the molt influenzal men
hey could find; and he tells you theii" ridiculous
access.
Are they members of Congress, who, by being
corrupted, would carry votes in C ongrefs 111 favor
of the Englifli.—l can tell you of a truth, there
has not been one motion made inCongiefs, since
:he declaration of independency, on the 4th of
July, 1776, foi a reconciliation with Gr eat Britain;
and there is not one man, in America, of luf
cient authority, or credit, to make a motion in.
Congress, for a peace with Great-Biitain, upon
my terms fliort of independence, without ruining
ills character for ever. If a delegate si om any one ot
ire Thirteen States, were to make a mouon for
peace, upon any conditions short of independency,
hat delegate would be recalled with indignation
oy his constituents, as soon as tlrey should know
,c.—The Englilh have artfully repiefented in i.u
ope, tliatC ongi el's have been governed by paiticu
lar gentlemen ; but you may uepend vpon it, it is
falfe. At one tinre, the Engliflr would have made
it believed that Mr. Randolph, the fiift Piefident
of Congress, was its foul. Mr. Randolph died, and
Congress proceeded as well asfcver —At another time
Mr. Hancock was all and all. Mr. Hancock left the
Congress, and has scarcely been there for thiee
years ; yet Congreft has pi oceeded wiilr as much
vvifdom, honor and fortitude as ever.—At another
time, the English reprel'ented that Mr. Dickinfon
was the ruler of America. Mr. Dickiijfon opposed
openly,and upon principle,the declaration ot inde
pendency ; but, instead of carrying his point, Iris
conlUtuents differed with him so materially, that
they recalled him fromCongrefs, and he was absent
fonre years ; yet Congress proceeded with no less
constancy ; and Mr. Dickinfon lately, finding all
America unalterably fixed in the fyltem of indepen
dency, has fallen in, like a good citizen, and now
supports it inCongrefs with as much zeal as others.
—At another time, the Englilh have been known
to believe that Dr. Franklin was the eflential mem
ber of Congress ; but Dr. Fanklin was sent to France
in 1776, and has been there ever since ; yet Con
gress has been aS atftive and as capable as before.—
At another time Mr. Samuel Adams was reprefent
edasthe man who didevery tiring ; yet Mr. Salnuel
Adams has been absent for the greatest part of three
years, attending his duty as Secretary of State in
the Maflachufett's Bay ; yetit does not appear that
Mr. Adams's absence has weakened the deliberati
ons of Congress in theleafl.—-Nay, they have fbme
tinres been filly enough to represent your humble
servant, Mr. John Adams, as an eflential member
x)f Congress ; it is now, however, three years since
Congress did him the honour to fend him to Europe
as a Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Ver
sailles, and he has never been in Congress since :
Yet Congress have done better since became away,
than they ever did before.
In short, Sir, all these pretences are the most ri
diculous imaginable. The American cause Hands
upon the eflential, unalterable character of the
whole body of the people ; upon their prejudices,
paflrons, habits, and principles, which they derived
from their ancestors, their educa' ion ; drew in with
their mothers' milk, and have been confirmed by
the whole course of their lives : And the characters
whom they have made conspicuous, by placing
Jiern in their public employments,
Are but bubbles on the sea of matter borne ;
They rife, they break, and to that sea return;
The fame reasoning is applicable to all the Gover«f
nors, Lieutenant Governors, Secretaries of State,
Judges, Senators, and Representatives of particular
,tates. They are all eligible, and elected every
year by the body of the people ; and would lose
heir characters and- influence the instant they
ihould depart, in their public conduct, frton the
political system that the people are determined to
support.
But are there any officers of the army, who' could
carry over large numbers of people ?—The influ
ence of these officers is confined to the army : They
have very little among the citizens. But if we
consider the conftitutirar of that army, we shall fee,
that it is impossible that any officer could carry
with him any numbers, even of soldiers. These
officers are not appointed by a King, or a Prince,
nor by General Washington : They can hardly be
said to be appointed by Congref3. They have all
commilfions fromCongrefs, it is true ; but they are
named and recommended, and are generally ap
pointed, by the executive branch of government im
the particular state to which they belong, except
the general officers, who are appointed by Con
gress. The continental army consists of the quotas
of officers and troops furnifhedby thirteen States.
If an officer of the Maflachufett's Bay forces, forex
ample, should go over to the enemy, he might,
poflibly,carry withhiiir half a do - /, soldiers belong
ing to that State j yet I even doubt whether any
PRICE SIX PENCE.officer whatever, who fliould desert from that State,
could persuade so many as half a dozen soldiers to
go with him.
Is it necefliiry to put the supposition, tl general
Washington Yhould be corrupted ? Is it poilible * .mt
lo fair a fame asWafliington's ihould be exchanged
for gold, or for crowns ? A character so falfe," so
cruel, so blood tliirfty, so detestable as that of
Monk, might betray a trull ; but a character fojult,
so humane, so fair, and amiable as Walhington's,
never can beftained with so foul a reproach.
Yet I am lully of opinion, that even if Mr.
Walhington Ihould go over to the English, which
I know to be impalfible, he would find none, or
very lew, officers or soldiers to go with him. He
would become the contempt and execration of his
own army, as well as of all the relt of mankind.
No, Sir ! the American cause is in no danger
from the defection of any individual. Nothing
Ihort of an entire alteration in the sentiments of
the whole body of the people, can make any
material change in the councils or in the conduct
of the arms of the United States : And I am very
Hire that Great-Britain has not power or art fuf
ficient to change eflentially the temper, the feel
ings, and the opinions of between three and four
millions ofpeople, at three thousand miles diitance,
l'upported, as they are, by powerful allies.
It fucli a change could ever have been made,
it would have been seven years ago, when officers,
employments, and power, in America, were in the
hands of the K ing. But every ray of royal authority
lias been extinguished now between four and five
years, and all civil and military authority is in
hands determined to refill: Great-Britain to the lall.
1 have the honour to be, &c.
[JOHN ADAMS.
Mr. Cat koe k .
mr. Editor,
v In yenir lajl you gave us the export of Furs from Canada : I now fend you
an account oj the EXPORTS in general from that Province.
In 1786 J /111787 < /H788) EXPORTS fromQUEBECk in 1786
I S 1787, and 1788
£03824 2?7931 200358 I Hufticls Wlieat, Ster. J. 40071 12
.0,.,0 9
9317 11060 157-9 Ct. Bicktt, ■, 6
314 6172 881 buOids 3fj. 146 16 8
4*15 102,5 1779 do Oils, i/j. no 12 6
101 7 1 4445 11 97 2 do. Flax Seed, 4J. 2394 8
( w , (9615
■ I,•#••{ ..0,..
s n*e„ M<o. s 66s ' " "
J12.39G 44780 211310 Shing|es, pr. M. 1 of. ICS 10 J
44800 19000 13700 Hoops, pr v lid. jof. 41 2
2065 866 1528 fhakfn Casks, pr. P. 3/.' 229 4
1632 610 »"9)iV la M k Jr" , | , ";|p.cb.f.srf.o2 4 3
„ J Masts and Bowsprits, >
43 4 80 pr. piece, £.16 \ 1280
2 53 2 5 l 660 Tierces Salmon, $of. 1650
67 24 Horfcs, £.$ 192
2 7 casks Canada Balsam, 40
M 1 77 casks & boxc|El. ofSpruae, 800
24cafk$- 225361b! 86? 9 Gmieng, 2/6. 1078 -
1441 861b[ Adianthum Nfgrum, 6d y 1104 13
ton gal I
395*36 I Seal Oyl, pr. ton, £.\% 7119
oq I !q. 2 i6l [ ( P° l and Pearl Alhes, j.22 2335 6
11661b. | Whalebone, 2f. 116 12
885 98 j bufhcls Potatoes, 20d. 7(7
200 | do. Cras, of, 30
41000 ' 22000 | Onions,pr. thousand, 8/6. 9 7
.o* / Handfoikes, fay doz. (
182 pr.'doz. .5/ } 5
£. 248296 19 c
Bills of Exchange, supposed to be about 121703 c
Sterling. [. 370000
X. B. The annual Remittancesfrom Qucbcck, )£. 400000 Sterling
may be computed at - -• - - J " at lead.
Expoitcd from Gafpee and Labradore, annually,
About 60000 C.wt. Cpdfifh,
* a 5000 ticrccs Salmon,
2300 tons Oyl from Labradore.
Also, a very confiderabje quantity Furs, and some Whalebone.
Imported, 2 a 3000 puncheons Rum,
2coo do Molailes,
2 a 3000 hhds. }
500 pipes, > Wines.
200 qr. casks )
N E W-Y ORK.
, ■
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
Jn the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Saturday, APRIL 18, 1788.
MR. Lawrence introduced a petition from the Mechanicks.
and Manufacturers of the city of New-York, the at
lent ion of Congress to their interefts—referred to a committee of the
whole.
The committee of Ele&ions reported, that the Certificates of the
Members attendinghad been examined by them, and were fufficient
to entitle the genth men to their feats. The Hon. Mr. Smith's cafe
was however postponed.
In Committee of the whole
The state of the Union was resumed, by taking up the Refolvc
upon Revenue.
An Impolt was voted upon the following articles, viz.
On Anchors, 7J pr. cent, advalorem.
Wool Cards, 50 cents, pr. dozen.
Wrought Tin Ware, 73 pr. cent, advalorem.
: Coal, 3 cents, pr. bushel.
Every barrel Salmon, }
do. Mackarcl, S 75 cents.
do. Shad, }
Quintal Fish, 50 cents.
Teas imported dire£t from India or China, *.n American fliips.
BoheaTea, pr lb. 6 cen^s.
Souchong and Ilack do. io cenfs.
Superior Green, do. ao cents.
All other Green do. id cefTts.
Teas imported from any other country, or in foreign (hips from
! ndia or China.
Bohea Tea, pr» lb. 8 cents.
Souchong and black do. 15 cents. . •
Superior green do. 30 cents,
Ali other green do. 18 cents.
Some of the above articles, it was proposed by particular Mem
bers, Ihould be itruck out, for reasons which had been afligncd to
have other articles expunged. Wool-Cards were obje&ed to—but
t ie Members from the taftward fatisfied the committee* that the
American Manufa&ure of that article was carried to great perfe&ion,
and there was no doubt but such a supply could be obtained, of every
species os-cards, made in a superior mamur* as was more than ade
quate to the consumption of the States.
One gentleman observed, that he supposed the preference given to
Teas imported in American vessels, was to encourage our (hipping.
So far as the nieafure conduccd to that object, he was fatisfied, and
he was ready to hear arguments in fa\our of the trade to India—the
advantages of which were doubted by some persons. The trade it
was observed, was flattering to the pride of America—but it was
not for revenue—it was not tor nccejfanes—not to export fupcrfluities
— but to export the specie of our country, See.
Jo these remarks it was replied, That fmce the revolution, the
trade to India had commenced, that it h d been prosecuted to ad
vantage, and was an extensive mart for a great variety of our fuper
llu( us articles—that from our local situation, we were enabled to
proitcute the trade with many advantages—that it was evident, that
□ t.r tuccefs had excited the jealousy of European powers, who would
avail thi infelves of every circumflancetoruin our fpeculationsto that
q< arter of the world—that therefore it was the duty of the Nation
al Lcgiflature, to hold out every poflible encouragement, to coun
:era& the machinations of our rivals, and prevent the ruin of the
trade.
It was further observed, that cafli was not the only remittance to
[ndia—that linmenfe quantities of produce were Hipped, Ginieng,
Lumber, Provisions, Arc. See.
Some obje&ions were made to a tax on Coal, but this duty was
idvo: ated f rom the policy of the measure, as conducing to the pro
motion of Navigation, incrcafe of seamen, and exploring the earth
in fe.irch of add itional mines—for it was highly probable, that the
country abounded with that article.
Adjourned.
Monday, April ,20.
Met agreeably to adjournment.
Committee on John Churchman's, and Dr. Raj** ay's petition
reported. r '
Mr. Sherman called for the order of the day—the House then
rcfolvcd itfclf into a committee of the whole, 011 the Hate of the
Union. Mr. Pacf. in the chair.
The Resolve upon the Revenue was refunred.
On motion, it was voted, that the Impost on all goods imoorted,
not fpecified in the foregoing enumeration, excepting the iollow
llg, viz.
Tin in pigs, and Tin Plates,
Lead,
Pewter.
Wool,
Raw Hides,
Urafs,
' Copper in Plates,
Beaver, and other Furs,
n, u u Dym « Woods ! and d y ,n g Dru g*> (other than Indigo,) *
Ihould he 5 pr. cent, advalorem.
Article of Tonnage was the next in order—previous to entering
upon which, °
Mr. Fi T 7.31 HONS moved, that a draw back ihould be allowed up
on all Rum, d,ft,lied from Molasses in the States, and exported o
any foreign port. r
Mr. MADD,SON objeaed to draw bach, at opening a ™de door
0 defrauding tberevenue-w.fced the gentleman to otter his reasons
tor trie measure.
Mr Htzsimons suggested, among other reasons, *hat it would
1 e t . he minds our brethren of the Eastern States, who were so
argcly concerned in the Distilling bnfinefs->-that rum distilled in the
country could not be exported, if loaded with a tax-that it would
affefl an important branch of business, in a way, that no
1 r C ' ThC S«'tlcman further observed,
.hat a was more easy, in his opinion, to provide checks to prevent
■auds, I than to devise m. thodsto enture the colleflion of the duties
Mr. L a w a a» c 1 spake in favour oi the draw back.
1 1 FV?" t | lCn r . 2 P a^a s e from the account of exports
From Massachusetts, by which he said it appeared, that but a lmall
proVortionpftheßum distilled there, was exported toforeign mar
kets, and of that proportion, the greatest part was sent to the coast
of Africa-wnh theduty the falc had been great-too great through
m t / n 'iT a,lowcd •> <lra * back, the confeqaences were
to be deprecated. The exportation of if, to the only foreign part
M n an y co " r ' derab| c quantity, the gentleman reprobated
Mr.Bi-AtiD observed, that the other day gentlemt n were so ftreni
ous for the encouragement ofManufaftu r es, that Commerce appear
ed an infenor object_ Bffto they appeared equally zealous to extend
indprotea Commerce—He was opposed to a /raw back
t pon the votes being taken, it palled in the negative—so no draw
back was allowed.
rt, M IJ £ 1T "' M ° NS th "i introduced a motion, that a draw back
Ihould be allowed on merchandize that maybe exported within
a limited time, the .mpoft of wh,c!i had been paid, or bonded -
the gentleman alfigncd various reasons for the motion.
Mr. Hartley proposed that the vote against the drawback
on Bum, Ihould be reconsidered for the present
Mr. White was opposed to a Drawback, it appearing to him
conducive to no advantage, and operating aga.nft the Revenue bv'
affording great opportunities for fraud '
obfCrVtd ' ,hat wh( . n the intercourse between the
States Ihould become more intimate and general, it would encreafe
Wd<- r'T"" forf ! auds ' and rendcr extremely difficult topro
the remedy ' U P°" the most f ' m P le P1» of Revent/fo,
nof I h r ear^ftmaiy methingUUnP ° n * Indl3 ' which d ' d
Mr. White observed, that it was evident the trade to Indii
did not need encouragement-He had been informed that there
were near forty fail in that line only from Maffachufetts-an eW
dence that the trade was flourilhing.
N°T • r ' la , m avcrfcto reftriaibns upon Commerce
and think it found policy, that no duties Ihould be laid,but such a,'
are aofolutely necelTary-but the present plan of raising a reven "
upon importation,, renders a deviation from such a System neeeffarv
Aiticlcs, however, that are not consumed after import ition o!Iv 7j
not certainly be fubjeaed to a Suty-this would be a fatal blow to
Commerce, for it is within my knowledge Sir thit l7r •
t.es of Madeira Wine were imported, for the exVet
P-.rtatinn. Not to allow of a'cawbaek in thTITcZr
cases, would clog trade excessively. Checks Sii nnv^«fi
theDrlwtck! frauduleilt dcfl must therefore be in favourof
It was moved, that the Resolution on Drawbacks be postponed
On motion the committee rose and the Speaker 1 efumed thTchaiV
Took up report on Churchman' spetition. mtQtl,cc hair.
r! Mr -M ADD ISO n expressed a wish, that adequate ideas of Mr
tenanee might be bestowed with dignity to government ""p m'T
Bodies were liable to be assailed by igLam S It
Mr. White was in favour of the Report.
Mr. Huntingdon entered into an extensive enam'na-;
fubjed, and concluded by giving hU opinion in favour of ° n
the Report. ' cct p!i«.
On motion the report was divided, and the firft p ar .
Mr. Churchman the sole and exclusive right of making an'J' V ' n "' 1 '
his tables, plans, and charts, was accepted—the other" r "/v''"!
projected voyage was re-committed. ' ,
The Report on D l . Ramsay's petition was next taken
upon which, ' ' U P—.
Mr. Jackson (of Virginia)' arofc and obiefted tot),.
Dr. Ramfa , hcobferved. had given a partial account
transa£tions, that refpe&cd the State of Georgia ; snd iff ' 0lt:
table a body as Congress, fhoultl fanftion the work bv
the fubjea of a legislative ast, it would so far confirm hi,"
as to deter some ott\pr historian from taking up the s u b'
do justice to the State of Georgia ;he would therefore m "*'
an ast upon genera! principles. A committee was then ■'*
rd to prepare a bill upon g«neral piinciples, to l'ecure tn aPI ?" ! '
&c. &c. 0 aut noii, .
The bill prescribing the oath required by the 6th article f
constitution was read—alter some debate, the committee rof ''
out coming to a determination upon the fubjeft—Chairm*
ported projrrefs, and Wednesday next is appointed for th,
mittie tofet again upon this bill. The Speaker refuminf?"
chair. The house adjourned. S &
TuesdaTy, April 21.
House met agreably to adjournment, and having refolvcd ',n
into a committfc of the whole, took into cofideration the Sr
the Union by resuming the fubjefthf the revenue.
On ail velfels built in the United Stales, and owned bv a to
hid 01 ,thC famei " Wa3 V ° lCd tbat f ' X """ pcr t0 " Aieuld'h
On all veflels not built in the United 'States, belonein*
ti7! n or citizens thereof, Jix cents per ton. : "
On all veirels belonging to a fubjeft or fubjefts of any for,;
Hate, with whom treaties had been formed, or partly to such
partly to citiiens of the United States, thirty cents per ton
On all velfels belonging in part, or wholly to the fubjefts of o<'„„
powers, fifty cents per ton. r
Veflels built "i the United States, belonging to a citizen or (i .
tizens thereof, while employed in the coasting trade • also vfir
employed in the filhery to be exempted from tonnage'
No ftlip or brig built in the United States, to pay 'tonnage sirs}
The resolution as amended was then read, and accepted hy A
commi'tee. The committee then rose, and the chairman report,,)'
that the committee had agreed tn fundrv resolutions to bei'ubm
ted to the house, Alter which the house adjourned.
[The Debates upon the fubjea of Tonnage were ingenious ani ink,l
ing, but we have not time nor room toiinse t them this day.
NEW-YORK, APRIL 22, i 7 ~
.
Ext raft of a letter from P of] on, dated Aprils.
" THIS day, at 10 o'clock, His Excellency JOHN
ADAMS, "fq. Vice-President of the United States,
fat out from his feat in Braintree, to take the chair
at New-York, as President of theMoftKon. Senate.
Previous to his setting out, the Roxbury Troop of
Horse, under the command of Col. Joh.i Tviei,
waited at his house and escorted him into town,
On his arrival at the fortification gates, the bells
rung a peal, and, amidst thefhouts of the aflembled
citizens, he was escorted to His Excellency the
Governour s, where the principal Officers of the
State, ami gentlemen of the town being aflenibled,
he partook at an Colation, provided bythe
Governour—Kewasfaluted onhis arrival by a fe
deral discharge from a detachment c f Major John
son s Artillery—and also by a discharge on Instat
ing leave of our Chief Magistrate. During the
time the Vice President was at His Excellency
the Govemour's, the Middlesex Horse, under the
command of Capt. Fuller, arrived—which, join- ■
ing that oi Col. 1 yler s, formed a very elegantef
cort—both Corps being in blue, faced with white,
and the horses mostly ofonecolour, and very hand
some. By these corps, and better by his fellowci
zens, lie was accompanied to Charleftown, where,
on his arrival at the iquare, he Was again saluted
by a federal discharge, from Major Calder's Ar
t.Lcry, and escorted, by thetwo companies ofhorfe
to Cambridge— where the Roxbury harfe took
their leave of His Excellency—who, escorted by
liic Middlesex corps, continued his journey. Mr.
Adams will be met at Marlborough by Col. New
ell's regiment of Horse, who will relieve Capt. "
ful le r and in like manner, will tills great and
good man be accompanied to New-York—Net with <
the servile attentions of slaves and fubjefts—but by
the voluntary honours of his fellow citizens."
On Monday last arrived in this city, amidst the
acclamations of all ranks ofcitizens, His Excellen
cy JOHN ADAMS, Esq. Vice-President of the
Unit t d States, — she Cavalcade which escorted
His Excellency into the city, was numerous, an l '
tiuly refpe&able. From the Connecticut line to
Kingfbridge, he was attended by the Light Horse
of \V eft-Cliefter county, under the command of
Major Pi nt a rd. At Kingfbridge he was met by
Gen. Mal co m, with the officers of his brigade, anil
the City Troop of Horse, commanded by Captain
Stakes. Alio by Officers of diftintftion —many
of Congress—and a large number of Ci*tizens in carriages and on liorfeback. On palling
the Fort, a federal salute was fired. I Jis Excellen
cy alighted at the house of the Hon. John Jay,
Esq.
A Committee ofbothHoufes of Congress, fpecial
]y appointed for that purpose, attended to congra
tulate his Excellency on his arrival.
Yesterday a committee of the Senate, consisting
of Mr. Strong, and Mr. Izard, conducted the
Vice-President to the Senate-Chamber, and
Mr. LangDon, the Prefulent, pro tempore, lef.
the chair, and * addressing the Vice-President,
said, " '1 hat heliadit in charge from the Senate,
to introduce him to the Chair of the House, and to
congratulate him on his appointment to the office
of Vice-Pr esident of the United States ofAme
rica. liethen conducted the Vice-President to
the Chair, who addrefled the Senate to the follow
ing purport.
Gentlemen of the Senate,
INVITED to this refpe&able situation by the fuffrages of our fel
low-citizens, accordingtothe Conftitutton, I have thought it m)
duty, cheerfully and readily to accept it. Unaccustomed to refufc
anv publick service, however dangerous to rry reputation, or djf
proportioned to my talents, it would havebeen inconsistent, to hav<
adopted another maxim of conduct, at this time, when the prosper.
ity of the country, and the liberties of the people, require perhaps
as much as ever, the attention of thofc, who pofiefs any share of the
publick confidence.
I should be destitute of fer.fibility, if,'upon my arrival in this city
and presentation to this Legislature, and especially to this \Senate, I
could fee, without "emotion, so many of those chara&ers, of whose
virtuous exertions I have so often been a witnefs-jfrom whofecoun
tenances and examples I have ever derived encouragement and ani
mation—whose cfifinterefted friendlhip has supported mc, in mam
intricate conjunctures of publick flairs, at liome and abroad
Those celebrated defenders of the liberties of this country, whorr
menaces could not intimidate, corruption seduce, nor flattery al
lure: Those intrepid aflertors of the rights of mankind, whof<
philosophy and policy, have enlightenad the world, in twenty
years, more than it was ever before enlightened in many centuries:
by ancient schools or modern universities.
I must have been inattentive to the course of events, if I -were
cither ignorant of the fame or insensible to the merit of those othei
charatters in the Senate, to whom it has been my misfortune tc
have been, hitherto, personally unknown,
It is with fatisfa&ion, that I congratulate th£ people of Ameri
ca on the formation of a National Constitution, and the fair prof
pe& of a consistent administration of a government of laws. On
the acquisition of an House of Representatives, chosen by tTiem
felves; of a Senate thus composed by their own State Legislatures.
and on the prospeCt of an executive authority, in the hands of one
whose portrait I (hall not presume to draw.—rWere I bleflfed with
powers to do justice to his charatter, it would be impoflible to in
crcafe the confidence or affc&ion of his country, or make the
smallest addition to his glory. This can only be effe&ed by a dis
charge of the present exalted trust on the fame principles, witli
the fame abilities and virtues, which have uniformly appeared in
all his former conduct, public or private. May I nevertheless, be
indulged to enquire, if we look over the catalogue of the firft Ma.
giftrates of nations, whether they have beerw denominated Presidents
or Cdnfuls, Kings or Princes, "where shall we find one, whose
commanding talents and virtues, whose overruling good fortune
have so completely united all hearts and voices in his favour?
Who enjoyed the esteem and admiration of foreign nations
and fellow citizens with equal unanimity ? Qualities so. uncom
mon, are no common blefling to the country that potfTeffes them-
By those great qualities, and their benign efFe&s, has Providence
marked out the head of this nation, with an hand so distinCtly vifi
klc, as to havebeen seen by nil men, and mistaken by none.
It is not for me, to interrupt your deliberations by any general
observations on the state of the nation, or by recommending, orpro
ponng any particular measures. It would be fuperfluous. to gentle
men of your great experience, to urge the necefiity of order. It is
only necessary to make an apology Tor myfelf. Not wholly
out experience in publick afTemblies, I have been more accustomed
to take a (hare ;n their debates, than to preside in their delibera
tions. It shall be my constant endeavour to behave towards every
Member of this Mod honourable Bodyy with all that consideration,
delicacy, and decorum, which becomes the dignity of his Ration
and character: —But, if from inexperience, or inadvertency, any
thing should ever escape me, inconsistent with propriety, I must en
treat you, by imputing it to its true cause, and not to any want of
ic lp,e£t, to pardon and excuse it.
A tiufl of the greatest magnitude is committed to this
Tegidatare and the eyes of the world are upon you. Your
country expt&s, from the results of your deliberations, in concur
rence with the other branches of government, Consideration abroad,
an d Contentment at home—Prosperity, Order, Justice, Peace and
Liberty . And may Cod Almighty's Providcnce aflift you to anf
v-cr their just expectations.
April 21.
C-l*-]
THE VICE-PRESIL ■ 'NT.
WHEN Heaven refolv'd COLUMBIA fhouldbe
free,
And INDEPENDENCE, spake the great decree,
Lo, ADAMS rose ! a giant in debate,
And turn'd thatvbte* whichfix'd our empire's fate.
In Europe next, the Minijler behold,
Who Treaties form'd—and melted hearts of gold :f
Maintain'cf the honour of our riling name,
And as a NATION, gavfe us RANK and FAME !
When ally'd Armies triumph'd in the field,
And full plum'd Victory made Grgpt Britain yield,
When WASHINGTON commanded ' wars to ccafe,'
HE crown'd our triumphs, by 3. glorious Peace.
For THESE, his country pours its honours down,
And ranks him next—her fir]}, her darling Sou.
f-ong may they reign, in sentiment ally'd,
COLUMBIA'S SAFEGUARD, GLORY, BOAST,
and PRIDE. C .
* Vote of Independence. + Loans effected with Hoi anc'.
From the firft appearance of the New Conflitu
tion, the sentiments of the citizens of New-York
were decidedly in favour of its adoption—ln con
firmation of this, an uninterrupted series of fac'ts
has occurred: The following Arrangement foi
the reception of the PRESIDNT of the UNITED
STATES, is an additional evidence of their atten
tion to the real dignity of the city—and the high
veneration in which the illuih ious character it re
fers to, is held.
ARRANGEMENT.
The following Arrangement is agreed upon by
His Excellency the Governour, and the principal
Officers of the-utate and City, for tlie reception ol
:he President of the United States.
1. A Deputation of the State Officers, to confifl
of His Honour the Chancellor and the Adjutant Ge
neral, accompanied by a Deputation from the Cor
poration of the city of New-York, to consist of the
Recorder, will receive his Excellency the President
of the United States, on the Jersey shore.
2. A salute will be fired from the battery imme
diately on the President's embarkation.
3. Should he pass the battery, a second salute will
be fired 011 his palling ; and should he land in the
city without palling the battery, the second salute
will be fired on his landing.
4. His Excellency tlic Governor, and the prin
cipal officers of the state, and
5. The Mayor and priucipalOfficers of the Cor
poration will attend and receive the President on
liis landing ; and thcnce accompany him to his
houfc. The citizens who attend on the occasion,
will form in such manner, as that the President
and his attendants may conveniently pass through
their ranks.
6. The Volunteers of the Legion of Gen. Mil
cojr's brigade, and Col. Bauman's regiment of Ar
tillery will parade in their uniforms.
7. Immediately after the salute onthe President's
landing, the bells of the several churches, &c. will
ring, and continue ringing half an hour.
8. Ihe colours of the Fort, and of the vefiels in
the harbour, will be displayed on firing the firft
salute.
9. l'he city will be illuminated from seven to
nine o'clock in the evening.
The following articles are in the resolutions, but
omi tedin the debates that have appeared in our
paper, viz.
All candles of tallow per lb. 2 cents.
All candles of wax or spermaceti 6 do
All cheese per lb. 4 f '°
Soap per lb. » ~ ( lo
Boots per pair 5° '1°
On all shoes, flippers™ rgallofhoes 7 lQ ( j q
made of leather f
All shoes or flippers, made of silk or 7 ,
Stuff j
Every 112lb of unwrought steel 56 do
On all cabinet ware
On all buttons of metal
On Saddles
On all gloves of leather
On hats of beaver, fur, wool, or mixture of ei
titer
On all millenary
On all callings of iron flit or rolled iron
On all leather tanned or tawed
And upon all manufactures of leather, except
such as are otherwise rated, 7i pr cent advalorem.
The moll diftingu fhrd among the sages of antiquity, have lefl
■t upon record, as the diftateof reason and the result of experience
" that the only/olid bafts on which to tJlMfli the public happtrefs, is o
REVERENCE EOR I HE DUTY." May the People of the UNITED
STATES, imbibe this sentiment, with all the additional force
with which it comes attended from the SACRhD ORACLES.
It is devoutly to be wilhed that the United States in their reve
nue system, may avoid the introdu£lion of wnat, .n cant phraf, au
.ermcd " Ciijlom House Oaths" such swearing hein n ' often found the
moil conv nient paj/port for contraband goods. Our allies the
French and Speniaids fct us an example in this business worthy ol
mitation.
It is an o1»k& of the great eft importance, 'list
an uniftterrupted series ot'fedcral sentiments flioul.t
be dilleminated through the American nation—
Our political connection with each other becomes
daily more intimate and interesting : t?iis will, in
rime allimulate our minds, our habits, our man
ners, our objects, till we 'become one great Peo
ple, cemented by national ideas, natlon.il Ipirit,
and national glory.
Never since the formation of government and
civil society, were the great body oi a people, so
jniverfally solicitous and engaged about these
important subjects, as the citizens of the United
lates, at the pi efent moment. Every ear is
open! every mind is full! surely as the great
>lr. Adams said orf the American war—" If ever
'' there was a Government of the People, this is
" the government."
The great objects which have arretted the atten
ion of our country since the came up
on the carpet, seem to have called up the molt
latent and astonishing powers of the human mind,
which have difcoveied themselves in a great vari
ety of instances—in Procejfions— Publications—ln*
jentions of Machine Improvements and Me
chanical Excellences.
In a late Bolton paper is the following para-*
grapli ; viz. An elegant Barge is now building in
New-York, to waft the great WASHINGTON a
cross the Hudson, to be rowed by ten SKA-CAP
TAINS, and to a 6: as cockswain.
The above Barge i now compleated, and is a
most masterly* conftrucYion in its line—it is
between forty and fifty feet long, and moulded
upon the firleft model.
The laudable euriofity of* the publick is daily
gratified by a free acceilion to the Galleries of the
Hon. House of Representatives, where it is not
doubted that the most profound attention and per-"
feift decorum will continue to be exhibited by the
fpeftators and auditors.
A correspondent would enquire, if it is an
Order or Rule of the Gillery, to be covered
when the Speaker of a certain Hotoi. Koufe is ia
the chair ?
One day last Week a Bevy of Ladies appeared in
the Gallery of the Hon. House of Representatives
—-a most laudable euriofity is a Sufficient reason
for the novelty of the circumftancc.
Arrived in this city lince our last, the Most Hon.
Mr. Henry, from Maryland, and the Most Hon.
Mr. Gunn, from Georgia, Senators of the United
itstcs.
~ The illustrious PRESIDENT of the' United
States will arrive in this city to-morrow.
The Eagle in the front of the Federal State
House is now displayed ; the general appearance
of this front is truly august.
The Federal Barge was launched yesterday.
It should have been noticed in our firll number,
that Samuel Allen Otis Esq. of Maflachufetts,
is appointed Secretary, to the Most Hon. Senate of
the United Stafes, and John Beckley, Esq. of
Virginia,, Clerk Hon. House of Representa
tives.
Extraßs from a Madr'rd paper, January v 2O.
" The King of Spain was proclaimed in this cap
ital on Saturday the I 7th inft. with all customary
ceremonies. The Conde de Altemira, as Alferez
Maior of Madrid, bore the Royal Standard, and
was accompanied in the procession by a great num
ber of grandees onhorfes very richly caparisoned,
and alio by theCorregidor, Alguazil, Heralds, and
others. The Proclamation was repeated in differ
ent parts ofthe city, andfilver and gold coins, pre
pared for the occasion, were thrown by the Her
alds among the people. Ihe firft Proclamation
was made in the great square, in front of the palace.
Their Catholick Majesties were present, seated in
a balcony, and attended by the Ambafladors, and
other foreign ministers, and by the principal offi
cers of State. The acclamations of the people
were great and expreflive of much loyalty and af
feftioii to their Sovereign. Ihe publick mourn
ing was suspended during three days, a very large
lift of promotions was published, various entertain-
ments and balls were given,and there was a general
illumination on each of the three evenings.
" A royal order has been published at Malaga,
permitting for the present, and only atthe custom
house of that port, the free transhipping and de
posit of such produce, goods and merchandize, as
may be entered there and destined for the Barbary
or other foreign ports ; as also of such as may ar
rive from thole countries, and be destined for the
Northern or other ports, including silver in coin,
in bars, or wrought ; which as well as all other
goods, is to pay, 011 being re-shipped, one pr. cent,
on the value, according to the invoice ; and gold
ingots, of dust, and all kinds of articles of silver
and gold, set or unset with pearls orprecious stones,
are to pay half pr. cent. The goods may remain
in deposit, till it may be convenieut to fh'ip them,
on paying warelioufe rent, as there is not fufficient!
room for them in the Cuftom-lioufe.
WANTED IMMEDIATELY,
A JOURNEYMAN PRINTER. Good wages
rV will be given. • Enquire at No. 3> Peck s £>lip<
April 22.THE TABLET.
NUMBER 111.
" Debate and Dijfention not only flow froi/i civil liber
ty, but contribute to preserve it."
TN my last No. I mentioned having pafled anevcir
-t ing with two foreigners. The remarks, made
by one of them, have been communicated. The
reply of the other equally deserves notice. It is
,to the following effect.
" I confefs that your observations appear to be
founded in fact. No inference, however, to the
discredit of this country, can be drawn from such
circumltances. There maybe assigned two reasons
why the cicizens of the United States are prone to
Jpeculative controversy. One of them proceeds
from the nature of their government, and adts as
a permanent cause. The other results from par
ticular incidents, which may be considered adven
titious; but which unites its influence in producing
the general effecft.
" In a delpotick government, where the subject
, has no voice in making the laws, or in eitabliihing
modes of religion, he has little occasion to be a dil
putant. His whole attention is employed, in per
forming the duties that are laid upon him. The
cafe is totally the revcrfe in a country of freedom.
Every man knows that he may be eligible to legi-
Every man feels' a pride and independence
of spirit, that he can clioofe his own religion. This
operates as 6n eflabliihcd' cause of speculative en
quiry and investigation. No reflraint can fafely be
put upon an indulgence, which is in itfelf so falu
tary. 1 here is leis danger from excels than from
reliricflion.
" Ihe peculiar situation of this country has af
forded great scope for the difcuflionsof theoretick
men. It has infufed a spirit of altercation into all
ranks of people. Time and experience will corretfl
those extremes of such a temper, which have been
excited by special cau£s. It must have its own
course, and work its own remedy. The love and
the pratftife of difputo, fh ike out light upon the
various fubjefts, relative to government. It habi
tuates men to reflection. I acknowledge it has
been carried so far, as to militate with ufeful oper
ations, and prevented a&s of real utility being in
troduced. Many of the States have totally "new
modelled their governments. This could Tiot be
produced without great deliberation. The fervour
has hardly yet subsided.
" The entire tolerarion of religion has given a
large range to persons prone to controversy. Each
fetft naturally wiflies to extend its influence. The
forms of government and religion will be better
ascertained, and men will have determined what
fide to take, in both. When this happens, the
evil yqu complain of, will in part be removed.
But while the spirit of liberty exists, controversy
is unavoidable."
Thus spoke my two companions. The one point
ed out errors, and the other accounted for them.
Their observations, whether they are new or not,
appear to be just. Such hints ainufe fame people,
while they do injury to none.
A HINT7~
ONE finding feature in tliepolitical complexion
of the Dutch Republick is, that the children
of both sexes are, from the moment of the earliest
capability, initiated in some line of indullrious avo
cation among them. Solon and Lycurgus coidd
not have chalked out a wiser line for the service
of the Grecian States. It was an opinion with
Alexander the Great, that boys nurtured and bro't
up in the camp, were ever after fond ofarms—and
practice gave fantftion to the theory. It holds e
qually good, that children, early trained up to in
dustry, ever incline to it in maturity—for, in the
language of the poet, "it grows -with their growti,
and Jfrengthens, vi:th their flrength." To our coun
trymen, we hope the application is evident. If
they accustom their little ones to honest employ
ments (such as will suit their years, constitutions
and choices) they will thereby render them virtu
ous andindeqendent citizens,a credit to tliemfelves,
and an ornament to society. The consequences of
a different conduct are evident.
ANECDOTE OF LORD MANSFIELD.
THIS J udge being in one of the counties, on the
circuit, a poor woman was indicted for witch
craft. The inhabitants of the place were exafpera
ted against her. Some witnefles deposed, that th.2_>
had fecn her walk in the ai;-, with her feet upward
Lord Mansfield heard the evidence with great tran
quility, and perceiving the temper of the people,
whom it wouJ d not have been prudent to irritate,
he thus addrefled them. lC Ido not doubt that thh
woman lias walked in the air, with her feet up
wards, since you have all seen it; but she has the
hono ir to be born in England, as well as you and I,
and confeqaently, cannot be judged but by the laws
of the country, nor puniflied but in proportion as
ha< violated them. Now I know not cne law
that forbids walking in the air with the feet up
wards. We have all aright to do it with impuni
tv. I fc! noreafon, therefore, fqr prosecution ; ant
ilus poor woman may return home when she plcaf'es.
•
PLAN
, O F T H E
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be puHifhed at th( seat of the federal government, and to
comprise, as fully as pojfible, t/ie following Objells, viz.
I. TT'ARLY «nd ai.thentick Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
-L_j of CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLU HONS,
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the IRANSACTIONS
oj the FEDERAL LEGISLATURE, under the NEW CONSTITUTION.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYS upon the great fubje£ts of Government in general,
nd the federal in also upon the national nd
local Rights ol the American c i t i zens, as found d upon the fe
deral or State Constitutions; also upon every other Subject, whic})
may appear luitable for newfpapcr dilcuflion.
IV. A SERIES o.*PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
" living manners as they rise," and to point the publick
atttntion to Objects that have an important reference to duiiiejlick,
foci J, and pukluh happiness.
V. The Intertfts ol the United States as connected with their li
terary Inlhtutions—religious and moral Objetts —Improvements \n
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foreign
rreatiei, Alliauccs, Connections, &c.
VI. Every of INTELLIGENCE, which may afTe£t the
Conmc July agricultural., manufacturing, ox political INTERESTS ol
the AMERICAN StEPUBLICK.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMESTICKOCCURRENCES, colled
through the Medium of an extensive Corrgfpondcnce with the rcf
peftive States.
Vril. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE, so conne&cd, as tojorm a general Idea oj publick Affairs in
{he eajlcrn Hcmifphere.
IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS ; also of the IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMENTS —Couiics of Exchange—Prices
Curnnt, &c.
CONDITIONS.
I.
THE Gazette of the Jhall he printed with the
fine Letter, and on the fume Paper as this publication.
11.
ItJhall be publijhcd every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, and
delivered, as may be dircfted, to every Subjcriber in the city, on thofc days.
111.
The price In Subfcrib'ers (exclufiveofpofbgi) will be THREE DOL
LARS pr. annum.
IV.
The Jirft femi-avvual payment to be made in three months from the ap
psarunce of the JiiJl number.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
IVifl be yectived in all the capital tows upon the Continent; also at th
City-Coffec-Houfe, and at No. 86, William-Street, until the ift
oj M.iv, from which time at No. g, Maiden-Lane, near the Otwego-
Market, New-York.
N. B. By a new Arrangement 'made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
distance will be duly furniihed with papers.
postsc R i ft.—^—A large impression of every number hill beJlrvck off- —
so that Suf.ribers may always be accommodated taith complete Sets.
To the PUBLICK.
AT this important Criiis, the ideas that fill the
mind, are pregnant with Events of the greatest
magnitude—to Ib'engthen and complete the UNI
ON of the States—to extend and protect their
COMMERCE, under equal' Treaties, yet to be form -
ed—to explore and arrange the NATIONAL
FUNDS—to rcftore and eltablifli the PUBLICK
CREDIT—and ALL under the avifpices of an un
tried System of Government, will require the EN
ERGIES of the Patriots and Sages of our Country—
Hence the propriety of encreafnig the Mediums of Know
ledge and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era
in her national existence—" the world is all
be yore her"—The wisdom and folly—the mjfery
and prosperity of the EMPIRES, STATES, and
vINGDOMS, which have had their day upon the
■ eat Theatre of Time, and are now no more,
fa rgeft the most important Mementos—These, with
he rapid series of Events, in which our own Coun
try has been so deeply interested, have taught the
Citizens of the United States, that
r'REEDOM and GOVER>#kIENT—LIBERTY and
LAWS, are inseparable.
This Conviction has led to the adoption of the
lew Conftitutiori ; for however various the Sen
.iments, refpedtiiigthe MERITS of tliisSyitem, all
good men are agreed in th 9 neceflity that exists,
ofan EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, eftabliihed upon NATION
AL, INDEPENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCI
PLES—which shall take up the premised Articles,
upon a competent plan, it is presumed, will be
highly interesting, and meet with publick appro
bation and patronage.
The editor of this Publication is determined to
leave no avenue of Information unexplored : He
solicits the afliftance of Persons ofleifure and abili
ties—which, united with his own assiduity, he flat
ters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United
.Stares not unworthy general encouragement
and is, with due refpec r t, the publick's humble ser
vant, JOHN F if N NO.
New-Yori, April! 5, i;Bg.
high Water.
at nf.wyork To-morrow.
Morning, —. 2 minutes after 7.
ADDRESS.
THE Publick approbation alone can give ftabiU
ty and fucceis to any undertaking which tnulj
ultimately depend upon public opinion: This
idea has generally induced the Editors of new
publications to attempt anticipating that appr o .
Lat ion through the medium ol' projejficns, AvJiich
to lay the lealt, are, too seldom realized: Tit
editor of the. Gazette oi the United Statesi
would avoid, as far as poflible, the imputation
that has been frequently and juflly incurred upon
account of profellions. never fubjlantiated.
Should the Gazette of the United States
prove a faithful register of pubKck tranfattiom
especially tliofe of the great council of the nation'
,he FEDERAL LEGISLATURE ; he HOPESitwili
be patronized by those who feel interested in the
welfare of the union; the patriots and independnt
freemen of our country.
Should it contain a competent detail of foreiqi
and domeltic intelligence; revolutions in com.
merce ; discoveries in various parts of the globe
opening new sources of wealth to enterprizingad.
venturers ; rile and fall of flocks ; prices current
&c. he HOPES it will receive the support of
mercantile characters.
Should the great body of mechanics find that
their important interests are attended to ; thatim.
provements and discoveries in their several branch
es claim an early and conllant insertion.
Should this Gazette be the happy inftnim ;nt of
pointing out various plans, by which the niufic of
the AX and HAMMER may again be heard in our
cities, the Editor cannot but HOPE for their
generous encouragement.
Should fomethhig*worthy the notice of the great
farming interest of our country (the bulworkof
freedom and equal laws) be exhibited from time
to time, the editor HOPES for their patronage,
Improvements in agriculture are of thefirft: conse
quence to our young, our 1 iling country ; and the
labours that tend to affect this clefirable object, are
tlierefultof the purelt patriotism, and lliould de.
tnand the couftant attention of the Editors of pe.
riodical publication.
The Edit or HOPES that the wealtlfy part of the
community will become patrons of this publication,
as itisbutjuft toiay, that every project, which has
been obviouily calculated for publick utility, lias
met with prompt and generous encouragement from
those whom Providence has blefledwith affluence; ;•
without their aififlance,the noble plans now on foot
for the promotion of MANUFACTURES, ARTS
and SCIENCES, mult have proved abortive; their
liberal efforts 011 many recent occafons, have given
a spring to the publick mind. Should the Gazette .
of the United States suggest improvable hints, or
feazible projects, which mult depend npon the
PURSE for their maturity, it cannot fail of being
countenanced by the RICH and public spirited.
The and momentous fubjedt of Education
is hourly appreciating in its importance : Thatpart
of the NEW CONSTITUTION, which opens the
door to every man of every rank, poflefling VIRTUE
and ABILITIES, to the highest honours in the great
American Republick, has expanded the views of
every American.
This idea, places the bufinefsof Education in>
point of light, in which it never has before been
viewed; a point in which it cannot be confidcred
in any other country upon the face of the earth.
The MIDDLING and LOWER CLASS of CITI
ZENS will therefore find yheir account in becoming
fubferibers for this Gazette,fliould it pay a particu
lar regard to this great subject. Full jullice can
not perhaps be done to it; but every attempt to il
lustrate and enforce its importance, muftinfure the
applause of every person who feels the dignity of
a rational being, or who prizes the birthright of
an American.
Ignorance is the,parent of all human degrada
tion ; every attempt therefore to difleminate the 1
rays of knowledge will receive the applause of the
truly benevolent. The happiness of mankind fee
ing inseparably connected with the practice of re
ligious, moral and social duties, it becomes obli
gatory upon the Editors of publick papers, to pay
a diftinguiihed regard to every idea that may te
iuggefled upon these important points, npon gem
ral principles, avoiding tedious diflertations upon
aifiritfe and metaphysealfubjeifts, : Those eflaysthat
have anatural tendency to refine our manners, hu
manize the heart,alid exalt our natures,fhoulil claim
a cliftinguifhed attention. So far as the Gazette of
the United States shall be instrumental in diJufing
sentiments of justice, humanity and benevolence—
those great moral virtues, it will doubtless recei ,e
the support of the Reverend Clergy. i
In fhortjfhoulcl this Gazette support the character
of a NATIONAL, IMPARTIAL and INDEPEN
DENT CONVEYANCER to all parts of the Um
on, ofNews, Politics, and Miscellanies, theaap r ,
bation and patronage of a generous publick v
doubtless reward the exertions of
The
TWO YOUNG SPRIGHTLY f - .
ARE wanted, as APPRENTICES to the Bufmels
of Printing. |
Enquire at A T o. 86, Wilhaif^^rr^
Publilhed by"JOHN FENNO, No" Ite/W'l lliam-
Street, Mew-York.