t . >
/V" , / r i r r
X } mvfr ?; - ; *C"
:- sv'-s-' -,' V c V *>A-'-L. v r •>• V T»" ■"*• ~V -4- ;• •♦> v '.;,"5-' r ;
' 7 ' ' ■ ,'/ ' r / /
Number 11. From WEDNESDAY, Atril ij, to SATURDAY, Atk.il xB, 1789. trice six tence.
[The Revolution of Amcrica, it was very early predicted, would
have a great influence upon the publick affairs of the European
«y #r ld hut the moil fanguinc advocate for the Liberties of Man^-
kind could not have anticipated those fiTrprifmg Events, which
have already tranfpircd to distinguish the annals of the present
a<T(f Our generous, and magnanimous Allies, the French nation.
in their publications upon laws, government, and Freedom, dif- i
•cover a noble ardour in the bed of causes—and the following
communication will shew, that tinder the Auspices of the be ft of
Kings, they are on the eve of establishing a new, and a free Con
ilitution.]
FORE IGN INTELLIGENCE.
.LONDON", DEC. 20.
POLITICAL STMT: OF FRANCE.
[TRANSLATED FIOM THE FRENCH.]
THE warmth and zeal with which forae provin
ces have of late reclaimed their ancient pri
vileges, though hostile to the general welfare of
the kingdom, has readied the municipalities, and
even a great number of indi - . idaals, who have been
considerably alarmed ; but all at once, and a: a
most unexpected period, the eyes of all the good
citizens have been turned with affection and com
placency towards the Dauphinians, who by means
of a noble and steady conduit have obtained from
the government whatever tlicy have solicited ;
their neighbours, the States of Beam, filled with
admiration, and willing to follow their lteps, tho't
proper to consult them on this momentous fc.b
jei't; but the new States of Danphi«e, not having
as yet met, and their Syndics not being elected, a
Committee appointed for that purpofewns ordered
to feud them the following truly patriotic!. ans
wer, wliich has been much applmuled throughout
the kingdom, and has been read by all ranks of
people.
" ANSWER from tb ■ STATES of DAUPHINE
to the SYNDICS of the STATES e/fIV.ARN.
" G2.ESOBLE, 26th Sept. 1788.
" GENTLEMEN,
" We take 011 oui fclves to answer your letter,
though addrefied to our Syndic s v\ ho have not as
yet been chosen, as our new States arc not entirely
organized. The tli e - orders of this province pie
fented some time ago to his Majesty, a iuw jiro
viiicial Conlikution, free from the many errors oi
the obsolete one, which hasfince received his molt
gracious approbation and lanci ion.
" Youaikus, gentlemen, what were the motives
which formerly determined the inhabitants of tliis
province to fend deputies to the States General; as
you seem to fear left the right or g 'anting subsidies
in our provincial afiemblies, v. uich you hold in
common with us, should be infringed.
" The people of Dauphine represented in their
provincial ltates, it is true, have the right oi with
holding or granting subsidies to the monarch ; it is
equally true that we ssight find in ourancicrt char
ters some plausible pretence for not fending depu
ties to the States General, and perhaps tor exempt
ing ourfelvts from paying our ihareoffjch gener
al taxes as areimpofed by the majority of national
deputies; but fortunately the in habitants of this
province have never thought it would be advan
tageous not to afiiftthe nation with their councils,
whenever she is deliberating 0:1 her most impor
tant concerns. Whether the antient States of
Dauphine have ever recorded their real'ons For so
doing, is more than we can fay, the States having
never been called fincc the year 1628, and though
this period is not very distant, yet we have obser
ved nothing in their proceedin- ; rcl.Hiiig to those
deputies ; but v/e find in tliofc of the States Gener
al,heldin 1484,1588 and 1614 manifeft proofs that
we were then represented. Those who think they
held a fepcrate liieeing as deputies from an inde
pendent Stale, entertain a most palpable error ;
they voted with those of the other provinces in
1384, as well as in the three last ones.
" Dauphine is not the only province, wnichtho'
it enjoyed the rights of granting or withholding
subsidies in its particular States, yet fuinni te ! to
the national deliberations ; Pi ovence, Languedcc,
Bretagne, Normandy, &c. have formerly given the
fame example.
What advantage could this province reap from
"ot fending deputies to the States General ? Could
its inhabitants flatter themlelves with the idea of
pofleiling more wisdom and pursuing the steps of
a founder policy, than the whole nation aflemblcd ?
Are we not obliged to contribute our lhare of the
expenfeg neceflary to the preservation of order ant:
publick tranquility, as well as to the fafety oi the
Kingdom ? Become independent, could we find a
inong ourselves a greater decree of strength, with
which to oppose the ihares of intiigues, and repel
the encroachment of aiithoi ity ■
Whilst Jn individual may hold up his char
ters, and sometimes oppofethemfuccefsfully to the
rapacity of power, can he at the fame time dispense
with attending national aflemblies, met to deliber
ate on the remedies required by the calamities and
general diftrelles of the nation ?
(< Until now, gentlemen, France has not had a
pofifive,'nor a fixed Constitution, fufficiently de
fined to guarantee the refpe<ftive lights of the so
vereign and of the subjects ; hitherto the provin
ces, the different orders, nay the very individuals
have been too widely separated ; no bond of real
union has ever existed between the parts oftliisvaft
whole. Each, circumscribed within the narrow
circle of their own private concerns, have not re
flected how much their division led them to inabi
lity and weakness, and how much their exclulive
attention to their particular privileges, made them
neglect national and individual liberty, as well as
the rights of private property ; hence the strong
tide of power has progreifively (wallowed up every
thing.
" Provinces ought never to have fcparate inter
ests hut when they form federal republicks, each
poflfefling a so vereign power : In a monarchy,.we
never can be free, uiilefs impelled by the fame
views and closely united, in order to maintain in
its full vigour, the general Constitution.
" Let us forget what we have been, in order to
think more attentively on what we wi(h to be ;
Frenchmen enjoying under a King a proper lhare
of freedom; Avhen the lleprifentatives of this great
iiation are met to deliberate oil tlie best means of
healing her wounds, on those of preserving to the
throne, that neCellary lhare of splendour and dig
l? sry ; on those of paying the debts of the state ;
on those in short of leading France towards that
summit of power and glory 'to which nature has
called her ; we arc well allured, gentlemen, that
then both the Beamois and Dauphinians, will not
be the lall to appear and offer their honest tribute
of counsels and personal services.
" We are of opinion, gentlemen, tliatyou ought
not to conlider as an indefeafible privilege that of
granting in your particular States the neeelfary
lubfidies. There is no province in the kingdom,
nay no town or borough, hut what at some time
or other has enjoyed the fame rights, the welfare
of the great community to which we belong, and
the ncceffity of rendering the holding the States
f~ t ." .|1 frfqitfTi*- Tilt' nulifp l .iTTTTIc, mult hence
forth become our great and leading principle.
The only privilege which provincial States ought
to enjoy, is the laying and collecting fucli taxes as
may be granted by the great national aflembly, in
fpe(Tting their own publick works. How could
those inferiour provincial assemblies know the real
wants of the state ? How could they obtain fuffi
cient knowledge of the national finances ? How
cor Id they oppose fuflicient barriers to unjull pre
tensions ? If the Beamois and the Dauphinians,
really and sincerely mean to become free, let all
France become free alio, then the freedom of each
province will he under the fafeguard and guaran
tee of the whole. We inuft despair of ever ob
taining a complete system of national rights and
privileges, if we mean to retain any of our old
oncS,b.it those which may not be incompatible with
the c-encral welfare, and not detrimental to the
reft of onr fellow citizens ; henceforth this exten
sive kingdom rnuft be our country; the more wife
ly governed we shall be, the dearer it will become
to us. Let us therefore lay aside those obsolete
ideas ; let us give up what was merely partial and
local, and form but one wide extended family.—
Beamois, Dauphinians, Bretons, Normands, Pi
cards, Lorrains, let us all glory in becoming truly
Frenchmen, let us feel and fulfill the duties which
that name imposes on us, and fly without delay to
the afliftance . nd relief of our dear country.
Directed by the three orders of Dauphine, to be
written.
To the Syndics of the States of Beam.
SPEECHES of the KING, and the KEEPER of the
SE.4LS, at the opening of the Afcmbly of Notables,
held a: VsrfculL s, the (>th of Nov. 1788.
HIS MAJESTY'S SPEECH.
" GENTI.E.MEN,
" THE manifold proofs I have lately had of
your knowledge and abilities, as well as of your
zeel and publick Ipirit have delerminedme to meet
you again.
" 1 have appointed the beginning of the follow
ing year for holding the States General of my
kingdom, and you may reft allured that my heart
impatiently waits for the moment, when surround
ed by the representatives of my Faithful fubjeClr,
1 lhall have it in my power to devise and confuli
with them on the heft means of healing the wounds
of the State, and without weakening the authority
which I have received from my people's future
happinels ; as long as I Eve, such will be the priii
cipal aim of all my artions, and of my Left wifties.
" But before the Convocation of those States is
to take place, I wish to consult you, gentlemen, on
the molt eligible mode of rendering that impor
tant meeting as ufeful to my kiligdoin as pofhble.
For that purpose, I have ordered, that every infor
mation, and papers which may tend to elucidate
the principle object of your meeting, flyjuld be laid
before you. lam confident that your zeal, the
celerity of your debates and deliberations, V. ill
hasten the completion of this important talk, for
which I have called you together, and that your
labours will defcrve all my confidence, and answer
the expectations of the publick."
S*EECH ofrhc KEENER of the SEALS.
" GENTLEMEN,
" THE Notables of the kingdom have never
been called but on the molt urgent occurrences,
and in consequence of the molt important circum-
Itances, it is in tliofe momentous ones, that amo
liarch, whose firft v. ilh is the publick good, loves
to meet the wife councils of his people, and to sur
round himfelf with the light of their knowledge.
" Such has been the condurt of those of our 10-
vereigns whose names have been handed down,
and are exhibited to their fucceflors, as patterns
of good kings ; such w as the condurt of that mag
nanimous one, whose memory becomes dearer
every day, as we tracc his \ irtues in the heir of
his throne.
" The convocation of the States General will
become one of the molt memorable events of his
retgn ; what greater boon could the nation expert
from his goounefs and justice ? But the tender so
licitude of his Majesty is not limited to the meer
calling of this great aflembly ; he wiihes also to re
move every obstacle, to smooth eveVy difficulty
which can poflibly be forefeen. He wants to know
which is the inoft perfect mode of calling them,
and that which may become the most ufeful to the
people. Infteadof fruiting to his own wisdom, or
applying to the advice of his council for the in
vestigation of this question, rendered ltill more
momentous the great number of yeais elapsed
since the meeting of the lalt aflembly, as well as by
the increase which the kingdom has received since,
his Majesty requires that you should let him know
which are the surest means of accpmplifhing the
mcft arduous measure of his admirrillratioii, and
•at the fame time the one molt intevefting, as hav
ing for its object the publick felicity.
" The King comes in the m;dft of you gent le
men to hear the voice of the nation, henceforth to
be tile basis of publick opinion, to derive from your
collective wisdom, information and sentiments,
some part of his power and peculiar happiness ;
the fuccelsFul trial he has already made of it, en
courages and juftifies his confidence.
" That you may be enabled at one glance, to per
vade the whole extent of the business which you
have to run over, and adopt some precise ideas
concerning the various points of disquisition which
will be proposed, his Majesty has ordered his Mi
nister of the Finances to lay before you a fei ies of
questions to which he expects the molt explicit ans
wers. This measure, as plain as it is natural, will
greatly facilitate yourlabours and by circumscribing
them within proper bounds, will enable you with
out delay to meet the just impatience of the mon
arch to know your opinions.
" It will be a glorious ta(k, gentlemen, thus to
have prepared the way f»r the convening this great
and solemn aflembly, which will be truly conliitu
tional—an aflembly from whose wisdom, and salu
tary determinations, the people of this kingdom ex
pert to derive a degree of energy, strength and
lustre hitherto unknown.
Hasten therefore to undertake and fulfil those
honourable funrtions :—The eyes of the whole na
tion are already turned towards you, while she re
collerts with gratitude the proofs you gave in the
year i 787, of your zeal and ofyourlincere assertion
to the true interests of the state.
"Ye ministers of the altar, whose virtue and
learning France has long since refperted and ad
mired, you will diftinguifli yourselves no doubt,
by that aptitude to business which is due to your
ftudioushabits, by that spirit of love and concilia
tion which springs from the holy religion you teach.
" Andyou, generous nobility, whose hereditary
honours and military services have been so ufeful
to the monarch, as well as to the monarchy, shew
by the wisdom of your councils, that you are as fit
to watch over the internal regulations of the pub
lick weal, as t6 defend it by your valour and your
courage.
" First magistrates of the kingdom, you who
preside over those venerable and ancient corps,
learned expositors and refpertable depofiirories of
our laws, what may not the nation expert from
your consummate experience, your well known
zeal, and your attachment to those maxims onV- likli are fpunded the reciprocal happiaefs of the
Prince and of his people.
" You, heads of those numerous clafies, which
by their labours, industry and activity, are the main
props of empires ; His ivlajelty exptcts tliat youi
meditations and reflections on this important fub
jeet will be constantly directed tcwards the publick
good.
" Yes, gentlemen, in whatever rank of society
you may be placed, the mod intimate connections
bind you to every conltituent part of the State.—
Publick felicity calls you here, and here closely
■unites you ; this noble, this great and pervading
sentiment, which is that of the nation, will preside
over all your dii'quilitions and debates.
" You will follow this salutary object through
out all its meanders, with the utmost precifenefs
and accuracy ; you will spare no pains to remove
those obstacles from the mode in which the States
General a'e to be convened, and to prevent those
frivolotis debates which formerly, and particularly
in 1614, took up and walled lo many moments
which might have been more ufefully employed.
" Gentlemen, you never will loose fight of the
jimple and affecting idea, that the inhabitants oi
this kingdom one great fair#', that
therefore we can have but one and the fame inter
ell to meliorate and purine, but one and the fame
honour to preserve and to keep; that if the august
chief who now presides here, owes himfelf etten
tially and entirely to the happiness of all, if he is
the natural cr nciliator of all f artier, and protestor of
*»hose pi ivileges and immunities which have been
placed under his care, he has therefore the 1110 ft
undoubted right to your love and refpecft.
" Thu3 called together, thus admitted into his
most intimate councils, by the confidence he re
poses in yon, he has every reason to expert that
your enlightened zeal, your bell information, like
the just tribute of filial piety, will be offered up as
a generous and grateful return for the tenderness
O > t>
and altccftion of a father."
N E W Y O 11 K.
TROCEEDINCS cf CONGRESS.
hi ths HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES, of the
UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, Arr.it 15, 1789.
TvT^' "^* UCKER presented a petition from Doctor
-L R» msa v,of Cha-lefton, S>. C'.reqneftingCon
grefs to fecu'-e to him his property in the Hi/fo-y
of the Revolution of South-Carolina. A committee
was appointed to take up the subject at large, and
report a bill upon general principles.
A memorial of John Churchman was introdu
ced by Mr. SfncßMAN—it refpectcd Mr. Church
man's new difcoverics in the magnetick •• n
riation which have been announced to the publick
—this was referred tn the Committee, appointed
011 Dr. Rainfay's petition.
Mr. Tucker presented a memorial also from
Doctor Ramsay— Subject, the ineligibility of
the Hon. Wi 1.1.1 .-\m Smith to a feat in that House,
as he wrj not qualified in point of residence, net
having been seven years a citizen of the United
States previous to his clecftion—a requisite of the
Cop.ftitui ion.
Mr. Tucker introduced the memorial with a
g--eat degree of delicacy. He obfervc 1, that he
wilhed to be considered as acting entirely officially
in the hufinef*, and that it might be treated with
the utmost attention, as the gentlemen were both
highly refpedable in their characters—Dr. Ram
say was a gentleman of extensive reputation, and
ranked high in the State to which he belonged,—
T fr. Sm it h also was a gentleman who fuftsincd the
faireft character, and had often received respecta
ble marks of distinction from his fellow citizens.
His election was cor.teftocl merely upon constitu
tional principles."—His appearance in that house
fiifßcieiitly indicated that he had never forfeited
the esteem of his fellow citizens.
This memorial was referred to the COMMIT
TEE OY ELECTIONS.
Mr. iiouDiKOT, of the committee to prepare
rules for conducting Conferences, reported—the
confederation of whit h w as postponed.
BttfsoN of the committe appointed to confer
with a committee of the Senate, upon the fubjevt
of arrangements for the reception of the PRESI
DENT, and-VICE-PRESIDENT, made the follow
ing report, to v\it.
That Mr. Osgood, the proprietor of the house
lately occupied by the President of Congress, be
re-piefted to put the fame, and the furniture there
in, in proper condition for the relidence and use
of'. he President of the United States, and other
wise, 't the e-:,ience of the United States, to pro
vide for Lis temporary accommodation.
That it will be most eligible in the fir ft instance,
that a committee of three Members from the Senate,
and iivp from the House of Representatives, to be
appointed by the Houses refpecftively, attend tare
ceive the President, at fu'ch place as he (hall em
bark at from New-Jcrfey for this city,and conduct
him without form, to the house lately occupied by
the President of Congress, and t.hht at such time
thereafter, as the President /hail fignify, it fiiall
be most convenient for him, he be formerly received
by both houses.
That a Committee of two members from the Sc
nate, and three members from the House ot Re
prelentatives, to be appointed by the Houfcs rei
peOiively, wait on the Vice-President of the Lni
tecl States, as soon as he shall come to this city,
and in the name of the Congress of the United
states, congratulate him on his arrival.
The said report being considered, was accepted.
A letter from the Chief Justice of the Urate of
New-york, addrelled to the Speaker, was read, in
forming that John Becklf.y, Esq. Clerk ot the
House of Reprelentatives, had appeared bef are him,
and taken the oath required by the Constitution.
In committee of the whole house, the Order of
the day was resumed, by proceeding to fill the
blanks in the Resolve, as follow,
On Cocoa, I cent pr. lb.
On Beer, Ale and Porter,
imported in calks, 8 cents pr. gal.
On do. in bottles, 24 cents pr. doz.
On fallow Candles, 2 cents pr. lb.
On Wax do. 6 do. do.
On Cheese, 4 do. do.
On Soap, 2 do. do.
On Boots, 50 cents pr. pair.
On Shoes, Slippers, and Galloflioes, 10 do. do.
011 unwrought Steel, 56 cents pr. 112ll>.
011 the fubjecft of Steel, a debate ensued. Mr.
Lei: moved, that the article be ft ruck out of the
enumeration.
Mr'. Tucker v.'as in opinion with Mr. Lee.
Mr. Clymer, and Mr. Fitzsimons, were for
the duty.
On the one hand it was contended, that this duty
would create a inonoply in favour of a few manu
faifturers, no ways conducive to the general advan
tage —that it would bear hard upon the agricul
tural interest, as it was an indifpenfible article in
the fabrication of implements of husbandry, &c.
On the other it was alledged, that three hundred
tons had been manufactured the yearpaftin Penn
fvlvania alone—That further encouragementwould
produce fuflicient quantities for the confumptlon
of the Union—and although it might operate a
)i tie unequally at firft, the fame objection lay a
gainst encrealing every branch—but that this was
an evil that carried its own remedy with it—for
every productive bufir.efs was soon overdone, and
the article then diminished in value—That it was
;'ie duty of the House to go upon general princi
pics, and net to bebiafledhv partial interefts,when
a measure appeared to be evidently calculated to
promote naiional objecfts—that when the whole
system should be brought into operation, there
would probably be a balance of mutual advantages
derived to individual States.
The question being taken 011 Mr. Let's motion,
it was loft.
On f'ahlps and tarred Cordage,adutyof 50cents
pr. hund. wt. was voie«t_:
On untarred do. 60 cents pr. hund. wt.
On Twine and pack Thread, one dollar pr.
hund. wt.
All Inipoft on Hemp was mentioned, and urged
by fomc observations from Mr. Scot—but gentle
men were not fufUciontly prepared toafcertain the
amount that might be expedient—it was according
ly deferred.
Adjourned.
Thursday, April 16.
House met agreeably to adjournment.
The Bill, providing the mode oftaking the oath,
or afUrmation, required by the Constitution, was
read the second time, and on motion ofM:. White,
was referred to the Committee of the whole house,
and made the order of the day for Monday next.
A committee of five was then balloted for,who are
to join a committee of the Senate, to receive the Pre
lident on the Jersey shore, and attend him to this
city, Mr. Boudisot, Mr.Bland, Mr.Benson,Mr.
Lawrence, and Mr. Tucker, wei J e elected. Mr.
Oilman, Mr. Am f s, and Mr. Gerry, were appoint
ed a committee to wait 011 the Vice President, on his
arrival, and congratulate him in the name of the
two Houses.
In committee of the whole,on theftate of the uni
on, the committee proceeded to fill up the blanks
in the resolve.
HEMP—Mr. Gilmax proposed, that this article
be out of the enumeration.
Mr. Hartley—l am opposed Sir, to an excefllve
duty upon this article: Hemp is a raw material,
which we Jhould find ourfelvcs very much diftrefled
for, should we lay a heavy, or prohibitory tax upon
it; the production of this article in the country,
bears no proportion to its coiifumption ; nor can
gentlemen determine with any degree of precision,
when that will be the cafe. Sir, already
laid a duty upon Cordage, which will operate as a
protection to our manufacture of that article, and
ifwe nowtax Hemp exorbitantly, we shall in araeq
fure defeat our own purposes. Besides Sir, this will
be a most improvident measure, as it respects (hip
building—and surely we do not mean to leflon the
navigation of our country. Upon the general prin -
ciple, Mr. Hartley concluded in favour of a small
duty, not more than 5 pr. cent, as on the general
mass of articles.
Mr. Moo re was in favour of a high duty—his ob
servations were considerably lengthy, but were not
diftindlly heard by the e.litor.
Mr. lit ist £R otfeived, that from the Western
country, large quantities of this article were to be
expected: He proposed therefore a finall dutylhould
be laid for the interim between the present time,
and the next harvcft, after \\ liich the lmpoit fiiould
be enhanced, so as to afford encouragement to the
railing this important article.
Mr.W Hiri opposed fti iking out the article—
Hemp,he observed, was a plant that might be raised
in any quantities, especially in the Western coun
try, the foil of which was peculiarly adapted to its
growth. Agriculture was an object of immenfeim
portance ; "Government would undoubtedly patron
ize it—He therefore proposed 75 cents pr. hund. as
a moderate duty on this article.
Mr. Partridge spake in favour of a moderate
duty, for conlidering the article as a material, ne
ceflary to the existence of an important manufacture
—the high price it bore in foreign markets, iliould
induce a reason for a very low lmpoit—he therefore
proposed 40 ccnts pr. hund.
Mr. Lawrenci—l am, Sir, eppefed to a great
ImpoP"upon Hemp : It is certain that the produc
tion of that article in the States, bears no propor
tion to the demand. This State, Sir, manufactur
ed three hundred ton r the year pail—and not more
than forty tons were raised among ourselves. We
cannot be supplied from our own produce with
fuflicient quantities at present. The duty on Cor
dage is fuiticien-t, and will operate tothe encourage
ment wilhed for in the railing of Kemp. If his in
formation was jult, the gentleman observed, that
Cordage could be imported as cheap as Hemp, or
nearly lo ; a duty therefore o:i the latter, would
induce the importation of the former, to the total
dilcouragement of the manufacture. He conclu
ded therefore by moving, that the duty Ihould be
40 cents pr. hund.
Mr. Goodhue was in favour of 40 cents ; there
was a material difference between Hemp and Cor
dage, as gentlemen had observed, and the differ
ence bet%\ een the duties ought to bear foine pro
ticn.
Mr. Boudinot faid,thatas every article ofim
portation would doubtless bear r.n lmpoft of at lealt
5 pr. cent, and the proposed duty amounted, ac
cording to the present price of Hemp, exatftly to
that sum, he Ihould be in favour of 40 ccnts, fort'nat
reason ; but as it was already a fpecified article, to
oive it diftincftion as such, without materially en
hancing the duty from 5 pr. cent. f.ikl that Com
merce and Manufacture might mutually aim!each
other, he would propose 50 cents.
Mr. Hartley suggested, that in lieu of a duty
on foreign Hemp, to encourage the growth of it at
home, it might be eligible to offer a bounty on the
latter : He was decidedly of opinion, that the last
expedient would be preferable to tlie inipolinga
tax on Hemp imported.
Mr. Moore again advocated an enhanced duty.
Mr. White also, to the fame point, adverted to
the Western territory—suggested the policy of con
ciliating the affection of our brethren in that coun
try, and of making favourable impreflions rei'pect
ing the administration of the New Constitution.
Mr. Scot—Sir, Commerce and Agriculture are
so closely allied, that whatever is injurious to one,
equally affects the other ; they must be united.—
111 vain doesthe Farmer till the foil, and bring his
produce to market, unless the Merchant is readyto
rake his articles, at a reasonable rate.—ln vain
docs the Merchant plan his voyages to difrant
climes, unless the labour of the Husbandman fur
niflies him with the necefiary remittances.
Agriculture is the natural resort of the great
body of our countrymen. The eftablilhment ot
Manufactures may be .neccflkry to America, in a
time of war, but their prosecution, upon a gener
ally extensive scale, is not to be expected, while the
boundless tracts of uncultivated lands that extend
thousands of miles westward, offer on easy support
to the poorer claflesofpeople—and for a longtime
to come, we cannot expect to vie with the European
manufacturers—Agriculture,therefore, is the great
object that ihould arrest our attention. Hemp is
an article, the growth ofwliicli, if encouraged by
the general government of the United States, quan
tities may be raised in the Western country to an
unlimited amount—lts trjinfportatinii is easy, and
the price it bears, will warrant its being brought
from a great distance. Should but a hope be held
out, that the inhabitants of tliofe regions may hope,
that Congress will take this article under their pa
tronage, it will not te long, before the moutli of
the Millifippi will be delivering iinmenfe quanti
ties, which from the interior country, shall come
floating upon its waters—Mr. Scot was therefore
in favour of 7$ ccnts pr. hund.
Mr. Maddison here made some observations,
which we could not distinctly hear : He was op
posed, however, to a high duty, and proposed 4>
cents.
Mr. Smith, Maryland, wasiu favour of 40 cents,
as a temporary duty, and proposed, that after tw
years, the lmpoft Ihould be one dollar, or 100 cents
pr. hund. wt.
Upon taking the vote it palled in favour of P
cents pr. hund.
The articJeMalt was dutied at to cents pr. bulhel-
Mr. Amfs proposed the articles of Barley and
Lime fiiould be added to the general enumeration
—which being voted in the allirrilative, B irleypbushel was dutied 6 cents—Liinejpr. lid. ioo ccnts.
Nails Spikes, Tack and Brads, were the next
nicies. These Mr. Lle propol'ed, should be
ft ruck out—and was seconded by Mr. Maddifon,
and Mr. Bland : The latter gentleman observed,
that it would operate as an intolerable burthen
upon the Southej n States, especially as the quan
tities which are manufactured in some of the States,
are not adequate to the demand of those States.
Mr. Gcodhc. fuppcfed, that the quantity which
•now was, or easily might be made in the Common
wealth of Maflacliufetts w as equal to the demands
of the Uiiion.
Mr. Ames —Sir, I am in favour of the articles
being retained in the Refohe ; to strike them out
would be to strike at one of the belt and molt ac
commodating manufactures that could poflibly be
eftabliflied. It is now usual in Maflacliufetts, for
house keepers in the country towns, to erect a fin all
force in their chimney corners, and in winter,and
on evenings, when no other work could be done, it
is alinoft incredible, what quantities of Nails are
made, even by children. These Nails are produced
in fach quantities that the exportation of them is
become a very considerable branch of Commerce.
And fhsll we discourage so ufeful, so extensive a
manufacture : Every principle of policy forbids
ir. Manufactures in Europe and America are upon
quite different foundations : In Europe, necejpty is
a competent ftimulous ; but with us, every en
couragement is neceflary, to prop and cheiifh our
infant attempts —he was therefore against the mo
tion.
Mr. Sherman observed, that as our country a
bound.ed in iron, the manufacture under debate,
was profecnted with perhaps greater advantage,
th2R almolt any other—that it promoted an inter
course with the neighbouring States-—Connecti
cut for instance, which manulaiflured this article
to a large amount, bartered the nails for nail
rods, with their neighbours in the State of New-
York, he was therefore opposed to the motion.
Mr. Tucker, Mr. Part idge Mr. Fitzfimons, and
Mr. Carrol, Severally froke upon the motion—
which was finally withdrawn.—Tacks and brads
were then struck out, and one cent per pound
duty, wasiinpofed upon nails andfpikes.
Salt was the next article read, to which Mr.
Burke and Mr. Hue fr were Severally opposed to
afleffng any duty, as it would opeiate ve»y une
qually upon the Southern Governments, where
the price was greatly enhanced by very extenlive
land carriage.
Mr. Lav/rancf observed that a tax upon fait,
would be equal through the States, and as it was
an article on which a certain revenue could be
realized—he was of opinion that a duly of fix
cents per bushel would not be buithenfome, he
therefore proposed that Sum.
Mr. Tucker expatiated upon the unequal ope
ration of this duty—and the extreme injury it
would produce to the poorer part of the people in
the Sou Jiernftates, whoSe fate would be extremely se
vere, deprived of this neceflary article—already
so high with them that it was Scarcely attainable.
—Kc was decidedly opposed to any duty what
ever.
Mr. Scot, —the article of fait, Sir, is transported
to adiftance of 500 miles from the atlantic Ocean,
and cannot be procured nearer—chief of the way
or. horseback, two baflsets to a load. Four dollars
a bushel is the price of this article where I live.—
Sir, to add to this exorbitant price by a tax, would
111 my opinion be imrolitick at this early period
of the national Government, it may be our wif
dem to make the the molt: favorable impressions
upon the minds of the back country people 1
do not pretend to the gift of prophecy, but the
effects ofa measure of this kind would certainly
be unfavorable upon the minds cf t'.iofe people—
nature it Should fetfin had fufficiently taxed this
article by the difficulties she threw in the way of
obtaining it by a great proportion of mankind.—
Mr Moore laid some thing upon the fubjedt, but
could not diftincftly hear him.
Mr. Smith of (South Carolina) was opposed to
the duty—and combated it by a v ariety of obfer
'-atior.s v. hich had referrence principallyto the local
nrcumftances of South Carolina—its attachment
to the Conflitution—the expensive land carriage,
tfc. &c. but as the time had elnpfed and no pros
pect appearing of bringing the Subject to an im
mediate decision, Mr. Lawrence moved that the
counnitte should riSe.
the further consideration was therefore paflpo
ned.. 1
1 he committe arose and the Koufe adjourned.
Thursday, April 17.
!■ ct agreeable to adjournment.
-Mr. Sh f p.mai\ moved fertile order of the day.
) In committee of the whole—resumed theconfi
(■eiation of the import: proper to be laid on Saltl
Mr.. Burke moved that the article be fttuck out
or the enumeration.
Lawraj.'Ci —lam not convinced, Sir, by
ail that has been urged upon the subjeCt, of the
iiexp diency of a duty upon this article—Upon
1 iC general principle, this article, it is true, will
con e in, but when it is ccnfidered that it is our
Udt " avßi ' ourselves of the 1110 ft productive four
'l . I , c "' ei> ue. When it is considered that this
will operate more equally than some ctlieis,
by reason of the greater consumption for the pur
poses ol luxury than will be consumed by die
poor—cOnsidering alio, the low price at Which
-/alt is imported, it mull: be confefled a very e
ligible source of revenue. It has been laid that
it was opprellive, and would be as a poll
tax. As to its being opprellive, he could not con
ceive of it, as the quantity consumed by families
upon an average, did not exceed, perhaps, three
bulhels per annum ; which, ax fix cents was little
more than one-fixtli of a dollar a year; and it was
very well known, that a poll-tax was common in
(ome of the States, and had been so, time imme
morial, and no greater complaint exilted as tc
that denomination of taxes, than again!! others—
The truth was, all taxes were odious, and' were
submitted to from principle and necelhty. In the
Southern governments, it has been (aid, that the
heavy land carriage of this article, would inhance
its value beyond all toleration—To this, it might
be replied, that whatever the price of Salt might
be, the impost would be uniform, and not in pro
portion to the price of the article, let Salt be
cheap or dear, still fix cents only was thepropofed
duty; and if from local circumitances, some parts
of the Union paid an excellive price for a particu
lar article, Itill it lay with them very much to
lefien the price and diminish the amount of the
duty by retrenchingthe consumption of such article.
At any rate, it was morally certain, that a balance
would be produced upon the whole, when the
system Ihould be completed ; by the States upon
the lhores of the Atlantic consuming many arti
cles on which heavy duties would be aflefled, and
which were not, and would not be made ule of,
in the inland parts of the country—A tax upon
this article had existed for some time in this State,
and was collected with the fame ease with other
duties : 7 here were other objections anlwered by
Mr. Lawrance ; his replies were to the point, and
he concluded by wishing that the article might
not be erased.
Mr. M.iddison was in favor of the duty; he
considered the subjeCt upon the principles of jus
tice &nd policy, and from both determined that
the proposed duty was eligible ; he was howe-se
in favor of a fntall one, but could by no means
think of leaving the article out.
Mr. Hun tin odo n adverted to the facility and
punctuality with which a great revenue was rais
ed from this article in European countries—the
duty proposed was low, and in a great majority ol
inltances, would be borne by thole who were belt
able to pay.
Mr. White opposed the article's beiug conti
nued in the resolve, or a duty's being imposed on
it—His coftllituents expected relief from the ope
ration of the New Government, this would be
considered as a great burthen, and have a very
iiraufpiiious influence, five per cent he was in
favor of ; but the proposed sum amounted to al
most 33-3 per cent.
Mr. Scot was in opposition to the continuance
of the article in the lilt, and observed, upon the
aflertion that had been made refpeifling the peo
ple in the Western country, not consuming many
articles which the sea ports paid a heavy duty up
on, that every article of luxury, both of Europe,
the Ealt and Welt Indies had found their way 500
miles inland ; and that according to their proper
ty, the people in those regions, consumed their
4ull proportion of luxuries : He was therefore for
expunging the article, as he dreaded the conse
quences, which, in his opinion, would result from
an inipolt that would be considered in so odious a
iight.
Mr.Fitzsimons observed, that jultice was the
greatprinciple thatlhould influence the decisions of
that House ; that it would be a poor compliment to
the judgment andpatriotifm of their constituents,
to suppose that their attachment to good govern
ment and the Conltitution, depended upon a cir
cumstance cf this nature : He did not think it was
in human jultice to adopt a tax less injurious to
the^poor; he conceived that no people upon earth
had higher lentiments of jultice than the people
of thele States ; and as so great a sum as nearly
ioooco dollars might,according to a calculation he
had made, be railed with ease upon this article ;
he was opposed to expunging it, and hoped the
duty of fix cents would obtain.
1 lie queltion being taken, it was voted not to
expunge the article.
Mr. Goodhue then moved that a draw back
Ihould be allowed on fait used for the Fillieries,
n-.l provisions—this palled in the affirmative.
It was then voted that the duty on /a//Ihould be
fix cents per bushel ; on manufactured Tobacco,
fix cents per lb. on Snliff, ten cents per lb.
Mr. Carrol then proposed that window and o
ther Glass, lliould be added to the general lilt of
articles: This, after some debate, was acceded
to, and ten per cent advalorem was voted upon
window and all other glass. After conliderable
further debate, the committee that a duty
of seven and half per cent advalorem, Ihould be
laid upon all "writing, printing and -wrapping Paper
and pajle-board, walking flicks and horse-whips,
clothes ready made, and gold and silver, and
plated ware, jewellery and pafle work, and upon
all coaches, chariots, and other four wheeled car
riages, duty of fifteen per stent advalorem.
Upon moiion tlic committee then role, anil the
jpeaker resumed the chair. A letter was thru
read from the Hon. tenate enclofmg two orders.
A report from the joint committee appointed to
determine upon the mode of conducting confer
ences ; also re'.'peering the election of Chaplains.
This report was accepted on the part of the
House And an order of the Senate appointing
Mr. strong, Ivlr. Izarcl and Mr. Lee, to join a com
mittee of tlie House, to consider the most eligible
mode of communicating papers, bills and meila
ges. Mr. Lee, Mr. Burke and Mr. ieney w«re
appointed.
Adjourned
(To be continued.)
ODE,
On the Establishment of the CONSTITUTION,
And the Election of GEORGE our Prefideiit.
OD of our fathers! need we trace
The mis'ries of ? former race,
To learn true conduct from recorded woes?
Eut now our errors, and our crimes,
Drew down thy judgments on the times.
Back o'er our heads a temped rose,
Scon all the licav'ns were in a flame,
Pointing to blast our peace and fame:
Bat, oh I thy mercy turn'd the storm aside,
Deign'd to becalm the raging seas,
Deign'd to dilfufc the swelling breeze,
And to the port of peace our vefirl guide.—
Our pilot fav'd thro' such a wat'ry war,
Sits at the helm, and points to Hope's bright star;
And, God his guide, he bids us boldly go,
Whatever rocks oppoofe, whatever tempests blow.''
NATIONAL.
ExtraEl of a letter jrom a neighbouring State.
" I AM really happy to be informed that the General Go
vernment is.beginning its operations—Human natur is caprici
ous ; would you believe it—there was like the appi.ar
•ince of an ahatetnent of that ardour in the national cause, which
has so strongly marked the condu& ot the majority of the people
111 this quaitrr—" thare is a tide in the affairs of men"—and so
here is in their sentiments too—" taken at the flood it leads"
:e Empire Government, and Peace—but it neglitled 1 forbear
the ri it May the Legislature of the United States be wife to di(-
ccin, and Ipiriu dto proftcut-the best intcrclts—" Wherefreedom
dwells, there is my Country, 1 ' laid on and where is hr ruidence
to be tound lut vv cie the security of person and property exiils
undir a jull, a rigl.unus, and energetick Government ?—luch as I
trull is in reserve for this riling—tliis independent Empire."
PRIZE OF VIRTUE~
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY of PERPIC
NAN.
January 2, 1788.
THE prize of Virtue proposed for the country
man, who should most deserve it, by a long
irreproachable conduct, or some remarkable in
stance of courage and humanity, was this day a
warded to the following persons.
Nicholas BRUssF.,of the -village of Toulonp-e,
who, throughout a life of llxty years, has
rlie conltant exercise of virtuous acftions, notwith
standing the many misfortunes he has experienced.
Ebdon Claret of 40, and Villenoval, of 20,
inhabitants of St. Laurent de Cerda, whose em
ployment was to carry ore, on mules, ft om the
mountain of Batere to the forges at St. Laurent.
These muleteers, returning from Batere, find the
molt dangerous torrents in the province extremely
swelled. The youngest takes upon liimfelf to
found the pafiage. He gets upon his mule, laden
with ore, and enters the water. The mule is soon
carried away by the stream, and VillekoVal lo
ses his feat. His comrade, feeing him on the point
of being drowned, ruflies into the river, seizes Vil
lenoval, and drags him to the opposite fide. Per
ceiving the m ule of his young friend,and this mule
was his all, ready to perifli, he again plunges in,
comes up to the mule, cuts the girths to disengage
the load, but the animal in struggling strikes him
on the head, and Claret is carried away fenfelcfs
by the torrent. Villenoval cannot bear to fee
liis preserver perish, rulhes into the water, and after
several efforts has the good fortune to bring Cla
ret to the shore.
The society gave 200 livres to Brusse, and 100
ivres to each of the others.
NEWYORK, APRIL 18.
It would be a pcor compliment to the good sense of the Citizens
of the United States, to suppose, that after their unparelleled exer
tions to obtain the bleflings ot freedom and independence, that
' hey should not with ardour adopt a firm and efficient Govern
ment, and enter into spirited adminißration of such a Go
vernment too, as the only method to realize, secure and perpetu
ate the great obje&s for which they fought and conquered.
Accordingly we find, that the more that Government is
studied, understood and enjoyed, like other bleflijigs of a propiti
ous providence, the more it is prized ; and there is no doubt but
ps the prejudices of mankind subside, and their understanding*
have fair play, they will confidcr tlie restraints of Law and good
Government, as the only barriers of freedom and happiness.
OF THE FEDERAL STATE-HOUSE.
This fbperb edifice is upon the w! ok*, fnpe >or to any buiMing in
America—and for its competency to the £reat design for which it
is conftruftcd, does honour to the architect.—The citizens of this
metropolis, always diftinguiftied for their public spirit—have by
their exertions in this inltance, added greatly to the lufire of their
vftabhfhed FEDERAL CHARACTER.r ' '
i ■ ■
1 .. .. .. '
V 1
■. .
n, • i
I 1
' i . : ■ • ■ :
i ; 'l t ■ .. . . .i -
n ' ■ • 1 " . 1 "
i■ : •
.... i j i
' ' - ' ' • . 1 ' • I
I : ■
opinion df my horse for having been so diftarbed
with that impertinent man, who intruded upon
you this evening. There are in this neighbour
uood a nuuiLer of these talking, idle fellows, who
put themselves in the way of all strangers that
come to iny house." I told my civil landlord to
jive himfelf no uneasiness, for my companion had
ifForded me much amusement; and I had conclud
ed that he was a man of refpetflability, and alked
i he was not a lawyer, or some officer of the church
a. he* was well acquainted with legal procefies and
ecclesiastical discipline. The innkeeper with a
'ook of indignant surprise a flu red me I was de
eived, and that he was as lazy and worthless a
Allow as could be " found unhung". He was a man
of 110 profeflion and in no credit. His father left
iim some property, but he wafted it, in quarrels
it law, and in stirring up ftrife among the neigh-
I oais. Is he not, replied I, a man of honour and
integi ity in his dealings ? The landlord with a
farcaftick sneer laid, " Sir, if you put any proper
ty in his hands, you will ha\e good luck ever to
>;et any of it back again." But he certainly, con
inued I, mutt be a man of veracity. The innkeep
er r out of all patience with my queries, Ihook his
'.'.ad, and in a fignificant linile, replied, " my
leighbour is rather apt to JJjoot flying." This cha
a"ter of my new acquaintance a little agitatedme:
as he had pledged liimfelf to accompany me several
linles in the morning, having ailiired me that buli
'iefs would lead him the direction 1 was going, and
■or the fake of my company, he would Hart earlier
ha,i lie othciwil'e intended. In the morning, at
he hour appointed, he called for me. I mention-d
o him .hut I was exceedingly sorry to dilappoint
iim, but that I had my horse mutt be
:e\v fliad, before he could perform his journey.
SVe tool, leave ef each other, and he allured me,
hit if ever I came that way again, he fliould be
g-ad of a further acquaintance, and that if he fliould
nt happen to be at the inn when I arrhed, the
landlord woi.l 1 give him notice. The chara<fter
of this man fully exhibits a fpccimen of one, who
had been educated an habits of thinking and talk
;nq;npon fo"ir.s, to which Tib substantial meaning
had been annexed, and from which no ufeful ef
fects had boen produced. It led me into a reflec
tion that there niuft be a radical error in a system
of education, which makes the acftions of men so
illy correspond with their conversation.
PLAN
OF THE
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
' A NATIONAL PAPER.
1o be publijhcd st; e seat oj tie federal cbvernment, Wfo
camp rift, uj the following Objects, viz.
I. TDARtY and . uhentxk Acconnts-of the' PROCEEDINGS
1 j <>t CONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS,
communicated lo as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
■J tut FEDERAL LEGISLATURE, under the NEW CONSTITUTION.
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress^
111. ESSAYS upon the great fuhjetls of Government in general'
nd tr.e iedcral Lc 0 future in particular; also upon the national .nd
local Rights of the American citizens, as found d upon the Fe
deral or State Copllitutions; alio upon every other Subjett, which
nuv appear iuitable for newspaper diCcuflion.
I\ . A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
•' living \N\ERS as they rise," and to point the publick
attention to Objefcts that have an important reference to domeflick,
jiK/ aI j and///'' /Vt ft Ik ■ ppi n rjs.
V. The Intcreftt of the United States as connected with their li
t rary Inilitutions—religious and moral Object*—lmprovements in
Science, Arts, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foreign
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, &c.
iVI. Eveprfpecies of INTELLIGENCE, which may a*ffe£k the
nmmerciaf, a ji cultural, manufa&uring, or political INTERESTS of
ihe AMERICAN REPUBLIQK.
VII. A CII AIM of DOME STICK OCCURRENCES, colled
through the Medium ot an extensive Correspondence with the ref
pedive States.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI"
GENCE, so coimeAtd, as to form, a general Idea of publick Affairs in
the caflern Hemisphere. ,
IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS ; also of the IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMEN IS Courses of Exchange—-Prices
Current, &c.
CONDITIONS.
i.
THE Ga7.e tT E of the Un ittoSt at e s Jhati be printed with the
jume Letter, and on the fume Pap. i aj this publication.
11.
It JJtill tc fublijkrd every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, and
delivered, as may be directed, to every Subjctiber in the (ity, on t/ioj'e dixs
111.
The price to Subscribers (exclusive of portage) will be THREE DOL
LARS^/-. annum.
IV.
Thefirf frvii-anrual payment to be made in three months from the ap
pearance of thefrfl number.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
W ill be received in all the caput tows upon the Continent; also at the
C ity-Coffce-Hou!. , avd at No. 86. William-Street, until the \fl
of May yfrom xuhnn timejit No. q, Maidcu-Lanc, near the
Market, New-York.
B. By a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
diflance will be duly furniihed with papers.
'0 STsc n i pt. -■ A large imfreffion of-every number zvill beflruck off—
so tnat Sulfu) ibers may alwa\s>bc accommodated with complete Sets.
ADDRESS.
THEPulilick approbation alone can give ftabilj. "
ty and fuccei's to any undertaking which lu'iJl
ultimately depend upon public opinion: il u ,-i
idea lias generally induced tho Lckois of ne\r
publications to attempt anticipating that appro
bation through the medium oi' projeJJions, wnich
to fay the dealt, are, too seldom realized: The
Editor of the Gazette of the' United States
would avoid, as far as pofbble, the imputation
that has been frequently andjullly incurred upon
account of profeliions never J'ubjlantiatsd.
Should the Gazette of the United States
prove a faithful register of public]*, transactions,
cfpecially those of the great council of the nation,
the FEDERAL LEGISLATURE ; he HOPES it will,
be patronized by those" who feel interested in the
welfare of the union; the patriots and iiulep
freemen of our country.
Should it contain a competent detail of fovcj<ni
and domestic intelligence; revolutions 111 com
merce ; 'discoveries in various parts of the globe,
opening newfources of wealth to cnterprizing ad
venturers ; rife and fall of Hocks ; prices current, 1
&c. he HOPES it will receive of
mercantile characters.
Sliculd the great, body of mechanics find that
their important interests are attended to ; that im
provements and discoveries in their feverill branch
es claim an early and conlfcant inferrioii.
Should this Gazette bf the liappy inllrument of
pointing out various plans, by which the raufe of
the AX and HAMMER may again be heard in our
cities, the Editor cannot but HOPE lor their
generous encouragement.
Should something worthy the notice of the great
fanning interest oi" our country (the bulwork of
freedom and equal laws) be exhibited from time
to time, the editor HOPES for their patronage.
Improvements in agriculture are of the firft conse
quence to our young, our rising country ; and she
labours that tend to aff"e<ft this ciefirable .object, are
tlie refultof the purcft patriotism, and lliould de
mand the conflant attention of the Editois of pe
riodical publication.
The Editor HOPES that the wealthy part ofythe
community willbecome patrons of this piiblicai'on,
as itisbutjuft to fay, that every project, which has
been obvioully calculated for publick utility, has
met with prompt arid generous encouragement from
those \\lion: Providence has blefled v ith afiiuence;
without their affiftance,the noble plans now on foot
for the promotion of MANUFACTURES, ARTS
and SCIENCES, rav.lt have proved abortiv c ; their
liberal efforts 011 many recent occaj'.otis, have given
a spring to the public!- mind. Should the Gazette
of the United States fuggefl improvable hints, or
feazlble proie&g. which mult depend upon the
PURSE for their maturity, it cannot fail of being
countenanced by the RICH and public spirited. °.
The great and momentqus fubjeift of Education
is hourly appreciating in its importance : Thatpart
of the NEW CONSTITUTION, which opens the
door to every man of every rank, poflelTing VIRTUE
and ABILJ \ lES, to the highest honours in the great
American Republick, has expanded tlie views of
every American.
1 his idea, places the bulinefs of Education in a
point of ligiit, in which it never has before been
viewed ; a point in which it cannot be considered
i:i any other country upon the face of the earth.
The MIDDLING and LOWEPI CLASS of CITI
ZENS will therefore find their account in becoming
fubferibers for this Gazette,fhould it pay a particu
lar regard to this great fubjeift. Full jullice can
not perhaps be done to it; but every attempt to il
lullratc and enforce its importance, muftinfure the
applaul'e ol every person who feels the dignity of
a rational being, or who prizes the birthright of
an American.
Ignorance is the parent of all human degrada
tion ; every attempt therefore to dilleminate the
rays of knowledge will receive the applause of the
truly benevolent. The happinels of mankind be
iyg inseparably concerted with the practice of re
ligious, moral and social duties, it becomes obli
gatory upon the Editors of publick papers, to pay
a diltinguiflied regard to every idea tlia,t may be
1 il ggclted upon these important points, upon gene
ral principles, avoiding tedious diflertations upon
abjlrufeand metaphy ficai fubjeifts, : Thole eflaysthat
have a natural tendency to refine our hu
manize the heart,and exalt our natures,fhould claim
a diltinguilhed attention. So far as the Gazette of
the United States shall be instrumental in'diifufing
fenthnents of justice, humanity and benevolence —
those great moral virtues, it will doubtless receive
the lupport of the Reverend Clergy.
In fhort,fhould this Gaxette fuppoit the character
of a NATIONAL, IMPARTIAL and INDEPEN
DEN I CONVEYANCER to all parts of the Uni
on, ofNews, Politics, and Miscellanies, the appro
bation and patronage of a generous publick will
doubtlels reward the exertions of
The EDITOR- _
~ 'two YCH'Ni; Si'JIU.M 1 i.yTaus
Are wanted, as APPRENTICES to the Bufmeft
of Printing.
Enquire at No. 86, WiW 'n-SjncL^
Publiihed by JOHN FENNO. No.
Street, New-Yokk.