Number !•
PLAN
O F T H E
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be pubhfked at the seat of the seder a l govern m e nt, and tc
comprise, as fully as pofjible, the following Objects, viz.
I T'ARLY and authentick Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
' iLofCONGRESS—its LAWS, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the TRANSACTIONS
tf the }LDtRAL LEGISLATURE, under the NEW CONSTITUTION,
11. Impartial Sketches of the Debates of Congress.
111. ESSAYS upon the great fubjefts of Government in general
and the Federal Legijlature in particular; also upon the national ant)
Am/Rights of the american citizens, as founded upon the Fe
deral or State Constitutions; also upon every other Subject, -which
may appear suitable for newspaper difculTion.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculated to catch the
" living manners as they rise," and to point the publick
attention to Objetts that have an important reference to dovnejlick,
facial, and publick happiness.
V. The Interefls of the -United States as conneftcd with their li
terary Institutions—religious and moral Objefts—lmprovements ir
Science, Aits, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their foftigr
Treaties, Alliances, Connexions, &c.
VI. Every species of INTELLIGENCE, which may affect th<
commercial, agricultural, manufafiuriug, orpolitital INTERESTS ol
yhe AMERICAN REPUBLICK.
VII. A CHAIN of bOMESTICKOCCURRENCES, colleSfed
through the Medium of an extensive Correspondence with the ref
peflive States.
' VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
GENCE, so connected, as to form a general Idea oj publick AJfairs ir.
tht eafltrn Hemisphere.
. IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS; also of the IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMENTS Courses of Exchange Pr.ce;
Current, &c.
CONDITIONS.
I.
THE Gazette of the United State a shall be printed with thi
fame Letter, and on the fame Paper as this publication.
ItJiiall be publijhed every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, am
delivered, as may be direfled, to every Subscriber in the city, on those days,
HI.
■ The price to Subscribers (exekufiveof postage) will A THREE DOL
LARS pr. annum.
J IV.
The firjh fmi-annnal payment to be-made in three months_/Vtf/n the ap
pear ance oj the JirJl number.
SUBSCRIPT-JONS •
Will be rernvrif in all the capital totsns rrfon the Continent; also at the
City-Coffee-Houfe, and at No. 86, Williarrt-Strect, until the \Ji
o/May, from which time at No. 9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwego-
Market, New-York.
JV. B. By a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at 2
distance will be duly furnifhed with papers.
postscrYtt. A large impression of every number will be Jlruch off—
so that Subfribers may always be accommodatcd with complete Sets.
To the PUBLICK.
AT this important _Crisis, the ideas that fill the
mind, are pregnr.nt with Events of the greatest
magnitude—to strengthen and complete the UNI
ON of the States—to extend and protetft then
COMMERCE, under equal Treaties yet to he form
ed—to explore and arrange the NATIONAL
FUNDS—to reltore and eftablifli the PUBLICK
CREDIT—and ALL tinder the auspices of an un
tried System of Government, will requirethe EN
ERGIES of the Patriots and Sages of our Country—
Hence the propriety of encreaftng the Medium oj Know
ledge artd Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begins a new Era
m her national existence—" the world is all
before her"—The wisdom and folly—the misery
and prosperity of the EMPIRES, STATES, and
KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon the
P'eat Theatre of Time, and are now no more,
ftggeft the most important Memenros—Thefe, with
the rapid series of Events, in which our own Coun
try has been so deeply interested, have taught the
enlightened Citizens of the United States, that
FREEDOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and
LAWS, are inseparable.
This Conviction has led to the adoption of the
NewConftitution ; for however various the Sen
timents, refpe<!ting the MERITS of this System, all
good mf.n are agreed in the lieceflitv that exists,
of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, eftabliftied upon NATION
AL, INDEPENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCI
PLES-— which (hall take up the premised Articles,
"Don a competent plan, it is presumed, will be
uglily interesting, and meet with publick appro
bation and patronage.
1 he Editor of this Publication is determined to
cave no avenue of Information unexplored :—He
0 lcits the afliftance ofPerfons ofleifure and abili
es—-which, united with his own aflicluity, he Hat
ers himfelf willrender the Gazette of the United
* no * unworthy general encouragement
an ls ' w i'"-h due refpeft, the publick's humble fer
x' v c JOHN FENNO.
htu-Yorb, April 1789.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15, 1789.
EPITOME OF THE PRESENT STATE OF THE
UNION.
NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
WHICHis ißomilesinlengch, and6oin breadth,
'contained, according to an enumeration in
1787, 102,000 inhabitants—is attached to the fe
deral Government—engaged in organizing her mi
litia, already the beftdifciplined of any in the Lin
ion—encouraging the domeltick arts—and looking
forward to the benefits which will ref'ult from the
operations of the New Constitution. New-Hamp
(hire, from her local adantages, and the hardihood
of her Tons, may anticipate eileiitial benefits from
the operation of equal commercial regulations.
MASSACHUSETTS,
4jo miles in length, and 160 in breadth, contain
ed, according to an enumeration in 178 7, 360,000
inhabitants—Since the tranquility of the State was
restored by the lupprellion of the late insurreCtion,
the whole body of the people appears solicitous for
the bleliings of peace and good government. If
any conclusion can be drawn from elections for the
Federal this State has a decided major
ity in favour of the New Constitution. The great
objeCts of Commerce, Agriculture, Manufactures,
and the Fifharies, appear greatly to engage the at
tention of Mailiichufetts. Fabricationt of Cotton,
coarse Woolens, Linens, DUCK, IRON, Wood, &c.
are prosecuting with futceft—and by diminishing
her imports, and increasing her exports, she is ad
vancing to that rank and importance in the Union
which her extent of territory—her resources—and
the genius and enterprilfc of her citizens entitle her
to —and although the collision of parties, at the
moment of Election, ftiikes out a few sparks of ani
mosity, yet the decision once made, the " Calumet
of Peace" is fntoked in lave and friendfhip—" and
like true Republicans they acquiej 'ce in the choice of the
Majority—•
CONNECTICUT,
81 miles in length, and 57 in breadth, contain
ed, agreeably to a Census in 1782, 209,150 inhab
itants, enjoying a fertile foil, this truly republican
Stare is pursuing her interelt in the promotion of
Manufactures, Commerce, Agriculture, and the
Sciences—She'itppearS trfbid fair, from the peace
able, loyal, and federal Character of the great body
of her citizens—from the Enterprise of her men of
wealth, and other favourable circuuiftances, to at
tain to a gTeat degree of opulence, power, and
respectability in the Union.
NEW-YORK,
350 miles in length,and 300 in breadth,contained,
agreeably to a Census in 1786, 238,897 inhabitants,
This State appears to be convulsed by parties—but
the CRISIS is at hand, when it is hoped, that the
" Hatchet" will be buried. Exertions on one fide
are making for the re-eleCtion of Gov. Clinton,
and on the other for the introduction of the Hon.
Judge Y a t e s to the chair—both parties appear san
guine as to their success. It is ardently to be will
ed, that temper and tnoderation may pi efide at the
Elections ; and there can be no doubt of it, as that
Freedom, for which we fought and triumphed,
depends lo essentially upon a FREE CHOICE.—
It is greatly regretted, that this refpcCtable and
important member of the federal Republick, (hould
not be represented in the Moil Honourable Senate
of the United States. New-York, however, is rising
in her federal character, and in manufacturing, a
gricultural, and commercial consequence : Eviden
ced in her federal elections—her plans for promo
ting Manufactures, and the increase of her Exports.
NEW-JERSEY,
160 miles in length, and 52 in breadth, contain
ed, by a Census in 1 784, 149,435 inhabitants. This
State is at prefenttrancjuil, although lately agitated
by a very extraordinary contelled election—which
by a timely interference of the Executive, appears
to be fettled. The inhabitants of this State are
warmly attached to the New Constitution—the bles
sings of peace, an equal trade, and good govern
ment, being properly prized by them. The Arts
and Sciences arc objects of importance in this State,
and many of her foils rank high in the Republick
of Letters.
PENNSYLVANIA,
288 miles in length, and 156 in breadth—by a
Census in 1787, contained 360,000 inhabitants
This extenlive and truly resectable State, is mak
.ing great proficiency in her Manufactures, Agri
culture, Arts and Cominere. Her attachment to
the New Constitution is unequivocal, and with a
: consistency highly honourary to her national cha
racter, ilie has lately made an effort, (which, though
defeated for a time, will undoubtedly be fuccefsful)
! to conform their State Constitution to that of the
Union. Tliepublick buildings in the city of Plii
. ladclphia, have been refpeCifully offered for the j
accommodation of Congress. Theatrical exhibi- :
tions are now permitted by law—and the city lias
been incorporated : Experience will determine the
eligibility of the two latter tranfa&ioßS.
DELAWARE,
92 miles In length, and 16 in breadth, by a Gen
ius in 1787, contained 37,000 inhabitants. This
State, though circuinfcribed in its limits, derives
great importance from its rank in the Union—at
tached to the New Constitution, and having the
honour to take the lead in its adoption, there is no
doubt of its giving efficacy to its righteous admini
stration. •
MARYLAND,
134 miles in length, and no in breadth, by a
Census taken in 1 782, contained 253,630 inhabitants.
From its favourable situation in the Union, this
State bids fair for prosperity, wealth, and eminence.
Warmly attached to the New Confthuticn, andep
joying a central situation, the publications there
have teemed with tempting inducements to Con
gress, to make Baltimore the Seat if the Federal
Legislature.
VIRGINIA,
758 miles in length, and 224 in breath—by a
cenft s taken in 1782, contains 567,614 inhabitants.
From the natural ardour of her sons in the caul'd
of freedom, is frequently convulsed in her elec
tions, and has been torn by factions.—Pollening
an extensive territory and a vail income, her funds
arc placcd on a refpeCiable footing) but as herre
prefentatioij in the fjederal legislature is decidedly
attached to the union and the new conftitttion—
there is now no doubt but ths* flie will fee her in
t ere ft and glory finally connected with a few tem
porary facrifices upon the principles of mutual con
cession. ' *
sour H.CAROLINA,
.200 miles in length, and 125 in breath—and con
tains, by a census in 1787, 180,000 inhabitants, an
important member of the union, has appeared late
ly to vibrate between oppoling ientiments—Her
attachment to national meaf'ures we doubt not will
evidentally discover itfelf when all tender lavs and
pine barrens flia.ll be done away. The prohibition of
tlie importation of staves, and the provision lately
made for the reduction of her foreign debt are fe*
deral traits—add to these that their electors have
given an unanimous vote for his Excellency Ge
neral Washington, as President of the United
States—by which the memorable circumltance is
authenticated, that the voice of the WHOLE CON
TINENT has once more called our FABIUS MAX-"
IMUS to rel'cue our country from impending ruin.
GEORGIA,
600 miles in length, and 250 in breath,. —by a
Census in 1 787, contained 98,000 inhabitants. This
[late is compleating her federal character \y con
forming her state constitution to that of the union
—and being the youngell branch of the family---
and a frontier— : ihe will doubtless experience the
supporting and protecting arm of the federal go
vernment.
FOREIGN STATES.
RHODE-ISLAND,
Is 68 miles in length, and 40 ill breath, and
by a Census taken in 1783, contained 51,896
inhabitants. This state has again refn'fed to ac
cede to a union with her filler states, and is now
wholly eftrangedfrom them ;and from appearances,
will long continue so, unless the measure of the
iniquity of her "KNOW YE" gentry should be
speedily filled up—or the delusion which has so
long infatuated amajority of her citizens,fhould be
removed.—Anxious of enjoying the protection of
the union, the inhabitants of Newport, Provi
dence and otlier places, are determined to sue for
its protection, and to be annexed to MaflachrJetts
or Connecticut. This difinemberment of the state
it is to be desired, may be prevented by her be
ing wholly grassed into that stock from whence
through blindness she has been broken off.
NORTH-CAROL IN A.
Is 758 miles in length, and f 10 in breadth, and
by a census taken in 1787, contained 270,000 in
habitants. A depreciated paper medium, and a
deficiency of political knowledge, are confideredas
the causes of the anti-national spirit of this State.
Her extensive frontier, and being obliged to export
the greater part of her productions through Vir
ginia, it is expedted will ere long evince the neces
sity of her acceding to the confederation. This
indeed appears already to be the predominant idea
of her citizens, by some recent tranfacftions.
KOTti
Somr of the foregoing Obfcrvaticns are tranf ribrdfrom the Majf.Khi*
fctts Mag. an ingenious periodical publication of I. Tlomasand Co. of Bos
ton, now in the fourth month of its progress as a Candidate for literary
eminence, and pub/ick patronage. The Enumeration of the Inhabitants oj
the federal States, is taken from Mcrfe's AMERICAN CEOCRAPIIY--
a new icork jijl published, which from its very ufejvl and important con
tents, fliould it introduced into every family of the United States.■ '
PRICE SIX PENCE .CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS.
New-York, April if, 1789.
THE time appointed by the Congrels, under the
OLD CONFEDERATION, for the aflembling
of theSE n at ors and Representatives chosen to
adminilter the NEW CONSTITUTION, was the
fourth day of March lait; an unfavourable season
oi the year for journeying. Through unavoidable
delays, a quorum of the members did not arrive
in this ciry, till Monday the sixth inft. when being
allembled, the Hon. John Langdon, Esq. was
chosen Prefidenr pro tempore. The votes of the
Electors chosen by the several States were then
opened and counted, and were as follows, viz.
George Washington, 69
John Adams, 34
John Jay, "9
R. R. Harrison, 6
John Rutledce, 6
John Hancock, 4
Georce Clinton, 3
Samuel Huntington, 2
James Armstrong, i
John Milton, 2 '
Edward Telfair, i
Benjamin Lincoln, i
Upon which his Excellency GEORGE WASH
INGTON, Esq. was announced PRESIDENT, and
the Honourable JOHN ADAMS, Esq. VICE PRE
PRESIDEN7' of the United-States. This impor
tant business being compleaied the Legislature of
the United States, is thus arranged, viz.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President.
SENATORS.
ftew-Hampflure, J l»hn Langdon and Paine Win-
Mafiachufetts, I CaUh Strong zniTriftram Dal-
J ton.
Connecticut, j WiUi ™ ] ohn f°" and olhtr
J Elif'worth.
New Tc-f" I William Fatter-fin and John El
* J ' 3 incr.
~ r , 1 Robert Morris and William Ma-
Pennsylvania, j
_ , } George Read and Richard Baf-
Delaware, j J
Maryland j. Charles Carrot, and John Hen
...... 1 Richard Henry Lee and William
Virginia, [ Grayfon.
South-Carolina, Fierce gutter & Ralph Izard.
Georgia, William Few and Gun.
REPRESENTATIVES.
„ . Benjamin Weft, Samuel Liver-
P ur more and Nicholas Gilmari,
Fifhsr An:e<, George Partridge,
r George Thacher, George Leo-
Maflacliufett-., - nar J f Elbridge Gerry, Benja
min Goodhue, Jonathan Grout.
Jonathan Sturges, Roger Sher
man, Benjamin Huntington,
Connecticut, ■ Jonathan Trumbull, Jeremiah
W adfworth.
H John Lawrence, Egbert Benfon,
William Floyd, John Hathorn,
New-York, ■ Peter Sylveftcr, Jeremiah Van
Renfelaer.
i El'tas Boudinot, James Schure-
New-Terfey > ma'n,Thomas Sinniclfon, Lam
j hert Cadmallader.
1 Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
| Henry Wynkoip, Thomas Hart-
Pennsylvania, ley, Gtorge Clymer, Thomas
I Fitzfimons, Peter Muhlenberg,
J Daniel Heijler, Thomas Scott.
Delaware, John Fining.
Jojhua Seney, DanielCarro!,Ben-
Marylanl, > jamin Contee, George Gale, Wil
} Ham Smith, Michael J. Stone.
James Maddifon, Jofiah Parker,
j Richard B. Lee, Theodoric
Virginia, [> Bland, Isaac Coles, Alexander
| White, John Page, Andre-w
J Moore, Samuel Griffin.
~) General Sumpter, F.danus Burke,
South-Carolina, > Tho.T.Tucker, D. Huger, IVH
\ liaviSmith.
7 Abraham Baldwin, James Jack-
Georgia, J f tj , h C eorge Matthews.
The Hon. CHARLES THOMSON, Esq. was ap
pointed to inform the PRESIDENT, and Mr. ST( L
VANUS BOURNE, the VICE PRESIDENT, of
their respective elections. Those gentlemen fat
out 011 their embafly the 7th inft.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Tuesday, Aprii. 1, 1789.
Resolved That the RULES and ORDERS following, te cJlaH'fhed
STANDING RULES and ORDERS of this Houf—to tat :
FIR ST.
TOUCHING THE DUTY OF THE SPEAKER.
HE shall take the chair every day at the hour to which the
house (ball have adjourned on the preceding day; ihall im
mediately call the mtmbers to order, and, on the appearance of a
quorum,' shall caulc the journal of the preceding day to be r^aj.
He shall preserve dccorum and order; may fpcak to points of
order in preference to other members, anting from his feat for
that purpose, and shall decide questions of order, fubjeft to an ap
peal to the house by any two members.
He shall rife to put a question, but may state it fitting.
Questions shall be diltin&ly put in this form, vir. "As many
as are of opinion that (as the question may be) fay aye:" And, af
ter the affirmative voice is expreflcd—" As many as are of a con
trary opinion, fay no."
It the ipeaker doubts, or a division be called for, the house shall
divide, those in the affirmative going to the right, and those in the
negative to the left of the chair: If the speaker still doubt, or a
count be required, the speaker shall name two members, one from
each fide, to tell the numbers in the affirmative, which being re
ported, he shall then name two others, one from each fide, to tell
those in the negative ; which being alio reported, he shall rife and
slate the decision to the houfe-.
The speaker shall appoint committees ; unless it be determined
by the house that the committee (hall consist of more than three
members, in which cafe the appointment lhall be by ballot of the
house.
In all cases of ballot by the house, the speaker shall vote ; in o
ther cases he shall not vote, unless the house be equally divided, 01
unless his vote, if given to the minority, will make the division b<
equal, and in cafc of such equal division, the question shall be loft
When the house adjourns, the members shall keep their feats un
til the speaker go forth ; and then the members shall follow.
Secondly.
OF DECORUM AND DEBATE.
When any member is about to speak in debate, or deliver an}
matter to the house, he shall rife from his feat and refpe&fully ad
dress himfelf to Mr. Speaker.
If any member, in speaking or otherwise transgress the rules o
the house, the speaker shall, or any member may call to order ; ir
which cafe the member called to order shall immediately fit down
unless permitted to explain, and the house shall, if appealed to
decide on the cafe, but without debate: If there be no appeal
the decision of the chair shall be fnbmitted to : If the decision b<
in favour of the member called to order, he shall be at liberty t(
proceed ; if otherwise, and the cafe require it, he shall be liable tc
the cenfur® of the house.
When two or more members happen to rife at once, the fpeake
shall name the member who is firll to speak.
No member shall speak more than twice to the fame queflior
without leave of the house; nor more than once until every mem
bcr choosing to speak, shall have spoken.
Whilst the speaker is putting any question, or addressing thi
house, none shall walk out of, or cross the house; nor either ii
such cafe, or when a member is speaking, fl ail entertain paivati
discourse, or read any printed book or paper; nor whilst a mem
ber is speaking, shall pass between him and the chair.
N'o member shall vote on any question, in the event of which
he is immediately and particularly interested ; or in any other caf
where he was not present when the question was put.
Every member who shall be in th« house, when a question i
put, shall vote on the one fide or the other, unless the house, so
special reasons, shall cxcufe him.
When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by th<
speaker, or being in writing, it shall be handed to the chair, anc
read aloud by the clerk before debated.
Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if the speaker or an)
member desire it.
After a motion is stated by the speaker, or read by the clerk, i
shall be deemed to be in poffeflion of the house, but may be with
drawn at any time before decision or amendment.
When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received
unless to amend it, for the previous question, or to adjourn.
A motion to adjourn shall be always in order, and shall be de
cided without debate,
The previous question shall be in this form : " Shall the mair
question be now put." It shall only be admitted when demanded
by five members; and until it is decided shall preclude all amend
ment and further debate of the main question.
On a previous question no member shall speak more than once
without leave.
Any member may call for the division of a question, where th<
sense will admit of if.
A motion for commitment until it is decided, shall preclude al
amendment of the main question.
Motions and reports may be committed aI the pleasure of th<
house.
No new motion or propnfition shall be admitted under colour oj
amendment, as a fubftitutc for the motion or proposition under de
bate.
Committees confiftin* of more than three members, shall be
1 allotted for by the house; if upon such ballot the number required
lhall not be ele&ed by a majority of the votes given, the house shall
proceed to a second ballot, in which a plurality of votes lhall Dre
vail, and in cafc a greater number than are required to compole or
complete the committee shall have an equal number of votes, the
house lhall proceed to further ballot or ballots.
In all other cases of ballot than for committees, a majority of
the votes given shall be necefTary to an election, and when there
lh 1! not be such majority on the firft ballot, the ballot shall be re
peated until a majority be obtained.
In all cases where others than members of the house may be eli
gible, there shall be a previous nomination.
If a question depending be loft by adjournment of the houfe 4 and
revived on the succeeding day, no member who has spoken twice
on the day preceding lhall be permitted again to speak without
Ever y order, resolution or vote to which the concurrence of the
enate lhall be necefTary, shall be read to the house, and hid on the
table, on a day preceding that in which the fame lhall be moved,
unlets the house shall otherwise expressly allow. *
Petitions, memorials, and other papers addrefied to the house
lhall be presented through the speaker, or by a member in his
p ace, and lhall not be debated or decided on the day of their be
inghrll read, unless where the house lhall direst otherwise ; but
hall lie on the table to be taken up in the order they-were read.
Any hlteen members (including the speaker if there is one) shall
be authored to compel the attendance of absent members.
L pon calls of the house, or in taking the ayrs and not s on any
question, the names of the members itiall be called alphabetically.
Thirdly.
OF BILLS.
Every bits shall be introduced by motion for leave, or by an or
er ot the house on the report of a committee, and in either cafe a
committee to prepare the fame {hall be appointed. In cases of a
- nature "" e da V s not '« * lead shall be of the motion
ring in a bill ; and eviry such motion may be committed,
rvery bill lhall receive three several readings in the house prev -
ous to Its pafTage; and all bills shall be dispatched in order asthev
" n ' C - fS Wh " e thc hOU,e """ din ' a '"heroic,
dtr of the house °™ the famC da y without <P ccial °'"
firirn k' r , eadln S °f 3 bill (hall be for information, and if oppo
i ft detol, > 'hequeftiou (hall be, "Shall the bill be re-
LTativeH . °,iT n lon be . madc > or the question to reject it be
L'oon th f C . to lts f (cond reading without a question.
readTfor C " s ° f 3 b '"' the f P fakci lhall ft *<= as
OtiefUon m,tn ; en u ° r cn ß ,ofrment - a «d if committed, then a
of the Whole . c f whct f hcrt ° a committee, or to a committee
hcufe ChalM , t0 , a c r m " tCe of the whole houfr > the
tTcnerofLrfT ?Vt da >V But lf the bill ordered to
the hird » 4? a PP ( > lnt the day when it (hall be ,ead
house abi ™, f ' k com,n ' t ™ m . and a rc P or t thereof to the
All'b ii / , rc '* c O rr,ln| tted, or at any time before its paffare.
rou d'aid 13 U C "'- rofTcd bc :n a far
The ftvleof bills (hall be, " Bo it,ena£ed by the Se
nators and Reprefentativei of the United States in Congress affem"
When a bill shall pass it shall ■'be certified by the clerk, noting
the day of its pafling at the foot thereof. ' *
No bill amended by the Senate (hall be committed.
Fourthly.
OF COMMITTEES OF THE WHOLE. HOUSE.
It (hall be a (landing Order of theday, throughout the feflion f or
the house to resolve itfelf into a Committee of the whole houli
the (late of the Union. on
In forming a Committee of the whole House, the Speaker (hall
leave his chair, and a chairman to preside in Committee'lhall be ap.
pointed.
Upon bills committed to a committee of .the whole house the
bill (hall be firfl read throughout by the clerk, and then again'read
and debated by claules, leaving the preamble to be lall considered*•
the body of the bill (hall not be defaced or interlined; but all a
mendmcnts, noting the page and line, (hall be duly entered by the
clerk on a leparate paper as the fame (hall be agreed to bv the com
mittee, and so reported to the hoiife. After report the bill (hali
again be fubjeft to be debated and amended by claules before a
question to engross it be taken.
All amendments made to an original motion in committee (hall
be incorporated with the motion and so reported.
All amendments made to a report committed to a committee of
the whole (hall bo noted and reported as in the cafe of bills.
Allqueftions, whether in committee or in the house, (hall be
propounded in the order they were moved, except that in filling
up the blanks the largest sum and longed day (hall be Kill put.
The rules of proceeding in the house lhall be observed in com
mittec so far as they may be applicable, except that liraittmg the
times of speaking. Extract from the Journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
Wednesday, April 8, T7?9.
THIS day the Galleries of the Hon. House of Re
presentatives were opened. The members being
convened, the Hon. Chief JufHce MORRIS, of the
State ofNew-York, administered to the Speaker
and Members of the House, the Oath required by
the Constitution of the United States.
Upon motion of the Hon. Mr. Parker, of Vir
ginia, the House then resolved itfelf into a Com
mittee of the whole, to take the Rate of the Uni
on into consideration. This motion was agreed to,
the Hon. Mr. Page, of Virginia, took the
chair.
Mr. Maddison, of Virginia, after a few intro
ductory observations on the great fubjecfts of Fi
nance, and the deficiencies of the federal Trealury,
suggested the neceflity of immediately adopting
some meaf'ures upon the subject of National Re
venue. With this object in view, he produced ;t
Refohe, fpecifying certain articles upon which an
Import: was proposed to be laid. The plan was si
milar to that recommended by Congrels 1111733
and is as follows, viz.
[RESOUF.P, as the opinion of this conmittee, That the fvllouirg
Duties ought to be levied on goods, zuares, and merchandize, imported u.
to the United States, to wit.
On Rum, p r . gallon, C J a dollar.
On all otl*er Spiritous Liouors.
On MolaJJes.
0* Ma drria Wine.
On all other Wines. .
On cowmen Bohea Teas, br.fr*. < a
On all other Teas.
On Pepper.
On Broun Sugars*
On Loaf Sugars.
On all other Sugars.
On Cocoa and Qojfee.
On allothtr articles h c y cent, on their value at the time
and place of mutation.
That there ought % moreover, to be levied on all veff'ls in which goods,
wares or mtrchandfr s fJiall be imported, the duties following, viz.
n a vejjels quilt zutthin the United States« and belonging ukoltv te
citizens thereof,\ at the rate vf p er ton
On all vejjels belonging whelly to the fubjeßs of powers with whom the
United States havtjormed treaties, or Partly to the fubiefls of such tow
ers, and partly to(it.zens oj the fa, J Jlatesat the rate of '
Un al/vej/e/s belonging zuho/yi or p art to the fib e.ls of other pow
ers, at the rate of J J J r
Mr. BouDiNOT,ofNe\v Jer fey, and Col. White,
<>t Virginia, spoke in favour of the Resolve, from
the neceflity of a temporary Sy It em's being imme
diately adopted ; but as it was presumed, that gen-,
tlemen had not come prepared to discuss the sub
ject, an adjournment wa.; called for, when the
Speaker', Tefuming the chair, the House adjourned
till to-morrow.
Thursday, April 9, 1789.
The House having again resolved itfelf into a
Committee. Mr. Page took the chair.
\Vhen Mr. Sh erman, of Connecticut, proposed
resuming the Resolve submitted to the Committee
yeiterday, by filling up the blanks.
Mr. Goodhue fuggeilcd the propriety of again
reading the Resolve—which being done,
Mr. Lawrence, of New-York, observed, that
the immediate neceflity of a publick Revenue, to
answer the exigencies of the Union, was univer
f.illy acknowledged, and the mode of railing it by
Impost was generally supposed to be the best; but
that as the resolve, at present proposed, was de
signed as a temporary measure ; and it be:ng
requisite that some System fliould be speedily a-'
floored, so as to embrace the advantages that would
result from the Spring importations, it appeared to
him the most eligible plan to adopt a general idea
with re fpett to impost, and lay a pr. centum,
ad valorum, on articles indifcrimiuately, in prefer
ence to fpecifying particulars at various rates..
Mr. Fitzsimons, ofPennfylvania, inoppolit.ioi
to the Hon. Mr. Lawrenck, replied, that afpeci
fication of certain articles, with various rates of Im
post affixed to each, had been found to be more
productive, easier collected, and a more certain re
venue, than a pr. centum, alTefled in a general way;
that so far from wifliing to abandon the origin."
idea, he thought i: of so much importance to beadhered to, that he had prepared an additional lift
cf articles, which he asked leave to read and lay
cn the table, that they might form part of the
Svltem which should finally be adopted. Mhe gen
tleman observed, in the course of his speech, that
the encouragement of the manufactures of our
own country, was doubtless an object with the
Hon. Kouf'e, and this was connected with the lay
ii r proper restrictions on foreign articles. The
Hon. Gentleman's addition follows, viz.
\ Beer, alt, porter, beij, pork, butter, candles oj all kinds, chcefe,foap,
n d j malt, nails, paper, blank books, cabinet wares, cables, cordage,
fait, manufaßured tobatco, fnvjf, ironmongery, hats, millenary, tanned
leather, Jims and carriages.]
Mr. Whits observed, that as thefeafonwas ad
vancd, and entering fully into the consideration
of the several branches of the fubjecc, would polfi
bly protract the debates, foas.to defeat the origin
al clefign ; and as the prelent lituation of the ma
nufactures of our country was not fully known to
him, and perhaps to many other gentlemen, he
was opposed to an incorporation of the additional
articles with thole at firll; proposed, for the present.
Mr. Thacher proposed, that the blank annex
ed to the article " Rum" should be filled up with
I 5 90ths of a dollar.
Mr. I Uckfr, in a speech of confiderablelength,
opposed a sudden decision upon the subject, as the
House was not full, the members from Georgia and
South Carolina, liimfelf excepted, were abfent,and
in the article to which it was now proposed to have
a duty affixed, tliofe States were as much interest
ed as perhaps any State in the Union. The gen
tleman represented his own situation |as peculiar,
being the only member from the southward of Vir
ginia, and that he should be obliged, in this state
of the business, to give his negative upon the ques
tion should it be precipitated ; but were his col
leagues present, whatever his sentiments now were,
he might then be disposed to adopt a different opi
nion. More particularly, he v/as not prepared to
form a judgment upon that part of the resolve,
which referred to a duty on flapping of various
descriptions : 1 his was a particularly critical to
pick, about which gentlemen had very much dif
fered; and that without conf'ulting his colleagues
in the delegation, he should not poflels confidence
enough in his own judgement to decide affirma
tively upon a queilion offo great magnitude.
Mr. Hartly, in a short address, advocated the
additional articles proposed by Mr. Fitzfimons.
Mr. Madison, in a speech of considerable length,
entered into the subject of Commerce—its restric
tions, &c. with respect to the resolve before the
committee, Jiis design was to have proposed a tem
porary lyftem ; he however perceived gentlemen
were much divided—he conceived that very pow
erful motives existed, to induce the adoption of a
plcn that should come into immediate operation.
He admitted there was force in the observations
of the Hon. Gentleman from South-Carolina, but
that national objects were paramount to all lo
cal considerations. The Hon. Gentleman appeared
to reprobate exceflive restrictions, or impositions
on commerce as impolitic and unproductive. With
respect to the discrimination upon the fubje«fk of
tonnage, ir was made upon principles of the belt
policy. Mr. Maddison agreedwitli the Hon. Mr.
1 itzsimons, that fpecifick duties oil particular
articles, was the most eligible mode of laying an
impost. He remarked that some of the articles
proposed, had reference to the encouragement
of oar own manufactures. How far the commit
tee was prepared to determine upon this part of
the buiinefs, he could not fay, but he confideretl
it as abufinefs that ought to be deferred for the
prelent. Mr. Maddison spoke low. we were not
mthe most favourable situation to hear, and there
fore could not follow that gentleman through a
which we are informed discovered great
theoretical knowledge of the general subjects of
difcuifion.
Mr. Boudi not made some general observations,
pei tinent to the subject, and concluded by enquir-
Why the article of glass was not included, as
there are several manufactories of that article al
ready established in the country.
Mr. F itzsimons and some other gentlemen ad
ded a few more observations, when, on motion of
Lee, the committee rose, and the lioufe ad
journed.
Fa id at, April to.
he House met and adjourned without doing;
Pulinefs. 6
T , , Saturday, April u.
Ie house aTembled agreeably to adjournment.
.i ( P-t.tion from the tradesmen, manufacturers, and others, of
own of Baltimore, was presented by Mr Smith, and referred
* ecommitte of the whole house.
lie oufc then resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole.
* r - * AG£ in the chair.
i.u "tderof the day being called for by Mr. Sherman.
' o °dnue moved, that an addition to the lill of articles al-
VJ/ ' cnum erated in the resolve, might be made by the following,
which"v woo '" cari ' s i wiought tin-ware, limes and lemons
lie a'" aro^r ' ma de a motion, that a feleft committee
intoV ,rV tn ta * e important business ot a fyflcm of revenue
Mo conf,deration,_ p re p are a bil , „ nd .
order ' a,r J nan upon this, observed, that the motion was not in
vvasa'nr/* ClO , was then in a committee of the whole. It
'hflor-,k^' OU r t ' U on whether that committee should rife and
Upon I " C ' he Chalr '
">od moved iL' ' hC S cn, Jeman varied his motion by an amendment,
• e committee report, rife, and the fpealier resume the
than', and then that the aforefaid committee be chofcn, —the gen
tleman enforced the propriety of his motion with observations of
conlidcrjble length ; but his voice was io low, that it was impofli
ble to hear him diflinCtly, so as to continue a connection. Mr.
Soudi not in a lengthy address combated the idea of Mr. Par
ker» He was in favour of an immediate, but temporary system;
—as an attempt to fcrm a permanent plan involved an enquiry
whioh comprised a great variety of particulars, that the present ob
jeCt would not adijiit of: It would be neceflary he observed io ob
tain information from various sources, viz, with respeCt to the
afrual imports of the feveraj Hates. 2dly The produce of the im
ports realized upon their amount in the refpe&ive governments.
3d. Communications from the mercantile interests through the
union without the Ipecies of information to be derived from the
last-mentioned source—gentlemen mull be that very essen
tial errors might be committed.
A permanent system also included the idea of framing suitable
provisions for the collection of the duties, which Opened a field
wide and complicated.
To obviate these difficulties, the gentleman proposed that a Am
ple temporary system should be adopted—that the mode of collec
tion (hould be conformable to the laws already extant in the seve
ral Hates for that purpose; in those Hates where no such laws had
fxifted, those of the next Hate should be adopted. Col. Bland,
rose next. He was likewifc opposed to the motion of the Hon.
Mr. Parker, —as involving the idea of permanency: —He there
fore proposed, that the gentleman {hould withdraw his motion,
in which cafe he was prepared io introduce a rcfolve which in his
opinion would expedite the business before the committee, which
was, that it should now be determined, whether the System should
be a temporary, or a permanent one. A previous resolution of this
kind, the Col. observed, wonld relieve the minds of many gentle
men, who in that cafe, would be prepared for filling up the blanks.
Mr. Parker, however, did not fee proper to withdraw his mo
tion, but rc-inforced it with additional observations.
Mr. Maddison was opposed to Mr. Parker's motion. He said,
that as the Committee had made some prugrefs in the business now
nder consideration, and gentlemen appeared to be principally di
vided as to the expediency of a temporary or permanent System. It
would in his opinion rather protraCt than expedite decisions, to
throw back upon a feleCl committee the investigation of the subjeCt,
cfpecially as it was certain, that the fame enquiries might now be
made, with facility, which would arise after a leleCt committee had
prepared a draught to submit to the consideration of the whole. He
was therefore opposed to the rising of the Committee.
Several other gentlemen spoke upon the question, but on a divi
sion of the house it was finally loft.
This motion being negatived, Col. Bland's proportion respeCt
ing taking the sense of the Committee, whether }he System ihould
be temporary, was taken up.
Mr. Thachkr observed, that it was impoflible to determine with
lccurracy, as to the duration of a System, before it was formed—
when onee completed, the House could give as long, and as lhort
• period fur operation, as should appear most eligible. Should the
System appear to be good, no person would wiih it a temporary ex
istence : Should it not prove salutary, no afligned date for its ger
mination would warrant its being continued beyond experience of
its beneficial efleCts. He was tberefore for leaving the period to an
alter consideration.
Mr. Boudinot was in favour of the temporary resolve of Col.
island, as on the contrary lentiment, the bill to be framed mult go
.0 making provision for the collection of the duties, as also to a con
:inental Judicial System, an objeCl of such magnitude, as would pre
lude any decisive measures till such time as willentirely disappoint
ill our expectations of the immediate advantages that would result
rom a temporary system, which the gentleman observed, might be
matured in two or three days.
Mr. Maddison, Mr. Lee, and other gentlemen spoke upon the
motion, which was finally withdrawn.
Mr. Maddison then brought forward a motion to thts effeCt',—
That it is the opinion of this Committee, that a Committee of the
House ought to be appointed to prepare the draught of a Bill to re
gulate the collection of Duties 011 Impolls and Tonnage within the
United States. This motion was adopted.
On motion of Mr. Lee, it was resolved, to proceed in filling up
he articles in the original resolution.
Mr. Maddison proposed of a dollar on Rum.
Mr. Sherman, as an amendment, proposed cents.
Another gentleman proposed 10 cents; but without thequeftion's
,)eing put, the Committee, moved for by Mr. Maddifon, was elcCt
:d, and confilled of a member from eacft State.
Adjourned to Monday, n olclock.
, Monday, April 13, 1789.
The House met agreeably to adjournment.
The additional Rules and Orders reported by the Committeeap
pointed for that purpose, were taken into consideration—some of
•hem amended and accepted—others recommitted.
A {landing Committee of Elections is enjoined by one of these
Rules—and accordingly the House appointea this Committee, which
:onfifls of Mr. Clymer, Mr. Amis, Mr. Benson,Mr. Hunting
ton, Mr. Carrol, Mr. White, and Mr. Oilman.
A Committee was also appointed to confer with the Committee
if the Senate, upon the subjeCt of arrangements for the reception of
he Prciident and Vice-President, and consisted of Mr. Sherman,
Mr. P. Muhlenburc, Mr. Be nson, and Mr. Griffin.
Mr. Burke presented a petition from the Shipwrights of South-
Caroline, praying the attention ot Congress to their situation, and
hat a Navigation ACt might be paded in favour of American vef
els^—this was referred to a Committee of the whole.
Adjourned. . ..
TuesdaV, April 14.
Met agreeable to adjournment.
A Bill for regulating the manner of taking the oath prescribed by
the Constitution, was read the firft time.
The articles of the additional rules,which were recommitted yef
icrrlay, were read as amended by the Committe and accepted.
Order of the day being called for, the House went into a Com
mittee of the whole.
Mr. Pace in the Chair.
Mr. Lawrence proposed that for the article of rum in the re
solve before the Committe, ardent jpints, Jamaica proof, should be
substituted; this was afterwards changed todijlilllea spirits, Jamaica
proof\ as it now Hands.
Mr. Bland, after adverting to a temporary system, as the most
eligible, enforced the idea upon the impropriety of taxing several
articles in the resolve, which were absolutely eflential to the for
mation of many species of tools made use of by our manufacturers ;
and in order that Congress might have time, properly to discrimi
nate between the articles, and form a compleat and permanent
system, he introduced a motion to this effeCt, That Congress pass
a law, authorizing and establishing the collection of impost thro'
the slates, agreeably to the revenue laws extant in the several go
vernments, and that the officers be fubjeCl to the fame regulations
and penalties.
Mr. Floyd observed, that the subjeCt naturally divided itfelf
intotwo parts, general and fbecified articles : The latter were too
num rous, he conceived, to be taken up collectively: The question
was, How (hall we discriminate ? he would pro pole therefore, to
expedite the business, that the articles lhould be taken individually,
and determined upon—and if gentlemen would bring the question
to this iflue, whether, considering the particular situation of the
country, it would be advifeable thus to tax the respeCtive articles ?
A proper distinCtion would be made, and the business brought to
a speedy determination.
Mr. Boudinot seconded the motion of Mr. Bland.
Mr. Maddison objeCted to its introduction, as not being inorder.
Col. Bland observed, that the present objeCt of the Committee,
a permanent system, would in all probability subjeCt the States to a
lois ot two or three hundred thousand pounds.
The Chairman obfcrvirig that he confidetecf the motion aS hot in
order. It was withdrawn by M/. Bland.
Mr. La wrfenc e, upon the iubjeft of filling tip blanks* pro
posed twelve cents to fill that ann.xed to dilhllcd spirits, Jamaica
proof ! He obfenred, that low duties would be inore certainly col
lected, as experience had verified> that htgh duties held out power
ul temptations to Smuggling—rendered a more vigourous mods
of collection necdTary, which again was proportiona-bly expen
sive, and eventually dtinimfhed tlie produce of the revenue, belo ./
he amount of modei ate daiies.
Mr. Fitesi mons was in favour of 15 cents.
Mr. Maddison proposed 10 cents.
Mr. Boudikot 15j which was finally voted, and 12 cents pr*.
gallon 011 all other spirits.
Upon the article of molalTes, Mr. Lawrence proposed two
cents pr. gallon.
Mr. Maddison eight cents pr/ gollom
Mr. Parker made some observations which we could not dif-*
tinetly hear.
Mr. Lawlence observed, that two cents were in his opinion*
juite high enough, in proportion to the prime colt, the precon
ceived ideas of the duty on that article* and its being a raw mate
rial, the basis of an eXtensive manufacture.
Mr. Maddison continued, however, in favour of eight cents,
and made some allusions to the pernicious affeCts resulting frorri the
Life of fpiritous liquors:—'He reprobated the idea of a draw-back, ag
opening a door to various species of fraud.
Mr. FitElimons was alio in favour of eight cents, —upon fimilat
priilciples.
Mr. Goodhuf., was totally oppdfed to so high a duty, which
amounted to nearly 50 pr. cent:—He observed, that the importa
tion of molaHes was an important branch of comm,erce and prin
cipally to the Ealtern Hates; that independent of ts being a great
article of manufacture, it was used by many persons as a necdlary
of life, being a fubftitue for sugar, and mixed with water, for
beer: That lo high a duty would operate injuriously towards a
very numerous class of people; besides being attended with the
most pernicious confcqucuces to the navigation and fifhery of the
ealtern states.
Mr. Maddison observed, that if the duty on molafTes<was to
be complained of, where that was used in lieu of sugar, the duty
on sugar would be a counter balance to it.
Mr. Clymer, in support of an high duty, introduced the po-*
licy of discouraging the use of fpiritous and encouraging that of
malt liquors.
Mr. Ame* combated the laying so high a duty, as it was beyond
the ratio that gentlemen could poflibly think eligible as a general
idea, —as it operated as a tax upon a raw material, which proved
to some 01 the states a very important branch of manufactures;
as it would llnke a mortal blow to this manufacture—prove highly
injurious to the eastern fifheries and to their navigation, which
was very extensively employed by this business : Molasses was a
meer refule article in the islands, tho* valuable to us ; the refufe of
our fifh and lumber were the great remittances for it; when im
ported and manufaCtnred* from thecheapnefs at M.hich it could be
afforded, it forced a sale even in the British islands. It was the
ostensible design of gentlemen* to raifea revenue—this exceflive du-t
ty would annihilatean extensive fourceof revenue : It would prove
suddenly destruCtive to great property appropriated to that business,
and effeCtuelly destroy a very important manufacture; for these rea
sons (and for mr.nyotncrs, which Mr. Ames offered,but which time
will not permit us to tranfcribej he was decidedly opposed to so
high a duty. ♦
Mr. Maddison proposed to amend his motion by making the
duty seven cents.
Mr. Partridge, Mr. Boudinot and Mr. Fitzsimons, fe
derally spoke upon the lubjeCt—when the vote being called for*
the duty on molafTes was laid at fix cents pr. gallon.
On Madeira wine, cents pr. gallon.
On all other wines, 20 cents pr. gallon.
On brown sugar, at one cent pr. lb.
On loaf f"ugar, three cents pr. lb.
On all other sugars, one and half cent pr. lb.
Cn coffee, two and half cents pr. lb.
The Committe then rose—The Speaker resumed the
:he House adjourned.
(To be continued.)
A very incompetent judgment only, can be formed upon the
proceedings of Congress thus far : The debates have hitherto been
indefinite and so far, uninteresting. It is the part of true
patriotism to wait patiently the decisiOn of otir civil fathers, when
the publick affairs are in such a train as to present only, a choice of
difficulties.
THE PROGRESS.
Exceflive Duties produce a rigorous collection—
odious revenue Officers—Smuggling—-COMBINA
TION S—lnfurrecl:ions —Treasons— Rebellions—
Civil War—Loss of Constitution— Loss of Freedom.
FUR TRADE.
Thefollozdivr eflnnate of Furs, exported from Canada, in thexears 1786,
1787 and 1788, may perhaps fuggejl to the " POWERS THAT li£"
fume important ideds ; it is authentic.
f 963
jop is sjjSAj V 9
61 CSi'Hi-7 '.(muMj ) spumbj ogf
■Suiws _ C sjm<l qnj faS'gi
i 5055 191 - - 'mtuoyej q[t6is qiH't'i qpiti
1 -n - . '| 3ze3 AV 1
9 £1 jz yz - - 'si B3 S
9 z 9 916 - Vuqiuej SE
B ef- soz * - - 'hji-isaiOjW B®* $-9 9jj*
09301 Tffi - - 'sjooui JO
9 z 0109 q /' 1 " " '" A I°AV 'zy6 is9 s SI
9 * 98 fr 9j* ' - "°P U,,<J 0 '9 1 ® ?s ß' "o* 5
V?C9 -jo-is« 3 - -'s«3 psjej ocpl 93*;? E,; oC
3t gfj 11 j-3 - ' : 'suooaeji 994'ffn gfctofri iz^oi
6 t toot 'pa - - 'Hjenbjnjv I'S'igoi grot's (,Uz ° i
6 >z£ is - 'jaipesT soaop \p J P UE !P U I qi88" 3J
t) si «i?Q3 9/S - 'jieij sqj ui suiiy «3Q s£?iSj g?9soi fbigsi
ifroSi j 03 - - - Ifrofi B°'^'
*oo£ -jo - 01S i C 163 iboi
»i 01 V -J9 - - - 'SMHJ.J jj~?
f 98>5'
tt 103 -K>3 - - - 'SJMO " ,0 = °® e 9 l §? ?
> gj>£n . •(> - - 'suijjbw iCigS ti"B9 9ei'B
- a o<n£S- 7 <}fq it si «P*> qrf 1 sun lf J5Ae:, « 6ofrbEi ggggit
' _ ! L i Ll I 98 i!
ggti put— X33S3ad v° J f SJVQJX3 I U 1 WJ ' UJORIGINALITY.
The TABLE T. -No. I.
" To rail at the times at large, can Jirve no good putpofe : and generally
arijcthJrom a want jJ or a,want oj tione/ly."
IT is usually expetted that writers, who enter
upon a course of publications, ihould exhibit
some outlines of a plan. This, in the present in
stance, is not practicable, with any degree of pre
eifion. With reipeit to this tmdertaking, the
writet can better inform the publick, what he in
tends to avoid, than what he expects to perform.
His attention will be entirely withdrawn from e
very subject or occurrence that is calculated to ex
cite party spirit.—How far the intrigues of clubs
or the jars of faction may eventually have a good
or bad effect on society, enters not into the views
of this publication. It can be of 110 importance to
an author to ascertain the relative character of
fecfts or parties; when his plan only requires him
to eitabliih such maxims, and to recommend such
institutions and habits, as will not counteract the
honest purposes of any man, whatever may be his
ideas relpecting forms of government or religion.
A writer, who profellcs truth for his aim, and a
dopts reaf'on for hi 3 guide, will not have occasion
implicitly to follow the tracks of any avowed par
tisan. It is not presumed, however, thatthis per
formance will not participate of prejudices and
mistakes. It is only declared that the topicks shall
generally be of such a nature, as oft'er the least
temptation to error.
The common interest and happiness of commu
nities, as well as individuals, leads ill many ellential
refpeets, to a determinate point. There are many
political fubjeits that are so doubtful and perplexed,
tnat the mind, after the molt impartial nveitiga
tion, does not and complete fatisfa&ion. It is how
ever, a consolation, that truths are generally ufe
lefsin proportion as they arc enveloped in darKnefs.
The molt important principles are lb obvious, that
the natural reafonof man can discern their propri
ety : When they are fairly explained, they will
ieldom be difuuted. The moltufeful qnalities and
actions accord so well with the common lenfe and
feelings of people, that we are less apt to disown
than to imitate them. Why then does it happen
that men have errors in opinions or practice ? Per
haps one leading cause maybe, that the tliind is so
much occupied in vain or impracticable researches,
that the reason gets perverted or obfeured. By
this means it loses its natural clearness in the ma
nagement of things, whicn otherwise would ealily
come within its reach. It (hall be the object of this
run of papers, to touch upon such subjects as arc
calculated to afford amusement or instruction, with
out diiturbing society with calumny and petulence.
NEW-York, April, 1789.
DESCRIPTION.
The following extract from a letter handed to the pub
lijhcr, way be amttfmg, if not inftruftive.
IT RtrCRS TO FACTS.
" A GR.EEABLY to my engagement, I now pro
-/*- pose living you some account of my vifitto
the Hon. Mr? ,of ,in the county of .
This gentleman you lkave often heard is an exten
iivc Landholder, a great farmer, and very afflu
ent in other property. His manlion-houie in
P ,is a very handsome, capacious and conveni
ent Edifice, pleasantly situated on the declivity of
a hill fronting the South, and commands a very
extensive prospect.—There are at proper diltan
ces, every ncceflary building, both for the farming
bufineis/ and for pleasurable accommodation—
coach-house, barns, mills, granaries, poultery
yards, &c. See. The lalt are constantly receiving
the produce of 500 acres of land highly cultivated;
so that there is a perpetual supply for the family,
and doineiticks, of every species of provision that
fancy could imagine, or luxury desire.
Mr. ; , the truly benevolent owner of this
delightful retreat, supports in his stile of living,
that old fafhioned hospitality, which we sometimes
lee extolled in books, but have seldom known to
be realized : His house is the feat of ease and ele
gance, and his happiness is evidently encreafed by
the p-efence of his guests, and the tokens of plea
lure which they discover : To the poor of the town
he is a daily benefactor: Constant provision is
made for them as if they were part of his family.
He takes the lead in every project that has publick
utility for its balis—hence the roads, bridges, See.
of the town are improved and repaired—hence his
name is at the head of every fubfeription for jult
and charitable designs, supporting with decency
the m miller of the pariih, keeping the place of
publick worship in repair, encouraging manu
factures and experiments in agriculture, Sec. In
add! ion to these, he is not ashamed to set the best
example lo his neighbours, by constantly and re
gular! y attending divine (ervice witff all his nume
rous family and domelticks.— — Such a character is a
blefllng to the community in which he resides—
he is the steward of the favours of Providence—
beloved and happy in life, he lees the influence of
his benevolent example extending far and wide—
and views the approach of the King of Terrors
with calinnel's and serenity. C .
Massachusetts, ij3?.
NATIONAL.
Extrafl from the minutes oj the Boards/ Managers ef the Pennfyiva
ma Society for the Encouragement oj ManufAzures, &c.
Anthony Morris, S:c*ry.
Philadelphia, March 24, 1789-
PREMIUM, No. r5,
OFFERED by the Board of Managers of the Pennsylvania
Society fdr the Encouragement of Manufactures, to the pertbn who
shall clifcover and produce to this Society the greatelt variety of
specimens, with certificates of the greateit quantity ot painters co
lours, drawn from the foflils and earths of the United States, 011 or
beforo the 31ft day of December 1788; a plate o£gold, &c. of the
value of 50 dollars.
THE committee, to whom were referred the specimens of pai nt ~
ers colours presented by Mr. Sylvan us Bishop, of the
city of New-Haven, and Hate of Connecticut, report, that after con
iulting feveTjl painters and dealers in painters colours, refpe&ing
the quality of the fpecimtns, and lubjetfcmg them to chvmical atia
lyfis, they are induced to believe, that some of the yellow speci
mens are nearly equal to the imported ochrcs of the fame colour,
and that they are composed of the ingredients which conliitute
ochres, although, perhaps, nttt so well freed from foreign substan
ces, as-thofe which are imported; they are therefore of opinion,
that Mr. Bishop is entitled to the premium offered by this Board,
and that he is deserving of the attention of the friends of the Manu
factures ol America.
AT a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Pennsylvania So
ciety, for the Encouragement of Manufactures and the ufeful arts,
held March 23d, A. D. 1789, the report of the committee, on the
application of Mr. Sylvanus Bishop, of the city of Nac-Havev.
and Hate of Connecticut, for the premium No. 15, offered by the
Board, was read and unanimoufiy adopted; Whereupon refolvcd,
that the Secretary be requested to communicate the report of the
committee, and its adoption by the Board, by letter 10 Mr. Bi
shop. Extraftfrom the Minutes oj the Board,
Anthony Morris, Sec'ry.
Philadelphia, March 23, 1789.
AGRICULTURAL EXTRACT.
Front the Gentlemen's MACiziNE/or Zliicrafcr,
1 ?38.
" TT was observed i!i a late paper, that one farm
er collected i4ooobufliels apples: According
to the usual quantity of 20 bulhels to a hogshead,
lie made 700 hotheads of Cyder. And that is
nothing singular in the county of Hereford ; there
is a farmer there who will make from 300 to 500
this year.
ANECDOTE.
A Gentleman who used indecent language in
prelence of his son, a fine likely lad—was
very delicately reproved by a friend, who lament
ed that the young gentleman lhould be so unfor
tunate as to be deaf, —'deaf,' said the gentleman
with surprize ! yes Sir, replied his friend, or you
surely would not have given your felf such a Lati
tude in speaking before him.
OBSERVATIONS.
Fcr the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
A FREE PRESS has been justly considered as the
palladium of liberty—the scourge of tyrants
—the terror of Sychophants—and the detector
and dread of mock patriots and demagogues;—it
is likewise a developer of daring machinations a
againft the peace of society—the schemes of am
bition, avarice and peculation.
It is a mod powerful engine to counteract the
plans of policy which may be laid by ariftocrati
cal juntos, for»their own aggrandizement, and the
depretfion of the people ; as alio to stem the tor
rent and expose the injustice of the majority of an
overbearing and arbitrary Democracy. In short
its effetfts on publick men, and publick mealures,
are such, that the degrees of freedom and fafety,
which any community enjoys, may generally be
calculated by the independency and free,ftate of
the press in such community.
How highly then to be valued, and how sacred
ly to be preserved, is this sublime privilege! The
citizens of America are justly tenacious of this
darling birthright. They are nurtured in the
ennobling idea—that to think what they please,
and to speak, write and publish their sentiments
with decency on every fubjetft, conliitute the dig
nified character of Americans. Having derived
the moil permanent advantages from this source,
\iz. superior light and knowledge upon the great
subjects of liberty, laws and government; and
having been inspired by sentiments of heroism and
found policy derived from this origin, to establish
an independent empire, and adopt a glorious fe
deral constitution ; they are emhufiaftick to pre
serve and perpetuate this inestimable jewel.
Our children, the rising generation the
copious streams wheh continually ifliie from this
fountain, early imbibe the fame independent prin
ciples, and by this medium we may anticipate the
tranfmiifion of political knowledge, virtue and
patriotism, thro' a long lapse of years, producing
a race of heroes, freemen and ftatefinen, till time"'
the invisible leveller of states and empires, shall
it op the revolutions of nature.
The adoption of the Federal Constitution by this
great and various people, may be afcribcd to the
Freedom of the Press ; this is an event unparel
lelled in the annals of mankind ; and the more it
is contemplated, the greater is the admiration of
the plulofopher, and the citizen jof the world-
While thebofoms of the patriot and jphilantliro
pill exult in anticipating the complete triumph of
reason a firm eflabljJliment of this System. C.
ADDRESS.
THE Publick approbation alone can give liabili
ty and fucceis to any undertaking which mult
ultimately depend upon public opinion: This
idea has generally induced the Editors of new
publications to attempt anticipating that appro
bation through the medium ol' projeffions, which,
to fay the leait, are, too seldom realized: The
Editor of the Gazette of the United States
would avoid, as far as poflible, the imputation
that has been frequently and juitly incurred upon
account of profelliona never J'ubJtantiated.
Should the Gazette of the United States
prove a faithful register of publick tranfacfuons,
especially those of the great council of the nation,
the FEDERAL LEGISLATURE ; he HOPES it wiU
be patronized by those who feel intereited in the
welfare of the union; the patriots and independent
freemen of our country.
Should it contain a competent detail of foreign
and doineftic intelligence; revolutions in com
merce ; discoveries in various parts of the globe,
opening new lources of wealth to enterprizing ad
venturers ; rife and fall of ltocks ; prices current,
&c. he HOPES it will receive the support of
mercantile characters.
Should the great body of mechanics find that
their important inter efts are attended to ; that im
provements and discoveries in their several branch
es claim an early and conltant insertion.
Should this Gazette be the happy instrument of
pointing out various plans, by which the mulic of
the AX and HAMMER may again be heard in our
cities, the Editor cannot but HOPE for their
generous encouragement.
Should something worthy the notice of the great
farming fnterell ol' our country (the bulwork of
freedom and equal laws) be eScnibited from time
to time, the editor HOPES for their patronage.
Improvements in agriculture are of theiirlt conse
quence to our young, our riling country ; and the
labours that tend to affecft this deiirable object, are
therefultof the purest patriotism, and ihould de
mand the conltant attention of the Editors of pe
riodical publication.
The Editor HOPES thatthf wealthy part of the
community will become patrons of this publication,
as itisbutjuft to fay, that every project, which has
been obvioully calculated for publick utility, has
met with prom pt and generous encouragement from
those whom Providence has blefled with affluence ;
without their afliftance,the noble plans now on foot
for the promotion of MANUFACTURES, ARTS
and SCIENCES, mult have proved abortive; their
liberal efforts on many recent eccajicns, have given
a spring to the publick mind. Should the Gazette
of the United States suggest improvable hints, or
feazible projects, which mult depend upon the
PURSE for their maturity, it cannot fail of being
countenanced by the RICH and public spirited.
The great and momentous subject of Education
is hourly appreciating in its importance : Thatpart
of the NEW CONSTITUTION, which opens the
door to every man of every rank, poHelling VIRTUE
and ABILITIES, to the highest honours in the great
American Republick, has expanded the views of
every American.
This idea, places the bufmels of Education in a
point of light, in which it never has before been
viewed ; apoint in which it cannot be conlidered
in any other country upon the face of the earth.
The MIDDLING and LOWER. CLASS of CITI
ZENS will therefore find their account in becoming
fubferibers for this Gazette,ihould it pay a particu
lar regard to this great fubjecft. Full justice can
not perhaps be done to it; but every attempt to il
lultrate and enforce its importance, multinfure the
applause of every person who feels the dignity of
a rational being, or who prizes the birthright of
an American.
Ignorance is ihe parent of all human degrada
tion ; every attempt therefore to difierninate the
rays of knowledge will receive the applause of the
truly benevolent. The happiness of mankind be
ing inseparably connetfted with the pra<ftice of re
ligious, moral and social duties, it becomes obli
gatory upon the Editors of publick papers, to pay
a diltinguilhed regard to every idea that may be
suggested upon these important points, upon genc
ral principles, avoiding tedious diflertatiolis upon
abstruse and metaphy/ica/ fvibje&s, : Those ellaysthat
have a natural tendency to refine our manners, hu
manize the heart,and exalt our natures,fhould claim
a distinguished attention. So far asthe Gazette of*
the United States shall be Liftrumental in clifFufing
sentiments of justice, humanity and benevolence —
those great moral virtues, it will doubtless receive
the support of the Reverend Clergy.
In Ihort,fhould this Gazette supportfupport the character
of a NATIONAL, IMPARTIAL and INDEPEN
DENT CONVEYANCER to all parts of the Uni
on, of News, Politics, and Miscellanies, the appro
bation and patronage of a generous publick will
doubtless reward the exertions of
The EDITOR.
April, H.W. S.r.&f, remarks.
15 Wed. o 50 5 26 7 Sun dec. jo deg. N*.
16 Thur. 1 36 5 25 7
. '^ Fn■ 2 22 5 24 7
Publilhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 86, WiIUAM-
Street, New-York.