,♦ -j
efrU Cfeff eh hi fa*
■<w v/ >>?'• ;>/?*«
No. IV.
ORIGINAL.
ttctr FTCH of the POLITICAL STATE oj
AMERICA.
"IT T HEN a writer ventures to expose his fenti-
VV ments to the publick eye, upon lubjetfts which
ar ° not in their nature of local or partial import,
but in which the interest of the great v.liole is in
volved, he not only avoids flie force of invective
and party spleen, but is happy in reflecting that
ihe <*cod of the publick forms the main objed: of
his pursuit, and feels himfelf entitled to candour,
though he may have 110 just claim to applause.
At this all important moment, when America,
from aftate verging upqn anarchy and confufion,
can boall the poflefhon of a government, adequate
to every purpose of society—a government, not
the offspring of violence, but'the eft'eCtofcalm and
mature'deliberation— and established upon the good
sense of the community—lt may not be amiss to
comteniplate thole principles and causes which led
to th'is lurprizing revolution—and turn the mind
to a view of those great national objects, which must
form the basis of her future greatness.
So various and complicated are the causes, and
so intricate those fpiings which naturally tend to
rfTcft the publick mind, and produce revolutions
in the political situation of a people, it may be
found neceiiary to revert to that period, when we
firfl dared an opposition to the power of Great-
Britain : Which, while it affords a train of inci
dents, with their corresponding effects, in fuccel
fion, at the fame time forms an apology for Amer
ira in not having fconer agreed to those general
regulations, which would have enabled her more
fchy and fabftantially to have realized those bless
ings, which the attainment of her Independence
naturally pteferrted. I lhafl not however attempt
I review of those principles which fir ft gave rife to
the late contest with Great-Britain, and Anally pro
duced our separation—as they have been repeated
ly ltated, and accurately defined by men of abili
ti.-s much fuperiour to mine in such a dilquifition—
and who have been constant actors through the
■whole great scene : Of principles, the effects of
which have been fete in their full force by every
virtuous inhabitant of America, and led to exer
tions ur.parraTelled in history : Suffice it to fay,
that at'te/ Suffering every inl'ult and injury which
tyranny and despotism cculd alone invent, Ameri
ca, in that ever memorable epoch, the 4th of July,
1736, found it neceiiary, with a solemn appeal to
Heaven for the propriety of her condutft and the
jufhiefs of her cause, to renounce all allegiance to,
and diilblve all political connexion with that par
ent country, whose tender mercies were cruelties,
and surrounding nations at once fubferibed to licr
plea ofjulHficatiun, which was founded on that uni
versal polkical maxim, that as protection and alle
giance are reciprocal, when a government ceases
to afford the one, it becomes the indifpenfible duty
of the people governed, to renounce the other.—
111 addition tothiscaufe of their afient, we can also
attribute a growing jealousy among the nations of
Europe of the power of Great-Britain, while hold
ing such extenlive territory in this Western world,
which her insolent behaviour, 011 every occasion,
served not a little to confirm.
A native spirit of liberty, and love offreedonl,
Supported by a sense of common danger, gave union
to the councils of America, and fuccefstoher arms.
During the contest, and after an arduous conflict
of ten years, the haughty pride of Britain was cau
fed to bow at the shrine of Justice, and these States,
early in the year 1 78c;, were recognized by her as
free, sovereign and independent.
AMERICANUS.
(To be continued.)
AGRICULTURE.
Mr. F-EfcKO,
AS many people in this State as well as other
parts of the Union, are preparing land for the
glowing of Hemp the ensuing season ; you will
F/f"1 re P u Mi". Read's (ofMa!lachufctts)
II euu observations on the culture of that article.
Yom "' s > ' A. B.
of raifirg HEMP, and fitting it for
> tovimimicatsd to the committee of the American
ea emy of Arts and Sciences for promoting Agr't
/■ii ' j lo'lllI o ' lll Read Esq. of Roxbury. andpub
'ijhed-iti their request. 1 J
THE « I chufe for railing Hemp, is a light
c ]„ IK - 1 mould, as free from fione, gravel and
thorm 3 P. '< care is taken to have the foil
fall nf ?i ' llla nured, and once ploughed in the
the fn r ' C .^? ar > if other business will admit; in
and as U'u P^ ou ghcd two or three times more,
row i,i° rrowe d with an iron toothed har
and'leav° r \ CI t0 e P arate the particles of earth,
c tilem as light ss poflible then a light
From WEDNESDAY April 22, to S A T U R D A Y, ArRiL 2J, 1789.
brufli harrow is drawn by one liorfe over the
ground, by which means it is levelled so as to re
ceive the feed equally, after which it is marked
out for lowing ih the fame manner that barley and
oats are generallyfown, calculating (if the loil is
very good) at three bulliels to an acre, if but mid
dling good, at two and an half bushels to an acie.
The feed is always harrowed ill immediately af
ter sowing, with a fine iron toothed harrow, and
nothing is fuffered to pal's over it afterwards, leli
by treading or otherways it might be injured.
The feed mull be of the lall year's growth, and
will be benefited by lying ill ihe cellar a few weeks
previous to its being sown. In general I low my
feed about the middle of May (being governed by
thefeafon) a little l'ooner or later will do ; my
hemp is commonly fit to pull by the Bth or ioth 01
August, which is known by the male hemp turn
ing whiriih just at the time when the farina palles
off; this is ealily discovered by its (making when
agitated by the wind or jarred with a stick.
When the hemp is pulled, it is spread on the
ground where it grew, about an inch thick, and
what that will not receive is carried off to other
ground, and after laying two or three days mi ll
ed with a pole about lix feet long ; then receiving
one or two days more foil, it is bound into bundles
of about i J or 18 inches in circumference, and
immediately lioufed from wet until convenient
rime offers to put it into water for rotting, which
is done as soon as other business will admit. There
being a small lh eam of water that runs through my
farm, 1 have erected a dam which enables me to
flow a pond about five or fix feet high, wherein
the hemp is laid (much in the fame manner that
flax is laid for rotting) and after covering it with
straw to keep it clean, the plank and ftciies be
ing placed thereon, the dam gate is shut down,
and the hemp being over flowed, remains until it
is properly rotted, which is done in fix or fevCn
days, if put in as soon as the latter end of August
or begining of September, the weather being ge
nerally warm at that I'eafen of the year ; if putin
ro water the latter end of September, or the be
ginning of October, I have let it lay twelve days ;
if the latter end of o<flober or beginning of No
vember, twenty days, unless the weather has been
uncommonly warm for the fealon, in that cafe I
have found itnecellary to be removed sooner, but
have made it a point of attending to the heat or
cold of the weather, as when the water is warm,
the hemp will get a proper rot much sooner than
when it is otherwise.
My practice has been to draw the water from
the hemp 24 hours before tlietrking it up, leaving
the weight thereon in order that it may be well
drained, as in that cafe it is much better handled :
Then it is removed to a dry piece of ground and
spread about two inches thick, and after remain
ing a week or ten days in that situation is turned,
and in eight or ten days after, it is taken up, tied
in bundles and removed into the barn, where it
remains until I have leisure time to break and
swingle it out ; when barn room cannot be spar.cd
I have placed it up against a rail fence, running
the top ends between the two uppermost rails,
letting it remain there until proper time for break
ing ; for which purpose I have always found clear
cold weather to be the belt.
My hemp is broke and swingled much in the
fame manner that flax is done, excepting that the
firll breaking is done in a course break, the teeth
or flats being nearly four inches apart,then a com
-111011 flax break answers well, and being carefully
swingled is fit for use.
My practice for raising feed hath been to set a
part in the field some of my belt grown hemp for
that purpose, pulling up the male and female
hemp for about 18 inches in width, so that a man
may pass through ; leaving the other in beds a
boutnx feet ill width, in order that two men, (one
oil each fide) may reach in their hands and pull up
all the male, without injuring the feed bearing
hemp.
This process is performed when the general
pulling is done in Augufl ; the female hemp mult
Hand until the feed is fully ripe, which is known
by its turning brown ; in wet weather I have been
obliged to let it Hand until the middle ofOd:ober
before it was fit to pull ; after which it mull: be ti
ed in bundles like other hemp, and carefully set
up agaift a fence to dry, or that is not conveni
ent it may be laid on the ground, and after one or
two days fun, beat out in the fame manner that
flax feed is beat out, si nking lightly ; then expose
the other fide to the fun one or two days, after
which give it a thorough beating and spread the
feed with all the leaves, &c. in a dry place for
some days, then threfli it with a light flail or rub
it by hand, either w-ay until the feed is all out, and
NOTE.
* If is to be observed tliat a muddy bottom will require draw
I previous tothe hemp fceijig laid thereon.
after winnowing but it into a dry place fcrfcwir o
the next yesr.
The feed bearing hemp, requires afcwdayslcn
ger to rot than the other, cwirgto the thickness
otthe tark cr hmle, and the gi eater quantity of
glutinous fubilanee cccaficned L y its longfiamiirg.
I have always preferred old lr.anuie to new,
more especially ii lioife or cow citing, but new,
will c!o, and it is much theletttrto ha\ e it plcunh
ed in, in the fall.
\\ ith rcfpec't to the quantity of hemp, jailed on
an acre of ground, it varies from fix to twelve hrn
dred weight, much depending 011 the quality of
the foil and the manner of preparing it.
The expense of cultivating, iU. an acre of hemp,
is not at present in my power to ascertain, great
part of the bufmefs being done at leisure, and
when the time could belt be fpaiecl ; I would just
observe, that 1 can laifetw o or three acres yearly
on my small faim, without interfering much with
my oilier bufmefs. -j-
The present price of liemp, together' with the
bounty by the State, to encourage the culture of
thisuleftil plant, amounts to about 220 dollais per
ton, which bid fair to establish its growth here,and
1 am fully i'atisi.ed, from my own experience, that
at the present day no branch of agriculture (where
land is found suitable) canbe carried 011 to lo great
acUantage as that of railing hemp, and 1 have no
doubt that bur fanners will soon be convinced of
the truth of this observation. It having been
found by experience, both in Europe and America,
that lienip may be grown on the lame ground for
twenty 01; thirty yeais in fuccclfion,without lefloip
ing the crcp or empoverifhing the foil ; this alio
ti'ill have its weight.
The last year 1 tried the experiment of raising
hemp 011 a piece diked marih, the fait water
having been !:ept off better than cne year ; after
being ditched, I had a small part near the upland
carefully dug and manured \vitli old dung mixed
withfand, the hemp grewto full height, anclpro
ved to be of the belt kind ; this encouragement has
oecafioncd my preparing a larger piece for further
trial the next fealon, when I mean to make seve
ral experiments on the cultivation and clearing of
hemp, and if any advantage shall accrue there
from, I shall do myfclf the houor of communicat
ing it to the committee as early as pofF.ble.
NOTE.
+ A man that understands the breaking and fwinglinz Kemp
wall, wfll clcan from 40 toso wt. per day.
N E W-Y O R K.
PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
hi the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
SKETCH of the DEBATES upon die ARTICLE of TONNAGE.
Tuesday, April 21, 17,89.
TH E proposed duty of 6 cents, pr. ton, 011 vefTcls built in t ! ie
United States, aria belonging to the citizens thereof, was ob
jected to by fcveral membns : It was urged, that it wou'd tend to
the diftourag ng ftup building, that it was like taxing the imple
ments of hulbandi y, and was an improper Article ol taxation. To
these obje&ions, it was replied, that the def:,>n of this tax was not
for the purpofeof revenue ; but to defray the cxpenccs of light
houfts, and incidental charges of commcroc ; erecting hofpit.il>, so*
dilablcd seamen, &t. for which p'.rpofes, a tax of tlie kmd now
proposed was themoft convenient ar.d natural revenue#
Upon the paragraph which related to vefTels owned by the fub
jctts of foreign powers in alliance with the United States—many
observations occurred upon Mr. Goodhue's propoling a duty of
sixty cents per ton. This tonnage,the gentleman observed, accord
ing to a calculation he had made, would amount to about live per
cent, on the freight of veflels of tons.
Mr. Boudi not proposed thirty cents peV ton.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that the duty on foreign (hips was ren
dered nectfTary, in conference of the heavy burthens American
bottoms were liable to in foreign ports —that therefore, the duty to
be laid, ought to bear some proportion to thole impositions. Thir
ty cents, he conceived, would not cftablifti the preference', in FavonV
of our own (hipping.
Mr. Lawrence was opposed to sixty cents, as much too high,
the present state of our {hipping, which the gentleman
laid, was inefficient for the exportation of our produce ; this
would be found so heavy a duty, as to discourage the ftiipments of
our produce ; which it was well known would not bear a duty in
foreign markets ; it would operate as a tax on ourselves * for
freight in foreign veflels would be enhanced to an intolerable de
gree ; which would einbarrafs, or prevent exportafions, to the dif
couragemcnt of agricu'ttre a.id industry of every kind. Mr. Law
rence concluded, by seconding die motion for thirty cents.
Mr. Hartley propole'd 33 cents.
Mr. Goodhue said, that he was again!! a duty that would be
so as to operate to the discouragement of exporting our own
produce; but he thought, that five percent, was as little as could
be mentioned, to give .American YtfTels proper encouragement.
Mr. Fitzsimons observed, that it had been the policy of msr
ritime, and commercial nations, to encourage their own ifiippin ' ;
and to give it, if poflibje, a decided superiority, ever that of their
neighbors and rivals—Hence the proprn*y of cur giving our own
navigation peculiar advantage •, and there wasno doubt but in time,
our own ships might and would carry our own produce to market,
at a lower freight, than any. foreigners could—for many obvious
reasons : ButJitthe present scarcity of velFels, he did not conceive
it good policy, to discourage' foreigners from coming to our ports.
The {hiping at present employed in transporting the prodifce of the
United States to market, was two thirds foreign property—lt
would require time to bring our shipping upon a par with foreign
flipping ; but a decided preference to American bottoms, would
induce the merchants to increzlc the aciount of then capitals; in
TRICE SIX PENCE.r.avgltiof!, till jr. iir>, a superiority would be obvious and felt—
'I he g. ntleman olfcrVed, that the < bje&ion to a tonnage duty, as
having a natnral tendency to discourage the exportation ot our
produce, did not apply—For the most- valuable of our exports,
could not he obtained from any other quarter—Tobacco, rice and
lumber could not be produced in fufficient quantities any where
dfe—The Weft*lndies could not be fupplicd from any other part
of the world.
Mr. Tucker was opposed to the duty of sixty cents—lt would
bear extremely hard upon some parts of the Union, and operate
as a bounty to others, without any advantage to the public—This
duty would be eventually paid by a few particular States : Some
of the States had more (hipping than was rtece'flary tot their own
particular employ—others, who (hipped the greatest quantity of
bulky articles, were deficient in ships : The burthen would there
fore tall on those States—For the tax on foreign veflels,would pro\e
a bounty on American, and cause them to enhance their freight :
He moved, for twenty cents per ton; which he (uppofed, would
he a fufficient encouragement to the building of ships, in the Uni
ted States.
Mr. Benson queried as to the policy of a discrimination be
tveen those powers in alliance with the United States and thofc
who were not ?
Mr. Burke was opposed to a duty of 60 cents.
Mr. Shsr man observed", that the objedf of these duties was to
place the American veffc Is, upon a superior focting to foreign vef
fc)s—he feared -that object-would not be efFcQcd , as foreign na
tions, hsd it at then option, dill to r ncreafc the duties on our ships,
111 proportion to the taxes we might impose.
Mr. Madison was con fide 11 , there existed good reasons for a
diferimination ; but doubted the eligibility of fuddenlyeitablilhing
a very great uifrerer.ee; as our (hipping, from evciy document,
appeared at present, to be infjjffitient*: He w is in favor of a dii
-0 urination, because it coincided with the pul lick sentiment upon
the fubjeft : P<\licv and justice dilated it : France had recently rc
-1 xed her commercial system in our favor : American built vcifels,
could now be fold in France, fubjeft to a duty of o.iiy 5 per cent.
In Great Britain, no American built vcffcl can be f>ld, nor rep i -
ed, ror were Briti(h vefTds allowed to be repaired in the United
fctste*. From accounts itrppeared, that the (hipping of cur allies.
< mplnyed in the American trade, bore no proportion to that ot
the Bntifh ; he was therefore, in favor of advantages to
thqfe nations in alliance with us, -that they might enjoy their due
proportion of our trade, ard to transfer it from Great Britain, who
now enjoyed mor** than her proportion. Bifide*, Gr« at Br'tain
had (hut her* m< ft valuable ports in the Wrft-Indies ago r.ft us ;
while Brit ih (hips brought the produce of the. whole * oriu to the
American market. For thefr, and many otl er rrafons, the gen
tleman thought, that a discrimination fhcu'.d take ph»ee- : He there
f< ie proposed, an amendment, fpecifying a p. rticuW prnod, for
jhe commencing of the tonnage dutv, to prevent some ot the
quenccsapprehended from monopoly by some gentlemen, See.
Mr. Tucker again rose in oppoution t*» Mr. Goodhue's propo
rtion ; he observed that, if 60 cents were laid on ships of powers
in treaty with us, and a highei duty on the (hipping of those who
were not, the tax would operate intolerably, upon the southern go
vernments.
Mr. Coodhu e coir.c'ded in opinion with Mr. Madifoil, in his
piopofitiorf for an amendment to :he refiihition.
Mr. Fitzs Imon sol je £le dto the amendment; freight he ob
served, was not higher in Virginia, fincc they had laid a dollar
pet ton, duty than it had been before that duty "was imposed; the
advantages resulting from any particular business, had an obvious
tendency to dirrin fti the profits; this would apply to freight; It
would equalize itfelf in a \ery lhort time.
Mr. Lawrence confidcred the principleof felf intere ft, as the
great motive that ought to govern us ; we had derived no special
vantage from nations in aliiaqce with us, in a commercial v iew : The
publick sentiment was not univcr/ally in favor of a diferimination ;
this State had not made any ; they conceived good policy did not
suggest the measure; France had given us fomt advantages, but had
resumed thtm again ; our oil was now prohibited: Itisaferious
inquiry whether we do not ooru r ow n ir.tereft, by deftroy
inga riv l(hip among foreigners for the'earryingtr-de: We are un
der no obligations to give one nation a preference over another; and
therefore, the gentleman concluded, by wiftvng that we might be
governed in the present cafe, by a regard to that principle, whtch
influences aTI commercial countries, felfintereft: He was decidedly
opposed to diferimination.
Mr. Madison : A free and liberal coYnmerce is my wish ; re
itri&ions on trade, I am averse to ; and I regret, tliat we are under any
nece flitv to firpofe (hacklcson our navigation; but, Sir, the poli
cy of other nations, does not leave us an*ele£lion : Intereftdoes not
always regulate its felf, to the heft purposes. Hence the propriety
rnd policy of the interference of commercial regulations ; of giving
bounties, ?nd laying refti *£Hens: The immense quantities of Ame
rican produce, eonfumed in Europe, contraftcd with the returns
from every part, except Great Britain, plainly pointed out the
.gu at dilprcportion, which (he enjoyed ofourtiade. It has been
a(Ved, what evidence <\ lis that the Statefc were in favor of a discri
mination?* Tothisit mujht be replied, that the legiflafive ass of
/cfcral*Statcs,proved the sentiment, Virgiiiia % Maryland and PennJ)!-
xania had made a very material d'llercncc, and dillin&ions, I be
lieve, were also made in other states.
Mr. Baldwin, of Georgia, observed, that he thought the fulled
evidence that the sense of the people of the United States was Jn fa
vour ofa diferimination,was apparent in thecxiftence of that house.
The commercial embarraffmentk and diftrefles of the country gave
1 ife to the meeting of delegates at Annapolis. That Convention
foTjnd it impracticable to effect their.object—and it terminstcd in
aflerotl'ng a New Convention, which gave birth to another revolu
tion. It was he fjid a prevailing sentiment through the continent,
that such a discrimination (hould be made.
Mr. Fit zs: mok s then made a variety of obfervatior.s in favour
of a modeiate encouragement to the navigation of this country.
Upon which Mr. Goodhue withdrew his motion for 60 cents.
The quefticn on cents was loft—and that for 30 obtained.
The duty ct 50 cents on veflels belonging to the fubje&sof States
rot »n alliance with us, vas then voted. Thecommittee then role,
and the chairman reported the following Resolution.
RF.SOLVFD, ?s the opinion of this committee, that the follow
ing dtries ought to be 'aid on goods, wares and meichandifes, im
ported ioto the United States, to titit.
In Certs.
On all diflilled Spirits of Jamaica p-oof, - 15
On all d,(tilled Liquors of inferior proof, - - 12
On Mofeffe*, ..... 6
On Madeira Wine, - 33L
On till other "Wines, .... 20
011 iv »y gallon ol Peer, Ale, or P imported in cadcs, 8
On -M Ireer,Ale,or Porter, imported in bottles, pr. dcz.n, 24
On Malt,pr. bushel, ... jo
On Parley, pr. bulhel, - -6
On Lime pr. hoglhead, ~ - - 100
On blown Sugars, > r. lb. - - - i
On lea' Sugars, pr. IK .... 2
On; !! other Sugars, pr. lb. - - -
On Cof)ee, pr. Ib. - - - 25
On Cocoa, pr. lb. - i
On all Candles of Tallow, pr. ,Ib. 2
On all Candles of Wax, or Spermaceti, pr. lb. - 6
On Cheese, pr. lb. ... 4
On Soap, pr/lh. .... £
On Boots, pr. pair, ....
On all Shoes,Slippers,or Golofhocs.made of leather, pr. pair, 10
On all Shoes, or Slippers, made of fxlk or ftuft, pr. pair, 10
On Cable s, for every cwt. - 50
On tarred Cordage, for every 11 e lb. - - ,50
On untarred Cordage, and Yarn, for every 11 zlb. - (/C
On Twine, or jsack Thread, for every 112 lb. -
On Hemp, pr. cwt. - 5°
On all Steel, unwrought, for every 112 lb. - 56
On all Nails, and Spikes, pr. lb. - - 1
On Salt, pr. bushel, *
On manufactured Tobacco, pr. lb. - - - 6
On Snuff, pr. lb. 10
On every dozen Wool Cards, 5°
On every bushel of Coal, - - • - 3
On salted Mackrel, Shad and Salnlon, per barrel 75
On dried Filh, pr. quintal, - - - 50
On all Teas, imported from China, or India, in (hips built )
in the United States, and belonging to a citizen 6r citizens >
thereof, as follows : )
On bohea Tea, pr. lb. 6
On all fouchcng, and other black Teas, pr. lb. - 10
On superior green Tt c.s, pr. lb. 20
On all other Teas, p . lb. - - - - 10
On all Teat importedfrom any other country,or from India
or China, in ships which are not the property of a citizen 01 >
Citizens of the United States, as follows: - )
On Bohta Tea, pr. lb. 8
On all souchong, or other black Teas, pr. lb. - 15
On superior green Tea, pr. !b. - 30
On all other green Tea, pr. lb. - - - 18
On all Window and other Glass, 10 pr. cent, ad valorem.
On all blank Books, -
On all writing, printing, or wrapping Paper, and on all Pafle
! o>rd,
On all Cabinet Wares, -
On all Buttons of metal, - c :
On an Saddles, -
On ail Gloves of leather, -S
On all Hafsol beaver, fur, wool, or a mixture of either,
On all Millinary, -
On all Callings of Iron, and upon flit or rolled iron, f £
On all Leather, tanned or tawed, and on all manufa&ure of %
leather, except such as shall be otherwise rated, - w
On Canes, walking Sticks and Whips,
On cloathing ready made, -
On gold, silver, and plated Ware, and on Jewellery and Pafle
Work,
On Anchors, -
And on all wrought tin Ware, J
On evcrv Coach, charriot, or other four wheel Carriage, and or.
eveiy Chaifc, Solo, or other two wheel Corriage, 15 p».r cent, au
valorem.
On a 1 other articles, five per crnt. on their value at the time and
place of importation, except as follows: Tin in pigs, Tin Plates,
Lead, Pewter, Brass, Copper in plates, Wool, Dying Woods, ana
Dying Drugs, (other than Indigo) raw Hides, Beaver and all other
Furs, .md peer Skins.
Thrt all the duties pr.id or fccured to bepaid upon goods imported,
(ball be returned 01 discharged upon such of the said goods as fhali
within months beexpoittd to any country without the limits
of the United States, except so much as shall be necefTary to defray
the expense that may have accrued by the entry and fafc keeping
thereof.
That there ought moreover to be levied on all veflels entered or
eleared in the United States, the duties following, to wit :
On all vcdels built within the Uuitcd States, and belonging whol
ly to cilizers thereof, at the rate of fix cents per ton.
On all vefTcls not built within th; United States, but belonging
wholly to citizens thereof, at the rate of fix cents per ton.
On ill vefTeJs belonging wholly to the fubje&s of powers with
whom the United States have tormed treaties ; or partly to the
fubj< $s of fur h pdwer, and partly to the citizens of the said States, at
the rate of thirty cents per ton.
On oil vessels belong wholly or in part to fubje£ls of other pow
ers, at the rate of fifty cents per ton.
Provided, That no vcflel built in the United States, and belong,
ing to a citizen or citizens thereof, whilfl employed in the coaftinp
trade, or in the filheries, shall pay tonnage more than once in an\
one yaar; nor shall any ship or veflel built within the United States
pay tonnage on her firfl voyage.
The Speaker resumed the chiar, end the queflion on the report o!
the committee being poflponed for further consideration, the House
adjourned.
Wednesday, April 22.
Agreeably to the order of the day, the house went into a com
m tree on the bill for prefciibing the form and manner of taking th<
oath required by the sixth article of the Conflitution.
Some debate was held on the fubjeft, which was supported b>
Mr. Mr. Madison, Mr. Sturges, Mi 7 . White, Mr. Sher
ma.n, M. Baldwin, Burke, Mr. Sil vestee, Mr. Smith
and Mr. Seney.
Having gone through and amended the fame, the committee rof<
and reported ; and the consideration of the report beingpollponed
the House adjourned.
Thursday, April 23, 1789.
The House met agreably to adjournment.
The comm'ttee appointed to confer with the committee of the
Senate upon the modes or forms to be observed in fending papers,
bills and mefiages to either house, reported—consideration of which
was postponed.
L pon.motion of Mr. White, referring to the arrival of the Presi
dent, the House adjourned till to-morrow.
Friday, April 24.
The *"?port of the committee read yeflerday, was taken up and
difcuftcd. Some gentlemen conceived, that certain parts of it held
up a dillnflion between the Senate and the House of Reprefcnta
tives, unfavourable to the dignity of the latter—two Members beinp
required by it to carry a message from the House to the Senate, while
the Secretary was to be the Meflenger from the Senate to the House.
A considerable debate enfucd upon a motion for this
Report.
On one fide of the queflion it was observed, That a diftinfliou
was proper, and did not imply a comparison : That the Conflitu
tion favoured this diflinftion ; the House was the mofl numerous
body, and the propriety of a larger number on the part of the house
was fan&ioned by cuflom, used upon all occasions ; that the
real dignity of the House depended upon supporting the conflitu
t'.onal dillinftions of each branch of the Legislature ; that many ad
vantages might result from two Members beingon such committees,
as it would conducq to preventing miflakes : that the Senate had a'
right to determine their own mode; that it was evident, by an at
tention to the report, that the Senate did not mean to arrogate con
fe quenceto themselves ; but designed that the forms proposed fliould
be reciproc ally refpeftful.
On the other fide it was contended, That the Senate evidently af
<umcd a superiority : That it was necefTary to guard the eaHiefl
movements to ariflorracy : That the mode oropofed was complex
aid burdensome : That one Member adequate to all the pur-
Doses of carrying a MefTage : That the Conflitution held out no dif
tinftions : The House was fully equal to the Senate, and in some
particulars, were pofTeffed of powers that the Senate do not enjoy :
as the originating Money Bills, &c.
1 he Report was finally recommitted.
Mr. Sherman moved, that the House now receive the report nf
the Committee providing the mode for taking the Oath agreeably
othc Conflitution. This motion pa fled in the negative.
Mr. Gale, of Maryland, moved, that the enacting flileof 4 Senate
and-Houfeof Representative?,' of the United States,be amended *bv
'übflituting ' the Congress of the United States, as being more a
;reeable to the Conflitution. This was objefled to by several Mem
bers ; but the vote being called for, the ena&ing claufc wasrepcaled •
but without fixing upon a fubftitutc.
It was then moved, that the Report of t'r.e Committee ofM,
whole lioufe, in their Resolution upon the fubjes of Revenue
:aken into confederation. The Report being iead, the artici- )
distilled spirits, Jamaica proof, came firft in orc^er.
Mr. Bo ud i not observed upon the sum annexed to this article f
15 cents pr. gallon, that he thought it too high ; would Drod
fmugglmg, and defeat th'e purposes of government. The duty
proposed on Madeira Wine, according to a calculation he had mad
on a cargo of 200 pipes, would ( amount to 2600073000!. as.
which gentlemen mult be sensible would prove a moll powerful ft!
nulus to fmugglmg. To collect lo heavy duties, there mult be "
.jreat number of revenue ofHcers, who must be very vigilanttoo
r.d the collection would render them odious, and governmentu n '
popular. As an evidence of the bad policy of exceHive or high du~
ies, he beg'd to recitean instance: MolafTesa few years since uuh-*
port, was liable to a duty of 6 pence pr. gallon : The conference
was, that nothing was colleftf d ; but when the duty was reduced to
1 penny, pr. gallon, a large sum was realized in the Treasury.
would therefore move that 3 cents be struck off from the sum tun
posed. P
Mr. Maddison spake in favourofthe sum proposed. R Um
observed, if any article, ought to bear an high duty. It was agree,
ible to the general ideas of the people ; and though he was sensible
that smuggling was the general consequence of execflive exactions
upon trade, yet the sum proposed was not lo high, he. believed aj
to produce that effect to any conliderable degree. He hoped to'tee
j difference in thp conduct of merchants, irom the opinion now
thrown out, and that they would combine to support the laws. He
hoped to fee the time when it would become infamous to defraud
the Revenue, injure the fair trader, and pour contempt upon <r C .
vernment.
Mr. Jackson, of Georgia, was in favour of a diminution of the
duty. H ' observed that it would produce all the evils which. had
been mentioned : More especially in the State he had the honour
to _ rep reft nt, which abounded in creeks and inlets, exceedingly fe.
vourable to the smuggling bufincs.
Mr. Wadswor tk, of Connecticut, was eppofed to fohigha dr.
ty : He thought 12 cents too much, and would propose flrikingoif
>ne half the original sum. There was not money in the hands ot the
merchants, fufneient to pay such duties.
Mr. Fitzsimons a fked,. whether gentlemen had made a calcu
lation of the amount of the duties proposed, for it ought to be con
lidered. whether they were too much or not, before a redu&ion
ttflas made : For his pait he did not think they would be found to
exceed the sum required. Gentlemen had observed 44 that tlere
was not money fufHcient to pay these duties : If that w;s the
cafe, the duties might be collected in foine other way. As
:o the praft ieubility of coll ftions, that was merely matter of
□pinion. The bill upon thispart of the system, would beftexjlan
ihat part of the bufmefs. There were few large cargoes of *m:
imported : It was cafy to find a mode to adjust the payment of
duties ; time must be given. As to the smuggling to the south
ward referred to by gentlemen, it was counteracted by a Voricty
sf confidcrations. He was oppoled to a diminution.
At this stage of the debate, the Speaker received a message from
the Senate,the purport of which was, that they had appointed tlree
members to join a committee of the House, to connder whatftile,
ur title, or whether any, other than what the confti tut ion contain',
should be given to the Prcjidcnt vn&Vicc Prcjidcnt; alfoto determine
upen the time aud place, to adminiftpr theosth to the Presiee.nt,
ind by whom. After some debate, a committee, confiftin<; of Mr.
Benfon, Mr. Carrol, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Kadifon and Mr. Ams y wx
ippointed. The fubjett of the duty on spirits was then renewed.
Mr. La w r ence observed, that gentlemen appeared to have two
sbje6ts in view ; to be effedea by a high duty on rum ; but if r -
/enue was one,, high duties operated against them ; if the reform.-
rionof the people, smuggling was acknowledged to beunfavo
able to morals ; Hut on the contrary, had a powerful tendency 0
corruptthem : That no reliance could beplaced, but upon the effi
cacy of the laws, in the collection of the duties : He thought twelve
cents too high ; but if np gentleman proposed less he should vote for
that sum.
Mr. Tucker thought twelve cfcntsmuch too high; he therefore
moved, that seven cents be (truck off frotn the original firm: High
duties had a tendency to reduce smuggling to a fyftem,which would
greatly add to the evil, and render the cure extremely difficult:
Bcfidec it held out powerful temptations to the officers of the reve
nue to swerve from their duty, and become corrupt.
XL". Madison observed, that he was not convinced by all that
had been that 15 cents were too much : Tfye peopleexpeftec,
that this article would pay a higher sum, than had been coin
ed from it : A duty ot one-sixth of a dollar had befft laid by oneof
the States,an evidence, that the proposed duty was within their:dez<.
Corruption of morals had been mentioned as the consequence of
smuggling; but it ftiould be remembered that other things had a£•
milar influence : Injuiticc and fraud, had a powerful tendency, anc!
tK:s would be the necefTary consequence of a deficient revenue; no
fut ftitute had been proposed for the defalcation this eflential di
minution would oecafion : And it must be observed, that smaller
articles would be smuggled with much greater facility : and if vc
abandon the idea of realizing a considerable sum from obvious and
bulky goods, such as rum, &c. there would a great deficiency
ensue. We ought to suppose that the people will be a&uatcd by bet
ter motives, than to risk their fame, their honor and justice by eva
ding the duties : For his part he expe£ted a different couduftfrom
the good sense of his countrymen ; and the united exertions oftbe
great body of merchants to support the laws. ,1
Mr. Fit zsi mons observed, that as there appeared a divifionc:
sentiment upon the fubje£t, he would propose an adjournment: TM
House accordingly adjourned.
Erratum—ln our last Debates, for Mr. Jackson, (Virginia)—read f
Mr. Jackson, (Georgia.)
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
DUBLIN, DECEMBER 2j.
THE froft at Paris was so intenTe a fortnight ag o '
that the Sein?, which is 18 or 20 feet deep in tnat
city, where the tide never flows, was so frozen in i\
hours, as to admit bearing multitudes, uho form™ 1
kind of fair on the river. But on the third day aMo"
thaw separated the ice, and 14 men, 6 women, a*" l " s
few children, from 5 to 10 years old, were irrecover
able 1011. The reft, amounting to about 10,000, c
tween the two bridges, made a (hist to scramble to .
but not without many broken limbs and fore boass.
LONDON.
Mr. Pitt has been molt absurdly charged by the opr .
fition writers', with a delii e to dillurb the harmon)
the royal family, and to divide a mother from* 0 ",
Such an intention, if it could really be proved,
certainly render Mr. Pitt an object of abhorrence «i<
people, whole chara£leriliic liberality it univerfaln '
mitted. But these men (hould diftinguifii between •-
unpleasant conlequences of a system calculated ' or .
national advantage, and the secret difpcfition? of" 1
thors. Mr. Pitt may fee with extreme regret 1
meakires unluckily tend to interrupt domestic tr3 "^ ;in
ty, yet, in the wide and general aim to accowp
important object, finds it necessary to disregard a
deration so amiable in private life, in the fupc" orru- nuhlic datv. A minilter is properly the servant of
of his public da t the sentiments o:
the public, a "f ty^e r fere with his political duties, he
private huma my once . never ftould the peace
Jhouldexungui in rank, at all influence
hl'S when the higher concern of the Hate demand,
fUC Tha! a i fi Excellent minilter is actuated by no preju-
That ou o{ WileSj jn the measure he has
dice a ß® ' limitation of the powers of the regency, »
U A in' this, that he gives no encouragement to Mr
- , nC i his introduction of the moR ridiculous and ot
r'tooickthat ever was obtruded upon the publick.
"as little hopes remain apparently of a final reconcili
hetween Denmark and Sweden, the former has
terv lately Hooped a large chest of silver to the value of
CO 000 ducats, which was going from Copenhagen to
Stockholm, for the use of the Swedilh army.
The Danilh government has claimed this money, un
der pretence of reimbursing itfelf for the contributions
which he Swedish towns promised to raile for tne Damlh
Zy while in their country, and wh.ch were never
of Sweden has put off the Court Martial
which was to try those officers difaffefted to him, whi.e
fervii"in Finland lalt.fummer, and who threw i>p their
commiiiions. His Majesty has judged it more prudent
to bury this affair in oblivion, at lealt tor the prelent,
as the invention might produce consequences extremc
lv prejudicial to the interests of the nation.
' The Parliament of Paris has made the following ar
rtte, which is to be presented to the King, with \the re
quell for his Majcfty to lay its articles before the flues
general, that the fame may be palled into law. i Aey
are io the form of demands or claims.
For a habeas corpus ast, which of course annihi
lates the lettres de cachet.
2. T he liberty of the press to be granted.
3. Ministers of (late being made relponfible for then
a£j, deedi, and condud, ... ,
4 For the existing taxes to be distributed equally up
on every class of the people throughout the whole king
d°™.' That the new taxes which are to be raised (hall be
applied to consolidate the national dejjt, and tone o
ther purpofc whatever.
6. The meetings of the dates General to be fixed.
• 7. And no taxes to be railed without the conlent and
authority of the dates General.
NBVYORX, ArRIL 25.
THURSDAY lad, between 1 and 3 o'clock, P. M. the Most ll
luftrious PRESIDENT OF THE CXITED STATES arrived in th.,
city.
At EhzaL/itim*, he was received by a deputation of three Sena
tor s and five Representatives of the Umtcd States and ..11 ee
Otficers of the State and Cor roa at ion—with whom he em
barked on board the Barge,built for .he purpose of wafting him acrofc
the bay. Thirteen"Pilots in white uniforms rowed this Barge—
Thomas Randal l, Esq. atting as.Cockswain.
It is impo/Tiblc to do justice in an attempt to describe the Scene ex
hibited onhis Excellency'sapproach tp the city. Innume able mul
titudes thronged the fhojres, th*. wharves, and the {hipping wa ting
"with pleafiflganticipationhis arrival, tlis Cathol'.ck Maj fly »Sloop
ofWar,the Ga/t^ow- 1 —the Ship North Carolina,[Mi. Dohrman sjatid
other vessels, were dreffed,'manned, and highly decorattu. His Ex
cellency's Barge was accompanied by several other Barges, in one
of which, were the Board of Treasury,—the Miniflst of
Foreign Affair-, —and the Secretary at War—besides a long train
of vessels and boats from New-Jersey and New-York. A«he pafled
the Galvijlon lhe fired a salute of 13 guns—The Ship Worth Curohna,
and the Battery, also welcomed his approach with the fame number.
The whole water scene was highly Jnimated—moving in regulai
order—the grand Gala formed an object the most interesting imagina
ble.
On His Excellency's arrival at the Stairs, prepared and ornament
ed, at Murray's wharf,for his landing, he was saluted by Col. Bau
man'sartillery, and received and congratulated by his Excellency
the Governour, and the Officers of the State and Corporation —from
whence the PROCESSION moved, in the following Order, viz.
Colonel LEWIS,
Accompanied by Majors' Morton and Van Horns.
Troop of Dragoons,
Capt. Stakes.
German Grenadiers,
Capt. Scriba.
Band of Mufick.
Infantry of the Brigade,
Captains' Swartout and Steddiford.
Grenadiers,
Capt. Harsin.
Regiment of Artilleiy,
Colonel Bah man.
Band of Mvjtck.
General MALCOLM, and Aid.
Officers of the Militia two and two.
Committee of Congress. v
The PRESIDENT—Governour Clinton.
President's Suite.
Officers of the State.
Mayor and Aldermen of New-York.
' . The Reverend Clergy.
Tr.eir Excellencies tlje French and Spanish Ambaffadours in their
Carriages.
The whole followed by an immense concourse of Citizens.
Tfie Proceflioil moved through Queen Street to the House prepared
cot the reception of the Prdident—from whence he was conduced,
without form, to the Gov er nou r's, where his Excellency dined.
" This great occasion arretted the publick attention beyond all
powers of dtfcription—the hand of induftvy was fulpended—and the
various pleafurcs of the capital were concentered to a fin-le enjoy
ment" —All ranks and profeffions exprelTed their feelings, in loud
acclamations, and with rapture hailed the arrival of the FATHhR
OF HIS COUNTRY.
The illumination of the city on Thursday even
ing was brilliant. The transparent paintings in
various quarters did honour to the ingenuity and
publick ipirit of the parties concerned in their
exhibition*
The Scene on Thursday last was sublimely great
—beyond any descriptive powers of the pen to do
justice to—How univerfal —and how laudable tlie
curiosity—How Jnicere —and how expreJJ:ve the Sen
tiinents of reSpect and veneration ! —All ranks ap
peared to feel the force of an exprellion, that was
r£iterated among the crowd—" WELL, HE DE
SERVES IT ALL !''
The Spontaneous effufions of gratitude to the il
lustrious WASHINGTON, exhibited by all ranks
ot people, iii a thousand various indications ot the
lublime principle, are the highclt reward that vir
tue enjoys, next to a conscious approbation which
always precedes luch undillembled testimonials of
publick affection.
Many persons who were in the crowd, on Thurs
day, were heard to fay, that they should now die
contented—nothing being w anted to complete their
happineSs. previous to this auspicious period, but
the light of the oaviour of Ids Country.
Some pe.fons, advattcedin years, who hardly ex
pected to fee the illustrious Preiident of the States,
rlll they ihould meet him in Heaven, were in the
concourse on Thursday, and could hardly restrain
their impatience, at being in a measure deprived
of the h'. >;h gratification, by the eagerness of the
multitudes of children and young people, who pro
bably might long enjoy the blefhng.
It was a very lively mark ot aliection, as well as
an ingenious clifplay of fancy, in the circumltance
of ranging a lovely group of little girls on Trenton
Bridge, to sing anOde, composed for the occalion,
while the beloved of all hearts was palling it, on
his way to New-York.
A Hoop that ran out of Kli/.abethtown, to join in
the Gala, from that place, on Thursday, was filled
with a collection of the fair Daughters of C olum
bia, who enlivened the scene by linging a variety of
cxpreliive and animated airs.
Merit must be great, when it can call forth the
voluntary honours of a free and enlightened peo
ple : But the attentions shewn on this occalion,
were not merely honorary, they were the tribute ot
•rratitude, due to a man whose life has been one
ferics of labours for the publick good —upon a kale
of eminence, that Heaven never before aliigned
to a mortal. These labours have been atcl-.eived
so perfectly, that future ages ffiall acknowledge
thejufticeof the poet, when they read,
41 So near perfettion, that he flood
" Upon the boundary line,
44 Of finite, from infinue good,
" Of human from divine/' '
The wife, the good, and truly great, among man
kind, have uniformly p ofefled to be actuated by
timilar motives in their pursuits, either as governed,
or patriots, heroes, Jtatefmen, or legitla
tots —tliofe motives have been the PUBLIC GOO)),
under the Superintendence of DIVINE PROVI
DENCE. What can exhibit the dignity of hu
man nature in greater perfection !
His Excellency the Vice Preiident of the United
States, the morning fuccedinghis arrival was wait
ed upon by the Mayor and Corporation ; after in
troducing the members, the Mayor in the name of
the citizens and magistrates most reSpectfully con
gratulated his Excellency on his high promotion
and fafe arrival.
He begged leave to express in a very few words
what palled in the publick mind on this interesting
event.
He observed that his Excellency's known abili
ties, the diftinguiffied part he had acted in the
evolution, and his signal Services since that period,
entitled him to the efteemand confidence ofhiscoun
try in a very eminent degree. That convinced of
this truth the magistrates and citizens'.noft cordial
ly united in the general Satisfaction, 1 that as the
just reward of his merit he was elected by a free
and enlightened people to the elevated rank of
THE SECOND in office and dignity in the nation
al government. That while all acknowledged the
force of so high a,teftimony of the publick appro
bation, he afl'ured his Excellency, that the magi
strates and citizens solicitous for his honour and
happineSs would cheerfully contribute whatever
alight be in their po\ver to render his residence
agfeeable, his perfonrefpecfted, and his office dig
nified.
His Excellency received them with the ntmoft
politeness felicitated them on the profpecft of
the public happineSs,and returned them his thanks
for their congratulations and ailurances of refpecft.
ODE
Suhg on the arrival of the
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Tune " Codfave ire.".
YC'c.npof d by Mr.
HAIL thou autpicious day !
Far let America
Thy praise resound ;
Joy to our native land !
Let ev'ry heart expand,
For Washington's at hand.
With glory crown'd!
Thrice bled Columbians hail !
Behold, before the gale,
Your Chief advance ;
The matchless Hero's nigh !
Applaud him to the sky,
Who gave you liberty,
With gen'rous France.
Illustrious Warrior hail !
Oft' did thy fwordtprevail
Oe'r holts of foes;
Come and frelh laurels claims
Still dearer make thy name,
Long as immortal Fame
Her trumpet blows!
Thrice welcome to this (hore>
Our leader now no more,
But ruler thou ;
Oh truly good and great !
Long live to glad our state.
Where countless honors wait
To deck thy brow.
Far be the din of arms,
Henforth the olive's charms
Shall war preclude ;
Thele shores a head (hallownj
Unfully'd by a throne,
Our much iov'd Washington,
The greats the good.
At this important crilis, happy is it for oiit
country that Ihe has fucli citizens
1 ON and an ADAMS, to guide her confederated
councils—happy that they have the ability —and
more happy that they have the solicitude to effeift
her prosperity, and to raise her to that ~ank in the
grade of nations, to which nature intended her.
And, if it has hitherto been impoHible, to con
vince the world, that two Sufts may lhine in one
and the fame horizon—the faJl now is.
The sentiments contained in a late address to
the Most Hon. Senate, approve themselves to the
feelings of every friend to the L 1 niced States. Ihe
pure 1 pi.it of FREKDO.M, ami NAiIONLITY,
\\ hicli it breathes, indicates the warnu'ft attach
ment to the Liberties of the people —and that Sys
tem of Government, which only fecurc tliofe
liber Lies.
The late King of Prufiia was celebrated for his
knowledge of men : If therefore, is was conhder
ed as a great compliment, when 011 the luper
fcription of n letter to a Poliili Nobleman, he wiote
" to be communicated to the ornament of Human Na
:re how much greater -.null the compliment be
t onfidered, when in the direction of a lecter to our
I'refident - General some years since, he wrote,
" From the oldefi General in Europe, to the greateji
General in the ll'orld ?"
There are a great many very charitable persons
now employed in coining money so. a publick cur
■ency. These gentlemen ask no other fee or re
ward, but the liberty of a free circulation for their
.Manufacture. Some of their copper coins, it is
true, is without " iv.i:/ or fuperjlriptim" or so
badly executed, that' it is ditHcult to determine
what State we are indebted to for it. Others bear
the stamp of powers, with whom we have no cou
nection—hill it is kindj they Cay, to increase the
circulating medium.—lt maybe queried, Whether
.liefe "CopperSmiths are not doing us much evil,"
in making the publick pay nearly four shillings a
pound, for the vilelt traih that ever was palmed
upon the World for money ?
Thursday arrived here the schooner Columbia,
P. Freneau, in 8 days from Cliarlefton. —Came
pailenger, Dr.iKing, lately from South America,
with a collection of natural curiosities, particular •
ly a male and female Ourang Outang, (or man of
the woods) remarkable for its Itiiking limilitudo
to the human species.
INTERESTING INTELLIGENCE.
Extrafl of a letter from Havre de Grace, dated Jan.
29, 1789, to a gentleman in Boflon.
" Our worthy friend Thomas Jeff erf on Esq. Am*
baflador of the United States of America, at the
Court of France hath obtained from government
to recal the prohibition on American Whale and
Spermaceti Oil, imported into France in Ameri
can lliips. Thus all forts of foreign Oils (the A
merican only excepted) are prohibited, which
surely is a very great favour granted by ourgovern J
ment to the American Fishery."
This letter confirms the account of a bounty on.
wheat and flour, as mentioned foine tine since.THE TABLET.
NUMBfcR IV.
" It is of importance that men at the helm of affairs
Jhould know how and when to touch the different]prings
of tht human mind
r I I H E love of one's country, like other attach-
A nlents, is an involuntary ientiment. It relults
more from liabit than reflection ; and may be de
nominated a pal Son rather than a principle. It
can be produced in the minds of all men by edu
cation. Men never love their country, as 1 a matter
of duty, merely because it is their country; but they
are attached to it from feeling, because it coincides
more with their prejudices, than any other coun
try, tlicy have seen. From this cause, aperfon can
110 more reason himfelf into a love of his country,
than into a love of any other object. A luxurious
man cannot love that, which interferes with his
pleasures. An avaricious man cannot love that,
v. i.ich counteracts his interest. Of course, neither
of these characters can have any affection for a
government, which proceeds from the maxim, that
"wealth or dissipation a!re a pufclick injury. They
■will both however be quiet citizens while the go
vernment lets them alone. The firit only wishes
not to be disturbed in his pleasures - r and the lall
to be allowed to pursue his bufmefs. The mcft pro
fligate man in the world may 'love his country as
well as the bellman, provided the character ofhis
count-y is accommodated to his taste and views.
Any man, whollr object is publick fame, and who
believes he cannot acquire this, but by a strict at
tention to the publick good, will always be a patriot.
Ardour of temper, controuled by a found judge
ment, proves in ftich an initance, a fafe fubltitute
for a good heart.
1 com the preceding sketch, fomfc important re
flections m:ly be produced. It will intimate to le
gislators that the plan of education should be
moulded accordingto the fpiri? o 1 the government.
It proves likewise, that countries, wliofe political
character and circumstances are different, should
not adopt limilar fyftcnis cf education. But tlip
most important idea it suggests, is, that a nation,
• composed of inhabitants, who are not generally
native? of the country, should look for some other
tip to secure the fidelity, and ob.ain the exertions
of its citizens, besides patriotism. One of the beftfe
curities against infurreiftions,in a country of fuchdi
verfified inhabitants is anationaldomeilicdebt.This
binds molt effectually the interest of nionied men, in
promoting the prosperity of the government; and is
pftrhaps an equivalent for publick spirit. Patriotism,
commonly so called, is not apt to be the virtue of
jiift and liberal minds. That quality, which ufital
ly bears this name, Very soon degenerates into a
desire to support a particular party. There are
however some Individuals, who have f.ich dii ele
vation of foul, ?.s to rife fbpcfiottr to the ifrlWerrce
of fadtion, and are patriotsirom principle. They
never will depart from a retftitu.le of conduct, iii
any cause or country, they undertake to serve.
This greatness of mind falls to the lot of few, and
does not prevent the nfceeffity of guarding against
men of a different call. Men, who bear the cha
racter of ncn of the world, must be managed some
other way, than by appealing to their sense of
publick duty, to initnce them to promote the pub
lick good. A discerning Legislator will soon de
ft mine, in what manner the human mind is to be
wrought upon, to render it subservient to the views
of government.
IGREICN /IRTICLEST
LONDON, DECEMER 22.
WHILST the balance of affairs remains itl fuf-
the iriind of the multitude are divided
ort the fdbjeift of war or peace. War with all the
•vPorld; fays an old English p- overb, and peace with
Spain. War, fays the Bt itiffi feainan, who wishes
to fill his pocket with spoil, for the honour of old
Jingland. War, fays the arrogant London politi
cian, that we may aflert the glory of the flag. War,
fays the to smother our domeftick
feuds, and humble the pride and power of our na
tu: al and perfidious enemies, the French. Peace,
fays the merchant, who has got a furfeit of pri
vateering, that we may ship goods in our own bot
toms, lave freight and insurance, and deal f'ecure
]y with all the World. Peace, fays the hu
mane timid, that we may avoid shedding our fel
low-chriftian's blood, and spare our own. War,
fays the yellow admiral, and half-pay captain, that
inoreveliels may be put in conimiffioii. War, fays
the fat provifton-broker, and slaughter-butcher,
that we may play the double game of victualing
British fleets and garrisons, whilst we omit not
fending rich cargoes of beef and butter to a certain
latitude, where the enemy's privateers will be sure
to find them. Th'js are mankind divided ; and
though the welfare and honour-os the kin irdom
be the pretext for their various wishes, peri'onal
ease, or an interest, which many prefer to it, are
. the ruling motives.
From the Analytical Review, or New Literary
Journal, published in London, for Nov. 1788.
ART. XXII. Remarks cj: the prcpoftd plan of federal
government, addrejfed to the citizens of the Unite.d
States of America, and particularly ft) the people oj
Maryland. ByAriftides. Annapolis, printed by
Frederick Green, printer to the Hate, i'mall Bvo.
32 p. 1 78S.
" IN an important crili s, Ariftides addrefles his
countrymen, particularly the citizens of Maryland,
on the great subject of legislation and government.
He recommends the Conllitution proposed by the
Convention, viz. an elective Pre fiderit, Senate, and
ah House of Representatives, by very fenlible ar
guments, and a fpeciesofeloquence that flows from
lincerity of intention.
" Thistreatifeiswrittenina careless, and some-
What slovenly manner, with regard to stile jand
composition ; but it contains a great deal of found
political observation.
" As the fabjedl of the remarks is in the highest
degree interesting, we fiiall take occasion here to
add to the observations of our ingenious author one
of our own, which we submit to the consideration
of American politicians. After the independence
of the United States of the Netherlands was re
cognized by the Spaniards in the twelve year's truce,
1609, the individual states began to pay very little
regard to the decrees of the States General ; and
even particular towns and lordships feenied desir
ous of maintaining entire independence on the
states of the province within which they were li
tuated. Ihe Dutch government, which had great
ly relaxed, and was even threatened with diflolu
tion, recovered its tone through the dangers with
which the United Provinces were threatened by
the war of thirty years in Germany, which was
terminated by the peace of Westphalia. After this,
diflentions prevailed uniformly among the Dutch,
or were composed, according as they dreaded or
were fecurecl against their ambitious neighbours.
But the American States have no neighbours by
whom they can ever be in danger of being made a
conqucft. The points of similitude and diflimili
tude between the American and Dutch provinces,
farnlfli a curious fubjecl of reflection andconjecture.
ABORIGINES OF AMERICA—
OF their bravery and address in war they have
given xis multiplied proofs. No people in the
world have higher notions ofmilitary honour than
the Indians. The fortitude,the calmness, and even
exultation which they while under the ex
tremeft torture, is in part owing to their favagc
insensibility, but more t? their exalted ideas ofmi
litary glory, and their rude notions of future hap
pinefs, which they believe they shall forfeit by the
least manifeftation of fear,or uneafinefs,under theii
tufferings. They are sincere in their friend/hips,
but bitter and determined in their ref&ntments,
and often pursue their enemies several hundred
miles through the woods, surmounting every dif
ficulty, in order to be revenged. In their public!
councils they ohferve the greatest decorum. Ii
the foreinoft rank fit the old men, who are th<
counsellors, then the warriors, and next the womei
and children. As they keep no records, it is th<
buiinefs of the women to notice every thing tlia'
pafies, to imprint it on their memories, and tell i:
to their children. They are, in short, the record:
of the council ; and with surprising exatftnefs
preserve the stipulation of treaties entered into j
hundred years back. Their kindness and hospi
tality is scarcely equalled by any civilized nation
I heir politeness in converfatipn is even carried tc
excess,- since it does not allow them to contraditf
any thing that is aflerted in their presence. Ir
■ (hort there appears to be much truth in Dr. Frank
| lin's observation, "We call them lavages, because
their manners differ from ours, which we think tht
: perfection of civility ; they think the fame of theirs.
Mnrf-'s Gtoerafthv.
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. f
'/irtue exalteth a nation ; but vice is a reproach to an)
pc ople. Solomon.
'j MS from experience that we reason belt"—
A And what is the result of this experience !
Consult the pages of antiquity—the records of the
times which were cfold—thofe, that the inexora
ble hand of fate has not consigned to eternal ob
livion—their fairhfhl details bear uninterrupted
tellimony to the truth of the wife man's observa
tion. Where are the monuments of ancient
grandeur—reared by the ijifidel hand of defpotim ?
Where are the splendid difplaysof Aflyrian pomp,
;n gardens and aqueducts? The fpacions theatres,
maufoleuins. obelilks and fountains of Rome in liet
" meridian splendour Where, all the fvftems oi
government which were, to lender immortal the re
publickS of ancient Greece ; of Carthage and her
proud and fuccefsful rival ? Time hath brushed
rhem away—and vice hath scarcely left a veltice
behind.
Let fceplicifm rack ifs invention to find out
other caules for the decline of States and Empires,
more con<rcnial to its wishes, more soothing to its
pride, and more accordant with its piinciples.—
Happy arc the people who read their fate, in their
charatlir ; and by an lmmble acknowledgement of
entire dependence on th<; Supreme Gbvernour of
the Uriiverfe, and a proper atention to a publick
acknowledgment of bis Providence—the practice of
justice, moderation, and benevolence, eltabliihthe
only foli't and laftihg t.iiis of national glory ar.d
felicity.
PLAN
OF THE
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A NATIONAL PAPER.
To be fublijhct ctthes t.d of the federal coVkrwment anil
tornfrfe, asfully as pof/ible, thefollowing Objeil t, i-.z. '
I. ami . uthcntick Accounts of the PROCEEDINGS
XL. of CONGRESS— itsLAW'S, ACTS, and RESOLUTIONS
communicated so as to form an HISTORY of the TRAMSAiTiOU
<f the lEDERAL LEGISLATURE, under the KE.VCOKStffuTIoi.
11. Im partial Sketches of the Debates of Concrjss
111. ESSAYS upon the great fubje&s of Government in genera!
>nd the lederal Legijtature in particular; also upon the fwtiondl M
local Rights of the amzrican citizens, as toundc d upon the Ft.
deral or State Constitutions; also upon every other Subjctt, which
may appear suitable for newlpaper uifcullioft.
IV. A SERIES of PARAGRAPHS, calculatcd to catch tlie
" LIVIN'O MANNERS AS THEY *Is e," and to point tilt publlcf:
attention to Objects that have an important reference to dcniclliU
social, and pubiick happiness.
V. Tije Interests of the United States as connected with t>.eir li.
terary Institutions—religious and moral Objeils—lmprovements m
Science, Aits, EDUCATION and HUMANITY—their lor™
Ireaties, Alliances, Connexions, Sec.
VI. Every species of INTELLICENCE, which may affect th e
commercial, agricultural, manufacturing, or political INTERESTS of
the AMERICAN REPUBLICK.
VII. A CHAIN of DOMESTICK OCCURRENCES, coMtd
through the Medium of an extensive Correfpondtnce with the ref
peftivc States.
VIII. A SERIES of FOREIGN ARTICLES of INTELLI
CENCE, so conneftcd, as to form a gentral Idea oj pubiick Affair! in
she eajicrn Hemifpkere.
IX. The STATE of the NATIONAL FUNDS ; also of the IN
DIVIDUAL GOVERNMENTS—Courfcs of Exchange—Prices
Current, &c.
CONDITIONS.
I.
THE Gazftte of the United States full hi printed uitkihi
fame Letter, and on the fame Paper as this pubhcution.
11.
Itfhi'.ll be puilifhed aery WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, mi
delivered, as h.ay be direffed, to every Suifcriier in the city, on tliolc dtu
111.
The price to Subscribers (exclufiveofpoftage) mill be THREE DOL
LARij pr. annum.
IV.
The firfl semi-annual ha) rrent to be made in three months from the tf*
X.arance of theJirJl number.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
mil be received in all the capital towns upon the Continent', aljoatth
City-Coffee-Houfe, and at No. 86, William-Street, until tie iji
of May, from which time at No. 9, Maiden-Lane, near the Ofwcgu-
Market, New-York.
•V. B. By a new Arrangement made in the Stages, Subscribers at a
dijlance will be duly furnilhed with papers.
postsc r i pr. A laroe imprefjion of every number will be Jlrvck oft—
so that Subscribers may always be accommodated with complete Sets.
To the PUBLICK.
AT this important Crisis, the ideas that fill the
mind, are pregnant with Events of the greatest
magnitude—to strengthen and complete the UNI
ON of the States—to extend and protect their
COMMERCE, under eyua/Tre:ities yet to beforn
ed—to explore and arrange the NATIONAL
1 UNDS—to restore and eilablifh the PUBLICK
CREDIT—and /ILL under the auspices of an un
tried System of Government, 'will require the EN
ERGIES of the Patriots and Sages of our Country—
Hence the propriety of encreafmg the Mediums of Kn'/a
ledge and Information.
AMERICA, from this period, begimi new Era
in her national existence—" the world is ail
before her"—The wisdom and folly—themifery
and prosperity of the EMPIRES, STATES, and
KINGDOMS, which have had their day upon the
great 1 lieatre of Time, and are now no more,
' uggeft the molt important Mementos—These, with
the rapid series of Events, in which our own Conn'
ti'y has been so deeply interested, have taught the
enlightened Citizens of the United States, that
FREEDOM and GOVERNMENT—LIBERTY and
LAWS, are inseparable.
This Conviction has lcrd to the adoption of the
New Constitution ; for however various the Sen
timents, refpec r tiiig the MERITS of this System, all
good men are agreed in the necefliry that exists,
of an EFFICIENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
A paper, therefore, eftabliihed upon NATION
AL, INDEPENDENT, and IMPARTIAL PRINCI
PLES—which Ihail take up the premised Articles,
upon acoMPETENT PLAN, it is presumed, will he
highly interelting, and meet with pubiick appro
bation and patronage.
The Editor of this Publication is determined to
leave no avenue of Information unexplored:—He
solicits the alliftance of Persons ofleifure and abili
ties—which, united with his own assiduity, he flat
ters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United
States not unworthy general encouragement ——-
and is, with due refpeift, the publick's humble ser
vant, JOHN FEN NO.
New-Yoik, Aprihfj, 1789.
TWO YOUNG SPRIGHTLY LADS
ARE wanted, as APPRENTICES to the Business'
of Printing.
Enquire at No. 86, William-Street.
Publilhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 86, William-
Srr.EiiT, New-York.