Piiltl.'S'jKD WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS by JOHN FENNO, No. 6 9> UGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELFHIA
[No. 9, of Vol. lir.]
ENGLAND.
NAVAL ARCHITECTURE,
T \V ETMOt'TH; March I.
LAST Wednesday arrived in this harbour
his Mnjefty's cutter the Trial, commanded
hy Lieut. Malboii. She is-built on an entire new
coull l uOlion, with three Aiding keels, which are
iiiclofed in a cafe or well ; one forward, one
midship, and the other abaft ; they are worked
•with the greatest facility, and are not of theleall
inconvenience to the crew when maneuvering
the veflel. She has been universally approved
and admired by all our inoft experienced pro
felfional gentlemen in this place, as well as by
our ingenious ship-builder, Mr. Stephens, and
other mechanics. Her length is 66 feet, breadth
21, her hold f feet only, which, in justice to the
veflel, ought to have been nine at least, and
measures 120 tons. Has a perfeifl flat bottom, on
ly draws 6 feet water, whereas all others of her
tonnage on the old conftruiftion draw 14 ; so that
by such an easy draft of water, lhecan go with
I'afety intoalmolt any harbour or creek whatever.
She fails incomparably fait, either before or up
on a wind ; and though her timbers and planks
seem to be of an immoderate degree of thick
ness (for wh*t reason 1 cannot tell, but which
mull impede her failing) yet no veflel she has
ever been iii/ Company with, of equal size (even
though copper-bottomed, which she is not) has
been able, upon many trials, to beat her in fail
ing, and yet her fails seem too final].
Her hold is divided into several compartments,
all water-tight, and To contrived, that should
even a plank or two dare at sea in different parts
<?f the vellel, (he may afterwards be navigated
with the greatest security to/any part oil" the
■world ; a method hitherto never thought of, be
fore this ingenious i.Hirer contrived it, and which
may be the means of saving thousands of valua
ble lives, and large quantities <>f merchandize
befdes, if ihe (ImoUi be drove on fhoie in a gal<
of wind, fht; dors not become a wreck ; for hei
keels will all naturally be drove tip into thei
cases, and the (hip being then flat bottomed, fix
canWr easily beoverfet, and all the crew may bi
lave® with perfiec't security, by her being abli
to g®))to fuclVvfhallow water.— Ihe crew of thi
IndSaman might all have been saved
had Ihe been thus conftrucfted. These are blef
sings, too obvious to mankind, not to fill ever;
feeling heart with pleasure, and no conunen
need be made on the great good that may be ex
pecfted.
The putch, who arc efteemeda very sagacious
commercial peo >le, liave already adopted this
plan of (liip-building, which at once shews the
utility and advanrage of this wonderful inven
tion.
These discoveries «lfo demonstrate plainly,
Jlow far behind hand the art of Ihip-buildiug has
been till this favorable epoch ; and from the in
genuity and mechanical powers of this gentle
man, the art is allonilhingiy improved already,
ami will probably be carried to Itill greater per
fection.
The world is indebted for tliefe noble disco
veries to Johu Schank, ifcj. of Barton houl'e,
Daw lilh, a Captain in the Rojj'al Navy, who hatl
the command of the King's iliips of war'on the
great Lukes of America, in the last war and
accompanied the late ingenious Sir C. Douglafs,
when lie failed to the North Seas, by order ot
Government, to make Iblervations on the Trail-
Ac of Venus.
Itii worthy of remark, that Captain Schank,
with the greatelt liberality and public spirit, has
given up eveiy emolument to his country and
mankind in general, which otlierwife he might
have secured to hintfelf, and which he highly
deserves in (lie greatest degree.
Great merit is due to Lord C. and the prefer)
Lords of the Admiralty, who, getting the beitei
ofall fornrer old prejudices, ordered this vefle
to be conftrntfted. A
jor the Gout
TO one pound of Brimftoue finely powdered
and put into a ltone or earthen Jar, add one gal
lon of boiling water, let it (land four ®r iive
dnys, ftiriing it well two or three times a day—
a lie end of the fourth day, draw it off fine foi
use—drink half a pint every morning, at leall
half an hour before breakfall—let the Jar be
kept flopped close when you arc not ftiiringthe
Bwuiftonc.
Saturday, May 28, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
LAURA and MARY.
"XTTHY drops the pearly tear fiom Laura's eye?
V V That eye which used the love-lorn mind to cheer ;
Why heaves that boson thus the far-fetch'd sigh ?
What grief afflitts the maid to friendlhip dear I
Fsrm'd with the pow;r the coldest heart to warm,
With innate beauty gbwiftg iri thy breast ;
What from thy boson can contentment charm,
Or break, with momentary woe thy reft ?
Can she whose prefen«» never fails to give
New life, new joy, on whom (he deigns to smile [
Thus like a turtle solitary live.
And all admirers of their hopes beguile ? n
" Alas my Mary ! nonght can e'er avail,
1 o sooth the gathered lumuhs of my foul ;
Or, wakening comfort for a girl so frail,
To calm my sorrows, or my griefs control.
Not all the pleasures that this world affords,
Can give one moment to my foul of peace;
Nor all the flattering emptiness of words,
Make glad this conscience with its wonted cafe.
Short are the joys triumphant beauty gives,
With hurried steps full quick they flit away ;
E'en while the triumph in the bosom lives,
We droop with night, and sicken wi.h the day.
But O my Mary ! nought can e'er reprieve
My foul from sorrow, or my bosom che?r ;
Or bless the heart, that fluttering to deceive,
Has ftretch'd my Edward on a watery bier.
Pleased wvth the tho'ts of conquest, and of fame,
I fpurn'd the youth, forgetful of his lave,
Whose crimson blushes spoke the burning flame—
Hard was my heart—nor sighs, nor tears, could move.
At length, dejcfled with my base disdain,
And worn with sorrow, anil corroding care,
He plunged, at midnight, in the billowy main,
And left these fields, and left this vernal air.
*Twasthen I found, nor pride, nor wealth, nor praise,
Could pour one beam of comfort on my mind ;
Twas then I wifh'd, that with an answering grace,
I'd heard his vows, and never been unkind.
Full many an eve I've dew'd the earth
With stern Repentance' biiter-dropping tear ;
7 >an V 3 4ay I've fled »he house of mirth*
And brooded o'er the memory of my dear.
Thus, thus, my Mary ! torn from every joy,
And pierced with Conscience' terrifying dart,
In tears, and sighs, my moments I employ,
Nor iears, nor sighs, can ease my broken heart."
Here as (he paused, a sudden thunder shook
The groves around ; the darken'd forefts roar ;
The trees that mantled o'er the winding brook,
Scared at the found, forfook the waved-wafh'd fliore.
Terrific lightning blazing round their heads
In one large (heet the wide-ftretch'd sorest veil'd ;
And new-form'd thunder shook again the meads,
And chafed the lightnings that their forms affail'd.
At once a voice, stern as the winter's roar,
1 hat chill'd their vitals, and that froze their blood ;
Bade the loud grumbling thunder vex no more
The trembling sorest, and the frighten'd flood.
At or.ce a deeper slash o'erfpread the sky ;
A louder peal convulsed the trembling ground ;
The lightnings vanifh'd from the pain-fed eye ;
wavered with a distant found.
Sucfden a form, with which the angelic host,
Nor Raphael's felf in majesty c*uld vie,
Chafed'the dark thunders from the quaking coast,
And oped the purpling regions on their eye.
Then, with a look that pierced thro' Laur a's heart,
And crop'd the withering roses of her cheek—
11 Thou wretch" he cried, " no comfort I impart;
No joys for thee the fwift-wing'd minutes seek.
He who, with tears, thy favors once implored
Another holds by Hymen's sacred band ;
No more to wander from the nymph adored,
No moie to quit, tor vile disdain, the land.
Content shall bless him in the works of peace,
Fame shall his footftcps in the war attend ;
Rend from a Cefir's brow the withering wreaths
To deck the worthier temples of my friend.
His wife, sweet partner of his every joy,
Adorn'd with all the virtues of the fair,
Shall bless his life in love without alloy,
Love tree from forrowand perplexing care.
» In all her looks is sentiment exprefs'd ;
J In every action dignity and grace ;
'iO \ foim'd from every age new praise.to wrest—•
1 And scatter bluGieso'er a Portia's face.
She, tinged with health's inimitable dye,
Shall pass the fpringand summer of her life ;
Rife', with a nation's bleflings, to the Iky,
Hei only Epitaph— 44 This was a Wife."
But thou, (hall (icken with the coming ere;
Drop, unlainented, to the narrow grave ;
No grateful memory to thy kindred leave ;
No hand aflift thee, none (hall wish to save."
Again frefh lightnings sheeted o'er the flues;
Again trefh thunders rock'd the trembling ground {
The vision vanifh'd from her eager eyes,
And lightnings quivered at the parting found.
33
ELLA.
fffc,
[Whole No. 21 7.]
From the COMPLAINANT.
Published in the Connecticut Courant.
THAT there are many School Mailers in the
country, training up youth in the way ihey
rtiould go, i make no doubr—and hope they will
excuse me if" I complain of fonie others of their
profeifion of quiie a different charaiXer—and
that for these two things.
ill. " In the exercise of government, too
much credulity in admitting the information of
one boy againlt another : Children take a certain
delight in feeing their fellows brought to pu
nishment, which it not so commonly observed
in their riper years : he«ce you will fee a boy
ladling a tree or a port, to get the imaginary
pleasure of being the fcourger of some person :
hence, likewise, they will be fare to fill the mnf
ter's ears with information againlt their mates,
of every thing they suppose will incur his re
lentment, and bring llripes upon them. And
sometimes falfe informations, back'd with falfe
witnefles, will bring punilhmenc, makinga mas
ter rhe instrument of revenge or diver lion to
his scholars. A quotation on this fubjecl from a
letter of a gentleman of veracity, will, I hope,
be excused both by him and the public.
" When 1 was 6 or 7 years old, 1 was in a ve
ry large school, under the tuition of a gentle
man remarkable for his severity ; I was very
finall of my age, and my nerves were strung in
fuel? a manner as that I cut capers with much ac
tivity and nimblenefs, when a Hick four fecc
long cling'd round my little limbs. This was
great diversion to the larger boys, and therefore
they contriv'd to have the affair brought about
once or twice every day. I was daily accused
of playing in school, calling names, or fonie
other fault which I was altogether innocent of.
Ihe accusation would be supported by two or
three large boys, and the reft that knew it to be
falfe, dare not open their mouths. Hence 1 was
whip'd, for a fault 1 never conimutccl, till
I was fore'd to own it, and then whip'd for lv
ing. This was the cafe for so long a course of
time, that I have since wonder'd that my mas
ter, who never saw any thing in me but obedi
ence, with his own eyes, did not suspend his
credulity, and determine, that the diversion of
my accusers, in feeing me cut capers, was the
end of their accusations, But whether he did,
or did not, the practice was continued till I
found there was 110 more beuefir in obedience,
manners or study—my fate mult be the fame. So
true to the school was I, that I never mentioned
any thing of my treatment to my parents ; and
my mailer was much carefs'd at our house, as
being a valuable, faithful preceptor. Where ic
would have ended 1 know not (since my discou
ragements produced actual faults, and the ex
ercise of the long Hick was repeated feveraj
times in a day) had not I once had niy little,
raw-bon'd back and ribs smartly .checker'd be
cause 1 was bloody from a great boy's having
run a b'roomtlick into my ear before school be
gan. I was forced then to go into the hands of
a physician, to have the wound heal'd, but seve
ral disadvantages, the consequence of that acci
dent, remain to this day; and yet the malter
was a gentleman offenfe and oflearning, which
shews the danger of credulity, as to complaints
against children under our care. With such a
warning before me, one would have thought
that I thould have avoided it, when acting in
character of school mailer; but 1 confefs, that
1 believe that a droll, half witted, comical, lub
berly boy, who was once my scholar, has been
punilhed upou falfe information given for the
diversion of the school. And indeed we are all
too apt to forget that little children, from their
want of language to convey their ideas, as well
as from the awe they have from the presence of
their mailer, are under an incapacity properly to
defend themselves."
2d. I would complain of a too common disre
gard of the advice implied in my motto, which
is, in short, " to endear theinfelves to their
scholars, and make both school and study de
lightful. (N. B.) If any one lhould fay Ido not
construe right, I will not dispute the matter, as
I am not very expert in translating.) To inspire
the little mortals with a servile fear and awe,
feeins to be the grand point in view with many ;
and I would have authority supported, but easi
ness of excess, and indications of kindness to
wards his pupili is quite as neceflary."—l willagtr on, for the coucl niton of the j:
observations made by t > :cr a e . . s
Oil this head
" This is orte of the mo!t important points
(fays M. Rolliu) in education, and nt the i :>.ne
time the inoft difficult ; for among a gredt num
ber of martyrs, who in other refpe(?ts are very
deserving, there are very few to be fonnd, who
are happy enough to make their scholars fond
of fttidy."
■' It fnould be the great care of the masters
(fays Quintilian) who teach children their let
ters, to do it in such a manner that a child who
is not yet capable of being fond of his book,
Jhould not take an aversion to it, and the diftike
continue when he grows up." " For this reason
(fays he) his fludy (hould be made a diversion
to him. The mailer mult proceed by affcing
hint little questions. He mtirt be encouraged by
commendation, and allowed to set some value
upon himfelf, and be pleased with having learnt
any thing. Sometimes what he refufes to learn
nuift he taught another, to raise his jealousy.
We inuft enter into little disputes with him, and
let him think he has often the better. We
iiiuft: entice him likewifeby little rewards, which
children at thtft age are very fond of." Quint,
Lib. I. Cap. I
" The great secret to make children lore their
books, is to make them fond of their tnafler.
In this cafe they willingly give ear to him, be
come docile, drive to please him, and take a
pleasure in his leflbns." Qriint. Lib. 2. Cap. 9.
Stadium difandi Voluntate, qute cogi ncti pots]}.
Lib. 1. Cap. 3. Ouint.
" We may confine the body, make a scholar
fit at his desk against his inclination, doable his
labor by way of punifhnient, force him to fini/h
a talk imposed on him, and for that end deprive
him of his play and recreation, bat can labor
ing thus upon force be properly called study ?"
—M. Rollin. K.
PARIS, March ij
THE King is much better, he is able to fit up,
his cough is less violent. The French wags
pretend that he caught cold by throwing off his
R»yal Robis on a sudden.
Yeflerday the Bishop of Lidda was eledled to
the Metropolitan fee of Paris.
M. Brendle is eledied Bishop of Strafburgh,
vice Cardinal de Rohan.
The law of primogeniture is abolished—proper
ty is to be equally distributed among the males
and females of the family.
LONDON, March 19
The veils of our fafhionable females seem to
increase in their dimensions as the fun increases
its powerful influence ; they are at present Co
rery highly in favor, as not only, to be worn
■with the petit bonnet by day, but they fall
gracefully over the Ihoulders from the dress cap
by night. The reason given by the ladies for
their fondnefs for this article of dress, is by no
means a bad one; it gives them, they fay, an
excellent pretence for shunning all those whom
they do not wish to speak to, and a charming
opportunity of being particular, where they de
sire to be so.
Lord Caftlewart is said to intend claiming the
Dukedom of Albany, upon pretenlions which,
if established, will prove him to be head of the
late Royal House ot Stuart.
Remittances to a considerable amount arrived
by the packet onThurfday from America. They
consist of bills drawn in the name of the United
States, on their agent at Amsterdam.
Lord Grofvenor's estates are in so improving a
away, and so fact do the houses of lease fall in,
that in a few years he will have an income of not
less than four score thousand pounds a year.
The duke of Bedford, the duke of Portland,
and earl Grofvenor, have had their estates dou
bled, within the space of fifteen years.
The number of persons confined in Paris for
various causes, amount to one thousand eight
hundred.
The acquittal of Caglioftro at Rome, does ho
nor at once to the Pope and the inquifiiion that
tried him.
Our woolen manufacture exports, of the last
year, have amounted to nearly 2,000,0001. the
nett produce of our own corn lands more than
9,000,0001. the produce of butter, cheese, and
milk, about 2,500,0001. amount of timber cut for
building, 500,0001. and the rent of pastures,
meadows, commons, forefts, heaths, See. lias
amounted to about 7,000,0001.
The Lords committees appointed to search for
precedents refpe<fting the continuance of im
peachments from Parliament to Parliament, pro
ceed with so much deliberation, that it is doubt
ful whether they will be able to make their re
port in the course of the present feflion.
The public will recolletft, that, for more than
three months, the general defence of the Minis
ter's plan, for taking joo,oool. of the unreceiv.
Ed Dividends out of the bank, was, that they
confided of money to which there was 110 known
claimant. That defence is now expressly dif
claimed b* (he Muuftt himfelf, who acfcnow
!e there is, rtrtily no such
tiling as unclaimed Dvidends, a«>d t,l3t tne
jod.oool. is to be takeiifYoin the floating balance
in the batik. -
An indictment was preferred at Colchelter a
gaiirft a person for ai ailault. It appeared ill
evidence, that the pl.iijtiff had attempted to
hang himfelf; and that the defendant, finding
him in that fituarion, cut him down, tweaked
him by the nose, and fruck him several finart
blows on the back, for the purpose of reviving
suspended animation. The jury considering iha L
there was no malice ill the cafe, found a verdict
for the defendant.
The noble city of Venice, and the lflands about
it, are so populous, have so many manufactures,
and carry 011 so great a trade, more elpecially
when the other powers of It;Ty are at war, and
the fubjecls of the republic enjoy the benefit of
her neutrality, that the revenue drawn from
them to the State amounts annually to three mil
lions of ducats. The entire revenne of the re
public is computed at eight trillions of ducats,
and the annual expence does not commonly ex
ceed half that Aim ; so that, ir. time of peace,
they are cjnftantly accumulating vast trealnre.
Before the fatal war of Candia, they had in their
treasury fifteen millions of ducats in ready mo
ney, excltfive of a famous golc chain, to which
they annually added some links, which forty
porters could hardly carry, and which, on cer
tain feftivals, was extended across the (quare at
St. Mark, for the entertainment of the people.
As they have now enjoyed peace for many years,
it may be presumed that their coffers are again
pretty full ; so that, upon an emergency, they
would be able to make much greater exertion
than is commonly imagined.
March 23
Sir R. P. ArSen received on Saturday at the
jank, the dividends of 1400]. which were brought
:o light by the prefer.t bill.
One Banker is said to have recovered fifty di
vidends upon a large sum, the principal likevvife
remaining unfold.
A French Deputy, lately challenged by an of
ficer, replied he knew nothing of arms, and
was even ignorant how to load a pistol ; but he
proposed, before four witnefl'es to throw up for
the chance of which of them fliould be hanged.
A lot of ground adjoining the road to Hamp
ftead, part of the estate of Lord Camden, has
lately been let on a building lease to three per
sons of considerable property in the city, who
have entered into an agreement to build within
a limitted time, four hundred houses, to be di
vided Into flrccib, and called Camden Town.
The bricks are now making on the spot for the
purpose. This, when completed, with other
buildings, uow erecting on that road, will fooii
join Hampftead, to London.
Great commotions are expected throughout
France upon the re-ele<ftion of the National As
sembly in May or June next, but the influence
of the Aristocracy is so completely destroyed, as
to give the friends of the new government very
little apprehension.
Mr. and Mis. Orleans (as every one now calls
them) set a grand example to the rich : From
the 6th of this month, they are to pay ready
money for every thing they ptirchafe—the French
who only know the Britifb Nobility for their
virtues, imagine the innovation to have been
imported from England.
On Thursday night, at 8 o'clock, the Cabinet
Ministers met in council at the Duke of Leed's
Office, Whitehall, and fat till one o'clock yef
tevday morning, when his Grace dispatched a
meflenger with letters to the Earl of Eglin, at
Vienna.
A meflenger set off with dispatches for Berlin
yesterday morning at five o'clock. He was told,
that it depended on a contingency, whether he
would be sent by our Ambaflador there to Peterf
burgh.
Extraß of a letter from Tortfmontb, April 1.
" About three o'clock this afcernoon, on a
lignal made from the Royal William, a general
pi ess took place here. There being a consider
able number of colliers and other coasting ves
sels in the harbour, near three hundred prime
seamen were picked tip in a few hours, princi
pally North countrymen. An ontvvard bound
Welt-Indiaman, in St. Helen's Road, had all her
hands taken out.
" This evening failed his Majesty's ships Ar
dent and Assistance, for the Downs; and the
Flirt and Scout sloops, and Barracouta cutter, on
the impress fervjce."
On Wednesday morning, at four o'clock, the
Ruffian Minister dispatched a courier to Peterf
burgh, with the result of the debate in the two
houses of Parliament. His return may be ex
pecfted within five weeks, and the cbntents of his
dispatches will decide whether ive (hall have a
war with Russia or not.
Last week the long depending cause of the St
Euftatius business was, after eight years litiga
34
April 2
tion, finally determined before the Lords ofthe
Council, and it is expecfted the claimants will re
ceive their several dividends in the course of a
few days
lludia does not appear to pay any regard to the
mediation in her quarrel with the Porte. Iris
aliened, that her fleet at Sebaflopolis has receiv
ed orders to fail as soon as the season will per
mit.
The Grand Seignior has lent the Sultana Va
lide, his mother, to the old Seraglio, for having
attempted to reconcile him to the Ruffians. .
HOUSE of L 0 R D S, Jpril i
PRUSSIAN TREATY.
The order of the day being read for the houlc
:o take into consideration the above treaty.
Earl Fitzwilliam rose, and after contending for
foine time, that by the treaty, Great-Britain was
not bound to aflift Pruflia in ofTenfive conduct,
moved the following resolutions :
" That Great-Britain liaih not become bound
by «ither the express or implied engagement of
the treaty of defenfive alliance with his Prufiiau
Majesty, or with the United Provinces, to take
hostile measures, in order to compel the Empreft
of Ruflia to relinquifli the advantages gained by
her arms, in the Ockzakow, Tartary, and in
Belfarabia."
" That the progress of the Ruffian arms in the
Ockzakow, Tartary, and in BeflFarabia, is not au
adequate norjuft cause for Great-Britain to make
war against the Empress of Russia."
" That the refufal of tlie conditions of peace
proposed by a power offering mediation, is no
just cause for hostile measures in support ot the
mediation so reje<Sed
Lord Gvenville moved the previous question.
Lord Derby, Lord Dorchester, Earl of Guild
ford, Viscount Stormont, and Lord Rawdon,
were for the resolution.
The Duke of Leeds, Lord Hardwicke, and the.
Lord Chancellor, were for the previous question.
Thalqueftion being put on the previous qpeC
tion, the House divided.
Contents, with Proxies 94
Not Contents, with Proxies 34
Adjourned.
LIVERPOOL, M*rch 21.
Accident has produced a very ufeful difcoverr j
for, by the late inundations of the sea, it was ob
served, that as far as the ride extended, it brought;
all the worms froiti their holes, and killed them.
This experiment has been flnce tried with the
fea-warer in several gardens, and has anfwerei.
the desired effecft beyond expedition.
A shoemaker's wife in Pimlico dreamed on
TupPclay nijuht. that No. 18 vv/iuld be drawn a
prize on Wednesday. She communicated the
dream in the morning to her husband, whfcfwore.
that he dreamed flie was hanged. The woman
fold all she was worth to insure the-number, on
the confidence of her dream. No. j8 was not
drawn ; and what is extremely lingular,' the
husband's dream was realized, as his wife hanged
herfelf the fame evening !
[t is a lirtle Angular, that when General Wolfe
,vas carried off the field of battle, he should be
wrapped up in the plaid of Donald Macleod, the
okleft soldier in the King's service. It was a
more honorable covering than Imperial plirple.
A Caution.—There are counterfet guineas in
circulation, a very good imitation of the coin
{truck in 1788 ; they weigh as much as a real
guinea, are pale, and the rim of the shield on
the tail is somewhat broader ; the crown on the
arms larger, the fleur de lis in the arms of France
closer together, and the Iriih harp nor fa well
executed ; the milling is not so rough, nor is
the hair of the head of his majesty so ' well curl
ed. Tliefe counterfeit guineas are supposed to
be scarcely worth more than 10s.
RICHMOND, May 19
On Friday the 9th of March last, Samuel Bra
dy and FrancisM'Guire,aflemble<i an armed force,
and made an ( attack upon a party "of Delaware
Indians on Beaver Creek in the State of Penrr
fylvania, who were in fwendfhip with the Uni
ted States, and killed foiif of them, after which
the perpetrators fled into this State ; in conse
quence thereof the governor has iflued a pro
clamation offering a reward of 600 dollars for the
delivery of Brady and M'Guire, to the executive
authority of the State of Pennsylvania, in order
that they may bfc tried agreeable 10 the laws oF
the State.
PITTSBURGH, May 14.
On Friday or Saturday, the 291(1 or 30th or
April, a party 6f Indians penetrated the conntry
near to Clarkfburgh, where they took two people
prisoners, and considerable plunder of horfesand
other property. Three of them made their ap
pearance at a farm house, and fired on the man
at his door, who fell ; they ran towards him, and
on one of them Hooping to scalp him. he \va> i 1-
hited by the man's wife with a stroke <>m a
large hatchet in his back, which so con'
pletely into his body, that at three <hfr- el ~e
forts £he could not disengage it, and t'ae Incu. ■*made off with it fticldng in him •, a second Indian
alfo'made an attempt, when flie, by a well direc
ted stroke with a flick flie had got, laid hiin on
the ground ; the-third then run, and the other,
as soon as he had recovered liis feet, followed
his example—on which the woman took her hnf
band in her arms anil carried him into the house,
and when a magistrate of Ohio county, from
whom I had this relation, left that place, the
man was in a fair way of recovering. The In
dians were pursued to Kenahwa river, and dis
persed, their plunder, but not the prifor.ers, re
covered.
[The Pittiburgh Gazette contains accounts of
depredations and murders committed by the sa
vages in various other places.]
ALBANY, May 16
Letters received in this city, from Capt. Met
calfe, of the brig Elenora, mention his having
returned from the North-Weft coast of America
to Canton—also, the death of his second son,
Capt. Thomas Metcalfe.
Philadelphia, May 28.
By the brig Caledouia, Capt. Hunter, from
Dublin, to New-York, accounts are received from
Ireland to the 7th, and from London to the 3d
of April
The Aflembly at Warsaw, Poland, have de
:lared, in a note to the Bricifh Minister, Mr.
Hailes—that the Republic would never give up,
on-any condition, the smallest part of its posses
sions—particularly Dantzic and Thome. This
resolution was made in consequence of informa
tion received from the Poli/h Minister at Vienna,
reipeiTtiiig certain propositions from the Court of
Berlin. .
Some accounts received by the late arrival at
New-York from Dublin, fay that the profpeft of
a war with Ruflia, has enhanced the price of
linens in Ireland
In (forming Hmael, the Ruffians loft 70oo*men;
in this number were three Major-Generals, one
Brigadier, fix Colonels, forty Lieutenant-Colonels
and Majors, and from 2 to 300 other coinmiflion
ed officers. The life of one fellow-creature, in
the estimation of humanity, is worjJi more than
all the"glory and triumph con^oeft.
By the votes of the two hoYles of Parliament,
it appears that the Britifli government is deter
mined to interpose its power for bringing about
a peace between Rufiia and the Porte. The
armed neutrality, during the last war, affords
the precedent for the warlike preparations now
making in England. How far Catharine willre
lith being diiflsted to, time will discover.
According to a statement published in an Eng
]ifh paper, the total expence of the civil and
military eftabliflnnent in Botany Bay amounts
£. 42,860 13 10
10,000 o o
Future annual expence will be
Convic r ts (hipped, 2029
Ditto on board (hips under 7 Q
orders for failing, j
< 3859
Extract of a letter to a Suiedi/h gentleman in this ci-
ty, dated Stockholm, 25th of Nov. 1790,
" Colonel Hceftlko is the only traitor who loft
his head, three other Finland Colonels and Lieu
tenant Colonels were brought out with him to
the place of execution, but obtained the King's
pardon."
On this occasion, a person well acquainted with
the affairs of Sweden, makes the following' re
marks :—The confutation of Sweden lias lntlch
more regard to personal liberty in some very ca
pital circumstances than the British, or that of
any Monarchy in Europe: Accordingly, the
court before whom the rebellious officers were
tried, proceeded with extraordinary caution,
and did not condemn nlore than a few arch-trai
tors afcer a trial that lalled foine months, and
was laid before the public in a minute detail.
The King, who with heroic fortitude, has " the
milk of human nature" in his veins, would, after
nil, permit only one facrifice to the national se
curity. This lenity might be fatal to hiin and
to Sweden if both were not guarded by a patri
otic and loyal people.
That the people of England should haveacon
ftirution " written on their hearts," is thought
by fonie a novel and unfounded idea. But it
may be asked, should this country ever be so far
cursed as that innovators, in their rage for
change, should annihilate the/orraof theprefent
excellent balanced constitution' of the United
States, would it not be found that the peop]e of
tbii country have the principles of a free constitu
tion written on their hearts? Would they not re
cur to those principles which are immutable, and
indelibly iinprefled on our natures ? They would
—and after ftiffering for a season demagogal ty
ranny, their sober feufes would bring them back
to a government founded on reason, equality and
juflice. Previous to adoptingour present confti
turion, which is nothing more than a definite
and express arrangement of acknowledged prin
ciples, we were in the difgraceful (ituaiiou that
some appear defirons of feeing us again reduced
to —But it is to be hoped, that the present per
manent position of the federal government, and
the proipetSl of continued tranquility in these
States, are a death-warrant to the hopes of sedi
tion and anarch v.
What are eqr/al rights? This is a term fre
quently made use of, but it is fufpedted with very
different meanings. The constitution of the
United States holds out the belt commentary
upon them—that has opened the door to genius
and patriotism wherever discovered—every citi
zen is eligible to the honor of serving the pub
lic, wbofe merits entitle him to the diltinclion—
every man is by that constitution fecuied in the
polieffion of his acquisitions, whether of fcientific
or pecuniary property, and consequently secured
in all the advantages and privileges conne&ed
with them. Were this not the cafe, the springs
of industry would be broken, and every fiimnlus
to enrerprize destroyed. Equal rights then ftridt
ly mean, security of property, person and life.
Byrht Betsy, Capt. Howland, arrived in the fror\
the Isle of France, accounts are received which it i; said Aate, that!
the English aimy in India under the command of Gen. Meadows!
has been defe?trd by the forces of Tippo Saib, and that the
General was among th * slain.
The British April Packet, is arrived at Halifax.
It has already been mentioned, that Capt. Jofiah, in the Brig
Brothers, performed the voyage to Canton and back again to this
port, without losing a man by sickness : We are since informed,
that no fpiritous liquors were used on board his fhip~the constant
drink of the (hip's company being Spruce Beer. The follow
ing pertinent remark has been made on the occasion : Twenty
years ago it was considered as Utopian to think of navigating a
velfel without a daily allowance of rum to Tailors, as it now is, to
propose the cultivation of Rice or Sugar without Slaves.
We hear that the ship MafTachufctts, Job Prince, Esq. Com
mander, has been fold in India for Sixty Five Thouiand Dollars :
1 his ship was upwards of 800 tons burthen. The ship Hercules,
upwards of 600 tons, h«is also been fold in that country. Thefc
vefTels were built in MafTachufetts, the former, composed of Ame
rican materials altogether.
Stocks have risen lately a little in New-York.
The Tammany Society, No. I, of New-York, are forming an
extensive Mnfeum in that city—a considerable collection is already
made—their plan is general, and will have a friendly afpefl on
the naturaland political history of our country 4
We hear that the French 74 at Newport, has on board one of
the regiments lately sent from France, to restore peace in Marti
nique—and is on her return home : It is rumoured that the peo
ple at Martinique would not fuffer the soldiers to land.
From the eastern papers it appears that a flight shock of an
earthquake was felt on the evening of the 16th inft. in many of
the sea ports extending from the State of New-York to Boston.
Agreeable to the intimation in our last, we learn by a Charles
ton paper, that The President of the United States continued his
tour to the southward, by setting our for Savannah on Monday the
9th inft. He was ef.'orted out. of the city by the Cincinnati, and a
number of other refpe£lable characters.
The Won. Roger Shsrman is ele&ed Senator of the United
Stales for the State of Conne&icut, in tht room of Dr. Johnson,
resigned.
The highest prize in the New-York Lottery was drawn by Capt.
Steddifokd, ofthe late continental army, and Mr. John Utts,
both of New-York.
A correspondent obfcrves, it is a little surprising that no refuta
tion of the innuendo againfl the genuineness of the letter, said to
befrom Lord Mansfield, has appeared since Saturday last : If
the letter is genuine it can be eanly made to appear.
Of the French foreign miniifers it appears from information
communicated to the National AfTembly by M, Montmorin, min
iiler of foreign affairs— that two only have refufed to take the ci
vic oath, viz. Cardinal de liernis and M. Bombelle, minifler at
Venice, whose places are to be filled by new appointments.
The minister likewilc infoimed the afTembly that the accounts
from the frontiers do not contain iiihgli fact or an alarm-
IN C NATURE.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
O D
0 D E V.
ONE MORE HINT TO REVIEWERS.
PUNCTUAL, you fee, without the touch upon
My {houlder blade, of .gentle Ba lif's hand,
To your afliftance, here comes honest John,
While sage Inftruttionby his fide doth stand
" Tis a plain, homespun, truth, I know,"
That all mankind are caught by (how ;
That many, who to wit, and sense,
Can have but very small pretcnce,
By caution, and by constant care,
Upon their fellows so impose,
That wisdom Jcems to fill their air,
And science wrinkle up their nose.
On you, my dear Reviewers, let me press
This great, important, and eternal law-
Let naught cntice you error to confefs,
Or own your jndgement can admit a flaw.
But if a Bookoi such a kind appears
That your own ignorance you can't but feel,
Say, that your Readers have both eyes and ears,
And you wij nothing from their pleaiure fleal.
Then, with the liberality of Heaven,
Let copious cxtrafts from the Work be given.
Generosity of Marshal TURENNE.
Deputies of a great metropolis in Ger
many offered him one hundred thousand crowns
not to pass with his army through their city.—
" Gentlemen", said he, " I can't in conlcience
accept your money, for I had 1.0 intention to pass
that way."
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
lUNDF.D DEBT.
17/1. 17/2 pr. £
S/3-
p/i «/s
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and otheT Certificate* 16f 16/1 80
Indents qA
N. and S. Carolina debts, \2j6 15/.
35
E S.
JOHN.
86 pr. ccnt,
46 00.
45 do.
do.
«U.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSIO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791. (eptf)
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raifethe sum of FOUR THOUSAND Pounds,
agreeably to an A (ft of the Legislature of the
State of New-Jersey, passed the 24th Novem
ber, 1790, for the purpose of laying out and
improving the Roads and Causeways between
the Town of Newark, in the County of Essex,
and Paules-Hook Ferry, in the County of Ber
gen, it) said State.
THIS Lottery is composed of 15,000 Tickets, to be drawn in
Three Clafles, as described in the inserted Scheme : The
price of a Ticket in the Frft Class is One Dollar ; in the Second
Class Two Dollars, and in the Third Class Fout Dollars. The ope
ration of this Lottery will appear in the following order : The
whole 15,000 numbers will be put in one wheel, and 3100 prizes
in the other wheel, of which 3100 numbers only will be drawn in
the First Class, which shews the whole number drawn in this
Class are prizes, agreeably to the Scheme.
The nnmbers which remain undrawn corapofe the Second Class,
of which 4000 will bedrawn against 2000 prizes and 2000 blanks ;
this (hews there is only one blank to a prize, agreeably to the
fchemc.
The remaining 8000 numbers undrawn, composing the Third
Class, will be drawn against 2667 prizes and 5333 blanks, which
shews there are about two blanks to a prize, agreeably to the
scheme.
The Adventurers in this Lottery will plcafe to observe—That
the numbers drawn in the Firjl and Second Chffes are precludedJrom all
chance in the Third and inejl valuable Class, as the poffejjois of the num
ber? undrawn are entitled to the fame numbers in the fucceding Clajfes y
provided they apply to renew their tickets fifteen days before the time fix
ed for the drawing the Second and Third ClaJJes. On neglefl the un
drawn. numbers will be fold to others. Such Adventurers as wish to
benefit by the superior chance of Capital Pr 1 zes in the Third
Class, will fee their interest by supplying themselves with a fuffi
cient number of tickets in the First Class. Every application for
renewal must be attended with the Original Ticket in the pre
ceeding Class.
The drawing of the First Class will commence in the town of
Newark, in the State of New-Jersey, on Monday the 20th day of
June next, it full. The Second Class will commence drawing
two months after the First. The Third, and last Class, will com
mence drawing two months after the Second.
The drawing of this Lottery will be under the constant super.
intendance of, at least, two of the Commiflioners, appointed by
the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey, to contrast for the
erection of the bridges over the Hackenfack and Pafaick rivers.
FIRST CLASS.
» Prize of 300 Dollars is 310
200
I OO OO
50 600
20 700
IO 800
4 900
£
6
12
35
80
225
'2740
31 oo Prizes
12000 Undrawn,
Carried to Third Class 5^20
15100 Tickets at i dol. each is 15100
SECOND
1 Prize of $00 Dollars is 500
3 200 600
100
50
20
10
4
7
16
45
100
1828
2000 Prizes
2000 Blanks,
8000 Undrawn,
Carried to Third Class 12188
isooo Tickcts at 2 dol. cach is 24000
THIRD CI, ASS.
a Prize of 5000 Dollars is 5000
2
4
10
20
40
100
225
2265
2667 Prize*
5333 Blanks,
First Drawn
Last Drawn
8000 Tickets at 4 dol. each is 32000
Brought from First Class 54*°
Brought from Second 004 12188
The object of ihii Lottery being of such evident ntiVtytothc
United Slates in general, and the States of New-York, New-Jer
rcy,and Pcnnfylvania, in particular, that it cannot be doubted
but the undertaking will meet with the mod liberal support, a»
every traveller will experience the happiness of enjoying regular
compleat Roads, leading to and from well-conftruacd bridges.
lICKETS are to be had of the Subscribers, who are duly ap
pointed Mmageis of this Lottery by the Commiflionerj. The
Ptizcs will be punctually paid by the refpefiive Managers who
signed (he fortunate numbers, immediately after drawing the se
veral Claifcs—fubjett to a deduction of fifteen per cent.
JOHN N. CUMMING, >.. ,
JESSE BALDWIN, \ N " uark '
JOHN D. ALVEY, New-Brunfwick.
New-Jersey, March 8, 1791.
N. B. For the accommodation of thofc who would wifk to become Ad
venturers in the above Lottery, letteis, fojlpaid, dire(led to John D.
Alvey, New-Brunfwick, enclosing Pkiladelphii, or New-York Bank
Notes, wilt be particularly attended tVs and Tickets forwarded on receipt
ojfuch Utters.
54*°
9683
CLASS.
700
800
9°o
1000
73 12
11812
2000
4000
4000
4000
4000
4000
4000
4500
1000
400
200
100
40
20
7
>5*55
49355
*25
128
49608 49608S E <
State of the of Matfacbu/ettJ,
from i }&5, to 1775.
£"5 Tonnage.
> c
1*
•5® 7>5 00 ,JO °
•46 5>53° * 88
25 i.joo eoo
120
240
60
190
419
4*
42
7°
28
4 2
180
21
80
3 a
140
64
230
l 6
Makilehead,
Gloucester,
Manchester,
<5 '5°
&> ».s°°
to 400
5° 9°°
60 5.400
6 140
6 14ft
xo 400
4 160
6 240
50 900
3 9°
10 400
4 160
30 goo
8
60
x
665
Bever ley,
Salem,
Newbury Port,
Ipswich,
Plymouth,
Cohasset,
H I NCH AM,
Sc I TU AT E,
Duxborouch,
K 1 NGSTON,
Yarmouth,
WELL fleet,
Truro,
FROVI NC ETOWN,
Chatham,
Kan tucket,
Max NE,
W IVMOUTH,
ExtraCl from an Addrcfs to Mr. Burke, in a Lou-
YOU attempt to ridicule the decree of the Na
tional AfTembly, which ordains that the Be
nefices of the Gallican Church (hall hereafter be
Eledive. This however was the uniform prac
tice of the early ages, and is indeed fandtioned
by the authority of the Canons :—even we, ft:ll
retain the idle ceremony of a Conge d'El'trt, in
the nomination of our vacant Bifhopricks—a
pra&ice that unquestionably may be traced to
this very source.
Pre determined to avow your discontent to the
moll laudable and unexceptionable institutions,
you think by allowing an honorable couipenfa
tion out of the coffers of the State, for the labors
ofthe Clergy, that the new Government of France
has made " a degrading Pensionary Eftablifh
rnent, to which 110 man of liberal ideas will de
(line his children." What a libel upon Religion !
It appears then, that you look upon the I rieji
hood as a mercenary profeflion, to which 110 pru
dent father will apprcut.ce his son, without the
certainty of correspondent emoluments! A refer
ence to Ecclefiaflical History would however in
form you, that the Church never had such able
defenders, nor Chriflianity such celebrated sup
porters, as when the zeal of their common fer
■vants flowed from their voluntary attachment,
and nor their (tipendary labours !
If 1 did not know, Sir, that your condutfl for
some years pad had precluded every idea of
friendfhip, I fhotild have wondered that you had
Dot confulred some person in pofleflion of your
confidence, before your late publication had seen
the light Had you communicated your Manu
script to the learned Author of BellenDenus,
I am sure that, imitating the honed reply of Gil
BLAStntheARCHF!SHOPofGRANADA,he would
have (hook the classical curls of his collegiate wig,
and shrewdly prophecied " that this last Homily
would undo your reputation !
MDE CALONNE, in his celebrated Work,
. (published in England) on the Revolu
tion in France, gives the following melancholy
pitture : ~
" Whatever opinions men may have embraced,
or to whatever party they may be deveted, there
is one point in which the whole world is unhap
pily forced to be unanimous: That the Hate of
France, at the prefenr moment, is infinitely de
plorable, and such as no ingenuous mind can
view without horror. In vain do we attempt to
turn away our eyes from this fpetftacle, and to
fafcinate our imaginations by splendid promises.
The whole power of oratory, the vain found of
emphatic expieffions, avail not to efface the
frightful image of what we fee with our eyes, nor
to extingui<h sentiments which in our hearts we
approve. The King, held in captivity by his
fubje&s, the kingdom abandoned to pillage, the
public power destroyed, justice dumb ana trem
bling, the molt atrocious crimes unpunished, and,
to crown the levies of abominations, innocence
punilhed with juridical formality," &c. &c.
ADVERTISEMENT
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeship to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and eonvenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com
mands. JOHN H. HALL.
Korfblk\ Virginia, April 21, 1791* (1 ep;w)
REPORT
OF THE
A R Y or s
On the fubjc£t of (ft*
CODAND WHALE FISHERIES,
CR E T
c - Kentalj to
| Europe,
« * 5 Dolls,
to
So,': 00
35'°°°
10.000
6,000
12 r 00*
2,000
8.000
8.000
320
1,000
100
4,405 178.800
25,630
don paper.
VINDICATOR,
[continued.]
No. 11.
Rentals to
Weft-Indie*
a 2. 6 Dolls.
ca "5 Tonnage.
> 3
40,000
42,500
10,000
6,cod
12,000
2,000
90
160
»5
>9
20
13
S6
36
5
4
t
9
4
-3*
S.s°°
16,000
i,600
800
Bco
1,000
40®
ll6o®
jf.OOO
11200
jt
800
3,000
600
3 ,000
1,109
B,oo®
5,200
8,000
600
300
1,000
it «©
50.0
4,000
1,000
4,00*
200
3=> 9°°
3° 3°°
3 1 5°
5.W >9-»85 3,292
172,500
A CARD.
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wishes they may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the best chofcn
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pi gou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
nis KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
>n so low terms as mud make it an objefl to cujlomcis. Order*
from his friends will be attended to with pundluality and dispatch,
and the time of pa) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afore the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence draw ng on ihe day appointed,
viz. Oil Thursday the 13th of Oflober next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monltoly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour aftigned, so
they are determined to be equally as punttual in this.
*5,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 195,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the ufc of the Commonwealth.
Prizes,
1 •(
2
3
6
10
39
80
9°
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
s£ooo Tickets,
(£3* TICKETS in (he above Class may be had of the several
Manager %,mho will pay the prizes on demand-, of the Treasurer
of the Cnmmonweaith ; of James Whit*, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iin.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEI. COOPER,
GF.ORCE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, April 14, 1791.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Rate-Street, between Second and Third-Strtets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennfylvamj and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURI TIES of the United Slates, or of any
particular State.
W PHILADELPHIA, May
the Commiflione'-s, appointed to receive subscription*
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give ®uMic
not,re, that tile Book, will b<- opened by us for that pnrpof, at
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th day of July next.
Thomas Willing, Samuei Howell,
Bejii Borout, Lambert CadwaEader.
David Rittenhojse,
All the Printers m the UnUtd Suits are reqiiejltd to publi/h the tkovc.
36
T E,
T A
From 1786 to 1790, inclusive.
£ Kcntali to Rentals to
c, ~ Europe, Weft-lodics
« a 3 Dolls. " 2 Dolls.
720
680
120
'57
160
80
*48
2jS
35
3*
16
72
»«
180
50,000
19.500
5,«oo
6,000
1,000
3,0c0
6,000
I,oo®
«.4°°
3,600
qoo
*> 2 35
»>3°°
->0"
460
860
M 4«
200
18a
9°
360
160
900
88
140
40
120
'4
5 200
108.6 o
QLASS II
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
Do L L ARi.
ioooo if
3000 arc
2000
lboo
fOO
*00
100
s°
4®
3°
20
ie
»
25,000
28,500
7»s°°
io,ooo
10,000
5,000
6,000
12,000
1,50°
1,200
600
3,000
1,300
10,000
400
1.500
70Q
t»oov
5 ,200
9,000
1,500
3's°°
>,550
3,000
3,000
s°o
1,000
1,000
1 4'!.0,50
(96 to
DOL LARS
10000
6000
6000
600 c
$000
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
IZjOOO
Funds of the United States.
A LI. kinds of the Futlic Debt ot (he Union, bought, fold, ore*,
changed; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negociated •
\UrthtniiLC r>f all forts Bought and Sold on Commijion, ami Jl
other Business in the line of « Broker, tranfafted by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door lotheCuJlom-Houfc, Sute-Street, BOSTON,
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities*
On COMMISSION, at public and private fdlc, on the
following terms:
OV the specie amount of all sales or purchases at auffion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purehafes at private sale, on all funis
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cent.; tnd on all sums
above £000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, oneioUtr cach transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may he
plea fed to favor the fubferibers with their orders may rely oa
heir being executed with punctuality.fidelity and di/liutch, as Confi
deiable experience in the public Hocks, together with extenfcve
connexions in the city of New-York ana different parts of the
ontinent, enable them to condufil their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
Neut-Yori, No. 57, King.Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
CONTRACT,
For erecting BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Passaicak
Rivers, between Powlas-Hook and Newark, in the Stateof
New-Jcrfey.
THE Commifltoners appointed by an ast of the
the state of New-Jf*r fev, to ere& bridges over the Hackinfaclc
and PafTaia; k rivers, having obtained the necessary surveys, arc
now ready to receive propofdls for performing the fame ; and
offer the following conditions for the confederation of such as may
be inclined 10 contra6l:
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
at one of the following stations, as shall be hereafter determined
mod eligible.
ift. At the place where the orefent ferry is eftabliihed, wh«rt.
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river i» 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. weftein (hore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of tl e bridge across th Paffaiack river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as shall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
ift. At the place wherFthe present feuy is eftabliihed, where
the width of the river is 6*6 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. weftcrn shore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 11 feet,
Do. wcftcrn (hare 4 5 inches,
Greaiett depth 13 4
3d. At a place still more northerly, callrd Hedden's dock, ia
the town of Newark, where The width of tha rivtr is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihorc 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. weft rn shore 10 8
Greatcft depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftruftcd on the principles of those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of M»f
fachufetts, with a draw to admit a free paflTage for velfels with fix
"d (landing mafU, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks oa
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as (hall be judged fufficient:
to aid vessels in parting through. Also, one lamp on each lide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges arc to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, zs fliall render them perfectly substantial and ferure id
the opinion of the commiflTioners, and are to be of a futfkicnt
height to protest them aga'.nft the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to io feet. They
are robe 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for carnage way, eo feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, « feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6incheseach, 1 foot.—Total, 3! feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong ballultrades,
after the manner of th« bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept *n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be furrendcred in good order,
agreeably to the adt.
The following are the terms which the commiflioncrs are au
thor i fed to offer to contra£lors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a per-od not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pro
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
actual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last part,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will confrquently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per aim. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. Th«
advancing population of the United S'ates, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the cafy communiration thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the weflern fide of the Hudson, are >11 important
circumstances, which must necefTarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiffionos are moreover au
thorized bv law to raise four ihoufand pounds to be applied to
wards making caufewavs and laying out proper oar's conne&eA
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purp>fe»
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the budge*
are to be fixed, and ihe conrra&s for eiettinj; them aie ex cuted,
the roads and caufewavs will be immediately undertaken*
Such persons therefore as mav be inclined tocontratt on the
principles, will be pica fed to fend in their terms sealed,
within three mon'hs from this date, to William Maxwell,
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the fhoru-ft period ol lease for
which thev will undertake to erett the said bridges,together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMTE* TUTHILL, *1
|OHN NEILSON, I
ROBbRT KEMBLE, 5 -
William maxwell, |
JOHN PINTARD j
Newark i State of Nctv-Jcrfcy, April 22, 1791.