PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNOI, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 55, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE FREEMAN-s JOURNAL
Mr. BAILEY,
IT is tie duty of every good citizen, and every prudent man,
to consider the nature and operation of the public rreafures,
that arc adopted from time to time by government, whether they
be those of Congress or the State Legislature. I found myfelt,
fatisfied on very little reflexion, with the impofton foreign goods,
and I fee plainly it tends to give a considerable part of the nc
ceffary revenue, and, at the fame time, to encourage manufac
turing at home. Smcc the new revenue law, or cxcife, as some
call it, has been patted, I have had it in my mind a good deal,
and turned it there much and often. On thinking for myfelf
(for I d • not like any man to heat or cool me too much on pub
lic fubjtfts) some things strike me, which did not at firft occur,
and as they may not have come into the minds of some of my
countrymen, may be it will do no harm to fend them to your
free paper.
The firft remark that strikes me is, that by the
made, there appears to be no occasion Jor aland tax, or any otfw
kind oj taxy and no probability ot one, if this revenue is colle£t«l ;
for there seems enough impost and duty on spirit to keep us clear
of them all. Now I never did expert to fee the public debts of)
this country, and the expences of government and an Indian war/
all provided for at once, without one dollar of land tax, or tax oif
polls, or heads, or personal property ! I find too, if I have a
mind to be sober and frugal, and have a large family, whose
maintenance obliges mc to be so, I can make out with cider,
mead, metheglin and beer, without pay ing any of duty, and
I can fell my gain for food, or to those who make a trade of
distilling and brewing to fell by wholcfalc. There is no doubt
that thole, who do follow liquor-making as a trade, will do it
the cheaper, in propoition as they make it in large quantities,
and that they can afford to give a price for grain to diftill, which
it would not do tor an owner of a Hill of fitly gallons to pay.
The duty on the lowest foreign rum, is much higher than the du
ty on home made spirits ot the fame proof or strength. Ihe
home made spirits of grain and fruit, pay only nine cents, or
about eight pence Penufylvania money, which is cxaftly the du
ty laid by the of Assembly, and continued tor many, many
years, by as good patriotic whig as ever fat in this
State, o- in any other country upon earth. But foreign spirits
tf the famepioof pays 20 cents, or 18 pence Pennsylvania money,
whicn is above double the duty on our spirits. It is plain to me
that ttiis diff rence of eleven cents (or about ten pence) in favor
ot home-niude spirits, mull very soon stop the ute of any great
quantity 01 foreign rum and brandy, even on the ft:a coast, and
that it will put an end to it in the back country, the firft time we
have a good crop ?nd bad markets abroad. From accounts it
feims very likely that thts will be the cafe with our present crop,
This great difference in the duty in favor ot home made spirits,
will be tound a vast help to the farmer, and therefore found and
patriotic policy in Congress. It is better tor the maker of home
spirits, to pay eight pence on his rum, ai)d to have eighteen pence
«n rival Brill(h rum, than to be quite tree from duty, and have
only seven pence as before, on foreign spirits. Under the State
law, we had only 2 and 1-2 on foreign rum, and then our itills
had a worte chance, by fix or seven pence.
They think in Holland and Britain, that the growing of hops
and barley is a very profitable part of farming ; and it is plain
that America will be better off, by railing gieat quantities of them;
for the mofe various our produce, the more certain it will be that
wc shall get some of our crops through to advantage, in our va
rious fcafotis wet and dry. I therefore argue, that the high du
ties on foreign spirits (which have been very much increaf.d on
account of the duty on ours) will bring on a deal of brewing, ana
call for hops, and winter and fummcr barley, in large guanines.
Indeed I think, this very season there will be such a want of bar
ley, owing to the short impost of rum and molalfrs, that wheat
will be mahed in some places. It a man that ov\ ns a ft:II, will
■work it smartly and pay by the capacity of the still, and not by
the gallon, the duty will not stand him more than one third of
■what foreign rum is to pay, so he Can afford more for grain and
fruit to still. We know very well iri Pennsylvania, that old
William Penn was a fhrcwd fcnfible man. He kept peace with
the Savages better than any of the other proprietors, governors, or
old king's governors, thai we read of ; and he brought Pennsyl
vania forward by the foundations he laid, fafter than any country
m the world, in the fame time, This wife old man, in the year
1684. fixt a duty on spirits of all kinds, of twelve pence, as
the nest revenue for a young country. He justly observes, thai
the rich and the drunkard pay nearly the whole of it. The sober
ami modcrau pay lit le ; and any man may pay nothing by using
only cider, metheglin and bei r. Penn was certainly a very wife
man, a good Christian, a friend to liberty, civil and leligious, and
had a remarkable insight and foreh,;ht in the true interefl and ca
pacities ot this country, ft is my opinion, Mr. Bailey, that the
regulation of (piruuous liquors <s as importantto the happiness
©t man, and thetru ferviceof God, as schools and places of wor
ship. School a youth ever so well, teach him the way of a sober
and pious life ever so carefuiiy, he will be in the greatcft danger
it spirituous liquors be as plenty by him as the springs and foun
tains. Isa man will spend his money, or give his labor for drink,
ia such a degree as to make himfelt unfit for work, the more he
pays for it the better, because the price will set lomc bounds to
exccfTts. I find a particular comfoit in the excise, on the follow
ing'(core—The Stare debts, if ihev had not been afTumed, would
have remained for the States to pay. Havingvefted Congress with
the impost', the States would probably have laid a land tax, for
they could not have laid an excise without ruining the country
distilleries, unless Congress had raised the duty on foreign rum,
as rhey have done from a regard for the home distiller ; and it is
bui right. further to mark the scrupulous justice of Congress, in
regard to the money. In order that the money raised on stills
and spirits in the back country, might be applied to the immedi
ate benefit of the persons reTiding in those parts, they have provi
ded, that all that /lull be raised this year, by the revenue or ex
cise law, shall be pledged to pay the expences of General St.
Clair's, and QcfoeTaiScotl-s and other expeditions against the Sa
vages, thai harralsour back country, from Pennsylvania to Geor
gia. This is surely giving the bell and faireft course to things, and
is 1 iglit well done.
This dary is alio to be applied in part to renewing the treaty
with the emperor of Morocco, whose cruisers would take our
veiTeU and interrupt the iales of our fifh, grain, indigo, rice, to
baado and lumber in Europe, and the wine countries. Other
uses to which the money produced by the excise will be applied,
are to pa-y ofFonr de&ls to France and other friendly powers,
contrasted in the late war with Britain, and £o our creditors at
Saturday, August 20, 1791.
home. It mud therefore be the desire and interest of every good
dtizen. who wishes that our government inay discharge these ob
ligations, and may obey these plain delates of policy, to give a
helping hand to the law'. This is growing up inio a powerful and
glorious country, and will continue to grow, if we have peace at
home and keep'faith abroad. Above all, we Ihould try not to
owe money to foreign kings, because it will give them a pretext
to interfere in our affairs, and ihey are a fort of persons, who like
to meddle with other nation's matters. lam your friend, and
A CONSTANT READER.
\JVe have received several numbers of the BEE, a
new work, tidv) publijhing oy Dr. Anderson, in
Edinburgh, from which extrafls may occafioually
appear in this Gazette.~\
FROM THE BEE
rT> EVOLUTIONS in l'ocieties and nations arc
-t\- not affairs universally demonstrable, that
owe their perfection or circUmscription to the
powers of the human mind. These belong ra
ther to the nature of cnufe and effect. 1 heir
hidden and secret nature are belt known by their
confcquences. One catfe however is obvious,
the opprejfion of men in power. Despotic govern
ments might preserve the peace and felicity of
their subjects by lenity and equicy of administra
tion. The people under such princes might be
cemented to their sovereigns without so much as
knowing for why—at least without any inquiry
into the rights of sovereignty : But whenever op
preflion begins, the painlul chains speak to their
understanding more emphatically than all the
eloquence of Demosthenes. Another evident rea
son of (late-revolution is, the introduction of com
merce. The heads of the people might even be
generous and humane in framing an abfolnte go
vernment : But these principles being only flexi
ble, and corruptible by interest, what can lave a
nation from utter ruin, but the common and
commercial people ? and how (hall these become
saviours ot their country, unless by mechanical
ingenuity and commerce, they obtain influence
to raise up their dignity ? Unless they indultri
oufly cultivate those arts, which have fertility to
flip pi y the defeats of nature ? Oppreflion, there
fore, matching with influence and mental refine
ment, will fh uggie and debate from their own
weight and importance ; and the refulc mil ft turn
out according to the superior balance of contend
ing powers. Such things appear to have been
two causes of the French Revolution, which, if
as ftedfaftly maintained in infancy, as at the
birth, imift be productive of the manhood of li
berty. If these principles laid down are gene
ral, "Spain in its multiplied degrees of fbciety,
and ill firuation for trade, on account of the in
flux of the Mexican fpecic, inufi yet spur long in,
the furrows of slavery.
Sketches of Fox, Burks., Pitt, Sheridan, See
[By the Author of Lessons to a You nc Pr i nce,]
[IT is an old, but ufeful adage -Read every author with ajeahus
eye. — Mankind would be under infinitely greater obligations 10
men of learning for their literary labors, were they more candid
in their remarks upon eath other ; there is a kind of Turkish po
licy predominant in theii obfervalions on cotemporaries ; not
merely imaginary rivalfhip, but any kind of equality is intolera
ble—and hence'it is very uncommon to find a generous acknow
ledgment of merit in the works of others, even on fubjefls in
which neither are particularly interested ; but with refpeft to an
oppofnion ol sentiment, it seldom fails to produce a copious ef
fnfion ol difqualifying epithets. Thele observations will apply
to differences in politics—the most brilliant success on the part of
those who are fortunate rivals, cannot defend them from the
fhafts of obloquy ; and tho the world may award the tribute of
applause, the acrimony of a party spirit will attempt to blast their
laurels. The following sketches, are the produ&ion of genius,
wit and learning, but the ebullitions of envy and prejudice are lo
apparent that they cannot be read without indignatiun—The
world at large have long entertained very different lentiments of
the rcfpe&ive chara£ters, but this writer of lcflons, has flripped
the group of both integrity and abilities—and with a generous
design to benefit posterity no doubt, has configncd their me
mories to execration !1
I AM going to hazard an opinion, on which 1
would hazard my life—that Fox, by far the
foperior man of the party, is remarkably defec
tive in the great and inventive properties of wif
dom—fchemes, plans, information, or materials,
have ever been collected for Fox, by all the ta
lents and industry of a powerful party; and he
has, above all men, the faculty of inltantly giv
ing order and expression to uncouth and enor
mous mafles; but his mind not embracing the
origin of meaftires, it is a chance that he directs
them to the ruin or advantage of his party. I
will give as inllances—the coalition—the India
bill—the inherent riglu of regency—and the
trial of Warren Hading?—events which mark
129
tit&o
[Whole No. 2.41.]
the public life of Mr. Fox with national oditim;
and he has incurred it, not from difhorielVy, for
if there be an honest man among the political ad
venturers and champions of the time, lie isCharlM
Fox ; but for want of abilities, for want of wif-
dom.
Who projected the coalition I am not inform
ed. By internal evidence, 1 ihould adjudged it
to be the idea of Burke ; the extravagant absur
dity of it suits 110 other mind.
The India bill, I am well aflured, is Burke's
own offspring, and it strongly bears the impres
sions of its parent.
The dodrine of hereditary regency was fur
niflied by Lord Loughborough ('the well known
Wedderburne) with abundant promises of autho
rities and reasons, which are not fulfilled.
In the trial of eloquence has been
employed like water"! n an inundation, withouc
judgment and without advantage.
All the objects in the contemplation of Mr.
Fox on these celebrated occasions, might have
been obtained—not only without infamy, but
with applause,
Pitt has obtained them all, with abiliiies greatly
.lferior, but with the art of profiting by the er
rors of Fox. He has all the advantages of a coa
lition, by detaching Robinson* from his old
mailer. He has acquired more power in India,
than Mr. Fox aimed at, by only saving appear
ances with the King : he has acquired popularity
by a doiSrine respeCting the power of twoeftates
in Parliament, which if advanced by Mr. Fox,
would have procured his impeachment—and he
has rendered his opponents the inftrument9 of
his own purposes refpecfting Mr. Haftings-j-.
Such are the superlative abilities of your Royal
Higlinefs's principal, though, perhaps, not your
favorite couniellor.
That Burke has talents, 110 man of sense will
pretend to deny; but they are fuperficial, often
ratious, and want the guidance of judgment and
science. Satis eloquent!*, fapiintine paruin.
Sh6rit]aii',"with equal imagination has more art;
and being educated on the Itage, understands the
method of giving effect to every sentiment, ac
tion and expreflion. But he is a mere artificer of
scenes ; his orations are plays in a new form, and
they produce amusement and admiration, never
conviction or refpetfl,
The abilities and accomplishments of the three
iiaited, would not conllitute a ftatcfinaii, or a.
truly great man. Their fancies or imaginations
are not balanced by science, or that high and etf*-
ataed reason which is formed by the calm and pa
*ien# |/ ltudy of Fhilofophy, a profound acquaintl
- with liiftory, and fVridt discipline of mathe
matics,
* Lord North's confidential fecretarv.
+ If the conduct of the Minister were thoroughly understood
in this bufinrfs ; if the motives of his sudden conversion to the
opinion that Hastings should be impeached, were Hated to Parlia
ment and the country by an able and honest Senator, we might
fee what we have long wanted, a minister rendered a&ually re
sponsible.
EXTRACT from the ALBANY REGISTER.
SUPPOSE a man to have fix children, three of
them Tons, whose eflate is worth 3000]. —the
iiuereft of this is only rßol. per annum ; —with
this finall f«m he has fix children to maintain,
clothe and educate—He certainly cannot bring
all his lons up profelfional men, por his daugh
ters fine ladies. Let him then make them ufejul
members of society. Two of his sons let liim
make tradesmen. By this he will save the ex
pence of supporting them from 14 years of age,
and ever after ; and give them what they will
ever have reason to bless him for, a trade, which
is better than an estate, because it can never be
fpenr.—The third, if he be favored by the indul
gent hand of Providence, with that defirablff
bleflinggmius, let him make a profelfional man.
And his daughters, let them be infti utfted to spin,
knit and few 7 as well as the ordinary work ot a
house, but by no means neglect their education.
Let them Uoaft, with a conicious pride, that the
cloaths they wear every day are the fruits of their
ovrn industry; and I'll engage those allurements
will soon attracft the notice of men of sense, and
dazzle in their eyes, superior to the brilliancy
of a crimson silk—the gay appearance of a fngar
loaf bar. thrown carclefsly on one fide of the
head, with the addition of an elastic bilhop, and
a full bveaued ltomacher.
AN OBSERVER,A CARD.
To the President of. the United States.
WILLIAM COOPER, and ARTHUR NOBLE,
present their respects to the President of
tl.c United States, and request his acceptance ot
fonie samples of Maple Sugar manufactured at
Cooper's Town, in the llate of New-York—they
beg leave to congratulate the President upon the
immense acquisition of this manufactory to the
interelts of patriotism and humanity, being wen
convinced, that a fufficient quantity of this lugar
may be made in a lew years to supply the whole
United States.
I hilade/phia, Align ft 6, t 79 r.
To which the President was pleased to return the
f'ilio-iuitig Reply.
THE President of the United States is much
obliged by the polite attention of Meflieurs
Cooper and Noble— he thanks them for the prefenr
of Maple Sugar, and learns, with great pleafuie,
the progress of that promising manufacture.
Augujt 8, 179? ■
COMMUNITY OF GOODS.
[EXTRACT FROM A SPEECH OK JUDGK WILSON'.]
IN the early settlement of America we find two
experiments on the operation and effects of a
com.ii unity of goods : the iflue of each was very
unfortunate. Virginia was the scene of the firft ;
an inflruction was given to the colonists, that
during five years next after their landing, they
ihoulil trade jointly—that the produce of their
joint industry fhonid be depofiied in a common
magazine, and that from this common maga
zine, every one should be supplied under the di
rection of the council ! What were the conse
quences r 1 relate them in the words of the his
torian of Virginia.
" And now the English began to find the mis
take of forbidding and preventing private pro
perty ; for whilit they all laboured jointly to
gether, and were fed out of the common (lore,
happy was he that could flip from his labour, or
slubber over his work in any manner. Neither
had they any concern about the increase ; pre
suming however the crop prospered, thai the
public llore ninft maintain them, even the molt
honefl and industrious would scarcely take so
much pains in a week, as they would have done
for themselves in a day
The second experiment was made in the colo
ny of New-Plymouth. During A?veral years, all
commerce was carried on in one joint itock— all
things were common to all ; and the necellaries
of life were daily distributed to eve y one from
the public store. But these regulaiionsfoon fur
nifhed abundant reasons for complaint, and pro
ved most fertile fouvces of common calamity.
The colonics were sometimes in danger of starv
ing"; and severe whipping, which was often ad
miniltered to promote labour, was only produc
tive of conltant and geneiwl difconient.
absurd policy became, at lalt, apparent to eveiy
one; and the introduction of excluiivc'property
immediately produced the mult comfortable
change in the colony, by invigorating-the pur
suits of its inhabitants.
The right of separate property seems to be
founded in the nature of men and things ; and
when societies become numerous, the eltablifh
ment of that right is highly important to the ex
istence, to the tranquility, to the convenience,
to the elegancies, to the refinements, and to some
of the virtues of civilized life.
INTEMPERANCE.
[EXTRACT FROM THE NEWPORT HE HAL D.J
lAW-GIVERS, and men in authority, should
consider themselves, as they are, the guar
dians and protecftors of the public health and eco
nomy for the time beirg, and that they are ac
countable at the tribunal of conscience and rea
son, for the good or bad use they make of their
power: they should fay to themselves, as a Tro
jan said to himfelf when he was Emperor, " Now
lam Emperor^l will do what I wiihed Emperors
to do before I was Emperor." Fifteen years ex
pens; ce has taught lis that the earth will bring
forth its fiuits, and that men may eat, drink and
sleep, as much and as well, without Nobles and
Kings, as they did with. —Let us next depose the
tyrant Rum—let the privilege of felling rum be
confined to Apothecaries, and let a dollar a gal
lon duty be paid oil every gallon consumed in the
government, it will then be ftifliciently cheap for
medicinal purposes.— A tyrant so mischievous and
cruel, cannot be too llraitlv confined.—How ma
ny wives and children have been obliged to leave
the delirable manfion-honfe and homestead, with
all its delightful yards,gardens, walks, meadows,
fprmgs and orchards, occasioned by the loss of
time and expence of tjje huftxaacJJs drinking rum
—The wretched sot so coHtfatf'ly drenched in
rum, as rever-to afFord time til superintend his
own ground, or his own team—when all is ("pent,
we fee late in life, compelled by hard necessity,
cultivating his neighbor's field, for a part of the
crop, which he wheels home in a barrow.
130
PARIS, June 16.
Exlrall of a letter, dated Madrid, May 20.
" T"*HE King has ordered the President of
X Castile to give notice to the inhabitants
of the kingdoms and cities of Spain, through
the medium of deputies to Las Cartes, to express
their grievances and point out means o( relie.,
on all matters that concern the public good, ltill
keeping in view the ancient Spanilh constitution.
" The Captain General of Catalonia still fears
infurreiftions near the frontiers bordering on
France, he has in consequence written to his
Majesty, that it a fmgle one of the soldiers stati
oned on the frontiers of Spain to preserve tran
quility was withdrawn, he fliould fend his resig
nation, as he could not possibly answer for the
consequences, without a very refpetfable force
to oppose the manoeuvres of the nial contents.
LONDON, June 12.
A jealousy is arising against Prince Potemlcih
in Rll Ilia, similar to tliac entertained, towards
the latter end of Qiieen Anne's reign, against
the Duke of Marlborough, in England. The
splendid fuccelles of both have drawn down this
(haft of envy upon them.
The Elector of Saxony, at the fame time that
he accepted the reversion of the Crown of Po
land, either for himfelf or his daughter, ex
pressly made this reserve ; that according to the
Saxonic constitution, he niuft firft conlult his
faithful fubjeifts, and obtain the consent of the
State of his Electorates.
The state of tile humbled nobility of Fiance
has been thus whimsically described—that fotne
of them have been compelled to fell their coats
of arjns to purchase arms for their coats.
The mark of King Tom, to a giant which
was produced in the House of Commons or. Wed
nesday last in the debate on the Sierra Leona
Bill, by which he made over a tradl of land in
Africa to King George the 3d, produced an hear
ty laugh in the House, and reminded a stranger
in Ihe gallery of the dark ages when Kings and
Prime JVliniders in Europe, unable to sign their
names, ratified public inftrnments by affixing the
sign of the cross. Should civilization take place
011 the continent of Africa, future inhabitants of
ihat parr of the globe will read with as muchaf
tonifhnienr of the mark of their King Thomas,
as of the simple of our ancient Princes.
Philips the t'laniac was on Saturday questioned
by Sir .ampfon Wright, as to the cause of his
visit at Buckingham House.—He replied, that it
was love, all powerful love, for the Princess
Royal, and difcompofcd the gravity of the Ma
gilirate by faying— " And pray don't you think
I have a good la/fe Sir Sampf'pn ?"
The manner in which Mr. Fox moved his bill
on libels in tfi"e house of commons, (hewed at
once his abJl'ty and the nobleness of his mind.
Far from deprive others of their (hare
"Sf honor, itated the revival of the question
-tyy his friend Mr Erfkine, in the Dean of St.
Afa"ph's cafe, exhibited his argument on that oc
casion as a matter-piece of eloquence and argu
ment, and held it in his hand, while lie called
upon the house to afferc upon its principles the
Liberty of the Press
The merits of Mr. Erfkine on the fobjeift of
Libels were felt and admitted by the meeting at
the Crown and Anchor, in their stillest extent ;
but as they properly directed their view to what
Mr. Fox had so virttioufly, though unfuccefsfully
attempted to ncconiplifh—an 'enquiry into the
pra&ice of the courts, which would have opened
the way to a complete reform ofever.y error, they
thought it right to confine their resolution of
thanks to his motion only
__ _ — - J .
Madmaedu Barre, whose diamonds lately paid
a stolen visit to this metropolis, refufes either to
pay the reward advertjfed for flopping them, or
ro grant an indemnification againlt any other
claimant ro the person in whose hands they are.
The court of king's bench yellerday staid pro
ceedings on an application to compel their being
delivered to her.
The only new illumination of brilliancy on
tlie'birth niglit, was that of the Hayniarket The
atre. Their loyalty and tafle displayed a mag
nificent transparency, surrounded by columns of
lamps, conceived in a very grand style. The
fnbjecft was—Jiiftice and mercy exhibiting the
medallion of his Majelly, which fortune was
crowning with laurel.
„ Mr. Thomas Paine,-author of the " Rights of
Man," was born at Thetford in Norfolk, and is
fa id to have been bound, apprentice at T tin bridge,
in Kent, to an employment heappears afterwards
never to have followed ; for lie became soon an
exciseman, and was many years an officer in the
excise at Grantham in Lincoln/hire, and Lewes
in Suflex: from the station of a supernumerary
aJ. the former place, he had the misfortune to be
removed, and he then undertook the employment
of .keeping school. When Dr. Franklin was lalt
in England, Paine was accidentally made known
tiv him from his knowledge of electricity. The
Doctor", • perceiving his abilities, took him over
with him to America, and procured him the a
pointment of Secretary for Foreign Affairs
Congress, where he presently difjinguiaied hi m !
felf by an avowed antipathy to die governiii" IIC
of his native country, and a more than Roiiia' n
deteitation of the name and office of K ing.
Jun: 6. Lord Grenvjlle, a relation of Mr. Pitt
Chancellor of the Exchequer, quits the inteiior
department, to act in the foreign, which he ha*
been filling in the interim, since the refio-nation
of the Duke of Leeds. Mr. Dundas Heps j nto 1
the place occupied by Lord Grenville.
AMERICAN GRASS.
The new American grass, which was lalt year
praised as poffefling the moll wonderful quali
ties, the feeds of which were fold at the emir
mous rate of 681. sterling the bufliel, has upon
trial been found to be good for nothing. Of the
feeds sown, few of them ever germinated ; but
enough of plants made theirappearance, to ascer
tain, that thegrafs,in refpeift of quality, is among
the poorett of the tribe, and that it is an annual
plant, and altogether unprofitable to the farmer.
Q_UERI ES.
What good reason can our modern critics as
sign for allowing only 24 hours to be occupied
from the commencement to the completion of a
tragic plot, rather than 25 years ?.—Cannot that
fertile genius that can imagine he fees, in the
scenery, the azure canopy, and kings and heroes
risen from their graves, after an interval offonie
hundred years, to flirt an hour upon the (tage,
with equal facility, and much more propriety,
suppose a rational time admitted for the fulfil
ment of the fares of conspicuous personages, and
the revolutions of mighty empires?— Why ac
cuse a Shakespeare for carrying his scene, in
pursuit of his game, beyond (eas Mnft the
fact fubmic to the critic, or the critic to the fad ?
Is it more difficult to suppose that you are now
in France and now in Britain, than that you are
altogether in France ! or that the whole thea
trical exhibition is not a mock ?
ST. J O H N's, (Antigua) June 20,
No less than four public duels have been with
in this few weeks pa'.t fought in Guadeloupe,one
only was attended with death ; another was said
to have been'fought on Saturday last, said to be
by special licence from the Governor.
NEW CANDLE MACHINE,
i AS the abridgment of labor by the improve,
ment and use of MACHINERY, is highly favor
able to the maiiufafturinir interests of America,
• ( "
a Machine, the nature of which is defciibed be
low, is offered, wuh a confidence, that it is found
ed 011 the knowledge of its utility.
This Machine is fufficiently large to make one
ton Candles per day, without the addition of any
other utenfiis, th;»n those now required in the
common mode of making them. A boy, who has
acquired a fufficient knowledge of the manufac
ture, to spread a Cotton, can, from the ease of
working, and the neatness of finifhing, which ap
pertains to this Machine, make ;6o rods of Can
dles per day, with as much fafety and difpatcli
as a journeyman, to whom the highest wages an
paid.
The simple conftrucftion of this Machine, is one
of its great recommendations. Any ingenious
man may easily conftrucft the whole, with a very
trifling expence of wood and labour. Thegreac
saving occationed in the article of labour, by us
ing this Machine, cannat be estimated at !efs than
one hundred and eighty dollars per annum.
The terms on which ihefe Machines are offered
to the patronage of the Tallow Chandlers,
throughout the Union, are these :—
The complete Machine, to be delivered to the
subscriber, in this town, at forty-five dollars:
Directions, by which the subscriber (hall be ena
bled to eredt one himfelf, at twenty dollars:
The firft Machine, or firfl copy of diredions, to
be delivered as soon as a fufficient number are
fubfcribeit for
As the season for making Candles is at band,
those who are inclined to subscribe are requested
to forward their names immediately, that the
Machine may be ready fo.r delivery (if the plan
is fiifficiently encouraged) by the 29th of Sep
tember next.
Orders for the above Machine, or directions
for conltruCting it, to be forwarded (if by letter,
poll paid) to the Subscriber, Soap-Maker ant
Taliow-Chandler, Bolton, Maflachufetts, or to
William Frobijher, jun. Taliow-Chandler, New
York. WILLIAM FROBISHER, fen-
ALBANY, August 8.
On Saturday the 6th inliant, the July term o
the Supreme Court ended. At this tern Whiting
Sweeting, late of Stephen Town, in the couiny
of Ranflelaer, convicted of the murder of Darius
Quiniby, received sentence of death, and is or
deved to he executed on the 26th day 0 f "K" I.
in!h between the hours of 12 and 2 o'clock 0
that day—and his body, after execution, ' 3
tiered to be delivered by the flier if?" to a luig e ® -
BOSTON', AUGUST ().fov difl'ection. The unfortunate Parius Quirn
by was callecl,to .the of a constable in
taking the said pursuance of a pre
cept from a joffice of' tliMnce ; and in attempt
ing to perform that duty, he received two wounds
froih the prisoner in the fide, whereof he
instantly died. 4k
The Chief Justice, with much solemn dignity,
in a lengthy and sympathetic speech which drew
tears from mod of the audience ; but the unhap
py culprit flood immoveable, and apparently un
affected. In touching upon the tender string of
his wife and child, the Judge bnrft flood
of tears, which a humane and fenlible hear
could not suppress. •
SPRINGFIELD, August to.
Died at New-Braintree, the ult. Master
3avirl Force, youngetl son of Mr. Jonathan
>f that town, aged five years, after a long and
edious illness, occasioned by a bean, which he
accidentally took into his wind pipe.onihe ioth
day of May last ; which immediately caused an
inflammation, and severe turns of coughing
Fe was opened, his heart found to be contracted ;
liis ligh s ramified and ulcerated ; the bean was
found in the pipe, found and clean, having been
in motion, no doubt, from the time he received
ed it, until he died.
PROVIDENCE. August 6.
On Friday morning the 29th ult. at four o'clock, departed
this life, at his house in this town, the Reverend JAMES MAN
NING, D D. President of Rhode-Island College, in the 54th
year of his age.
He was born in New-Jersey, and educated at Naflau Hall.
Soon alter he left College, he was called to the work of the mi
niftrv, by the Baptist Church at the Scots Plains, near Elizabeth
tow.n.
After maknig tours to each extreme of the United States (then
colonies) and preaching to different deft tute churches in sundry
places, he removed with his family to Warren in this S'ate,
preached to the church there, and opened a Latin School. In the
year 1765, he obtained a charter of incorpo»ation for Rhode-
Iflnnd College, of which he was chosen President. In the year
1770, the College was removed here, and became with it of
comfe, where he has since prelided, and till of late years preached
steadily to the Baptist Church in this town.
In his youth he was lemarkablefor his dexterity in athletic ex
ereifes. for the fymetiy of his body, and gracefulnefs of his pcr
fon. His countenance was ftatcly and majestic, full of dignity,
goodrn fs and gravity ; and the temper of his mind was a coun
terpart of it. He was formed for enterprise, his address was
pleating, his manners enchanting, his voice harmonious, and his
eloquence irre(iilablc.
Having deeply imbibed the spirit of truth himfelf, as a preacher
of trie ; >fpc\, he was faithful in declaring the whole counsel of
God. H' studied plainness of fp-ech, and to be ufeful more
th.m to he celebrated. The good order, learning and refpe&abi
liv, of the Baptist Churches in the eastern states, are much owing
to his afiiduous attention to their welfare. The credit of his
name, and his oerfonal influence among them, perhaps have ne
arer been exceeded by any other chara&er.
O: the College he mufl be considered as the founder. He pre"-
sided with the singular advantage of a superior personal appear
ance, added to all his shining talents for governing and inftrufting
youth. From the fiift beginning of his Latin school at Warren,
through many discouragements, he has by coriftanf care and labor
raised thisJeat of learning to notice, to credit, and to refpeftabi
lity in the United States- Perhaps the hi (lory of no other CbU
lege will disclose a more rapid or greater maturity in
the course ot about 25 years. +
Although he seemed to he consigned to a sedentary life, yet he
was capable of more a&ive scenes. He had paid much attention
to'the government of his country, and had been honoured by this
state with a feat in the old Congress. In (late affaii she discover
ed an uncommon degree of sagacity, and might have made a fi
gure as a politician.
In clailical learning he was fully competent to the business of
teaching, although he devoted less time than some others in his
station to the study of the more abstruse sciences : in short, na
ture seemed to have furniftied him so completely, that little re
mained for art to ac,complifh. The resources of his genius were
great. In conversation he was at all times pleasant and entertain
ing. He had as many friends as acquaintance, and took no less
pains to serve his friends than acquire them.
death is a loss not to the College or Church only, but to the
world. He is lamented by the youth under his care, by the
Churches, by his fellow citizens, and, wherever his name has been
heard, in wharever quarter of the civil zed earth, the friends oT
fcieuce, of virtue and humanity, will drop a tender tear on the
news of his death.
His amiable lady, the wife of his youth, and the boast of her
sex, with all her fortitude of mind, which is great, must have funk
under the diftrefling loss, were she not sustained by Divine Grace.
May Heaven continue to support her, for earth must have loft its
•harms. Few persons ever enjoyed a more excellent constituti
on, or better health Increasing corpulence, occasioned chic fly
by his confinement to the labors of his station (for he was tempe
rate in his diet) gave him some complaints of ill health, of late
■years ; but what in particular fumifhed him with a singular pre
sentiment of his mortality is unknown*. He was seized with a
fit of the apoplexy, in which he remained mostly insensible for
about five days before his death.
On Saturday last his remains were carried into the College Hall,
where his funeral was attended, and.a prayer by the Rev. D«.
Hitchcock, and afterwards deposited in the north burial place in
this town.
Order of the PrcccJJion,
Students.
Steward.
Graduates, or Sons of the College.
Profeflors Forbes and Weft.
THE CORPSE
Mourners ;n a coach.
Chancellor of thr College.
Members of the Corporation,
Clergy.
Physicians.
Members ot.ihc Baptist Church.
Citizens in general.
This fanrral is thought to have been the moll numerous and re
fpettzble ever attended in this town.
* At the lajl annudl mertin* of the Corporation of the College, he
gave notice to them to lock out for a fuccejfor in his place. On the lajl
Sabbath of April, he preached his farewell sermon to the Baptifl ( hutch
iti PrOridettre : and within a jew weeks requejlcd in wiiting a meeting
oj the BaptijlSociety, for fivjhing the n; ting-house and (ot> and in
that requejtnenUoned thai it would probibly be his lujl.
Tu'ors,
Philadelphia, August 20.
POLITIC 4L SKETCH.
[concluded.]
THE State of Delaware, though final!, is not
an unimportant branch of the geueal Concede
racy of the United Stares. She diltinguilhed
herfelf by an early adoption of the new conlti
tutiou, tliat equalizing fy Item, which in one great
and eflential point, effected at once for every
part of the Union, what the fovereisnty of none
of the particular States could do for itfelf—and
that was, to refcire the fmftll governments from
the impositions of the large.—This community
of fieemen has it in contemplation to revile and
amend its conit irtltion of government ; may its
decifijus be founded on wilclom, and. their ef
fects more than realize its most sanguine expec
tations. Delaware partook largely in the de
valtations of the late war, and enjoys her pro
portion in the honors of a spirited refiliance to
tyranny —Time lias fir. Iwthed the furrows occa
(toned by its devaluation's, and more than restor
ed her agriculture to its former state of relpecta
bility.—Her population is encreafed, and the
additions conltantly making by emigrations,mult
add to her wealth and individual importance in
the Union.
The Commonwealth of Mnffachufetts has pas
sed ihro fnch an important change since th£con
ftitution of the United Stares went into opera
tion, as amounts alinoft, in fafhionable phrale, to
a political regeneration : Previous to that event,
her immense debt, induced such severe taxation,
as enervated the hand of induflry, discouraged
commercial enterprizes, and diffufed a universal
gloom over the face of society. The measures
adopted by the general government have had a
moll: salutary influence 011 the affairs of ourconn
try at large ; but their visible effects have been
strikingly conspicuous in Maflachufetrs. That
just and equal provision of the funding fyltem,
by which the United States aflumed payment of
the State debts, was at once wife and popular ;
it relieved that State from a burden which an
honorable enthufiafin in the best of causes had
brought upon her, and at the fame time juftified
the expectations which her citizens had always
repnfed in the faith and honor of the union.—
In consequence of this, Maflachufetts has relin
quilhed the excise, and in other refpecls con
formed her legislative a<fis to the laws of the Uni
ted States in such manner as to give the happiest
facility to their operation.—Murmurs and dis
contents are no more—and under a wife, firm
and steady administration, (lie is making rapid
progress in diminilhing her debts, encreafing
her resources, and promoting the general hap
piness of her citizens.
The manufactures of this State have b?en pro
digiously extended since the peace—and her ar
ticles of export have greatly increased—The ci
tizens have enlarged and improved their plans
of public education, and to their infinite honor
have opened the doors of learning to the female
mind, upon terms of jutlice and equality. The
laws of the United States have in no instance ex
cited cabals, remonstrances, or resolutions.
The fecnrities of the United States are greatly
difFufed among the citizens of Maflachul'etts.—
The fubfcripiions to the funding system have
been general and amount to a very large num
ber of individuals*; the new revenue law, or ex
cise is carried into prompt execution—for in this
State,as well asin all the others, the most refpetfl
able characters ate appointed, and have almost
universally accepted as fuperv! « >rs andinfpe«fiors.
The population of this State, notwithstanding
the migrations have been very great, amounts
to almost half a million," and all free—in the
census lately taken by'the niarflial of the di(lri<ft
—againll the word Jlaves it is written, none.
New-Hampshire is nearly arrived to the im
portant period when her constitution is to be re
vised—and from the happy experience the States
have acquired in tranfac'ting business in public
allemblies, the happiest presages may be enter
tained of a favorable illue to the deliberations of
their convention. The citizens of this State, in
their habits, manners and fenriments refeinble
their neighbors of Mafiachufetts, but living in a
lef's compact situation, their intercourse with
each other is not so rapid, and intimate, and
their info rmation in the interior parts of the go
vernment is consequently more imperfert.—The
Mate has recently taken measures to facilitate a
more general circulation of intelligence by es
tablishing po(h—the feflions of their Legislature
have latterly been held in an inland town—in
which a public paper is eftablilhed, and which
is supported with spirit and genius.—These cir
cumltances combined, will conduce to dillemi
nating full information among the people. One
article in the funding fyitem appears to have ex
cited some disapprobation on the part of New-
* The last of March, the fubfcnptions in this State amounted to
3'£34>73 ( 6-too Dollars.
131
' r jfcfc. ». « <tO» y Ufc
G.
2*
Hampfltire—the afTumption ; but to '.his {he will \
be reconciled on general principles, especially V
when it is cortiidered tiiat a final liquidation,
mult do jultice to al! parts of the union. This
Staie diltinguilhed itfelf greatly during the war,
her yeomanry are among the hardieit sons of
Columbia—the furiiilned her proportion for the
cabinet and field of able statesmen and legislators, V
and intrepid and diltinguilhed officers. At the j
moment of the reunion of the Sta-.es, amot g her
citizens s\ere found the molt decided friends to
freedom and government, thro whole exerti ms VJ
the ratification of the conllitution was effected— t\
This State in common with her.neighbors is pro- pS>
grefling in population agriculture and commerce. }
N
dicTtment Hated that the prisoner had robbed i V,
on the high seas, Henry Williams, master of the > \
Hoop Men imack, of eleven Doubloons, of the j
value of 165 Mexican Dollars. It appeared i.n K
evidence that this woman had taken her pafli.ge J
011 board the shove sloop at Salem ( MalTachnfetts) J
for this ciry—and alter the \ellel came to her
moorings in the river, the money on searching \ "
was found in the shoes and Itockings of the f.tia
Eleanor. '1 he Jury having been out some tiiite, ,
returned with the verdidt—That the prisoner is not ' '
guilty in manner and form as she Jlands indifit .. v '\ k l[% s
Sunday, Angult 7, Capt. Phelon, v itli a detac\i- Nj
ment of 200 Continental Troops and Levies, ar
rived at Pitifburgh ; also a detachn.ent of poo Le
vies, under the command of Major Clark.
A London Paper, of the 7th of June, mentions,
that " the Empress of Russia hail repeated her
Allbrances to the British Fats ory, thai in cafe of
a War, their property should JTot." l>e liiolelted,..
and that the British Ships, tratfiHg'to her
should be luffered to pass and* f-epafs as ufuali"' .
As an encouragement to entering into the mar
riage state, the public are frequently entenain-t,',
ed in the newspapers with acccounts of divorces,"
family quarrels, elopements, &c. 011 all these
occasions the woman is be the blameable
party —but among all the various modes adupceA
in our country to promote the honorable cost- .
neftion of marriage there is none more
than those cunning, sprightly witticifuis at the
expence of the ladie9, which run Through \
many of our public Gazettes. One would b&
led to suppose that printers of newfpapeis are -
mod unhappily connected themselves, oihc wife ;
they would not gratify a vicious and depraved*
taste by republifliing and giving currency to 1 hose
pitiful efFufions, which exhibit: the vvorlt fide of
human nature.
Census of the State of Virginia, as taken by the Mar-
Jhal of that Dijlrift, pursuant to taw,
Free white Males of 16 years
and upwards,
Ditto under 16,
Ditto Females,
All other free persons,
Slaves,
According to the census just taken, the State of
New-Hampshire contains one hundred forty-two
thousand and eighteen pet sons.
Since our lafl arrived in town from South-Carolina, the Hon.
Pierce Butler, Senator of the United States.
Died, on Wednesday la ft, Mr. James F. Sebor,a refpe£}a!le
citizen of New-York.—On Thursday his funeral was attended,
from Mr. Thompson's, in Fourth-street, bv a great number of the
inhabitants of this city, to the burying ground iu Chuft Churchr
yard—where hisrema ; n< were interred.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA,
Ship Dtfpatch, Cunningham, Tenrriffe.
Brig Charleston, German, Charh fton.
Ann, Qlover m Oporto.
Columbia, Oswald, Gibraltar.
Barque I'hilad. & Amsterdam Packet, Rice, Amdeidam.
Schooner Dolphin, Bailey, New-York.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 20/6 pr. £.
3 pr. Crnts 12/3 i 2 yg
Defeied 6 pr. Centi 12/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates ?.cf par.
Indents 12 f3 12 f6
N. and S. Carolina debts, l sj^>
Bank Suhfcriptions, 160 to 165 Dollars,
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
(BY ORDER OF THE MANATERS.)
Nr.n-Haver, July 20, 1791.
THE Public are informed, thatth Tickets 111 tnt New-haven
IVharJ Lottery have met with a rapid Sale;—mott than two.
thirds arc already difpoftd of. The DRAWING wll positively
commence on the 13 h September next. Thofc Ferfons who have
received Tickets to fell, arc reqtn ftcd, without Jail. t<» return to ihe
Managers what shall remain unfold on ihe toih September. Thofc
who intend to become Adventurer.< in this Lottery. will do well to
secure TICKETS immediately, left, by delav, they loose the
( HANL Eof m king their FORTUNES ;as tin Managers have no
doubt the Tickets will all be SOLD before the 10 h September.
A few of the above TICKETS may be had (J applied Jor
foori) of Messrs. STEPHEN AUSTIN & Co. corner of Pine and
Front-street*—who are author?fed to pay the PRIZES,
Philadelphia, August 13, 1791.
1
I 16,1 3 J
21 5,046
12 P6B
292 627
747, 6 '2
io*?£ pr. cent.
do.
65 do.
'3/advertisement.
B y, Me arrivals from fmct, "u Uiior iis r«*ivdfrnr.
I ,l —Ufi, of a Publication vikuh Lomel oif! tune a
NATIOKAH"-
,s (hey arrive h Ei "° r °J
Her Mod Faithful Maießv's Consul-General to the United Slates,
p,blle?.he following EXTRACT f.on, .he I„(lruft,on S sent
him by the Rova! Board of Trade at L.sbon, tor the .nforma
tion of those whom it may concern '■ p rot ,n« „ r
ALL Mercantile Co.itrafl., Policies of Protests, or
other Documents, which are to be given in evi " cc
Courts ofjufttce, or out thereof, fha.l be authenticated byte
Consuls, and fealcd with the royal arms o< the rcf P^ ftl " Cons ''
late, which her MajeAy ha, been pleased ,0 grant the Consuls ,0
affix to papers 1 elating to thr.r office - without which no credit
(hall be given thereunto in Courts of Jufttcc, or otbc.rwifr.
Philadelphia, Augufl 12. -■« —— -
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOITCIIONG, aiid BOHLA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c,
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets
|C - LOTTERY TICKETS,
Ctiarlfftown (Maflachufetls) to commence drawing id Sept,
New-Haven Wharf, ( *°-
Maflachufetls Semi-Annual, sd CUf«, >3'h Oft.
may be had as above.
Public Securities,
** Bovght and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place,
Philadelphia, 20th Julv, i 79 1.
THE Commiflioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders of the said Bank, that an election for twenty
five Director* will be held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of O&ober next, at 10 o'clock in thr morning.
THOMAS WII LINO,
A YOUNG Gentleman, who was bred to business, and can be
favorably recommended, intendirfg to visit the Manufa&ories
in the South ol Fiance, the ensuing Winter, will acceDt of Orders
for Goods, and execute them on a moderate Commiflion.
N. B. He will continue there, if encouraged. Applications
dire&ed to A. Z. and left at the Printers, will be punctually at
tended to.
Philad. August 6, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents Ihall come, or in any wife concern.
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promiflory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thouland five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and thrce-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which said notes have been afiigned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
Thcfeare th; refore to caution all persons from purchasing ("aid
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-CaroHra, 27th Ma\, 1 yqi
War Department,
May 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION ii hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months.of their annual pension, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th dav of September
ensuing, will be paid on the (aid day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpeftively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
id. The certificate given hy the state, fpecifying that the person
polleHing the fame is in (ast an invalid, and afcertainin" the sum
to which as Inch he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. S. came before me, one of the Juflices of the connty of in
the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pofleffion was given, of which the joUowin«■ i, a
copy (the ce, tficate given by the state to he recited) That he served ° (re
gimect, corps or vejjel) at the time he was dfabled, and that he now re
fidts in the and county of and has resided there for the lafi
years; previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
attor ney, befidrs the certificate and oath before recited 'mull
produce a fpec.al letter of attornevsgreeably to the followingso. m:
»«/, 'l/'n "■( county of (late of do hereby confiUute and
appoint C. D. of m y lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, one thoufani frven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the Join th day tj September oj thefame year.
Signrd and r ealed
in ihe presence of
Witnejfes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executor, and administrators mutt be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeflive offices, and also of the
time the 'nvalios died, whose peniion they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary oj War.
I°" aNAL of lie THIRD SESSION of the SEN AT F
if the b HIVED STATES, nay te had-of the Editor hereof.
DAVID RI TTENHOUSE,
SAMTTEL HOWFI.L.
(eptf)
(cp- 3 m
Charleftown (Mass.
CLASS XXII
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery prefcnt to the Public
ihe following
s
CHE M E
Of the TwtNT y-Second Class,
Consisting of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dollars each, 21,00#
Dollars.
x Prize of
1 ritz*
1
>5
20
20
20
4°
60
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
(p3~ This Class will commencedrawir4g 011 or before the lfl of
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, £ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleflon, May 25. 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets in the above,and in the Ma flachu felts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, North-Front-St p.EtT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bills of Ex
change.
Clerk's Vade Mecum.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines of the Prac
tice of Physic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries
Brown's Elements of Medicine.
Ofterwald's ChriftianTheology.
Rife and Progress ot Religion
in the Soul.
Vecker on Religious Opinions.
Fordyce's AddrelTts to Young
Men.
Sermons to Young
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Guide.
Newton's Diflertations on the
Prophecies.
Le&ures delivered by Soamc
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrance!
Future State Eternal.
RufTel's Seven Sermons.
Ramsay's American Revolution
History of America.
Morfc's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Pelew
IGands.-
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&iontothe mak
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii N.'fonis Metamor-
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
Seleftas e Vetcri Teftamento
Hiftoria?,
Scott's Leflons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhali's Greek. Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Melfiah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogue.'.
Trimmer's Sacred History, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Arae
vols- rican War, 4 vo!s.
Nicholfon's Navigation. New Annual Register.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations.
Experimental EflTays. Life of Rnbinfon Crufoe
Huxham on Fevers. Saville's Miscellanies.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust School of Wisdom
° fß u rcad ' Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Edinburgh Phwmacopia. Defcnption of 3 00 Animals.
Burke s Speeches and Political Boyle's Voya gfS .
Trafls. Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
Beauties of the Br,ti<h Senate. The Apocrypha.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies. Marmontel's Belifariiis.
M.fs Murray's Mentona. J„ ur „ey through Sweden.
Stuart s; View of Socery. Dupaty's Travels.
Richard Steele sCorrefpondence Stretch's Beauties of HilWy.
Man of the Moon, 2 vols . Al V
Dramatic P.eces. and Principles ot Taße.
Phhdelpha, Au S »jl 6, , 79 ,. (w&f 3w ,av,6t)
qumes.
132
Lottery.
2500 Dolls, is
icoo
100 are
5' 1
4°
3°
20
10
8
6
4
2500
l coo
15°°
1000
800
6 00
B'jo
600
56°
480
8032
17872
Dedu&ion, 3-28
Dallas's Reports.
Kiiby's Connecticut Reports.
Conductor Generalis.
Buchan's Domestic Medicine,
latest ed it ion.
Claik on Difeafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
Jenyn's Internal Evidence of
theChriftian Religion.
Beattie's Evidence of Ditto.
Think Well On't.
Devout Christian's VadeMecum
Edwards's Pliflory of Redemp
tion.
on the Religious As-
fe&ions.
against Chauncev.
Booth's Apology for the Baptists
Dowav Translation of the Vul
gate Bible.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodist Hymns.
Waits's Hymns and Psalm*,
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenck.
Smith's Wealth of Nation*.
Paley's Moral Philofophv.
Smellie's Philofophyof Natural
History.
Nicholfon's Natural Philofophv
Junius's Letters.
Hale's Ass flionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftru6tions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accompliftied Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart,
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Apprentice.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
*-< .. r.
peffons concerned vHI be; pleased totakenotice th>t| ,
following .dvertifcment has b^ aried from that publS •
our paper of the 23d of * ®
Treafury^Department.
March >2, I-QJ
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be rrceiv'tdn ,l
office of the Secretary of the Tre„furv, until the fir 11 M,. .
tu September next inclusive, for the supply ot all ratio,*
may be required for the life ol the United States, from the Sift d
of January to the thirty-fin! day of December, 1790, both day,
clufive, at the places, and within the diftrifh herein after mc •"
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof P, n
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntoli
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Mlntofh and ihe mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufki n i- UII)
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River M,/
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcatowas, and at theTuf"
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the (md
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf.
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio'.o River and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Fallsof tneOhio.and at the
said Rapids.
At any placc or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any placeor places from therapidsofthe Ohio,to thctnouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincennes
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river t«
the mouth of the river Ohio.
Atany placeor places,on theeaftfideof the river Mi&iippj,
from the mouth of theOluo river,to the mouth of thelllmois river.
At any placc or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any placc or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Bcuf, and it
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beufand Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla.-e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, ontheeaft fide of the Mifiifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclulivelv.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, totherner
Yazous incluiively.
At any placc or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to confiftof the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar,£ jOQ rations
l wo pounds of loap, f
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fir ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft dav ot January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of MafTachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office,until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftrifls herein
after mentioned.
At the port on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altama'na, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Cap!.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifbed in such quantities as that there
(hall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and whoiefome prOvifionf.
The rations to befupplicd are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be undcrftood in each cafe, that all lofles sustained by the
depredations of the , or by means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or del
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable charaftcrs,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
cornpenfation is claimed.
The contracts for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contrast will therefore confine their offers to one year, or_they
may make their propositions so as to admit an ele&ion or t e
term of two years.
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of theabove pods to
gether, or feparatclv for Springfield, for Weft-Point,for Yorktown»
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in
and they mud fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt p2)
ment.
(JdT* Blank Powers to receive the Interest, and for the transfer of "
orincipal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflablijked in t e ft
fury Department : Also Blanks for abjlrafts oj Certificates, to eJo>
the Editsr.
few copies of the CONSTITUTION 0.
United States, printed with Notes, may he had 0/
Editor.
gC7" The price of this Paper is 3 Dollarsper