rr*'
I
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO V» si„ mruqtbcct •,"~4rrf=
: _ T r ~"«u, NO. 69. HiL,H-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, ?Hf L A d'F I,?HI A
[No. 59, of Vol. lII.]
PHIL AD EL PHIA.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved, That the following AP.s and Resolutions
bt published J or th; infr,tmation of the Stockholders
of tht Batik of the United States, and such persons
as may have to tranfatt business with the Bank.
THAT the Bank (hall be opened on every clay
(Sundays, Chridmas-day, and rhe fourth of
juiy, excepted) at nine o'clock in the morning,
and so remain until four o'clock in the afternoon.
That discounts for the present, and until alter
ed by a quarterly or special meeting of the Board
of Directors convened for that purpose, {hall be
made at the rate of fix per cent, per annum; and
that all bills or notes offered for discount, {hall
be delivered into the Bank on Monday or Wed
jiefday, and laid before the Directors, together
wi.ii a (late of the funds of the Bank every Tuef
dny and Thursday, on which days the discount
(lull be fettled, and {hall be made known on the
next succeeding days.
That difcoimrs {hall be made for the present,
and until altered by a quarterly or special meet
in"'of he Board of Directors convened for that
pui pose. upon personal feenrity only with at leafl
two responsible names, for a term not exceeding
fistv days, and that three days of grace be allow
ed 011 all bills or notes payable to the Bank, and
that the difconnt be taken for the fame.
That bills or notes left with the Bank {hall be
prefemed for acceptance, and the money collect
ed or demanded, free of expence: Provided ne
vertheless, that in cafe of non-payment and pro
tefl, the charge of pioteft {hall be paid by the
person lodging the bill or note.
That payments made at the Bank {hall be ex
amined at the time,and no error suggested after
wards (hall be corrected.
Thit the. payment of the capital
stock, confiftitig of specie, v»K|th will be due oii
the several shares subscribed' on the firft Monday
in January next, be madertT the Bank—btat that
the portion confift'ng of pfcblic debt, which will
he due on the feretal shares ftibfcribed, on the
firft Monday of January next, may bfc mad£ Stthe
option of the Stockholders, by transferring tHe
feme to the Prefidenrv Directors, and Company
Of the Bank of the United States, at any time on
or before the firft Monday of January next, ei
ther upon the books of the treafnry, or upon the
books of any of ihe Commissioners of Loans for
any of the States.
That the form of the power for voting by
proxy at any e'etftion, be:
■Ks'ow all Men by these Aese vts, That
of do hereby appoint to be
fubflitute and proxy for and in name
and behalf, to vote at any election of ■ a Direclor or.
Diredors of the Bank of the United States, as fully
as or could were perfonatly present.
In n>itHffs whereof, have hereunto fit hand
and ft al, thit day of' in the year
SwW.and drliverrd')
in the prefcncc of \
That theformof the power for voting by proxy
refpe&ing tlie enacting, repealing or amending
Bye-I.aws, Ordinances and Regulations, be:
Know all Mi» by these Presents, That
of do hereby appoint fubJUtutf
tr proxy, to represent at ail meetings of the
Stockholder! of the Bank of the United States, and
in name arid behalf, to vote refpiO'tng the en
ding, repealing or amending ft ch Bye-Laws, Or
dinances or Regulations, as may be deemed neces
sary and convenient jo> the government oj the said
Bank.
In xoltnefs whereof, have hereunto fit hand
end fealy this day of in the year
Sea!etfl and delivered )
in the pretnee ot
That the form of llie power for felling, assign-
TOg and transferring IBank Stock, be:
Know all Me* by thf.se I'rfsfnts, That
■ of dr, hereby con'titute and appoint
*J true (ind lau'jfil attorney 7 for and in
»aiat and behalf, to /}!!, cud transfer unto
'pptrfon orperfons t the r 'hoU or any part of
Jhare unto in the capital or
pint flack of the Pref dent, Dirdiurs ar.d Company
*f the Bank of the United Statu, and for thai p.:r
---/'/• '* make and execute cil necdjary asa 9j afgr.-
wr
'/ / c.
Saturday, November 19, 1791.
and tvansfer r and ffiytbermore one. or wore
per fans uad:r to fubjiituU with like full power.
In •witnefswhereoj, have hereunto set hand
' r r r ,j
and feel-, this
Sealed and delivered )
in Ihe presence of £
That the form of the power to receive Divi
(lends be :
Know ah Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby. constitute and appoint
lawful attorney Jor 'and in name and behalf,
to receive and give receipt! for all dividend* now
due, or -which may grow due on fbari
to belonging, in the capital or joint flock of the
President, Direfiors and Company of the Bank of
the United States.
In w'ttnefs ivherebf, have hereunto set hand
* ~ ' » /"* ' , t
and ftai, this
Sealed and delivered ?
In the picfcnce of £
1 hat the Bank ihall receive and pay all specie
coins, according to the rates and value that have
been or fliall hereafter be established by CongrefS.
I hat the lawful pcfleilion of a certificate for a
fbare in the Bank of the United States, iflued by
the persons appointed to receive fubferiptions to
the said Bank, and accompanied by an alignment
thereof, shall be deemed afufficient authority for
the transfer at the Bank of focli share totheper
fon to whom the fame shall have been thus as
signed.
That th,e delivery to Thomas Willinc, Pre
sident of the Bank of the United States, of a cer
tificate of public debt, bearing an annual interest
of fix per cent, and flandingupon the books of a
Loan-Office in any of the Slates, accompanied
with a power of attorney authorizing the said
Thomas Willing, or his substitute, to transfer
to the President, Directors and Company of the
Bank of the United Stxtes, the whole, or the parr,
of the flock espreflec! in ftich certificate, fliall for
so much as may be thu> rt-'amfevred, -He
a payment purfuanr to the charter of tbe said
Bank, and on account of the firft and second pay
ment in the public debt, which will become due
upon Bank fliares on the firft Monday in January
next, provided that the delivery of the laid cer
tificate and power of attorney be made to the said
Thomas Willing on or before the said firft
Monday in January—and that fatisfartory evi
dence be given to the Dire>ftors of the said Bank,
of the completion of such transfers, on or before
the firft j\lond3v in March next.
That the Bank receive transfers of any of the
public debt in trufl for such persons as may re
quire the fame.
That in all cafej. when thereunto required,
that the Bank accept powers of attorney for re
ceiving intei efts due, or to grow due upon any of
the public debt, and hold the fame at the order
of the proprietor, free of charge.
Refolvcd, That it will be expedient to establish
Offices of Discount and Deposit in the several
cities of Charle/lon and New-York, and towns of
Baltimore and Bojlon, and as soon as may be afrer
the fir 11 Monday of January next, upon the fol
lowing plan :
Article i. The Directors of the Bank of the
United States (hall appoint a number of Direc
tors, not less than nine for each department, a
majority of whom shall constitute a board.
yjrt. 2. The Directors for each department
fliall clioofe one of their number for President.
Art. 3. The Directors of the Bank of the
United States lhall appoint the Caihiers of de
partments.
Art. 4. The Directors of departments flirfll ap
point their refpeiftive Tellers, Clerks and Ser
vants, and the i'ecurities by them given fliall be
approved by the Diie<ftois of the Bank of the
United States.
Art. 5. The Directors of departments fliall be
annually appointed, but not more than three
fourths of whom, exclusive of the President, fliall
be eligible for liie next succeeding year.
Art. 6. The coTiipenfaiion to the President,
Tellers. Clerks and Servants of departments, fliall
he established by the Directors of the Bank of the
United States.
Art. 7. The manner of keeping, dating and
rendering the accounts of the departments, fliall
be prescribed by the Directors of theßankof the
Uuiied States, and the obfei vance of the rules
established fliall be enforced by the Directors of
the Rank of the United State*, to whom accounts
of departments shall be rendered.
233
day of in the y tar
day of in the year
Z /(£ r&Xeef
SFVZ Z?*
Art. 8. That part of the capital Hock of the
Bank which consists of the public debt of the
United States, /hall not be divided, but the de
partments (hall discount upon ftich part of the
ipecie capital of the said Hank as the Directors
/hall a]>portion to them, with such part of thede
pofits as lhall be lodged with them from time to
time, as the J)ire(fiors of departments /hall judge
fafe and expedient.
Art. 9. All notes ifl'ued at the departments/hall
be signed and countersigned by the Prefidentand
Ca/hier of rhe Bank of the United States—/hall
be made payable at the refpe<Sive departments
from which they are iflued, and /hall be deliver
ed to the Ca/hier of the department, who /hall
give duplicate receipts for the fame, one of which
is to be lodged with the President of the Bank of
the United States, and the other with the Pre/i
---dent of the department.
Art. 10, All notes which /hall have become nil
fit for circulation, /hall be cancelled by the Pre
sident and Directors of departments, and imme
diately thereafter transmitted to the Directors of
the Bank of the United States, who /ball cause
the said departments to be credited for the fame.
Art. ii. Therefpetftivedepartments fliatl, once
in every week, make out and transmit ro the Di
rectors of the Bank of the United States, a dif
tintf abftrasft of the state of their funds—which
abftrauft ihaH ascertain the amount of the deb's
and credits of the department, the amount of
notes iflued by the department and then in cir
culation, the amount oif cart) on hand—.and flmll
likewise diftinguifli in the account of cafli on
hand, hbw much thereof is in specie, and how
much in tlie several kinds of Bank notes.
■rfrt. 12. That the continuance of the said de
partments {hall be at the plrafure of the Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States—but none
of the foregoing regulations shall be rescinded,
unless at a meeting of a majority of the whole
iiinuihsr as Diretlior*, after a n/vtire given
that purpose at a preceding meeting.
By order of tht Bnard of Direfrors,
THOMAS WILLING, President
Countersigned,
John Kean, Cajhier.
8C?" Somi inaccuracies having occurred in thoft
publications of the Bye-Laws oj the Bank oj the United
States, which have already appeared—an authentic
copy wilt be priblr.Jljed in the next number of this
paper, pursuant to orders of the Directors.
on the freedom or spsech
FREEDOM of speech is the privilege of man ;
tha peculiar privilege of an American ; but f do
Hot fay that it is never abused ; it is abused when
virtue is drawn in a forbidding, and when vice
is painted in a seducing light ; it is abused when
truth is'obfcured by dark shades, and when falf
hood is drefled in tlie mod captivating colours ;
it is abused when liberty is exhibited bound in
chains, and when tyranny is placed in a pleasing
point of view, embelliflied with every ornament
which can dazzle and delude. To drop the pen
cil—he, surely, whatever be his rank in life,
whatever be his pod in society, discovers neither
wifdotn nor benevolence, who endeavors, as a po
litician. to loo<en the bands of morality ; and as
a mora lift, to weaken the ties of religion.—Such
a man, whatever be his rank in life, whatever
be his pod in society, is not a friend to mankind
—nor himfelf.
Of Prohibition with refpett to the Exportation cf
Gold and Silver.
COULD Spain and Portugal have succeeded
in executing their foolifii laws for hedging in the
cuckow, as Locke calls it, and have kept at home
all their gold and silver, those metals would, by
this time, have been of little more value than so
much lead or iron. Their plenty would have
ledened their value. We fee the'folly of these
edicts ; but are not our own prohibitory and re
ftri<ftive laws, that are profefledly made with in
tention to bring in a balance in our favour from
our trade with foreign nations to be paid in mo
ney, and laws to prevent the neceflity of export
ing that money, which, if they could be thoroly
executed, would make money as plenty, and of
as little value. I fay, are not fa eh laws akin to
those Spanish edicts ; follies of the fame fatniW »
4'
[Whole No. 2()';7.]
EXTRACTS.
fPHI LAD ELP H IA f NOVEMBER 19.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHKR FAS a Treaty of Peace and Frienilfhip between the Uni
ted States, arid the Cherokee Nation oj Indians, was made and
■concluded tthe second day of the Month of Jf u -y \ ar whereas I haoe
by and with the advice and confenl of the Senate, rn 'due form ratified the
said Treaty : Now to the end' that the fame be olferved and performed
withgofid Faith on the part of the United States, / havejordered the said
Treaty to be herewith pnblifhed, And I do hereby enjoin and require
till Cjficcrs of the United States, civil and military, and all ether Citi
2evs and Inhabitants thereof, to govern them flues according to the said
Treaty, as they,willanfwer the contrary at their Peril.
(L.S.) GIVEN vvder my Hand andthe Seal of the United States, in the
City os-Philadelphia, this eleventh day of November, in the
Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,
and in the sixteenth Year of the frvereignty and independence
of the United States* G. WASHINGTON.
Bv the Pr rsidunt,
' Til. JfcFFfcRSON.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the
United States of America.
To att to whom thcfe Presents fkall come, Greeting :
WHEREAS a Treaty of Peace and Friendftiip between the
United States of America and ihe Cherokee Nation of In-
VTi-ins, v as made and concluded on the second d'ay of the month
ofjulvlaft, by WILLIAM BLOUNT, Govetnor in and over
the Territory of rheUnited States south of t ie River Ohio, and
Superintendent of Indian Affairs for tfc>e louthern Diftrift ; who
was duly authorised thereto, on the one part, and the Chiefs and
Warriors of the Cherokee Nation, whose names are hereunto
finned, on the other part; which Treaty is in the Form and
Words following:
A Trpaty of Peacc and Friendfliip, made and concluded between
the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf
of the jaid States, and the nnderfigned Chiefs and Warriors of the
Cherokee Nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the Jaid Na-
The Parties being defirousof eftabliftiing permanent Peace and
Friendlhip between the United States and thofaid Cherokee Na
tion, and the Citizens and Members thereof, and to remove tlie
Caufrs of War by ascertaining their Limits, and making other
neceflary, jufl and friendly Arrangements : The Prefidentof the
United States, by William Blount, Governor of theTerritoiy of
the United States ofc America south of the Rtvei Ohio, and Superin
tendent of Indian Affairs for the southern Diftrift, who is vested
avith full powers for thcfc purposes, by and with the Advice and
Consent of the Senate of the United States : And the Cherokee
Nation by the nnderfigned Chiefs and Wairiors representing the
said Nation, have agreed t<# the following Articles, namely;
Art. 1. There (hall bepfrpet-ua-l peace and friendfhip between
9H the citizens of the United Stares of America, and all the in
dividuals the whole Cherokee nation of Indians.
Art. 2. The underftgned Chiefs and Warriois, for themfclves,
and all parts of the Cherokee nation, do acknowledge themselves,
and the said Cherokee nation, to be under the protection of the
Unite# S:airs of America, and ot no other sovereign whosoever ;
and theyalfo the said Cherokee nation will ndt hold
any treaty with any foreign power, individual State, or with in
dividuals of any State.
Art. 3. The Cherokee nation ftiall deliver to the Governor of
the Territory of the United States of America, south of the River
Ohi", on or'before the firftday of April next at this place, all
pcrfons who are now prisoners, captured by them from any part
of tbe Uniied States : And the United States (hall on or before
ihe fame dav f and at the fame place, restore to the Cherokees, all
the prisoners now in captivity, which the citizens of the United
States have captured from them.
Art. 4. The boundary between the citizens of the United
States, and the Cherokee nation, is and shall be as follows : —
Beginning at the top of the Cuirahee mountain, where the Creek
line pall: s it—thence direct line to Tugelo river—thence North
East to the Ocunna mountain, and over the fame along the South-
Carolina Indian boundary to the North-Carolina boundary—
thence North so a point from which a line is to be extended to
the river Clinch, that shall pass the Holfton at the ridge which
divides the waters running into Little River, from those running
into the Tenneflee—Thence up the river Clinch toCampbell's line,
and along the fame to the top of Cumberland Mountain—thence a
direst line to the Cumberland River where the Kentucky road
crosses it—thence down the Cumberland River to a point from
which a South-weft line will ftr'.ke the ridge which divides the
waters of Cumberland from those of Duck River lorty miles a
bove Nafhvillc—thence down the said ridge to a point from
■whence a South-weft line will strike the mouth of Duck river.
And in o»der io preclude for ever all disputes relative to the
said boundary, the fame shall be ascertained, and marked plainly
by thiee perfans appointed on the part of the United States, and
three Cherokcrs on the part of their nation.
And in order toextinguifh for ever all claims of the Cherokee
ration, or any part thereof to any of the land lying to the right
of the line above described, beginning as aforefaid at the Curra.
hee mountain, it is hereby agreed, that in addition to the coti
fideration heretofore made forthefaid land,the United States will
cause certain valuable goods to be immediately delivered to the
wodcrfigned Chiefs and Warriors, for the use of their nation, and
ll>e said United States will also cause the sum of one thousand dol
lars to be paid annually to the said Cherokee vjation.—And the
uftderfigned Chiefs and Warriors, do hereby for themselves and
the whole Cherokee nation, their heirs and descendants, for the
jconfiderations above mentioned, release, quit-claim, re-
I-inquish and cede, alltheland to the right of the line descri
bed and beginning as aforefaid.
AfcT. 5. It is Stipulated and agreed, that the citizens and in
habitants of the United States, shall have a free and unmolested ufc
•f a toad from Waftiington diftritt to Mero diflrift, and of the
navigation of the TennefTee River.
Art. 6. It is agreed on the part of the Cherokees, that the
United States Gvall have thefoleand exclusive right of regulating
lheir trade.
Art. 7. The United States foJemnly guarantee to the Che-
Tokee nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.
Ay. 8. If any citizen of the United States, or "other person
not being an Indian, shall fettle on any'of the Cherokee's lands,
such person shall forfeit the prote&ion of the United States, and
the Cherokees may punish him or not, as they plrafe.
Art. 9. No citizen or inhabitant of tbe United States, shall
attempt to hunt or deftrov the game on the lands of the Chevo
kees, —nor shall any citizcn or inhabitant go into the Cherokee
country, without a paflport firft obtained Irom the Governor of
some one of the United States, or territorial diftri&s, or such other
person ns the President of the United States may from time to lime
iuthorife to grant the fame.
"Art. !C. If flfly Cherokee Indinnor or prrfi»n raid
ing among them, or who shall take refuge in t Heir nauyn, fhal!
ftcala hori'e from, or cortinm a robbery or murder, or other capi
tal crime, on any citi7.«*ns or inhabitants of the United States, the
Cherokee nation (haltbe bound to dei : vrr him or them up, to be
punished according to the laws of the United States.
Art. 11. If any citizen or inhabitant ot the United Srates, or
of ekher ol the territorial diflfi&s of the United States, shall go in
to any town, Settlement or territory belonging to the Cherokee,
and "shall thpre commit any crime upon, or trespass against the
person or prooertv of anv peaceable and friendly Indian or Indi
ans, which it committed vrirh'n the jurifdi&ion of any State, or
within the jurifdiftion of either of the.said d;ftri£h, against a citi
zen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punishable by the laws
of such State or diftritt, such offender or offenders, Ihail be fiibjeft
to the fame Dunifhment, and (hall be proceeded again'.l in the
fame manner, as if the offence had been committed within theju
rifdi6tion of the State or diftrift to which he or they rmy belong,
against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.
Art. 12. In ca£e of violence on the persons or property of the
individuals ot either party—neither retaliation orreprifdl shall be
committed by the other, until fatisfa&ion shall have been demand
ed of the party of which theaggreffor is, and (hall have been re
fufed.
Art. 13. The Cherokee* (hall give notice to the citizens of the
United States, of any designs which thev may know, or fufpe£l to
be formed in any neighbouring tribe or by any person whatever,
against the peace and interest of the United Srates.
Art. 14. That the Cherokee nation mav be led to a greater
degree ol civilization, and to become herdsmen and cultivators,
instead of lemainlng in a state of hunters, the United States will
from time to time tornifh gratuitously the said nation with ufeful
implements of husbandry, and further to a (lift the Caid nation in
so desirable a pursuit, and at the fame time to establish a certain
mode ol communication, the United States will fend such, and so
many persons to reside in said nation as they may judge proper,
not exceeding four in number, who shall qualify themfclves to a6l
as interpreters.—These persons (hall have lands assigned by the
Cherokecs for cultivation forthemfelv.es and tbeir fucceflors in of
fice—but they shall be precluded exe r ciftng any kind of traffic.
Art. 15. All animosities for past grievances (hall henceforth
cease, and the contra&ing parties will carry the foregoing treaty
into full execution with all good faith and sincerity.
Art. 16. This Treaty (hall take effect and be obligatory on
the contrasting parties, as soon as the fame shall have been ratified
by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent
of the Senate ot the United States.
In Witnf.,«s of all and every thing herein determined between
the United States of America, and the who'eCherokee Nation, the
parties have hereunto set their hands arid seals, at the treaty ground
on the bank of the Holfton, near the mouth of the French Broad,
within the United States, this second day of July, in the year of
our Lord, one thousand seven hund r ed and ninctv-one.
WILLIAM BLOUNT,
Governor in and over the Territory of the United States
of America south of the River Ohio, and Superinten
dant of Indian Affairs for the fouthcrn Diftrift.
Chuleoah, + or the Boots, L.S.
Squalleruitah, + or hanging
Maw, L.S.
Ocunna, +or the Badgjcr, L.S.
Enoleh, +or Black Fox, L.S
Nontuaka, t or the North-
ward, L.S.
Tekakifka, + L.S.
Chutloh, or Kingfiflicr, L.S.
Tuckafeh, + orTarrapin, L.S.
Kateh, f L.S.
Kunnochatutloh, + or the
Crane,
Cauquillehannah, t or the
Thigh, L.S.I
Chefquotteloneh, +or yel- - \
L.S. J
low Bird,
Chickafawtehe, + or chick
afaw killer, L.S.
Tuikegatehe, + or Tufkega
killer, L.S.
Kulfatehe, + L.S.
Tmkfhalene, + L.S.
Sawutteh,+ or slave catcher, L.S.
Ankuah, + L.S.
Ofeiialeh, + L.S.
Kenotetah,+ or riling Fawn,L.S.
Kanetrtoka, + or standing
Turkey, L.S.
John Thompson, Interpreter.
James Carey, Interpreter.
Done in prejente of
Dan. Smith, Secretary of the Territory of the United
loath of the River Ohio.
Thomas Kennedy, of Kaintuckey.
James Ror e r tson, of Mero Diftri6h
Claibo&ne Watkins, of Virginia.
John M. Whitnf.y, of Georgia.
Fauchf., of Georgia.
Tit iTs Ogoe.-N, of North-Carolina.
John Chisholm, of Walhingion Diftrift.
Robert Kinc.
Thomas Gegg
NOW KNOW YE, That I having seen ana"conferr
ed the said Treaty, do by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate of the United States, Acc ett, Ratify and
Con si r m .the fame, and every article and clause thereof:
In Testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed, and signed the fame with my
hand.
L. S.
Given in the city of Philadelphia, the eleventh day
of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand (even
hundred and ninety-one, and in the sixteenth year of the
fovcreignty and Independence of the United States.
By the Pr esident, G. WASHINGTON.
TH. JEFFERSON.
APPOINTMENTS.
November the 14th.
The President of the United States, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, has been pleased to make the following ap
pointments :
SECOND regiment. Elijah Tifdale, Surgeon's Mate, vice
Sumner, cieclincd.
November the 15th.
Second regiment. Micah M'Donough, Ensign, t7ce Duff,
declined- William Balch, Enfign,vice Sohier., appointed Lieuten
ant-George Dcmclar, Ensign, tree Miller, promoted.
November the 16th.
Nathaniel Roa C *s to be Marlhal of the New-Hampftiire diflritt
vice John Parker, deceased.
Alexander Moore to be Survevor of the Port of Weft Point, in
Virginia, wee John Spotfwood Moore, who has ufigned his ap
pointment. r
Charles Brown 10 be Collfftor of the Port rf Georgetown. in
South-Carolina, v;ce John Cogdcll. who has rdigiud hi& apr oiir
menr. 0 ri
234
Yonewatlch, + or Bear at
L.S.
home,
Long Will, +
Kunofkefkic, + or John
Watts, L.S.
Nenetoovah, t or bloody
Fellow, L.S.
Chuquilatagtie,+ or Double
head, L.S.
Hootaquah,+ or big Acorn, L.S.
'foowayellohj + or bold
Hunter, L.S..
. j9hle-ponnyehka,+ or mid
dle ftriktr, L.S.
L.S,
K'nncfah, + or Cabin, L.S.
TuUotehe, + or two killer, L.S.
Koolou(kce,+ or ftopt still, L.S.
Kulfatehe, t L.S.
Auquotague, + the little
Turkey's Son, L.S.
Talohtefke, +or Up fetter, L.S.
Cheakonefke, t or Otter
Li Iter, L.S.
Kefhukaune,f or (he reigns, L.S.
Toonaunailoh, + L.S.
Teefteki, + or common
Difturbcr, L.S.
Robin Mc. Clemore, L.S.
Skyuka, t L.S,
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WEDNESDAY, November 16, 1791.
MR. GOODUE presented a petition from the
merchants and diliillers of the town of Sa
lem, in Maflachufetts, praying a reila&irfn of the
duty imposed on spirits of domeitic manufac
ture, and an increase in that on foreign spirits,
with sundry other modifications of the law. R e *
ferred to the Secretary of the Tretffury.
Mr. Brown presented a petition from funtfrv
inhabitants of the dittrid of Kentucky, praying
to be relieved from the operation of the excii'e
law, untiHhey (hall have obtained 1 *.e free na*
vigaiion of the Miffifippi, Referred to the Secre*
tary of the Treasury, so far as it a tew
porary suspension of the excise law.
Mr. Fitzfimons called up the petition of a torn
mittee of the public creditors, who loaned mo
ney to the Unircd States, between September
1 777, and March 1778, and moved rhat itibould
be referred to the Secretary of the Treafui-y,fur
his opinion on the prayer of the petition.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that the fubjetf of this
perition had undergone a decision during the
last session, wher) a petition of a similar nature
was presented. Speculation, he said, had alrea
dy taken a fufliciently ample range through the
United States ; and he hoped no new parh»
would be opened forits future walks. He would
move thar the prayer of the peiition could not
be granted.
1., s
Mr. Fitzfimons said, that the natare of the
petition seemed to be misunderstood ; he was as
little disposed as any gentleman on the floor, t»
innovate in the funding system ; he would not
undertake to. pronounce, that the petitioners
were entitled to any relief, bnt he thought the
Secretary of the Treasury did nor coufider thii
cafe as provided for under the funding law, in
which cafe, he thought thar the wisdom and jus
tice of the house were interested in takiiig'the
fame into confederation.
Mr. Gerry, after giving the history of rlie
emission of the bills of credit in qnefVion, urged
the propriety of doing equal jultice to every
class of the public creditors, and declared in fa
vor of the reference to the Secretary of the Trea
sury, who would state fatfs, upon which the
lioufe could determine whether or no the prayer
of the petition could be granted.
Mr. Sedgwick thought a fuflicient provision
had been made ; that it was not the intereit ot"
the people to proceed any farther ; this would
only raise paflions, that were now fobfided, hut
had heretofore been productive of considerable
mifchief to the country ; it would (hew the peo
ple, that the house entertained doubts refpecft
ing the futficiency of the provision ; fpeculatois
would employ all their arts to draw the certifi
cates out of the hands of the present holders ;
and he left it to gentlemen to determine whe
ther such a scene of fpecalatiou would prove ad
vantageous to the country ; besides, he would
ask, whether the required provision could he
made without altering the fyllem already esta
blished ?
States,
Mr. Gerry observed, that the objection, drawn-,
from Speculation, would prove an argument e
qually valid against funding, and even againlt
the coinage of money, since gamblers would ap
ply the coin to the purposes of gaining ; it had
been said, that many of the certificates in ques
tion had been loaned : but be would a(k, whe
ther, because a number of persons, not kuowing
their rights, lud yielded thein up, an argumenc
could thence be drawn, why others, who under
(tood their rights should not maintain thein, or
why the former (hould not be redressed ? Ought
the government to take advantage of the ignor
ance of the public creditois ? he hoped not : the
former memorial, to which the gentleman [Mr.
Sedgwick] alluded, was very different from the
present one, and contained many matters, which
would have required a total alteration of the
funding system.
Mr. Lawrance saw 110 necefiity for a
rence : a knowledge of faifts could be obtained
front the journals of Congress ; as to applying*®
the Secretary for his opinion, this would only
prove a source of embarraflment ; better to take
it up in committee of the whole, or in the house,
without a knowledge of his opinion : when the
scale of depreciation was applied to the public
debt, it was unequally applied, some receiving
interest 011 the nominal, others on the specie va
lue ; in the funding bill it was
that thfe former class fliould be allowed fucii W*
CONGRESS.
*tereft irp to the dose of the 3afl ypar ; ant! the
only question now is, whether any alteration
ihall be made in the funding bill ; whether one
class of public< creditors /hail have a different
measure of jultice dealt out to them, from what
others have had : he concluded with a wish that
the fubjetft fiiould be taken up in committee of
the whole.
The quedion, on the reference to the .Secre
tary of iii« 1 reafury, was then taken, and loft
v. liere upon,
JY!r. Luwranrc mover!, that the perition fhou!d
be referred to a committee of the whoie house.
Mi". jßondiuot was ofoplnion, th:-t tliefunding
fyllem ' la d done ample juflice, and that thok
v, ho complied with it, have no reasonable ground
tit' complaint : at the time of thepafiing the law,
it had been laid, that men would be forced by
it to come in and subscribe, whether they would
or not ; a clause was there/ore inserted in favor
of non-fiibfcribing public creditors, by virtue'of
wbirh.the petitioners,who areof the non-fubfciilv
itig dais, consider themselves in the fane Jituati
oii us befoie the law was enabled ; but an impio
per conltrutflion has been given to that clause,
and therefore it is that the creditors complain :
were any one of them to bring an adlion against
the public officers, he would in his opinion, ob
tain redress : they applied to the House for re
drew ; and thequeftion was, wiiether they should
be forced to subscribe, or be entitled to the bene
fit of their contract ; he would not wijh that any
man should be forced to comply with the terms
of the funding system ngainft his will : he would
have every man at liberty to accept or reject them
at his pleasure.; and he thought it unreasonable
that any man should have his fix per cent reduc
ed to four, without his own consent.
Mr. JFitzfimons thought further information
on the fuhjeift neceflary, and therefore it was,
that he favored the reference : one circu'tnftance,
he said, was unattended to by the gentlemen who
had spoke on the Aibje<ft ; and that was, that the
non-fuhfcribing creditors mult deliver up the o
riginal certificates, before they can receive their
interett ; but this they do not choose to do, be
caul'e these certificates bear a promise of interest
on the original value,and they would afterwards
receive interest only on the reduced value.
The quellion being then taken on the commit
ment to a committee of the whole, and loth
Mr. Sedgwick moved a resolution, that the
prayer of the petition cannot be granted.
The queflion being called for, Mr. iiarnewell
oblerved that he, and probably fonie others of
the new members, were not thoroughly acquaint
ed with the fubjeOt ; and therefore hevyifliedthe
quellion might be puftponed. The resolution
Was, in conference, ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Lawrance then called up a petition of
fonHry inhaditants of tlie state of New-York,
holders of certain bills of credit, ilS'ued in 1780.
Referred to the Secretary of the Treafory, to
consider and report his opinion thereon.
Mr. Baldwin called up the petition of General
Jackson, relative to the Georgia election ; which,
after, some debate, was referred to the commit
tee heretofore appointed to report a regular and
uniform mode of proceeding in cases of ronteited
elections. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, November 17,
Mr. Hartley, member for Pennsylvania, and
Mr. Schoonmaker, from New-York, took their
feats this day.
Sundry petititions were presented, read, and,
committed.
Mr. Lawrance laid the following refolntionon
the table,
Ilefolved, That a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill for extending tlje time limited for
fettling the accounts between the United States
»tid individual States.
IN COMMITTER OF THE WHOLE,
On the bill directing rbe mode in which, certain
evidences of the debt of the United States which
have been loft or destroyed, may be renewed—
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair—
The bill was read.
Mr. Sedgwick moved that tlie words, loft or,
fcould be ltruck out of the firlt clause—He said
that the provisions in the bill to guard against im
position on the public in cases of 101 l certificates,
did not appear to him to be adequate to the pur-
P"'® — an 'l this was not only his opinion, but that
of every gentleman who was on the committee
**ho hail reported the bill in the above foiin, a
greeable to orders of the Hoivfe, He called on
ihofe gentlemen who were in favor of retaining
the Words, to devise a mode by which the public
Blight be secured.
Mr. Lawrance was opposed to the motion—He
thought the bill itfelf contained competent pro
viuons in the cafe ; he pointed out several other
Particulars which might be attended to in the
P r »cefs of this bnfinefs, that would afford fuffici
ei 't security— furh as the checks which would
-l-eitain that the certificates, which it was ("aid
loft, had exifted—reference to the left cer
li -c.aie might be contained in the certi
".nte—a procra.:>nat!p» for a considerable time
"i the payment of the mtereit, & r
Mr Sedgwidc . c-piied, that the difficulties would
Hp ' S rr 10 "' >e obviated b what thegen
.le»a, had higgelted. The committee
Pl'-l for information to the Officers of the
■ ! eall!! T." ho werit decidedly of opinion that no
. cfeqit.ite provifton againlb deception could bede
' ed in respect to the renewal of lolt certificates.
Conhct-rahie debate occurred on the motion,
bi. h was finally agreed 10, and the words 101 l or
ltrr.cK out. Sundry other amend merits were agreed
to by the committee—they then rose, and the
Chairman raported them to the house.
On motion to agree to the fir ft amendment,
Mr. Bourne (R. I.) said he hoped that it would
not be agreed to, as he conceived the bill in its
pi e.ent form would not afford the relief proposed
in any degree—because, he obl'erved, that there
were very few cases in which politive evidence
of i,ic delh uction of a certificate could be pro-
Mr. Sedgwick observed that, most undoubtedly,
Itrong prejianpthe evidence would answer in eve
ry cafe, which would come before the perlbn ap
pointed to judge on t bote occasions.
Mr. Seney was opposed to the amendment he
laid it made a difcriminatioli between twoclafl'es
of unfortunate per.sons, which was not warrant
ed in reason or justice. If this amen J-nent Jhould
be agreed to, he should think himfelt obliged to
vote sgainft the bill altogether.
Mr. Sheredine and Mr. Murray spake a)fo a
gainfl the motion to agree to the ameadhient
An adjournment being tailed for, the house rose
without taking the vote.
FRIDAY, November 18.
Mr. White prefemed the petition ot Philip Bonfh, prayingthat
a loft or destroyed ce»tificate t his property, may be renewed.
Mr. Vining presented a petition from the branch pilots of the
river and bay of Delaware, stating certain disadvantages which
they labor under, on account of the suspension of a certain law of
the state of Pennsylvania, in their favo*.; also on account of the
reduced rates of pilotage, which were ellablifhed upwards of 30
years ago read a.id referred to the committee appointed to ic
port a bill for the regulating of pilots, &c. in the bays of Chcfa
peake and Delaware.
Mi. La w ranee prt Tented the representation and petition of John
FraiikJm, praying compmfation for a quantity of mahogany, See.
used in the public service during the late war—read and referred
to the Secretary of the Treafnry.
Mr. Boudinot prefemed the petition of James Weeks, praying
com pen faiion for loss fuflained on a vefTel destroyed during the'
late war, to promote the public inttreft ; laid on the table.
Mr. Page repo.'ted a bill apportioning the reprefentaiion of the
people of ihe United States according to the firft enumeration,
which was read the firft and second time, and referred to the com
mittee of the whole house, on Monoav next—to be primed in
the interim ; Bv this bill New-Haniplhire is to have 4, MafTa
chufetts Rhode-Island 2, Vermont 2, Connecticut 7, New-
York 11, New-Jersey 5, Permlylvania 14, Delaware i, Mary
land 9, Virginia 21, Kentucky 2 after next June, North Carolina
1 1, audGeorgia 2 Keprefentativcs in iheCongrefs to be chosen alter
Minch 1793 ; South-Carolina accotding to the census after it is
compleaied.
Sundry petitions were read, and committed to the Secretary of
War 10 icport thereon.
A (milage was received from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis,
communicating to the Houle a letter from the President ot the
Afli mbly of'thc Colony of St. Domingo to the Congress of the
United States.
The Speaker communicated a letter from the Treafurrr of the
Uniied States cnclofing a copy ot' his Indent account ; thcfc were
read andlaid on the table.
1 he amendments proposed by the committee of the whole to
the bill dirc£ling the mode of renewing certain certificates of pub
lic debt which have been loft or destroyed—were taken into con
sideration, and after considerable debate accepted by the House ;
but tht question for engrossing in order to the third reading be
ing put was negatived, and the bill consequently loft.
Mr. Ames of thecommtttee to whom the petition of James
'Jackson was referred brought in a report which was read, and
laid on the table. This report had reference to the mode of pro
cedure in investigating the fubje&of the contested election.
The memorial ot the commiflioned officers lecving in the army
of the United States, refpc&ing the redu&ion ot their pay, &c.—
was read and referred to a feie&committee, consisting ot Meftrs.
1 awrance, Williamfon, and Kitchell.
The (Unding committee of flections, reported on the letter
from the Executive of the state of Maryland, refpe&ing the resig
nation of William Pinckney, and the ele&ion of John Francis
Mercer in his ftcad—the report was that John F. Mercer was duly
cle&ed. The report was read and lai don the table.
The petition of Capt. Jonathan Hafkell, a sum of
money received by him on the public account, and which he had
loft, was read and committed to the Secretary ot War, to report a
state of fa£fs relative thereto.
The petitions of Jofias Clapham, Daniel Robbins, Philip Boufh
and Phineas Ware, praying that certain loft or destroyed certifi
cates may be renewed, were iead,and referred to the Secretary of
the Tr afurv.
Mr. Fitzfimons, of the committee on the petition of Stephen
Zacchary, reported a resolution for the appointment of a com
mittee to bring in a bill to grant relief pursuant to the prayer of
laid petition. Adjourned till Monday.
The Speech and Oath 0} the King ej the French, spoken
in the National Atfembly, on the 14th Sept. 1791,
for the Acaptation of the Constitution.
Gentlemen,
I COME here solemnly to confirm the accept
ance I have given to the Constitutional A<ft ; in
consequence—l SWEAR TO BE FAITHFUL TO
THE NATION AND TO THE LAW, and to
employ all the power which is delegated to me
to maintaining the Conftilution decreed by the
Condiment National Aflembly, and causing the
laws to be executed. May this great and memo
rable Era, be that of the re-eft ablifhm en t of peace
and unity, and become the pledge of the happi
ness of the people and of the prosperity of the
empire
235
Philadelphia, November 19.
In elafling the Senators from the Hate of Vermont, Mr. Brad
ley ot the cl<Hs whose feats will become vacant at the expira
tion of four years, trom March, 1791— and Mr. Robinson, of
l/fat whole feats will be vacated in fix years,
A bill refpe&ing Consuls and Vice-Consuls, and a biU to deter
mine the time of choosing President and Vice-President of tl, -
United States, have had a second reading :n the Senate of thcfUniic*!
States.
In our lad it was mentioned that the King of Spain had declar
ed war against rhc Moor*—it now appears that the sovereign of
Morocco had been before hand in declaring war against .Span;.
The letter from the King of France to the Natipnal AHembly,
«n which he accepts of the Couftmnion, is dated the 13th <S C p:!
On the 14th he was to meet ihe National AlTemblv to ratify th<-
eeiebrated instrument in their presence. The Ceremony of the
proclamation of the Constitution took pJace the 18th, in the FieJd
of Confederation. The Mayor of Poms, preceded by Heralds',
and surrounded by a numerous and brilliant troop of grenadiers'
ascended the Altar of the Country \ arrived at the summit, he held
up the Constitutional Code to the veneration of an immense mul
titude of citizens, who rent the air with shouts and acclamations
of joy. At 5 o'clock, a superb balloon -/as raised, and in the
evening the molt brilliant illuminations took place in the £lyfi3n
Fields, &c. &c. Ihe King and Queen, with the Prince Royal, vi
sing these, were received with enthusiasm, and shouts of Vive U
Roi, and Vive la Reine, were heard from all quarters. The Aristo
crats, it is said, are all in the utmost consternation at the Kino's ac
cepting the Constitution.
Thus the National AfTembly have brought their labors to a tri
umphant ifTue, by giving to the people of France a Conllitution,
in which, like that of the United States,the principle of improve
ment is infufed ; so that, if on experiment, it (hould be lound in
adequate to the preservation of «' peace, liberty and fafctt," it is
fufcepuble of being carried to the delired degree of perfection.
The fubjetH of the disturbances in the French
Colonies has occasioned much warmth in the Na
tional Aflembly, according to the latest accounts.
1 he intelligence we may expert to receive from
France after the recent accounts from Hifpaniola
lhail have reached Europe, will bo peculiarly in
teresting; for notwithstanding the idea of' dif
tanc Colonies as appendages to a government
has been lately philosophized upon, as disadvan
tageous, and pernicious to the parent country,
it appears that very powerful intei efts :\re in
volved in the question as it refpecfts France.
As a free government depends on the virtue of
the people, and every degree of virtue owes its
exigence to light and information—the friends
of our happy Constitution and the rights of the
people, may be felic'.ated on the profpec't which
now prcfents of (opening the channels of infor
mation to all parts of the Union. The Prefidenc
of the United States, with that promptitude ai;«l
decision with which he delivers his opinion on
erery fubjetft connected with the public welfare,
has recommended this business to t he serious con
lideration of the Legifiature.—And it maybe de
pended on that every individual member of both
houses, a* well as every officer at the head of the
executive departments, are fully imprefled with
this idea—that the people have a right to be fully
informed of the tranfadtions of their government,
and of the reasons on which all its decisions are
founded. This being the cafe, it is hardly pos
sible that the public expeiftation fliould be again
disappointed.
Extrafi of a letter from Port-au-Prince, dated Oil, 25
" I have the pleasure of informing you, that
peace is once more made between the Whites ancl
Mulattoes, on Saturday last, the 22d inlL andyef
terday 2500 of the latter marched with their arms
into town, and paraded in company with the for
mer before the church ; at which time the inha
bitants, with the officers of each party, entered
the church, and lung Te Deum. How long the
peace will last, is uncertain, as a number of the
inhabitants are not well pleased. Upon what
terms the peace is made, I cannot at present in
form you."
The English newspapers are, according to some
late accounts, divided into three descriptions
Ministerial, Anti-Ministerial, and Neutral—that
is, thofein favor of Administration, thofeagainft
it, and those who are indifferent. In this account
we do not find that there are any who are in fa
vor of the people—What a set of venal wretchec
does this make of the Printers !—The fame, or
similar accounts, appear refpe<fting the French
papers—thej are said to be licentious to the
highest degree—the fa<fts only, which they de
tail, are to be relied on—for in the collisions of
party, right and wrong, truth and falfliood are
merely convertible terms—Hence weare obliged
to go to the Netherlands for impartiality and ho--
nefly—hence also the celebrity of the Leyden
Gazette, which is now said to be the oracle ot
politics in the European world.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT,
si pr. Cents ttf afi pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 12J6
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 13/ a
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates igj
Indents 11/6 do.
Bank Subfcriptiors, Ito 143 Dollars,
An Orro\ENT is received, but prior engagements prevents ils
appearing till our next.
s
5E
»11 pr. ceftf.
do.
66J do.v*
fJiOM THE KORfOUi AND FORTSMOI'TH E.
ON THE DF.ATU OF
MR. JOHN B O USH,
Lite Mayor oj Nojioh—a loss much felt and lamented.
44 Ehru ) f agate* labuntur Anni /"
44 L ineucnuMf Tcllus & Domus £3 p lac ens."
44 Uxor."
AGAIN mild comfort, ary cheering maid,
» Again defrend ! Thy votary claims lhy aid.
Thou art my onlv muse—girl of the fun-beam eye !
Oh bend effulgent from thy cloudleft (ky,
To where yon fair, young widow, wild and fad,
Is led, half frantic, to her lonely beo.
Soft dews exhal'd from hcav'nly fl >w'rets hring,
And (hake them gently from thy lilken wing :
With time's dull pencil, every griet efface,
And lull the horror of the last embrace.
Then wide around, sweet maid, thy finite# extend —
He whom (he mourns, was every good man's iriend ;
The poor, the rich, the bondmen and the free,
In this dull, daik'ning hour have need as thee !
BOUSH, had a mind, where merry would refute
As at her home—an eye unrais'd bv pride,
A heart—friend (hip within and pr. ee was at its door,
A hand—that ponr'd its bounties on the poor.
His was a face, whence goodness threw around
Her sweetest Imiles—where " joy serene" was found,
And where raild virtue lent its {tarry ray
To light his friends, along life's thoiny way.
SPIRIT so good, why woyld'ft thou bade away,
Whv leave thy ftniling friends, the chearfut day ?
Why leave thy Fanny in the world alone,
And thy own body in tlie mould'ring tomb ?
Was it to ride upon the fleeting wind ?
Could'ft thou in Ether purer blcfungs find ?
Was it to fail upon the curling cloud,
Where fancied forms, in airy figures crow'd ?
Or would'il thou soar to where the fix'd (lars fninc,
Nearer to view, how vast, a hand divine
Shap'd. their bright orbs ? Or in that mournful hour,
Had'A. Thou a mandate from Almighty pow'r,
To leave far off, the earth, the seas, the air,
And brin-r before him, every poor man's prayer ?
Dazzled you'll stand, where every Saint has (food,
But veil thee, with the bleflings of the good ;
And while around celestial breezes fan,
Pe as thou haft been, dill the friend olMan.
Norfolky Oft. 20,1701.
LITCHFIELD, (Con.) Nov. 9.
Last Friday the Gcnei al Afl'embly of this (late
closed the Ortober session.
In the course of the session, many important
matters came before the afl'embly, which were
referred for further confederation to the aflenibly
to be holden in May next. Among others, were
the report of a committee on the petiiion of the
fufrerers in the feaport-tnwns, by the inroads and
depredations of the British daring the late war ;
stating their fiJStrings by loss of property to a.
mount of nearly three hundred thousand pounds;
and an offer of three hundred and fifry thousand
dollars for n quit-claim of the territory claimed
by this fVate, south of Lake Erie ; an atft regu
lating the militia of this state; with others of
less consequence. The bill for dividing tlifc state
in (even diftridis, each to choose one member of
Congress, was taken back after conliderable dis
cussion.
LONDON,
Extrxft of a letter from Warfavi, dated Augi/ft 17.
Transactions, exhibiting an inHance of niolt
abominable fanaticifm, which happened lately
in the city of Ilawa, about 12 leagues from this
place.
A reputable woman, widow of an apothecary,
named Wilke, a protestant, and an old inhabi
tant of that place, having Tome business to tranf
a<fl at Warsaw, was prelented by a friend with a
doll for the amusement of her children ; the old
est of which was a girl of 8 years old.
The children on receiving this doli, without
any offenfive intention, decorated the fame by
hanging a small effigy of the (so called) Mother
Mary around its neck, which had been given
them by a Monk.
A fanatic and enemy to the family, who was a
ftvbaltern in the grenadier regiment of Kalzinf
ki, gave information of this innocent diversion
and complaining thereof to the board of civil
and military commiflioners, as being facreligious,
who caused a criminal process to be ifliied against
the poor widow, mother of the children, by
which 4he was condemned, and sentenced to be
beheaded.
Providentially Mr. Krapinfki, a member ofthe
Consistory of Diflenters at Warsaw, hearing of
this unnatural proceeding, iiiimediately present
ed a petition ia favor of this unhappy woman,
to the King and Sovereigti Council ; in confe
queneeof which, a Salvus was granted
to the poor widow, and orders given to the judge
to Hay the execution : Privilege was also granted
her to appeal-to- the-mixed Aifefibrial Court, to
determine refpetfing her unhappy situation.
This court, although it preserved the life
of the woii'an, nevertheless, pronounced the
following inhuman sentence, viz. •' That the
unhappy mother (hould be compelled to chastise
her own children in the presence ofthe initia;a
rorwith a rod, so long, and until the blood Ihould
follow the rod !"—Of which piiniihment one of
the children now lies dangeroiifiy ill. After the
above sentence was executed, the doll was pub
lickly burned on the 9 fh day of AuguO:, by the
hand of the common executioner.
George Mea d e
Has for SALE, at bis Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipe?: ol" 3 snd 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
l\ WINE, which he will diipofe ol by the pipe, hog (head or
quarter caik.
Lcndon market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the fufl quality, by the hogfcead or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 vears old I,ifoon WINE, of a fuprrior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Conine BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter e hefts of fufl quality Hyson TEA.
Me has just received by the Pigou, Lrixjey, msfter, from London,
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE—And
Jiy the brifr Mercury, Capt. Steven?, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINEN'S, low priced and well aflbrted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some CLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the fir ft quality, and
Burlington PORK ot prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantity of dreffcd White Oak
STAVES.
Me means to kfcp a constant supply of First Onality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is plea Ted to favor him with
their custom, may be aflured of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undreflVd HAND
SPIKES. He 5s purchafmg FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highefl pri'cc for them.
N. B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, jufl received, and to be difpoled of.
Philadelphia, November t6, 1791
TO B E SOLD,
B V JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOKS,
Which may be Teen every day, until five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Soze
jlJL men, Thcodoref, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concord ant ia Lai. Concordaotia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Tunii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulas—Phavorini—Martinii —HofFmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
log vcon, Aniiquit. Erclef. Sritannicae, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bcntley's Horace, Terence and
Phecdrtis, Ovid, jnvenal, Manilius, Cicerorus op. om. Ciefar, Su
ctonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographic, Justinian Code, See.
Offavo el infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariftopbancs, Longinus,
Theophrartus, HcTiod, Pocta: minores Gr. Ifocratcsy Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terenre, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus. Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Floras, juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hdl.
Autnift. Scriptorcs, Fnglifh and French Tranjlations of some of the
'daffies, a great varict\ ok Greek and L.atin Grammars, See. See.
$3" Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice & Co. Book fell rs,
Market-street, or of JOHN' CAREY.
O&ober 31. (cp tf.)
The Firfl and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OK NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at lite
Corner of Chcfnul and Thud Street?.
The above two volurties contain the political history of the
State, from its firft settlement to the adoption of the present Con
stitution of the United States ; —the third, containing a geographi
cal description of the Stale, (ketches of its natural hiltory, &c. is
in the press. '
*** A few copies of the firft two volumes for fale«—price 20J]
November 5, 1791.
In the Press, and fpeedilv will be publilhed,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confilling of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
*** The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, viz. uie firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each subsequent one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
£3" Subfciiptions will be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Dobson, and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and mother places by the principal Bookfellcrs
there. Philadelphia, November 5, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of live Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Mcrchandizf ol all forts bought and fold on Commission, and all other
Bufincfs in the'lioe of a BroKcr, tranfaflcd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the O.ffice 'next door to the Cuftoni-Holife,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Clirfnut-Strcet, next door to the Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Le&uresonGovernment&: Law.
r "PHE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L 1,. D. ProfcflW of Laws
JL 1,1 the College and Academy of Philadelphia, propofes-to
deliver, next Winter, two Courts of Lr£h,r c s. One Course fc,
iiegm <jn the Second Monday, the other 011 the Second Tuesday ot
December. WILLI,AM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board ol Faculty.
PT.lat'.flnhia. Oaober lg , i 79 1. feptD)
A omi" Uemleman, ot American birth and education (being
i. X a gradual") would for a liberal compcnfation engage as
I utor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and Er.gl.ih Language*. He ha., had some experience in
teaching, and trusts he can exhibit recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjett, pod paid, addrelT<-d to A— S
and the care of the Editor hereof, prior to the a s th December, will
be punctually attended to.
October 22,1791
236
(cp 6w.)
T iaw
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHERE AS it-appears by the procefd.ng, in a etrtain
row depending it-, the Hi£h Cow: of Chancery i„ v"
land, wherin William H'cbb'n the tiiain::?,and Jdn /•«,{ tr '' "
ciitor of Thomai Bradly, deceased) is ihc defoidant, that'Hr,r
Webb was put out an apprentice toihe Tea trade by thc'cr-en Ji c k
school, in or about the year 1775, and who was then ot the 2 - f
14 years, or thereabouts,ana failed from England in the \ , *-~°-
tofomepartof North-America, in the Chip or veffel Art ' '/
Capt. Lewellyt?, formerly aSpaoilh trader, and at that time o.„ '
vi£luallcror transport in hi« Majcfty's fe> \ ce—and wheu-: ; sVn7
pears that the said Henry Webbd cferted and ran away from f rt id 0,.'"
or veflTel, ?nd entered on board 0 certain piiv d reer call~d th- ftj
venge, or Vengeance Privateer, of which one John Dean wa» mail r
or commander, then at New-York, Nofth-Artnrica •
that the said Venge -re Privateer, 00 or about the 5 htff
1779, failed from New-York aforefaid to Savannah, and ?r.:v r rf *
such lafl mentioned port in or about th? month of March
and on the month ot April following, to some port or place m
America, but to what port or place i«t n«t known; and i n the
month of May, 1780, the said Ihipor ve'T' 1 was fecn at liarbado<s
in the Weft-ladies, but the fa:d Henry tt'ebk has not fincebcen h aid
o', and is ftippofed to be dead ; it having been reporied that ih"
tender belonging to the said ship or v<ffcl called the Vengeance
which ship was then commanded by Capt. KnowUs % with a' ru n
ber of her men, 10 the amount of 20, or thereabouts, (and amon*
whom the said Henry Webb is supposed to have been one) were ta
ken by the enemy, and carried into Philadelphia. >J o w i n
pursuance of an order made in the said cause, bearing date the M
of December, 1790, any person or persons who can give »ny ac
count or information touching thr said Hem v Webb, or of the fa>d
ship Vengeance, or whether the said Henry Webb be living or dead
and if dead, when or wheresoever he diet!, arc requeued to <j\vc
such information to William Wetter Pepys, E'q. one of the Maftrrs
of said Court, at his Chambers in Symonds'-lnn, Chauccrv-l.anr
London ; and such person or persons will be rewarded for thn
trouble by applying to Samuel Nay/or, Esq. the Solicitor in said
cause. No. 4, Great Newport-street, London; or 10 the Rev. Jghn
Stanfofd. No. .33, John-Greet, New-Yoik; or to John Prett\john %
Esq. Bridgetown, Barbadoes. W. W. PEPYS.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PU BLIC DEBT of every description ,onC ommifficK,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all falcs at auction, one eighth pet
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-lalj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving mtereft at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the intereii.
For making transfers ac ditto, feventy-jivc cents per transfer.
(£3T Such persons as may incline tb favor the fubferiber with
their order?:, may relv on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
ui the public Hocks, together with a well edablilhed correfpon
deuce throughout the United States, enable him to conduit his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
O&oher 15, i7Qt
TO BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the lubferiber now lives.
IT l*es on the.road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the prcmifes a two (lory stone houfc
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-fliop, granary, waggon
houfe; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and go feet long, and
a good barn, with {tabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Snowden,
No. 141, South Second-ftieet, Philadelphia.
Princeton, 06tober io, 1791
W. M'D 0 UG A L L'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Rooro,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his fwcere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
ol his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will (till en lure him a refpefctablc (hare ot the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during ihe season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be a (lured, they will he taught in the most approved
(tile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A gentral pra£lifing for the improvement of thefcholars, will
beheld at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and ftrangersot genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These praftifings will be attended with no expencc.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as loon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the subscriber, at Bor*
dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing' womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen tcflamcnts; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped veil and
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jersey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
fmali books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper r and
l dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security ot
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward o:
Dollars will be given for the fecu.ritv of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice. bv
JOHN VAN EM BURGH.
Bordentown, New- Terfev, Sent. t. 1701. C e P t * J
(£3" Bhnk Powers to receive M«lniere(t, andjor the transjir of the
principal of public 'debt, agreeable to the Rules eftabljhed in the l rta
firy Department: A!jo Blanks for abjlraEts of Certificates, to be fold *
the Editor.
gCT* 'The pries oj this Papsr is ; Dollars per tun*
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
ISAAC SNOWDEN. Junior.
[ep2mj
ft. f.)
t
,*