PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 21, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
(Continued from No. 15 of this Gazette.)
CATO of Utica, while he was a hoy, and un
der the ferule, went and came frequently to
the house of Sylla, the Dictator. Both on ac
count of the place and house where he was, the
doors were never fliut against hiin. Indeed they
were near relations. He had always his Precep
tor with him when he went, as was the custom
of all children of good families. He perceivd
that in the palace of Sylla, in his presence, or by
his orders, they imprisoned some, and condemn
ed others : one was banished, and another hang
ed : one demanded the confifcation, and another
the head of some citizen. Every thing went on,
not as if it were before an officer of the to wn, hut
a tyrant of th"e people ; and it was not a tribunal
of justice, but a cavern of tyranny. This noble
infant said to his matter, why will you not give
me a poinard ? I will hide it under my robe—
I enter often into the chamber of Sylla, befoie
he is out of his bed—l have an nrin strong e
nough to deliver the city from him. A senti
ment worthy of Cato ! It was the beginning of a
character worthy of his death. Nevertheless, let
us not mention his name or his country —let us
relate limply the fact as it is, and the thing itfelf
will speak : and we shall easily judge that he was
a Roman, born in Rome, but in the genuine
Rome, while it was free. To what purpose is all
this ! Not certainly that I think the country aiul
the foil perform any thing—for in all countries,
in all olimates, fubjeftion is unnatural, and free
dom is agreeable.
But, lam of opinion, we should pitythofe,
who, at their birth, have found a yoke upon their
necks ; and that we should excuse or pardon them,
if having never seen the shadow of liberty, and
knowing nothing of it, they perceive not theevil
which it is to them to be Haves. If there are cer
tain countries, as Homerfays of the Cimmerians,
where the fun fliows itfelf otherwise than to us,
and after having enlightened them for fix months
together, leaves them fleepingin obfeurity, with
out returning to fee them the other half of the
year : those wha should be born during that long
night, if they had never heard mention made of
the /un-shine, should we wonder if, having never
seen the day, they should be contented in dark
ness, in which they were born, and have 110 de
fire for light ? We never mourn the loss or fa
ience of what v/e never had—and regret conies
only after pleasure—and the memory of past }oy
always accompanies the knowledgeof good. The
natural disposition of man is to be free, and to
desire to be so ; but his nature is also such, that
he naturally holds the turns and folds which edu
cation gives him.
Let us fay then, that as to man all tilings are
natural to which he is educated and accuitomed,
but that only is innate to which his simple and
unadulterated nature calls him—so thefirftcaufe
of voluntary servitude is custom—as the moftfpi
rited colts, which at firft bite the bit, and after
wards play with it; and although at the begin
ning they winced at the saddle, they at present
carry themselves nobly in the harness, and exhi
bit themselves proudly in armour They f3y that
they have always been fubjetfts, and that their
fathers lived in the fame manner : they think
that they are obliged to bear the bridle, and they
make it easy to them by examples, and found
themfelvesand their patienceon thepofleffion and
prescription of those who tyrannize over tliem.
But in truth, prescription can never give a right
to do evil—it rather aggravates the injury. There
are always some better born than others, who feel
the weight of the yoke, and cannot subdue their
inclination to shake it off—who are never disci
plined to fnbjetftion — and who always, like Ulys
ses, who by land and sea fought to fee the smoke
of his own chimney, know not how to reflrain
themselves from reflecting 011 their natural pri
vileges, to remember their predeceflbrsand their
primitive existence. These are they, who hav
ing their understandings neat, and their minds
clear-sighted, content not themselves, like the
gross populace, who look only at what is before
their feet, without examining all that is before
and behind, recollecting things and times that
are pall, in order to measure the present, and
judge of the future. These are they, who'hav
Saturday, July 5), 1791.
ing their heads well made at firil, have polilhed
them by fludy and learning. These, although
liberty Jhould be wholly loft out of the world,
imagining and feeling it, in their own minds,
and highly relifliing it, servitude is never to their
taile, cook it and dress it as you will.
FROM DUN LAP'S AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
On the Subscription to the National Bank on ihe
4th of July, the Fifteenth Anniversary of
American Independence.
Stranger.
HEY-DAY !—what's the meaning of yon busy throng,
Who, with purses and papers, thus hurry along,
Each panting and eager to enter yort gate,
Each draining his speed, left, he enter too late ?
Citizen.
Hitherto in her nonage Columbia has been ;
Nor in her own hands was her portion yet seen.
Yon ciowd are her guardians her dower to pay,
Rejoicing they speed, on Columbia's birth-day.
What ?—Portion'd so soon, at the age of FIFTEEN !
Citizen.
Unlike common Beauties, Columbia our Queen,
Though yet in her Teens, so much wisdom displays,
Th.it grey-beaded matrons look on with amaze.
Henceforth her own mitlrefs, —a portion in hand,
To enhance that refpeft, which her virtues command, —
Her own choice let her make, from the numberless train
Of suitors, who drive her Alliance to gain.
To the Editor of the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
SIR,
f OBSERVED in your paper of the 22d ult. fume directions by
1 the Humane Society ol Philadelphia, to prevent the effects of
drinkino- Cold Water—where they seem to lay the greatest ftrel's
of a cure on the use of Laudanum. This is conformable to Dr.
Rush's principle, laid down before the Philosophical Society in
Philadelphia fame years pad, which I remember to have read.
I think in '.hat ticatife he fays that it was the only remedy. In
manv instances it may not be in the power of the patient to get
Laudanum soon enough to prevent the ftiddcn death that generally
follows drinking cold water, in certain cases.
About 25 years part, being in Philadelphia at a time when se
veral men had die d suddenly by diinkingcofd water, at a friend's
house in Chefnut llreet, a servant went through the room with
water newly drawn ; I Was somewhat warm, and desired a glass
to be given me ; and as I had been cautioned irom many circum
(tences, and was well acquainted with the hard quality of the wa
ter, I took care, as I apprehended, to drink a very small quantity,
I think lels than one jill ; but was immediately seized with a most
intense pain in the pit of my stomach, so violent, that if a sword
had been run through that part of my body, I think it could not
have been more painful. There happened to be hot water handy ;
I immediately drank a quantity so hot as to scald my mouth—
in a few minutes a most profufe sweat fuccceded, and I was en
tirely rclcafed from pain, or any farther bad confequcnces attend
{na I am, Sir, your most humble servant,
Brunfivick, July 2, 1791
FROM THOMAS'S MASSACHUSETTS SPY.
THE NEIGHBOR
"In Shirley's form cheruhims appear—
But, then, the has a frfckle on her ear."
WE are all freckled more or less ; and it is
an a<ft of as great folly to look for perfec
tion in human nature, as to search for wisdom
in the brain of a maiiiack.
We have, all of us, foine plea to charity.—
The aflbciation of perfect and imperfect beings
together would make the situation of both or
ders very disagreeable. Our obligations would
cease to be reciprocal : It would be all debt,
and no credit. "I he disgust on one fide, and
envy on the other, would occafioti perpetual
war : The contrail would be too great. Pride
will generally keep imperfect beings in order.
Man is much less in danger of the enmity of his
neighbor for having something to be forgiven.
The difference which nature has made between
individuals, though she has left no one inde
pendent of the reft, is already too apparent for
the peace of the world. Imagination, by blot
ting the fair face of beauty—envy, by being
afl'ociated with better paliions to console the
conscious heart of inferiority, by balancing the
imaginary defetfts of others with its own real
vices and deformities, prevents those open arts
of violence which mortification would often
prompt to, and the desertion of the different
orders from each other. I have often wondered
that consciousness, which is generally prompt
and candid, never told the envious whence their
imaginations had borrowed the ingredients of
defamation.
How happens it, Invidius (said I to liim) one
day, after he had iheatlied his knife from the
facrifice of a dozen characters in his way ; how
happens it that the mod perfetfl men find the
feweft faults in others ?—ls it becaafe they have
less of their own to shape them from ? Invidius
81
Str-ancer
blushed—it was a mistaken {Iream sent from the
heart to the cheek, to difciaim a compliment
which he had not deserved, and which I had
not made hiin.— Ido not think it ever dues hap
pen, laid he — 1 believe that conscience is a true
monitor—but it is a si tent one: It wbifpers to the
heart—pride wont permit it to speak loud. Man
kind do not love to remember their faults.—
Yes, replied I, but if their pradice ii continu
ally renewing the remembrance, and they can
not prevail upon themselves to amend, will they
not look abioad for funilar faults in others, to
balance them ? And if the eye is unfaithful, or
unfuccefsful, is not imagination always called ill
to aid it? You, Invidius, are the most proper
person in the world to give a le<fture upon this
fubjedl—your own experience has all the nece'P'
f'ary rules by heart.—how ! how—said Invidius,
surprised—l don't understand you. The courte
ous blufli at that moment retreated to make room
for a frown.—Yon, Invidius, said I, are di(tin>
guiflied by the wife in our neighbourhood as an
envious man, a fame killer—there is not one of
rhem who has not had his piifluredrawn by you,
yet none of them like the painter.—By the ig
norant, you are diltinguiflied as a beautiful de
fcriber of characters—yet they all impeach you
of flattery. Why is it that the two orders find
qualities "so different in the fame man ? Is it not
becaufe'you discover very different qualities in
them ? Are you not confeious that you stand iti
a middle line between the two ? From one you
have nothing to fear ; from the other you per
haps conclude you have nothing to hope. If yon
(hould undertake to smooth the furface of the
world, would it make any difference whether
you raised the valleys to lower the hills, or low
ered the hills to raise the valleys? The only
difference is, in the latter cafe you would give
the valleys what you Hole from the hills—and
you cannot turn this the other way.—There is_
another trick yon play upon the ignorant. In!
your defcriprion offcharacfters, you do them more
thanjuftice, that you may be allowed to take
back a part from what you have given, to avoid
the imputation of flattery—you draw a very flat
tering pidture of your friend ; give a beautiful
proportion, and colour to the features—and then
with one daub of the biack but-av if-brufli, you
derange andllain the whole. Believe me, Invi
dius, you leave the piifture more your own than
your friend's. —It is a vile practice—pray leave
it off—lt is like charity emptying comforts from
one hand, into the lap of want, and Healing
them out with the other.
H. G
FROM THE HAMPSHIRE CHRONICLE,
EXTRAORDINARY INSTANCE Of REANIMATION.
Mr. Prt nter,
Pletife to give the following a place in your paper.
Wir.BRAHAM, June 19, 179 T.
ON Saturday the 28th ult. about noon, my lit
tle boy, aged 4 years, was playing with his
fitters in the chamber, vvhofe floor did not ex
tend over the whole room ; when by foine un
fortunate accident he fell, and firft struck with
his head against the lower floor : I was aroufeel
by the noise occasioned by the fall, and out-cry
of his fillers, and ran with all poflible speed to
his afliftance ; but previous to my entering the
room, his mother had taken him from the floor :
I saw him gasp once, and then, without a groan,
he seemed to fink supinely into the arms of
death. There was a total suspension of the vital
functions ; however, 1 could not but hope that
the latent spark of life was not wholly extin
guished ; —that hope Simulated me to make use
of every effort in my power to reflore him to
life again ; auxiliaries were called, the windows
and doors thrown open, and his body dripped ;
stimulants were applied to his nofttils, &c. we
threw cold water into his face, agitated his limb?,
and for want of other spirits, bathed his head,
breast, arms and legs, with vinegar. 1 rubbed
his skin, and used the lancet several times, bun
in vain. He continued for a considerable time
apparently dead. Warm fomentations were ap
plied to his whole body, but more potently to
his breast and legs ; soon after I difcoveied a
tremour about the region of the heart, succeeded
by convulsive motions—on these signs of return
ing life, I opened his month and breathed forci
bly into his lungs, he gasped ; again 1 used the
lancet, and he bl#d. However, it was more thrmi
three hours after liis a! 1:10 ft fatal fall, beiore lie
[Whole No. 229.]recovered so far as to speak a lingle word. His
lethargy for a confidcrable time was very great.
The night following he was attended with a de
lirium, violent fever, exccilive vomiting, and
his forehead wasprodigioully discoloured— fhefe
symptoms made me lufpec't, that the scull was
fractured ; I therefore repeatedly applied cloths,
dipped in warm camphorated spirits, with vine
gar, to the wound, in order to evaporate the extra
vafed blood. Weadminiltered cordial draughts,
mild febrifuges, and cooling cathartics, occa
flonally ; and in a Ihort time he was happily
restored to health again.
FROM THE NORWICH PACKET
Mr. Trumbuii.,
I Noticed in your lail a paragraph quoted from
the laws of Tufcany. which were observed to
be as uncommon as they were jlift.—That a
breach of modesty should be as severely punished
in the male as in the female seX : I will not con
tend, but it may be as jtill as it is uncommon :
But to fay the seducer shall be obliged to marry
the object of his feduiftion, is a law already esta
blished by the practice of many, and wants no
thing but the legiflacive authority to put it in
execution—And I think the amiable fair could
receive no farther encouragement to prostitute
tliemfelves to the lascivious embraces of such as
they would wifli to make their hulbands. Are
jiot the repeated instances of vice of this nature
fufficient to evince that they have already expe
rienced too great indulgences from such as
would wifli to be thought friends to virtue and
morality ? May we not expert the fubjert to be';
introduced by the party who have a profpetft of
being benefited by it ?—There are many who
will venture their money in a lottery where there
are two blanks to a prize, and why not risque
their reputation in one where there is scarce a
blank againfl them ? I beg leave to fugged, that
it would have a much greater tendency to pro-
virtue, and prevent so many instances of
illegitimacy, were such persons prohibited from
marrying, and some more exemplary punishment
provided.
J LANSINGBDRGH, June 24.
Tthe foulnefs of wheat for the molt part is
iwing to inattention : Some who are more more
Ijpa'ticular,, from the fame kind of land, and in
fame seasons, will bring to market wheat
fworth a [hilling in a buftiel more than their
* neighbor's. The consequence has become serious,
1 and in future a ltriift scrutiny will be made. As
the country merchants are so fully fcnfible of
the preference given to pure wheat, and the
disadvantages of that of afoul quality when pre
sented at the New-York market,they will be under
the neceifity of making the fame discrimination
their friends, the farmers. Attention to the
railing and improving of this most valuable com
modity of life, has the greatest tendency to give
a spring to commerce, credit and wealth to the
farmers, and honor and advantage to the state.
The fanning-mill proves itfelf to be of great
utility, and ought to have the preference to
any other machine for cleansing wheat; its pow
ers are so great that it will thoroughly purify it
from all kinds of dust, and gives a so high and
lively a cast as makes the grain appear to a much
greater advantage than the corn-fan. We ac
knowledge the firft cod is more, but admitting
thecoft, 61. although tliofe of an inferior quality"
that may answer the purpose, may be had cheap
er, yet the advantages refulting-will amply com
penlate, as they endure service for a long time
with careful ufage—lt will be answered, " cir
cumstances will not admit of purchasing as they
come at so dear a rate:" Let two, four, or fix
neighbours join, as may be convenient, and be
come proprietors, it will answer the purposes of
each by removing from house to house. Let it
be well fended and a hundred bushels a clay may
be cleansed by it.
We are informed that the lieatl of the dead
body, lately taken up afloat in the Mohawk, is
found ; the unfortunate man is supposed to be
from Massachusetts, on the bnfinefs of purcha
sing land : one of that description a little time
previous to the finding the body, was at a tavern
and got very familiar with two Irifli transient
persons who were there, and who were observed
to go out with him the fame evening he left that
houle to proceed on his journey, and have never
been since seen, which so far induces a belief of
their being the perpetrators of this horrid deed,
that they are now pnrfued.
On Monday lalt Samuel Cook, aged eighty-four,
was executed at Johnstown (Montgomery) pur
suant to his sentence palfed on him lalt Novem
ber, for forgery.
PROVIDENCE, June 2J.
The Court of Common Pleas in the county of
Walliington, at a late term, their unani
mous judgment, that nothing >nu silver or gokl
is a tendry to discharge executions. The fame
judgment has also been given at a late fpecij»l
AARON JOIIN MILLER
court of common pleas in the county of Bristol,
on the fame queflion. In confequenc of which
it is said, that no fheiifFin the ilate presumes to
receive any thing but hard money in discharge
of executions.
The circuit court for this difhic't, holden at
Newport, confiding of Chief Jnftice Jay, Juf
itice Cudiing and Judge Marchant, rose onWed
nefday last, after a felfion of fifteen days, during
which a variety of civil causes were heard and
determined.
The grand jury found a bill against James De
Wolf, of Bri(lo), in this slate, for the wilful
murder of a Negro woman, on a late Guinea
voyage. There was no trial on this bill, as Capt.
De Wolf had quit'ed the United States immedi
ately after his arrival from the said voyage.
After the utmost scrutiny of evidence, tlie
grand jiny acquitted Col. George Irish, who was
charged with attempting to pass foine public
counterfeited paper.
PITTSBURGH, June 25
By a gentleman from Kentucky we learn, that
7JO of the principal men of that country, under
the command of Gen. Scott, marched the 16th of
May last, against the Indian towns 011 the Wa
bafh. The Hon. John Brown, a member of the
House of Representatives of the United States,
from the state of Virginia, is gone on this ex
pedition as a private loldier.
ALBANY, June 27
v . From the laje returns of part of the cer.fus
made bj-an a<ft of Congress, the aggregate popu
lation of the United States it is preftuned, will
'not fall materially fliort of four millions. The
£1 ate of population in old countries,remains near
ly stationary from age to age. It is said, that
every country is capable of subsisting a certain
number of inhabitants proportioned to its extent,
foil, climate and natural advantages—hence it
follows that when the numbers reach this level
they continue at a stand. On this principle it is
worthy the attention of a curious mind, to in
vestigate what number of inhabitants the present
territory of the United States is capable of con
taining, and at what period it will probably be
filled. For this purpose we will take the extent
of Great-Britain, including Ireland, France and
Holland, which contain 274,128 square miles
and the medium of 165 inhabitants to each mile.
The United States contains (exclusive of
51,000,000 acres of water) 920,313 square miles.
Admitting this itnmenfe territory to be fnfcepti
ble of the fame average population, it will fol
low, that it is capable of subsisting 151,851,645
inhabitants. Supposing the present number to
3?5°0j00o, and that this number should conti
nue doubling each fuccelfive 25 years, it will al
io follow, that the whole territory will be com
pletely flocked in less than 140 years.
NEWPORT, June 27
The honorable the Circuit Court of the United
Stares, which convened in this town on the 7th
inft. finiflied the business before them on Wed
nefilay last. During this Jong feflion, the Grand
Jury returned to the Court seven bills ofindid
ment. Stephen Pettis and Caleb Church were
charged with having forged, and counterfeited,
and offering for sale, the final settlement certifi
cates of the United States. They were tried
and acquitted of the forgery bj the Petit Jury,
and weie thereupon discharged. Ichabod Dar
row was tried on an indictment for offering for
sale, an altered and forged Loan-Office Certifi
cate, knowing it to be altered and forged. Up
on the Petit Jury returning a verdicft not guilty,
he was discharged. We have the pleasure to
add, that the Court in the condudt of the busi
ness, and in all their decisions gave great fatis
fadlion. Their candor, impartiality and tlif
cerr.ment, were universally acknowledged and
applauded. Justice herfelf seemed to preside
on the Bench, and inspire it. The scales were
held in every instance with an even hand, and
gave true weight and nieafure.
G E O R G E-T O W N, June 29
On Monday last, the President of the Uni
ted States, agreeable to appointment, arrived
in this town, where he was met by the Hon.
Thomas johnson, Daniel Carrotl, Esq. and Do<<tor
Stewart, commifnoners appointed to superintend
the survey of the permanent feat of government.
Yesterday the President, attended by the com
miflioners, and a great cavalcade of gentlemen,
viewed and feledted the situations for the federal
buildin 2S.
O i
And, this day the proprietors of the fede
ral ground, collected for that purpose, signed
deeds of conveyance, in trust, to the Mayor and
Recorder of this town, for their refpetflive pof
feflions, within the lines of the federal city ;
after which the President was pleased to point
out the following situations for the public build,
ing, viz. the houses belonging to the legislative
department, on a rising ground, known by the
82
name of Jtukhi'i Ilill, on the east fide ofGoofe-
Creek, the property of Daniel Catfoll, jun. Efa
The houses for the executive department, on a
rising ground in that part of the federal city
called Hamburg!), near Bttrms's Gate, about
two miles distant l'ro-.n the firlt mentioned build
ing—and the other public edifices, exchange,
offices, See. to he difhibuted between the above
two mentioned situations.
NEW BURY-PORT, June 29.
INLAND NAVIGATION'
During part of the laand present week, be
tween one and two hundred men have been em
ployed in digging a canal between this town
and Hampton, in the fiate of New-Kampfli'tre.
The diltance they had to dig was about a mile
and a quarter, which unites two small rivers so
as to form an inland navigation between the two
towns, much for the convenience of both, as
well as many of the neighboring towns : The
btifinefs is nearly completed.
PORTSMOUTH, June 29
Mr. Pune's pamphlet has had an amazing
rnn in Great-Britain and Ireland. If it has the
fame effect there that his writings had in this
country, a revolution will be the consequence.
We hear that the Marihal of this Diftridt hai
completed his return of the number of its inha
bitants.
We hear that a company of Britiffi merchants
propose to emigrate to this country, shortly, in
order, that they may carry on their commercial
plans free and unmolested.
If we may credit the accounts we have receiv
ed, 110 order of christians increase so rapidly in
America, as tliofe denominated Baptists, espe
cially in the Eastern States. '
LITCHFIELD, June 29
A gentleman from Fairhaven, (Vermont) on
whose veracity we can rely, advises, that about
three weeks finceCapt. Jedediah Hyde, original
ly of Norwich, was murdered by a certain
Wells. The murder is said to have originated
in consequence of a threatned suit, for a small
demand the unfortunate had against Wells ; for
the payment of which the culprit had been fre
quently solicited, and had peremptorily refufed
compliance ; declaring violence ftiould Hyde pre
lume to arrest him. Altercation having subsided
between the parties, and harmony apparently
established, Hyde ventured liimfelf upon the
Lake in a boat with Wells: When they had pro
ceeded some distance in their course, beyond an
accurate reach of the eye, the people a/hore were
surprised with the cry of murder ; —Wells foou
after returned, and reported that Hyde had fal
len overboard, and was drowned. On being quel
tioned relative to the noise, he affirmed .that him
felf had repeated the cry, in hope of rallying
assistance : Suspicion, however, being violently
again ft him, he was holden for more thorough
examination : and in three days after, the dead
body was taken up, and the skull was found beat
en in- A jury of inqneft reported wilful murder,
and Wells is held in irons for trial.
BOSTON, June 30.
Mr. Nathaniel Moody, of this town, has re>
ceived a letter from his son-in-law, Mr. Angel
D Andries, dated Algiers, Nov. 6, 1790, in which
he informs, that he was captured by the Alge
rines. tlie 28th June, 1786; but that about nine
months after he was appointed by the Dey,U"!
head clerk of the slaves ; and from his fituatioft
he was well acquainted with the Americans,
who are ill captivity there—particularly with
Capt Stevens, of this state. The condition of
the Americans, he informs, is deplorable ; but
they were in hopes of arresting the attention of
the rulers of the United States, and being ran
fouied thereby. Mr. D'Andries, who has offered
the American captives every consolation and re
lief in his power, has long endeavored to pur
chase his freedom ; but the Dey demands as his
ransom 2400 dollars.
N E W-Y OR K, July j
The following gentlemen are ele&ed officers
ofthe Society of the Cincinnati of this State, tor
the year ensuing:
Baron Steuben, President.
Gen. J. Lamb, Vice-President,
Col. R. Piatt, Treasurer,
Capt. E. Dunfeomb, Afiiftant Treasurer,
Col. W. S. Smith, Secretarv,
Di/egater to the General Convention.
Baron Steuben, General Clarkfan,
Col. A. Giles, Col. B. Livingfton,
Capt. James Watson,
Standi kg Committee.
Col. Stevens, Col. Walker,
Col. B. Livingfton, Col. Baumanj
Capt. L. Bleecker, Capt. Watson,
Major Hughes, Lieut. Swamvout,
Doiftor Vachee.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE,
FOR. THE FOURTH JULY, 17Q1.
H.
AIL smiling cherub, child of light,
Blest Independence ' source of joy—
Thy glories greet our ra\ifh'd fight,
Thy praises all our tongues employ.
Let gratitude our hearts expand,
Each year, on this auspicious day—
Let cheertulnefs pervade the land,
And freedom wake the raptured lay.
When tyranny our rights aflail'd,
And stern oppreflion clank'd her chain—
Whencrimfon war, her face unveil'd,
And aefolation swept the plain—
Inspired by thy celeflial ray,
Columbia in the darkest hour,
Dared to oppose a tyrant's sway—
And nobly brave despotic power.
While we, oppreft, appeal'd to Heaven,
Success attended on our arms—
Till peace and liberty were given
To bless our realms, with all their charms.
Hence ufeful manufactures rife.
And commerce triumphs o'er the main—
And science' temples greet the Ikies ;
And plenty wantons o'er each plain.
Hail Independence! child of light,
Thy blifsful profpe&s we survey—
And animated at the fight,
We celebrate thy natal day.
Gloucejler County. New- JerJey, July 4.
Philadelphia, July 9.
Wednesday lad the Preside nt of the Uni -
ted States arrived in this city from his tour to
the foLithern dates, in perfect health ; which
pleasing event was announced by the ringing of
bells, firing of artillery, &c.
Not heroes in triumphant cars,
Vi&orious in their country's wars,
With captives, spoils and glory crown'd,
Whose peams make the skies resound ;
Experience halt the joys they know
Who live to leflen human woe ;
The progress of whose godlike mind,
Is but a tour to bless mankind.
Monday lad, Doctor Snirri-N was unani
mously chosen Pliyfician to thePennfylvania hos
pital, in the place of Dr. Jones, deceased.
ErtraSl of a letter J'om Kentucky, dated May 22.
" Oui force, under the command ot Gen. Scott, conGfts of 680
mounted Riflemen, and 90 Light Dragoons, all compleatly equip
ped and well supplied. It we can but effe£t our march to ace
tain distance undifcoveied, which I for is impra&icable, you
may expe£l a good account of the Savages."
The above army is, we hear, raised under the auspices of the
general government.
Extratt of a Utter from a gentleman in Bojlon, to his friend in this
" The present flourifhing condition of the American finances
must furnifh a cause of exultation to every true Patriot. That
this country should have within so ihort a period recovered from
the calamities of a deftruftive -war, is a fubjett of astonishment as
•well as joy. These remarks apply not only to the finances of the
union, but of the individual dates. They have in general emerged
most. wonderfully from the deplorable state in which they were
plunged a few years ago
" Perhaps there is no part of the union which better exempli
fies this rapid progress than the state of South-Carolina. Her sud
den transition from cmbarraffment to cafe, from distrust to confi
dence, and from poverty to wealth, evinces the powerful opera
tions of a good government on an attivt and industrious people,
poflefling a produ&ive foil in a fine climate. In 1785 that slate was
involved in every species of misery ; bad crops, excess of impor
tations, loss of credit, perfections on the part of the creditors,
cvafions on that of'the debtors, tender laws, paper money, with a
Jong train of horrors; were fuperadded to the ravages of war, of
which the traces were still every where apparent; to the distrust
and want of confidence between creditor and debtor, were like
wise added the mutual distrust qnd want of confidence between
those who had remained in the country, and defended it by their
arms, and those who had absented themfclves, and were afterwards
permitted by the legislature 10 return. The commerce f the
country languished what little there was being monopolized by a
few Britifti agents, to whom the industrious planters were tribu
tary; the American flag w?s scarce known in her pons; British
goods were (old at an enormous advance to the distressed citizen*,
■who had no other sources of fupplv, and on failure of payment
their property was facrificed at (heriff's sales for an eighth'of its
real value, or money was obtained from the few who poffefled it
at the abominable and ufuriou, rate of fifty per cent, and by felling
jonds .or half their value. The Securities of theftate wer in such
dilrepute, that some unhappy holders were glad to get rid of them
at 2s. in the pound. What,a charming contrast does the year 1791
present! A fucceflion of good crops for a few years—the prohibi
tion of the importation of negroe — the eftabliftiment of the Fede
ral Constitution—the encouragement to American commerce and
navigation by the national leg.flature-and most wife and ex
cellent measure, the Assumption of the State Debts, aided by the
returning prudence, economy and industry of a sensible and judi
cious people, have effaced the vestiges of former distresses, and now
exhibit a Icene of ease, opulence and prosperity, which the most
sanguine could not have anticipated. The immense quantity of
specie sent into the State for the purchase of Securities, has got in
to circulation, and given activity to a prodigious quantity of paper,
"which was before a dead and useless mass, and enabled the difl
trelied holders, by an advantageous fale,to discharge their debts :
the exports, by far exceeding the imports, furnffh a balance in fa
vor of the planters, which also annually finks a portion of their
debts The paper medium, which was depreciated as low as 30
per cent, soon after it was illued, and has frequently since been
Gown to 20 and 15 per cent, is now at par; nav, a premium of
one per cent, has been given for it, ori account of the conveniency
of transportation. The State Indents are fold at 13 and 14 (hil
lings ; even the non-aflumable Certificates are as high as 8/6 from
the reasonable profpeft of their being funded by the Stare. The
commerce of the country has found its way into a more refpefta
ble channel ; the (hipping of the United States, in Charleston, is
doubled since the firft meeting of Congrels ; and several refpetta
ble merchants are now building, or about to purchase, American
venels. The State being relieved from the princioal burden of the
State Debt, can with facility fund the small unaflumed remnant;
ah c i l i^s nsa . 1 fame time will be relieved from heavy taxes.
All party spirit is done away—distrust has given way to confi
dence—money circulates briskly—a great portion of the private
debts is extinguished—and every good crop furnifhes exports to
the amount ot fix hundred thousand pounds flcrling. In short,
I visited Charleston in 1785, when the Legifiature were compelled
to pais a Tender Law to prevent an infurre&ion among the deb
tors, and an unhappy, gloomy country I found it : but I a so vi
sited it in 1791, when the opulence, hospitality, and £ootl humour
of that agreeable people, were concentrated to teiliiy their love
and refpeft for the President of the United States; and I can with
truth ariirm, that I never beheld a change which afforded me so
much delight. Perhaps I fliall not wander from the truth when
I add, that there have been few instances of so much magnificence
without oftenlation, so much genuine refpeft without fervilenefs,
To much pure hospitality, untainted by fuHomc adulation ; every
thing seemed to proceed from the heart of an enlightened and
happy people. For ray part, luch are the kindnelTes I have more
than once experienced from them, that with the fincereft gratitude
I shall, tho a ftraiiger, ever preserve the strongest attachment to
that State, for whose misfortunes I shall ever weep, and for whose
prosperity I shall ever rejoice."
Extract of a letter from Cape-Francois, June 18.
" Cur friend Bourjje, who was appointed Con
fui of the United States for this place, lias not
yet been officially acknowledged by the govern
ment here—the rcafon afiigned is, the error of
the ininiller who has not forwarded the conven
tion to the government in this place.—This is
only the ostensible reason however—the real
cause is seated in their apprehensions of losing
some fees in the admiralty, in cases ot pi-otefts,
declarations, See.—and that they will no longer
be able to take the property of our countrymen
under the law of Droit D'Aubaine, which they
put in force on the death of a Mr. Myers at Aux
Caycs, about eight weeks since—whose property
was immediately confifcated. 1 was much
surprized to find some writer in a Philadelphia
paper, of March last, deny that this law was car
ried into execution in the iflauds, as it is a facfi
that it is—which miili be considered as a great
injury lo the citizens, and an indignity to rhe
government ofilie United States. I wish the sac*
respecting Myers may be made fully known,
that the people of America may know on what
footing they Hand with their allies in this re-
fpect,"
The Anniversary of the Birth-Day of our na
tion has been celebrated with great, and in some
places, unusual demontl rations of patriotic feli
city. The Tammany Society of New York, that
ti ulv republican band of brothers, dillinguifhed
the clay with peculiar propriety :—They aflem
bled in the Dutch church, where the declaration
of independence was read, and a well-adapted
lei mon delivered, by Dr. Linn, to a very large
and refpedtable auditory Thus recurring to
firft principles, the mind was refrefhed with the
recolleiftion of pall glorious events—while the
fuperintendance of that Providence which con
ducted the United States to their prel'ent free
and happy ltate, was gratefully acknowledged.
The Officers of the Revenue Cutter, in that
city, merit notice for the handsome manner in
which she was decorated : ensigns of various na
tions were displayed, and at noon she fired a
federal salute.
By a Proclamation of Governor Parr, dated
the 18th May, the importation of the following
goods or commodities, is permitted into Nova-
Scotia in Bririlh veflels, for the term of 6 months,
rominencing the 19th May last, viz. Scantling,
planks, itaves, heading, boards, (hingles, hoops,
or squared timber of any sort—horses, neat-cattle,
ilieep, hogs, poultry, live flock of any fort;
bread, biscuit, flour, peas, beans, potatoes, wheat,
rice, oats, barley, or grain of all forts.
A writer in the Alexandria Advertiser, speak
ing of the defendants of Mr. Pf. and of the
people called Quakers, fays, " they are a bles
sing to every government where they refule, so
exemplary for induftJ-y, peace and economy,
with every moral and political virtue ; the regu
lations by which they are governed, are in a
great degree owing to the superior abilities and
endowments of Mr. Penn, who flands the firft
and moll exalted patron of civil and religious li
berty, jultly honored with the highest applause
by the moll celebrated authors, and had the
greatefl encomiums bestowed upon him by the
firll judges in politics, for the sublimity of his
wisdom, his extensive knowledge, boundless ge
nerosity and benevolent disposition : In a word,
— had William Penn been a native of Greece,
his (lame would have been placed above thofeof
Solon and Lycurgus.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
As much has been (aid in commendation of tile
patriotic prayer deliveiedon Monday last at Zion
Church in this city, a citizen, though unac
quainted with the Rev. Dr. Rogers, thus pub
licly profeiTes himfelf to have been highly gra
tified with the "whole acldrefs, particularly with
those parts which rcfpeded our Frontiers, and the
National Ajfaubly of Frcutce. As nearly as he re
collects, Dr. Rogers, in petitioning for thejor
mer, fervently intreatrd Heaves for their pro
tection, and that the lioltile nations of savages
might speedily be brought to sue for peace, and
to bury deep the bloody hatchet of war, never
more to be raised for the annoyance of ourprcat
republic. He did not alk for their deftrmftion,
bcc Char,' as the " they might be given to
83
Jesus for his inheritance, r.nd the uttertnoft parts
of the earth for his potleflion." Introducing the
National Aljfemb'y of trance, iie earnettly solicited
for that august body, that they might be sup
ported in the great work they hnd undertaken—
that their important labors in thecaufeof reason
and humanity might be crowned with abundant
success—that the whole globe might become
so illuminated, ns properly to understand the
" Rights ok Man"—and that the kingdom of
Emmanuel might advance with the glorioui
cause of equal and general Liberty. The forego
ing, with many other sentiments of putriotijin
and piety combined, which were delivered, made
at the time so forcible an impre'iion on the citi.
zen's mind, that as a friend to this growing em
pire, he takes this method of acknowledging the
great fatisfatflion experienced by him, and hopes
that the good example let by the Pen'.ifylvaniri
Society of the Cincinnati, may on every
ceeding Fourth of July be followed by their
filler societies throughout the United States—as
it cannor but be acceptable to the Deity for a
people, so highly favored with temporal andfpi
ritual blessings, duly to confefs his Being and
SUPERINTEND!NG PROVIDENCE.
EXTRACTS.
It has long since been established as an univer
sal maxim, that all true dignity of character con
sists in intrinfie merit. If mankind would re
strict their deference and refpeift to such only,
how contra<fied would be the circle of politeness.
Anger comes fornetiines upon us, but we go of
tener to seek it.
Those who are of a generous nature, have sel
dom any thing to give—and those who are rich,
are seldom liberal.
At a Meeting of the Penrfylvania State Society of the Cincinnati, he'd
Jul v 4, 1791, the following gentlemen zceie elided officers for the
ensuing year.
Thomas Mifflin, President,
Thomas M'Kean, Vice-Prefident.
Thomas L. Moore, Treasurer.
Mattbew M'Connell, Afliftant-Treafurer.
Joseph Howell, Secretary.
James Glentworth, Afliftant-Secretary.
Standing Committee.
Daniel Broadhead,
Walter Stewart,
Richard Fullerton,
Rev. Dr. William Rogers,
Extrafl: Jrom. the Minutes of the New- Jersey State Society of the
CINCINNATI, held at Elizabeth-lown, July 4, 1791.
THE Society proceeded to elect Officers for the enfoing year,
and the following gentlemen were chosen :
General Elias Dayton, Prejident.
Colonel David Forman, Vzee-Prejident,
Revered James F. Armstrong, Sccreta.r\.
Major Richard Cox, Treasurer.
Captain Aaron Ogden, and } Orators for the next
The Hon. Elias Boudinot, Esq. > Anniversary.
The Hon. Elias Boudinot, and Jonathan Dayton, Efq is. Major
Joseph Bloomfield, Capt. Aaron Ogden, and the Rev. Mr. An
drew Hunter, were chosen Delegates to the next general meeting.
Col. John Noble Cummings, Capt. Aaron Ogden, Major Joseph
Bloomfield, the Hon. Jonathan Dayton, Esq. and the Rev. Mr.
Hunter, Lieut. Jonathan Rhea, Major Richard Howell, Major
Nathaniel Donnell, and Dr. Ebenezer Elmer, were elected a {laud
ing committee, tor the purpose of affording relief to persons enti
tled to the fame—to receive and report on the claims of officers,
and tranfa£l all such other bufinefsas cannot be deferred vyithout
manifeft injury until the next meeting of the Society : The agree
ment of five of whom fhal! be necessary to decide theieon.
The Rev. Mr. Armstrong, the Hon. Robert Lcttice Hooper, and
Major Richard Howell, were appointed a committee of arrange
ment for the ensuing year.
The Society then adjourned to meet at Trenton on the 4th day
of July, 1 792, at 10 o'clock in the forenoon.
Attest. JAMES F. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
On the 6th inft. was married, at Pottfgrove, Robert Sm'lth,
Esq. of this city, merchant, to Mrs. Rebecca Potts.
Died, at his house near Lancaster, much la
mented, Sebastian Grass, Esq. one of the
Senators of this commonwealth.
From the Connecticut Courant, of July 4,
In Philadelphia they advertise on an txtenfive f
and at JVew-Tork on a genttel and polite fcaje.—
In the former we fee an advertisement for " fifty
journeymen boot-makers"—in the latter, a sta
ble-keeper advertises a " Federal HORSE RE
POSITORY !" A brother Editor, thinks an im
provement on the latter would be to call the re
ceptacles for swine, " HOG MUSEUMS."
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
" The Critics," in our next. The performance signed
" A Customer," is not accurate. We are muchobliged b) the
Author of the Ode in this day's paper. " The Complaini"
has formerly appeared in print—it is rather aside from our plan :
Further communications from the Author will be gratefully re
ceived.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Blomhoff Lady, Newland, Cape of Good-Hope.
Pennsylvania, Harding, Havre de Grace.
Martha, Durant, Whitby (England}
Brig Betfev, White, Lifooo.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
it\f pr. I
.0/
>°/
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 17f
Indents 1 of
N. and S. Carolina debts, 13/ 15/6.
Francis Johnflon,
Caleb North,
Christian Febiger.
Bv order of the Society,
JOSEPH HOWELL, Sec'ry.
90 pr. cent.
50 do.
50 do,
85 do.
50 do.George-Town, June 30, 1791.
THE PRESIDENT of the UN ITED STATES hav.ng approv
ed the sites for the Public Buildings, to be erected in pursu
ance of the ast of Congress for eflablilhing the temporary and
permanent feat of government of the United States, the Com
miflioners, appointed in virtue of that ast, will meet at George-
Town, on Monday the seventeenth day of October next, and pro
ceed to lell, at Vendue, a number ot lots in the bell situations in
the Federal City. A deposit of 8 per cent, will be required ; the
residue to be secured on Bonds, with security, payable in three
equal vearly payments. —Thejfarther terms will be made known
at the sale.
THOMAS JOHNSON, )
DAVID STEWART, > Commiflioners.
DANIEL CARROL, )
Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, fccond Door below Market-Street
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Comniiffion all kinds of
Public Securities and Paoer Monies.
Tratifadls business for those who have claims
on the Uniied States, or against either of the States, particularly for
the Officers, Soldiers and Mariners, and others who have f-rved
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornics, &c.
Certificates and fucli Paper Monies furnifhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennlylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. passed through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured lor bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de
posits.
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profeflion, out of Place, may hear of Empiov—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be lupplied with iuitable do
mestics.
Those at a dilbnce who may addreft on cither the above fub
jetts, their letters being post paid, will be duly attended to, by
Philad. June 22, 1791
ACA R D
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wifties they may
be fnormed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the bed chofcn
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pi cou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and'which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on.to low terms as must make it an objeEl to cuflomeis. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dispatch,
and the time of pi) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom thefc presents shall come, or in any wile concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promiflbry notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months —and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen {hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by hirn been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen shil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as thev will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, i Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th May, 1791
War Department,
May 50, 1791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the Lrnted States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th dav of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day bv the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpeaively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
The L CCr ; ificate S' ven the (late, fpecifying that the person
pollemng tbe fame is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
.l » A ' S r Came l 'S?" me ' ont °f the of the connty ,si»
thejtate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pofjefion was given, of which the following isa
copy (theceitificategiven by the slate to be recited) That he fervei (re
gment, corps or veflet) at the time he was difabUd, and that he now re-
Jides in the and county of and has Tefded there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid fliould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mult
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form :
n m *! y "/, °-f do h ' r 'b conjlitute and
appoint C. Dos my lawful attorney, to receive m behalf of
months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
mT KM"'/™ hundred and ninety-one, and
ending t:ie jouith day of September of the fame year.
Signed arid r ealed
in the presence of
Witnesses.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must he accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
IT. KNOX, Secretary of War.
In Cues nut-Si r iet, No. 66.
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion 10 NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will rtceivr Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK ot the UNITED
STATES.
For creeling BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Passaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook aud Newark, in the State of
New-Jersey.
Commiflioncrs appointed by an a£l of the of
X the state ol New- Jcrfey, to ere£l bridges over the Hackinfack
and PalLiick rivers, having obtained the nereflarv surveys, are
no*v ready to receive proposals for performing the (ame ; and
offer the following conditions for the confederation of such as may
be inclined to coutiaO :
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
atone of the following stations, as (hall be hereafter determined
mofl eligible,
lft. At tke place where the pre lent ferry is efUblifhed, where
he width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern (bore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western (bore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western fliore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PalTaick river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is eftablifbcd, where
the width ot the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western (hore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
FRANCIS WHITE,
(cptl)
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 11 feet,
Do. western (bore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern (bore 4 teet 5 inches,
Do. western ftiore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftru&ed on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Mvftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free pafTage for veflcls with fix
ed standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as (ball be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid veflels in parting through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges aie to be built with such piles, timber, f:antling,
and plank, as ftiall render them perfectly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a futficient
height to protest them against the tides, which rife at ordinaly
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be furrendercd in good order,
agreeably to the ait.
The following are the terms which the commiflioners are au
thor! fed to offer to contractors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
(e p. 3 m.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
a£lual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, pe«r
annum, three-fourths of that sum will consequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This mav fairly be
estimated as ihe fmallelt profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the. United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give 10 travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
tkorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conne&ed
with thebridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places (hall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contra&s for ere&ing them are executed
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as mav be inclined to contra# on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell'
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to erect the said bridges, together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL, T
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT K-KMBLE, Commiflioners
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
Newark, State of Nezv-jfejJiy, April 22, 1791
This day is publiflied,
By THOMAS LANG, No. 21, Church-Alley, and fold by all
the Booksellers, (Price 3-8 of a Dollar)
The Cateehifm of Nature;
For the Ufc of CHILDREN.
Matthew M'Connell,
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnui-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1 791.
CONTRACT,
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed ofF on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
•#)' DOCTOR MARTINET,
Profeflor of Philosophy at Zutphcn.
translated from the dutch.
Read Nature—Nature is a friend to t rut h."
84
(96 Of)
1 w. 3m,
All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice that the
following advertisement has been varied from that publifned in
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 2s, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propoials will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Treafurv, until the firft Monday
in September next inclirfive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use ot the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firlfcday of Dcrember, 1792, both days m
clufive, at the places, and within the diftri£ls herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofti
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Mlwtofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tut
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
(eptf)
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
laid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
iid the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, a*id thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio,<o the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vincennes,
at PoftSt. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabaih, to the
M iami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the eafl fide of the river Mifljfippj,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
he Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Bcuf and Prefq'lflc, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by tie
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the eafl fide of the Miflifrppi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclufivelv.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefcc, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpccified inthefe proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contrattor.
The rations to be supplied are to confilt of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, ( P cr " 100 rat,ons '
One pound of candles, f
AI.SO, That Proposals will be received at the said office unlii
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
ftom the fiift day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Staith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalaehee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
ip to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
he said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
rom thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
A nd for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceof at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes sustained by th®
depredations of the enerav, or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or def
troved, on the depositions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commissioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumftancesl of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contract will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may make their propositions so as to admit an elettion of the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above posts to
gether, or feparatelv for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia*
and they mull fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
Published, and to be fold by the Editor, price of a Dollar,
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the most important Subjects,
Refpe&ing the REVOLUTION of AMERICA
Written in Holland in the year 1780,
By the Vice-President of the United States.
(f3" Blank Powers to receive the Interest, and for the transfer of tie
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlab'iifhed in the frea
fury Department : Aljb Blanksfor abflraZts of to be fr'd *■
the Editer.