PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 17, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
Mr. RUSSELL,
IN examining the question whether the Englifti
nation, have a right, fundamently to demolilh
their present form of government, it becomes
neceflary to inquire whether Mr. Paine's afler
tion that there is no such thing as an Englifli
constitution, be really true ? This question may,
perhaps, in some measure affe<st the people of
America. For if thegovernment ofGreat-Britain,
is an ufnrpation, it may be worthy of considera
tion how far we are bound by treaties, which do
not reciprocally bind the inhabitants of that
Illand.
" A Constitution," fays Mr. Paine, " is not
a thing in name only, but in fad:. It has not an
ideal, but a real existence ; and wherever it can
not be produced in a visible form, there is none."
Mr. Paine Ihould have gone further, and told
us, whether like a deed it mult be written on
paper or parchment, or whether it has a larger
latitude, and may be engraved on (lone, or carv
ed in wood. From the tenor of his argument
it should seem, that he had only the American
Conftitutionsin his mind, for excepting them, I
believe he would not find in all history, a go
■vernment which will come within his definition ;
and of course, there never was a people that had
a constitution, previous to the year 1776. But
the word with an idea affixed to it, had been in
life, and commonly understood, for centuries
before that period, and therefore Mr. Paine
must, to suit his purpose, alter its acceptations,
and in the warmth of his zeal for revolutions,
endeavor to bring about a revolution in lan
guage also. When all the moil illustrious whig
writers in England have contended for the li
berty of their country upon the principles of
the English constitution ; when the glorious COll
- of 1774 declared that " the inhabitants of
" the English colonies in North-America were
" entitled to certain rights by the immutable
" laws of nature, the principles of the English Con
" flitutior., and the several charters or compacts,"
they knew very well what they meant, and were
perfe<fily understood by all mankind. Mr. Paine
fays that " A constitution is to a government,
what the laws, made afterwards by that govern
ment are to a court of judicature." But, when
the American States, by their constitutions, ex
pressly adopied the whole body of the common
law, so saras it was applicable to their refpecftive
situations, did they adopt nothing at all,becaufe
that law cannot be produced in a visible form ?
No, Sir, the constitution of a country is not the
paper or parchment upon which the compacft is
•written, it is the system of fundamental laws,
by which the people have consented to be go
verned, which is always fuppol'ed to be impres
sed upon the mind of every individual, and of
■which the written or printed copies are nothing
more than the evidence.
In this sense, Sir, the British nation have a
constitution, which was for many years the ad
mii at ion of the world ; the people of America,
with very good reason, have renounced some of
its defeats, and infirmities. But in defence of
some of its principles, they have fought and con
quered. It is composed of a venerable fyjlem
of unwritten or customary laws handed down
from time immemorial, and fancftioned by the
accumulated experience of ages ; and of a body
of Itatutes enacted by an authority lawfully com
pet en cto that purpose. Mr. Paine is certainly
Hiiltaken when he considers the British govern
ment, as having originated in the conquest of
William of Normandy. This principle of being
governed by an oral or traditionary law pre
vailed in England eleven hundred years before
that invasion. It has continued to this day, and
has been adopted by all the American States. 1
hope they will never abolish a system so excellent
merely becaufeit cannot be produced in avifible
form. The couftitutir>n of Great-Britain is a
Conltitution of principles, not of articles, and how
ever frequently it may have been violated by
tyrants, monarchical, ariftocratical or democra
tical, the people have always found it expedient
to restore the original foundations, while from
time to time they have been fuccefsful in improv
ing and ornamenting the building.
J he people of England are bound therefore
by a social compact now existing. And they have
110 right to demolilh their government, unless it
be clearly incompetent for the purposes for which
Saturday, June 25, 1791-
it was instituted. They have delegated their
whole collective power toa legislature, confilling
of a king, lords and commons, and they have in
cluded even the power of altering the conftitn
tion itfelf. Should they abuse this power so that
the nation itfelf should be opprefled, and their
rights to life, liberty, and property instead of
protecftion, should meet with tyranny, the people
would certainly be entitled to appeal in the lad
resort to themselves, to resume the trust which
has been so unworthily betrayed, and (not to do
whatever they should choose, but) to form ano
ther constitution, which (houldmore permanent
ly secure the natural rights of the whole com
munity. The fame may be said of the National
Aflembly of Ftance, who according to Mr. Paine's
idea, are poflefled of the whole collective power
of the nation, and who seem like him to think
they have a right to do whatever they choose.
Mr. Paine fays, that " the authority of the pre
sent aflembly is different to what the authority
of future aflemblies will he." Butif theprefent
aflembly lhould decree that all future national
aflemblies should pofl'efs the fame power with
themselves, it would certain'y be binding as an
article of the constitution. ,Vlr. Paine, indeed,
will not acknowledge this, and it is the second
right which he denies his nation, which at the
fame time has a right to do every thing. Mr.
Paine's ideas upon this fubjert appear to have
been formed by a partial adoption of the prin
ciple upon which Roittfeau founds the social com
part. But neither the principle of Roujfeau, nor
that of Mr. Paine, is true. Rousseau contends
that the social compart is formed by a personal
aflociation of individuals, which must be unani
mously aflented to, and which cannot poflibly be
made by a representative body. I shall not at
present spend rny time in fliewing that this is
neither practicable nor even metaphysically true.
1 shall only observe, that its operation would an
nihilate in an instant, all the power of the Na
tional Aflembly, and turn the whole body of the
American constitutions (the pride of man, the
glory of the human understanding) into a mass
of tyrannical and unfounded usurpations. Mr.
Paine does not go quite so far, but we must ex
amine whether his arguments are nor equally
wide from the truth. " A government, fays he,
on the principles 011 which constitutional govern
ments arising out ot society are established, can
not have the right of altering itfelf. Why not !
Because, if it had, it would be arbitraryßut
this reason is not Sufficient. A nation in form
ing a social compart may delegate the whole of
their collective powers to ordinary legislatures
in perpetual fucceflion, and reserve only the right
of refilling the abuse of those powers ; and eve
ry other queftinn relative to the reservation of
powers to the nation, must be only a question of
expediency. The fame power which the pre
sent national aflembly pofl'efs in France, is by
the English constitution, constantly velted in the
king and parliament of Great-Britain ; and the
people in both kingdoms have the fame right to
resist and punish the abuse of that power. Sure
ly, Sir, the people of the United States have a
constitution, although they have given the pow
er of making alterations, to those by whom it
is administered, in conjunction with the State
legislatures. Surely, the people of Maflachufetts
have a constitution, though it provides for cer
tain alterations by the ordinary legislatures, and
though since it was formed, such alterations have
accordingly been made. The constitutions of
several of the United States, are expressly made
alterable in every part by their ordinary legis
latures. 1 think there is not one of them, but
admits of alterations without recurring to " the
nation in its original chararter." Yet Mr. Paine
will surely acknowledge that the American con
stitutions arose out of the people and not over
them. His principle therefore " that a consti
tutional government cannot have the right of al
rering itfelf" is not true. In forming their con
stitution a nation may reserve to themselves such
powers as they think proper. They may re
serve only the unalienable right of resistance a
gainst tyranny. The people of England have
reserved only this right. The French national
aflembly have been in feflion more than two
years, to make laws nominally paramount to
their future legislatures : I shall hazard some
observations upon this fubjert, when I attempt
to follow Mr. Paine, through his comparison be
tween the French and Engiifh constitutions. But
65
if
[Whole No. 225.]
as the English have delegated all their power, I
contend they have no right in their original
character to change their form of government,
unless it has become incompetent for the pur
poses, for which all governments are instituted.
I am aware of thequeftion which will occur here,
Who is to judge of this incompetency? and I
am aware of the triumphant manner in which it
may be asked. But a triumph is not my objert,
and in the pursuit of truth I (hall venture in my
next number to consider this fubjert.
R E
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES.
[CONTI
No.
State of the WHALE-F]
from 177
-o
<u -C
t r" •
•5
5
o 're tc
> 3 r
c c
re
-0 re x:
c - W
3 3 O
O C
PORTS from
which the
equipments
were made.
Nantucket,
Wellfleet,
Dartmouth,
Lynn,
Mar. Vineyard,
Barnftable,
Boston,
6 6
20
60
1
12
2
*5
4
4
Falmouth,county
of Barnftable,
Swanzey,
.83 |,
WHA
1789,
18
12
45
:
2
6
7
138201
\LE
, boti
State of the
Nantucket,
Wellfleet & other
ports at Cape Cod
Dartmouth,
Cape-Ann,
Plymouth,
Man Vineyard,
Boston,
Rochester and
Ware ham,
I 91 | 58201 31 | 4 3 go|i6it) 798011313®
True Copy.
Attest, John Avery, jun. Sec'ry.
N. B. About one quarter of the fpermacati is head-matter, ore
quarter of which was exported to Great-Britain, the remainder
manufa£lured into candles. The fpermac«eti oil, previous to the
revolution, was mostly exported to Great-Brtaiin. The aveiage
price in that market for five years previous to the war, about sony
pounds flerling for the fpermacasti oil, and fifty pounds for head.
The whale oil was formerly about one half exported to the French
and Engl'fh Weft-India islands, the other half fold in the United
States. The average price of this oil, about seventy dollars per ton.
A whale producing one hundred and twenty barrels whale oil, will
generally produce two thousand pounds bone, which was chiefly
exported to Great-Britain, the price about half a dollar per pound.
A whale producing fifty to sixty barrels, will generally produce
nearcft ten pounds of bone to a barrel of oil.—The average price
of oil for three years past, as follows, viz.
Spermaceti, one hundred dollars per ton.
Whale oil, filty dollars per ton.
Head-matter, one hundred and fifty dollars per ton.
Bone, about fifteen cents per pound.
No. XIII.
Extraß Jrcm a Memorialprefented to the States General in 1775, by a
Committee cj the Merchants engaged in the Whale Fijhery.
THE whale filhery is of great importance to Holland, as the
produce yielded by the sea may properly be considered as our
country produce, which furnifh employ for thousands of hands)
all the apparatus being made, and the veflels fitted out in our own
country.
A new vet Tel from no to 116 feet, including an
chors, cables, rigging, See. cost from
Sixly or seventy lines, fix or caflcs, har
poons, and other materials, g to 9000
Store rent, lighters, vi£tualling,&c. for 42 to 48 men, 410 5000
From these outfits the country evidently derives real advantages,
whereas thofc immediately concerned risque their property, as has
formerly been reprcfented, that during a period of forty-feven
years, fourteen millions have been loft in this traffic, besides the
loss arising from the decrease of capital.
( To be continued.)
A FR£ NC H A N ECD OT E.
the patriotic cook.
AN aristocratic lady of Caen, gave out two days ago that there
would be every day two covers at her table for Priests who
had not taken the Civic Oath—her cook, hearing of the invitation
of his miftrefa, said—" Let the bad Priests come, I will prepare
for them a better feaft than they ate aware of. I (hall write the
Civic Oath on small tickets, and put them up nicely in petty pat
tecs ; so that if thev have not the oath in their hearts, they (Hall
have it io their bellies."
PUBLICOLA.
NUID.J
XII.
ISHERY in MaJfachufetU,
I to 1775.
1-0 jj
a
u
C
n .
, <u
M *
fcjO
re
C
C
o
<D
r*
JS-s £
t/
bJO
n
C
C
o
k.
I >•!
:!1
c fc
-Q re .C
I I 1
z ow -
"o c
0 gi
S ° |
3
[5 I
2025
420
1 °4°;
28
156
26
260
I 52
1 52
85
10
20
1
5
121 I
4875
1600
4500
1020 c
1000
2000
I 2C
700
75
720
150
1300
300
_3co
14°5913939°l 86 .5°
from 1787 to
1 14020]
:ry,
ufive.
fishe:
li inclu
18
4
5
2
1
1
487
112
65°
28
'3
39
78
104
1 35°
2700
400
75°
35°
100
90
720
2700
60
120
45°
420
Guilders.
32 to 36000
Total, 44 to 5000*
I 5 •
| o >•
O
PO
II
<u re
CL
wT C
t/1 «J
"£ 2
CO
ea
t 3
? G
c
° =
— J*
t ~
(9
CQ
26000
j 2250
| 9200
j 200
1 9 00
240
1800
400
400
4000
2 2,50
I4CO
100
3 co
6co
8260
3800]
2700
100
220
360
800
1920
1 75°
X2OOPARIS, April 20.
THE Kin" of France having on Tuesday fen -
night been ob ft runted by the people in
proceeding to St.Cloud.for the purpose of (pend
ing Easter there, the following took place in the
National AHembly, 011 Tuesday last m coale
quence of that affair.
AT two o'clock the President read a letter
from the King, dating his design to come to the
National Aflembly. „
The King shortly after entered. The molt
profound silence took place. Every one role.
He took his feat by the fide of the President.
The ministers took their stations beneath, and
the reft of his suite within the bar. 1 here was
then pronounced, with firmnefs and sensibility,
the following—SPEECH by the KING :
Gentlemen, .
I HAVE come into the midst of you with that
confidence which I have ever lelHfied in you;
you have been informed of the obftruclion which
1 vefterday experienced to my departure to St.
Cloud. I would not consent that it rtiould be
repelled by force, from the fear of occasioning
acfts of severity against a deceived multitude who
thought they were arting in conformity to the
lawsfat the time they were infringing upon
them. But It behoves the nation to prove that lam
free : Nothing is so eflential to the authority
of the faniflions and of the acceptations which I
have given to your decrees. For this potent
reason, therefore, I persist in my intention of
going to St. Cloud, of which the National As
fembly will feel the neceflity. It seems as if,
for the purpole of instigating a faithful people,
whose affetftions I have deserved by what I have
done for them, endeavours were making to 111-
spire them with doubts with refpedi to my sen
timents for the constitution.
I have accepted,and I have sworn to maintain,
that constitution, of which the civil constitution
of the clergy forms a part, the execution of
which I will maintain with all my power. I
now but repeat those sentiments which I hav<
often manifefted to the National AlTembly : I
knows that my intentions and my wishes have
no other objeift than the welfare of the people ;
and that welfare can result but from an observ
ance of the laws, and an obedience to all legiti
mate and confticutional authorities.
The President immediately read the following
answer :
Sire, if the profound femiment with which
the National Afferobly is penetrated towards you,
could pofiibly receive any increase, it would be
from your presence ; May your finda
niong us, in those testimonies of aflretftion with
which you are surrounded, some compensation
for your nneafinefs. Inquietude is inseparable
from the progress of liberty—in the midst of the
cares which the good citizens take to quiet the
people, alarms are circulated—threatening cir
cumstances unite from all quarters, and their dif
trufl returns. __
Sire, you, the people, liberty, the conftitutipn
have but one interelt. The cowardly enemies
of the cotiftitution and of liberty are likewise
your enemies. Every heart is devoted to you.
.As you wish the welfare of the people, the peo
ple are equally solicitous for the welfare of their
King. Let us prevent a fa<ftion too well known
by its plans, its efforts, and its plots, from inter
posing between the throne and the nation, and
all our willies will be accompliflied.
When you thus come, Sire, to bind more close
ly in this Aflembly, the ties whereby you are at
tached to the revolution, you ftrengtlien the
friends of peace and of the laws. They will tell
the people that your heart is unchanged, and
every uneasiness, every diftruit, will disappear,
our common enemies will be again confounded,
and you will have procured for the country a
new victory.
[The King's speech was received with great
attention and profound silence. The President's
answer was honored with plaudits from that part
of theHoufe where the Members who belong to
the Club des Jacobins usually fit: The other Mem
bers were silent. Whilst his Majesty was with
drawing, the Jacobin Members only cried Vive
ie Roi; those who were known to be his parti
cular friends did not utter a syllable ; they said
afterwards, that they were too much lhocked at
the indiscretion of the President's speech, to be
able to express joy on the occasion.]
April 21. Order is now pretty generally re
stored, to which the conduct of the King, in dif
mifling several obnoxious persons from his ser
vice not a little contributed.
Yeflerday after dinner he difmifl'ed the former
Bishop of Senlis, and the Cardinal de Montmo
rency; and this day the majority of aristocrats
■who have hitherto surrounded his perlon, were
all difmifled, and replaced by persons less objec
tionable. This has given much pleasure to the
people, as they now promise theinfelves perfect
security, against the machinations of the enemies
of the constitution.
During tlie late riot, a Chasseur came up to
the carriage of the King, and fa.d to his majesty,
that iliac which alarmed the people of Pans was
the confidence which he had placed in puefl.,
declared enemies of the revolution, and that it
he had placed it in Ecclefiaft.es who had taken
the oath the people instead of opposing his de
parture; would have considered him as their
guardian angel.—M.de la Fayette ordered the
chafleurto be taken into custody, but it was not
The feflions met on the 19th to deliberate on
the question submitted to them by the diredlory
and as many of them as had come to any bnal
resolution, when our accounts were made up,
had refolverl. that his majesty s speech to the
National Assembly appeared to have quieted the
fears of the people ; there was no occahon tor
confiderinfrthe questions proposed ; and that it
was their duty to rely on the wisdom of the de
partment, for restoring public confidence and
tranquility
Aprtl 22 ' j i r
To calm the minds of the people, an addrels
from the department to the citizens of Paris, has
been publiihed. It is of some length—laments
the late mifcondu<ft of the people, represents to
them the neceflity of good order, and due obe
dience to the laws, jultifies the King from the
suspicions entertained by the people, that he was
about to desert them—recalls to their memory
the many proofs which he has given of his pa
• ental care for their welfare, and his attachment
to the new constitution—represents the proper
mode of redress of grievances, whether real or
supposed, hy addrefTes, petitions, deputations,
&c. which are legal steps built upon the conttitu
tion itfelf. It concludes with the strong neceiii
ty of paying due attention te this address, by be
having as good citizens, if they wilh not tia fee
the late glorious rtvolution overturned, and del
potifm, anarchy, and confufion, substituted in its
olace*
The following address of the municipality of
"'aris, to the King, has also been published :
" Sire, the municipal officers of the capital,
entrusted with ths maintenance of order and
oublic tranquility, owe to your majesty an ac
count of thecaufes which have disturbed them.
" Repositories of the interests of the people,
honored wilh their immediate confidence, it is
heir dury to make known to your majesty the
alarms which have agitated them. It is to fulfill
his double duty, that we state to your majesty,
hat the people fee vfrith alarm the throne sur
rounded by those men, who have declared them
selves their enemies, andwhofe counsels are per
haps perifidious fuggeftior.s.
" If these men, fire, were friends to yonr per
son, they would makeknown to you the withes
of the people, if they were truly religious, they
would not calumniate them to you. But, fire,
we ought to tell you, for which we have leflons
of experience, the people love the King whom
these men deceive, the power which they abuse,
and the religion whose treafurei feed their idle
ness.
" Sire, we beseech you to fend from your pa
lace, those who, concealing the regret of their
pride, under hypocritical fears, occasion uneasi
ness in your loyal, generous foul, and provoke
the just distrust of a people, jealous of the heart,
| and of the confidence of their King.
" You have declared yourfelf, Sire, the King
of the constitution, the restorer, and the guardi
an of French liberty. May these titles wnich
cover yon with immortal glory, be announced
and proclaimed amidst surrounding nations. No
thing will then be heard by you from the French
people, but acclamations expressive of their wel
fare ; and their magistrates will come with joy
to bving you testimonies of their gratitude.
These testimonies, Sire, we present you, in re
turn for the brilliant step you took yesterday, in
the midst of the National AfTembly. The fenti
ments which you then exprefled, were, for the
nation, a new proof of your love, and a new
pledge of your attachment, to the constitutional
laws of the state.
(Signed) BAILLY, Mayor.
April 20. DEJOLLY, Sec. greffier.
The following is an official answer which was
sent to the preceding :
To Mtffrs.the directory of the department of Pari.
" Among tlie different objecfts, gentlemen,
which you have presented for the consideration
of the King, and on one part of which his ma
jesty had already anticipated the wish which yon
expressed, (the difmiflal of the aristocrats and
nonjuring clergy) he particularly attended to
the desire tertified by the department, that he
{hould make known tojforeign nations, his senti
ments in favor of the constitution. These the
King has incessantly manifefted on all occasions,
by means of ambaft'adors—and to the aflurances
which has been given on his part, to the differ
ent courts of Europe, we are doubtless indebted
for the tranquility which we have hitherto en
joyed. But his majesty, who will ever refped
66
the public opinion, and who will never hefftate
to remove any doubts which may be entertained
with refpedt to his sentiments, will give orders
to the ambassadors and niinifters of France, at
foreign courts,to explain thenifelves in his name,
in the fame manner as he himfelf did to the Na
tional Afl'embly. You will acknowledge, gen
tlemen, in this Hep, the readiness with which
the king, adopts whatever can contribute to
tranquilize the minds of the people, and to re
move diltruft and uneasiness.
(Signed)
April 21
Yesterday M. de la Fayette resigned his situa
tion, in consequence of which the centry box at
his door was immediately removed. Some sol
diers, however, went voluntarily to his honfe
for the purpose of mounting guard there, to tef
tify their profound esteem for this friend of li
berty and the laws. It is feared that this resig
nation will be followed by others. It is report
ed that the King has delayed his departure for
St. Cloud, till after the holidays.
LONDON, April 26
We cannot for a moment liefirate in faying,
that the trade for slaves to Africa ought to be a
bolished. It is difgracefnl to us as men and as
Britons. It can be vindicated by no arguments
fa*e one, and that in all cases the mod conremp
tible, interest —But after a difcuflion of two
davs it has been decided by a very great majo
rity, that this traffic is not to be abolished, a de
cision which adjusts the difpnte for the present,
but which we hnve no doubt will some time here
after be reversed ; the honor of the nation re
quires it, and humanity and every christian prin
ciple calls loudly for it.
The time of rising from a grandDi nn'ER, now,
is precisely the time when our Ancestors arose
for their day
Time was, a sober Englifliman would knock,
His servants up, and rife by five o'clock.
The French call themselves an enlightened Peo->
pie. Burke differs with them in the term, tho
he is willing to admit, that they are truly a Peo
ple en flamed.
Preparations are, and have been long made in
the modern Babylon, for the Aunts of the
French Monarch. Inviting all ranks of persecu
ted Bigots, his Holiness might fay -with Shake
spere,
" Here is Rom e, and room enough."
The of Paris, contintie to man
age the c£/f/bufinefs in the Revolution : They
fee up and pull down Princes—and the Na
tional Assembly permitit. Excellent Senators!
THE FUNERAL OF M. DE MJRABEAU.
THE Citizens of Paris, as if desirous to rival each other in their
attachment, afiembled on Monday the 4th of April, at 5 o'clock
in the afternoon, to pay their last refpe&s to a patriot, whose me
mory they had already embalmed with their tears!
No ceremony was ever so mournful, or so majcftic *, the Proces
sion was as follows :
A Detachment of National Parifnn Cavalry.
A Deputation of the Matrofles and Minors of the 60 Battalions,
With a Deputation of Invalids on the right and left.
M. de la FAYETTE.
The Field Officers of the National Guard.
A Deputation of the 60 Battalions of the National Guard, 60 deep,
TheMuficof the National Guard.—(The Fifes muffled, the Drums,
Kettle Drums, Cymbals, and other warlike Instruments,
covered with black crape, and playing a dead march.)
One hundred Swiss Guards.
The Guards of the Prevote.
The Ci e r gy.
The COFFI N,
Surmounted by a Crown of Laurel, and furroundcd by the Na-
tional Guards with their arms rcverfed
(A Hearse was provided for the occasion, but the soldiers of the
battalion of Grange Bateliere, of which M. de Mirabeau had been
Colonel, insisted on the honor of carrying him to his grave, which
was performed by sixteen citizen-foldicrs, who were relieved tn
rotation.)
The NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
Escorted by a battalion of Veterans, and another of Children
dressed in the uniform of the National Guards.
The Deputies of the 48 Se&ions.
The Department.
The Municipality.
The Judges of the Tribunals of Paris.
The Municipal Officers of neighbouring; Towns.
The Society of the Friends of the Constitution.
The Ministers of State.
The Society of 1789.
The JACOBINS.
A Detachment of Infantry,
And an Escort of Cavalry.
The Funerrl marshalled in the manner 3S above de
tailed, occupied a space of more than three miles, and proceede ♦
through a double line of National Guards, and an innumera e
concourse of citizens of both sexes, all of whom evinced the ten e
of the great calamity that had befallen the Empire, "with t Kir
tears.
After a march of three hours, during which the molt tolenm
silence prevailed, the procession arrived at St. Euftache.
A Sarcophagus was ere&ed in the Choir, and all the C urc"»
was hung with black. After the usual prayers, M. Ccruttt alcen
ed the Tribune, and pronounced a discourse, in which he con '
deied M. de Mirabeau as a Politician and a Legislator.
recapitulating his Civic Virtues, and the services he had ren ere
to his country, not only the Orator himfelf, but the who e au
ence was melted into tears! At the conclusion of his fpeec ,
proceflion set out in the fame order for the Church of v. t.
vieve ; having arrived there at midnight, they deposited tie 0
of Honore Riquetti Mirabeau in the fame tomb with thatto
illu&rious Dcfcartes, where they will both remain till t en
church is prepared to receive thefc great men, whom France
reckoned worthy of National Honours!
" DELESSART."
The ELECTORS.FRANCE
The Aflembly of France have at length come
to deliberate on those great points on which
alone mull depend the excellence and perma
nency of their constitution—the responsibility of
the executive Ministry, and the purity of the
Legislative Council. Oti these capital points
they seem to be influenced by the fame wisdom
•which has uniformly marked their proceedings.
To give an idea of their sentiments in this in
stance, we givean extract from their minutes :
The responsibility of Minilters was the order
of the day ; and the following are the princi
pal articles decreed.—
No order of the King can be executed, with
out being under-signed by the minister.
No order of the King, whether verbal or writ
ten, can protett a Minister from responsibility.
Ministers shall be responsible,
1. For all offences committed by them againfl
the fafety of the nation, and the constitution of
the kingdom.
2. For any attempt against the liberty and
property of an individual.
3. For the employment of the public funds,
or any dissipations they, have made or favored.
A law also pafled, according to which.no mem
ber of the National Aflembly can accept a place
for a relation or friend, to be entered under
four years after that Legislation, of which he is
a Member, is diflblved.
Every step they have taken here appears to
have been dilated by the genius of liberty.
PITTSBURGH, June n.
To the account published in our last, of the
Ikirmifli between the party under the command
of Lieutenant Bulkirk and the Indians, we are
enabled to add, that a party of men went to the
place the day after the battle, and got 2f wallets
full of plunder, a rifle gun, and some other arti
cles, which had been left by the Indians, and
which was fold for Fifty-Three Pounds.
Sunday last arrived here the Hon. Thomas
M'Kean, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the State of Pennsylvania, and the Hon. William
Augnftus Atlee, Judge of the said Court, and on
Monday morning opened a court of oyer and ter
miner and goal delivery, and a court of nisi prius,
for Alleghany county ; several causes were called
over for trial, but the parties not being prepar
ed, there was none decided on. Their honors,
on Thursday morning, proceeded to Greenf
burgh, in order to hold similar courts for Weft
moreland county.
BOSTON, Jnne iy.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JUNE I.
OnThurfday, on a resolve reported by a com
mittee of the House of Representatives for pur
chasing four hundred fbares c pital Hock, in the
bank of the United States, a very animated de
bate took place.
The arguments advanced by the advocates of
the resolve, were—the influence the Common
wealth must naturally poflefs in the direction of
an incorporated body, who in foine considerable
nienfure would influence the government of the
Union—the preventing this influence being plac
ed entirely among the Natural Ariflocracy of the
country, i. e. men of influence and opulence, by
giving the poorer citizens whose circumstances
prevented their poflefling per/onal\x\Qaer\ce, that
influence through the medium of the State pro
perty therein—the advantages in a pecuniary
light, which this state would reap from such a
disposal as this of their paper and specie—now
lying useless in the treasury—the manifeftation
of the good will of this state to the Union, and
to the ellablifhment of a BANK—this mode of
advantageously employing the money of the
Commonwealth, being the only one in which it
could engage—that the avidity with which indi
viduals inverted their property in the stock of
this bank, was a strong proof of the well found
ed anticipation of its advantages, which had been
held out—with many other reasons which the
house seemed to consider as forcible.
These were opposed with much ingenuity, and
in reply it was said, that before Mallschufetts
engaged in any such fchenie, lier own creditors
ought to be paid their just demands
that to counteract the influence the bank
-would poflefs over the government, by merely
pur chafing as much of that influence as we could
afford, was a very improper mode of proceeding
—that being a check on the Fidtral Government
by purchasing the stock of a corporate body was
not a right mean of effe<fling it—that if any such
thing as a Natural Ari/locracy did exill, let it be
pointed out, and fupprefled—that if it did not,
it was ridiculous to guard againli: itseffei r ts — that
other proofs more flattering than this might be
given the Federal Gov/rnvient of our approbation
of its tneafures ; and, that it was doubtful whe
ther the stare could with propriety engage in
such an undertaking.
The qneflion, Whether the Resolve fhouldpafs ?
was negatived by a great majority.
j BALTIMORE, June it.
f In t-he very intereftingdebate which took place
in the British House of Commons on the 19th of
April, 011 the fubjeil of the Abolition of the Slave
Trade, Mr. Wilberforce, Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, and
other members, distinguished themselves by their
masterly Ipeeches in support of " a bill to pre
vent the farther importation of African Negroes
into the Briti/h Plantations." Mr. Pitt, on this
occasion, said, " That every principle that could bind
a man of hontur and of conscience, viould impel him
to give the mofl powerful JuppO't he could to the mo
tion for the abolition."
After a long and mofl important debate on the
Slave-Trade, in the Britifti House of Commons,
011 the 20th April, at half past 3 o'clock the house
began to divide.
NEWBURYPORT, June 8.
A fubfeription is now set on foot for building
a bridge over the river Merrimac, a little above
this town—The expence is estimated at five thou
sand pounds, which is divided into two hundred
{hares. It is already brought to a certainty that
fubferibers will not be wanting—and the utility
of filch a bridge, in this part of the country, is
so obvious, as to render it altogether unneceifary
to comment 011 the fubjetft.
NEW-HAVEN, June is
By a letter from Trinklada, to a gentleman in
this city, dated May 4th, there is a confirmation
of the account, of the fire at that place ; which
broke out on the night of the 30th of April—the
damage is estimated at 30,00(3!. sterling.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE SMILE.
SONNET to CAROLINE.
H AST thou not seen upon some night serene,
The silver moon with smiling radiance beam—
Illume the grove—enliven every dream—
And add new charms to every lovely scene ?
So charming Caroline thy angel-smile
On day or night unequall'd joy bestows.
Does the fad breast ot grief and pain beguile,
And stays the tear which elle forever flows.
In thy foft smile the foul of sweetness lives,
That grace, which shines exalted over art—
Which speaks the friendly and the feeling heart,
And ev'ry virtuous wi(h and transport gives.
Then lovely Carol i n e thv smile repeat;
I fear not there the poison of deceit.
Philadelphia, June 25.
Extra fl of a letter from St. Pierre (Martinique) of lji May, 1791.
" By a decree of the National Assembly the port of Trinity
on the windward fide of this island is open to Americans with
out limitation as to time ; thatof Fort Royal, the Governor with
consent of council has thought proper to declare free until after
the hurricane months—it is his opinion as well 3s most men'here.
that in the interim, the planting interest will obtain a decree of
the nation for its remaining open."
His Excellency Josi ah B art l ett is re-ele&ed President of
the State of New-Hampfbire.
The constitution of that State is shortly to be revised
to one of its articles.
Monday last Capt. Beattv of the federal troops, marched from
New-Brunfwick with a company of near an hundred men, com
pletely equipped ; federal companies of regulars are also on their
march from Maflachufetts. The force in the Western country
will very (hortly be more refpe&able than any heretofore sent 10
that quarter.
The profpeft of a great crop of grain is as favorable as hafc been
known for many years ; this will add to the numerous blessings
we enjoy, a redu&ion in the price of bread.
A melancholy event happened in Cumberland County, New-
Jersey, last week ; a number of perlons went into the watei to
bathe, when the four following were drowned, viz. Mrs. Bacon,
Miss Hufted, Mr. Peter Coddington, and Mr. William M'Creaff.
The men loft their lives in attemptingto save the women.
By a letter from Wexford, Ireland, signed by one of their most
eminent physicians, the account of a mortal* contagious distem
per resembling a plague, which it was said raged in Wexford, is
declared to be entirely built on misconception and mifinforma
tion—no uncommon disorder having made its appearance there.
Arthur Erwin, Esq. late of Bucks County, in this Srate, while
peaceably fitting with sundry other persons in the house of Daniel
Macafee, in Luzerne County, was killed by being (hot, by a per
son unknown. 700 dollars reward is offered for bringing the
perpetrator to justice.
By the will of the late John Weftley, he disposes of almost all
his property in charitable donations.
Few men have entered the haven of at) honest popularity on a
fuller tide of general applause, than the present Governor of New-
Jersey. The addrefles presented on his eledtion have been nume
rous, and from almost all the corporate bodies and aflociations of
the state, couched in terms of uncommon refpeft, attachment and
affe&ion.
SLAVE TRADE
Mr. Wilberforfce, in the House of Commons, on the 18th of
April last, madethe following motion :
" That the Chairman be dire fled to move for leave to bring in a
" bill for preventing the Jurther importation ofAfrican Negroes into
" the British Colonies and Plantation!."
And supported it by a very able speech, which was followed
by an interesting debate.
The house divided at four o'clock, when there appeared for
Mr. Wilberforce's motion Ayes 88
Noes 163
Majority against the abolition 75
A (latement in a late London paper intended to inforce the im
portance of the question refpeffing the abolition of the (lave trade,
dates the present value of the (laves in the British idands in the
Weft-Indies, to be 18,491,955!. —[The (laves in all th; idands are
cftimated at forty pounds each, except in Bermuda, where ihey
are computed to be worth fortv-five pounds]— And the value of
the property in the British Weft-India idands 36,810,305!. The
orefent valueof the property in the British Sugar Colonies, is
stated to be 70,000,000.
67
HENRY.
The citizens of Charlcflon (S. C.) ar: zealonfty and fuccefsfully
pursuing their plan of fubferibing to the Bank of the Unued States.
Subscriptions in New-York, Boston, and other parts of the Eas
tern States, are made with great rapidity ; so that there is not the
lea ft lhadow of a doubt to suppose, that if the ihares were milch
more numerous than they are, they could not all be filled even in
lefstimc than the law prescribes.
One firm, in this city has received domestic orders to fubferibe
for lifty shares.—and as to foreign fubferipuons, there is every re&-
son to fuppole they will be to a very great amount.
The Royal Society of London, having received from Mr.
Churchman his Magnetic Atlas, have politely acknowledged the
receipt of the fame, and returned the author their thanks, by their
Secretary.
At a public commencement held on last, in the Col
lege-Hall of this city, for conferring degrees of Do£fcor ot Medi
cine, the following mentioned gentlemen were approved of viz.
James Blundel, of Delaware.
Samuel Foreman Conover, ol New-Jerfcy
Hast Handy, of Maryland.
JAMES Graham, and ?of Phil J,sl cl phia .
(rEORGE PIEFFER, 1
The number of persons employed in the different branches in
the cotton manufactory in England, are estimated at about 375,000;
in the iron branches about the fame number ; and in the lilk,
and other weaving fabrics, upwards of one million.
It is said that upwards of 40,000 men in arms attended the
fnneral of the great Mirabeau.
The President of the United States, the 22d ulr. on his
return from the Southward, pasTed through Columbia, the present
feat of government of South-Carolina—where the gentlemen of
Columbia, Granby Winnfboro', Camden, Statefburgh, Bellville
and Orangeburgh,and the vicinity of those places, waited on him.
At four o'clock he fat down to a farmer's dinner, at which
were present 153 ladies, and as many gentlemen. Nothing could
exceed the pleasure of the scene. Among the toails given were
the two following:
America's be(l infant —Miss AJfump'tion and her Spor.for?,
The Magnificent Aloe of America.
The latter after the President had retired
An address was presented bv Commodore Gillon, at the request
of the gentlemen piefent, which was replied 10 in the usual strain
of urbanity—and on the 24th the President pursued his route^
It mull afford pleasure to everv federal patriot when he ob
serves with what fmccre, what heartfelt delight the citizen?! ot*
this confederated republic, from New-Hampfhirc to Augusta in
Georgia, recognize their obligations, and express their love and
veneration to the President of the United States ; and with what
unequivocal marks of attachment they refer on every proper occa
sion to that government over which he presides.
Among the many instances of refpeft and attention to tHE mam
who unites all hearts, during the tour to the Southward, the inha
bitants of the village of Salisbury have peculiarly distinguished
themfelvcs—the account publilhed in our last exhibits fevcral
pleasing and affe&ing novelties in their arrangements to receive
the illuitrious traveller—their address breathes a truly refpedWul,
manly, and federal disposition of mind—and the toasts given at
theenterieinment arc replete with ingenuity, loyalty and senti
ment.
This village is about 200 miles from the Atlantic, and in a
county which according to the census lately taken, contains up*
wards of 20,000 inhabitants.
It has been the fate of France to lose one of those few
dinary men whose names are destined to occupy a diftinguidled
placc in hiftovy, and whose death could have power at such an
eventful period to interefi the paflions of Europe. The eves of
Mirabeau were clofcd before he could behold his regenerated
country completely emerged from the chaos of anarchy . Deaths
which usually disarms the fierceft rancour of enmity, will not im
pose silence on his detra&ors, for he has wounded them too deep
ly. But a pofteritv too remote to be reached by the petty slander
of the day, will regard only that gigantic mind, which bursting
from obloquy, seized as its natural ftatipn, the firft place in the
greatest scene that has been hitherto a6ted on the theatre of the
world. Eng. paper.
Died, on Thurfday,Do£lor John Jones,aged 63 —1 very emi
nent Pbyfician and Surgeon of this cuy.
Monday morning; last died, in the city of Bur
lington, John Story, Esq. a native of Boston,
Mailachuletts. A gentleman who fuflained a
good character as an Officer in the late Ameri
can army—as a late Commissioner of the United
States, in Pennsylvania—and as a citizen. He
was eminent for his calmness and serenity of
mind, under a long and langoilhing illnels.
The death of this worthy man is sincerely re
gretted by all who had the pleasure of his ac
quaintance.
His funeral was attended the day following by
a number of the nioit refpeiftable citizeuspf that
place,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Editor requcfts an interview with Gu a r i
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Schooner Alexandria,
Friendship,
Brig Ceres,
Lucretia,
1 Mary,
Molly,
Planier,
Hettor,
Newton,
Snow Fanny,
Ship Jeanie,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/6 15<f& pr./.
3 pr. Cents 9/8 9/9
Defered 6 pr. Cents 9/8 9/9
UNFUNDED" DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16/6
Indents 9/8 9/9'
N. and S. Carolina debts, 13/ <5/6.
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quclity—by retail,
No t9,
Third-Street, between Chefuut and Market Streets.
|C7= LOTTERY TICKETS,
New-Haven Wharf, to commence drawing 13th September,
MalTachufetts Semi-Annual, 2d Class, 13th O&ober,
inay be had at above.
Stewart, Aux-Cayes,
Welsh, Charleston,
Checfman, Boston*
Atkins, St. Croix,
Stone, Cadiz,
Miles, Madeira,
Poole, St. Croix,
Baker, Port-au-Prince,
Hawkins, St. Croix,
Withall, Havre-de-Grace,
Rogers, London.
88} pr. cent.
48J 00.
do.
BsJ do.
48| do.Intelligence- Office,
In Fourth-Strut, second Door brlow Market-Stifet
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Comniiflion all kinds of
Public Securities and Paoer Monies.
Tranfadis business for those who have claims
on the United States, or againll either of the States, particular ly lor
the Officers, Soldier, and Mariners, and others who have ft-tved
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornies, &c. # _ ,
Certificates and such Paper Moines furnilhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. passed through the different
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de-
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profeflion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with suitable do
mestics. . ,
Those at a difbnee who may address on either the above tub
ieQs, their letters being poll paid, will be duly attended to, by
Jrk'AIJCIS WHITE,
(cptf)
Philad. June 22, 1791
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINiER
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the light of publifhinga PAPER, in good repute,
the fubferibers to which are continually increafing-The present
number of its patrons is between seven and eight hundred. The
types consist of Busciots, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertifemcnts to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part o! Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles of an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on ihort notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger (hare of Advertisements than the one offered
for sale. A very considerable profit also acciucs from the sale of
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bills &c. &c. It is a good situation, also,
for a small Book-Store—and it is supposed the Book-Binding bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For further particulars, enquire of John Fen no, at his Office,
No 6q, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
ladelphia. ( >awßw )
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in any wile concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months —one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months —one tor fevenhundred andforty pounds,in twelve
months and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
•whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa-
Tnuel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty, seven pounds fifteen /hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,")
ROBERT SCOTT, } Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, i-]thMay t 1791
War Department,
May 30, 1 79T.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due on the of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpe&ively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
lft. 'The certificate given by the slate, fpecifying that the person
poffefling the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B came before me. one of the fuflices of the connty of in
the slate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pojjeffion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the slate to be recited) That he served, (re
giment, corps or vessel) at the time he was dijahled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the la.si
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following foi m:
I, A. B. of county of of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension Jor fix months, a< an invalid of the United States ,f rom the
fourth day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the fourth day of September of the fame year.
Signed and s caled
in the prefcnce of
Witnfjjis.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and also of the
*ime the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
PT The Printers in the refpeFtive States are requeflei to pub Ifh the
tfove it: their newfpaperi, for the /'pace of two months.
((3* Blank Powers to receive Mjlnteref), andfor the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules cjlablijhei in the Trea
sury Department: Also Blanks for abJlraQs oj Ct, tificates, to be fo!db\
the Editor.
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sol„, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, i7q<- P —
TO BE SOLD,
And may be entered on the ensuing Fall,
T'H AT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in w tc
jllubfcriber now (ives, situate in Eliz.beth-Townmthe state
of Nrw-ler(ey, withm 16 miles of the city of New-York. It
finifhed in the very bed manner, and peculiarly convenient for •,
" ' , ma „ W i,h a large family. The Lot contains about tou
acrcs of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and flocked wit
a eood assortment of fruit. For further particulars, enquire o
William Bradford, Esq. in Philadelphia, John Pintard,
Ffn in New-York, or the Subfcribcr on the Premtfes.
Tune iu 17Qi. f,.waw) ELIAS BOUDINOT.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeship to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr Gio«ci
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatistac
tion to all those thjt may be pleased to favor him with their com
mands. JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21. 1791- (1 ep 7WJ
For ereftinr BRIDGES over the Hacki nsack and Pasjaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the State ol
New- Tcrfev.
THECommiffioners appointed by an aa of the legislature ot
the state of New-Jerfev, to ere 3 bridges over the Hackinfack
and Paffaick rivers, having obtained the necessary surveys, are
noready to receive proposals for performing the (ame ; and
offer the following conditions for the confickration of such as may
be inclined to contrast :
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
at one of she following Rations, as (hall be hereafter determined
most eligible. . ,
lft. At the place where the present ferry is eftablifbed, where
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western (bore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern fbore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western fbore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaick river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as (ball be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is eftablifbed, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern fbore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more weflerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern fbore 11 feet,
Do. western shore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place (till more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern fbore 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. wefttrn (bore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftrufcted on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free passage for veflels with fix
ed (landing masts, not lefsthan twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as (hall be determined mod con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid veflels in pafling through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
(c p. 3 m.
The bridges ate to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as {ball render them perfe&ly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a fufficient
height to protest them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each r 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be (urrendered in good order,
agreeably to the a6t.
The following arc the terms which the commiflioners are au
thorised to offer to contrattors :
A lcafc of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
aflual rtceiptsof the ferries for a medium of five years last part,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will consequently produce an
immediate income of goo pounds per ann. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the weflern fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commissioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads connected
withthebridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contra&s for eiefting them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as maybe inclined to contract on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell,
E(q. in New-York, fpecifying the (honed period of lease for
which they will undertake to ereftthe said bridges,together with
proper fecunty for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL, 1
JOHN NEILSON, |
™TK £ MBL K , > Commissioners
WILLIAM MAXWELL, 1
JOHN PINTARD I
Aewark t State of April 1791
68
CONTRACT,
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT Or
THE UNION ; has fiequently occasion to NEGOCIATP
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Order,
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITEn
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
[Q3" All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice that the
following advertisement has been varied from that publithej in
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
MA R ch 2j>, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, I hat Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Tre<tfury, until the ftrft Monday
■11 September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the u(e ol the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-fuft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftrifts herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the (lateof Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lnloih
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntolh and the mouth of
ihe River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mulkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tur.
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth ofthe River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Fallsof the Ohio, and at the
laid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincennes,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
Atany placeor places,on theeaftfidcof the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinoU river.
At any place or places, from the moulh of the Miami river t®
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, frora the Miami Village to Sanduiky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandulky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At anyplaceor places,betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and#
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla;e or places, ob
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflilippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclusively.
At anyplace or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, t«
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within oth«r
diftri&s, not fpecified inthefe proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confill of the following articles,
viz. One pound of brcsid or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar/ J£)o ration| _
Two pounds ot loap, f r
One pound of candies, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
fiom the firft dav ot January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the (late of Massachu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Tofeph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to flie Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
mav hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future ports.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are t® consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses sustained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid so r at the prices of the articles capturcd or des
troyed, on the depolitions of two or more creditable chara&ers,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons difpofea
to contrast will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may make their propositions so as to admit an ele&ion of the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above ports to
gether, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia;
and they mull fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay-
meat
ffy The Printers who have published the tihi'e advertifcrnent, o- -
tequejled t» reprint it with the alterations.
1 w. 3m,
(96 tf)