PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND IHIRD S'IREE'IS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 90, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila. No. 25.
(Continued from No. 88 oj this Gazette.)
THE Queen, perfeflly informed of all these pioje&s, and wifil
ing to prelerve, with all her power, her own liberty and that
of her children, continued to play oft' her artifices, to ballance the
power of the Grandees, and to prevent the a fee nd eric yof one par
ty over the other, from drawing after it, the ruin of the State.
Thus, that she might not be obliged to favor, one or the ether par
ty, {he quitted Paris and retired to Fontainbleau. She thought,
that in this refidencc, where (he was more at liberty, than *n Paris,
they could not compel her to declare herfelf, and (he still studied
tofupport her confidence, which Ihe had managed with both fac
tions, whose Chiefs Hie amused by equivocal discourses, and am
biguous promises. The Prince oi Conde, and Coligni, yielding
to the superiority of the Catholic party, had quitted Paris to take
arms. The Queen gave them secretly to understand, that flie
was disposed to join them, as soon as {he Ihould fee them sup
ported by torces fufficient to make head against their enemies.
On the other hand, (he protested to the King of Navarre, the
Constable and the Duke of Guise, that (he had no intention to fc-
par«.ts herfelf from the Catholics, nor to consent to the new re
form, any further than neceflity and the adviceof good men should
oblige her, to grant to the Hugonots, a moderate liberty.
H< r letters were not less ambiguous, than her words : and she
did .tot explain herfelf more clearly abroad than at home. She
gave continually new inftruftions to the ambassadors in foreign
courts, and especially to Delile, who resided at Rome. Some-
times she contrasted and at other times (he extended their pow-
ers , and by these variations held all minds in fufpence. But this
conti ( )£t began to be more delicate than ever. The Chiefs of the
two parties, were not less politicians than herfelf : During the
course of her regency they had found opportunities to unravel all
her artifices, and penetrate all her disguises. The King advanced
in age, and that circumstance was to them a neceflity to hasten the
execution of their designs. His minority might give to certain
measures a colour, which would no longer exist, when he would
be of age when all ought to depend upon his will, to which they
could no longer oppose themselves, without the guilt of rebellion :
At theprefent moment they could pretend, that their opoofition
-was only to a bad adminiflration, and the pernicious designs of
those who governed under his authority.
Already the Duke of Guise, more enterprising and more alive
than the others, dire£fced, at his pleasure, the refdlutions of his
party. He had drawn into his sentiments the Contlable and the
King of Navarre, by persuading them, that if they would all re
sort to court, they might bring ojf' the King and the Queen-Mother to
the capital, and reduce them to the necessity of taking measures,
and ifluing edi&s, as the Catholics should judge convenient to
their interests, without exposing themfelvcs, any longer, to the
danger of being anticipated, and without permitting their ene
mies to seize on the King and avail themselves of his authority
The Prince of Conde had formed the lame olefign: He had re
tired at fivft to Meaux, and from thence to his estate, at la Ferte,
where he intended to aflemble the main body of his forces. This
resolution was the cffe£f of the advice of the Admiral, luggefled
by the promises of the Queen, and by the projetts of the Catholics,
which had not escaped his penetration—nothing being more'com
mon in civil wars, than to difcovcr the deligns of an enemy either
by the infidelity of forne in the fccret, or by the multitude ot
spies who are employed. The chicfs of the Catholic party had I
occasion only for their ordinary retinue to execute their design :
the neighbourhood of Paris, which was wholly devoted to them,
assured them of fufficient forces, and offered them favorable oppor
tunities. On the contrary, the Prince of Conde, weaker than his
enemies, and followed by lew troops, was obliged to wait for the
Lords of his part), and the nobilit\ whom he had summoned from
fcveral provinces, who alfembled but {lowly. Thus the Catholics
"were before-hand, by appearing all well attended at the Court.
Their unfoiefeen arrival d'fconcerted not the Queen. Although
{he depended little on the success of her intrigues, she exerted hcr
felf to persuade the King of Navarre to depart from Court, with
the Princes and Lords who had accompanied him. 44 No man is
44 ignorant," said Ihe to him, " that the Catholic Lords would
44 take advantage of my weakness, and that of my son, to compel
44 us, to regulate the State, according to their inclinations, by go
-41 verning at the will of their ambition and private interests. This
*' eondufi, dire&ly opposite to the principles of honour and of
41 fidelity, of which they boast, is not less contrary to the tranquil
-4* lity and the confeivation of the State, which they pretend to
44 have alone in view. 44 To iflue new edi£ls, and revoke thole
41 which have been published, is it not to put arms into the hands
44 of the Hugonots? These fettaries, already so audacious and so
44 ready to revolt, will complain aloud of injufticc, if we annul,
44 without reason, an edict prepared and accepted with the con
-41 sent of both parties. During the minority of the King, we
44 ought to avoid war, and the troubles inseparable from it, to the
44 utmost of our care and power. To whom will the nation im
-44 pute the disasters which will overwhelm it ? Will not an eter
-14 nal infamy be the portion of those who have the principal (hare
44 in government ? It was to avoid these dangers, and to take
44 away all pretexts from the incendiaries, that I fubfcribec) to the
41 edi£l of January, and quitted the capital. The mod effettual
44 means of irritating the violence of an evil, which as yet is only
44 creeping on secretly, would be to carry us into a fufpefled city,
44 and repeal an edict already published. The King of Navarre,
44 and the Catholic Piinces, ought to remember, that it belongs
41 only to the flagitious, whose foitune is uncertain or desperate,
44 to excite civil wars. The Prince commands without contia
-44 diclion. The Lords of his party, loaded with riches, digni
-44 ties, employments and honours, enjoy the most flourifhing for
-44 tune. Can they envy the people an imaginary and momentary
44 liberty ? Let them fuffer the King to arrive at his majority, with -
44 out feeing his kingdom diftra6ted with war. Forced by nccef
-44 nty, I have onlv pardoned faults which I could not punilh—
44 nor have I grantedtothe Hugonots other liberty than that which
44 they had usurped. It s only by management that we can cure
44 the people of th-.s phrenzy, Let the Catholic Chiefs then arm
44 themselves with patience, for fear that, by rafti remedies, they
44 may envenom an evil which may draw after it fatal revolutions,
44 and the most melancholly events. If however you are resolved
44 to make any alteration in the edict, it ought only to be done
by insensible degrees, and by the favor of suitable opportunities
44 To employ violent means, would be to fur
nilh the seditious with pretexts, which they seek. with so much
44 ardour."
Wednesday, March 9, I 79 1 *
The Tablet. —No. 154.
" To catch the living manners as they rife."
IT is a circumstance much to be regretted, that
there has yet appeared no complete publica
tion, under the title of, a tour through the Utiited
States. Perhaps no species of composition is bet-
ter calculated both to amuse and inltrud:, than a
relation of travels, written with candor and dif-
The fadts communicated through
cernment
such a channel impress themselves much more
strongly on the mind than those which are col
lected through the medium of general history.
In fliort, some of the accounts of modern travels,
such as Moore's, Brydone's, Dupaty's, and fe-
veral others, occupy that middle station between
dry history, and gay romance, which unites the
utility of the former, with the allurements of the
latter. The scenery exhibited in travels may be
brilliant and fafcinating, at the fame time, that it
iscorreft and real. And it certainly must be of
more importance to gain information of charac
ters and incidents cotemporary with ourselves,
than of those which exiited in periods, remote
and diflimilar from our own. The preference of
current memoirs over those which have long past,
is alinoft as great, as true history is over fabulous.
There have been published some partial me
moirs,at one time and another, of travels through
the United States ; but as far as I can recollect,
they poflefl'ed more the spirit of criticifin than
philosophy. It is immaterial whether the pre
vailing opinions and manners, in this country,
compare exactly with such as the traveller has
been accustomed to notice in other countries.—
It is not oil the score of companion, that our
merit or our happiness is to be measured. The
customs and manners which are most commenda
ble, in many parts of Europe, would be highly
improper, were they adopted by the people of
the United States. The traveller, therefore,
who cannot discern the aptitude of our manners
and habits to our situation, fills his memoirs with
sarcastic criticisms, which mislead the unwary
reader, and stamp on his mind a thousand falle
impreuions.
There are two sources of delusion to which
memoir-writers are exposed, and against which
they fliould fortify themselves with the armour
of philosophic candor and precision. One of the
points to which I allude, is the liability of travel -
lers to overlook those circumstances which assimi
late with what they have been accustomed taob
ferve, and to confine their remarks to obje&s
which custom has not rendered familiar to them.
By this detached mode of viewing occurrences,
they exhibit only a few peculiarities in which
one nation differs from another, while they are
silent with refpedt tomany important particulars
in which both nations have a resemblance. Thus
it happens, we are led to imagine they are much
more unlike than they really are.
The other point about which a discussion pre
vails, is the pronenefs of travellers to draw general
conclusions from too small a number of particular
cases. This is a source of mistake, from which
even the most prudent and liberal man can hard
ly exempt himfelf. Exceptions from general
rules are so apt to be taken for the rules them
selves, that it requires the closest observation to
make the suitable diftindiions. Those inllances,
which maybe deemed exceptions to general rules,
are like some prominent part of an image, which
allures attention to itfelf, to the negle<ftof those
parts that are less conspicuously delineated. A
Frenchman, who undertook to write memoirs of
his travels through America, has given a fpeci
men of a mistake such as I atn defining. He was
entering the town of Boston, and observed a
small wooden building, on rollers, in the middle
of the street—upon enquiry, he was told that
the building was put on those rollers to be re
moved to a conlulerable distance from the place
whence it was taken. Had he continued in Bos
ton two years, he probably would not have seen
another instance of the removal of any building
in that manner; nor perhaps is there one build
ing in fifty in that town that could be removed,
without firft taking the materials to pieces. How
ever, the Frenchman thought it a proper incident
to form a page in his memoirs. He mentions it
as a general circumstance, that the buildings in
the town of Boston are made of such light ma
terials, and eretfed upon such a model, that they
can conveniently be removed from one part of
773
HUso
[Whole No. 194-]
tlie town to another. This error of the French,
man is not more remarkable than frequently oc.
curs with people travelling in the United States.
Some incident takes place which fit ikes the view
of the traveller, and he records it the cha
raifteriftics of the people who are then under his
notice. Being thus deluded, and being too in
dolent to invelligate the real ftateof the matter,
he imposes upon the reader an extraordinary
instance, as something usually prevalent.
Too much applause cannot be given to the dis
cerning and liberal traveller, who justly describes
the objects that come under his view, and makes
the people of one country acquainted with the
existing opinions and manners of another. The
chains of superstition may be thus broken, and
the clouds of prejudice dispersed. Mankind hate
and persecute one another, only because they are
ignorant of the true character of those who ex
cite such hatred and perfecurion. Let the veil
of error be removed—let true philosophers deve
lope the history of countries—and men of all na
tions will find, there is much more reafontolove
and refpecfi each other than they have been tatight
to imagine.
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
FROM an expectation that a mainal advantage would be derii.
ved by the dealers in public fecuritics, and a person who
(hould undertake to tranlarf such business on commifjion only, has
concluded to offer himfelf for that purpose. Being; of opinion,
that every requifue to convince them and others of his difmtercft
ednefs ought to be attended to on his part, he has duly made oath
before the Hon. the Chief Jullice of the State of Pcmifylvania, that
he will faithfully execuie the trusts which may be reposed ill him.
COPY OF THE OATH.
" I Henry Kuhl, of the city of Philadelphia, flock broker, do swear,
that I ail/ not he concerned either direfll) or indiredly, on my own ac
count, in any purchases or files of the evidences of the debt of the United
States or oj particular States, but will truly andfaithfully execuie such
purchases andJales on commijfion only for those who may employ we:
that is to fiv, until I fliall announce in one or more of the neiojpapers
printed at the feat of the government of the United States, my deter
mination to the contrary. HENRY KUHL."
Sworn at Philadelphia, Febiuary 12th, 1791, before
THOMAS M'KEAN."
The commiflions he will charge for the pielent, are—
On the specie amount of -all sums below SCOO nominal dollars,
one half per cent, on do. from 5000 to 10,000 do. on* 1 tourth per
cent, on do. Irom 10,000 and upwards do. one eighth percent.
Accounts llated, and certificates funded at the Treasury or
Loan-Office of the United States, on moderate terms.
N. B. All orders for purchases or Jules to te in writing.
Philadelphia, February 19, 1791. (85 t. f.)
Virginia, Culpeper County, Jan. 1791
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
THE PLANTATION , where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town ol Dumfries,
30 from Fredericklburg, and 28 from Falmouth; in a .moll
healthy part of ihe country ;—Confiding of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foilis good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so dispersed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the fird quality,perhaps more than 30s
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthit pur
pose, palling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of mod
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant ;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
fiding of about 1500 acres, on which Is good merchant, grift, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large condant dream, on which they
dand, affords them water in great abundance ; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements modly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are incultivation, very goodiri quality ; the oihcr
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhaultable
source for the saw-mill.
A'.fo fcveral detached trails within said county, of about 2,3,
and 400 acreseach,and though not offo fertilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvements, and the lands so situated, that they can easily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned pofleflions will
be disposed very reasonable terms->—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchasers, who may be
fupplicd on the fame terms, with all kinds of flock, work hor
ses, oxen, See. Sec. Sec. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f.J
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
T E
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the fiift Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
N. B. in the New-York Lottery,
which /'.< to be drawn the fir ft of April next, for sale.
A SCONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FRIDAY, Feb. 4.
The BANK BILL under cons deration.
MR. LAWRANCE,
THE advocates of this measure Hand in an un
fortunate iituation ; for being those, who in
general advocate national measures, trey are
charged with aefignsto extend the powers of the
government unduly.—He however consoled hitn
feJf with a conscious attachment to the Constitu
tion, and with the reflexion that their conduifi
received the approbation of their constituents.—
If the present, said he, is contrasted' with the
former circumstances of this country, he doubled
not the measures of this government would con
tinue to receive the approbation of the people of
the United States.
The silence of the people on the fubjed; now
J>efore the House is strongly presumptive that
the measure of a bank is not conlidered by them
as unconstitutional. He then endeavored to shew
the constitutionality of the bank system. It must
beconceded that there is nothing in the consti
tution expressly against it, and therefore we
ought not to deduce a prohibition by construc
tion ; he adverted to the amendment proposed
t>y Congress to the constitution, which fays, pow
ers " not delegated, are retained here said he,
to prove that the bank is unconstitutional, the
conftru&ive interpretation so much objected a
gainst, is recurred to.
The great objects of this government are con
tained in the context of the conftituiion ; he re
capitulated those objetSs, and inferred that eve
ry power necessary to secure these must neceffa
lily follow: For as to the great obje<fts for which
this government was instituted, it is as full and
complete in all its parts as any system that could
be devised ; a full uncontroulable power to re
gulate the fifcal concerns of this union is a pri
mary consideration in this government, and
from hence it clearly follows, that it must poflefs
the power to make every possible arrangement
conducive to that great objedl.
He then adverted to the late confederation and
pointed out its defe&s and incompetency and
hence the old Congress called on the States to
enacft certain laws which they had not power to
enadi ; from hence he inferred that as the late
confederation could not pass those laws, and to
capacitate the government of the United States,
and form a more perfedl union, the constitution
under which we now art was formed—to sup
pose that this government does not poflefs the
powers for which the constitution was adopted,
involves the grofleft absurdity.
The deviation from charters and the infringe
ment of parchment rights which had been juf
tified on the principle of neceflity by the gentle
man from Virginia (Mr. Madison) he said had
been made on different principles from those now
mentioned ; the neceflity he contended did not
at the time exist—the old Congress exercised the
power as they thought by a fair conftrutftion of
the confederation.
On conftruiftions, he observed it was to be la
mented that they (hould evei* be neceilary but
they had been made ; he instanced the power of
removability, which had been an ad: of the three
"branches-and has not been complained of. It
was at leafl as important a one as the present.
But the conftrudtion now proposed he con
tended was aneafy and natural conftrudion ; re
curring to the collection law, he observed that
it was by conftrudlion that the receipts are or
dered to be made in gold and silver.
With refped: to creating a mass of capital he
supposed, just and upright national measures
would create a will to form this capital.
Advening to the ideatliat Congress has not the
power to eftablifli companies with exclusive pri
vileges, he observed that by the amendments pro
posed by New-Hampfbire, Mallachufets and New-
York, it plainly appears that these States con
fide red that Congress does poflefs the power to
establish such companies.
The constitution vests Congress with power to
dispose of certain property in lands, and to make
all ufeful rules and regulations for that purpose ;
can its power be less over one species of its own
property than over another ?
With refped: to giving preference to one State
over another, he observed, that 10 years hence
the fear of government is to be 011 the Potowmac,
and wherever the government is finally fettled'
the place will enjoy superior advantages, but still
the government must go there, and the places
not enjoying thofeadvantages must be fatisfied.
It: is laid we mull notpafs a problematical bill
which is liable to a supervision by the Judges of
the Supreme Court ; but he conceived there was
no force in this, as those Judges are invested by
the Constitution with a power to pals their judg
ment on all Jaws that may bepafled.
Itisfaid that this law may interfere with the
slate governments ; but this or may not be
the cafe—and in all interferences of the kind, the
particular interest of a state, mult give way tothe
general interest.
With relpeiit to the corporation pofl'effing the
power of pafling laws—this he observed is a pow
er incidental to all corporations—and in the in
stance of the Wellern Territory, Congress have
exercised the power of instituting corporations,
or bodies politic, to the greatelt polfible extent.
He defended the right of Congress to purchase
and poflefs property, and quoted a paflage in the
conltiuuion to Ihew that they poflels this right.
He then touched on the expediency of banks,
and of that proposed in particular : The advan
tages generally derived from these institutions,
he believed, applied peculiarly to this country.
He noticed the objection from banks banifliing the
specie—he said the surplus only would be lent
out of the country—but is it given Sway ?—No,
Sir—it is sent off for articles which are wanted—
and which will enrich the country.
With refpe«ft to a run 011 the bank—he men
tioned the circumstances under which those runs
on the Britiftt banks, which had been noticed,
took place—and (hewed there was no parallel that
would probably ever take place in this country.
From several particulars he (hewed, that the
objeiftion which arose from the United States'not
having made a good bargain by the fyflem, was
not well founded. He then mentioned the pecu
liar advantages which the United States will en
joy over common subscribers.
The objection from banks being already estab
lished in the several States, he obviated, by fluting
the inifchiefs which might arise from an ignor
ance of the situation of those banks—and con
cluded by some remarks 011 the inexpediency of
the general government's having recourse to insti
tutions of merely a local nature.
Whoe'er thou art—thy Genius boasts the Pow'r
To soothe the Soul in Nature's darkejl hour.
FROM THE NORFOLK and. PORTSMOUTH CHRONICLE.
" Come gentle Spring, ethereal mildvefs comg."-
BLINDNESS.
" gentle Maid, celestial Comfort, come
V_y And from yon azure opening in the Sky,
(White Peace attends thy train) veil'd in a Show'r
Of (hadowing Bleflings, on the Blind, descend !"
Those, blefl with Sight, who walk abroad and dare
With Eagle Eye, survey the radiant Sun,
Take in the Blaze of Light, and fwiftas thought,
Can from the dark Retina throw it back,
And catch Ideas from the Face of Things.
Those, blest with Sight, who on some Summer's Eve,
Walk slowly musing, on the pebbled Beach,
And take the fcatter'd Rays, light as they fly,
from Star to Star, or, broke in countless Angles,
As thro' the flying Clouds they (hoot along,
And half unveil the Beauties oi the Sky,
Pleas'd with such scenes, they little heed the Blind.
But let them turn with me, to yon fair form,*
To yon mild mind, that even in Blindncfs charms*
Her gay, her cheerful Soul, once sent Ideas
From a blue Eye, that fcatter'd Bleflings round ;
Peace and gay Pleasure dwelt about those Orbs,
And the bright Rays of Day, that rested there,
Return'd delighted with the Mind within :
But envious darkness drew her fable veil,
And hid their radiance in eternal night.
No day-break now is her's, and the gay Sun
1 hat rides triumphant the meridian Sky,
Shoots not a cheering ray to light her path :
Thick, thick around, impervious Gloom fits brooding
And tho' Ihe change, her room i ever dark.
She holds no converse with the fpeaki'ng Eye
a ICI, ° f ° f Fr,en<^s » that fit* and talk,
And lmile around ; and when her prattling Babes
Draw her regard, with fond maternal mind,
She looks for some fwcet likeness of herfelf •
But looks in vain !-Her children, but by voice,
knows not!—'Tis but a general blank
F.om which the Soul recoils; the Eye rolls in,
And turns with Horror, from the dreary Void.
Oh come some pitying Spirit of the Sky,
Seize some tair wand, dipt in the Fount of Light,
1 ouch those Blue Eyes, and give them to the Day !
Jhe ardent Gaze, with which hr grateful Soul
Will fly abroad, and take Creation in,
The smile of peace w.th which (he'll look on all
Will pay your pleating talk, and promp a wish '
To quit e'en Heaven, to relieve the BLIND,
A T orfolk ) February 9, iygi
* Mrs. C—lv«—rt,
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET
Sent to Miss with a Braid of Hair.
fliews the rose, but soon its beauty fades,
tuj"™ 115 balm y- br «thing frag.ance fails;
Aj , ~.d ow; n > P each > fw «t pear, DECAY assails,
And cluttered purples of the vine invades.
Nor docs alone the vegetative realm
Feel the destroyer's over-bearing power;
Wejovs in ruin, cities to overwhelm,
•To shake the column, and to fink the lower.
Nor yet can Beauty, radiant at the morn,
wrath The rosy cheek he pales;
jP tr y ° t ' le " < -' n prevails;
And flowing honors that the head adorn.
The foul refined in fentimem and truth,
1)15 power, and fmilcs eternal youth.
774
' T HOMPSON,
YANKEE.
ILIA
EXTRACT from the ar.fmcr of the two Houfis ofth
Central Court of Matfachufetts, to tht CoverLr',
Speech.
THE United States of America are now placed
in a refpeiftable situation. Their honor and
credit, which at certain periods seemed doubtful
are now eftablillied 011 a permanent bails. Bv
enlarging the system of our government, and bv
bringing the rtrength of the fevei al States into
one uniform plan of operation, we are enabled
to form connexions with other-nations ; todefend
the Union against foreign in vafions ; and topre
ferve harmony, and support juilice between the
citizens of the different States.
We prefunie it will ever be the disposition of
our legislature, to guard againlt every infringe
ment on the Constitution of our own State, being
convinced that by fucli conduct we give vigor and
energy to the general government.
The debt of the United States and of the par
ticular States, we conceive to be the price of our
peace, liberty, and independence, and it must be
a pleasing reflection that we are not obliged to
hare recourse to oppreflion and violence, to can
cel this debt, as the resources of our country
with decent economy, are amply fufficient to do
justice to our public creditors.
While contemplating the pleasing enjovment
of liberty and independence, we are no less bles
sed with the fruits of industry and peace. The
liufibandman rejoices in the increase of his fields
and we acknowledge with gratitude the prosper
ous events which in the year pnit have attended
the various branches of commerce prosecuted in
this State, and have in some degree revived the
fifheries under rheir continued embarrafsmems;
our manufactures and mechanical arts are rapjly
inciejfing, and daily improving.
NORFOLK, February iy.
SHIP NEWS.
CapeHenlofen, Feb.
P. M. WindE. N. E. a heavy bank hovering
over Philadelphia—dark gloomy weather.
The B 1, a line of battle {hip of New-Jersey,
in the offing, making signals, but not understood
by the fleet.
The A s, one of the fir ft (hips of Mafiachu
fetts, flieltered herfelf under the bank, but was
iniflaken in her foundings.
The Conlliturion, a new ftiip, conftruded for
the Eastern Ocean. 1 lie crew of this ihip, it is
said, has disobeyed orders, in ajfuming preroga
tives which they were not entitled to, at which,
the late Lords of the Admiralty are much dis
pleased, and for which {he has been so generally
ailaulted, that her frame is much wrecked, and
it is said she muff be coppered, as her bottom is
worm eaten. She is supposed to be a fliip too
large and nnweildy for the Atlantic Ocean, and'
it is thought by some (who are not acquainted
with navigation) that it would have been better
to have laid out the money that she cost in two
light 74's, one to have cruised on St. George's
Bank, and the other off Charlelton bar.
c. U.s.
]he J n, an active 74 of Georgia, has never
seen an enemy, but has attacked it with firnmef*
and intrepidity, but has unfortunately been over
powered by heavier metal ; being much (battered,
it is said she is to be laid up in ordinary, for two
years, having received a found drubbing from
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary
at War, two flag fbips of the enemy's squadron.
Ihe M n, a finall ship with heavy ord
nance, has been attacked by every capital (hip of
the enemy s fleet ; she, however, broke their line
and fought herfelf clear, but by an error in keep
ing the log, she over-run her reckoning to the
Eastward, and got entangled with the rocks of
Scilly, and the whirlpool of Charibdis ; but by
altering her course she escaped shipwreck; — she
is a valuable lhip and it is to be hoped (lie will be
more cautious in her reckoning for the future.
It is apprehended the bank has opened a falfe
channel for her to enter at, to take her off from
the support of her squadron, but it is expected
flie will keep a good look-out and not be decoyed
-her batteries have been opened against thebank,
with well diretfted fires, but it has such a number
of heavy metal ships inoor'd around it, that lit>
tie impression has hitherto been made, being co
vei ed with the W eallh of the Nation, a (Ilip of 120
guns, the A s, a 74, the G y, an old (hip
that has proved herfelf very obflinate in many
haid fights, the S k, commanded by a purita
nical presbyterian, of more felf-importance than
any in the navy, theSh n commanded by old
Reynard, who scarcely ever loft a battle, the
' e whole captain is very confident in the
weight of his own metal, the V g, aSO gun
(hip, wliofe captain expecfts promotion from his
ftip s quick (ailing, and his 1 eadinefs to repeat
signals from the Admiral, with a number of other
of (mailer note ; hence it is ftippofed the M »
and its fleet will not be fufficient to dispel the
bank, as he has in his fleet the J n which has
as already observed, been much wrecked in the
service, the G s, a new 74 from Virginia, the
ciew of which has not been yet well disciplined,
theL ea64 who was never considered a found
flnp, the \V ean old crazy fli-ip, her commander very deficient of liability, the P command
ed by a ma.i whofezeal causes him often to leap
the bars of order, and break the line of battle,
by attacks upon the invincible Armada, the ene
my's feledted squadron of reserve, but cannot
prevail on them to open their ports, the S h,
a [S. r:.] ship built in America, but railed 011 in
England, supposed not to be a fubfVantial fhip,as
the American and Englifli oak does nut well'fay
together. The S e, a fine little fliip from Ma
ryland, has repeated the figuals of the M n,
and thrown some dangerous (hot inro the enemy
byricohet and dire<ft firing. The W n,a good
old fliip from [N. C.] but very much hcg'd from
long service.
COLUMBIA, (S. C.) Jan. 27
It was aflerred on Monday in the house of Re
presentatives by several very refpecftable mem
bers, in a debate which took place on the cafe of
an individual, that Lieutenant Col. Nefbit Bal
four, while commandant of Charleston, during
the late war between Great-Britain and the Uni
ted States of America, did himfelf carry on a trade
with the continental army in South-Carolina,and
other parties in arms, and did on many occasions
lign palles to orders for saddles, cloathing, gun
power, and arms, which were carried into the
country.
What a faithful servant was this commandant
to his royal master ? and yet he has been indu
ced to reward him with rank, and the appoint
ment of aid decamp to the king ! !
GEORGE-TOWN, Feb. 26
Ou Tuesday the firft inft. died, near the North-
Mountain, Frederick county, ZOLL, aged
nineteen years.—His death was occasioned by a
fligtlt cut in one of his feet, with an axe.—From
the time of his receiving the wound, until he ex
pired, 110 method could be devised to stop the
bleeding—if the wound was bound .up, the blood
gushed out at his mouth or nostrils. Five bro
thers to the above person have bled to death at
different periods, from the following Ample acci
dents :—One received a prick with a thorn—an
other a scratch with a comb—a third, a prick
with a needle—a fourth, bruised hischeek against
a Hove—and the fifth received a cut in one ot his
thumbs.—The father of the above persons has
had two wives, and, by each of them, several
children ; those, who died in this lingular man
ner, were all by the firlt wife. It should be no
ted, that when they arrived at a certain age, se
veral black spots were difcernable upon their
bodies. However marvellous this account may
appear, our readers may rely upon its authenti-
[Win. Gaz.]
BENNINGTON; February 14.
city.
Public clamour seems bufie,d in many parts, (as
appears by newspaper squibs) with the character
of General Harmar: His condudt in the late un
fortunate Indian expedition is severely handled.
A correspondent observes that fame generally
follows vidtory, and disgrace defeat ; people are
apt to view the actions of the unfortunate soldi
er through their consequences, and feeling deep
ly wounded by the latter, condemn the former in
iota.
Among the advantages that will accrue to Ver
mont in coufequence of her accession to the fe
deral union, that of a regular eitabliihmerit of
polls will be a circuinftance extremely gratifying
to the enquiring mind. By this means the inter
erting concerns of our extensive empire will be
constantly and expeditioufly conveyed to us, and
domestic felicity heightened by an easy commu
nication with diltant friends. It will doubtless
be deemed a matter worihy attention to bring
the mail from Canada through Vermont. Ail of
fice may be established at Burlingtonbny, from
whence to Beuningron the poll will ride through
a fertile country, the population of which advan
ces perhaps equal to any part of America.
The present winter exhibits favorable profpeifts
to Vermont : emigration is truly great : more
than double the number of families are moving
daily than was even seen among us before. The
plentiful harvests of last year will afford ail abun
dant (upply to the industrious emigrant, while
the labour of his hands will augment the value
of an extensive, fertile country. Attention to a
griculture and manufactures in Vermont, toge
ther with her accession to the union, wi 11 give a
frefh spring to commerce, confcquently encreafe
our circulating medium, and difftife rewards to
industry in every direction throughout the slate.
1 he federal bii d extends hei well plum a wing
Millions unborn her fofteimg care (hall ling.
WINDSOR, (Vermont,) Feb. 2.
l ately died at Montreal, Capt. James Munroe>
of Connecticut". His death was occasioned by a
wound in his right bread, which had been im
properly treated, or rather wholly negletfted for
several months. He had constantly refilled to
inform his furgeonhow he received his wound :
On being informed by him that he was dying,
and again desired to tell how he was wounded,
he replied, *< Although I was villain enough to
defcrveit, 1 am not fodeftitnte of honor as to be
tray the mail who gave it."
BOSTON, Feb. i 9
Yesterday it was determined in the house of
representatives, that the undivided two thirds of
the Gene See lands, Should revert to the Common
wealth. It was also reSolved, to fell the Said
lands, and a joint committee was appointed to de
termine their value and situation.
N E W-Y OR K, March 3
On the 22d. February, came on before the lion,
the Supreme Judicial Court of Maflachufetts, at
Bolton the trial of Edmund Freeman, Printer of
the Boflon Herald of Freedom, on the charge of
publilhing a libel against John Gardner, Esq.
After a very fair and candid inveltigation, the
cafe was committed to a respectable jmy, who
brought in their verdict, not guilty. " During
the trial, (fays a Bolton paper) the Hon. Court
were ir. their Scarlet Robes, attended by a vast
concourse of citizens." This trial, it is said, was
the firft for a libel ever had in that part of the
United States.
On the 241 h ult. was to come 011 by assignment
in the Maflachufetts house of Representatives, an
interesting question 011 the petition of the Port
land convention preferred to the Legiflatui e some
few years since, whether it is expedient that the
Province of Maine (hould be separated from the
Commonwealth of Maflachufetts, and become a
separate sovereign state by irf'elf.
B R U SSELS, Dec. 3.
THE patriotic army are all fugitives, except
thecolumn with Gen.Koehler. Gen. Schoen
feklt, who commanded me cemre column in the
front of Namur, retreated across the Metife on
the 22d ulr. in the greatelt difbrder, without
even being attacked by the enemy ; his column
was thrown into great confufion : He immediate
ly deimnded his dismission, and obtained it, with
out being called to account for his condudi.
Thus tar you may guess how matters flood with
him and lits opposite neighbours. The Auftrians
taking their advantage, entered Namur without
the least opposition. Gen. Koehler's retreat was
maflerly, and does him great honor. He took
his rout from Bouvens to Mons, where he receiv
ed the appointment of commander in chief of
the army, and immediately endeavored to collect
the fugitives of Schoenfeldt's column together,
but too late. The greater part of the dragoons
were gone off with their horses ; the infantry
ofcourle, followed their example, who arrived
here in the greatelt confufion. They went in
large bodies to the town house, and demanded
pal'es, which being refufed, they instantly fired
at the magistrates through the windows. They
were then obliged to comply, to prevent worse
consequences. The mob, at the fame timeafleni
bled, broke into, and took from the several ma
gazines and store houses, of the (late all they con
tained ; and luckily for the inhabitants they a -
mused themselves so, or numbets of other houses
would have been pillaged and deftroyedby thole
wretches : Such was the scene in Brudels for 24
hours. Much more was to be feared from those
people than the Auftrians: however, the town
was yelterday relloredto its former tranquility,
by the arrival of the Auftrians, who were re
ceived by the people with great marks of r?fpe<si,
and amidst the repeated acclamations and lhouts
of Vive Leopold :
MADRID, November 15
Our fears of a war with rhe Moors are happily
on the poir.t of being dispelled, as, owing to the
reiterated advances of the Emperor of Morocco,
peace between him and ourcoiirt is nearly,if not
quite concluded. Concelfions will be made 011
both fides, and the present from Spain, which was
formerly but 200,000 pialters (and not 500,000,
as was reported) is to be encreafed.
Philadelphia, March 9.
Letter from Mr. Pintard,the Consul of the
United States, at Madeira.
Madeira, January 23d. I 791
SIR,
I BEG leave to inform you,that the government
of this Island, have prohibited the importation of
Train-Oil from America ; — which has hitherto
been an article of some considerable import, par
ticularly from the Eastern states. 1 thought it
proper to give you this information, that the
Merchants throughout the United States might
be informed of it. 1 have the honor to be&c.
William Barry Groves, Esq. is eletSted mem
ber of the second Houle of Representatives of
the United States, for Wilmington Diihic s i, N.
Carolina
Bv the last London papers it appears, that op
position to the niiniller, is left in the minority by
1?4 members, on a morion to have the paprrs
produced respecting the Spanish convention. The
numbers for the motion were 124
Against it
Majority for the Minister 134,
775
j-OHN M. PINTARD
258
The Hon. James Wilson, is empowered by
the House of Afleniby (uuanimoufly) to revise
and digest in proper form the laws of this com
monwealth ; to receive an adequate compensa
tion therefor.
A correspondent observes that an appointment
thus lionorahly obtained, mult give p!eafure to
every friend of the country, especially as it is
conferred on a character so confeiledly compe*
tent to the execution of the important trust.
A Society for the promotion of Agriculture,
Manufactures and Arts, has lately been inltitu
ted in the state of New-York, and the following
officers elecfed.
Hon. Robert R. IJvingfton, President.
Hon. John Slop Hobart, Vice-President,
John McKtjfon, ? Ffn - rs Secretaries
Samuel L. Mitchell, f rS > b
Alexander Macomb, Esq. Treafnrer*
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Ann, Glover,
Schooner ' Alexandria, Stewart,
Thomas, Stratton,
Eagbc, Barran,
Richmond, Block, Richmond.
Fanny, Walker, Virginia.
Nancy, Hilton, ditto.
Willingmaid, Harden. Wilmington,
Sloop
ICT* Public Securities as in our last.
Speculation in the Funds appeals to be at a (land : In propor
tion as our public affairs approximate to the point of (lability, the
variations in the prices of Securities will leflVn—and very shortly
the only difference between paper and specie will be the per cent,
allowance for tranfa&ing the bufinrf of sales and transfers.
fpf The Speculation signed " One of the People"—though
lengthy is not interefling. .
ADVERTISEMENT.
$3** Refpefting the numerous complaints received, on the
failure of the Gazette oj the United States, the Editor would inform
his subscribers, that since the firft of January last, the Mail has bec»
carried from this city to Baltimore, on horse-back, and lately th<*
road to New-York has been so bad, that the fame regulation has
been adopted on that route : The mercantile interest being consi
dered as the principal support of the Post Office, its accommoda
tion, in expediting the Mail, has given nfeto this arrangement —
Meantime the Stages, East and South, have plied as usual ; and the
Papers destined to Baltimore, and the louthward of that City, have
been regularly and pun&ually dispatched by them : The badnefsof
the roads to the eastward, has sometime? prevented the Stage from
this city, reaching Powles'-Hook, in season, to have the papeis
taken by the Stage bound to Boston : The public dispatches fre
quently occupy the greatest part of the Mail-Portmanteaus, and the
1 mpoflibility of transporting on horse-back, those of a lufficient size
to contain the letters, public dispatches, and the newspapers, all at
the fame time,often occasions the detention of the latter at the poft
office, for many days, after they are left there to be transmitted.
The foregoing are the only reasons that the Editor can aflign
for the recent disappointments, having never failed in a single m
ilance to have the Papers prepared in season.
As the original design of this publication was to diffufe infor
mation to all parts of the Union from the feat of government, as
from a common centre, and the paper has received very general
approbation, and a more extensive circulation than perhaps any
other Newspaper ever published in America—the Editor hopes
the present interruption will be so temporary, as not to exhaust the
patience of his subscribers.
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELI AS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the sth of April next, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengal, Madras, and Isle of France r
Consisting of a large and valuable assortment of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz.
BAFT AS, ) Cloths, proper for
Sannas, and > 01 ■ ■ cu
CafTas, ) Sh,rt,n S> or Sheeting.
Dureas—or striped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted ftriptd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagrenant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchiefs.
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, suitable for (hirting."J
Madras Patches, beautifully figured.
Camboys, or blu-e and white striped Cottons. |
Moreas, or plain white Cloths. 1
Madras Cambricks. (3
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
Book Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety. j
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Surat Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the Hie ot France, of a superior quality.
An alfortment of fine Winesof the Cape of Good Hope.
Raisins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfers, for Sailors' wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety oj other Goods, which are
not enumerated. A!fo t
100 Casks Raisins, J
75 ChelU Bohe. Wof the best liti „.
go Ditto Hylon, (
30 ditto Souchong, )
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to theJale.
W. P BARTLETT and CO. Authoreers.
Salem, Feb. 21,1791
This day is pub!ijlitd,
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Front-Street,
The American Museum,
FOR FEBRUARY, 1791.
Lontents[in our next.
Madeira.
Aux-Caves.
Virginia.
BengatReport of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
fubjeift of a Mint.
(concluded.)
IT is conceived that the weight of the cent may be eleven penny
weight, which will about correspond with the value of the
copper and the expence of the coinage. Thia will be to conform to
the rule of intrinsic value, as far as regard to the convenient size
of the coins will permit; and the deduction of the expence of
coinage in this cafe will be the more proper, as the copper coins,
which have been current hitherto, have passed till lately for much
mor,e than their intrinsic value. Taking the weight, as has been
fuggcfted,|the size of the cent may be nearly that of the piece here
with transmitted, which weighs todwt. ugrs. 10m. Two thirds
of the diameter of the cent will fuflice for the diameter of the half
cent.
It may perhaps be thought expedient, according to general
praflice, to make the copper an of profit; but where
this is done to any considerable extent, it is hardly poflible to have
effedual security against counterfeits. This confederation, concur
ring with the soundness of the principle of prelerving the intrin
sic value of the money ot a country, seems to outweigh the confi
d ration of profit.
The foregoing l'uggeiliom, refpefting the fizesofthe several coins,
are made on the fuppohtion, that the legislature may think fit to
regulate this matter : perhaps, however, it may be judged not un
advifeable to leave it to executive discretion.
With regard to the proposed size of the cent, it is to be con
fefitd, that it is rather greater than might be wished, if it could
"with propriety and fafety be made less : and should the value of
copper continueto decline, as it has done for iome time past, it is
very queflionable, whether it will long remain alone a fit metal
for money. This has led to a confederation of the expediency of
uniting a small proportion ot silver with the copper, in order to
be able to leflen the bulk of the inferior coins. For this, there are
precedents in several paitsof Europe. In France, the composi
tion, which is called billion, has confided of one part silver and
four parts copper ; according to which proportion, a cent might
contain seventeen grains ; defraying out of the material the ex
pence of coinage. The conveniency of size is a recommendation
ot such a species of coin; but the secretary is deterred from pro
posing it, by the apprehension of counterfeits.—The effc£l of so
small a quantity of silver, in, comparatively so large a quantity of
copper, could easily be imitated by a mixture of other metals of
little value, and the temptation to doing it would not be incon
siderable.
The devices of the coins are far from being matters of indiffer
ence,as they may be made the vehicles of ufeful impreflions. They
ought therefore to be emblematical, but without lofmg fight of
simplicity. The fewer sharp points and angles there are, the less
will be the loss by wearing. The lecretary thinks it btft, on this
head, to confine himfelf to these concise and general remarks.
The last point to be difcufTed, refpe&s the currency of foreign
coins—
The abolition of this, in proper season, is a necessary part of
the system contemplated for the national coinage. But this, it
will be expedient to defer, till some coniiderable progress has
been made in preparing fubflitutes for them. A gradation may
therefore be found moil convenient.
The foreign coins may be fuffered to circulate, precisely upon
their present footing, for one year after the mint fliall have com
menced its operations. The privilege may then be continued for
another year to the gold coins of Portugal, England and France,
and to the lilver coins of Spain. And these may dill be permit
ted to be current, for one year more, at the rates allowed to be
given for them at the mint ; after the expiration of which the cir
culation of all foreign coins to cease.
The monies, which will be paid into the treasury, during the
firft year, being recoined, before they are iflued anew, will afford
a partial substitute before any interruption is given to the pre-ex
iftmg supplies of circulation. The revenues of the succeeding
year, and the coins which will be brought to the mint, in confc
quence of the discontinuance of their currency, will materially ex
tend the substitute, in the course of that year, and its extenfton
will befofar encreafed, during the third year, by the facility of
procuring the remaining species to be recoined, which will arise
from the diminution of their current values, as probably to enable
the dispensing wholly with the circulation of the foreign coins,
after that period. The progress which the currency of bank-bills,
will be likely to have made, during the fame time, will also afford
a substitute of another kind.
This arrangement, besides avoiding a sudden flagnation of cir
culation, will cause a considerable proportion of whatever loss
may be incident to the establishment, in the firft instance, to fall,
as it ought to do, upon the government, and will probably tend to
diftributc the remainder of it more equally among the commu
nity.
It may nevertheless be advifeable, in addition to the precautions
here suggested, to repose a discretionary authority in the Pre
sident of the United States, to continue the currency of the Spanifli
dollar, at a value corresponding with the quantity of fine silver
contained in it, beyond the period above mentioned for the epila
tion of the circulation of the foreign coins. It is poflibte that an
exception in favor of this particular species of coin may be found
expedient ; and it mav tend to obviate inconveniences, if there be
a power to naake the exception in a capacity to be exerted when
the period shall arrive.
The Secretary for the department of State, in his report to the
House of Representatives, on the fubjett of eftablilhing a uniform
ity in the weights, measures and coins of the United States, has
proposed that the weight of the dollar should correspond with
the unit of weight. This was done on the supposition, that it
would require but a very small addition to the quantity of metal,
which the dollar, independently of the objedl he had in view,
ought to contain ; in which he was guided by the relolution of
the Bth of August, 1786 —fixing the dollar at 375 grains and 64
hundredths of a grain.
Taking this as the prop r standard of the dollar, a Imall altera
tion for the fake of incorporating so systematic an idea would ap
pear deferable. But if the principles which have been reasoned
from, in this report, are just, the execution ot that idea bccomes
more iitr.cult. It would certainly not be advifeable to make on
th it account, so considerable a change in the money unit, as would
be produced by the addition of five grains of silver to the proper
we?ght of the dollar, without a proportional augmentation ot its
relative value. And to make such an augmentation would be to
abandon the advantage of prefcrving the identity of the dollar, 01
to speak more accurately, of having the proposed one received
and considered, as a mere substitute lor the present.
The end may however be obtained without either of those in
conveniencies, by encreafing the proportion of alloy in the silver
coins. But this would destroy the uniformity, in that refpeft,
between the gold and silver coins. It remains therefore to elett
which of the two systematic ideas fnall be pursued or relinquished.
And it may be remarked, that it will be more easy to convert the
present silver coins into the proposed ones, ifthefe last have the
fame, or near ly the fame proportion of alloy, than if they have
less.
The organization of the mint yet remains to be considered.
This relates to the persons to be employed, and to the services
which they are refpettively to perform. It is conceived that there
ought to be
A dirtftor of the mint, to have the general fuperintendance oi
the business.
An a flay matter, or aflayer, to receive the metals brought to the
Siiint, afcertatn their finenefs, arid deliver them to be coined,
A master coiner, to condutt the making o£ the coins.
A cashier, to receive and pay them out.
An auditor, to keep and adiuft the accounts of the mint.
Clerks, as many as the directors of the mint (hall deem neces
sary, to afljlt the different officers.
Workmen, as many as may be found requisite.
A porter.
In several of the European mints, there are various other offi
cers, but the foregoing arc those only, who appear to be indispen
sable. Persons in the capacity of clerks will fuffice instead of the
others, with the advantage of greater economy.
The number of workmen is left indefinite, because, at certain
times, it is requisite to have more than at others. They will, how
ever, never be numerous. The ex pence of the establishment, in
an ordinary year, will probably be from fifteen to twenty thou
sand dollars.
The remedy for errors in the weight and alloy of the coins mufl
necefTarily form a part in the system of a mint ; and the manner
of applying it will require to be regulated. The following ac
count is given of the pra&ice in England, in this particular.
A certain number of pieces are taken promiscuously out of eve
ry fifteen pounds of gold coined at the mint, which is deposited
for fafe keeping in a strong box called the pix. This box, from
time to time, is opened in the presence of the lord chancellor, the
officers of the treasury, and others ; and portions are fele£ted from
the pieces of each coinage, which are melted together, and the
mass afTayed by a jury of the company of goldsmiths. If the im-
P'Ttettion and deficiency both in the finenefs and weight, fall
ihort of a sixth of a carat, or 40 grains of pure gold upon a pound
of standard, the mailer of the mint is held excusable ; because it
is supposed that no workman can reasonably be answerable for
greater exa&nefs. The expediency of some similar regulation
feeras to be manifeft.
ALL WHICH IS HUMBLY SUBMITTED,
LAWS OF THE UNION.
CONGRESS OK THE UNITED STATES:
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT fixing the Time of the next annual
Meeting of CONGRESS.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress allembled, That
after the third day of March next, the firft annual meeting of Con
gress (hall be on the fourth Monday of October next.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefdent of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, March second, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ofthe United States,
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
An ACT supplementary to thea(st, entitled " An
Adl to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank
of the United States."
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
fubferiptions to the stock of the Bank of the United States, as pro
vided by the ast, intituled, " An ast to incorporate the subscribers
to the Bank of the United States," shall not be opened until the
firft Monday in July next.
And be it further enacted, That so much of the firft payment as
by the said ast is direftea to be in the fix per cent, certificates of
the United States, may be deferred until the firft Monday in Jan
uary next."
And be it further enacted, That no person, corporation, or bo
dy politic, except in behalf of the United States, (hall, for the
space of three months alter the said firft Monday in July next, fub
feribe in any one day, tor more than thirty (hares.
And be it further enacted, That every fubferiber shall, at the
time of fubferibing, pay into the hands of the persons who (hall
be appointed to receive the fame, the specie proportion required by
the said ast to be then paid. And if any such fubferiber shall fail
to make any ol the future payments, he shall forfeit the sum so by
him firft paid, for the use of the corporation.
Arid be it further enatted, That such part of the public debt,in
cluding the ailumcd debt, as is funded at an interest of three per
cent, may be paid to the bank, in like manner with the debt fund
ted at fix per cent, computing the value of the former at one half
the value of the latter, and reserving to the subscribers who fiiall
have paid three per cent, flock, the privilege of redeeming the
fame with fix per cent, stock, at the above rate of computation, at
any time before the firft day of January, one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-three ; unless the three per cent, stock shall have
been previously disposed of by the dire&ors.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, March second, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejiient of the United States
Deposited among the Rolls iri the Office of the Secretary of State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary ojState.
An ACT to explain and amend an A<fl, intituled
" An Acft making further Provilion for the
Payment of the Debts of the United States."
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress aifembled, That the
duty of one cent per pound, laid by the ast " making further pro
vision for the payment of the debts of the United States," on bar
and other lead, (hall be deemed and taken to extend to all manu
factures wholly of lead, or in which lead is the chief article, which
shall hereafter be brought into the United States, from any foreign
port or place. •
And be it turther ena&ed, That the duty of seven and a half per
cent, ad valorem, laid by the a& aforefaid, on chintzes and colored
calicoes, (hall be deemrd and taken to extend to all printed,ftain
ed and colored goods, or manufactures of cotton, or of linen or
of both, which hereafter lhall be brought into the United States
trom any foreign port or place.
Provided always, That nothing in this a£l {hall in any wile af
left the true conftru&ion or meaning of the a£l aforefaid, in rela
tion to any of the above defcribcdarticlts biought into the United
States before the palling of this act.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representative!
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President oj the United States.
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, March second, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State*
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State'
ICP A few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States, printed with Notes, may be had of the
Editor.
776
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Philadelphia, February 44th, 1791.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS,
INTENDED AS MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
IN this collection will be contained the Cmart*rs of the
feveial states which now compose the Union ; —the Recordi
of the United Colon iesof Ne w-Enc la nd Royal Inftiuc
tions to Colon lal Governors ; —Ext rac ts from Pu bl 1«
Records ; —and other authentic Documents tending to elucidate
our History.
The design of this compilation was intimated to Congress, and
honored with their approbation.— On the 20th July, 1778, their
committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it as
their " Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
deserves the public patronage and encouragement, as being pro
ductive of public utility;" Whereupon they * s Resolved, That
it be recommended to the Governors, Prefidcnts, and Executive
Powers of the several states in the union, to aflift Mr. Hazard,and
give facility to his labors ; and that for this purpose he be admit
ted to an infpe&ion of public records, and be furnifhed without
expence with copies of such papers as he may judge will conducc
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He was, of consequence, admitted to the infpeftion and use both
of public records, and the collections made by individuals, from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met with
on the fubjeft, and, he flatters himfelf, the largest ever made ia
America) was formed. It has since met the approbation of manv
eminent charafters,and even in its manuscript state, has facilitated
the settlement of some important controversies.
The compiler cannot suppress the following letter from the honor*
able the Secretary of State, to whose infpeftion part of the com
pilation was submitted, as it contains so flattering and refpefta
ble a testimony in favor of the importance of thowork.
" Philadelphia, February 18,1791.
S //?,
I return you the two volumes of Records, with thanks for the opportu
nity of looking into them :—they are cur ions Monuments of the Infancy
of our country. 1 learn with great fatisfaftion that you are about com
mitting to the Press the valuable Hiflorical and State Papers you have
been so long colleuing. Time and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals deposited in our public offices : the late war has done the
work oj centuries in this business : the loft cannot be recovered; but let
usfave what remains ; not by vaults and locks, which fence them front
the public eye and use in consigning them to the wajle of time, but by fuck
a multiplication of copies as Jhall place them beyond the reach of accident;
this being the tendency of your undertaking, be ajfured there is no one who
wifhzs it a more complete success than, S IR,
Your mojl obedient and mojl humble Servant,
Mr. Hazard
CONDITIONS.
I. The Work to be published in numbers, each containing
160 pages, large quarto :—A number to be delivered every three
months.
11. On delivery of the firft Number, payment to be made for
the firft and second, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(except the last) so that the price of one Number will beconftant
ly in advance. The very great expence attending so large a work,
at the fame time that it renders this condition abfojutely necessa
ry, will be a fufficient apology to the candid for its insertion.
111. The price to Subscriber? will be one Dollar for cach num
ber. It is supposed that the Work will probably be comprised in
eight Numbers, forming two handsome Volumes, in large quarto,
printed on a neat Type and good paper.
IV. To those who choose to fubferibe for the Work in Vo
lumes, the price will be Four Dollars and a Quarter of a Dollar, for
each Volume, in boards.
V. The collection will be put to the Press as soon as there
(hall be a fufficient number of fubferiptions to juftify an hope that
the expences will be defrayed.
who receive Subjcriptious will please trdnjmit accounts oj
the numbers obtained to Thomas Dobfon, No, 41, Second-Jlreet, Phila
delphia, by thejijl of May next.
Subscriptions will be received in Portsmouth, (N. H) by
Jeremiah Libbey; Softon, Thomas Sc Andrews; Worcester,
Isaiah Thomas; Hartford, Thomas Hildrup ; New-Haven, lfaac
Beers; New-London, Timothy Green ; Newport, (R. I.) Jacob
Richardson ; Providence, John Carter ; New-York, Hodge, Al
len & Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. Lanfing ; Philadelphia,
1 homas Dobfon, and Hazard Sc Addoms ; Wilmington, (Dela
ware) Frederick Craig; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexandria, Jo
shua Merriman ; Norfolk, Mr. Linafey ; Frederickfburgh, Cal
lender and Henderfon ; Peterfburgh, John Grammer; Rich
mond, Augustine Davis ; Newbern, (N. C.) F. X. Martin; Wil
mington, John Bradley ; Charleston, (S. C.) William P. Young.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Somcrfct County, fl".
BY virtue of a writ of Jieri facias tome dire&ed, against the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of Christopher
Beekman, I have levied on, and seized that valuable ho life and
lot of land, situate on the north fide of the Main Street, in Prince
on, now in poffeflion of Adam Shaw, and known by sign of the
College ; it is an excellent {land for a public house, and has been
occupied in that way for many years. All the above mentioned
premises will be exposed to sale, on Thursday the tenth day of
March next, between the hours of twelve and five in the afternoon
of said day, of which all persons concerned will please take no
ice ;_ _ _ _ WILLIAM WALLACE, Sheriff.
Wcjltrn PrecinS, 18ih February, 1791
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already publifhcd)
Written by Mathew Carey.
!• r I "'HE Work (hall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
X fineft writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to fubferibers two thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. Ihe work shall be put to the press as soon as 250 copies
are fubferibed for.
The fubferibers names shall be prefixed
SUBSC-RIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart?
and Co. and all the other Booksellers in Philadelphia; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout the United States, who supply
Icribers with the AmericanMufeura,
Philadelphia, Feb. 23,
170 X
THOMAS JEFFERSON."
CONDITIONS.