/i / , .
ifil
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS Aa'D BY No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA. %
[No. 6y, of Vol. II!.]
SECRETARY'S
(c° w c OUR last.)..
nPHE United States north-weft of the Ohio, is
on the f.juth by that river, on the cast, by Penii- ,
on the north and weft, by the lines which divide ..he ,
United States from the dominions of Great-Britain and Spain.
The part of this territory occupied by Indians, is north <nd
weft of the following lines, tlkablilhed with the Wiandots, De
laware?, Chippawa*, and On::was by the treaty of fort M'lntolh,
and with tli" Shawanefe, by that ot the Great JVliami, to wit : be
ginning at the mouth ot the Cayahoga, and running up the river
to the portage, between that and the Tufcaroras branch of the
Muflungurn, then down the said branch to the forks, at tlecrof
{\ng place above fort Lawrence, then weilwardiy, towards the
portage of ihe Big Miami, to the main branch of that river,
then down the Miatn' 10 the tork of that river next below the
old fort, which was taken by the French in 1752 ; thence due
veil to the river De la Panfe, und down thatriver to the Wabafh.
Solar the lines are preciiely defined, and the whole countiy
southward of these lines, and eallward of the Wabafh cleared ot
the claim* of thole Indians, as it is also of those of the Poutiwati
jna*, and Sacs, by the treaty of Mutkingum. How far on the
other fide of the Wabath, the fouihern boundary of the Indiana
has been defined, we know not. It is only understood in gene
ral, that their title to the lower country, between that river and
the Illinois, has been formeily extinguilhed by the French, while
in their pofl ffion. As to that countiy then, and what lies Hill
bevond the Illinois, it would leem expedient that nothing be
gone, until a fair afecrtainment of boundary can t3ke place, by
mutual consent, between us and the Indians mteicfted.
Tne country within the YVabafn, the Indian line before aef
cribed, the Pennfylvanian line, and the Ohio, contains, 011 a
loose estimate, about 55,000 iouare miles, or 35 millions of
acres,
During the Biitifh government, gr<°at numbers of persons had
formed themselves in companies under different names, such a &
the Ohio, theWabafli, ihe Illinois, the Mifliiippi, or Vaudalia
companies, and had covered with their applications, a great part
of their territory. Some of them had obtained eiders on certain
conditions, which, having never been fulfilled, their luits were
never completed by grants. Oiheis were only in a state of mgo
ciation when the Biitifti authority was discontinued. Some of
these claims being already under a special tcierencc by order of
Congress, and all of them probably tailing under the operation of
the lame principles, they will not be noticed in the present
report.
The elaims of citizens to be here stated will be,
1. Those reserved to the States by their deeds of ceflion.
11. Thole which have anien under the government of the
United States themselves.
Und«r the fir ft head presents itfelf the tract ot country from the
completion of the 41ft degree, to 42 deg 2 min. of north latitude,
and extending from the Pennlylvania line before mentioned, 120
miles wtftward, not mentioned in the deed of Connecticut, while
all the country westward thereof, was mentioned to be ceded ;
about two and a half millions of acres of this may perhaps be
wiihou: the Indian lines befoie mentioned.
2. A refcivdtion in the deed ot Virginia, of the pofTefiions
and titles of the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other
fcttlersof the Kaflfcafkias, St. Vincennes, and the neighboring vil
lages, who had profeffed themselves citizens of Virginia, which
rights have been fettled by an ast ot the last feflion of Congrels,
entitled, " An a£t for graining lands to the inhabitants and fu
llers ai Vincennes and the Illinois country, in the territory north
west of the Ohio, and for confirming them in their poflefiions."
Thele lands are in the neighborhood of the fcveral villages.
3 A refervution in the lame deed, of a quantity, not exceeding
150,000 acres of land for General George Rogers Clarke, and
the officers and soldiers of h:s regiment, who were at the reduc
tion ot Kaikaikias, and St. Vincennes, to be laid off in such place
on the northwest fide ot the Ohio, as a majority of the orticers
Ibouid choofThey chole they ihould be laid off on the river
adjacent to the rapids, which accordingly has been done.
4. A refervauon in the fame deed, ot lands between the Sciota
and Little Miami, to make up to the Virginia troops on conti
nental establishment, the quantity which the good lands, in their
southern allotment, might tall Ihort of the bounties given them by
the laws ot that Slate. By a statement ot the i6h Sept. 1788, it
appears, that 724,045 acres had been furveytd tor them on ihe
south eaftcrn fide of the Ohio; that 1 acres had been
farv.vedon the northweitern fide; th,jt warrants lor 649,649
acre* more, to be laid off on the fame fide of the river, were in
tbe flands of the furvcyor, and it was supposed there might iiill be
iome tew warrants not yet piefented ; io that this refervauon may
Deflated ai 2,045,034 £ acies ur perhaps some Imall matter
more.
If. The claims of individual citizens, derived from the United
States thcmleives, are the following :
1. Thole of the continental army, founded on the resolutions of
Congrelsof Sept. 16, 1776, August 12, and Sept. 30, 1780, and
fix».d by the ordinance of May 20, 1785. The resolution of
O&ober 22, 1787, and tl»e fupplenaentary ordinance of July 9,
3788, in the feveu ranges of townlhips, beginning at a point on
the Ohio, due north from the western termination of a line then
lately run, as the southern boundaiy of Pennsylvania : 01 in a fc
cond trad of a million ol acres, bounded eaii, by the 7 h range
of the laid townlhips, fouih by }he lands ot Cutler and Sargent ;
*orth, by an extension of the northern boundary ot the said town
&»ps ; and going towards the weft io far as to include the above
quantity, or, lastly, in a third tra& of country, beginningat the
mouth ot the Ohio, and running up the river Miffifxppi to the ri
ver An Vaule, thence up the lame till it meets a welt line from the
mouth of the little Wabalh ; thence along that line to ttie Great
Wabafh ; thence down the fame and the Ohio, to the beginning.
The ftim iota! of the said military claims i* 1,851,800 acres.
2. Those of the individuals who mads pgrchafes of land a..
New-York, wi:hin the laid fevco rangetof townships, according
to the resolutions of Congrek ot Apnl 2tft, 1787, and the i <p
p»ernentary Ordinance ot J uly 9, 1788, which claims amount tc
acres.
3. Tlie purchase of one million and a half acres of land by Cut
ler ai»d Sargent, on behalf of certain individuals, aflociatrd under
name ol the Ohio Company. This begins w here the Ohio is
interfered by the weflcrn boundary of the 7th range ol town
ftipy, and runs due nonh oil thai boundary 1306 chains and 25
Ji&ks ; thence due Weft to the western boundaryof the 17th range
w» townfiitps ; thence due south to the Ohio, and up that nvi
to the beginning; the whole area containing 1:781,760 acres &•
December 17, 170 1.
R T,
l*nd, whereof 281,760 acres, contifting of various lots and town-
Ihips, are teferved to the United States.
4. The purchase by the fame Cutler and Sargent on'behalf also
of themselves and_others ; This begins at the tiortheaftem angle
oft oTtheir purchase before described, and runs due north
-ttTthe northern boundary of the 10th townlhip from the Ohio ;
rhene<? due weft, to the Scioto; thence down the fame, and up the
Ohio 10 Ihe South western angle of the said purchase before dcfcr.-
bed, and along the wefterp and northern boundaries thereof to
the beginning ; the whole area containing 4,901,480 acres of
land, out of which, however, five lots, to wit, No. 8, 11, 16, 26,
and 29 q.t every township, of fix miles square, are retained by the
United States, and out of the whole are retained the three town-,
(hips of Gna enhuuen, Schoenbrun, and Salem ; and certain
lci;os aroumi them, as will be hereafter mentioned.
5. The purchairof John CI eves Symmes, bounded on the weft
by the G»eat Miami; en the south by the Ohio; on the eafl
by a line which is to bgin on the bank of the Ohio, 20 miles
from the mouth of the great Miami, as measured along the fev ral
couifes of the O'iio, and to run parallel with the general courfeof
the laid Great Miami ; and on the north by an eait and weft liner,
10 lun as io include a mil! on of acres in 'he whole area, whereof
live lots, numbered as before mentioned, aie reserved out of eve
ry townllnp by the United States.
It is fuggefV d that this purchaser, under colour of a firft and
larger proportion to.the board of ireafury, which wds never clo
sed (but pending that proportion) fold sundry parcels of land,
between his eastern boundary before mentioned, and the Little
Miami; and that the purchafeis have fettled thereon. If these
luggefhons prove true, the fettlcrs will, perhaps, be thought to
meut th. favor of the*legiflature, as purchafert for valuable con
federation, and without notice of the defe£l of title.
The contra As. for lands, which were at one time under confi
dcration with MeilYs. Flint and Parker, and with Colonel Mor
gan, were never so tar orofecutcd as to biinj either party under
any obligation. All proceedings thereon were dil'continued at a
very early stage, and it 'S supposed that no further view's cxiit with
any other party These, therefore, are not to be enumerated a
mong t xtftmg claims.
6. Three townihips were reserved by the ordinance of May 20,
1785, adjacent to Ljke Erie, for refugees from Canada and No-
and for other purposes according to lefolutiom ot
Coiigrefs, made or to be m -de on that fubjc&. Theie would oi
couiie contain 60,120 acrcs.
7. The lame ordinance of May 20th, 1785, appropriated the,
ihicr. towns of Gnadenhuitcn, Sthoenbrun, and Salem, on the
Mufkingum, tor the christian Indians formesly fettled there, or
the remains of that society, with the grounds round about them,
and the quantity of the said circumjacent grounds, for each ot th
ia:d towns, was determined by the relolution of Congress of Sep
tember 3d, 1788, to be so much as, with the plat of us iefpe£tive
town, would make up 4000 acre*; lo that three towns aud theii
circumjacent lands were to amount to 12,000 acres. This refei
vation was accoidmgiy made out of the large purchase of Cutlet
and Sargent, which comprehended them. The Indians,however,
tor whom the lefervation was made, have chosen to emigraic be
yond tliv limits of the United States, so that the lands icferved
tor them, ftiil remain to the United States.
On the whole, it appears that the United States may rightfully
difpofeof the lands between the Wabafh, and the Ohio, Penn
sylvania, the torty-fii ft parallel of latitude, and the Indian hues
defci ibed in the treaties of the Great Miami, and fort M'lntolh,
with excepnons only of the rights saved by the deed of ceflion oi
Virg. and of all rights legally derived trom the government ot the
United States, and supposing the part south ot the Indian lines, to
contain as before conje&ured about 35 millions of acres, and
that the claims of citizens before enumerated may amount to be
tween thirteen and fourteen millions, there remain at the difpofai
of the United States upwards of twenty-one millions of actes, in
thi& northwestern quarter.
And though the want of a&ual surveys of fomc parts, and of a
general delineation of the whole on paper, so as to exhibit to the
eye the locations, forms, andielative portions of the rights betoie
dcfcribcd, may prevent our forming a well defined idea ot them
at this difUuce, yet, on the spot th.fe difficulties exilt but in a
small degree. The individuals theie employed in the details of
buying, felling and locating, possess local informations ot th,
parts which concern them, to as to be able to keep clear ot eacn
others rights ; or, it in some lnftances a confltft ot clauns (houlu
arise, from any want of certainty in their definition, a ucal juug'.
wil! doubtless be provided to decide them without delay, at Icaii
provisionally. Time, instead of clearing up these uncertainties,
will cloud them the more, by the death or removal ol witneiic,
the difappearanee ot lines aad masks, change oi parties, and other
cafualtics.
Nov. 8, 1791
[The following letters accompanied the msi
fage of the 12th in It. troiu the I'refideiit.of the
United Status, to Cougrefs, and were omitted in
the li»ii Gazette lor want oi room.]
Fert-ff'ajhingion, Ocl. 6, 1 79 1.
Sir, ...
I HAVE now the farisfaifhon to inform you that
the army moved from iort HflnHi[i'ii f thc name
I have given to the fort on the Miami, on the
4th at "iglu in the morning, under the command
cf General Butler. The 01 der of march and en
cam pmerit I had regulated before, and on the 3d
returned to 1 his place to get up the militia. 1 hey
marched yesterday, and conlilt of but about 300
!;>en, as you will fee by the enclosed ab!tratf of
the mutter. 1 have reason to believe, however,
that at least an.equal number will be up here by
the ioih, and I have left ordeis for their follow
ing us The monthly return Ihould have accom
panied this letter, but it was not ready v.hen I
left camp, and has not been forwarded fmce. I
have hitherto found it impofiible to reduce the
officers commanding corps to punctuality with
rcfied. to their returns, but they are meading.
265
TH. JEFFERSON, Stc'ry cf Slate.
13 /| /( j It
[Whole No. 275.]
Our numbers, :ifter deducting the garrisons of
rliis plat e and Fort-Hamilton,are about two thou •
find, exclusive of the militia. I trust I shall find
tiicui fufficient and ihould the reft of the mili
tia come on, it will make the matter pretty cer
tain. But the season is now so far advanced/that
I fear the intermediate polls, which would in»
deed have been highly neceflary, it will be iin
poflible to eitabliih : in that, however, 1 niuft be
governed by circumstances, of which 1 will take
care that you fliall be apprized fn due time.
Should the enemy coine to meet us, which seems
to be expecfted, and be difconifited, there will be
no difficulties ; but if they exped; us at the Mia
mi villages, the business will wear another face,
and the intermediate polls become more eflen
tial.
1 am this moment felting out for the army,
which I hope to overtake to-morrow evening,and
will write to you again as soon afier as may be.
With great regard and refpedt,
1 have the honor to be.
Sir, your very humble fevant,
The Hon. Maj. Gen. Knox,
Secretary of War.
Camp, 81 ?/ulcs advanced, of Fort-Wajhingion f
Nov. i, 1789.
Sir,
SINCK I had the honor 10 write to you 011 the
2111 lilt, nothing very material has happened,
and indeed I am at present so unwell (ami luve
been so for foine time pall) that I coulti ill detail
ir, if it had happened,—not that that (pace of
time has been entirely barren of incidents ; but
as few of them have been of the agreeable kind,
I beg you to accept a fort of journal account of
them, which will be the eafielt for me.
On the asd, the ,indifpofirion that had hung
about me for some time, funietiines appearing as
a billious cholic, and sometimes as a rheumatic
alllnna, to my gr eat faiisfadtion changed to the
gout in the left arm and hand, leaving the brealt
and (tomach perfectly relieved, and the cough
which had been exceifive, entirely gone. This
day Mr. Ellis, with sixty militia from Kentucky,
joined the army, and brought up a quantity of
flour and beef. 23d, two men, taken in the atft
of deserting to the enemy, and one for (hooting
another soldier and threatning to kill an officer,
were hanged upon the grand parade, the whole
army being drawn out. Since the army have
halted, the country around this and ahead for
fifteen mileschas been well examined: it is a
country, which had we arrived a month foonet
in it; and with three times the number oi ani
mals, they would have been all fat now. 24th,
named the foxijcfferfon (it lies in lat. 40. 4.^2.N.)
and marched, the fame Indian path serving to
conduift us about fix miles, and encamped on
good ground and an excellent pofitien—
in fi oi»«, and a very large prarie, which would
at the proper season afford forage for a thousand
horses, on the left. So ill this day that I had
much difficulty in keeping with the army. 2jtb,
very hard rains last night—obliged to halt to
day, on account of provisions ; for though the
foltliersmay be kept pretty easily in camp under
the expedtotion of provisions arriving, they can
not bear ro march in advance, and take none a
long with them. Received a letter from Mr.
Hodgdon, by express ; 13000 cwt. of flour will
arrive on the 27th. 26th, a party of militia sent
to reconnoitre, fell in with fivelndiansj and fuf
fered them to flip through their finger* : in their
camp, articles tothe valueof twenty-two dollars
were found and divided. The Virginia battali
on is melting down v£ry fact ; not withstanding
the promises of the men to the officers, thirteen
have been discharged by Col. Dark to-day. 27fh,
gave orders for inlifting the levies, with thecon
dition of serving out their time in their present
corps. Pyamingo, arrived incampwith his war
riors : I was so unwell, could only fee him and
bid him welcome, but entered on no bufu.efi.
Considerable diflatisfatflion among the levies a
baut their enlistments. 28th, some clothing sent
for to Kort-Wafhington for the recruits arrived,
was begun to be diltributed, and will have a good
effe<ft ; but the inlifling the levies does not meet
with the encouragement that might have been
exDetfeo : it is not openly complained of by the
officers, but it is certainly piivately by some of
high rank, and the measure of tempvrg 'hem
with warm clothing condemned. M:. hodgdon
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.writes me he is fending forward a quantity or
woollen overalls and locks by General Boiler's
orders : I have ordered them to be depofite.l ac
Fort Jefferl'on. Some few Indians about us, pro
bably those the militia fell in with a day or two
ago. .T wo of the levies were fired upon about
three miles off, one killed: two of the miikia
likewise, one oftheni got in, and cite oilier raid
ing, supposed to be taken. 291b, Pyamingo and
his people, accompanied by Captain Sparks u.id
four good riflemen, gone on a scout ; lli.*)' d-j
not propose to return ur.der ten days, unless they
fooncr succeed in ta'-.ing prilotiers and scalps.
30th, the army moved about nine o'clock, and
with much diificulry made seven miles, having
left a conliderable part of the tents by the way ;
the provision made by the quarter-malter for that
purpose was not adequate—three days flour iifii
ed to the men to aid the horses fli.tt carried it to
his arrangements ; the Indian road still with us
—tlie course thisday N. 25. \V. 31ft. Thismorn
ing about sixty of the militia deserted—it was at
firft rejiorted that half of them had gone off,and
that their design was to plunder the convoys
which were'upon the road—detached the firft
regiment in pursuit of them, with orders to Ma
jor Hamtramck to fend a fufficienp guard back
with Benham whenever he met with him, and
follow them about twenty-five miles below Fort-
Jefferfoni or until he met the second convoy,and
ihen return and join the army. Benhain arrived
last night, and to-day, Nov. ift, the army is halt
ed to give the road-cutters an opportunity of get
ting foine distance a-head, and that I might write
to you—l am this day coiiliderably recovered,and
hope that it will turn out what I at firll expell
ed it would be, a friendly fit of the gout come
to relieve me from every other complaint.
Yesterday I was favored wilh yours of ihe 28t !i
knd 29th September, I have enclosed my commu
nications with the old and new contractors and
their anfweis—My orders for the polls to rheni
are not yet definite, but they will be very soon,
in the mean time I expect they are both at work.
With great refpeift 1 have the honor to be,
Sir, your moll obedient servant,
ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
The Hen. Maj. Gen. Knox,
Secretary of War.
cROld THE WINCHESTER (VIRGINIA CI ST IX EL
AFTER Gen. St. Clair's army left FOl t-V/afh
ington, they eredted two forts, the fiiit of which
is called for Hamilton, the second Kort-Jeffer
fon—that*, within about ij miles of the Maumee
towns, they halted for the purpose of erecting
a third—that the savages hovered round their
camp 011 the day preceding the aiftion, which
caused the troops to lie on their arms duiing the
night—that the former began the attack about
day-break—that the carnage was great on both
fides—that two troops of light horse cut their
way through an imineufe multitude of the sava
ges, and finding a ftilf greater number in their
rear, \vere compelled to leturn in the fame man
ner—that the gallant Colonel Darke cut his way
thro' parties of the savageS three different times
—that the artillery was captured by tbe ene«>y
five, and recaptured by our troops four times
that Gen. St. Clair was lying ill of the gout in
his tent during the unhappy conflict—that his
guaids prevented fouie of the Indians from en
tering the tent, to butcher him, by mere dint of
the bayonet—that many of the enemy fell in this
that some women are among the
Haiti oa the p?rt of the Americans.
The Chickafaw Chief, Mountain Leader, with
42 warriois of that nation, pafled through Lex
ington fonie time in (Mober last, on their way :o
jjun Gen. St. Clair—that at the time of the acftion
many of these were prefcnt, who fought with
great bravery on the part of the Americans, but
the Mountain Leader himfelf had been sent by
the General,- some days previous thereto, as a
pilot to a detachment of the army, which was or
dered ag3inlt some of the enemy's towns.
LONDON, September 50.
I '■- famous Baron Trenck, whose pension
-*■ the Emperor had augmented from icoo to
1500 florins, on condition that he engaged under
his hand not to publish any thing either in the
Auflrian dominions or elsewhere, has been guil
ty of an unpardonable breach of faith. Noi'oon
ei was lie arrived in Hungary, than at Buda he
committed a w>,ik to the p tfs in favor of the
French Revolution, in which he had the temeri
ty to declare, that the convulsion of the French
ought to fei ve as a model for o'her States, and
that himfelf had contributed much to the Revo
lution.
The Hungarian government having feiaed his
pcrfon, lie was conducted to Vienna under an
efco'tof twelve grenadiers, and is put into the
madjioufe, where probably he willendhis days.
J he Princes of the German empire have refer
*«•!• the "^ o!e °f ,htir concerns refpeifting tlie
a . f r °f France, and the proceedings of the.Na
tlonajAflembly to the Emperor, \vi h a promise
CeVerh€ 111311 advise in that
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF RE P R ESE NTATIV ES,
WEDNESDAY, DECt:.i3Er. 7, 1 791.
i n committee of the whole,
6/; //,(? Pefl-Qjficc Bill.
("CONCLUDED.) - — _ y .
/l/r. Sedgwick's motion under conftdcratioa.
MR. MADISON Giid that the arguments which
are offered by the gentlemen who are in
favor of the amendment, appear to be drawn ra
ther from theory rather than any line of prac
tice which had hitherto governed the house.
However difficult it may be to determine with
precision the exuift boundaries of the legislative
and executive powers, he was of opinion that
those arguments were not well founded, for they
admit of such a conftrncftion as will lead to blend
ing those powers so as to leave fio line of separa
tion whatever.
The greatest obstacle to the due exercise of the
powers vested in the legiflatiire by the bill, which
has been mentioned, is the difficulty of accom
modating the regulations to the various interests
of the different parts of the Union—and this is
said to be almost impracticable—but it may be
remembered, that finiilar einbarraflments appear
ed u hen the inipoft and tonnage bills were under
confidei ation ; on those fubjeifts, the members
were obliged to be governed, in a great degree,
«by mutual information and reciprocal confidence,
in respect to the ellablifhment and arrangements
of the different ports of entry and clearance, and
other objedts—that was a bnfinefs of much greater
importance and difficulty than this; but it was
accump'ifhed.
1 he conflitution has not only given the legis
lature the power of creating offices, but it exut efs
ly reft rains the executive from appointing offi
cers, except such as are provided for by law. As
has been well observed by the gentleman from
Delaware, the President is inverted with the ppw
er of filling those offices—but does it follow that
we are to delegate to him the power to create
them ?
The referenceiotheappointnients and arrange
ments made by rlie executive, pursuant to the
powers delegated to the executive by the excise
law, cannot be considered as a parallel cafe; no
liinilar exigency exilts to jultify a similar delega
tion. rhe danger of infringing on the powers
of the executive, which has been suggested, and
the caution to the house againtt touching on the
appointment of officer*, is a species of reasoning
on the fubjedi, which may be carried so far as to
fay that we ougjht not rt> make any appointments
by law—and yet this has been done as in the in
(tance of the appointment of the commiifioneis
• for purchasing in th© public debt, all of whom
were appointed by the atft making provision for
the rcdutftion of the public debt.
Where is the necelfity of departing from the
principles of the conltitution in refpecft to the
poll-office and :ioft-roads, more than in all other
cases ? The fubjet.l is expressly committed to le
gislative determination by the conltitution.—lf
the second fecftion of the bill requires amend
ment, it can be rectified when it comes before
us; and with refpecftto future cases, (hould there
be a necefiity for additional post-roads, they can
be provided for by fuppleinentary laws—and
therefore no reason on that account can be urged
for delaying the provision proposed by the bill.
He concluded by faying that there did not appear
to be any neeefliry for alienating the powers of
the house—and that if this (hould take place, it
would be a violation of the Constitution.
Mr. Sedgwick said he would make a few ob
servations, which he felt himfelf obliged to fub
init to the confiderarion of the committee,as well
to defend himfelf as his motion, from the unwar
rantable attacks which gentlemen had made on
both.
The powers of the constitution, he was sorry
to fay, were made in debate to extend or con
tract, as seemed tor the time being to suit the
convenience of the arguments of gentlemen
The member from Virginia, (Mr. Madison) had
discovered an additional quality of unconftituti
onality involved in the motion under considera
tion. It was, that the creation oj offices was by the
constitution confined solely to the Ugiflature This
position was undoubtedly jult, if by it was meant
that the powers and duties of offices mnft be defined by
i law But he understood the gentleman to ex
tend his meaning much further, and to have de
clared in substance, that all offices, however fubor
dtnate and dependent, mujl be numerically provided
Jor by law.—The gentleman had, with his ufuai
266
ot Ins princtpteto the power wiii<ii on-the fam.
fubjett had been delegated by the excise law !r
which the executive w:.i anthorifed to j.atce/-'-'
whole country into diitri&s, and to appoint f„
various ulEcers neceffai y to execute thj bufin •
Nothing more was in tTiat inllance done tl
to define the powers and duties annexed to th
offices, but the li=nits to wliicm their authorirv
was to extend ; and their i> mber was Ve -v ~r o.
perly left with the ex-;s ve. J., t j lat inltaiite*
■ Juch a delegation w is indispensably neceilan
»>•' '-yas it, in his opinion, lef's necVliary in th"
iiiuh It. iiyis nri inijemtn l - of j>oft-o:ficcs, 7 'ml
gen tie in an had supposed this lieceiiity had ii M !
;nli life jollified the expedients ; if so, the lb,; »
conclusion might be drawn 0 ,. Uie present
fion. But, for Ins part, if he ihonlrt aflh.nc tha;
member's opinions, he (houldbe incapa'olcof J--
riving consolation from the fame source ; _fT
(hat there never had as yet been, ai.d probably
never would exist in the administration of tin*
government, a necessity so urgent as to authorii
an iifurpation of power. The motion before the
committee was constitutional, or the reverse—is
the latter, the fame was true of the exiftinn- aifi
in the instance alluded to. That in either in
stance, a supposed necell'ity could not jultify tii e
infraction of a constitution which the members
were under every obligation of duty, and their
oaths solemnly pledged, to support. Gentlemen,
laid he. should be nery cautious how, on flight
grounds, they aOent to principles, which, if t«ev
were true, would evince that the governmejji:
had scattered through the whole country, officers
w ho are daily seizing on the property <.f the ci
tizens, by the afTumption of uitconltitutional
powers
He said it was true, as had been observed by
his friend from New-York (Mr. Benfon) that it
was impoiiibie precisely to define a boundary
line between the bnfinefsof legislative and ex
ecutive ; but from his own . experience as a
public man, and from reflection, he was indu
ced to believe, that as a general ruie, the efla
blifhment of principles was the peculiar pro
vince of the former, and the execution of them,
that of the latter. He would therefore, at least
generally, as much as polfibie avoid gainer imo
detail. In adopting this as a general rule of
conduct, he 'was not influenced by considera
tions which gentlemen in opuofition to his mo
tion, had fuggelled ; the pre-eminently great
and good character of the man who was now
called by unanimous fufFrage to administer the
executive.—For he had always considered that
with fagacioas minds, that filould be the feafou
of political caution, when the executive was in
the hands of one to whom all hearts justly bow
ed. From the nature of the business to be tranf
afted, he had drawn his conclufijn ; he thought
an executive officer refponlible to the public for
the performance of an important and interesting
trust, would enquire with more scrupulous cau
tion, and decide with more jullice, than could
be expetfed from a popular aflembly—who from
the nature of things, would be more remiss than
confided with a just determination ; and he ap
pealed to those gentlemen who were members of
the last house, for a recollection of that apathy
and torpor which prevailed on a former attempt
to demark the poll roads.
He observed that the opposition to his motion
on the ground of unconttitutionality, came with
an ill grace from the gentleman who had report
ed the bill ; for by one fedlion, the poft-mafter
getieral was expressly authorised toeftablifh poft
roads not provided for by the bill, upon a con
dition that does not at all affeci the present ques
tion ; and by another feiSion, the iame officer
was authorised to appoint unrestrained all his
deputies, each of whom is to eflablifli and keep
an office. This, in his opinion, was not only
expedient but indispensably neceiTary. It was,
however, a delegation of power, attended by all
thole circumstances which rendered in the opin
ion of that gentleman, the present motion un
conllitutional.
He said, no gentleman had contended for car
ryinginto execution the principles they attempt
ed to establish, to an extent to which they would
go.—That no nad can be a pefl road but such as foall
be ejlablijhed by law. The bill establishes the
road from place to place, leaving the interme
diate didance untouched ; as for instance, from
Boston to Worceiter : Between those two points
is, or is not a poll road, if the bill fhowld become
a law, established ? If the former part of the
dilemma is embiaced, then also by the motion,
if adopted, will a polt-road be eftablilhed from
Maine to Georgia. For he ftippofed it impos
sible to make any well founded distinction be-
tween the one cafe and the other. Ilis motion
then would as effectually eftabliih a post-road
in ihe intermediate space us the bill in its pre
tenr form ; and all the objections which had
been made to the former would apply with equal
force to the latter.
Gentlemen, he said. had spoken in ftrongterms
of the dilintereftednefs, information, and res
n, fuiefa:peccability of the members of the hanfe, ar.d of
the popular confidence which refuked therefrom.
No man, said lie, had a more ref'peiftable opin
ion of the re preprefentatives of the people than
liimfelf ; he need not, however obleiveto them,
that they were men, fubjetfl to the like pa£«riTs
and imperfections as their fellow-citizens : It
could not have escaped clie reflecftiou-tif the com
mittee, that the gentlemen who c«rnpoled it, had
a very important interest in eftablithing the di
rections of the poli—that on the declarations
of men thus inie.efted, we mult: rely for the
justness of our ultiuKfre conclusions ; on evi
dence of interelied individuals—individuals who
are by their relation to the fubjedt of enquiry,
excluded 011 principles of law, from all credit,
mult we rely for a knowledge of those facts
which are to direct our judgment ?
Mr. Bondinot and Mr. Gerry made foine fur
ther remarks, and then the question being taken,
]\]r. Sedgwick's motion was negatived.
WEDNESDAY, December 14,
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee to whom
was referred sundry propositions as amendments
to the Conftituiion of the United Stares ; made
report to this effeift—Tiiat it will be moll expe
dient, that the fame be taken up in the Hotife,
or in committee of the whole, and that the feleiit
committee be discharged from further proceed
ing ; ordered 10 lie on the table.
Mr. Kittera presented the petition ofSufatniah
Taylor, relict of William Houston, late a Lieu
tenant in the ferviceof the United States, pray
ing compensation, &c. which was read and re
ferred to the Secretary at War.
The amendments proposed by the Senate to
the bill, entitled, a« act for the relief of David
Cook and Thomas Campbell, were sgresil to ;
the Jubilance of which faiii officers re
turn into the treafui-y a sum equivalent to the
half pay due tf> each.
The House then proceeded to cotilider the re
port of the committee of the whole, on the a
m end merits proposed by the Senate, to the repre
feritation bill—lt was moved, that the amend
ments proposed by the Senate, with the report
of the committee of the whole thereon.be recom
mitted to a committee of the whole Koufc ; and
on the tjueftioti to agree to this motion, it was
carried in the affirmative.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Mr. Viuing moved this amendment, to flrike
out thirty-three thousand, and to insert, that
Representatives be apportioned among the seve
ral dates as follow, that is to lay, Mew Hamp
ihirelhall choose 5, Maflachufetts 16, Couneifti
cut 8, Rhode-Island 2, Vermont 3, New-York 11,
New-Jersey 6, Pennsylvania 14, Delaware 2, Ma
ryland 9, Virginia 21, Kentucky 2, N. Carolina
12, Georgia 2. On the queflion to agree 10 this
amendment it pafl'ed in the negative ; the cjm
mittee then rose, and the chairman reported.
Mr. Vining renewed liis motion in the House ;
where it was agaiu negatived, ayes 23, noes 37 ;
and on the queition to agree to the fii ft amend
ment*of the Senate, the yeas and nays being de
manded, it pafled in ;he negative ; the yeas and
nays were as follow :
YEAS.
Messrs. Awes, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Fitzfimotis,
G'tlman, Goodhue, Cordon, Hillhoufc, Hartley, Ja
cobs, Kitchell, Ktttera, Livermore, Titles, Sedgwick,
J. Smith, J. Smith, W. Smith, Sturges, Sylvejler,
Thatcher, Vining, Wadjworth, Ward—29.
Meffis. dftis, Baldwin, Brown, Findley, Gerry,
Giles, Griffin, Grove, Huger, Key, Lee, Macon, Ma
dison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Page, Parker,
Schoonmaker, Seney, Sheredine, Steele, Sterrett,
Sumpter, Trsadviell, Tucker, Venable, IV ay ne,White,
W'tlliamjori, Willis—3l
The second amendment,after rlie word South-
Carolina, to strike out Hate, and insert district,
was agreed to. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, December i*
A numberof petitions from invalids and others,
praying for peniions, compensations, &c. were
read and referred to the Secretary of War.
In committee of the whole, on the Pod-Office
Bill Mr. Smith (S.C.) in the chaiK
Mr. Vining's motion for linking out the fe
cund fecftion, which empowers the Postmaster-
General to establish additional polt-roads, for
the purpose of substituting a clause making it his
duty to report to Congiels, from time to time,
such cross polt-roads as may appear neceflary,
with information refpectir.g the amount of the
income of the department, and the expence of
such additional past roads, was taken into confe
deration—after some debate, the second fecftion
was struck out—and the Itibftitute being with
drawn, a clause proposed by Mr. Fitifimotis in
lien thereof, empowering the Postmaster-General,
under certain reftricflions, to form contracts for
extending the line of potts, was adopted—The
committee then rose and reported progress.
A meflage was received from the Senate by Mr.
Secretary Otis, informing the House, thai they
NAYS,
bad taken into coufideration their fir ft amend- }
wentto the P«.ep'.-efemation Bill, which was difa- I
greed to by the Ilouil-, and do infill thereon.
iJ}' 1 '- u l ue > tiie committee on enrolled |
wills, itifowjiei fte House, thaf the coumiitee |
had this day pre fen led 10 she President of the f
United J.tates, the bill entitled, " An adt for the \
relief of David Cook and Thomas Campbell," for i
his approbation. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, December 16
A melTagefrom the President of the United
States, by his Secretary Mr. Lear, informed the
tloufe that lie had this day approved and signed
an act ior the relief ot David Cook and Thomas
Campbell*
Several petitions from invalids praying for
pennons and compenlations, were read and re
ferred.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Muhlenberg
la the chair, the poll offifce biil was further dif
cufled, (undry amendments were proposed, some
ot them adopted and others disagreed to the
committee proceeded to the igih fe&ion—they
then rose and reported progress, and the Houie
adjourned till Monday.
BOSTON, December 5
A subscription is on foot for building a Bridge
from Barton's Point, in this town, to Lechtnere's
Point in Cambridge.
There not being a choice 1 of a Federal ilepre
fentative for the Diitrii!t of Brijlol, precepts are
ilfoed for a seventh trial, on the'26th in?h
i lie Government of Halifa-x have advertised
for 1000 tons of (hipping, to convey the Blacks
fl'OHVt hence to the Coalt of Africa,
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET.
c , —
OERENELY moves along the bending sky,
The queen of solemn night, whole Giver beam
Delights young fancy V ever gazing eye;
The while it plays on yonder chryftal ftrcam,
The airy fay*- to spheric music beat
Their mystic dances with their feathery feet.
So peerless moves my Anna o'er the earth,
So far outfliines each other female light ;
Divinely made Pne fcems—<>f heavenly birth—
And beams with fadclefs lustre on the fight.
Within her eyes the liitle fays of mirth
Appear to dance and frolic with delight;
Her words in trembling cadence touch rny ears,
Soft as the melting muiic ot the spheres.
Philadelphia, December 17.
By an arrival at Kew-York, European accounts are received to
the 21ft of O&ober.—They inform, that the Ele&or Palatine has
la d a duty of 30 per cent, on all merchandize coming from France
—That the rehili of the conferences between the Emperor, the
German Princes and the Kingol Pruflia, was to form a joint attack
on France; but the King's acceptation of the Constitution had
changed the face of affairs—the Emperor has since that event gi
ven public orders to recognize the national flag, and declared that
the means are now restored of treating with France as heretofore—
That notwithstanding this, great emigrations from France had ta
ken place, since the law lor preventing persons from leaving the
kingdom had been repealed—That the exiled Piinces keep their
court at Coblentz, and that the Empress of Ruflia had sent Count
Romanzoff to allure them of her favorable regards—That not
withstanding the peace between Ruflia and the Turks, the land
armaments of the former are still kept up—this circumstance, with
the zeal of the King ot Sweden in favor of the exiles, and the ha
tred of some of the German Princes to the revolution, have in
duced an appiehenfion of an invasion of France.
That the kingdom has very little, however, to fear from its ene
mies ; the Minister oi War being called upon by the National As
sembly for accounts refpe&ing the defcnfive mealures of the king
dom, repotted, that the regular troops amounted to 105,000 in
fantry, 27,000 c«valry, and 12,000 artillery—two-thirds of which
are on the frontiers, as are also 44 battalions of national guards ;
to these means of defence may be added 45 fortified places, in a
state fit for a long resistance.
That 248 millions of Aflignats have been burnt—That the office
of Commandant General of the National Guard of Paris being a
bolilhed, M. de la Fayette had fcnt in his resignation, accompa
nied with a most patriotic and public-spirited addrels.
The Emperor of Morocco has made peace with the of
Spain the brother of the Emperor having raised an infurreftign
in the empire. The Queen ot France has begun her Sunday card
parties lor the winter —jn evidence of her resolution to make the
most of the new order of things. M. de la Fayette retires 10 his
estate. Late accounts from Venie* fay, that a man was lately hung
there for being a Free-Mason—and that the people of that repub
lic are prohibited from talking of the affairs of France. The se
cond National Affembl;- of France is constituted, and have pro
ceeded to business.
The meeting of Parliament is postponed to the 25th January.
There is some talk of a change in the Brmfh Ministry—the D ike
of Portland to be firft Lord of the Treasury, &c. Their High
Mightinesses the States General, irt answer to the letter ot the King
of France, notifying his acceptance of the Couftitution, assure his
Majesty that nothing shall be wanting on their pail to promote a
good under Handing between the two countries. The Diet of
Warsaw (Poland) have agreed to ere& a ilatue to the Kinj. The
Elector of Saxony has determined to accept of the fuccefiion to the
crow 11 of that kingdom. The Kir.g and the Members of the Af
fem'bly have declared that they will defend the new Constitution
with their blood, if necefTary.
Lord Cornwallis, in a letter to the Secretary of State, informs,
that it is his determination to attack Sc.-. igapitam, Tippo Safe's
capital.
267
CHAMONT.
On the 9th inft. the Dire&ors of the National Manufacturing
Society met at Brunfwick, in New-Jersey, when William
Duer, JE.fq. of New-York, was chofui Governor, and Archi
p.ald Mercer, Eiq. of New-Jersey, Deputy Governor. The
Dire&ors have voted that the fiiik payment (hall be made on or
before the 131'b January next, and that to accommodate the fub
fcribeis, the payment may be made either at the Bauk of New-
T iOik. the Bank at Philadelphia, or to Mr. Ntifon, or to Colonel
Bayaro, -,t Brunfwick. in New-Jeifey. No place was fixed upon
at which the buildings ihould be ere£led for the manufa£lory.
1 he are to meet again on the 17th of January.
-xtraft of a I tit' > fu ■> a gentleman of -icc in London, to a gen
tleman m t/iii city, dated Ociober 8, i 791.
" C-c,r I 'i js ii-Hvc liceu pure ha fed in :. :s city, and con
fidence is daily increasing ; yellt-rday iix per cents were fold at
120]. per cent, which is 245. beiides paying about is. more in al
lowing 4s. 6d. Ucrling lor the nominal dollar."
Extratt of a letter from liojlon, Dec. 4.
" We wish here that the Reprefeniatiou to the next Congrcfs
might be only one for 40,000. We a;e not so jealous of our li
berties as some of our southern friends appear to be. We know
that the bufmefs of the Union, as it refpe&s legislation, can be
done better by 80 or xoo members, than by 200.—The only point
is to have an equal representation, and to be careful to choose good
men—and to enable us to do it in future, we ought to be particu
larly careful to girc all our children a good public education."
There are two descriptions of bad watchmen, those who deep
upon their polls, and those who found falfe aiarms.—The queition
is, which is moll dangerous in a community ?—Undoubtedly the
Jat'er—in the fame proportion as bad principles are worse than
none ; besides, falfe alarms have a tendency to lull the people into
a fatal insensibility in a time of real danger, whereas a surprize
will ever afterwards induce a proportionate degree of vigilance 111
an enlightened people.
Ignorance is the proper basis of a blind zeal—when united to
credulity, it forms the materials of which the unprincipled kind'e
the flames of discord and anarchy. Knowledge alone extinguishes
the fire. The patriot who devifrs a feafible plan of enlightening
the people in rcfpe£l to their civil rights, and social duties, dc
ferves the confidcnce of his countrymen; and he whom Provi
dence hath furnifhed with the means of carrying such a plan into
execution, and whose purse-strings d t fate on such an ocxafion, gives
more substantial evidence ot his philanthropy arid attachment to
the rights of man, than is comprized in all the harangues and ad
drefies to the pa {lions which have been uttered since the creation.
How numerous arc the pretended friends to the rights of the
people!—how few have come forward with any fpecific propor
tions to fcatier the rays of knowledge among them, in such man
net as to make their attachrnc. Nt to liberty the result of sentiment!
A correspondent remarks, chat we sometimes hear of a restive
turbulent spirit among the people in particular parts of the Union.
This will forever be the cafe where the people fee things through
a medium presented by a tew*, in whom they have an implicit
confidence—but from those pans of the country where compe
teni schools and other means of inftru&ion are provided, we do
not hear the -■ oice of complaint—the inference is piain.
(jUERE.— Is a debate like matter, infinitely divifible?—Every
great question consists of little ones—and every little one of less.
Now what is wanting, but a haii fplittirig genius to open every
question, like a ncft of boxes or baskets, one within another, iu
infinitum ?—And as that faculty appears not to be wanting, what
is there to hinder our enjoying the pkafure of one debate to all
eternity ?
THE CONSTITUTION.
OUR Conftiluiion's like a fpring-leg'd boot,
Which legs with calvcs, or those without, will suit,
AMENDMENTS A QJJIBBLE.
THAT must grow gtod which every day we mend,
That mull be bad whose failings have 110 end.
THE ART OF SPEAKING,
i He, art of Ipeaking—what a strange position 1
Consists in—repetition ! repetition !
Married, at Providence, R. I. Mr. Nicholas Brown, Mer
chant, to Miss Nan cv Carter , daughter ol John Carter, Esq.
Postmaster, of that town.
Died, at New-Yoik, Major Moncrieffe, late of the Britilh
Army.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS it tht PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Maria, Attwood, Boston.
Isabella and Anne, Conby, St. Euftatia.
Hc "y> Davis, Cape-Francois
Live Oak, Irwine, Jamaica.
Sch'r Two Sifters, Elliot, Port-au-Prince
Two Betfcys, King, Aux-Cayet
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Befered 6 pr. Ce us
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates sos 20/6 102J do.
Indents ls /6 62^
BankSubfcriptions, 134 Dollaw.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN C A R E Y,
No. 26, P«ar-St*ikt, ,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
800
K S,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, r. M.
Among them art the following ;
folio. TTOMER, Xcnophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebiuj, Soz o.
1 X men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
cuius, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordant Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Mai tin,Wells's Map!
Scapula— Phavorini—Martinii— Hoffmani Lexica, Voffii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannic®, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bemiey's Horace, Terence and
Phadrus, Ovid, Juvenal. Manilius, Ciceronit op. om. Cxfar, Su
etoniu-s Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii Ars Gram. Clave
rii Geographic, Justinian Code, Sec.
03avo et tnjra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinut,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetae minores Gr. liberates. Phalarit, va~
rims edit'om of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
ius, Lucan, Martial, Claud.an, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius,Flo«us, Juftm, Val. Maximun, A. Gelltus, Hist.
August. Scriptores, Erglijk and French Tranjlations of fome'of ike
Cljflks, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, &r. Sec,
Caialn-ucf may be W of Mcffrj. Rice & Co. Bo.>kf c Her»,
M;rket-«tcet, or ul JOHN CAREY
Ottobsi-c*- ( cp , f j
22/6 pr. £
»a/
'3/3
112J pr. cent.
6,5 do.
66£ do.tOK [Hl oAZ.- lit. Ot I liu o'.V
MR. ftNSO,
HAVING (hewed my gooi y.i'Arir: by laughing
at the weak and idolatrous fl-utery Willi
which fume of your correl'pondents have beljj-c
---tered the Government of the United States, or
which the Government really stands in no ueeu,
and therefore h3S 110 rcafon to thank tlie.a
it—and my gull and vinegar in endeavoiing to
expose the arts made use of, from the brilliancy
and wisdom of the aduvniftiation, to draw oti
'the eye* of the people, from those defedts which
have been pointed hue in the Conltitutiun iii--Jl.
I (hall m;"« endeavor to {hew the true meaning
of a term, which one of your correfpondtfiits ac
cufcs us.of tiling improperly, to wit, the word
/irijtocrat,
He fays that men of worth and talents arc cal
led Ari(tocr3ts—but I am sensible he does not in
this iintance do jntUce to the public opinion—
for although an Ariiiocrat may be a man o! ta
lents, he can never be a man of worth ; nor do I
believe there is one iaftance in a thoiifand ot a
man of real worth being niiitaken for* or called,
an Ariltocrat. But as your correlponslent lup
poles that niiltakes of this kind do happen, it
may not be aniifa to attempt to delineate this cha
racter in so plain a manner as to prevent Inch
mutates for the future.
Arirtocracy is a word of Greek derivation, and
fignifies the power of a few, or in the hands of a
few, in opposition to Democracy, which fignifies
the people, or in the hands of the people. An
Arijhcrat, therefore, rtiuft mean one who wishes,
qr has a difpoiiiion, to take the power as much
%s possible oat of the hands of the people, and
place it in the hands of tht few ; and in whomfo
e*er we can discover thardifpofition, 1 think we
cnnnot be roiftaken in calling him an Arijiocrat.
The only powers, in representative govern
ments, like ours, wjtiich the people can. with any
propriety retain in their hands, are those of
eJetfting their reprel'entatives, and that which
tbey exercise as jurors.
And if any one (hall by any means endeavor so
to modify the elertiens, as to out of the
power, ot the body ps the people !o exercise that
privilege with propriety and fufety, we may ve
ry.Cafe ly call him an Arijlocrat.
Whoever, therefore, in an extensive country
like this, (hall advocate large election diltricls,
which will oblige the b >dy of the people to vote
under the dirfctftion and guidance of a few, you
cannot be miltaken in feitijig him down for an
AriJitter at.
If any one shall oppose a numerons represen
tation in the. government of an extensive conn -
try, f'ou need not be afraid of a misnomer in cal
ling him an ArijSocrat.
If any man will support, upon any occasion, a
mode of election, whether such election is. to be
made by Congress, by a Legifluture, or the pen
pie, which will evidently pnt it in the power of
a minafiijf of the ele«siors to contronl a chuice,
«r prevent one, you may be sure that you call
him by a wrong name, if you give hiui any other
than that of an Arifiocrat.
If you hear any one speak lightly of the trial
by jury, or fee him consent to, or do any thing
■which will tend to vitiate or abridge that privi
'e y® u W >H not he liable to an aiftion of slan
der for calling him an Aristocrat.
If any one thai) hold that bills of rights, and
proper conftituiional reservations in favor of the
people, ate rather dangerous reftiictions on the
power of doing good, than salutary checks upon
the power of. doing harm, you may write after
hi* name, in capital letters, AN ARISTOCRAT.
If anj onefhonld attempt to perfuadetlie peo-
their rights and privileges are not f;\fe
while kept in their own hands, but that they
ought to give them up intirely into the hands
•fid custody of the great and [he well informed
I4on't know what else you could call him but an
/irifl ocrat.
_ If any one difcovijjprs a fondncfs for keeping up
titles and Hiftiniftions, which will have a tenden
cy to induce tliofe pofTefted of them to look upon
tViemfelres as exalted above the common claf's of
citizens, yqu may fafely conclude that he is in
clined ro be an 4(rijlocrat.
If any holds the opinion,' that government is
oefigned more to enrich and aggrandize rtie ru
lers than to promote (lie interests and happiness
9f the people, you may be very sure that he is
DO ctiieiny to an Jriflocrat.
. It any one looks upon the word Democrat as a
term of reproach, and ventures to-make nfe ot it
.as facb, he must undoubtedly bepleafed with be
ing tailed an Ariflocrat.
And I think that you cannot poflibly be mif
faken in letting him down for one, who (hall tell
you that in this country there is no such thing as
an Arijloerat. 6
i If any one ihnuld take offence at this publica-
Oon so benevolently intended to prevent the
public from f.rfmingwron S and unfavorableopi-
Jnons of men <»f wonh and talents, 1 (hall leave
tne people to determine whether they will or will
not-cajl lyra aw drijlccrat. a Respondent.
Bank of the United State:..
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby i;iven that the Bank of b'rtjSttl States
•Mill i*c o;)cn( d 0:1 Monday the h inftjftt,
Tiof the i'jM'cnpisons to mc ifcock of ETui-Hank ma)
then Ie 'ii.i ic
Oil vi'.noay the :2ih inflant, deposits wi'l be received, and on
TuM'.ijy vhc 20:h initdiir, dit. >uitts may be made.
By order ot the piciidcni and Directors,
JOHN K.EAN, Cajhicr.
All Bilfsor Nites offered for Dit~ouiil (hall be delivered into
the on or W«dtiefda\ , the D'.fcount Hull be {ti
tled on Ttiefdays aad Thufrdays, and thail be wade kuown the
ncxi fucccediw< days. , 1
At a MEETING ok the DI HECTORS or the
BANK o;-- the UNITED STATES,
RI SOLVED,
TMA i iie paynexit of the port on of the Capital Stork of ihc
e.t the Umted States, ccmfiftinjj of Specie whtch will bp
due on the fev< ral .Sbar .« on ihe firlt M uidav of January next,
may be made at the rcip< Ct-vc Hsfnksof Majfuchufetti and Azw-Yoik.
ProviufJy T.acai v Siorkho!. crclam Mig in benefit of (urn
paymt-u , Ihall, f>u or before the fiiit Monday in January nex',
exhibif 10 t t C.ilh' rot the Bnk of the United States, a Cemfi
eate limned by the CaiHicr of the Bank. into which such pdyment
shall h ve f.< cn made— any thing in the regulations hcretofote
eltabl'lhed toll' contrary noiwitbltauding
By order of the P efid nt and Dirc&ors,
JOHN K.EAN, Cajhicr.
1 1 ■■ ■" ■■■' " Mi » ■ ■ ■ ■
of the United States.
Bank
Philadelphia, November 22, 1791.
E Stockholders ol the Bawk of the United stati s
JL arc Ik 1 mi! /lined, that to che flatute ot; incor
oration, a htiionfoi twervty-five Directors will bi
1 I<l at th»- Bank ol the United Stales, in the city of Philadelphia,
on M nday tne fecund'day of January at ten o'clock in the
'"inoon.
An I, 'juHusot to the tleventh f<£lioa of the Bye-Laws, th
Sto khoiders of the fa id Bank are hereby notified to airembk i
jjt neral meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday tKc
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order ot the President and Directors,
JOHN K E A N, Cafnicr.
StcoT!.!fundamental Article cj Statute of Incorporation.
" Not m rf th *n three-'ourihsot th' Dire&ors in office, excUi
'iv of the P.eiident, .idll be eligible for the next iucceeding yt-ar
Bat the Durftofwoo flulLbc Piefident at the lime of anelt :iot
pnay always be rc-eie&cd." fepilj
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An exienfivc Ass < r tmern, of very fupeiior texture, suitable f
every branch of the business, just imported from Amsterdam,
and for b by
DANIEL T Y S O N f
Xo. 114, SOUTH F KONT-ST REIT;
Where Mill r s a-d o-htrs may 2] ways be fupolied with the best
Cloths, and Ij: • allowance made to those who purchafc in cuan
cu-.es to fell avain.
Alf f'>r Sale, a Quantity of Particular
M A D ii I R A
Of t hr fin} On 1 :v. fit for immediate ufc, in Pi its,
Philadelphia > December 6. 1791. IV'witp"]
George M e a d e
Has for SALE,at hii S;or es on VT a l nut-Street Wharf
A FEW pipes "f 3 4 years old bills of exchange Madei'*
WINE, winch he wifl difpofi of by the pipe, hogshead or
•'IIHIItI •
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the fiift quality, by the hogshead or
quarter cast.
Three and 4 vears old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is s; nerally imported, by the pipe, quarter calk, or largei
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity. 0
A It w quarter che[b o! si. ft. quality Hyson TEA.
He !>*sjult iccnvedbvih.- Pigm, L-xiev, mast r, from London,
a few quaiur 1 -(ks <>t old M(d< ira WINE—And
Bv in L'l'n Mtrruiy, Cant. Suv.m, Iroin Dublin, a few boxes
if 11 ii>i LINENS, i>w priced and well afToricd ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and fume GLUE.
A few boxes oi Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft qualit\, and
Run I'ORK of pi irne quality.
He has also to dtfpofe of, a quantitv of drefied White O,k
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
vid L tbon WINES, and whoever is pleafcd to favor him with
u1 r cultom, may be ass iled of being well served.
H.- will, through the Wuitc and Spring, buyundre!T;d HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the hightft price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE. just received, and to be difpoJed ol
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
Public Securities,
Boicht and Sold, on COMMISSION by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Sireet, nexi door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
LOTTERY TICKETS, '
To be had at the fame place.
In the Prcfs, and fperrl'K- will he piiMifhcd,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confift.ngof State Papers, and othir authentic Documents
lending to elucidate the History of America, 2nd '
particularly nl ihe United States
**T By HAZARD, A.M.
, The price to Sublcribcrs will he a Dollar for each Number
containing ,6o large quarto pa,rs ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter'
Id fT 7 d ' I,Q bc f 3,d as lo "ow». ''I "he firft
X 1% ca i hTiT; T VnU 10 bc paid for on deliv "y ° !
deh.ery" fluent one (exefpt the last) at the time of
Jf S.bfcriptionswiUhc recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Do_°N, a „d Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit fpccimens
,h', r work ) a "d mother places by the principal Bookfcllcrs
rrr'adeiphia, Nci'mccr 5, 17Q1.
01 th \ TI ", RD S£SSW " of tii SEMTF.
o ■, 1.. UNn_3 Kayte Udof t!.t Editor UnoJ
268
DtCXMBiR 1791
W I xN E,
(Cp 6w.)
American Ivead Manufa&ory
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co *
HAVE jud now opened the;r Lead-Wa k ehousje, two don,
louthof Walnut-ftreel Wharf, adjoiniogtheir New Factor • '
>#Heic they have now made, and ready for sale, a general >ir/""
men. of !»;iOTof all fis-.s, with SHEET a.,J BAR LEAD "T
production ol the Mir.cs i„ Virginia. As they have er„ p | 0 ' !f?
number of expert-need Eitglilh wotkmen, (hey wr.rantit to k
quai :n qudltiy to any manufaduicd in Europe, ana at a red' '
pure from the "piime coHuf iinuo«ed. '
They alfi> msoufaflurc all the above articles at
iichmonrl, in Virginia>\All'ordcis adriniT.'d to either of
above Factories, will be received, and cx -crucd on t ;'!
Ino tcit notice.
Wanted, induftrinus, M .n, at the fjid
M;u< wiiere cohllant emplov. good wage*, Vjd* other «.coum««.
menttwill be g.ven, meaus of uuiveyaiica btin> ," ld
houtes tor iheir reception.
For i t.riher particular* enquire of Mcffr*. Moses Co
.at their h-ttloiy in or as above. \
Pbiiadslbnia, December 3, 1791. r
1 IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHsX
T E A S,
REFINED SUGARS. COFFEE, & SPICES,Scc.Lc
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,het wetChefnut and MarketSt'reets
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds ofihe Public Dtbi of the Union, bought, fold ore*
rhanijed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange ncmcu-cd ■"
\Unhaniize <>l all lons i, ought and fold on Comniijjton, and <r//oihc'r
iiLifiiicij uj ihc line of a Broxcr, tianfc&cd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office rlext door to tht Custom-House
B 0 ST 0 N. 2m
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER Sc AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES jnd '
RUJinC DEBT of eery clefcnpuon.onCoww,^
£! ihc following ratts: '
0 V f P ccieainou, »t Of ail;.,*. at aaftioD, „nt eighth pc
On diito at private sale or purchafcv one-hall per cent
On remittances, diito.
Receiving :ntercft at the Loan-O.'fice, tr.c percent, on the
mount ot the intetcft.
For making transfers at ditto, feverty-Jiic cents per transfer
lp3* Such pcrfons as inay incline to favor the fublcnber with
their order*. may rely on their being executed with punQualili
■idelityMudtJpaUn. His long experience and extensive dealing
n the public IWks, together with a well cdablifhed correfpon
lonce inwughcut the United States, enable him to coaduft bit
iterations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
John; pintard,
Nea-Yoii, No. 57, King-Street.
October 15, 1791
T 0 BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
■ Whereon the iubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road trom Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mi!e
and a half from the formcT. It contains 213 acres, whereof
17 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more may he
iade. Aifo a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
f peach and cherry -trees, and a large garden; the whole under
-'"O" fencc - There are on the premises a two (lory stone house
ma kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ied and
nnifjhed. Aifo, a smoke-house, woik.&op, granary, waggon
noufe; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and 90 feci long, and
a good bain, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, t!ie neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms 1-,f
•pplving to the fubfenber on the premises, or to IsaacSkowdcn,
No. 141, South Second-ftieet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOW'DEN', Junior.
Princeton, Oflober to, 1701. [rp2mj
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RU>J AWAY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, laie the pioptrty of Nath&nitt
Wickhjfi dcceafcd—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, preitv well Tel. w.th a-large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bens, often complains of
pa ins in his feetand ancles—by iradc a bricklayer, stone mdfon and
pi a Here r. iHeis a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of fi:ch bu'mcfs. He is a great diflTembler, and no doubt pretends
h■is a freeman. He has been eloped 1o long that no description of
h s prcf ut clothing can be given. Ii is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.-—
Twenty D >llars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
igoin; and reasonable charges will i e paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchrlor, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(uwgw)
October i«?, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber. at Bcr
dentown, and ikolen from ihe fame the followingaiticlts, viz.
« ):ie hair trunk, containing v/omens' wearing apparel; 1 finail
bux, containing four stocks and one dozen uftaments; j ditto
containing one bottle grtcn cloth coat, one fliipcd veil and
breeches, two shuts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. jersey cfeopers; 1 keg containing a Urge bible, with other
iaiali books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some or
: hem large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and linlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 oz , c , r ' P*^ e -b° ar ds. Stoleu at the kmc time, a laige Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecurityof
the above property,fo that the owners may have thearticies again,
or in proportion for pai t thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
triors, so that they may be biought 10 justice, by
JOHN 7 VAN EMEUJtGH.
Bordentown, Jejfev, Sept. 1. 1701.
A Young Gentleman, of Americin birth and education (being
/ Jl a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
Tutor in a familv, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and Englift* Languages. He has had some experience ia
teaching, and trusts he ccn exhibit fatitfadory recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjedt, poll paid, addreffad to A— S—,
and the o! the ILci or hsieof, prior to the 851b December, will
be punctually attended to.
Oflcbcr 22,1791 [* av ]