P I.UD '.V' ..NfaDAYS AN!) SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6', of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
" For He GAZfL TE ,f the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntas y Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
(Continuedfrom No. 4 of this Gazette.)
X7"OU sow the feeds of your fruits that he may
JL reap the harvest: You furniih and adorn
your lioufes,-^ provide materials for his robbe
ries : You your daughters, that he may
have the means of satiating hi s luxury: You feed
and cloath your children, to the end that he may
most graciously please to lead them to his wars
and conduct them to llauglner ; that he may make
them the minifiers of his avarice, and the execu
tioners of his vengeance : You break the conlli
tutions of your bodies with labor, that he may
fondle in delights, and wallow in his dirty vil
lainous pleal'ures: You weaken youifelves to
make him more itrong and rough, to hold you in
with a lhorter rein. And from all tliefe indigni
ties, which even the beasts ti.emfelves
ther not feel, or would not endure, you may
liver yourfeives, if you attempt it, not indeeoTn
action, but in volition. Be rei'olved to serve no
longer, and behold you will be free. 1 do not
exhort you to pull or to haul, but barely not to
lift and fupport,and you will fee him, like a great
Coloflus, from which they have removed the pe
deilal, fall to the ground by his own weight, and
crumble in pieces.
But certainly the advice of the physicians is
•wife, not to lay your hands on a wound that is
incurable; and I am not prudently employed in
attempting to advise the people, who have 101 l
Jong ago all knowledge, and whose malady is
evidenily mortal, because they feel not the evil.
Let us examine then, by conjeiSure, and fee if
we can dilcover how it is that this obllhiate ref>-
lution to serve has become fi> rooted, that itfeems
at present that the love of liberty is not fa natu
ral as the love of servitude.
11l the firft place, this is, as I think, beyond all j
doubt, that if we live with the rights which na
ture has given us, and the principles and doilrines
that <he reaches us, we Ihall be naturally obedient
to parents, fubjetfts to reason, and llaves to no
man. Every one will be difpoi'ed to obedience
to his father and mother, without any other ad
monition than that which his natural disposition
will didtate. All men are witnefles, every one
in himfelf and for himfelf, concerning reason,
whether it is born with us or not ; wiiich is a
queltion difcufied to its foundation by the acade
micians, and touched by all tne schools of philo
sophers. For the present, I (hall not think my
fejf miltaken in believing, that there is, in our
human foul, fonie natural feeds of reason, which,
cultivated by good council and conduct, manners
and habits, may flourifh in virtue : and, on the
contrary, frequently, not being able Jo support
itfelf againlt the vices which grow about it, being
choaked, becomes abortive. But certainly if
there is any thing clear and apparent in nature,
and to which it is not permitted us to be insensi
ble, it is this, that nature, the minilter of God,
and the go*ernefs of men, has made UQall of the
fame form, has call us all in the fame mould, to
the end that we may all mutually acknowledge
one another for companions, or rather as bro
thers. And if, in making the partition of the
pvefents which {he has given us, (he has given
some advantages of property, some powers of
body or faculties of mind, to some more than to
others—(he has not however intended to throw
us into this world as into a close paflure, for the
(honger to devour the weaker—lire has not sent
down here below the (trongeft and the molt
knowing, like robbers armed in a loreft, to eat
up the weakest. But we ought rather to believe,
that distributing thus to some a larger portion,
and to others a smaller, (lie meant to give room
for the fraternal affection, that it might have op
portunity for exercise; some having the power
to afford alfiftance, and others, wants, to receive
it- Since then this kind mother has given us all,
the whole earth for a residence—has lodged us
all in the fame house—has moulded us all of the
fame clay, to the end that every one may behold
himfelf or his own in every other—if (he
has given us all in common this grand present of
the voice and speech, that we may become better
acquainted and more brotherly with cach other,
and make by the common and mutual declaration
nf our thoughts a communion of our wills—and
!» (be has endeavored by all means to draw close
Wednesday, May iB, 1791.
together, and tie more ftritftJy the knot of our
alliance and society—is fhehasfhown in all things
that she desired not so much to unite us as to make
us one—we ought not to entertain a doubt but
ihat we are all natut-ally free, since we are all
companions ; and it cannot occur to the imagina
tion of any one, that nature has placed any in
servitude, having put us all in company.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
O D
ODE IV.
John professeth his disinterestedness.
CRITICS, Reviewers, by whatever name,
You shine recorded on the Roll of Fame ;
Whate'er your titles, or whate'er your trade,
Your claim is equal to the Muse's aid.
A true republican herfcif,
Alike to her all titles and addrefles :
From the poor idiotic elf,
To the proud monarch, (he confefles,
Each living wight her care pofTelles.
This is the very cafe with John ;
For all he feels, for all he cares,
And with unwearied toil goes on
To make, of sense, all mortals fellow-heirs.
And here, with honesty of foul, profeffes
That, notwithstanding many envious guefles
Of what his motives and his wishes were,
With pure difintereltednafs of spirit,
And charm'd, alone, with all Reviewers' merit,
He doth these several Hirts, with labor haid, prepare.
In troth, dear Critics, I have nought to hope
Or from your wisdom, or your wit;
Alike regardless Ihoula the honest rope
Adorn your necks, or decorate your spit.
I've wrote no Book, profound in ancient fazvs,
Which claims your praises, or your smiles requires ;
Nor does a Doctorate of Medicine, or Laws,
Fill me with Learning's never-dying fires,
Not only destitute of Title's aid,
Tofcreen my Writings from contempt, and traJJi,
But I despise all writing—as a trade—
And scorn, a hircling-fcribler beau, to slash,
Beside, unfortunate indeed forme,
This genius-barren foil has given me birth ;
" Tmrcrteas- ~rritc, yen -ftrrr,
of V.
Unblels'd with Trans Atlantic genuine worth.
Nay more, I ne'er the improving Ocean crofs'd ;
Nt'er drew in science on Britannia's wave ;
Nor, sense inhaling as the vessel tnfs'd,
Rode o'er the seas which fair Hibcrrda. lave.
Nay, and my father boasts no foreign blood,
No Mac's, or O's, his progeny enrich ;
Poor, but iii virtue, and in doing good—
Which (hield no native from the Critic switch.
Now let the rabble, and the vulvar, crv
That John is fee'd your merit to display,
And paid for Hints which, free, he doth supply.
I'll heed no more their clamors—no, not I —
No longer from my purpose w : !l I stray,
But, in another Ode, my devoirs ihortly pay
JOHN.
Conclusion of an extraß of a letter from London, to
a gentleman in Salem, dated Jan. 3, 1791, begun
in our I a ft.
" TT will readily occur to you that the extreme
A rigor of the Navigation Ast in admitting no
veflels to be British but such as are actually built
within the dominions, is in this particular absurd
as well as impolitic, as by increaflng the cojl of
/hipping it lejfens the quantity and objtruclr the de
sign of increasing feamen —and that if government
should relax To far as to allow the free nurchafe
and life of veflels from the United States, the
British nation would gain the most solid advan
tages— bv having much cheaper vehicles they
could afford to carry cheaper ; and, carrying
cheaper, they would be employed in carrying
nior e—which neccfTarily m ult increase both /hip
ping and seamen. But. you will agree with me,
that nations, like individuals, are not easily in
duced to give up old habits, even when acknow
ledged to be bad ; and therefore that a very fid
dsn change is not to be expetfted. But be this as
it may, 1 think your investigation of the policy
of our Navigation Lawsmuftat last result in this'
that as a fyftenf of naval jlrength and defence for
this ljland, nothing could be more wise-—but as a
febeme of profit or gain in any country nothing can be
more ABSURD. This conclusion being allowed,
yon will afk'whether commercial restrictions are
to be j'.iftified uiionno other ground than that of
providing and supporting. a naval power? To!
this qneftion f should anfver, that there may be
cases in which small, tenporary or particular re
ftrainis upon any fpecie< of industry must be to
lerated as the means ofobtaining a greater, more
permanent or general As the remedy how.
21
E ' S,
[Whole No. 214.]
• ever is violent.and painful we ought tfl .be fa
tisfied of the reality of thedifeafe, and of its na
tore and extent, and also of the probability of a
cure, before we submit to the application of it.
I confefs 1 don't readily think of any general fyl
tem of commercial rertraint that can be fully vin
dicated, except such as an aggrieved nation may
form by way of retaliation upon an aggreflor, with
reafonablt hope oj obtaining redress. To retaliate
upon an offending nation (with refpe<ft to them)
can be no violation of jultice. To recover and
secure that equal freedom, which if enjoyed by
all would be universally beneficial, and to which
therefore on social principles all have a claim is
certainly no unworthy objed: ; but to render such
a mode of pursuing it confident with found poli
cy, there ought to be a good probability of pur
suing it with success—" but there's ihe rub."
Our own history informs us of one experiment
at lealt that had an unfavorable issue : we are
told that, in the beginning of the reign of Kincr
Charles, France had laid i'uch heavy impositions
on our trr.de, that our annual loft was eflimated
at one and a'half or two millions lterling. Part
ly with the hope of recovering this, and partly
from animosity we retaliated by severe restraints
on the commerce with France ; but after much
fuffering, and finding no go',d effefis at all from our
rijiraints, in a succeeding reign vii prudently took
tkivi off.
" In tracing the progress ofinduftry you will
observe that " in every prosperous state the an-
nual earnings of the people exceed their annual
consumption." This excels in a regular course
of things accumulates to an enormous amount
Whether it be finall or great however is not of
any serious moment ; but it is of the I ast imp or -
tancc to society that there be a continual repro
duction of Jometking more than is immediately
coillumed. Now theconftant endeavor of every
individual to produce more than enough for his
own consumption depends upon his being able
to exchange the surplus for something he wants;
and the more he can getfurhis surplus rhegreat
er will be ins endcavoi s to mcreaie "iliac lurpTus.
Let it be othcrwife—and take away this induce
ment from tht individual to produce more than
his own wants require, and it mult inevitably
happen, if the people ilo not absolutely perish,
they 111 uft at last Puffer all the-extremity of pinch
ing want. To be f;ire therefore of never falling
bel6w the mark of a fufticiency, it is necefl'ary
to aim always considerably above ir. Ilence the
advantage of a jr ee, easy and extenfivt market can
not be duly appreciated, as it holds out to the in
dividual an irrefiftable allurement to make his
surplus as great as podible. All these things how
ever will happen right in the ordinary operation
of natural principles—no artificial fyftein what
ever can do as well. But perhaps you will urge
that while such fyftenis are pratftifed by nations
with whom you have intercourse, a fort of lie
ceffity is thereby created for you to do likeviifr.
This abfervation, as relates to some nations, is
fatisfatftory ; but the thing abstractedly consi
dered may be just, and yet impratfiicable—or it
may be practicable and yet inexpedient : the dil
eafe may be more tolerable than the remedy—
orthefuccefs may be too uncertain. Nations
likeindividualsare, or ought to be, always laboring
to make their own particular condition better.
Like individuals, however, they sometimes lose
fight of the abundant good things they poflefs,
blinded by an intemperate zeal for fomerhing
which they want, or imagine they want. The- fun
damental cause of this is ufeful—but this excefi
in the effect is pernicious. You commend the
Shepherd, who, leaving in fajety his ninety-nine
Jbeep goes to seek for one that has ftiaycd — but
if to recover a f mall part of a fwgt? fleece only ht
should weary and expose his whole flock, yos
would condemn his want of prudence as .well ?
•want of fenfibitity.
" Of all People I think yon have the leafl o
'cafion to try hazardous experiments in politics
k'oii have the most ample natural resources, tl
full advantage of which you cannot be deprived
by the contrivances of any foreign nation, unl.
your own imprudence and indiscretion should aid the.
I mention this because I have seen among you
\eagernef for prohibitions or restraints on the co
Lnierce with "this country— But as this biifi ef«
[momentous, it is to be hoped you will delibt
' ate coolly before you decide—count fairly t
coit, and eltimare truly the endof the underta
ing before you begin it—these preliminaries b
$isp®rightly fettled, more uniformity, fleaainefs
and spirit may be expected in the execution. The
advantage you propose is the advancement of
your navigation interell—this would probably be
obtained, if the measures should be well taken
and faithfully pursued on your part, and at the
fame tune quietly fvbmitted to by your Rivals. But
your good fenl'e must forefee that measures of
this kind, tho taken with foine moderation, may
soon iflue in at: interdict of all dirett trade be
tween you. Still you conceive the interest of
the British nation would fufferfomuch as to com
pel her to bend her commercial laws to what is
really the common interest of the two countnes.
But if your reliance is, that fnjferings will produce
concejfionsy you ought to calculate before hand
with some accuracy the force of this argument as
applied to yourselves as well as to us. Admit
ting however that after duly weighing all cou
fiderations the prepondei ance is so much in your
favor, as to bring success within the limits of
probability, let me ask whether any thing short
of moral certainty ought to tempt you, in the
present polture of affairs, to risque so much jor the
chance of gaining so little ? Belide, if the British
at present have the advantage of carrying more
of your produce than they ronfume, are you not
amply compensated by the immense purchases
they make of that produce? Do they not restore
to you as buyers all, and much more than all,
the wages they require as carriers ? and do not
both countries find a very great (if not perfectly
equal) advantage from their intercourse ? and
■would it be no shock to the great body of your
Cultivators and producers suddenly to banish one
halj of all the capital employed in purchasing
their surplus pf-odutftions ? Perhaps these ques
tions may be answered fatisfasftorily, and I shall
be told " that our necellity to buy is greater than
yours to fell—that most of your commodities are
of the firft utility to various parts of the British
dominions, and that you are the greatest and
befl: customers for our manufactures." All this
and much more may be alledged with truth;
and believing it to be true, I maintain that with
these advantages on your fide you may fafely re
ly on a firm, but temperate and liberal policy, to
gain greater conceflions ultimately than can be
reasonably expected from any kind of violence.
Thisfeems the more prudent, as your population
and wealth are rapidly increasing, while the fre
quent interruptions of wars and alarms keep ours
stationary.—The fvvorddrawn against Spain was
scarcely sheathed, when we were called to arm
again by the affairs of Russia. There is a per
petual fncceffion of events of this kind, everyone
of which obliges us to make a new estimate of
your power, and (however relucftant) to recognize
its importance
" But I have already paffetl the hounds I had
jreienbed niyfeTrwfien I Began this letter, and
ecolle(fting your remark " that long difcoiirfes
are generally dull, and dull ones always long," I
bid you adieu."
FROM THE CONNECTICUT JOURNAL.
THE PROMPTER
When a man's name is up, he may lie abed till noon.
BUT the Prompter's name is not half up—he
can therefore take a short nap only.
Our good country folks who talk English, when
they mean to fay a man's fame is spread abroad,
or his reputation extensively established, fay, his
nam: is up, or he has got his name up. How blefl'ed
is the man who has got his name up.
Every body knows how a certain aftrononier
got his name up for a great Almanack-maker, by
foretelling snow in the month of May. The
truth was, in the copy of his Almanack, in the
month of May, there happened to be a blank space
—he call about for something to fill the blank
fpace—fnoiu was the firft word that occurred—and
snow was written in the blank. Heaven, not by
accident, for Heaven has nothing to do with the
capricious things called accidents—Heaven had
determined there ftiould be snow that y«ar in
May, and snow there was, though the Almanack
tuaker had as little foreknowledge of this as his
horse-block. No sooner did it snow, but all the
•vyorld looked into the Almanack.—" La, (said
ttie world) our almanack tells ot snow at this
very time. This is a knowing man—he is a gen
ius" What a lucky hit ! The man''s name -was
ip—no Almanack so good as his—and while he
intinued to make Almanacks, Sir Isaac Newton
imfelfwould have ttarved upon Almanackmak
ng, within the fame of this mighty conjurer,
'hose Almanacks, by one mere guess, had got his
ame up and drove all competitors from the mar
ket: When this was done, he might lie abed
.11 uoon. A Jingle blunder before his name was
p, would have damned his Almanacks—after
wards, fifty errors only gave credit to the work,
pr, fay the world, great, men may miltake, but
iiis man's name is up.
I have known a man get his name up by curing
ne belly ache, (excuse me, Sadies, for the ladies
n Philadelphia of the tip-top fnfhion call certain
oils of sweet cake by a much less delicate name)
with a powder of unknown composition.—All at
once the Doiftoris sent for to cure the belly ache
—Even the boys who eat green apples mult have
the belly ache Doctor.—Skill, science, wisdom,
prudence, are all prostrated before the Doiftor
and his powder, if his patients die, no matter;
his name is up, and he will still have business.
It is a good thing to get one's name up—especi
ally for curing fone disease that no body else can
cure—one that is commonly fatal. The more
terrifying the difetfe, the better—as the consump
tion or cancers, for example. But the most de
legable way for the faculty to get up their
names, is, to adveitife as German doctors, topref
cribe for all diseases by inlperting a sample of
the water—liulh—but to receive bottles from all
quarters.
I once knew a (hopkeeper who got his name
up as a cheap trader. And did indeed fell cheap
—wondrous cheap—even below sirs} cofi. He be
gan to trade with little capital—fold goods for less
than he gave—and yet grew rich. How can this
be ? The Prompter thinks it is very easy. That
article which every body wants and knows the
value of, fell very low ; even lower than firft cost
—get your name up—draw all the world to your
shop—and then put double profit on other goods.
It is very easy and very common ; the greatest
blockhead can do this and make a fortune.
So when gets his name up he may re
tail all manner of nonsense, and it will find a
ready market in public opinion. A good Eflay
appears in the newspaper—who wrote it ? Dr.
Franklin, it isfaid, wroteit. Well, itis like him
—it is a masterly produ<ftion. Some time after,
the real author appears to bea young man, who,
as the poet fays, is unknown to fame ; and as I fay,
whose name i< not up—impoflible ! he cannot be
the author. Who ever heard of him before ? 1
am sure Dr. F or Gov. L helped hiin—
In fa (ft his na?ne is tint up.
I was once travelling through a neighbouring
State, and enquiring for the best inns on the
road, was directed to a noted one, whose owner
had got his name up for the befl entertainment.—
He had a large house well partitioned into small
rooms for single lodgers. His stable was excel
lent—but the cookery at his table was wretched
—mean indeed—l could eat nothing. But every
traveller would seek this noted inn—he would
ride half the night, and pass half a dozen better
bouses to get to this noted inn—in faift the man
had got his name up and he might lie abed till
rtoon.
A young lady gets her name up for a beauty, or
a fortune—all the world are sighing and dying
for her. Wit, sense, accomplishments all distin
guish her—beaus hang round her, like flies about
a calk of sugar—suddenly Ihe has a fit of sickness
—the roCesoJi her cheei d'-'-ajr—it-is
she has no fortune—her admirers draw off—(he
is a clever girl, but she is not ft clever as 1 tho't
her.
I once knew a very sensible woman who took
a great fancy to names. One of her whims was
that her daughters should marry names beginning
with H. She could give no reason for her incli
nation but this—she had known several of her
neighbours who married men beginning with H,
and they all made good husbands. They were
not the greareft men, lhe said, but they were kind,
good natured husbands, and would fuffer any
thing rather than be offended. All the neigh
bourhood were in love with the letter H—nothing
would do for a husband, but this letter H, which
some squeamish grammarians will have to be no
letter. But the name of the letter was vp.
To conclude, a man by the name of Wafbing
ton some time ago palled through the village
where 1 live. This was soon known—Mr. Wa/h
---ington ! What, a relation of the President's ?
This indeed was not known—but every body
really thought he looked a little like the Presi
dent. All the world collected to get a peep at
him as he pa (Ted the window of his lodgings
every body bowed as he p.ifTed—every body
looked and admired ! The man was indeed a ve
ry great scoundrel—but he new human nature
he a (Turned the name for travelling purposes
the President's real letters of recommendation
could not have procured him more refpetft.
When a man's name is up, he may lie abed
till noon.
r LONDON, March i.
Branches of reform already effetfed by the French
I Revolution.
I abolition of arbitrary and partial im-
I 1 ports.
The abolition of Lettres de Cachet, and all other
■means by which persons were liable to fevereand
lindefiniteI indefinite punishments, without trial or equity.
The deltrudion of the Bajlile, and of all other
places of cruel and inextricable confinement, in
which persons innocent or meritorious might
pnguifh out their lives in extreme fuffering and
despair, without their imputed crimes, their ac
cusers, their fnuation, their life or death, being
known to the public, or ;o any inierelted in their
relief.
22
! The abolition of unknown and unlimited
fions for no service, or the worst iniuri«r„
v.duals, and crimes the molt dangerous aoj,
the community. "g*ir
The extinction of venal hereditary office
jultice. * wwce
The surrender of local provincial priviif(T „
.neon, pat,ble with a general syst em 0 f \
conititution.
cases' 6 eftabliflla,ent ° f trial in criminal
The establishment of a representation of , he
people, full, free, and equalized in a very hill
degree. 3 b' 1
The encouragement to freedom of enqcirv
The suppression of th. summary, arbitrary,,,,,,
local power of admin,ftering jull.ee i„ confined
limits, and not fubjecl to the public eve ,v„
cifed by Lords of Manors.
The suppression of the game laws.
The suppression of other partial, arbitrary- and
6ppreffive privileges over the persons and the
property of the people.
The abolition of firft fj-uits and lines to the
Pope, as a badge of dependance o<*a foreign in
rifdiihon.
The fnppreffion of plurality of benefices.
The abolition of tithes, and the substitution of
provision for the clergy, less difcouragingto agri
cultural improvement, less injurious to the effect
of their inftrudlors, and mole compatible with
peace and good intelligence between them and
their parishioners.
The removal of private patronage in the *4/
lie office of religious inftru&ion.
Jfl- de la Fayette, who speaks English with
accuracy, reads the London Prints
.secularly, in order to know how the London
-Editors dispose of him—they drub him, he fays,
and he does not feel a blow ; they (how him in
a contemptible point of view, and he is sure of
enjoying the fulleft confidence of his fellow-citi
zens ; they make him run away from Paris, while
be thinks of nothing but remaining at his post,
and deferring well of his country.
Mod Hiltorians fa)' our country took its name
from the coming of the East Angles ; but Mr.
Selden, a writer whose authority is very feldotn
doubted, entertains a notion which he thinks
much more probable, that it takes its name from
'Uerigift, whose reputation, wars, and government
were above all the other Germans fnoft noted on
the British (hores—and in an old English Couplet
it fays—
u He called it Engiftc's Land,
" Which alterwaids was fhortfd, and called England."
Sucli is the superiority of the Malabar oak to
any found in Europe, that the Britannia, a veflel
built of it, is now about tp proceed- on her sixth
voyage to and is supposed able to
two or three more.
We lament to fee the fine talents of Mr. Burke
so miserably employed, and that he should fofar
disgrace himfelf, as in his old age to become the
tool or the champion of arbitrary power. Hi»
circrumftances possibly may require some assist
ance from government, and if so, we will chari
tably fay of him, as of the apothecary in Rome*
and Juliet, his poverty and not his will confms.
The ascertaining of the quantity of horned
beasts attendant on the British army in India,for
which a motion has been made, will be extreme
ly difficult. The enquiry would make many a
forehead tingle. The Smithfield dealers, and
many a fat bull in the city, are alarmed least a
limilar enquiry fliould take place at home, in
which cafe many curious discoveries will be made,
and the number will greatly exceed all reasona
ble calculations. —v
The word Rout formerly meant the defeat of
an army—it now fignifies the deiirudtion of
vate families by gambling
A person in a severe paroxyfuj of the hydro
phobia, was effe&ually cured by oil, taken in
ternally, and applied outwardly, as an unguent,
for three days, without remission.
Ex trails from the Reforti of the London Humane
Thomas Fry, shoemaker, was found appa
rently dead in the field, and taken to his lodging
without any signs of life. Every stimulus recom
mended by the Society was made life of, and
persevered in above an hour, before the pulsation
of any artery could be perceived. In about three
hours after the firft exertions, he fell into strong
convulsions, and in about two hours more beg:in
to speak. The man bears a good chara&er, ana
is sober; he informed ine that coming f ro ™
Maidftone the evening before, he found a giddi
liefs in his head, and got into the fields as the
shorter road home. From all the circumstances
I could learn, he mult have lain in the fields
abo\e fourteen hours.
He is now perfectly recovered, and is an ad"'"
tiona] instance of the necessity and importance
of paying the most serious attention to every !;ind
of sudden apparent death, as experience now
proves, there may be various causes of fulpena
ing animation. J- Cono/sT'
'T
Society
Ittl
)FOR the gazette of the united states.
MR. FENNO,
AS I .have been long absent from America, it happens that an
ignorance of many modern improvements, efpecialiy in lan
guage, fubjeft me to fomc very odd mistakes.
I lately called, on a visit of friendfhip, at Mr. Modely's ; bc
xno- ushered into the parlour, I found his oldest daughter, Miss
s a fly, fitting in one of the windows, with a very pensive counten
ance, hemming a ruffle : With a freedom, which is natural to me,
and being an old acquaintance, I enquired how all the family did.
"We are all very well, said Miss Sally, except my dear Mare.
Your Mare ! What ails her pray ? O Sir, said Sally, (he is very
jick, you would hardly know her—Hie is so fallen away—(he is a
mere fkeleton —(he has loft her appetite—can eat scarcely any
thing, and if her complaints do not soon take a more favorable
turn I fear the word consequences may happen ; and what would
become of me, if I should lo(e her jnd here the poor girl
fobbed and cried sadly. I never was more surprised in my life,
than on this occasion ; for tho it is difficult to account for the
ftreugth of many incidental aitachments, even to cats 4 dogs or hor
ses; yet as I supposed from Mr. Mode l y's circumstances, and
bisaffe&ion to his dear girl, that if she (hould lo£e the pretty Nag/
which it feerns he had lately presented her, he would very readily
give her another, I was exceedingly puzzled at the<exeefsof her
grief—accordingly I attempted to sooth and moderate her afflic
tion, by faying, that such a loss could be easily made up—that ten
or a dozen guineas would buy just such another : She darted with
amazement, and exclaimed, fir, you astonish me ! What do you
mean ? Can all the gold in the universe purchase me so kind, so
affectionate a parent? Here I was, in my turn, equally surprized
and confounded—Parent, said I—you puzzle me Miss Sally, be
yond expreflion : was you not just now speaking of your Mart ?
No fir, said flie, of my Mamma : Wnat confufion of terms! re
plied I.—Pray never lead me into such ? mistake again by using
•what I now suppose is a modern pronunciation ; the absurdity of
it muftbe very apparent, when I allure you, Miss Sally, that I ans
wered you in the simplicity of my heart :My young friend felt
very forcibly the impropriety ot facrificing utility to fafliion—
and declared (lie would never fubjett herfelf to a funilar misap
prehension. I have since learut that Pare is the modern pronun
ciation for Pa : A very ludicrous scene occurred in consequence
of a mistake in the supposed meaning of this word ; but the abovt
may fuffice for the present.
PEREGRINE.
P. S. I was mentioning this incident to a friend —on which he obfer
vcd } that I did not underjiand French.
FROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER,
Mr. Bache,
JJ you, think the following hint can be of any advantage to this country,
which I have adopted as my patria, / requejl you to insert it in your
paper.
THE uncommon drynefs of the season, will very likely cause a
scarcity of hay; I propose an expedient that has perfectly
succeeded in France, under the fame circumstance. As there is
time yet to make use of it, I offer it earnestly to the public.
As it is known that when about the middle of May, the drynels
of the spring has Hopped the growth of the grafles, the husband
man has reason to apprehend a scarcity of hay, and that it is un
certain how he will be able to feed his cattle during the winter,
I invite him to try the following experiment:
About the end of this month, oY the beginning of June, but
not later, to plough twicc a piece of ground in size proportiona
ble to his wants. He must then choose the Indian corn of the
smallest size, in order to sow it thick; and sow at the rate of three
bushels to three birfhels and an half upon an acre, and harrow the
ground even. Before he sows the grain, he must let it soak du
ring 24 hours in water, to hasten the germination, and to prevent
its being eaten by the birds. It requires no more trouble till the
mowing, which ought to be performed when the blossom begins
to come out of the capfula : The plant is then full of juice, and
its (talks and leaves are exceedingly succulent; if it was mown
later, it would lose this good quality. It ought to be dried as
quick as possible, and housed for fodder. The cattle will eat it
greedily; it may be given green, and proves a good substitute for
hay.
The ground may be ploughed immediately after this mowing,
and sown with any winter grain. As the forage stands very little
on the ground, it has not time to impoverish it, but enriches it ra
ther, by the immense quantity ot tender roots that are buried by
the ploughing. I am, Sir, &c.
henfwgton, May 12, 1791
CHARLESTON (S. C.) May 3
This city was yesterday gratified with the ar
rival of the Prefidenc of the United States. A
twelve oared barge, manned by thirteen Captains
of American veflels, attended' him at Hadriil's
point, and rowed him over ; the Amateur Soci
ety, with a number of young gentlemen of con
liderabJe vocal powers, placed in boats, hailed
liiin with the music of instruments and voices,
which lasted during his passage to town.
He was accompanied by several gentlemen of
conlulerable rank in the State, and a very beau
tiful and grand procession of boats in the river.
The Preiidenc was received at his landing by
His Excellency the Governor, the Intendant and
Wardens of the city, the battalion of artillery,
the company of fufileers, a number of refpecla
le citizens, the militia officers and the Society
the Cincinnati ; all of whom attended him in
proceflion, amidst the firing of cannon and the
atriamations of the people, firlf to the Exchange,
and then to the House prepared for his reception.
PORTSMOUTH, May j
We hear with pleasure that our worthy ftatef
jnanand patriot, the Hon. JUDGE SULLIVAN,
as (o far recovered from his late indifpoficion
as to be enabled to walk abroad.
LANSINGBURGH, May 6.
The manufacture of Hard Metal Buttons has
® c »me no inconsiderable a branch of business :
' e perfeiftion to which it is brought does honor
'o the workmen while it renders eflential benefit
•o the community : Mr. Mix's manufactory, of
' ' e ? rni Mix, Barney, and Co. of New-Haven,
produces a supply of 160 different kinds, sizes
ail d nolifhes— the goodness, beauty and reduced
prices of which, niuft give their goods a decided
P ereiice to any European whatever.
Yours,
Du PLAIN E.
We are tald that the probable amount of their
business this year to be done by i 5 hands only
will be 10,000 dollars.
Mefl Silas Pepoone and Edward Edwards, of
Stockbridge, Maflachufetts, have contracted with
the commissioners of the land-office of this state,
to explore, lay out and complete a road from
tiie welt barnch of the IVlohawk-river (in the vi
cinity of the cook-house) to the south end of the
Cayuga-lake.
N E W-Y O R K, May 13
At the anniversary of the Sons of Tammany,
or Columbian Order—after dinner the thirteen
following Toasts were echoed round the tables :
*The Grand Sachem of the 1 hirteen Uni
ted tires—may his declining fun be precious in
the fight of the Great Spirit, that the mild lustre
of his departing beams may prove no less glori
ous than the effulgence of his rising, or traivf.
cendeTit fplend,aur of his meridian greatness I
2d. The heacT men and chiefs of the Grand
Council of the Thirteen United Fires—may they
convince our foes not only of their courage to
lift, prudence to direct, and clemency to with
hold the hatchet, but of their power to inflidt it
in their country's cause.
His excellency the Sachem of tlie New-York
tribe—may his happiness in private life be as
great as that which we have%ong enjoyed under
his public administration.
4th. Our Brethren of th® Cinojijnati—may
they, and the memory of their fellow chiefs and
warriors, whose patriotic blood
r.ative foil, be ever dear to American freenfl^.
yth. All societies in this Country which speak
peace and good will to it.
6th. The memory of our imtnpml countryman,
Benjamin Franklin, whose Pjiilofophy drew elec
tric fire from Heaven, and whose Patriotism cher
irtied the firft sparks of that Freedom which now
blefles his native land.
7th. LewUAthe sixteenth, and all our Gallic
Brethren-vfnay the glorious empire of reaf'on and
liberty ihey have reared, attain that fumfnit of
excellence which its auspicious etlablifhment pre
dicts. r
Bth. The memory of the renowned Columbus
—may our latest posterity inherit the goodly
land which his intrepidity explored and his sa
gacity di(covered.
9th. May the cap of liberty ever refufe its of
fice, when the unhallowed brow of our counrty's
foe would fully its purity.
10th. May the sons of Tammany ever esteem
it their greatest: glory to keep alive the sacred
flame of Liberty.
rirh. Continual peace to all the nations of the
enrth -may tlia fragrant American plant ever
ensure them a calumet of peac^.
12. May the calumet of peace have the magic
power of cementing us in the chair of love, by
evaporating jealousy in smoke.
13th. The Day—may the Good Spirit grant
the sons of Tammany life and freedom, to enjoy
many mure.
BOSTON, May 7
On Thursday his Excellency The Governor gave an elegant
entertainment to a number of the principal chara&ers in this
town, and the officers of his His Biitannic Majcjly's ship Alligator.
His Excellency was so well as to be able to prcfide at table?
After dinner, among other judicious and liberal toasts, the fol
lowing were given :—
HAPPINESS TO ALL MANKIND.
The President of the United States.
His Majesty George the 11 Id. King of Great-Britain.
His Mod Christian Majesty the King of Frenchmen, &c,
Philadelphia, May iB.
Ir is with pleasure we learn, that a sum of mo
ney has within a few days been collected, which
is more than fuflicient to make good all the da
mages sustained by the poor families who have
fuffered by the late fi;e in Dock Itreet.
In addition to the above, the Mayor has inform'd
the citizens that 178 dollars have been raised
by the Old American Company, at the theatre,
for the relief of those unfortunate people.
A correspondent observes that the opinions of the minority, both
in politics and religion, have in all ages been considered as Here
sies—and the fate of Heresy is very well known. It was the in
fluence of that wisdom which comes from above, that led the citi
zens of these States to the adoption of a Constitution, which guards
the minority from the tyranny of the majority, by dividing the
powers of government into three branches, and making each a
check on the other. Heresies are the growth of every clime—
our ancestors were persecuted as Heretics in Europe—the intoler
ant spirit of the age, produced this Wcftcrn Empire—and strange
to relate, what some consider as the Heresies of the National Aflem
bly of France, have been the cause of the emigration to the wilds
of America, of a considerable number of Frenchmen : From whence
it appears, that political and religious heresies may be produ&ive
of some advantages. About the year 1787, there were many po
litical Heresies rife in this country—whether the knowledge of
them reached France or not, is nothing to the purpose—certain it
is, that some of our best citizens supposed we were at that time,
very near realizing the sailor's advice, * 4 to divide the world over
again : This was a very prevailing Heresy ; another was, that go
vernment was unnecessary, or at least, the expence of supporting it :
Taxes had been so long out of faftiion, that it was considered a mod
•ibominable imposition to levy them : Another prevailing Heresy
at that time, and perhaps not yet entirely extinct, was, that the
words public credit were entirely useless ; the creditors, it was said,
were in the power of the majority, and must abide their decision.
Other Heresies might be mentioned, but the above may fuffice.—
23
These Heretics, like the Heresies of old, were produ£live of quite
d.ffereut events from those expected—and that form of govern
ment, which, so far as relpe&s our political state, has, in a man
ner, annihilated humau evil, was the bleffcd confcquence.
It has been said that the people of England have no constitution
— but what, according to fame fyltems of politics, are conftitu
paichment, which the people may at one period
'-onndrr as the palladium of their rights ; and at another period
annihilate as ufelcls, and worse than ufelcfs repofuories of ab
luraities.
The people of England have however high ideas of personal
(octal and political freedom—and these ideas are iufeparably conl
netted with certain great principles, which they wifely fuopofe
lorm the great outlines of a couftitution. This conflitution is
written on their hearts—it thore has an existence, an influence an
operation which are superior to eHeAs produced by penlhable
manuscripts or parchmcnt declarations. This conftjiution lihe
t ie immijtSble principles of common taw, approves itfelf to the
reason and conscience of every free born Englishman—and hence
we find the natives of that eouniry, like the free citizens of the
United States, have a high sense of the superior rank they hold n
[he community ol mankind. If the English nation has no con
flitution, what volumes have been written by some very wife men
on a nonentity ! '
On the 31ft March, there were fubferibed in MalTachufetts, a
greeable to the ast for funding the debts of the United States,
1 -4 11 '55 2 doll's. 80 cents, at 6 pr. cent, per annum,
1.505.466 doll's. 47 cents, at 3 pr. cent, per annum,
2.917.018. "27.
Amount of deferred stock fubferibed, is probably about one half
oi the amount of the 6 pr. cents.
J° H <" Foster Williams, fcfq, is appointed to command
the Kevcnue-Cutter, building at Newbury.
Capt John Maltbie, is appointed to command the Cutter.v
now buildiug at New-London.
Mr. Daniel Tilton, is apdointed Ensign in the ad,U. 5,
Regt. vice. Mr. J. S. Gilman, declined.
Accounts from New-York fay—that velTcls now lying at the '
wharves in New-York, and within a few mile« of the cityi' have "
upwards of thirty thousand bulhels of wheat on board ; besides
which, great quantities are still remaining in the country.
The Legislature of this State has voted the following sums sos
the laudable and patriotic purpose of promoting the imercourfs
ind navigation, in the interior parts of the State.
For improving See. the river Delaware,
For the river Lechawaxen,
The river Lehigh, - .
The river Schuylkill,
The river Sufquehannah,
The river Alleghany,
The French Cieek,
The river Juniata,
The Irtt-le Conemaugh,
The river Kifkerainetas,
For the Stockpoft road,
For the Driftwood do.
For the road to Lake Erie,
tor the Canoe Narrows road,
For the Poplar-run road,
For the little Conemaugh road,
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
V n J - Bojtm, May to.
tX«r o y T lO^1 " 8 Edward Efty, and Oliver Johnson,
of Wcftmoreland, m the county ot Cheshire, and State of itew- •
Hampshire, presented the Ticket No. 6052, which drew tbe'£api»
tal prize of Ten Thousand Dollars, in the firft daCs of, the »bovs
Lottery, to the Manager who signed that fortunate Ticket w ho,j
immediately paid them their money.
We can now congratulate (fays a correspondent) our country
Brethren of N. Hampshire State, on the iuccefs two of their citi
zens (among many others) have met with in the MafTachufetts State '
Lottery.—lt is to be hoped that after having experienced 'ach li.
hcrality from the goddess who has presided over the rich Wheels
we have turned in this Town, the People of N. HampQjire will
not again tolerate a prosecution against Peifons felling our wealth
dijpenfing Tickets in their government.
ExtraS from Mr. Paine's pamphlet.
When a man reflects on the condition whicfP-Tltace was in
from the nature of her government, he will fee other TSlfet f®f re
volt than those which immediately connect themselves yrith the
person orchara&er of Louis XV I. There were, if I may to eicprcls
it, a thoufanddefpotifms to be reformed in France,- which bad
grown up under the hereditary despotism of the monarchy, and
became so rooted as to be in a great raeafure independent ot it.—
Between the monarchy, the parliament, and the church, there was
a rwa/Jhip of despotism; besides the feudal despotism operating •
locally, and the ministerial despotism operatingevery-wherc. But
Mr. Burke, by considering the King as the only possible object of a
revolt, speaks as if France was a village, in which every thing that
passed mult be known to its commanding officer, and no oppref
(ion cquld be acted but what he could immediately controu). Mr. "
Buikc have been in the Baltile his whole life, as well tinder
Louis XVI. as Louis XIV. and neither the one ncur the other have
knowb that such a man as Mr. Burke existed. The despotic prin
ciples of the government were the fame in both retgm, $014$ tMfe
dispositions of the men were as remote as tyranny apd' bcnevolnux. v -
Copy of a letter from Lotd Mansfield, to an inMneaf
Character in this city—which is publilhed as an evidence of
(he reputation of our courts of iuftice in Europe, and of the li
beral mind of the venerable judge from whom it was received.
Kenwood, Feb. 14, 1791.
To the Honorable
Six,
I AM not able to write with my own hand, and, therefore,
must beg leave to use another, to acknowledge the honor you-have
done me, by your mod obliging and elegant letter, and the fend
ing me Dallas's Reports.
I am not able to read I have heard them all read
with much pleasure : They do credit to the court, the bar, and
t"he reporter; they !hew readiness in praflice, liberality in princi
ple, strong reason, and legal learning: the method too is clear,
and the language plain.
I undergo the weight of age, and other bodily infirmities ; but,
blcfled be God ! my mind is cheerful, and still open to that sensi
bility, which praise from the praise-worthy never fails to give.
Laus laudari a Tc: Accept the thanks of,
Sir, your most obliged,
And obedient, humble servant,
beautiju! Lines on Judge Hobkinfon in the Federal Gazette»
prepajedfor re-publication this day,Jhallbe preserved in our next.
K7* Securities as in our lajl.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, fo:d at the Office of SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfuut-Street.
May 18, 1791. (if)
£■ 35°° o
250 ,0
IOQO o
2500 o
6950 o
150 o
400 o
1320 o
6800 o
35° o
- 400 ©
460 a
4QO o
300 o
360 a
180 o
MANSFIELD.■
ft E P O ft T
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
On the fubjc£t of the
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES,
THE rival fifhermen immediately endeavoured to turn this
measure to their own' advantage, by pouring their whale
oils into the markets of France, where they were enabled, by
the great premiums received from their governmeot, perhaps too
by extraordinary indemnifications, to undersell both the French
and American fifhermen. To repel this measure, France shut her
ports to all foreign fifh oils whatever, by the arret No. 10. The
British whale fiftiery fell, in confcquence, the ensuing year, from
two-hundred and twenty-two to one hundred and feveiuy-eight
ships. But this general exclusion had palsied our fishery alio.
On the seventh of December, 1788, therefore, by the arret No.
xi, the ports of France, still remaining (hut to all other nations,
"were again opened to the produce of the whale fifheries of the
United States ; continuing, however, their endeavours to recover
a ihare in this fi(hery themselves, by the aid of our fiftiermen.
In 1784 —5—6 —they had had four ships ; in 1787, three ; in
X/ 88, seventeen :n the two fifheries, of tour thousand seven hun
dred ton. These cost them in bounty, two hundred and twentv
fivc thousand livresTwilich divided on one thousand five hundred
and fifty tons of oil, tWe quantity they took, amounted to one
hundred and forty-five livres (near twenty-seven dollars) the ton ;
and on about one hundred natives on board the seventeen ships,
for there were one hundred and fifty Americans engaged by the
voyage) came to two thousand two hundred and fifty livres, or
about four hundred and sixteen dollars and two-thirds a man.
We have had daring the years 1787 —8—9 —on an average,
ninety-one veflels, of five thouf«ind eight hundred and twenty
tons, in the northern, and thirty-one, of four thousand three
hundred and ninctv-tons, in the southern fifhery. See No. 12.
The details will enable Congress to fee with what a competition
ye have to struggle for the continuance of this filhery, not to fay
its inrreafe. Against prohibitory duties in one country, and
bounties of the adventurers in both of tliofe which are contend
ing with each other for the fame object, ours have no auxiliaries
but poverty and rigorous economy. The bufintfs, unaided, is a
■wretched one. The Dutch have peculiar advantages for the nor
thern fifhery, as being within fix or eight days fail of the grounds,
as navigating with more economy than *ny other nation in Europe,'
their seamen content with lower wages, and their merchants with
lower profits. Yet the memorial of No. 13, from a committee
of the whale merchants to the States General of Holland in the
year 1775, state* that fourteen millions of guilders, equal to five
millions fix hundred thousand dollars, had been loft in that fifh
ery in forty-feven years, being about one hundred and twenty
thousand dollars a year, '1 he States General thereupon gave a
bounty or thirty guilders a man to the fifhermen. A person in
timately acquainted with the British whale fifhery, and whose
Jnlormation merits confidence, has given afTurance that the ships
employed in their northern filhery in 1788, funk eight hundred
pounds each on an average, more than the amount of the pro
duce and bounties. An English {hip of three hundred tons, and
forty.two seamen in this fifhery generally brings home, after a
lour months voyage, twenty-five ton of oil, worth four hundred
and thirty-seven pounds ten (hillings sterling ; but the wages of
the officers and seamen will be four hundred pounds, theie re
main but thirty-seven pounds ten shillings, not worth taking in
to account towards the outfit and merchants profit. Thefc then
must be paid by th? government; and it is on this idea that the
Eritifh bounty is calculatcd.
Our veflel for the northern fifhery average sixty-sour tons, and
cod when built, fitted ouf, and victualled for their firft voyage
about three thousand dollars. They have taken on an average The
three lafl years, according to the flatement No. 12, eighteen tons
of oil, worth, at our m3i ket, nine hundred dollars, which are to
pay all expenees, and subsist the fiihermen and merchant. Our
vessels for the fourhern fifhery average one hundred and forty tons,
and cost, when built, fitted out, and victualled for their firft
vc-yage, about fix thousand five hundred dollars. They have ta
ken on an average the three last years, according to the fame
statement, thirty-two tons ot oil, each worth at our market three
thousand two hundred dollars, which are, in like manner, to pjv
all expenees and subsist the owners and navigators. Thcfe expen
ees are great, as the voyages are generally of twelvemonths du
ration. No hope can arise of their condition being bettered bv
an augmentation of the price of oil. This is kept down by the
competition ot the vegetable oils, which answer the fame purpo
ses, not quite so well, but well enough to becomc preferable,
■were Ihe price to be raised, and so well indeed as to be moie'
generally used than the fifh oils for lighting houses and cities.
The A merican whale fifhery is principally followed by the in
habitants of the island of Nantucket, a sand bar of about fifteen
miles long and three broad, capable of maintaing bv its agricul
ture about twenty-families : but it employed in these fifhenes be
fore the war, between five and fix thousand men and boys; and
in the only harbour it pofTefles, it had one hundred and 'forty
veflels, one hundred and thirty-two of which were of the larger
kind, as being employed in the southern fifhery. In agriculture
then, theyha«.eno resource, and, if that of their fifhery cannot
be pursued from their own habitations, it is natural they should
seek others from which it can be followed, and preferably those
they will find a lameness of language, religion, laws, ha
bits and kindred. A foreign emiflary has lately been
them, for the purpose of renewing the invitations to a change oT
situation. But attached to their native country, they prefer con
tinuing in it, if their continuance in it can be made supportable.
This brings us to the question, what relief does the condition
of this fifhery require ?
lft. A remission of duties on the articles used f or their calling.
2d. A retaliating duty on foreign oils, coming to seek a com
petition with them in or from our ports.
3d. Free markets abroad.
lft. The remiflion of duties will stand oa nearly the fame
ground with that to the cod fifhermen.
2d. The only nation whose oil is brought hither for competi
tion with our own, makes ours pay a duty of about eighty-two
dollars the ton, in their ports. Theirs is brought here too, to
be re-shipped fraudulently under our flag into ports where it
could not be received under theirs, and ought not to be covered
by ours, if we mean to preserve our own admission into them. The
3d. And principal object, is to find markets for the vent of oil.
Portugal, England, Holland, Sweden, Denmark, P r u{fia,
Rufiia, the Hanfe towns, supply themselves and something more.
Spain and Italy receive supplies from England, and need the
Icfs as their flues ai e clearer. France is the only country which
can take our surplus, and they take principally of the common
oil; as the habit is but commencing with them of ascribing a jufl
value to that of the (permacaeti whale. Some of this, however,
finds vent there. There was, indeed, a particular interest per
petually soliciting the cxclufion of our ofls from their maikets.
The late government there saw well, thai what we should lose
thereby, would be gained by others, not by themselves. And
■we are to hope that the present government, as wife and friendly,
will also view us, not as rivals, but asco-operators against a com
mon rival. Friendly arrangements with them, and accommo
dation to mutual interest, rendered easier by friendly dispositions
exiftingon both fides, may long secure to us this important re
source lor our seamen. Nor is it the ir.tereft at the fifherman
[continued.]
alone, which calls for the cultivation of f ri?ndly arrangements
with that nation. Besides five-eighths of our whale oil, and two
thirds of our salted fifh, thty take from us one-fourth of our to
bacco, three-fourths of our Jive flock (No. 14.) a considerable
and growing proportion ot our rice, great supplies occafionallv
of other grain ; in 1789, whith, indeed, was extraordinary foui
millions of buihels ot wheat, and upwards of a million of buQi
elsof rye and barley (No. 15.) and nearly the whole carried in
our own vessels (No. 16.) They are a free market now, and will
in a time be a valuable one for our (hips and ship-timber, potash
and peltry. [To be continued.]
Blank Powers to receive the Interest, andfor the transfer of the
principal ojpublic debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablifhed in the Trea
sury Department : Afo Blanks for abf.rafts of to be fold by
the Editor.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE L'egiflature of the State of Connecticut, at their felfion in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpofp of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, who hnving given bond
for the faithful difchargc of their trial, prefer.t the pilblic with the
following
S C ]
1 ]
1
1
2
4
£
12
30
45
5°
61
100
140
539°
Prize of
,5842 Prices.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not twoßlanks to a Pr 1 7.z.
Subje&to a dedu&ion of twelve and a half per cent.
T.'ie public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident fori
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafled, if equalled by any ; b
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lavs open to the found
but by realon of the fiats, this wharf is netefiarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extenftve and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all dalles of people, for
the success of this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there' being mor<
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhed ir
Ameriea) induce the managers to believe the tiekets will meet with
a speedy sale. ,
The drawing will pofitive'.y commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publifbed, and the prizes
paid on demand, bv the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will, be deemed as generoufiy given
for the use of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly. **
MA Nacer s:
James Rice, Michael Tono,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, , Joseph Howell.
Neui-ffji'en, April 14, 1791.
$3* TICKETS in the above Lottery rnay be had at the
Compiing-houfeof Messrs. Stefiien Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Tickets in the MalTachufetts Lottery (hat have drawn -jriics,
will be received in payment for the above tickets. '
A C A R D.
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—w'ifhes they may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the best chofcn
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pigou, and other late arrivals, which aie now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on so low terms as mud make it an ebjeel to cujiomas. Ordcis
from his friends will be attended to with pundtuality and dispatch,
and the time of pa) ment made convenient. '
Philad. May 2, 1791
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who served a regular anprenticeftiip to the
business of VENDIIE-MASTER, under Mr. Geoscs
Kelly, has jult opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all thole that may be pleased to favor him with their com
mands- JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791. (1 ep 7 w)
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOK S,
In various Languages —being part of a private Library;
Among zo/iich are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, JProcopius, Eufebius* Niccpho
rus, Cicero. Virgil, Horace, Livy,' Tacitu.*, Seneca, Pliny, See.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid,- Cxfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, See.
Ottiva a infra. Sepuuagint, Aristophanes, Longinus, Theo
phrallus, Epidletus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phaiaris,
liocratcs, Polyomas, Lucretius, Catullus. Tibullus, Prnpertii-s,
l aterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gelli'us. Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poets minores Latini, Callipxdia, Strada, L
Valla, &c.
0-3 Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
n'Pi I ', U,C F ' Co " Market-Street. Catalogues are
aljojlitched up W,th the AMERICAN MUSEUM for 1p„/
SC7' The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ann.
24
HEME.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
2000 are
1000
s°#
200
#100
5®
40
3°
20
10
8
, *3" A young mat, vho Ut had M
of tjtptriertce in the direction kf periodicalpUSuSK,
is desirous of procuring employ at SuterinilP '
% ™ det l "" Editor of the Gai*<u ?f &J
State 3, -who will rtply to all requifitt ena«;J «
Philadelphia, May , 4 f ,-g, i J »_
V
[£3* All persons concerned will be pleased to tak-r-• l~"~
following adverti'ement has been varied ir„ m ,i
our paper of the 2 3 d of March.] ° m th " . ,
Treasury Department.
March 22, j- 01
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be receivVj .
office of the Secretary of the Treafurv, until the '['■•• "J '
in September next mclufive, for the supply of all , it , n . iv
■nay be required tor the use o( the United States, from tC'fi.ftj '
of January to the thirty.firft .lay of December, ,- q , both ' '
clufive, at the places, and within the dillnt;, herein aftcr
oned, viz. " ll -
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the !U'c o< P„*
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt. ' ~ an "
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh. ' 1
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntoAi and the mouth „f
the Rivrr Mutkingum, and at the mouth of the Rive, Miilkineum
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the R, vcr M [lf '
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcamwas, jnd at theT
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down'the bid
River to its mouth.
Atany place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kmgum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the month of
the said River Scioto.
Atany place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the'
said Rapids.
10.000
5000
4000
4000
4000
2500
2400
300 c
225°
20C0
1830
2000
1400
43,120
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
U P the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over 10 the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which emptiei into
Lake .Eric.
87500
At .my place or place.l from the rapids oft'ne Ohio, to the month
of the V/abath, thence up the said Waba(h 10 Post St. Vincennti
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said ri»»r Wabafli, to the
Aiiarni village, before dcfcribed.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of rhe river Ohio,
At any placs or places, on the east fide of the river Miflifinpi
from .-he mouth of the Ohio river.to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any olace or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or place?, from the Miami Village to Sandufitv,
*nd at Sandufle.y, and from Sanduikv to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango ajid Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfie, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lHe and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mou: li of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, on.
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, bv the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv placeor placcs, on the'eaft. fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, totherrcr
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the month of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochapoo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following article*,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of perk,
Haifa jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quartsof vinegar,f
1 , cj- > per. 100 rations.
Iwo pounds or soap, £ r
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the Un ' d States,
from the fir ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1 795?, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the ftafe of Massachu
setts, and the Post of Weft Point, in the state of New-York.
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
arc above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lit Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which mav be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31 ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he port on the river Oconee, at present com manded by Capt.
Jefeph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalac'nee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph,
At any place or places from th" Rock I. ■ din£ on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main foulh branch of rhe laid river, from
the said mouth up to the f urcc of the aid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other or places within the state Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future port*.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that 'here
fhail at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts. for the fpareofat
lead two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
. The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, a*
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses fuilained by the
depredations of the enem), orbymeans of the troops of the Inucd
States, {hall be paid for at the Drices of the articlescap'ured or dei
troyed, on the depohtions of 'wo or more creditable charaftcrs,
*nd the certificate of a commifTioneri officer, afccrtaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for whic.
coniDenfation is claimed.
The con*rafts for the above supplies will be made either for
year, or for two vears, as may appear ebeible. Per.ons dllpo
to contrast will therefore confine their offers to one year, or tn^ V
may make their proportions so as to admit an elc&ion o i e
term of two years. '
The proposals may be made for the whole of the above potts to
gether, or fcparately/or Springfield, for Weft-Point, for York.own,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the ports in Georgia,
and they mufl fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pa\
(ICTT The Printers who have prrbliflied the above advert' a '
requejlcd to reprint it with the alteration*.
*
■*; .>-v