PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. fig, BlliH-STKEET, BETWEEN SECOND AND 77/7/J7? STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 91, of Vol. II. j
ABSTRACT of the EXPORTS of the United State.'
from the commencement of the Cuftom-Houfe'
in the several States, which were at differen
times in August, 1789, to the 30th day of Sep'
i 790._
SPECIES of MERCHANDIZE.
EXTORTED
Ashes pot, tons,
AAies pcail, do.
Apples, baircls,
Boats,
Bomb Shells,
Bricks,
tons,
Beer ana Porter. casks,
Brandy, do.
Cordials, boxes,
Cordage,
Carriages,
Candles Tallow,
Candles Wax,
Candles Myrtle,
Cyder, barrels,
Cotton, bales,
Coffee, lbs.
Chocolate, do.
, Its.
do.
do.
Cocoa, do.
Caflia and Cinnamon, do.
X)eer {kins,
Buck American, bolts,
Duck Russia, do.
Earthen and Glass Ware,
Eflence Spruce, boxes,
Flax-Seed,
casks,
Flax,
Furs,
furniture,
("Fish dried, quintals,
. ! Fish pickled, barrels,
C ! Oil Whale, do.
J Oil Spermaceti, do.
| Candles, lbs.
(.Whale-Bone, do.
f F»uck-Wheat, bulhels
t! | Corn, do.
« Oats, do.
Rye, do.
[ Wheat, do.
Cinfeng, casks,
Cun Powder, lbs.
gallons,
Gin,
Grindstones,
-Hair-Powder, lbs.
Hats,
Hay,
Horns,
Ironmongery,
Iron Pig,
Iron Bar,
tons,
tons,
do.
indigo,
r Horned Cattle,
•5 J Horses.
<§ J Mules,
I Sheep,
*4 H °g s >
L Poultry,
dozen,
T Staves and Heading,
• Shingles,
I Shook Hogsheads, 52,,558
Hoops, 1.908,310
1 Boards, 46.747.73°
| Handlpikes, dozen, 2.361
Calks, 2,423
Scantling, feet 8,719,638
« Lumber of differnt kinds, do.
Timber of do. do.
Leather, lbs.
Logwood,
Lignumvitar,
Lead and Shot,
Mahogany,
Medicine and Drugs.
Merchandize,
Molasses,
Muskets,
Nank-ens, bales,
Oil Linseed, barrels,
' Flour, barrels
Bread, do.
Meal, do.
Peas & Beans, bush.
Beef, barrels
i Pork, do.
£ | Hams& Bacon, lbs.
•fS Butter, firkins
w Cheese, lbs.
Potatoes, barrels
Tongues, do.
Onions, Vegetables,
J Hogs Lard, firkins
J Honey, do.
COyfters Pickled, kegs
Pimento, bags
Proper, lbs.
Paper, reams
tons,
do.
do.
gallons,
• *
«e I
#<!
* I
Ib.s.
barrels
ib S.
Paint,
Pitch,
Raw Hides,
Kaw Silk,
Rosin, barrels
Rice, tierccs
Rum American, gallons
Rum Wcftindia, do.
Raisins, casks
Salt, bufticls
Sago,
Soap,
lbs.
boxes
Value.
661,634
17 7-459 5°
6,318
372
100
Qiiant'tty
7>°s° 10
>.M 8 55
5,898
8
10
2,617 50
4,612
3,016
637
5.739
28,017
14.876
2,461
52
849
58,408
45.753
3.537
95°
9.715
33> 00 9
777
2,200
i,99°
600
870,55°
472
*97
236
2 20
149,680
5.274
*i -
44a
2,027
254-75 2
29,882
10,632
. 9>39 2
77
220
"5
236,072
40,019
21,97 a
1,468
60. .515
8 351
828,531
»'3 > t6 S
124 908
79»54 2
378,721
36,804
'5-765
5,43'
70,379
121,281
27,724
20,41 7
7.562
2j102,137
98,842
2 >5 72
1,083,581
20,900
13,181
1.398.99 8
47,024
861
16,989
450
1,687
1.392
12,851
1,052
2 1 j 7 6,5
1,124,458
813
5,800
18,02 s
203
1 a 5534
2,126
7,878
9 1 >379
3 '555
>6,723
537-379
612,119
,5.4°6
8,628
99,960
339-5> 6
8,846
237
10,058
5>3°4
3.704
i 7
14,481
6,263
36.402,301
67.33 1 ' 1 '5
463,229
120,151
32,002
■ 9,598
?.60,213
*>5°5
3 6 97
95.3°8
128.503
339>3'-«
5.3 02
22,698
264
1 76
6
3.9'»
1,760
810
>8-531
>'735
28,1^6
3»9°4
500
a 5>537
100
11
"9
724,623
75.667
99.973
38.752
44.662
24,462
2 53>555
2.3'5
1,^62
4>59 l > 2 93
209,674
302,694
25.746
2 79'55>
208.099
19,728
48,587
8,830
6.C09
1.598
£2,936
3».4rs
99°
•2 72
. _ , O
8.379
•44.73+
5.318
641
6 '35S
165
272
4,928
7*5
6,100
1,440
381
9 6 3
17*488
169
4, 6 5°
8,875
3' 6
100,845
37°>33>
12,623
778
»• 753.796
j 35>4°3
5-795
1 ,205
8,236
3'>935
2,319
697
455
3.9 6 7
Saturday. March 12, 1791.
Snuff,
lbs.
Seeds and Roots,
Siioes and Boots,
Sadlery,
Starch,
pans
Sugar X,oaf,
Sugar Brown, dc
Saflafras, d(
Stee), bundles
Stones fa wed,
Tdllow,
hhds,
Tobacco,
chests
Tea,
Tar, barrels
Turpentine, do.
Do. Spirits, do.
Tow Cloth, pieces
calks
]?ipes
lbs.
Vinegar,
Wines,
Wax,
To the north-weft Coast of America,
Amount of fcveral Returns received fnee the
i£ih February, 1791.
* One Quarterly Return from feveial small Diftntts are de
ficient.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ON AGRICULTURE,
BEING on a journey sometime ago, I put tip
at a very decent inn, and was not displeased
to find my landlord disposed to entertain me with
his conversation : He feeined to be of a cheerful
temper, and saw things on the bright fide. After
touching upon politics, which, next to the wea
ther, is the firft topic to scrape acquaintance
with, he ex-prelled his fatisfaclion that husban
dry was beginning to prosper. It was a fliaine,
he said, that freeholders should be so little ambi
tious to shew, by the fkiiful management of their
land, that it was their own. But he was happy
to find, that at last the lpirit of improvement had
reached them—they were getting into the prac
tice of tilling no more land than they were able
to manure so well as to obtain very great crops.
This method was found to cause a considerable
saving ot labor, as well as a great incieafe of
grain. He said that the molt thrifty farmers in
the village and neighbourhood, had agreed to
meet at ltated times, under the name of the Far
mers' Club, and to communicate such ufeful ob
servations as had occurred to them. Some of the
club were direcfted to procure feeds, by way of
change, from distant parts ; others agreed, from
time to time, to make experiments, and to com
municate the result to the club. One of their
number, who was not at the last meeting, had
sent his observations in a letter. My landlord
finding that I was pleased with the letter, direct
ed his son to make me a copy of it : If you think
it will be ufeful, you may publish it.
Gentlemen,
BEING lame, I cannot, as usual, attend your
meeting ; but 1 fend you, in writing, lome ob
servations, which I intended to have communi
cated in person.
Doubtless it was decreed that we should get our
living by hard work. We have no cause to com
plain of our lot in this regard : It brings with it
many blellings, and shields us from many evils.
The scholar fits pale at his books, and even white
bread turns four on his stomach ; the Ealt wind
makes him fliiver, and the sultry South wind de
prives him of strength and spirits. We, on the
contrary, swing the scythe, without faintnefs, in
the dog days > and, iu the winter, the manage
ment of the axe keeps us warm, though uptothe
knees in snow. But though it is ordained that
we should work hard for our living, I cannot be
lieve that we are to work hard and not get it.
Yet, how many get but half a living, and go be
hind hand notwithstanding. What is thecaufe?
Is it not the low state of the noble art of husban
dry ? Io do all that is polfible to be done to im
prove it, will require great estates, great lkill,
and a very long course of time, to establish new
methods of practice. But some improvements
are obvious, within the reach of every one, even
the poorest farmer, and, if pra<ftifed, would ena
ble the poorest farmer to pay his taxes, and to
live comfortably.
We find that the produce of land is greater or
less in proportion to the manure that is laid on
it. Indeed, new lands for several years, and in
tervals near rivers, will do without; but what 1
have remarked is true, of almoftall the old lands
in the country. ]f wc could find means to in-
777
s>®°9
2 >'35
5,741
5-54 1
1,125
>5,35°
5,861
>6,429
33.'358
49,5°4
3>43 2
2 >'-37
555
97<*
550
200,020
118,460
20,722
4>349>567
11:1,582
1-26,116
7 2 >54 1
1,032
1,672
85,067
28,326
*93
67
».274
®3> 2 49
57.597
1,074
2 3M5 8
2°,194,794
10,362
210,810. 84
Dollars, Total, * 20,415,966. 84
hfkso
[Whole No. 195.]
crease manure, it would be better to do it than
to buy more land ; for an acre, well manured,
will yield as much as two without manure the
crop is got for half the money; and in cafe of
cold wet springs, or dry summers, it is not so
likely to be cut off. All this you well know.
But perhaps you do not all know, because you
have not tried ihe m£ans of increasing manure
by comport. I have tried ic, and wilh you to fol
low my example.
Adjoining the stye where your swine are {hue
up, which should be dry and warm, fence a yard
for them to wallow in ; twenty or thirty feet
1 qua re will be large enough for half a dozen hogs ;
cover this in the fall i>r spring with mud, or any
rich earth or grass sods ; common loom should
not be refufed, if richer earth cannot be procured.
1 he hogs, having no rings in their noses, will
render this mud or earth, if not more than two
feet deep, an exceeding rich conipoft in a year's
time. They will keep it llirring and fermenting
with their clung and urine, which will be incor
porated with the mud, and thereby their \yhole
strength will be saved ; for the mud or earth
will prevent the virtues of the dung and urine
from being wafiied into the ground by theheavy
rains, or evaporated by the fun and air—it not
only saves them, but makes them stronger, by
keeping them in a state of conltant fermentation
—the fermentation will be increased, and the
whole mass will be improved by making this yard
the receptacle for the weeds of your garden—
throw into it your soap suds, brine, and all the
greasy flop of the kitchen—you may add potatoe
tops, which should be carefully saved for the pur
pose when you gather the potatoes —theftubborn
corn-stalks, which rot slowly in the cow-yard,
will soon con fume in the hog-yard. Indeed anv
vegetable or animal fubltance may be added, for
there is none which will not make manure when
rotten. Half a dozen hogs, if confined to a ftyc,
and such a yard, will make more than 20 tons of
the bell manure in one year. The manure should
be laid in heaps to mellow with the frofts of one
winter, and it will aiifwer to put into the hills of
Indian corn as well as horse dung.
It is not neceflary to tell farmers how to life
manure, nor liow much the crop will be encreafed
by it. You all know that my crops have been re
markably large, and 1 allure you that I have ob
tained them by manuring my grounds in the be
fore-mentioned manner. The dung of hogs is fin
for moll purposes, but particularly for Indian
corn, which is a great exhauster of the earth :
It ferments more llowly than hoife or sheep dung,
and furnilhes a Heady supply to carry oil the
growth of this plant to the ripening of the ear.
The dung or hogs, valuable as it is, is almost en
tirely 101 l throughout the country; and their
urine, not lei's valuable, is totally loft and ab
foibed by the ground. A thick layer of earth in
the ho'g-yard, as has been observed, not only pre
vents this lols, but improves the manure.
I advise you, therefore, to make trial of thi s
method without loft of time. Do the like in y ou r
cow-yards—spread a thick layer of earth there,
gather all the litter and rubbish, weeds, leaves
ajid iti aw, that you can, and let the cattle tread
it into the mafsj if it should get hard trodden,
ltir it with an iron bar, or turn it up to the air
several times in the Cummer with a plough. A
diligent farmer will be surprised at the quantity
of his manure, and a fkilful one will not be at a
IoU toi methods to improve the strength of it.
It will be his own fault if the compost is inferior
in llrengtji to dung which xs unmixed with earth
01 mud. 1 his compoll will improve by lying in
Leaps, expolcd to the frofts of the winter. Spread
on giafs land, it makes fine crops—and indeed ic
answers every purpose of dung.
Our farms will certainly grow worse, unless
we ny io increase their fertility by comports and
artificial manure. Inrtead of wearing our lands
out, and spoiling the earth we live on, it is time'
to turn our attention to the important fubjedt of
manure, after the example of England, where
husbandry is greatly encouraged. My own ex
perience has taught me that we may get better
crops, while the fruitfulnefs of our grounds /hall
be made to advance from year to year.
You fee, gentlemen, that 1 endeavor to contri
bute my mile to the benefit of the club. No mem
ber wishes it success more heartily. God prosper
the plough, is the daily prayer of your humble
servant,
PETER THRIFT.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, Feb. 4.
The BANK BILL under conjideration,
MR. JACKSON
SAID, that having been theperfon who brought
forward the constitutional objection against
the bill, he thought himfelf bound to notice the
answers which had been offered to that objection.
Klewfpaper authorities, said he, have been allu
ded to, and their silence on the fubjecfl, consider
ed as indicating the approbation of the people—
lie would meet the gentlemen on that ground—
and tho he did not consider newspapers as an
authority to be depended on,yet if opinions thro'
that channel were to be regarded, lie would re
fer gentlemen to those of this city—the expedi
ency and constitutionality of the bill, has been
called in question by the newspapers of this city
The latitude contended for in construing the
constitution on this occasion, he reprobated very
fully : If the sweeping clause, as it is called,
extends to veiling Congress with such powers,
and necessary and proper means are an indispensa
ble implication in the ienfe advanced by the ad
vocates of the bill, we /hall soon be in polleflion
of all polfible powers, and the charter, under
which we set, will be nothing but a name.
This bill will eflentially interfere with the
rights of the separate Stales, for it is not denied,
that they poflefs the power of instituting hanks ;
but the proposed corporation will eclipse the
bank of North America, and contravene the in
terests of the individuals concerned in it.
He then noticed the several arguments drawn
from the doiftrine of implication ; the right to
incorporate a national bank has been deduced
from the power to'raife armies—but he presumed,
it would not be contended that this is a bill to
provide for the national defence. Nor could
such a power in his .opinion be derived from the
right to borrow money. It has been alked, what
the United States could do -with the surplus of
their revenue, without the convenience of a
bank, in which to depolit it with advantage >
For his part, though he wiftied to anticipate pleas
ing occurrences, he did not look forward to the
time when the general government would have
this superabundance at its disposal.
The right of Congress to purchase and hold
lands, has been urged to prove that they can
transfer this power—but the genei al government
is expressly reftritfted in the exercif'e of this pow
er ; the consent of the particular State to the
purchase for particular purposes only, is requi
lite ; these purposes are designated, such as
building light houses, eredling arsenals, &c.
It has been said that banks may exist without a
charter, but that this incorporation is neceflary
in order that it may have a hold on the govern
ment : Mr. Jackson strongly reprobated this
idea—he was, he said, aftonilhed to hear such a
declaration, and hoped that such ideas would pre
vent a majority of the house from passing a bill that
■would thus eliablifli a perpetual monopoly ; we
have (said he) 1 believe, a perpetual debt I
hope we lhall not make a perpetual corporation.
What was it drove our forefathers to this coun
try ? Was it not the ecclesiastical corporations,
and perpetual monopolies of England and Scot
land ? Shall we fufler the fame evils to exist in
this country, instead of taking every pofiible me
thod to encourage the encreafe of emigrants to
fettle among us ? For if we establish the pi ece
dent now before us, there is no faying where
it (hall flop.
The power to regulate trade is said to involve
this, as a necefl'ary means, but the powers con
sequent on this express power, are fpecified—
such as regulating light-lioufes, (hips, harbors,
&c. It has been said that Congress has borrowed
money ; this {hews that there is no neceifiry of
instituting any new bank, those already establish
ed having been found fufficient for the purpose.
He denied the right of Congress to eftablilh banks
at the permanent feat of government, or on those
sand heaps mentioned yesterday ; for if they
ihould, they could not force the circulation of
their paper one inch beyond the limits of those
places. But it is said, if Congress can eftabli/h
banks in those situations, the question becomes a
queflion of place and not of principle,—fro:u
hence it is inferred that the power may be exer
cised in any other part of the United States ; —
this appeared to him to involve a very danger
ous conftrutfion of the powers verted in the ge
neral government.
Adverting to the powers of Congress in refpeft
to the finances of the union, he obfcrved that
those powers did not warrant the adoption of
whatever measures they thought jjroper: the
constitution has reftrkled the exercise of thole
fifcal powers,—CongrMs cannot lay a poll tax,
nor impose duties on exports, —yet these un
doubtedly relate to the finances.
The power exercised in respect to the Western
Territory, he observed, had reference to pro
perty already belonging to the United Stares;
it does not refer to property to be purchased,
nor does it authorise the purchase of any addi
tional property, —besides, the powers are express
and definite, and the exercise of them in making
needful rules and regulations in the government
of that territory, does not interfere with the
rights of any of the refpetftive States.
Mr. Jackson then denied the neceflity of the
propoled institution, —and, noticing the observa
tion of Mr. Ames, that it was dangerous on mat
ters of importance not to give an opinion, ob
served, that he could conceive of no danger that
would result from poftoning that conftrutftion of
the constitution now contended for, to lome fu
ture Congress, who, when the neceflity of a hank
institution fliall be apparent, will be as eompe
tent to the decifionas the present house. Allud
ing to the frequent representations of the flou
rilhing situation of the country, he inferred that
this ihews that the neceflity of the proposed insti
tution does not exist at the present time; why
then should we be anticipating for future gene
rations ? State banl<s he considered preferable to
a national bank, as counterfeits can be deteifted
in the States, —but if you eftablilh a national
bank, the checks wi/1 be found only in the city
of 1 hiladelphia or Oonnogochegue. He palled
an eulogiuni on the bank of Pennsylvania: the
stockholders, said le, are not speculators; they
have the solid coin iepofited in their vaults.
He adverted to the preamble and context of
the condirmion, and aflerted that this context is
to be interpreted the general powers contain
ed in the instrument; noticing the advantages
which it had been said would accrue to the Uni
ted States from the bank. He alked, is the Uni
ted States going to commence stockjobbers ? —
The " general welfare," are the two words that
ate to involve and juftify the afl'umption of every
power. But what is this general welfare ?—it is
the welfare of Philadelphia, New York and Bos
ton ; for as to the States of Georgia and New-
Hampshire, they may as well be out of the union
for any advantages ihey will receive from the
institution. He reprobated the idea of the Uni
ted States deriving any emolument from the bank,
and more especially, he reprobated the influence
which it was defigued the government should
enjoy by it. He said the banks of Venice and
Amsterdam were founded on different principles.
In the famous bank of Venice, tho' government
holds no shares, yet it has at command 5,000,000
ducats ; but the United States were to be imme
diately concerned in rheirs, and become stock
jobbers. The bank of Anifterdam was under the
entire direction of the Burgoniafters, who alone
had the power of making bye-laws for its regula
tion : this power by the bill was given tip by
government, very improperly, he thought, anil
was to be exercil'ed by the ftock-holdei s. The
French bank, he added, wasfirft eftabliffied upon
proper principles, and flouriffied ; but afterwards
became a royal bank, —much paper was intro
duced, which destroyed the establishment, and
was near oversetting the government.
Tlie facility of borrowing, he deprecated, it
will, said he, involve the union in irretrievable
debts: the facility of borrowing, is but another
name for anticipation, which will in its effecls
deprive the government of the power to controul
it* revenues,—they will be mortgaged to the cre
ditors of the government: let lis beware of fol
lowing the example of Great-Britain, in this re
fpecft. He said, undue advantages had been ta
ken'in precipitating the measure, and the rea
sonable proportion refpe(fting the State debts, is
not admitted, —this I consider as partial and un
just. A gentleman from Virginia has well ob
served, that we appear to be divided by a geo
graphical line, —not a gentleman scarcely to the
eastward of a certain line, is opposed to the
bank, and where is the geiitleman to the south
ward that is for it. This ideal line will have a
tendency to ellablirti a real 'difference. He added
a few more observations, and concluded by urtr
inj> a postponement, if any regard was to be had
to the tranquility of the union.
HARTFORD, February 2?
The inhabitants of France are said to be 25
millions, and their national debt about 200 milli
ons sterling. This sum if divided equally a
mongft them, will amount to 81 a head. Tliofe
of Great Britain are computed at 8 millions of
inhabitants—their national debt to 300 millions
sterling : this equally divided among them, a
mounvs to 371. sterling a head.—And those of the
United States, to about 1 million and a half of
inhabitants—the national debt (including state
debts) about 18 millions sterling. The fum,equal
ly divided, aniouuts to about s]. fterlin« a' head
778
In the Houp if of tl: United Stat's
Thursday, March 3, 1791
ON motion of Mr. Lawrance, Resolved, That
the consideration of the amendment to the con
st i; ution proposed to be made, refpecfting the ju
diciary, be deferred till the next feflion of Con
gress, and that one hundred copies thereof be
printed for the use of the members of bo h
Houses.
Amendment to the Consti t i't i on of the Unites
Stat/.s, laid on the Clerk's table by J\lr. Ben!o:i
to b' fropoftd by Congress to the Legiflaturcs of
the fsvet at States.
THAT the Congress (hall, either by declaring
the superior or supreme common law-court
of the state to be the cotirr, or by creating a new
court for the purpose, eftabli/h a General Judicial
Court in each state, the judges whereof shall hold
their commissions during good behaviour and
without any other limitation whatsoever, and
shall be appoinred and commiflioned by theflate
and shall receive their compensations from the
United States only ; and the compensations shall
not be diminished during their continuance in
office.
The number of judges of the general judicial
court in a state, nnlefs the fame should be altered
by the consent of the Congress and the legifla
tureof the state, /hall be in the proportion ofone
judge for every persons in the state, accord
ing to the enumeration for apportioning the re
presentatives among the several states ; but there
fliall always be at least three judges in each
state.
The general judicial court lhall, in all cases to
which the judicial power of the United States
doth extend, have original jurifditSion, ei:her
exclusively or concurrently with other courts in
the refpec r tive ftatcs, and otherwise reo-ulated a?
the Congress shall prescribe ; and, in cases where
the judicial power is reserved tothefeveral flutes,
as the legislature of each f'cate shall prescribe ;
■but shall have, and exclusively, immediate appel
late jurifdidtion, in all cases, from every other
court within the state, under such limitations,
exceptions and regulations, however, as fnall be
made with the consent of the Congress, and the
legislature of the state : there may, notwithfland
ing, be in each slate a court of appeals or errors
in the lad resort, nnder the authority of the
state, from the general judicial court, in cases
and on questions only, where the supreme court
of the United States hath not appellate jurisdic
tion from the general judicial court.
T he Congress may provide that the judges of
the general judicial court shall hold circuit courts
within the state ; and the legislature of the state
may, in addition to the times and places to be
afligned by the Congress, for holding the gene
ral judicial court or the circuit courts, assign other
times and places.
J he Congress may determine the number of
judges which shall be a quorum to hold a gene
ral judicial court, or a circuit court, in each re
fpetiive state.
The Congress may, in the cases to which the
judicial power of the United States doth extend,
and the legislature of the state may, in the other
cases, regulate the fees and proceedings in the
several courts, the jurifditftion of the circuit
courts, within the state.
The ministerial officers of the general judicial
court shall be appointed and commissioned iii such
manner as the legislature of the state shall pre
scribe.
All writs, ifiuiug out of the general judicial
court, ilia 1 1 be in the name of the judges thereof.
The judges of the general*judicial court may
be impeached, by the house of Repi efentatives of
the United States, andalfo bythe most numerous
branch of the slate legislature.
The impeachment shall not be tried by the Se
nate of the United States, or by any judicature
undet the authority of the state, but the Congress
shall, by law, establish a court to be held in each
slate, for the trial of such impeachments, to con
sist only of Senators of the United States, judges
of the supreme court of the United States, and
judges of general judicial courts —The trial shall
be in the state where the person impeached shall
reside, and every law, designating the judges of
a court for the trial of impeachments, shall be
palled previous to the impeachment, and the (!e
---fignation shall be, not by naming the persons.but
by describing the offices, the perfous in which
offices for the time being, and elected or appoint
ed previous to the impeachment, shall be the
judges ; and no person lhall be convicted without
the concurrence of two thirds of the judges pre
sent.
Judgments by the courts so robe ellabliflied
for the trial of impeachments, fliall not extend
further than is provided by the conftitutioll of
the United Spates, in cases of impeachments, and
the party, nevertheless. to be liable and f'ub jefft
to indictment, trial, judgment and puniflinient
according to law.
In every state where theCongrefs shall declare
the superior or supreme common law court,to be
the general judicial court, the judges fhalJ, by
>force of their appointments as judges ofthefiipe
rior or fupremecoinmon law-court, becomejudg
cs of the superior orfupreme common law-court:
And all the powers and duties of the judges of
the superior orfupreme common law-court, ei
ther by the constitution or the laws of the state,
lhall devolve on the judges of the general judi
cial court.
If 011 the establishment of the general judicial
courts the Congress shall deem proper to discon
tinue any of the diitridl courts of the United States
the judges of the courts so discontinued shall,
thereupon, by force of their appointments as di
ftritTt judges, become judges of the general judi
cial courts in the refpedlive states, and shall con
tinue to receive their compensations as thereto
fore eftablilhed.
The judges of thefupreme or fuperiorcommon
law-courts, and the diftriift judges may, on the*
firft eftablifliment of the general judicial courts,
become judges thereof, notwithstanding the li
mitation of the number of the judges of the ge
neral judicial courts in the refpetftive Urates, but
as vancancies happened they lhall not afterwards
be filled up beyond the number limited.
For avoiding of doubts, it is declared, that all
officers, as well ministerial as judicial, in the ad
miniflration of jttftice under the authority of a state,
stall also be held to execute their refpedlive offi
ces, for carrying into effedl the laws of the Uni
ted States, and, in addition to the duties assigned
to them by the laws of the state, the Congress
may assign to them luch farther duties as they
lhall deem proper for that purpose.
KINGSTON, Dec. 29
By the arrival of the Betsey yesterday evening
from London, we learn, that there were 64 pen
dants flying at Spithead, of which fifty fail were
of the line, and had in all 50,000 seamen on
board.
The sudden appearance of peace bad occasion
ed great murmur in the kingdom, which it is fear
ed would encreafe until the meeting of parlia
ment, when it was hoped their expectations would
be fatisfied in refpe<ft to the advantages the na
tion might reap from the supposed concetlion on
the part of Spain.
Every corner of theftreets in London, andou
ports, as well as all turn pikes on the poll road
had hand-bills ported up with the inscription—
" NO WAR i NO PITT !"
None of the ships of war were ordered to be
paid off, nor was it expected they would, until a
full explanation was obtained and ample securi
ty given for the performance of such compenfa
tioM as Spain might offer to Great-Britain.
The general voice, when the Betsey failed,
seemed to pay very little regard to the tenor of
the convention ; the clamour sets forth, that
Great-Britain has been abused for fix months past,
with such trifling promises, as appear deroga
tory on the part of England, to pay any re
gard to them, as in the end tniniftry may be du
ped.—
Jan. r. By the late arrivals, we learn, that so
hurt are a number of people in and about Lon
don, in of the convention with Spain,
that bonfires have been made, and the minister
burnt in effigy.
Among other qtieftions put into the mouth of
«John Bull, by the hirelings of oppofition,is this;
If we don't go to war, pray why have we been
at all this enormous expence ? The reply to this
is obvious ! Don't form your judgment until you
are mailer of both fides of the question. Hear
■what the minilter has to fay. He has since the
vear 1782, conductedhimfelf to your fulled fatis
facftion, and there can be no doubt of his juftify
ing the line of conduct he has taken in the most
ample manner.
NEW-YORK, March j.
Extract of a letter from General M'Cillivray, date 4
Little Tallafiey 12th December, 1790, to a gentle
man in this city.
" On my arrival here I found that the Cufii
tahs had conduced themselves in a very proper
manner refpecTting the affair of fatisfacftion for
one of their men murdered in our abfeiice ; and
which we'had heard of when with you. Instead
of rushing to revenge, as is their usual custom,
they demanded fatisfaftion in form—and agreed
to wait four months for it. At the expiration of
that time, theCuflitahs were informed from good
authority, that the murderers in defiance of the
laws, were protected by an armed banditti, and a
fortnight after our return having the fame con
firmed" the Bird Tail King dispatched four young
warriors to take fat;sfa<stion, which they did in
killing a lad 011 the frontier, and this has
fully Satisfied them, and the Georgians do not
complain ; so ihisitorm is blown over, and God
onlv knows how long the present calm will lalt.
I will perhaps, be not credited when 1 observe,
that the upper Georgians never will fuffer fatis
fadtion to be given lor killing an Indian ; and,
indeed,every month affords infiances of felons a
mong them being rescued from juflice, when con
detuned for the molt atrocious offences."
Every person that but tranfietnly peruses the
news-papers of this and other countries, cannot
but observe with regret, the considerable number
of lives loft every year, either from inexperience
or carelefl'nefs in handling and playing with guns,
upon afuppofition that they are not loaded. Per
haps the superstitious idea of a certain farmer of
my acquaintance, in a neighbouring state, might
be forgiven for the fake of the beneficial effeifts
of an opinion peculiar to himfelf, and which he
couftantly inculcates upon his children, that
" the devil takes frequent opportunities to load
empty guns." Whenever any of his £bns [tho'
men grown] takes down a fowling piece from the
hooks, he immediately cautions (hem to " be ve
ry careful in handling it." " Father" fays one of
them " I mylelf discharged, or drew off the load,
no longer ago than yesterday, and not a foul has
touched the gun since." " No matter !" replies
the old man " put down the ram-rod, and fee
whether the devil has not loaded her in the
night !"
Warn'd by experience, always think the worst,
Nor in the hour of sport to memory trust ;
Not brib'd by frolic, or deceiv'd by fun, )
With hellish l'pite to every mother's foil, >■
One half tbe time, old Satan loads the gun. )
BOSTON, Feb. 21
Extract of a letter jromCapt-Francois, dated Dec. 30
to the printer/.
" My last letter to you contained some account
of the infui rec r tion here—and the character of the
chief of the rebels. The exertions of the volun
teers of this place, and the adjacent country,
soon put an end to the troubles, and Oge with
his officers were obliged to fly.—They were how
ever ihortly after taken, put in irons, and kept
in close confinement. A king's veflel was sent
after him, from this place, and he was brought to
town yesterday, togetheV with 24 of the' chiefs.
With refpe(ft to taking their lives, there are vari
ous opinions. Somefayhe was juftin endeavor
ing to obtain for liimfelf, and his followers, the
equal rights and privileges of citizens, tho they
are Mulattoes —and of this opinion is he himfelf,
with this addition, that he has the decree of the
National Aflembly in favor of his cause—which
is, a feat in theaffeuiblies ofthefe colonies. How
it will fare with him, is not easy for me to con
jetfture.—The Aflembly of this diftritft have de
bated, and continue to debate on the fubjed;.
When they have done, and the business finiihed,
I will endeavor to fend you an account."
SALEM, Feb. 23.
The Legislature of New-Hampftiii e,now in ses
sion, has raised the salaries of the Judges of the
Superior Court of that State—revised the old
Province Laws, andinftituted a Medical Society.
PORTSMOUTH, Feb. 16.
Last Saturday afternoon, a close fley, with one
person in it, paffingover Church hill, in this town,
was, by means of the smooth ice on the declivity
of the hill, precipitated over thebrink, wherethe
fall is seventeen feet and nine inches perpendi
cular ; the fley was dallied to pieces at the foot
of the rock, the perfon,efcaped unhurt; the horse
falling into the river, was disengaged from the
harness, and swam to a distant Ihore apparently
uninjured. .
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE
Mr. Brown,
IN your paper of the sth of February last, under the Hartford
head, a variety of remarks are made by a correspondent, upon
General Harmar's letter to the Secretary at War, and also upon his
orders to the troops during the late expedition into the Indian
territories, which, to fay the bed I can of them, appear to me ve
ry uncandid indeed, presuming that the correspondent was not
himfelf on the expedition, and therefore must be ignorant of the
real circumstances attending it.
He (the correspondent) asks, after making some animadversions
upon the General's conduct, to which I shall not at present reply,
il Will not the continuance of such a man at the head ot the troops,
weaken our confidence in appointments ? or will men enlist un
der an officer who is capable of making such a puerile com
munication to the public ?"
To the firft question which, by the by, I never expected would
have heen asked refpe&ing that officer, well knowing his worth
and real eharafter, I give thisanfwer—lt is my sincere belief that
the President of the United States hath it not in his power to make
an appointment of any military officer, of equal rank with the Ge
neral, in whom greater confidence ought to be placed ; under this
idea, the confidenceot the public in such appointments, cannot be
1. ffened nor weakened, nor can they entertain a wish to difp»ace
such an able officer from his present command.
As to the second, my reply is, that very tew during the late glo
rious levolution, recruited and brought into the field so many brave
and able bodied soldiers as he did, however " puerile his commu
nications" might at that time or since have been, and I am bold e
nough to allure the public, that men and brave men too, will fti 11
enlist under him
As a brave and dilciplined officer, as a genuine unadulterated
patriot through the m ft gloomy periods, I beg leave to represent
him. Let the inhofpuable borders of lakes George and Cham
plain, the Bi andywine, Germantown and Monmouth, all teftify
his discipline, his gallantry and his love of freedom. Let his con
duct as one of the infpeftors ot the late American army, under the
worthy Baron Steuben, and his. unifoim and steady exertions to
the Southward during a tedious and very unpromising campaign,
let his patience under fatigue and danger at York-Town, where a
whole Britifti army was captured ; and lastly, let our late glorious
Commander in Chief, now the beloved President of the United
States, bear witness of his pup&uality and accuracy in duty and
his arrlent desire of ever filling the posts of danger and ot honor.
Ye brave Americans, ye worthy officers, companions of his toils
and dangers ! I ask you why should his name be thus traduccd,and
that too, even without the specious formality of a trial ?
779
[A'. Y. D. Mv.]
Will you dcftroy your General, in imitation of barbarous Rome
who threw him that saved the Capitol, from the Tarpiiaw rock,
merely because he was defamed ! Or will you like more modern
times, calumniate and finally destroy, as was the innocent Byng,
without a fair hearing ? Or will you, to illustrate my meaning
with a (fill more recent example, oanilh him from your affe£li
ons as the intrepid Hero of France, Count dc Grass , was for a
time banilhed from an ungrateful Court, because he was not so
fortunate as the 'nation hoped and expected ! virtue, hor.or and
humanity recoil and forbid the idea.
" Hear before you condemn, convict before you execute."
*N.8.8e it remembered That the nation neither hoped nor ex
pired from the late expedition more than General Harmar perform
ed, having fully executed his orders, although the bufmef was un
v fortunately attended with the iofs of fame brave ojficers and men.
Philadelphia, March 12.
Wehearthat the President of the United States
will commence his tour totliefouthward on Mon-
day next,
The Directors of the Bank of North-America, have agreed tcr
receive at the Bank, the " interest on the funded debtot the Uni
tf-d States, which is payable in the State of Pennsylvania, for
use of all such persons as may think proper to lodge the neccfTd/y
powers for that purpose."
Hon. Mr. JOHNSON'S Refignathn.
Philadelphia March qth, 1791,
Sir,
THE state of my health, the situation of my
affairs, and my time of life, render it very incon
venient for me longer to attend Congress.
I therefore resign my feat, as a Senator from the
state of Connecticut, and requelt that proper no
tice thereof may be given to the Legislature of
said state, that they may supply the vacancy—l'
have the honor to be, with the greatest refpe»ft
and efleeni, Sir,
Your most obedient,
And mod humble fervaiir,
WMj SAMUEL JOHNSON.^.
Vice President of the United States, ?
and President of the Senate. 5 ' ■'
By account! from St. Ei/flatia, the following vejfels
•were lying in that Road on the JJ} February.
Ship Eleven Sons, W. M'Fenter, Portfmotith,
[N. England.
Baltimore,
Brig Glasgow, H. Hammen,
Do. Peggy, I. Hearfon, Ditro.
Do. Friend/hip, I. Tillinghaft, Rhode-Iflanu,
Schooner Betsey, T. Jervis, N. Carolina,,
Ditto Woolwidge, Ed. Dilence, Kennebunk,
Ditto America, Jof. Noble, Portfmourh, N.E.
Ditto Mary, Reuben Sawyer, Dcmerara,
Ditto Dear, W. Bullock, Martinique,
Sloop Peggy, E. Sherden, S. Carolina,
Do. Polly, Jonas Brown,
Do. Experiment, Tho. Small,
Do. Federal, Jof. Allen,
Arthur,
Do. Polly, W
Do. Jane, J. W. Woodruff, Baltimore.
The last mentioned veflTel belonged to Balti
more, but was piratically taken at Martinique,
and -vessel and cargo condemned by ]\-lonf. De
Riviere. The Captain and crew sent to prison,
where they had laid twelve days, whenthefe ac
counts left 'Statia.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Amsterdam Packet, Norris, Amsterdam
A6tive, Kennedy,
Brig Rose, Fergulon, Hajlifax
Sch. Betsey, Allen, Port-au-Prince
Sally, Norris, New-York
Sloop Hope, Ford, ditto.
Maria, Morrifon, Virginia
Swallow, Gif Ford, Aux-Cayes
Betsey, Atkins, Cape-Francois
New-York Packet, Bailey, New-York
A&ive, Lawler, Bourdeaux, 40 days,
Brig
PRICE CURRENT.
PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 16/11 17/ pr. £
3 pr. Cents qf.
Defercd 6 pr. Cents qf.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/9 78J do.
Indents 9 f 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12 /6 13
ADVERTISEMENT
(flSr Refpefting the numerous complaints received, on the
failure of the Gazette oj the United States, the Editor -would inform
his subscribers, that since the firft of January last, the Mail has been
carried from this city to Baltimore, on horfe-back\ and lately the
road to New-York has been so bad, that the fame regulation has
been adopted on that route : The mercantile interest being consi
dered as the principal support of the Poft-Office, its accommoda
tion, in expediting the Mail, has given life to this arrangement —
Meantime the Stages, East and South, have plied as usual ; and the
Papers destined to Baltimore, and the louthward of that City, have
been regularly and pun&ually dispatched by them : The badnrfsof
the roads to the eastward, has sometime? prevented the Stage from
this city, reaching Powles'-Hook, in season, to have the papers
taken by the Stage bound to Boston : The public dispatches fre
quently occupy the greatest part of the Mail-Portmanteaus, and the
impoflibiiity of Uanfporting on horjcbach, those ot a furticient size
to contain the letters, public difpatche.% and the nezespapers, all ac
the fame time,often occasions the detention of the latter at the poft
office, for many days, after they are lrft there to be transmitted.
The foregoing are the only reasons that the Editor can assign
for the recent d'fappointments, having never failed in a firigle in
stance to have the Papers prepared in season.
As the original design of this publication was to diffufe infor
mation to all parts of the Union from the feat of government, a*
trom a common centre, and the paper has received very general
approbation, and a more extenfivc circulation than perhaps any
other Newspaper ever publifhcd in Amcrica—the Editor hopes
the prefer.'- interruption will be so momentary,as not to exhaust the
1 patience of h:« subscribers.
A LOVER OF JUSTICE,
Teneriffe,
Boflon,
Rhode-Island,
Martinique,
85 pr. cent
45 d <>.
45m
m
LAWS OF THE UNION.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand.seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT givingeffec't to the Laws of the United
States within the State of Vermont.
BE itenafted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
from and after the third day of March next, all the laws of the
United States which are not locally inapplicable, ought to have,
and shall have, the fame force and effect within the Siate of Vei
mont, as elsewhere within the United States
And to the end that the ast, intituled, " An ast to establish
the judicial courts of the United States," may be duly adminis
tered within the laid State of Vermont.
Be it That the said State fhali be one diftrift,
to be denominated Vermont-Diflrift ; and there shall be a dillritt
court therein, to consist of one judge, who shall rcfide within the
said diftrift, and be called a diftritfc judge, and shall hold annually
tour feflions ; the firft to commence on the firft Monday in May
next, and the three other feflions progreflivcly on the like Mon
day of every third calendar month afterwards. The said diftrift
court shall be held alternately at the towns of Rutland and Wind
sor, beginning at the firft.
And be it further enabled, That the said diftrift shall be, and
the fame hereby is annexed to the eastern circuit. And there shall
be held annually in the said diftrift one circuit court ; the firft
fellion shall commence on the seventeenth day of June next, and
the subsequent feflions on the like day of June afterwards, except
when any of the said days shall happen on a Sunday, and then the
ieflion shall commence on the day following ; and the said ses
sions of the said circuit courts shall be held at the town of Ben
nington.
And be it further enacted, That there shall be allowed to the
judge of the said diftrift court the yearly compensation of eight
hundred dollars, to commence from the time ol his appointment,
and to be paid quarter-yearly at the treasury of the United States.
And be it further enacted, That all the regulations, provisions,
directions, authorities, penalties, and other matters whatsoever
("except as herein afterwards is expressly provided) contained and
cxpreffed in and by the ast, intituled, " An ast providing for the
enumeration of the inhabitants of the United States," shall have
the fame force and effect within the said State of Vermont, as if
the fame were, in relation thereto, repeated and re-enacted in and
by this prel'ent act.
And be it further enacted, That the enumeration of the in
habitants of the said State shall commence on the firfl Monday of
April next, and shall close within five calendar months thereafter.
And be it further enacted, That the marlhal of the diftrift of
Vermont fhallrcceive in full compensation for all theduties and ser
vices confided to, and enjoined upon him and by this ast in taking
the enumeration aforefaid, two hundred dollars.
And that the ast, entituled, " An ast to provide more effeftuall)
for the collection of the duties imposed by law on goods, wares
and merchandize imported into the United States, and on the ton
nage of ships and vefTels," may be carried into effect in the said
State of Vermont.
Be it further enacted, That for the due collcftion of the said
duties, there (hall be in the said State of Vermont one diftri& ;
and acolleftor {hall be appointed, to reside at Allburgh on Lake
Champlain, which (hall be the only port of entry or delivery
■within the said diftrift,of any goods, wares or merchandize, not
the.gtowth or manufacture of the United States.
Provided ncverthelefs, That the exception contained in the
sixty-ninth feftion of the ast last above mentioned, relative to the
of Louisville, shall dc and is hereby extended to the said
port of Allburgh.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houje of Reprejentatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident ojthe United States,
and Prejident oj the Senate.
Approved, March second, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident oftheUnited States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State
RESOLV£D by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of Amcrica in Congress aflemblcd, That
the President of the United States be requeftcd to cause to be com
municated to the National Affemblv of France the peculiar fen
fibilitv of Congress to the tribute paid to the memory of Benjamin
Franklin, by the enlightened and free representatives of a great
nation, in their decree of the 1 ith of June, one thousand leven
hundred and ninety.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President ojthe United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, March second, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prcfident of the United Stater
Depofiled among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT relative to the Rix-Dollar of Denmark.
BE it cnaftcd by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflcmbled, That so
much of an ast, intituled, " An ast to provide more efFectually for
the collection of the duties imposed bv law on goods, wares and
merchandize imported iuto the United States, arid on the tonnage
of Aiips or vessels," as hath rated the rix-dollar of Denmark at
one hundred cents, be, and the fame is hereby repealed ; and that
this repeal (hall be deemed to operate in refpeft to all duties which
have already arisen or accrued, as well as to such as shall hereafter
arise or accrue.
FREDERICK. AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President oj the United States,
and Prcjident of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791,
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident of the United States
Depofitcd amoDg the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State -
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State'
Virginia, Culpeper County, itfh Jan. 1791,
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying 011 both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town ot Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falinouth ; in a moll
healthy part of the country : —Confiding of 2.000 acres—half clear
ed, and ingood fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
Jtreams of water, so dilpcrfed as 10 afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in gr,ils, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, palling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of molt
•ther kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pica .ant
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
sisting of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift) and
Jaw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant ftrcam, on which they
itand, affords them water in great abundance ; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; about 3 00
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodin quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhaultable
source for the saw-mill.
Aifo several detached tra&s within said county, of about 2, 3,
and 400 acres each,and though not offo feriilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvement*, ancj the lands so fuuated, that they can easily be
made convenient, little farms.
1 he whole or any part of the abovementioned pofTeflions will
be disposed of, on very reasonable terms —a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the convemency of the purchafeis, who may be
supplied on the fame terms, with all kinds of stock, work hor
ses, oxen, &c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE, [c. f.]
This day is publijked.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Front-Str eet,
The American Museum,
For FEBRUARY, ij 9 l.
CONTENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
METEOROLOGICAL observations made ia Philadelphia,
January 1791.
Account of theweather and diseases for Jan. 1791.
Extratt from a discourse delivered by the Rev. Aflibel Green.
A (hort hint to theftudents of medicine.
State of the powder mills in Pennsylvania.
Remarks on cutting a canal across the isthmus of Darien.
Sketch of the nature and causes of diseases, explained upon fcien
tific principles.
The child trained up for the gallows. Bv gov. Livingfton.
Columbian Observer, No. I.
No. 11. A modern improvement.
No. 111. Great good thoughts, on great
good breeding.
Answer to hints refpefling an excise.
Extract from a funeral sermon, pjeached on the death of the Hon.
Judge Bryan.
Series of original letters.
SELECTED ARTICLES.
Misery in life not more prevalent than happincfs.
On the nature ofthe Divinity.
Remarks on lord Chefterfteld's letters.
Remarks on the conftru&ion of the heavens.
Curious particulars discovered by the mierolcope.
Revolutions of Englifii literature.
Of the artifices of animals.
'Hie Negro, equalled by few Europeans.
Eiray on the influence of religion in civil society.
On the improvement of worn-out lands.
Remarks on (hearing lambs.
Observations on raising flieep.
Remarks on the expenses attending jury trials.
Method ot dissolving gum elastic.
Method of making watch cryltals.
Anecdote of an American.
of Benjamin Lay.
of a Boftonian.
• ofdr. Franklin.
of a Sailor.
— of a Soldier.
Account of the constitution of Connecticut.
Constitution of New-York.
POETRY.
A journey from Patapfco to Annapolis.
Vei fes on a lady ftnging in an adjoining arbour. By \V. P. Carey.
The American union completed.
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELIAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the sth of April next, at 10 o'clock, A.M.
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengal, Madras, and Isle of France ;
Confiding of a large and valuable affortmerit of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz,
BAFTAS, ) ..... ,
Sannas, and C W ?'' c Clot,ls > P ro P cr f °""
Cair as , ) Shirting, or Sheeting.
Dureas—or striped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted ftriptd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagrenant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs*
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchiefs.
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, suitable for Hurting. "
Madras Patches, beautifully figured.
Camboys, or blue and white Itnped Cottons.
Moreaf, or plain white Cloths.
Madras Cambricks. f
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
Book Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety.
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Oftnch Feathers.
Surat Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the I lie ot trance, of a superior quality.
An allbrtment of fine Wmesof the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfcrs, for Sailors'wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety oj other Goods, which are
not enumerated. Also,
100 Casks Raisins, }
75 Chells BoheaTeaY
30 Ditto Hyson, £ol thc best qualities.
30 d itto Souchong, j
The Goods may be viewed a few Jays previous to the fait.
W. P BARTLETTand CO. Aud,oncers.
Salem, Feb. 21, 1791
icy A few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United St at a, printed with Notes, may bi had of the
Editor. J
780
Bengal.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Surrtv
BUYS and SELLS "»
Continental & State Certificates.
Pcnnfylvania and Jei Icy Paper Money, '
Ani all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slates, or of
particular Stale. ' ,n *
PRICE CURRENT: PHILADELP 111.4,
PER QUANTITY.
MARCH 11.—Dollars at yf§.
ANCHORS pr. lb. 6£d Porter, American pr. d©z
Allum, pr. cwt. 35J Pitch, pr. bbl.
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. Icd Pork, Burlington,
Alhes, pot, per ton, 37/ioj 4c/ Lower county 70^8
Arrack pr. gall. ics 12s6d Carolina
Brandy, common, 5 s Peas, Albany 6d X °°v
-j Cogniac 8/4 d Pepper, pr. lb. ' * x
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ a 161 Pimento J -
Bricks pr. M 30 s Rice pr. cwt.
Bread, ship pr. cwt. igs6 Rosin pr. bbl.
Ditto, pilot 3,55 Railing, best, pr. k C4 ' r
Ditto, small water 45*481 Ditto pr. jar *
Beer, American, in bot. / Ditto pr. box S
pr. doz. S 4 f Jamaica pr. gal! ~3 ^
pr. bbl. 36/ Antigua 8 5 ' 6J
on f Oak pr.M feet, 4/10/4/18/ f- Windward 5 j
A | Merch. pine 4/ ioj 4/15* g<j Barbadoes ~ ■f' 4 ,
< Sap, do. 2/: V U 3, ! Country, N. E. % *'£
O I N.Eng. 2/5; s/ioj LTaffia 2 ," d fl'.
« L Cedar 4/4/5* SalTafras pr. ton
The above are the Shallop prices ; Salt petre. pr. cwt /
for the Yard pi ices add 1 ypr M. Sulphur, flour
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 24 s Shot 4 J 4 l - f
i-flr.n, pr. bbl. 55* 60/ J (German pr. cwt.
u j"™ 55' » )Englilh,bl,(le,cd Ssj'fi d
ea ( Country 45* £ ) American pr. ion 40/1-/
Butier pr. lb. lod 12J. pr. fa R
in kegs 10d Snake root pr. lb. u 6d\iSJ
Cedar,red timber pr.foot vs2s6d Soap, Common ici
Chocolate pr. lb. 11 d Brown
Coal pr. bufnel is 8d Castile oj «
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d Starch
Cinnamon 18*20* Snuff 1* 6i 2*4,/0,
Caflia 5* Spermaceti, refined, " ~
Cheese, Englilh 113 d Sail Cloth, Englilh', )
-Country 6d ysd Pr. yard, ' f tJ 6" !r2 d
£ fSper. pr. lb. 3 s 3 d 3*6,2? Boston, No I
ri 1 w. - --
P •<( Myrtle Wax
| Mould,tallow nd 12d
O LDipped sod
is \d u 8d
Cotton
IS6 25
Currants
Cloves gr
Copperas pr.cwt. 15; iys6d
6oj 6256 d
Cordage
62i6d 6-js6d
Cocoa
Duck, RuifTia, pr. piece 85J goj
67572J6d
Ravens
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 42J
Common, 40J
Bur irnddlings,bcft 34J
Middlings 3 2t
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 12s 14s
Flax
pr. lb.
Fuitic
pr. ton, 135J 150.5-
pr. lb
Feathers
Flaxfcec pr. bufti. $5
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/IOJ 8/
Ginger, whiterace 52s 6d
Ditto, common 505
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gd
Ginfenjj, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. £
quarter calk, )
Ditto, fine glazed 37 s 6d
Gin s Holland, pr. gall. 5s 6d
Do. pr. cafe, 30 s 3gj
f Wheat pr. bufti 7s 6d 8f
I R 7 c 5 s
Oais is 8d 2s6d
Indian corn 2j6c/ 3 s
Barley 4 J 9^
Bed fhclled 20T
Buckwheat 2 j6
Hams pr. lb. 74' Bt/
Hemp, pr.tori, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. gd 10d
2 s 3 d 95 6d
7 s 6d ir»j
Hops
Indigo, French,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt,
4s js6d
56 s
f Callings 2256 d 305
£ | Bar pr.ton, 29/30/
° < P'S .01
5 I Sheet 60/ 65/
L Nail rods 36/
Jink, pr. cwt. 27J 35r
Lard, hogs ✓ iO(/
Lead in pigs 40J 42.1 6<y
in burs 4
Lead, white Boj 851
i-t'd is s
Leather, foal pr. IV). is 2d 1 s
Lignum vita: pr. ton 42.1 4gs
Logwood 7 / 5J 8/
M ai, Indian, pr. bbl. igj-
Rye 28/
Mackarel,bcft 63s
Common 30* 58J 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70s
Mustard 2s
Madder, best Igd 18d
Molasses pr. gall. 2jSd
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 13*
Mail spars 6j
Mahogany 8d lid
Nutmegs pr. lb. 60s -$s
Nails, iodi2dSc 20d— 8d Bjjd91i
r Linseed, pr. gall. 3; 6d
I Train is 10d 2s
Spermaccti 3J yd
I Whaie is 10d 2s
2 <( Olive 6s 6d
1 DIHO pr. cafe cßi 30*
1 Beftfwectin ) CJr
n^.pr.boxjs^^eo.
L—balkets 12 bottles
Oak timber pr.ton 40/
Porter in calks, pr. gall. 2s
i-oadon,pr.doz.t2j6i 15s
IS 2d
Russia (heeting, pr. p. goj
f Lump, pr. lb. ' U sd
pi, j Loaf, single refined is6d
<J Ditto, double do. isio£d
| Havannah, white \\d
m . Ditto, brown, 8d lod
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt» jtp
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall, 4;
sAM urn pr. bush. 2s2ssd
♦J )Liverpool 2 s
< \ Cadiz mosrf
QLifbon 2ssd2s6d
Ship build. W.O. frames > 90 s
P* ton » > 100*
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/51
Shingles, short, p. M. i s . f 20s
long drefled gojiooj
Scantling, heart, qcjicoj
- S 'P
f ripe pr. 1200 pieces 12/
S3 !W. O. hogshead jl $s
> P-- O. do. 5/
| Leogan slijs
cs> Barrel 4/ 1
L Heading 8/10 s
Otter, best pr. picce 30J
Minks u6d 3^
Fox, grey 2J 6d 6s
—-—red 45 8;
3 s
2 s6d 5;
12s 6d 255
25 4s
8 d 9 d
Scam
2 s 8 d
►5 | Martins
Fiflit'rs
g Bears
Racoons .... T
Musk-rats ii 6.
Braver, pr. lb. 5J ioi
in hafr is6d\9s§&
Tar,N. Jcrfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. qr
Carolina, 32 gall. 13*6^
Turpentine 2os 22s 6c
. |" Janjcs R. new best y.s6c
~ inferior 23J 25
0 old 2o s 3 8
Turi
1 Rappahannock 2256 d
0 J Colo. Maryland 40J 60s
y Dark 2cs
Long-leaf 2Cj
Eaftern-fhorc 15 J i'6j
j Carolina, new 23J 25J
L old 30/
\ Hyson pr. lb.
c/S 1 Hyson flon, 4* 4* &d
Souchong, bed js6dSs
H I Congo, 3 J 9^
I, Bohea, 2J 6d
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box, 67->' 6i
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 41 4J 6i
Vermillion,
Varnifli, 2s 2s 3d
C Madeira, pr. pipe 4.0/80/
• Lisbon flB/
I Teneriffe 22/10s 24/
w | Fayal pr. gall. 3J i^3 J
J Port pr. pipe 39/ 4
Ditto pr. gall. 7 s
Do. in bottles, pr.doz.3oj
Claret 45*
Sherry pr. gall. 9 J
Malaga 4*
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 22d
Whale-bone, long pr. lb.
fliort, pr. lb.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 71
Ditto 60 days 7 2 i
Ditto 30 days 74
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2Jii 3' f
30 days 3 s id
France, 60 days t p'-5 liv. bs 8d
30 days 6s iod
"3 *