No. 26', ofVoh 111
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL
Mr. RUSSELL,
PR ° M c, ; e e .xiflence of game laws, and of
wifdoT'TTl'" E "& la " d > Mr ■ infers the
wildom of the National Aflembly, whohavede
creec that there Jhall be none in France. I ,hall
■lllowedT'i r e FT I3WS ' " 0r tl,c '"""opolies
allowed ,n England: Mr. Paine's comparisons
are made with the profefled intention of Slewing
thef upe , 10 f the French Conftitmio an f
he has therefore always chosen his own ground
of com par j son. He might have pursued alvlten,
more confident with truth and candor, but it
ould not have smfwered his purpose so effedlu
f, a true drift 0 f Mr. Paine', argument
"J Thr *stv> i : 'r,
hZI en ,f sd / ame aws that operate uueqnally. They
to tl J°Z '"T mo "°P ol,cs th «» «>■< advantageous
Vt P :: <l i° re U,e of a Lion
ought not to have the power to viake any lavss at all
elative etthir to game, or 'to monopolies. This is
Mr. Paine s pnnciple, and it is the real around
upon which he prefers the French conflnution
every Sr / " ° f E "& l «" d > *>« to those of
eveiy State in the American Union. He infers
that the Engl,ft conflitution is bad, because un
f-tha'constitution certain bad la'ws have been
enarted and are not yet repealed. And he con
cludes that the French conflitution is excellent
because the un.verfal freedom of the chace, and'
the univei sal freedom of trade are placed beyond
the controul of their legislature But the pre
lervat.on of gam® ls an ob j e csl of public concern,
and the legislature of every country ought to
have the power of making game Jaws for the
benefit of the public. Whether English Parlia
merits have exerted unwisely this power which
has been delegated to then, or nor, is a quefhon
altogether foreign to the pm'pofe ; we know that
bad laws exist in every country nnder Heaven •
but it ,s ft range realowing, to infer from thence'
tn a ,nnl ere " 0t t<>eXilt hl the " atio » a P°wer
UrnedtS thC Le ß'^ atures in the
and rn f H ' P ° Wer enat * S a ™ laws
and to allow monopolies. They all of them ex
erexfe this power. We have game Jaws and mo
nopolies in this Commonwealth, and yet no man
"ft" ,„L liberty
rinn f i r ""ft'tution has placed the regula
tion of those objects beyond the reach of fheii
kv tSJv S at,VC a " t, . they will soon find
\ henjexpeiience of inconveniences that rhp
go.dnef. of acjltimio,, ,(oe» „ ot
the impotence of the legislature P
In examining the next article it is utte.ly im
possible for me to do justice to the wit of Mr.
j rll . e „ char g e w hich he has so often re
aeainft > Bu ' ke ' s »">«*, cannot bi made
of the <r prodl,6 'o": here nothing
don • Y J '°! lt,ng ra " k ° f h 'S h "toned exclama
tion You c,o not even find the delicate sallies
n?'' u HiS 0W " WOrds m,,ft be
I°r ' , e Prench conflitution fays, thatro
fo«ie:,iing in .M.
Bient: bot it ~ rather onfortuntte ,1,,, Mr
Paine fliould complain as an abuse of the Ensrlifli
fj l °J er r n , men V. r laC U,S " themselves accountable to
v hin f ? f" ea l to a P a ssage which ismoftaf
iuiedly him feif undertaking to answer himfelf '
willl acknowledge that this a „ r "
of Loaves and Fsjhes, is very absurd ; it is even
oo absurd for Mr. Burke in his original charao
U a " d the onl y circumflance that renders it
perfectly accountable is, that it comes from Mr!
t!s represen tative, who certainly ne
ei had from hun any authority to mifreprefei. t
mm so palpably. '
Mr. Paine has feldon, thought proper to an
ei even the few arguments contained in the
oer. which is lo obnoxious to him : Easy as it
humed b - e " IO ' efUte hls OW »- Heha *
nun ted for epigrams where he ought to have
fought arguments: In the pursuit of those epi
g ams, he has been sometimes not unfuccefsful
n exposing the absurdity of his own reasoning,
a leis paflionate or more generous polemick
would not have chosen to place his own in con-'
-it.ences to the account of his antagonifl.
Wednesday, July 27, 1791.
Mi. laine has not however, grounded liis pre
fe,encetothe French conftitutiun, upon truth, in
tins inuance any more tiian in the other. 7he
principle of excluding placemen, pensioners,
and executive officers from the national reprefen
tationi is acknowledged by the laws under the
knglifh conftuution, as well as in that of France.
1 ne only pofnble advantage which the French
can pretend to, is, that they have been more
lucceisful in its application. Mr. Paine might
if V r f i K Was not luffic 'ently extended by
the English laws, and that it was by the French •
and his opinion would have had its weight; bu[
this would not answer his purpose : The French
confhtutioii must at all events have a triumph;
and a system foodious as the. English government
was not entitled to the benefits of common truth
and jultice. There are however several adls of
Parliament, expressly excluding a great variety
of placemen, peniioners and officers dependent
upon the executive authority, from holding feats
in the house of commons. With refpedt to pen
-11 one is their principle is more equitable than the
total exclusion of the h rench. Every perf'on hold
ing a pension at the pleasure of the liing, or for
a term of years is excluded, because fucli a man
may be too liable to be under the influence of
the executive power; but if a man has received
a pension for hfe, as a reward for services ren
dered his country, a pension which carries no
dependence, and which can have no effect upon
the legislative condu.fi of the petfon. entitled to
U, neither the English nor the Americans think
former fervues are a regular difqualification
for the future ; nor are they disposed to deprive
any man of an invaluable privilege, merely be
cause they have paid him for hazarding his life
pei haps or his fortune in their service
tinnerh 7 ? M k Pai " C ' ü by the £n S li,h
oe. f» . . V -° te thC 15 " the fame
peifons who receive the Applies when voted
and are to account for the expenditure of those
fupphes to those who voted them; it is them
elves accountable to themselves." This to be
rue' "t? ln S e,lious > buc " iB not in any sense
rhp h P ersons wh ° vote the fupplics are
the house of commons, the representatives of the
j nation . To them the king's ministers (and prin
cipally the Chancellor of the Exchequer) are ac
conmable forthe expenditure of the monies v ot - j
ed. J he numbers may indeed be at the fame time
members of the House of Commons, and the
system is perhaps defective in allowing a few i„.
d>viduals to be members of the body to whom
hey are accountable. It may be inconvenient
fh "f'Vr u 3,1 abfurd ' and is P ur P osely aii
thoufed by the English constitution, because they
confide,- its advantages as more than a balince
for its inconveniences. The mir.ffter of the fu
p.eme executive office, (late, to the reprefema
ves of the nation, the funis neceflary to defray
the annual expenses of the kingdom. These re^
prefentatives vote the afleflinent of such funis as
they think neceflary, & make the appropriations
The min liters then become accountable for the
expenditures according to the previous annronri
ations to that body of which they are indeed
individual members, but of which they do not
compose an hundredth part. Upon what prin
ciple then are we told that it is themselves ac
countable to themselves > They have indeed in
Fiance taken great pains to secure the indepen
dence of the leg.flati ve upon the executive a tub o
t T h enOC b " n Cauti °" s
tne othei fide. Their executive is left totally at
so^ m faH a f si lefiifl l tUre ' and mutt infallibly
■ Sacrifice to their ambition. 7
1 he discussion of this f u bj e «ft would lead me
far beyond my present intention. 1 have shown
pruKmle o f' lln l n L' n ° f F "t lanJ has adopted the
the g / i,iZenS de^nd en t upon
"£•
warrant the decided preference which llr'p "°'
r„ in,,,,,,, p cd ,
MARRIED-In L„„clo„ B M" 0 To H i U cL 13 "
of Berkeley square, to Mils Porter ofSt fame*'
Street ; and thus Mr. Cole.nan [ s /or
having brought the no njUr to puniflnnent b
the lady whos e cause he so gallantly efpoufcd '
101
PUBL I C O L
FROM THE HAMPSHIRE GHRONJCLE.
I rnui T r H E , E c ° N O M IS T.
I lib Econonuft recommends saving. as the
whether^ 0 '"' gai "- BuChe wi " be afked >
to hL Z,f s f a '" s .*\ e alwa ys in proportion
he fare- J'f ert . ai,l ty they are not so, unless
he laves wjth discretion. There is an extreme
maybe"!; " "'"'nf in pending. The former
«Tun e,U N T lth thriv '"g, as the lat
ter ™ e . re ls ' h «hholdeth more than is
meet but it tendeth to poverty." Parous is a
iu (band man. His father, twenty years ago left
induct" • P °'?, effion ° f - a good farm > which he' has
induftijoufly occupied ever since ; but he has
made no progress : He has only just kept his
g. ound ; and the only difficulty is, he is afraid
ries all Vr® lo ° kS Hke ex P ense - He car-
A his favmgs to an extreme.
in yS %j° a u' he ailnsat tl,e cheapest cloth
n the (hop, aitd thus always gets the poorest
Jtn inT' t f ylor ' 3 bill » and the
'pwt.n go.ng half a dozen times to the taylor,
aslfheh e a d CO h t,3 I fini,hed ' J are 3bO " C
as 11 he had bought a good substantial coat ; but
docs 2iot hair the service.
Jhei-e ,s not a farmer in the town who, with
fame quamny of ha>, keeps so numerou, a
stock. But though he seldom fells or kills a beef
or a mutton he only just keeps his number .rood
dmel? i before /hefrTng
time , his cattle arrive not to their growth, un
are bu7dw rC f Ve or / I f7 ears ° 3d > and then they
are but dwarfs; and his yard, every spring f,
the rendezvous of all the"neighbouring crow
and all because he is too saving of hisliay If
he can make his creatures live through the win
ter, he thinks he does well. His object is to keep
a large stock on a little hay. P
If he buys a breeding mare, what he princi
fider* r th S a a t r a S l "3 l 0"/"'"' He d °« not con
' that a ,ow priced animal will eat as much
as any other ; and that her foals are not of half
heH H 6 ' H )s buildings fall into ruins, because
he dreads the expense of repairing; and the very
I timbers are rotting, while he tries to make the
be ntX' 1 " 8 ,af r Vas J on g as Possible. Rather than
i i « e of convenient implements for
the time hC de P ends on borrowing: And
the time loft for want of them, and spent in
borrowing and returning, every year amounts
on h^b'r 68 r hei '\T all,e - Thus Parcus car ries
on his business, and with great industry on a
wh°if f A] PP orts a moderate family ■
Several of his neighbours, on farms no bet
ter and with less labour, are growing rich only
by dtfcrctron in saving, and judgment in fpendin/
TT7JT I /r° j 1 E ' Pr ' ]
W ., arC j the difference, which
*» have subsisted so lontr between r
and that of Naples, are at ll^on^-
ed. The fetrlement consists of 24 articles in
three of which the parties have determined on
Ihl sXty5 Xty , Va " nt . blfho P r i c H the jurifdidiion of
»4,TM;£°'y°" d "" ' rib " ,e ° f
Madrid, May jo.
Government ls very much perplexed
nieafures are thought neceflarv TI,. i'T
of.b. people i. J t rT,u£t e "£
nicely managed ; and though the precaution p
government appear leffbned, thev are f„ J
augmented. ' y are m reality
A frigate and packet-boat are arrived at f n
runna front Montevideo and Guvara wish
goes of 409,349, piastres, 7100 raw'hide, "j
other merchandize eS > and
w , LEIP SI C, May 16.
ligence, ZfZ" T d *
l>».: .b„ hi. gLS™Ai?. f / o ' a,,< !;
franc E.
Th/ lYfl" Assembly, Friday, May 20.
•n • C if 00 , 0,1 *' ,e or ganization of the f<•
hw- S n j aSth , e verifica »°n of the powers /hall
b= fin.ftrt, ,„d ,h,
f 4kso
[Whole No. 254.]rd all the Representatives (landing, and holding
up'their hands towards heaven, shall pronounce
i„ ,he name of the people of France, t.,e oath,
Tn live free or die. , .
Each Deputy Ihall then individually take the
oath 10 the nation in the pretence ofthe Allen
bly, to maintain to the unnoft ot his power il
Conllitotion of the kingdom, decreed by the Na
tional Aflembly during the years I 789, I 79°> ®" 1
1 701, and accepted by King Louis XVI. to nei
ther propole nor approve any thinginthe course
of the legiflatu*, which may be contrary to the
spirit of it, and .0 be in every thing faithful o
the Nation, the Law, and the King. ne 01
shall be pronounced by the Prefldent, and each
Representative appearing at the Tribune, (li
lav, " 1 I'wear it." ,
The queftioh, whether the king (hould o.
should not be empowered to diflolve the Legisla
ture, was then taken into confederation.
M Thouret moved, that the King shall not be
empowered to dissolve the Legiilative bodies.
M. de Foucauld propoled as an amendment,
that the word not ihotild be left out ; which al
teration, after Tome warm debate, was adopted.
May 24. The affair of Avignon was again
brought on the tapis, and, as before, it occahon
ed a very noisy debate. The re-union of this
country to France was again rejected.
LONDON, May 6.
Lord Grenville received the seals of office, as
principal Secretary of State for the Foreign De
partraent, on Sunday lalt; notice of which has
been sent to all the Foreign Minilters ; and in
consequence, his fxrft levee was held attheSecie
tary of State's office, Whitehall, when there xvas
~a full meeting of Foreign Ministers.
Another group of foreigners of diftint'lion are
just arrived in London, in consequence of fiefli
disturbances at Paris.
On the 28th ult. the Senate of the University
of Glasgow conferred the honorary degree of
Do<ftor in Laws 011 W. Wilberforce, Esq. Mem
ber of Parliament for Yorkshire, as a mark of the
elteem which thatUniverfity entertains'of his cha
racter and abilities, and in particular of their
high approbation of his exertions for the aboli
tion of the African Slave Trade.
M. de Combs, Secretary to M. tie Mirabeau, has
developed the cause of his laying violent hands
on himfelf, being occasioned, as he affirms, by his
excessive grief at the loss of his benefactor. His
honor, integrity, and attachment to his patron,
have been loudly piaifed by several of M. de Mi
rabeau's friends.
The letter from the French King to his Am
bassadors at Foreign Courts, is written with a
franknefs, a nobleness, and an energy, that does
credit to the sincerity of the Monarch. His Ma
jesty declares that he will cherilh, love, and de
fend the constitution ; he recognises the sove
reignty of the People ; he acknowledges that he
derives his powers from them ; he thinks it ho
norable to be the firft Magistrate in the State; in
fine he speaks like the King of a Free People.
The President of the National Aflembly was
frequently interrupted while reading this letter,
by repeated acclamations of i?tve le Rot! which
resounded from the patriotic fide of the hall,
while the ariftocratical party, overwhelmed with
ihame and confufion, remained in silence.
The accounts from Paris of the latell date d -
scribe the conduct of the fifli-women as uncom
monly liceniious, particularly towards the re
ligious orders of female devotees ; this is sup
posed to have arisen from the objection taken to
thoffe priests who confefs the King without tak
ing the oath to the constitution.
A general alarm has arisen among!! the coun
try innkeepers, in consequence of Sir Harry Fea
therftonehaugh's new travelling carriage, which
is so contrived as to answer the purpose not only
of a bed chamber, but an eating room, and in the
feats are cupboards ingeniously contrived to con
tain provisions and wine.
The Empress has a Scotch physician, who reads
regularly the chief London papers to her ; parti-
culaily the debates in Parliament. She has in
the apartment where these are read, paintings or
engravings of our mod celebrated speakers—and
knows the politics of the country as well as our
Senators
Preparations are making at Portsmouth for the
reception of the Royal. Family ; the whole of
whom, we understand, intend being present at
the review of the fleet on the Bth day of June
next, at Spithead.
May 26. It was the opinion universally re
ceived at Vienna, that the Ruffians will reach
C'onllantinople before the end of summer.
Mr. who has for many years of
fered a present of ten thousand pounds to any
]>eifon purchasing his brewery at a fair estimati
on, has at length found cuftomqcs for ir. A com
pany of persons have bought it, at the price of
four hundred and fifty thousand pounds.
T'ne French Eafl-Indiaman, named the Consti
tution, lately arrived at L'Orient, brings advice,
that the Spaniards, availing themselves of the
102
dereliction or interruption of the tur Trade
from Nootka Sound, on the part of the Engl.fii
had indultrioufly collected furs, and transported
ilie'ii 10 China ; where they were bought with
such avidity, that the nett Jiiofiis of He adven
ture are calculated at ioo.oool. sterling. His
Catholic Majesty, apprised of the benefits that
would arile from this trade, had taken it into
his own hands, and declared that the commerce
from No'.tka and its environs should thenceforth
he carried on by Government only.
Lalt Thursday, John Gill, aged 65, and Ri
chard Gill, aged 25, were found fuffocaced in a
Lime Kiln near Halbanton, Devon. Ihe father
went down to open a vent in the k:!n, and find-
himfelf faint by the (tench of the culm, call
ed°to his son for help, who immediately went to
preserve his father,and was fuffocated with hint ;
both ware found dead 011 each other. The (on
has left a widow with three children, and preg
nant with a fourth. I hey both bore the cha
racter of lioneft men.
Letters have been received in town from Bo
tany Bay, which contain the mod favorable ac
counts from that infant colony.
The natives, by kind treatment, had been ren
dered perfectly docile, and had in a great dgree
been incorporated with the Colony.
May It is confidently said, that unless the
prayer of Mr. Haftings's petition to the Lords
(hould be granted, he will on Thursday plead
guilty to ; he charges agninft him, and pray their
Lord (hip's judgment thereon, after being heard
in mitigation of the lame.
An American fleet arrived at Cadiz the sth of
this month , and forty we are to fee that the
States enjoy more fatisfatftion from their com
merce with any other country than Great-Britain.
The King of the French has been graciously
pleased to liberate thirteen women who had been
condemned to perpetual imprison ment in La Sal
petriere, one of whom had been there 54 years.
Mr. Hope, jun. of Amsterdam, the head of the
firft mercantile firm in Europe, is at present in
Dublin. He purpoles ro make the tour of Ire
land, and the Lake of Killarney will engage his
particular attention.
There now is, or was a very few years since,
in the Workhouse of Rotherhi;he, an old watch-
man, whore employment, from the time he was
thirty-eight years of age, until he was ninety-fix,
was to cry the hour. In his ninery-feventh year
his limbs refuted their office, he grew rheumatic,
and being unable to do his nocturnal duty, was
taken into the Workhouse, where he had a little
room and a bed allolted 10 his use. His
early habits adhered hjm :he could not sleep
much in the night, nor could he walk at all, but
he slept all d.ay, and in general waked about nine
o'clock. Though his legs had failed him, his
voice had not, and at ten he invariably cried the
hour, at eleven he cried the hour, and at twelve,
&c. &c. &c. he cried the hour, adding, sometimes
a star light, sometimes a cloudy, and fometiines
a rainy morning. This was at fir ft irksome to
the other inmates, bin in time they got habitu
ated to the founds, and slept through all the old
fellow's noise in the night, as he slept amidst all
their disturbances in the day.
Extratt of a letter from Paris, May J.
" In the late debate in the National AfTembly,
whether,or nor, Avignon and theComtat-Venaiilin
(hould be considered as parts of the French em
pire ? M. de Clermont-Tonnerre, well known
as being the leader of the Monarchical Club, ar
gued strongly in opposition to those who wi/hed
that the National Aflembly /hould declare A
vignon and the Comtat Venailiin provinces of
France : the mob were of a contrary opinion,
it was their supreme will that France (hould adr
that department to her pofieffions "perfas et w
fas." •
" On Thursday, as he came out of the Aflem
bly, some of the mob, who conftamly surround
the gates, accosted him with abufc, which lie was
weak enough to return. He was fuffered to
reach his house, but had not been there above
half an hour before his gates were forced, and
he dragged out with the cry of ala lanterns. In
a tew minutes a halcer was placed around his
neck, and he would have been instantly hanged
if Madame de la Tonnerre had not thrown her
felf round him, intreating permilfion to take a
last farewel ofher hulbaud.
" Some of the mob were affedted by her fears,
and while the execution of their purpose, was
thus, for a few minutes, interrupted, M. de la
Fayette arrived with the National Guard, the
populace fled* and M. de Tonnerre was restored
in fafety to his family.
" M.de Fleurieu, the Naval Minister, resigned
last Tuesday.
" There is also a talk of the resignation of M
de Montmorin, Secretary for Foreign Affairs."
June i. Yesterday, in the Court of Common
I'leas, on an atftion of damages, Noftagainft Tho
mas W orboys, of Bell's 13 uildings,Salilbury ("qua re,
for pushing the plaintiff out of his house, and
thereby breaking his leg, the jury gave a verdict
ot one hundred pounds.
A'£W CONSTITUTIO.V OF POLAND.
IN the fitting of the sth May, the new form of Constitution
was again proposed. The members present figncd it unanimoc'
and they formally padrd. sentence by sentence, the twelve Arii*
cles of which it is composed, and which arc as follow ;
i. The Catholic Religion shall be the governing religion of the
States, and the King (hall profeU it. But all other forms or wor
(hip fhal 1 be admitted, and a general toleration, civil and icli'il
ous, fliall be a fundamental law of the kingdom.
2. The ancient privileges and rights oi the Noblesse arc approv
ed and confirmed.
3. At the fame time, all the rights and privileges of the people
alTerted, renewed or granted to them duung the prcfent Diet, a, c
equally ratified and confirmed.
4. All ft* angers who arrive and fettle in Poland, shall enjoy full
and entire liberty.
5. The pcafantry arc *aken under the protc&ion of the laws and
of government. They are relieved from all arbitrary impoluions
and do not depend, henceforth, in what regards their rights and
labours, only on the contracts which they ftiall, make with their
Seigniors. All foreign labourers are free to enter and fettle in Po
land, or to depart, fulfilling only the obligations of the contract
thev may have made with the proprietors of the foil.
6. The government of Poland shall be cotnpofed of three
branches, or diflintt parts —the Icgiflaiive power, the executive
power, and the judicial power.
7. The legislative power belongs exclusively to the dates assem
bled in Diet, and composed of two connedled chambers, viz. the
senate, and the chamber of nuncios.
8. The King shall exercise the executive power with his coun
cil. This council (hall be composed of the primate and five mini
sters, who shall each have a department. No ovdei of the King
can be put in execution un'.efs it is signed by the ministers, whose
lives and fortunes shall be responsible to each Diet for the orders
they (hall sign. As soon as two-thirds of the Diet shall demand
the change of ministers, the King (hall be bound to difmifsthem,
and to name others in their place.
9. The elcttion of King shall never fall hereafter on an indivi
dual. A whole family (hall be ele&ed when the Royal Family
shall be extinct. Thus after the decease of the reigning King (for
whose long life the estates and the nation make the molt fervent
pravcr) the reigning elector of Saxony, and his male defendants
after him, shall succeed to the throne of Poland. If he lhall have
no male iflTue, Ma r y Augusta Ncpomucene, his only daughter, now
declared infant of Poland, (hall be Queen, and her husband, whom
the King and the states aflembled (hall choose for her, (hall wear
the crown and form the stock, from which shall fpringanew royal
dynasty of Poland.
10. In cafe of the minority of the King, his tutelage with the
administration of the government shall be in the hands of the
Queen-mother, and of the council, who (hall be responsible for
their conduct to every Diet.
11. The education of the King's children (hall in like manner
be confided to the council.
The judicial power (hall be fixed for each palatinate, territory!
and diftrift. The judges shall be elected at the Dietines.
MR. FOX AND MR. BURKE.
WE know not which to admire 1110 ft : The
manly manner in which Mr. Fox solicited the
continuance of Mr. Burke's friendfiiip, or the
unshaken steadiness which accompanied the lat
ter gentleman's noble defence of his principles.
In the one, the feelings of the heart, for a mo
ment quelled the ftubborntiefs of an opinion
founded 011 the conviction of a ripened and en
larged mind. In the other, every private at
tachment, and every friendfliip that can be dear
to man, were facrificed with Roman firinnefs to
support the Constitution of his country. Each
thought himfelfin the right, and each conceived
that he was arguing for tlie Public Good. Mr.
Fox has long been known to profefs,a strong af
fetftion for more of the republican system in our
Government than Mr. Burke would ever bring
his judgment to approve. The former conceives
that there is a natural right in man to be free ;
the latter thinks that such freedom would be
subversive of all the blessings which we at pre
sent enjoy. Mr. Fox would narrow the limitsot
monarchy, and extend the liberty of the people.
Mr. Burke would neither abridge the one nor
enlarge the other. On these topics they have
'often difFered in private ; but as there was no
event to prove who was right, the argument ne
ver rose to any thing more than the convivial
diflertations of the table. But the French Revo
lution had no sooner happened, than each seized
upon it as a strong tettimony to prove the julhce
of his own opinion. Mr. Fox conceiving it to
be a circumstance which must give the moll glo
rious blessings to France ; Mr. Burke a (let ting
that it was the 1110 ft difgraceful and deftrudtue
event that could ever happen to an empire. t
was now 110 longer a difcourle 011 a fpecuiatne
point ; the die was cast, and each found his cre
dit at stake to maintain his argument. The cy
cle of private friend/hip became too narrow or
exerciling the talents of these great men. < \' t
minds, big with the importance of the cau e,
buriwforth in the Senate, and as eloquence met
eloquence so animosity encountered amnions,
until the spirit of politics subdued the tenderne s
of a long acquaintance, and friendlhip took ie
departure 111 tears. Those who heard ant av
the obstinacy with which the dispute was njai"
tained, lamented that two men of such abl ''
lliould differ in public sentiment on one 0
most important points which relate to t le
pinefs and welfare of this country. 1 i-r
are not without hopes that, even wule as 11
ference is at present, yet as both gentletnei
110 view but the general benefit of the e p >
the one will relax from his too Itrong i< •
republicatiifm', arid embracing the genera
of the other, form a junction of talents that may
continue as long as each lives to be an 01
to public a,ul private society. Tins we
the benefit of the Constitution, and lot
welfare of the people.CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY
Thursday, there was a very numerous and re
fpe<slable meeting of the Society for Propagating
( hriltian Knowledge. Sir William Forbes, of
Pitfligo, Bart, in the Chair. This extraordinary
meeting was called to announce the very great
and princcly donation of Ten Thousand Pounds
in the f per cent Annuities. The hiltory of the
corrcfpondence, which, for several months, has
been carrying on upon that interesting btifinefs
was dated at length, from which it appeared,
that their benefactor, with a delicacy of mind,
not less singular than the extent of his benefi
cence, had taken the moll effectual measures to
prevent the discovery of his name, and feenied
]>articularly anxious to remain concealed. The
members agreed that however much their own
gratitude might prompt them to the measure,
they were so far bound in duty, to consult the
feelings of their unknown benefactor, as to a
void publishing an acknowledgment of his boun
ty in the newspapers— but resolved, that a nar
rative of the circumstances attending this great
event, so far as they should find themselves at
liberty at the time, shall be laid before the pub
lic, in the appendix to the next anniversary ser
mon to be preached before the society, and print
ed as nfual. In the mean time, it was proposed,
and as heartily as unanimously agreed to, that
two gentlemen, the friends of the donor, who
have been hitherto inftrinnental in carrying in
to execution this great and good work, the one,
the truflee to whom the sum is conveyed for the
benefit of the Society, the other a clergyman, by
whom the ncceffary correspondence was carried
on, and both men of refpetfable characters,
/hould, without waiting for usual forms, be im
mediately admitted members of the Society ;
and that the Earl of Leven, the Prcfident, be re
quested to fend along with diplomas of their ad
mission, letters to each of these gentlemen, ex
preflive of the grateful sentiments of the Society
upon this occasion.
B O S T O N, July 13.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
The papers of late have teemed with abuse of the Vice Pr e
siden r. He is confulered the author of " Publicola"—though
I do not suppose lie is ; but if that was the cafe, the fentimenis I
conceive are purely republican ; and such as would do honor to
any man whatever, As might have been expe&ed, there are
many replies, but few or no anfwcrs. It would be an abomina
ble-thing in the view of some men, should the people more full)
know the truth of the cafe, which is, that the Vice Pr esident
of the United States is one of the most perfett and confijlent Re
publicans in America, and this is so abundantly apparent from
his works, that I do not believe they were ever read by any per
lon with candor and attention, who was not convinced of the
fa£h
Hence the replies to PuhlicoU, which go on the above supposi
tion, instead ot attempting to answer the nervous reasonings the)
contain, catch at draws, or abound in ribaldry and abuse. — Any
man who presumes to think for himfelf, will have his opinions
controverted—and I trufta free press will forever exist in America.
No man has made a better use of one than Mr. Adams—and I
believe there is not a greater tricrid to free difcuflion than he is.
Happy for his pic-sent peace of mind, and future fame, though
mip-eprefemation raay cloud the public eye for a time in refpeft
to his principles (for it is too much the cafe that people will not
read for themselves) yet the utmost efforts of envy or malice can
not reach his character. His honor and integrity are unimpeacha
ble—and as to his ABt I tTiEi they cannot be steadily contemplated
by one of his opponents —their optics' arc not competent to the
exeriion.
The attack from a Western Paper is absolutely a compliment
to the republican character of the Vice President. The
quotations from his works were felefted by the eye of picjudice.
as the most exceptionable—those very quotations trace every thing
in government froin the people.—And as to the charges, they are
unsupported by any quotation or reference whatever, —neither
are they deduflions from any previous remarks that had been
made.
It would be an Herculean talk to attempt to refute his system.
I hardly expect that it will ever be undertaken. The experi
ence of mankind for thousands of years, without an exception,
mud exhibit a basis that cannot be overthrown ; and every man of
modesty, however great his .abilities, will pause before he at
tempts to refute the republican principles laid down in the Defence
of the American Conjlitutions.
Bkaintree, July 7, 1-791
Monday last being the fifteenth anniversary of American Inde
pendence, the fame was celebrated in this town wiih everv mark
of joy and fefttvity. At fun-rile a flag was hoisted on Fcderal-
Hill,* and a dtfeharge of cannon immediately followed—at 11
o'clock a troop of horse undei Captain Thayer, together with a
company of infantry, paraded on the hill, and went through their
miluary manoeuvre and finngs to the great fatisfaaion of a nu
mcrous company of fpe&ators.
At 2 o'clock the Viee-Prefident oF the United States, General
Thayer, the officers of the 6th regiment, and a large company of
other refpe&able gentlemen, to the number of 150, partook of an
elegant dinner under a convenient arbor prepared for theoccafion.
After dinner, the following patriotic toasts were given, accom
panied by the discharge of cannon, viz.
3ft. The Prcfident of the United States—(immediately after
•which three cheers were given, .and an Ode sung, composed for
the purpose by Mr. John Lathrop of Boston.)
2d. The Vice-President, and Congress of the United States—
(three cheers.)
3d. Ihe Governor and Commonwealth of Maflachufetts—
(three cheers.)
4th. The Day—May the consequences of our Independence be
Light, Liberty, and Happincis to the whole world.
sth. All Mankind—Mav every branch ot the great Family par
ticipate in the blellings of Freedom and Peace which America en
joys.
6ch. The King of Frenchmen, and the National Aflcmblv—
Mav the revolution ot France cause a political fire, whose efful
gence shall irradiare the nations«which arc now wrapt in the gloom
oflbvery; and whose heat (hall dissolve the chains with which
the v:ctims of tyranny arc bound.
7th. The Officers of the late American Army,
1 he Officers ot the firft division of Massachusetts Militia.
-A hill laying on the river, near Weymouth, which affords a beauti-
Jul prefbefl of the harbour y and adjacctit towns.
9th. The American Fair—May thev ever find that comfort and
protettion from Man, which Virtue, Innocence and Beauty de
mand.—(three cheers)
10th. May Wifdoin make our laws, and impartial Jullice exe
cute them.
i ith. Paine, and the Rights of Man.->-(ihree cheers)
12th. Mav the Farmer, the Merchant, and have
Honor and Wealth, as the rewards of their Industry.
13th. The Memory of those Patriot Heroes who fell in the
Cause of their Country.
14th. May we never forget those whpfe exertions procured the
Independence of America; and may \ve never abuse our Liberty
to lioentioufnefs.
The Vice-Prejident then arose, and gave the following toajl—
May every Citizen be a Soldier, and every Soldier a Citizen.—
(three cheers)
After which the company retired, each one highly gratified
with the performance of the day, which was condu&ed with great
propriety,,and without the occurrence of any accident that might
allay the joy so conspicuous in every countenance.
GEORGEtTOW X, July 16.
Ext raft of a letter from a gertUman in Philadelphia, to his friend in
ji.:. i J-i- j rr..~
this town, dated July 10.
" Inclosed you will receivc Mr. Adams's Letters on the American
Revolution. His writings of the date of thcfe letters and prior to
them, breathe different sentiments from those that now flow from
the pen of Publicola—and it is unfortunate to his cause that they
rife up in judgment against him. It is truly astonishing that the
man who thundered fortii the inspiration of liberty, and damped
his country with independence in the year 1776, should have so far
forgotten himfelf, or the principles of her divine oracles, as to
espouse the detestable cause of hereditary arift'ocracy—and to em
ploy those talents and time, that should be devoted to his country,
in Supporting the principles of a government that affects to hold
ours in the utmost contempt."
N £ W- Y O R K, July 22.
If the esteem and refpeft of the people, for those men, whose
talents and abilities are uniformly devoted to the fcrvice of their
country, and who have proved eminently ufeful to the public,
ought ever to be manifefted, every man would think them deserv
edly bestowed on the Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States. A just sense of his merit, and of the benefits which the
agriculture, commerce and manufa£hires of this country, have de
rived from his labours, impelled the Corporation of the Chamber of
Commerce, of this city, to give an entertainment on Wednesday last,
at the City Tavern, to that worthy Statesman, at which the follow
ing toasts were given : '
lft. The United States.
2d. The Piefident.
3d. The Vice-President and Senate of the United States.
4th. The Governor and State of New-York.
sth. The Judiciary of the United States.
6th. All foreign powers in friendlhip with the United States.
7th. May America be grateful to those who have diflinguiihed
themselves in forming the present government.
B.h. May the Merchants of America ever be foremoft in support
of the laws of their country.
9th. May the Treasury of the United States always be adequate
to the exigencies of the nation.
10th. May Agriculture and Manufactures incrcafe, and open
new sources of Commerce.
11th. May a flourifhing Commerce amply compensate the Huf.
bandman and Manufa&urers' toil.
12th. The Arts and Sciences—may they continue to be im
proved and cultivated.
13th. The rising generation—may they be virtuous and happy.
14th. Oblivion to all local prejudices*,
15th. Peace and Freedom to all the world.
FROM AN ENGLISH PAPER.
The following Verses' were ordered by the late
Mrs. Turner, of Woolwich, to be laid upon
her Husband's writing desk a few days before
her death, and may prove acceptable to the
admirers of that Lady's compositions : —
A HYMN.
-1- HROUGH all the various fiiifting scene,
Of life's mistaken ill or good :
Thy hand, O God ! condu&s unseen,
The beautiful viciflitude;
He portions with paternal care,
Howe'er unjustly we complain ;
To each their neceflary (hare,
Of joy and sorrow—health or pain.
Trust we to youth, or friends, or pow'r,
Fix we our feet on Fortune's ball ;
When mod fccure, the coming hour,
If He fees fit, may blast them all.
When lowest funk with grief or shame,
Gorg'd with affli£tion*s bitter cup ;
Loft to relations, friends, and fame,
His pow'rful hand can raise thee up.
His mighty consolations cheer,
His smiles erect th' affli&ed head :
His hand can wipe away the tear
That secret wets the wiaow'd bed
Philadelphia, July 27.
011 Friday last the {hip Commerce, Capt. Jones,
arrived here in 45 days from Exeter, England.
— Accounts by this veflel are to the full: June.
1 hey inform, T hat the Turks have gained an
advantage over the Ruffians, the Grand Vizir
having obliged them to raise the siege of Zacka
nali, with the loss of 700 men, and '36 officers
killed, beftdes many prisoners, and 19 pieces of
cannon taken, with all the veflels which the
Ruffians had allembled at the place. On the
2 5 ta ' v -'-y the trial of Mr. Haitings recommenced
in the House of Lords.—Accounts are received
of the arrival at Botany Bay of the transports
with a great number of conviifts The press
continues with unabated vigor ; the bounty to
lea men extended to the 30th June—The'Na
tional Allembly have resolved, that the members
of one legislature may be eleifted in a fubfecjuent
one, but not without an inteval of two years
which will induce the necessity of an entire change
at every general election.—The Lotd Bishop of
Durham, brother to the Chancellor Lord Tliur
lovv, died the 25th May, after a long and severe
illness A meflenger from Petersburg has
103
brought: dispatches to the Ruffian Ambaflador in
London, —they state, that the Empress will noc
deviate from the plan she lias proposed. to the
Turks for making peace ; flie is preparing for
making a resolute defence, in cafe (he should be
attacked by a British fleCt.— Hopes are however
entertained of a peace, as itisfaid the Turks are
now willing to acci.de to the terms offered by the
Empress, viz. That Oczakow and its dependen
cies should be ceded to Russia.—From these, and
other circuinltances, it is generally supposed
that the present British armaments will not be
brought into atftion. The Eriglifh nation ap
pears averse from a war with Rullia, aud the ad
ministration will not precipitately adt counter to
the general sense of the people. The English
fleet is about three-fourths manned, and consists
of fail of the line, besides smaller ships.-
The late surprizing revolution in Poland, is a
triumph ofrealon and benevolence overcivilarid
religious prejudices—these prejudices were aban
doned as in a moment—and the tiers etat admit
ted without diftintftion of birth or religion to a
participation of the legislative and executive
powers of government. —and declared, eligible
to any office civil, military or eccleliaftical.
Mr. Pitt was thirty-two years old on the 28th of
May lad, seven of which he has been Prime Mi
nister of Great-Britain, and twelve he has been
member of Parliament!— Great commotions exiO;
in Constantinople ; the people are clamorous for
peace; the Sultan persists in continuing the war.
Several fires have taken place, by one of which
an entire quarter of the city was consumed—the
loss is estimated at twenty-five millions of piastres.
—Negociations are carrying on in all the North
ern kingdoms, the designs of which appear to be
much confufed.—Religious liberality begins to
appear even in Spain—the English papers men
tion in handsome terms an instance of thift libe
rality at Alicant, on the death of a Mrs. Fall, who
was buried according to the rites of the Proteltaat
church, and in the Proteflant burying ground.—
Some intimation is given of a design to celebrate
the anniversary of the French Revolution in
COMMUNICATIONS.
Ten cities, it is said, contended for the honor of having been
the birth place of Homer; but this contention, at the distance of
more than twenty centuries, is found to have been about a non
entity. A modern French critic has discovered that no such per
son as Homer ever existed ! —What illusions are played off upon
the feelings of mankind—how has their sympathy been abused by
reading such strains as the following :
" Can all the -wreaths that crown'd his head )
" Compensate now to Homer dead,
" The living Homer's want of bread ?
Another modern discovery is, that Dean Swift did not write
the Tale of a Tub. We are not informed as to the circumstances
which led to this discovery, but one obvious remark is obtruded
on the mind, not very favorable to the reputation of the Dean,
supposing the discovery to be well founded, and that is, the impo
sition which he put on mankind while living, and, owing to his
incorrigible diflionefty, has been continued ever since his decease.
Several pettv robberies have been committed on the Fame of Shake
speare ; and we may expect every day to hear that Milton was not
the author of Paradise Lojl.
But theaffuranceoffome wonderfully sagacious modern politicians
in their modern discoveries, exceeds all former examples. The pa
triots of America, whose wisdom and valor is emancipating the
old world as it has already the new, have in a recent party publica
tion been stripped of their laurels and their honors decreed them
by a grateful country . -Their tiiumphs in the field, and that con
stitution which was the result of their combined wisdom, " were
the produ&ions of chaia&ers which will never enjoy the historical
fame thereof." A most modest attempt truly to depreciate in the
eyes of their countrymen, the patriots of America. If this is not
Toryism, it is something that bears a strong resemblance to it.
A Return of the Consuls and Vice-Consuis
of the United States of America.
Joseph Fenwick, Confal, Bordeaux.
Burrell Carnes, Consul, Nantc*.
Nathaniel Barrett, Consul, Jtoueii.
Sylvanus Bourne, Consul, Hijpanioh.
Fulwar Skipwith, Consul, . - Martinique.
The SieurEtienneCa-> ... „ , , ~
thalan, the yoanger, J Vice-Consul, Marfeillu.
The Sieur de la Motte, Vice-Consul, Havre de Grate
Joshua Johnson, Consul, London.
James Maury, Consul, Liverpool.
Thomas Auldjo, Vicc-Conful, Pooled
Willliam Knox, Consul, Dublin-
Edward Church, Consul, Bilboa.
John Marfden Pintard, Madeira.
Ebenezer Brulh, Consul, Surinam
James Yard, Consul, ' St. Croix.
The jurisdictions of these Consuls and Vice-Consuls extend to
all places within the fame allegiance, which are nearer, to them
than to the residence of any other Coi.ful or Vice-Conful.
(j Resident at Cowes.
Monday evening arrived in this city from New-York, Alex
ander Hamilton, Esq. Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States.
Yesterday dispatches were received at the War-Office of the
United States from General Scot, containingan account of the suc
cess of his late expedition against the Indians, Particulars we
expect to publish in our next.
From FELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Susannah, Towers, Tobago.
Sally, Wharton, St. Euftatius!
Sloop Wilmington Packet. Wyath, St. Thomas.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
'9/4 >9/6 P r - L
11/9 12/
_"/9
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates 18f6
Indents ll j9
N. and S. Carolina debts, 14/ 15/6.
Bank Subscriptions,
974 pr. cent.
60 do.
58 J do.
do.
do.
s*i
$0 Dollars.Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms:
the specie araouuc of all lales or purchases at auction, one
On dfuo or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent.; and on all fumi
above <000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interell at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pieced to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their executed with punctuality,Jidehty and dijpatch, as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable ihem to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLttCKhR,
5 AVa-1 ori, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 iaw 6m)
March 15, 1791.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom thcfc presents (hall come, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months —one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
©f the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and fortv-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
irt proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, £ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th May, 1791. (e p. 3 m.
TAKE NOTICE
THE Managers of the Newark Bridge Lottery will
begin paying the Prizes drawn in the First Class on Monday
the nth of July, by which time the Tickets in the Second Class
"will be ready to deliver to applicants agreeable to the fcheine.—
To accommodate holders of Tickets undrawn in the First Class.
the fame numbers in the Second Class will be lodged, if conveni
ent, in the fame places where the fitft were fold, as soon as poilible,
and if not, such holders must apply to the Manager who signed
their Tickets. Such persons will please to take notice, that appli
cation for renewal in the Second Class must be made betore thf
i ith of August next.
JOHN N. CUMMING,}
JESSE BALDWIN, £• Mdnageis.
JOHN D. ALVEY, )
of New-Bruufwick.
flaw lm)
Newark, June 27, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State ot Connetticut, at their feflion in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with the
following
s c
Prize of
z
1
1
2
4
5*
12
3°
45
5°
61
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes,
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subjett to a dedu£lion of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing intheheartof a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is necefiarily extended 10 the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all classes of people, for
the success of ihis enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this Icheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhed in
Ameriea) induce the managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
jor the ufc of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rice, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph llowel 1.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791.
TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Messrs. Stephen Aust in, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the MafTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment tor the above tickets.
HEME.
10,000 Dollars, is 10,000
5000 5000
4000 4000
2000 arc 400©
1000 4000
500 2500
soo 2400
100 3000
50 2250
40 2000
3° 1830
20 2000
10 1400
8 43,120
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
THE Commissioners appointed to rcccive Sublcriptions to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholder! of the laid Bank, that an eleflion for twenty,
four Diiettors will be held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Fuday the 2ill day of October next, at to o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWEI.L.
LUKE RAUSS, who left Germany in 1749, and came to Ame
rica, it he be ft ill living, may hear ot (omelhing to Iris ad
vantage, by applying at the office ot the Secretary of State, in
Philadelphia.
July 20, 1791
HAVING obtained Patents for several Improvements on
Clocks and Watches, begs leave to inform his friends and
the public, that he is now ready to execute any work on the said
conftru&ions ; which may be cither applied to clocks arid watches
already made, or to new ones,and on trial, have been found ftipe
rior to any heretofore brought into common use. He has so fim
plified the repeating part oi a watch, as to enable him to make it
at two-thirds of the common price, which will not only be an ad
vantage in the firft purchase, but ever after, as it can be cleaned,
when neccflaiy, for two-thirds less than the present price. He has
also fimplified the striking part of clocks, which enables him to
reduce the price one-fourth ; and repairs, at the lowest prices, ho
rizontal, repeating, plain, and other watches, and musical, chim
ing, and plain clocks, with pun&uality and dispatch, and warrants
all the work done in his (hop.
An aflfortmentof Clock and Watch-makers Tools and Mat e
rials for sale, on reasonable terms.
(pf Two Journeymen, and an Apprentice, are wanted,
Charleftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
ConfiHing of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dol la r s each, 21,000
2500
1000
1 5°°
1000
800
600
800
600
5 6°
480
8031
i Prize of
i
*S
20
20
2»
4°
6r»
7°
8o
2COB
2 ;«5 P'izM,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
(£3" This Class will commence drawing on or betore the Ift of
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, } Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleflon, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets in the above, and in the Maflfachufetts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
massachusets semi-annual lottery
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY a{Ture the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will poiitively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of OElober next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour assigned, so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
87500
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes,
'R I ZES.
1 1
2
3
6
io
3°
8o
90
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000 Tickets,
03 TICKETS in the above Class may be bad of the several
Ma nag e r s,mho zvi/l pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin s Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER, VMAN\gers
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND, J
ftojlon y April 14, 1791.
104
ADVERTISEMENT.
CHE M E
Dollars.
t 2500 Dolls, is
1000
100 are
5°
4®
3°
2 0
lO
8
6
4
Dcdu&ion, 3*. 28
CLASS II
Do l LARS.
ioooo is ioooo
3000 are 6000
2000 6000
6000
500 c
6000
8000
45°°
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
100s
5 00
200
100
50
4°
3°
20
10
8
PRICE CURRENT PHILADELPHIA
per Quantity. *"A.
ANCHORS J pUb. 27^JOL^V^f-
Allum, Englnh, pr.cwt. 3,, Id Pitch alu™ P '' d °>- >"/
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. \q4 Pork' R i
Alhes, pot, per ton, 3: h os LZ'Z2 901 ' z -
I T ' s ° l Carolina 9^
Arrack pr. gall. ,o, ,2,6 d Pca s ,Albany -
Brandy, common, 7 , 6d Pepper, or lh
—Cogniac 9 <6d Pimento' ' 2j «
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/16/ Ri Cr J/,
Bricks pr. M 15s to 30s Ro f ln 21
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. .4, Raisins, belt pi fc 2 -
Diuo, pilot 27,6 - DlllO pr ia r ' 6:
Ditto, final! water 4°'4s* Ditto p: | )ox 3'
Beer, American, in bot. 1 -. r i,J, ■ «
pr. doz. bot. incl. ln f 6 f fc a ' ta P r - g»«-6i 6m
L L 1 Antigua
r L .T r K 3s ! I Windward 4 '«
» f Oak pr.M feet, 6p g Barbados i
« | Mcrch. pine icor Country, N E 4 ' 6
< < Sa P> do " 3' L Taffia , , 3 '5
01 N.Eng. 82.1 SalTatras pr ton 4
25 LCedar iooj Saltpetre nr
The above arc the Shallop prices ; Sulphur, flour * l0j :
for the Yard prices add M. Shot ' 5°
Brimstone ,ri rolls pr. cwt. 27, (Cerman pr.cwt si, 48
S "f pr - bbL S ) E "glin,,bliftered sl\
w < Boston 55; \ American pr. ton jo/si
« (Country s os „ (Crowley's p r . f 4 °' 6 ;
Butter pr. lb. 14d Snake root pr. lb ,RJ „„
J— 1 " ,oJ Soap, Common ' ,fr
Cedar,rcdumber pr.toot 2S2ibd Brown
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d Castile
Coal pr. bushel 1s 6d Starch \°^
Coffee pr. lb. is Snuff , t cj 4® 6'
y-. r o ««uu ISod 2 Sid -Jtfi
Cinnamon ißj 20s Spermaceti,refined tl
Cheese, Englilh yyl Sail Cloth, Engl,lhS J
Country pr. yard ! 2/2,
2 r S P er - P'* lb * 3' Boston, No I
J | Wax 413 d
O Myrtle Wax 12d
3 | Mould,tallow 10±d
<_> Dipped 9yt
Cotton is ±d i> 10d
(3 '•)
1 3 6 2f
Cloves 9 s
Copperas pr.cwt. 14J
Cordage 6oj 6256>1
Cocoa 62j6d 6ys6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 6ysy2s6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37J6d
Common, 34J 6d
Bur middlings,beft 31J
Middlings 24*
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. ys 8s
Flax pr. lb. 9d
Fuitic pr. ton, 1355 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8d
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 5s
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, white race 65*
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter calk, )
Ditto, fine glazed 35J 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5s gd
Do. pr. cafc, 30J
f Wheat pr. bulh 7s ys 6d
1 Rye 4-J 6d
I Oats \s 8d 2j 6d
< Indian corn 2s yd
| Barley 4* 8d
| Bcft (helled pr. lb. 3^
2s 6d
Hemp,for. pr. ton, 4
American, pr. lb. 4dl
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5*6
Herrings, pr. bbl. ißj 20/
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9d 10d
Hops ? s
Indigo, French, ioj
Cui rants
17872
• Carolina
fad pr. cwt.
Irons,
(" Callings 22j 61i 30s
Z I Bar pr. ton, 29/ 30/
O p lg ' 101
2 j Sheet. 65'
Nail rods
Junk, pr. cwt,
Lard, hogs
Lead in pigs
in bars
Lead, white 75' Boj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. Is\d 1 s6d
Lignum vitas pr. ton 42s 45J
Logwood 71 5* 81
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rye , 25/
Mackarel,beft none.
• Common 251*
Mace pr. lb. 55J
Mustard 2^4^
Madder, best ißd
Mobiles pr. gall.
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 14;
Mali spars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 62s
Dollars
IS, 10(
p Linseed, pr. gall. 4/
I Train is lod 2s
Spcrmaccti 7d
I Whale is lod is
— Olive 6s 6d
I Ditto pr. cafe 36;
Best sweet in )
I flafks,pr. box, )
L—baflcets 12 bottles 30 s
Oak timber pr. toil 381
Porter pr. bl. 40*
London, pr.doz.i2J 15J
12500©
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sold, on COMMISSION,
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Cfiefnut-Stvcet, next door to the Bank, N0..97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
Rullia (heeting, pr. p. qq
(-Lump, pr. Ib.
BJ j Loaf, single refined ui
J ■{ Ditto, double do. jjio
| Havannah, white i 2
w Ditto, brown,
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt 7518;
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. 4
(Allum pr. bulb. s
j 2 j <
<
2 j
Ship build. W.O.frames') jc
p. ton, j 8c
Dn. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5
Shingles, lhort, p. M. 22; 6
long dressed 37,6
Scantling, heart, Boj 100
- D . 3 J 00
s f 1 pe pr. 1200 pieces 6o
2 ! •O- hogihead
s > <J R. O. do.
-> ft I Leogan
J co Barrel
f L Heading
r (" Otter, best pr. piece 30
, Minks 1/6113
Fox, grey 3
cr> . V Bj <
, Martins 31
j 2 ' Filhers 2s6dy
Bears i*s6d 25J
Racoons 2J 4J
Musk-rats gd üß<3
Beaver, pr. lb. 7*6 ioj
L Dc;r, in hair a6d vsy
Tar,N. Jerfey,24gal.p. bbl. 7/I
Carolina, 32 gall. 10
Turpentine pr. bbl. ij
. p James R. new best 28
f £ • inferior 20J2?/6
0 old 35
j Rappahannock 22;6.
O J Colo. Maryland 50;60
Dark
Long-leaf 1
ffl Easter«" ore 1 "
O C ~
H I
3 s 7 s
50*
( Hyson pr. lb. 7*B*9'
<r> I Hyson (kin, 45 6/61
s * Souchong, 3/6 d"]
, H I Congo, 31 id 3 s 9
1 2J 9<
s Tallow, refined
s Tin pr. box, 100
s Veidigreafe pr. lb. 3*6^4
Vermillion, 12
s Varnifti, s;6<
3 61
lOs 4OJ,
9 d 10 d
40J 42 s 6d
s os
C Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75
1 Li (bon
' Fayal pr. gall. 3 J 4
£ 1 Port pr. pipe 43
£ Ditto pr. gall. b
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 3°
Claret 3 0J 45
! Sherry pr. gall. 6sgd 9
Malaga 5 J
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2*3'
(hort, pr. lb. 1
'& 201
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
Ditto 60 days 7 2
Ditto 30 aiys 73
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2J 3
30 days 3 m
Government bills, drawn at i(
days per 11 guilders, 33 s^
AND NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
6/ io
6
4/ io
8
iiaftern-lhore 151 i"i
Carolina, new 22J 6<
old 22J 6J 25.
20/10* 3-
Teneriffe
go days, 7°!