I'.,!U , U'.n VV r. i) \ i M)AY AND sATUKUAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BE'X WKtN ikCOND AND THIRD STRUTS, fh.LADELI-HIA
[No. i, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
Tor the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anu-Onc.
Ow ctyetftov '7rokvxotf.ee/in uopavo; tstty
E/f BAfthivs*
Iliad, lib. 2, v. 205.
" T SEE 110 good in having several Lords ; let
X one alone be mailer ; let one alone be King."
This was laid by Ulyfles in Homer, in a public
fpeecli. If lie had only said I fee no good in
having several Lords, this would have been said
with perfecfl propriety. To have spoken with
reason he Ihould have said, that the domination
of several cannot be good, because the power of
one alone, as soon as he takes che title of Maf
fter, is hard and unreasonable. But he had gone
quite to the contrary fide and said let one alone
be Master ; let one alone be King.
Perhaps it is neceflary to excuse Uly(Tes,to whom
at that time, it might be neceflary to make use
of chat Vanguage, to compose a itiutiny in the ar--
my, conforming his words, as I believe more to
the times than to truth. But to speak in good
cotifcience, it is an extreme misfortune to be
subject to a Master, who, we can never be sure
•will be good, since it is always in his power
to be bad when he will. And to have several maf
flers, is as much as to be so many times extreme
ly unfortunate. It is not liiy delign to debate, at
present, the question so much agitated, whether
the other fafhldns of republics are better than
monarchy. Before I should discuss the question
what rank monarchy ought to hold among re
publics, I iliould enquire whether it has any ; for
it is not easy to believe, that there is any thing of
a public in a government, where all is in one.
But this question is reserved for another occa
frnn ; and will require a treatise by itfelf—or ra
ther it will draw after it, the whole train of po
litical disputes.
At present I wifft only to whether it is
poflible, and liow it Js ffoTßLlcTtTiut so many men,
so many cities, so many nations endure the ty
ranny of one, who had no power butjfuch as they'
give him, who is incapable ot hurting them, any
longer than they pleal'e to endure him, who can
do them no evil, uiilcl's they choose to fuffer it,
rather than contradict him. A great thing cer
tainly, and yet so common, that it is the more
to be regretted, to fee a million of millions of
men, serving mifbrably with their necks under
the yoke, not conitrained by any greater force,
than rhc-if own, hut enchanted and charmed by
the mere n3ij>e of one, whose power they ought
not to fear because he il single, vVhofe qualities
they ought not to love, because he is to them in
human and savage. Such is the weakness among
us men, we must often submit to force : it is lie
cefiary that we temporize ; We cannot always be
i|e strongest. If, thereforea nation is coafhain
ed by force of arms, to serve one, as the city of
Athens the thirty tyrants, it Ihould not refufe to
serve, but complain of the accident ; or rather
neither refufe nor complnhi, but bear the evil
with patience, and reserve i(felf for better for
tune in future. Such isoor nature that the com
mon duties of friendfhip, consume a great part
ofjhe course of our lives. It is reasonable to
love virtue, to efleetn fair atftions, to acknow
ledge benefits where they have been received,
and often to diminish our own ease, to increaf'e
the honor and advantage of him whom we love,
and who deserves well of us. Thus therefore if
the inhabitants of a country have found some
great perfon:ige, who has (hown them by expe
rience a great forefight, in watching over them,
great courage in defending them, great caution
in governing them : If from tbefe confederations
they grow familiar and traceable in obedience
to him, and confide in him so far, as to give him
certain advantages, I know not whether it would
he wisdom, to take him out of thofc circuui
ftances in v\hich he did good, to advance him in
to others \<'here he might do evil. Certainly it
wuft be called goodness of heart, nor to fear t-vil
frot:i him, of whom we have received nothing
hnt good. But, good God ! What can this be ?
What name can we give it ? What misfortune ?
What vice ? What iniferable vice ? To fee a
multitude, an infinite number, not obey, but serve;
not be governed Win tyrannized, having neither
property, relations, children, nor even their lives
w hich thev can call their own
(Tih isti,tinued J
Saturday, April 50, 1791.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES,
ODES
ODE I.
HINTS TO REVIEWERS.
Y£ Men in whom all Science dwelleth ;
Whose Wisdom tar the world's excelleth;
Who mete out blame in plenteous measure ,
Or give, of praijc, the precious treafuie;
Reigning triumphant o'e r the field of fame,
With power unqueftion'd, and with right divine;
Renown'd alike tor what you praise or blame:
Accept this humble offering at (hrine.
Great men, full well you know,
With all their knowledge, sometimes err.
A fool may sage advice bellow :
And oft the mad will virtue (hojv ;
And good to wickedness prefer.
Then, tho your learning were as great
As Iwells the Owl's projecting pale ;
Tho' your opinions ne'er were wrong;
Your virtue like the hardcn'd fltel\
Your fouls as tender, and as jlrong;
And thots in beauteous order throng,
Like tickets in a lottery wheel;
Yet, without judgment to condr ft these powers,
Vainly you (trew rhetoric flowers,
And all the world aftonilh with your sense :
Then, kindly, from your thrones sublime,
Bellow attention to the rhyme;
And mark, the impoitant rules which I dispense.
Loud groans the Press, the Workmen fly,
Sheet after (heet appears.
The Binder plies the fcrcw and shears,
And a new Work salutes the eye.
i Five hundred pages ! how toil to read !'
O ! mind it not—you do not wifti
To con each fentcnce, groan, and pi(h :
'Tis not required, in Critics to succeed.
And never take a general view—
There 1 s nothing i nozo that's publifi'd—nezM.
'Tis needful only to feleft,
From all the book, a passage hrre and there,
To shew how candid y and howfmart you are;
A few old rules in criticifin coiled;
With a grave face, press-errors ui/c, detc&;
Then deal of praise the proper ihare,
And suit damnation to a hair.
No matter tho' you chance to frlame
A part which, in relation to (he whole,
i(h a fpint wn*fny end lets fault, 'r-
And wakes new"virtue in the human foul.
And be not troubled ihould you ptaile bellow
On whit, if mealured by the exreuded plan,
The traits of fell deformity Ihould (how,
And plant new vilr-nefs in the heart of man. t
Is't not enough, a passage to disgrace,
That a poor zigzag Z supplies an S's place ?
Is'tnot enough, the breath of praise to claim,
That titles dangle to an Author's name?
I can't help laughing, for my fdul,
To think how great a fool that Dr. Bl air must be,
Whu >« to anxious, in Reviews, to fee
A part conlidercd as't refpefts the whole.
If this were fight, how wife the Ottrich is,
W-ho, close parfued,-'in hollowMtig or tree
Thrusts his poor head, and with a joyous b'fs,
His body sticking out, exclaims u* glee—■
" If 'twill not work both'ways, a poor rule this—
" I can't fee you; you cen't difcov'er me."
Ye who, fublime,o'er Fame's dominion reign,
Here let me close this monitory drain ;
Help'd by the Muses, M another time,
New tho'ts, lor you, may blels the Man of Rhyme.
From the AMERICAN MERCURY.
THE various bounties granted by our legifla
rure for the encouragement of the farmers
in raising Sheep, has greatly increased that ufe
ful animal ; yet much remains to be done, to
bring this business to the utmost state of perfec
tion which this article will admit of. Not only
the increase ot ?iumbers (hou]& be attended to; but
! the quality of the wool also is an eflential objetft.
| A short treatise on this fwbjeCt is much wanted —
j pointing out the belt mode of managing Sheep,
so as to procure the greatest increase of their
numbers; how to prevent thedillem pers to which
they will be inoft liable in this climate ; what
food is molt f'uitable for winter ancFfpring feed
ing ; how to prevent their shedding their wool
before the proper season of fheafing—and how
to procure the fin eft fleeces, suitable for making
! fuperfiire cloths. The making "wool one of the
f>aple articles of this Hate, I consider as an objeCt
which Ihould not be loft fight of for a moment. —
No man who is a descendant of Britain, and who
reflects a moment on the causes which have con
tributed to raise that nation totheir envied great
ness, can hesitate to pronounce it to be their at
tention to manufactures—of which, that of woo l
holds the firft place. Thofc politicians who de
ride the idea of ConneClicnt's becoming a manu
facturing country, should never be considered as
friends to the (late—or as wife aittl ufeful ltatef
men.
1
JOHN.
[Whole No. 2ot).]
Great-Bi itoin and Ireland might as well de
pend 011 hu(bandry as we ; nay better, for Uley
are in potlefiion of a finer country —their lauds
produpeih better crops, and ihey have less win
cer to intercept a constant course of labor in the
field, and fucceflion of crops. Yet had Britain
depended fiinply on her hulbandry, (he would
this day have been ranked among the most infer
ior nations ; indeed (he had not maintained lieij
independence in the midli of such powerful
neighbors.
But our farmers ihould not confine their atten
tion to railing wool all parts of the ftaie are
not equally well calculated for that purpose
Hemp and Flax merit their attention, and should
be lifted amongst their yearly crops. The pre
paring those articles for market, would furnifli
labor tor the winter mouths, when so many of
our farmers, who have not large crops of grain,
are idle. Large funis of money are sent out of
this state every year, for hemp—which is now
imported, at a heavy expence, from the Baltic.
t 1 lax is wanted alio for rigging—but iminenfe
quantities are deatanded tor (be. iup.ply: of the
Duck IVlanufadures, over and above the constant
demand for coarse linens.
A short treatise on thebeft method of cultivat
ing those two articles, and preparing them for
market, is much wanted : Anyone who can fur
nifli such a desirable piece of inftrucftion, adapt
ed to the most common capacity, would better
deserve a Docftorate than most of those who now
so cheaply obtain them.
There have been federal experiments made,
about Norwich, in raising lien>p, which are said
to have proved fuccefsful : It is much to be wifli
ed a more general spirit of adventure and expe
riment were observable amongst our farmers—
and that ihey did nor content themselves with
barely doing what their fathers have done before
them.
Some experiments have been made at New-Ha
ven in the cultivating of Klax, so as to produce
that article iir grearenjbnndan** aiulpeife&ion.
1 hope those gentleman whd have fetn the great
benefit of their new mode of culture, will have
pu&lic spirit enough to publish the result of their
experiments, for the purpose of introducing a
more general attention to, and adoption of, their
improvements.
EXTRACT.
MEN fliould never be in hafle to conclude thac
any enquiry is impracticable, merely be
cause there appears no relation between the pre
sent means, and the fact to be ascertained ; for
have all the combinations of these means been
tried ? If not, who can be certain, that he is ac
quainted with all the relations between these
means and the faift, which is to exist,
and proposed to be ascertained'? This reflection
is strengthened by numberlefe inilances, record
ed in every page of the hiiiory of natural philo
sophy, and more especially of philiology. Con
sider how many inventions, for which the an
cients would scarce have ditVed to hope, even if
they had had a distant glimpse of them, have en
riched these f'ciences ! Could they have imagined
that the artificial foundation of the germs of va
rious animals would one day be acconvplifhed,
aud that chickens would b6 hatched without the
aid of animal heat, orof a stove ? Need I men
tion tbofe admirable chirurgical operations, the
miracles of the healing art, which are scarce cre
dible even to those who behold them i We are
as yet incompetent judges of what is impoffiblo
in philosophy ; for we always decide from our
present acquisitions of knowledge, which bear no
proportion to nature. Nature is immense ; the
poifible combinations of beings have 110 bounds,
and the human understanding is always too baity
in its decisions. The conviction of our ignor
ance or moderate attainments, ought to preserve
us from despairing of any thing in physics ; we
(hould fay to ourfetves, What I cannot discover,
another will lay ojieit to every eye.
SHEARING OK SHEEP.
THE following method has been found effcduaf. Immedi
ately after the iheep «»re fliorn, soak the roots of rh* wool that re
mains all over with oil, or butter, and bnmftone,afid three or four
days afterwards wash them with fait and water, and the wool ot
next season will be not only much finer and fofter, but the quan
ity will be greatly enlarged, and it may be depended on, that tho
flicep will neither be troubled with the scab or vermin that year.
BONNET.For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES
SONNET, VII.
TO THE SUN
X I AIL Son of Morning! Thou, whose orient Smile,
While now the dew-drop twinkles on the rose.
And icheft fragrance o'er the champaign flows,
Awakes the (lumbering laborer'* daily toil.
Do e'er thy ruddy splendors gild the pile,
As o'er the earth their circling glory glows,
Where modest Virtue's unseen hand bestows
Joys that the cares of Misery oft beguile ?
O ! if thou dost, —to that sweet cherub fay—
* Tho Time, dim-figbted, overlook thy worth ;
' Tho Fame (hall fail thy mrrit to display;
4 Nor glory deck thee, hallow'd of the earth ;
4 Yet thou fhalt (hine in GOD's eternal day—
4 The heir immortal of a heavenly birth.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. TEN NO,
COME folks do indeed think it strange, that the article of the
O charter of the Bank of the United States, which excludes fo
reigners from voting in the direction of the Bank, is one of those
•which receives the fulled approbation among the mod intelligent
characters on the other fide of the water, since it implies nothing
Jess than that they are very well pleased at the profpeft of poffVflLig
the very brilliant advantage of placing their money in the Bank
without any controul in the direction of it. Really, Mr. Fen no,
this is puffing with a vengeance ; and more probable stories must
be told us to gain at lead the credit of ingenuity in the narrator :
The fact is, that the more this article is considered by foreigners
or natives, the more exceptionable it must appear to both : To fo
foreigners it is the denial of a positive right of managing their own
monied tranfa£tions as they please ; but to the natives it is much
•worse—it is the narrowing of the rights of ele&ton in the Bank—
and by imposing a kind of torpor on - all foreign Hock, giving to
the domestic part that is entitled to vote, an exceflive, an undue
preponderance—thereby placing the ele&ions in the hands ofa few,
instead o i placing it where it mull be surely fafeft in the hands of all.
Pray Mr. Fenuo, ftippofe the whole 25000 (hares (hould be puicha
ied, as they certainly may be in process of time, by these very in
telligent characters on the other fide of the water, how are then
the Bank Directors to be chosen, when there are no domestic voters
to elect '.hem. Indeed Mr. Fenno, if your intelligence be well
founaed, it is ferioully alarming—for the more these transatlantic
gentlemen purchase of dock, the more must it place the Bank at
ihe mercy ot the winds and waves of political fa&ioninthis coun
try, without that common intcrcjl in its defence, so essential to its
lately -without that ballast ot general representation, which by
competition at elections, could alone keep the (hip steady in her
motions. r 1
Th ax foreigners interejled in «ur funds should be pleased with the
euablifhment of a Bank, said to have the magic power of transmut
ing their paper «nto gold i j not surprising, considering their very
natural eager ness to lee such an operation t ke place — that they
lhould approve of our present excellent system of federal govern
ment, which has conferred such advantages on our country, and
bids fair to elevate her to the highest pinnacle of national p'rofper-
Uy-.neither is this surprising ; for what man. possessed of the
imalleft spark of general philanthropy for the human race, would
not rejoice at the present eminently prosperous position of this our
dear asylum for the wretched and unfortunate of every nation ;
ut .hat foreigners fhoulcf approve the proposal of receiving their
money into th<* without allowing them any (hare in the
ekction °f pmdent Directors to condutt it—this will appear in
deed still ftrangeto lome folks, who have observed how natural it
is for aH men to wish to have at least forne thing to fay in the ma
nagrment of what is their own.
LONDON, March 3
f T'H£ Stares of Brabant, extremely diflatisfied
J- with the condutft of the Emperor's Minister
Penipotentiary, have made a severe comment on
his.letter of the 6th of February, of which the
following is an extradt :
" We earnestly entreat your Excellency not
tomiftak e for the voice of the people of the Provinces,
the clamours of some few individuals in this town
who are become famous for the excefles which
they have committed fincethe restoration of the
ancient government, and who, escorted by sol
diers, insult and beat with impunity all those
who are friends to the privileges of the country;
who, on the ajih ot January last, beat and wound
ed in the head, the Sieur Mens, deputy of the
town of Antwerp ; who on Sunday lall wanton
attacked with drawn iabres, several people at
the gate of Louvain, who the very last evening
mortally wounded fevera-1 of the Compte de Du
ras's people ; who have insulted, and have been
guilty of every outrage towards the Supreme
Council of Brabant ; who, in short, encouraged
by remaining unpunilhed, are likely to infiilt
and attack us in theveiy Houfeof Aflcmbly," &c.
March 4. On the 22d of February, the common
report ai Paris was, that Monsieur the King's next
brother, had attempted to efcapeout of the King
dom ; but that he had been flopped by the peo
ble. "
Orders have been given to keep the whole of
the trench National Guards in constant activity
for eight days. The pretext is the dread of a
counter revolution, but the truth is, that it is
expected that IViefdames the Kind's aunts will
not be permitted to preceed on their journey but
that, after many obstacles, they .will be brought
back to Pans, with or without their canfent
GLASGOW, March i
Mr. Archibald Miller, merchant in this city
who died on the 16th of October last, has be
queathed almost his whole ertate, of about seven
tboufand pounds sterling, to certain trustees and
governors, by whom the revenue is to be ap
i-» i cloathing and ed jcating girls, the
children of indigent and reputable parents.
Mr. Townfend, in his " Travels Into Spain,"
speaking of tht liifh Students that are received
into the CJniverfiry of Salamanca, with his usual
good sense and acutenefs of remark, observes,
" It is much to be lamented that they should be
reduced to the neceifity of seeking that protetfti
on in a foreign country, to which they are enti
tled in their own. This kind of persecution is
neither just nor politic. It is certain that igno
rance and bigotry have a strong connection.
Would you overcome inveterate prejudices, and
are you anxious to baui/h fuperftirion ? Let in
the light. Would you conciliate the affections
>i thole who differ from you in their religious
creed? No longer persecute ; cmbrace them,and
from enemies they will become your friends.
Let in the light, and difference of opinion dies
away. Catholics, in the more enlightened coun
tries, are no longer Papists. Their whole whole
fyftein is going to decay ; and without claiming
more than common fagaciry, we may venture to
foretel, that in pioportion as the limits of tole
ration shall be extended, all that cannot bear the
light will gradually vanilh, until the diftincftton
between Catholics and Protestants shall cease."
ella.
The mode, adds Mr. Townfend, of giving
letSurea i» the Univerfiry of .Salamanca, is per
haps peculiar to itfelf, but worthy to be follow
ed iu our Universities. The Students havequef
tions proposed for iheir difculfion twice every
day, and on these they are informed what books
they are to read. Then, supposing the matter
to admit of a dispute, it is carried on by two of
them, under the direction of a moderator, who
gives alfiftance when it is wanted, and guides
them to the truth."
Mr. a/king the Bishop of Qviedo one
day, if he did not think he was daing harm by
the promifcnous distribution of alms? " Most un
doubtedly," replied ths good Prelate- " But
then it is the part of the Magistrate to clear the
streets of beggars; it is my duty to give alms to
all that ask."
Yesterday a Jame dutk, with a duchess's Cora
net marked on its game leg, waddled out of the
alley ! !—The difference which led to this disas
ter is said to amount to 2?,oool. sterling! A sum
her illiiltnous consort is not wild drake enough to
advance, and therefore her Grace, being given
up by her broker as the principal, is likely to
(land recorded a Bankrupt in the Gazette of
Change Alley.
The celebrated Convent, called Le Grand
Chartreuse, near Grenoble, in Dauphine, which
has been for ages the feat of solitary sanctity,
and the awful magnificence of wliofe situation
has attraiftedthe visits of travellers of every coun
try, but particularly of our ©wn, is now conver
ted into an arsenal, for the use of the national
guard of the surrounding district.
At a medicine (hop in the city, near a room
occupied by a Debating Society, to a notice of
pills for windy difarders, it has been lately added
" as they strengthen the memory, they are ex
ceeding good for people who speak in public !"
Strengthen the memory, but diminish the
wind !—How can they be good for public speak
ers Something like a bull.
The Taplow cotton mills were on Friday mor
ning defh oyed by fire ; timely alfiftance saved
leveral adjoining mills from the like fate.
PARIS, February 21.
Nimes.
°f Nimes is finally adjudged, and
the following (hort extratf from the dccree on
the municipality, will be fufficient to bring; the
former trailfadtions to our readers' recollection
and at the fame time to shew the high hand with
which the National Assembly carries 011 its pur
poses. " The National Aflembl* consider the dif
alterous events which passed in the city of Nimes
on the 29rh of March ; the 2d and 3r It of May •
the 13th 14th, ijth and 16th of Tune, as the ef
fect of the intrigues of the enemies of the Re
volution ; they consider even the eletftion of the
municipality as the effecl of the fame intrigues
—they therefore decree that a new election fliall
be immediately made ; and the King is defined
to fend (uftcient forces to Nimes to secure the
liberty and tranquility of*eledioni."
SUPPRESSION OKMILATaRY GOVERNMENT.
I he itippreffion of military government, which
the public opinion, and the spirit of the revolu
tion had long ago demanded, was pronounced by
the National Aflembly on Sunday last. It is well
known that by the words military government,
is meant not only the governors and lieutenant
governors of Provinces, according to the old di
vision of the kingdom, bur of a number of other
nominal governments, and places in the gift of
the Crown to which salaries and emoluments
were attached, without any necessity of residence.
n W X / NDRIA - April 21.
On Friday the rjth inft. the Hon. Daniel Car
roll and Dr. David Stewart, arrived in this town
to fuperinrend to fixing of the fir ft Corner-Stone
oi the Federal Diftricft.
The Mayor and Commonalty, together with
the members of the different lodges of the town,
2
at 3 o'clock waited on the comi»ifll<»n-er« ,►».
Wife's, where they had dined, and afierdr l''
ing a glass of wine to the following sen t ;„
viz. " May the (tone which we are about
in the ground remain an immoveable mnn,
of the wifdotu and unanimity of North-line
the company proceeded to Jones's pt) i iu
following order : tlls
rft, The town-fergeanr 2d, the Hon Dan
iel Carroll and the Mayor—3d. M r rn; '
,I,= Rec„r,ler_ 4 ,h, f„ch of L Ali™"
Common Council as were not free-mafons—-""
the strangers—6th, the mailer of Lod<r e N 0 2
with Dr. David Stewart at his right, and the R»,~'
James Muir at his left, followed by the
the fraternity, in their usual form of procetli °
—and lastly, the citizens, two by two Wh '
Mr. Ellicot had alcertained the precise p o 'i»!
from which the firft line of the diltritft was
proceed, the Matter of the Lodge and Dr. Steward
aHi (ted by others of their brethren, placed the
Stone; after which a deposit of corn, wine and
oil was made upon it, and the following- obfer
vations were delivered by the Rev. James Muir"
" Of America it may be said, as it was of T u
dea of old, that it is a good land, and large a
land of brooks of waters, of fountains and
depths that spring out of valleys and hills—A
land of wheat and barley, and vines, and ft*
trees, and pomegranates ; a land of oil olive and
honey, a land wherein we eat bread without
scarceness, and have lack of nothing ; a land
whole ttones are iron, and out of whose hills thou
mayelt dig brass ; a land which the Lord thy
God careth for, the eyes of the Lord thy God
are always upon it, from the beginning of the
year even nnto the end of the year .'—May Ame
ricans be grateful and virtuous, and they shall
secure the indulgence of Providence ! May they
be unanimous and just, and they /hall rife to
great,,efs F May true patriotism aduate every
heart ! May it be the devout and universal wilh
Peace be within thy wall, O America ! and pros
perity within thy palaces!" Amiable it is for
brethren to dwell in unity. It is more fragrant
than the perfumes on Aaron's garment ! It is
more refrelhing than the dews on Hermon's hill!
" May this Stone long commemorate the good
ness of God in those uncommon events which
have given America a name among the nations
Under this Stone may jealousy and felfilh
nels be for ever buried ! From this Stone may
a fuperftrurture arise, whose glory, whose mag
nificence, whose liability, unequalled hitherto,
lhall astonish the world, and invite even the sa
vage of the wilderness to take Ihelter under its
roof!
The company partook of some refrelhment,
and then returned to the place from whencff
they came, where a number of toads were drank,
and the following, which was delivered by ibe
Master of the Lodge, was received with every
token of approbation :
" Breth ten and Gentlemen,
" May " \Jealoufy, that green-eyed Monster, n
be burred deep under the work which we have
this day completed, never to rife again within the
Federal Diftri<fi!"
It may be fafely pronounced that this, or a si
milar sentiment pervaded the breast of every in
dividual present on the occasion.
PETERSBURG, April 21.
On ThuiTday last arrived in this- town, the
President of the United States, accompanied by
Major Jackson. The President was escorted in
to town by the cavalry of Cheflerfield, Prince
George, and Dinwiddie, and a considerable
numberof citizens, and condu<sled to the faoufe
of Robert Armiftead, where an elegant entertain
ment was provided, at which the President was
pleased to favor the citizens with his presence.
After dinner a number of patriotic toads were
drank, attended by a discharge of cannon ; and
in the evening the President was pleased to ac
cept an invitation to a ballat the Mason's Hall.
A committee from the Common-Hall waited on
the President with the following address. The
next morning, at five o'clock, the President
proceeded on his tour to the southward, by way
of Halifax, North-Carolina.
The ADDRESS of the Mayor, Recorder, Al
dermen, aW Common Councii, efthsTowo
c/Petersbhrg.
To the Vrefident of the United States.
S I R,
avail ourselves of the earliest opportu
* * nity that your presence has afforded us, to
offer you our sincere and affectionate refpei r ts:
to welcome you, most cordially to this place,
and to allure you, which we do with confidence,
of the high regard and great affection the inhabi
tants ofthisTown entertain for your perfon,and
your many virtues, We look upon as
the father of your country, and the friend of
mankind, and when we contemplate your cha
racter in that light, we feel ourselves iniprelfed
with the purelt sentiments of gratitude, refpe&
and veneration. May you long continue at the
head of our government, honoured, refpecSedn( i beloved, as you are at prefenr, aed we pray
It ardentlv, that the all-wile director ofhuman
events, may prolong your life to a far dilta.u pe
riod of time, and may bleis you to your lateil
breath with health uninterrupted, and with thai
happy 'tranquility of mind which ever flows from
a conscious rectitude, and from a heart always
anxious to promote che happiness of the human
We fincerelv wish that the tour which you
are about to make, may be an agreeable one, and
tint it may afford you every imaginable fatisfac
tio'n. JOSEPH WESTMORE, Mayok.
To which the President made the following Refly,
To the Mayor, Recorder, Aldfrmen, and
Common CoUNCi l of the Town oj PtT lßsburg .
GENTLEMEN,
RECEIVING with pleasure, I reply with
(incerity to your flattering and affectionate
address. I render justice to your regard, and to
m y own feelings, when I express the gratitude
which the sentiments it contains have ihfpired
and you will %llow me to fay, that gratitude io
imprefled, mutt be lading.
The government of the United States, origi
jiating in the wisdom, supported by the virtue,
and having no other objecft than the happiness of
tie people, repofcs not on the exertions of an
individual —yet, as far as integrity of intention
mayjuftify the belief, my agency in the admi
nistration will be consonant to your favourable
opinions;—and my private wishes will alwayt
be proffered for the prosperity of Peterlburg and
the particular welfare of its inhabitants.
G. WASHINGTON.
BOSTON, April 18.
The President of the United States, agreeably
to the power veiled in him by the New Revenue
Adt, has been pleased to divide this Common
wealth into three Surveys of Infpeiftion, viz
The Diftritft of Maine, which is denominated
Surrey No. I.—The county of Eflex comprises
Survey No. 2 —and the county of Suffolk, with
the counties to the southward thereof, Survey
No. 3. —And has been pleased to appoint the
Hon. Jonathan Jackson, Esq. Infpe&ing Officer,
in Survey No. 2 —and Leonard Jarvis, Esq. In
fpefiing Officer, in Survey No. 3. The Inspec
torship of the other Survey, is placed in the Hon.
Mr. Gorhani, Supervisor of the Commonwealth
Mr. William Balch, of this town, is appointed
Ensign in the 2d regiment of the United States.
The Hon. George Thatcher, Esq. is, without
doubt, re-cledted Federal Representative foi
Maine DiftricS, after many trials.
By accounts received from theDiftri»fl of Maine,
the ilate of votes of 23 towns are as follows, viz.
Mr. Lithgow, 853 ; Mr. G. Thatcher, 1763 ; Mr.
Wells, 337, and Mr. J. Thatcher, 20.
Saturday last, the firft Class of the Semi-annu
al State Lottery finiflied drawing in this town.—
About two hours before its completion, Ticket
No. 6052, came up a prize of TEN THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
We hear from Shirley, that one day last week,
Mr. Elijah Wilds, of that place, who was of the
denomination of Shakers, put a speedy end to his
temporal existence, by cutting his own throar
with a shave. The Jury oflnqueftjudged, that
he was insane—doth not every cnthufiajl, as well
as every person, who takes away his own life,
discover a degree of Insanity i
April 20. ThePrefident of the United States has been plealed
to appoint Thomas Melville, fc.fq. Infpe£ting Officer of the Poits
within the diftrift of Boston and Charleftown.
A Sumday School,
Eftabliftied by the liberal fubfeription of a number of patriotic
gentlemen of this metropolis, was opened on Sundav last. It is
under the dire&ion of Mr. Oliver W. Lane, and embraces in 1 s
object, those of both sexes, under a certain age, whom habits <if
industry, or other causes, debar from inftruttion on week days.
N E VV-H A V E N, April 20.
Mr. Francis, in the Britilh House of Commons,
eftiniates the expences of the war in India, ai
four millions iterling! Amongst the principal
items were the Mahratta hoife 830,0001. the
40,000 bullocks to attend the army, 400,000. &c.
This expence, he observed, might easily have
heen avoided, as Tippoo had offered, in thefirft
instance to disavow any intention of hostilities,
a nd in their late contest with Spain, they hait
received no more; nor did Tippoo renew his as
fault but in consequence of an attack from the
people of Travancore.
Philadelphia, April 50,
We have authentic information that aloan foi
two millions and a half of florins, which was open
ed at Amflerdam, on the rjth of Feb. last, on ac
count of the United States, upon terms better
than any European power, except the Emperor,
now borrows in Holland, and upon equal terms
Emperor, was fubferibed, or filled in two
hours*. And it mull afford pleasing reflexions
to every good Amei ican to know, that this success
' s attributed eflentially to the high confidencelin
fpired by the new constitution of the United
States, and its prefeni administration.
1 * A rapidity which is laid to have cu hitherto without exam
*iih regard to loans for foreign powers in that country.
We have the fatisfadion to affiire the public,
that the recruiting service proceeds with vigor
already upwads offive hundred men are on their
inarch for fort-Pitt, from the refpeiftive rendez
vouses in this State, Jersey and Delaware.
Lieut. Piatt inarched from Christiana-bridge
on the 27th, with a fine company, inlifted for
three years.
Capt. Armflrong marched from this city on the
27th, with a chosen company, inlifted for the
lame period.
On the fame day Caps. Snowdert marched with
a detachment of one hundred levies from Tren
ton.
And about two hundred and fifty were ordered
to march yesterday from Carlisle, in this State.
Besides which, a company under the command
of Captain Montfort, inlifted for three years, are
on their march from North-Carolina to the Great
tvenhawa, by which they will descend to Fort
Washington.
The recruits from the Eastern States will ren
dezvous at New-Brunfwick, in New-Jersey, anc
thence marchto Fort-i itt. -
The separation of the diftridl of Maine from
the state of Maflachufetts, in order to forming it
into a separate government, is a fubjedt that em
;>loys the pens of the pros and cons in the Port
land papers. At a late Town meeting Li Port
land, a committee was appointed to take this bu
•inefs into confideratian, to report at the annu
al meeting in May.
The French Packet Le SufFrein, is tofail from
Slew York. Friday the i 3th May.
Died at New-York, Sampson Fleming, Esq. an
eminent and much refpe&ed citizen of that
place. ..
The remedy recommended in cases of Cows o
vei-feeding themselves on clover, was lately
tried with success on a Cow that was near dying
from earing too large a quantity of potatoes.—
An egg Ihell filled with tar, was forced down hgr,
throat, which gave immediate relief.
On Saturday the 9th inftanr, was launched at
Baltimore, the new Revenue Cutter, pronounc
ed by good judges, to be a very beautiful veflel.
She was built by Captain David Stodder, and is
to be commanded by Capt. Gross, formerly firft
Lieutenant of the Continental frigate Confede
racy
By the (late of the votes in Maflachnfetts, as
published in the several papers, it appears that
his Excellency Governor Hancock, and his Honor
Lieutenant-Governor Adams, are re-eledted to fill
hose stations the ensuing year.
On Tuesday lad the Rev. Isaac Foster wa s
installed pastor of the Prelbyterian Church in
Pittfgrove, Salem County, New-Jersey.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
Arrivals Jir.ce our lafi.
Brig James, Rogers, Cape-Fiancois, 13 days.
Do. John, White, Curracba.
Schooner Three Sifters, King, Surinam,
Sloop Friendship, Currier, Hifpaniola.
Do. Ann, Ofborn, v St. Vincent, 25.
Do, Sally, Laurens, Nevis, 42.
Do. Jolly Bakers, O'Neil, Edenton, 5.
Do. Dolphin, Perry, St. Thomas, 24.
Brig John, White, Curracoa, 25.
Do. Attive, M'Kewer, Cipe Francois.
Ship John of Dublin, Louis, Lisbon, 56.
Do. Success, Wairn, Jamaica.
Capt. King failed from Surinam on the 13th March ; on the
asth touched at Martinico : By him we have received the follow
i,)g Intelligence -That a fleet commanded by M. Gerard, confill
i'lg of 4 (hips of the line, 10 frigates, 4 corvettes, and 3 gaberr s,
arrived at Martinico the 12th, having on board 5000 troops, unde
,he command of Monf. Biague, who takes place as G neral in th<
jom of Compte Damas ; there came out also in the fleet, sou
Commissioners to fettle the ditturbances in the iflands—Moni
Leifger, Monf. La Code, Monf. de Mortenoix, and Monf.
One of the Commissioners informs, that he has orders to draw 01
the American Congress. It is txpefted they will (lay at lead
vear in the islands, as they are to proceed irom island to island l<
establish the new National Laws.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIFS
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/1 17/2 PL
3 pr. Cents 9/1 gfi-
Defered 6 pr. Cents 0/1.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 16
Indents 9 A-
N. and S. Carolina debts, la/4 'if-
ADVERTISEMENT.
HAVING completed the second volume of this Ga
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, are inform
td that it will be prosecuted on its original plan, with
every improvement that friendfhip and ingenuity may
fuggefl.
The price of this Gazette, (published Wednefdayt
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—sin
half to be paid at the time offubferibing.
The iitwofl pun finality is obfrved in transmitting
the papers to f/bferibers : The Editor thinks there i>
the faireft profpett that Information from the fiat o
government, to the extremes of the Union, will in fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, that,
through the pafl winter.—Additional fubferiptions
from all parts of the Union are therefore solicited.
I An index to the second volume is preparing for the
press
3
. 86 pr. cent.
46 00.
44 do
-80
45 «jo.
do.
This volume contains the laws of thllwo laj} Jeffions
.of Longrefs—the journal and debate] ofthe house of
I Representatives—reports of the heads of departments
—besides a greater variety o* original communications
immediately connected with the Tnterefis of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitu-ie th-punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
fubferibers —some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be difchari^sd.
Payments may be made to the several persons of
yivhom the papers are received.
I Advertisements of one square, or less, will be in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
Jk/bJequetit infertions,twenty-five cents each; larger ad-
Wrtjjements in proportion : No vehicle in the United
itates gives so immediate a circulation—and the num
ber of each i?npreJion is fit present fourteen hundred.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeship to the
bufincfs of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. Giokce
Kelly, has just opem d an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes ol giving general fatisfac
tion to all thole that njay be pleased to favor him with their com
mand'. r . JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791. (1 ep ;w)
CONTRACT,
For ere&ing BRIDGES over the Hacki vsack and Passai ack
Rivers, between Powlas-Hook and Newark, in the State of
New-Jersey.
THE Commiffioncra appointed by an adl of the le<*ifljture of
the state of New-Jerfev, to ere& bridges over the Hackinfack
and PalTaiack rivers, having obtained the neceffiry surveys, ate
noar ready to receive proposals for performing the lame ; and
offer the following conditions for the consideration of such as may
be inclined to contrast :
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
at one oi the following stations, as shall be hereafter determined
Wnoft eligible.
1 lft. At the place where the present ferry is established, where
ihe width of the river is 1448 feet.
r Depth at the eastern ftiore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western ftiore, 8 11
Greattft depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western ftiore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The Gtuatio* of the bridge across the PalTaiack river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as shall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the prcfent ferry is eftabliftied, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern ftiore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western ftiore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern ftiore 11 feet,
Do. western ftiore 4 5 inches,
Greateit depth 13 4
3d. At a place ft ill more northerly, calKd Hedden'i dork, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern ftiore 4 leet 5 inches,
Do. western ftiore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftrufcted on the principles of those eras
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Maf
rachufetts, with a draw to admit a free paflage for vellels with fix
d standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ved in that part of the bridges as (hall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
'■ach fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid veffelsin palling through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridge# ate to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, <5 (hall render them peife&ly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a futficient
height to protefl them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for carnage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on ea«h fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong ballultrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boiton and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept -n constant repair, and at
he expiration of the leafc arc to be furrendcred in good order,
agreeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commiflioners are au
thorised to offer to contractors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
r x.cc ding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an eft : mate as could poflibly be obtained, the
attual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Terfey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will corifequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This mav fairly be
ftimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the 'ncreafing in rr
courle between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give 10 travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hydfon, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper toads connected
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places (hall be determined 011 where the biidgei
are to be fixed, and ihe contra&s for eie&mg them are ex cutcd,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contrast on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to Willi am Maxwell,
Esq. in New-York, fpecifymg the (horteft period of lease f r
which they will undertake to ere&the said bridges,together with,
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL, 1
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBJ.E, > Comraiflbners,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, f
JOHN PINTARD,
.\'(wark, State of New- Jvfo', April 22, 1791AGRICULTURAL
PhiL AD£
S I R,
PERMIT ir.e through you to lay before the Agricultural So
ciety, the relult of the following little experiment, io lai as I
have as yet been able :o afccrtain it.
Laic 10 ihc idwuth of Apnl last, I had a picce of ground in
the vicinity of the borough of Lam. after, prepared to be sown
with oats, which I supposed would iiave taken fix teen buftiels of
feed. The evcuing before it was to be sown, I had eight bushels 3
put into a trough, and covered with water. The next morning
the water was drawn off, and the oats laid >11 a heap to dram, for
a lhort time, fay half an hour ; then Plailter of Paris in powder
was thrown on, by small quantities at a time, and mixed with
the Oats, till they acquired a lufficient decree of dryntfs to bJ
sown evenly ; in this process one bushel of the Plaillcr was conl
fumed ; the feed thus prepared, and dry feed from the fame 01W
heap were sown on alternate lands throughout the ficldf
The whole came up together, and in due time, and no difference,
was visible for seven or eight days. From that time forward the
diftinttion became very evident ; the Oais on the lands sown ,
with the prepared feed were much more luxuriant and of a deeper
green, until they began to ripen—On the second inflant they were
cut, being then perfe&ly ripe, while those 011 the lands sown
with the unprepared feed were yet green, the heads much smaller,
and proinifing in everv refpc& a worse crop.
On the eighth I left home. They were then unfit to cur, and
appeared as if they would not be ripe for five or fix days after—
To the facts above stated, many of my neighbors are witness.
I mean to have the Oats, produced from the prepared and un
prepared feeds, threshed separately, to ascertain with precision
the difference in the quantity and quality of the produce, which
lhall be communicated to the society, as soon as conveniently
may be.
I have the honor to be,
SIR,
To Samuel Powel, Esq. Prrftdent
ojthe Agricultural Sucicty.
S I R,
IN August last, if I recollect right, I troubled you to commu
nicate to the Agricultural Society the result of an experiment I
niaoe, the preceding April, by preparing feed Oats with Plaifter
of Paris, so far as the fame could then be ascertained : Having
since determined the difference of the produce from the prepared
and unprepared feeds, I beg leave to lay it before the society—
The produce of the eight bushels of prepared feed was one hun
dred and twenty-two bushels and about a peck ; of the like quan
tity of unprepared feed ninety-fix bushels, the former yielding an
iucreaie of fifteen and a quarter for one, or thirty and a half bush
els to the acre ; the latter only twelve for one or twenty-four bush
els to the acie. The produce of the prepaied feed weighed thirty
three and a half pounds the bushel, that of the unprepared only
thirty-two and a quarter pounds—so that for about five shillings,
the ex pence of a bushel of Plaifter of Paris, I gained tweuty-fix
bushels of Oats, and by allowing for the increased weight, one
and a quarter lb. on one hundrca and twenty-two bushels, I may
fairly add tour and a half bushels more, making in the whole
thirty and a half bushels.
I am, Sir, with much refpeft,
Your obedient humble fcrvant,
To Samvel Powei., Esq. Prefiiient
of the Agricultural Society.
Pubhihed by Order of the Society,
April 12, 1791.
Samlel Powei Griffitts, Sec'ry.
FROM THE MARY LAND JOURNAL, &c.
IT is the duty of every individual, by every mean in his power,
to promote the ufeful arts in his country. Considerable ad
vances having been made in procuring Sugar, from the Sugar-Ma
ple on the Wcftern Frontiers, it is thought, a method invented bv
Joseph El licott, near this place, (the boiling water in wood)
may be singularly ufctul, both for cheapness and expedition, to
the sugar-boilers. There have been many attempts made to boil
water, by means of flues pafling through the body of water con
fined in a wooden vessel, but the one alluded to is the fir ft that has
iucceeded. The only difficulty seems to be in the formation of
the worm or flue : The common method has been, to make tbar
end of the tlue that takes the fire in from the oven, larger than the
one that delivers the smoke : When the flue is made in this man
ner, change the ends, and it will be found to answer—the small
end to take in the fire, and the large end to deliver the smoke—
by this mean one or two thousand gallons of water may be boiled,
at a (rifling cxpence, in one vessel. This will be found an ufeful
hint to the Mannfatturcrs of Steam,
Baltimore, April 21,1791
NEW-YORK, April 26.
Ext rail of a letter jrom London, March 2
" I had the pleasure of addressing you so long
ago as the 6th Ocftober, with an extradt of Mr.
Rhoderer's speech in the National Aflembly of
France, containing the propositions of which he
was dire»fted by the committee of afleflment, (of
which he was the reporter) to make to that Afl'cm
blyfor the new regulations of the tobacco trade.
Since then this subject has often occupied the
public attention of that aflembly ; the farmers
general and their friends were anxious to pre
serve the monopoly, and used all the powerful
intered they pofleiied to accomplifli it. On the
other hand, the commerce of France, and the
warmest friends of the revolution, struggled for
the freedom of the trade; at lad, this party has
carried it, and within these fourteen days the
National Aflembly have palled, after long de
bates, the annexed five articles of a decree upon
that subject. There remains it is said, only one
more article to discuss, which regards the fabri
cation and sale in the kingdom.
Not knowing whether my partners at Havre
may have had an opportunity of communicating
this intelligence to you, 1 take the earliest op
portunity of doing it, it being an event of much
importance to the general commerce of tobacco.
—The whole ol the effects it may produce are
yet lobeieen ; hitherto some few purchases have
been made here for France, of which your cor
respondents here will doubtleis give you more
„PHIA, Aui#u>f 17; 1790'
Your obedient,
Humble fcrvanf,
EDWARD HAND.
Lancaster, March 14, IJ9I
tDWARD HAND.
PUBLICOLA
particular advices. In Fiance there is little to
bacco on hand, and for twelve months fcarccly
any has been fold, excepting in Dunkirk and at
Bayonne, and fume at Bourdeaux and I\antz,for
the iiayomie market. ihe two firlt are fiee
pons where private manufactories of that arti
cle have hitherto exilted.
The general consumption of the country has
been principally supplied by iinugglers tor eigh
teen months pair ; but I hope from rhe fooling
the trade is now upon, and the consequent re
dutftion there will be in the price, that that mode
of lopply uiuft in a great measure cease."
Articles aunexed agreed to.
id. From the publication of the present de
cree it shall be free to every person in the King
dom to cultivate, manufacture and fell tobacco,
fubjec'l to the modification which lhall be eltab
liflied relative to the manufacture and sale.
2d. The importation of foreign manufactured
tobacco, (liall continue to be prohibited.
3- Ic {hall be free to import into the ports
which fliall be named, foreign tobacco in leaf,
fubje(ft to a duty of 2J livres per quintal. All
French ships importing tobacco diredt from A
merica, shall only be fubjedt to three fourths of
this duty.
4th. Foreign tobacco in leaf may be deposited
jn its ports of entry for one year, in warehouses
appropriated for that purpose, and exported
without payment of any duty.
sth. A National company fliall manufacture
and fell tobacco for the benefit of the public
treasury, and (hall pay the fame duiy as indivi-
duals
MASSACHUSETTS- SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY aflure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On ThurfJay the 13th of October next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
shall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour assigned, so
they arc determined to be equally as punctual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25.000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
he paid in the following Prizes, fubje£t to a deduction of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 arc 6000
3 2000 6000
6 1000 6oo;
10 500 5000
30 200 0000
80 100 Boco
90 50 4500
100 40 4000
120 30 3600
161 10 3220
200 jo 2000
7585 # 60680
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
Tickets.
£T TICKETS in the at ove Class may be had of the several
Ma nacerj, tnho will pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
ot the Commonwealth; ot James White, at his Book-ftorc,
Franklin's Head, Court-ilreet—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, itm."]
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEI. COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, April 14, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kindsof i he Public Delt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negociated ;
Merchandize of all foils Bought and Sold on CommiJJion, and all
other Bufincfs in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door tothe CuJlom-lloufe, Stale-Street, BOSTON,
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private fdle, on the
following terms :
ON the fpecic amount of all sales or purchases at auction, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, oil all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-ha/J per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, ohe-jourtk per cent.
For receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, me per cent.
For making translers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
03" Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleaicd to favor the fubferibers with their orderj, may rely on
iheir being executed with punctuality, fidelity and difpateli, as consi
derable experience in the public llueks, together with extenflve
comieflions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(g7 law 6m)
March 1,5, 1791
Gallaudet andEwiNG,
No. 54., South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady Walterjiorf, from London, Man
chijler and Adriana Irom Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packcthom BiiHol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of °
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on rtsfonahle teritis.——(pT On hand for
•ale, a lew hogiheads of OLD JAMES'i RIVER TOBACCO
I'hiUdelkhia, April 9, 1791. 100 cplm
4
CLASS 11,
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OK
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
In the Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French, and It\ li
Languages— being part of a private Library, *
Among which arc the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Hom«r, Demosthenes, Xenophon, p; at
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Xiccoh *
rus, Ciccro, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny &r
Quarto. Pindar, Arittotle, Texeace, Ov;d, C*far, Suetonius.
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Oclavo infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinu , Thco
phrailus, Kpictetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalar
liberates, Polyaenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertiui'
Paterculus, Fiorus, Lucan, Statius, Aufonius, Vida Bi/
chanan, Boethius, Poetas minores Latiru, Callipeedia Sctad I
Valla, &c.
A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejfrs Rice and Co
Market-Street, wherejurther particulars may be learned.
NOTIFICATION
Colonel Thomas Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being necefiarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Gov e r nor hath thought proper to authouL
me to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return
NOTICE is therefore giver., to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia, theNorthem Liberties of fold
City, the Townships of Moyamenfingand Paff\ unk, that they are
to meet and exercise under then refpeftive Officers on the fol
lowing Days, viz.
First Battalion on the 2d Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on the6 r .h of do.
Sixth Battalion on the 9th of do.
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Lientenant,
pro tem. of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791.
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already publijhcd.
Written by Mathew Carey.
I. ' I , HE Work (hall contain 200 pages; be printed on the
X finelt writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, tdie
rolled and lettered.
11. Pricc to subscribers two thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work (hall be put to the press as Toon as 250 copiw
are fubferibed for.
IV. Tne subscribers names shall be prefixed,
ff3TSUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stlwart,
and Co. and all the other Bookfeilers in Philadelphia; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout the United States, whofupply fub
feribers with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1791.
Th e seat of the late governor
LIVINC S T 0 N,
fuuate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and too acres of
land, or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicefl
fruit trees, See. in lull bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars,
New-York, Jan. 1791
12^000
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jerfcy Paper Money,
And al! kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
In the City of New-B runfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
-*• new, pleasantly litaated on.the banks of the Rantau, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame,
and a good (tone cellar under the whole.
Any peifoil inclining to purchase may have pofTef&on the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms of payment which
will be made eai'y by applying to Lewis Forman, infaidcity,or
the fubferiberin Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not (old, to be rented from ill day of May next.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Str eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Ortlers
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES,
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
6Q- A few New-York LOTTERY TICKETS
come to hand, for sale.
PROPOSALS
A COLLECTION OF
CONDITIONS.
TO BE SOLD,
particular Staie.
FOR SALE,
TEAS,
8o 3™
(gfitf)