PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN S,E{O t ND, AND TfHRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 46, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT IN EL.
PUBLIC HAPPINESS
_ N*n. J.
AS pflblic?Mnpinefs : includes the g-eneral welfare of ihe p p o-
of)lcrvatujns will rcfpeft equally national and indi
vidual profperTiy. We will fiift conlider ihe facts and circum
stances, which nnKv exist favorable to hapoinefs in the United
Slat's of America. The territory is as gteat as the w;fhesof man,
it is diverfified with all the varietv ot foils and climates ncceffary
for every production ; it is accommodated with the fincft riveis
and .harbors, in ihe known wotld, with every other circomftance
conducive to and commeree—v.t. Teas and rivers are
ftorcd wiih the greatest variety' and plenty of ft!h, and its forcfts
with deer, and other al'eful animals, which supply the new fet
tlfrs with ptovifions—in short, this quarter of the world is une
qualled on the globe tor its natural advantages.
The next circumftauce to be confidcred, is the government. As
no people can long prolper without a good government, this isof
high importance ; and in this particular the United States, areas
hapovas they are in their natural fuuation ; their government is
eftablilhed on the basis of public welfare, and its principles the
refji; of reason and the experience of aliases. It has also this
funPrlative excellency, a principle of improvement in it, by which
the people may, at any time, when a majority judge it nectlfai*v,
makf amendments. By this admirable principle, all tumults and
revolutions, which have convulsed and ruined othen nations, mav
be forever prevented ; for whenever a majority wffti for aberra
tions they can ctf< ft them by a vote. If ihe minority unreason
ably Hamuli' - , they wi'l throw their words to the wmd, and if
thev t.fe force, they will be treated as rebels againlt liberty.
Therefore the goyernnirnt of this country may justly be confider
cd as the prrf:ft freedom, and the most permanent,that ever
exist d. N> ither the kinjly, or republican governments, of an
cient or modern times, will bear a comparison with the Unwed
States of America, either for excellency or duration. Nothing
less than a total pervcrfiori of human minds, produce
anarphy or ui th>s land.
We wili next consider the floinilHiitg Aate of the country ftnee
therrtablifh rentofih ir excellent -government,and theimprove
m rtt the people a e makmg of their natural advantages. Orje.of
th molt ft piking features, which arrcfts the attention of all -re
fitting nvnds, is the rapid population. By the late enumeration,
it appears, that ihe United States have about jour millions of neo
ph ! a growth, w<is never before seen under the fun. Their
progrefsin a»ts and sciences, in a'grieii lure, mahnlaftures and
commerce, have more than equalled the rapidity of population.
F did their oast '.nprovemenis, we mav conclufivtlv reason, as to
their future advances, and build w.th all human certainty on events
yet to cbnie. A TRAVELLER.
No. H.
P'.'RLIC credt being efl". ntial to the welfare of the people, they
can never hope ioi permanent prosperity until hinds are pro
vid <\ and sacredly employed to pay their debts. Therefore, Con
gress with great wisdom funded the public del t% and provided
for the pivment of the inter* If, and gradual cxtinftion of the prin
cipal. The revenue fyftetn was formed, and is executed with
such discernment thai public credit has rjfen in the Uil'ted State
in a drgfee (inparallel'ed in the world ; and the geneial prosperi
ty of the people has also increafcd beyond calculation. No'hing
is now wanting to complete and perpetuate the geneial welfare,
but a ft-~ady pursuit of the means wh'ch have been so emincn'l)
fiiccefsful. Asa finking fund is paTt of the system, and has already
t begun its operation, and as the money pitfduced by the sale o'
lands 's solely appropria'cd to this purpose, with the proceeds o!
the Port-Office,together with the surplus of the momy tailed by
all imp )fts and cxcifes,- her paving the neceirarv expenses of go
vernment, it is reafonai -.-< xpr£\cd the public .debts will be ra
pid! v reduced until their final extinttion. Although the funding |
and revenue system has not been two years in operation, the reve
nue already exceeds the cxnenfesof government, and in addition
lo the interefl of flic debt, large funis of the principal have been
paid. Andasihe revenue will increase wi'h a rapidity equal to
the growth of the country, the finkingfund tnuft enlarge from two
caufcs, whofc operations will perpetually augment each other ;
thercffyi&ion of expenses as the debt It (Tens, and the growing rc
vmu?—The period may not be far distant when the government
may bg employed to appropriate the revenue to such public pur
oofes as will most advarffce and insure the grcatcft interest and hap
jjsine's of the people. As 01 • capital.mean to a:c.eler »te a day 'o
glorious, and to increaTe the general in'ereft at ihe
p«fent< and intervening time, let us ronfider th- tendency o that
important institution formed the last session ot Ongreh. rftabliOi
ingthe BANK of the United States. But as this is so highly in
tereti<ng, and opens so wide a field for contemplat-on. ve i>l
refer it paoer. A IRA\FLLER.
PROCLAMATION, *
PubliJJjed in Martinique, on the "]th of J'tly, by the
King's Coinviijfioners, ftnt to enjorct th? law o\ th'
Bth of last December, relative to the situation o]
that Colony.
IMPRESSED with the of our nvfltort, and e?eerto
• nlwre itsfuccefs, we have hitherto taken, for the rule of our
conduct, a principle which as Hrongly prevails in our hearts. a«- i
is laid down in our inftru&ioiis—thai our mmiftry is a mmiftry
ot peace, not ot n^ur.
In rfFcft, we are the organs of the rriother country, and the de
pofrartesof her will, winch (he has charged us torarrv into exe-
Qwion, Mnon(r Frentbnven, h» r sons, and our brethren. We ha<l
therefore reason »o think, that it > ould have been fuflicieni torus
to speak in the name of the nation, the law and the kirn; : and
thai tnftant obedience would be paid, and order and «cgal lubor
<Jinatimi rellorrd.
- And mutt we relinquifb ftieb flitter'ng bones ? Snail 'be bene
volrnt views ot the nation and the king be difappointcd ? After
having tried every mcafure, that pa'ience, moderation, and the
K)veof peace, could mud we now be o' ' i \cA 10 have re
conrfe to coerrive m« an?, in order to ens refpeft u> 'he law }
The objetk of that law is, the general |>?etfiearion of the \\ nd
w ard Isles, and principally Martin«que. B'it h>w *ar is that
rft from beiiti;accomplished ! It fei sto be mi f undeHlorKl! \\
tti'l fee on all fides the dreadful an 1 lotting coofequences of *n in
testine war. On every fide, the foirit of difeorri -*nd hatred
ready t-» -enew the difturbaniet which have defolatcd th s unfor
tunate ifiand.
-Wednesday, October 5, I^9l
Yet it is Frenchmen who inhabit it!—children, who, deaf to
their mother's voice, thus facrifice her favors and their own in
erefts, to their private palfian.sand refentment! —brothers, whom
it is neceflary 10 reftraiq fi:>m cut ling «-ach other's throats!
A simple error is but of short duration. When the intention
is pure, the mind is easily brought back to reason. When the
common cause is a* flake, all Drivate pretensions are forgotten, all
animosities are appeased. But it :s evident, that there do exist
men fudicientlv wicked, fufhcjently i»ad,to persist. in their private
resentment, to ferment that of others, to endeavor to perpetuate
difordcr, and to rekindle the flames of war in this colony.
A proof of this wicked diipofition appears in those threats dic
tated by party Cpirit, against individuals of the op polite party—
in those acts of violence committed in several places, against their
peifoil's and their property —in that universal terror which has
spread through the ifland,and p-oauccs daily emigrations.
If the legal authority has proved irtfiifficient to prevent such ex
cefl" s, which almost all originated.iii mysterious darkness, it be
comes only the more ncccifary tocheck their progress, and to in
flict a signal punishment on those who lhall be difcovercd to be
the authors.
In confequencr—having received information of the late infu -
reft ion at Satin Pierre, on thegdinft. and being convinced by
this mortifying example, that steps.less fciiousindeed, but not less
criminal, had preceded, and that private quane)?, and the pi oft
trifling acts of violence committed HV 4wo individuals, are fuffici
ent to cause a general ferment in that city—we renew the prohi
bitions already expreHed- in our proclamation of the tj.ih of last
April, forbidding all persons, of -yhat rank focver, to offer, any
insult, or commit any ast, whereby peace and good order may be
"violated, cf\l of being profecuied and punilbed, according to
the rigour of the law.
We Jjk.ew.ifc forbid all peifons, iiujfer what pretext soever, to
cry out, To Arms, or to appear in armed bodies in the streets, on
pain of death, in conformity to the ordinances.
We declare, that we will ufc ever/ forcible means in our power
to fuze whoever shall contravene tiis proclamation, and to put
injLo immediate execution the fenten:e pronounced on the authors,
abettors and accomplices of such infurteftions. And from the
neceflijy of coercing, by striking examples, those who have, for
so Ibng a time, forgotten and despised the laws, we htVe enjoined
the public officers to make all necefTary researches, that inlonna
tioo n»ay be given, without delay, refpefting the unlawlul
ceedings which have lately spread the alarm in the city of St.
Pierie ; and to ast conformably to our former rcquihtion, relative
to 1 he dtflurbers of the public tranquility.
We direst and order all the tribunals, and all those whom it
may concern, to publish this proclamation in their refpeftive dif
| trifts, and to aid and ailift in carrying it into execution, so far as
each is concerned.
St. Pierre, July />, 1791
Address prefciited L'<rd Dorchefler, by the inhabit
ants of Qjjebec, on his intended departwe Jor
England ; fg'ied by 120 of the mojl rt/peOable
citizen) oj that place, dated Augnjl 17, 179'*
sO HIS EXCELLENCY THE RIGHT HOt.ORABLE
GUY LORD DORCHESTER,
COVERKOR GENERAL OF THE I'ROVlb'iE OF QUEBEC, &
May it please your Excellency,
WE, citizens of Quebec, leg leave to ap
pioach your Lordship with feniiinents of
dutiful affeeftion fur your person., and of lively
"latitude for the experience we have repeated
ly had of your Excellency's mild, benevolent
and wife adininiftratioti, and of the encourage
ment and protection given to the agticultuie
and commerce of this country.
To foppi ess our regret at your Lordflip's ap
proaching departure, would be doing violence
ro our feelings j yet we indulge llie pleafingbope
that your ahfence will be but temporary, and we
\ anticipate the happy profpeJl of your speedy re
inrn to your governments and command.
Sensible o! your Lordship s zeal for the ill cr
efts of this province, we hope with confidence,
that whatever arrangements are necellary to
bring to perfection the new eilablii.iment of a
free conllitntion of government preparing for
us, they will be objects of your Excellency s pe
culiar care and attention during your residence
in England.
In taking leave of your Lordship, wc wifli to
express the high refpe<ft and esteem we entertain
f„ Lady Dorchester's distinguished and exem
plary character.
Sincerely w iihingyonr Lordship and amiable
family a fafe and profpernus voyage and return,
V\ e have the honor to be, may it please yout
Excellency, your Lordfliip's most obedient fer-
van'.s, &c
DOCTOR PRIESTLY
The personal abuse and deltrnOiian of proper
ty which this gentleman, and the oilier Dillen--
ers, have laiely experienced at Birmingham, ap
pear to be, ajid certainly are great «■:.s ; t>nr,
like all other apparent evils, tliey will, in the
com Te of events, molt afl'uredly prodnre fontc
I'reittcr " Perfeeution has always been the
means of promoting; the perfecnre I Religion.—
The t.'c:' oft'-; Mrrtrrj -jus the feed oj the church."
181
LA COSTE,
MAGNYTOT,
MONDfcNOIX,
LINGtR.
(Signed)
[Whole No. 254.]
L O N D O N, Anguft i.
THE Duke of York, after his marriage, is ex
pected to reside a good deal at Berlin.. The
Prthcefs Kredcrica is so much a favourite with
her father, that it is not thought he will readily
content to her relidence in England.
The following art extrads of fivtral /etttrs from
Birmingham. ' :
" Many mannfcripts of Dr. Priestley's vrris
ing lie scattered near hjs late lioufei Repoct
fay* that a bond of annuity from Earl Shelburn,
now Marquis of Lanfdown, for 3001. 3 y* ar
the Doctor was found—but this 1 cannot aver as
fact.
Some pamphlets of an inflammatory nature,
and a private printing press being found in the
house of Kr. Rul'ell, \vere tlie cause of its being
burned. Indignation, and not plunder, appears
to be th« governing principle, of the populare.
Long live the King, and God protect pur Conili
tution, is conifantly exclaimed : And when a
house is pulled down—the cry is, so perilh ail
the enemies of Great-Britain.
" The, house of Mr. Hobfon, a Pre{by terian
Pavfuu, and the dwelling? of Mefiienrs
liawkeSj. Harwood, and a farm houfc in the
neighbourhood of Mofcly, were al(o deniolifiled.
These perfous marked as principal applaud
ers of the French Revolution.
" Mr. Taylor's fine house is never to be re
built—he f:t\s it fliall ieina:ii in its present {late
as a monument of the majefly of the people ! !
The Courts of Vienna and Madi id ar6
earnelt'ly piirfuing some ( oncealed objetff of poli
litinl moment. Couriers 3te continually pall
ing with amazing expedition. 1 his, however,
ouches us nor
The letters of the Kingand Oueen of France
to Vienna, can contain nothing confidential, for
they are all avowedly examined by M la hay
ette and his fatellires. They are therefore fa
bricated for their infpetftion.
The return of the King of Sweden from Ins
political journey, indicates a fnfpenfion of the
ho'file projects againfl: France, which rumor has
so confidently attributed to the continental pow
ers. For the Swediih Monarch has genet ally
been considered as the probable general of the
confederates.
The spirit of revolt, the embers of which are
still difcernable in the will be a
powerful restraint on the interposition of the
Emperor in the projected counter-revolution in
France. The National Afl'emblv would without
doubt ftimnlare, probably with fnccefs, the difj
contented Flemings to infurretfiioti, and wou.d
give them effectual fopport.
Reports are now circulating in the city ofnews
received from Madras, that Bangalore was in
pofl'efßon of the 2rit ifh troops, and Lord Corn
wallis in full march to Serincapatam on the 10th
of March. Thel'e, we presume, are anticipation*
of the news expected to be received, for thev are
not of a nature to be kept back from the public.
INTELLIGENCE FROM INDIA.
BOMBAY C, A? T\TE.
Dec. if. Eigli Bengal cargoes of Rice have
already been landed, and disposed of from eight
and a quarrer, to eight rupees fix annas per bag ;
Hut retailed at nine and nine and a quatter per
bag, and is still very scarce.
CALCUTTA GAZETTE.
January is. Mr. Wroughton formerly collec
tor of the diflridt of Morning has proceed
ed for Europe on board the Tran'fmadorfF, tin
ker Imperial colours ; on a representation from
Ihe Sheriff, the l'ilot received orders not to car
ry the ship out unless Mr. Wronghton wag deli
vered up, but the Captain, w'e understand, refuf
ed to do so, and sent to Chandernagore for a
French l'ilot, so that it is probable Mr. Wrough
ton will still escape.
Feb. 5. The letters from Madras of tlie 1 ;:li
and t6th tilt. mention, that a large body of the
enemy's horse was fnppofed to have formed a
lodgement in the neighbourhood of the Mount,
about ten or twelve utiles distant from Madras ;
and that in consequence the people from the frir
roundirtg villages were flocking into the Black
Town, ami the families were moving from their
houTes on Chonltree plain into the Fort—Colonel
Wangenheim's regiment of Heflians, had been
ordered into the Fort from the Black 1 own.
The army on the 14th, were in the vicinity of
IVmomally, and were proceeding further to ilie
/northward, for the parpofe of rendering their
junction with his Lordihip .nm e easy and certain.
There are now nearly complete on the (locks
at Mangalore, two ihips of war—the one pierced
for 64 guns —and the other for 36, they have
been cuulti uCted under the direction of Europe
an lhipwrights, retained in the fei vice of i ip
poo, and are spoken of as being perfect in model
as well as woi kinaufkip—the taking or deltroy
ing of these lhips, would be an objectofno linall
import, and meriis regard.
During the riots in Birmingham, the Metho
dists and followers ot the lace Counrels of Hunt
ington, were uninolelted, on their declaring for
Church and King.
The Hotel belonging to Dadley, where the
Revolutionilts dined, had only the windows bro
ken—it was not pulled down, becanfe it belong
ed to a Churchman.
The colliers who came to join and afiift the
rioters in Birmingham, were drove out ot town ;
the inob declaring they did not want the allilt
auce of any rabble, whose objeJt might only be
to plunder.
The Empress' i An finer to the Minijlers of the allied
poiotrs by Count d'Ojhrman.
" Whenever the courts of Berlin and London
and other powers, made known to the Empress
their desires of feeing the war, which unhappi
ly broke out- between Kuffia and the Porte, spee
dily finiflied, her Majelty always shewed such in
clination as fully demonstrated a perfect con
currence in the wilhes of such powers, of which,
in all thtf cabinets, are to be fonnd the nioft in
controvertible proofs
" The ineiaorial delivered on the 26th of May
new stile) by the minilters of the two fiift na
med powers, only mentions, in general terms,
the procuring fafety for the Ottoman Porte in
the next peace, and of commencing a negocia
tion on that fubjetfl. Her Majesty can penetrate
its objetft and aim the less, as the flatters herfelf
in having offered all that peaceablenefs, geneio
fity, and condefcention, suggested to her tor the
general convsn'unces (perhaps circumllanas would
be a better word) confident with her dignity,
the juflice of her cause, *tnd lier care for the
fafety and tranquility of her empire.
" For, after having been unlawfully challen
ged and attacked, as is well known to all the
world,and which bave been particularly acknow
ledged and confelled formerly by the courts of
London and Berlin ; after a heavy expenlive
war during four years, though on the pare of
Ruiiia it has been attended with uninterrupted
advantages, and which have put her in polieliion
of several provinces and (frrong places, under the
Turkiih dominion ; the Empi ess, conformable
to the laws adopted and acknowledged by all na
tions, ought to have a due right of keeping the
whole of these conqtiefts, or at least a part, as a
jufl, but yet too finall an indemnification for so
many disasters, and incalculable of which
the heavy burden has been supported all the
time by her dominion.
" However, her Majesty being inspired with
moderation and difintereltednefs, has not hesi
tated to make a facrifice of all the advantages
which the progref3 of her arms fsemedto promise
her, by making 110 conditions for herfelf, ex
cepting only to secure the (lability of a peace
which she wilhes to conclude, by fixing a new
frontier, and which frontier far from exposing
the defenfive fafety of the Porte, on the contra
ry insures it, as it removes all canfes of difference
and contentions, which an immediate neighbor
hood is too much liable to do, and which has be
come a source and occasion of dilFentions and
bloody wars.
" A river, like that of the Neifter, offers a
frontier as natural, as fit to prevent, in the pro
gvefs of time, all the above-mentioned inconve
niences, without having any particular influence
(which can easily be demonlti ated) 011 the pow
er of both parties interefled ; her Majelly thinks
it necessary to infill upon this demarkation of
frontier, the more so, as ihe thereby makes it a
gree to profpeds which the Courts of Berlin and
London leem to have at heart for the fafety of
the Ottoman Porte, and for the preservation of
the lasting and univei sal tranquility of Europe,
which the Empress has also ever made a fubjeifl
of her continued and moll animated care.
" Guided by these motives, evidently ;he basis
of equity and justice, her Majesty lias ordered
her ministers to declare to the Courts of Berlin
and London, thatihe Itill continues in the lame
peaceable and moderate sentiments which ftie
has ever Ihewn ; and thatihe will avail herfelf
with the greatest pleafureof every impartial and
amicable step which the courts (hall think pro
per, for the continuation of the salutary works
of peace, provided her dignity and the welfare
of her subjects be provided for in fucha manner
as ajuft cause and reason prescribes and requires.
(Signed) Count D'Osteri.ian."
<>th June i 791.
VIENNA, July 13.
It is whispered, thac the Emperor, on the oc
caHou of his approaching Coronation ac Prague,
will have an interviewwith tlie King of i'rufiia ;
and that about that tine the Eletftor of Saxony
will definitively detemine on the fucceliion to
the Crown of Polan f,ss he waits the decisions of
our Court and that of ituliia 011 tnis fubjedt.
FRANKFORT, July 20.
The pregnancy of tie Eleiftrefs of Saxony has
been announced at Coirt,. This event will pro
bably alter the propoftd plans, and induce the
Elector to accept the eventual fucceflion to the
throne of Poland.
PARIS, July 29.
Already the free corporation ot Paris are turn
ing their eyes to the objects of commerce and
magnificence. They, have published propolals
for the erection of two bridges across 1 lie Seine,
the one opnofite 10 theChanipdeConfederation,
the other to connect theFauxbourgs of St.Antoine
and St.Marveil,which is the quarter ot Paris now
the iiioft croiided with carriages, as these are the
greatelt inlets for provifioris and wine. Several
companies have offered to eredt these bridges, on
condition of being allowed a toll; but as jobbs are
not encouraged, they ha\e not yielded to any of
these propolals, buc make a general offer to all
artists willing to engage in the undertaking.
A subscription has been opened here to ereiS
a statue of the late Dr. Franklin, in order to pre
serve to diltant ages the memory of a man, who,
by inducing France to Jupport the itandard of Li
berty in America, taught her the way to eredt it
in the heart of her owa dominions.
QUEBEC, Augull >8.
Last Thursday evening arrived here his majes
ty's ships, U/ylfes and RefiHance in seven weeks
from Gibraltar, having on board the seventh
or royal regiment of Fufileers, under the com
mand of the colonel his royal highness prince
Edward.
On Saturday at the cattle of St. Lewis, his roy
al highness received the refpeiTtful compliments
of the officers of the garrtfon, civil and military,
the clergy, merchants, citizens, &c.
In the afternoon the ladies of Quebec were al
so introduced to his royal highness.
On Tuesday the seventh regiment disembark
ed on the beach or landing place, in the Lower
town, where, after having formed, his royal
highness, in compliment to the garrison, made
them perform the usual evolutions of a salute,
the drums beating and music playing God save
the King. They then marched up to the parade
before the cattle, where being drawn up in the
presence of a great concourse of fj>ec r tators they
were viewed by his excellency lord Dorchester
and his honor general Clarke, his royal high
ness commanded in person, in a manner that /hew
ed the prince not less than the soldier. From
thence the regiment filed up Port Louis street,
depolitedthe colors at his higlinefs's house, and
marched to the block-house at Cape Diamond.
Saturday lass arrived here (accompanied by
fir John Johnfton) colonel Brant, with about 40
chiefs, &c. deputed from the confederated welt
em nations of Indians,. to represent to govern
ment their situation with regard to the United
States of America, in the war now carrying on
betwixt them.
Sunday theywere admitted to a public confer
rence at the castle, in which they complained
of encroachments on their territories, prayed
for the interposition of the Britilli government
to accommodate their differences with the States,
&c. After having explained the objects of their
iniiGon, ihey were referred to next day (Monday)
to receive his lordfliip's reply. In which, he
promised on his arrival in Great Britain, faith
fully to represent their situation to his niajefty,
and said he would be happy to contribute all in
his power to effect the reftoratiou of peace on
solid and advantageous terms.
We are happy to have it in our power to con
gratulate the public on the very proinifing and
forward state of the crop all over the province.
PORTLAND, (MalT.) Sept. 19.
A writer in the Liverpool paper of July 21ft,
calls eai neftly on the inhabitants of that place
to erea a number of new Churches, for the ac
commodation of the poor. He fays that of the
ijlAblijhedChurch there areatleaft thirty.five rhou
fand poor persons—os whom upwards of thirty
thousand are altogether unprovided with places
of public worship. " We fee thousands of the
lower fort," adds he, " in defiance of all law
and decency, profaning the Sabbath, and loiier
ing in the field, lanes, and public houses."
Jfthofe ofthe e[tabiifh;d Church in Birming
ham, are in the fame miserable situation with
their brethren in Liverpool, we may readily ac
count for their late horrid proceedings. How
should men fear a God whom they had never
been taught to worfliip ?—or obey his laws of
which they had never even heard ? '
People of America ! can you read this, with
out looking up to heaven with an eye of thank
fulnefs for the inestimable privileges you enjoy
—In Europe, the Ministers of justice pun-fh
crimes : —ln America, the teachers of Morality
and Religion prevent them.
182
CONCORD, (N. H.) Sept., 4 .
On Thursday the « 3 d of Ajieofl, Mr W.lli.
Kimball, of Bradford, in Mafladnifc,',,
was Handing with his back towards a Mr V
who had been to work with him, the latter im
cenily (chough rashly) caught hold of the f
mer, unawares, and with a sudden exertion tnT
ed him over his head, by which unlucky
fiance Mr. Kimball's neck joint was diflocatid
He was immediately carried to a fur<r e , n
relief could be had until the Saturday followin.
when Dr. Kitteridge came and set the join, ;
it had lain too long out of its place—the fenfeef
feeling, from his neck to his feet, immediately
left him, on the joint's being put into its place
and he died the next Saturday. His mental f»
culties continued, and he could speak diftinfiW
until a few minutes before he exdpii.
misfortune may serve as a monitor who
frequently and imprudently divert thenifelve»i u
a manner th;tt endangers life.
GOSHEN, (N. Y.) Sept. 20.
It is pleasing, fays a correspondent, to observe
the pvogrefs of the St. Tammany Society, of
New York ; not long since, they opened a Mus t .
urn for the reception of Natural Curiosities &r.
which has thriven iii an alfoniihing manner'and
become extremely entertaining They have
since i lined ptopofals for the eftablidiment of a
Literary Magazine, which, from their afiiJuity
and perseverance we may expert will be hiohly
valuable: add to tliefe, they have established a
Library containing, at this early period of it, no
less than 30c volumes, confiding of the works
of the molt eminent ancient and modern writers,
to which additions of the best publications are
constantly making. This Society is a body cor
porate, confitVing of upwards of 300 members
and rapidly incre.lfing. Ad million at present as
a member, is 51. which after the firit of October
next,will be raised to tj dollars.—Their harmo
nious proceedings, excellent regulations, anil
praifworthy motives, appear to merit the weil
wifhes of all who are acquainted with their opera?
tions, and bid fair to be of infinite advantage,
in a particular manner, to the citizens of that
metropolis.
On Thursday last, a ship of about two hundred
tons burthen was, and this day a brig of nearly
the fame burthen will be,launched at Newburgb.
—This beautiful (ituation, seems but to wanted
couragement ro become a populous and thriving
commercial town, partaking of easy accefj both
by land and water, and blest with an excellent
and exrenfive country in its rear.
PORTSMOUTH [N. H.] Sept. 22.
Last Friday the Convention which met at Concord for the pur
pose of revising the Constitution of this State, adjourned to meet at
the fame place the second Wednesday of February next. Tne fol
lowing rs a summary account ofthe alterations agreed upon, which
are referred toa committee of ten to report at the adjournment, vii.
GOVERNOR
The stile of the President to be altered to Governor. The pa
ragraph relative to the President's presiding in the Senate, &c. to
be expunged—Yeas 65, Nays 14. The Governot to nominate,
and by and with the advice of the Council, to appoint officers.
SENATE
The State to be divided into thirteen diftri&s, each diftrift to
choose a Senator—a plurality of votes to make a choice. The Se
nate to choose their Prefident—Yeass7. lays4t.
impeachments the Senate may adjourn. Legiflaiure to alter the
mode of collecting votes.
COUNSELLOR S
One to be chosen in each county by the people-plurality of
votes to make a choice. Qualification, 5001. ellalc—aud not to
have a feat iu the lcgiftature.
WAGES and TRAVEL
Of the Members of both Houses to be paid out of the Treasury.
No Member of Congress, or perlon holding an office under the
United States, to hold the office of Governor, or fit in the legisla
ture.
OATH of ALLEGIANCE.
The oath of allegiance to be altered to the following form :
" I solemnly swear, that I will bear faith and true allegiance to
" the State of Newhamplhire, and wiilfupport the Conftitutiou
tc thereof.' r
INTERIOR COURT.
The Inferior Court to be abolished—Yeas 55— Nays 31.
SESSIONS,
Not to be abolished—Yeas 37 —Nays 59.
SUPREME COURT.
To be one Supreme Court, to- have original jurifdi&ion of air
causes above 4!. —Juilices to have cognizance of causes of 41. and
undei, except where title of land is concerned.
COURTS OF EQUITY
To be established, or law courts inverted with the power—not in
compatible with the bill of rights—Jurifdidion to be limited by
express laws —Yeas -2—Nays26.
No member of the legislature to take FEES, or to bean advo
cate in any cause.
Journal of the A&s, Resolves and Votes for raising money t»
be printed, in lieu of the iormer mode of printing the journals.
The following are the motions which did not prevail. To a.-
ier the mean encreaQng number in the choice of reprefeotauves
from 300 to a smaller number.—Yeas <>2 — Nays 73*
The Slate to be divided into 60 diftritis each diltrift to choose
one* representative.— Yeas 22—Nays 73.
To lefTen the number of representatives.—Yeas 32 —N'avs 70.
To strike out 'protestant r elicion ' in the qualifica
tion of repiefentatives.—Yeas 33 —Nays 51. .
To erase the 6th article in the bill of rights in order to fubfli
tute another.—Yeas 14 —Nays 88.
To alter one member's having the yeas and navsentered up
on the journals ; and requiring the motion to be seconded. icds
19 —Nays 6a.
The refpe&ability of the committee to whom the forego'ng re
solutions are referred, to be moulded into form, muftg rcat v ,ai '|
the expedations of the public. Their profound knowle 0
la a'and politics, mail render them comoletely coirpcteot to t c
bulinefs afligned them.—We may therefore exped a *e r \ P er c
iyiLiu, alter our coullitutiou is torreded by such ablchan s -N E W-V O R K, Oaober t.
The Honorable Council ot' Appointment have appointed Ma
kinus Willett, Efquirc, Sheriff of the City and County of
New-York.
We learn that the THEATRE in John-street will be opened
by the Old American Company, on Wedntfday next, after hav
ing undergone a thorough repair, and rendered co m IVI odious and
tlcgaut
WINCHESTER, September 24.
OnTucfday lall the President of the United Stales, with his
Lady, arrived, in £nod healrh. Mount-Vernon.
Or' —by john West ley
HEALTHY ratn require a little above fix hours
flee]); healthy women a little above seven in four
and twenty. If any one desires to know exac'ily
what qjaniity of fleei) his own conliitutiou re
quires, lie may very easily make the experiment
which I made about sixty years ago. I then
waked every night about twelve or one, and lay
awake for some time. I readily concluded, that
this arose from being longer in bed thaii nature
required. To be fatisfied, I procured an alarum,
which waked me the next morning at seven (hear
an hour earlier than I rose rhe day before) yet I
Jay awake again at night. The fccond morning
I rose at fix; but notwithllanding this, I lay a
wake the second night. The third morning I
rose at five ; but. nevertheless, I lay awake the
third night. The fourth morning I rose at four,
as, by the grace of God, I have done ever since.
And I lay awake no more. And I do not now
lie awake> taking the year round, a quarter of
an hour together in a month. By the fame ex
peviment, rising earlier and earlier every morn
ing, may one find how much lleep- he really
w.ints.
Philadelphia, October 5.
Friday ihe 30th September, the tune limited by law for receiv
ing Subscriptions to the Loan of the United States, expired. On
that day, we are informed thatSubfcnp.ious for <> Million Dollars
were received, and the public offices were kept open till 12 o'clock
at night.
The plan for funding the Continental Debt appears to have re
ceived a very genera] approbation—of the twenty-seven millions
estimated in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, upwards
of twenty millions arc already subscribed.
By the Schooner- Hardy, Capt. Green, which
failed from Cape-Francois the I2th ult. and ar
rived here on Saturday last, we have received
intelligence, that the mulauoes and free blacks
hare got fire-arms, &c. out of the King's store at
the Cape, and done more execution against the
black insurgents than the white inhabitants had
been able to effecft : above 3000 of the insurgents
have been killed.
The embargo was taken off American veflels
at the time of Capt. Green's failing ; but it was
thought there would probably be another em
bargo laid in cai'e the dillurbances were not qui
eted.
The insurgents having beat off a {loop of war
which was going round to seize some cannon at
Port-au-Paix, several American f'ailors went on
board the Hoop, and fought bravely under the
command of Captain Lillybridge.—it isf.iid that
the Ihot which was fired from the (loop of war,
were picked up by the blacks and fired back again.
A letter from a relpectable house in Cape-
Francois to his conefpondent in Philadelphia,
expressly fays, that 180 plantations have been
ilellroyed.
Anion git all the hardships under which the
whites jiow labour, it is a great consolation that
they are not in want of provisions,and that there
is fufficient for fix months.
11l addition to the above we learn, that great
numbers of the women and children of the blacks
bad surrendered ihemfelves at the Cape, where
attempts had been made to set fire to the town,
but were happily fruit rated. Several of the
blacks taken pri (oners', previous to their execu
tion declared that they were iultigated to thole
attempts by some white men, who were conceal
ed among the insurgents, and adviled them to
thole measures as the belt way to recover their
liberty, kc. The blacks are aimed with guns,
piltols, swords, knives, and other inftrumen.s of
delhutftion, and were collected in large bodies
within three or four miles of Cape Francois, and
were very desperate ; but it was impoflible to
ascertain their numbers, which confuted only of
such as werecapable of offence, their women, chil
dren and old men not being permitted to flay
near their camps.
Le Logocrai'hh,Journal Nation* if, a
Paris Paper, contains a complete account of the
debates of the National Affen.bly, taken in the
mode described in a number of this paper some
time ago. The following note follows inc title
of tbis publication.
" The debates of the National Aflembly are
" literally taken for ana preserved in this Jonr
" nal, by the members of the Logigraphical So
" c 'Hy ; who, npon a report made to the Na
" tional Aflembly of the manner they have in
" ve nted of writing as fact ai words can be ut
tered, have obtained, by a decree of the fame
day, a place immediately oppoflte the tribune,
whereby they perpetuate with perfect accura
" cy every word that falls from the Orator."
1 hi? paper, tho' printed daily, is sometimes
swelled out to the lize of eight folio pages each.
The plan for eftabii'fhirtg manufatftufes upon
an e xtenlive scale, which l.is been late.ly-fnbmit
ted to the public confidergtipn, meets with such
general approbation, thac subscriptions al
ready amount to much inoiie than one half the
In 111 proposed to be raised.;
It is but a few years fince'the opinion was very
common, that manufactures could not be eftab
liflied in this councry 011 an extensive and profita
ble plan. The want of hands, and the tempta
tions held out to the poor in the cheapness of our
unfetiied lands, it was supposed would for many
years preclude the polfibihty of carrying 011 ma
nufactures to advantage. It will however appear
on a lecrofpt-Otive view of affairs, that the above
were not the molt formidable obltacles in the way
of manufactures ; not only /lew enterprizes were
opposed by the wretched lituation of the conti
nental and Hate 'governments, but even those
branches of mechanics and manufactures, with
which we were fully acquainted, and to which
long experience had proved our competency had
declined ; and had not an alteration taken place,
our fhip-cai penters, and the nutnerous trades and
profeflions connected with the business of ship
building, would all have been obliged to emi
grate from the United States ; great numbers did
actually go to the British settlements.
Good government, jult Jaws, and a restoration
of public credit, on thele depended our salvation
—onthefe depended every entei prize—and as
soon as these were eftablilhed, what has been the
confequenre ? In feme of" the States feveta)
branches of manufatftuie are prosecuted with
success, which it was once thought it would have
been madness to have attemp ed—other branch
es are pui sued in other States—and on trial, it
is found that the quality of our fabrics is superi
or to European, while they can be afforded at as
reduced p'ices as similar articles imported from
abroad.—Experience will doubtless convince us,
that we can extend our plan to a variety of arti
cles ; for, it will be found that in the coarferfa
brics in particular, we pay more than they can
be made and fold for in this country.
Tranjlation of a letter from Cape-Francois, dated September n.
Since our last of the 22d ult. the face of things is quite changed
here by an infurreftion of the slaves, which broke out on the 23d,
in this quarter, from Port Margot to Limonade, being an extern
oi twenty leagues. They set fire 10 all the houses, and butchered
all the white people ihey found in them. Having rendered them
selves mailers of all the open country, they leparated into bodies
of three or four hundred each,polling ihetrifelves in different houses
which serve them as places of refuge. The small number of troops
we have to occupy ftveral advantageous ports, which defend the
c ty, docs not allow us to do moi-e than sally out against them
from time to time, when they approach too near. If we had a
greater number of regular troops, we niight invest them in their
lurking pLccs. These ravagersare too numerous to be attacked ;
as rhey have obliged all the houfe-flives, even against their will,
to join them, and maflacred such a attempted to make their escape.
After having ravaged all the levil, populous country, they made
their way through many exterior settlements, and "here the un
fortunate few soon fell victims to their rage. They fei fire to eve
ry thing on their way.
We have lent to the United States, to request the afliftance of
some troops to aflift us in deflroying these ravagers. But are we
roexpe&them ? We have sent also to Jamaica, and to ;hc Spa
niards. We wait with impatience for the return of our meflengers,
and earnestly hope they may bring us fatisfaftory answers. Our
only security is thiscity, which is fortified and well guarded. A
the commencement of these disturbances, our chief apprehensions
were from our domestic slaves, who were in great numbers, and
might perhaps be in league with the insurgents, to set fire to our
houses. But our vigilance, by day and by night, has preserved
us from iheir fufpefted designs. Sevcial have however, been ftiz
ed, and brought to justice. The others, who were not fufpe&ed.
have nevertheless been put in a place of security. By means of
this prudent precaution, we now enjoy greater tranquility.
At the firft breaking out of these difiurbances, a general em
bargo was laid upon all the vellels in the harbor, without diftin
lion. For the present, our AfTembliw, in concert with the Go
vernor, have determined to permit as many of the American ves
sels to fail, as there Ihould be new arrivals.
Friday last, both houses of the Legislature of the Common-
of Pennsylvania adjourned fine die, having palled, during
the feilion, 24 laws; among which are the following :
An ast affording relief to D ckenfon Colleg-.
An ast to continue the ast for transferring certain powers, for
merly exercised by the Supreme Eiecutive Council, also by the
President or Vice-President thereof to the Governor of this Com
monwealth.
An ast ratifying on behalf of Pennsylvania thefirft amendment
propoftd byCongtcfsto the Conftitutiorl of the United State!.
An a£t to ri peal so much of every ast or acts ot Assembly of
this State, as relates to the Colleftmnof Excil'e duties.
An ast to enable the Governor of thii Commonwealth to incor
porate a company for opening a canal and lock, navigation, be
twetn the river Schuylkill aid Sufquehanna, by the waters of
Tulochoccon, Quittapahilla and Swatara, in the counties ol Bciks
and Dacphin.
An att to provide more effeflually foi.the payment of the pub
lic debts and obligations.
An ast to leimburfe the Mayor, Aldermen, and Cili*"is of
Philadelphia, and to the Commifiionersof the County of Phila
delphia, the expeneesaccrued in providing for the temporary ac
commodation of lhe Piefident and Congress of the United Slates
of North-America, in the Cit) of Philadelphia, and to enable the
Governor to inake futther piovifion for the accommodation of
the said Prcfidcnt
An adt touniie the University of the Stole of Pennfvlvania, and
College, Academy, nd Charuable Scltoyl of Philadelphia, in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
A fuppleinent to the att, entitled, " An ast to establish the ju
dicial courts of this Commonwealth, in conformity to the altera
tion< and amendments in the confutation."
There are in every country pretenders to the
public patronage who poflefe neither abilities or
character to recommend them.
Such persons to the chagrin of honed men, of
ten insinuate theuifelves into the favor of the
183
people by the aid of a brazen front, and a plau
sible knack in propagating falfehoods.
At the present day, superior light and infor
mation appear to direit the public mind ; men
are eftiniated by merit and abilities, not by mere
profeflions—this being the cafe, the chance is
againtt those whose whole (lock of recommenda
tory qualifications confills in declaiming againlt
a government whose adminiilration has immedi
ately realized the belt withes of the friends of
our country, and opened the biighiell prospeCtS
for poilerity.
T lie Western Territory of the United States is
said to contain 220,000,000 of acres, inferior in
fertility, salubrity and conveniency, to 110 coun
try upon earth.—What a fund for the future exi
gencies of our country !— May the wisdom of our
government keep it from the grasp of unprinciy
pled land jobbers.
What an asylum for the opprefled ! divided
upon agrarian principles, what multitudes may
here find freedom and support. America "opens
wide her arms to embrace millions, and waifs to
crown all the indultrious and virtuous with plenty
and happiness."
Then hither come—reason's firft law obey
Self prcfervation—fpuru tyrannic sway—
Here freedom lights her pure ccleftia) fire,
Which, but with time and nature (hall expire.
Several of the States are placed in nioft eligi
ble circuni(lances as Governments, in consequence
of the happy re It oration oft he credit of the Union.
Having large amounts of the public securities in
their treasuries, they are now in the receipt of
an interest which is almost fufficient to fupercede
the necessity of the imposition of taxes for the
support of their refpecftive Governments. Sound
wisdom, and a just regard to the solid advantage
of the people, will however lead to a different
appropriation of the produce of these funds
1 he support of their economical,republican forms
of Government, can never beconfidered as a bur
then—and the requisite contributions for this pur
pose, will always be chearfully paid.—The con
tinental funds of the State then can always be
applied to the purposes of improving the roads
and inland navigation, and in encouraging th 6
agriculture and manufactures of the country.
The policy that would fdggeft the expedient
of the Stare's diverting itfelf of these funds, is
like that of a young heir, who to furnilh hinifelf
with present pocket-money, cuts off the thrifty
young wood from his extensive acres.
On Wednefdav thr ?8 h ult. was celebrated the annual Com
"nencemen: of Pj inceton College (New-Jcrfey). The exercises of
the day being concluded, the degree of Bachelor of Arts was con
cired on the following young gentleman : Joseph Caldwell,
; John Noble, J.-ffe Tavlor, Maltbv Gclfton, Richard Harwood,
S uhen Wayne. J-.bn R.Bleecker,David Barclay, Francis Markoe,
Samuel Sharp Dickinfon, F.benezer Rhea, James C. Rooftvelt,
Allen B. Ducket, John M'Crady, Stevens J. L'wis, Ebenezer
Peirfon, Jacob Burnet, Elias Vanartfdalen, Peter WikofF; and on
Mr. Frederick Sione, Robert H. Gale, Henry Holiday, all of Ma
rs land, and also MefTieurs James Campbell, Henry and Robert I.
Call away, of Virginia, members of this class, who were absent.
vlr. Dsvid Bogart of Columbia College, Bachelor of Arts, was ad
mitted ad eundem. Mr. Leman Law, of Yale College, Bachelor of
Arts, was admitted ad eundem. The degree of Master of Arts was
'inferred on Mr. James Thomson, James Imlay, Nathaniel
Howel, Tredwell Smith, John Murray, Ralph Hunt, alumni of
this College. And on
The Rev. terardus Arneft Kreyflers, one of the ministers of the
Low Dutch Church, New-York. The degree of Do&or in Di
vinity was conferred on the Rev. John Newton, of St. Mary's,
Woolmoth, London ; the Rev. Moses Mather, of Middlcfex,Cou
rt £lirut; and on the Rev. John Jamiefon, of Forfax, in Scotland.
The degree of Do£lor of Laws was conferred on the Hon. Thomas
fefferfon, Esq. Secretary of State, and on the Hon. Alexander
Hamilton, £lq. Secretary of the Treasury.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Hetty, Drinker, Bourdeaux.
Sloop Hannah, Grantham,
Schooner Hardy, Green,
Hannah, Adams.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents ?o/6 pr
3 pr. Cents 11/4 11/6
Dcfered 6 pr. Crnti 12/2 12/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificate! >*/6 g«J
Indents
Bank Subscriptions,
NOTIFICATION.
(J jT THE arrearagei of Subscriptions for this G*7r rt z amovrt
at this time to upautrds of Two Thousand Dollars. — The Edito* flat
ters him/elf that no apology can he tho't necejjary for tarnefly requeuing
a compliance with the terms of subscription, in a fpeeiy discharge of the
sums due. Those gentlemen of whom the papers are immediately re
ceived, are authorised to receipt for anv payments that may he offered.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE MANACiBSof NEW-HAVEN WH AR F LOT i ERY,
have uncxpeiledly received information from abroad, of a con
siderable number of Tickets yet unfold. This renders it nccejfary
for them (in order to answer the defun of the Lottery) to adjourn
the itiawing to Monday the 17th of O&ober next, at which time
the drawing will pojitively ic-commeuce, and continue without in
terruption until finifhrd.
New-Haven, Sept. 28, 1791.
N. tt. The numbers already drawn, both prizes and blank*,
will be puhliihed immediately, in hand-bills, and in the Connedi
cut Journal, for the information of those who wife to puichafc
TitKcuuow undrawn.
St. Euftatius.
Cape-Francois.
Newbury port.
101J pr. cent.
574 do
-614 do.
10/6 do.
■33 '34 Dollars.MR. FENN'O,
The jollowing beaut J ul imitation of Shenstone originally appeared
in the American Mcrcut y—by giving it a place in your paper, you
uill oblige ajriend of the Author y and A Subscriber.
WHEN night Hied hei folttude round,
And Cynthia iHumin'd the sky,
When dew drops bcfpangled the ground,
And light mill flew wantonly by;
Alone to a neighbouring grove,
With partial dtftra&ion I ftray'd,
There tho't of the maiden I love,
While rapture my senses betray'd
On the wings of delusion I flew
To the feet of the fair one I love,
I told her my paflion anew,
My paflion she deign'd to approve :
There fancy depi&ed our joy,
'Twas pleasure unmingled with woe,
'Twas happiness free from alloy,
'Twas Eden replanted below.
Reclin'd on her bosom of love,
As playful, and happy as May,
Lay an infaht as pure as a dove,
And bright as the young star of day;
The rose budded fair in its face,
Truth and innocence beam'd from its eyes,
Its smiles were the symptoms of grace.
Its charms were the charms of the Ikies.
\
My hoqfe was an inn for the poor,
The beggar was often mv guest,
They fmil'd as they went from my door,
Their gratitude fweetcn'd my reft.—
My Delia was pleas'd to bellow—
What Providence freely had given
She fhar'd with the children of woe,
And bade them feel thankful to heaven.
While thus in fwect rapture I view'd
The scene which my fancy had drawn,
My feet wamler'd far thro' the wood,
And insensibly trode the gay lawn ;
The sweet briar lent me a rose,
An emblem of life and its cares,
A moment it buds and it blows,
But thorns are the burthen it bears.
I smelt of the fragrance it shed,
'Twas (weet as the breathings of morn—
I prefs'd it—low droop'd its fair head,
And nothing remain'd but the thorn—
In a moment my senses returned,
I funk to the depths of despair,
And as the foft vision I mourn'd,
The cries of distress fill'd the air:
The shepherd lay frtug \h his bed
While dogs tore the lambs of the fold;
Too late to their rescue I fled,
Their lives to the prowlers were fold.
No more shall their bleatings delight;
No more fhallthe innocent tram,
In frolicfome gambols unite,
Or fportiveiy fltip o'er the plain.
I wept o'er their carcases torn,
Their pleasures Ijad scarcely began ;
But perhaps had they fern the next morn,
I heir lives had been flaughter'd by man :
My mind thus from ills of mv own
Turn d to those of a lower degree,
I tho't I was wietrffed alone,
But brutes were more wretched than me.
Ah Corydon wbv will vou love !
Why feed the foft paflion in vain !
No sighs her com paflion can move,
She Imiles at the tale of your pain~-
To love her alas} is delight,
'tis blifi to my heart,
Tho'defpair fpreadsaround me her night,
et despair can her bleflings impart.
She is fair as the pride of the vale,
The lily that vies with the snow,
Her breath ;s as sweet as the gale,
Where clover-fields fragrantly blow;
Her temper is sweet and serene,
Here bosom is pure and refiri'd,
Exprcfljon enlivens her mien,
And virtue enriches her mind.
She is chadc as the flceces that fly
On the wings of the tempefl of snow,
Soft pleasure oft beams in her eye,
She can weep at the language of woe;
Her lips utter accents of truth,
Her voice is the music of even,
Her face wears the features of youth
Of youth in the garden of "heaven.
And when with the swain ofherctsoice
She shall wed (may the moment be nigh}'
Tho' bleeding, my heart shall rejoice,
She is happy—l'll bless her—and die:
Not a tear from my eyes shall be shed,
Not a sigh from my bosom arise,
In secret I'll lay down my head,
And wait for the fair in the fkics.
BOSTON, Sept. 26
We hear that a subscription is open in Lon
don for the purpose of building a large and ele
gant CHAPEL for the Rev. Dr. Prieflley.
The Prefulent of the United States has been
pleased to appoint John Brooks, Kfq. Marshal
of Massachusetts DiltriA, vice Jonathan Jackson
Esq. appointed Infpetlor. '
tribute of th auks
George Green, Mate, in behalf of himfelf and
the crew of the Brig South-Carolina, prefem
their moit grateful thanks to Capt. James Dods
Dr. Ilaac Rand, and the Mare of the British ship
Nancy, for the great humanity and kind atten
tion they paid to them, alter they were taken
from the wreck of the said Brig_„„ which they
had been four days exposed to and enduring the
utmolr dilirefs, without any thing but
urine to exist on And particularly for the <r e .
nerous care they paid to al!evj ate i!,e pains al,d
reitore their mangled limbs to their use.
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE removed their Office mihe corner of Chcfnut and Third
Stieeis—where they pirchafe and felt CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, See. &c.
iiufun Is of all kinds, in tlvir line, tranfa&ed on Commiflion.
They have for sale, TICKETS in the Second Class ot the Maf
ichulcits Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing of which will com
nence on the 13111 inft.) and in the 1 wenty-Second Clals ot the
Charleftown Lottery, at the Managerj prices.
To he let, on moderate Gn-und Rrnt, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly fit u a ted, in Kenpngton,
fronting 011 thice ftreeis. lucre are improvements on this lot,
which, added to its situation, make it worthv of particular atten
tion. Ocl, 1, iycjt.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SF.LL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
Oil COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
the fpecicamount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all Tales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-haij per cent.; and on all sums
above ,5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving inrereft at the Loan-Office, ome per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubfcribcr's with their order.*, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality.fidelity and dispatch % as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with cxtenfive
connexions in the city of Nev-York ana different parts of the
continent, enable them to condutt their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Cbefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
AND NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firrt quality—by retai),
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chcfiiut and Market Streets
LOTTERY TICKETS.
Vew-Jerfey, 2d Class—to commence drawing 26th inft. ? Pofi-
Mairachufetts Semi-annual, 2d Class, 13th Oflober. \ tivcly
May be had as above.
m. M'D 0 U G A L L'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 23, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere ihanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good oider, as well as the perform
anre ot his scholars, will still ensure him a rcfptftable (hare of tlu
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taugh
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
drrn, may be assured, they will be taught in the most appiov t.
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage an<-
manners.
A general pra&ifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wcdnt filay ; when th>
employers, and Urjngeitol genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These praftifings will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An EVEN ING SCHOOL will lie opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fuffiricnt number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentuwn, and llolcn from the fame the lollowingarlicles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; < small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; i ditto
containing one bottle green coth coat, one striped veil an,l
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifev coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
(mall books; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, lome o''
them large and elegant, and of d'tferent colours; 2 barrels r\,
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; , barrel pork, , ream paper, and
1 dozen palte-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a larce Battc.n
with black fides.
A reward ol Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be giver, for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to jnftice, by
n , , >r T r _ JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New.Jersey, Sept. i. 179,. [ epl jj
TFTHOMAS PRANKS, lately of Little York, in Virginia
X (bit onginally-ofScarborough, in Yo,klh-re, Great-B.ltam
will make himfelf known, together with his present place of rel
f.dence, either to his brother John Franks, who i. now in this
I ort, or to the fubfcrtber, he will hear of fomethin* srreatlvto las
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON
Port/and, (Diffna oFMaine) AujuJl »q, ,79,
P.S. Incafeofthedeoeaf, of M,. Fr an K 's, his Wal heir or
heirs art reque.Uo to forward their names and places of abode to
'VII. Kobi kson ,as above.
Tht7 « 1 r.i r C ' EORCETOW "> September g, tyqi.
M u e \°\ S thf F J " jl Cll > W '" commence on
Monday the i 7 th day of October next. The Commissioners
hndin s thcy may materials and workmen for the publir
build-,,,,* 10 any durable extent; with a «w ,0 draw t!;e lu, d
■mo aaton, oastofac.luate the work, mftead ol a deposit "f 8
down, the refidnr to be 01^bond "with fe'curlty' p' a °," ble"^'^!^^"f
ThC ' provemcit will
1 homaj Johnsok,
David Stuart, V Commissioners.
Daniel Carroll,)
184
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
PI*. QUANTITY.
OCTOBEfr 5. —Dollars at 7/6
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 d Porter, American pr d<*
Allum, pr.cwt. 30, Pilch, pr. bbl P
Ditto, Ro-h pr. lb. icd Pork, Burlinrton ' 5 '
Alhcs, pot, per ton, 37/101 Lower county
P«'l- ——Carolina 9<*
P'a , Albany . J ?'
pr. lb.
Pimento
R,ce pr. cwt.
ltofin pr . h!) |_
RaiCms, brfl pr .
D.uo pr. jar 5 601
Dill" pr. box ® '
Jamaica pr. gall. 6 »
| Arnigua c T
I W'ndward
et J O'"bddoes . {J
« Country, \ T F
pr. ton ~X!
S-Jt petrc, pr. cwt.
flour
Shot s°'
j (German pr. rwl . 6l:j t*
w bliftercd "
■JJ Pr. .on 40 /fo,
? (. Crf/Miky s pr. f a ».
Snake foi pr. lb. ,j 6<< 2J y
Q
—iJirown
■ 4«<J
Spermaceti,rcfinrd ,
S«l Cloth, End,ft 1 / '
pr. vard, j u ™««/
Bftfton, No.* I, ,
Arrack pr. gall. ics 12sod
Brandy* common, 7s 6d
-Cogfiiac
Braziletto, pr. ton.
Bricks pr. M
Bread, (hip pr. cwt.
Ditto, pilot
Ditto, small water 40J 45*
Beer, American, in bit. |
pr. doz. bot. inci. ) J
pr. bbl. 355
y. f Oak. pr.M feet, 6js 4/
0 | Merch. pine iooj
Sap, do. 3/
O ! N. Eng. 8i f
22 tCedar
The above are the Shallop prices
Jor the Yard pi ices add 15s pr M.
Brimstone ni rolls pr. cwi. 26*
u- ( Irish pr. b£l.
< Hotlon 55f
£3 ( Country S os
Butier pr. Ib. 14d
iii kegs
Cedar,rctlcmber pr.foot 2S2*6d
Chocolate pr. lb.
Coal pr. bulhel
Coffee pr. lb,
Cinnamon
Checfc, English
Countiy
•2 f t P r *
3 | Wax
3 Myrtle Wax
j Mould,tallow
O LDipiJtd
Cotton
Cui rants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt
Cordage
Cocoa
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piere
Ravens
Flour, Superfir.e, pr. bbl. 361
Common, 33 J
-Bur midcUingSfheft 31J
Middlings 24*
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. t< j
Flax pr. lb.
Fustic
pr. ton, 135J 15OJ
pr. lb
Feathers
pr. bulh.
pi. cwt.
Flaxfeed
Glue,
6 S<
Ditto, common 501
Ditto, ground pr. Ih. 9d
Ginieng, 1/6 1/10
Ginger, wlutcrace
Gunpowder, cannon,or. )
quarter calk, $
Ditto, fine glared 3ss 6d
G«n, Holland, pr. gall. $scjd
Do. pr. cafe, 30J
( Wheat pr. bulb 6s 8i 7s
„ I 3' 9<i
I Oati n6d
< I.idian corn 3- f 3 J 3^
j Barley 6d
| Best faclled pr. li>. 3d
Buckwheat 2.f 6d
Hemp, for. pr. ton, 4 5 / 53 /
American, pr. lb. 4d
Rvc
Hogftv ad hoops, pr. M 516/
Herrings, pr. bbl. ißj 20/
Hides, raw pr. lb. yd tod
Hops PS
Indigo, French,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt. ,501
( Castings 22i 6d 30s
Z j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
0 <; p, s 10 /
2 I Sheet ■ 65/
Nail rods 36/
J ink, pr. cwt. 10s 405
Lard, hogs 9 d 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42 .f 6i
('• f.)
tn bars 50 s
Lead, white 75J 80/
red 50/
Leather, foal pr. lb. is isSd
Lignum vita* pr. ton 4 2s 4ss
Logwood 7/ 5s 8/
M al, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rve 2jx
Mackarel,beft none.
Common 2/jr
Mace pr. lb. 55*
Muftaixl 2J 4«/
Madder, best
Molafles pr.gaU. 2s6dzsgd
Marble, pr. foot, 14;
Mast spars
Mahogany
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67* 6d
Nails, 1 odi9.dSc ?.od— 8d Bjd gd
f Lmleed, pr. gall. 3 .r 6d
1 Train u rod ?s
Snermaceti 316 d
I Whale is 6 J is
g <j Olive 6f 6d
l Ditto pr. cafe ißjgi
I Best Tweet in )
1 flalks,pr. box, *y
(_—ba fleets 12 bottles37.«6«/
Oak timber pr. ton 38J
Porter pr. bl. 40 s
1 1,5 v
Jt*H IL,rtl)f.L PH lAj potll Juiy* 179 1 * .
THt CommiiTjonrrs appointed to receive Subicriptions tot"
Bank of the United States, do hcreby» agreeable to
Form thr Stockholders of the laid Bank, that an ele&ionfort*c ft ')
five Directors will he held at the Citv-Hall in
Friday the 21 ft day of October next, at to o'clock in tHr morN"# 1
THOMAS (
DAVID RirriNHOUSEi
SAMUEL HQWEIL.
gC7" The price of this Paper is 3 Dilltrsper <m*>
9< 6d
Ml 15/
2 3 s la 35 s
•A'
27J 6d
too J
1 3 d
is 6d
16d
iBJ 20s
i j 4 d
qJ
3 s ''-d
4>3 J
12 d
i I d
9>?d
~ T °- 11. 2J id
H nilia (hefting, pr. p. qo.c
["Lump, pr.ib. '„U
ci f l.oaf, fiuclc refined
Ditto, double do. uio-J
| Havannah, white iU
•s> Ditto, brown,
L Mufcovada,or.cwt ioc;
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall.
__ ( Allurn pr. bufli. 21 1 i
J 2J f
« f
2i 6d
1 S6 2 J
9'
14 J
6oj 62.<64
80 s
Boj
JL.. ....
yCadiz j
(-Liibon 2s 4(
Ship build. W.O.fVamei] gi
P* lon > I 10(J|
D \ LO, & red C. do. 6,'6/$j
Shingles, ihou, p. M. , gw y
67J 72J 6d
long drelied j-.y
Scantling, heart, 8. i„oj
—" Sj P s'i5 'i ,55,
T i ipe pr. 1200 pieces 6cj
2 | W. O. hoglhead 7/216;/
> j R. O. do. 7/ 6.13 i
I Leogan ti/
2J 8 d
5-» 6d
7/19.1 8/
I o Barrel 3/151
I Heading 8/
; f Otter, btft pr. picce 301
. Minks 1 j6u 3;
, F °X, grt-y 3;
r fd iffy
Martins 31
, ~ F: fliers 2161/5/
, £ Bears
' t Racoons 214/
f Musk-rats uM
, ' B aver, pr. lb, 7/6 ids
; l D ert, in hair is6'hsoi
, Tar,N T . Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 'jS
, Carolina, 32 gall. lor
) Tu pentine pi. bbl. 12i
James R. new bed 281
~ ' inferior JSi
o
O <
u
L/
<
CQ
' o
I h
1 .
old 3<j
Rappahannock 18/9 22/6
< Colo. Maryland 50*60#
Dark 18;
Long-leaf 18;
Eaftein-fh*>re 15J17J61/
I Carolina, new 22J 6d
t old 225 25#
10J
3 r 7 s
j Hyson pi. lb.
on ! Hyson Ik n,
*** Souchong,
h I Congo,
[ Bohea,
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. Ho*
Vgtdigreafe pr. lb.
V^million,
Varnish, 2 s6i
f Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
• Lisbon $
Tcneiiffe 20/10J 30/
w Fa >' al P r - S 3 "- 3'"!
i Port pr. pipe 30' 43
r ] Ditto pr. gall. -
Do. in bottles, pr.doz.3 cf
j Claret 3 01 45'
! Sherry pr. gall. 6sgd 9*
L Malaga sjbjbds jbjbd
Wax, Bees pr. lb.
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2*3«
fliort, pr. lb. xi
1 jjd 18 d
2.f 6d 51
8 d lod
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days, 7 l
Ditto 60 days .
Ditto 30 a ay* 73
Amsterdam, 60 dayj»
nr. guilder, 2i V
30 days 3 sid
Government bills, drawn at i->
(iav's per 11 guiidp f s. 33 f^
7_» B'9<i
4; 6j
316 d 7 s
3H* 3 J 9 f
2J Qt
100J