PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 70HV trrvvn ,■ ' ~
' ' , No. 15, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 53, of Vol. lII.]
ANSWER of M. SYEYES,
To Mr. Paine's Letter, and to several other fublt-
cations of a similar nature.
MR. THOMAS PAINE is one of those men who have con
tributed the mod to cllablilh the liberty of America. Hr
ardent love of humanity, and his hatred of every fort of tyranny,
have indnced him to take tip in England [he defence of (he French
revolution, againll the amphigorical declamation of Mr. Burke.
His work has been trariflated into our language, under the title of
" Des Droits di l'Homme," and is univcrlally known.
What French Patriot is there, who has not already, from the
bottom of his heart, thanked this foreigner for having ftrength
enrd our cause byall the powers of his reason and reputation ? It
jt with pleasure that" I obfet ve an opportunity of offering him the
tribute of my gratitude and niy cfteem for the truly philosophical
application of talents so diflinguilhed as his own.
Mr. Paine supposes that I have given him a challenge, and he
accepts it. I have not given any challenge; but I (ball be very
glad to afford to so able an author an opportunity of giving the
world some further truths.
Mr. Paine declares himfelf to be the open enemy of monarchi
cal government. I merely fay, that-a republican.iorm of govern*
mcnt appears to me to be inefficient for liberty. After an avow-
also positive on both fides, nothing seems to remain for us but to
7>roduee our proofs, the public being entirely ready to decide be
tween us. But unfortunately abftra£l quefhons, those especially
that relate to a science, the very language of which is scarcely yet
fixed, require to be prepared for investigation by a fort of preli
minary convention. Before we begin a contest, to be carried on
at lead under the standard of philosophy, it is absolutely ncceflary
that we fbould be underOood. Mr. Paine is so conscious of this
that he begins by giving definitions. "J do not undcr
ftanrl," favs he, " by republicanism, that which beais the name
in Holland, and in some Hates of Italy."
When he wrote thus, the author was, no doubt, aware, that I,
on my part, do not undertake to defend either the Ottoman, or
the monarchy. In order to be reasonable in this dif
cuflion, and certainly we both desire to be so, we ought to begin
by reje&ing all examples. In point of social order, Mr. Paine
cannot be less pleased than I am with the models which history
offers us. The question between us then depends upon fnnple
theory. Mr. Paine defends his republic, such as he underllands
it; I defend monarchy, as I have conceived it
" In short," fays Mr. Paine. " it is against the whole Hell
oF monarchy, that I have declared war." I intreat him to be
lieve, that in this undertaking, I would be bis second, and not his
adversary. Ido not adopt the iniereft of the whole Hell of re
publics. The one is as real a? the other, and avails jutl as much.
If is impossible thzrt either Mr. Paine or myfelf should ever take*
the part of any fort of Hell.
" Bv republicanism," fays Mr. Paine, <c I undcrftand merely
a government by representation." I have had some difficulty in
conceiving, why it (hould be endeavoured to confound two no
tions so diftinft as those of a representative system and republi
canism ; and I hope for some attention to my answer.
It is only since the event of the id of June last, that this repub
lican party has been perceived. What is their object ? Can they
be ignorant, that the plan of representation which the National
AJTembfy has piefented to France, though imperfect in some of
its parts, is, norwithftanding, the purest and the best which has ap
peared in the world ? What then is the object of those who defiie
a republic, when they define it to be (imply a government by re
presentation ? What ! does this party, so lately formed, already
endeavour to array itfelf with the honor of demanding, rcprefent
ativc administration against the National Assembly itfelf ? Will
thev feriouflv undertake to persuade men, that in all this there are
but two opinions—that of the republicans, who wi(h a represent
ation, and that of the National Assembly, who do not ? It is im
poflihle to imoute to M. M. the new republicans, such a chimera ;
or, that they should hope for such a blind docility on the part of
the public and poftetity.
When I speak of political representation, I go further than Mr.
Patne. I maintain that every social constitution of which repre
sentation is not the essence, is a falfe constitution. Whether a
monarchy or not, every alfociation, the members of which do not
all at once vacate their com mon administration, has but to chufe
between representatives and masters, between despotism and legi
timate government. There may be varieties in the manner of
clafling the representatives, and their internal regulations; and
lone of the different forms may be able to attribute to itfelf ex
elufively the true, essential, and diftin£tive chara&er of all good
government. We are not to imitate those who fav—Obfcrvc, I
understand by a republic, a good government ; and by monarchy,
a bad one : take that ground, and defend yourfclf. It is not to
a man of abilities, like Mr. Paine, that it is necessary to give a
cunt ion against such language.
Whatever dispute may arise upon the different forts of repre
sentations ; however it may be enquired, for instance, whether it
is wife to employ exactly the fame method in the executive and
the lcgiflative order; or whatever other questions of this fort may
be produced, it does not at all follow, that upon these gradations
and (hades, depend the difference between republicans and mo
larcbicans.
All these debates are, or will be, common to partisans of both
•yftcms, and they will be equally so in either hypothesis of a good
° r a tad representation. In fa&, whether our established proxies
(hall be well or ill chosen, or we!! or ill established, it will remain
to be known what shall be their correlation, and how you will
"'fpofe them amonft themselves, (or thebeft distribution and great
facility of public operation.
In one word, it will still remain to be known, whether you will
kave a republic or a monarchy ; becaule, of themselves, the repub
'can and monarchic forms will apply either to a good or bad con
't'tution, to a good or bad government. It is not, therefore, the
c ara&t r of a true representation, that it mud bear the diftinguifh
attributes which maik republicans.
Here, in my opinion, are the two principal points, by which
the differrnce of the f wo fvftems are to be recognized.
Make all political a&ion, that which you please to call the exe
cutive power, center in a council of execution appointed by the
**oplc, or by the National Aflfrfpbly, and vow have tormed a tc
public, " • • '
ri »ce, on the contrary, at the head of the departments which
0u rail miniHcrial, and which ought to be better divided, re
pon lhlc chiefs, independent one of another, but depend ing, as to
" Clr ni *fliAcrul ejfi|lence, upon an individual of fupci'.or jank } in
~ ~SA;rU.Rb er 29, 179 1.
whom is represented the ft able unity of government, or, what is
t!ie fame, 0} national monarchy; this individual be authorised
to chute and d lmils, in the name of the people, these firft execu
tive chiefs, and to exercise foine other fuiftions (tillable to the
public intt ieft, but his irresponsibility foe which cannot be dan
gerous, and you have farmed a monarchy.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CLNTINEL.
MR. BURKE,
Has been charged with entertaining defpc.tic
principles. The charge is not however, well
founded ; as can be demotidrated by the fal
lowing extract from a pamphlet lately published
by him, intitled, " All Appeal from the new to
the old WHIGS," which the Editor received
in the last vellel From Europe. The indignation
which has marked his public writings and speak
ing,_ it seems, was whollj excited bj the levelling,
spirit of the F'ench Democrats ; farfpeaking of
another revolution, which has lately pafled be
fore the world—and condemning the silence in
which it has been pafled over in England, he
fays :—
" THE STATE OF POLAND
Was undoubtedly filch, that there could scarcely
exist two opinions, but that a reformation of its
coniti tut ion, even at fohie expence of blood,
might be seen without mncli disapprobation.
No confufion could be (eared in such an enter
prize ; because the eftablifhinent to be reformed
was it lei f a Hate of confufion. A King without
authority ; Nobles without union or subordina
tion ; a People without arts, industry, commerce,
or liberty ; no order within ; no defence with
out ; no effective public force, but a foreign
force, which entered a naked country at will,
I and disposed of every thing at pleasure. Here
was a (fate of things which seemed to invite and
might perhaps jufiify bold enterprize and despe
rate experiment" But in what manner was this
chaos brought into order ? The means were as
(hiking to the imagination, as fatisfactory to the
reason, and soothing to the moral fentinient.
In contemplating that change, humanity has eve
ry thing to rejoice and to glory in ; nothing to
be ashamed of, nothing to fuffer. So far as it
has gone, it probably is the moil pure and de
fecated public good which ever has been confer
red on mankind. We have seen anarchy and
servitude at one removed ; a throne strengthen
ed for the protection of the people, without
trenching on their liberties ; all foreign cabal
banilhed, by changing the crown from eleiftive
to hereditary ; and what was a matter of pleas
ing wonder, we have seen a reigning King, from
an heroick love to his country, exerting himfelf
with all the toil, the dexterity, the management,
and intrigue, in favor of a family of strangers,
with which ambitious nien labour for the aggran
disement of their own, Ten millions of men in
a way of being freed gradually, and therefore
fafely to theinielves and the (late, not from civil
or political chains, which, bad as they are, only
fetter the mind, but from , substantial personal
bondage. Inhabitants of cities, before withjut
privileges, placed in the consideration which be
longs to that improved and connedted lunation
of facial life. One of the moll proud, numerous,
and fierce bodies of nobility and gentry ever
known in the world, arranged only in the fare
iiioft rank of free and generous citizens. Not
one mar. incurred loss, or fuffered degradation.
All, from the King to the day-labourer, were im
proved in their condition. Every thing was kept
in its place and order ; but in that place and or
der every thing was bettered. To add to this
happy wonder (this unlieard-of conjunction of
wifdoin and fortune) not one drop of blood was
spilled ; 110 treachery ; no outrage ; no system
of (lander more cruel than the sword ; 110 ft udied
insults on religion, morals, or manners ; no
spoil ; no confiscation ; no citizen beggared ;
none imprisoned ; none exiled : the whole was
effected with a policy, a discretion, an unanimity
and secrecy, such as have never been before
known 011 any occasion ; but such wonderful
conduct; was reserved far this glorious conspiracy
in favour of the true and genuine rights and in
terefi sos men. Happy people, if they know to
proceed as they have begun ! Happy Prince,
worthy to begin with splendor, or to close with
"lory, a race of patriot Kings : and to leave,
A name, which every wind to hcav'n would bear,
Whirl) Jieo to tell, and Aojeli joy to hear.
[7o be continued.]
UUso
[Whole No. 261.1
1 TERMS and CONDITIONS declared by the Pre
sident of the United States, this feventeein
day of Ottober, seventeen hundred and ninety-ont,
for regulating the Materials and manner oj the
Buildings and Improvements on the LOTS in the
City of WASHINGTON.
the outer and party-walls of all
A houses within the said City shall be
built of brick or stone.
2d. That all buildings on the streets shall be
parallel thereto, and may be advanced to th
; line of the ftreec, or withdrawn therefrom, at
the pleasure of rhe improver : But where an*
fucli building is about to be erected, neither the
foundation or party-wall /hall be begun, with
out firft applying to the person or persons ap
pointed by the Commiflioners to superintend the
buildings within the city, who willfifceriraui
lines of the walls to corhefyond with the'fe regu
lations.
3d. The wall of no house to be higher than
sorry feet to the roof, in any part of the city ;
nor shall any be lower than thirty-five feet on
any of the avenues.
4th. That the person or persons appointed by
the Commiflioners to superintend the buildings,
may enter on the land of any person, to set ouc
the foundation and regulate the walls to be built
between party and party, as to the breadth and
thickness thereof: Which foundation shall be
laid equally upon the lands of the persons be
tween whom such party-walls are to be built, and
shall be of the breadth and thickness determined
by such person proper ; and rhe firft builder shall
be reimbursed one moiety of the charge of such
party-wall, or so much thereof as the next build
er shall have occasion to make use of, before such
next builder shall any ways use or break into the
wall—The charge or value thereof to be set by
the person or persons so appointed by the Com
mrffiwners. —
jth. As temporary conveniences will be pro
per for lodging workmen and fee uring materials
for building, it is to be underllood that such may
be ereified with the approbation of the Commis
sioners : But they may be removed or difcontin
tied, by the special order of the Commiflioners.
6th. The way into the squares being designed
in a special manner for the common use and con
venience of the occupiers of the refpetti ve squares
—the property in the fame is leferved to the
public, so that there may be an immediate in
terference on any abuse of the use thereof, by
any individual, to the nuisance or obftru<3ion of
pthers. The proprietors of the Lots adjoining
the entrance into the squares, on arching over
the entrance, and fixing gates in the manner the
Commiflioners shall approve, shall be entitled to
divide the space over the arching and build it up
with the range of that line of the square.
7th. No vaults shall be permitted under the
streets, nor any encroachments on the foot-way
above, by steps, stoops, porches, cellar-doors,
windows, ditches, or leaning walls ; nor shall
there be any proje<ftion over the street, other
than the eves of the houses, without the consent
of the Commiflioners.
Btli. These regulations are the terms and con
ditions upon which conveyances are to be made
according to the deeds in trust of the lands with
in the city.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
on. I 7;
EXTRACTS.
IF we drop a pebble, the fizeof a notmeg, up
on the smooth furfaceof a river, we lhall observe
the circular waves to be fniall, and iflbe only to
a little distance from the centre. If" we drop ano
ther the size of a cannon (hot, it operates with
multiplied force, the surrounding waves swell
to a superior size, and extend to a more distant
space.—The mind, unimproved by letters or con
vention, deals in trifles, is hemmed in by itfelf
and extends not far from its own centre ; while
he, who is enlightened by education, whose ideas
are improved by ftndy, rises to a more elevated
height, and takes in a more extensive compass.
THE conversations of the lower class rife from
themselves, and terminate where they rife. Their
observations seldom extend to men or things •
they deal in the little; keep near their own
centre ; are heroes of their own story : and bla
zon those actions, which never existed to blazon
ihemfelves.
\W AR W T.C K, Augult 27.
Birmingham Rioters.
FOUR of*the rioters lately tried have been
capitally con»itfed A and Baron Perryn hav
ing lefnowu, all tlie convidts mull meet their
fate, as his lordlhip left no reprieve, nor gave
any hopes of mercy. The acquittals are all this
morning discharged ; and the friends of the
convicts are coming into town to take farewell.
Before the Baron departed, be discharged Un
derwood and Adams, who were confined 'for
threatening ElwelK a witness for the crown.
LONDON, Sept. 3
The party has, doubtlcfs, great reason 10
boait of their wisdom in paliing ientence of ban
ifliment upon Mr. Burke, from the black town
of Sinope they will now have the mortifica
tion to hear of that gentleman's thundering and
convinced eloquence being displayed in the Up
per House i it being his JVlnjeliy's wish to dif
linguifh and reward such eminent abilities and
integrity, with some special mark of his royal
favor, and to retain Mr. Burke Itill in the ser
vice of his country ; although he has more pre
tensions 1 hail any man we know to enjoy the otium
cum dignitate. He is to be Lord Beconsfield.
We hear from Kendal, Weltmoreland, that the
Weavers of that place have lefc their woi k in ilie
looms, because them and ilieir mailers cannot
agree for an advance of wages ; a great many of
them have left the town, apd their families.
As a remarkable inltance of llrength, there
are two brewers, servants at a brewhoufe, in
London, who, from lifting things of uncommon
weight, have brought themselves into the habit
of carrying a butt of beer between them in the
fame manner as others carry a barrel. The
weight of which, wiih the butt, is near one tliou
fand weight.
- a
The news from India will occasion no small
jncafinefs among the enemies of adniiniltration.
Their only remedy is in proving (that is, aflert
ing, which to them is the fame thing) tliat Ban
galore was not worth powder and fliot, and that
Tippoo is always more formidable after a defeat
than before it.
M. de Verac, the French Minister at the Swjfs
Cantons, has sent in his difmiflion to theMiniller
of State for Foreign Affairs at Paris, fie alledg
es as his reafou for doing so, that as he had re
ceived his appointment from the hands of the
King, so he no longer thought it honourable to
hold ic when he could not atTt in his Majelly's
name.
Vesuvius began to pour forth a torrent oflava,
on the fide of Relini, 011 the 27th of July. It has
done coniulerable damage to the cultivated part
of the mountain, but is much less dreadful in ils
descent than the former eruptions.
On Thursday night some persons were daring
enough to break the windows of ihe house of a
man who had given evidence againlt one of the
rioters at Warwick !
The revenue laws have laid fad hold of one
A. B. who is committed to Winchester gaol for
a debt to the Crown, of ninety-four thousand four
hundred and forty pounds !
Government, it is said, has come to a determi
nation with refpeift to the family of the late un
fortunate Mr. Sutherland, who lately fliot liini
"elf in Hyde-Park, it has given to the widow and
laughters jool. together with an annuity of joot.
r> . n r I . . r n. / t / .1
Extratt of a letter from Stockholm, Aug. 17.
" On the King's arrival here, he went to thi
French play-house, accompanied by several ofR
cers of that nation. Enemies to that great revo
lution which has taken place in their country
they.came to Stockholm, either to seek an afyluro
in this land of despotism, or to solicit the defpoi
to give the means to restore to their King,
the Nobility and the Clergy, the arbitrary rights
which were a cui fe to the French Nation. Tliefe
officers labor under a great error, if ihey imagine
that Guflavus will take the lead step in favor of
the Nobility and Clergy of France.—A Fi ince
whole principal object in ilictwolafl revolutions
of Sweden, had been to crnfh those two bodies
who lay so heavy, not only upon the nation, but
upon the Royal authority. If, then, Guftavus
attempts ,to bring on a counter-revolution, it
would be solely in favor of the despotism of the
French Monarch ; and all those who know his
charader, are confident that in cafe of success
he would advise Louis the 16th to fetter all-
People, Clergy, and Nobility.
Extra" of a letter from the Hague, Augufi 26.
" We have accounts from Spain, that at the
pressing in tin nces of the foreign Miniflers at the
Court of Madrid, the decree of the Spanifli Mo
narch, relative to foreigners, has' been so far
withdrawn, as not to affedt foreigners fettled in
any of the sea-ports of Spain, or employed in any
of the royal manufactories or (lore houses.
" We learn from Berlin, that the Turkish Am
bafTador there shewed the greatell joy at receiv
ing the news of peace being concluded, and in
the evening illuminated his Hotel in a inoft su
perb manner."
—210—
CONGLESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Wednesday, October 26.
MR. SEDGWICK, Mr. Macon, and Mr. Vena
ble, took :lieir feats this clay.
The committee appointed to draft rules and
regulations for the House, reported progress.
It was moved that the rules of the former
House fljould be adopted pro tempore. This was
objected to by foine of the new members who
were unacquainted with ihofe rules. The rules
were read for information, aud then the uiotiou
was carried
A letter was received from the Treasurer of
the United States, witlia ftatemenc of his ac
counts.
A message was received from the President of
the United Slates communicating to the House
/undry acts palled by the Legislatures of different
Stales and transmitted to him during the recess
of Congrefs,.vjz.—Au ast of the Srate of New-
Hamplhire, ceding to thp Unite «1 States a ligln
houfe fiiuate within that State ; —an acfl of the
Legislature of Pennsylvania, ratifying one of the
proposed amendments to the Conltitution of the
United States ; and an aift of the Legislature of
North Carolina, granting to the United States
the use of the jails within that State.
A reinonftrance was handed to the chair from
Thomas Barnes, attorney for Rumfey, dating
the infufficiency of theacft for securing to invent
ors the exclusive advantages of their discoveries
and improvements.
A motion was laid on the table, by Mr. Wil
liamfon, that a committee be appointed to pre
pare a bill to amend the aeft for the encourage
ment of ufeful arts.
Older of the day.
In committee of the whole, on the President's
Speech.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the Chair,
The addi ess being read, Mr. Vr king moved a
resolution, of which the following is ihe purport,
" Resolved, That it is the opinion of this com
mittee, that an address should be prelented to
tlie President of the United States, by the House
of Representatives in answer to his speech, to
congratulate liim on the prosperous lltuation of
the United States ;—.expreftive of the approbation
of the House of the wife and prudent ineafures
he has pursued during their recess, in the exe
cution of tlie duties committed to his charge;
promising speedy attention to the important and
momentous objetSs recommended to their con
sideration, and expreifing their approbation of
the humane and effectual steps taken, under his di
rection, for the defence of theWeltern frontiers."
This rel'olution was objected to by Mell'rs. Law
ranceand Sedgwick,Smith (S. C.) and Livermore,
upon the principle, that it exprelfed the sense of
the House npon points which requited further
information and inveltigation before the House
could, with propriety, determine. It was diffi
cult to fay, before proper documents were laid
before the Ho lift; whether the ineafures adopt
ed for the defence of the weltern frontiers were
the molt prudent that could be adopted. It was
impossible, positively to allert, that the Prefidein
in the execution of the duties assigned him in
carrying into elFect the Excise acft, had done all
for the bell. Every member that spoke agreed
in expreffiug his individual opinion, that no doubt
the President had acted with his wonted pru
dence and wisdom in the execution of the trusts
reposed in him ; but alio agreed that it was im
proper, indeed it was no compliment paid to the
President, to approve before a formal examination.
In anlvver to these objections it was observed,
that so far as circum (lances had been madeknown
to the members, relative to the lteps taken by
the Prefidetit during the recets of the Federal
Legislature so far they claimed the approbation
of the House, and that the opinion of the House
was only meant to be given as far as they were
informed. It was urged, that the answer of the
House ftiould be a candid expreflion of their feel
ings ; feelings which rhe prosperous lituation of
the country undoubtedly called forth, and which
the illue of the measures adopted coald not fail
to excite.
Seveial modifications were proposed to the re
solution, which was finally agreed to, in Cub
nance as follows, viz. « Resolved, That an an
swer be returned to the President's address, con
taining allurances of f'peedy atrentioti to the im
portant objecfts-rccom mended to the confidera
uon of the Legislature." Thus modified the .e
(outturn was reported to and adopted by the
A memorial was presented from the diftilleri
111 the town of Bolton and vicinity, complaining
of the unequal operation of the excise law, and
fuggelting alterations therein.
A memorial was read from the Sheriff of Suf
folk County, Matlachufects refyeding pril'onen
of the United States.
. A resolution was adopted, directing the Cleik
to cause three of the city newspapers, at the elec
tion of the refpediive members, to be left at t heir
lodgings. Mr. Giles piefented a petition from
Mr. William Witlock of the town of Peterfoui;-
( Virginia) whicn was referred to the Secretary
of the Treasury.
The following members were appointed a coir
mittee to examine the credentials of persons re.
turned as members of the House, viz. Me firs.
Livermore, Boudinot, Gerry, Gilman, Bourne
(R.) Hillhoufe and Steele.
A resolution which had been laid on the table,
contemplating the appointment of a conunitte of
contested elections was taken up-
Mr. Livermore was opposed to such an appoint
ment. The constitution, lie said, had lixed the
mode of judging contested elections, at least to
determine so far that the House should be the
judges of camelled elections of their own mem
bers. He was of opinion that the forms to be
observed in the trial should not be fixed before a
cafe of conrefted election occurred. He totally
disapproved of the idea of delegating to a com
miuee this power of judging, expressly given to
them by the Constitution. Such a transfer of
power, he conceived, would be as unconstitu
tional as to delegate a legislative authority. In
the Briiiih parliament, it was true, a committee
was made the judge of contefled elections ; but
there was no higher authority there, he obfen
ed, to prevent them from delegating this power ;
when here the people of the United States had
clearly spoken in their constitution, and deter
mined the judges of the elections.
Mr. Vining stated, that his objedt in wiflurig
the refolutionadopted, was to procure expedition,
Cave expence, and secure fairnefs of decision in
determining contested elections. He hoped the
conilitution would be 110 obstacle to tlie attain
ment ofihefe desiderata. Perhaps, he foggefted,
it might be found necessary to leave to the House
a final vote, after the work of the committee had
been laid before them.
Mr. White said he clearly saw great inconveni
ence in permitting cases of contetted elections to
come diretftly before the House. The delays ami
consequent expellee of examining witnefles before
the House, he itated, would be very great. He
was of opinion that a committee appointed for
that purpose should examine the evidences bro't
forward, arrange them, and lay them in order
before the House for theirinformation ; but then
he infilled, 011 the necessity of letting the deter
mination depend upon a vote of the House.
The House adjourned without taking a qnelli
-011 011 the resolution, until to-morrow, 11 o'clock.
THURSDAY, October 27.
The Speaker communicated a letter from the Secretary of the
Library Company of Philadelphia, enclosing sundry resolutions
of the Company for granting to the Members: of both houses of
Congress, as full and free use of the books as if they were mem
bers of the said company.
Mr. Livermore presented the petition of Mrs. M*Leary, widow
of Col. M'Leary, who was killed at Bunker's Hill, June 17, 17
praying for half-pay, for reasons expressed in said petition.
Mr. S\lveftei presented a repiefentation of John Younglove,
containing a full account of his fnuation in consequence of the
wounds he received in the late war, for which he had been puton
the pension lift.
Also a memorial of sundry persons designed to invalidate and
counteract the above repiefentation.
Mr. Waid presented fundrv petitions from persons prayinj
compensations, &c. for services during the late war.
Mr. White presented the petition of Charles Gardner, praying
to be placed on the penfioci lift.
Mr. Gerry prcfented the petition of John Taylor, praying to be
placcd on the pension lift.
Mr. Smith (S. C.J prcfented sundry petitions and memorials
from several persons for commutation or halt pay.
All the above memorials and petitions were referred to the Se
cretary of War.
The memorial of the Sheriff of the County of Suffolk (MasT a
chufetis) was referred to a select committee confiding of Messrs.
Gerry, Learned and Sterrett. .
Mr. Gerry prcfented the petition of Susanna Fowle, widow or
Lieut. Fowle, who died at Rock Landing, State of Georgia, in
the fervieeof the United States; referred to Messrs. Gerry, Wadi
worth and Ward.
The petition of Francis and Isaac Choate, presented by Mr-
Ward, praying to be reimbursed certain lofles and expcnces incur
red in consequence of being captured by the Indians, was rea >
and referred to a committee confifling of Messrs. Ward, W ' ll!e
and Smith, (N. H.)
A petition from Reuben Weed, presented bv Mr. Lawranee,
and a petition of ftindry inhabitants of the Wcftern Territory,
presented bv Mr. Smith (S. C.) were read, and referred to the e
cretary of the Treasury. . .
Mr. Fitzfimous presented a petition from a committee o
public cicditors who loaned money to the United States, bei^ cc
September 1777, aud March 1778— read and laid on the ta e.
A petition of Charles Heatley, presented by Mr. Tucker,
referred to the Secretary of State. . , - f
A message was received from the President of the Unite '
by the Secretary at War, with the Reports of Gene"'
Lieutenant Colonel Commandant Wilkjnfon, copy of the in
tions to thofc officeis from the President, &c. —Thcfe were ai
the table. ,
Mr. Madifon,of the committee aopo'.nted for that purp| 0 1 »
ported an address in anfwertoihe President's Speech— -w nc
read the firlt and second time, and, on motion of Mr. VW» pt
ferred to a committee of the whole houfc,
Mr. Muhlenberg in the Chair. . ma j e
The committee considered the fame by P ar *^ a *Y S, . an r e __tb<
no Amendments—they then lofc and reported to the nouhouse accepted the repnrt unanimoufl/, and appointed a commit
tee to wait on the President, to enquire at what time and place he
W nuld receive the address.
The committee having waited on the Prefidenr, returned and
informed the house, that to-morrow, at 12 the President
would receive the address at his own house.
FRIDAY, October 28,
Sundry petitions for compeiifttions and pensions F6r services
perforin'-'d and difabiiities incurred during the late war, wereprc
f'ented by MefTrs. S'erret, Gerr/, and Ward ; —read, and referred
to the Secretary at War.
The petition of Benjamin Warren, presented to the late House
of Rcprcfentativcs, on motion of Mr. Bourne (M.) was taken iuto
consideration, read, and referred to the Secretary at War.
The motion laid on the table by Mr.Lawrance, for the appoint
ment of a ro.iimittee to bring in a bill or bills to provide tor the
regiflering fhtps 01 veflcls, to regulate thofc employed in thecoaft
iny trade and the fifherics, and tor oiher purposes, was taken into
consideration. agreed to, and a committee appointed accordingly,
confiding of MeilYs. Goodhue, Fitzfimons, and Ivawrance.
At 12 o'clock, the Speaker, attended by the Members and the
Clerk, and preceded by the Serjeant at Arms, waited on the Pre
fidentof the United States, at his house, where the Speaker deli
vered the following Addrrfs,in answer to his Speech to both Houses
at the opening of the Seifion : —
Si R,
I\ T receiving your addrefsat the opening of the present feflion.
the House of Rcprefentatives'have taken an ample share in the feel
ings infpireJ by the a&ual prosperity, and flattering profpe&s of
our country : And whiltt, with becoming gratitude to heaven, we
ascribe this happtnefs to the true Iburce from which it flows, we
behold with an animating pleasure, the degree in whtch the con-
Jlitution and laws of the United States have been instrumental in
dispensing it.
It yields us particular fatisfaftion to learn the success with which
the different important measures of the government have proceed
ed; as well those specially provided for at the last feflion, as those
of preceding date. The fafcty of our Western Frontiers, in
which the lives and repose of so many of our fellow citizens are
involved, being peculiarly interesting, your co nmunications on
that fubjeft arc proportionally grateful to us. The gallantry and
good conduit of the Militia, whole feivices were called for, arc an
honorable confirmation of the efficacy of that precious icfource of
a free State. And we anxiously wish that the confluences of their
fuccefsiul enterprizes, and of the other proceedings to which you
have referred, may leave the United States free to pursue the mo if
benevolent policy towards the unhappy and deluded race of peo
ple in our neighborhood.
The ampunt of the population of the United States, determined
by ihe returns of the tenfus, is a source of the mod pleasing re
flexions, whether it be viewed in relation to our national fafcty
and refpe&ability, or as a proof of that felicity in the situation of
our country which favors so unexampled a rapidity in our growth.
Nor ought any to be infcnfible to the additional motive suggested
by this important fact, to perpetuate the tree government establish,-
cd, with a wife adminiftiation of it, to a portion of the earth
which promises such an increase of the number which is to enjoy
these bleflings within the limits of the United States.
We (hall proceed with all the rclpeft due to your patriotic re
commendations, and with a deep sense of the trust committed to
ils by our fellow citizens, to take into confideratioti the various
and important niaiteis falling within the present session—and in
difcufling and deciding each, we shall feel every disposition, whilst
we are pursuing the public welfare, which must be the supreme
objett with all our constituents, to accommodate as far as pofliblf,
the means of attainining it to the sentiments and wishes of cveiy
part of them.
Signed by order, and in behalf of the House of Reprefentahves,
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker.
Attefl. John Beckley, Clerk.
To which the President was pleased to make the following
Reply.
Gentlemen,
THE pleasure I derive from an aflurance of your attention to
the obje&s I have recommended to you, is doubled by your con
currence in the testimony I have borne to the prosperous condi
tion of our public affairs.
Relying on the (an&ions of your enlightened judgments and cn
your patriotic aid, I (hall be the more encouraged in all my en
deavors for the public weal; and particularly in those which may
be required on my part for executing the salutary measures I an
ticipate from your present deliberations.
G. WASHINGTON.
The Members then returned to their Hall, where the Prefidcnt's
icply was read.
A rneflage was received from the President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear, communicating a copy of the enumeration
of the Inhabitants of the United States, agreeable to the Census
taken pursuant to a law of the Union.—Also, sundry papers from
the Governor of Pcnnfylvania, relpefting fevcral persons who have
fled from jullice from this State, to the State of Virginia. The pa
pers were read, and a motion laid on the table by Mr. Sedgwick,
that a committee should be appointed to whom the papers ,re
fpe&ing the persons fleeing from justice, should be referred ; with
inftrufiions to report a bill or bills, making a general provision in
cases of persons charged with felony, treason or other crimes, who
IDay flee from a State having cognizance thereof, See.
The schedule of the census was referred to a committee of the
whole House, and made the order of the rfay sot Monday next.
The other papers ictVrred to in the mefTdge of the President re
ceived yeilcrday, were then read, viz. An ast of the State of North-
Carolina, ceding a tra£l of land for the use of the United States,
for the creftion of Light Houses —and the Reports of the Com
manders on the expeditions against the Indians.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick a committee was appointed to
bring in a bill to provide for the regulation of the Poft-Office and
Post Roads, consisting of MelTrs. Livermore, Clark, Steele, Bouruc
(R. I.] Thatcher.
Mr. Williamfon's motion, for a committee to bring in a bill
to amend the a£t for promoting the progress of the ufeful arts, was
adopted, and the following gentlemen appointed, Messrs. Willi-
Bmfon, Hillhoufe, and Sedgwick.
Adjourned to Monday 11 o'clock.
PITTSBURGH, October i 5,
By gentlemen from Galliopolis, we are informed that four men,
within a fliort distance of Marietta, and one at Bell Pre, 15 miles
lower down the Ohio, have been killed by the Indians, within
these twelve days past. They also inlorm, that the settlement at
Galliopolis is in a very thriving way, and that they have not been
piolefltd by the savages.
BALTIMORE, Oflober 45.
Jixtraft of a letter from a re[be ft able gentleman in Baltimore County, to
his fii.-nd in this tovin, dated the 19th inji.
44 I have a remarkable breed of (beep, which haih been pro
cured bv adding to my flock a Persian ram.
44 Theotherday I (epaiated from the reft twelve wethers; these
I intend to kill this Winter: They appeared so oncommoalv fat
and large, that I was induced to weigh them alive; the particular
*vri<»ht o f each fhetp was as follows :—154. i77> 1 ® l » *68, 157,
'68, 188, 174, 174, i 52l 169—Total, sci^lb."
Bennington oa. 17.
By a gentleman from Dover in the State of
New-York, we are informed, t»ac a merchant of
that place, a few days since, ent his clerk to
receive a sum of money : the ilerk, on his re
turn, was observed by loine nun in a field to meet
a traveller, the men in the fiell soon heard tlie
cry of murder, and at the fain< inltant observed
one of the men to fall ; they iumediately ran to
his ;ifli(tance : on their arriva they found the
clerk (tabbed, of which wound he expired in a
few hours : he was robbed of his watch, money,
arid hnt, and rhe perpetrator ied to art adjacent
wood : they immediately raised a number of
men, fiirroutided the wood, and secured the vil
lain. He owned he had robbed the person kill
ed, and notwithstanding a dagger was found in
his pofleHion, he denied he had ever itabbed him.
—He is lodged in Poughkeepfie gaol to await his j
trial.
Adjourned.
LITCHFIELD, October 19.
We learn from Albany, that a few days iince,
a Negro servant was wantonly fliot through the
neck, and killed, by direction of his inhuman
matter, at Jhe glass works near Albany. Our
informant affirms, that the Negro had been late
ly purchased by a proprietor in the works, and
was represented as ijifane : His diSorder was,
however, imputed to a vicious difpoficion ; and
having given Specimens of his obstinacy and fulk
inefi to his new matter, one of the workmen was
directed to shoot him : who inadvertently com
plied, the (hot patting through his neck ; which
riot proving fatal, and the Negro becoming out
rageous in consequence of the wound, a Second
shot was discharged, which penetrated the neck,
and finifhed his existence. An .inquett was im
mediately Summoned, whose verdilt was wi/Jui
murdet. The deluded parfbn having consulted
an Attorney relative to the tranSa<tions, was ad
viSed to eScape from justice ; and he departed
accordingly.
On Wednelday Se'n#ight, the regiment ol
militia, commanded by Col. David Judfon wai
reviewed at Wafliington. A considerable pari
of the regiment appeared in uniform, blue facec
with red. Gentlemen experienced in the Ar
Military, speak very highly of the orderly anc
soldier like ,condu& of officers and men, whi
went through the various exercises of the day
very much to the honor and reputation of th<
whole.—The 19th Company of Cavalry, annexec
to the sth regiment, commanded by Capt. Taylor
muttered at this review ; whose martial appear
ance added much to the Splendor of the day
This new company, under the direction of thi
enterprising and vigilant yonngofficers who con
duct it, bids fair to equal; if not rival, any com
pany in the regiment.
John F. Mercer, Esq. offers himfelf as a candi
date to Congress to supply the vacancy occasion
ed by the resignation of William Pinckney, Esq.
RICHMOND, Oaober jp.
On Monday last, being the day appointed for
the meeting of the General Aflembly of this Com
monwealth, a quorum of the House of Delegates
being convened at the Capitol in this city, they
proceeded to appoint a Clerk, and made choice
of Mr. Charles Hay ; after which they proceeded
to choose a Speaker, when the Hon. Thomas
Matthews, Esq. was unanimously elected ; and
being conducted to tlie chair, he made his ac
knowledgments to the House for the honor con
ferred on him.
Last Monday night, about 11 o'clock, a build
ing in Broad-street, occupied by Mr. Nitchie,
manufacturer of itarch and hair-powder, took
fire, and was very soon reduced to allies. Consi
derable damage was done to an adjoining house.
We hear from Philadelphia, that the Hon.
Thomas JefFerfon, Esq. Secretary of Stare for
the United States, has appointed Capt. Philip
Freneau, Interpreter of the French Language
for the Department of State.
By order of Sir John Temple, Baronet, his Bri
tannic Majesty's Consul Genera), throughout
the United States of America :
INFORMATION is hereby given for the go
vernment of all mailers or commanders of Britilh
veflels, who may arrive at the ports of the said
United States, that an ast of Parliament of the
eleventh and twelfth of William the third [made
perpetual by the atft of the 9th of George the
firlt] enaifts, " that if any mailer of a merchant
(hip, fliall, during his being abroad, force any
man 011 fliore, or wilfully leave him behind, in
anv of his Majesty's plantations, or e/fevihere,
(hall, being thereof legally convitfted, fuffer
three months imprifonmcnr, without bail or
mainprife."
DUMFRIES, Otftober 20.
WE, ihe Grand Jury for the Diftritf of Dum
fries, do present as a grievance, the existing
laws of this Commonwealth ; whereby landed
Property is protected from sale by execution for
of debts.
We fee with regret, many inftanceg of injus
tice, and we apprehend much immorality is
thereby encouraged.
E A S T O N, (M.) Oft. 18
N E W-Y O R K, Otftober 26
Philadelphia, October 29.
MEMBERS OF the SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
New- Ham pftiire.
Hon. John Langdou
Paine Wingate
Majfachufetts.
Caleb Strong
George Cabot
Rkode-IJland.
Theodore JKoftjjr
Joseph Stanton, jun,
ConneSlicut.
Roger Sherman
Oliver Ellfworth
New-York.
Rufus King
Aaron Burr
New-Jer sey.
Philemon Dickinfon
John Rutherfurd
Pennsylvania.
Robert Morris
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
New-Hamp/hirc.
Hon. Samuel Livermore
Nicholas Gilman
Jeremiah Smith*
Majfachufetts.
FiQier Ames
Elbridge Gerry
Benjamin Goodhue
Theodore Sedgwick
George Thatcher
Artemas Ward*
ShearjaQiub Bourne*
Rhode- JJland.
Benjamin Bourne
Conneflicut.
Jonathan Trumbull
Jeremiah Wadfwoith
James A. Hillhoufe.*
Jonathan Sturges
Amafa Learned*
New-York.
John Lawrance
Egbert Benfon
Peter Syivefter
James Gordon*
Thomas Tredwel!*
Cornel iusC.Schoonmaker*
New-Jersey.fey.
Abraham Clark*
Jonathan Dayton*
Elias Boudinot
Aaron Kitchcll*
P r.nnfylvania.
F. A. Muhlenberg
Thomas Fitzfimona
Daniel Heiiler
Israel Jacobs*
Jonathan Wilkes Kitteia*
Thomas Hart'ey
William Findley*
Thoje with this * mark were not members ef the JirJl Congress.
The grand Constitutional Chart being finifhed, was on Saturdays
S c P. t ' 3> presented to the King of the French—who observed to the
committee, on its being put into his hands—
" I now receive the Conftitutinn presented to me by the Na
tional Assembly. 1 shall inform them of my rsfolution, after the
fhortefl poflible delay which the examination of such an impor
tant object demands.—l am resolved to remain in Paris—l ihall
give the necessary orders to the Commandant-General of the Na
tional Parisian troops rel'pefting my Guards."
The Thuilleries were opened, and the ceotinels ported to pre
vent the entrance of strangers removed.
The repeated instances of fire's breaking oat in various parts of
the city, have excited strong suspicions- of a treacherous and infer
nal design to make a general conflagration—that, in the confufion,
the property ot the citizens may be plundered.
Says a Coirefpondent—Public opinion governs every thing—*
and therefore every thing Ihould be done to enlighten it. The
Newfpapets have been flopped or have palled with confiderablc
difficulty through the Poft-Offices. This ought not to be so.
Transmitting the Newspapers from one end of the Continent to
the other, need not cost the public a farthing. A light charge
upon the carriage would defray the expence, and insure the deli,
very. They ought to pass under the protedion of law at fafely as
letters.
Arrived intown since our laftthe Hon. Mr.HAMMOND,deputed
from the Court of London to the United States of America.
Copy of a letter from the Consul of the United States
in London, to the Secretary of State.
London, Aiigufl. 10, 1791.
Sir,
I BEG that you will be pleated to make it pub
lickly known to the citizens of the United States,
that all American /hipping carrying tobaccoes,&c.
to the ports of Guernsey and Jersey, are fubjec'l
to seizure, under an a& of parliament, in the
reign of Charles the second, that they may go
vern theinfclves accordingly.
I have the honor to be, &c.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS tt the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Jamaica, Sparki, London
Sloop Ann, Gardner, Nantucket
Nancy, Moffet, Virginia
Brothers, Grof>. Ditto
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
22/ pr. / .
.2/6
»3/4
6 pr. Cents :
3 pr. Cents
Defercd 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16/8 17J 85 do.
Indents 10/6 52J do.
Bank Subfctiptions, Dollars.
SENATE.
Delaware.
Richard BalFet
George Read
Maryland.
John Henry
Charles Carroll
Virginia.
Richard Henry Lee
James Munroe
North-Carolina.
Samuel J oh 11 ft on
Benjamin Hawkins
Suuth-Ca?olina.
Pierce Butler
Ralph Izard
Georgia*
William Few
James Gunn.
VermonL
Delaware,
Hon. John Vining
Maryland.
Jofliua Seney
Samuel Sterret*
Upton Sheredine*
Philip Key*
William Vans Murray*
Virginia.
John Brown
William B. Giles
Samuel Griffin
Richard Bland Lee
James Madison
Andrew Moore
John Page
Alexander White
Jofiah Parker
Abraham Venable*
Not th-Carolina.
John Baptist Alhe
John Steele
Hugh Williamfon
William Barry Groves*
Nathaniel Macon*
South-Carolina.
Daniel Huger
William Smith
Thomas Sampler
"1 homas Tudor Tucker
Robert Barnewell*
Georgia.
Abraham Baldwin
Fiancis Willis*
Anthony Wavnc
Vtrmon't.
Kentucky, comes into the
Union in June, 1792.
110 pr. ceat.
62$ do.
66§ do.FROM A LONDON PAPER.
D£ATHA L I V E.
AfaMuritc Ballad, writtinycomftofcd,and Jang ky Mr. Dibdi n, i'* hit
Entktainmimt op th£ Wags.
I.
SINCE by cutting of trotes all glories encrafe y
Of war let us sing, becafe why ? it brings pate ;
Of hacking and hewing in front and in tear,
Of some hilt b/ (word, and some dying through fear.
Death alive ! what sweet (laughter, and putting, and fears,
Is it honor you'd feck, and wo'n't go 1a the wart ?
When death his long scythe bathes in gore to the hilt,
And whips heads from (boulders lo clever,
And where, should you pet the good luck to be ki.'t,
By my sowl —you'll be living forever!
11.
The army's drawn out, and confufion's begun,
While our arms shine so bright, that the> dazzle the fun ;
O the glorious fight—but the best of the joke,
The devil a foul we are feeing—but smoke !
Death alive! See.
iii.
Like a Will o' the Wisp, while our glory it fires,
See glory lead on over buflies and briars,
Pass ! begone ! hiccius doxius ! just like cup and ball,
Now 'tis here, and now there, and now—no where at all ?
IV.
That war is delightful then who can deny ?
Tc be living forever, ah, who would not die ?
Your fame's up from the moment it puts you to bed,
And you grow a great man—by the loss of your head !
Death alive ! &c.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
Class Second.
THIS Clals will pofnively commcnce drawing on Thursday
the 24th of November next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition.-—*-The Managers pledge them
selves that no confederation whatever (hall induce thein to postpone
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
Bollon, October is, 1791.
A Young Gentleman, ol American birth and education (being
a graduate) would for a liberal compenfatiorf engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and Englifti Languages. He has had some experience in
teaching, and trufls he can exhibit fatisfaflory recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjeft, post paid, addreflrd to A— S—,
and the care of the Editor heieof, prior to the 25th December, will
be punctually attended to.
Oflobcr 22, 1 791
Funds of the United States.
A LI. kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negociated;
Merchandize ot all forts bought and fold on (ommiffion, and all other
Bufmefs in the line of a Broner, tianfafted by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Officc next door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2m
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
refined sugars, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail.
No. 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L L. D. Profcffoi of Laws
in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courts of Lectures. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary lo the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, October 12, 1791. (eptD)
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Cheliiut-Street, next door to the Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
and NEW-HAVEN '
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame rilace.
WANTED, A NUMIiEK Of ~
Journeymen Cordwaiiiers,
Who will find conflant employment and generous wages, bv ap
plying to the Master Coidwainers of the City of Philadclplii a
Otlohr 22, i-qi. (- ent fj
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apply who
cannot be well recoromCTcled. Enquire of the Printer.
W. M'D OU CALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School.Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
TTE returns his fincerc thanks for the great encouragement he
Xi. has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
decorum and good order, as.well as the perform
public ' ft '" e " fUrC h ' m 2 rcf P cftablc of the
dui" U the fofo" W ' COlilHOnS 3nd will be taught
Tnofe who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
de" m.y bcafTurea.iheyw" 1 be taught in ,he molt approved
manners. P '° P " a " e " 110 " W ' M be paid t0 lhc,r and
brtilVAhr pr ° Vement of tbe fchohr., will
brtre»«thc New RWr.hs, every other Wednesday ; when the
•jmployers and ft,an f W genieel deportment, will he adm.td
These w.ll be attended with no expcnce
N B. Ao hVfcNING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer grown
Philadelphia, September 14, 170,
UmvtßsiTY OF Pennsylvania,
,/ Vr '; lED ' C J L LBCTUREstuniZin on
the firfl Monday tn November next.
PRINTS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
fubferibers to he Prints of the Battle of Bunker's Hill,
X and the a:tack ofQucbec, arc informed, that Etchings of
those Prints arc to be fen at Mr. Anthony's, Jeweller, in Mar
ket-fired—(where ina} alio be seen an Etching <>l Mr. Copley's
cclcbiated Print of the Death of Loid Chatham.)
The fubfeription for.his work (which has hitherto been confin
ed to America) will beopened on the lft of Januaiy next, in the
principal cities of Eurcpe : Thoi*e Gentlemen therefore who may
wifli to pofTefs earlv, aid of courfc valuable imprcflfions, are re
queued to avail themfeves of this interval, in which a piefcrence
is flill given to Amerin.
Subscriptions are icrived bv Mr. Trumbull, and by Mr.
Anthony, Jeweller, Philadelphia ; Mr. Daniel Penfield,
Water-rtreet, New-Yok; Mr. William Vayne, Bolton; and
Mr. R. Hazlehltrot; Charleston, South-Carolina.
The price to fubferibers is Three Guineas for each Print—
one half to be paid at the time of lubfctibing, the lemainder when
the Prints ihiill be delivered.
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcripiiorijOnCWMu^on,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at auction, one eighth per
cent.
On ditto at private faleor purchase, one-haj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
amount of the interest.
Death alive ! &c.
For making transfers ac ditto, seventy-Jive cents per transfer.
££3" Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their order.*, may relv on their being executed with punflua/ity,
fidelity and difputch. His long experience and extrnfive dealings
in the public llocks, together with a well eftablilhed correspon
dence throughout the United States, enable him to condud his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
-' And poffeflion given immediately,
That pleafanfly fltuated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the format It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two story ttone house
nnd kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole painted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-ftiop, granary, waggon
houfe; barrack cow-houfcs, two ftorieshigh and 90 feet long, and
a good barn, with stabling. From the buildings there arc charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
anplyingto the fubferiber on the premifes,or to Isaac Snowden,
No. 141, South Second-ftiect, Philadelphia.
[taw]
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor.
dentown, and stolen from the fame the folio wing articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; t {mail
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teflaments; i ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped vert and
breeches, two fbirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifev coppers; 4 keg containing a large bible, with other
linall books; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, lomc of
them large and elegant, and of diffeient colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Inilay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen pa tie-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau
with black fides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, la that thei»wnersmay have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the fccurity of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they iflay be brought to jufticr, by
RUN AWAY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NEGttO
MAN, named Abraham, late the property of NatMMul
Wickliff,, deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inchesbigh, preity well let, with a large wooll) head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and *»cles—by trade a bricklayer, (lone mason and
plaftertr. -He is a very handy fellow at a fioufe- waiter, and is lond
of such business. He is a great dissembler, and no doubt preiends
lie is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will fe
curefaid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will begiven if heis brought to Prince William County, Virginia,'
to Mr. John Kinchelor, by
Holy Bible. —Royal Quarto.
A/T R - THOMAS, of Worcester, MalTachufetts, inoA refpeft-
Vj V m,orms lt,e public. he has this day completed the
Teftamenlsof h's R"val Quarto Edition of the
r Thc A P° cr yP ha an <i Index, &c. will be finifti
ed wnh all thediTpatch the nature of the work will adnit
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejler, or to him and Company at Boston,
by the lallday of November next, and as much foonei as thevcoii
veniently can. '
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
m.ncd by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the cxecuiionof the
punting, its correOnels, »nd its rheapiiets compared with Englilh
copies of the fame size and quality.
A. this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
Who Will" £ £ at i Co , ft ' hc is lcd to h °P e lhat 8,1 those
I>,M,LI, j l>off ' fs a '"Sf Fam, 'y Bib| e. will so far encourage this
to ,he JubfcMptit' ng ° f thnrCOUn " ymdn ' »IO add —
(<■ f.)
"t^'Nvr's'i'rri'TVE-k-r"'"
t> r n- 0n .' he most ,m *>°«ant SubjeQs, '
Refpefling the REVOLUTION of AMERICA
„ I W " tten Holland in the year 1780,
} ..f \ ice-Pr is:d tnt Jf lht Vnitei Sut:^
Philadelphia, Oclober 24, 1701
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER 8t AUCTIONEER,
Offober 1 17Qi
sO BE SOLD,
Princeton, October 10, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
JOHN VAN EMBURGH,
Bordentown, Newwjerfey, Sept. i, 1791. [eptfj
Thirty Dollars Reward.
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Adminiflrator.
(lawgw]
Oflober t2, 1791
WorccJUr, Sept. 29, 1791
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street,
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[ep2m]
ISAIAH THOMAS,
PLAN* or TIIE
Gazette of the United States.
I-E ARLY and authentic »ceonnn of the ProceeAWro/f , ,
communicated so as to form an lullory of the tianUaioi TT
National Government. l " c
11. Laws, Sec. of the United States.
111. Impartial Sketches of the Debatrt ofCon^refs.
IV. ffwon the great fuhj tts of timn.aent; also „
local and national rights <>i ihe American ciiir.,,,, ~ s ou ,, d , .
nature,or onthe national or HateConftitutions; and on,Hl' ,
j tis suitable for newi'paper difiHlioii. lcr <UD ~
V. A ferics of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the « livim-n,
ner« as they rile." ami to point the public attention ;.n
have in important icference to doracftic, iodal and Di'hliA
pine ft. 'P
VI. The Intcrtp of the United States, as connected w,ih th •
literary Inflitutiom; religious and moral objrtHj i mp , OVPni tlr
in Silence. Arts, Education and Humanity; their i""".'
treaties, alliances, connexions, &r. ' ' il ° n
VII. Intelligence which mav attVQ the commercial, airriculluul
manufafturina, or political mtereftjof the Aaiciitln union
VIII. A chain of Domejitc Occurrences.
IX. A ferics of foreign articles of Intelligence.
X. The file of the Funds-, Courses of Exchange ; Prices Currevt
CONDITION'S
Published every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, Thui Doilaii pr r annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be ipade at the time of fob.
scribing: The (econd at the end ol the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Willie received inallthe capita!towns ut-.ontheConf inert-, alfoot No Co
High-Street, between Second and Third Streets, Hiladelpiiu.
ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
TO THE PUBLIC.
AT this important crilis,thc ideas that fill the mind, are prr»
nam with events of the greatest magnitude— to ffren'gthrn and"
complete the union of ihe St»trs--to extend and pioV} rheir
commerce-to explore and arrange the national'funis—in reftorr and
establish the public credit—will require energies rtf the patriots
and sages of our conntiy— Hence the propriety of encreajivg the m
diums of knowledge and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national exillence—
" THE WORLD is »u befo re he k "—the wisdom and lolly—
the misery and profpeiity of the empires, slates, and kingdoms, which
have had their day upon the grcal theatre of time, and are now no
more, suggest the moll important inemciitns—ihefe, with the rapid
feriei of events, in which our ceunirv has been involved*/have
taught the enlightened citizms of the United States, that freedtm
and government, liberty and laws, are inftparablc.
This conviaion led to the adoption of the new cirnftiturioht
for however various the sentiments, refpefluigthe merits of tbi>
system, all good men are agreed in the nectffity of an efficient fe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, established upon national, independent, ahd
impartial principle*—which shall take up the ptemifed ai tides, upo»
a competent pl aN,it is presumed, will be highly iutereiling,'
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to l£ave no avenue
of information unexplored He solicits the assistance of perfsna
of leisure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not un
worthy general encouragement-' and is, with due refped, the
public's humble fcrvant,
April 15,1789,
POSTSCRIPT.
THE plan and execution of the Gazette of the Unite*
States, have received the approbation of a tribunal, from which
there is no appeal.
The fubferiptions, which arc encfeafing, have long ftnee exceed
ed the expectations of the oublifher—a punctual compliance with
the terms would compensate his labours, and animate his future
exertions.
The Government that an enlightened and free people adopt, if
a sacred confederation—it knows no its prosperity is
founded on the public good.
While the people are just *.o themselves, the administration of
their affairs will be committed to men of integrity and competent
abilities; and it will be the duty of patnotifm to impress the pub
lic mind with favorable fentimcnts of the meaiuie's of govern
ment.
Our country continuing enlightened and free, the period can
not be anticipated when a publication on the plan of this Gazette
shall involve a dereliction ol those principles with which the li
oerties and hanpinefs of the United States are connected.
With refprCt to the circulation of this paper, the Editor regrets
the recent difa}>pointmcnts which have unavoidably tak.cn placc—
he has always been fultyTmprefrcd with the importance of punc
tuality, and cannot charge himfeif with a ftncle lultance of re
mi fTncfs.
It is very generally fyppofed that Congress, at the ensuing
fcfljon, will take measures to ensure the circulation of news
papers in the United States; and particularly their tranfmiflion
irom the Seat ol Government to all partsof the Union. Jultice,
policy and patriotifin, plead irrcfiflably in favor of some effectual
provision's being made. The following pertinent and judicious,
observations on this fubje£t, lately appeared in an address to the
public from the Editor of the Gazetteof Maine. They
are fubflituted in preference to any thing which the editor of this
paper might further furjgeft, more particularly as coining from a
remote quarter of the Union.
" Perhaps there is no country, in any part of the world, the in
habitants of which are, (or may be) supplied with public News
papers at a cheaper rate than those of Amciica. The Farmer and
the Merchant* the Laborer and the Mechanic, may, by the means
of a public Paper, when he retires frprn the business «ind fatitjufi
of the day, take a view ol the Atuation, the circumfiances and the
various revolutions of the several countries of the civilized world—
And it mull be a pleasing circumstance, that this is the privilege*
emphatically the privilege of an American.
" Let it therefore be remembered, that by virtue of this privi
lf *ge, the body of the people conflantly obtain and preserve such a
degree of knowledge as (hall be competent to the prevention ot
any attempt that may be made by cunning and deftgn:ng men to
sap the foundation of our mofl invaluable confutation. But, let
the circulation ol these Vehicles of Public Information be circum
scribed, and the people will at once become uninformed of public
tranfattions, and the more enlightened few will engrofsthe privi
leges, immunities and prerogatives, which in the nature and fimefs
of tilings, are the indcfeafible light of the whole body of the
people.
" It is prcfumcd no American will need a stimulus of this na
ture to furnifh hinifcU with public iniormation. The cheap ra e
at which it is olFered, the love and glory of our country, will
all times promote such a mode of condu&, as fhdll toreverbar the
attempts of tyranny, ignorance and fupciftition."
Q&Sererat of the firfl volume of this Gozttte ere zv3it:d —
ar.d the angina! ccjt, u>Ul be paid for them by the Editor.
THE EDITOR.