PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII.ADEI.PHIA
[No. 30, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
A" Friend to Justice" has thought proper to
come forward in your Gazette of the 30th
ulc. in a publication which it is well for hini is
not very long. The ignorance and pivfumpiion
which it displays, had otherwise precluded it ad
mission into your paper.
He appears to think that the people of Ame
rica will " read and judge" for tlitmfelves. in
this he is right. As one of the people, 1 read and
judge for myfelf; and I ihall make 110 ft ruple to
declare, that when I read this author's piece, 1
judged it to be the produtftion of some petty fcrib
bier (fiich as he characterizes Publicola's oppo
nents, of which, for aught I know, he may be out'
who comes forward in ilie papers " merely io
bring himfelf into notice." Let the good people
of America pay no attention therefore to a per
formance written with fncli contemptible views.
The author's vanity is fufiiciently gratified by
feeing his piece in print; and his end in writing
it is accoinplillied. He did not write from prin
ciple, as an honest man and patriot would do,
nor did he care how he bewildered his count) v
men, by his rash and afle: lions 0:1 10
important a fubjedt. U
The " Friend to to fay, that
the Vice-President is not the author of the pieces
fubferibed " Publicola." This may be true ; but
1 believe the " Friend to Justice" knows no more
whether the Vice-President wrote them, than the
people of Greenland do—notwirhltanding om
author has the " best authority" for what he
fays. The dignity of truth has often been vio
lated, by those who had the " best authority"
for doing i:.
■ Our bold author -mill also venture to assert, thai
" there is not a sentiment in the writings of Pub-
licola which can juftify the charges of aristo
cracy made against him, or in ihe smallest de
gree infringe the liberties of the people." This
aflertion ueed only be pointed out, that lis falfe
liood may be exposed and reprobated. The writ
ing' of " Publicola" are " ariftoci atical" in the
"■highest degree, and would be extremely dniige
rous, did not " the good sense of the people of
this country enable them to judge" and discern
their pernicious tendency. Very likciy the
" Friend to Justice" may have only funply erreJ
here ; for I do not believe that he knows what
the term " aristocracy" meatH.
" Publicola" is likely to meet.with his deserts ;
nor can the feeble " Friend to Jultice" rescue
him from the •' stings" which evil acftions leave
behind them.
Let me amicably part with the " Friend to
Justice," and advise him never more to take up
iiis pen, until he underflands his fubjc<st—never
■wantonly to write for his own arauftment, but al
ways to write on the fide of truth, and with a
view to benefit his country. By pursuing this
condnrt, he will gain the approbation of the
public—he will gain what is infinitely more de
licious an enjoyment, the approbation of his own
heart—and, inltead of the flriifiures, he will gain
the approbation of A Friend'to Truth.
(A vievi of the number of Inhabitants, and ccnfumpti
on of Provifianiyin London, from a late calculation.
r T > HERE are in and near the city of London,
JL one hundred alms-hoiifes, twenty hospitals
and infirmaries, three colleges, ten public pri
sons, fifteen flefh markets, one ditto for live cat
tle, two for herbs, and twenty-three for corn,
coals, hay, &c. fifteen inns of court, twenty-se
ven public squares, forty-nine halls for compa
nies, eight public or free schools, 131 charity
ditto, which provide education for 5054 poor
children, 207 inns, 447 taverns,ssl cofFee-houfes
5975 ale houses, 1000 liackney-coaches, 400 hack
ney-chairs, 7000 ttreets, lanes, courts, and alleys,
and i;o,ooo dwelling houses, containing one
million of inhabitants.
P.lack cattie,
Sheep and lambs,
Calves, ... i
j
FroviJ.ons confurned annually
Swine,
Pigs, - _ -
Poultry and wild fawl innumerable
Mackarels fold at Billinfgate, 14,740,000
Qyllers, bulhels, - . 105,530
Small boats, with cod, haddock, wbit- 0
ings, befidej great quantities of ri
▼er and faltfilh, * • r >
Wednesday, August io, 1791.
MR. HOWELL,
A WRI I'ER in one of the New-York papers,
under tlie signature of PHILODEMOS, who
has undertaken to aufwcr some of the fentimenis
advanced by Mr. Adams, in his " Dtfcnce of the
Im. rican Cohji'Uutions," in his jd number, intro
duces a quotation from the xxxi letter of the firft
volume with tliefe words—" The main drift of
'' Mr. Adams's book, is to ihew us the utility
" and necelfity of different orders of men, and
" an equilibrium of powers and privileges."
Sooti after follows another to the fame effect
from the Bth page of the preface. With certain
. eftri<llions, no perlon, who ever attentively
ead ihe writings of that gentleman, could pre
sume to dispute the truth of this aflertion. — Ihe
rxpieff: m " orders of men," as applied by Mr.
Adams to this country, i presume was never in
tended to convey the idea of a superior race of
iiiei>, or dill ; 4 t species of beings ; neither can
it mean an i. vech ary order. There undoubt
edly a-e in America, as in every other country
under Heaver , different dalles, ranks, degrees
or arde< s of men, and things ; yet there is no
physical ne effity, that any of them Ihould be
h editary Oi .• instance alone has ever been
aflfo ded by this country of an hereditary order
of i en. This difHniftion now no longer exists.
—It is rsboliftied, without leaving a single exam
ple ro pi ove that it ever had a being. Mr. A
dams evidently inculcates " the utility and ne
" celii v of different orders of men, and an e
" quilibrium of powers and privileges," in op
pofrion to tiie sentiments of Mr. Turgot, in his
ler f er to Dr. Price, where he observes that " he
" is nor fatisfied with the Constitutions which
" have hitherto been formed for the different
" Stares of America. By most of them, the cuf
" roms of England are imitated without any
" particular motive. Instead of colledling all
" authority into one centre, that of the nation,
" they have eflablifhed different bodies ; a bo
dy of Repi efenratives, a Council, and a. Go
" vernor ; because there is in England, a House
" of Commons, a House of Lords, and a King.
" They endeavour to balance these different
" powers, as if this equilibrium, which, in En
" be a necellary check to the enor
" fluence of Royalty, could be of any
" ufein' Republicks, founded upon the eqnali
" ty of all rhe citizens, and as it establishing
" different orders of men, was not a source of
" divisions and disputes."
Had the people of America, in coniplaifance
ro this opinion, at orice determined utterly to a
bolish the forms of governtment, which then ex
iited, colleifted all authority into one centre, A
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ; their motives and
principles might have been much more conform
able to those of Mr. Turgot, but how much less
advantageous to themselves, every one will de
cide, as shall prove belt adapted to their inter
efls. Happy for that gentleman, it pleased GOD
to take him from this world, before he had an
npportunity of experiencing the pernicious con
fcqoences of his fyftein upon his own country.
But what is the fignification of different orders
of men, as used by Mr. Turgot ! It evidently
means no more, than separate bodies, or diflinct
blanches of government. —And in no other sense
is it used by Mr. Adams, when applied to this
country
Our National Government consists of those
" three orders, and an effectual balance between
them," which are considered indispensable in
every American Conllitution. Our national Se
nate, appointed by the State Legislatures, is a
diflindl order from the Honfe ofßeprefer.tatives,
appointed, or chosen by the people. The Se
nate may befaid to represent, lleprefentatives of
the people ; the House are the immediate Re
prefentaiives. The President of the United
States is a dilUnct order front the Senate, equal
ly with the King of England from the Houle of
Lords. These orders differ eflemially in one ve
ry important point, that of hereditary descent.
— but surely there is nor a single advantage,
power, or privilege, of any kind, withheld from
either order in our government, merely because
they cannot descend.
74
194,760
186,9 -l 2
52,120
The Governor, Council, Senate and House of
Representatives in this State, are each, of them
different orders of men, wliofe authority is dele
gated to them for one year. Upon the cxpirati-
iM.n
117
FROM THE ARGUS.
t^lypO
[Whole No. 258.]
on of their terms, the orders are extinil. When
a new election takes place, the ordcts revive,
though, perhaps, not in rhe fame persons with
which they expired. To render it (till more e
vident that Mr. Adatns had no idea of a diflinCt
order of men, as such ; I shall take the liberty to
use his own words in the firft volume of his De
fence, letter xxiii.
" In every country we have found a variety
" of orders, with very great diflincftions. In
" America, there are different orders of offices,
" but none ofmen ; out of office, all men are of
the fame species, and of one blood, there is
" neither a greater, nor a lefler nobility—Why
" then accnfed of establishing different orders
" of men ?" From this paflage, it is evident,
that an order of nobility, nor any kind of here*
ditary diftimtion was ever intended. Words
of inheritance, are by no means neceilary quali
fications in the character of an order or office ;
on the contrary, the mnjl worthy, fliould he terms
of conveyance, and election the method of invef
titnre, or induction. A sentiment, or expression,
was scarcely ever committed to paper, that did
not contain some word, admitting different nulli
fications, and variety of conftrudtions ; —perhaps
no example will better illullrate this truth, than
the word—ORDER.
It is worthy of obfervati»n, that a majority of
the writers in newspapers tlioughout the
nent, addsefs themselves to the readers of
newspapers, rather than readers of books { sup
posing that the generality of people will impli
citly confide in their aflertion's, without consult
ing originals —This method is undoubtedly fa
vorable to their produ&ions ; for to inen-of
reading, and real information, both the writings
and their authors are equal objects of pity and
commiseration. The whole system of these writ
ers, appears limilar to that of a merchant, at
tempting to dispose of adulterated liquors, by
giving them a luperior recommendation to thole
which are pure 1 wifha more salutary sys
tem to be heard in oppofition.—lrs brevity will
probably be the best recommendation. If health
of body, and tranquility of mind be objetfts wor
thy of confederation ; my advice, as a Fhyfician
and Divine, would be this :—Never attempt to
allay thirst at an impure stream, when the wa
ters of the fountain are so much more pleafanr,
wholefomeand palatable, and so easily obtained.
—If this prescription does not answer the pur
pose for which it is intended, well may we ex
claim— 0 hominum mtntcs !—0 ptfiora ctcca !
DESCRIPTION ofa MACHINE
For rcftoiing Respiration to Pcrfons Drowned, orotherwifj
Suffocated.
[Inverted by M. Roland, Profejfor of Natural Philosophy at the Univer-
Jtty of Pari«.]
LET there be made a double bellows, the middle board being
common to both. In the centre of each external board, or
back, pierce a round holt for the inlertion of a valve. The extre
mity or point of this double bellows must be cemented into a cop
per box, including two valves, which communicate with the irv
fide of the bellows. The cover of this copper box, which screws
on with an intei mediate piece of leather, is shaped like a funnel,
to the pipe of which is joined a flexible tube, made of spiral wire
covered with a gummed taffaty, with an ivory pipe at the end, to
be infeited into the nostril. If you rather choose to introduce it
into the mouth, the ivory pipe may be flattened a little. Each of
theie (our valves consists of a copper neck, closed at one end by a
piece of gummy taffaty, larger than the bore of the neck, and
hinged by a strong silken thread, wound round the neck, so that
the valve opens when you blow into the tube. These valves fit
into other copper tubes fixed into the bellows; but so disposed,
that the two external, and the two internal valves may open, the
one inward, the other outward, so as to work alternately. The
two valves within the box commun cate with the bellows through
one common tube. Having fixed the ivory pipe of the flexible
tube in thenofiril of the fubjeft, you gently open the bellows, by
which operation the bad air in the lungs will be drawn out into
one half of the bellows, and the other filled with atmospheric air.
You then dose the bellows, the atmospheric air will thus be for
cer] into the lungs, and that air, which was drawn out of the
will tfcape. By thus continuing the operation, you will oblii;®
he lungs to perform the a6t of inspiration arid expiration, and
;radually induce the organ to refumc its function, if the fubjeft be
ot absolutely dead. The opetator mull be very careful not to
rocced with too much preclpiiation. If vou choose to anpl*
ilogifticaied aii mflcad of atmospheric, it is <afy to perform
i communication with one of the external valves, from a bladder,
iecuted by a coek, containing that air.
ESP 1
RECIPE FOR INFLAMED SORE EYES.
WHITE Vitriol, ont dram, acid elixir of vitriol, twenty drops,
and boiling water,one pir.i : Put the white vitriol into the w?-
Ur. and when near coldyad ; the drops, and after add one Jarga
;.jl,le Ipoonful of brandy, or very good old rum. Jf the above i*
found tpft strong, Weaken each quantity dinwn off for use, with
mote rose water.—Great benrfit has been experienced by
ib- •. n fevera) iccert iiil.>!i£C!.
NEW LIGHT."f ROM fHEFRdri'DKNCE CAZETtE.
To the Fusimen of the Town of Providence
Full many a of purest ray serene,
il Thejdark uiiiaihom'd caves of Ocean bear;
44 Fuli-many a flower is. born to blush unseen,
44 And wefte iu fweetnefvon the defart air.
0\ Monday next the petition of a number of rcfpeftablc in
habitants, preferred to the lait 'I own-Meeting, will be
cblcufT-d, and the report ot your School Committee heard.
An object of such importance demands attention. Patriotism
and charily nuift awake the attention of the rich and the poor.
Let all riflc£lon ihe great and-maoiftft advantages, to be de
rived from aii adoption of the ineafure proposed by the petition.
Lit the pariotifm of all induce them zcaloufly to forward an at
tempt to feeurc'our political felicity. by giving to the riling ge
neration the means of acquiring a knowledge of ihe nature of
civil libcity. and of the meafuies to be adopted to perpetuate
the enjoymeftt of it.
A system, giving to all equal opportunity for the acquisition
of knowledge, would tend more toward eftab'.ifhing in practice
the theoretical rights of men, than all our Constitutions or Bills
ot Rights. The savage is interior to the citizen in proportion to
their advantages in point of education.
The fame cause, in civilized life, works the famr difference.
The son of the rich man, enjoying all poflible afliftances from
inftruttors und books, is more powerful in mental acquisitions
than the son of the poor man, from whom the hand of penury,
and the coldness of charity have withheld the means of per
fecting his powers.
Had the latter poflfffed equal advantages he had, perhaps,
demonstrated to the world, that not birth and rank, but educa
tion and merit, produce in society the only rational inequality.
All other inequalities should, if poflibie, be remedied; but
never can be remedied, while children, at the firft dawn of rea
son, and through their whole lives, fee such diftin&ions as now
prevail in point of education, The unhappy being, who finds
his inftrii&ion neglc&ed and discouraged by the world, must
surely think, that nothing ufeful could be expe&ed from him, or
that inftru&ion had no power over the faculties of his foul.
Is he in fafcfc a genius of thefirft rank ?—He will then either waste
his powers m indolence—or, from the irrcfiflible efforts of his
genius to activity, will become great in vice, and fall abhorred
by the virtuous, a miserable example of the depravity of man
On the present system of education, the mental powers of
nbout a third part only of its citizens arc ever known to society.
arc not even tried. I rom this third part alone can the
r-(.#ple choose their magiftratcs, or fill up the proleflions of the
libera! arts.
In cafe a plan could be devised, by which the whole rising ge
neration might be placed nearly on a level in the means of ac
quiring knowledge, they would proceed equably, till by the
operation of an emulative ambition thenaturul and rational ine
quality should be produced.
Here every genius would be tried—every faculty exercifcd —
every talent exerted—the mod brilliant and ufeful discovered—
and the body of men best qualified for the discharge of important
duties fclc&ed, not from a third part only, but from the tvhole.
Upon a plan of this fort, the superior mind, which on the pre
sent system is loft to the world, would come forward to his
station, which might otherwise be occupied by his natural inferior
To d iffufe a general knowledge of the moll ufeful learning—
to place in such a situation the native diamond, olt enciufted with
ignorance, that the fplcndour of its rays may add lustre to out
day, i.l the object of the plan to be preferred on Monday by your
School.Committee. By this plan a general system is proposed to
be carried into effect, at the expence and under the direction of
the town, by which all the children of the inhabitants will re
ceive inftru£tiou in the fame fckools. This is not to be merely a
I'tee School, to which those whose pride will permit them to ac
knowledge their poverty may fend their children, foinetimes to.
be taught, and oftener to be abused. This is to be instituted on
the broad b?'.is of republican principles. Here all the young
fre en (hall for once be equal; they will here all be inftru&ed,
arc' alike inftru&ed, at the town's expence.—Here, placed at one
fourm ,the children of thehumbleand of the high shall make trial
of their genius ; and at the termination of their exertions, the
f- holar shall be compensated by the value of his acquisitions, and
the appJaule of hisiownfmen.
This is no v fionar) fchemc ; it is pot the offspring of a heated
imagination, or an itch for novelty. It is framed byourwifeft
citizen , as an improvement on a plan long ago adopted, and fuc
et fsfully adhered to, in other places, celebrated for their love of
freedom and good government.
Sec its effe&s in the town of Boston : I am credibly informed,
that ai: lead fix out of eight of their principal llatefmep, magis
trates, lawyers and divines, owe the loundation of their eminence
to schools of this kind. Without the aid of these, their parents,
perhaps from poverty, had given them no education, or from
ignorance of their talents had negle£ted to cherish them.
From the latter cause, frequently arises a most deplorable
left of genius : But give the parent an opportunity to discover,
without expense, the abilities of his child, and if the experiment
lucceeds agreeable to his wifnes, he will use every exertion to
forward his education, and thus from accident at firft, and a cer
tain parental pride or tenderness afterwards, his country maybe
benefited by a sage philosopher, or a wife politician.
My indulgent fellow-citizens will paidon the liberty I have
taken, while I only add, that it is my earnest request, and in
which I am joined by a very great number of more ancient and
influential chara&ers than myfelf, that every free male inhabitant,
heads of families in a more especial manner, would lay aside other
concerns, and attend on the Town-Meeting next Monday, in the
afternoon, to consider and decide on the important measure of
cftablifhing Tmvr-School's Tme Shade of Busby.
FROM THE VERMONT GAZETTE.
QUALIFICATIONS which a Representative to Congress
A ought to poflfefs.
Sufficient common intcreft with his constituents.
2. A general acquaintance with their interests and feelings.
3. He l3iou!d be a man of integrity ftrmnefs and honor.
4 He should have information, and talents to communicate
that information with ease and propriety.
,5- He should sustain the charaftcr of being faithful to his em
ployes, and pri fevering in his measures; not easily diverted from
his course. The pilot, who veers about with cveiy gufl of wind,
will inrvirably endanger the Ihip.
6. He should however have wisdom to direst, and candor to
influence him in every mcalure.
7. He should be able to remember where he came from and to
know where he has got to.
Should any man without proper qualifications procure himfelT
to be clitlcd. I will venture to prcd i£t, that he within two years
will find hinifclf in a very public place without his bieeches.
\ ,\ 1. L Li O 1 t
SOME few years since, a counsellor Vanlittart, went the Oxford
circuit, and that eminent and facetious counsellor, Mr. Bcar
crolt, went the fain- circuit. Mr. Bcarcroft one day, in his usual
droll manner, told Vanfitfart, he thought his name was rather too
long, ind tedious to pronounce : «' Snppofe, for (honnefs, we
ii.;ree to call you Kfiir. and leave out fitUrt." "With all my
fceait (fays Vanfutari) if you'll do the- fame—ftiike off (he croft,
Arid let us call vol Jiesr."
/ROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISE P.
THERE arc situations in life, which, being confpicunus and
elevated: never fail to bring with them as attendants,—-
envy and jealousy. It will be needless to enquire into the ettetts
which fp'iiig from thel'e interrftcd, refllefs and black paiiions. It
is well kndwn, that those whose hearts are tainted with them, are
watchful and tagle-eyed, and that thev donot always miss, with
their pernicious darts, of wounding the most upright aud patri
otic. A If
There are others who may appear, from their (ration in li e,
to be divested of these corroding pEflions, or at least to have no
motive originally of their own, but (till, from a desire to fuppoit
iheir favorites, or from mere wantonnefs, or a kind ol sportive
malignity, will join the reft in a hue and cry, till the object of
their chace"is well worried, or altogether deftroved. It is the
latter, by being most uu»iero6s, that are to be dreaded. The
former give the signal, an,d if they are powerful, enough will
join their standard.
Although success does not always crown men of the above de
scription, and happy for mankindthat it is so : yet it cannot fail of
being frequently produ&ive of bad conlequences to the person on
whom the attack is made. mult at 'east fuffer for a
while—and why (hould innoccnce bear with one pang inflicted
by the hands of that demon —Envy? Such however, is the lot
of mortals, that to live is to fuffer. But let us hope for the best.
We have seen the people artfully, and with uncommon peifevc
rance, milled for a time; but no sooner has reason and cool en
quiry resumed her jufl station, than the man whose reputation
was but the other day blasted, rises in estimation, as his integity
and patriotism are known and understood, to the shame and con
fufion of his enemies.
A man whose early and decided conduct in the cause ef his
country, whole great learning and abilities are acknowledged even
by his oppofers—a man whose integrity, probity and patriotism,
havefecured, and as fhey ate still in exiftertce, will continue to
fecute the approbation of his country—a man whose disinterest
edness, mildness, and native t good disposition—l fay, this man,
and with these qualities, which ought at lea ft to have procured
him civility, has, in the most open and unprovoked manner,
been loaded with a torrent of abuse. His oppofers, in the most
dogmatical manner have averted him to be the author of a reply
to Mr. Paine's rights of Man. The author, in his last number,
has in the most unequivocalterms declared that the Vice President
had no concern whatever in the publication. His adverfarics,
therefore, ought to be covered with confufion, and the public
fiiould resent the injury done to a faithful old servant. Notwith
standing the declaration of Publicola, there are those who afFedt to
believe the Vice President still to be the author, vainly hoping, by
this feint, to gain a littlerefpite from the shock that this unto
ward circumftanee has thrown them into. To them no doubt it
has been a most unfortunate discovery ! Their pens wcre'already
dipped in the gall, and they were refolded to employ the re
mainder of thefummer in exhausting theftock.
WARSAW, May n.
THE revolution To happily begun, will, ac
cording to all appearance, be completely
consolidated, without violence or tumult.
At Lnbiii, indeed, a weak, ineffectual shew of
opposition to it, has been discovered ; but in
Great-Poland, all ranks and degrees of men ap
plaud it with transport.
On the Bth inft. the King, accompanied by all
the Senators, Miniflers and officers of the crown,
went on Horseback to the church of the Holy
Cross, between multitudes of the citizens and o
thers, by whom the itreets were lined. The
air was rent by acclamations of Vive Is Roi, Vive
la Nation !
CO I N A,ta fe OF si NGLA ND.
The total amount of Gold coined the
present reign, up to the last trial of in
1782, (adding to the above, the money coined
from the year 1 760, to the time of the Proclama
tion in 1774) was, in Guineas, 874, io6lb. Troy;
in Half Guineas 96,2551b. and in Quarter Gui
neas (coined in the year 1762) 6,3811b. the va
lue of which is—
Guineas
Half Guineas
Quarter Guineas
Total Gold
Silver coined during the
fame time, 22,1321b.
Upwards of forty-five millions and a half, in
the space of left than thirty years; betides the
quantity of the coin of former Kings now cur
rent, of which it would be difficult to make any
calculation.
The following is an authentic account of the
nett produce of the Taxes, confuting of Customs,
Excise, Stamps, and Incidents, paid into ihe Ex
chequer from Jan. sth, 1786, to Jan. sth, I 791.
Taxes from £. s. d.
Jan. 5, 1786, to Jan. 5, 1787, 12,389,555 1 1
Jan. 5, 1787, to Jan. 5, 1788, 12,923,134 172
Jan. 5, 1788, to Jan. 5, 1789, 13,007,642 18 4
Jan. 5, 1789, to Jan. 5, 1790, 13,433,063 11 3
Jan. 5, 1790, to Jan. 5, I 79 r > M>°72,97 8 19 7
To these add the yearly amount of
land and malt taxes, not included
in the above, 2,700,000 o o
Hence it is clear, that the public income for
the last year amounted to the altoniftiing
sum of nearly Seventeen Millions ! Taking,
therefore, Fifteen Millioris for the average ex
penditure of the year, there will be a surplus of
almost Two Millions towards the liquidation of
the National Debt.
VATES.
This statement exhibits such a progreffional in
cre;afe of revenue as pvomifes to alleviate the
public burthens, and to advance the country to
a Hate of unexampled splendor and prosperity.
118
Anti-Calumni ATOR.
L O N D O N, May 31.
40,842,602 i 4 o
4.497,514 7 o
298,152 7 6
45,638,269 8 6
68,609 9 2
45,706,878 17 8
The difference in the produce of the Toba
revenue, between the last and preceding yel?,
exceeds ioo,oool. ® /*•«*>:>
Of the benefits anfing from the extension of
the Excise upon Wines, the public will iudt,
when they are informed, that there were but
19,000 pipes of port imported into this kimrthJ
in 1786, and in the last year above 42 000
yet If range to tell ! there was as much wine tin
der the denomination of pore thought to be
drank then as now.
Accounts were received ycfterday at the Se.
cretary of State's o!iice, by way of France, that
the plague rages with dreadful havoc in that part
of Turkey next to the Medi terranenn, insomuch
that in a small diltiict, a thousand persons have
died in a day.
June 6. The press upon the river has, within
rhefe few rights, been much left acftive than so
several weeks before.
Notwithflanding'the assertions in fonie of the
prints to the contrary, we are allured that the
last dispatches from Berlin, which arrived oh
VVednel'day, are not of a pacific tendency. -
Letters from Petersburg bring accounts of the
astonishing activity with which the Empress has
prepared her fleets. All the British officers in
her service have been replaced by French gen
tlemen, on the recommendation of the Prince of
Nafiau.
According to the last account*, the Ruffian
forces consisted ps 537,898 men.
June 12. A letter from Portfniouth, June 6,
fays, " It the negociation carrying on with Ruf
lia does not take a different turn from what is
at present apprehended, part of the fleet will
fail for Leith Roads thefirft fair wind after Wed
nesday next."
A letter from Pott/mouth, dated June 1, fays,
" a most has been prevented
here by a : a plan having been
formed to fire our dock yards, by means of fo
reign incendiaries sent to this country for that
purpose. An express received by the Commissi
oner, brought intelligence of the plot, with or
ders to take every precaution for the security of
the dock yards and arsenals."
The popular roast at prefenton board the fleet
at Spithead, is, " Perseverance to the Empress
of Russia."
TranJJatid for the Independent Gazetteer.
C A P E• F R A NCOIS, Jult 7,
THE black and white cockades will not tak: ; it
seems that thole which appeared onTuefday last
at the Theatre were only put on for an experi-
ment
Some citizens in the gallery of the Provincial-
Aflembly moved to fend back to Bourdeaux, the
firft cargo of Negroes which (hould enter info
this port from thence : A number of othermotions
were made, which appeared dilated by despair.
The President represented in the pame of the
Aflembly, that t(fe Colony alone had a right to
express the people's sense of the measure. He
informed them, that notice had been fenc to all
the parilhes of the decree of the ijth of May.
Some members moved addrefles to the National
Aflembly, but nothing was deliberated upon.
An Address of the Merchants of Bordeaux,
to the Chambers of Commerce and Merchants of
the French Colonies, on the fubjed; of the decree
of the National Aflembly refpedting the Negroes
and Mulattoes, born o'f free parents, has been
received.—lt is couched in patriotic terms, and
breathes a truly conciliatory spirit.— and recom
mends an acquiescence in the Decree, as " a law
juit ill its principles, beneficent in its dispositions,
and irrevocable as the conflitution of the tmptre.
The Provincial Aflembly of the north has de
creed, that addrefl'es (hould be sent to the Na
tional Aflembly, to the directory of the depart
ment of Gironde (of which Bordeaux is the ca
pital) andall the chambers of comwerxe in France.
All those addrefles will tend
ecution of the decree of the 15th of May, would
prove hurtful to the security and prosperity of
St. Domingo. _
The white and black cockades have difappearen,
j but the greatest part of the citizens have laid by
the national cockade.
The free peeple of colour are quiet. The or
der of the Board of Police, against diftorbers or
the public peace, has eased the minds of tb° e
who were the molt alarmed, and the greate
circutnfpeiflion has taken with them the place o
their former terror.
There is now at tiie Cape, and in man) ot
pariflies of the province of the north, jit °
party. The citizens who refpefted The ec
of the National Afletnbly, and thoie « i°' . .
cuted them after their own manner, ' ]av £, ~
acainft: the decree of the 15th ofMay. Ie
vernor, who, in the eyes of many per oi.s,,
confidercd as an Aristocrat. has pleaie e )
by manifeftins; in his letter to the in"" e <
sentiments refpetfting the National La"s co
ii) 2 the colonies.
O
June 5• <« - If
I&- Ifi/fLu
f) i\
A Spanish free mair-of colour, namecMbe la
Torre, has informed the Provincial AlTembly,
that he renounced the benefit of the decree or"
the ijth of May, and demands their protection
His example has not been followed by any other
Mr. L'Honorey Dubuisson, Printer of the
paper entitled, Le Moniteur Colonial, from which
we have given frequent extracts ro our readers,
died at Cape-Francois, by a fall from his carriage,
lie was a man of letteis and ari undaunted pat
riot. His paper continues to be carried on in
his name, out of refpe<ft to his memory. His
friend M. Castellon is the prefenr Editor.
PORTSMOUTH, (N.H.) July 28.
This morning Capt. Cass arrived in town with
a company of fine hearty looking soldiers, enlist
ed at Exeter for the western expedition ; rhey
make a short stay here, and will receive any new
recruits that may offer—They are this day to
embark for Boston, under the command of En
sign Tilton, and from thence to proceed on
their way to the western country.
RICHMOND, July 29.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman near the mouth
of the French Broad, on the banks of the Hudson,
dated Treaty Ground, June 16, I 791.
" Presuming you may wish to know how Go
vernor Blount proceeds in the Treaty with the
Cherokees, I take this opportunity to inform
you that as yet no Cherokees have appeared, but
there is now every reason to believe that the
fulled representation ever known of that nation
will be in by the 20th, and that a good treaty
will be formed. The Governor has had much
difficulty in securing a treaty, for he certainly
has been opposed by more designing land job
bers, speculators and abandoned miscreants,
who live among the Cherokees, than ever before
fell to the lot of man."
Philadelphia, August io.
A proposition to enter into a non dijliltation
agreement in order to counteract the excise, hav
ing been made to the di(Hllers in Providence by
some of the distillers in New-York, —a writer in
a Providence paper, suggests the following que
ries on the occasion :—Whether luch a measure
has not a tendency to tarnish and diflionor the
riling credit of our country, in counteracting
one of the belt, 1110(1 productive and moll popu
lar sources of its revenue, agreed upon and eita
blifhed by Congress, after the molt careful and
deliberate con(idevat»oii,at two different feflions ?
Is this the most eligible mode of effecting what
is said to be desired ? Will Congress, the legisla
tive body of a free and enlightened people be
driven, by an agreement of this kind, to abandon
the interest of their condiments collectively con
fklered ? If any thing is wrong, in the fyftern,
Congress will undoubtedly be willing to hear
and redress every well founded complaint : But
before a measure which has the appearance offo
i>nch temper, as a non-dillillation agreement, is
adopted, fotne more feafable mode of taxation
should be pointed out.
The trailfacfiions of the general government
refpeifting the Indians, are and have been found
ed' in jnfticc and humanity—but the machina
tions of unprincipled land jobbers are the off
fpring of fraud, treachery, and insatiable ava
rice. The treaties that were formed under the
old confederation, had for their object the secu
rity of the frontiers, and calming aad securing
the Indiaus in their nnceded pofle/fions ; but the
feeble arm of government was not fufficient to
restrain the rapacity of land speculators, hence
the yellow savages have too often found the trea
ties a feeble barrier to the murders and depreda
tions of the whits savages. But it is to be hoped
that government will in future enforce the laws,
and carry their benevolent plans, and the stipu
lations of their treaties, into prom; t execution
by the strong arm of power. '
The late Revolution in Poland in favor of the
liberties of that country, may justly be consi
dered as another instance of rhe -.idvanrage deri
ved to mankind from the independence of the
United States , and'the reference in the King's
speech to the new Conftirudon of this Republic,
is a truly honorable testimony to the wisdom and
patriotism of the illuilrious Convention which
fiamed it.
A free press is essential to the prelervation o? liberty; hut a li
eentious press almost destroys the utility of printing:—for tho a
free government will not attempt to fupprefsthe fulled and freeft
difcuflion of public me a fares, yet a general circulation of lies and
misrepresentations will foonrr or later destroy all confidence in
the vehicles of public intelligence. The unbounded licence as
sumed by the French Printers and Editors of Paris, in canvafling
public characters, mull greatly confufc and perplex the public
mind. Arijlocrats and Democrats, are equally the objects of the
most virulent satire and abuse—and the allegations are as positively
denied as they are advanced ; so that like opposing bodies in ex
act contact, both charges and denials fall to the ground. The Na
tional Assembly appears unmoved amidflthis clashing of opinions,
and (leadily pursues its great object, the compleat organization of
the government.
POLITICAL SKETCH.
THE benign influences of the general govern
ment are strikingly apparent in the patriotic (late
of frfiw-Jei fey— the limits prefcri'bed on this oc
casion will not admit of descending to particu
lars—fufHcient for the purpose of enforcing the
truth of the observation, is that general tranqui
lity of the state which has been produced by the
equalizing operation of the laws of the union.
When New-Jersey loft her excellent Livingfton,
(he repaired the breach by her Paterfon—a gen
tleman whose election was equally honorable to
liimfelf, and to his electors—May the future elec
tions of our country be conducted with equal una
nimity, moderation and wisdom. The evil-eyed
demon of jealousy does not appear to have influ
enced on this occasion—and the merit of an np
right federal legislator, did not prove a difquali
fication to serve the state in the highest of its of
fices. New-Jersey, as the connecting lint be
tween Philadelphia and New-York, with a lau
dable spirit of enterprize, is now engaged in plans
to facilitate the communication from each to the
other—and such is the ardor with which these
plans are prosecuted, that in a period not very
remote, we may expect to fee her enjoying ini
menfe advantages as the rewards of her exertions,
from her bridges and improved roads ; —while
the general benefits derived to the community at
large will excite surprize, and enkindle a lauda
ble emulation in her neighbouts.
111 adverting to the lunation of affairs in the
state of New-York, a cluster of ideas rush on the
mind. Tho'placed in the focus of the late war,
the intrepidity and patriotism of the whigs of
that state, rose superior to an opposition, formi
dable both on account of internal and external
enemies. How aftonithingly has she emerged
from the effedts of war and desolation !—hercir
cumftances as a government, are the wonder and
admiration of her sister Itates, and of the world !
and if /he is just to herfelf, and will repose a de
cent and manly confidence in the wisdom and ad
vice of her best informed citizens, her abundant
resources will be applied to plans of such public
utility, as will be prodn&ive of advantages that
cannot be calculated—but on the other hand,
should a contracted, heavy policy prevail, which
shrinks from an immediate expence, that will be
almost infinitely reimbursed, the wings of her
fame and prosperity will be clipped, ar.d still
keep her in the rear of her enterprizing rival,
the state of Pennsylvania.*
The natural advantages of this state are so
great, that a comparatively small expenceto im
prove them, would place her in a most eligible
lituation. Her recent accession of territory, and
increase of population, while they extend the
fpbere of her trade and commerce, enhance her
importance greatly in the political scale of the
union.
The state of Connedlicut exhibits perhaps the
mod perfeifl model of a republican government,
of any community that can be mentioned—and
this is probably the cafe more from precedent
and usage, than any other circujmftances. In the
late revolution she bore a eonfpicuous part; and
in proportion to her population, furnifhed per
haps the greatest number of diftingoifhed offi
cers of any state in the union—while her troops
were of the best and bravest veterans in the ar
mies of the continent.
Her literary character is second to none in the
dates—and for uniting the ufefitl with the pleas
ing in fugitive speculations, ftie takes the lead,
and fees an example to?.!! the reft : These specu
lations are republilhed tliro' the union, and re
ceived with universal approbation. An incredi
ble number of newspapers is printed and circu
lated thro this state—they are read by all the
citizens—they understand and are tenacious of
their rights, because they are enlightened—and
rhey are enlightened, because the rays of learn
ing illumine every part of their country—the
ueans are accessible to all, without diftinttion.—
Connecticut is making great progress in com
merce, agriculture, and the ufeful arts —and is
continually strengthening her claim to that ce
lebrity which (he has acquired as a manufactur
ing state. [To be coutinu:d.~\
* While the state of Pennsylvania has appropriated upwards of
25,000!. currency, for the laudable purpose ot promoting theinter
conrfe and navigation in the interior part of the State.—The Le
giflatureof New-York, it is said, has appropriated only one thou
sand pounds for a similar purpose.
SPECULATION.
WHAT magic this among the people,
That swells a maypole to a ileeplc ?
Touih'd by the wand of Speculation,
A frenzy iuns thro all the nation ;
For foou or late, so truth advises,
Things muff aflume their proper sizes—
And furc as death all mortals trips,
Thousands will rue their faith in SCRIPS.
REMARKABLE INSTANCE OF LONGEVITY IN A HORSE.
DlED—Laft week at the Pennsylvania Hospital, the old horse
called Braddock ; supposed to be about 41 or 42 years of age.
There is no reason to question his being one of the horses em
ployed on the expedition of General Braddock in the year 1755.
He was blind with age, and his teeth being fairlv worn down
with use, he was scarcely able to eat hay the iaft year of his life.
nn *
119
[continued.]
jJtsouRDITIES.
THAT the children of those, who by a fortu
itous concurrence of circutnftances, or by indus
try and the practice of the severer virtues of
economy, temperance and sobriety, have acquir
ed a fortune, fhotild be educated to the practice
of similar virtues, or any virtue whatever, in or
der to preserve what their fathers have acquired
for them.
That discipline should be thought neceflary to
form the body or mind to a&ivity, health and
virtue—when other animals, which it must be
acknowledged, are less manageable than the hu
man species, are trained to ufefulnefs, without
restraint, bit pr bridle.
That vicious indulgences, idleness, profane
nefs, lying, baseness and cruelty, flioakl be con
sidered as indicative of an education that will
lead to infamy, to depredations on society, to ig
nominy and a premature death.
T'liat the art of speaking is better than the art
of boxing—and that to inculcate the principles
of justice, clemency, and sensibility on the minds
of children, will probably make them better riiem
bers of society than the arts of petty peculation ;
a (harnelefs contempt of the miseries of the un
happy, and a savage delight in doing mifchief.
That learning, virtue, honor and fame, are
the refultof discipline, study and diligence—that
the hill of science is steep and difficult to ascend
—and that a total relaxation of all rule and or
der in society, whether on the larger or smaller
scale, is pregnant with disgrace, difappointmenr
confulion and ruin. IRONICUS.
Yesterday arrived herefrom Rochefort. a French Ship of War
of 24 guns,—haying on board M. Tjcrnant, AmbalLidoi of
France to the United Slates.
Several of our Brethren of the Type, (fays the
Salem Gazette) are publishing in their papers,
Mr. Paine's Aiifiucr to Mr. Burkf.'s reflections
on the French revolution—without having (as
fair play would seem to diiftare) firft given their
readers ihe reflexions themselves. We are sor
ry to observe such a partial difpofilion respeCting
political difcuflions, in a country where so much
has been said in favor of free inquiry and im
partial prefles.
A COLUMN, 19 feet in circumference and
feet in height, was lately eretfted on the north
end of Baker's I/land, at the entrance of Salem
harbour, as a land mark for mariners.
Another.expedition from Kentuckey to the
Indian Country is now in operation—it consists
of 500 men under the command ofCol.H*rrifon,
who have marched from thac^State.
Died tlie 50th ult. at Harriftjurgh, Mr. John
Harris, who was the proprietor of that borough
—Mr. Harris was aged about 6; years, and was
the firft white man born on that part of the Suf
quehannah.—At Hermitage, near Trenton, Mrs.
Mary Dickinson wife of the Hon. Philemon
Dickinson.
At Providence the Rev. JAMES MANNING,
S. T. D. President of Rhode-Island College.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Miflfouri, Boys, Bilboa,
Sloop Ann, Ofborne, Antigua,
Ship Friendftiip, Earl, Belfaft,
Barque, Philad. and Amsterdam Packet, Rice, Amsterdam,
Sloop Sophia, Connell, Curracoa,
Brig Mary, CafTady, Londonderry,
Ship Diana, Goodwin, Rotterdam,
—— Favorite, ' Eevers, Rochelle,
Arrived at New-London, the Revenue Cutter Argus, Jonathan
Maltbie, Esq. commander, from Swagochee, who will soon
proceed on a cruise, to destroy black fifh, and protett the fair
trader
Brethren in Navigation, (hun the appearance of evil, keep your
loines girt with true faith, honor and honesty.
Patience and perseverance, are sovereign remedies all at
tacks. T. Allen's Marine Lijt,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT. *
6 pr. Cents 22/3 pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 13/ 13/3
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/4 13/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20/6
Indents
N. and S. Carolina debts, iB/*6.
Bank Subscriptions,
CHILDS AND SWAINE
Have now in the Press, and in a few days will publifc
In a handsome Volume OCTAVO,
[PRICE ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
THE
LAWS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corre&ed by, the original Rolls in the ©ffic«
of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Congrefi,
pa fled the 18th February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE IN DFX.
This volume will comprise che Federal Constitution, the A6tl
of the three Seflions of the First Congrcfs, and the Treaties : —
also, the Declation of Independence, and sundry Rcfolves and
Ordinances of Congress under the Confederation.
New-York, Augujl 3.
(£T The JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSION of the SENATE
of the UNITED STATES, tnty be had of the Editor hereof.
l i if pr. ccnt.
66} do.
67J do.
102J do.
65 do.
165 Dollari.A YOUNG Gentleman, who was bred to business, and can be
favorably recommended, intending to\Cfit tlie Manufactories
in the South of Franco, the ensuing Winter, will accept of Orders
for Goods, and execute them on a moderate Commrijion.
N. B. He will continue ihere, if encouraged. Applications
dire&cd to A. Z. and iefi at the Printers, will be punctually at
tended to.
Philad. Augujt 6, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds ot
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
OX the specie amount of all tales or purchases at auttion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-ftaff per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(JdT Such pcrfons throughout the United Stales, as may be
pleased to favor the fubfenbers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extensive
connc&ions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condud their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER',
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 iaw 6m)
March 15, 1791
T A K E NOTICE
THE Ma n age r s of ihc Newark Bridge Lottery will
begin paying the Prizes drawn in the First Class on Monday
the nth of July, by which time the Tickets in the Sccond Class
wiil be ready to deliver to applicants agreeable to the scheme.—
To accommodate holders of Tickets undrawn in the First Ciafs.
fame numbers in the Second Class will be lodged, if conveni
ent, in the fame places where the firft were fold, as soon as pollible,
and it not, such holders must apply to the Manager who signed
their Tickets. Such persons will ploafe to rake notice, that appli
cation ior renewal in the Second Class must be made before the
a itli of August next.
JOHN N. CUMMING, )
JESSE BALDWIN, C Managers.
JOHN D. ALVEY, )
Newark, jfuve 27, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the Stale of Conne6licut, at their session fn
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of .extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel ;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with the
following
SCHEME.
z
1
1
2
4
5
12
3®
45
50
61
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes
Prize of
11658 Blanks,
175°° Ticket®, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subject to a dedu&ion of twelve and a half per cent
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven; to those who are not,fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful fuuation is not fu'rpaffed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be fa id
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
but by reason of the flats, this wharf is nei.effarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when complrat
cd, will be the mod extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the Spates will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clafles of people, for
thefuccefsol this enterptize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there more
capital prizes for the number of ticketsthan any yet publiihed in
Ameriea)inducethe managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy (ale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, iri
Mew-Haven, on the 13th of September next, 01 sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of thefortunate numbefi will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Tbofe prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the ufc ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rice, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph How el ;.
Neat-Haven, April 14, 1791
pi" TICKETS in the above Lottery may he had at the
Compting-Houfeof Meflfs. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner ol
T'ront and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the MalTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes
will be received in payment lor the above tickets.
, Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791,
HPHE Commifiioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
A Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders of the said Bank, that an ele&ion for twenty
'five Direaors will he held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 2i(ldayof O&ober next, at 10 o'clock in the morning
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RIITENHOUSE.
, SAMUEL HOWELL.
of Ncw-Brunfwick.
(law 1m)
xo,poo Dollars, is
5000
4000
2000 are
1000
500
200
100
50
40
3®
20
10
8
BOOKS.
Cauey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, North-Front-Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are thefollowing
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
(epti;
LOVELASS on Bills of Ex
change.
Clerk's Vade Mecum.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Difpenfetory.
Cullen's Firit Lines «f the Prac
tice of Physic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries.
Brown's Elements of Medicine,
Ofterwald's Chrift»3nTheology.
Rfc and Progress of Religion
in the Soul.
Nccker on Religious Opinion*.
Fordyce's AddrelTib to Young
Men.
Sermons to Young
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide.
Newton's Diflertations on the
Prophecies.
Lectures delivered by Soame
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrancer
Future State Eternal.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons.
Ramfav's American Revolution
'iftory of America.
Morfc's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Pelew
I(lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&ionto the mak
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii N tfonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Assistant.
e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftorie.
cott's Leflons on Elocution.
Savgeant's Short Hand.
Wrntenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IC.OOO
500©
4000
400©
4000
2500
2400
3000
2250
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kenrtet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hiilory, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ame
-6 vols. rican War, 4 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation. New Annual Register.
Alexander's Experimental Eh- Vattel's Law of Nations.
2000
1830
quiries.
Experimental Essays.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra&s.
2000
1400
43> 12e
8750 c
Beauties of the British Senate.
Davis's Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrcfpondencc
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Philadelphia, Augujl 6, 1791.
Charleftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
Consisting of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dollars each, 21,000
Dollars.
2500 Dolls, is
1000
l Prize of
1
*5
20
20
20
40
60
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7°°° Tickets, Amount, 21000
I his Class will commence drawing on or before the Ift of
September.
1 ickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, £ Managers
ol , n SAMUEL SOLEY, S
Charlelton, May 25, *791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Ti CKETS in the above, and in the MaflTaqhufeits Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
120
Dallas's Reports.,
Kirby's Connefcfcicut Reports.
Conductor Gtneralis.
Buchan's Domeflic Medicine,
lateit edition.
Clark on Di (cafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
Jrnyn'j Infernal Evidence of
the Christian Religion.
Beartie's Evidence of Ditto.
Think Well On't.
Devout Cbiiftim's VadeMecum
Edwards's Hiltory of Redemp
tion.
on the Religious As-
fetlions.
against Chauncev.
Booth's Apology for the Baptifls
Doway Translation of the Vul
gate Bible.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Metbodift Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalm*.
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenck.
Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Palev's Moral Philosophy.
Smellie's Philosophy of Natural
History.
Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Junius's Letters.
Hale's AflF flionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftru&ions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accomplished Gentleman.
Ela, or the Deluiions of the
Heart,
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po-
litenefs.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Appreotiac.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life o\ Robinson Cruioe.
Saville's Miscellanies,
School of Wisdom.
Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Description of 300 Aninrals.
Boyle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Belifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of History.
Allifon's Eflay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w&f3w iaw6t)
SCHEME
100 are
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
6
4
17872
Deduction, 3:28
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
ANCHORS pr. lb. 6kd
Allum, pr.cwt.32j 6d
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d
Ashes, pot, per ton, 37/10/
Pearl, 50/
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s6d
Brandy, common, 7s 6J
Cogniac
Braziletto, pr. ton.
Bricks pr. M
Bread, Hup pr. cwt.
Ditto, pilot
Ditto, final 1 water 40i 4
Beer, American, in hot. ] />
pr. doz. bot. incl. J I °-'
pr. bbl. 35 s
00 f Oak pr.M feet, 67* 4/
( Merch. pine loo*
<( Sap, do. 3/
O I N. Eng. 82s
23 L Cedar 100s
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard pj ices add 15s pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 26s
i** C Irish pr. bbl.
£] j 13o(lon 551
( Country 50s
Butter pr. lb. 14d
in kegs iod
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot 2S2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. » 12d
Coal pr. bulhel is6d
Coffee pr. lb.
Cinnamon
Cheese, Englilh
Country
3 rsp«. P 1 - lb
-3 | Wax
P «( Myrtle Wax
| Mould,tallow
o (.Dipped
Cotton
Cui rants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt
Cordage
Cocoa
Duck, RufTia, pr. piece Boj
Havens 67J 72J 6r/
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37
Common, 33J 6a?
Bur middlings,beft 3 u
Middlings 241
Ship-ftuft pr. cwt. 7* 8i
Flax pr. lb. 9d
Fustic
Feathers
Flaxfeed
Glue,
pr. ton, 1355 150s
pr. lb. 2J 8d
pr. bush. 5-r
pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, white race
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, 1/6 I^lo
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter calk, )
Ditto, line glazed 351 6d
G»n, Holland, pr. gall. 9d
Do. pr. cafe, 30/
( Wheat pr. bulh 6s 8d
Rye 3* 6d
2 I Oats u6d
< <( Indian corn 2J7d
Barlev 3*
Best (helled pr. lb. 31i
|_ Buckwheat
Hemp, for. pr. ton,
American, pr. lb.
Hogfticad hoops, pr. M 516/
Herrings, pr. bbl. ißj 20J
Hides, raw pr. lb. yd 10d
Hops 9S
Indigo, Frcnch,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
\ Castings 22J 6d 30J
£ j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 30/
O pig 10/
2 | Sheet 65/
L Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 10s 40J
Lard, hogs 9d 10d
Lead in pigs
in bars 50s
Lead, white 753 Boj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. i.r 1j 6d
Lignum vitas pr. ton 42s 45s
Logwood 7/ 5J 8/
M a), Indian, pr. bbl. 17J
Rye 25J
Macicarel,beft none.
•Common 251'
pr. lb. 55s
Mace
2500
1000
15 00
1000
800
600
800
600
560
480
8032
Mustard
Madder, best \sd 18d
MolalFcs pr. gall. '2ssd2s6d
Marblt , wrought, pr. foot, 14 s
Mast (pars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany 8d jod
Nutmegs pr. lb. 62s
Nai!,, iodi2d&c 20d— 8d Bfad9d
" Linseed, pr. gall. 4 s
Train 10d 2s
Spcrinaccti 3J 7d
j Whale is 10d 2s
Olive 6s 6d
v j Ditto pr. cafe 361
Beftfweetin ?
I fldfks.pr. box, )
L—baskets 12 bottles37j6t
3ak timber pr. ton 38J
Porter pr. bl. 40*
London, 15J
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and Inland Billsoj Exchange negoci. . *»
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on CommiffiMi an a ' "
Business in the lioe of a Broker, tranfaftcd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the OfHce, next door to the Statc-Strcct.
PBk QUANTITY
AUGUST 10.—Dol lars at 7/6.
Porter, American or. doz ir/t
pr . bbl.
Pork, Burlington, 90,
county
■ Carolina ' y
a«, Albany
Pepper, pr. lb
Pimento
R'ce pr. cwt,
Ro!i " pr. Dbl. so ,
kaifms, best, m-. J( C 2 ,
Ditto pi. jar
Ditto 'p r - box
r Jamaica pr. gall. 6,
| Antigua
g ! Windward ~/i
o; "1 Barbadocs ~ ,
■ Country,
Sanv 21 * d 116 d
Sa p.ras p r . ton 4 - ( 6oj
Salt petre, pr. cwt. 4 / 1 C( /
Sulphur, flour *
Shot
/ 40-J
J (German pr.cwt. 6<;i7oi
W JE.nglilh, blistered
h ) American pr. ton 40/(So/
(.Crowley's pr. faj. g- (
Snake root pr. lb, u6d 2sSd
boap, Common
• Brown
f ar £ h 4
Snuff u6 d 21i i 316 J
opcrmacctj,refined, qj fii
Sail Cloth, English, "1
pr. yaid, j n6d 2nd
Boston, No. I
ov 6 d
. ill 16/
2$S to 30 S
27 s 6 d
13 d
iBJ 20s
is 41i
6<i 7 y
y
4 J 3<*
12 d
10±d
9'^
IS 1 > lO</
No. 11. 2J 2i
Russia faceting, pr. p. go*
("Lump, pr.Jb. „ s< t
c 4 • Loaf, finale refined is6i
< Ditto, double do. is,od
| Havannah, while 12i
<n Ditto., brown, .
I Mul'covada.pr.ewt 751821
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. 4;
' Allum pr. bulb. 2J
(Liverpool
(Carliz 2J
Lifoon 2J
1 build. W.O. frames'] goj
p. ton, J 100f
LO. &redC. do. 6/6/51
igles, short, p. M. 22s bd
lj6 2J
6oj 6256 i
62i6d 6*js6d
H \
J
< )
Vi /
Ship
Tin.
Do.
Shin
long dreffcd tfs6i
Scantling, heart, Boj tooj
Sap soj5 oj 55 j
r Pipe pr. laoo pieces 6os
2 |W. O. hogflicad yl 15 1
> j R. O. do.
< I Leogan 61
Barrel
Heading
Otter, btft pr. piece 30;
r
-1/21
cr
£
3
oo
Tar, >
Turp
.6
o
o
8 -
u
<
O
H L
[ Hyson pr. lb.
co I Hyson (kin,
< -( Souchong,
t-| 1 Congo,
(_ Bohca,
Tallow, refined
Mi nks
Fox, grey
red
Martins
Fifhcrs
Bears 12s 6d 25s
Racoons 2/ u
Musk-rats 9 d u&d
Beaver, pr. lb. 7 j6 ioj
_ Deer, in hair is 6d
,N. jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 7/6
-Carolina, 32 gall. roj
pentine pr. bbl. 12s 6d
''James R. new bed 28/
inferior 20J2 J6d
—old 35/
1 s 6 d
45^3'
Tun
Rappahannock 18/9 2?J\
Colo. Maryland 50 j 6c.
Dark ißi
Long-leaf ißj
Eaftern-fhorc 153 "17 sod
Carolina, new 2256 i
Old 22J Sd 2fjf
10J
3 J 7 J
4OJ 42.f 6d
Tin pr. box, iooj
Veidigreafe pr. Ib.
Vermillion,
Varnish,
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon
Tcneriffe 20/IOJ 30*
Fayal pr. gall. 3
Port pr. pipe 36/
Ditto pr. gall.
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret 3°' 45'
Sherry pr. gall. 9 s
_ Malaga s i6s6d
:,Bees pr. lb. 2S
ile-bone, long pr. lb. 2J3"
-short, pr. lb. iS
w
5 I
I
Wax
Wha
pj 4d
COURSE Of EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days, 73
Ditto 60 days 74
Ditto 30 oays 15
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2/ n« 3'
3© days 3 JI
government bills, drawn alio
days per 11 guilders. S3 s 4
70s
s'bd
3'
if 4/
21/
2 Jsd
4110 s
8/
u6d 3>~
3'
3f
2j6d frS
7J 8;^
4 5 6/ Sd
3 s6dp
p ±d 3; 9/
• 2 sgd
12 s
2 s 6d