PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 100, of Vol. II- j
Discourses on Davila—No. 29.
( Concluded.)
THE affairs of the Hugonots were in a criti
cal situation. It was not doubted but that,
after the death of the Prince, the Admiral would
be chosen for their Chief, both because of the
distinguished employments which he had held in
the party, and the reputation which his prudence
had acquired. After the battle of Dreux, when
the Prince was made prisoner, the whole [party,
with unanimous consent, had deferred to Coligni
the honour of the command. But at present
there were several gentlemen, who, by their
birth, their riches, or their other qualities,
thought themselves not his inferiors. Some of j
these tore his reputation withflanders ; some de- j
tested the austerity of his character, mariners and
habits. Unhappy Admiral ! thy fortune however
is not Angular. Merit, talents, virtues, services,
of the most exalted kinds, have in all ages been
forced to give way, not to family pride, for this
alone would be impotent and ridiculous, but to
the popular prejudice, the vulgar idolatry, or
the splendor of wealth and birth, with which fa
mily pride is always fortified, supported and de
fended. The Admiral had 1011, by malignant
ferers, his brother Dandelot and his friend Bou
card: deprived of these two, the party which in
terested itfelf in the grandeur and elevation of
the Admiral, was considerably weakened. But
Coligni surmounted all obftaclesby hisaddrefs—
he began by renouncing in appearance those chi
merical titles with which a vain ambition would
have been fatisfied, proposing however, in fac r t,
to preserve all the authority of the command.
He resolved to declare Chiefs of the party and
Generals of the army, Henry Prince of Navarre,
and Henry Prince of Conde, lon of the dece»led
Prince. During the childhood of these, the Ad
miral remained neceflarily charged with the con
duct and administration of all affairs of import
ance. It was, among Protestants, as well as Ca
tholics, in the cause of liberty as well as that of
tyranny, the only means of reprefling the ambi
tion and pretensions, the envy, jealousy, malig
nity and perfidy of the grandees ; the only means
of answering the expectations of the people, and
of uniting minds which the diversity of sentiment
had already very much divided.
In this resolution, without demanding what he
felt, he could not obtain—The Admiral intreat
ed the Queen of Navarre to come to the army,
reprcfenting to her that the moment was arrived
for elevating the Prince her son to that degree
of grandeur for which he was born, and to which
she had long aspired. The Queen was not want
ing in courage or fortitude : already resolved at
all hazards to declare her son the head of the
party, flie came with all the diligence which a
stroke of so much importance required, and ap
peared with the two Princes at the camp at Cog
nac. Discord reigned in the army, notwithstand
ing the neceflity of union and unanimity, tofuch
a degree that it was on the point of disbanding.
The Queen of Navarre, after having approved
the views of the Admiral, aflembled the troops ;
she spoke to them with a firmnefs above her sex,
and exhorted all those brave warriors to conti
nue constant and united, for the defence of their
liberty and their religion. Sliepropofed to them
for Chiefs the two young Princes, who were pre
sent, and whose noble air interested the fpei'la
tors ; adding, that, under the auspices of these
two young shoots from the royal blood, they
ought to hope for the most happy success to the
just pretensions of the common cause. Thisdif
courfe animated the courage of the army, who
appeared no forget in an instant the chagrine
caused by the loss of the battle, and by the dif
fentions which had followed it. she Admiral
and the Earl of Rocliefoucault were the fir It to
submit, and to take an oath of fidelity to the
Princes of Bourbon ; the nobility and all the offi
cers did the fame, and the foldievs, with great
acclamations, applauded the choice which their
Generals had made of the Princes for Chiefs and
protelhrs of the reformed religion. This inhuman
imaginations is considered, and in human lan
guage is called, Dignity ! The greatelt States
man, and the greatest General of his age, must
resign the command of his own army, even in the
cause of religion, virtue and liberty, to two beard
less boys, because they had more wealth, and
better blood.
Henry of Bourbon, Prince of Navarre, ?ged
I S, had however a lively spirit, a great and ge
Wednesday, April 15, 1791-
nerous foul, and difcoveved a decided inclination
for war : animated by the councils of his mother,
he accepted without hesitation the command of
the army, and proinifed the Hugonots, in a con
cise military eloquence, to protect their religion,
and to persevere in the common cause, until death
or victory Ihould procure them liberty. The
Prince of Conde, whose tender age permitted not
to express his sentiments, marked his consent
only by his gestures. Thus the Prince of Na
varre, who joined to the superiority of age the
prerogative of firft Prince of the Blood, became
really the head of the party. In memory of this
event, the Queen Jane caused medals of gold to
be (truck, which represented on one fide her
own bust, on the other that of her son, with this
infeription—Pax certa, victoria Integra,
mors ho nest a—A faj'e peace, compleat viflory, or
honorable death.
Coligni remains charged with the conduct of
the war, by reason of the youth of the Princes—
he divides his troops, and throws them into the
cities which adhered to him. Ihe Duke of.An
jou pursues his victory, and forms the siege of
Cognac, which he is obliged however to rail'e, by
the vigorous resistance of the besieged : he takes
several other cities. A new army of Germans,
commanded by the Duke of Deux Ponts, enters
France to aflift the Hugonots. Wolfang of Ba
varia, Duke of Deux Ponts, excited by the money
and the promiies of the Hugonots, with the aid
of the Duke of Saxony and the Count Palatine of
the Rhine, at the solicitation of the Queen of
England, had raised an army of 6000 infantry,
and 8000 horse. In the fame army was William
of Naflau, Prince of Orange, and Louis and
Henry his brothers, who, after having quitted
Flanders, to avoid the cruelty of the Duke of
Alva, supported the interests of the Calvinifts of
France, whose religion they profefled. Thisar
my marches towards the Loire, takes LaChaiite,
and pafles the river. The Duke of Deux Ponts
dies of a fever, and is succeeded in command by
Count Mansfeld. The Princes, and their Mentor
the Admiral, march to meet this succour. The
Duke of Anjou, for fear of being surrounded by
thele two armies, retires into Liuioufin, The
Hugonots, combined with their allies, follow the
royal armv. A spirited at Roche-Abeille.
The fterifity of the country forces the Hugonots
to retire. Ihe Queen Mother comes to the camp.
The resolution is taken to feperate the royal ar
my, to leave the forces of the Hugonots to con
sume by time : it is separated, in facft, and the
Duke of Anjou retires to Roches in Touraine.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 7.
The BANK BILL under conjideration,
MR. GERRY's Speech concluded.
THE third rule of the Judge relative to the
" fubieift matter" of a law, it is unneceflary
to apply, because the members agree in then
ideas relative to the meaning of the terms taxes,
duties, loans, &c.
The fourth rule which relates " to effects and
confluences" is important ; and here the learned
Tud<re observes that" as to effedls and confe
rences, the rule is where the words bear none,
or a very absurd fignification if literally under
stood we must a little deviate from the received
fenfeof them." I" the present cafe the gentle
men in the oppofitioii generally, as well as the
gentleman firft up from Virginia, give the whole
clause by which Congress are authorized to
make all laws neceflary and proper, &c no
meaning whatever ; for they fay the former Con- |
cress had the fame power under the confedera
don without this clause as the present Congress
have with it. The federahft is quoted on this
occasion, but although the author of n
ed great ingenuity, this part of his performance
I co S „fider as a political heresy His dodtr.ne in
deed", was calculated to lull the confcicnce. o.
those who differed in opinion with lum at tnat
time, and havii'g acconiphflied his object, he.
813
[Whole No. 204.]
probably desirous that it may die with the oppo
sition itfelf. The rule in this cafe fays, that
where the words bear no fignification we must de
viate a little, and as this deviation cannot be
made by giving the words less than 110 meaning,
it mult be made by a more liberal conitrnctiou
than is given by gentlemen in the opposition.
Thus their artillery is turned on thenifelves, for
their own interpretation is an argument againlt
itfelf.
The last rule mentioned relates to the spirit
and reason of the law, and the Judge is of opin
ion " that the most universal and effectual wny
of discovering the true meaning of a law when
the words are dubious,is by considering the rea
son and spirit of it, or the cause which moved the
legislature to enaift it." The causes which pro
duced the conftiiution were an iniperfe<ft union,
want of public and private j lift ice, internal com
motions, a defencelefs community, neglect of the
public welfare and danger to our liberties.—
These are known to be the causes not only by
the preamble of the constitution, but also from
our own knowledge ol the history of the times
that preceded the eftabliflnnent of it If these
weighty causes produced the constitution, and it
not only gives power for removing them, but al
so authorizes Congress to make all laws liecefiary
and proper for carrying these powers into effedt:
shall we listen to assertions that these words have
no meaning and that this constitution has 110 c
more energy than the old ? Shall we thus un
nerve the government, leave the union, as it was
under the confederation, defencelefs against a
banditti of Creek Indians, and thus relinquifii
the protection of its citizens ? Or fliall we, by a
candid and liberal confirmation of the powers ex
prefTed in the constitution, promote the great
and important objects thereof? Each member
mult determine for liimfelf ; I fliall without he
sitation cliufe the latter and leave the people and
States to determine whether or not I am pursuing
their true intereft.—lf it is enquired where we
are to draw the line of a liberal coriftrucftion, I
would also enquire, where the line of restriction
is to be drawn ? The interpretation of the con
stitution, like the prerogative of a sovereign,
may be abused ; but from hence the disuse of
either cannot be inferred. In the exercise of
prerogative the minister is- refponlible for his ad
vice to his sovereign, and the members of either
House are responsible to their constituents for
their conduct in construing the constitution. We
a<-t at our peril : if our conduct is directed to the
attainment of the great objects of government,
it will be approved and not otherwise ; but this
cannot operate as a reason to prevent our dis
charging the trusts reposed in us.
Let us now compare the different modes of
reasoning on this fubjed:, and determine which
is right, for both cannot be.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Madiftm)
has urged the dangerous tendency of a liberal
confirmation ; but which is most dangerous a
liberal or a deftrußhe interpretation ?—The li
berty we have taken in interpreting the constitu
tion, weconceive to be afceffary, and it cannot be
denied to be u/eful in attainingthe objects of it:
but whilst he denies us this liberty he grants to
himfelf a right to annul part, and a very impor
tant part of the constitution. The fame princi
ple that will authorise a deftrudtioti of part will
authorise the deftrutfion of the whole of the con
stitution, and if gentlemen havea right to make
such rules, they bave an equal right to make
others for enlarging the powers of the coimitu
tion, and indeed of forming a defpotifin. Thus,
if we take the gentleman for our pilot, we fha'.l
be wrecked on the reef which he cantions us to
avoid. iin..
The gentleman has referred us to the ialt ai
ticle of the amendment proposed to the constitu
tion by Congress, which provides, that the pow
ers not delegated to Congress or prohibited to
the states shall reft in them or the people: And
the qneftion is; what powers are delegated?—
'l)oes the gentleman conceive that such only are
delegated as are exfirejfed? If so, hemull admit,
that'our whole code of laws is unconlhtutional.
This he disavows and yields to the iieceHity oi
interpretation, which, by a fair and candid ap
plication of established rules of conftrurtion to
the constitution, authorizes, as has been fliewn,
the meafurc under consideration.
The ufuge of Congress Ims also been referred
to • and il we look at the> arts under the ex.i.-
iuf constitution. we (hall find they are general.y
tit&otherefultof a liberal conftinu<tion. I will mention
but two. The firft relates to the eltablifhinent
°* 'he executive departments and gives to the
President th< power of removing officers. As the
confutation is silent on this fubjecS, the power
mentioned by the gentleman's own reasoning, is
veiled in the states or the people: he, however
contended for an afumptio/i of the power, and
when alliuned urged that it flionld be verted in
the 1 refidenr, although, like the power of ap
pointment, it was by a refpetfiable minority in
both Houses, conceived that it should have been
verted in the President and Senate. His rule of
interpretation then, was therefore more liberal
than it is now. In the other cafe Congress deter
mined by law, with the fanrtion of the President,
when and where theyfhould hold their next ses
sion, although the conrtitution provides that this
power /hall reft solely in the two Houses. The
gentleman also advocated this measure, and yet
appears to be apprehensive of the conf'equences
that viay reliilc from a conrtruiftion of the con
stitution which admits of a national bank. But
from which of these measures is danger to be ap
prehended ! The only danger from our interpre
tation would be the exercifc by Congress of a
general power to form corporations: But the
dangers resulting from the gentleman's interpre
tations, in the cases alluded to, are very diffe
rent ; for what may we not apprehend from the
precedent of having assumed a power on which
the constitution was silent, and from havin K an
nexed it to the supreme executive? If we have
this right in one instance, we may extend it to
others, and make him a despot. And here I
think it neceflary to declare, that such is my
confidence in the wisdom, integrity and iniH'ce
°f the chief magistrate, as that 1 should be at
V 1!, 6 ' rn y Il^c > liberty and property were at his
tlifpofal: but this is a trust which lam not au
thorized to make for my constituents; and as his
luccef.ors in office will poflefs equal powers, but
may not poflefs equal virtues, caution with ref
petft to them is necelTary. Again—what may be
the result of the precedent relating to the session
of Congress ? ]f we had a right by law to deter
mine where the next Congress should hold their
lemon, one Congress may oblige another to fit
at Kentucky, or in the intended state Yazoo un
der the protection of a Chiclaw Chief, or his ex
cellency Governor Tallan. It must therefore be
that the usage of Congress in both in
ltances is against the gentleman, and that the
clangers from the precedent of eflablifhing a bank
are comparatively small to those resulting from
the other measures referred to. to
The gentleman from Virginia has endeavored
to support his interpretation of the conltitution,
by the sense of the federal convention ; but how
is this to be obtained ? By applying proper rules
of interpretation ? If so the sense of the conven
tion is in favor of the bill ; or, are we to de
pend on the memory of the gentleman for an
hilrory of their debates and from thence to col
lect their sense ? This would be improper, be
cause the memories of diffef-ent gentlemen would
probably vary, as they have already done, with
refpetf to those fadts ; and if not, the opinions
ot the individual members who debated are not
to be considered as the opinions of the conven
tion. Indeed if they were, no motion was made
in that convention, and therefore none could be
reje<sted for establishing a national bank : And
the measure which the gentleman has referred
to, was a proposition merely to enable Congress
to erecft commercial corporations, which was and
always oaght to be negatived.
The gentleman's arguments refpedting the
Fenfe of the State conventions, haveas little force
as those relating to the federal convention. The
debates of the State conventions, as publiftied by
the short hand writers, were generally partial
and mutilated ; in this, if the publications are to
be relied on, the arguments were all on one fide
of the question, for there is not in the record
which is said to contain the Fennfylvania de
bates, a word against the ratification of the con
ltitution : Although we all know that arguments
were warmly urged on both fides. The gentle
nian has quoted the opinions, as recorded in the
debates of this State and North-Carolina, of two
ot our learned judges : But the speech of one
member is not to be cohfidered as exprefli ng the
sense of a convention ; and, if it was, we have
no record which can be depended on, of such
speeches. Indeed had even this been the cafe
the union was at that time divided into two
parties, one of which feared the loss of the union,
if the conltitution was not ratified uncondition
ally, and the other the loss of our liberties, if it
was. The objetft on either fide was so important '
as perhaps to induce the parties to depart from
candor, and to call in the aid of art, flattery, pro
lelhons of fnendfhip, promises of office, and even
good cheer, were recurred to : And when tliefe
failed, the federal Bull was published, denoun
cmg political death and de(lru<ftion to antifede
ral infidels.—Under such circumstances the opin
ions of great men ought not to be considered as
authorities, and in :jnny instances could not be
recognized by theniJelves.
Mr. Gerrt then observing that the sense of
the States refpediing a bank would be best ascer
tained by their legislative a«fts, fbewed from the
journals of Congress, that when retrained by
the confederation from exercising any powers
but what were exprtfsly delegated, Congress had
without any authority established a bank, whose
capital might extend to ten million dollars ; and
had not only pledged the faith of the union not
to eredt any other, but liad recommended it to
the States to prohibit any State eftablifliment of
the kind, and had also determined that the bank
bills fliould be receivable in the taxes and duties
of every State : That the States did not remon
strate againlt or tacitly acquiesce in, but atfiually
supported the measures of Congress relative to
the bank, wliillt the war conrinued and after the
peace : That this w4s the ftrongeit evidence the
States could give, that they thought the measure
salutary, and had no objection to it, on the
ground of its being conllitutioiiaj. He then urg
ed that if the States and the people at large had
no objection to a bank in that cafe, they certain
ly could not in this ; and enquired whether there
was any evidence of their disapprobation of such
an institution in the debates of their conven
tions or propofitioris for amendments ? To this
he answered in the negative, and urged that
whilst the conventions were silent on this fubjedt,
and had no objedions to such a measure, several
of them had proposed amendments to the consti
tution, for retraining Congress from eftabli/hing
commercial corporations ; which evinced their dis
approbation of such inditutions and admitted at
the fame time, in some degree, the power of
Congress, under the existing conilitution, to form
them.
. Mr. GERRythen shewed, that as a monopoly
has been urged as an objection to the bill, 110
fucb consequence could refitk from it : For the
bill does not restrain State or private banks, or
even individuals, from negociations of a similar
nature withthofe permitted to the stockholders ;
nor does it restrain the States from forming simi
lar corporations. This plan has not a feature of
monopoly,and thegentlemen whooppofe it, con
tend for a bank which according to its original
institution was founded in monopoly.
He then answered the argument urged ao*ainft
the authority of Congress, to enable corpora
tions to hold lands, when they had no power them
selves of purchasing and holding land ; and shew
ed that although Congress are reflrained from
purchasing lands (except in certain cafes)and from
exercising over the fame exclusive legislation ; yet
that they may hold lands obtained by execution,
conquest, and by other means as well as by those
clauses of the constitution which relate to lands
now belonging to the union ; and that Congress
had often inveftedothers with powers which they
themselves could not exercise.
He then noticed the argument, that, by a law
of Virginia, notes payable to the bearer, or or
der, could not circulate in that State ; and ob
served that this law could not be fuppofedto ex
tend to bank notes ; and if it did, it would be
null and void, becaule the constitution of the
union and laws, made in pursuance thereof, were
paramount to the laws and conllitutions of the
leveral States. Havingconfidered the arguments
againlt the conflitutionality of the bill, he en
tered into the policy and utility of the measure.
—In his remarks on this head we ffiall not fol
low him.
The foregoing Speech of Mr. Gerry is copied from
•e General Advertiser.
LONDON, February 8
T AST week, when the new Bifliopof Versailles
A-* was about to take the civic oath before the
National Aflembly, on his promotion, with nn
powdered hanging locks, a lady exclaimed " What
a nasty til-combed Bi/bop /" to which a gentleman
near her answered « The time is over, Madame,
when tt sbe flowed Bishoprics ; they are now
conjerred on virtue, and virtue needs no ornament."
Of all enemies, the Empress raoft dreads that
of Pruflja—and her officers and soldiers enter
tain similar apprehensions. To fix the Black Ea
gle on the walls of Constantinople is a common
idea at Peterlburg but to mention Berlin,
makes a Ruffian ftrink within himfelf.
In :he last year, woolen goods were manufac
tured in the diftricfl of Yorkfliire, taking Roch
dale (a space of ground not more than 30 miles
square) to the value of three millions four hun
dred thousand pounds. '
A quantity of ambergris, to the amount of 360
ounces (which has since fold for 19s. per ounce)
has lately been found in the head and body of
one whale. _ Hitherto the whales were supposed
to contain little or no ambergris, and the quan
tity of this article brought to market was fai'd to
be found floating on the furface of those seas
where whales were supposed to reside. The par
ticulars of this very ufeful and valuable dis
covery have been attested before the pi ivy coun
cil, and an account of it was 1 ead on Thursday
night last at the Royal Society.
Col. Smith, who was one of the aids-du-camp
814
to General Walhington, is now i n London and
though he has not appeared in any public can
city, is supposed, in foine measure, to s up |
the place of an Envoj from the United States' 1 *
Every one has heard of the voyage round th
world, undertaken some years ago by M, p '
rouse, by order of the King of France, as wdi
as of the misfortunes attending theftiipseinp]
ed in that enterpi ife ; the crews of which
having been heard of, for these last two yean
from any part of the world, it is imagined the'
may polfibly have been shipwrecked on some in.
and.
In this hope, an address was presented to the
National Aflembly by the Society of Natural His
toiy at Paris, petitioning that foine new velTets
might be fitted out for the double purnofe 0 f
seeking those unfortunate men, if they vet ex
ift, and pursuing the fame researches in Natural
History and Geography that the unfortunate
Peyroufe was coinmiffioned to investigate.
Mr. Pitt, ro his honor be it recorded, has made
the proceedings in the trial of Warren Haflinos
a government question, and the friends to the
present administration will therefore fupportthe
vote of the House of Commons when taken into
consideration by the House of Lords. The mi
miter, with the reft of the impartial part of man
kind, thinks, that if it was justice to bring Mr
Hastings to trial, it is but justice to finifh that
ttial in a legal manner.
The Duke of Marlborough's book of Gems is
perhaps the most valuable that ever was publish
ed—not so much for the fineneft of the printing
as for the beauty of the copper plates. The book
consists of two volumes, and contains roo engrav
ings, all of them done by Bartalozzi. Only 200
copies have been worked off, and thev are so
scarce, that ijo guineas have been offered for a
copy.
The Dnke of Marlborough has preferred all
the crowned head; in Europe with a copy of his
book, which has likewise been sent to the two
Universities here, and the principal Academics
abroad. The explanation of the plates is in La
tin and French.
Feb. 15 —24. M. Conde and Artois are still ab
sent from Paris, and the former is fa id to be mak
ing the tour of Italy, the latter to be stationed
at Venice. They have refufed to comply with
the decree which enjoins them to take the Civic
Oath on pain of forfeiting their pensions; and
this circiiiiiftMr.ce, with their removal from Ttr
rin to the Southward, preserves the hopes of the
Aristocrats that a counter-revolution will be at
tempted.
M. de la Fayette is nearly recovered, and is
expected to appear soon at the Club dts Jacobins.
Four millions due, though almolt upon a dor
mant claim, to the family of Orleans, will it is
supposed, be paid to the Duke by the National
Aflembly, upon a condition, that it shall be ap
propriated to the payment of his debts.
The murderers ot the Abbe du Bois who was
absurdly charged with a design of adaflinatiug
the Count d'Artois, are to be tried in the ensu
ing month.
The Cardinal de Rohan, once so much the
topic of conversation, has written a filly letter
to the National Aflenibly, who will Ihew very lit
tle resentment of his folly.
The lare Archbilhop of Paris has sent a sedi
tions letter to the press, which has been return
ed by the Printer.
Extratt of a letter from Petcrfourg y Dec. 22
" An authentic lift has been published here of
the forces of the Ruffian empire, with a state
ment of the lofles fuflfered, both by the land ar
my and that of the sea, during the lafl three
years. This loss, including the sick and deser
ters, is estimated at 130,000 men.
" The Ruffian army consists of four parts, the
guards, the Campaign Troops, the Garrifonsand
the Irregular Troops. The Guards amoanted to
9967 men, but the Swedilh war has reduced them
to 5036 men ; the Campaign Troops were 48,441
cavalry, whom the war has reduced to 25,300;
and 121,554 Infantry, which now amount to on
ly 61,300. The garrisons, which were 103,226
men, are reduced to 69,100 ; the Irregular Troops
were 127,000 strong, but now are reduced to
63,500. The army of the Empress, therefore,
before the war, amounted to 409,978 men; her
lofles amount to 223,180; but as above 100,000
recruits have been railed, the armv has not left
above 130,000 men, and of course there still re
main about 280,000 men at present."
A cafe is said to be preparing; to be laid before
the Royal Society, of a person in a severe paroxysm
of the hydrophobia, who was effectually cured
by oil, taken internally, and applied outwardly,
as an unguent, for three days, without remission.
Opinion of tile Judges on the protesting of bills.
The court were clearly of opinion, that inland
bills of exchange, drawn after fight, could not
be protested for non-payment, as those only
which were drawn afterdate were within 'l ,c
words of the statute of King William, by which
protests were introduced, and for which, it ex
pressly fays, that sixpence only shall be taken.
1 he Court were also unanimouflv of opinion,that bills subject to be protested, could not by
]aw be protested, until the day after the day on
which they became due.
Two ot the judges also were of opinion, that
there is no difference between the contract creat
ed by a bill of exchange, and any other contract,
as by mortgage, bond, lease, &c. &c. where the
party has the whole of the last day on which he
■undertakes to discharge himfelf from the obli
gation.
But one of the judges differed 111 opinion on
this point, and thought a bill of exchange was
not like a condition to pay money on a certain
day, but was a contract only ta pay the money
on the day, if the bill was presented for payment.
The demand, he said, ought to be made in a rea
sonable time of the day; for that if an acceptor
had the whole of the day, the Bankers clerks
would be in a terrible situation, for they would
then be obliged to be at every man's lioufe until
the last period
The other judge declined giving his opinion
on this point of the cafe.
At length the National Adembly have adopted
the Britilh mode of trial by jury, and viva voce
evidence is approved as the belt and fafeft me
thod of answering all the ends of jultice. Upon
the account thereof being spread throughout Pa
ris, the people instantly teftified their joy and
approbation of the long looked for and happy
event by every means in their power, and all
that feftivity and mirth peculiar to their charac
ter.
At a Protestant meeting in Stralburg, the fol
lowing prayer is offered up twice a day, for the
National Aflembly:
" Almighty God! animate by thy power the
Deputies of the Franks! Cherilh, in their hearts,
that indefatigable zeal which is so neceflary to
accelerate the accomplifliment of our welfare !
Be their Guide! Be Chief! Open thine
hands, and pour out that ineafure of felicity of
which each community in the universe is suscep
tible! and prosper, with thy boundless protec
tion, all their virtuous, spirited, and painful la
bours !"
WHITEHALL, Nov. 20
The King has been pleased to approve the ap
pointment of William Knox, Esq. to be Consul
for the United States of America, in the city of
Dublin, and in such other parts of the kingdom
of Ireland as shall be nearer to the said city than
the relidence of any other Consul and Vice-Consul
of the said United States.
Dec. 7. This day, in pursuance of the King's
pleasure, his Royal Highness William Henry,
Duke of Clarence, Captain in his Majesty's Navy,
was promoted to the rank of Rear Admiral of
the Blue Squadron of his Majesty's fleet.
DUBLIN, February 2.
The eltablifliment of that mod commendable
institution, the Orphan-House, rcfledts the brightest
lustre 011 the benevolent founders. The amia
ble example they have given, should excite a spirit
of imitation in this kingdom.
The erediingof asylums, to which those forlorn
and comfortlefs children of adversity mayfly for
fafety and for succour, inuft exhibit to foreign
nations, an emphatic picture of Irish philan
thropy.
ExtraH of a Utter from Captain Lewis, of the Union,
dated Foyns, Jan. 18, to a gentleman in Dublin.
" I am sorry to inform you that on Sunday
night, in a heavy squall, my veflel went 011 lh'»re
on the Point of Durncfs, near Robertftown creek ;
that about seven or eight o'clock last night the
mob aflernbled, and came down to the veflel, and
drove the people 011 board out of the veflel by
a continual firing of mufquets; they then board
ed her, and plundered every thing they could
get, and cut away as much of the rigging as they
could, split one of the pumps down to the deck,
and began to cut the foremaft away, took all the
provjfions, bread, &c. in fatft plundered her of
every thing they could, and then scuttled her.
John Hunt, Esq. went off with his armed men,
and exchanged a few shots with them, dispersed
and obliged them to quit the veflel."
The above veflel was bound from Boston to
Bristol, and put into the river Shannon in dis
tress.
ExtraCt of a letter from a Rome, dated January S.
" There are many French Bi/liops here at pre
sent, and 36 more are expected. They chose
lather to leave France, than aflentto the decrees
of the National Aflembly. His Holiness main
lains them in the moll honorable manner-*—and
Prince Bnrghefe offers to support 26 at his own
expence."
the latefl accounts from India—the company's
siTjirs do not appear to be in a very flattt ring fuuation ; at the out
.'ctofthe war wiih Tippoo, the governor General has been obliged
to borrow money at 12 per cent, to raise the neceirary fopylies.
" women's wit is QITICK."
The foliowing; circnmftanre is said to be a fa£l :—A few davs
the II althamftow stage coming to town late in the evening, the
happening 10 turn on robbers, one gentleman exprelTed
h * tears, that he should lose ten guineas ; an elderly lady, who
m?xt him, begged him to take his money from his pocket,
•".d (Tip it into his boot, which he did.—Not long after, a high
* avman rode up to the window (on the lady's fide) and demanded
* cr money. She declared (he had none ; but, it he could cut that
gentleman s boot, he would find therein ten guineas. The gen
tleman was obliged to submit patiently ; but, when the robber
departed, loaded his fellow traveller with abuse, declaring her to
be in confederacy with the highwayman.—She faid,certainly ap
pearances were against her ; but that, if the company in the stage
would lup at her house the following evening, (he would explain
a condutt which appeared so myftenous. After much debate be
tween themselves, they consented to go the next evening accord
ing to her address. They were ufiiured into a magnificent room ;
a very elegant supper was prepared ; after which the lady taking
a pocket-book from out of her pocket, ftiewed that it contained
various notes, to the amount of several hundred pounds, and, ad
dre fling herfelf particularly to the gentleman who had 'oee.i rob
bed,—" 1 thought, Sir, jaid foe, it teas better for you to I of e your
ten guineas, than me the valuable property, which I had about me lajl
night; —as you have been the cause oj my saving it y I entreat your ac
ceptance of this bank bill," which was one of an hundred pounds.
JSeHOLD that woe-wild Maiden in yon Cell \
Poor hapless Maiden ! once the Village boafl!
O'ei ev'ry Glass her name was sung the toast,
The praifeof Kate on every tongue would dwell.
Her bosom tender as the callow Dove,
She lift'ned to the tale of William's tongue ;
Her Eye would dart the pensive-looks of love,
And only William charm'd her with his song.
But when the faithlels Lover, caught her heart ;
Loft to the laws of honor, voice of truth,
Loft to the generous sentiment of youth,
Her name he sullied by a villain's art ;
Remorse now forces the nerve-fliaking sigh,
While fierceft madness fires her sparkling Eye.
HE that has merit of his own,
Need take no pains to make it known ;
The world will give him credit, ample,
And cite him for a bright example—
Bat feme from house to house will run,
To stun you with the feats they've done;
And in a rising cloud of lies,
Portray their public facrifice !
And not content with this will teize you,
Till you fubfcnbe to what don't please yoa,
A fulfome flattering commendation,
Vile falfhoods known to halt the nation !
By arts like these, they patch their name,
But weak and sickly is their fame—
It shrinks from truth's remotest touches,
And hobbles like a wretch on crutches.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
YOUR correspondent has favored me with some remarks upon
mine inanfwer to his former ftriftures on the fubjeft of the
proposed Bank of the United States. I was to be sure wrong
when I appealed to private feelings, or to the passions of men, in
favor of an old and venerable Institution, to which time had gi
ven its fan&ion, and the country was greatly' indebted for its free
dom ; for what are passions, or the finer feelings, when compared
to the all-subduing cry of National Policy, or expediency, against
which-very often not even the voice of reason has been found to
prevail : There are, however, those, who think that on this occa
sion, the national gratitude might well have been made consistent
with the national policy ; and that the Bank of North-America
would have proved fully commensurate to all the purposes of go
vernment, had government been pleased to resort to it : Since,
however they have resolved otherwise, I am clear for supporting
the Old Bank, in memory of what it has done; and I have no
doubt of its meeting with all the countenance of the monied and
commercial interests of the State, that will be neceflary to preferre
it on its present very refpe&able footing; for this I rely on the
enlightened minds of our citizens in general, who cannot but fee
the hazard of rifquing all in one bottom, and the greater chance
they have of being well served by a salutary competition between
two • I relyalfoon the wisdom of the State, that cannot do bet
ter than to patronize its own Bank, as its pecuniary facilities mud
be so greatly dependant upon it, and accordingly in the present
session the legislature have fully (hewn their convi&ion of the
truth and solidity of this reasoning.
As to the observation " that the Bank of North-America have
accepted and acted under a new Charter from the .State of Penn
" fvlvania, materially variant from the original one, and which fa
" narrows the foundation of the Injlitution, as to render it an incompe
" tent basis for the extenjive purposes of a National Bank," and the
inference drawn from all this fine reasoning, that another Bank
was eflential, it is only neceflfary to answer, That it was no fault
of the Bank that Pennsylvania abrogated its original charter ; and
as it was no fault of the Bank's, it ought not to operate to its pre
judice ; nor was it neceflary that it (hould, since Congress could
just as easily, the State Charter notwithstanding, have extended
the foundation of this narrowed Institution, as they could eftab
lifti the so broad one they have at present projected.
In fact there is no eflential difference between the two Banks,
but what lie in the compass of the following circumstances : The
introduction of a capital of § public debt in the New Bank—the
narrowing of the privilege of voting of persons not resident in the
Union—the power of branching out the Bank over America—
the latitude of carrying it on wherever the Dire&ors choose—the
extending their number to 25— the forcibly turning one fourth of
them out every year—and the compelling the subscription for
bank flock to be kept open until 25000 (hares be fubfenbed ; and
I will venture to fay, that in every one of these particulars, the
Bank of North-America is on a better footing for the concerned,
than it is poflible the new one (hould be, if the following por
tions be true, and I believe they arc, to wit. That gold and silver
are a better basis for a Bank than paper of any kind whatever—
that freedom of votes in all the Stockholders is the palladium of
the fafety of a//—that a Bank limited in its operations to one cer
tain place, is more fccure and liable, than one liable, like the
winds of Heaven, to be wafted every where—that twelve Direc
tors are a more responsible body, than twenty-five, of which se
ven may form a quorum —that a perfect freedom of ele&ion is
better than a forced change of it, and that a flock limited by the
Stockholders to the amount of their wants and business, is better
than one compelled by neceflity to be left open, till an amount be
fubferibed beyond any poflible scale of utility or of profit.
The reasonings of the Secretary of the Treasury, in his report
on the fubjett of the Bank, are with me as inconclufivc, as were
his pofiuons on the fubjeft ot the deferring payment of part of the
interest of the national debt—both measures I have ever thought
unnecelTary and inexpedient.
I think it was as needless at present to erect a new Bank on the
plan piopofed, as I thought it impolitic in the latter part of his
firft Report, to fee him propofeany thing short ot the fulleit and
amplest iuftice contemplated in the beginning of it. Time how
ever mull do its own office, and (hew who has been in these
theoretic discussions. lam willing to take my chance in the lon*
[un for its approbation, and bope that in its progress, the Bank ot
A': on.
815
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET
PATCH WORK.
B I R T H A,
North America will evince, by the profit and extent of its n
tioris, that my efforts in its service have not been without use : T >
prote£lthis Institution, I have thought a laudable undertaking; I
am sure to preserve it on its present ground is of confcqusnce ; arid
having thus had in view only systems of public utility, no way
incompatible, but rather auxiliary to the (upport of the general
government, I shall be consoled by my motives, whatever m-j-y
chance to be their iflue.
I can not conclude without noticing the very fublimc prcduc
tions of the Bard, who has introduced the Bank of the United
States, into his Flower Garden of the Muses : He certainly de
serves credit at lead for the novelty of the design, since like the
" Observer," he was disposed to play upon the fancy, he cannon
but greatly excel him, having chofcn a vehicle fomuch better suit
ed to the purpose ; yet I would recommend to the ingenious au
thor to dire£l his flights in future, rather over the rofeaie and ver
nal Banks that are preparing on :he Schuylkill, than to waste his
powers on a fubjeft so unpromising and sterile as a monied bank
seems, by its very nature, calculated to prove to the finer and moie
dclicate orgai.s of a poet.
INFORMATION
To owners of shallops andothtr fnal!v?[fils cencer;t:d
in pajjhig up and dovin the r 'wsr Ddawjre.
" The wreck of Come veflel being lodged on
the Horse-Shoe, near the upper end of Leagtie-
Island, very near, or in the Shallop Channel,
whereby several final] vefl'els have received in
jury : in consequence of which, a Buoy has been
placed about ten feet to the eastward of (aid
wreck, lor the purpose of directing veii'els how
to avoid the danger; and will remain there du
ring the Cummer fealon."
Philadelphia, April i 5.
Extrat7 of a litttr from Crsenjburgh, W tflmoreland
comity, dated j4pril I.
" On the 22(1 March a party of Indians came
to the Alleghany river, opposite to Owen's Island,
where there was a few families fettled; theie
were five Indians came into the house of one C'nt
wright,and alked for visuals,which wasimmedi
ately given them ; and as f'oon as 1 hey were d me
eating, one of the Indians (called Capt. Bullet)
toldCutwrighthe ninft give him hi< gun, the othe:-
nefufed, and immediately he drew his tomahawk
and killed Cutwright; then Cut wr.ight's f >:i Struck
the Indian with an axe and killed liiin ; immedi
ately another Indian ltruck young Cutwright, and
the three fell together : and it is laid by a num
ber of women and children, who made theii
efcape, there were two other Indians killed, and
fourteen made their escape: several of whom
have made oath that these lavages were Senekees,
and that they were well acquainted with them."
The culture of Pilk is purfurd wirh great advantage in several
parts of the United States, particularly in Conne£ticu r — from the
nurfcry ot MefTrs Aspi nwa i l and Dewitt, on the Ridge Road
mile from this city, any quantity of White Mulberry Trees
may be had at three pence each, or twenty shillings per hundred,
or nine pounds perthoufand, by applying to Robert Tov/ers,
No. 68, High-Street, or to Joseph Cruksh a nk.
At a Meeting of the Alderman on Monday last, for the purpose
of choosing a Mayor for the ensuing year, Samuel Miles, Esq. was
unanimously re-ele6ted, but declined ferving;—whereupon John
Barclay, Esq. was e'edled.
The bill pending before the Legislature of this State, making
appropriations for erecting Federal Buildings in this City,
is postponed by the Senate to the next Seflion.
Died on the third inft. at Little Britain, in
Ulster county, (N.J.) in the fifty-feventh year of
hisage, Doctor Charles Clinto v, brother to his
Excellency the Governor.—He was a gentleman
of learning and refpeftability in hit profeflion,
and highly edeemed for his virtues—for many
years he was in a declining (late of health.
CHARACTER OF THE LATE GEN. M. OGDEN, OF ELIZABETH-
TOWN NEW-JERSEY
u GEN* OGDEN took a very early and dccided part in favor
of the lights, and in support of the liberties of his country. He
joined the main army at Cambridge, and was a&ivclv employed
in the firft campaign before Boston. He undertook and perform
ed the difficult and trying march with Arnold, through the woods
to Canada ; was engaged in the attack upon Quebec, and taken
wounded, from the field of a&ion. On his return from Canada,
he was appointed to the command of a regiment, and continued
in military service until the peace, when, on account of his servi
ces, he was honored with the commiflion of a Brigad'er-Gcneral.
" He was a man highly diflinguifhed for his philanthropliv
and benevolence, confiaering and treating all mankind as his
brethren. He was remarkable lor his liberality; generous in us
extern, and judicious in its application. He pofTelTed a disposi
tion univcrfallv amiable, which, with his other good qualities,
had endeared him exceedingly to his numerous acquaintance at
home and abroad.
ARRWALSatthe PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Sloop Betsy, Shurtliff, Virginia, 6 days.
Do. Nancy, Ofbornc, New-York, 8.
Do. Betsy, Ellwood, Virginia, 7.
Schooner Nancy, Swain, Virginia.
Do. Adventure, Trefethen, Portsmouth, 8.
Do. Two Sifters, Etheridge, N. Ctfrollna, 10.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT,
6 pr. Cents ijf pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents gfi.
Defered 6 pr. Cents qf
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl.and other Certificates 16f.
Indents 9 f.
N. and S. Carolina debts, w/2 15f.
Gallaudet andEwiNc-,
No. 54, South Second Strf.et,
HAVE imported in the Lady Wa!tcrJlorf % from London,
chcJicT and Adrian a from Liverpool, and t!»c Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENER AL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE
which they will fell on rearonah'e term*.
fdUi a few hogsheads of OLD ; \MtV>
Phi/udelphia, April 9, 1791.
85 pr. cent.
4.5 A "-
45 <io -
-80
45
do.
GOO') S,
On harrl for
til 10 n.\croLAWS OF THE UNION.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City ot Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand fevcn hundred and ninety.
An ACT supplementary to the A<s, making pro
vision for the redu<fiion of the Public Debr.
WHEREAS it hath been mode known to Congress that the
President of the United States, in consequence of " An
Ast making provision for the reduction of the public debt," hath
caused a certain loan to be made in Holland, on account of the
United States, to the amount of three millions of florins, bearing
an interest of five per centum per annum, and reimbursable in fix
yearly instalments, commencing in the year one thousand eight
hundred, and ending in the year one thousand eight hundred and
fix, or at any time fooncr, in whole, or in part, at the option of the
United States.
And whereas it hath been also stated to Congress, that the char
ges upon the said loan have amounted to four and a half per cen
tum, whereby a doubt hath arisen, whether the said loan be with
in the meaning of the said last mentioned act, which limits the
rate of interest to five per centum per annum :
And whereas it is expedient that the said doubt be removed
Be it enaftcd and declared by the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of the United States of America in Congress, That the
loan aforefaid (hall be deemed and construed to be within the
true intent and meaning ot the said ast, intituled " An A6l mak
ing provision for the reduction of the public debt," and that any
farther loan, to the extent of the principal sum authorized to be
borrowed by the said ast, the interest. whereof shall be five per
ccntum per annum, and the charges whereof (hall not exceed the
said rate of four and a half per centum, shall, in like manner, be
deemed and construed to be within the true intent and meaning
of the said act.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President oj the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident oj the United States,
Depofued among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
An ACT supplemental to the Ast " eltablilhing
the Treasury Department," and for a farther
Compensation to certain Officers.
BE it ena6ted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflembled, That
the eighth feftion of the a6t, intituled, "An A£t to establish the
Treasury Department," patted the second day of September, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty nine, fliall be, and the fame is
hereby extended to all and every of the clerks employed in the
Treasury Department, as fully and effe&ually as if they and every
of them were specially named therein, except as to the penalty in
such fettion mentioned, which in cafe of any such clerk offending
against the piovifions of the said fe&ion, fliall be five hundred dol
lars, and removal from office.
And be it further ena&ed, That each and every Clerk and other
Officer, already appointed in any of the Departments of the Uni
ted States, (and who have not, since their appointment, taken the
Oath or Affirmation hereafter mentioned) fliall within fifteen days
sifter the pafling of this ast, and those who shall hereafter be ap
pointed, fha 11 before they enter upon the duties of such appoint
ment, take an Oath or Affirmation before one of the Justices of the
Supreme Court, or one of the Judges ot a Diftrift Court of the
United States, to support the Conilitution ol the United Slates, and
also an Oath or Affirmation, well and faithfully to execute the
trust committed to him, which Oaths or Affirmations, fubferibed
by such Clerk, and certified by the person adminiflering the fame,
fha 11 be filed in the Office of the person employing luch Clerk.
And be it further matted, That it shall and may be lawful for
the Principal in any of the Offices of the United States, who is au
thorised by law to appoint Clerks under him, to allow to each
Clerk such compensation for his Services, as he Shall, in the opin
ion of Such officer, deserve for the Same :
Provid d, That the whole Sum to be expended for Clerks in
any Such office (except the chief clerk) (hall not exceed a Sum e
qual to five hundred dollars per annum for every Clerk employed
therein.
And be it further ena£ledby the authority aforeSaid, That there
Shall be allowed for one year, commencing with the pafling of
this ast, to the Register, two hundred and fifty dollars, and to the
Auditor, the Comptroller of the TreaSury, and the Attorney-Ge
neral, tour hundred dollars each, in addition to their reSpedtive
Salaries, and to be paid in the Same manner.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States.
and President of the Senate
Approved, March third, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United State.
DepoSited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
NOTIFICATION.
Colonel Thomas Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being necelTarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Gov e r nor hath thought proper to authorise
me to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return ; —
NOTICE is therefore given, to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia, the Northern Liberties of said
City, the Townships of Moyamenfing and Pass) uuk, that they are
to meet and exercise under their refpeftive Officers on the fol
lowing Days, viz.
Fir ft Battalion on the 2d Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on the 6'.h of do.
Sixth Battalion on the gth of do.
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEA£ER OSWALD, Lientcnant,
pro tem. of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791.
FOR SALE,
In the City of New-Brutifwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE,almoft
new, pleasantly situated on the banks oi the Raritan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has four rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame,
and a good ftoue cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have pofleflion the First
day of May next, and know the price and terms of payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis Form'an, in said city, or
the fubferiberin Borden Town. |. VAN EMBURGH.
K. B. If not (old, to be rented from lit day of May next,
By the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES ofyVMERICA.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS by a Proclamation bearing date the 24th day of
January of this prcfent year, and in pursuance of certain
acts of the states of Maryland and Virginia, and of the Congress of
the United States therein mentioned, certain lines of experiment
were directed to be run in the neighbourhood of Georgetown in
Maryland, tor the purpose of determining the location of a part
of the territory of ten miles square for the permanent feat of the
Government of tht United States, and a certain part was ditefted
to be located within the said lines of experiment on both fides of
the Patowmac, and above the limit of the Eastern branch prefcrib
cd by the said ast of Congress.
And Congress by an amendatory ast, pa (Ted on the 3d day of
this present month of March, have given further authority to the
President of the United States, " to make any part of the territory
below the said limit, and above the mouth of Hunting Creek, a
part of the said diftrift, so as to include a convenient part of the
Eastern branch, and of the lands lying on the lower fide thereof,
and also the town of Alexandria."
NOW THEREFORE, for the purpose of amending and com
pleting the location of the whole of the said territory of ten miles
square, in conformity with the said amendatory ast of Congress,
I do hereby declare and make known that the whole of the said
territory shall be located and included within the four lines follow
ing, that is to fay—
Beginning at Jones's point, being the .upper Cape of Hunting
Creek, in Virginia, and at an angle, in the outset, of 45 degrees
well of the north, and running in a direst line ten miles for the
firft line: then beginning again at the fame Jones's point, and
running another dire&line, ai a right angle with the firft, across
the Patowmac, ten miles for the second line : then from the termi
nations of the said firft and second lines, running two other dirett
lines, of ten miles each, the one cFofling the Eastern branch afore
faid, and the other the Patowmac, and meeting each other in a
point.
And I do accordingly direst the Commiflioners named under
the authority of the said firft mentioned a£l of Congress, to pro
ceed forthwith to have the said four lines run, and by proper metes
and bounds defined and limited, and thereof to make due report
under their hands and seals; and the territory so to be located,
defined, and limited, (hall be the whole territory accepted by the
said ads of Congress as the diftrift for the permanent feat of the
Government of the United States.
IN TESTIMONY whereof I have caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
fame with my hand. Done at Georgetown aforcfaid, the
30th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1791, and of
the Independence of the United States the fifteenth.
BY THE PR ESIDENT,
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
Virginia, Culpcpcr County, 15th Jan. 1791.
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laving on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town ot Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a most
healthy part of the country :—Confifting of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
dreams of water, so dispersed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a'number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, pasting through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant ■
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
fiding of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in great abundance; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodiri quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhauttable
lource for the saw-mill.
Also fcveral detached tracts within said county, of about 2,3,
and 400 acres each,and though not offo fertilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvements, and the lands so situated, that they can easily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned pofleffions will
be difpofe'd of, on very reasonable terms—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchasers, who may be
supplied on the fame terms, with all kinds of (lock, work hor
(es, oxen, &c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f.]
LOST,
BETWEEN this city and New-York, on the poll road, two
bundles containing the Gazette of the United States—No.
82—deflincd for New-York and Boilon. As they can be of no
use, but as wafle paper, exceptto the Subscribers, many of whom
keep files of that publication, any perlon who can give informa
tion to the Editor, so that the whole or any part of them may be
recovered, shall receive a generous reward. The two bundles
contained 300 papers.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Str eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,,
Pcnnfylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
particular Stare.
816
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
[Qdr All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice thattht
following advertisement has been varied from that publilhcd ia
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will be received at fch
office of the Secretary of the Treafurv, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use of the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lutolh
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingutn.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the laid River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
laid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Pofl St. Vincennes,
at PoftSt. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the ri"er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations bi required at any places, or within other
diftritts, not fpecificd in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confifl of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, branoy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
»-p 1 j c r > P cr ' 100 rations.
Iwo pounds or soap, f r
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fiift Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the fiift day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Massachu
setts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 3iftday of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftrifts herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main fouih branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
Ihe rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the fa id term, be fufficient for the con
sumption ot the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in cach cafe, that all lofTes ftiflained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depohtions of two or.more creditable chara&ers,
and the certificate of a commissioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contrafl will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may make their propositions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above ports to
;eth( r, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown >
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia;
and they must fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
$-3* The Printers who have publijhed the above advertisement, dre
requejled to repfintit with the alterations.
(96 tf)
Post-Office, Philad. April 8, 179?•
By information received this day from the Agent for the Briti
Packet, her failing is postponed until the 20th iifft. Letters
will be received at this Office until Tuesday Morning the 19 1
infh at half past 9 o'clock. _
gCP" A few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States } printed with Notes, may bs had oft ■
Editor.