w
f
&gz(fU ffifi
, PUBLISHED WE DM KS DA YS AND SATURDAYS PY JOHN FENNO. No. fig, HIGH-STRFKT, BETWEEN SECOND AND TIURD
[No. 4, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED ,
For the the JL'XITBQ STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-On*.
(ContivueJ from No. 2, of this Gazette.)
MOREOVEk, this fame /ingle tyrant, there
is no need of fighting him. It is not ne
ceflary to defend yonr felf igainft hiir, ; he is de
feated of himfelf, if the country consents not to
servitude. There is nothing to be taken from
hiin : You have only to give him nothing. The
country need not take the pains to do any thing
foritfelf; it need only avoid to take pains against
itfelf. The people fuffer themselves, or rather
cause themselves to be devoured, since by ceasing
to serve, they would be excnfed from it. It is the
people who enslave themselves—who cut their
own throats—who, having the choice to be subjeCt
or to be free, abandon their liberty and put on
the yoke—who conlent to their own ruin, or ra
ther purchase it. If it would cost him any thing
to recover his liberty, I should not urge him to it,
fmce there are so many things dearer to him,
than to recover his natural right ; or, so to speak,
from a Beajl to become a Alan. Again, I (ay, I
don't desire in him so much boldness. What !if
to have liberty, it is only neceflary to desire it—
jf nothing is wanting but a liinple volition, is
there a nation on earth who would think it too
dear to acquire it by a single wifli—and who
would spare a volition to recover a blessing, which
it ought to purchase at the price of iis blood ?
and which, being loft, all men of honour ought
'to esteem life a burthen, and death salutary ' As
the fire from a single spark becomes a flame, con
tinually increasing, and the more fuel you throw
in, the more capable it is po burn ; and, without
throwing on water to quench it, when you cease
to lay on wood, having nothing more to consume,
ir wastes itfelf, looses its form, and no ledger
fire : In the fame manner tyrants, the more they
plunder, the more they require, the more they
ruin and destroy ; the more you commit to them,
the more you serve them ; so much the more they
fortify themselves, become continually more
flrong and fiefh to annihilate and deflroy every
thing. And if you confide nothing to them—if
you do not obey thein—without contending,
without striking, they remain naked and defeat
ed, and are no longer any thing—like a root,
having no longer juice or nourishment, they be
come a dry and dead branch.
The brave, to acquire the good they demand,
dread not the danger—the wife flu ink not at the
trouble—the timid and the dull know not how to
endure the evil iv>r to recover the good : They
V'iih, and there they flop : They are deprived by
their cowardice of the virtue of an attempt: The
desire of the blessing remains in them from na
ture. This desire, this will, is common to the
wife and the foolifh, to heroes and cowards, to
villi for all things, which being acquired, would
render them happy and contented. One lingle
exception, in which I know not how naturefeems
to have been wanting to men, in not inspiring
the desire of it : It is liberty, which is always a
good so great and so pleasant, that when it is loft,
all forts of evil come upon us in a train, and even
the good which remains behind her lose emirely
their relish and flavor, corrupted by servitude.
Liberty is the only thing which mankind lias no
desire for. If they desired it, they certainly
would have it. They refufe to make this fair
acquisition because it is too easy. Poor creatures !
Miserable wretches! People insensible ! Nations
obltinately bent on your own ill ! Blind to your
own good ! You fuffer to be (aken away before
your eves, the faireft and clearest of your reve
nue i \«u allow your fields, forefls and meadows,
to be pillaged, your houses to be plundered, and
robbed of your ancient furniture, your paternal
moveables! You live in such a manner thatyou
may lay nothing is your's. It seems as if you
would think it a great happiness to hold, by ihe
halves, your own property, your families and
your lives; and all this havock.this misfortune,
this ruin, conies upon you, not from enemies, but
nioft certainly from the enemy, and from him
whom voti make so grand as he is, for whom you
go so consequently to war, for whose grandeur
you refufe not to offer your persons to death.
He who lords and masters it over you in this
manner, has but two eyes, two hands, but one
body, and has nothing about him but v.-hat is
common to him with the fmallefl mortal, of the
f iT
<r
Wednesday, May 11, 1791.
infinite numbers of men in our cities. Yet he
has more than you all, by the advantage you give
liim, tor your deltru<ftion. Whence h'asheta'keti
To many eyes? How could he have spies upon all
of you if you did not give him those eyes ? How
has he so many hands to llrike you, if he did not
take them from you? The feet with which he
tramples on your cities, whence does he borrow
them, but from you? Ho-xfi's any power over
you, but by yourselves? 'How would he dare to
impose upon you, if he hid not an intelligence
with you ? What could hedo'to you if you were
not receivers and concealers of the robbers and
thieves who plunder you, accomplicesof themur
deiers who kill you, aud traitors to yourselves ?
And one deep sigh rife struggling from her breast.
1787. CARRYI
-0 Zj'/ ft
/
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ELEGY I.
DARK on the morn still hangs the veil of night,
And scarce a whisper trembles on the breeze.
Now let me roam, a stranger to delight,
Wildly regardless, 'neath the dropping trees.
To me the bosom of the night is dear,
I hate the broad and laughing face of day;
I court the cavern, and the sorest drear,
Where scarce one straggling fun-beam loves lo flray,
For what to me are happiness ?nd joy, •
The tranquil step, and eye of peace serene,
The rich man's mirth, the sage's wife employ,
Or all the paintings of the r. oral scene ?
O let me rather hail the deepel, gloom,
The bleak wind whittling thro the fallen leaves,
Tke screech-owl shrieking o'er the yawning tomb,
And bell whose toll the ear of midnight cleaves.
For these are things familiar to my foul,
Dead as it is to each enlivening power;
When the sighs burst, the tear.\ liiceffant roll,
In fad remembrance' agonizing hour.—
To love unknown, unheard oft > adore,
To sigh in secret, and concezi'd to weep,
To the cold walls the fond corf)plaints to pour,
With nightly tears the wakc'al pillow steep.—
This is my constant and my lor r employ,
Lofl -.1.. buff p'icafujtj ortfte c .ft:i;
Unknown is friendfhip's confidential joy ;
And fled the days of revelry and mirth.
Whose years of Itfelefs being pass away;
A drear existence lengthens oui my life
Hope faintly glimmers an uncertain day*
That wakes to agony new mental ft rife.—
Why to the world (hould Misery lift the cry ?
What sympathetic heart will yearn to know
The griefs which look new anguifli thro' the eye,
And give the aching bosom keener woe ?—
She who hath torn contentment from my brcaft,
Shines the defccndant of illuflrious names ;
Her Sire, a father of the land confeft,
The tear of gratitude from nature claims.
Nor hath descent alone her mind inform'd,
Arm'd with the aid of wealth hath genius (hone ;
Rich in ability—with virtue warm'd —
Science, and beauty—every charm her own,
With the mild look of modesty divine
She reads the book of nature and mankind ;
Alone unconscious how her beauties shine,
Herfelf alone to her perfections blind.
Her fair discretion charms the eye of age,
Who weeps, in joy, that piety and truth,
And heavenly meekness, that doth Heaven engage,
Are her's—the lustrous ornaments of youth.
The speech witli unassuming science blest.
Fills with delight the bosom of the wife ;
The ast which tende r cft sympathy contest,
Lives in rich radiance to the Poet's eyes.
These are the* powers which tear her from my fouT;
And these the charms which agonize my mind,
Love lifts my hopes o'er reasons frail controul—
To paflion,and despair, by turns confign'd,
Sued by the wealthy, by the great adored,
Alike to wisdom, and to worth endear'd ;
Where shall Sincerity's frank vow be poui'd ?
And how affection's still small voice be heaid ?
The child of educated want, nnblefs'd —
What can I hope for, quite to her unknown ?
No air-built castles lead to real reft—
Nor yet can fancy's felf suppress the groan
For what unheard of, and unseen, is worth ;
What the fine glow of mental beauty's charms ;
Undeck'd with title, tinenrich'd with birth,
Unprefs'd by yellow wealth's encircling arms ?
Each loved acquirement of the heart refined
But gives to poverty fevercr flings ;
And every bright perfe&ion of the mind
Exalts the torture that the bosom wrings.
But foft ? the Morn in vermeil beauty gay,
With rosy hand throws blushes o'er the east.
O'er all my sorrows yet a smile may ffray,
And anfweiing love may charm with joy increas'd.
Or vet—when cold, and colourless, my cheek
On the wan bosom of the grave reclines,
By chance diretled, flie the tomb may seek,
Where the wild ivy with the yew entwines.
Then, while the fad infcriplion fpeaksoflove
That liv'd unnoticed, and that died unblefs'd,
A tear«may fall, the lip in anguish move,
13
[Whole No. 2 i 2.]
A true and genuine Discovery of ANIMAL ELEC
TRICITY and MAGNETISM: calculated to
deteel and overthrow all counterfeit defcrip
tious of the fame.
[CONCLUDES.]
HAVING explained briefly the principles of this wonderful
science, I (hall next consider the modes of treatment. Dif
ferent people have different modes; but I need only mention
two, as they are enough for our purpofc. One is by the Tcicnce
ltlelf without any motion of the hands ; this is an a£t of the mind,
and the flronger the mental powers are in any operator, and the
more they are exerted, the more effe&ual the treatment will be.
In this method you mull be quite abftrafted, be absent from
all other things ; place your thoughts intenfelv upon the fubjeft
on which you would operate. Let the intention of your mind Be
kept to the work as closely as poflible, accompanied with the ut
most exertions of volition, or the strongest powers of your will
and affe£tions. Put forth all your internal powers in the moil
energetic manner. It is aftoni'lhing what sensible effe&s will re
sult from this exertion, even lo as lometimes to raifc a hand from
a table. But the lubjedt upon whom you would make trial
should be one who will make no refinance, nor ltrive against volt.'
In whatever cafe you arc called to operate have a proper confi
dence ; ancj do not be discouraged if your expettations fbould
not be fully answered at firft, but perievere, and make frequent
trials 5 for in this, as in every thing else, it is a good rule that prac
tice makes perfefl, and the more you enter into the spirit of the sci
ence, and the more frequently and earnestly you pra&ice it, the
more likely you will be to have both confidence and success.
The other method of treating is by using the hands with the
fcicnce ; for both must concur together. The motion of the
hands may be ufeful to keep up the attention of the operator, and
give a kind of force to the mirid, besides the fingers are a kind of
natural conductors, by which the effluvia is conveycd from one bo
dy to another ; and you will perceive the complaints of the pa
tients by your fingers, sooner than b) any other means.
When you move your hands properly, with full intention, and
fervent wishes to do good to the patient, exerting all your f2cul-<
tics to producc the molt salutary effe£ls, you will soon perceive
the consequences, both in yourfelf, and those whom you treat.
Some will be much sooner affe&ed than others, and much more
sensibly. The patient will frequently feel a kind of warm and
glowing fenfntien, under the treatment, though sometimes the
contrary fen fat ion will be perceived ; and the operator will often
find his hands and fingers seized with afenfationol heat, pain,
numbness or pricking, as when any part is aflcep, and frequently
bv the power of sympathy, he will feel pain in the fame part of
his body as the patient has it.
It ik-ncc«(Taff now to jneHtioa some ofthofc uifordcrs to which ihe
body is fubjeft, and which this operation is in oft likely to remove.
Many difcafes at firft arise from objltuflions, and the want of a
propei circulation of the blood and juices. Perspiration sud
denly checked produces colds, and these often lay the foundation
of incurable disorders, as consumptions, &c.
This science is of prime use in removing all these objlruflions, es
pecially in their beginning. When either by the complaint of the
patient, or your own sympathetic feelings, you pcrccive an ob
ftru&ion, and find where it lies, apply all the force and power
of your mind and will to the part affected, with the utmost ener
gy that you are master of : Let all your mental powers be en
gaged therein, according to thefoiegoing rules. Thedifordns of
the head deserve a particular place here ; for all that are affe&td
with any troublesome complaint in that part of the body, mull be
sensible that when the head is sick, the heart is faint, and the whole
trarr*- is out of order.
The had-achy is frequently, however, caused by a foul stomach ;
i r i that cafe it will be proper to treat the stomach most, moving
the hands up and down, bv which the bile will be agitated, and
the patient sensibly relieved. When this pain is caused by ob
ftru&ions in the head, that part mull be chiefly treated ; and that
treatment will most commonly give immediate eaCe, and help na
ture to overcome the complaint, as I have experienced.
Deafr.cfs, is a very troublesome complaint ; and those who are
afflitted with it, are generally very desirous of being relieved ; let
not such despair ; for there have been several inftunces, where
deafnefs has been cured, after some years continuance, by frequent
treatments. Great care ftiould be observed left the party fhoulxi
take cold soon after the treatment, and thus the disorder be made
worfc instead of being radically cured. This was thr cafe of a
young ladv not far from London, who had from her childhood
been inclining to deafnefs, and of late years was very deaf indeed.
She was cured so far as to hear the least not f e, and was quite dis
turbed at the conversation, which before (he could not hear—and
this continued some weeks : but by taking cold, her deafnefs ic
turned as bad or worse than before.
In order to treat for this complaint, let the patient be placed at
a little diftauce, with the ear inclining a small degree toward*
you ; th'nk intensely on the part affe&ed, as though you would
have your thoughts or ideas enter into and pass through the head;
move your hands backwards and forwards, pointing towaids the
oartaffefted. Continue the treatment for some time, and gener
ally good effffts will follow.
The locked-jaw, is a most dreadful and dangerous complaint, by
which many have loft their lives ; yet this has been lately remo
ved from a young woman in London, by the treatment, when
the physicians judged her utterly incurable.
The very firft time (he was ir ated, soon after the treatment be
gan flie was able to open her mouth so as to receive the handle of
a tea spoon, and presently after the bowl, though before Die was
not able to open her teeth in the smallest degree. She was after-
ards treated till she could take in the handle, and then the bowl
of a Ijrge spoon, and open her mouth wide enough for any pur
poses ; the whole withtn the small space of twenty minutes.
In order to treat a peifon in this terrible disorder, place the pa
tient before you, and direst your attention to the mouth, as be
fore directed for deafnefs.
Inflammation of the t)cs, has been frequently treated with success :
during the operation, engage your whole attention to the part af
fetted,* and seek with all your might to draw out the inflamma
tion. Always keep in memory that the mind niuft be wholly
employed, as this is much mote necessary than the motion of the
hands ; but I think the treatment is moil efficacious when both
go together.
Pain in the limbs, or in any other part of the body, may be mi
tigatcd. relieved, and in many inftancrs totally cured by this me
thod of treatment. Old and stubborn pains, require frequent and
long treating, and the pra&itioner (hould not be discouraged, but
perfeverc, still hoping sot success.
tit&oFevers may be greatly relieved by this method : I would also
advise to try it :n jtrains. bruifei, burns, fcaldi, fores oj ail kinds,
tnd in almost all difordera ot the human frame.
The science is at prcfent but in us infancy, and therefore it is
not yet reduced to a certainty whether or not it will prove gene
rally efficacious in Jits ; some few have bee.i cured and more re
lieved, but in mo ft inftanccs, as far as I have known, no universal
service bas been vet done, neither in epileptic nor convulfivc fits,
nor paralytic cases.
Removing obllru&ions of all kinds appears to me its principal
life ; and wh<n it is considered that moil dilorders proceed ihere
fiom, it will evidently appear, thdt the treaima.t ought not to be
tiegleftei in any common cafe. There is th s farther to be said in
favor of it, that it cannot do harm in any cafe ; and, may be pro
ductive of very great good.
I have laid down the matter in so plain and clear a stile, tljat
any per Con may be capable of pra&ifiug with success, by the bluf
fing of God.
What has brought the (cience into great disrepute, has been the
almolt universal pia£lice of making a lucrative trade of teachrng
arid praftifmg it, which it is the great intention of this pamphlet
to put a flop so, by laying the whole science, so far as refpc&s prac
tice, open to all, and thereby putting it into their power to treat
their friends and neighbors in the moil effectual manner.
But I would recommend all invalids who apply for relief to
attend to the following rules. First, to avoid all spirituous li
quois. Second, rub *.hemfelves well with a very coaife towel, and
likewise make nfe of that exercise so much recommended by the
late celebrated Dr. Lobb, which is to lift up one hand and one
leg alternately, pretty brilkly for about halt an hour together, as
often as you can, which will greatly promote the perfpiiation,
and univeifally affetl the whole ha'oit.
ON A CRISIS
IN the<coutfoot the treatment asdirefted, should the patients
be thrown into a enfis, or state of mfenfibility, be not discouraged,
however terrifying such a state may seem ; it is only nature and
the disorder in violent conflict, which will very often happen if
the stomach is out of order. In this cafe be sure to continue the
treatment till the paroxilm is quite ceased, and they are perfettly
eompofed. You will then, in general, find them in a great mea
sure freed from all those pains and complaints they came to you
to be relieved from.
I have known some put into the mod violent agitation, and who
continued in the fame, apparently in very great agoni's for fomr
time, but come out quite eafv and free from any disorder,
without knowing that they had been in fucfi a it ate at all.
1 here is an effe£t very often produced, lels powerful than the
crisis, which I have seen attended with very great and good con
fluences, called by some a commoto, from the Latin comrnotus.
which caufcs the invalid to be much agitated, without affe&ing
the mental faculties ; but I have seen many relieved from their
dilorders without any of these effe6ls. And I can fay with the
flri&cft regard to truth, that I never knew an invalid, let his or
her pain have been ever so excruciating, that went from the treat
ment without great relief therefrom.
It may be necessary to fay fotnething of absent treatment. This
may appear to some incredible ; and indeed this part of the fci
rnce is more difficult to explain, than that whi h has been already
treated of.
But whoever considers tht nature of the human mind, and the
amazing ilrong powers of which it is such as intense tho't,
reflexion, (eolation, volition, &c„ will hesitate before they will
peremptorily deny the fach I have already observed, that the
mind is the great agent in producing those furprizingeffe&s, which
frequeni ly attend tlie treatment. And the thoughts can fix as
iliongly upon an absent as a present object.
A gentleman of undoubted vciacity lately assured me. that he
went into the country, having at the fame time some patients un
<.iet l;is care, and he told tfoem to fit at certain hours, and he treat
ed them, tho absent, and they experienced nearly the fame effc£ls,
as when he was withtbem.
Diftancc is nothing to the mind, and since thoughts in many in
stanCes have great influence, why may they not have power over
the difordcrs of absent persons, as well as those that are present ?
In order to treat absent persons, retire, and set down by your
felf for a little time; collect your thoughts, and be as much ab
flr.i&ed as poflible. Reflect on the inconceivable powers with
which God has endued you, and on the benefit you wish to do your
absent friend, 01 acquaintance. Let the idea of him be flrongly
fixed in your mind. After thinking of him intensely for some
time, begin at his head, and in your mind proceed downward to
his feet; till by sympathetic power, you perceive yourfelf in union
with him, and find whether he has pain, and what and where it
is, and treat him accordingly. But if you are informed of his
complain";,and are delirous of relieving him, then fu down, and
be recoile&ed, and begin and treat him in the fame manner as tho
<you were personally with him. Do this with all poflible energy
as before dire&ed, and enquire what effe&s are produced thereby ;
for sometimes very wonderlul alterations have been perceived by
the absent party. Who is there that fully knows the wonderful
powers of which he is pofleft, and how much good he may do,
if he employs it all to the best purposes ?
Should what has been here offered seem but an idle tale, or a
phantom of the brain to any, let such not be too hasty in denying
what they have not proved ; but let them fairly and impartially
try tKe power of this wonderful science, for their own fatisfa£tion,.
according to the rules here laid down, and let them ends vor to
enter into the spirit and pradlice of it, and fee for themselves what
effe£h w ill be produced thereby. And doubtless in a little time
they will be convinced of the reality of what I have written, and
perhaps w ill have reafori to exclaim, that the one half has not been
told them !
Mil. FENNO,
THE observations of your correspondent in
your last paper on the fubjetft of the bank
of uie United States require attention, since they
appear calculated to mislead : it is there Hated
that natives and foreigners have awarded their
approbation to the fytfein, for its immediate and
obvious advantages, and for the wisdom and
forefight discovered in its organization ; and
reafonsaie given for the privation of all right
of representation in foreigners, because the time
nay arrive when the deflrudtion of the bank and
the derangement of the finances of the country
may be compensated by the douceurs dfa foreign
power. 1 o all this splendid train of argumenta
tion it is added, that foreigners muff greatly fall
in love with this bank—among other reafous be
cause it reserves to the citizens of America the
exclusive direction, who aie supposed to be most
competent to judge of characters suitable far it ;
and these beautiful paragraphs for the bank are
doled with the grand finale, that great prepara
tions are making at home to fqbfcribe to this
bank and that 110 equal object of speculation is
perhaps prefentedin any quarter of the <rlobe.
I will now make a few observations on these
ppfitions—and Sift as to the general plaudit at
home and abroad of this bank it is perfectly veil
known that tho it was carried by a majority in
Congress, yet y«ry wife and sensible men in that
body disapproved the fyttem, as well a# othfrts
approved of it. It is a matter of notoriety that
the celebrated Mad'tfon with ancommen foice of
eloquence and reason condemned themeafure as
unconltitntiotial and inexpedient ; it is equally
known that the bill originated not in the House
of Representatives, but in the close and mysteri
ous House of Senators, clothed by the weight of
whose fa nft ion it was sent to the other House,
when it was hurried through with imnienre speed
—and in spite of all application for poitponegpent
or time for a more mature consideration, carried
by a conliderable majority ; it is pretty well
known that with the President of the United
States it did not pass with quite so much eager
ness—having been kept by him till the eleventh
hour : it has been cnrrently reported that some
of the great officers of State disapproved the sys
tem and gave opinions unfavorable to its adop
tion. It is a matter of public notoriety that the
bill has been thought injurious to the stockhold
ers ofthe bank of North-America and detrimental
to the charter solemnly gi anted them by the
Congress of 1781 ; 011 the other hand it is ac
knowledged that the bill has been greatly ap
plauded by some proprietors in the public funds
amongst 11s, who tlionght they saw their inter
ests concerned in promoting it—and hence the
most powerful clafsof orators I have met with 111
favorof it are of this number. As to the general
yeomanry of Americathey have given themselves
no trouble in this business and will probably con
cern themselves little about it : It will fnrnilh to
the cities on the lea cbaft a new objecft of specu
lation, and to some of them additional facilities
—they will feel its effects more sensibly perhaps
jhan any other part of the union.—and so much
may be said as to its general popularity at home ;
as to what it may obtain abroad time will inform
us : All we can now determine is, that the more
unpopular it is there the better for the bank, for
in proportion as foreigners become concerned
without the means of representation, in the fame
degree as they engross the capital, without be
ing any way ufeful in its administration—they
create a dangerous aristocracy at home, in those
citizens who are the domestic proprietors of stock,
and who if the number be small, may be influ
enced at elections, by douceurs at home at least
as formidable as any that can be offered from
abroad. It is evident that the £tox!es of foreign
ers mult be placed in the hands of citizens, these
have a common inter'ift with the donreftic (lock
holders in all that concerns the bank, and are
likely to vote with quite as much intelligence for
directors—these citizens would be chiefly mer
chants trading extensively to foreign countries,
who are as much concerned to support the bank
and finances of the country, as any other class of
men proprietors of bank ltock, and who cannot
without a flretch of all bounds of probability,
be supposed likely to abandon all their domestic
relations to gratify any foreigtier in the choice
of improper directors : This apprehenfioti of
foreign influence, is but a chimera, an illusion
held up, to favor a few at home who may by the
exclusion of foreign stock, from voting, entertain
the hopes of influencing all elections themselves,
and this they will always do the easier the fewer
there may be who are allowed to vote at all ; and
therefore cannot but form the wish, that foreign
ers may take no concern or but little in this in
ftitutiou, that its elections may be the more nu
merous and refpeifiable of our own citizens, who
certainly at last mnft be most deeply concerned
in the prudent diredlion of the Bank—and are
therefore interested that the elections he as nu
merous and extensive as pollihle—and not to fee
the stock held by those who can give 110 kind of
protection, and can he of no fort of life whatever
as to the concerns of the institution.
(To be concluded in our next.)
L O N D O N, January 21,
Coachmakcrs' Hall for free Debate. Fo/ier-
Lans, Cheapfide,
THE QUEEN OK FRANCE.
This Evening will be Debated, the following Qj'ef-
tion, viz.
" Does the circumstance of the Queen of France
wearing a dagger to prevent, by filicide, an
ignoble aflaWination, argue more the fortitude
ot ancient virtue, or the pffiulance of female
pride ?"
The situation of the Queen of France at a
ci'ifis the uioft alarming to her personal fafety,
and the moll important to the honor, humanity,
and freedom of a great nation and a gallant peo
ple, nin ft interest the feelings of every mind of
sensibility.—The celebrated Mr. Burke has al
ready mentioned this with a glowing warmth of
feutiment, and in language peculiarly hij own.
This question was last Thursday night publicly
proposed and highly approved of, as one chat in
volves the most (erious objects of enquiry, and
will lead to a debate worthy the attention of the
Christian, the Philosopher, and true Patriot.
Chair taken at 8 o'clock ; Omittance (,d.
14
PORT-AU-PRINCE, March 6.
Never has the town of Port-au-Prince e.xwr
.cnced a brighter or happier day, a re-union,",,;
molt lincere,ofall the inhabitants. lt» 3Sll !
citizens of the dirt rifts who proposed this f d ,r '
delired reconciliation. There is now but o nt
existing opinion, that of living mi peace, of ''
mg each other, and contributing t0 t he o Clle '
felicity. 6
It is to the eftablilhment of the municipal,
we owe this event, almoll despaired of.
This day, preceded by a morning tho beauti
fully serene, forced a tear from thoYe whom' ;
Mauduit has opprefled • Yeßerday mornin*
foldieis accused him of having deceived thsm
they made him account for his conduct-rhe •
doub'.lefs were convinced of his being culpable
In the afternoon they led him to the comniit'ee'
for the purpose of obliging him to make rt.'ura
tion for the insults done to the town colour; i„
confluence of his taking them into his poflcllion
the 29th and 90th July_he refufed—li. v a in di.:
the citizens implore his pardon, expoilng
selves to obtain it—the tumult was extreme—ln
vain did M. Boudonofi his knees beT at lea it IU4l U4
life—in vain did a thonfand voices, united ta
every effort attempt to avert his cruel fate :—M
BeaufoleiJ who was wounded on the night of the
29th July, exerted all his powers to save hint—
several Itrokes of the fabic exercised by hisowa
fpldiers, put a period to his days ; his head v.: ;
fevered from his body, and carried 011 the point
of a bayonet, and placed 011 the fjailow His
body was interred this day. A) 1 the moveables
of his house were broken inipieccs and deftroved.
He was the victim of an instant aud tcriiLie
fermentation, that nothing could calm. We were
not eye-v. irnefles ofthis scene—a scene that will
serve as an example to all those who wiiii to Hop
the rapid progrei's of the revolution. We saw
the colours of Port-au-Prince re-conducled with
military honor to the place from whence thev
were taken ; but we saw the joy brighten in the
countenances of all the inhabitants re-unifed,
who, together with our three regiments, were
present at te deum in the evening.
BOSTON, May 2
Extract of a letter from a diflinpuifhed charaßcr it
London, to a citizen of this Covnnonwcaith, dxttd
March I, 179 T.
" I cannot indeed forbear to communicate to
you thole mixed feutiuients of exultation, fiar
and hope, with which the present state of affair*
in Europe have filled the minds of every z£al.ou»-
friend to equal liberty.
" That wonderful event, the French Revolulv :,
fills all our thoughts, and occupies the whole
mind.—We dehre its permanence and profpcri
ty, with more tiian paternal solicitude ; for we
look upon its firm eftabliilunent, as an event
which will liecedarily bring after it the ::nal
emancipation of every other fuciety in Europe,
from tn'ofe monarchic and ariltocr.itic chains,
impnfed by the violence of arms, a:id riveted on
mankind by ignorance,credulity and prieftcraft.
And you will pardon me, if I tell you, tli >t, in
mj' opinion, norwithftanding the brilliancy of
American exertions in the cause of independ
ence, the continuation of the freedom cf tliat
vast continent equally depends on the liability
of the French democracy
" The Americans i ave a little too mncli of*tlie
eavcn of their ancestors in iheni : They apptar
o turn their views and desires more to the ac
juiring of gain, than tiie enjoyment of rational
liberty ; and to have entertained that mifchie»-
3us opinion, that the felicity of nations dej
on their riches.—They have also, I think, been
guilty of a dangerous error, in the not restrict
ing the Members of their Congress from the en
joyment of those lucrative offices eitabhlhed by
their authority ; and this may become the source
of oppreflive taxation, and the foundation ol
ariftocraric wealth and ambition.
" The unexampled virtue of ihe French Le
gislature, in cutting off this source of corruption,
by depriving themleives of the
office, sets them on a footing of merit, superior
to that which any other popular allembly
ever obtained ; and the bright example of tin*
government, if it stands on the fame footing as
it is at prefenr, with the advantage it will con
fer on society, will awe the governments of otlier
countries into moderation ; and serve as an anti
dote to your American travellers, against the
fafcinaiing charms of ostentatious luxury.
" You may well believe, Sir, that very con
trary sentiments to these, which I have above
described, agita:e the minds of a very large pi''
t)' in this country.- Mr. Burke, who may e
coufidered as the mouth of this party, afi" c e
ftvemious fupporterof monarchy and arihocracy,
has published a work in which all these Hg 1 ' 4
are pertinacioully defended, and. the trench go
vemment and Legiflacure abused with great vi-
rulence. f
" J hough popularin this country, huaniwe -
ers are numerous, as he is coni".c'* IS
Ckamtian of Aristocracy here.'On Saturday lad the Manager who signed the
Ticket No. 6052, in the E'irft Class of the Semi
annual State Lottery, which drew the capital
Prize of 10,000 Dollars, deposited the Money in
the Mali'achuferts Bank, there to remain until
the fortunate Adventurer applies for it.
N E W- Y O R K, May 6
By letters received from Tobago, via Phila
delphia, dated April 5. we are informed thar the
conl mander of the ifiand had forbidden the ex
portation of sugars and cotton to Anierica. And
an additional duty of 4-2 per cent, had been laid
on all rum exported.
Last Saturday William Jones, who has been con
fined some time in New-Ark gaol for the murder
of Samuel Shot-welly after a fair and impartial tri
al, by a jury of his peers, was found guilty and
received fentenceof death accordingly. He was
to be executed this day, between the hours of
eleven and three o'clock.
Died, at Philadelphia, onTuefday morning
lalt, about 10 o'clock, Mr. Patrick O'Bri an.
He was seized, at his office, with a bleeding at
[he nose and mouth, and though the mod emi
nent physicians (Rush, Jones and Wiltar) were
instantly called to his atfirtance, their Jkill proved
ineffei2ual. By his acquaintance and friends he
is much lamented.
It was the opinion of the physicians, that his
death was occafionecl by the bursting of a blood
veflel near the heart.
Mr. O'Brian was a gentleman well known and
much esteemed in this city.
N E W-H A V E N, May 4,
Lalt Saturday the Circuit Court of the United
States finifhed the business before them in this
place, having far fix days.
During the felfion many important questions
were agitated and decided. Among others came
on the great and much litigated question, Whe
ther obligations in favour of real Biitifli fubjecfts,
or those who had joined the armies of the King
of Great-Britain, during the war, fiiould draw
interest during the time the creditors were inac
ceflible by reason of the war. In this cafe the
com t adjudged that the statute law of Connecti
cut enabling the state courts to deduct interest
in such cases, was an infringement of the treaty
of the peace, and that upon common law prin
ciples, interest was recoverable.—The learned
andjingenious arguments frotn the bench on this
question, were highly interesting, and gave ge
neral fatisfatftion.
Died, last Thursday, much lamented by those
who vvifh to defraud their creditors, an ac r t or
Ifi'V of Connecticut, entitled, " An ast relating
to the debts due to persons who have been and remain
ed within th; enemies power, or lines, during the lat!
war."—This statute, though of a weakly habit,
hath yielded great service to the people of this
state.— It hath been productive of at leait 100,000
pounds in cafh.—lt received its death wound by
llie adoption of the New-Conftitntion, and hath
languilhed in extreme agony ever since.—On
Thursday the 28 ult. the two-edged sword ofjuf
lice gave its 1 alt fatal stroke, and it expired with
out a groan.—Numerous fpedtators beheld its
corpse with a smile, and hoped that it might ne
ver rife again in this world to our shame, or the
world to come to our contusion.
Recent accounts are, that since the arrival of
tlie Fleet ant) Army, from France, public tran
quility is nearly restored in the French Islands.
Account of Silk raifri in Northford, I 79°'
Runs. Mrs. Lois Street,
l")r. Jared Foot, 13c Mr. Elihu Rogers,
Capt. Isaac Foot, 80 Mr. Aaron Cook,
Capt. jofiah Fowler, 80 Mr. Jonathan Linfley,
Mr. Jonathan Fowler, 80 Mr. Solomon Linfley,
Mr. Benjamin Mallby, 60 Mr. Elihu Foot,
Mi. Titus Cook, 60 Mr. Amos Harrifon,
Mi. Sheunan Kimbcrly, 55 Mr. Edmund Harrifon,
Jonathan.Mahby, A. M. 50 Mi. Elnathan Tyler,
Capt. Elihu Baldwin, 50 Mr James Smith,
Mr. Jofiah Fowler, jun. 50 Mr. Samuel Munlon,
Mr. Joseph Mm Ton, 50 Mr. Lemuel Mnnfon,
Mr. Dcvtnpou Williams, 40 Mr. Solomon lalmadge,
Capt. Joseph Rogers, 40 Scaitering,
Mr. Isaac Ingram, 40
?ioo Runs at 3 runs to one yar
cloth, the produce of one year in
account is not perfe&ly accurate ;
juil idea of the Silk Culture in N
Tbt following TO A STS were given at the sleßion of
officer/ for an Artillery company, in Providence.
1. Our country. —
2. May its elections feel no influence but the
good of the whole.—
5. The Man of our choice—
4. May he (land square fx. the front —
5- May his atftions be perpendicular—
6. May his ideas be properly drejl—
7. May his concluift be uniform —
8. May the party politician fall in hisriar—
o. May his honor he uniinpeached—
10. May his arguments be rammed home—
l.i. May he never advance towards popularity
w ith an oblique Jlep—
12. May his virtue be fuel) that he ihall fafi
Of the grand infpeCliou
lMay the Statefinan not thus qualified,
j' J ' I-'.-: i about.
: 200
d. will make 400 yaids of Silk
N'oithlord, Connecticut. This
hul it is so near true as to gii e a
o'thford
rOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET VIII
TO THE MOO N.
R
AJEND from thy throne fair Emprcfs of the Night,
Arid as thou look'il o'er earth with eve serene,
Marking thy (hadowy paintings on the green,
And brightening Heaven with (ilver-ftteaming light—
O ! if in ail thy course, divinely,brighr,
1 hou fer'ft one wretch, in felon malice mean,
Debase the varied beauty of the scene;
Or one feil murtherer burst the bands of right;
Dart thro 1 h s foul, fevereiy bright, a ray
Whose living fplcndor (ball his hand arret!;
And to his guilty-conscious spirit fay—
' 1 ho tllou may'ft live unknown to Law's behefl,
And hide thy deeds fiom mortals, and the day
Yet Confcifnce* wo:in fliall rankle iu thy breath'
Philadelphia, May n.
Sunday afternoon afire broke out in the house
of Mr. Kennedy, high-fire* e, nenr cighth-fli eet,
which got to considerable heighth before it was
dilcovei ed ; the usual alertness of the citizens
was conspicuous on this occasion, and the fire
extinguished without doing any considerable
damage.
Monday night, between the Hours of 10 and n
the city was again alarmed with the cry of fire,
which broke out in a stable near dock ft reet; the
building wasinftantly envelopedin flames, which
were rapidly communicated to those adjacent ;
and a great deftrtnTtion of property was the con
fluence of this difafterous event—loor i 5 houses,
(hops and other buildings, fell a facrifice to the
flames.
The spirit and activity of the citizens were ne
ver exerted to better effect—the weather being
calm, their exertions prevented the fire from
spreading beyond rhe buildings immediately con
nected, and many of those tho partly burnt, were
saved from total deltrucftion.
The diftrefles of some of the fufferers are
great —the heart of sensibility must be attested—
and the hand of benevolence extended to miti
gate their sorrows.
A correfpondcnt congratulates his fellow-citizens on the plca
fing profpe£t, now opened, of a full tryal of t lie new penal code :
t it present Ja i lor is a very refpi clable character, ana moll cor
dially unites with ihe worthy Infpeftors in carrying eveiy thing
into execution, which may have a tendency to meliorate the con
dition of the unhappy prifoncrs, and to accomplilh the important
■rids proposed bv their confinement. Our correfpondcnt fur
ther informs, that on Sunday morning lad, the prisoners were
alfembled, and heard a sermon, f rom the Rev. Dr. Rogers, and
'.hat during th.' whole performance, mey behaved with the utmoll
propriety and solemnity : After divine service, th.y express d a
wi(h to be indulged as often as pofiible in the fame way, and Capt.
WE f d assured them, that his influence, and that of the Irifpedtors,
would not be warning in soliciting the clergymen of the various
religious denominations in the city to -tteud in rotation—a rcquclt
which will undoubtedly be mod readily complied with I was
in prifon,and ye came unto me."
ExtraGsfrom Mr. Paine's Pamphlet.
Ahho the French nation rendered the late go
vernment infolvenc, it did not permit the iniol
vency to a<ft towards the creditors ; and the cre
ditors considering the nation as the real pay-mas
ter, and the government only as the agent, rest
ed themselves on the nation, in preference to the
government. This appears greatly to disturb
Mr. Burke, as the precedent is fatal to the policy
by which governments have supposed themselves
secure. 1 hey have contracted debts with a*iew
ot attaching what is called theuionied intereltof
a nation to their support ; but the example in
France (hews, that the permanent security of the
creditor is in the nation, and not in the govern
ment ; and that in all possible revolutions that
may happen in governments, the means are al
ways with the nation, and the nation always in
exiltence. Mr. Burke argues, that the creditors
ought to have abided the fate of the government
which they trulted ; but the National Aflembly
conlidered them as the creditors of the nation,
and not of the government —of the master, and
not of the steward.
3°
3°
2 5
20
20
20
20
2®
20
20
20
20
i 8
So
Notwithltanding the laje government could
not discharge the current expences, the present
government has paid ofF a great part of the capi
tal. This has been accomplished by two means;
the one by lefl'ening the expences of government,
and the other by the sale of the monadic and
ecclefiallical landed ellates. The devotees and
penitent debauchees, extortioners and tnifers of
former days, to ensure themfelvesa better world
than that which they were about to leave, had
bequeathed immenl'e property in truil to the
priesthood, for pious ufts ; and the priesthood
kept it for theniielves. The National Aflembly
has ordered it to befold forthegood of the whole
nation, and the prieithood to be decently provi
ded for.
Ic is not the nation of France that Mr. Burke
means, but the COURT ; and every Court in
Europe, dreading the fame fate, is in mourning.
He writes neither in the character of a French
man noran Englilhman, but in the fawning cha
racter of that creature known in all countries,
and a friend to none, a Courtier. Whether
it be the Court of Versailles, or the Court of St.
15
ELLA.
James's, or of Carlton-Houfe, or the Court in
expedition, fignifies not ; for the caterpillar
principle of"all Courts and Courtiers are alike,
rhey form a common policythroughou t Etirone
detached and separate fro:n the mterell of na
tions ; and while they appear to quarrel, thev
agree to plunder. Nothing can be more ter
nble to a Court or a Courtier, than the Revolu
tion of France. That which is a blessing to na
tions, is bitterness to them; and as their existence
depends on the duplicity of a country, they trem
ble at the approach of principles, and dread the
precedent that threatens their overthrow.
What a pity 'tis that certain modem reformers had not lived
some centuries ago ; how much trouble arid ex pence would have
beer, i, ved had the Ihort cut to fcieuce been then known—Greek
anilidiin would not have interposed their clogs and hindrances
m the road lo literary fame—but,as on another occasion, whole
nations of sages, philosophers, poets and legiflatots would have
been born in adav—What a race of blockheads were our anceftorsf
The transformations that are daily taking place in the ideas of
mankind, will very shortly render a new vocabulary absolutely
necellary ; what an absurdity would it now appear to hear the
clergy praying in the language of scripture, that their hearers may
be made " kui?s and priejli !"
The modern race of Mankind are to be ftimulatedto patrio'.lfm
by an entirely new fct ot incentives ; riches and honors, th.ifc in
ferior considerations have loft their attractions, and that deuder
atum the love of virtue for its own fake, shall impel the
human race involuntarily to apportion their praile and approba
tion upon a scale exactly suited to every poflible degree and vari
ation of merit.
We arc informed that the murders committed bv the Indians
on the Alleghany in March last, were not committed by the Mun
fee and Seneca's, as has publicly reported : Capt. Bullet
who was (aid to be killed, has been feei\.fince that time— he with
a number of Munfees had been hunting near the Sulquehannah
waters, during the whole winter and spring.
The Seueca, called Snip-Nose, who was also said to be of tli«
party, not long before the malTacre, was near Fort Franklin and
went to Buffjloe Cicek, where tile Chiefs fay he now is and that
he has not been abferpt. The Indian supposed to be Snip-Nose,
was aMunfee living <f>n Beaver Waters, and known by the name
of Capt. Pcteis, a relation to some of the Indians killed by Capt.
Brady. Another of the Indians who committed the minder was
known by the name of Flm, had often been with the Seneras
but he lived and hunted 011 Beaver Waters, was also couriered
with the families who fuffered at the Beaver Block-Houle ( 2nd
[ herc jjan be no doubt, but the murders were committed by the
friend?and relations of those families, who hunted on B. aver Wa
t.-rs, and not by the Indians on the Alleghany, who in every par
ticular manifeft the moil iincere attachm. Nt to the T'*nitedS'ares.
The ship Brothers, Capt. James Jofiah, arrived
here on Monday, after a passage of five months
frorti Canton.
It is pleasing to learn that all the hands who
failed from heuce in this (hip have returned in
perfect health, nor did they, duringthe voyage,
experience any kind of sickness. °
Died suddenly, on Monday morning, the Hon.
Francis Ho r kin son, Diftriifl Judge of the Uni
ted States for the State of Peniifylvania.
Science and patriotism sustain a ftiock in the
death of this valuable citizen.
IC?" The mail for Pittjburgh will leave the Pofl-
Office every Friday morning at halj pafl 7 o'clock,
and arrive every Thursday 10 '/'clock, A. M.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legiflaiure of the Stale ot Coune&icut, at their (Wlioii in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers manageis, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their truil, present the public with ths
following
s C H E M E.
i Frjze of
t
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
50
6i
ICO
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Banks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize,
Subjc&to a deduttion of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility ot extending this wharf, is too evident ro re
quire any comment, to those who arc acquainted with the town
-nd hai hour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafTed, if equalled by any ; br
ing in ihe heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necessarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unioad ; and when compleat
ed, will be the nvoft extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3>4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime! interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clalTcs of people, for
'.he iuccefs ot this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this Icheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publiflied in
Amcriea) induce the manager? to believe the tickcts will meet with
a fpcedy lair.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prize*,
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called lor in
nine mouths alter drawing, will be deemed as generously givea
for the use ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Manager S :
JamES RICE,
Jeremiah At water,
Jos£*h Drake,
New-Haven, April 14, 1791
TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of MefTrs. Stejh kn Austin, and Co. corner
Front and Piue-Sirtets.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
2000 ari
1000
500
200 v
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
Michael Todd,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph Howell.
ic.ooo
5° o°
4000
4000
4000
250Q
2400
3000
2250
2CCO
1830
2000
14CO
43' 12 °
87500Sung at the Ordination of Mr. Abel Flint, at
Hartjord, April 20 —composed for tlie occasion.
ALMIGHTY God, whose fov'reign sway,
44 The known, and unknown worlds obey;"
To thee our song of praise shall rife,
Like sweetest incense to the Pities.
Parent of light, we bless thy hand,
That in Creation's great command,
Thy Church llluftrioufly ftiould lhare
Thy firft, thy most peculiar care.
Thy Church, eftablifh'd e'er the spheres
Began the circuit ot their years,
Eternal ages yet to come,
Shall flourifh in immortal bloom.
Look from thy heavenly throne of love,'
With pious zeal our bol'oms prove ;
While on this solemn day, we raise
<Jur boldell notes to hymn thy praise.
Give to thy servant, fov'rcign Lcyd,
Whom thou haft call'd to preach thy word,
Inverted in the robes of peace, .
Of grace divine, a rich encrcafe.
Grant that this people, wprtn with zeal,
May every chriitian virtue feet; • •
And o'er his failings kindfy move
Th' endearing mantle of their love. * *
And when this life of praise is o'er ;
When Sabbathi (hall return no more ;* *' '
When Gofp 1 founds, divinely clear,
Shall cease to charm (he ravifh'd car;
Then may we, cloathjd in .every grace,
Knraptui'd, view thy glorious face;
Spring from the dole of morn and even,
And join the gcn'ral Church in Heaven,
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
On the fubjefr of rhe
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES,
[continued.]
OF the disadvantages, which depend on others,
are
1. The loss of the Mediterranean markets'.
2. Exclusions from "the markets of fonie
neighbours.
3. High duties in those of others, and —
4. Bounties to the individuals in competition
with us.
The consideration of these will find its place
more aptly, after a review of the condition of
our whale fifhery, shalL have led us to the fame
point. To this branch of the fubjec r t, therefore,
we will now proceed.
The whale fiihery was firft.btought into notice
of the southern nations ofiEurope, in the fifteenth
century, by the fame Bifcayansand Basques, who
led the way to the fifhery of Newfoundland.—
They began it on their own coasts, but soon found
that the principal relidence of the whale, was in
the northern seas, into which, therefore, they
pursued him. In 1578, they employed twenty
five ships in that business; the Dutch and Ham
burghers tookit up afterthis, and about the mid
dle of the seventeenth century, the former em
ployed about two hundred ships, and the latter
three hundred and fifty.
The English endeavoured also to participate
of it. In 1672, they offered to their own fiiher
men a bounty of fix (hillings a ton, 011 the oil they
Ihould bring home, and inflituted at different
times, different exclusive companies, all of which
failed of success. They raised their bounty in
1733, to twenty (hillings a ton on the admeasure
ment of the vell'el. In 1740, to thirty (hillings,
with a privilege to the fi(herman against being
imprefled. The Basque .fclhery, supported by po
verty alone, had maintained, but a feeble exig
ence, before competitors, aided by the bounties
of their nation, and was, in fine, annihilated by
the war of 1745, at the close of which, the Eng
lish bounty was raised 10 forty (hillings. From
this epoch, their whale fifhery went on between
the limits of twenty-eight and fixty-fev'en veflels,
till the commencement of the last tvar.
The Dutch, in-the mean time, had declined
gradually to about one hundred and thirty (hips,
and have since that-fallen down to less than half
that number : so that their fifliery, notwith
flanding a bounty of thirty florins a man, as
■well as that of Hamburgh, is now nearly out of
competition.
In 17r5, the Americans began their whale
fidiery. They were led to it atfirft by the whales
■which presented themselves on their coasts.
They attacked them therein finall veflels of for
ty tons. As the whale, being infected, retired
from the coast, they followed hi in farther and
farther into the ocean, still enlarging their ves
sels, with their adventures, to fixry, one hun
dred and two hundred tons. Having extended
their pursuit to the Western Islands, they fell
in, accidentally, with the fpermacxti whale,
of a different species from that of Greenland,
•which alone had been hitherto known in com
merce ; more fierce and active, .and whose oil
and head-matter was fotind to benrore valuable,
as it might be used in the interior of houses
■without oflending the finell. T*he diftindiion
now firfl. arose between the northern and sou
thern fifheries; the objetft of the lormeribeincr
the Greenland whale, which frequents the nor
thern coasts and seas of Europe and America,
that of the latter being the fpermacsetS whale,
which was found in the southern seas, from the
Western Iflaijds and coast of Africa to that of
Brazil, and still on to the Falkland Islands.
Here again, within foundings, on the coast of
Brazil, they found a third (pedes of whale,
which they called the black, or Brazil whale,
finaller than the Greenland, yielding a still less
valuable oil, fit only for (ummer use, as it be
comes opaque at fifty degrees of Farenheit's
thermometer, while that of the fpermacxti whale
is limped to forty-one, and of the Greenland
whale to thirty-fix, of the fame thermometer.
It is only worth taking therefore, when it falls
in the way of the fifliernien, but not worth seek
ing, except when they have failed of success a
gainst the fperinacaeti whale, in which cale this
kind, easily found and taken, serves to mode
rate their loss.
[To be continued."]
A CARD
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wifhesthey may
be informed lhat he has received a very hand Come Assortment
of the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
Bv the Pi gou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on so low as mud make it an obuEt to cujlomets. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dispatch,
and the lime of pa) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Philadelphia, May 3.
WE, the Commiflioners, appointed to receive fubfcnpiions
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give public
notice, that the Books will be opened by us for that purpose at
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th day of July next.
Thomas Willing,
BE A L E BordLEY,
Davib Rittenhouse,
All the Printers in the United States are requejied to publi/h the above.
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In various Languages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demoilhenes, Xcnophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, LivyyTacitns, Seneca, Pliny, See.
jQuarto. Pindar, A/iftotle, Terence, Ovid, Carfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
061 avo & infra. Septuaglgrf, Aristophanes, Longinu?, Theo
phraftus, Epiaetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
Ifocrates, Polyzenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufcnius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetas minoros Latini, Callipasdia, Stiadj, L.
Valla, &c.
gdT Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
Rook' Store of Mejfrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
also Jlitched up tuith the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April.
ADVERTISEMENT
THE Subfcribcr, who feived a regular apprenticed** p to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough oF Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com-
JOHN H. HALL.
(1 cp 7 »/)
mands.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Str eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THEUNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Oidcrs
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK ot the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Gallaudet andEwiNG,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady Walterflorf, from London, Man
chefler and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which tliey will fell on reasonable terms. (J3 1 " On hand for
sale, a few hogtoeads of OLD JAMES's RIVER TOBACCO.
Philadelphia, April q, iroi. ico poim
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt ot the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts Bought and Sold on Commijfion, and all
other Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door toihc Cvjlom-Houfc, State-Street, BOSTON.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the laid farm about 1 g acres of fait mead«Sw.* Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of frftit ; there is oh
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the {rhoicefl
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars,
New-York, Jan. 1791
ICfAfevi copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United Stales, jnnted with Nates, way b: had of the
Editor.
16
Samuei Howell,
Lambert Cadwalader,
K S,
[03T All persons concerned will be pleaded .0 take notice tti,,..
following .advertisement has been varied from that publiZ
our paper of the 23d of March.] v
Treasury Department.
NOTICE is hereby given, that PropohU w" ber«eS«di„u
office of the Secretary of the Tre-fuiv, until the firft Mo*
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all ration,
may be required for the ule of the United States, from the Si# d
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, i 7 q 2 , both day. iZ
clufive, at the places, aud within the diftrifis herein after
yned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof P c „,
fylvania and Fort Pilt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt >od Fort
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of (he River Mulkinna.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River M«T
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tot
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River tout
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio'.o River, io4
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Mun ;
and fromthenceto the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, md u t h«
said Rapids.
At any placc or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquctown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name which emptiei into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth
of ihe Wabalh, thence up the said Wabalh to Post St. Vinccnou
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafti river to
the mouth of the river Ohio*
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami liver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandulkv,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandulkv to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any placeor places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any pla:e or placw, oa
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by tbe
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the ea(l fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, totherrcr
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tencfec, tft
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpccificd in these proposals, the price of the fame tv
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contradlor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following article,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of park,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar/ t#Q rations
iwo pounds ot toap, I 1
One pound of candles, I
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fiift Monday in September next, inclufivc, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United Mates,
from the fttft day of January to the thirty.firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the Hate of Maflachu
fctts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftriftf herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
Attheoofton the river Oconee, at present commanded by Cap?.
Jpfeph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main fonth branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
(96 tf)
At any other place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said pofls, for the fpaceofat
Icaft two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, m
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes sustained by th«
depredations of the enem), or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or del
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commissioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for whie.
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons di po c
to contrail will therefore confine their offers to one year, or t ey
may make their proportions so as to admit an ele&ion 0 1 c
term of two years. -
* The pi opofals mav be made for the whole of the above po so
gether,or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for \or tow*,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the pofls in Georgia,
and they must fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pa)-
The Printers who have published the above edvertifement, arf
requejled to reprint it with the alterations. ,
Manuel
broker,
No.qi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Stree »,
BUYS and SELLS
80 3m
Continental & State Certificates,
Pcunfvlvania and Jerfev Pan" M'>n c Y' ,
An.! all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or
Noah,
particular State.
I