WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F.ENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET,, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 50, of Vol. TIL] Wednesday, October 19, 1791.
PLAN OF THE
Gazette of the United States.
I.Early and authentic accounts of the Proceedings <*j Covgrcfs,
communicated !o as to form an iuftory of the traniaftiuns of the
National Government.
11. Laws, &c. of ihe United State?.
JIT. Impartial Sketches oj the Debates of Congress.
JV. Etfa\s on the great iuhjf £fcs» of Government; also upon the
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded in
nature, or on the national or state Constitutions; and on other fub
ufts I'uitable for newspaper difcuilion.
V. A [tries of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living- man
ners as they rife," and to point the public attention to obje&s that
have an important reference to domestic, social and public hap-
pinefs.
VI. The Jr.terefs of the United States, as conne£lcd with their
• \xv Institutions; religious and inoraj oftje&s; improvements
in nee, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
~ llliances, onnc&ions, &c.
' lntelliger.ee which may atIV& the commercial, agricultural,
in 1 or political interests of the American nation.
VIII Ac ham of Domeflic Occurrences.
IX. A fogies of foreign articles of Intelligence.
X. Th c fate of the Funds; Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current.
CONDITION'S
Publifhcd every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to subscribers, Three Dollars per annum.
The firft payment to be made at the time of sub
.scribing: The iecond at the end ol the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Wilt if received in all the capital tnzvn tupon th*Cont;nert \ alfa at \"o, 69,
High-Street, between Second and third Streets, Philadelphia.
ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
TO THE PUBLIC
AT this important crisis, the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with event# of the grcateft magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and pro.their
commerce — to explore and arrange the nationalfunds —to rcttore and
eftablifb the public credit-— will require the energies of the patriots
and fajres of our counv y—H:r.ce the propriety of cncrc&fwg the me
diums of knowledge, and information.
AMERICA, from this period begins her national cxiftenre—
l( the world is all BEFORE hek " —the wifHom and tolly—
the misery and profpeiity of the empires,flates, and kingdoms, which
have had their day upon the great theatre of time, and are now no
more, the mod important mementos —these, with the rapid
leries oF evt n'B. in which our country has been involv<d, have
taught the enlightened citiz-nsof the United States, that Jrecdcm
anil government, liberty and law*, are mfeparable.
This conviction leci to the adoption of the new conflitution ;
for however various the sentiments, refpe&ing the merits of this
system, all good men are agreed in tne nectlTny of an efficient je
itral government.
A paper, therefore, upon national, independent, and
impartial principle f—whtchfliall take up the pre mi Ted articles, upon
a competent plan, it is presumed, will be highly inierefling,
•nd meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
*>f information unexplored :—He foliciu the afiiHance of peifonl
ofleifure and abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flitters hinifelf will render the Gazette of the United States not un
wortjtv encouragement and is, with due refpett, the
public's humble servant,
April 15, 1789.
POS ISC RIFT,
THE plan and execution of the Gazette of the United
Sr at es, have received the app- obation ol a tribunal, from which
the r e is no appea'.
The subscriptions, which are encrealing, have long finre exceed
ed the expectations of the publisher—a punflual compliance with
the term-s would compeniate his labours, and animate his tuture
exertions.
The Government th?t an enlightened and free people adopt, is
sacred confideranon—it knows no party —and its prosperity is
"founded on the public g^od.
While the people are just to themselves, the adminiflra»ion of
their affairs will be committed to m<*n of integrity and competent
abilities; and it will be the dutv of patriotism to lmprefs the pub
lic mind with favorable sentiments of the mcalu.cs ot govern
ment.
Our country continuing enlightened <md free, the period can
wot be anticipated v»h;-n a publication on the plan of this Gazette
fcall involve a dereiifiion of thofc principles with which the li
berties and happiness of the United SttWes are connected.
With rcfu vt t-.» the circulation of this paper, the Editor regrets
tnerecent difapr ointments which have unavoidably taken place—
He has always been fully imprtflTed with the importance ot punc
tuality. and cannot charge lumfelf with a si *i;lc inltance of rc
mifTnc fs. ° b
It is vrrv generally supposed that Congress, at the enfning
icluon, wr!l take measure* to ensure the circulation of news
papers i n the V.. :cd States; and particularly their tranfitiiffion
roin the Scat ol Government to all parts o» tnc Union. Jullice,
policy -inri p rioiifm, plead irrefutably in favor of fotne etfedual
provision's ng made. The following pertinent and judicious
obfWv.vions on this fuHje&, lately appeared in au'addrefs to the
T l! • from the Editor of the Gazette of Maine. They
ar ' 'übftituted rn preference to any whi h the edi.or ot this
P*per m *s* l - further more particularly as coming from a
'remote quarter of the Union.
Pernaps here is no country, in anv part of the world, the in
•<i!!an.sot wh'ch are, (or maybe) fupplicd with public News
pnnrrs jt a cheaper rate than ihofe of America. The Farmer and
' Irrchant, the Laborer and the Mechanic, tmy, by the means
1 when h retires from the bufitiefs and fatigues
r - dav, take a view of the situation, the circumllances and the
3 '-jus revolutions of the several countries of the civilized woi !d —
" it mnft be a oleafing circumftanoe, that this is theprivilf re y
o icaUy the privilege of an American.
et it inert lore be remembered, that by virtue of this pr v -
* r » the body of the people cor.itamly obtain 2nd prefer vs such a
degree of knowledge as shall he comoetcnt to the prevention of
any attempt that be made by cunning and defigtnng men to
sap the foundation of our mnft iuvaluable constitution. Bur, let
the circulation of these Vehicles of Public Information becircum
fcribed, and the people will at once become uninformed of public
tranfa&ions, and the more enlightened Jew will engrolsthe privi
leges, immunities and prerogatives, which in the nature and fitnefs
of things, are the ir.defcafible right of the whole body ot the
people.
" It is presumed no American will need a ftimnlus of this na
ture to furnifli himfelt with public information. The cheap rate
at which it is offered, the love and glory of our country, will at
all times promotefuc.il a mode of conduct, as Pnall forever bar the
attempts of tyranny, ignorance and fupetilition."
$dT Several of the firjt Volume of this Gazette are wanted— cajh,
and the original coJl, witl be paid for themrby the Editor.
I. r T I HE Royalty it indi\ifible, and delegated hereditarily to
X the race or\ the tl rone from male to male, by order of
primogeniture, to the perpe ual exclusion of women and their
dcfcendants.
Nothing is prejudged on the etteft of renunciations in the race
•on the throne.
11. The per Ton of the king is sacred and inviolable : his only
title is King of the French.
111. There is no authority in France fuperidr to that of the
law. The kiiig reigns only by it, and it is only in the name of
the law that he can require obedience.
IV. The Kir.g, on his acceflion to the throne, or at the period
of his majority, shall take to the nation in the presence of the le
gislative body, the oath, " To employ all the power delegated to
him, to maintain the conilitiltion decreed by the Constituent Na
tional Ali'embly, in the years 1789, 1790, 1791, and to cause the
laws to be executed." N
If the Icgiflative body shall not be aiTembled, the king Pnall
cause a proclamation to be iflued, in which shall be exprefTed
•this oath, and a promifeto repeat it as soon as the Icgiflative bo
dy shall be met.
V. If the King refufc this oath after an invitation by the Icgif
lative body, or if, after taking it, be shall retratt, he shall be held
to have abdicated the royalty.
VI. If the king put himft lf at the head of an army, and direct
the forces of it against the nation, or if he do not oppose, bv a
formal ast, any such enicrprize undertaken in his name, he (hall
be hrld to have abdicated.
VII. If the king go out of the kingdom, and if, aftrf being in
vited by a proclamation of the legislative body,he docs not return,
he shall be held to have abdicated.
VIII. After abdication, express or legal, the king (hall in
the rials of'c'ti/cns, and may be accufcd and tried like them, for
a£ls poflerior to his abdication.
IX. The particular cfFe&s which the king pofleflVs at his ac
ceflion to the throne arc irrevocably united to the domain of the
nation. He has the di fpofition of thole which he acquires on his
own private account ; if he has not disposed of them, they are in
like manner united at the end of his reign.
X. The nation makes provision for the fplcndor of the throne,
by a civil lift, of which the legislative bodv shall fix the sum at
the commencement of cach reign, for the whole duration of that
rei^n.
XI. The king fliall npooinf an admimfirafor of the civil lift,
who lhall inlHtute civil suits in the name of the king» and against
whom petfonally (hall all prosecutions for debts, due by the civil
lift, be brought, and judgments given and executed.
THE EDITOR.
Of tfie Regency.
T. The King is a minor till the age of eighteen complete ; and
during his minority, there fhail be a regent of the kingdom.
11. The regency belongs to the relation of the king, the next
in degree according to the order of fucceflion to the throne, who
has attained the age of twenty-five ; provided he be a Ficnchman,
refidcnt in the kingdom, and not preemptive heir to any other
crown, and has previously taken the civic oath.
Women are excluded from :he regency.
111. The regent exercises till the kind's majority, all the func
tion? of royalty, and is not perforially rcfponfible for tbe acts of
his adminiltiaiion.
IV. The regent cannot begin the exejeife of h:s functions till
after taking to the nation, in the presence of the legislative body,
an oath, " To employ all the power delegated to the king, and
of which the cxercife is confided to him during the minority of
the king, to maintain the constitution agreed to by the Conftituen
National Assembly, in the years 1789. 1790, and 1791, and to
cause the laws to be executed."
II the legifiaiive body is not alTemblrd, the regent (hall can/e a
a proclamation 10 be ifTued, in which shall be exprefiVd this oaih,
and a promise to repeat it as soon as the legislative body shall b<
met.
V. As long as the regent U not entered on the exercise of his
ftntfVions, the function of laws remains suspended ; the ministers
continue to perform under their responsibility, ali the alts of the
executive power.
VI. As soon as the regent (hall take the oath, the lepiflative bo
dy (hall fix his allowance, which (hall not be altered during his
regency.
VII. The regency of the kingdom confers no rights over the
per fori of the m:nor king.
VIII. The care of the minor kinij (hall be confided to his mo
thcr ; and if he has no mother, or if (lie be married again, at the
time of her son's acceOion to the throne, or if (he marry a^am du
ring the minority, the care of him (hail be delegated by the legil
lativc body. . . , l- j r
For the care of the minor kinp, neither the regent, nor his del
cendants, nor a woman can be be chosen.
IX. In cafe of the kings mental incapacity nofoncullv admit
ted, legally proved, and declared by the legislative body, after
three fucceflive deliberations held monthly, there snail be a re
geticy, as long asfuch incapacity continue.
197
CONSTITUTION OF FRANCE
(Continued from No. 48, of this Gazette. J
CHAPT E R IT.
OJ the Royalty, the Regency, and the Mini fieri.
SECTION I.
Of the R (natty and the King.
SECTION II
[Whole No. 258.]
SECTION TIL
OJ the Roy-iil
I. The prefumotive heir frail bear the name of Prince Royal.
He cannot go out of the kingdom, without a decree of the If
giftative body and thr King's confeni ;
If he is gone out of it, and if, after being required bv a proc!a>»
mation of the leg'flative body, he does not return to France, h«
is held to have abdicated the right of fijcccflion to the throne.
11. If the presumptive heir is a minor, the relation, of full age,
and next in order to the regency, is bound to reside within the
kingdom.
In cafe of his going out of it, and not return:ng on the requisi
tion of the legislative body, he shall be held to have abdicated his*
right to the regency.
111. The mother of the minor King, having the care of him,
or the guardian elect, if they go out of the kingdom, forfeit theirs
cbarge :
If the mother of the presumptive heir, a minor, goes out of the
kingdom, Hie cannot, even after her return, h-tve the carc of her
minor son, become King, but by a decree of the legislative body.
IV. The other members of the family of the King are
only to the laws common to all citi/cns.
V. A law (hall be made to regulate the education of the minor
King, and that of the minor hen piefumpt»vr.
VI. No real apanage (in land) lhall be granted to the members
of the royal family.
The younger sons of the King shall receive, at the age of twen
ty-five. or on iheir marriage, auannuitv, the amount of which shall
be fixed by the legislative body, and (hall terminate with the ex
tin&ion of their male heirs.
SECTION IV.
I.* To the King alone belongs the choice and diftniflion of
miniflers.
11. No order of the King can be execu'ed, if it be not signed
bv him, and countcrfigned by the miniitcr or comptroller ol the
department.
111. The miniflersare responsible for all the offences commu
ted by them againlt the national falety and the conftitu.ion—for
every attack on individual property and liberty—Tor every abvfe
of the money allotted forfche exp.nces of their department.
IV. In no cafe can the written or verbal ord-'r of a King, dul
ler a miniftcr from rfefponfibility,
V. The tninifters are bound to present every year to the legis
lative bodv. at the opening of the feflion, the amount of the ex
pences of their department, to give an account of the cmp'.o) jnent
of the Turns dcflined for that purpose, and to mention the abuses
which bave<frept into the different part* of the government.
VI. No miniftcr, in or out of place, can be criminally pr -fe
cufed for any tranfa&ion of his administration, without a dccrec
of the legislative body.
CHAPTER 111,
Of t':e Exercise of the Legislative Pou'fr.
SECTION I
Porvers and Fun3ions of the Legislative National Afffmbty.
I. The Constitution delegates exclusively to the legislative bo
dy, the powers and functions following :
l. To propose and decree laws : the King can only invite the
Legislative body to take an obje£t into conhderation.
s. To fix the Public Expences.
3. To eftablifb the Public Contributions, to determine the na
ture of them, the amount of each fort, and the mode of colle&ion.
4. To make the distribution of them among the several Depart
ments of the kingdom, to watch over the application, and to de
mand an account of it.
To decree the creation or fuppreflion of public offices.
6. To determine the quality, the imprelfion, and the denomi
nation of money.
7. To permit or prohibit the introdu&ion of foreign troop#
into the French territory, and of foreign natal forces into the
ports of the kingdom.
8. To vote annually, on the King'* proportion, the number of
men and (bios, of which the lea and land'forccs (ball be composed ;
the pay and number of each lank; the rules of admiflion and
promotion ; the forms of enrollment and difchaige ; the forma
tion of naval equipments ; the admission of foretg:i troops, or na
val forces into the French service, and the pennons to troops on
being disbanded.
q. To regulatethe administration and the alienation of the Na
tional Domains.
10. Til prosecute before the High National Court, the Minis.
ters and Principal Agents of the Executive Power, on their k(-
ponfibilitv :
Toaccufeand prosecute, before the fame Court, IValt
be charged with any offence or conspiracy against the Me
ty of theStateorthe Constitution.
11. Toeftablifh the rules according to which marks of honor
or decorations merely personal (hall be granted to those who have
done service to the State.
12. The Legislative Hody has the sole right of decreeing pod
humous honors to the memory of great men.
11. War cannot be resolved on but by a decree of the National
ATemblv, paired on the lormal and necetTary proportion of the
King, and fan&ioned by him :
In cafe of hoftilitics, imminent or commenced, of an ally to be
fuppoited, or a right to be maintained by force of arms, iho
King (hall give notification without delay to the legiHative body,
with an « zplanation of the reasons :
If the legislative body decide that war ought not to be made,
the King (hall instantly take mcafures to prevent or put a Hop to
hostilities, the Miniftcrs being rcfponfible for all delays :
Ift'ie legislative body find that the hostilities commenced are a
culpable aggTeflion on the part of Ministers, or any other agent of
the executive power, the author of the aggreflion (hall be piole
ruted criminally :
During the whole conrfe of war, the legislative body may re
quire the to negociate peace, and the King is bound to yield
to this rcquifition :
On the immediate condufion of war, the legifiative body (ball
fix the rime within which the troops, levied above the peace efta
blrrmen;, shall be discharged, and the army reduced to it« ordu
narv cft*bli(hm( nt.
111. It to the legiflativebody to ratify treaties of peace,
alliance, and commerce; and no treaty (hall have effect, but bv
this ratification.
(To be continued.)
Of Miniflers.FROM. Till COLUMBIAN CENTINEL,
PUBLIC HAPPINESS.
No. V. ..
NOTHING is more delightful.to a benevolent
inind than the fight of human iiappinefs,
and the traveller who beholds it in any country
will by the sympathy of nature /hare in the feli
city- Every traveller in this country will have
his feelings powerfully excited by feeing the
happielt people on ©arch,with profpecfts unbound
ed—Heaven, ever propitious to Amer'tca, is brown
ing the year with health and plenty, and we
every where behold the vivid countenance and
the smile of joy. The old query and complaint,
" Why were the former days better than these P is
not heard in the land. The people have tlie in
telligence to know the superiority of their blefl
ings, " out of the heart the mouth fpeaketh,"
and there is a voice of contentment and glow of
gratitude—there is a triumph of sentiment which
is American. Religion, which is the of
human exigence, now expands the virtuous mind
■with sentiments of felicity while recounting the
favors of Providence, and the wide prolpect of
future good to the world, from the events daily
unfolding here—Diilnterefted benevolence is
Heaven in miniature.
The United States have only to continue their
exertions and progression in the line they are in,
and they'will rife with the flow of time, until
their populations and improvements exceed all
the nations of the world. This appears to bean
irrefiftable conclusion, from the foundation laid
by nature, apd the present Itate of things—ln
truth there is nothing that can be opposed to this
happy conclusion, but a conjeAure that the peo
ple of America may be become ignorant, fools,
and madmen—But as such a conjecture is against
all reason, it vanishes from the mind, and leaves
the field of hope every where bloH'oming with
flowers, and the moral hemisphere brightening
into day.—From the beginning of time there
were nigver so many causes.in operation to dif
fufe universal science, and such powerful and
multiplied means to enlighten the whole people
as are now seen in this country. If the design
of Providence can be learnt from the long chain
of causes and events which have conspicuously
marked the history of this country, moral rea
soning will confirm the conclusion from nature
and present fadts. Every appearance in reason
and nature, the pad and the present, express in
capitals the glowing profpedls and pre eminence
of Columbia. Let the EDUCATION OF THE
CHILDIIEN forever be considered and pursued
as the firft concern—by legislators, judges, cler
gymen, and by ALL men. This, and this only,
will crown with perfecft and never fading glory,
the empire of freedom.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL
Mr. Russell,
I SINCERELY congratulate the public on it*
late rich acquisition of historical knowledge
in the publication of Mr. Belknap's History of
New- Hamplhire.
If genius and merit are encouraged as they
ought to be, we may soon exped: to fee a com
plete history of each State ; and until this is done
we cannot expert an authentic and copious ge
neral hiltory of the United States.
South-Carolina and New-Hampshire are now
brought down to the present day, by native his
torians of our own foil, who do honor to their
parent Cotinubia, as they would to any other coun
try.
The history of Connecticut, we hear, is under
taken by the Rev. Benjamin Trumbull, of New-
Haven, and that of Georgia, by Edward Laug
•worthy, Esq.
Rh . le-Ifland, Delaware, Maryland and North-
Ca"ol; la, have not yet furniflied any regular
history, written by any of their foils—what little
they have, has been written by foreigners.
That of Mafl'achufetts, New-York, New-Jer
sey, Pennsylvania and Virginia, are very incom
plete, and foine of tliem more than 50 years be
hind.
If we are so happy as 10 have gentlemen in the
several Slates poileffing the fidelity, candor, li
berality and industry of Belknap and Ramsay,
with their elegant simplicity and smoothness of
Itvle, they will not fail of pleasing. No one
who feels the honed: pride of being an Ameri
can, will think his library complete until it is
graced with the Histories of Belknap and Ram
say, and we may add of Minot, the Boflon Sail,/]}.
PHILO HISTORIC US.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
" thefollowing intelligence we had from Cabt. Rogers, of the brio- liar
— —:...j a i>,._ .. D?.; c.i* °
many, arrived at this port from Port-au-Pnncc, Srpt. 10
,284 l'lantations burnt; 94 ditto entirely deflroyed ; i6q ditto
of coffee burnt; 154 white men killed; 48 women ; ißchildren
murdered; 6 plantations, of the Gallitet family, destroyed;
36,000 Negroes revolted; 8,000 killed and oifperfed ; 4,000 re
turned back.
A TRAVELLER,
PARIS, August 4
IT is generally f*id, that the King is to be per
mitted ro retire to Fcnminbleau, there to de
liberate with his Council upon the revised con-
Itirution, which is speedily to be presented lo
him. Without doubt Ire will be puzzled whe
ther to accept or refufe it ; for it will either be
accepting or refilling the Crown. He will have
leave to go to Fontninb'feau, to prove that ac
ceptance's free. This is considered to be mere
ly a political farce, for ga vi here he will, he will
It ill be guarded—ilill will be considered as a na
tional prisoner.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
August 6
The proposed constitution being read, M. de
la Fayette rose. For a long while, gentlemen,
the people have been wishing for this constituti
onal aCt, which formed after mature deliberati
on, admits no longer of any ufeful delays ; but
which, on the contrary, every circamftance
prompts us finally to fix. It is at a time when a
combination of passions and interefls, is in moti
on around us, that it is proper to proclaim these
principles of liberty and equality—to support
which, every Frenchman has irrevocably devoted
his life and honor.
The Aflembly, no doubt, also, is of opinion,
that it is full time to give to all the powers efta
bliflied harmony of motion ; that the nation may
have at foreign courts ionftitutional organs ;
that the numerous explanations they owe us may
be obtained, that the sleep of royal functions be
at an elid ; and that mutual confidence may re-
vive
I shall make no mention of the arduous duties
which our '.•ountry has a r ipht to expeift from
me, (because every facrifice to it is due) but rnuft
impatiently wi!h to fee it in afituation no longer
to cail for their exercise.
I propose that the Committee of Constitution,
should draw tip the plan of a decree, to fix the
forms to be fallowed in presenting the constitu
tion, when it is finally agreed to, in the name of
the French Nation, to the King, for his mofl in
dependent examination and accepting.
Agreed.
LONDON, August 12
A fliip lately arrived in the river from Phila
delphia, has brought over fix fine plants of the
Maple Tree, which we understand are intended
as a present to her Majesty.
The King of Spain has caused the following
intimation, addrefled to the Supreme Council,
&c. to be published
" After a long negotiation with the Bey and
Regency of Tunis, since the truce of 1786, for
the purpose of laying the foundation of a treaty
of peace, friendship, and commerce, by a treaty
ufeful ar.d advantageous to my fubjeCls, I have
the fatisfacftion'of informing them that this trea
ty, which secures forever free navigation and
commerce on the coasts of Tunis, of which Spain
has been deprived for several ages, was signed
this day, with thanks to Almighty God, &c.
" Madrid, July 19//; I 791."
The Consols were clone yesterday at the very
high price of eighty-nine (with the dividend)
an initance that has not been known since the
year before the Ariierican war.
This day his Royal Highness the Prince of
Wales will enter into the 30th year of his age.
The Church now building at Peterfljurcrh is
the lnrgeft in Europe. Two thousand men have
been working 011 it these twenty years, and are
not yet at the top of the walls. It is of poliflied
marble, both outside and in ; the pillars are of
one piece, fifty feet high ; the base and capitals
of solid silver ; but the greatest cnriofity of all
is the wooden box, which covers the whole from
the weather, conltrucfted in a particular manner.
All the Empress's buildings are on the fame im
mense scale. The Great Duke's dog-house has
1 ;oo windows ; gnd the Audience Chamber, in
whichthe Einprefs receives Foreign Ambafladors,
is lined with poliilied silver— Such is the magni
ficence of her Imperial Majesty.
TURKS and RUSSIANS,
We have already informed our readers of the
capture of Anapa, by the Ruffians. We are now
enabled to lay before them the account trans
mitted by Prince Repnin, the commander in
chief of the Ruffian army on the Danube, to the
Ruffian Ambafiador at Warsaw.
" I have this moment received information
that General Gugowitz took the fortrefs of Ana
pa by aflault, on the 3d of July, new style.
There were made prisoners, Multapha Pacha, of
Three Tails, (son to Battal Pacha, who com
manded lali year at Anapa, and was then made
prifener) together with the famous Scheich Man
four, and about 14,000 persons, including the
troops and inhabitants of both sexes.
" The rurks defended themfelvesobflinately,
and many of them were killed.—l am vet unac
quainted with the extent of their loft, "and 1 do
not yet know ours, which, however, the courier
afl'ures me is but trifling "
b"
198
Ifabell Stewart, who was on Wednesday hft
executed for stealing in a honfe" where foe was
servant, differed materially frriin thfe' generality
of women who bring themselves into that fi;ua
on.—Her hulbancl being a Tailor, engaged as a
foremaft-rtian in a vcflel bound ro Botany Bay
and /lie did all in her power to accompany him
there, but finding she could not accomplifli her
p>int, ftie deterniined by /haling to be sent after
him, at the expence of government, the how
ever overfliot the mark, by committing a : capital
offence.
Mr. Hammond, the new Consul General to the
United States of America, arid late Secretary to
the Embafiy at Madrid, will let o(Fina few dnvs
for Philadelphia. His appointment is of the
highest importance to this country, as he has it
in conuniflion to conclude a treaty of Ofrenfive
and Defenfive Alliance between England and
America. The outlines of this treaty have been
already difcufl'ed, and we learn that some very
considerable commercial advantages are held out
to America as the basis of it, which will in time
supplant the greater part of the trade of Ruflia
with this country.
Permanent (tock was never known so higli ;
at the fame time, that which is considered not so
permanent, is alarmingly to the holders, upon
the decline. Whether a simple stagnation for a
day gave rife to the report that the Minister has
it in agitation to pay off the four per cents, or
whether such a report was thecaufe of their fur
ther declension, a short time perhaps may deter
mine. That such an event is at all likely to take
place, is a brilliant circumllance in favor of w he
finances of c;his country, and of those who hold
reins of government.
From the Eaft-lndies, the accounts brought by
the Aberpavenny, are favorable ; but not so ex
travagantly flattering as we may have been taught
to expect within tliefe few weeks by other ac
counts. When the dispatches left India Lord
Cornwallis was hastening to attack Tippoo's
grand army, and appearances promise every
thing.
At home, from every quarter of the kingdom,
the state of autumnal produce is most luxuriously
reported.
The clubs of Paris seem again to be restored ;
but they have not the influence with the Aflem
bly which they had.
The maddefl. feat of milled patriotism that ever
any unhappy country experienced, is at this
time exercising in Spain. The Church, no doubt,
has the sole conduifi of the present persecution
of strangers, which has taken place in every pro
vince throughout the kingdom ; and let us hope
it may prove what it feerns strongly fympromatic
of, the last convulsive struggle of fuperfticion.
Extrau from a private letter from the Eafi-lndies,
dated March 5
" I now write you from the top of the Ghauts,
within jo miles of Seringapatam, the capital of
Tippoo Sultan, and nearer by the fame distance
than ever English troops were before. The de- 1
tachment I am now with consists of a brigade 6f
light field pieces, which ascended the Ghauts
without opposition, the day before yesterday.
Our force, under Col. K artley,confifts of the 75th
regiment, the grenadiers, and the 7th battalion
of Bombay native Infantry (the troops the Col.
had with him at the glorious action at Trevan
ganny) to which were added a detachment of
the 73d reg. and a corps of Grenadiers, consist
ing of fonr European and five Native companies.
" Our situation in the Ghauts is such, as to
bid defiance to the Sultan's ntmolt power and
force. The remainder of the army, commanded
by Gen. Abercrombie, are in the vicinity of the
Pass, and our principal employ for some time
will be bringing up provisions, stores, and heavy
cannon.
" The whole army under General Abercrom
bie now coufifts of near 9000 fighting men, in
cluding the Travancore troops, strong ill artille
ry under Major Jones."
BURLINGTON, Oct. n.
Burlington County Society for the Promotion of Agri-
culture and Domestic Manufactures,
It appearing to this Society that the attention
paid by them to the means of improving the qua
lity of the CHEESE made in this county, ha'
been produdtice of beneficial effects ; and the
Society being desirous, further to promote a ma
nufacture of the greatell importance to the.agri
cultural interest of the (late—Refolvcd, That for
the greatest quantity of the bed flavoured, mild
est, and richelt Cheese, (not less than wr.)
which shall be made the ensuing season on any
one farm in this county, and produced in goo-1
order to this Society, on the firft Saturday in No
vember next, between the hours of ten and twelve
o'clock in the forenoon, accompanied by a cer
tificate from at least two reputable freeholders,
mentioning the place at which the fait' Cheele
was made ; a premium of Thirty fihsr Doll<' rs
(liall be paid; together with the market price foi
joolbs. weight of the fame cheese.
MAY 7, 1791The mode of application to be as follows ": —
Each candidate fliall mark the quantity of cheese
offered by him with fonie particular mark, and
(hall put the fame mark ok the outside of a feal
etl iaper, containing his name and place of a
bode, which fliall be delivered to die Society.
The letter only which fliall be dilHngujftied by
the mark iimilar to that or. the quantity of cheefe
to which the preference fliall be given, will be
opeiied ; all the other letters will be returned
unopened, together with the parcels of clieefe to
which they fliall refpet'tively belong.
A convenient place will be provided, free of
expence to the candidates, at the itore of Mr.
Sterling in Burlington, for the reception offtjeh
parcels of cheese as fliall be offered with a view
to obtain the premium.
J ! 1-4
lie *35
u
1
'J Bay
7 hii
liih li(f
Haftt,
'C iViV:.
Philadelphia, October 19.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
The English papers fay that M. Bouille and
•foil, have been at Vienna, incog, and that the
General had an audience of the Emperor.
td DOtfe
ts, jpn
ion fort
liHttliii
:«ui, or
The Emperor is aflembling a strong army on
theKhine, in Luxembourg, and on L'Efcant.
There has been a total change in the Auiirian
Ministry—Prince Kaunitz is dismissed after hav
ing been Prime Minister fifty years. A general
commotion seems to be taking place in Europe—
the spirit of innovation is spreading in Italy—
The governor of Reggrf> in the Duke of Mode
na's territories, was lately murdered by the po-
their far-
ay deter
lyroute :
or of iht
'ho toll
■onghtl;
lot so a
en taught
pulace.
At Florence there has been an jnfurredtion on
account of the taxes —which could not be quelled
bat by the interpofitiol) of the military.
In Bologna there has been a great ferment, on
account of encreafed taxes, afl'eiled by his Holi
ness to make up deficiencies occasioned by the
lois of income from other places. —The l J ope's
Treasurer was here burnt in effigy.
At Genera the Democrats are grumbling at
their government, which is Ariftocratical.
A general aflembly of the States of Brabant
were to meet as BruxeHes on the 22d of August
—The ancient form of government in pleno is
re-eftabli(hed.
'iW;
ftihr
An English Proteftam Church has been opened
at Dunkirk-—thus the benefits of the French re
volution begin to be enjoyed, in the free exer
cise of religion.
In Dunkirk there are two Dutch Chapels, and
one Quaker meeting house, . . . ..
The perpetual rumors of a counter-revolution
operate very injuriolidy in refpe<st to the paper
medium of France—by keeping up the deprecia
tion of aflignats.—But the confti.ution once efta
blilhed, it is expected these rumors will lose their
pernicious effects.
The peace between the Emperor, the Ruffians
and Turks, leaves even the viclorious parties in
no better circumstances than when they began!
—It is called a Statu qtto peace—but wiih what
propriety may be determined when it is confi
deredwhat an immense facrifice of men and mo
ney has been made about a few acres of ,'I erri
tory.
The Arabs it is fiid have invaded the Turkifli
territories ; have seized the tomb of the prophet,
and plundered Mecca of its treafuves.
The Einprefs of Ruflia, all the reports to the
contrary notwithllanding, is in perfe<st health.
A number of the rioters of Birmingham have
been tried, several of which were capitally con
fided ; sentence of death was pronounced on
four of them—the Judges exhorted them to pre
pare for death, as there were 110 hopes of par
don ; they all wept bitterly.
An article under the Paris head states, that
the Qneen of France has wrote to the Count de
Mercy Argenteau, the Emperor's minister in the
low countries, desiring him to exert his interest
with the fugitive Princes to return to France, as
it was the wiih of her Majesty—and alibi ing them
that the King was determined to accept cordially
of the new constitution ; the King lias wrote to
1 the fame purport to Monsieur and the Count
D'Artois.
: Ghaots,
ipital
distant!
The de
jn&t ®'
;°Ghaut>
„ e tint
idkefl
:rcr«B'
,e
i art®"*
tf¥.
The anfwerof the Count Mercy-Argenteau was
'hat the Kmperor his malVer was determined not
to interfere with the affairs of France, in any
manner which mi<iht endanger the person of his
fitter.
rhe Princes Monsieur, and Count D'Artoii
had delired time to deliberate on their an Twer.
The French are now ill a fair way of being
left to mature their constitution, without the
alarm of an external attack ; the eyes oi ilie
are fixed upon them, and they will exhibit
a striking example to mankind of the laffty or
'he danger of attempting to new model a govern
ment from firft principles.
ihe fo-eign papers from Germany and flan
< er s ail flatly contraditft the design of the Eu
ropean potentates joining againll France —and
;2
«*■
By order of the Society,
WILLIAM COXE, Jtin.Sec'ry
aflei t lhat f:ich reports originate with the aris
tocrats to fee what efFeifi they may have on the
National Aflembly.
1 he late Dey of Algiers raised himfelf from a
common soldier to that exalted ft at ion, and go
verned a nation of Barbarians for twenty-five
years with uncommon reputation—his rulingpaf
lion was avarice—he accumulated immense riches
—which, with his dignity do not descend to his
family, but are polTelied by his fucceflor Cid Haf
fan.
The loss. occasioned by the burning of the Ma
gazines in the Admiralty at Amsterdam, amounts
to 1,200)0.00 florins.
The hereditary Prince of Orange is on a jour
ney into Germany. >
The harvest in France has been abundant the
pall season.
The English fleet has been paid off—and what
is uncommon, the molt remarkable harmony ap
pears among thefoldiers and sailors—no riots or
confufion have taken place, which has frequently
been the cafe on similar occasions.
Tims has ended the third bloodless war of
Great Britain !—The firft secured to the Stadthol
der the government of Holland—the Iccond the
Cat ikins of Nootka Sound to the Englijh—and
the last, to the Porte the liberty of making the
belt peace they could !
The Club of Jacobirls'in Paris have wrote a
letter of condolance to Do<ftor Prieitly, on the
lofles he has fuflained by the late riots.
Lieut. Governor Simcoe was to embark far
Quebec the firft of September.
Addrefles Tiave been presented to the King,
Jiy the principal' liilTabitanrs of the county of.
Warwick, and the Diflenters of the. town of Bir
mingham,—the firll thank his JVlajefty for his
paternal care of all his subjects; and particular-,
ly express their gratitude for the recent inltance
of that care exhibited during the lata riots, by
tlireifting fach ample relief for their necelfities
—That from the Diflenters profefles their at
tachment, to the conftitutiou, and revolution prin
ciples—it laments the want of energy in the ci
vil power during the late riots, but at. the fame
time recognizestheirobligations for his Majelty's
beneficial and decisive attention—The gentlemen
who presented the addrefles were graciously re
ceived.
The revolt which took place in the kingdom
of Morocco, has been appealed—*-the troops of
the King's half brother were defeated, and him
felf obliged to retreat to a place of fafety.
The King of Svveden has retnrned to Stock
holm, his capital.
A'morion was lately made in the National As
sembly to infei't a clause in the Constitution, by
which the Princes of the blood-royal would have
been deprived of the rights of atftive citizens, and
consequently precluded from a feat in theAlfein
bly. This vras vehemently opposed by M. d'Or
leans—who said he would sooner relinqnifh his
claim to an eventual succession to the Crown, than
be deprived of those rights and privileges. His
speech was received with applause, and the mo
tion rejected.—The population of 3VI • d Orleans
runs high, according to the lall accounts.
M. Barnave, it appears, has been thrown into
the minority, by lome recent decisions. Ihe
pamphleteers and eflayifts of Paris, have for a
Ion"- time past severely lampooned M. Barnave.
A leti er was lately read in the National Aflem
bly, from the Minister of War, stating the diffi
culties resulting from drawing off the ftatiotied
troops for the defence of the frontiers—and pro
posing a fubltitute foniething like the Minute-
Men of the United States dujing the late war.
Peace and tranquility are now perfetflly re
fiored to the capital of France. The red fag, the
signal of martial law, is taken down—and the
■white, the emblem of peace, elevated in its place.
The regiment of Berwick has quitted the ser
vice of the National Aflembly, and gone over to
the fugitive Princes.
Monday next is the day appointed by law for
the meeting of the second Congress of the United
States under the New Contlituiton.
' The following, among other important lub
iecis, will probably claim their attention at the en
ine session. The Poft-Office—the Militia—the
1 'iftieries —the Reports of the Secretary of State
1 in this fubjecft, and on Coins, Weights and Mea.
iires—the Judiciary System, and ihe Repoit of
I he Attorney of the United States— Manufadtui es,
and a Report thereon, to be made by the ~ccre
tai y of the Treasury, pursuant to orders of the
late House of R eprefetjtatives the National
Mint—a Navigation Law—the Land-Office of the
United States, &c. &c.-The deliberations of the
Lesiiflature of the Union, at this fefnon, mult
therefore be highly interelting to our country.
I May a spirit of wisdom and patrioti.m mnu
l tnce and guide their councils-May their mea
sures be crowned with luccefs ; and equally with
those of their predecetlors, receive the approba
tion of their conftituenii.
199
Next Friday is the day appointed for the elec
tion of twenty-five -Directors of the Bank of
the United States. Arrangements have- been
made by the Stockholders in this city, to co-ope
rare with those from other parts of the Union in
this bufinefis—and there is every Veafon to sup
pose that focli characters will be chosen, as by
their wisdom, prudence and integrity, will ren
der this inflitutiona public benefit.
The committee appointed by the Stockholders
of this city, ;to confer with the committees or
gentlemen Stockholders, who may come from the
other States, on this occasion, confilt of the fol
lowing gentlemen :—Robert Morris, IfaacWhar
'oi«, Edward Fox, Robert Rallton, Jeremiah Par-
-'*r —This committee is to report their proceed
ing* to the City Stockholders to-morrow evening;
at Carpenter's Hall,
A correspondent obfefves, that in the general ticket to be form
ed and delivered in on Friday next, for twenty-five Dirc&ors of
the National Bank, every Stockholder or gentleman qualified by
proxies to vote at the general meeting, would do well to examine
attentively a full lift of all the candidates of every State—from
these, the judicious will felcft on general principles, with a su
preme regard to the public good.
In Europe, our correspondent further observes. Bank Dire&ors
are alwavs chofeA from among the firft mercantile chara&ers, or
from such of the more refpe&able mechanics, as have by the extent
of their business qualified themselves for the office.
Commercial men are the best judges of characters in trade, and
fherefote are the belt to regulate a difcount-office—but however
true this may b«, it will probably be thought eligible to admit
one or more Gentlemen of the Law—one or more Members of
Congress—and one or more Directors of State Banks ; yet it mull
be apparent thatof thefe,orof charaftersof a highly fpeculativecaft,
the number ought to be small. All will do well to reflect, that on
the a'pett affairs (ball resume at the outset, will the future profpefts
and success of the Bank depend.
By late accounts from Port-au-Prince, it appears that a coaiitioo
haS beeri foimed between the whites and th t free people of colour —
and by a written convention, the whites have recognized the rights
and privileges granted to the people of colour by the National As
sembly, as well as those which they claim under certain ancient
edicts of the French Monarchs.
Accounts were received in town 13ft Monday, of a dreadful
conflagration 'n Newbcrn, North-Carolina, on the 28th tilt. a great
of that flourifhing town fell a facrifice to the flames ; sixty-three
houses being consumed. The % ravages of the deftruftivc element
were checked by blowing up several houses with gunpowder.
A similar expedient was adopted to stop the progress of the great
fire in London*, in the reio;n of Charles the Second. Ihe lols
is computed at ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND-POUNDS.
By a letter from Mr. Fenwick, the American Consul at Bour
deaux, published in a Richmond paper, it appears that the vfflel
mentioned in our last, addreflVd to McfTrs. M'Carthv and Brothers,
with two others, all went to England previous to their going to
France, from whence thev received their last orders. 1 his mode,
it was supposed, would tend to make England the entrepot of to
bacco for France, and deltrov in lome measure the encreafing in
tercourse between France and America, to the injury of ihc trade
with France, without benefiting that ot America.
An office is opened in London for the sale of Stocks in the Ame
rican Funds.
Cambricks of a superior finenefs are now manufactured in Ire*
land.
The garri r on of Anapa, a fnrtrefs lately taken from the Turks,
confided of 10,000 Turks, and 1,5,000 Tartars, 71 heavy rami n,
q mortars, and an hundred standards, with great quantities of pow
der a nd ball.
The following paflengers arrived in the Pi'gou : —Mr. Sf. John,
his Lady and Son ; Mr Delvyn and Lady, Mr. Samuel Smith,
Mr. David Lowndes, Mr. Drummond and Son, Mr. Sewall, Mr.
ShulllfF, Miss Hannah Aftimore, Mr. Mattinlv, Lady and two chil
dren; Mr. Henry Newberrv, brother-in-law, lifter and child;
Mr. Tames Baylis and Lady, Mr. George Plater, Mr Adam Ran
kin, Mr. Augustus de Caunitz, Mr. James Drummond, Mr. 1 ho
rn as Wood, and sundry others.
Members of Congress in town, in addition to those in our la ft.
Senators.—Governor Johnston, of North-Carolina.
Governor Langdon, ot New-Hampshire.
Reprefentatives.—Hon John Lawrance, New-York.
ShearjasHUb Bourne, Maiidchufetts.
GENERAL ELECTION.
Rctutri of Berks.
Congress. Daniel Heifter.
Senator in the State Legijlature. Gabriel Heifter.
Representatives in the State Legijlature. Charles Shoemaker, Paul
Grofcup, John Ludwick, Nicholas Lutz, Balzar Genr.
For the counties of Lanajler and Dauphin.
Congress. John W. Kittera.
For the counties of York and. Cumberland.
Congress Thomas Hartley.
DIED, on the 9th of Auejuft last, at Bristol, England, the Rev.
and mnch refpeaed Caleb Evans, D. D. principal of a very ce
lebrated Academy in that city, belonging to the Baptist congre
gations. . , .
This gentleman a diftinguiflied friend to the rights ot Amr
rica and of mankind ; by his death, the interests ot religion, leu
ence and freedom, have sustained a great loss.
C , than on!, &c. in our next.
ARRII'ALS *t the FORI of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Roebuck,
Savannah,
Minerva,
Brig St. George,
Mercury,
Mary,
Hetty and Maria,
Sloop Luinna,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
10/921/ pr. /.
11/6 11 A)
12f6
6 pr. Cent*
3 pr. Cents
Detered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. »nd other Certificates 16/8 177 85 do,
Indent* 10/6 do.
Bank Sul>fcriptionj, '3* Dollars.
Blifj, Bristol
Armstrong, Liverpool
Wood, Havre-de-Grace
De Colta, Oporto
Stevens, Dublin
Newburyport
March,
Horigf, F'g"*
Mandcvillc, North-Carolina
10,5 P T » CCBt<
58J do.
do.
12/qTO BE SOLD,
And poffcflioo given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the iubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road Irom Princeton to Bninfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premifcs » two story stone lioufe
ana kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a fmoke-hou'fe, work-shop, granary, waggon
fioufe; barrack cow-houfcs, two (lories high and go feet long, and
a good barn, with flabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchafc, may know the terms by
applying to thefubferiber on the premifas, or to Isaac Snov.'d sn,
No. 141, South Sccond-ibeet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
Princeton, Oflober 10, 1791
Holy Bible. —Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Wortefter, Mallachufetu, moll refpeft
fully informs the public, thai he ha 3 this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Otiarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will he finifh
e-d with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Sunsc r i ft ion Papers, he beg* will
return them to him at lVayccflcr y or to him and Company at BcJlon y
by the lad day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work, has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their higWeft approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its cheapness compared with English
copics of the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on folelv at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who wi(h to p'olTefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
IVorcfJicryStpt, 29, 1791
Lectures on Government& Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON., L. L. D. Profcffoi of Laws
in the College and Academy of Pniladtlpbh, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Le&urrs. One Courfc to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tutfday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, O&ober 12, 1791. ( c P r^)
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firlt quality—by re tail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jcrfey, 2d Class—to commence drawing 26th inft. ) Pofi-
Mairachuieitf Semi-annual, 2d Class, 131b O&ober. $ lively
Mav be had as abovr.
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE removed their Office to the corner of Chcfnut and Third
Streets—where they mirchafe and fell CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, «scr. &r.
Buiincfs of all kinds, in their line, tranfa£led on CoirrmiQion,
They have for sale, TICKETS in the Second Class of the Maf
fachulcus Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing of which will com
mence on the 13th inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Ciafs of the
Charlcfto vn Lottery, at the Managers prices.
To be let, on moderate Ground Rrnf, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly situated, in Kcnfington,
fronting on 'btec streets. Tliere are improvements on th.s lot,
■which, added to its situation, make it wortfrv of particular aiten
t'on* Philadelphia, 08. 1, 1701.
Public Securities,
Bought ami Sold, cin C O M M I S 3 I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Clicfnnt-Strret, next door to the Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
IV. M'DOUG A L L'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Isnow opened it his School ■ Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley,
HE returns his ftneere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his fehool for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his fchoiars, will Hill ensure him a refpc&ablc (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dawes will be tauoht
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the mod approved
ft:le, and that proper attention w/ill be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general prattifm<* for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when ihe
employers, and ftrangcr«ot genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra&ifings will be attended with no expence.
N.B. An EVEN ING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficiervt number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
f T , HE Man ace us of NEW-HAVEN WHARF LOTTERY,
A have uncxpeßcdfy received information from abroad, of a con
siderable number of tickets vet unfold. This renders it ntcejfan
for them (in order to answer the design of the Lottery) to adjourn
the drawing to Monday the 17th of Ottober next, at which time
the drawing wifi'pofitively re-comtnencc, and continue without in
terruption until finilhed.
New-Haven, Sept. 28, 1791.
N. B. The numbers already drawn, both prizes and blank*
will be Dublifhed immediately, in hand-bill*, and in the Connecti
cut Journal, for the information of thofc who w;ih to putchafe
now undrawn.
[ep ztnj
ISAIAH THOMAS.
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all falcs or purchases at auction, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchafcn at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cenr. ; and on rjl sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Pr Such per Tons throughout the United States, as may be
pleated to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
jl, ««uted with punßuaHty, fidelity and di[batch, as consi
derable experience in the public (locks, together with extenf.ve
connections in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufi their operations with peculiar
advantages. FINTARD & BI.EECKER,
hcw-York t No. 57, King-Streel.
(t.f.)
Wanted, a good COOK
To whom sentetl wages will be allowed. None need aoply Iho
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Punter.
Funds of the v United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Delt of the Uni, n, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
bierchtiiriizc ot all lons bought and fold on Commij/ion, and all other
Buimcfs in the line of a isroK.fr, tranfafled by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office ntxt door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2 m
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, Come lime in Augufl 1789, a yellow NEGRO
. MAN, named Abraham, late the pioperty of Xalhtniel
Wickliff, deceased —about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inchesh'gh, preity well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains ol
pains in his Iceland ancles—by trade a bricklayer, lionc mason and
plallerer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, arid is lon l
of fuel) business. He is a great dilTembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. lie has been eloped so long thai no delcrtption ol
his prefeul clothing can be given. It is supposed lhat he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure laid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollar*
will be given if he is brought to Prtncc William County, Virginia,
to .Mr. John Kinchelor, bv
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Adminifirator.
OftoWl!!, 1791. ' (1 a W9W;
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
a dentown, and ftolcn from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; i tmal!
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; i ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, on? striped veil and
brreches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jet fey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
fmal'l book* ; 1 box containing 447 real oltrich leathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels ryr
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream pnoer, and
1 dozen pafle-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will he given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to juftiee, by
JOHN VAN EMBU&GH.
Bordrntown, New-Jcrfey, Sept. 1, 1791. [ c P l 0
Philadelphia, 201 si July. 1 791.
r Commissioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
A Hank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders o! the f*id Bank, that an elcftionfortwenty
five Directors will be held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the aid day of O&ober next, at 10 o'clock in thr morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS II
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY affurc the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing 00 the day appointed,
viz. On Thar [day the 13th of Oftobrr next, or Jooncr, if the Tickets
flia!l be disposed of. As the Managers have in their feverol
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be eqnally as pun&ual in this.
S C II £ M E.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at /Yrc Dollars each, arc 125,000 Dollars, to
he paid in the following Prizes, fubjr& to a dedu6tion of twelve
and an half tier cent, for the ule ot the Commonwealth.
Prizes.
x of
2
3
6
10
SO
8o
90
100
120
161
200
75®5
8388 Prize*.
16612 Blanks,
*5000 Tickets.
fi-T nCKETS in the above Class may be hnd of the several
M a n ace r s, mho mill pay the prizes on demand \ of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth*; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin s Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun."l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MI NOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
80/ ion, April 14, 1791.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
March 1
200
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Do L L A RS.
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
5 °P
200
j 00
5°
4°
3*
20
1 o
S
PRICE CURRENT. PHIL
ANCHORS pr. lb. yd
Allum, Engliih, pr.cwt. 30/
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. ict/
Ashes, pot, per ton, 37/ioj
Pearl, 50/
Arrack pr. gall. icj 1 zs6d
Brandy, common, 8j 4d
Cogniac lor
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/15/
Bricks pr. M 30J to 37 s 6d
Bread, ftiip pr. cwt. *.5«"
Ditto, pilot 27* bd
Ditto, finall water 40* 4/jf
Beer, American, in bot. ] xo re
pr. doz. bot. incl. J
pr. hbl. 35 s
00 (* Oak pr.M feet, 67s \<
<3 j Merch. pine ioot
Sap, do. 3^
O I N. £ng. BiJ
23 t Cedar
The above dre the Shallop prices ;
jor the Yard p> ices add 15* pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 26/
C Irilh pi", bbl.
£ < Boston for
as ( Country s'2i
Butier pr. lb. 16J
in kegs ,0^
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot zs2s6d
Chocolate pr. ib. 13d
Coal pr. bulhel J*6i
Coflfce pr. lb. 14d
Cinnamon ißj 20j
Cheese, F.nglifti i-f 5^
Country 9^
:r) f Spcr. pr. ib. 3 f
Li | Wax 4 s o'l
Myrtle Wax I '^d
J | Mould,tallow ltd
•J t Dipped 9
Cotton ?- J 4^
Currants l *
Cloves 9 s
Copperas pr.cwt. 14 s
Cordage 6oj 62i6i
Cocoa B°-*
Duck, Ruflia, pr. picre Bc.r
Ravens Sysyisbd
Flour, Superflr.e» pr. bbl. 'tfsbd
Common* 35 x
Bur middlings,beft 33;
24'
Snip-ttutf pr. cwt. ;s6d io.r
Flax pr. lb 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135/ 15OJ
'Feathers pr. lb. 3/
Flaxfecd pr. bufli. $s bd
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/10.(8/
Ginger, whiterace 65s
Ditto, common $o.t
Dittos ground pr. lb. qd
Ginfcng, IJ6 1/10
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. ?
a t u?iter cask, ) "
Ditto, line glazed 3c s
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr.* cafe. 32* 6d
f Wheat pr. bush 7J 7s 6d
Rye 3t gJ
| Oats 156>d
< «J Indian corn 3^6^
Barley 4* &/
Befl (helled pr. 10. yd
L Buckwheat
Hemp, for. pr. ton.
DOLLARS
American, pr. lb. 4d
Hogfnead hoops, pr. M 5*6/
Herrings, pr. bb!. ißj aoj
Hides, raw pr. lb. yd 10d
Mops 9S
Indigo, French, 10s
—5 Carolina
Irons, lad pr. cwt,
10000
6000
6000
6000
500 c
600©
8000
45°°
4000
360©
322®
f Codings 22J 6d 30s
I Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
2 P'g lC^
I Sheet 65/
Nail rods 30/
J;mk, pr. cwt. ins 4os
Ls.rd, hogs yd tod
Lead in pigs 40J 421 6d
in bars 50s
Lead, white Bo.f
red 50 r
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1/\d u6d
Lignum vitse pr. ton 42 s
Logwood yl. 51 8/
M al, Indian, pr. bbl. 19/
Rye 20 s
M3ckarel,befl
-Common
Mace pr. lb. 55J
Mustard «j 4d
Madder, bed 18d
Molaffcs pr. gall. $sid§s§d
Marble, wrought, pr. loot, 14*
Mast spars 2s 6d 5 s
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails, Xodi2d&t2o(l—ftd%±dgd
'Lmfeedj pr. gall. 3 s gd
Train 1 s tod is
Spermaceti 3_r
Whaie 1 s 6d 2s
•r Olive 6s 6d
® I Ditto pr. cafe 18s yd
■ Heft; fwect in )
I fld(ks,pr. box, 75 s
l_ —baskets 12 bottles37.f6</
Oak timber pr. ton 38/
Porter pr. bl. 40*
London, pr.floz.l2j 15.;
2000
6068®
125000
University of Pennsylvania,
Otlober 7» 179 1 *
_ The MEDICAL LECTURES wll begin on
the firfi Mnday in November next.
(pf" Blank Pozoers to receive the Interest, andjorthe travsjet of t -
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules (ftabhjhed in T . e fj"
fury Department : A/so Blanksfor abjtrafts 0/ to be Jo
the Editor 4
H« QUANTITY.
OCTOBER. 19. — Dollars ai
Parter, American pr. do? i o ft
Pitch, pr . bbl
Pork, Burlington, go, , c . f
• I.owcr county qo
Carolina {~1
P< as, Albany 'r[
Pepper, pr.'lb. ,
Pimento
R.ce pr.cwt. 21J W
* , „ P r - !>bl. ,8, y
<aifms, best, p.. keg
)>Uo pr. jar
)itto pr. box « r .
C Jamaica pr. gall, si,
; j Ant-.gua fit b '
- j W,ndw 2 rd s ,6J 6
t S Bjrbjdocs 6
1 Country, N.E. ~
LTaffia iSid I!ba
pr. ton 4jj6;j
anltpetre, pr. cwt. 4/101.-/
Sulphur, tlour ...
Shot
j ( German pr.rwt. 65/70;
y }Englilh, bliftrred
p American pr. ton 40/60/
(.Crowley's pr. fag. " ft..
Snake root pr. lb. uSi 3 s qi t
Soap, Common ad bd
Brown ' c i
Caftilc IC(i ,
Starch 4a - fi J
Snuff i J 6i gj grf
Spermaceti,refined, l;a '
Sail Cloth, Knghlh,""!
pr. yard, J "®* ' *
**"• *i. zj '.a
Ruflia pr. p. qoj
f Lutrp, pr. lb. tiyj
& ; Loaf, finale refined 1-9/
< J Ditto, double do. 2J 6d
1 Havannah, white 1
Z Ditto, brown, lii
I Mufcovada,pr.cwt, 105*
Spirits Turpentine pr.'gall. 3/
{ Allurn pr. bush. 2J id
h , Liverpool is
< i Cadiz u lo d
w
Ship build. W.O. 905
p. .ton, l 1001
Do. LO. & rc(j C. do. 6/6/55
Shingles, lhort, p. M. 22 j bd
-longdrelTcd 37/6^
Scantling, heart, Boj 100/
, Sa P . 5<".55 J
r Pipr pi- uoo pieces 6tw
2 ] W. O. hogfticad ;/ s> C-d
> j R. O. do. 7/ 6j3i
< I Leogan 61
CO
GO |
—i < F'.lherF
% Heart
Racoons
Miifk-rats gd is id
Beaver, pr. lb. fs6 io*
L Deei, in hair isbdvsyl
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 7/6
Carolina, 32 gall. lay
Turpentine pr. bbl. 12s 15s
Cjatnes R. new best &6/
£ inferior 20J2p/6»f
o ,1 J
o okl 35«f
Rappahannock 18/9 22jff>
O Colo. Maryland 50/60.0
Dark i 9 j64
Long-leaf ig;6i
cq Eaflern-fhore 15s 17s 6d
I Carolina, new 22s 6d
oJd 22/6^251
( Hyson pr. lb. ysßjqd
00 | Hyson (kin, 4J 6s 6d
Souchong, 3s6d" t s
H ! Congo, 3Ssdp9f
2s g4
Tallow, refined B%d
Tin pr. box, iooj
Verdigreafe pr. lb.
Vermillion, 12 s
Varnil'n, zs 6d
" Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75'
I.ifbon 36/
TenerifFe 20/10J 30/
w Fayal pr. Rail. 3'Si
Port pr. pipe 36/ 43'
Ditto pr. gall.
Do. in bottles, pr.doz. 30X
Claret 30J 45*
Sherry pr. gall. 6sgd qs
$s6s6d
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2Ssd
-lliort, pr. lb. **
2 f 6(1
45 / S3'
3 s 7 s
50s
6OJ 675 6d
2 6f
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days, 71*
Ditto 60 days 7 2 i
Ditto 30 oays 73
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2/ Z T
30 days 2> ix
Government bills, drawn at 1®
days per 11 guilders, 33 ( 4"
adklphia.
it 7/6.
•Boston, N T o. I
2 j 3 i
Barrel
Heading
3' W
81
Otter, bed pr. piece gjj
Minks
Fox, grey y
red 4/ BJ4
Martins 2j;j6j
116J ft
12 j6d s,s<
" 5 '