of§
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS HY JOHN FtWNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 97, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses 011 Davila .No. 2y
THK Queen-Mother had either lriore liypo
crify, or more foftnefs of temper or more
cunning. She was for eilaying all means of al
luring the Chiefs of tlie Hugonots to the bosom
of the Church, and their obedience to the King.
The differences of circnmftances, of manners,
of interelts and charaifters, as usual, divided
their sentiments, and, cauting them to look at
things on different lides, dilated opposite reso
lutions. The two Kings however take measures
in concert to suppress rebellions. The Queen
«f Navarre comes to court. The King engages
the family ot the Chatillons to a reconciliation
with that of the Guises. Their reciprocal hatreds
i'oon rekindle and breakout afrefli. The Queen
of Navarre in discontent quits the court.
The advice of tlie Duke of Alva was conform
able to the temper and character of this King.
He said he highly relilhed the sentiment of the
Duke of Alva ; that; the heads of thole rebels
were too high in the State. The four families
of Bourbon, Montmorency, Guile and Chatillon,
all stimulated by other subordinate families de
pendent on them, continue their emulations,
fallacies, hatreds, envies, oppositions, intrigues,
manoeuvres, combinations, decomposition'S, ter
giversations : Another civil war breaks out, the
history of which with its causes and events, we
ilfa.ll leave the reader to read in detail. In 1567,
at the battle of Saint Dennis, the Constable de
Montmorency, in fpight of five wounds he had
received in the head and face, fought with ex
treme valour, endeavors to rally his troops,
and lead them 011 to battle, when Robert Stuart
a Scot, came up to him and presenting to him a
pistol, the Constable said to him, " yon are ig
norant then that lam the Constable." "It is
because I know you, said Stuart, that I present
yon this," and at the fame time fliot him in the
ihoulder with his own pistol ; although the vio
lence of the blow (truck down the Constable, he
had still strength enough left to strike Stuart in
the face with the hilt of his sword, which re
mained in his hand, though the blade was bro
ken, wiih such force as broke his jaw, beat out
three of his teeth and brought him down by his
fide half dead. The Hugonots were defeated
however, but the next day the Constable died
at the age of fourfcore, after having shown in
the action as much enterprize, bravery and vigor
as if he had been in the full strength of his youth.
He preserved to his last moment, an admirable
firtnnefs and presence of mind ; a priest ap
proached his bed, to prepare him for death ; the
Constable turned so him with a serene counte
nance, and prayed to be left in repose—adding
it would befhameful for him to have lived eighty
years, without learning to die for half an hour.
ITis wifdoin, his rare prudence, and long experi
ence in affairs procured for him and his family
immense riches, and the firft em ploy nients under
the crown : But he was always so unfortunate
in the command of armies, that in all the enter
piizes where he had the command in thief, he
was either beaten, or wounded or made prisoner.
I he Calvimftic army retired into Champaine,
and afterwards into Lorrain to meet the troops
they expecfted from Germany. The Queen, whom
the death of the Constable had now delivered
from the power and ambition of the Grandees
and who remained the single arbiter of the Ca
tholic party, would 110 longer expose herfelf to
the dangers of an unlimited power by advifmtr
the King to name another Constable or General'
of the army. She judged more proper to re-
Cerve to the disposition of the King and in her
own power, the whole authority of the command.
She therefore persuaded Charles, by many rea
sons, to place at the head of his army, the Duke
of Aujou his brother, a young I rince of great
hopes, but who was nor yet sixteen years ofa-re.
1 he army is reinforced byfuccouis Cent from
? landers by the King ofSpain, and from Piedmont
and many other places. The Duke of Anjou
follows the Hugonots, to give them battle before
their junction with the Germans. He overtakes
them near Chalons: But the misunderstandings
and other obltacles excited in his council, hinder
him from hazarding a battle. The Calvinifts
pais the Meufe and form a junction with the aux
iliary troops commanded by the Prince Caffimir.
1 hey return into Champaine. The Queen eoes
to the army to extinguifl, rhedivifions that reign
iheie. 1 hey take the resolution not to attack
Saturday. April 2, 1791.
the Hugonots, now become too formidable : but
to draw one the war, ii,to length ; marches off
the two armies, Satisfied with observing each
other's motions. This Fabian fyitem of the Ca
tholics disconcerts the Prince of Conde and the
Admiral, unprovided with money to support, for
any length of time, their army. In order to draw
the royal army to battle they form the siege of
Thames. The danger of that city gives occa
sion to new propositions of peace : Indeed a peace
is concluded and the two armies are separated ;
but the Hugonots did not surrender all the pla
ces they were matters of, nor did the King dis
charge his Swiss or Ifallian troops —which occa
sion new quarrels.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
A WRITER in your paper has expressed his
surprise that only in the state of Pennsylva
nia the law for eftablifliing the Bank of the Uni
ted States has been found fault with : It has yet
had hardly time to circulate in the others ;
and it is a measure of so much depth, and in its
confeqoeiices of fomuch greater magnitude than
appeais on the fuperficies, that it will require a
good deal of time for investigation, before its
merits can be justly appreciated. It did not
want however for respeCtable authorities opposed
to it at its birth, and it is believed their reason
ings are such as will bear the test of time.
Whether the opposition be numerous, or whether
the publications against it be those of a single indi
vidual, or of many, is of no importance to the
question • If the reasonings ate right, and ground
ed on solid principles, they will carry their own
weight with them—nor will theprogrefs of truth
be less certain because of its being flow or unat
tended.
If an attachment to the Bank of North-Ameri
ca, (now called it seems the Bank of this State,)
be a signal of opposition, then indeed the num
ber of opponents will be numerous—for that heart
inuft be dead to all the finer feelings of human
nature, that can at once forget the eminent ser
vices rendered by this Bank, not to the State on
ly, but to the United States—whofeprefervation
in a very critical moment may be greatly deduced
from it : This attachment is the natural charac
terillic of an enlightened American, who has
vvknefled the scenes of the late war, and thinks
it hard the Bank alone should fuffer, in a moment
when all other creditors for public services are
ac Jealt receiving two thirds of their dues.
The friends of the Bank of North-America are
also warm and zealous friends of the United
States ; they are among the moll ftedfaft fup
portersofits present excellent Conllitution of
government —they have no diffidence in the a
bundant resources of their country they contri
bute largely to its Imports, and have all'the zeal
any other citizens can have for the due support
of its power ; but they fee 110 reason for all this,
to relinquiili the solemn chartered rights thcvare
poflefled of, or to yield to any other Bank the
high privilege offerving their country, for which
they were so early and so fuccefsful candidates.
The people of Pennsylvania are too enlightened
to embark all in one bottom, or not to cherish
that power most, which is exclusively their own :
By being strong, the State is the more refpecfta
ble, and (he can riot be independent but by hav
ing her monied resources at her own command.
The public creditors are fafe in reposing 011
the faith of the Union for their payments : To
these no Bank is eflential, while the country has
justice to do what is right, and power to collecl
the necefl'iry funds : How far their interests are
concerned in the propofcd Bank can be easily
lievvn them ; it may become the grave of their
certificates, but can never give them more lifeJr
vigor than is implied in their present solid and
secure foundation—on the faith of the United States.
avarice
MR. Osterwald, a well known Banker, died
lately at Paris, literally of want—
—" A want, which many may think mad
" But numbers feci the want of what he had."
This man, originally of Neufchatel, felt the
violence of the disease of Avarice— for surely it
is rather a disease than a pajfion of the mind, so
urongly, that within a few days of his death, no
importunities could induce him to buy a few
pounds of meat f»r the purpose of making a lit
801
Uks o
[Whole No. 20i.J
tie soup for him—" Tis true," said he, "I
fliould not dislike the soup, but I have no appetite
(or the meat—what then is to become of that ?"
At the time that he refufed this nouriflnnent,for
fear of being obliged to give away two or three
pounds of meat, there was tied round his neck
a filkeu bag, which contained 800 Affignats of
1000 livres each. At his outset in life, he drank
a pintofbeer, which served him forfupper, every
night at a house much frequented, from which
he carried home all the bottle corks he could
come at. Of these, in the course of eight years,
he had collected as many as fold for twelve louis
d'ors, a sum that laid the foundation of his future
fortune—the fuperftru<flure of which was rapidly
raised by his uncommon fuccefsin stock-jobbing.
He died poffefled of three millions of livres,
12J,0001. fieri.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 7.
Tb; BANK BTLL undc r confidiration.
MR. GILES,
IN thecourfeofdifcuffingthe present important
question, jr has been fevera] rimes iniinuateci
that local motives, and not a Candid and patrio
tic in veftigation of the fubjetft upon its merits,
have given rile to that difference of opinion,
which has been heretofore manifefted in this
house. I shall not examine the truth of this ob
servation, but merely remark, that the causes
which may have produced the arguments against
the proposed mealure, whatever they be, can
neither add to, or take from, their merit and in
fluence—and of course the insinuations might
have been spared without injury to the fubjet'l ;
! but * ar as the observation may have been in
| tended to apply to myfelf, I can truly fay, that
j if a bias were to influence my conduct, it would
rather direct it to favor, than to oppose the pro
posed mealure : 1 his bias would arile from two
causes—the one from the refpeft which I enter
tain for the judgments of the majority who ad
vocate the mealure—the other of a more serious
nature : I have observed with regret a radical
difference of opinion between gentlemen from,
the ealtern and southern states, upon great go
vernmental questions, and have been led to con
clude, that the operation of that cause alone,
might call ominous conjecture on the promised
luccefs of this much valued government : Mutual
concefiiotis appear to be necessary to obviate this
effect ; and I have always been pleafcd in mani
felling my disposition to make advances ; but
from the mofl. careful view of the arguments in
favor of the proposed measure, considered under
this imprelfion, they do not seem to mefufficient
to efiablifh the propriety of its adoption—and I
am therefore impelled by the joint influence of
duty and opinion to be one in the opposition.
A gentleman from Maflachufetts, (Mr. Ames,)
prefaced his observations with this remark, that
it is easier to point out defers and raise objec
tions to any proposed fyftetn, than to defend it
from objections and prove its affirmative propri
ety, and warned the house against the effeCts of
arguments of this nature, urged in opposition to
the measure now under confederation. 1 agree
with the gentleman in this idea in generr.l, but
we should reflect, that in the present cafe, the
addrefsof the arguments in favor of the measure
is made to one of the strongest affections in the
human mind, (the love ofdominion,) and hence
we may justly conclude, that they will be recei
ved and relished with their full and unabated in
fluence—this reflection appears to me to be at
least a counterpoise to that remark.
T he advocates ofthisbil] have been called on,
and I conceive with propriety, to fliew its consti
tutionality and expediency, both of which have
been doubted by those of the opposition. In sup
port of thefirft position a multitude of argument*
have been adduced, all of which may be reduci
ble to the following heads : Such as are drawn
from the cotiftitution itfelf : From the inciden
talityof this authority to the mere creation andfcxiftence of government—from the expediency
of the measure itfelf—and from precedents of
Congress—to which may be added, a similar ex
ercile of authority by Congress, under the for
mer confederation.
Obfervatior.s arising from the constitution it*
felf were of two kinds : The right of exercising
this authority is either exprelfed in the constitu
tion, or deducible from it by necetfary implica
tion. One gentleman only, from Maflachufetts
(Mr. Sedgwick) has ventured to aflert, that dis
carding the doctrine of implication, he could
show that the right to exercise the authority con
tended for, was expressly contained in the con-
Ititution ; this I presume mufl have been a mis
take in language, becaufethe difference between
an express, and an implied authority appears to
liie to consist in this ; in the one cafe the natural
import of the words used in granting the author
ity, would of themfelves,convey a compleat idea
to the mind, of the authority granted, without the
aid of argument or dedu&ion ; in the other, to
convey a compleat idea to the mind, the aid of
argument and deduc r tion, is found neceflary to
the usual import of the words used ; and that
gentleman proceeded with a laboured argument
to prove that the authority was expressly granted,
which would have been totally useless if his as
sertion had been just.
(Mr, Sedgwick rose to explain—he never con
ceived the authority granted by the express words
of the constitution, but absolutely by necellary
implication from different parts of it.)
I lhall not contend as to the affertioii; but shall
proceed toconlider the arguments in favor of the
measure upon the dodrine of implication—which
indeed are those only which deserve considera
tion.
]n doing this, Ifhall consider the authority con
tended for, to apply to that of granting charters
of incorporation in general ; for I do not recoi
led: any circumstance, and I believe none has
been pretended, which could vary this cafe from
the general exercise of that authority. To es
tablish the affirmative of this proposition, argu
ments have been drawn fromfeveral parts of the
constitution—the context has been resorted to.
[IVe, the people oj the United States, in order to jorm
a more perfect union, ejiablifh jujlice, injure domeflic
tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote
the general welfare, and secure the blefings of liberty
to ourselves and our pojlerity, ire.] It has been re
marked, that here the ends for which this govern
ment was created are clearly pointed out—the
means to produce the ends are left to the choice of
the legislature, and that the incorporation of a
bank is oneneceflary mean to producethefe gene
ral ends. It may be observed in reply,that the con
text contemplates every general objeifl of go
vernment whatever; and if this reasoning were
to be conclusive, every objed of government
■would be within the authority of Congress, and
the detail of the constitution would have been
■wholly unneceflary farther than to defig.natethe
several branches of thegovernment, which were
to be intrusted with this unlimited, discretion
ary choice of means to produce these fpecified
ends : The fame reasoning would apply as forci
bly to every clause in the constitution, restrain
ing the authority of Congress as to the present
cafe, or to any other one in which the constitu
tion is silent. The only candid conftrudion ari
sing from the context appears to me to be this,
it is designed, and it is the known office of every
member to point out the great obje<fts proposed
to be answered by the subsequent regulations of
which the constitution is composed. These re
gulations contain the means by which these ob
jeds are presumed to be belt answered : These
means consist in a proper diftribuiion of all go
vernmental rights between the government of
the United States and the several state govern
ments, and in fixing limits to the exercise of all
authorities granted to the government of the
United States ; the context therefore gives no
authority whatever, but only contemplates the
ends for which certain authorities are subse
quently given. Argumentsdrawn from this source
appear to me to be ineffedual in themselves,
and the reliance of gentlemen upon them, indi
cates a suspicion and distrust of such as may be
drawn from other parts of the constitution.—The
advocates of the bill have'turned away from this
context, and have applied to the body of the
conftitutioli in search of arguments : They have
fixed upon the following clauses, to all or some
one of which they alTert the authority contended
for is.clearly incidental—the right to lay and
coiled taxes, &c. &c.—to provide for the common
defenceandgeneral welfare, &c.—to borrow mo
ney, &c.—to regulate con>merce with foreign na
tions, &c, Thebill contemplates neither the lay
ing or colleding raxes, and of course it cannot
be included in that clause ; indeed it is not pre
tended by the bill itfelf, to be at all neceflaryto
produce either of those ends—the fartheft the
idea is carried in the bill is, that it will tend to
give a facility to the ccllellion. The terms, (common
tlefence and general wrljare) contain no grant of
any fpecific authority, and car. relate to such on
ly as ,are particularly enumerated and lpecified.
7o borrow money,—gentlemen have relied much
upon tills clause, tlieir reasoning is, that a right
to incorporate a bank isincidental to that of bor
rowing money, because it creates the ability to
lend, which is necellary to effectuate the right
to borrow. lamat a loss to discover one single
relation between the right to borrow, and the right
to create the ability to tend, which is neceflary to
exilt between principal and incident: It appears
to me that the incidental authority is paramount
to the principal,for the right of creating the abi
lity to lend is greater than that of borrowing
from a previoully exilting ability ; I (hould there
fore rather conclude that the right to borrow, if
there be a connection at all, would be incidental
to the right, to grant charters of incorporation,
than the reverse of that proposition, which is
the doctrine contended for by the advocates of
the tneafure ; the fame reasoning which would
eftablilh a right to create the ability to lend,
gvould apply more strongly to enforce the will
after the ability be created, because the creator
would have a claim of gratitude at least upon the
created ability, which it withheld, perhaps with
justice might be infilled on. To regulate commerce
with foreign nations : This is by no means a fa
tisfacftory ground for the aflumption of this au
thority, for if it be deemed a commercial regula
tion, there is a clause in the constitution which
would absolutely inhibit its exercise : lallude to
that clause which provides that no preference
fball be given by any regulation of commerce or re
venue to the ports of one State over those of
another ; and it seems to be admitted that one
principal effect to be produced by the operation
of this measure, will be to give a decided com
mercial preference to this port over every other
in the United States.
Gentlemen finding it difficult to fliow that ne
ceflkry relation and intimate connexion between
the authority contended for, and any one of the
fpecified authorities before mentioned, which
would be essential to the eftablilhment of their
do<flrine,ha ve referred to what has been generally
called the fweepiug clause, and have made de
ductions from the terms necejfary and proper ;
they have observed, that certain fpecified au
thorities being granted, all others neceflary to
their execution follow without any particular
fpecification. This observation may in general
be true, but its fallacy here conflfls in its appli
cation to this particular cafe. It cannot be ap
pli ed until the exercise of this authority be pro
ved to be necessarily connected with some one of
the previously enumerated authorities—and here
the argument as well as the fadt fails : The au
thority contended for seems to me to be a dis
tinct substantive branch of legislation, and per
haps paramount to any one of the previouflv
enumerated authorities, and should therefore not
be usurped as an incidental subaltern authority.
I am confirmed in thisopiuion, from the indif
tindl confufed conceptions of gentlemen who ad
vocate themeafure ; they rely upon the incident
ally of this authority to some one of those par
ticularly fpecified, and yet have applied it as an
incident to several diftind, unconnected fubjecfts
of legislation ; and then diftruiting their own
conclulions, or as if the inquiry would be too
troublefoine or minute, they leave this ground,
and aflert that it is incidental to the result of the
whole combined fpecified authorities : Gentle
men mult therefore view this right through dif
ferent optics at different times—or what I rather
believe to be the fad:, they have no diitinct view
of it at all, the right having no exiftenee.
(To Ii continued.)
LONDON, Feb. 9
THE Duke of Portland, Mr. Fox, Lord Stor
niont, Mr. Burke, joined to the leading men
of the present ministry, would render opposition
so trifling, that danger might result to the coun
try. The best of administrations ought to be well
watched.
The Indians have an idea that Monkies are a
species of men, and fliould be made to work.
The experiment haslongbeen tried in this coun
try without any effect !
A lady paraded the streets on Sunday in a white
muslin cloak of a new form. It was made exact
ly in the form of a surplice, and from appearan
ces, moll people who saw the lady, were inclined
to think flie would take orders, and had every
qualification for going through the service !
The fpeciesof beet, which was philanthropical
ly puffed by the name of the Root of Scarcity, is
now discovered to be good for so little, thatapeck
of potatoes are worth ten acres of it.
The Six Cherokee Chiefs still remain in town,
but are now quiteoutof falhion !
The following articles were stolen last month
from a French lady of quality at Marli.
A ring, white brilliants, weight 35 grains.
Ditto brilliant, jo grains.
A rofe,of"s2B brilliants, the center-jewel weigh
ing near 24 grains.
Kuckles, compof'ed of 84 brilliants, weight 77
carats.
Girandoles, brilliants, value 120,000 livres.
802
A chain, containing 200 pearls.
Pictures of Louis XlVth, and XVih, richly
mounted, &c. &c.
The whole perhaps the most superb private
cabinet in Europe.
The fictions of law are now out-done by more
fafhionable fictions. A man who has cut his
throat dies by the visitation of God—and another
who hanged liimfelf, expired after a fliort illness.
The Municipality of Paris have publilhed a
proclamation against the sale of indecent books
and pictures—Something of this kind is very
much wanted in London, where the evil is grown
to a moit atrocious height.
The advice of Mr. Fox to take no farther no
tice of Home Tooke's petition is founded on
wisdom, and we may add experience. Had Mr.
Wilke's writings been served so, he would not
at this time have been Chamberlain of London
or even one of its aldermen. The populaceknow
no difference between a just prosecution, and a
cruel prosecution, and take part with the suppo
sed fufferer whether right or wrong.
The king of France seems now perfectly re
conciled to the revolution, and when this, after
a long state of probation, is confirmed, the as
sembly, it is said, mean to extend the preroga
tive in some refpecfis.
Powderham-Caftlt, February
Yesterday evening a molt alarming accident
occurred at this venerable feat, which had very
nearly proved fatal. As the Hon. Miss Courte
nay was standing near the drawing-room fire in
earnest conversation with another lady, her
cloaths unfortunately caught the blaze, and (he
was almost instantly inveloped in flames. Lord
Courtenay, who was happily in the room, with
wonderful presence of mind, threw his terrified
relative down, and instantly rolled the carpet
round her, and with the timely assistance of the
company, soon extinguilhed the flames. Miss
Courtenay is however dreadfully burnt in the
face, neck and arms. His Lordlhip's hands and
face are likewise much injured.
It is but two years ago that a beloved filter of
his Lordlhip's was burnt to death in London, by
her clothes taking fire, whilftfhe was dreflingto
go to St. James's on her Majesty's Birth-Day.
Feb. ii. Letters from Madrid of the Bth of
January, mention that the spirit of reformation
has spread so generally through Spain, that the
government are taking every precaution to pre
vent its dreaded consequences : several people
have been banished for speaking and writing toa
freely.
Feb. 12. Some dispatches of the last importance
were received yesterday from France, which
were communicated to his Majesty at the Levee.
The fubltance of these dispatches werelaft night,
reported to be, that the Duke of Orleans had
been discovered in Paris to ad: a part which was
thought inimical to the new government, and
that the populace had, in resentment, put him
to an ignominious death. Letters were received
in town yesterday, by the way of Dieppe, which
are also laid to contain this melancholy intelli
gence. It will give us real pleasure to be able
to contradi«fi this tale, andcompofe the minds of
this illustrious personage's friends in London.
The holy inquisition of Rome, being unable
to substantiate any irreligious charges against
poor Caglioftro, have turned him over to the ci
vil power on an accusation of high treason ; tho'
it is generally believed that the charge is brought
only to harrafs him, and as an excufe.for shut
ting him up in a most horrid dungeon.
Last night Capt. Bowles, chief of the embafly
of the Creeks and Cherokee Indians, was initi"
ated into the mysteries of Free Masonry.
FRANCE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Jan. 27.
The King's JVLjfage to the Emperor of Germany.
A LETTER, bearing the name of Leopold, to
the King of France, on the fubjecfl of the claims
which the Princes and different members of the
German empire make to their pofl'effions in Al
sace, having been printed in the public papers
foine days ago, with many corruptions of the
text, the King sent a translation of the original
which is in latin, to the National AfTembly. This
communication was accompanied with a declara
tion from his Majesty, that he looked upon this
letter from Leopold, in no other light, than as an
official measure, as Emperor of Germany, and
that it was preceded and followed by the most
fatisfadlory afl'urance of pacific intentions. And
he takes the fame opportunity of profeffing that
such seems to be the dispositions of all the other
principal courts of Europe.
Immediately after the reading of this letter, a
decree pafled on the motion of the military com
mittee, for augmenting the fifty thousand fufees,
ordered by a decree of the 18th of December, to
be distributed among the National Guards, of the
kingdom to ninety-eight thousand. Of these
fufees, the officers of the departments, diftri&s,
and municipalities, are to be the guardians ; th«
names of the citizens to whom they are entrusted,
are to be registered ; and, whoever is couvitSea
of felling his fufee, is to be rendered incapable
of bearing arms for three years.As Toon as thisdefenfive decree had pafled, M.
Mirabeau, and M. Alexander Lameth, produced
two plans of Decrees, the objeifl of which were,
torepref'ent the apparent dispositions of the pow
ers of Europe towards France, and the measures
to be taken for the fecuriry of the frontier,
To press the King to organize the army imme
diately, and fill up the regiments. For this lat
ter purpose, orders are given, that a hundred
thousand recruits fball be levied in the following
manner : The recruits which are to be levied in
the different departments of free citizens, are to
be enlisted for three years only, and to receive
three iols per day, under the condition of hold
ingthemfelves in readiness tojoin their regiments
when called upon, when they lhall receive the
fame pay as the regulars, and be furnifhed with
fifty livres for their equipment.
By this means the AUembly proposes, by a mo
derate expence, to provide for the defence of
the kingdom, in cafe of any attempts from a
neighbouring power, in conjunction with the in
numerable malcontents.
The King is also desired to com pleat the thir
ty regiments of infantry, and twenty regiments
ofhorfe, destined for the departments of the
Lower and Upper P«.hine, the Ardennes, the High
Soan, Mount Jura, the Var, and the Higher and
Lower Alps.
FORT-WILLIAM, (E. 1.) Aug. 14.
The war goes on with vigor and success. Tip
poo has retreated within the pafl'es, and left the
whole of the Coimbetour and Dingigut country
at our mercy.
PONDICHERRY
Letters received in Paris, mention with much
confidence, that general Meadowshas been com
pleatly defeated by the forces of Tippoo Saib,
commanded by that Prince in person They
state particularly, that the detachment of colo
nel Floyd was entirely cut to pieces. General
Meadows, it is said, quitted his heavy artillery,
endeavoring to join and lave the colonel's de
tachment. The cavalry of the tyrant Tippoo,
however,, harrafled the British forces so pertina
ciously, that at length, notwithstanding the ut
xnoft efforts of the commanders, a complete rout
ensued.
The forces of Tippoo are said to have been
entirely under the disposal of French officers, to
wliofe military (kill and condu(ft the victory is
principally attributable.
The above is given but as a report. We can
not pledge ourselves for the perfecft truth of it,
as the channel by which it comes makes it to us
liable to some doubt.
further advices by the Ship Hope, arrived at New-York y in fix weeks
from London.
The charter of the Dutch East-India company having expired,
it is expc&cd that if renewed, it will be on a different footing
from the old one.
TheEmprcfsof Ruifia desirous of attaching to her interest a
■warlike ally, has made the most tempting offers to the King of
Sweden.
Alarming commotions have recently taken place in Paris, but
were suppressed by the interposition of the Mayor.
The Right Honorable Alleyne Fitz Herbert, AmbafTador to the
King of Spain, is created a Baron of the Kingdom of Ireland, by
the title of Baron of St. Helens.
Accounts from France state that the English forces have been
checked in their operations by Tippoo Saib. General Meadows,
an experienced officer, commands the army, ordered against that
Prince.
Other accounts fay that the English have gained great advanta
ges over Tippoo. Time alone will ascertain the truth.
Great-Britain insists on mediating between the Empress of Rus
sia and the Porte ; but the terms do not appear to be palatable to
the former ; in consequence of this the English are equipping a
fleet to be sent to the Baltic ; the old idea of the balance of pow
er will probably interest Great-Britain to give effe&ual aid to the
Turks.
The Emperor of Germany, notwithstanding the interposition
of Prussia, to the contrary, is proceeding in the restoration of the
Prince Bishop of Liege and the affairs of that principality to their
former situation.
The malcontents in Paris appear to enjoy the most unbounded
licence in printing and publiftiing their opinions—they write and
ipeak what they please ; the press is open to all parties.
The great storm in December was felt on the continent as well
as in England, a vessel called the Amphitrite was wrecked on the
•oaftof France—and out of 108 persons 3 only escaped.
The revolution of Fiance is daily producing the most benefi
cial confequcnces in meliorating the condition of other countries •
fomeoppofition being made to an increase of the taxes in Spain by
the Bishop of Orenfe, who addressed the King in a firm but ref
peftful manner on the fubjeft, the augmentation ot the taxes in
Gallicia was abandoned.
The Ruflian fleet arrived before Warna on the black, sea, the
*4th December, and immediately began to bombard the fame
should the Ruflians succeed in their enterprize, they may attempt
the surprize of Conilantinople with a probability ol success.
The Turkifti garrison of Ifmail consisted of 18000 men the
Ruflian army of 28000—the latter loft 2000 men, and had a great
number wounded—the prisoners taken amounted to 5000 —the
remainder of the garrison periftied : The aflault commenced at
5 o'clock in the morning, and the place was carried by the Ruf
iians about one in the afternoon ; other fucceflcs have attended
the arms of Ruflia, the particulars of which are not publiflied
Great confufion and tumult arc laid to prevail in Conflantino
ple, occasioned by a great scarcity of proviflons.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) March 16.
As the wealth and prosperity of individuals
eonftitute the riches of the whole, afford
pleasure to every genei ous mind to be informed,
that one of onr own citizens has lately recovered
in England a debt of t-wenty thou/and dollars,
which, from (he supposed insolvency of the deb
tor, had for many years been deemed desperate.
A correspondent authorises us to aflure the
public, that notwithstanding suggestions to the
contrary, Col. Langdon, in his last letters, po
iitively declines being considered as a candidate
for either of the offices of President, Senator, or
Representative.
BOSTON,
The Maflaehufetts semi-annual State Lottery
(of which not one ticket was returned into the
State Treasury) commenced drawing on Thurs
day lad (17th March) at four o'clock, P. M. the
time afiigned.—The following are among the
prizes drawn :
No. 500 dollars. No. 22229, 1000
dollars. No. 129)8, 500d0. No. 1565, 1000
dollars.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
TO B I R TH A.
POOR, and unknown, a stranger to the great,
While now, withiioly veneration deep infpir'd,
To Him, whose virtue glads the extendingjlate,
Wak'd by the voice of Truth, my foul to song is fir'd.
And now, while Friendship, trembling o'er the firings,
Breathes on the lyre unutterable things,
And steals its ancient, and negltfted store :
Hark ! o'er the wild-resounding air,
What muJic floats, in varied numbers near,
And winds, in wildering echoes, down the daftiing (bore !
Again, in full, deep founds, it loads the swelling gale;
And now, it foftly undulates the breeze ;
And now, a fmall,Jlill voice, the notes my foul aflaiJ,
With calm delight responsive; now they seize,
In bolder swellings, on the impaflion'd mind,
That feels itr different powers refin'd,
As now, with many a flowly-folcmn pause, they faiL
O Thou, whose fingers from the answering lyre
Draw founds so flattering to the Youth of Song,
Deep from my foul the grateful sighs aspire,
That hail the enjoyment which they would prolong.
Life hath trifling joys to give;
Not in Lift doth pleasure live ;
Tomb of pleasure, tomb of joy,
Ever anxious to deitroy :
Shrouding in thy narrow space
Every virtue, every grace.
Tyrant! soon thy reign is o'er,
Radiant glory bursts thy door.
Love, who all thy power defies,
Rising, mingles with the skies.
Now, even now, I scorn thy wrath—
Glory brightens round my path.
Now thy yawning gates unfold,
While the powerful charm is told.
See, my foul, in fancy rife—
BIRTHA, seraph, opes the skies.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
DISINTERESTEDNESS.
THE floods that deluge all tht plain,
Enrich the hills with loads of grain ;
While funs that parch the rijing Joil,
But make the fertile vallies smile.
My farm, this blooming meadow fills,
And drinks the rains from yonder hills-
Still, O ye gods, in fhow'rs bestow
Just rain enough to make it grow.
But neighbors balance such kind wishes;
Your farm may be a pond for fifties—
Provided the propitious skies,
With copious (hour's, yon hill supplies.
Thus fares it with the Banking scheme
(Perhaps 'tis but the author's whim)
Protest the Interest of a State,
And leave the UNION to its fate.
Philadelphia, April 2.
His Excellency the Governor of this Commonwealth has ilTued
a PROCLAMATION, offering a reward of one thousand dollars
to any person or persons, who ihall apprehend and secure, so that
they may be brought to juflice, the men, or any of them, who
were guilty of murdering three men and one woman, belonging
to a party of friendly Indians, at a Block-House on the Weft fide
of Beaver Creek, in the county of Alleghany, the gth inft.
It is a Angular circumstance that none of the
oppofers of the Bank of the United States, either
in Congrefe or out of it, ever have attempted to
refute the arguments of the Secretary of the
Treasury in his report on which the system is
founded.
We are requested to contradict an account
published in some of the papers, of the Death of
General Glover—that gentleman being alive.
A letter from Fort-Pitt of 21 ft March, mentions
that the Indians have recently murdered sundry
persons within a Ihort distance ofthat place.
On Saturday the 26th inflr. was launched from
the {hip-yard of Mr. Ebenezer Young, New-York,
the Revenue Cutter Vigilant. '
The report of the death of M. D'Orleans by
the populace of Paris, appears to be a story from
the fame budget that produced the pretended
flight of M. de la Fayette—and is therefore very
improbable.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 16/io. 17/2. pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 8/ioJ gif.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/10 of
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates 1 g/q
Indents
N. and S. Carolina debts, w/a isf.
803
March 21.
ODE.
ELLA,
88 pr. cent.
45 <io.
45 do-
*
78} " do.
44 do.
Anticipation realized.
The public Creditors of the United States are
now receiving the firft dividend of the Interest
due on their Certificates.
MASSACHUSETTSSEM
State of the Wheel
Prizes drawn.
2 of
2 of
6 of
13 of
ir of
io of
17 of
21 of
27 of
1184 of
1000
joo
200
100
50
40
30
20
10
8
Princeton, March 28, 1791.
LAST Sunday evening died, after a ftiort illness,, Miss Maria
Lefferty, daughter of Mrs. Lefferty, of this place, in the 12th
year of her age. The sudden death of this truly amiable young
lady should excite serious thoughts in all, particularly her young
acquaintance, as, a few days before her death, flie was in perfect
health. Her loss is sincerely regretted, as Hie bid fair to be a bles
sing to her affe&ionate mother, and to all her connexions.
Death blajls our fondejl hopes—beneath the files
IVe build in airy phantomJlies!
JJ native charms, to heav'nly worth allied,
Could ward the Jlroke, Maria had not died.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Sussex, Pitt, Lilbon, 42 days.
Brig Sally, Hathaway, St. Lucia, 21 days.
Sloop Phoenix, Conrles, Snow-Hill, (M.)
Ship Levant, Gillis, Liverpool, 40 days.
The Philadelphia and Dublin Packet, Capt. Geddes, was drove
out of Dublin bay, and on the 17th of January was wrecked o2
St. Bee's-Head—all hands, and part of her cargo, saved.
Ship Barclay, Happy Retu in , and the Ann, all from this port
to Londonderry, are loft in Loughfoyl, near Londonderry—hands
saved.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms:
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at auction, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all fumi
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent. ; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer."
(f3r Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubfiribers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punduality, fidelity and difiatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connexions 111 the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57 , King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
Tejlerday -was PubUJhed,
The American Museum,
OR, UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
For MARCH, 1791.
This day is failijhed, for the Proprietors,
BY WILLIAM YOUNG, BookseTLLER,
No. 52, Second-Street, the corner of Chefnut-Street,
The Universal Asylum,
AND COLUMBIAN MAGAZINE
For MARCH, 1791.
By a SOCIETY of GENTLEMEN.
*** Contents in our next.
f£T Wanted, to complete sets, a few Copies of the Colum
bi an Magazine, for January, 17 88, for which five {hillings each
will be given. 6
Treasury Department, March 30, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the INTEREST for the Quar
ter ending the 3 ift instant, on all that part of the Debt of
the United States which flands on the books of the Tieafury will
be paid on demand after that day, at the Bank of North-America.
All perlons concerned are requested to apply there accordingly
TT7HEREAS HENRY WEBB, put out appren
* * tice by the Greenwich School for the sea fervicc, in or
about the year 1776, who was then of the age of 14 fears, o, there
l, Ut L S, » an m En g' and ln that year to some part of
? rt u"r a ?T Ca ' ° r vefTel called the ArtemiL, and
which said (hip or veflcl was at that time a Navy Viitualler, Capt
Leuellyn, and which (hip or vefTel was also a Spanilh Trader, and
afterwards became such Transport in his Britannic Maiefly's ser
vice as aforefaid ; and whereas the said Henry Webb deferred and
ran away from the said (hip or vefTel, and entered on board a cer
tain privateer or vefTel called the Revenge, or Vengeance Privateer,
of whichl one John Deane was then matter or commander, then
lying at New-York in America ; and the said Vengeance Privateer,
on or about the ,sth day of November, l 779, failed from A'ezu
" afoiefaid to Savannah, and arrived at such lad mentioned
place on or about the month of March or the month of April fol
lowing, to some port or place in America, but to what port or
place is not known; and in the month of May, 1780, was seen at
Barbadoes in the Weft-Indies: but the said Henry Webb hath not
lince been heard of, and is supposed to be dead, it having been
reported that the tender belonging to the said (hip or vetTcl called
the Vengeance,with a number ot her men, to the amount of 20, or
thereabouts, and among whom the fa:d IJcnry Webb it is supposed
was one, were taken by an American veflel and carried into Phi
ladelphia. If any person or persons will give any information of
the laid Henry Webb, or of the time and place of his death, to Sa
ml cl Nay lor, Esq. No. 4, Great Newport-street, near
Acre, Londcn, or to the Rev. Mr. John St a n ford, No. 33,John
ftreet, Nexv-York, they (hall be handsomely rewarded for their
trouble. (j)7iaw3w)
I-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
Wednesday, 23d ult.
In the Wheel.
1 of 10000
2 of 3000
I 3 2000
J V*
4 of 1000
8 of 500
24 of 200
67 of 100
79 of 50
90 of 40
103 of 30
140 of 20
173 of 10
6401 of 8m
rs
*■
TS
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT to continue in force for a limited time,
an A<sintituled, " An A*f\ for the temporary
establishment of the Poft-Ofßce.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflembled, That the
a&pafled the firft feflion of Congress, intituled, " An ast for the
temporary eilablifhment of the poft-office," be, and the fame is
hereby continued in full force until the end of the next fcflion of
Congress, and no longer.
And be it further enabled, That al! letters to and from the trea
surer, comptroller and auditor of the treasury, and the afliftant to
the secretary of the treasury, on public service, (hall be received
and conveyed by the port, free of postage.
And be it further enacted, That the postmaster-general {hall be,
and he is hereby authorized to extrnd the carrying of the mail
from Albany, in the state of New-York, to Bennington, in the
state of Vermont.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfcof Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and Prefdent of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1-91
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT making farther Provision for the Col
lection of the Duties by law imposed on Teas,
and to prolong the Term for the Payment of
the Duties on Wines.
WHEREAS it is conceived that the following regulations
concerning leas may be conducive both to the accommo
dation of the importers thereof, and to the security of thereventie :
Be it enacted bv the Senate and Houfeof Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress afiembled, That in addi
tion to the provisions contained in the fourth and forty-iirft sec
tions of the ast, entitled, " An ast to provide more effcdtually
for the collection of duties imposed by law on goods, wares and
merchandize imported into the United States, and on the tonnage
of ships or veflels," as they regard the payment, or securing the
payment of the duties on teas, it shall be lawful for every im
porter of teas, if he or she shall elect so to do, to givehisorher
bond to the colleGor of the diftrift in which any of the said teas
shall be landed, in double the amount of the duties thereupon,
•with condition for the payment of the said duties in two yeats
from the date of such bond ; which bond (hall be accepted by
such collector, without surety, upon the terms following : that
is to fay : The teas, for the duties whereof the said bond (hall be
accepted, shall be deposited at the expence and risk ot the said
importer, in one or more storehouse or ftorchoufcs, as the cafe
may require, to be agreed upon between the said importer and
the infpeftor. or other officer of infpeftio.i of the revenue, for
the port where the said teas (hall be landed ; and upon every
such storehouse, the said infptfftOr or officer of infpeftion shall
cause to be affixed two locks, the key of one of which locks shall
be kept bv such importer, his or her agent, and the key of the
other of which locks (hall be kept by the said infpeftor, or by
such other peifon as he (hall depute and appoint in that behalf ;
whose dutv it (hall be to attend at all reasonable times for the
purpose of delivering the said teas out of the said storehouse or
itorehoufes. But no delivery (hall be m-ade of any of the said
teas without a permit in writing, under the hand of the said in
fpeftor or officer of infpeftion. And in order to the obtaining of
such permit, it shall be neceflarv that the duties upon the teas,
for which the fame shall be required, be firft paid, or, at the op
tion of the party or parties applying for the fame, secured to be
paid in manner following ; that is to fay : The said party or par
ties (hall give bond with one or more surety or (ureties to the fa
tisfaftion of the said infpeftor, in double the amount of the du
ties upon the quantity of teas in each cafe to be delivered, with
condition for the payment of the said duties, if the fame (hall
not exceed one hundred dollars in four months ; or, if the fame
shall exceed one hundred dollars, and fnall not exceed five hun
dred dollars, in eight months ; or, if the fame shall exceed five
hundred dollars, in twelve months : Provided always, That the
time be allowed for the payment of the payment of the duties
upon any parcel of teas to be delivered, (ball not be such as to
extend the credit for such duties beyond the term of two years
oiiginally allowed upon the depofitingof the said teas.
And be it further enacted,. That if the duties on any parcel of
teas, which (hall have been deposited asaforefaid, shall not have
been paid or secured to be paid in manner last fpecified, within
the term of two years, according to the condition of the obliga
tion to be given to the collector of the diftrift, within which the
fame (hall have been landed, it (hall be the duty of the fatd col
lector to cause so much of the said teas, as may be necefTary, to be
fold at public auction, and retaining the film which shall not have
been so paid or fccured of the said duties, together with the ex
penses of fafe keeping and sale of the said teas, (hall return the
Overplus, if any, to the owner or owners thereof, his her or their
agent or lawful representatives.
And be it further ena&ed, That the bonds, which have been
or shall be diretted to be given, by this or any other a£l, for mo
nies or duties to be paid or performed to the United States, (ball
be taken in the name of the United States of America ; nnlefs spe
cial direction shall have been given to take them in feme other
name. And the bonds to be taken as aforefaid, by any infpe&or
of the revenue, shall be delivered by him forthwith to the collec
tor of the difirift within which the teas, to which they may relate
shall have been landed, in order to the collection of the monies
therein fpecificd. And the permits which fhallhave been granted
by such rafpeftor, for the delivery of anv teas, out of any store
house wherein they shall have been deposited, (ball be received by
such 'collector towards fatisfying any bond, which shall have been
in the firft infiance, taken by the said colle&or, touching the laid
teas ; which permits shall therefore fpecify the amount of the du
ties which shall have been paid or secured upon the teas to be de
livered in virtue thereof ; and the name of the ship or veflel in
which they shall have been imported, and of the importer or im
porters thereof.
And be it further ena&ed. That all teas, which after the firft
day of April next, shall be imported into the United States from
anv foreign port or place, fhail be landed under the care of the
infpc&ors of the revenue for the ports where the fame shall be ref
pe&ivcly landed : and for that purpose every permit which shall
®e granted by any colk&or, for landing the fame, shall, prior to
such landing, be produced to the said infp?£lor, who by an en
dorsement thereupon under his hand, (ball fignity the production
thereof to him, and the time when; after which, and not other
wise, it shall be lawful to land the teas mentioned in such permit.
And the said infpe&or shall make an entry of all such permits,
and of the contents thereof : and each chest, box or package con
taining any teas, shall be marked by the officer under whole im
mediate infpe£hpn the fame lhall be landed, in legible and dura
ble characters, with progreflive numbers, and with thj name o
the vessel in which the fame (ball have been imported. And the
said officer (hall grant a certificate for each fuchcheft, box or pack
age, fpecifying therein the name or names ot the importer or im
porters, the- ship or veflfel in which the fame shall have been im
ported, and the number thereof to accompany the fame whereso
ever it shall be sent.
And whereas, for the payment of the duties accruing on Ma
deira wines, and whieh may be fecuved by bond, the term ot
twelve months is allowed ; and it is proper to extend, in like
manner, the payment of the duties accruing on other wine?;
Therefore. Be it ena&cd, Thfet for the payment of the duties
on other than Madeira wines, and which shall be secured by bond,
such bond shall be taken with condition for the payment ot the
duties in twelve months, in like manner as by law is dire£ted lor
the payment of the duties on Madeira wines.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker ojthe lioufe ojßeprejcntatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejidentofthe United States
and Prcjident of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Piejident t>Jthe United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66.
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Jufl published, and to be fold by the Editor,
A TOUR in HOLLAND.
By an AMERICAN.
SEVERAL Gentlemen of literary taler.ts have perilled the ma
nuscript of this work—among others, the justly celebrated author
of M'Fi ngal ; who, after reading it, made the following obser
vations, in a letter to the author, viz. " I cannot return your Jour
nal, without exprefling my obligations to yon for the pleasure I
have received in its perusal, nor without hinting my wishes that
you would consent to its publication. We have in gnglilh, no
good account of the customs, manners, &c, of the United Provin
ces. Travellers have exhausted themselves in descriptions of France
and Italy ; but the tour to those countries only has been falhion
able. Notwithstanding onr Connexion with Holland, the people
of this country know little more of it than of Ouheite. Thiscii
cumftance will rendei your Journal both novel and ufeful.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already publifhcd y
Written by Mathew Carey.
CONDITIONS.
I. r I ''HE Work (hall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
X fined writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to subscribers tzco thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The wotU shall be put to the press as soon as 250 copies
are subscribed for.
IV. The subscribers names shall be prefixed
gdTSUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart,
and Co. and all the other Booksellers in Philadelphia ; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout the United States, who supply sub
scribers with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1791.
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
firm of
Joseph Anthony and Son,
They have for Sale, at tkeir Stores, (lately improved by Hewes
and Anthony,) North fide Chefnut-Street Wharf,
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
Molafles,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica 8c Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
Gaflia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tannei's Oil,
Best pick'd Mackarel,
FOR SALE,
In the City of New-Brunfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
•*- new, pleasantly fituflted on the banks of the Rantan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said Houfc is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have pofleffion the firfl
day of May next, and know the price and terms ot payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis For man, in said city, or
the fubferiber in Borden Town, ]. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not lold, to be rented from ill day of May next.
ADVERTISEMENT
APAM PHLET,containing some remarks on the firfl volume of
the " Defenceof the AmericanConftitutions," written by the
Vice-President of the United States, has been circulated in France,
as a produ&ion of the late Governor Livingston. Any per
son who will furnifh the Editoi hereof with a copy of said pam
phlet, (hall be paid a double price for the fame.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Race-Strcet, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slates, or of any
particular State,
804
In 1784,
l TE^<
& Bohea ) < J uallt >''
Boston Sail Duck,
N°r 2> 3» 4, and 7,
6 by 8 Window Glass,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Philadel. March 18. fe.o. , ? w.]
This machinery, with the original mechanism on which it i$
grafted,being of the utmost value to the United States, the fubfcn
bcr hereby offers to make and ere£t a complete mill or mills, in
cluding both the original works, and his above improvements
thereon, for any individual or company, on terms to be by them
agreed on ; and to conduct the Manufactory cither for a fhaieof
the profits, or stipulated wages. GEORciE PARKINSON,
Philad. No. 65, Chejnut-Street, March 17, 1791. [93 6f.]
Treasury Department.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Treasury, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use ot the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the (late of Pcnn
fylvania and Foi t Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Foft Pitt and Fort M'lntofli,.
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkinguoi.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Sciota River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
(96 tf)
At anv place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto R'ver, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or place*, betwixt the m#uth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any pJace or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth
oh the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vincennes,
at Port St. Vincennes, and thence up th« laid river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At anv place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh rivexto
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of theOh-io river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any palace or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village,
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufltyp
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the month of Cayoga river.
At any place or places,betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, andat
Venango.
At any place or places T betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at'
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the MilTifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said l iver Margot, to the ri"er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from- the mouth «f the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or within other
diftridts, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame t<*
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or f of a pound of perk,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, {
rp 1 , r ,■■ 0 > per. 100 rations.
Iwo pounds or loap, ( r
One pound of candles, ;
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fir ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
fiom the fiift day of january to Uie thirty-firft dav of December,
179 a, both davs inclusive. at Springfield, in the flare of Maflac.hu
fetts, and the Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri£ls herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at prefcnt commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Cap!*
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot tlw>
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future port?.
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities as that there
(hall at all times, during the said terra, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said potts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the lame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofts sustained bv the
depredations of the enem), or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or del
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable charaders,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumflances of the loss, and the amount of the articles tor whicH
compensation is claimed
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of the above ports to
gether, or icparately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown t
and the fcventcen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia ;
and they mud fpecify the lowest price per ration, lor prompt pay
ment.
IQ" f evj copies of the CONSTITU TION oj th
United States, printed with Notes, may bs had of tht
Edittr,
/
March 2?., 1791