PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS MY 70MM ffmmh \v urr u i-m i~,-,
' - No " 6 9> HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOMJJ AND JHIRI) STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 98, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila No. 29.
f Continued.)
THE Court, feeing than theHugonots did not
execute the conditions under which they
had been proinifed an oblivion of the past, at
tempts to take off the Piinceof Conde and the
Admiral, who had retired Well accompanied, to
Noyers in Burgundy. They are advertised of
their danger and escape to Rochell, Yeallemble
their forces, and make themselves masters of
Saintonge, Poitou andTourdine. The King or
ders the Duke of Atijou to inarch against them.
The two armies meet at Janfeneuil, without en
gaging : they meet again at Loudun ; the rigor
of the season preventff a battle. The excetfive
cold obliges them to march at a diltance from each
other. Distempers break out in both armies and
carry ofF vail numbers. They open the next
campaign in the month of March. The Hugo
nots pass the Charente, breakdown the bridges,
and guard all the paflages. The Duke of Anjou,
by the means of a stratagem, pafles the river.
The battle of Jarnac ensues. On the sixteenth
of March, 1569, this famous action, so fatal to
the Protestant cause and to liberty of conscience
in France, as to have annihilated or at least to
have opprefled both for two hundred and fifty
years, took place. The young Duke of Guise
distinguished himfelf 011 that day, by attacking
the left wing of the Calvinifts, commanded by
the Admiral and Dandilot at the head of the no
bility of Britany and Normandy, and gave proofs
of a courage, and talents capable ot performing
as much good, or committing as much evil as his
father had done.
The Prince ofCondewho commanded the main
body, opposed to the Duke of Anjou, supported
with intrepidity the shock of the enemy, and
when abandoned by his right and left, charged
on all fides by the conquerors and surrounded
by a whole world of enemies, he and those who
accompanied him, fought, with desperation. In
arranging his squadrons, he had been wounded
in the leg by a kick of the Duke de la Roche
foucault's horse, and in ( the combat his own was
killed and overthrown upon him. This Prince,
thus dangerously wounded put one knee to the
ground and continued tofight, until Montefquiou,
Captain of the guards of the Duke ofAnjoti, shot
him through the head with a pistol. Robert
Stuart, who had killed the Constable at the bat
tle of St. Dennis, and almost all the gentlemen
of Poitou and Saintonge, were cut in pieces, by
the fide of the Prince.
The Duke of Anjou, fought in the firft ranks
of his squadron with a valour above his years,
had an horse killed under him, and ran great
rifques of his life. The Hugonots loft, near se
ven hundred noblemen or knights of diftintftion.
The soldiers, in derision, with feoffs and jnfults,
brought th e body of the Prince of Condi, upon
an ass or pack-horse to the Duke of Anjou at
jarnac.
L'an mil cinq cens foixante & ncuf
Entre Jarnac & Chateau—ncuf
rut porte mort fur line ancflV,
Le grand enncmi de la MciTc.
Young Henry, Prince of Navarre begged the
body of die Duke of Anjou, who sent it to Veil
dome to the tombs of his ancestors. Thus lived
and died Louis of Bourbon, Prince of Condc,
whose valour, constancy and greatness of foul,
diflinguifhed him above all the greatest Princes
and most famous Captains of his age. I fliall re
verse the reproaches of Davila, and fay that he
ueferves to be cannonized as one of the proto
martyrs to liberty of confidence, instead of that
croud of bloody tyrants with which the calender
has beeu disgraced.
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
PHILADELPHIA, April 6.
REVIEW
Of Mr. Burke's Philippic against the Revolution
Society in London, and the National dffembly in
t ranee—in a Letter from a Gentleman in Hart
ford to one in this City, dated March 20.
T HAVE just been leading the Philippic of Edmund Burke,
t ' le Revolution Society in London, and the National
f CI un rancc - H has flatted a croud of ideas in my mind,
0 ' propriety I submit to your judgment.
his work presents itfelf in two points of view—as the dccta
anon of the fuft of English Orators, and as the result of the col
ed wisdom of an old and experienced Statesman
1 acknowledge that in cither view, I am difappointcd in the
Wednesday, April 6, 1791.
performance. As a Philippic, it undoubtedly contains many high
ly labored passages, exprefled in forcible and pompous language,
abounding in brilliant dilution, and full of satirical wit, indigna
tion and contempt. But where is the sublimity and pathos, tho'
ofien attempted, which can eftablilh him as the rival of Cicero, or
Dsmofthenes ?
He has written on the sublime and beautiful—he atMs to be a
liiblinie and beautiful writer—but he mistakes the bent of his ge
nius His predominant talent is wit—a fpiightlincfs of allusion,
and brilliance of metaphor, well calculated to figure in the pro
ductions of a Swift or a Builer, but which loses its principal grace
when tortured into sublimity, and obfeured by theaffefted rotun
dity of pompous period. Examine a sample.—" The anodyne
draught of oblivion, thus drugged, is well calculated to preserve a
galling wakefulnejs, and to feed the living ulcer of a corroding me
mory. Thus to ad m miller the opiate potion of amnesty, powdered
with all the ingredients of/corn and contempt, is to hold to his lips,
lnftead of the lain of hurt vunds, the cup of human misery full to the
brim, and to force him to drink it to the dregs."
Is this style ?—-is it sense ?—is it Englilh ? But let us view him
in the light of an able politician.
He if undoubtedly right in aflertingthat Francchas at present no
permanent constitution, and that government cannot long fubfiftin
the National AlTembly. He is right in his idea that the revolution
to this period has been the work of deftru&ion, that it has annihi
lated the power, and seized the revenues of the King, the Clergy,
and the Nobility—that it has rased to the ground the Baftile ot
despotism, and has not yet eretted the fair edifice of constitu
tional and well balanced government on its ruins. He may be
right in deferibing the loss of public credit in France, a.id the in
stability of their paper aflignats. He is right in censuring many
wild relolvcs of the National Aflembly, many a£ts of unbounded
licentiousness in the populace, and many needless indignities of
fered to the persons of their sovereign and his family.
Did it require the talents of a great statesman to discover that
in the French revolution much was wrong, and all was incom
plete ?
Can this calumniator of France, be the fame Edmund Burke,
who exhausted all his tropes in praise of America during her late
contest with Britain ? At the very period of his panegyrics,
would not our total want of a constitutional government, the
weaknefsof our confederation, the depreciation of our currency,
our public distresses, the wild ideas of licentious liberty, and the
unbridled insolence ot our populace against the dignity of a So
vereign, happily indeed for himfelf, beyond the reach of personal
insult, have afforded him themes equally plausible and just, for
contemptuous Philippic and melancholy prognostication ? No—
he then asserted that wc had performed miracles—that we had
tried anarchy, and found it tolerable—and that society was well
regulated in America, by a Congress without power, and a go
vernment without resource. He has since discovered that such
miracles are incompatible with the climate of France!
But whence all his fury against philosophers, who have aflerted
the rights of mankind, and his frequent ridicule of this enlightened
age. On the subjeCts of religion, of government,and of humanity,is
not this age more enlightened than the preceding ? I grant that
many of the philosophers whom he attacks were inaccurate in their
ideas, and wild in their theories. Awakened (to express myfelf
in Burke's manner) from the midnight darkness of despotism,
their eyes were dazzled by the orient light of liberty, und instead
of discerning objects in their native reality, their unaccustomed
optics were pleasingly overstrained by a confufed glare of vifronary
splendor.
But have they done no service to mankind, and was no innova
:ion neceflary to human happiness ?
I am accustomed to view things on the brighter fide, and am
pleafea with every bold effort of the mind, and every attempt to
aflert the rights and dignity of man.
Government, morality and religion, are too august in themselves,
too well supported by reason, and too neccflary to the existence
of rational society, to be overthrown by the attacks even of anar
chy, sophistry, and infidelity. The world may perhaps reap even
tual advantage from the labors of philosophers, whose tenets in
many particulars deserve abhorrence—from the prophane ridicule
of Voltaire, the wild reveries of Rouss e au. and the immoral
sophistry of Hume. Such writers can never destroy the citadel
of government, but they will demolish the bulwarks of tyranny —
they cannot rase the temple of religion, but they will level the
outworks of superstition and enthusiasm.
But what mull be the view of a writer, who could overlook the
merits of a Montesquieu, a Raynal, a Mably, and the long
lift of amiable aflertors of the rights of mankind, and blend them
with the faflious and the infidel, in one undiftinguifhing censure
on philosophers ?
What was the situation of France before the revolution—an un
connected groupe of provinces, regulated by separate and contra
dictory laws and customs of-junsprudence, and only held togeth
er as a nation, by the undefined and despotic power of the sove
reign. Her religion, bigotry in the lower ranks, deism in the
higher, and intolerance in all. Her King, a despot in name ; her
nobility infinitely too numerous for a Senate, and pofieffed of no
legislative powers ; and her parliaments not even the shadow of a
house of representatives. Her military force in the hands of the
crown, her commerce degraded, her revenues colleCted by extor
tion, and a great part of her lands mortgaged to support the indo
lence of her clergy, her nuns, and her friars.
Amid the prelent diffufion of science, and with the example of
Br it ifh freedom at her door, and American independence among
her allies, it was impoflible she could have continued long in so
mortifying a situation. Though the only power of her fovcreign
was despotism, her sovereign could be a despot no longer. No
spring was left of fufficient force to move the wheels of a govern
ment at once so complicated and disjointed. A revolution, if
not immediately neceflary in theory, must appear to every reflect
ing mind, at least unavoidable in fa£L
If this sketch be justly drawn, what will become of all the elo
quent periods of Burke's declamation, in which he advises them
toguascl aga:nft innovations, and only endeavor to amend their
ancient constitution. What was their ancient constitution, but
an arbitrary and unlimited monarchy ? From their early history
he might indeed have revived some unacknowledged clerical and
ariftrocratical claims, but he could not find a trace of popular
freedom. His amendments to the constitution of France must
have been only made by adding some props and braces to the tot
tering pillar of despotism.
If a thorough reformation was necefifary in France, were not
mo ft of the measures, which are the fubje&s of his censure, equal
ly neceflary for the attainment of that end ? Was it not necessary
to annihilate arbitrary power, that they might pave the way tor a
limited monarchy ? Was it not neceflaryto destroy the exorbitant
805
[Whole No. 202.]
claims of too numerons a nobility, before they could cftablilh
a well-chosen and well-regulated house of Lords ? Might it not be
neccflary to raise the representative power, which never before
exilied, above its proper balance, that it might gain fuflicient force
and energy to hold its just rank in a permanent conditution ?—
Might it not be necelTary to melt down the whole people into a
general mass, previous to the new calling and organizing a •veil
balanced government ? Can the negative to these queltions be
proved true, and till proved, may we notchcck at least the severity
ot our censures ?
Burre dwells principally on minutia : He catches the pi&ure
of the present moment, but seems not to possess the talent of re
trofpett and profpe6t, which accompanies a great mind.
He indeed justly censures the capital error of the National As
sembly—their ideas of pure democracy, and their apparent ignor
ance of the neceflity, the indispensable neceflity, of the different
orders in government; but he seems not to dwell on the fubjeft
as a matter of importance : He throws it out as a vague fentimcnt
arising in a mind, aiming its artillery at more essential obje£ls, at
Parisian triumphs, profcriptivc injullice, Dr. Price, and the Revo
lution Societv
Whether the cftablifhment of a well-balanced government, and
a free constitution in France will be effe&ed, as in America, b\f
the united wildom of a National Convention ; or whether it mull
be preceded by the horrors of a civil war. and finally be eftablifti
ed in a treaty of accommodation, time alone can determine.
But I think we may venture to predi£t that France will never
again be fubje& to arbitrary government, and that (lie will at no
very distant period reap an ample harvest from those feeds of li-<
berty already planted in her foil, but which a Burke could not
discover among the broken furrows.
The advantages gained by France in the present revolution must
be extensive and permanent—the errors of the National Affemhly
will be transitory in effe£l—and post rity fpcaking of them here
after, may perhaps invert the sentiment of Shakespeare, and fay,
" The good that tkey have done lives after them,
" The evil lies interred with their bones."
Thus, fir, I have in a very hasty manner given way to my feel
ings on the firft perusal of Mr. Burke's pamphlet. I pretend not
to fufficient information to enter into minuter disquisitions. I
will turn to a more agreeable fubjefh
The firft Congress has now completed its sessions. If they do
not retire with a loud clamour of universal applause. they may re
ceive fufficient consolation from the general happiness which they
have diffufed over our country.
In no nation, by no legislature, -was ever so much done in so fhorta
period for the cftablifhment of government,order,public credit and
general tranquility. I only fear that the manifeft incrcafeofour cir
culating coin, together with the additional resources of millions of
paper securities so rapidly appreciating, and the circulation of
bank notes, may injure those general habits of industry and eco
nomy, introduced by former years of penury and distress : it will,
unless drained off in more extensive and bene'ficial channels of
commerce.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 7.
The B ANK BILL under consideration.
MR. GILES'S Si'eech concluded.
AGENTLKMAN from Massachusetts (Mr.
Sedgwick) finding the usual import of ihe
terms used in the constitution to be rather unfa*
vorable to the docflrines advanced bj liim, ha»
favored us with a new exposition of the word
(necejfaryj he fays that neceflary as applicable
to a mean to produce an end, should be construed
so as to prodoce the greatest poifible quantum of
public utility. I have been taught to conceive
that the true exposition of a neceflary mean to
produce a given end, was that mean, without
which the end could not be produced.
The gentleman's reasoning however if pursued
will be found to teem with dangerous effects, and
would juftify the aflumption of any given au
thority whatever : Terms are to be so conltru
ed as to produce the greatefl: degree of public
utility—Congress are to be the judges of this de
gree of utility ; this utility when decided on will
be the ground of constitutionality, hence any
measure may be proved constitutional which
Congress may ludge to be ufeful ; these deduc
tions would suborn the conllitution itfelf ar.d
blot out the great dillinguifhingcharafteriftic of
the free conititutions of America—as compared
with the despotic governments of Europe, whicli
confiftsin having the boundaries of governmental
authority clearly marked out and afcertnined.
The exclusive jurifdktion over 10 miles square
has been adverted to by one gentleman (Mr.
Ames) as a fpecifird authority, to which the one
contended for is suggested to be incidental ; lie
has reasoned iit this manner, Congress pofiefs
jurifdic'tion over 10 miles square, &c. Congress
may therefore eftablifli a bank, within the 10
miles square—and as principle is not applicable
.0 place, Congress may exercise the fame autliority any where elfe—thia seems to me te bean in
genius improvement upon sophistical deduction ;
tiie gentleman however fliould have reflected,
that the ground upon which he built the right
to exercile this authority, was that of exclulive
jurifdicftion, and to extend the principle it is ne
ceflary to extend the right of exclusive jurisdic
tion, without this the balls of his argument fails,
and the fuperftrudture however beautified must
follow, for the principle, if at all deducible from
that source, is expressly confined to place and
cannot operate beyond it.
I shall now consider the fecorul refource,whence
the constitutional right of exercising the propo
sed authority is derived—its incidentality to the
mere creation and existence of government It
has been observed, that in all governments there
are certain rights tacitly granted and certain
other rights retained, that it is impossible in fra
ming a conilitution to enumerate every minute
governmental right, and that such an attempt
■would be chimerical and vain. And hence the
incidentality of this authority to the mere ex
igence of government is inferred ; these ob
servations seem to me to apply to a government
growing out of a (late of society, and not to a
government composed of chartered rights from
previouily existing governments, or the people ]
of those governments. I have been taught to
consider this as a federal not as a consolidated go
vernment, and am not prepared or disposed at
present to relinquish that idea. A gentleman
from New-York (Mr. Lawrance) has remarked,
that the government is consolidated quo ad the
powers granted, and of course quo ad their inci
dents ; but he fiiould £rft have fliown that the
authority contended for is one of those granted,
or incidental to fonie one of them, before the
application can i>e made—the observation can
have no tendency to e(labli(h either of those po
rtions. What effedt would this docflrine, if ad
mitted, have upon the State governments ? And
how would it be relished by them ? Their dignity
and consequence will not only be prostrated by
it, but their very existence radically subverted.
A third resource of deducing this constitutional
authority has been resorted to, the expediency of
the proposed measure itfelf. I prefnme the great
object of the conftiturion was to distribute all
governmental rights between the several State
governments and the government of the United
States ; the expediency therefore of the exercise
of all constitutional rights as they relate to State
or general government, is properly contem
plated and'decided by the constitution, and not
by the governments ainongft which the diftri
btition is made. A gentleman from South-Caro
lina (Mr. Smith) has said, that the expediency
and constitutionality of the proposed measure,
cannot be considered separately, because the con
stitutionality grows out of the expediency, this
is but candidly unveiling the fubjecft of that so
phistical mask which has been ingenioully thrown
over it by some gentlemen : for all the argu
ments adduced in favor of the measure, from
whatever source they arise, if pursued will be
found to ruth into the great oneof expediency, to
bear down all constitutional provisions and to
end themselves in the unlimited ocean of des
potism.
Several gentlemen have said that this authori
ty may be fafely exercised, since k does not in
terfere with the rights of States or individuals.
I think this aflertion not very correi't ; if the
States be conlUtutionally intitled to the exercise
ot this authority, it is an intrusion on their rights
to do an adt which would eventually destroy or
impede the freeft exercise of that authority ;for
it is totally immaterial whether the effect be
produced by the operation of this or by an inhi
bition in express terms ; the States may not on
ly incorporate banks, but may of right prohibit
the circulation of bank paper within their ref
pecftive limits ; the act therefore if it be intend
ed to have an effectual operation will certainly in
fringe this right,or exist at the mercy of tbeState
governments. This reasoning however places
the fubjecTt in another point of view a little lin.
gu'iar ; it contemplates the authority contended
lor as vacant ground and juftifies the tenure by
the mere title of occupancy. In almost all the
remarks in favor of the measure, gentlemen
leern to have forgotten the peculiar nature of
this government ; it being composed of mere
chartered authorities, all authority not contain
ed within that charter, would from the nature of
the grant have been retained to the granting
party, and I will venture to aflert that this opin
ion was the fine qua non of the adoption and ex
istence of this government ; but if this opinion
had been doubtful, Congress themselves have
made an express declaration in favor of thiscon
ftriicftion in the proposed amendments to the con
stitution. Gentlemen liaveinferred a con Ammon
al right to exercise the authority contended for
f. om a fourth refource,/Af for?>/er usages andhabits of
Congress, in affirmance of this argument several
arts of Congress have been referred to, the pow
er of removal from office, the governmentef the
Western Territory, the cession from North-Ca
rolina, the purcliafe of Weft-Poii>t, &c. See. 1
ftiaFl not examine into the propriety of these se
veral adts, tho I conceive it would not be diffi
cult to show, that they differ materially, upon
couftitutional grounds, from the one now propo
sed—l shall only remark, that if Congress have
heretofore been in the usage and habit of dis
regarding and violating the constitution, it is
high time that that habit and usage was corredt
ed : I hope and cruß that the people of the Uni
ted States will not tamely fee the only fe
enrity of their rights and liberties invaded and
violated, but also fee one violation of it with
impunity, boldly urged as an argument to juftify
another.
An instance of a similar exercise of authority
by the Congress, which existed under the former
confederation, has been mentioned in favor of
its exercise by the present Congress. The argu
ment has been, that as the powers of the present
Congress are greater than those of the former
Congress, and the former were competent to the
exercise of this right, the present must be more
so ; it istoberemarked,thatthatadtwasthechild
of necessity, and that Congress doubted its legi
timacy, and the adfc itfelf was never confirmed by
a judicial decision ; and it (honld be also remark
ed, that the fame Congress did not pretend to
poflefs the right to punifti those who tfiould coun
terfeit the paper of the bank, and recommended
it to the itaces to confirm the adt which they had
done, and to pass laws for the purpofeof punch
ing those who should counterfeit the paper ; and
it is a litrie remarkable that this circumstance,
which is one of the mod eflential to the existence
and operation of this atfi, is withheld from our
view. But as I think arguments drawn from this
source wholly foreign to the fubjeft, I|fhall make
no other remark upon them. I shall nowfuggeft
a fewobfervations refpedling the expediency of
the proposed measure—in doing this, 1 shall not
fay any thing as to the utility of banks in gene
ral, nor as to theeffedts of the banks of England,
Scotland, Holland, &c. &c. I poflefs not fufficient
practical or theoretical knowledg'e to juftify the
inquiry ; I shall only point out a few circumstan
ces, which are peculiarly attached to the govern
ment we are now adminillering, which might
vary the application of general rules, drawn from
governments of a different nature, and which
poflefs the unquestioned right of granting char
ters of incorporation.
In the firft place, the right of exercising that
authority by this government is at least proble
matical, it is 110 where granted in express terms ;
the legislature therefore can have 110 competent
security against a judicial decision, but a depend
ant or a corrupt court. I presume that a law to
punish with death those who counterfeit the pa
per emitted by the bank, will be consequent upon
theexiftence of this act; hence ajudicial decision
will probably be had of the most set ious and aw
ful nature—the life of an individual at (lake on
one hand—an improvident atft of the government
on the other. A distrust arifingfrom this cause,
will forever keep the bank in jeopardy, and the
very firft trial of this nature will probably fub
je<!t the bank to a run which it will be unable to
withstand; for all stockholders will require the
greatest possible security for their money, and a
distrust of such an inftiturion will be its destruc
tion. This observation seems to me to have pe
culiar force, from the great proportion of paper
to that of gold and silver, upon which the bank
is proposed to be founded. The peculiar relation
between the general and state governments will
naturally produce a contest for governmental
rights, until long experience fiiall fettle the pre
cifc boundaries between them. The present
measure appears to me to be an unprovoked ad
vance in this fcrainble for authority, and a mere
experiment how far we may proceed without in
volving the opposition of the state governments.
It (hould be remarked that this government is in
its childhood, it is therefore unfitted for such
bold and manly enterprizes, and policy would
dictate that it fliould wait at least until it may
have become more matured or invigorated. Two
modes of administering this government present
themselves—the one with mildness and modera
tion, by keeping within the known boundaries
of the constitution—the other by the creation
and operation of fifcal mechanism—the firft will
insure us the affetftions of the people, the only
natural and substantial basis of republican go
vernments—the other will arise and cxift in op
preflion and injustice, will increase the previously
existing jealousies of the people, and must be ul
timately difcarded,or bringabout a radical change
in the nature of our government. Having sug
gested these observations upon the measure in
general, I shall now proceed to point out -a few
objections to the detail of the bill: I think the
authority given to the bank, to purchase and hold
lands, objectionable ; in the firft place, I doubt
the constitutional right of Congress to invest such
an authority—the lands within the United States
areholden ofthe individual ftates,anc! not of the
United States, and that tenure appears to me to
be the true ground upon which the right to ex
ercise that authority grows. 1 believe it is ad.
806
mJtted that although Congress may natnr»ll Zf
foreigner, they cannot authorize him topurchafe
lands—and I thinkthecafe atleaftasftrong.when
they firft create an artificial person, and then it"
veil the authority ; befides,if we have'reference
to the experience of other countries, we
find it dangerous to allow incorporated bodies to
hold lands at all: the exercise of that right pi o .
duced great oppression in England, and nothing
but the masterly activity of ar. abfolure Prince
could apply a competent remedy. A gentleman
fro in Maflachufetts, (Mr. Sedgwick,) lias denied
that the Bank is inverted with this right—lt i s
true, it is confined to the mode of purchafingby
mortgage, but that is the nioft effectual mode of
purchasing, and the most ruinous to the land
holder.
I will merely mention one other objection with
out a comment —the authority given to make
laws not contrary to law or its own constitution
—but the nioft objecftionable clause is that which
limits its duration, and pledges the fairh of the
United States that no other Bank fliall be estab
lished in the mean time, however dangerous and
offenfive the present meaf'ure might prove in its
operation, and whatever may be the utility and
advantage in any other scheme of banking, which
experience may fugged—fuch a (lipulation can
not be juftified but from the mod pointed neces
sity, and from the marure(Ldeliberation : When
I search for the neceflity oftnismeafure.it escapes
me—it is not pretended in the bill itfelf—the
chief ftimulous which I can discover to the ex
istence of this measure, is to give artificial im
pulfetothe value of stock—This is not a fuffi
cient juftification—the fubje<ft has not been fuf
ficiently considered, and I therefore hope it may
be postponed to some future feflion of Congress,
—many evils may be avoided by such a conduct
—none can refnlt from it.
From the CONNECTICUT COURANT.
The PROMPTER.
Come, we'll take the t'other sip.
THE grog-drinker is not the only man who
lakes the t'other lip. The drone, the slug
gard opens his eyes upon the morning dawn—
he stretches—rolls over—gapes —feels drowsy—
fays it is time enough yet—hugs the pillow, and
takes the t'other sip. He naps away a precious
hour or two, when he might have earned his
breakfaft.
The gamester takes a hand at wliift in the eve
ning—a hand or two can do no' harm—it is an a
mufemenc—a quarter of a dollar a corner isa
trifle—his mind is engaged—if he has loft a game,
he must play another to win—it he has won, he,
hopes to win again—he must take the t'other lip
—and the t'other—and the t'other—the bell
rings nine o'clock—but one more hand can do no
harm—who would go to bed with the chickens?
The clock strikes tvjeht—but one more hand and
I politively go—The clock ltrikes one—lie Harts
—damns his luck—but the next evening he'll
take another lip—he swears he'll recover what
he has loft—he marches home, when not an ani
mal should be awake, but owls and rats and
thieves.
The poor man, with a frore of .bare footed
children, breadlefs and naked, works hard foi
a little meat to silence the demands of hunger,
and a little wood to warm their naked limbs.
But there is a Lottery—a prize of a thousand dol
lars ! and not two blanks to a prize ! yes one prize
that is worth having, among nine thousand tick
ets ! Glorious chance ! nine thousand to one againit
him ! But a ticket he must have- Four or five
day's labor, the (übfiftence of several days mutt
be bartered for a ticket! Nine thousand to one z
gainft him ! Is this all ? No, no. He is anxious,
for good fortune—he must stand by and fee the
drawing—a weekmore loft—time is money t e
price of the ticket is two dollars, and itcoftshim
four. The wheel of fortune rolls and rolls an
rolls him up—a blank. But like the grog-drin
er, who takes the t'other sip, he must try his
luck again. Luckless man ! nine thousand to one,
is odds againjl him. One certainty is better t an
a thousand Lotteries, wherefome thousands of pro
babilities areagainft a man.
But must wedifcourage Lotteries when pu
utility is their obje<ft ? No. Let every one u
tickets, who is able to pay a to an,oUll
of the price. f , ;
Suppofeapoor man saves enough out ot n>
tifual grog-expences to buy a ticket. This is^ er
well—but it would be better to save the lam
money to buy bread and a pair of shoes 01
shoeless boy.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAT ES.
MR. FENNO, „ „ , „
r T~ , HE writer in your paper of Saturday >
I disclaims the idea that the friends of -
Bank of North-America entertain a wanto
fidence in the resources of their co '" ltr >'. a " ■ [0
claies " they are warm and zealous tie
the United States," and Aipporters of their
tution and government; but the con...t -plaint with him, and some others is, that they think
themselves injured because their institution was
not made the Bank of the United States ; and an
appeal is made to the finer feelings of the human
heart to decide on their merits and services.—
Thisaddrefs to the passions is offered as a fubfti
tute for reafoii and argument in a queltion of
national policy ! The author however has but fol
lowed theexampleof "The Observer," whose
performances are a play upon the fancy, rather
than an appeal to the judgment of his readers.
It is not contended that the Bank of North-
America did not render eflisntial services to the
United States in the mod: critical periods of the
•war ; but was not this their duty—was it not the
end and design of their creation, on being paid
for it ; and does it appear that they have 101 l
any thing by the bargain—orthatthey have been
disabled in the service ? If they have fuffered in
their property, they fliould be reimbursed with
intereft —if their corporation has been ellentially
injured, they are intitled to a gratuity.
But fay the friends of the State Bank, " we
had a continental charter."—The Secretary of
theTreafnry observes in his report, " That they
" liavefince accepted and acted under anew char
" ter from the State of Pennsylvania, materially
« variant from the original one ; and -whichfo
" narrows the foundation of the injlitrtfion, as to ren
" der it 'an imcompetent basis for the extcnfive pur
" poses of a national bank." Hence he recommends
an eftablifliment upon different principles—and
the former is left toftand as it was. But the Se
cretary at the fame time, gives it as his opinion,
that every reasonable facility fhonld be given to
a consolidation of the Bank of North-America,
•with the Bank of the United States, upon terms
not injurious to the parties concerned, provided
the former would come forward with proposi
tions.
We are told the proposed Bank " did not want
for refpeiXable authorities opposed to it at its
birth, and that it is believed, their reasonings
are such as will bear the teftof time." If obser
vations of this kind are to have any weight, it
might perhaps be answered with equal truth, that
many of the friends and advocates of the Bank
of the United States are also entitled at lead to
refpetfl ; and what is of more consequence, the
refutation of the arguments of some of them has
not yet been even attempted.
Some of the jjentlemen are diflatisfied because
their inilitution was not made the foundation to
build upon ; but a broader basis was thought ne
cellarv ; and a quefrion might arise who was to
accommodate, the general government, or the
Bank of this State. This much however is cer
tain, that if it had been proposed to ingraft up
on the old according to the principles of the new,
or in any other way, but such as might be dila
ted by theprefent Bank, the clamor would have
been much louder than it is at present : So diffi
cult—nay (o impossible is it to please all parties.
LONDON, February IS—24.
THE meeting of Parliament opens a new field
for political disquisition. It now becolhes
our province to mark the progress of National
business : to animadvert upon the condutfiofour
Legillators; and to weigh with minute regard
the measures to be pursued by our Miiiifters in
the present position of affairs.
The high and consequential (late which Bri
tain has retained in the scale ofEurope, together
with the profpei'ous and flourifhing situation of
our domellic concerns, are circumltances so ob
vious, that he who laboursto disprove them mufl
willingly err againlt Reason and Truth. These
are themes which, when touched upon, must a
waken the mod torpid feelings of patriotic re
gard, and which in all his reflections, conclusions
and anticipations mult strongly influence the
mind of the candid Politician :
The great progress made in the reduction of
the National Debt mud afford to every per Jon in
terested in the support of public credit, the moil
sincere gratification.
For the fatisfaftion of our readers, we (hall
particularize the amount of the whole capital
sum redeemed by the commiflioners for the li
quidation of the National Debt, on the last day
of January I 79 1
3 per Cent. Consols
3 per Cent. Reduced
Old Sourh Sea
New South Sea
South Sea i 757
This ftim with the Interefl. of the capital sum
redeemed, is regularly added to the annual
million.
How rapid, by this system, nuift be the dimi
nution of the National Debt, may be easily cal
culated ; bow much it has already tended to the
eftablifhmentof i'ublic Credit, is universally felt,
and joyfully acknowledged.
Since the edabliihtnent of this ftfM,
*>il)ion, it mulV be admitted, has been borrow-
Ed by the Minister; but when that is deduced
from the above fnm, the furplns isftill great.
The expences of the late Armament, it will
readily be recolleifled, are provided for diilincl
from the great niaf<i of the National Finance.
The policy of this arrangement was loudly ap
plauded by men of all parties. It indeed ftrpng
ly enforces its own panegyric.
It is inconceivable how sanguine even yet the
Partizans ot Royalty remain : the other day an
officer in the King's regiment affirmed, that in
two months, M. Mirabeau would not be in exist-
ence
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Feb. 3. Mr. Mirabean, the P.refident, feemsto
unite the fuffrages of all parties, by an exercise
of this office, marked by a severe equity, and a
difmiftal to all perlonal prediletflions.
Feb. 4. After forae local regulations, of frnall
importance, deferring consideration of the To
bacco business, they circumscribed Paris, within
33 pariflies.
Organization of Juries.
The following articles were amon? those im
porrant in this great work.
The judges pronounced aloud their opinions
commencing with the youngest and finifhing at
the president.
If they differ in the application of the law, the
mildest is preferred. If more than two opinions
divide the body, they call upon the Judges of the
diftriA to conipofe their differences.
The text of the law is read previously upon
which judgment is pi onounced. After sentence,
three days are allowed for the demand of cefTa
tion. If tliis be admitted, it mull be fonnded
upon violation of forms, nullity in the instruc
tion, in the judgment, or the application of the
law erroneously,
Such demands are to be decided within a
month after their reception.
It was observed, with some degree of reproach,
that so great a proportion of this AlTembly (hould
be members of the law. The censure seems to
have been idle in the extreme; they are mod
likely to frame aperfedt constitution, whose (In
dies have been confined to the legal limitation of
general and particular rights.
D O V E R, (N. H.)March 17.
We hear from Candia, in this state, that a
few days ago, two horses in a double sleigh, broke
from their faftenings, and ran with great preci
pitation down a certain street in that town, but
were soon met by a double and a single sleigh,
with youngperfons inthem, of both sexes, going
on a party of pleasure—they turned out on each
fide to give them room to pass, but just before
the sleigh got to them, one of the runners ttruck
a log, and Iheer'd the horses diredily over the
double sleigh in which were the young people ;
by which accident one young woman was killed,
and a number more badly wounded, one ofwhich
has since died—ln going over one of the runners
caught one of the near horfe'shind legs and broke
it, which immediately turned it to the other fide
of the street wfiere the other single horse stood,
and ran agafnft him with such force as drove the
tongue of the sleigh into his bowels, which kil
led him instantaneously—all of which was ac
complished in a few moments.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
AThoufand leagues of Ocean roll between
These tranquil States, and Europe's tiojb'.ed scene
Divided thus—sure nature's God defign'd
This land—th' Asylum of the free-born mind.
Here shall an independent empire rife,
Concentring from all climes the just and wife ;
By innate principles expand its name,
Nor owe to foreign politics its lame.
On this Idea, federal wisdom plann'd,
The Nation's bank—that bulwark of the land ;
Nor Anglois, Francois, or the Cage Mynheer
.Shall in our schemes of Finance interfere,
The States as one agree, that this is right,
Tho' pigmy politicians rave and write.
Philadelphia, April 6.
Extratf of a letter from a gentleman in London, da
ted January 1791.
" The interest of Mr. Pitt must incline him
to peace, and yet I am fearful that his policy
will deceive him, and ihortly plunge us into a
war. He has got out of the Spanilh scrape with
honor ; but by infilling upon so much, 1 fufpe<ft
that he has piante - * the feeds of a future war in ]
the proud bread ot the Don. He and Prussia mean
to bully and terrify the Empress out of her con
quells, tind into fucli a peace as they fiiall ditTtate.
The Northern Elizabeth does not seem to be
frightened, but to set them at defiance. She has
secured the King of Sweden by aiiling generously
| by him, when he was nearly down, and his al
lies could not give him timely assistance. It is
thought that the British council is attempting to
buy off the King of Denmark with large promi
fea. He is scarce of so forgiving a fpii it as to
have forgotten how they threatened him and
made him defilt from joining the Empress agaii.ft
£ 2,7??,800
1,878 4?o
1,091,100
807,000
2 42,000
£ 6,772,350
one
807
PARIS,
Swedeti ; or so young in politics as rot lieai tify
to unite with Ruflia and Sweden, 10 keep a fo
reign fleet out of the Baltic. The Britilh nation
owes the Empress a grudge for the armed neu
trality, and therefore are glad to promote an
armed mediation to humble her: But if fhewill
not give way, and they press on, they may find
theinfelves plunged into a war not only with the
three Northern powers, but Spain and others,
who may think it high time to pull down the
overgrown and overbearing navy of Great-Britain.
The German Emperor will not lose the friend
fhip of the Empress. Holland will rather look
on, and buttle without doing much.
EAST-INDIA INTELLIGENCE.
ON the 23d May last, the Mahrattas, assisted
by the Ealt-India company's troops, gained a sig
nal vicftory over Ifhmael Beg, a country power,
with whom the Mahrattas are at war.
The army ot Ifmael Begconfiftcd of 25000 foot,
and 20000 liorfe, besides a great number of ele
phants, camels, &c. The conquerors took 100
pieces of cannon, ij elephants, an innumerable
number of camels, 100 pair of colours, and the
enemy's whole baggage—and the morning fol
lowing the vi«flory, 7 battalions, and 10000 irre
gulars laid down their arms : This great victory
was gained with the loss of only 700 men killed
and wounded.
The British military eftablilhment in the East-
Indies, according to a return made the firft of
January 1790, amounted to 8039 men—Tippo
Saib's, to 155,230.
Accounts from Paris, via London, of 24 Jan.
fay, that some German troops had entered Fiance
on the fide of the Maes and the Rhine—inftaut
preparations were made to fend 10000 volunteers
after them.
The spirit of revolution has manifefted itfelf
in Hungary, Vienna, Spain and Bavaria: The
discontents in Vienna are occasioned by thedear
nefs of provisions—the scarcity is however tho't
to be artificial.
While some accounts from France inform, that
the clergy are conforming to the new regula
tions, and taking the civic oath with great cor
diality—others fay, that they are very lefraiftory
in many of the provinces—so that it isextremelv
difficult to form any fettled opinion on the fub
jetft.
According to an estimate published in the Ge
neral Advertiser of Monday last—it appears that
4992 Dozen ot wool cards are made in this city,
annually—an important branch of manufactures !
The imposition of this article has longiince
ceased—and in a very Ihorc time that offhoes of
every kind must also cease.
On the 31ft ult. departed thislife, at Elizabeth
town, in New-Jersey, MATTHIAS OGDEN,
Esq. late a Brigadier General, in the army of the
United Stares.
MASSACHUSETTS SKM
State of the Wheel, 5,
In the Wheel.
i of
« of
3 " f
4 of
5 of
20 of
58 of
59 of
77
87 of
120 of
149 of
547° of
10000
3000
2000
1000
s°o
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
6055 Prizes in the Wheel
12245 Blanks in do.
18300 Tickets undrawn.
6700 Do. drawn.
25000
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT. i|
6 pr. Cents 16/1 o. 17/2. ?*•£• 88 pr. cent.
3 P r - Cents 9/ 45 do.
Defcred 6 pr. Cents 8/11 $/! 45 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 13/9
Indents g/".
N. and S. Carolina debts. 12/2 157!
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Benjamin, Brookhoufe, Bristol, 35 days.
Do. Walterftorff, Ofmon, London, 38.
Ship Birmingham, Kerr London, 33.
Do. Dublin Packet, Davis, Dublin, 30.
Brig Galen, Edie, London, 58.
Do. Bctfy, Potter, Virginia, 6.
Do. Margerett, Codman, Boston, 4.
Ship Manchester, Williams, Liverpool, 33.
HENRY KUHL,
HEREBY gives public notice that he discontinues to negoi
ate in the Funds on CommifTion.
Philadelphia, April 5. 2f.
BETWEEN this city and New-York, on the poll road, two
'bundles containing the Gazette of the United States—No,
82—defi ned for New-York and Bolton. As they can be of no
u»e, but a* waste paper, exccpt to the Subfcnbcrs, manyo£wl»om
keep files ot that publication, any perlonwho can give informa
tion to the Editor, To that the whole or any part of ihem may be
recovered, iball receive a jjeneroui reward. The two bundles
contained 300 papers.
.I-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
Saturday March 26.
Prizes drawn,
of 1000
of 500
of 200
of 100
of • 5 o
of 40
of 30
of so
of 10
of «
F
2
5
10
28
3>
23
33
4'
5'
2115
2333 Priaes drawn
4367 Blanks do.
6700 Tickets drawn.
78 J do.
44
LOST,CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT in addition to an Adi, intituled, " An
Act for establishing the Salaries of the Execu
tive Officers of Government, with their Affill
ants and Clerks."
BE it enabled by the Senate and HouTeof Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflembled, That from
and after the pafling of this ast, there (hall be allowed to the chief
clerk of the auditor, the annual sum of two hundred dollars, in
addition to the salary allowed to him by the ast, intituled, 44 An
ast eftablilhing the falarics of the executive officers of government,
with their afliftants and cleiks," to be paid at the treasury of the
United States, in quarterly payments, and from like appropriations
as may be afligned for the payment of the other salaries mentioned
in the above recited act.
And be it further ena&ed, That there be allowed to the clerks
employed in the several offices attached to the feat of government,
in addition to their refpeftive salaries, their rcafonable and neces
sary expences incurred by the removal of Congress from the city
of New-York to the city of Philadelphia.
And be it further ena&ed, That there be allowed to the aflift
ant secretary of the treasury, in addition to his salary for one year,
commencing with the palling of this ast, four hundred dollars, to
be paid in the fame manner as his salary.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Pref dent of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approv f. d , March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Pjefident of the United States,
Depofircd among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State-
This day is Publijbed,
The American Museum,
Or, UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
For MARCH, 1791.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
METEOROLOGICAL ohfervations made at Philadelphia,
in February 1791. Ohfervations on the weather and dif
cafes for the fame month. A brief examination of lord Sheffield's
ohfervations on the commerce of the United States of America.
Reply to hints and conje&ural ohfervations on an American excise.
Dcfence of the use of the bible as a school book. Some remarks
on the policy observed towards the Indians. The Columbian
Observer, No. IV and V. Our Grandmothers.
To the memory of the late William Livingfton. Friendlhip
Is Delia loved ?
SELECTED ARTICLES.
Anecdote of General Arnold. Anecdote of Capt. Trov. The
negro equalled by few Europeans. Eflay on the influence of
religion in civil society. Maxim. Abftraft of the exports of the
United States from the commencement of the custom houses, at
different times in August 1790,10 Sept. 30, 1791. Of the artifices
of animals. Of national debts. Thoughts on friendfhip. Revo
lutions of English literature. Premiums offered by the Philadel
phia society for the promotion of agriculture. Advantages of
using the tops of Indian corn as food for horses and cattle. Me
thod of preserving meat freth for years together. Constitution ot
the state of New York concluded. Constitution of the ftaie of
New Jersey. poetry.
Elegiac sonnet on the indisposition of a young lady. Invoca
tion 10 horror. The adieu and recal to love. The pen, to Delia
Crufca. To Anna Matilda. To a young lady. Stanzas to ill
nature, Pra} er to Venus. The rose, an idylion.
Philadelphia, April 1, 1791.
This day is putlijhed, for the Proprietors,
By WILLIAM YOUNG, Bookseller,
No. 52, Second-Street, the comer oj Chef nut-Street,
The Universal Asylum,
For MARCH, 1791
CONTENTS.
HISTOR.Y of the life and character of Dr. Franklin,(continued)
On the excellency of modesty. Account of the manufac
tories of cotton and wood cards in the city of Philadelphia. Lu
dicrous simile. On the nature and principles of municipal law,
and legislative authority. A curious fact tending to elucidate the
civil policy of the Seneca Indians. American antiquities. On
novel reading. of Philander Flathaway. On the fallacy
of the political do{|Jtne, that civil liberty can only exist in a small
territory. Petition of sundry horses to the honorable the corpor
ation of the city of Philadelphia. Wisdom and Truth. Account
of the Turkifli government. On the causes of famine in China,
and the means used for preventing it. Proposal for aboliftiing the
absurd praflice of separating the (exes, immediately after dinner.
On the lolly of attempting to dcvelope the origin of civil society.
Population, without relpe£l to property, theobjeft of reprtfenta
tion in a free government. Anecdote of Peter the cruel. Oil
penal laws. Account of a gigantic family at Cape-Cod. Result
of a course of agricultural experiments. Anecdote of Sterne and
a Pcnnfylvania lady. Hiftoryof the American revolution, (con
tinued.) Account of the celebrated Dr. Henry Moyes. Method
of puriiying common fait.
IMPARTIAL REVIEW.
Of the New-Ergland Farmer : Chemical and economical es
says : Foreign literature.
COLUMBIAN PARNASSIAD
An Ode on the progress of enlightened freedom. Anacreontic
ode on the approach of spring, 1791. Elegy to the memory of
the American volunteers, who (ell at Lexington, on the 19th April
1775. The craw of fafhion, a new song. Senfibiliiy. Descrip
tion of poetry. To a beloved fair one. On a lady who wore
patches. thf. chronicle.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the fubjefl ofa mint.
HiftoricaMketcli of the proceedings of Congress. Intelligence.
Appointments. Marriages and Deaths. Meteorological obser
vations. To which arc prefixed the Philadelphia pr,ices-current,
and course of exchange. Philadelphia, April 1, 1791.
(p3T Wanted, to complete fcts, a few Copies of the Colum
bian Magazine, (ot January, 1788, for which each
will be given.
POETRY
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Strset, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE ONION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK ot the UNITED
STATES.
Ph iludclpkia, Ma rch 30, 1791
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
PennfyJvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slates, or of any
FOR SALE,
In the City of New-Brunfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
new, pleasantly fitu«ted on the banks oi the Raritan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entriesbetween thefame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have poffeflion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms of payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis Forman, in said city, or
the fubferiber in Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not fold, to be rented from lft day of May next.
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
firm of
Joseph Anthony and Son,
They have for Sale, at their Stores, (lately improved by Hewes
and Anthony,) Northfide Chefnut-Street Wharf,
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
MolafTes,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
Oaflia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tanner's Oil,
Best picked Mackarel,
Virginia, Culpcpcr County, 25th Jan. 1791.
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town ot Dumfries,
30 from Fredcrickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a most
healthy part of ihe country :—Confiding of 2,c00 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so difpcrfed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, passing through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant ;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
sisting of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in great abundance ; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodiu quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhauftable
source for the saw-mill.
Alio several detached tra&s within said county, of about 2,3,
and 400 acres each,and though not offo feriilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvements, and the lands so situated, that they can eafilv be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned possessions will
be disposed of, on very reasonable terms—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the paymer.ts will be made entirely
to accommodate the convenicncy of the purchafeis, who may be
supplied on ihe fame terms, with all kinds of (lock, work hor
ses, oxen,&c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f.j
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
L IV 1 N G S T 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. Ihe farm contains between 90 and 100 acrcs of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the laid farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colleaion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, See. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in vety good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars,
New-York, Jan. 1791
New Line of Stages.
'T'HE Subscriber has ellabliflied a line of STAGES from Hart-
A lord to ISofton, by way of Norwich and Providencc, which
will rimthro twice a week during the V/inter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided
Paffcngers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
iaggageeach. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of tliree Pence
per MiJe for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Steves
for the year 1791, fixed hours for darting from the refpe&ive Stage
Moufcs is absolutely neceflary—from which there can be no devia
tlDn; Norwich, Dec. 14, 1700.
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,'
Providence——Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Weft ware, leaves Boftpn Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROWN. 69 —iv^m
808
particular State.
Hyson, -) T£AS of thc
oouchong> ..
& Bo he a ) lual,t>''1 ual,t >''
Boston Sail Duck,
No, i, 2, 3, 4, and 7,
6 by 8 Window Glass,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Phi/adel. March 18. [e.p.
3 W, 1
[C - All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice
following advertisement has been vaneS from that nuhliO, J
our paper of the 23d of March.] ™ ® 10
Treasury Department
March 22, , 79l-
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propotals will be received a' ,K
office of the Secrruryof the Trejfurv, until the firft Monrfj.
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations which
may be required for the use ot the United States, from the firfl da
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1 7 n 2 , both days J
ciulivc, at the places, and within the diftriflj herein after mcntt"
oued, viz.
(96 tff
At any place or places, l>ctwixt Yorktown in the state of P „
fylvania and Fort Piit, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntoli
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntolh. '
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mulkineuq,
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf"
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at theTuf"
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its moulh.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the fa id River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of tneOhio,and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence "over to ihe
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vinccnnrs,
at Port Sr. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
jMiami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thc-Iliinois river'
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami iiver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Bcuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mou,th of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Mifllfippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified inthefe proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
1 he rations to be supplied are to confiit of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of perk,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, ( P Cr - 100 rat,ons *
One pound of candles, )
ALSO. That Proposals will be received at the said office unfit
the fitft Monday in September next, inclufivc, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the fi'ft day ot January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclulive, at Springfield, in the Rate of Massachu
setts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New~York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will he received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
fiom the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, ljgfSy
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
Ac the pod on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt,
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Land ing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said month up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ol Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts bv anv troops oi the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
Ihe rations are to be furnifhcd .11 such quantities as that there
fliall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption ot the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholefomc provisions.
The rations to be fupplicd arc to conlift of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is be understood in each cafe, that all losses fuftatnrd by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depohtions of two or more creditable chara&crs,
and the certificate of a commiiTioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the Ipfs, and the amount of the articles for which
compcnfation is claimed.
8o 3m
The contrasts for the above (applies will be made either for onr
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contra£lwill therelore confine their offers to one year, or ihey
may make their propositions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
The proposals may be made for the whole of the above pofls to
gether r or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown ,
and the fevemeen places following it, and for the ports in Georgia;
and they must fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
Treasury Department, March 30, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that the INTEREST for the Quar
ter ending the 31ft inftaijt,. on all that part of the Debt of
the United States which (lands on the books of the Tieafury, will
be paid on demand, after that day, at the Bank of North-America-
All persons concerned are rcqueftcd to apply there accordingly.
gCT* 4 few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States y printed with Notes } may be had of the
Edittr.