PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 6 9 , HIG H- STREE T, BETWEEN SECOND AND 'riURD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 25, of Vol. lII.]
FROM DUNLAP's AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER
IN the course of human events, nothing can be more grateful to
the philanthropiil, to the friends of the rights of man, than
the progreflive increase of liberty in the world. To fee the gi
gantic image of despotism prostrate itfelf before the genius of
ileedom ; to know that twenty-four millions of men have escaped
from the hated fiaftile of Slavery, and broken the pha ns with
which they were bound—that they have aliened, with glorious ef
fect, theii inherent and unalienable rights; that they are reftorr-d
to themselves, to their country. to their rights and to their hber
ty ; —are circumstances which mud pour an overflowing tide of
joy upon the hearts of all the friends of human nature. The eman
cipation of so great a number of our fellow creatures, is a suitable,
and it is a dignified fubjeft of congratulation—the late gl 01 ious
ievolution in France presents this grand fubjett of joy to the feel
ings of humanity. The regeneration of so great and powerful a
kingdom—the renovation of its rights, and the exaltation of its
slaves to the high and dignified ehara&cr of citizens, are events so
analagous to the experience of Ihefe United States, that true Ame
ricans cannot hear of them without taking a deep interefl in
their benefits, and bestowing the benevolent wish of 44 Efto per
petua" to the newly risen glory of ranee, and the newly acquir
ed liberty of their citizens ! —This revolution is on many accounts
unexpected and astonishing ; but its leading reasons may be found
among the causes of all revolutions. For it is not the Prince
alone, fupremc as he k, that forms the genius of an empire, it iv
the gradual change of opinion and evolution of sentiment in the
people; which, though flow in its progress, is generally irreiift
able and permanent in its duration. And it is this change of opi
nion and this evolution of sentiment in the people of France,
that has produced a regeneration of their government. It is not,
however, a matter of wonder that the progress of civil and poli
tical liberty should find enemies in the friends of ariflocracy -nor
that the principles of any fyflem of freedom whatever should
meet with enemies in the courts of kings, arcd the friends of mo
narchial government and hereditary succession. But it is more
truly astonishing, and yet more unaccountable, that the unquesti
onable Rights of Man, and the principles of liberty and free go
vernment ihould find an enemy in the liflofthofe who have rank
ed high as American Patriots.
The late revolution in France has given rife to much political
diffcntion in Europe. Mr. Burke, formerly the friend of liberty,
but now the metamorphosed flatterer of kings, lias led the way.
With all thetu?ious zeal of ariftocratical fanaticifm, he has plead
the c.aufe of the kißg of Great-Britain. Mr. Paine, the author
of Common Sense, has, in the bold stile of a F recto an, advoca
ted thecaufeoi the people of England, and of the world—the
rights of men, and fully answered Mr. Burke.
It is worthy of remark, that the three principal points for
which Mr. Burke contends, are—that the nation of England have
no rtght m
lit. To chufe their own governors.
2d. To cashier them for mifconduft.
3d. To frame a government for thcmfclvcs.
_ And he asserts with confidence, that they utterly disclaim those
lights, ani that they will refill the pratlical assertion of them
witti their lives and fortunes—Mr. Paine has particularly replied
to and refuted this spurious and heretical doarine.
Pained at the prostration of Mr. Buike's argument, solicitous
for the progress of British principles in America, and with heart
felt anxiety regarding the tottering reputation of hereditary fuc
ceflion, Pubhcola, f-orn the town of Bolton, has blown the
trumpet of aristocracy, and is now echoing the kntiments of Mr
-Burke in America.
I T h e °kjeftof Publicola is by no means doubtful. I have
Joughtfor his polar principle, and I think I have not fought in
vain. Could he < ffeft a change of sentiment in the people of these
.States m favor of monarchy and hereditary fucceffinn, his pur
pose wouldl be answered. He knows that this change, if ever
made, must be gradually made; and he also knows, that the
continual diffufiotis of his anftocratical principles are the only
rrlTp ° purpofr. Americans then ought to
read Publicola with a jealous caution.
Publicola, previous to entering into a consideration of Mr.
Paine s arguments, has given us a (hort character of the pc, form
,£ir f , , 8S thou S ht proper to oppose. It may not be
mils for me, m like manner, before I notice any of the arguments
»,mh jY° g, / e a , br r' e ' defcri P tio " of work to the fourth
M P , ", darive ' f " r thefc a,e »H I have seen. As he has ftiled
.I ft , s WO , ma y h '-'. with equal propriety.be ftiled,
historical, political, miscellaneous, satirical and panegyrical '
It .s an encomium upon the Engl .lb government, it is an h.f
one'ft; "It I." A Col " mema, 7 on government, inferring
queft.onable deduflions f. om queft.onable principles ; in this.e
fpeitroo, ,t ,s miscellaneous, and it is fatrrical in the enquiry
Aether a conftuution, like a deed, must be written on paper
or parchment, or whether it has a larger latitude and may be en
graved on stone, or carved on wood."
However queft.onable any of the deductions of Mr. Paine may
he, Pub icola acknowledges the principles from which he infers
those deductions to beunqueftionable. If his principles be true
and they are admitted to be so, why does Publico'a contest those
very principles under the assumed veil of opposing the inferences
deduced from them, and which only hi; considers questionable ?
And yet, however unaccountable it [is, Publicola is in this verv
predicament.
Mr. Paine, in treating of the Rights of a Nation
To chufe their own governors.
To cashier them for tnifconduft, and
Io frame a government for themselves lays down this prwpofi
tion with refpeft to that right, * That which a whole nation chooses
to do, it has a right todo.' But Publicola, uncandidly abftraftinz
irns position from the reasoning with which it Hands connected n
Mr. Paine's book,fays " that it cannot,in any sense whatever,be ad
mitted as true " Were Ito contemplate the fame position in the
lame abltraded point of view, I would decide on it by affirm
ing, " that the eternal and immutable laws of juflice and of mo
rality are paramount to all human legislation," and that though
the violation of those l-aws is certainly in the power, yet it is
not among ihe Rights of Nations." But the statement which
Publicoia has made of this principle is by no means ingenuous
Does not Mr. Paine qualify this principle by a confined relation
to the fubjeft of which he is treating ?He docs—Was he writing
* treatise on metaphysics, or on the abftraft principles of morality
or was it a treatise on the Rights of Man ? What is the amount
of his argument ? He brings into view, plain, simple, incontro
vertible principles, which Publicola himfelf acknowledges— prov
ing uriqucftionabiy and cxclufively, that when a whole nation
Saturday, July 25, 1791-
chooses to have a particular form of government, it has a right to
have it.
J his is undoubtedly his meaning—and the ahftra£led ground
upon which Publicola has thought proper to conGder this propofi
ion, proves iuconteftibly his want of candor, and a perversion of
meaning intentionally designed to destroy the whole force of Mr.
P'lioe's reasoning.
Having, I think, fufficiently shewn, that the manner of the
atemem of this principle, by Publicola, isuncandid and unge
neious, and that he has given it a conftru&itir which it does not
ir will be obvious that the long train of ufeiences which he
draws from tuch hi s own mis-dated, and ihcrefore, falfe pre
mises,will, \\*ith the reasoning from which lie has deduced them,
fall to the ground.
I theiefore shall rake no notice of them, but proceed biiefly to
consider a few of his arguments to prove the existence of a British
eonftuutio-n, It will, however, be proper hore to premise, that
it is now of 110 importance to free and independent America,
whether Great-Britain has or has not a constitution—or, if they
nave one, whether it be a constitution of principles or a constitu
tion of articles, or whether it be composed of the common law,
01 of the great body of the statute law, or, in ihort, whether it be
an usurpation itfolf. In all these concerns we stand wholly inde
pendent of them. It is fuflficient for us to know that they have a
government competent to the execution of their treaties, without
enquiring what the cflence of that government is, or whether it
has arisen out of the people or over the people. But since Publi
cola, like Mr. Burke, contends against the rights of the people of
England to chule their own governors, to cashier them for mif
condutt, and to frame a government for themselves, and as the
arguments which he uses for this purpose have a correspondent
force against the like rights of the citizens of America, it will be
proper to make a few remarks upon them.
Publicola asserts, " that the common law of England is the con- |
ftnutionof Great-Biitain, and that the constitution of a country
is not the paper or parchment upon which the compact is written,
that it is the system of fundamental rules by which the people
have consented to be governed, which is alwavs iuppofed to be
impressed upon the mind of every individual, and of which the
written or printed copies are nothing more than the evidence."
u That in this sense the British nation have a constitution." Again
—" It is composed of a venerable system of unwritten or cus
tomary laws, handed down from time immemorial, and fan&i
oned by the accumulated experience of ages, and of a body of
statutes enafled by an authority lawfully competent to that pur
pose." And again—" The constitution of Great-Britain is a con
stitution of principles, not of articles."
Why will not Publicola, on this fubjeft, to the fourcc of
things ? Docs he mean by this definition thai a constitution is a
compafl antecedent to all government, and from which free go
vernment results ? Or docs he mean tHt it is a fvftem of juris
' prudence, ordained by a government after its inrtitution ? This
is a point necefTary to be fettled, for there is a striking difference
bet ween the of constituting a government, and the acts of a
governmenr after it is constituted. If he means that the latter is
the constitution of Great-Britain, he will find no opposition to
the fentunent, but if the lonner, I deny its existence. In this
sense the people of England have no constitution—and with this
meaning I defy Publicola to produce the evidence that they have
one. How then will his reasoning, on the fubjecfc of a social com
■ Daft, which he pretends now exists, apply to destroy the inherent
rights of the people of England. As it has never yet been made
appear that the government of England originated in the people,
they yet have these rights inherent in themfeWes in their original
chara&er—lf therefore, they have not these rights at this day,
they never had them—but the uncontroulable rights of sovereignty
residing in the people antecedent to government, they therefore
have these rights. The right of a people to form a government,
and the power of a government after it is formed, are two diftinft
things—but Pnblicoia has artfully confounded them together, so
as to obfeure the generous principles of freedom. Why not, in
this refpeft, preserve the diftinflion between rights and power ?
Liberty is a bold principle, it is an irrefiftable principle—it in
vites enquiry, nor does it leek the fubterfuges of sophistry for
protection. It avows itfclf to the world, and it declares, that all
lawful, alljuft authority, both legislative and executive, origi
nates fiom the people. That the power and sovereignty of the
people are like light in the fun, original and inherent, and unli
mited by any thing human. That in those who are governors,
it is the refle£ted rays ot that light, borrowed, delegated and li
mited by the sovereign power of the psople.
In the sense in which I admit that Great-Britain has a consti
tution, it is certainly a constitution of principles ; and on the
Tame ground, every country under Heaven, has a constitution of
p inciples. But what are these principles ? not the principles of
a government arising out of the people, but of a government aris
ing over the people. Consequently, it is the arbitrary will of go
vernment, and such, unquellionably, is the government of Great-
Britain. Americans know that it is the omnipotence of Parlia
ment. Why, therefore, in the name of Common Sense, IJkou/d
have said Arijlocracy, did not the federal convention of 1787 adopt
such a glorious " Constitution of Principles," instead of a con
stitution of written articles ? And why did not Publicola then
step forward, and like the honcft. Norman mentioned by Mr.
Paine, represent, that " as the Americans had difmifTed or sent
away their King, they would want another," and generously of
fer to be their foveriegn Lord and Master.
Mr. Paine observes, " that a government on the principles on
which constitutional government, arising out of society, are esta
blished, cannot have the right of altering itftlf ; for if it had, it
would be arbitrary." But this, fays Publicola, is not fufficient.
I think it is. But why is it not ? Why, truly, replies Publicola,
" because a nation in forming a social compatt, may delegate the
whole of their collective powers to ordinary legifiator# in perpe
tual succession." In reply to this I contend, that a nation has no
right to form a compact to obligate any but the parties contract
ing, it must therefore ccafe on an infraction of the terms by ei
ther party, and must be void as to all future generations, unless
they revive it for themselves. In compafls we determine and
promise for ourselves only—and not for posterity. The jura
sum mi impe r 11, or the rights of sovereignty reside in every ge
neration of men in their original character; and Mr. Paine well
observes, that every generation is equal in rights to the one that
preceded it.—How, then, has a nation a right to delegate in per
petual ruccejffion ? There is a cruel principle of injullice in the
doctrine of perpetual fucceflion ; it is an enfla'ving principle ; it
is a black ariflocratical do&rine, that absorbs every ray of the fun
of freedom, and swallows up all the rights -of the people to the
end of time. This is the inevitable confequencc of the doctrine
97
~ o
[Whole No. 255.]
of perpetual fucceflion ; it is unjust in theory ; it is tyrannical in
practice ; it is a subversion of the " eternal and immutable laws
)f justice and morality ;" because it is founded on the principle of
A's willing to B. the property of C.—and this I deny that any
nation has a right to do.—For although a whole nation should be
mad enough to adopt such a form of government, yet as thev
could have no property in posterity, a future generation would
have an undoubted right not meiely to alter, but entirely to abo
lish it ; and for the very reason because 41 the consent of that
posterity would be neceflary before they could be bound by tbofe
laws;" and I maintain further, that the fame people who conftU
tute a government, have a right to change or totally annihilate it,
whenever they choose so to do, even if it should have answered all
the purposes for which it was originally instituted. This is a
principle inseparable from the rights of sovereignty, originally re
sident in the people, and from all authority emanating from them.
Government is nothing else but power, and the power of a free
government is nothing but the delegation of a trufi. It is a mere
authority of agency, which the constituents may resume at plea
lure. But the resumption of this right is one thing, and the ex
pediency o>f it another : and it is hardly to be supposed that a
nation will diflolve the bands of the social compact, unless they
find it expedient so to do. Publicola however, confounds the
right and expediency together, and from this sophistical jumble
of ideas, he bewilders the fubjeft he attempts to explain, and
clearly evinces that the pursuit of truth is not his only object, or
the way to truth must lie throngh the mazy labyrinths of fophiU
try.
I have heard of a man (perhaps Publicola knows him) who pof
fcfled theefteem and confidence of a free, generous, patriotic peo
ple; who partook liberally o{ their bounty, and was raised by
their general voice, to an office of high dignity and trust in their
government ; whose pride it ought to have been, and whose duty
it was to have fupportedthe principles,and to have contributed to
the welfare of that government to the utmoftof his abilities, or to
have rejeftcd the office. The latter, however, he did not do; but
under a fi&itious name, employed his whole force of art, of genius
and erudition in collecting and pouring forth floods of heretical,
ariftocratical dottrines in direst opposition to the free and equal
principle of the very government which he administered.—
Strange iriconfiftency !
Let those who sigh for monarchy and pant after aristocracy,
court the munificence of princes and prop the tottering thrones ot
Kings. Let them weep over the dying image of royalty—but let
the independent son« of America blow the trumpet of freedom,
and proclaim to the world their liberty and happiness. The un-
Ihaken faith of these, is, that all [iower is originally inherent in
the people, and that whatever governments are not founded oil
their authority alone, and instituted by them for their peace, fafety
and happiness, are not free but ufurped,and that they therefore
have and in * contempt* of Kings, Princes, and the whole group
of Ariftocrates, will, exercise the right of establishing and of al
tenng, reforming or abolishing government in such manner or
form as they may think proper for securing the bleflings of free
dom. AGRICOLA.
Philadelphia, July 1, 1791
CONSTANTINOPLE, March 19
ASANTON (a kind of religious Muflulman)
was lately impaled here for having the au
dacity to prophecy that the\capital of the Otto
man empire would ere long change its mailer.
The impriidence of the crew of a Venetian
ftlip had laiely nearly caused the death of their
Captain. In firing the usual salute, on passing
the walls of the Seraglio, the crew forgot that
the guns were loaded with balls, which not only
alarmed those within the walls, but also damaged
some of the buildings. The Sultan was so exas
perated, that he demanded the head of the Cap
tain, and, but for the interposition of the Dra
goman, who is a great friend to the Venetian
Ambassador, the Captain would have been be
headed. However the matter having been ex
plained, he was pardoned ; but on condition of
remaining under an arrest for some time in th»
Ambaflador's hotel.
BERLIN, April i£.
The Gommandeur Great Cross of the Order of
the Sword, Sir Sidney Smith, an officer of the
Royal Navy of England, arrived at Potsdam last
week, and was immediately admitted to a pri
vate conference with the King, to which he "was
introduced by the British Minifler.
P A R I S, April 28.
M. de la Fayette has at length yielded to the
reiterated solicitations of his fellow-citizens, and
resumed his former station of commander in
chief of the National Guards.
On Monday morning all the battalions appear
ed under arms, and waited on tlieir General to
teftify their joy and their gratitude ; these fen
ments were manifefted in a particular manner,
when M. de la Fayette appeared at the Place de
Greve, clothed in his uniform, and surrounded
by a guard. Men, women, children, old men,
all the croud surrounded him, seemed eager to
embrace, and actually clasped him in their arms !
At halt past one o clock on the fame day, n
grand dcputatiou ol the national guards, without
any didinclion of rank or military regulation as
to coin panics, marched lix a-breaft to wait on his
Majesty. Being arrived at the Tliuilleries, theymounted the great fiaircafe, and travel fed the
apartments till they arrived at his Majelly's ca
binet, in which the Monarch received them.
The General who was at their head, in a (hort
and apposite speech, informed hisMajefty ot the
attachment of the Parisian ariny, who in return
observed, " that the National Guards, who had
done so much for the accompli/hment of the re
solution, had nothing moie to do than togivean
example of obedience to the laws, and the con
ftiiution would then be fixed on a basis that would
render It immortal." The deputation then filed
off", before the King, making the walls of thcPa
lacerefound wirh " Vivt la Natien, ei vive It Ret."
A citizen soldier, on palfing before his Majesty,
exclaimed, " Sire voila vos veritables a:nis!" (be
hold your true friends, Sire!) bis Majeltv imme
diately replied with the rood lively emotion, "1
am convinced of ir."
The Grenadier Company of the battalion of
the Oratory have been discharged, and the Gre
nadier who firft urged the impropriety of the
King's receiving the Sacrament'from the hands
of a refraiftory Priest.
This intrepid citizen has Ilowever experienced
the patronage of the club called the Cordelieres.
■who have objected to the late oath taken by the
National Guards.
This circumstance, and that of the refractory
Clergy being permitted to hire, occupy, and
preach in the Hotel des Theatins, are the mod
undoubted proofs of the liberty now enjoyed
here, as in both these inflances, religious and po
litical fentirnents, however different froui those
of the people, are freely tolerated, and recal to
the memory of the clal'ical (tranger, who vifirs
Paris, those happy days which Rome enjoyed
an amiable and godlike Emperor, when
every citizen " might think what he pleased,
and fay what he thought."
NATIONAL ASSE MBIT, April 29.
Diftiirbances having lately taken place, from
some soldiers having attended one of the socie
ties known by the name of " Friends to the con
Aitution," whicii conduct was opposed by their
officers, the Aflembly palled the following de
cree—
" The National AlTembly decrees, Thar the
officers, subalterns, and soldiers of all descripti
ons, when not on du'y, may, like all other citi
zens, attend the societies which aflemble peace
ably in the towns in which thry are in garrison."
May 4. The fuhject of Avignon was once more
refunied, when after a long and warm debate,
upon the qtieftion being p*ir, whether Avignon
and the Comtat {hnnld or should not be annexed
to the French empire, it was determined by a
majonry of 487 to 316, that they Ihould not be
annexed to France.
May $. Two papers, of very great moment,
were this day read in the Aflembly. The firit, a
circular letter from the Emperor to the different
electors, dating; to them the fleps which had
been pursued by him as head of the Empire, in
relation tn the decrees of the National Aflembly,
which have been complained of as injnriojis to
the rights ofrhat part of the Germanic b'>dy in
Lorraineand Alsace. The intention ofthis letter
is stated to be, that the Germanic body may a
dopt the means which appear to them best suited
to obtain redress ofthe grievances complained of.
The other was a letter from M. Montmorin to
the Pope's Nuncio at Paris, Hating, " That his
Majefl v was much surprised at the answer of his
Holiness to the letter from his Majesty, an nounc
ing the recall of M. le Cardinal de Bernis
that his Majefly saw with astonishment, that the
P ;>? appeared to refufe receiving an Ambaflador
of K ance, who had taken, without reftrklion,
the r- h equired of all public officers—that his
Majeftv . an scarcely believe this to be the inten
tion of his Holiness, as it monlH br ak of all co;:-
neElian b-.tviem the Holy See and the French Moaar
—that no Ambaflador can be sent to his Holi
rief who has not taken the National Oath and
that if his Holiness pertifted in tliis, tlie dignity
ofthe nation, and that of his Majesty, would not
permit aNuncio from the Pope to remain at Paris."
Tne letter concludes, recommending to his
Holiness to weigh well the consequences which
may result from fnch conduct, and to bear in
mind that, whatever they may be, he will have
provoked them.
May 8. Oil a report by TNI. Viellard, the Af
femhlv give orders, that the extraordinary Bank
fnonld pay the film of four millions, as acom
penfiiion to those peiTons who have been losers
by the foppreflLm of offices.
May 9. M. d'Andre was eleCled PrefiJeiu
LONDON, May 13
Tc even pretended to be concealed, that
trie a'i r -er of the Empress is hostile. She laid,
that lh'> should lament the r.ece!fiiy of going to
war with England, and her allies ; but (he cer
tainly would proceed in the unprovoked war in
which fhc was involved with the Turk-, until she
brought then) to the moderate and jnft conditi
ons {he had already offered 'hem, and from which
no foreign interference fliould make her abate.
Ycfterdav a Cabinet Council was held, at which
all the Minifies afliftcd. The answer oi the Em
prels was probablv rhe object of their delibera
tion.—They fat till half patt three o'clock, and
the lefult was sent up to the King.
Whether.the divilion of Burke and rox, may
produce any fchifin in the party ; whether any
of that noble and opulent Ariltocracy who com
pose it, may participate the alarms and refent
inents of Mr- Burke, may be a matter of much
fpecularion. If conjecture be adrmffible, ir seems
more likely that the Apostle of Despotism will
be left alone. The rational fiends ot Anflo
cracy will regard him as too intemperate and in
difcrcet for a Leader: they will confuler all fear
of convulsions in England as the dread of events
certainly remote, and perhaps visionary, and if
they think the danger real, they must fee the
wretched policy of Mr. Bu'ke, who accelerates
its progress by conferring on its promoters pre
mature importance. And above all, they will
fee that their desertion of Mr. Fox will only be
unfettering his mind; and transferring a great
Leader from a Faction to rhe People.
They dread those difcuifion-s which the indis
cretion of Mr. Burke perpetually provokes. They
are conscious of the feeblenefs to which the 10l
of their Leader would reduce them, and they
must tremble 'at the measure to which Mr. Fox,
unshackled with party, might be impelled at so
critical a moment, by the energy of his own vir
tuous and enlightened mind.
Letters from Stockholm mention, that the Ruf
fian Minister had delivered a declaration to the
King of Sw eden, intimating, that if he allowed
the Englifii ships of war to enter his ports, L
would be considered by the Empress as a declara
tion of war. To which his Majesty replied, thrr
he (hould observe a Uriel neutrality, by allowing
both Englifii and Ruffian veflels to come in ant!
go out of his harbours at their pleasure.
The trial of Mr. Hastings will be rpfumed 01
Monday or Tuesday, and Mr. St. John opens tlit
nexc charge.
It was reported yesterday, with some confi
dence, and very generally, that there had beer
a tumult at Condantinople, in which the Grand
yizir loft his head.
An exprels was yesterday received by a refpec
table merchant in this city, from Constantinople
which is reported to conrain the following in
porrnnt intelligence relative to that capital :
Admiral Ribas, immediately after his defea
of the Otroman forces before Brailow, having v.
ken on board hk fqnadron a large detachnien
from the arhiv of Prince Repnin, failed to Kilia
nova, where having formed a junction with Ad
miral Suwarrow's fleet, he failed for Conllanti
nople, and taking advantage of the commotion
which prevailed within that city, landed his
troops at Pera, and took the place without refin
ance. At the time of theßuffian troops entering
Constantinople, the city was on fire in fifty dif
ferent parts.
The Ruffians have gained another vidtorv over
the Tnrks. Prince Gallitzin attacked the penin
fnla of Kurkpany, near Brailow, which he took,
after cutting to pieces the garrifoii, confiding of
four thousand Turks, and destroying 22 vessels.
It is aliened that the persons at Bristol, who
burnt Mr. Wilberforce in effigy, were none of the
■■efpif, able part of the inhabitants.—There surely
needs no ghost lo tell jis this ; —but where were
the refpetfablc pari of the city when such an in
famous outrage was perpetrating?
Late Dinners.—Mr. Pitc on being lately invited
: o dine with Lady Salisbury, at ten, politely
pleaded a previous engagement to sup with the
Chancellor—at nine.
The walking Stuart has set out for Falmouth,
where he is to take his pafl'ageon board the New-
York Packet for America. His intention is not
nonly to travel tiie civilized Provinces of that Co-
tinent, but to explore the mod hidden and inte
rior parts, where no European has ever ventured.
Several persons have been lately ordered to
quit Madrid, on suspicion of foine pplitical in
trigues; and among them the Duchess of San
teftevan, mother-in-law to the Duke de Medina
Celi.
A college, for the education of Roman Catho
lic 1 riefts, is building at 1 hurleSj in the county
of Tipperary. This will keep a deal of money
m Ireland, which would otherwise have been ex
pended abroad, and is occafinned by the diff'olu
ti°n of so many religious houses in France.
Extract ofa,letter from Brujfeh, April 2r
" The uniform of the French Counter-Revo.
Innon is {ported iivthis ci:y by many of the Re
fugee Aristocrats. A dark green coat with yel
low facings, and pantaloons, in theHuflar flyle
which, according to all appearance, will w ea ,'
ont before the opening of their campaign, there
being officers m plenty, bin no men."
Lately died, in the King's Bench Prison, af.er
(ix years connnement, Capt. Thomat Henry Abbot
of the Artillery, who ]tad diftingnifhed bimfelf
in alnioft every adlion of consequence latt war in
America.
98
May i 8
D U B L I N, Mat 2j.
t On the i-,th inilant, a riot happened at C
rick, which, in fpme time arrived at fucli a he! H
as rendered the interposition of the Police of h
place indispensable, in which thehi E h conftoli
Mr. Cofgrave, was unfortunately killed TV
.cause of the disturbance was as follows : __j l
town it Teems there is a spring loom, by *]!• l
one man is able to perform equal to four- th*
circumitance lias, for some time, been a matt
of jealousy to the people employed on the ord"
nary machines, from an idea that it wonld event
ally render a majority of them ulelef s ,to prevm
which they aflembled for the purpose of deftr
ing the new invention—a resolution that coufi
not but be attended with serious confeqoenct&-_
and in purfuitof which the above adtive mans 11
a facrifice to their rage.
Wednesday last the brig Two. Sifters, of Bour
deaux, Capt. Francis Renault, arrived at Paffa»
below Waterford, with a cargo of wines p] r'
printing-paper, &c. On coming to her birth jl'
the river, {he hoisted the new National Flag and
fired r? guns, which were nnfwered by everv
veflel that carried any swivels, except one
doner, who, though provided with eight four
pounders, took no manner of notice. The fla
is exceedingly elegant, being an alternate
ture of blue, .red and white, in three comrart
ments, interspersed with gold fleurs de lis, on a
jrround of white fattin. At the top is a crown
encircled by a wreath, round which are the words
" la Nation, la Loi, Je Roy," the Nation, the
T .aw, and the King. This is the firft, carrying
the reformed colours of France, that has arrived
at any Irish port since the revolution.
PLYMOUTH, April 27.
On Saturday last the Annual Silver Cop, given
■iy the right lion, the Earl of was run
for in Houghton Park, by ninety greyhounds
and won by Mr. Blyth, of Bircham Newton!
After the diversion, near ;oo persons were en
tertained with great hospitality, in the old En
";lifli style, by the noble Earl ; a.nongft those
present were, Sir Charles Davis, Mr. Coke, Col.
Orchard, Mr Call, and other Gentlemen of the
Hotife of Commons.
A bye march was nlfo run between Mrs. Cokf
and Lorrl Orford, which was won with oreat ease
by the Lady's g eyhound.
CHARLESTON (S.C.) July 7.
CAUTION TO MARINERS.
THE commissioners of Pilotage, for the bar of
Cbarlefton, give notice, that the lanthorn of the
' ight-honfe was, on the niglit of the firft instant,
•onfumed by fire, so that there can be no light
(bewn till the light-house is repaired.—Mariners
approaching the coatt, are therefore cautioned
ro g-'iard against the inconvenience of the want
of a light.
ALBANY, July 11.
We can allure the public with much fatisfacli
on that Judge Cooper (who may be considered
the oracle and fo % ul of Otfego County) has col
lected this season about 70,0001b. ofmaple Sugar,
which is brought to market in boxes after die
Spanifit manner, containing joolb. each—about
1 J,ooolb. is in cakes, the remainder is all grained
and equal to Muscovado. The last year, the
quantity this public spirited gentleman collected
was only 20,0001b.
N E W-Y O R K, July 21.
\<{lrraay an enierta'nment was given bv the Members of t!ie
New-York Chamber ot Commerce, to ALEXANDER HAMIL
TON, Enquire, Secretary of the Treasury "t the United States; at
which a number of patriotic toalls were drank.
fROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
TO GEORCIA PLANTERS.
A Paragraph from Georgia has lately made its
appearance in several papers* ; in which the
writer intimates that a treatifeon the cultivation
of the vine would be a very ufefnl addition to
the stock of agricultural information, especially
to the southward.—A cori efpondent who is per
fectly acquainted with the practice as well as
theory of the vine culture, proposes, if fufficient
encouragement is held out by the southern far
mers collectively, to furnifh them with a com
pleat account of the several modes of culture ufcd
in Burgundy and other parts of France, in every
different kind of foil. If such a subscription can
be railed as would prove a reafonablecompenfa
tion for his trouble, he proposes to devote his
whole time and attention ro the fnbjecfi; and his
experience, he conceives, will enable him ro'givf
such accurate and minire information, as would
nvove a fufficient guide to fuch'as choose to un
dertake to cultivate flie native vine ; which, from
the info rmation he has been able to colletft since
his residence in this country, if properly done,
he thinks could not fail of success.
Communications for ourcorrefpondent,tliretH
ed to D. P. and left nt the office of the Gcireial
Advertiser, will be delivered to him.
* Or'.r; mil: ••-i t \(', , - tTT F of the Vn'ittd StaTs'Philadelphia, July 25.
Eur ope an Intelligence has been i eceived to the
26th of May, by the Hope, Capt. Makins, from
Ireland—by which we learn, That a great and
important revolution 1,1 favour of the Rights of
Man, under the auspices of the King, has taken
p.ace in 1 oland—the condition of the peafantrv
of that country, which was degrading to the
lowed degree, ,5 greatly altered for the better:
.his is conhdered as a prelude to a more perfect
confhtntion —1 he Court of Denmark has repeat
ed its declaration of a determined neutrality
In Brabant and Flanders, the public tranquility
>s perfectly established—The National A nimbly
having determined not to annex the Venaiffin to
their empire, the consequence will be, that the
Pope mult grant the people thereafree constitu
tion, hiie that of France—The celebrated Bifuop
of Autun has been excommunicated bv the Pope
-or the (pace of 40 days, if he does not in the
mean time return to his duty—The Duke of
I-.edf 01 cl ?s cholen chairman of the Whig-Club in
London—l he Portuguese are making <neat im
provements in .he culture of hemp and flax—
I he faflnon for the ladies in Paris, is to divide
the hair on the middle of the forehead, and comb
it down smooth without the least friz on each fide
oi the face. Among other nominations to fill
the vacancy in the department of Secretary of
State, Mr. ilaftings has actually been mentioned.
— Sir Sidney Smith is superintending the con
urn ft 1011 of a flotilla for the King of Prussia to
be opposed to that of the Prince de Naflhu. The
answer of the Empress to the English Minister
it is said without reserve, is hoilile—and the
rneafurcs purftied by Great-Britain appear to be
founded on an expecftation of war—Some very
plain advice has recently been given to the Queen
of France, in which it is observed, that "in che
lifhing the illusions of an expiring party, you
will only prolong your own torment; it will be
much better for you to abjure them in an au
thentic and sincere manner." Tbefe obferva
uons, in conjunction with a letter to the National
Allembly, and another to the foreign Ministers
which were lately communicated by the King, if
there is any meaning in words, or honor in the
human heart, will convince the Queen that any
machinations again ft the re volution must iflhe in
total defeat and difappoi ntment. Great con-
Anions continue to prevail in Constantinople—
I be Sultan it is said has lately caused a whole
company of Ja.ni(laries, who appeared inclined
to revolt u , be put to death. The exceflive
dearnefs 0, provihon is said to be the principal
cause of all these commotions.
By the Ruby, Capt. Rich, arrived at Bolton
iiom Calcutta, accounts are received from India
to the 27 rh of January— On the 14th of Decem
*L. ort - Corn wall is arrived at Madras, after a
pallage of 6 days from Cakutta.—The paper of
the 27th of January mentions that his Lord/hip
! t() J oin f ' le combined army, confining
of Engl, (h troops and the auxiliaries of the native
rinces, at Arnie, immediately on the arrival
ol reinforcements and (tores from Bengal. Some
tmpleafant occurrences had happened." The Na
bob of Arcot's troops which were appointed to
escort the Governor General to the Array, had
mutinied aird refilled to g->, under the plea of
rtieir pay being mucli in arrears but the foi
led exertions of the NaWs son, quelled the
J'.utinj, with a body of troops under his corn
wand ; he was fevereJy wounded in the conflict.
. "° oflicers of high rank in the combined army,
' L vns were at variance ; and the deci
ion of their difference had been referred to fu
pieme authority. Die molt flatteringexpectati
ons of f.uccefs \\ere formed by a knowledge of
the military fkil] and intrepidity of Cornwallis.
Tippoo lias ever cautionfly avoided a pitched
VJl'"?' a ppears to have entertained the Bri
t'J io:ces, and led them about wherever they
follow him. In the march of an army,
plunder, rapine, cruelties various in their forms
as they are deteflabie in their nature, will be
t.ie neceflhry attendants. To narrate the loss of
*•' r> e Sc l l ; °^ s I>ll '° Penang, or an aflaffinatioii
of Bullocks in Falehaudcherry, would neither in
form nor entertain our readers; we therefore
paf< on to fay, that the only consequential blow
.ck by the combined army, was at Cananore
which surrendered to General Abercrotnbie on
the 17th of December.
' ,e Grand and Centre Arifues formed a junc
tion on the 17th of November. They linci not
been able to bring the Alexander of the Rati to
"Pen warfare. The conduct of General Mea
dows was generally ceiifured—and the inhabi
tants of this war-defo!ated country, look forward
with pleasure to his being superseded.
The several native Princes in alliance with
England, furniflied large bodies of well disci
p'ined Cavalry ; and a numerous Infantry, not
entitled to nujcb encomium. Scarcity of money
a general complaint,: An unhealthy season
universally iC lt : A failure of the Cotton Crop-,
in Bombay, pretty fully demonstrated and a
variety of other unfortunate circnmftances ap
pear to attend this unhappy people.
Frcjf!) diflnrbancps in St. Domingo.
Captain Davis of the Brig Hetty. who arrived
at this port on Monday lalt from Cape-Francois,
which place he left the 7th inrt. Informs, that
this nio'nth, the Governor neceived
o.hcial information, that tjie National Aflembly
patted a decree, which gave to the free ne
groes and mnlnttoes in their colonies equal rights
with the other inhabitants..
I he Governor on the 4th of July, by Procla
mation, made public this intelligence, which
created great dillurbance in the colony.
The Provincial Aflembly met, protested a
gainlt the decree of the iNational Aflembly, de
termined to oppose the execution of it, and re
r!r- eti t0 n '^ ers Plenipotentiary to the
different European Courts, inviting their allilt
ance to render their oppofitioli effectual.
We are aflurpd from good authority, that the
extract of a letter from Pittfburg, published in
the American Daily Advertiser of yesterday, re
lative to the Cornplanter's Indians having taken
up the hatchet against the United States, is ut
terly groundless.
Major-General Butler received letters from
Fort F'aankhn, the originals of which arenow in
, ~c ' t yA < | omainin g fre l> evidence of the friend
ly diipofition of the Cornplanter and his parry
and of the peaceable disposition in general of the
Five Nations, the Chiefs of which, are now or
yery lately have been holding a treaty with Col.
Pickering, at the Painted Port, on the Tioga
branch of the Sufquchannah.
The apprehension of danger from the intro
dtuition of an infectious disorder into this Coin
monweaith by veflels from Ireland, having fub
hded ; the Governor has diretfed, that the pilots
011 ™ not detain veflels arriving from thence, in
any other manner than is required by their usual
inttrutfiions as heretofore given agreeable to law.
On a request fiom the inipedorsof tlieprifon
the reverend clergy of the refpeiftive denomina
tions in the city and ftiburbshave agreed to preach
in the jail once every week, viz. on Sundays
when it is confident with their parochial duty •
otherwise on Mondays. Accordingly service has
been performed for three Sundays; and will be
to-morrow, at half o'clock in the morn
ings A very falnrary effecft may reasonably be
expected from this co-operation of religion with
jurt and mild laws. Indeed these are but feeble
correctives and restoratives without the divine
power of the fears and hopes of true religion.
According to a schedule taken under the di
retfion of the Marshal of the Diftricl of New-
York,purfuant to a law oftheUnion that State con
tains three hundred and fixty-five thousand three
hundred and twenty-seven inhabitants. '
The State of Maryland, agreeable to the cen
sus taken as above, is found to contain three
hundred and twenty thousand, four hundred and
seventy-eight inhabitants.
At the celebration of Independence at Dover
Delaware, the Town-House, in which an eleeain
dinner was provided, was decorated with fieures
emblematical ps the occasion. Upon the right
hand pillar at the head was to be seen the por
trait of his Excellency the President of the United
States, with a conflellation of liars ; at his feet
Jufhce with the sword and balance, and Fame
with a trumpet ; Minerva at the head, crowning
him with laurels, and Apollo playing on the lyre
motto.
Lcng may lie live, bid emulation rife,
Late (ink in death, and meet his native fries
On the left hand pillar was a portrait of the
\/jce-Prefident of the United States.
motto
F.ccc amicus verus patrise.
Behold the true friend of his country
On the right hand pillar, at the lower end of
the hall, was preiented the bull of the late Dr
Franklin whose political and literary abilities
have endeared his memory in the breaß of Eu
ropeans as well as his native countrymen.
motto.
" Fuhr,e "' Eripuit Coelo, Sceptrumque Tyrannis."
On .the left hand pillar was difplaved a portrait
ot Major-General Warren, encircled with ween
ing willows. '
MOTTO
" Adorn d with honors in his native shore,
Silent lie deeps and hears of wars no more'."
So falls the vi£tor,.in the martial ftrife,
'J'he coward lives Iris punifnmera is life
COM MUNICATIONS
Many of the Indian flories in the newspaper
are totally void of foundation, and the reft:'are
preatly exaggerated misrepresentations Those
r. ~ " .1 . a ° 4arl,l! . cs f ro . m ti,ree r ° fevc » thot!fa,;<J
Indians, are entirely ignorapt of the whole fub
jcu o Indian a,Fairs—the greatest nninber of Sa
vages that lias perhaps been collected since Brad
,<.ock s defeat, was with St. Ledger the last war,
99
-tnofe never amounted to more than ijoo-and
i? uppofed on good grounds that the whole
fincp r I rc that i,,vaded Geor s ia Ilot lo "S
iince, did not amount to more than 3 or 400.
In a daily paper of yesterday we are inform
r,n r u peec [o , f the Lord Lieutenant]
flowl the throne, candidly acknowledges iliac
excife-dntieg have not been able to reitrain in
Ireland the immoderate use of ardent (Wits
J he speech, however, as published in the " Ce
ntra/ Advertiser," contains noffuch intimation—
and all the papers printed in this city have in
formed us that Two Thousand Dram Shots
nave been fliut up in Dublin only,in consequence
of the Excise Law.
It is presumed that the account lately publifl 1 -
ed of the demolition of a distillery at the South,
ward, will turn out to be a mistake.
At a meeting of the American Philosophical
Society, on the xjth inft. the following gentle
men were elecfed members :
Mr. John Luzac, Profeflbr of the Greek Lan
guage 111 the Univeriity of Leyden.
John Nicholfon, Esq. Comptroller-General of
the State of Pennlylvania.
Andrew Rofs, M. D. of Philadelphia.
Benjamin Waterhoufe, M. D. Profeflbr of Me
dicine, in the University of Cambridge, Maffa
cliufetts.
John Penington, M. D.
Jphn Beckley, Esq. Clerk of the House of Re
presentatives of the United States.
Peter Stephen Dn Ponceau, Esq. Coufellor at
Law, Philadelphia'. *
M ednefday lad Don Joseph Ignacio df. Viar, Charee des
AHaires from the Court of Spain, and Don Joseph » e "| lb .
denes the CommiEoner latelv arrived from that Court, had tlm
honor of a private audience with the President of the Un r t ei>
to whom they were presented by Thomas Jefferson,
k ° Stale * Those gentlemen were formally received
by the PreHdem, as reprelentatives, charged with the affairs of his
Catholic Majefly.
1 ne Prcfident of the United State« has been pleased to appoint
William Rawle, Esq. of this City, Attorney of the United
States for the D.llntt of Pennlylvania—vice William Lewis, Efq
appointed Judge. 7
The remarks on a late circular letter, -would lead to a re
igious controversy, which we mean to avoid.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Nancy, Glenn,
Brig John, Belcher,
Ruby, Peoples,
Maria, Hopkins,
Sch'r Tryal, Vannemar,
Charming Sally, Davifmi,
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
'9/ '9/i pr.£
Jif
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defcred 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 18/'
Indents ~/•
N. and S. Carolina debts, 14/ irfc
Bank Subscriptions, J 5J
T TTt-r. ™ , ,„ A DVERTIS EME NT.
L rica be'ftTin ' C - ft G " man y in 1 749. and came to Am t .
u , • llv,n S' m3 y hear ot fomcihing to his ad
Philadelphia. y, ° g ° f ,he ° f *<>". in
July 20, 1791
TWPr ■rr PnuADELPHiA, 20th July, 1701.
Bank n' : ™ "PP° lntcd to ""'»<> Subscriptions to the
THOMAS WILLING, -
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Chaileftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
T the A fdlowin EßS ° f si " d Lottery P"fcnt to the Public
cHE M E
r r/v ,he Twentv-Second Claj 8 ,
ConGftwg O. 7000 Tickets, at Three Dollar each, 21 ,000
Dollars.
2500 Dolls, is a S oo
1000 1000
1500
1000
800
600
800
600
,560
480
B® 3 !
1 Prize of
t
!£
20
20
20
40
60
7°
80
2008
2 .335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
ft-5- Th° Amount, 21000
September" 5 commftice drawing on or belore ihe lftof
ami h3d ° f ' he fcveral Mana g c « CharMlown,
anil at the ufna! places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, C Managers
SAMI'KL SOLEY, \
Cliailcitor, May ?r ) j-g l# J
Hazard and Addoms,
<73' Market-Street,
T. CKJT. H. the above, and in the MaflTjchufetts Second
ShMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
Londonderry
Curracoa
Halifax
Boston
St. Thoma.v
Cape-Francois
95 pr. cent
55 no.
55' do.
90 do.
55 do.
48 Dollars,
(3 '■)
ioo are
5°
40
.i°
20
10
8
6
4
17872
3:28
Dedudlion,•A PRINTING APPARATUS compleat, and a
NEWS-PAPER ESTABLISHMENT.
ANY young Man, ot re fpeftable charadcr, capable ot conduct-
the PRINTING BUSINESS in its ditferent branches,
may have an opportunity ot engaging as a PAR TN fc-R, in a aigc
commercial town, where ihc present incomc and prolpccts are
highly flattering to those ot an industrious turn. A fmalJlum
will be requcitcd in hand, and further particulars explained in
person, by addrefling a line to Z. lownly, at ihc 13ar o e
Merchant* and Lxchangc Cotfcc-Houlc.
Pnilad. July 20, 1791
TAKENO T I C E.
THE Managers of the Newark Bridce Lottery will
begin paying ihe Prizes drawn in the tuft Class on Monday
the 11 ih of Jul) ,bv which time the Tickets in the Secon a.s
will be ready to deliver 10 applicant* agreeable
To accommodate holders of Tickets undrawn in the ir as.
the fame numbers in the Second Oafs will be lodged, i co "^'J l
ent, in the fame places where the fiift were fold, as loon as polhble,
and it not, such holders mufl apply to the Manager who l.gned
their Tickets. Such pel sons will plcafe to rake notice, that appli
cation for renewal in the Second Class mull be made belore the
i ith of August next.
JOHN N. CUMMING,)
JESSF. BALDWIN, Managers.
lOHN D. ALVKY, )
J - C **
Newark, June 27, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom thcfe prefcn s (hall come, or in any wife concern,
Thai TAMES GARDNER, late o( Wilmington, Norih-Carolina,
deceaied, did make four promilTory notes ayable to SAMI EL
JACKSON, of Philad- lphia, all bearing date the 19th
lulv, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months —one lor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and >ne for seven hundred and forty-five pounds ihir
teeu (hillings and threepence, in fifteen months,amounting 111 the
whole to two thousand five hupdeed and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen fhilling> and three-pencr, and payable in uroduce at W'l
minnon Which laid notes have been aOigned by the said Sa
muel ]acklon to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-um<
ef the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen (lul
ling, and fix-pence, 10 the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficieni vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as thev will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,S
ROBERT SCOTT, > Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, North-Carolina, iythMa , 1791
Ctonct-TowN, June 30, 1791.
THF. PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES having approv
ed Ihe Cues For the Public Buildings, to be erefled in purlo
ance of the a& of C for eftabliOiing the temporary and
permanent feat of g' vernment of the United States, the Com
m'fli'")neis, appointed in virtue of that ast, will meet at George-
Town, on Monday the seventeenth day ofO&ober next, and pro
ceed m iell, at Vendue, a number ot lots in the b<"it situations in
the Federal City A deposit of 8 per cent, will be required ; the
residue t> be secured on Bonds, with ft curity, payable in thrtc
equal vearly payments.—The farther terms will be made known
at the sale.
THOMAS JOHNSON, ")
DAVID STEWART, > Commiflioners.
DANIEL CARROL, )
War Department,
MAY 1,0, i 791-
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which thev are entitled
for fix months ot their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
17.91, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the laid day by the Commiflioners of the
Lo ms within the States refpe£lively,undL j r the usual regulations,viz.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifyiivg that the oerfon
poffefling the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B came before vie. one of the Juflices of the connty of in
the slate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pojjeffion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the slate to be recited) That he served (re
gime /, cor pi or vejfe!) at the time he was djabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe in invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, rrfidcs the certificate and Oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to thefollowing form:
I, A. B. of county of flqte of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
m) frenfion for fix months, as an inv.'/id of the United States, from the
fourth dv of March, one thoufind seven hundred and and
ending the fourth, day of September of the fame year.
Signed and s ealed
in the presence of
IVitnifi'c!.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpedlive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prrfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of IVar,
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills oj Exchange negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on and all other
Bulinefs in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to die CuJlom-HouJe, S:ate-Street, BOSTON.
Publrfhrd. ;<nd c be fold bv the Editor, prire £rh of a Dollar,
TWENTY -SIX LETTERS,
On the most important Subje&s,
Refpefting the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the year 1780,
By the Vi e e-Pr estoe nt of the United States.
|Cl* <4 few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States, printed -with Notes, May hi hud of .the
Editor.
[4<]
of Ncw-Bruiifwick
(law 1m)
(e p. 3 m
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER.
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the righfof pub„(h,ng a PAPER, in -pute,
the fubforibers to which are hundred. 9 The
number ot its patrons is between fafficent quantity of lar
typesconfill of Bu RGtoiSy 1 ' ' idvantare. The situation
ger letter to display .dvert. e.nent. to a.g of a
,s in the interior part ot M aCHU 7 mi]es o( an cx .
populous and thriving commum y> Quality and size may
cellenr Paper-Mill, where eve y' 1 >, ron the
always be had on than the one offered
STST A?ery a.so accues fromthet fa,e ot
Blanks of all tindswhich are much used ,n the p
t rut^ dn,g bu
t,.,efs might be earned on in p ai ° his
For further particulars, enquire 0 J Third Streets Phi-
No. 69, High-Sireet, between Second and Ph.
ladelphia.
CONTRACT,
For ere&ing BRIDGES over the Hack, nsaok and P^ S * ,CK .
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the State ot
New-Jersey.
THE Commissioners appointed by an att of 'he legi ature o
I the state of New-Jerky, to erefl bridges over the Hackinuck
and Pa" rivers, hiving obtained the neeeflary ffurveys, ,rc
no ,v readv to receive proposals for performing < he < a ™ e - and
offrr the following conditions for the consideration oi such as may
t>c inclined to contrail
The situation of the bridge across <he Hackinfack river, will b
at one of,l he following stations, as (hall be hereafter determmec
"°rt. Cl At'the place where the present ferry is c(Ubli(lied, where
the width of the river is i44^f cct : . ,
Depth at the eastern (hore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western {hore, 8 11
Greatcft depth, 2 5 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called DouwsFeir),
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western fhorc 12
Greatest depth 35 ° ,
The situation of t! e bridgeacrofs the Paffaick river, will be a
one of the three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible. . _ . ,
ift. At the place where the present feny is eftaolifhcd, when
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore 9
Greatest depth 1 7
2d. At a place more westerly, callcd Beef-Point, where th<
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern ihore 11 feet,
Do. western Ihorc 4 finches,
Greatest depth 13 4 , .
3d. At a place still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, lr
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihore 4 tcet 5 inches,
Do. western (hore 10 8
Greatcft depth 15 H
The bridges are to be conftru&ed on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free paftage for vcftels with fix
t d standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as lhall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or biocks on
each fide of the entrance of such araiv, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid vefTels in pafling through. Also, one lamp on cach fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to lunnte, during
■he continuance of the lease.
The bridges ate to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as (hall render them perfeaiy substantial and secure in
.he opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a fufficient
height to prote£t them aga'.nft the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for carnage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for ballufti ades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluttrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the a6t.
The following are the terms which the commiflioners are au
thorrfed to offer to contra&ors :
A lcafe of the excJufive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths ot the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could pofliMy be obtained, the
attual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last part,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will confequeittly produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United Slates, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York, and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must necessarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads connected
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places (hail be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and ihecontra&s for erecting them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contra# on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the shortest period of lease for
which thev will undertake to erett the said bridges,together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL,
JOHN NEILSONI, |
ROBERT KEMBLE, Commi{Tioncrs
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHM PINTARD J
Newark, Stale of New-Jet fey, April it, 1791
ftST Blank Power, to rrceiye the Intcrrft, and for the transfer 0) tl■
principal of iuhlic debt, apeeaMe to the Rules efiMCei in the Trea
t!,?Edinr tm "" '' A!f ° Sla * h S° ral 'J {r, ' as to be fold bs
|Q- Tie price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per an,,
100
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strcet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
AND NEW-HAVEN
May 28, 1791
[Q3" All perlons concerned will be pleased to lake notice that the
following advertifcment has been varied from that publiihed in
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propohls will be received at the
otfkeofthe Secretary of the Tre. fury, until the fit ft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply ot all rations, which
may be required tor the u(e ot the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days in.
eluftve, at the places, and within the diftri£ls herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof Pcnn.
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntolh
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntolh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth ot the River Mutkingum.
Ar any placcor places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and attheTuf
earowas, and thencc over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, «t the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio,and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river oi the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
where
At anv place or places from the rapids ofthe 0hi0,40 the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabath to Post St. Vincennes,
at Post Sr. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the eafl fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky/and from Sandulky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any placeor places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prelq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any place or places,
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Mai got incluGvely.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, totheri-er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on thefaid river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beet, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whilVy,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of 10 0 rations.
Two pounds or (oap, f
One pound of candles, }
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
f om the firft day ot January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both davs inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of Massachu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
ire above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may he required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift dav of January to the 3ift day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftrifts herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. ]ohn Smith.
At the Dost on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Capt.
Jofcph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At ?ny other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
mav hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future polrs.
The rations are to be furniftied in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
fu mot ion of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned. . ,
It i« to be understood in each cafe, that all lofles sustained by t ic
depredations of the enem), orbv means of the troops of the I nite
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or e -
troved, on the depohtions of two or more creditable chara ers,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, ard the amount of the articles for w ic
ompenfation is claimed. .
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made cith c * oT( t n {
year, or fov two vears, as may appear eligible. Perlons 01 po c
to contrail will therefore confine their offers to one year, or t
may make their propositions so as to admit an elettion o t ie
term of two years. -
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of the above po s
aether, or feparatelv for Springfield, tor Weft-Point, lor 01 town?
and the feven'een places following it, and for the posts in Georgia*
;ind they mud fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt \ *)
ment.
1 w. 3m
Lottery Tickets,
To be had at the fame place.
(eptf)