PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SAFUR.DAYS iiv *. '' ■■■
—— ' ' ' No> 6 0' HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 66, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, December 14, 1791.
The SECRETARY oT STATE, t® whom was referred by the
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES, the Refol.nion of
■ Cotlgrefs, requeuing the President •' to cause an estimate to be
laid before Congress at their next foflion, of the Quantity and
Situation of the Lands not claimed by the Indians, nor granted
to, nor claimed by any Citizens of the United Slates, within the
Territory ceded to the United States, by the State of North-Ca
rolina, and within the Territory of the United States, North
west of the River Ohio," makes thereon the following
REPORT.
THE territory ceded by the date of North-Carolina to the ti
nned States, by deed bearing date the 25th day of February,
1790, is bounded as follows, to wit : Beginning in the boundary
between Virginia and North-Carolina, that is to fay, in the paral
lel of latitude 36J degrees north from the equator, cn the extreme
height of the Stone mountain, where the said boundary or paral
lel interfefts it, and running thence along the said extreme height
to the place where Wataugo river breaks through it ; thence a di
rect course to the top of the Yellow Mountain, where Blight's
road erodes the fame ; thence along the ridge of the said moun
tain between the waters of Doe river and the waters of Rock
creek, to the place where the road erodes the Iron Mountain
from thence along the extreme height of said mountain to where
Nolichuckey r ver runs through the fame ; thence to the top of
the Bald mountain ; thence along the extreme height of the said
mountain to the painted rock, on French Broad river ; thence a
long the highest ridge of the said mountain, to the place where it
is called the Great Iron or Smoaky mountain; thence alono- the
extreme height of the said mountain to the place where it is called
Unaka mountain, between the Indian towns of Cowee and Old
Chota ; thence along the main ridge of the said mountain, to the
southern boundary of the said state of North Carolina, that is to
fay, to the parallell of latitude 35 degrees north from the equator ;
thence weft wardly along the laid boundary or parallell, to the
middle of the river Miffifippi ; thence up the middle of the said
river to where it is interfered by the firft mentioned parallell of
365 degrees; thence along the said parallell to the beginning:
which tract of country is a degree and a half of latitude from north
to south, and about 360 miles, in general, from east to weft, as
nearly as may be estimated from iuch maps as exist of that coun
ty-
The Indians havingclaims within the said tract of country, are,
the Cheriikees and Chickafaws, whose boundaries are fettled by
the treaties of Hopewell, concluded with the Cherokees on the
28th djy of November, 1785, and with the Chickafaws, on the
10th day of January, 1786, and by the treaty of Holfton, conclud
ed with the Cherokees, July 2d, 1791. These treaties acknow
ledge to the said Indians all the lands westward and southward of
thefollnwing lines, to wit : beginning in the boundary between
South and North-Carolina, where the South-Carolina Indian
boundary flrikes the fame ; thence north to a point from which a
line is to be extended to the rirer Clinch, that (hall pass the Hol
fton, at the ridge which divides the waters running into Little Ri
ver from those running into the Tenneftee ; thence up the river
Clinch to Campbell's line, and along the fame to the top of the
Cumberland Mountain ; thence in a direst course towards the
Camberland River, where the Kentucky road erodes it, as far as
the Virginia line, or parallel! aforefaid, of degrees ; thence
weftwardly, or eaftwardly, as the cafe (hall be, along the said line
or parallell to the point thereof, which is due northeast from ano
ther point to be taken on the dividing ridge of Cumberland and
Duck Rivers, 40 miles from Nashville ; thence south weft to the
point 1a ft mentioned, on the fnid dividing ridge, and along the
said dividing ridge north weftwardly, to where it is interfered
by the said Virginia line, or parallell of degrees. So that
there remained to the Unued States, the right of pre-emption of
the lands westward and southward of the said lines, and the abso
lute right to thole northward thereof, that is to fay : to one parcel
to the eastward, some what triangular, comprehending the coun
ties of Sullivan and Washington, and parts of those of Greene and
Hawkins, running about 150 miles from east to weft, on the Vir
ginia boundary, as its base, and between 80 and 90 miles from
to south, where broadest ; and containing, as may be con
j"£hired, without pretending to accuracy, between seven and eight
thousand square miles, or about five millions of acres : And to one
other parcel to the westward, somewhat triangular also, compre
hending parts of the counties of Sumner, D jvidfon, and Term (fee,
the hafe whereof extends about 150 miles also, from east to weft,
on the fame Virginia line, and its height, from north to south, a
b°ut 55 miles, and so may comprehend abont four thousand
square miles, or upward s of two and a half millions of acres of
land.
Within these triangles, however, are the following claims of
citizens, reserved by the deed of ceflion, and confequentlp form
ing exceptions to the rights of the United States.
I. Appropriations by the State of North-Carolina,for their con
tinental and state officers and soldiers.
11. Grants and titles to grants vested in individuals by the laws
• f the state.
111. Entries made in Armstrong's office, under an ast of that
state, of 1783, for the redemption of specie and other certificates.
The claims covered by the ill reservation are,
ill. The bounties in land given by the said state of North-Ca
rolina, to their continental line, in addition to those given by
Congress; these were to be located within a diftrifcl bounded
northwardly by the Virginia line, and southwardly by a J:nepa-
Jallell thereto, and 55 miles diflant. Weftwardly, by the Ttn
"ellec, and eaftwardly by the meridian of the interfc&ion of the
Virginia line, and Cumberland River ; grants have accordingly
ilTued for 1,239,498 acres, and warrants for the further quantity
•' 1 >549,726 acre*, making together 2,739,224 acres.
It. is i<> be noted that the fouthweftein and southeastern angles
this diftrift, rooftituriug perhaps a fourth or fifth of the whole,
are south of the lines eftablilhed by the treaties of Hopewell and
Hollfon, and consequently in a country wherein the Indian title
acknowledged and guaranteed by the United States. No in
formation is received of the exact proportion of the locations made
within these angles. .
?d. Bounties in land to Evans's battalion, raiTed for state pur
poses. These were to be taken weft of Cumberland Mountain
I he locations are not yet made.
she second reservation covers the following c'aims.
1. Lands for the surveyor general's fees tor laying out the mili
tary bounties, to be located in the military siftn6fc. The grants
atready iffaed this account amount to 30,203 acres.
J. Giants to Isaac Shelby, Anthony Bledfoe, and Abfaiom Ta
tum, commissioners for laying out the military bounties ; and to
guards, chain carriers, markers, and huntei'3, who attended them,
already issued to the amount of 65,932 acres, located in the mili
tary diftrifi.
3. Entries in Washington county amounting to 746,362jacres ;
for 214.546J of which grants have already issued. Ot the re
maining acres, a considerable proportion were declared
»oid by the laws of the state, and were particularly excluded from
the cover of the reservation in the deed of ceflion, by this clause
in it, to wit—Provided, that nothing herein contained (hall ex
tend, or be construed to extend, to the making good any entrv or
entries, or any grant or grants, heretofoie declared void, by any
acl or afls of the general effembly of this slate. Still it is to be con
dertd, that many of thele pcrfons have fettled and improved the
lands, are willing, as is said, to comply with such conditions as
'"all be reqired of other purchasers, form a strong barrier on the
new frontier, acquired by the treaty of Holfton, and are, therefore,
objects meriting the conlideration of the legislature.
4. Entries in Sullivan county, amounting to 240,624 acres ; for
'73>33 2 acres of which grants have already issued ; o( the remain
ing entiies, many are certified void, and others understood to be
lapsed, or otherwifevoidable under the laws of the state.
5. Certain pre-emption rights, granted to the firft fettlersof Di
vidfon county, on Cumberland liver, amountingto 309,760 acres.
6. A grant of 200,000 acres to Richard Henderfon, and others,
on Powcl'i and Clinch's rivers, extendiug up Po Wei's river in a
breadth ps not less than 4 miles, and down Clinch's from their
junction in a breadth not less than 12 miles. A great part of this
is within the Indian territory.
Among the grants of the state now under recapitulation,as form
ing exceptions out of the absolute rights of the United States, are
not to be reckoned here two grants of 2,000 each to Alexander
1 lartin and David Wilson, adjacent to the lands allotted to the
officers and soldiers ; nor a grant of 25,000 acres on Duck river to
the late Major General Greene; because they are wholly within
the Indian territory, as acknowledged by the treaties of Hopewell
and Holfton.
The extent of the third reservation in favor of entries made in
Armstrong's office is not yet sntirely known, nor can be until the
20th ot December, 1792, the last day given for them :
the sum of certificates, however, which had been paid for thefewar
rants into the treasury of the ftate,before the 20th day of May, 1790,
reaches, in all probability, near to their whole amount: this was
373,6491. 6s. currency of that state, and at the price of lal. the
hundred acres,eflabhlhed by law,(hews that warrant* had issued for
3:73 6 >493 acres ; for 1,762,660 of these, grants have paffed,which
appear to have been located partly in the counties of Greene and
Hawkins, and partly in the country,from thence to the Miffifippi,
as divided into Eastern, Middle and Wefterri diftri&s. Almost
the whole of these locations are within the Indian territory : be
sides the warrants paid for as before mentioned, it is known that
there are some others outstanding and not paid ibr ; bun
there riectf not E£ Wken tmir account, payment of them has
been disputed on the ground, that the lands being within the In
dian territory, cannot now be delivered to the holders of the war
■"ants.
On a review of all the reservations, after making such conjectu
ral allowance as our information authorises, for the proportion'of
them, which may be wiiliin the Indian boundaries, it appears pro
bable theycoverall the ceded lands fufceptibleof culture,and clear
ed of the Indian title, that is to fay, all the habitable parts of the two
triangles beforementioned, excepting only the lands south of
French Broad, and Big Pigeon rivers. These were part of the
tra£t appropriated by the laws of the state to the use of the IndU
ans, whose title being purchased et the late treaty of Holfton, they
are now free to be disposed by the United States, and are proba
bly the only lands open to their disposal, within this southwestern
territory, which can excite the attention of purchasers. They are
supposed to amount to about 300,000 acres, and we are told that
300 families have already set down upon them without right or
licence. [remainder in our next.J
ON NEWSPAPERS.
DM AN ENGLISH PAPER.]
THE effedl produced by the newspapers, is so
prodigiously great, that it ought to be reck
oned as one of the moll important among the nu
merous causes, which have brought this country
to its present exalted and unrivalled fiiuation.
While the improvements of the.public roads, and
the creation of immense aquedutfts, have short
ened the laborious communication of real com
merce; while the universal confidence of fictiti
ous commerce has re'moved, in many cases, the
necelfity of such weighty communication in prac
tice, the news papers hnve given wings and light
to every thing. The value of all things is known
in all places ; private correfpotidence is shorten
ed, and sometimes made fuperfiuous ; diltances
are removed ; doubts are cleared up, and the fame
knowledge of every bargain, every offer, every
wilh, is diffafed with the fame certainty and clear
ness over the whole kingdom, as tlie petty tranf
atlions of a village are made known by the mo
notonous proclamation of a bell-man. So far
their operation extends as-to trade and the.real
concerns of life ; but when we confjder them in
a censorial capacity, we (hall be still more afto
niflied at their effet't. It is well known that a
censorial power is only nnorher word for public
opinion—it cannot exifl without it. When the
republic of Rome ended, the Emperors wilhed to
retain the censorship, and it was often revived,
but always without effect. Public opinion was.
corrupted ; shame had loft its bltifli ; rio person
feared it; and shame is the only real punifliment
of a censorial power: So that it is true, though
261
'fdjffid*
[Whole No. 274.]
miserably true, that beyond a certain line, just
in proportion as such a power is wanted, its au
thority is of no effe<ft. With us, however, it is
different. Publicity is th« censor of Great-Bri»
lain. The certainty that the proceedings of e
very individual, from tlie highefl to the lowest,
will be immediately tranfiuitted from one end ot
the country to the other, from Johnny Grot's hpufe
to the Ultima Thtile, keeps all the inhabitants,
with a coercion far ilronger than the law, from,
doing any thing which they would be afhame<i
to read themselves, or afraid that others ihould
hear.
It is true that this power may be, hgsbeen, and
must be, liable at times to considerable abuse ;
but this abuse has its remedy. The great varie
ty of the papers having separate intereftsand le
parare employers, often, by contradicting each
other, let mutual errors to rights; when these
errors are payable, they become of little conse
quence. If they be of a great and dangerous na
ture, the law is open, and it is now, upon expe
rience, not only open to hear, bur ready to punifk
whenever there is occasion. It is true that such
prosecutions are foinetiuies but poor fatisfa&ion
to the person complaining ; yet such a defect is
only one among the eviis our iuuaiion exposes
us to as individuals, which we each of us readily
hazard the chance of; having a much less flake
in that hazard, than we have in the general be
nefit, that results to us with certainty, as mem
bers of the community to whose pi ofperity these >
papers contribute so much, and could not do so,
but with this abuse as incidental to their
It is certainly incumbent upon news-papers, for
their own fake, to avoid it as much as possible.
There is enough fa! volai'tlt, enough matter that
is piquante without it, and real wit never requires
a facrificc trom propriety or truth, to propitiate
its divinity. Accordingly we find, that however
some years ago the license of the press might be
complained of, when its liberty was new ; thjere
are at preient but few drawbacks on this head
from its general utility. Another good cohfe
quence, of the fame tendency, has followed tho
delivery of the newspapers from ineflengers and
secretaries. Persons of better talents, of better
education, and of a higher station in life, than
formerly, are induced to undertake an employ
ment, which by that delivery acquired a free
dom and independence that makes it equal to
any other department of writing, and renders
it a liberal and honorable, as well as lucrative,
engagement » from whence arises a security
againll its abuse, that gains ground every day,
and is mere operative than the strongest direc
tion of law ; namely, the conduiflor's own in
terest, in preserving the purity of his paper, by
facrificing which to the difreputatioD of another,,
he, in a much mora effectual manner, counteradis
his own.
I. O N D O N, September 30.
'TH HERE is hardly a kingdom or state on the
continent but prohibits the importation of
trench newspapers, upon the feverell penalties.
Thir tolly is almost equal to that of a certain an
cient Senate. Hcrojlratus had burnt the famous
temple of Diana, in order that his name might,
become immortal. The Senate were refolded to
disappoint his wish, and parted an edidl, that no
person under penalty of iuffering death, fliould
pronounce the name of Heroftratus.—Theconfe
quence is, that the incendiary's name lias taken
root in history, and will never be forgot.
M. Montniorin, the French Minister for Fo
reign Affairs, has formally notified to all the fo
reign courts, the King's acceptance of the Con
ftitutiou. None of the foreign courts have yet
thought proper to take any public notice of this
notification.
Nothing is a flronger proof of the general con
fidence in the (lability of the outline of the French
Conftirution, than the prices at which church and
crown lands have fold. From the commence
ment of the sales, the prices have been from
twenty-five so fifty years purchase, the average
about thirty ; and at present national property
cannot be bought at left than thirty-three years
purchase. The price may be either p/iid imme
diately or by regular installments in rfie course
of eleven years, but with five per cent, interest
on the balance till paid.
Monsieur Bougainville, the famons circumna
vigator, is appointed Minister of the French Ma*
rine.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, December 6, 1791.
IV COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
On the Ft/1 -Office Bill.
Mr. Sedgwick's motion under coupderation.
MR. STEELE said he would not take up the
time of the House in confiderina whether the
motion was conrti tutional or not; but he was appre
hensive it would he bui'thenfome to impofc the du
tyon the President, who must feel very itifugreea
bly to hear that after he had exerted his utlnoft
abilities togive fatisfatftion,difcontents had taken
place. He hoped the gentleman from N. York,
■who had hitherto fhevvn himfelf so fta tinch a
friend to the present Conrtitution, Would not «p
---pofe the diflufion of knowledge and information
amongst the people, upon an jdea of a supposed
deficiency in the revenue of the port-office, for
ir might very soon increase to a film more than
Sufficient ior the expences of the eftabiifliment.
Mr. Vining said that since this fubjecl had
been before the Jaft House, during the receis,
he had seen many lights thrown on ir, and he
was convinced that the members were as fully
competent to judge of the bufniefs as any one
wan could be : this he thought a fatfl not now
to be difptued, as well as that more fatisfadtton
would be given to the country in general. There
is no analogy between the United States and
Great-Britain, when the fubjectof the pod-roads
and poftroffices are to be considered : this coun
try, from its great extent and uncultivated state,
as well as from a thoufancl other causes, is not at
all similar to the situation of Great-Britain ;
therefore any attempt to imitate their regula
tions would be improper. With regard to the
regulation Heinggiven to the Prefident,two things
ffiould be coniidered ; to a good President it
would be burthen, to a bad President a danger
ous power of ' v abliihing offices and roads' 3 in
t liofe 'places only pro
incited, and removing others of long landing, in
order to hat-raft those he might fippofe inimical
to his ambitious views. The Conrtittuion has
certainly given us the power of eftab'lifliSng ports
and loads, and it is not even implied that it
ft on Id be transferred to the President—his pow
ers are well defined ; we create offices, and he
fills them with such persons as he approves of.
with the advice of tha Senare. Having thus far
slated his opinion, he said he would vote aoainfl
she amendment to the bill, and when the firlt
fetfion was got over he would propose a clause
to he inserted in the second fec r ti->n, which he
hoped would meet the ideas of the pentlenian
from New-York, viz. that the cross roads and
offices ffiould be so regulated as not to exceed
the forplulHge of the revenue of the general erta
blifhment. The doubt of the bill's not paffintr
'he Senate fficruld have no weight in his mind •
lie would rather fifty bills ffiould be loft than
ffirink from his trnrt ;w d lit hoped the House
of Repnefenraiives would ffioiv their fii'mnefs in
the present inrtance ; and if the Senate ffiould
afterwards reject the bill, they had done be
lore, let them be answerable for their own con
duit • rliey can do these things- more gtacefnlly
than this House, as they aTe not feerr in the acl
ivlr. Vining concluded bv dr R another ar
gument from that part of thefpeecfc of rhfe Pre
iidenr, art lie-opening of the present " session,
which refpeiSs the port-office and
w lerem lie !o warmly recommends it to'the
i-egiUatture to take tip the fubjetft : this jfxpref
.loll is as: trorig an argument an can prtffihly he
6iiduc*d>, Co ihew fhftt he had ho other c :I?cep
tion M the matter than that it was the peculiar
privjJegeof theLegiflinire.
Mr.. Barnwell was not forprifed that a divcrfi
tv of opinions fnoulcl prevail on such a fubietft •
but that there ffiould beany quertion
the court, T.tf.onahty of tlie amendment artonin,'-
v "'r 5 Ve '"- V nat,n ' al f ° fn mem
bers from the fame.State would differ in opinion,
and this fliewe'd the greater dtgiee of necessity
aiere was to vert the pawer in the hands of a
igh lefpsouhblft olhcer to det ermine the bnfinefs
ior by doing so, there would beliefs partiality ex
cited in the delineation of the roads, &c." But
if left to the House, it would be almofc imnoflible
o reconcile any line to all parties ; for the mem.
bers fi'oin each Stare would probably be guided
oy the principle of domestic convenience
(continued!)
than by a sense of jeneral good.—ln rfply to
Mr. Vinings argument, that it would be a bur
den to a good President, lie thought it would be
a pleasure to him to tender fer*ic£ to his coun
try. Upon the \Vhole, he was in favor of Mr.
Sedgwick's motion.
Mr. Gerry took a genera* view of moll of the
arguments in of the motion ; replied to
each ; and concluded by alkii.g why the com
mercial interest only fliould be accommodated,
and the inland inhabitant's excluded from the
advantage? of post-roads—why one claft of citi-
Zens fliould be preferred to another ? The dif
fnfion of knowledge and information is as jiecef
fary to one as the other ; and the revenue from
the poft-oriice, he had no doubt would inoeafe
from year to year,to defray the expcnce of ciie ad
ditional poll roads which are proposed in the bill.
•Mr. Steele defended the committee wh\i had
reported the bill, and explained the grounds 011
which they had proceeded in laying out rhe roads
for the general advantage of the Unite 1 States
rather than to accommodate a few trading ulaces
only 011 the sea coast ; and with regard to the
route to Charleston, to which Mr. Barnwell had
objected, he said it would canfe letters to arrive
there 4 or j days sooner than by the old rouie.
Mr. Benfon observed, that the conftitut(ona!
ity of the amendment js denied—and it is said
that the legislature alone is competent frf efta
blifhiug poft-offices and post-roadS ; nofivith
ftanding this there is not a single poll-office de
fignated by the bill ; much has been observed
refpe&ing the legislative and executive ptfwers,
and the committee are cautioned againfl' dele
gating the powers of the legislature to su
preme execnrive; without attempting a definition
of their powers, or determining their refp*<ftive
limits, which he conceived it was extremely diffi
cult t# do—he would only observe that taucli
raufl necefliuily be left to the discretion <f" the
legislature. He vtras very doubtful it
would ever be in the power of the House '
any bill that would give fatisfatfiion. Tjjiis he
spoke from experience ; for it had been often
tried in the old Congress, and was as often de
feated by the partial and local clauses projpofed
by the different members. For these rtafons
"he believed it would be better to delegate the
power, and let the regulations be made l?y the
President, than to be always enntling fjjppJe
mentary laws year after year, at the inftaiice of
individual nneipbers.
WEDNESDAY, December 7.
Mr. Ssdgwick's motion under conjideratien,
Mr. White observed that there was a n^ceffity
ll,e- jwofe.vt , hc
pott, and although gentlemen have said that in
formation on the fnbjettt cannot be so weOl ob
tained froni this House as from the executive, be
cause 110 one member knows all the roads,'yet
it mutt be allowed that every road is known t o
some of the members. The people of tha Uni
ted Stares have fuffered too long under the pre
sent eftabliffiment-486,000 inhabitants Jn the
western fide of the river Patowmac, in the State
of Virginia, are deprived of the benefit ofia pott
road : will any gentlemen fay, that nearly half
a million of persons shall not h.lve the privile e
of a pott-office, or the meajis of information ?
I He said he should not go into any lengil.y ob
[ fervations, as the fubje<Tr had been f„ f„1.
ly difcuHed yetterday. He then declared his
opinion that the House had aright to fend a pcr
fon to lay out the pott-roads, agreeably to their
directions, and therefore hoped the amendment
would be negatived, and that the bill w.,nld be
gone through wiib.with such reasonable amend
ments as might be fug'gefted.
Mr. Livermore said that gentlemen had drawn
arguments from the second clause of tiie i>ilJ be
fore it was yet tinder consideration, froijj which
they endeavored to prove an abfurdiry in the
nift clause, and thus take an uncandid advantage
of tiie liberality of the committee in leaving the
appointment of the deputy, pott-matte. s"a nd
branching offices to the Post-Master-General - If
however 1 here be any defeat in the second clause
it cau be amended when we come to it ; but to
attempt bringing forward this fedion as a bar
Co tine adoption ofthe,firtt, is an unfair mode of
rirotecdrftfo and ft ems as if intended to throw
the bill out at any rate. With regard t„ what
las been said of the 1 efponfibility of an high ex
ecutive officcr, he did not deny the wisdom and
integrity of the President, who would no doubt
condua tins as well as he had always done anv
ounrtefs coitinutted 10 - his care ; but this would
be a very troublefotne business to impose upon
him, and those who were defeous of doini "
were not acting a friendly pa, t. The conttitu!
"on has pointed out one certain mode for the
legislature to proceed in, and it is more proper
for the liotife to determine on the fubjectt than
any one man: let the experiment be made for
thiee years, or for ten years, and it wili always
be found ui cur power .0 amend the dcfens 'in
the fyttem as they aiife to our view.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
262
TvfOMD'AY, Dsce::snj
Read s report of the Secretary ofi'he Trea,o
ry, on the petition of George V/ebb la'e are
ceiver of conrinenral taxes i„ the ftat'e 0 f Viral"
n.a, praying compensation for fcfrvicei and
demnificat'on for a f.nn of public money', of which
he had been robbed.
Read, and reierred to the Secretary of the
'" ea ' l »7, t w " petitions ,rom a number cf the,
inhabitants of Northombfcrland County
the duty on (pints (liftiUed from articles the
growth of the United States_ B ffo ,he petition
Gilbert Dertcb, praying comprnf irion for Jot's
oltatned in contracts for tranfportina cioarbino
and military {lores during the iate war
A second petition from Charles Hatelcv was
read, and referred to the Secretary of Sta f e '
Several other petitions were read and referred
to the Secretary of War. . ,
The fallowing Me flags f.om she President of
the United States, wasprefentedby his Secretary
Mr. Lear. J '
United St'ates, Dec. r 2 , i 79 1.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Repefentatives,
IT is.with great concern that T communis fte
you the information received imm Mapr-Ctnerat St
Clair, of the misfortune- that has befallen the troops
under his command.
Although the national. Icfs is confid;r able, according
to the scale tf the event,yet it may be repaired Without
great difficulty , excepting as to the brave men who have '
fallen on the cccafon, and-who are a fthje.Ci of public
as well as private regret.
J further cc;nvinmcation v/n'l fjyortly be made of all«
such matters as shall be r:ece(fary to-'enable the Lcfif- "
lature to j,vdge_ of the future measures which it maybe
proper to s purjue.
[The Foregoing mefTage was accompanied with
three letters from General St. Clair— the two firft
dated Oct. 6, and Nov. i—thefe contain a derail
of the movements of the army from its leavlnp-
Fort-Washington, till the time of the action with
the enemy—the interesting of that
day are related in the third letter, which follows.]
Fort-lVafuwgton, Nov. p, 1791.
SIR,
YESTERDAY afternoon the remains oFthe
'army under my command got back .to this piace
and I have now the painful talk to give you an
account of as warm ?i;id unfortunate an atftion as
almost any that has been fought, in which every
corps was engaged and worsted, except, the firit
regiment—that had been detached open a Ser
vice I had the honor to inform yon of in my lad:
dispatch, and had not joined me.
On the 3d inft. the arm.y had reached a creek
about twelve yards wide, l the south
ward of weft, which I believe to We been the
river St. Mary, that empties itfelf into the Mia
mi, of the lake at the Miami village, about four
o'clock in the afternoon, having marched nenr
9 miies, and were immediately encamped upon a
very commanding piece of ground in two lines,
having the above mentioned creek in front. The
right wing conipofed of Butler's, Clarke's and
Patterfon s battalions, commanded by Major-Ge
neral Butler, formed the firft line, and the left
wing, consisting of Btfdinger's and Gaither's bat
talions, and the second regiment commanded by
Lieur. Colonel Darke, formed the second line,
with an interval between them of about seventy
yards, which was all the ground would allow.—
he right flank was prery well secured by the
creek, a steep bank and Faulkner's corps ; some
of the cavalry and their piquets covered the left
flank. Ihe militia were thrown over the creek,
and advanced about one quarter of a mile and en
camped in the fame order. '.There were a few
Indians who appeared on the oppofire fide of the
eieek, but fled with the uttnoft precipitation on
the advance of the militia. At this place, which
I judged ;o be about fifteen miles from the Miami
village,! had determined to thrownpa flight work,
the plan of which was concerted that evening
with Major Fergufon, wherein to have deposited
the men's knapsacks, and every thing else that ■
was not of absolute necessity, and to have moved
on to attack the enemy as soon as the firft regi
ment had come up ; but they did not permit'me
te execute either, for on the 4th, about half an
hour before sunrise, and when the men had been '
jult difiiiifled si •om the parade (for it was aeon
ftant pradlice to have them all under armsacon
fiderable time before day-light) an attack was
made upon the militia—thole gave way in a very
little time, and rushed into camp through Major
Butler's battalion, which, together with part of,
Clarke's, threw them into considerable disorder,
which,notwuhftanding the exertions of both,and
thole officers, was never altogether remedied, the
Indians following close at their heels. The fire,
however, of the firft line, checked them, but al
nioll instantly a very heavy attack began upon
that line, and in a few minutes it was extended
to the second likewise—the great weight of it "
was directed against the centre of each, where
the artillery was placed, and from whiclithemen
GEORGE WASHINGTONn'ere repeatedly clr'ven withgreat ftatrgliter
Finding no great efFecft from our lire, and corifu
fion beginning to spread from the great
of men who were falling in all quarters, it be
came neeeflary to try what could be done bv tilt
bayonet. Lieutenant Colonel Darke was accord -
jngly ordered to make a charge with part of the
second line, and ro turn the lefci'atii. .f the ere
my—this was executed vvitli great fpirit—ijiein
dians instantly gave way, and were driven b:.ck
tliree or four hundred yards ; but for want of a
foffieient number of rifle-men to poifue this ad
vantage, they soon returned, and the troops were
obliged to give back in their turn. At rbis mo
ment they had entered our camp by the Icftftr.rk,
having jmflied back the troops tint were posted
there. Another charge was made here bv |he
second regiment, Butler's and Clarke's battali
ons, with equal effect, and it was repeated seve
ral times, and al ways with success ; in all of them
many men were loft, and particularly tin
which, with so rhw troops, was a lois altogether
irremediable.—ln that just spoke of, tnsde.bv the
2 fl regiment, and Butler's battalion, Major But
ler was dangeronfly wounded, and every officer
of the fee Aid regiment fell, except three, one of
whom, Mr. Grewton, was fliot through the bodv.
Our artillery being now silenced, and all the poli
ce rs killed, except Capt. Ford, who was verv \Ud
ly wounded, and more than half of the arinyfral
len, being cut off from the road, it becajne i;«:ef
fary ro attempt rhe regaining it, and to in aJe a
retreat, if poilible—to this purpose the rertiflns
of the at my were formed, as well as circuinllan
res would admit, towards rhe right of the en
campment, from which by the way of the fecfend
line, another charge.was madejupon the-enemy,
as if with the design to turn their right flank, but,
in fa&, to gain the road. This was effected, and,
as soon as it was open, the militia rook along it,
followed by the troops, Major Clarke, with his
battalion, covering the rear. The retreat, in
these circuin (lances, was, you may be sure, a ve
ry precipitate one—it was, in facfr, a flight—The
camp and the artillery were abandoned ; but that
was unavoidable, for not an horse was left ajive,
to have drawn it off, had it otherwise been prac
ticable. But the most difgracefnl part of the bu
ness is, that the greatest part of the men threw
away their arms and accoutrements, even after
the ptirfnic, (which continued about four lailes)
had ceased. 1 found the road strewed with them
for many miles, but was not able to remedy it ;
for having had all my horses killed, and being
mounted upon one that could nor be pricked out
of a walk, I could nor get forward myfelf; and
the orders I sent forward, eitherto halt the front,
or to prevent the men frotn parting with their
arms, were unattended to.
Tli- rjcte continued quite to Fort-JeffeiTon,
29 miles, which was reached a little after fun
fetiing.
Tbe-a&ion began about half an hour before
fun-rife, and the retreat was attempted at half an
hour after nine o'clock.
I liave not yet been able to get returns of the
killed and wounded; but Majoi-Genernl Butler,
Lieut. Cel. Oldham of the militia, Major Fergus
Heart, and Major. Clarke, are auiong
the former. Col. Sargent, ray Adjutant-General,
Lieut. Col. Darke, Lieut. Col. Gibfon, Major
Butler, and the Viscount Malartie, who me
as an aia-de-carnp, are among the latter, apd a
gjreat number of captains and subalterns in both.
1 have now, Sir, fini/hed my melancholy tale—
a tale that will be felt sensibly by every one that
has sympathy for private distress, or for public
misfortune. !
I have nothing. Sir, to lay to the charge of the
troops but rheir want of discipline, which, from
the short tinpe they had been in service, it ; was
impoilible they fiiould have acquired, and which
rendered it very difficult, when they were thrbwn
into confufion, to reduce them again to 01 der,
and is one reason why the loss has fallen so bea
vily upon the officers, who (lid every thing in their
power to effetft it; neither were my own exer
tions wanting, but worn down with illness, and
fuffering under a painful disease, unable either
to mount or difmoiiTit an horse withoiit afliftance,
they were not so great as they otlierwife would,
and perhaps, to have been.—We tfere
Overpowered by nu>iibers ; but it is no more than
justice to observe, that though composed of so
many different species of trnops, the iitjmoft hai
tnony prevailed ihrotigh the whole army during
the campaign.
At Fort Jcfferfon, I found the firft regiment,
ha<l returned from the feVvicc
sent upon without either overtaking thede
fcrtefs, or meeting the convoys of proyilioni ]
a ni not certain, Sir, whether I ought to coniuler
the abfe nee of this regiment from the field of ac
tion fortunate, or otherwise—l incline to think
K w as fortunate ; for 1 very much doubt whether,
had itA>een in the adtion, the fortune of the day
turned : and, if it had not, thetrinmph
enemy would have been more complete,
"•"•nd the country would have begn destitute of
every means of defence. '
• akin* - v-w of the firuation of our br-jken tro/v-s at Fort
'terlon, and Hit there was no provisions in the Fort I called
UOOT> the heU.offi.cers, viz. Lieut. Col. Darke, Major Harnn wnck,
> ytn Zcigier and Major G.iither, together wiiii the Adjutant
tor their advice, what would be proper further to be
■'n and it ivas their unanimous opinion, thatthe addition ot the
'■it regiment, unbroken as ii war, did not put the army on lo re
°f I,|t a '"oting a. It was in the moiiiing, becaule a great part
, " u, " s nnw unaimed—that it had been then found unequal to
enemy ; and thould they come on, whit Ii was probable, would
'It ouiid so again—.That the tiaopscould not be thrown into the
fori, ooth because it was so small. and that ihere were no provi
)">"> in it That prowifions were known to be upon the road, at
i"i dill.inceof one, or at mod two matches—That theietore it
v> ould be proper to move. without lot's of tune, to meet the provi
sions, when lhein en might have the fooncr an opaortumty ot some
rcfieijipcnt, and than a proper detachment mj'ght be lent back
with it to have it. fafely deposited in the fort. This advice was
accepted, and the army put iii m jiiun again at to o'clock, and
marched al! night, and the fuccecdtng day met with a quantity of
Hour— part of it was diflributed immediately—part taken back 10
supply the army on the march to Fort-Hamitton, and the remain
der (about fifty horfe-loacjsj sent forward to Knrt-Jeffei son—the
uext clay a drove of cattle was met with for the lame place, and 1
■'ive information that both got in : The wounded w ho bad been
' It at that place, w ere ordered to be brought here by the return
horses.
1 have faid,Sir, in a former part of th'» letter, that we were
ovei powered by numbers : of that, hewever, 1 have no other evi
j ence than -the weight of the fire, which was always a most dead
ly one, and generally delivered from the ground, of the ene
my flic wing ihemft-ives on foot, except when they Were charged ;
and that in a few minutes our whole camp, which extended above
ihije hundred and fifty yaids in length, was entirely fuirounded
and attacked on all quarters.
The loss, Sir, the public has fufhined bv the fall of so many of
ficers, particularly general Butler«nd majqr FcrgufonJ cannot be
too much regretted ; but it is a ciicumftafice that will alleviate the
misfortune m some measure, that all of them fell moft.;gallantly,
Wing their duty. I have had very particular obligations to many
»l them, as well as to ihefurvivors, hut to none more than to co
lonel Sargent—He has difcharj-ed thtr various duties of his office
with zeal, with exaftrtefs and with intelligence, and on all occa
lions afforded me every afliflance in hit power, which I have also
experienced from my aid-de-camp, lieutenant Denny, and the
■ lc.ouut-.Malarrie, forved with me jn that itauon vo
lunteer.
With every sentiment of refp¥© and regard.
I have the honor to be, Sir, vout most obedient fervan
„ . ARTHUR St. CLAIR.
Ihc Honorable Major-Genera] Kno;:,
Secretary of War.
P. S. Some orders that had been given to Colonel Oldham ri
ver night,'and which were of much confcquence, -were not exe-.
cuied ; and some very material intelligence was communicated
by Captain Slough to' General Butler, in the course of the night
before the afbon, which was never imparted to me, nor did I
hear of it until after my arrival here.
I.ijl of the killed and wounded Officers in 'the Battle of the sth Koverrfrer
KILLED.
Major-General. Richard Butler.
L:eutirant-Co!onel Oldham. Kentucky militi*.
Majors, Fergufon, C,lSrk,' and Heart.
Captains. Bradtord, Phelon, Kirkwcod, Price, Van Sweyringen,
Tipton, Smiih, Purdy, Pratt, Guthrie,Cribbs, and Newman.
Lieutenants. Spear, Warren, Boyd, M'Math, Burgess, Kelfo,
Read, Little, Hopper, and Lickens.
Erjtgvs,
Cobb, Balcb, Chace, Turner, Wilson, Brooks, Beattv.
and Purdy.
Qjiart^y t oJ{err. Reynolds and Ward.
Adjutant, Andcifon.
■DefiOr. Grnffon,
WOUNDED.
Lieutevant-Cbfor.efs. Gibion, arid Darke.
Adjutant-General. Sargenr.
Major. Butler.
Captains. Doyle, Truman, Ford, Buchannen, Dark?, and Slough.
Lieutevauts. Greaton, Davidfon, De Butts, Puce, Morgan,
M"Cre&. Lvfleanci Thomplon.
Erijig w. Bines.
Adjutants. Whistler afnd Crawford.
The Vifcounl Maiartie, who acted as i a voluuteer Aid du Camp.
[The above Lift was forwarded by r-Mafter Hodsrdon
at Fort-Waihipgton, to the Secretary of War.J
The amendments proposed by the Senate t»the Reprefentatii
Bill were taken into conlideiatvon.
A motion to agreee to the fir It amendment, which is to encrea
the ratio from 30 to 33 thoufanci, occasioned a lengthy debrf
which continued till pall 3 o'clock, when an adjournment bein
called for, precluded any decision on the motion.
TUESDAY, Decfmcer 13,
ScvrrJ petitions were read and rcterred to the Sccre'avy at \l'a
A petition from j. F. proprietor or a gMs manu ac
tory in the State ot Maryland, praying the patronage of rhe go
vernment to his manufacture ; was rend and laid on the table.
A memorial ot the Illinois and Wjbafh land companies, was
presented by Mr. Hartley—read and referred to a feleft com-j
mittee, ccmltftmg of Meli'rs. Livermore, Fitzfimons and Clark. I
A ni-jffage was received trom t e President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear—communicating a plan of the city, laid
out as the permanent feat of the government of the United States.
A message from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed the
Hou'.e that they have palfed a bill lor the relief of David Cook
and Thomas Campbell, with amendments.
The amendments ol the Senate to the Representation bill, were
again taken into consideration—Aster foroe debate Jelpefting or
der—The House went into a committee of the wjjole, on thofej
alMndmtllls. i
A motion by Mr. Sedgwick, to amend
striking out one after the word DdjWlrc, for the puipofc of iq.
{erting two, induced a lengthy debate.
The question being at length taken, was negat/ved, twenty-om
members only riling in favor of ir.
The qiieilion for agreeing to the firft amendment of the Senate,
being then put, was negatived, 31 to 30.
The ottter amendment was mt-erly literal, and was agreed to.
The committee then rose and reported accordingly, and tb<
Hruiff adionrned.
N E W-Y O R K, December p.
On WedTiefday night lalt, about ten o'clock,
a most alarming fire broke out in the large work
fltop in John-it reet, belonging to Mr. Hallet,
Coach Maker, Broad Way, which entirely con
sumed the fame. By the united exertions of all
ranks of citizens, the Theatre (which caught
fire several times) and the adjoining buildings
were preferred. Fortunately no lives were lolt.
The person who exerted hiinfelf so much on the
top of the Theatre, was David Burgher of this
city.
263
Philadelphia, December 1-4.
to ndvevcifoment, riie lecfvftf on I'.arc nnd (
by the Hon. Jav.es Wi lso K , L. L. D. co/mtfcnccd* Uft Monday
evening, at the College in this City-. -The Le&wos of this Genth
man, last Winter, Were entenain-n,* arid inftr.n&ivf —Good re .w
sons may be fuggelVd why tho-fc of the pr-efcni T- ifoa may prove
more highly inteieftipe.
On Friday theo l '* mft. the Governo** t' ♦ met
Houles of the Leg>i future in the Senate V'bamlu *', and communi
cated his Speech, oil the bunneOj of t'We prefetit I*ftion.1*ftion. Anion'**
otherobjeOs contemplated in thrspeeh. was, the opening of the
navigation of the Sntouphlannah ; plan for rormtnga commnn -
cation by water, witrj few eafv places, - from the Ohio
to Lie rivers (particularly Delaware) 'sifting into the Atlantic
Oct<tn iiej£/<r iarion b<? -f w- 4- 'u .ilu-H Jirs ni Pennfvlv:no j and
Maryland for the rurpofe or uniting (he navigation of the Dela
waieand Chcfape 'kt: bays, and thereby, opening a new avenue
from thisptrt 10 the,ocean.
A Connc&icut paper inform*, that dtewa prize o*
10, coo dollars in t 1 Maffachiifects Lottery. It was the proptit-y
of the Commonwealth.
Of fh/- 68,664 neg'tocsthat have revolted in Hifpanioh, 30.000
mav be de«m«d, loil, Jirher by being actually kiHed, or besoming
wild in mountains to which there is no access,. The value of each
ofthefe negroes may He estimated at 2500 livres each,which makes
the whole loss in revolted negroes, 75,000,000 hvres.
Thelofe iocunefl from the deftruftion of 172 fujjar works,
plantation honfes, cattle, &c. See. is reckoned at 11 t,800,0c0 li-
vres.
The WTes in buildings, produce, and the cattle on 936 coffce
plantations, is livres.—Villages, cotton and indigo
plantations, and catife, buildings, &c. upon them, are cftimated
at 6,400,000 livres.
Total 10f5—324,600,000 livres.
» says a correspondent,
The benefits refultlrtg from general knowledge have been re
puted. The oppofc rr, of the m«ms oi learning for the po<ji *r dafs
of people have said, tha* you cfnnot male* rvery poor nan a good,
scholar : They aflc, what is gamed by Taking fmatterers learn
ing ; science they affirm, gains little, and labor lose* much—for
men who read muc t, w j}j _ Wf)F k little.—'Thev become difcrw
tented with their lot, and even if they could change it to then
own advantage, the ca'e would no; be mended, for others mull
b<* found to take their places. The drudgery of the world mull'
be done ; and it would be found a* hard on those who have it to
do as before learning was given them ; and harder, because they
would then know it to be drudgery.
These are plausible arguments in favor of ignoiance.—and such
as ignorance could not have suggested in its own defence; t's
thus that the Tons of science turn parricides agamft tire mother
whole milk has nouryftjed them.—»— The answer to this ungene
rous philofophv is not hard to be found : — Education is not re
commended inertly to make men book wife, but to extend the
comprehension of their minds—to increase their ideas, that ij to
fay, to increase their wisdom ; real wisdom can flo no harm ft ire
lv it will not make m;-n prefer idleness to indifftry, nor a va.o
ambition to thrift and-Aeadinefs even man humble calling. It
is true that the attempt to make them wiser may fometttnes fail,
and mav even make a k w morovaio, idle worthlcfs, thau it
they had been left to tfternfelvcs. The like charge may be Uived
against education in tlx; families of the wealth v, and indeed agaiDfti
any good institution whatever. It is plain that education has the
oppofitc tendency, which is a fufficienL answer to that part of th«
oration in favor of ignorance.
But why is it forgotten that a few instances of folly made
worse by teaching, are nothing compared with the mariv initan
ces of men made njorcfober virtuous and diligeiit t»y it. Add
to this that it is as likely to happen that an eminent genius fhafl
start up from the family of a poor man as of a rich one; one such
might benefit mankind more 4han education ever' cpft them.
Then give to all the means of knowledge, and leave it to nature
to mark out the differences between har children. The .light of
heaven is pleasant, would you pluck poor men's eyes oyt ? The
light of knowledge is no less foj and will you blind them? Thin
eltablifh schools, that is, ooen. the windows and k?t in the day
light. '
ExtYaß of a letter from the PoJ!-Maf!er at Hartford, to the Edityr,
ddted Dec ember d.
An extraordinary failure of your papers has happened, but
one having arrived thef« five posts.
" The fubferibers have ptiri with reluflance owing to the lufs
of former numbers, and thefc frequent disappointments."
Extratt of another letter to the Editor, from the Pojl-Majler at Mew.
Haven, dated December 5. i
"I am sorry to inform } »u thai the old complaint refp»ain°-
the conveyance of your rnptrs grows worse and worse.-, w'e have
1 eceived but one Dapcr in two weeks ; your cullomers here arc'
on the point of givingthem up. I) there not fom-i persons be
tween Pnilwdelphia and this town unjtiendly to vou, or to New-
Haven folks ? As the papers for thole beyond this town, come on
more regularly."
(£3™ The above are among the numerous letters which the E
d itor is constantly receiving on the fame fubje£f.
He would inform the iPoii-Mafters refpe&ivel y,that the names of
the tubfcribeis (or the Gauttj of the United States, have
beep principally colleflad and forwarded to him by the Puit-Mal
ters in various parts of cfie Union.
pit receipt of the abo, t letter., the Editor enquired at the port
office 111 this city, rcfpecfing the bulinefs, and was informed that
all the packets of the Gazette which had been lodged therein had
b -en forwarded, for their several drflinations— Punftualuy is'iuft
lyconitdered as the Jja/jof this business—the Editor has been un
remitted in his attention,to that point.
1 lie Icit-Malters of the Lnited States are in general, men of
liberal and enlightened romds—ihe Editor, tlio peVfonallv ac
quainted with but few of tli-m, has received innumerable inftan
#s of their attention and politer,eft-He foltchs a continuance of
their tnendfhip; and particularly that they would ficiK'tatethctr an!-
miffiorl of thole packets of the Gazette which are difpatchc-d liom
the Poft-Officeof this ci*y. Indeed it is extremely difficult to
conceive now an article cm be arretted 1.1 its progress to a omicular
deftinaiion, that ts once depofned in the mail port-manteau
Information refpeftinj. any tn,fling packets of the Giaette'oC
the Unitrd States will be thankfully rceeived.
(£3" The Kejponient till onr next
I
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SstCURITIES
FBINDED DEBT.
6 pr. C*nts i s f 2 2/1 pr./.
3 pr. Cents 12/io
Defered 6 pr. Centi tgfy
U.N'f'UNDKoIIF.HT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20/ 20/6 102& do
Indents 12/ x 2/6 621
Hank S'nbftnptions. .34 Dollars.
sJc'u.;'*.!. South Front-Street,
John MACPHkusoN will Lc&ur* on ASTRONOMY
T- ■. r"." 1 , F ecifc] ,V " tight o'clock.
Tickrts are fold by MS Poulfm, at the Library • Mr P.l r
i d^a h cT ,iC9ffCehoUfri fild "«**">•
J)ec.
r*s?
pr. cent,
65 do.
*>6$ do.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
December 13.—Dollars 10® Cents each,
ANCHORS pr. Ib. 7c 8c fitch, pr. bbL
Allum, tnglilh, pr.c. Pork, Burlington
Ditto, Koch pr. Jb. iic . Lower county
Afties, pot, per ton, god lccd Carolina
P«rl» m dl i od Peas Albany pr. bufi,
Arrack pr. gal!. id 33c id 6 7 c Pepper, pr. lb.
Brandy, common, id 11c Pimento
Cogniac id soc id 30c n „ ,
£razilctto,pr. ton. 3yd 33c 4Cd -J" ins ' P r ' f> 7 d 8d
Brick,, ;r.M. 37 3 \d 5 d ®! 0 P'-J" 3d
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id 88c id „" to P r ' box .4d
Dhio, pilot 3d6 lc £' c , e pr< T/ 2d /'~ C 2 i 93C
Ditto, small water 36c 40c oln pr.bbl. id33c zd6 7 c
Beer, American, in 1 . f J ama,ca P r - g all - 9°'
boi-pr.doz. bot. incl. J< d i oc ? I * ntl fi ua 87c
pr. bbl. id6 7 c 6 J Windward 73 c 7 7 e
«t f Oak pr.M feet, 9 d tod * j B"bado« 73 ,
g | Merch. pine i6d , 7 d L Country, N. E. sgc
Sap, do. 6d 50c yd Salt petre, pr. cwt. 13^33c iqd
0 N. Eng. nd SalTafras pr. ton 6d 8d
W (.Cedar 14d Shot 1 , 4 o^
The aleve are the Shallop prices •, j f German pr. lb. 9c
Jorthe Yard pt ices add id 33c w JEnglilh, bliftercd cwtiod
J''• H / American P r - 'on -.13d^ 3 c
Brimstone rolls pr.ewt. 3d 33c m ( Crowley's pr. fag 10d'(, 7 c
C Irish pr. bbl. Snake root pr. lb. 20c 41c
£3 a Boston 7 d 8J Soap, Brown 6^
CO (Country 6d 71i White 8c
gutter pr. lb. 16c Castile llc
" in kegs toe 12c Starch 7< .
W f®P fr - P r - ,b - 43c Snuff pr. doz. bot. 5 d 60c
5? W ax 53 c 5 6 ' Spermaceti, refined, 48c
■g Myrtle Wax 13c Sail cloth, English, "1
I Mould,tallow 13s No 1, per yard, J zßc
UI. Dipped ji c Boston, No. I. 00c
Cheese, Englilh, pr. lb. 19c No. 11. 29c
- Country Bcioc ——-Ruflia Ihceting, pr.p. 12a
Chocolate , s<; r Lump, pr. lb. 18c
Cinnamon id 40c 2d 67c at ; Loaf, finglc refined 2 5 c
C'ov" id 33 c "<j J Ditto, double do. 33c
Coal pr. bulhel 20c 22c 1 Havannah, white i6ci 7 c
pr. cwt. iod6 7 c lid 33c to Ditto, brown, 12c
Coffee pr. lb. 15c 16c LMufco.pr.cwt. 121/11A33C
Copperas pr.cwt. id6 7 c Spirits Turpentine p. g. qqc on
Cordage 7 d6 7 cßd (Allum pr. bulb. 24c
Cotton pr. Ib. 22c 30c o U
. Cui rants , 3C «! )Cad\z
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece 11 (/33c w (Lisbon 24c 26c
Ravens 8a? 93c yd 67c Ship build. W. O.*)
Feathers pr. Jb. 40c 44c frames p. ton, J 12< * 1 3^3c
S ax , , 10c Do. LO. 15J33C i6d6 7 c
Jlaxfeed pr. bu(h. goc 93c Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 4C(
yiour, Superfice, pr.bbl. $d Shingles, (h. p. M. 2d33c 2d 6 7
- Common, $d 67c Do. long drefled 12 di-idwi
Btirmiddlings,beft 13c Scantling,heart, 2q</qo<
n i ian J d 67C Sa P *dßJ6yc
——Sh.p-ftuff pr.cw. l* 1433 c f Pipe'pr. 1000 oca
J" tT „ ton ' 20d 3 W-O. hogrncad iQrf 33<
Gin, Holland, pf.cafe, > J R.O. do. iqafso<
"Do. pr. gall. , Boc £ I Lc °g'n 16c
~fue, pr. cwt. 20a 2id 33c % Barrel 10l
Ginger, whitcrace 7 d 7 a 33 c LHeading 2 6d6 ,
Ditto, common yd 20c f Otter, best pr. pie. 4^67,
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gc Minks 20c 40,
G-Jn.eng, 20c 24c Fox, grey 40c 8«j,
Gunpowder, can.; rcd 20(
non, pr q. c. J3" 4 a « Martins 24c „
Ditto, fine glazed 4d J Fishers oo C fa,
Wheat pr.buth 93 c97c « Bears g,
5! • 6oc Racoons 27c 60
2 P a , 1 ? zec Musk-rats 11c 20
S i nd , lan corn , | Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 3,,
U Rftn, 11 t /j L Deer, in hair zee 30,
Beit fnelled pr. lb. ic t r
.Buckwheat per bush. 40c T - a ;> N - 2 4S a l- P- bbl. 1,
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 120^146.67c T Caro >'n».3B g' ll - id3 3 cid6y.
American, pr. lb. 44C l c Tur pr. bbl. id 67c 2,
Herrings, pr.bbl. a d67c d f J ames best S 1 ' 60 '73<
Hides, raw pr. lb. qcuc o inferior 2^67^31
Hops 9yc ° - olcl id 6 7 i
Hogshead hoops, pr. M mii - £ a PP alj annock 50c 31
Indigo, French lb. id2ocido v R Colo.Maryland s rf33cß<
r Carolina 8
Irons, fad pr. ton, i 3 orf o v < i " f " d 4°'
fCaftings pr.'cwt. 3 4? c § r r"'
Bar pr. ton, Bod ° Car »)^ a , new ai ;c 3 ,
5 f Sheet 24< 173</33c [ P r " ib - 93'
1 Nail rods 73 gld J ? yf< i n lkm » 67.
Jank, pr. cwt. 4led W 1 'l oucllon E> s oc 93
Lird hogs pr . Ib. gc i OC * Congo, 43 , 5 0,
Lead tn pigs pr.c. 51/33 c7 e Tallow refined 34 ' 3&
"> bars 20C ""° w i retined 9 ,
Lead, white iodiod6 7 c P""-box, 13d 33c 6 7 ,
-red - 6d iO c6J6 7 c Vetdigreafe pr . lb. 47 c
Lather, foal pr. lb. 14c, 7 C2 OC Vermillion idooc id6 7 ,
1-ignum vit» p r . ton, $d6oc 6d Varnish,
logwood a 4 i f Madeira, pr.p. 106^200,
P > r V 7</ 33c 67c Lisbon 961/100,
Mackarel, best pr.bbl. g d Teneriffe, pr. gal. S ic6o
———rccond quality 6d 67c w 44 c 4 0,
l«j?i e pr " lb- iGctoc J Por f pr-p. 106J67C 120.
pr.f. 1 d 33 cid > Do. , n bottles.pr. doz. 4,
33'67c Claret £
Muftarrf pr ' g ,l 4 IC 45C Sherry pr. gall, goc idsc
Musta rd per ., b Byc Malaga »
Mahogany pr. foot, ,oc ,n n „
Nails, \adl2d and 20a' Z pr - ,b - , »7«
Niitmegs P r - lb. 8d2 3 c Q d, v Whale - bonc ' llogn gP r -Ib.i3c 3 0
'Linseed, pr . ga) l. 50C
" ,7 e , 87c COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
JJX'o pr. cafe, 2dc.ee n n 1 r ,
Best fwect in > 5 Bllls " f Change, London,
S <| flafks.pr.box < iod 458^67,
° -baskets , 2 bottles ,d M l "'/, 100 (6o>
Spermaceti pr. gall. 4 8 c 3 ° 0a J") fterl. 4 6i</ 33
rain 24c 27c Amsterdam, 60 days,
. 22c 28c pr. guilder, 4I
Sorter pr. callc $d g 0 days
Porter°Am°e n rica r n )° Z ' G °. Vernmcnt bills ;j ira «n at 1,
»r.doz. bot incl £ idqcidGcc „ y s P er 11 g u, 'ders, 4d 44
' France, qn da V<
IMPERIAL hyson, SOUCHONG, and BOHE,
Teas
refined sugars coffee, & SPICES,&C.&C.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. T 9>
Third-Street,belween Chefnut and Market Streets.
PER QUANTITY
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE ishereby given that the Bank of the United States
will be opened on Monday the sth infant.
Transfers of the fubferiptions to the flock of said Bank may
t-hen be made.
On Monday the 12th instant, deposits will be received, and on
Tuelday the 20th inllant, discounts may be made.
id 73 c 2d
12 d
n d
Zd 9 d
By order of the Prefidcnt and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, CafhiiT.
All Bills or Notes effered for Discount shall be delivered into
the Bank on Mondays or Wednesdays, the Discount shall be fet
tled on Tuefdaya and Thursdays, and (hall be reade known the
next Succeeding days.
44 c 47c
19c 20c
At a IHEETING of the DIRECTORS of the
BANK ok the UNITED STATES,
RESOLVED,.
THAI the payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of tire United States, confifling of Specie which will be
due on the fcveral Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made ct the rcfpe&ive Banksof Majfachufctts and Ncw-Yo)k.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, (hall, on or before the fuft Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Cafliier of the Bank of the United States, a Certifi
cate signed by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
shall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
established to the contrary notwithstanding
By order of the Prefidcnt and Dire&ors,
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Ncvembsr 22,1701
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United States
are hereby informed, that according to the flatule of mcor
poration, a general elcftion foi twenty.five Di re c tor s will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock in the'
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh feflion of the Rye-Laws the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to affembie in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day of
January next, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prcfident and Direflors,
JOH N K E A N, 'Caflier.
Second fundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
" Not more than three-fourths of the Directors in office, exclu
sive of the P.efident, (hall be eligible for the next fuccceding year
But the Director who (hall be Prefidentat the time of an e&tion'
may always be re-eleded." [epif]
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, oil C O MM ISS I O N bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. g;.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
LOTTERY TICKETS, '
To be had at the fame place.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland BUh of Exchange negotiated •'
Merchandize ol ail forts bought and fold on Commijfion, and all other
Bufmefs in the line ol a BroKer, tra.ifaaed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office next door to the Cnftom-Houfe
State-Street, BOSTON. ' 2m
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf
A ipeS ,_ of A and 4 ycars old bills of exchange Made'ira
W '" d ° sty ' he plpe ' h °g mead ° r
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
quarter WINE ° f qUal '' y ' by the ho SG*«d or
Three and 4 years old Lifton WINE, of a superior oualitv to
Sntit S y SCner " V tHC PipC ' qUarter C3fk ' ° r ldr S er
quan t i;"° ldCOniaCßßANDY ' by the '"ger
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He hasjuft received by the Pigou.Loxley, ma fter, from London
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE—And '
B r y l^, b r r^c rC ! Jry ' Ca P'- Stcvcns - from Dublin, a few boxes
of Info LINENS low priced and well aborted ; a few bales of
rea and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of tiie firft quality and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
STAVES aK ° '° d ' fp ° fe ° f ' 3 quantit >' of dre{rcd White Oak
He means to keep a eonftant supply of First Oualiiy Madeira
and Ltfbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to~favor him with
thctr custom, may be a (fin ed of being well trred.
SPIKFS ' H roa " h th e Winter and Spring, b uy undreOVd HAND
Lni ,i i•" Pi rcha(in R FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX anc
will give the higjieft price for them. 1 anc
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER »n,
lcccivcd ' and lo be difpoted of.
rhiJadelphia, November 16, 1791.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER
DriDl ,„„ PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBTof everydefcription,onC««»,^ fl „
0.. a ' 'he foljoynng rales:
cent. ' amoUDt »» at auction, „ e eigkth pcl
S» ?S„ p cS ,te fa,c or purcllafe, "j-w pcr «-•
a mourn' o'f* ?l 1 eVn t ere (I.' Lo^ percent, on the
oerf nSfCrS d, " n <M»'y-S*< <™,s per transfer
fidelity and di[batch " w ith punduafity^
in the public ltocks, to.ether a well eftabl.C/'co^r'"" 5
Hence throughout the United State, ,! u, , correfpon.
operations with peculiar '°
JOHN PINTARD,
Acw-York, No. 57, King-Strat.
03eitn 5 , 179,
264
December 5, 1791
JOHN KEAN, Cafkier.
(<*p 6w.)
BOULTING CLOTHS
Art extcnfive Aflo'tment, of very superior texture ,
.very branch of the bufmefs, jurt imported f.o.n Amfterdi m
and for Sale hy '
daniel tyson
No ; "4. South Front-Str EtT ; '
Where Millers and others mav always be f.inr.1,,,1 ...
Cloths, and large allowance made to those who purcfTafei' n
titles to (ell again. purchalein q uan .
Also for Sale, a Quantity of Particular
madeira wine
' mmCdialC UsC ' in P '"-'
. ■ I ' J ' | lawj m"I
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co
HAVE juftnnw opened their , ' i
south of Walnut-flreet Wharf, adjoining their New
whcie they have now made, and ready for sale, a nenrnl ,tr ~
meat of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD ,h"
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced F.nglifh wo.kmen, they wairant i« to br
equal in quality to any manufatlured in Europe, and at a reduced
pnee from the prime cofl of imported. caucea
They also continue t° manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of r .
above Faflortes, will be thankfully received, and evented nn\K
Ihorteft notice. " ine
», Wanted, mduftrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the siM
Mines, where conaant employ, rood wages, and' other encourage
men s will be given, means of conveyance being provided and
houses for their reception. 6 F oviaec, and
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosss Austin A- Cn
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above. ' msTIN& C °-
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. f
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pea h-Str eet,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
books,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, v. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plalo, Plutarch, Eufcbius, Soto.
1 n; m "' The < ,dorcr - Vir s !l . Horace, L.vy.Tacims, Pater.
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci.
ceronis. Biblia Jurni and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Mans"
Scapulae—Phavor 1 m Martinii — Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etvmo
logicon, Anhquit. Ecclef. Britannic®, See. ■
Jr' 9 - Pi " da , r - Cyrppadia, Bcntley's Horace, Terence and
Phaidrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Ciefer Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram Cluve
ru Geographic, Justinian Code, See.
el injra Homer, Anacreon, Ariltophanes, Longinus.
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poe.a; minores Gr. liberates, Fhalaril, vl
nouseditions of Horace, Virgil, Terence,aod Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Ucan, Martial, Clandian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Sallult, Curtius.Florus, Jiilhn, Val. Maximum, A. Gellius Hid
August. Scriptores, Engfijh and French Tranjlatwn, of Come of the
Classics, a great variety of Greek and Latin Srammars, Sec. &c.
~W ata '°B uef may be had of MelTrs. Rice & Co. Bonkfellcrs,
Market-street, or of ' JOHN CAREY.
Oilober 31. (eptf.)
TO BE SOLD,
And poffeflion given immediately,
That pleaiantly situated Farm
I 'Whereon the subscriber now lives.
T lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 3° meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
ot peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two (lory stone house
ana kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
111 e . Also, a smoke-house, work-shop, granary, wagoon
houfe; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and go feet long,°and
a goo ain, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing view's of Princeton, the neighbouring farm's, and Monmouth
hills. Any perlon inclining to purchase. may know the terms by
applying to the subscriber on the premises, or to Isaac Snowden.
No. 141, South Second-ftiect, Philadelphia.
Princeton, Oflober 10, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
r AST night was broke open the Storeof the fubferiber, at Bor.
dentown, and flolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; : small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped vest and
breeches two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
r° S *ii V Y co PP ers ' 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
ma 00 s; i box containing 447 real oflrich feathers, foroe of
t icm arge and elegant, and of different cojours; 2 barrels rye
mea , randed Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 lY? P a^ e ~^ oar^s - Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides. b
A reward o( Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
t te a ove property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
oars v. i 1 he given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
„ . JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jerky, Sept.'i, 1791. [eptfj
In the Press, and speedily will be published,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Colliding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of A mer ic a, and
parhculaiiy of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
*. ie P r ' ce to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
,or ™ ch Volume in Boards ;to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and feeond Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each fubfequeut one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
Subscriptions will be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Dob son, and Hazard 8c Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal BookfVllers
''' ' r " Philadelphia, November §, 1791.
Blank Powers to retcivtthe I ntcrffl, andfor the transfer cj the
principal of public debt, agreealle to the Rub rjiahli/ked in the Trea
sury Department : Also Blanks for a fir ads of tilefoldky
the Editor.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
['p atn j