PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 10HN F£NA'O, No. 69. HiiIU.STRF.ET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STRFETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6 1, of Vol. lII.] Saturday, November 26, 1791-
BY HIS EXCELLENCY
WILLIAM PATERSON, Esjuire,
Governor, Captain-General, and Commander in Chief in and over the
State of New- Jerjey, and territories thereunto belonging,
Uianceller, and Ordinary in theJame.
PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS it is, at all times, our duly to approach the
throne of Almighty God with gratitude and piaife, hut
more efpeciaily in teafons of national peace, plenty, and prospe
rity; I have,therefore, thought fit, by and with the advice and
consent of the Honourable the Privy Council, 10 alli ;n Thuifday
the eighthdav of December next, to be set apart and observed as
a day of PUBLIC THANKSGIVING and PRAYER for the
great and manifold mercies Conferred upon this land and people ;
and particularly for the abundant produce of the earth, during
the prefertt year, for the foirit of rnduftry, sobriety, and economy
wHich prevails ; for the liability and extenfton of our national
credit and commerce, for the progress of literature, arts and sci
ence and for the good order, peace and nlcnty, and the civil and
religious liberty wilh which we are blefTed. And alio, that we
may unite in our supplications, and humbly implore the Almighty
Ruler of the Universe, that he would be pleased to continue his
protcftion and goodness to this land and people, to fniilc upon
all Ichools and seminaries of learning, to promote agriculture, ina
nufaflures and commerce, to tlluminate and guide our publtc
councils, to hlefs our national and ftatc governments, to enable us
all to discharge our official, social and relative duties wilh dili
gence and fidelity, to eradicate prejudice,bigotry and superstition ;
to advance the interests of religion, and the knowledge and prac
tice of virtue ; and for this purpose to pour out his holy spirit on
all ministers of the gospel, and to spread the saving light thereof
to the nroft drftant parts of the earth.
Given under my hand and seal at arms, at Trenton, the
twenty-firft day of November, in the year of our Lord
one thousand leven hundred and ninety-one.
By his Excellency's command,
Bowes Reed, Sec'ry.
Copy of a letter from the King of France to the
National dffembly, accepting the Constitution
Gf.ntlemen,
I HAVE examined with attention the Conflitution which vou
prefer»ted me for acceptance. I accept it, and shall fee it exe
cuted This declaration would have been fumcicnt at another
time ; but at prefcnt I owe the interests of the nation and myfelf
an explanation of the motives that have induced this acceptance. —
from the beginning of my reign I have been desirous of reform
ing abuses, and in every ast of" government, have wished to be
guided b> public opinion. Various caufcs, among which the
fuuation of the finances when I came to the throne should be men
tioned, as also the immense expences unavoidably incurred for
the support of an honourable war, carried on tor a length of time,
without an increase of taxes, had a great difproponion
between the revenues and the expences ot the state.
Fully fcnfible of the enormity of the evil, I not only looked for
a remedy, but felt the neccflity of preventing its return. I con
ceived the design of establishing public felicity upon a firm foun
dation ; and tofubje£t to invariable rules even the authority which
I exerciled. I called around me the nation to execute this design.
In the course of events brought on by the revolution —my intenti
ons have never varied. When, alter having reformed the ancient
institutions, you began to substitute for them your firft works, 1
did not wait to give them tv.y aifent that the whole Constitution
should be known to me. I favored the establishment of parts be
fore I could judge of the whole ; and though disturbances which
have attended almost every ftcp of the revolution too often were
the causes of great grief to me, I always hoped that the law would
resume its vigor in the hands of its new depositaries, and that as
you drew towards a conclusion of your labours, every day would
reltore it that refpe£t, without which the people can neither be
free nor happy. I long perfilted in this hope ; my determination
Changed, when that hope left me.
Let every one call to recollection the time when I left Paris.
The Conflitution was nearly completed, and the authority of the
laws was diminiftiing. Public opinions, far from being fixed,
appeared to be more divided than ever. The least moderate opi
nions appeared alone to have weight. The licentiousness of the
press was at its height, and no authority was refpe£ted. I could
not obtain an acquaintance with the general will, when by looking
around I could fee nothing but the laws without weight and not
enforced : Then, I mud fay it, had vou presented the Constituti
on at that time to me, I should not have thought it the interest of
the people, the constant and only rule of my conduct, that I should
have accepted it.
I enteitaineo but one sentiment : I had in view but one design :
J wilhed to retire out of the reach of every party, and examine
what was really the wish of the nation. The motives that influ
enced my conduct, no longer cxift ; since the inconveniences and
evils which I then complained of have struck you as they did me.
You have shewn a desire to restore good order ; you have at
tended to the undisciplined state of the army ; you have seen the
necessity of putting a (top to the licentiousness of the press. In
the rcvifion of your work, you have placed among the laws several
articles which have been presented me as conllitntional decrees.
You have established a lepal mode of reviling the Conflitution.
At length the public wish is known to me ; I have f en it evi
denced in the attachment of the people to your work, and to a
monarchical form of government.
I therefore accept the Conftitucion, I promise to support it in
the kingdom, ro defend it a gain ft foreign violence, and to procure
its execution by all the means which it places within my power.
I declare, that convinced of the attachment of the great majority
of the people to the Couftitution, I gave up the right of concur
rence, which I had called for in this work, and that being respon
sible to the nation alone, no one has a lo complain ol this de
parture from my original requifuion.
I should how ever deviate from truth, if I said that I have per
ceived in the administrative and executive authority all the energy
lieceirary to put in motion, and preserve harmony in all the parts
of this wide extended empire : But since opinions areat this time
divided on this fubjeft, I consent that experience alone should be
Ihe judge. When 1 shall have put into action all the powers plac
ed in my hands, I can fuller no reproach, and the nation, whose
intcieft tiiould bed comlaui rule, will explain itfclfiu the manner
WILLIAM PATERSON.
laid down in the Constitution. But to strengthen liberty and the
Constitution, to promote the individual happiness of every French,
man, certain interests pofttively cail for the re-union of all our ef
forts. These interests are, refpedt for the laws, the le-eftabhlh
ment of good order, and the re-union of citizens.
At this time the Constitution being finally eftabliflied, French
men living under the fame laws should know no other enemies
than those who disregard them—Discord and anarchy—they are
our common enemies : I will oppose them with all my might.
It is impoitant that vou and your fucccftors should second my ef
forts with energy. Without attempting to controul thought, the
law prote&s equally all those whose a6hons are in conformity to
it. Let those whom fear of perfections and disturbances have
driven from their country, find, when they return, security and
tranquility: And to put an end to feuds, to foften the diftrefTes
which a great revolution always occasions, and, that the law ma)
from tins time command with full energy and be well executed,
let us consent to forget the past. Let accusations and prosecuti
ons, which took their rife in events which accompanied the revo
lution, die away, and let an universal reconciliation take place.
I make no mention of those who have been guided only by their
attachment for me : Is it pollibie that you fticuld deem them
guilty ?—With regard to those who, having been guilty of cxcefles
that involved nerfonal injuries, have drawn upon their heads the
vengeance of the laws, I prove to them, that lam King of all
Frenchmen.
P. S. I have thought, gentlemen, that I ought to pronounce my
solemn acceptance of the Constitution in the midst of the Repre
sentatives of the Nation, and on the Ipot where the Constitution
was framed ; I (hall therefore come to the National Assembly to
morrow at noon.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, SEPT. 13.
dfler the King hadfubfcribed the oath, the President made the following
jut'W/r o
INVETERATE abuses, which had long triumphed over the
good intentions of our best Kings, and which would still have con
tinued to defy the authority of the throne, kept France under op
preflion.
The National Aflembly, entrusted with the wishes, the rights
and power of the Deople, has, by the deftruffion of all abuses, r£-
established the solid foundation of public prosperity.
Sire, what the National Aflembly has decreed, is ratified by the
consent of the people : the molt complete execution in all the parts
of the empire attests the general assent. It defeats the weak,
schemes of those whom discontent has too long rendered blind to
their own interests. It protnifes to your Majesty, that you will no
longer wifli in vain for the happiness of the French.
The National Aflembly has nothing more to wish for on this
ever-memorable day, wherein you consummate, in the midst of
them, the most solemn engagement —the acceptation of the consti
tutional royalty. It is the attachment of the trench—it is their
confidence which confer upon you this pure and refpe&ful title to
the faireft crown in the universe * and that which secures it to you,
is, Sire, the inexhaustible authority of a Constitution freely de
creed : it is the invincible strength of a people, who has felt itfelf
worthy of liberty : it is the want of hereditary monarchy, which
will always be indifpenfible to luch a great nation.
When your Majesty, expefling from experience the light which
it will throw upon the pra£hcal results of the Constitution, pro
mi fes to maintain it within and to defend it agfiivjl enemies from with
out, the nation, relying on the justice of their rights, and on the
consciousness of their strength and courage, as well as on the car
ncftnefsof your co-operation, cannot fee any ground of alarm I rom
without, and will concur by its quiet confidence in the quick suc
cess of its internal government.
How great to our eyes, dear to our hearts, and how sublime
will appear in our history the cera of this regeneration, which gives
citizens to France—a country to the French ;to you as a king, a
title to greatness and glory, and to you, as a man, a new source of
enjoyment and new fandlions ot happiness!
The fill owing Address from the General Assembly of
St. Domingo, was read in the House of Represen
tatives 0/ the United States, on Monday lafl.
TO THE HONORABLE IMS CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES.
Gentlemen,
IN our letter of the 24 th of last August, you
received information of the misfortunes, which
had befallen the northern part of this flourjfhing
colony. Our whole force, though very limited,
has been levelled against the ravagers, who are
it waste ; and we have so far accomplish
ed our ends, as, if not to effect their total reduc
tion, at least to check the evil in its progress.
That unhappy cataflropbe forced the General
Assembly of the French part of Saint Domingo to
embrace every means of fafety, indispensable in
similar cases, and rendered necessary by the ur
gency of circumstances ; in consequence of which,
the flipping in general, and, among the reft,
the velfels belonging to your nation, have ex
perienced some little delay in their departure.
But, desirous of maintaining the union and har
mony, that subsist between France (of which we
conttitute a part) and your States—desirous also
of telHfying, as far as in their power, their
arateful acknowledgment of the generous servi
ces offered and rendered to the colony, by the
brave fubjecfts of the United States—the General
Assembly, in concert with the King's representa
tive have in the firft plate, set aside the Droit
d'Aubaine, in favor of such as might fall vie
tims to their own zeal and courage. The Aflem
bly would have wifbed to abolish it forever, and
to extend the exemptionstothe Americans inge
iH»p>l, b ' Jt tllis ob J e<rt k eln ° a conftitutio " al
241
answer.
[Whole No. 269-]
point, they intend to apply for it to the mother
country ; and we have not a doubt, that flie will
eagerly gratify our wiflies.
In the next place, having taken into consider*
ation the obstacles, experienced by Mr. Sylvanus
BoHrne your consul in this colony, to the regii
try of his credentials—obstacles, which were oc
casioned by certain formal defedis—the General
Aflembly haltened to remove them, and to give
orders that the said credentials ihould be regis
tered.
Finally, under the constant influence of those
principles of jultice and equity, which cement
the union between the two allied nations, and
desirous of corresponding with the views of
France, who will ever hold clear that memora
ble epoch, when {he saw permanent security given
to the unlimited freedom of a nation, that has
furniihed her with the glorious example, for the
recovery of her own rights so long misunderstood
— the General Aflembly have,in favor of the Ame
ricans, liaflened to take off the embargo, which
the unfortunate fituarion of affairs had obliged
them to lay on all vessels without diftin<ftion.
But 111 vain would the colony have recovered
her former tranquility, if the means of applying
a speedy remedy to the evil were not to be em
ployed. The General AiTembly have therefore
determined to fend to your body two new coni
milfioners, Meflrs. De Beauvois and Payan, who
ate provided with letters from the Aflenibly and
.the King's representative.
The General Afleiubly do not entertain a doubt,
that you will together with a favorable recep
tion to them, give your allent to the requisitions
which they are empowered,ro make of you, the
fucce<*s of which will undoubtedly extend its influ
ence to the commerce, which the fubje<fis of the
United States carry orr with this colony.
With this pleasing hope, we contemplate their
departure, and diretft them to the representa
tives of a generous nation, the friend and ally of
France since the year i 782, the period when
fully recovered her liberty.
t 1. 1 • *
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Yournioft obedient humble servant,
J. PONCIGNON, President.
Cape-Francois, Oflober 13, 1791.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY November iy, 1791.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
Debate on the Ratio of Representation,
(continued.)
MR. STEELE laid he should not have trou
bled the committee again if his observa
tions had not been dill or ted by the remarks
which had been made 011 them ; he hoped that
what he should offer on some of the opinions
which had fallen from gentlemen in opposition
to him would be received with that candoc.wiih
which he should deliver them. He profe&d to
be as warm a friend to the liberties of the peo
ple as any man, but he differed in his ideas ref
pe&ing the nieafures which would moil effectu
ally fecurethem; the prefentqueftion he thought
was not particularly interelting to the liberties
of the people, as the point of difference would,
not make a very great variation in that number
of the representative body which appeared to ba
the most eligible to the majority of the committee;
but tlie principle contended for, he conceived
had a very important afpetft on the (lability of
the government ; the fubje<st therefore should
be considered principally with refpedt to legisla
tion ; the great and efTential principles of which
he observed were involved in the difrulfion—and
here he thought that our own experience was the
bctl inttrutftor, for the examples quoted from
Great-Britain did not in his opinion apply to this
country in all refpeifts > the circumitances of the
people of the refpedive countries are efTentially
different.The States experiencing the dilßcnlties srifing
from numerous icprefcncative aflemblies have in
several inflances diininilhed them ; ihe eiuilefs
divisibility of power conlequen: on fiich numbers
had fully I'atisried the people that tile want of ref
ponliuility was the pernicious effect of a large
representation ; they ai e therefore reducing tin;fa
unwieldy bodies r.s fait as the) can.—Pcnnlyl
■»anra lie said, appeared to be far happier li;!ce
the redu&ion of its alleinbly.
A large fpheje of representation gave the peo
ple a fairer opportunity io felec't ilie belt cha
-1 a (ft .s ; i hey could exercise their own judgments
unbiased and uninfluenced ; the trull was great
er, which was conferred, and in proportion to
its magnitude would be the public lolicitude that
it fiould not be improperly delegated— beside.;
which, it is, said he, in.poliible in a large fpliere
of I epfclentation for candidates io piac'tice those
little arts, lo common at elections—nor can they
go round and take every little demagogue of the
cljftrii't \.y theljanJ to i'eenre his vote.
r_.ui opean examples had been recurred to,
he would mention one circomilance which con
firmed the jullice of hi? renrarks, those parts of
> ii cat-fii itain which are divided into the Urgeft
dittricrs, fend the Jin all elt number of represen
tatives, (ucli as London and the county of York
lhire, the latter tho containing more inhabitants
than the ancient dominion, fends .only two mem
bers to parliament—and the members of those
dilhitfts, it is remarkable, have always been the
ftaunchelt friends of the liberties of the people.
In noticing the remarks of Mr. Giles and Mr.
findley lie said, that the objert of reprefentarion
was different from that oi giving information to
their conftittients; legislation was their great
bunnefs—and not making up weekly iarge pack
ets to fend oft to the influential characters in the
dillricts which the members represented on tlie
floor oi that house. The people it is true have a
right to be informed of public measures, and it
is the indispensable duty of government to make
provihon for that purpose ; and this ought to be
done through the medium of the Poll-Office
this medium is the only competent one, as it
will open the way for that general information!
which is neceflary to the security, and to the li-
of the people.
With refpe<!t to security from corruption by
means of a numerous representation, he still re
tained i»is former opinion ;he did not antici
pate evils from that quarter.
He observed that in thp warmth of debate he
had before exprelfcd himfelf with rather more
zeal, than he wished he had ; but as lie thought
an undue degree of censure had been the con
sequence, it was become neceflary in foine mea
sure to julfify himfelf, by citing some examples
to (new what exceli'es a very numerous reprelen
tanve body may be guilty of. He then related
a fa eft which occurred in Virginia, the Legisla
ture of which on a certain time had acted In a
legislative executive and judicial capacity on
the fame occasion —he also inllanced a more re
cent i act in tlie fecellion from their duty, of a
conliderable body of the reprefenratives of I'enn
fylvania—thefe fatfts demonilrated that a nume
rous representative body was liable to a mob
bifli Spirit.
He next adverted particularly to some remarks
of Mr. Giles, and concluded by flying rliat if
the ratio is ac this time fixed at 30,000, it mud
hereafter be encreafed, in doing which, foiue se
rious difficulties may take place, Specially in re
fpec't to tliofe Hates whole number of repiefenta
tives piuft in that cafe be reduced—he thought
'fe bett therefore to agree at die piefeut
aTarger ratio.
Mr. Clark said he did not rife to trouble the
House with a lengthy difconrfe, for he had al
ways believed that long speeches answer no va
luabte purpose ; he meant only to offer a few re
marks had been said in oppofiiion to his
lormer obiervations, and he hoped, that althouwh
the gentlemen contend for the ratio of
the only basis whereon to found the liberties of
l || e^ eo P' e » "loiild not be ftigniaiized with
theljame of an ai iltocrat, for voting in favor of
a large ratio. Hitherto he had not borne that
chara<ster, and he could not suppose himfelf yet
in fed e#,~ onl ess he had caught the-diforder fitice
he became a member of the prtfent House. Much
had been said about the influence of the bank
and that bank direcloirs were members of the
Houle 0 f R ep| . e(e|Uatives . t)lebank he
public property, and therefore he could not fee
the fo.ee of the gentleman's arguments reflecting
he dangerous influence of that institution, uti
le s it was, that he was displeased at the diltri
°m ' ha !' es - so m^ ch the stock being
Ht l/ar r IO t he eastward ; and so
? C c .°™«S°cheque. 3n the fame predica
inent he viewed the other objection* refpeL<lin<r
th«» " ? f l ,e^ u,ators ' for did not know
that any members of the House were speculators
neither could he fee any danger from bribery. '
re .?.! y to jV,r - Findle y's observation, that
more wisdom would be brought into the House
J>y increafuig the ratio, he asked whether this
would not also bring in more folly ? for the pro
bability is, tli.it the ratio of botli wifdun) and
fully will increase with the increase of numbers,
and likewise of h.onefry and difboriefly : and with
respect to the fmalluefs of the diilrict, or that it
was fafer.for a small number to fend a member
than a greater, he was of a different opinion, as
he believed, that if ever the practtice of bribery
should come into play in America, it would be
easier for a reprefbntative to purchase a finall
diflriCt than a large one : if ever the liberties
of the people are endangered, it will not be by
ihe finallnefj of the rep: cfeniation but by the
corruption of electors and elections : This is the
door which Congrcf; flioul.! guard in tlie drifted
manner, and that will secure the people againfl
corruption in the House.
A gem lonian from Georgia lias obfervcd, that
the disposition of a great ninny millions of dol
lars lias l»een in the hands of a ■quorum of this
Honfc, of whom it requires only 1710 form a ma
jority ; on this Mr. Clark observed that the old
Congrcfs which was compoled of a much smaller
number, were entrufled with thedifpofal oflarger
fuins, although there were sometimes only two
members from the largest State, Virginia, and
no complaints were heard of their conduit.
But there is an argument which ought to have
weight in the present queflion.—The Senate,
although a much smaller body than this House,
are fully competent to judge of our proceedings
and of the fafety of the country : indeed, ("aid
Mr. Clark, it appears very evident to me that
we are not in want of a larger number in the
House of Representatives to debate any queflion,
if it be considered how much lias already been
said on the (abject now before us.
Mr. Vining exprefled much surprise that the
subject, which to him appeared perfectly defina
ble, fliould have occasioned the debate to travel
so widely from the line marked out by tiie Con
stitution. The pendulum Teems to vibrate be
tween tlie numbers 81, 96, and tig ; and flioold
that pendulum relt 011 any one of them in pre
ference to the others, he could not suppose that
u would affecft the liberties of America. Why,
therefore, all this extraneous argument about a
point offo easy decision ? We are sent here to
adininifter the government ; the firll principles
of which arc already fixed, so that neither branch
crm encroach on the other. The Senate, the
House of lieprefentatives, the President, have
each defined powers ; and whillt thole remain.
1 (hall always believe the liberties of America
are invulnerable.
Underthis impression, Mr. Chairman, I shall
vote for Itriking out 30,000, in order to accom
modate the queltion to a medium. But 1 fliall
do this 011 different principles from some other
gentlemen ; notwithllanding I at the fame time
confefs that the ratification of the firlt amend
ment to the Conftitutiou ought to govern us in
deciding this queltion. Thefpirit of the amend
ment appears <0 me clearly to imply, that we
should not fnffer the number of Representatives
to exceed one for 30,000. I am here not as a
person who shall exercil'e discretionary opinions,
but judge by the lister of the Conflituiion : and
in this cafe we may increase the number, but we
cannot make it lef's after the enumeration. In
the mean lime, until that enumeration is com
plete, the representation remains as it has been
hitherto, which I believe may be about one mem
ber to every 40 or 41 thousand.
If" we go upon theory only, I would enlarge
the representation to its greatest: extent, and hand
down the principle toj'uiuiiiy ir, letters of gold,
that a very great repKfentatioii—that democra
cy is the very best government that can potfibly
be deviled, provided it were practicable to give
it (lability. Next to a government as free as the
ory could extend, we have the freeft iti the world ;
a government of representation, which will in'-
crease with rbe population! of the country, and
the ten new States will always preserve an'equi
librium ; but if you increase it to an extreme
you may render it tumultuous, although it may
be fafe. 3
Mr. Chairman, a great deal has been fait] 0 f
the neceflity of planting (hong guards aaaintl
the invasions of influential characters. I
fear no corruption ; neither can I seethe oround
on which it can make an entry into
In the Britiih Parliament I will admit that cor
ruption has planted her ftaudaril ; but that' is
the natural conference of a very lai cr e repi e
fentation, and a constitution widely" different
horn ours ; and yet in lhat body, how many Ha
rriots nave we not known to hold forth the lan
guage ot freedom, as loud and warm as in any
part of the earth !—But to what end would cor
ruption be attempted in this government, which
is in itfelf perfectly rotatory ? The Prefnleiv
elecilive every four years ; the Senate bv in
terlocations from two to fix years ; and the
House of Representatives every two years. Then
surely, fir, there is no need of g«ar<k to preveni
t incroachinents of corruption ; and the av,u
ment ,s nor ,n the lead applicable to the prefcnt
Ijftemofour affairs. The difference between
242
, : t!IS ! !' r ' C J < and the ,
I another security to the citizen. Thev L s
. power of lit- and death, of making laws'%
1 and Congrels have a concurrent le^fi-I- C>
■ fuel) affuivs as are pi oner. 01 ' •»
t.ier barrier 111 favor of the lib--:' - - r I
> pie ; for whilfi elections are ken run-o ' T ' 3e °"
there is double security. ' ' a " d
Calculations have been exhibited hv r
I gentlemen; and 1 have likcwife ni-ule eve, ' al
i | though not so old or experienced in caw"' al *
J as some. But I find that all thole vibrate iV-'"" 1 ' 1 ®
the ratios of 30 and 40 thonfand ; and j, • " te "
tended that the people will | ;e better r°"*
ed by adopting the lmall ratio, which nV/l ""
the largeil rep, cfema, ion. But, fl :, 0 P V
of the people are there who are not rei,ef*,V m
..beflavc,
than notirifhment from nature. By '
cnict.lations, you may narrow down tl-'e o * "
mem so much as to endanger itsdiflblutioi, . T'l
if iiept 111 a due medium, you enfuie f
The pre fern is a larger representation th lu ei'
ther France or England boasts. 1 wifl," m
Chairman, to support the llate sovernmems U
I alio wish to support the federal government UC
1 cannot, however, fee the propriety 0 f coin,
paring this to the government of Great-Brit d ,"
although that is called a government of rente
fentation, confining of two Houses of Par'
111 enr, one of which is elective ; the lords a' 3 "
hereditary, and the king can do no wroir. • an H
it has hitherto been, 1 believe, the ~exi beV Go
vernment, after ourown, in the world. And vet
we know with how much reluctance Ireland ob
tainsd a participation of the trade and co..,„.e rce "
of Great Britain : although a Flood bellowed
fort .1 wit h t he voice of liberty like a DemolHiencs
Ilill nothing could induce the Britifii ministry to
give way, until the volunteers effected it ; u \
have we not the volunteers, fir, i„ this country
to protect our rights? Yes, fir : ,| )e American
volunteers are perfectly competent to this service
1 o return to calculation of the ratio of repre".
fentation. Admitting the state of South-Caioli
na to return 200,000 inhabitants, then the Wio
of one to 34,000 will produce too members- if
the ratio of 30,000 be adopted, there will be'ai'i
l.icreafe of 13 members, and afterwards ifce ra
t,!°iT'in b^°" e . C ° ever > 40,000, until the Houle
(hall confi.t of 200 members, after which tlieie
(hall not be less than 200 Representatives, nor
more than one Spr every 50,000 inhabitants.
his, fir, is the (pirit of the amendment already
adopted by nine dates ; and shall we nor exerci'e
the dilcretionary power delegated to us by -iv
ing celerity to the measure by a bill?'I a ?ree
with tlie gentleman from Pennsylvania, tifat a
ti ding expence is no object compared to 'the"fe
cunty of the peo.de ; but ! am lorry to hear any
thing of locality or the passions of the people in
troduced, for tjie voice of the people ; for if lo
cality and paflion were to govern this Houle, in
stead of vix populi we should soon have occasion
to term it by another name, the vox diaboli.
1 am under 110 apprehensions from the flock
holders of the bank, or the (peculators in the
funds ; for it is their interest to have a wife and
giiod representation. The people who are ein
[ ployed in the more simple path of agriculture,
lernoved at a great distance, are 110: more inter
eiicti in the security of the government than the
more informed stockholder. As an example of
ihe difcerninent ol 1 lie great commercial people
of London and Briflol, I need only mention their
choice of a Fox and a Burke, for until a late day
tVjr. Burke was the champion of the people and
the friend of liberty.
If our Senate should take any unwarrantable
it ride towards arillocracy, have we not the po*-
er to check them ? No President can very well
attempt it at any time hereafter; and we are
perfectly secure in the prcfent time from all sus
picion of corruption.
1 »ie fcate winch 1 represent contains 59,00®
inhabitants, and yet J fb.ill feel myfelf acling in
the line of my duty by voting for a ratio of 34,000,
as coming nearefl to the spirit of the ameiid
nie ir. A due proportion of firmnefs 1 think lie
ce'diiry in the government, and we shall weaken
it by any change which is not for the better.
1 fiirink from nothing, fir, but a breach of my
duty, rfnd it is not the public voice, so much as
the public good, that ought to be considered.
In reply to the analogy introduced by the gen
tleman from Pennsylvania, of a road, 1 will beg
leave to mention another. Suppose a pillar was
to be railed which could be easily effected by roo
men, and that two or thiee hundred were em
ployed, would not this, in the language of the
veneiable Franklin, be paying dear forthewhif
tle ? But this is a subjeCt which I should be fir
ry to view with a ludicrous face ; it is a queflion
of liberty, wherein the state governments have
an equal fliare of security : and let the pendulum
of the ratio light cither below or above 97, or
it 1, there is equal fafety ; and all that has been
'aid goes to prove that as the population increas
es, we ought ro fncreafe the representation ■
that ratio, and at present I think the nui-iber
34,000 will meet the sense of America.WEDNESDAY, November 23
The Speaker laid before the lioui'e a report
from the Secretary of the department of war, 011
tiie petitions of the widows, children and execu
tors of fun dry commissioned officers, who perill
ed during the late war. Referred to the com
mittee appointed to prepare a hill making com
pensation to the widows, orphans and reprefen
latives of deceased officers of the late army.
Mr. Madison presented a memorial from the
Quakers of the irate of Virginia, praying immu
nity from militia duty. Referred to tiie com
mittee of the whole on the militia bill.
Thehoufe then-proceeded to the consideration
of the amendments proposed by tlie committee
of the whole house to the " bill apportioning the
representation of the people of the United States
according to the fir It enumeration."
Mr. Sedgwick moved an amendment, for fet
t]j,)crthe ratio at thirty four thousand; and cal
led for the yeas and nays.
Theqneftion wastaken on this motion, and 1011.
The yeas and nays were as follow :
Yea!. Meflrs. Ames, Aflie, liarnewell, Botidi
not B. Bourne, S. Bourne, Dayton, Gilman,
Goodluie, Hillhoufe, Kitchell, Livermore, Niles,
Sedgwick, J. Smith, I. Smith, W. Smith, Steele,
Sturges, Thatcher, Ward—2l.
J^ass. —Messrs. Baldwin, Brown, Benfon, Find
ley, Gerry, Giles, Gordon, Gregg, Gi iffin, Grove,
Hartley, Heifter, Huger, Jacobs, Kittera, Law
ranee, Learned, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Murray, Page, Parker, Schoonma
ker, Seney.Sheredine, Suinpter, Sylvester, Tread
well, Tucker, Venable, Wadfworth, Wayne,
White, Williamfon, Willis— 38.
The house having gone through the amend
ments, and further amended the bill, it was or
dered to be engrolled for a third reading.
The house then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole (Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair)
and proceeded to the further con/ideration of the
report of the committee of elections on the elec
tion of Mr. J. F. Mercer, as representative for the
state of Maryland, in the room of Mr. Pinckney,
who had religned his appointment.
After a debate of some length, the committee
rose, having agreed to the report of the Handing
committee of elections, with amendments ; which
being adopted by the houle, Mr. Mercer is recog
nized as entitled to lit in the house, to reprefem
the ltate of Maryland. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Novembkr. 24,
A bill apportioning the reprefemation of the
people of the United States according to the fir ft
enumeration, was brought in, engrofied, and read
the third time—and 011 the queiHon fliall the bill
pass ? Mr. Bonnie, of Rhode-Island, suggested
some ohje<ftions to ail immediate deciiion—and
wished at lead that it might be pottponed till
there was a fuller house—laid on the table by
agreement.
Mr. Bourne (R. I.) prdfcnted the petition of
William Arnold, praying the renewal of a loft
certificate of public debt ; read and referred to
the Secretary of the T-reafury. Sundry peti
tions praying conipenfations, pcnfions, &c. were
read and referred to the Secretary of war.
The petition of Joseph Hawkins and Beverly
Window, presented by Mr. Madison, was read,
and referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. White presented a biil to regulate trade
and intercourle with the Indian tribes, which
was read the firlt and second time, ajid made
the order of the day for Monday next—to be
printed in the interim.
_ Mr. Dayton reported a bill for extending the
time limit ted for fettling the accounts of the
United States with the individual States—read a
firft and second time, and referred to a committee
of the whole house on Tuesday next.
Mr. Schoonmaker presented the petition and
memorial of Hendrick Doyer, a distiller of gin
i" the city of New-York—read and referred to
the Secretary'of the Treasury.
The question on passing the representation bill
was determined by ayes and noes, as follow :
Ayes.—.Me(lrs. Ames, Afhe, Baldwin, Barne
well, Benfon, S. Bourne, Findley, Giies, Gordon,
t'egg, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Hei'ter, Hill
houfe, Huger, Jacobs, Kitchell, Kitteru, Law
ranee, Learned. Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore,
Muhlenberg,Murray, Parker,Schoonmaker, Sedg
wick, Seney, W. Smith, Sumpter,Sylve(tei,Tread.
w ell, Tucker, Ven able, Wad fwor th, Ward, Wayne,
Vvhite, Williamfon, Willis— 43.
Noes—Mpdis. Boudinot, Bourne, Dayton, Gil
man, Goodhue, Livermore, Niles, Sheredine, J.
Smith, 1. Smith, Sturgcs, Thatcher—l2.
i he title of the bill, on motion of Mr. Tucker,
w 'as altered to read thus—" An a<ft apportioning
Representatives of the several States, according
to the si' ft enumeration."
The report of the committee on the petition of
James Jackson was taken into consideration by
the committee of the whole house.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The report being read by the Clerk,
Mr. Wayue rose and obfefved, that about eleven
months were now elapsed (irrfce the election, which
is at pre Pent called in question, liad taken place—
i iat the hotife \v;.s already upwards of four weeks
111 ieliion—that tlie petitioner mult finely have
had time fufiicient 10 come forward, at the (hit
"leering of the house, to support the charwes con
tamed in his petition—that it could hardly be
imagined tlie want ot time prevented him from
advancing—No !—it was rather to be supposed,
that he was kept back by the want of evidence,
to fubdantiate thole charges; and perhaps by the
expectation of procuring a majority intheLegif
latuie ot Georgia, to countenance his claims":
tliele wcie taths, which, he believed, were not
unknown to feme gentlemen in the houle : the
fame arts, the fame practices, the fame manoeu
vres, which had procured a presentment from the
grand jury, against the election in question, and
even againlt fume of ihe aiits of the general go
vernment, might perhaps be expetiteci to prevail
at length with the legislative body.
The newfpapeis (he observed) have teemed
011 this occalion, with telliinonies and affidavits'
procured during several months pall; as to the
manner in which they had been obtained that
he said, was a fubjeift of inveftigatfon forafuture
day—lonie of them were under the signatures of
persons who had never read, nor were capable of
reading tiiem—he felt for tlie iituation of feme
of thole individuals, as they w ere already pi e
fented for perjury oil that occalion.
lie declared that he entertained not the tnoft
<liii.auc delire to proci altinate an enquiry into the
merits of the election — but he mult observe, that
it could not but be obvious to every gentleman on
che-floor,that no other country in the world would
countenance tiie mode in which Mr. Jackson had
proceeded, by the publication of ex-purle evidence
on a fubjetft that was to come under the invelli
gation of the house.
He concluocd by declaringliis un willingness to
treipafs on tbe time of the committee—he would
therefore only beg leave to recapitulate, that ele
ven months were elapf'ed since the election took
place; and that the petioner had, ever since, been
indultrioufiy employed in procuring evidence : —
if the committee should be disposed to indulge
the gentleman with further time for that pur
pose, he would not, for his part, make the smallest
objection to granting him that indulgence:
should they think proper to adopt the report now
under conlideration, which seemed to contem
plate and even to invite the advances of that gen
tleman, he would have no objecton to meet hi in
upon that ground, or upon any other, provided
it were honorable ground.
The committee then proceeded to confiderthe
resolutions Unfiling a time for the trial, and re
gulating the mode in which it is to be conducted ;
and after having made sundry amendments there
to, vofe; reported progiefs, and alked leave to fit
again. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, November 14,1791
Mr. Key, member from the state of Maryland,
appeared, was qualified, and took his feat tiiis
day.
Mr. Wadfworth reported a bill for making
compensation to widows, orphans and invalids in
certain cases—read the fir(t and second times,
and made the order of the day for Monday nex
— interim to be printed.
A bill for the relief of David Cook was read
the firft time. _
The HoufeSwfolved'itfelf into a committee of
the whole, report of the select conimitiee
to which was referred the petition of James Jack
son.
The committee agreed to sundry amendments,
which were reported to the Houfc.
The House further amended the report, and
then accepted the fame—The debates, both in
the committee and the House were lengthy and
ineenious— the original report was materially
altered ; the clauses which provided for the in
tervention of a committee to inveitigate the facfts,
were struck out—and the whole business is, ac
cording to the report,to he primarily difcufled in
the House. Adjourned till Monday.
PARIS, Scpieinber 14,
The manner in which Louis XVI, has Ggnified his acceptancc
of the Conditional AS, has had a irajdgilnl theft on the
minds of thal'eople. . .
In a few days the jails will be thrown oWf and it is hoped
thai a general Amaefty and Oblivion will Be followed by the
hdpp'inefs of a People, who, by their perleverance and exertions,
seem worthy of that Liberty which they are about tocojoy.
Four o'clock, in the Afternoon
The King this day went to the National AfTembly at twelve
o'clock, and public'lv avowed his acceptance of the Conftltuuon.
in ine prcfence of an immense multitude of fpeflators : thecere
mony which was grand and awful, was accompanied by a gene
ral discharge of the artillery belonging to the National
H.s Majesty did not appear in the Cordon Bleu, no,w "£-
standing the Decree of the AfTembly : and very graciously ob
(civcd, n that "he wilbed not to be distinguished by any external
mark ol dignity, from the reft of the citizens.
A. soon as the expreffirns ot joy and content which broke out
at the corclufion of the reading the Kings letter were subsided,
M de la Fayette fnoke as follows :_Gentlen.en, 1 fhou.d wrong
the Sentiments of the National AfTembly, if 1 did not confine my
lelf io a simple motion upon the wilb which the kinj has just now
exptcfled with to oblivion ot injuries.
243
Philadelphia, November 26.
The President of the United States lias been plcafed to issue let
ters patent rccognzing the appointment of Francis James VtR.
Cnocke, Elq. of Charleston (S. C.) as Vice-Consul of her Molt
Faiths ul Majesty the Queen ol Portugal, for the State of South-
Carolina.
An ad for incorporating the Subscribers to the plan for pro
moting Manufa&ures in the United Slates, having palled the Le
gislature of the State of New-Jcrfey, we hear that a meeting of
the Subscribers is to be held at Trenton on Monday next, lor the
purnofe of chufing Dirc&ors.
There has been a confiderahle hurricane in the Welt-Indies
great damage is sustained at St. Euftatius, St. Thomas, St. Martins
and St. Kitts, and many velfcls were loft.
A veliel has arrived at Cape-Francois, in a short paflage from
Bourde.mx, which brought an account of the appointment of
Count Dillon to the Government of Hifpaniola, and that he was
to have embarked for his Government the 12th of O&ober, with
4000 troops.
By accounts from St. Domingo, to the 3d of November, it ap
pears that the situation of the whites is truly diltreHin<j, that the
blacks had loft no ground, but in every engagement a tied with
astonishing intrepidity.
An Almanac, for 1792, is publifhcd at Baltimore by Benjamin
Banneker, a free Negro, born in Baltimore. The calculations of
this Almanac are so accurate, that the publication is said to docre
dit to the Editors, Meflrs. Goddard and Angel.
A man by the name of Belong, was on the 19th inft. committed
to jail at Eafton, Pcnnfylvania, charged with the murder of his
wife.
A Loudon paper of 19th Sept. mentions, that an American
schooner, commanded by Capt. Metcalf, which made a fuccefstul
voyage 10 China, called at the Sandwich I {lands in November last,
on her return home—the crew were surprized by the Natives,
and every one murdered.
A lover of ufeful knowledge, in London, hath, some time ago,
offered, as a donation to the American Philolophical Society tor
promoting ufeful knowledge, held at Philadelphia, the Yum of
Two Hundred Guineas, to be by them vested in a fccure and per
manent fund, to the end that the interest anfing therefrom Ihould
be annually disposed of, in premiums, to be adjudged, by the so
ciety, to the author of the best discovery, or moll dfeful invention,
relating to navigation, astronomy, or natural philosophy, mefe na
tural hiflory only excepted. ' (
The American Apol 10, to be publiflicd BolTon,
will contain 16 large demy pages each number, ftitchcn in a cover ;
from four to eight pages will be generally appropriated to thf pub- '
lications which (hall be made by the Hiltorieal Society lately
established in Boston—the remaining pages will be filled with
e(Tays, moral, political and poetical, daily occurrences, See. See.
The cover to be reserved for advertisements. A title page and in
dex at the end of the year. Price Two Dollars per annum, exclu
sive of postage—The fubferibers to be always one half dollar in ad
vance. The above will doubtlcfs be an interesting and enter
taining publication.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
Some time since the public was informed that the law of Droit
d'Aubaint was in force in the French Islands ; fhortlv after, an ex
tratt was published from the proceedings of the National Afftm
bly, purporting a total repeal of that law. A late letter from
Tape-Francois informs, that on a petition ftom the American
Merchants, "the odious Droit d*Aubaine was unanimously abo
liflied"—but the letter from the Genera! Assembly to Congrt 1%
latelv read in the House of Representatives, fays that the Droit
d'Aubaine is (only) set afidc in favor of such (Americans) as migh:
fall vi&ims to their zeal and courage fin fighting the blacksj—
the exemption is not extended to Americans in general.
The bencficial effe&sof the funding system have been so gene
rally acknowledged, that every measure. which can compleat it
must be agreeable to the citizens of the United States. It muib
however continue defe&ive, as long as there remain unfunded
debts, whether they be continental or state debts. Indeed, since*
Congress have aflumed the state debts, they have become conti
nental; and anv provision which made for the unfubferib
cd part of one species of debt, must of course be extended to the
other. If anv preference be given, it Hioulcl rather be to those
who were willing to fubferibe, but from the limitation of the as
sumption have been unable, than to those who were able to fub
feribe, but fiom an avaricious spirit have been unwilling. More
favor should be shewn to those who had confidence in the govern
ment, and accepted the terms offered, than to those who either
wanted confidence, or have spurned at those terms. In every
point of view, justice, policy and consistency, diflate a compleat
aflumption of, and provision for those debts which were avowedly
contracted for the general defence and common welfare.
When people complain of the burden of the Excise, it is natural
to underftarid that they mean its tendency to impoverifli the com
munity, by draining the wealth of individuals into the public cof
fers. Without beating our brains out against the pofL of (pecula
tion. let a plain man, who knows how he earns his moneyj and.
how other folks spend theirs, ask this plain question—How much
richer would he become in cafe the excise was suspended for se
ven years? If his sons and his laborers ftiould drink fix juleps each
of a morning, tax free, would it put more grain into his corn
ftack ? So long as taxes are confined to articles which it is no
discredit for people to deny themselves, who can complain of op
preflion ?
AMENDMENT.
A correspondent would enquire, whether in pursuance of the
prevailing idea, that the general interest will be promoted by a
more full representation of the people in Cor.grefs, it would not
be an improvement on the proposed plan of representation, if the?
people through the Union were divided into diftritts of thirty
thousand each, without any regard to states—beginning eithrr at
New-Hampshire or Georgia ? Two obvious advantages would re
sult from this mode; there would be few, or no fra&ions—and
local or state attachments would be loft,in the general idea of Con
tinental Representation.
If a 11 friend and Cujlomer" will call on the Editor, he will
convince him that he labors under a miflake.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS dt the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Commerce, Jones, Cape-Francoi»
Schooner Adonis, Goddard, Jamaica
Newbern Packet, Ridgwav, Virginia
Salem Packet, Smith, Ditto.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBT.JC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
21/1 J \- x ■ L
12/4
1 3 j i?y 2
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 19J6 20f par.
Indents 11/6 575^0.
Bank Subscriptions, 140 to 143 Dollars.
icg pr. cetU.
6if do.
66 do.FROM THE AMERICAS SPY,
PUBLISHED IN LAhSINCEURG STATE OF NEW-YORK.
o XCE, fays the fable, thief combin'd with thief,
CoMihv'd a plot to steal a piece of beet :
This, watchful, firll the tempting fui loin took,
Which t'other, Hy, conceal'd beneath h:s cloak;
This had not look (to crown the guileful cheat)
That swears by J l » v c he had not got the meat :
Thus cloak'd their crime by (hew of iruth and wit;
So mafiei butcher he was fairly bit.
O! would 10 God such petty frauds and crime®
Would gratify the knaves of modern tunes!
But mightier thieves infect mankind of late,
Who scarcely blush to cabbage half a Slate ;
With great commiflion mighty mifersiob,
Alas, a plumb is but a modem job !
A Slate Divan, in power and office high,
With dread preface survey their period ni :h;
(For, by progrcflion, all must rife who shine,
And ev'ry IVar that rises must decline)
Who, like th' unrighteous steward, as we read,
Are hoarding fomeihing 'gainst a time of need ;
To make their mistress', debtors kind and thrifty,
Forcv'r) hundred bid them write down fifty;
Win o'er lb' unrighteous mammon to their caufc,
Securely cheat, and triumph o'er the laws :
That ftiff ffate-robe that's wrapt around the great,
Cloaks blacker crimes than hangs a needy cheat.
Man rai&'d to power, and holding it too long,
To yield that pow'r to them may seem a wrong,
And cause to curfc that spirit of the nation
That blasts the hopes of heredit'ry fucceflion,
And purchalc large dominions of their own,
Which, like Pizarro, they can rule alone.
Hence la»ge polleflions in the Weft arc fold,
And in one vortex whirls a people's gold.
But think ye, reader, barely for himfelf
Plump Mc. has purchas'd all that world of ocif?
If not, then search the hidden mylt'ry, where
An honor'd something fills an honor'd chair,
Turn back the copious cloak, peihaps a patent
Is in the pocket snug ;—but, hush! tis latent.
SIMONIDE S.
PHILADELPHIA.
A CORRESPONDENT OBSERVES,
IT is certainly among the firft duties ofa legis
lative body to provide as far as poflible the
means for difFufing among all the citizens of a
free country, information refpedting their rights
and privileges—aknowlcdgeofthe laws by which
rbey are governed, and ti;e reasons on which
those laws are sounded—also foch political, mo
ral and social intelligence as has special refer
ence to their freedom, peace, security and hap
piness. linprefled with this idea, the legislature
of the United States has provided, by law, for
the publication of their acts and resolutions, on
a liberal and extensive scale, not only in volumes,
for the life of the several Hate legiflat tires, but
nlfo in several of the newspapers of the refpetftive
states. This provision, so far as it goes, is salu
tary ; but it is obvious that it is also tieceflary to
the exigence and administration of the govern
ment. It therefore now remains, to complete a
patriotic system of general information, that ade
quate provision be made to diffufe, with punctu
ality and certainty, that mass of intelligence
which our numerous periodical publications af
ford.
In the most enlightened countries of Europe,
this information is circulated through the me
4ium the port-office—for experience fully
fhews/rnat no private arrangements which can
be made will be found adequate to the purpose.
Since the glorious revolution in France has ta
ken place, that wife and sagacious people, by
their national aflembly, have opened the channels
of intelligence upon a plan so liberal and univer
sal as to have produced the most aftonifhina ef
fedls. In England, it has been aflerted that the
newspapers are circulated through the medium
of the pofl-office to all parts of the kingdom.
A% this country has exhibited examples to man
kind of a just and liberal policy on many impor
tant points, and which have been applauded and
adopted by folne of the oldest countries in Eu
rope, the examples above recited jullly demand
our imitation—but, independent of this confede
ration, the merits of the business claim the fulleft
attention of our civil fathers—and when to this
is added the weight of the public opinion so de
cidedly in its favor, a doubt cannot exist of every
thing being done to meet the vviihes of the
people.
~ Two very liberal events have transpired in the
preceding year—Mr. Wilberforce, for his en
deavors to effect ah "abolition of the Ilave trade
has been hung in effigy—and Dr. Priestley, for
rejoicing that twenty-five millions of people have
been reltored to liberty, has had his house burnt,
and himfelf threatened with broilin?. Liberal
rimes these"!"
EXTRACTS.
" With the liberty of the press, a bad Consti
tution may be iniprovbd, and vicious instruments
reformed; without this liberty, the best Consti
tution may be corrupted, the wisest laws may de
generate." 3
" What is a momentary calumny against a
■whole life devoted to virtue, against disin tere sted
aiilions ; against important; services i"
of the United States.
Bank
Phi ladelphia, November 22/1791.
HPHE Stockholders of the Bank of the United States
i are hereby informed, that according to tha ilatute of incor
poration, a general ekttion foi twenty-five Di Rectors will be
held at the Bank of the United Slates, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the fccond day of Januaiy next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fe&ion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to alTemble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuelday the third day of
January next, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajhicr.
Second fundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
" Not more than three-fourths of the Directors in office, exclu
sive of the President, lhall be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Director who lhall be President at the time of an election,
may always be re-eletted." septs \
George MEADE
Has for SALE, at his Stores on Walnut-Street Wh^rf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hoglhead or
quarter cask.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of ine suit quality, by the hoglhcad or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 years old LifbonWlNE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He hasjuft received by the Pigou, Loxlev, matter, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well afiorted ; a tew bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has a!fo to dispose of, a quantity of drell»d White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First. Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be allured of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undreHTed HAND
SPIKES. He is purchafmg FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be difpoied of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be. had at the fame place.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcriptionjOnCowrai^o//,
at the following rales:
ON the specie amount of all falcs at au£lion, one eighth pci
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-kalj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving imerelt at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, seventy-Jive cents per transfer.
Such persons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may rely on their being executed with punctual/l\ y
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public liocks, together with a well established correspon
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
01 k, No. 57, King-Street.
OBobcr 15, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
B O O K S,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Piutamh, Eufebius, Sozo
-17 J. men, Theodorer, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacirus, Puter
culus, Pliny. Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thdaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremcllii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulas— Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannicie. &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropsdia, Berkley's Horace, Terence and
Phasdrus, Ovid, Javen.nl, Manillas, Ciceronis op. om. Cajfar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Gcographia, Justinian Code, &c.
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poctac minores Gr. liberates* Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Sallult, Curtius, Floras, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hill.
Augutt. Script ores, Englifk and French Tranjlxtion* of feme of the
ClafTics, agreat variety ol Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
Catalogue? may be had ot Mefl'rs. Rice & Co. Booksellers,
Market.street, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oftnhgr 31. (fptf.)
1 he First and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Arc ready for Delivery to Subfciihers—who m;iv receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Thiid Streets.
(f3 The above two volume;, contain the polit;ca 1 history of the
State, from its firft fettlemc.it to the adoption of the present On
ft'tatton of the United States ;_the third, containing a geographi
cal dcfcnption of the State, fketchej of its natural hiftory,"&c. is
in the press.
*** A lc , w CO P'" of the fitil two volumes for fale—pricc zof.
A jiember i;gi. J
244
(op 6w.)
Funds of the United States.
A LI, kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, ore*.
Ix. changed ; Foreign and Inland liil/s of Exchange
Merchandize ot all for o bought and fold on iominijicn, and^a//other
Bulinefs in the line of a BroKer, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
.4t th: Office next door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2m
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
r» rDI\Tr" r* rti /" at» n o/-\oor<r« o
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.£:c
Of the fiiif quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street, bet ween Chefnut and MarkrtStrrrts
TO BE SOLD,
And poffeflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 2x3 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more may be
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two story stone houfc
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-Ihop, gianary, wagoon
houfe; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and 90 feet long, and
a good barn, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Piiuceton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to pnrchafe, may know tWe terms by
applyingto the fubfc*iber on the premifes,or to Isaac Snowden,
No. 141, South Second-fLiect, Philadelphia.
Princeton, 06fober 10, 1791
Lectures on Government& Law.
HHHE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L.L. D. Profeffoi of Laws
X in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Le&ures. One Course to
begin on the Sccond Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, O&ober 1 2, 1791. (eolD)
In the Prcfs, and fpeedilv will be puhlilhed,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
coi taining 160 large quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, viz. ihe firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each subsequent one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
(£3" Subscriptions will be recefvcd, in this city, by Thomas
Do3son, and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of ihe work) and in other places by the principal Booksellers
there. Philadelphia, November 1791.
IV. M'D OU G ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Ii now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his fmcere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his lebool for dccorum and good oider, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will ftili ensure hiin a refpc&able (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be aflured, they will be taught »n the most approved
flile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra£tifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wedncfday ; when the
employers, and ill angers ot genteel deportment, will be admiitcd f
These pra£tifiri2:s will be attended with no expcnce.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as loon as a fufficicjit number offer
Philadelphia, September 14, 17Q1
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor~
dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen tcftaments; i ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one flripcd vest and
breeches, two shirts and a lmall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. ]eifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real oltrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
i dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the lame time, a large Batleau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
JOHN VAX EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New- Terfev, SeDt. 1701. [eplFj
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Maflachufetts, moll refpcft
tully informs the public, that lie has this day completed the
Old and New Teftaraents of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will befinifh
ed wuh all the dispatch the nature of the work will adrrait.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription I'a per s, he begs will
return them to him at Worccjier, or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the last day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
lie is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highelt approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its cheapnets compared with Enghlft
copics ol the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all tho < c
who wish to po fiefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage i is
laudaMe undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription,
kr y Sei
Worcet
)t. 2q. i 7Qi
JCJ* The price of this I'^
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[ep2rnj
ft. f.)
ISAIAH THOMAS.
>er is 3 Dollarsp:r