PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 52, of Vol. lII.]
CONSTITUTION OF FRANCE.
(Concluded.)
SECTION 11,
OF THE INTERIOR ADMINISTRATION
J, HHHERE is in each department a fuperioi adminipLration,
X and in each diltrift a subordinate adminifbation.
11. The adminiflrators have no chara&er of reprefentat'on ;
111. They can a (Tame no authority over judicial proceedings,
©rover military difpolitions and operations.
IV. It belongs to the legiflativc power to determine the extent
and the rules of their functions.
V. The King has the right of annullingfuch a&s of the admin
istrators of department, as are contrary to the law, or the orders
transmitted to them.
He may. in cafe of obstinate disobedience, or of their endan
gering by their a£ls, the fafety or peace of the public, suspend
them from their functions.
VI. The administrators of department have also the right of an
nulling the acts of fub-adminiftratoi s of diftrift, contrary to the
laws or decrees of the administrators ot department, or to the or
ders which the latter shall have given or tianfmitted. They may
likewise in cafe of an obstinate disobedience on the part of the
jub-adminiftrators, or if the latter endangers, by their a&s, the
public fafety ortranquility, suspend them from their fundtions,
with the reserve ot informing the King, who may remove or
confirm the suspension.
VII. The King, if the administrators of department shall not
life the power which is delegated to them in the article above,
may direttly annul the a£t» of fub-adminiftratoi s, and suspend
them in the fame cases.
VIII. Whenever the King (hall pronounce or confirm the sus
pension ot adminiftiators, or fub-admiriiftiators, he shall inform
the legislative body.
This body may either remove or confirm the suspension, or
even difTolve the culpable admimflration ; and if thei e is good
ground, remit all the administrators, or f >me of them to the cri
minal tribunals, or enforce against them the decree of accufjtion.
SECTION 111
Of Exterior Connexions,
I. The King alone can interfere in foreign political connexions,
eonduft negociations, make preparations of war proportioned to
those of the neighboring States, d iftribute the land and sea forces
as he (hall judge most suitable, and regulate their direction in cafe
of war.
If. Every declaration of war (hall be made in these terms :—
" By the King of the French in the name of the nation."
111. It belongs to the King to resolve and sigh with all foreign
powers all treaties of peace, alliance, and commerce, and other
conventions, which he shall deem neceiTary for the welfare of the
State, with a reserVe for the ratification of the Legislative Body.
CHAPTER V.
Of the Judicial Power
I. The Judicial Powers can in no cafe be exerciftd either by
the Legislative Body or the King.
11. Justice fhallbe gratuitously rendered by Judges chofcn for
a time by the people, instituted by letters patent of the ar.d
■who cannot be deposed, except from a forfeiture duly judged,or
fufpendrd, except from an accusation admitted.
111. The Tribunals cannot cither interfere in the exercise of
the Legislative Power, or suspend the execution of the laws, or
undertake the adminiflrativc functions, or cite before them the
administrators on account of their fun&ions.
IV. No citizens can be withdrawn from the Judges whom the
law afligns to them by any cornmiflion, or by any other attribu
tions or evocations than those which are determined by the laws.
V. The orders iflued for execnting the judgments of the Tri
bunals fhali be conceived in these terms :
" N. (the name of the King) by the Grace of God, and by
the Constitutional Law of the State, King of the French, to all
present and to come, Greeting : The Tribunal of has pas
sed the following judgment.
[Here/hullfollow a copy of the Judgment. J
" We charge and cnjbin all officers upon the present demand,
to put the fame judgment into execution, to our Commiflioners of
the Tribunals to enforce the fame, and to all the Commanders
and Officers of the public force to be afliftinjr with their force,
"when it sHall be legally required ;in witness of which the pre
sent judgment has been fcafed and signed by the President of the
Tribunal and by the Regifier."
VI. There (hall be one or more Justices of Peace in the Can
tons and in the Cities, The number fhail be determined by the
legislative power.
VII. It belongs to the legislative power to regulate the diftrifts
of Tribunals, and the number ot Judges, of which each Tribunal
fnall be composed.
Mil. In criminal matters, no citizen can be judged, except on
an accufatinn received by Jurors, or decreed by the Legislative
Body, in the cafcs in which it belongs to it to prosecute the accu-
After the accusation {hall be admitted, the fa£l (hall be exa
mined, and declared by the Jurors :
The Accufcr (hall Have the privilege of rejefling twrntv :
J he Jurors "who declare the fact, shall not be fewer than twelve.
The application of the hw shall be inade by all the Judges.
The process shall be public :
No man Acquitted by a legs! Jury, <;an be apprehended or ac
cused on account of the fame fas.
IX. For the whole kingdom there (hall be one Tribunal of ap
peal, ellablifhed near the legiftative body. Its lunftions (hall be
pronounce,
On Appeals from the judgment of the Tribunals :
On Appeals from the Judgment of one Tribunal to another,
on lawful cause of fufpicton :
On regulations of Judge*, and exceptions to a whole Tribunal.
X. The Tribunal of Appeal can never enter into an oiiginal
examination of a cafe, but after annulling a judgment in a Pro
p's, in which the forms have been violated,or which (hail contain
•n express contravention of law, it (hall refer the merits of the
ca et° the Tribunal that ought to take cognizance of them.
XI. When after two Appeals, the Judgment of the third Tri
bal (hall be questioned in the (ame way as that of the former
iwo, the cafe (hall not be carried againtothe Tribunalof Appeal,
Without being firft fubmittcd to the legislative body, which (hall
Wednesday, October 26, 1791-
pass a Decree declaratory of the Law, to which the Tribunal of
Appeal shall be found to conform.
XII. The Tribunal of Appeal fhal! be bound to fend every
vear to the Bar of the Legifljtive Body, a Deputation of eight ol
its Members, to present a statement of the Judgments.given, with
an abftrift of the cafe annexed to each, and the text of the law,
which was the giound of the declaration.
XIII. A High National Court, coiapofed of Members of the
Tribunal of Appeal and High jurors, (hall take cognizance of the
crimes of Ministers, and the principal Agents of the Executive
Power, and of crimes which attack the general fafety of the State,
when the legislative body foal] pass a Decree of Accusation.
It fiiall not ailemble but on the Proclamation of the Lcgiflative
Bod v.
XIV. The fun£lions of the King's Commiflioners in the Tri
bunals, fha 11 be to require the observance of the laws in the judg
ments to be given, and to caufc tliem to be executed after they are
pa (Ted :
They Hiall not be public acrufers; but they shall be heard on
all occafions,and (hall require, during process, regularity of form?,
and before judgment the application ot the law,
XV. The King's Commiflioners in the Tribunals ftiall repre
sent to the Dirc&or of the Jury, either officially or according to
orders given them by the King :
Offences against the individual liberty of citizens, against the
free circulation of provisions, and the colle&iuu of contribu
tions :
Offences bv which the execution of orders given by the King,
in the exercise of tbe fun£tions delegated to him, fh-ill be d:ilurl>-
ed or impeded ; and opposition to the execution of judgments,
and all the executive a&s proceeding from established powers.
XVI. The Minister of Justice fha 11 represent 10 the Tribunal of
Appeal, by means of the King's Commiflioner, the atts by which
the judges have exceeded their jurisdiction.
The Tribunal (hall annul these a£ls, »id if they give ground for
forfeiture, the fa£t (hall be reprefented!to the Legifiative Body,
which shall pass the Decree of Accusation, and icicr the parties
informed against to the High National Court.
or THE PUBLIC FORCE
I. The Public Force is instituted to defend the State against ex
ternal enemies; and to maintain intenul order and the execution
of the laws.
11. It is composed of the land and fp force; of the troops es
pecially dtilined for home service; and, subsidiarity of the aflive
citizens and their children of age to t*2r arms, rcgiltcrcd in the
roll of National Guards.
111. The National Guards do not farm a military body, or an
institution in the State; they are the (itizens themselves callcd to
aflift the public force. 1
IV. The citizens can never embody thcmfclves, or a£l as Na
tional Guards, but by virtue ot a rcquifition, ar a legal authority :
They are fubjeft in this quality to an organization, to be deter
mined liv the Idw.
They ftiall be diftinguiftied in the whole kingdom by only one
form of difciplinr, and one uniform.
Diftinftior.s of tank and subordination subsist only relatively to
the service, and during its continuance.
VI. Officers are choftn for a time, and cannot again bechofen,
till after a certain interval of service.
None (hall command the National Guard of more than one
diftrift.
VII. All the parts of the public force employed for the fjfety
of the State from foreign enemies, are under the command of the
Khig.
VIII. No body or detachment of troops of the line can a£l in
the internal part of the kingdom without a legal order.
IX. No agent of the public force can be in the house of a citi
zen, if it is not in order to execute the inftru&ions of the police
and of justice, or in cases formally provided for by the law.
X. The requisition of the public force in the internal part of the
kingdom, belongs to the civil officers, according to the regulations
provided by the power.
XI. When anv department is in a state of commotion, the King
(hall iflue, fubjeft to the responsibility of Ministers, the neceifary
orders for the execution of laws, and the re-eftabli(hment of or
der ; but with the reserve of intoiming the legislative body, if it
is aflTembled, and of convoking it, if it be not fining.
XII. The public force is eifentially obedient; 110 perfou in
arms can deliberate.
or THE PUBLIC CONTRIBUTIONS,
I. Public contributions (hall be debated and fixed every year
bv the legislative body, and cannot continue in force longer than
the last day of the following ieilion, if they are not cxprefsly re
newed.
11. The funds neceffjry to the di'charge of the national debt,
and the payment of the civil lift, can under no pretext be refufed
or suspended.
111. The ad mini Orators of department, and fub-admimftrators,
can neither cftablifh inv public contiibution, nor make anvdif
tribution beyond the time and the fuins fixed by the legislative
body, nor deliberate, or permit, without being authorised by it,
any local loan to be charged to the citizens of the department.
IV. The executive power directs and superintends the collec
tion and paying in of contributions, and gives the neceifary ordeis
to this effefl.
HEAD VI.
Of the connexion of the French Nation with foreign Nation:.
The French nation renounces the undertaking of any war with
a view of making conquests, and will never employ its forces
against the liberty of any people.
The Conflitution no longer admits the Droit d'Auhainc.
Foreigners, whether fettled in France or not, inherit the pro
pel tv of their parents, whether foreigners or Frenchmen. They
can contrast, acquire, and receive property fituatcd in France, and
dispose of it as well as any French citizen, in every mode autho
rised by the laws. . .
Foreigners in France are fubjeft to the fame criminal Jaws and
regulation* of police as French citizens: Their perrons, effects, in.
duftry, and religion, are equallv protefled by the law.
French colonic* and poftcflions in Alia, Africa and America, are
not included in the present Constitution.
N one of the powers instituted by the Constitution have a right
to change it in its form, or in its parts.
The conflicting National Aflembly commit! the depofitc to the
fidelity of the IfgiQitife bod/, ot ihc King, and of the Judges, to
205
HEAD IV.
HEAD V.
[Whole No. 260.)
the vigilance of fathers of families, to wives and to mothers, to
the attachment of young citizens, to the courage of all French men.
With refpc£t to the laws made by the National AffembJy, which
are not included in (he act of Conffitution, and ihofe anterior laws,
which it has not altered, they shall be observed, so long as they
shall not be revoked or modified by the legislative power.
Signed, by the members of the Committees of Conilituiion auc 1
revifim,
Tar git, I
Briois-Baumez,
THOU RET,
Adrien Du-Port,
R A B A U D,
Barnave, Emmanuel SiEyes,
I-eChapelier, Pethion,
Alexander Lameth, Buzot.
Note—M. Stanislas Clermont Tonnerre, absent by
per million.,
sow THE COURIER DE L'EUROPE.
ROME, July 30.
AT lad Rome speaks :—The Holy Father has'
palled the Rubicon : The Vatican has dart
ed its thunderbolts : The grand Bull the sum
mary of all imprecations, ajl excommunications,
all execrations, all decollations and maledictions
of the Church is ready : Perhaps, alas, ic has
already been sent ofF. All Frenchmen who have
participated in the creation of New-Bishops, even
the Prelates, all public functionaries, that have
taken the oath, their adherents and abettors,
without diftintflion of age or fexaie anathema
tized, are rejected from the bosom of the tender
mother of the faithful. It isimpollible to endure
any longer the outrages and the contempt of this
National Aflembly, who believe that a Pope is
only a spiritual head, that the Clergy must pro
fefs the fame felfdenial as Jesus Clirill, and be
governed, like others, by the precepts of the
Gospel. They will all be marked with the sign
of the bead, those miscreants, tliofe philosophers,
those regenerators of their country and religion.
It would be a pleasing fight to fee them ltigma
tized by the Pontifical Omnipotence. This would
be the only means to check those daring innova
tors, who are i>i(ulcnt enough to prefer the lim
plicity of Christianity to the pomp of Rome, and
the pure moral of a handful of common men, to
the elegant life of a number of gentlemen Eccle
fiaflics. To defer this would be lofingtan op
portunity to improve certain circumstances that
alone may re-establish the affairs of the Holy See,
which daily grow worse, even in Corsica, where
Gen. Paoli, on his return to Baftia, has succeed
ed to re eltablifli things upon a Conllitutional
footing, to obviate our holy intrigues, and to
install theeletfted Bishop in his functions, with
out the interference of His Holinifs.
FROM THE BRJSIOL GAZETTE, AUGUST 11
TUESDAY afternoon died at Downefend, In
the 54th year of his age the Rev. Caleb
Evans, D. D. many years President of the 13ap
tilt Academy, and Pallor of the congregation of
Protellant DiHenters in Broad mead, in thiscity.
1 hough he languished under severe indisposi
tion for upwards of two months, his death may
be pronounced sudden and unexpected. His
friends began to flatter themselves with the hope
of bis recovery, when, on Sunday lail in the af
ternoon, a second paralytic seizure, suddenly
rendered him speechless and insensible, in which
slate he continued till he expired.
How pleasingly those qualities, which recom
mend and endear the huftjand, the parent, the
friend, the chriltian, the tutor, and the niinifter,
were combined in him, those alone can tell, who
had the happiness of being connected with him
in those capacities. He podefled an enlarged
and libera]—a benevolent and pious mind ; and
while those individuals and communities with
whom he was more particularly connected vene
rate his memory, and mourn for his death, the
sympathy of society, wherever lie was known
will be excited, and his removal will be consider
ed as a public loss.
A GENUINE ANECDOTE,
IN the time of Sir Robert Walpole, when the
Bench of Bishops were not so independent as at
prefenr, Sir Robert Hood much in need of their
votes 011 a great National question, which he had
reason to think they would oppose. Sir Robert,
in order to secure their support, prevailed on the
Archbilhop of Canterbury, whom he had raised
to that dignity, to remain at home on the occasion,
and permit him to have it given out, that his
Grace was ill, and lay at the point of death. The
expedient took, the whole Bench, to a man, came
down to the House, and voted for the Miniftr .
tit&o
Talleyrand,
Per igord,
D£MUN I E R ,arc
L O jN D O N, Auguit 20,
STATE PAPER.
Copy of a Rescript lately publtjhed by Spain, which
v.rj much inttrejts every State in Europe.
ARTICLE I
ON receipt of die Royal Rescript, which ac
companies theprefentinftructioii, the means
of putting it into execution lhall be forth with a
dopted, without any delay or excuse whatever.
In cities where there are courts ofjuftice or courts
of ch i.cery, and where, of consequence, the va
rioui quarters thereof are superintended and go
verned by particular alcades (Judges and gover
nors) the criminal alcades lhall verify, whether
in rhe regiltered or matriculated lilts, which it
is their duty to make out, all Itrangers reliding
ill the diftritSs have been noticed, as well as tlieir
families, their names, their country, their leli
gion, their employment, their deltination, and
the reason of their sojourning. There lhall also
be expteiled, whether they have declared their
unwillingnels to continue to relide there domici
liated and fubjedls of liis Majelty, or limply as
travelliis. In cases where these informations
have not been taken, they lhall be immediately
afcertaincd.
Art. 11. In cities where there are alcades of
diltric'ts, but without a tribunal, the corregidors
and jultices of the peace (hall take the fame in
formations, availing themselves of the aiiiflance
of the notaries, the alguazils (sergeants or bailiffs)
and other confidential pet Tons, in order to al'cer
tain the number oft he domiciliated.
Art. IV. These measures having been put in
execution, foreigners of both sexes, who dial!
be matriculated, dial' formally declare whether
or not t!iey intend to remain domiciliated and
fubjeifts of his Mtijefly ; and liiey shall sign their
declarations.
Art. V. Foreigners who are already ,ov arewil
ling to be domiciliated, mtift be Catholics and
take the following oath before the tribunals.
" I swear to obi'erve the Catholic Religion, to
be faithful to it as well as to the King, whose
fubjeift I am, in submitting to the laws and cnf
tonis of this kingdom, renouncing every right
and privilege of a foreigne. - , and every relation
to, and union with, or dependence on the coun
try in which I was born. I promise not to avail
myfelf ofits protection, nor that of its Ambafla
dors, Miuifters or Consuls, under pain of the
galleys, imprifotimenr, or expullion from his Ma
jelly's dominions, and confifcation of .my proper
ty, according to my tranfgrelfion and quality."
The above oath being made and figu'ed, iliall
be'deposited in the archives of the tribunal, to
have recdurfe thereto in cafe of need.
Art. VI. Notice !ha!l be given to those who
iliall declare themselves travellers, that they can
not exercile any liberal art or mechanic profe/fi
-011 without being domiciliated. Consequently
foreigners can neither be physicians, surgeons,
jior architects, unlets they have an expref's li
ceufe from his Majelly. Neither can they be
merchants a let vtrre (to fell by the ell or yard)
nor retailers of any merchandize ; nor peruke
makers or hair-dre tiers, nor haberdadiers, tay
lors, shoe-makers, nor even domeflics.
Art. VII. fifteen days shall be given to foreign
ers included in the preceding article, to quit Ma
drid, and two months to go out of the kingdom ;
or within the said term, they shall be compelled
to become domiciliated, and lake the oath requir
ed, submitting themselves to the pains and pu
niflnnents already pronounced. Those who wifb
to be regarded as foreigners can neither appear
nor remain at Madrid, without having obtained
permiilion from the oirice of the principal Secre
tary of State.
Art. VIII. With regard to foreigners coming
into the kingdom, his Majefry, defirons of main
taining the treaties which subsist with foreign
powei s with refpeifc to the commerce of their re
fpecftive fubjetfts in his kingdom; the permiflions
and pall'ports by virtue of which these merchants
enter the ports and commercial towns shall be
examined ; and they (hall be prevented from com
ing any other way than that which shall be point
ed one to them, except by express royal permission.
The vice-roys, captains, generals, and gover
nors of the frontiers, are, in this refpeJt, to fpe
cify in the pallports of strangers, whether they
are come to feck refuge, afyliim, or hospitality ;
and point out the roads which they are to take
in the interior parts ol the kingdom, after they
have sworn, provifijnally, obedience and fubinif
lion to the laws of the country.
Air. IX. In cities where thereare manufactures
eftahiithed by order and for the account of his
Majesty, and in the other manufactures where
there are overseers or workmen wh » do not pro
fefs the Catholic Religion, particular lids ihall
be made of these manufactures, containing de
tails of the date and duration of their undertak
ings. These lifts shall be remitted to the Pre'i
ofche Council of Caltile, that the said workmen
may be afterwards informed what they have to
do ; but in the mean time they ihall not be mo
leltcd.
Art. X. In the dispositions and principles de
termined by the Royal Edidt, the justices fliall
take care to include all llrangers, and even those
who are employed in the King's military lioufc
hold, and also ihofe in civil employments.
Art. XI. The ceremony of matriculation, of
the declaration, and of the oaths of ftraugers
who are, or \vi(h to be domiciliated, being per
formed, an account thereof (ball be immediately
given to the tribunals who lhall transmit them to
the council, even before the lifts may be complete.
SEPrE M 8E R a
In one refpet r t this country lias profited by the
French Revolution. It impoverilhed and weak
ened France, and prevented that junction with
Tippoo Saib which was original! planned in hof
tiliry to the commercial and military interests of
Great-Britain in Indis.
Reports are current, that some popular com
motions have taken place in Norway, the parti
culars hav; not yet been (tated.
The rebuilding of the arsenal at Amsterdam
has commenced, with 300 workmen.
A vellel is now breaking up at Deptford-yard,
which is ihe very identical one 111 which King
Jame£ the Second went from Feverftiam to the
continent 011 his abdication. She is called the
Royal Escape
Samuel Phelts, the Horse-Monster, has receiv
ed sentence of death, at Bedford alfizes, for cut
ting out the tongue of one of those ufehil ani-
nials,
The opposition are now ceiifuring the minister
for partaking of a little relaxation after the con
clusion of business—but surely they ought not to
refufe him (|jat indulgence, since their's is a life
of Play!
Extract by,a letter from the Hague, Sept. 2.
" An express is arrived here with accounts
that peace is established between Rufiia and the
Porte, at Maczin, in fight of the two armies."
The Duke of V/nrtemberg is expetfted to re
turn to this metropolis early in the spring, when
a marriage between his Serene Highnefsarrtl one
of the King's daughters is expected to be folein
nized.
ETTR. A ORDINARY SUICIDE.
An extraordinary and melancholy circumstance
took place yesterday afternoon 1 in Vinestreet,
Chandos-ftreet. A young man, genteelly drefl'-
ed, went with oneof the many wretched females
that inhabit that place, and, being alone with
her in the room, exprefled a great partiality for
the sensation of hanging ; he used many argu
ments to persuade the girl to tie him up for five
niiniites, which, in conf'equence of a protnifed re
ward of half a guinea, she at length consented
to ; upon this he produced a new cord from his
pocker, and she fattened him to a "staple in the
room. After he had hung some little time the
girl began to be terrified ; upon perceiving him
motionless file was so frightened ihe could not
fulfil her promise of cutting him down, and with
difficulty alarmed the people in the house, but
too late; for when afliftance came, he was too
far gone for recovery. Such is the account given
by the woman, nor did there appear any suspici
ous circumltances to doubt the fa<ft. He was tak
en to St. Martin's watch-house, and in his pockets
were found a guinea and an half, but no paper
which could lead to a difeovery of his person.
Peter Motteux, the well-known translator of
Don Quixote into Englifli, loft his life in thefame
manner, and from the fame caule, as the man
who was hanged in Vine-ftreer. Mr. Motteux
had taken two women of the town into a tavern
in St. James's (Ireet, who, by his desire, hanged
him, and were to have cut him down in five mi
nutes. Jult at this period, a trumpet was heard
in the ftreer, and some procession went along ;
the curiofily of the gjirls was excited, and when
they returned to relieve the suspended gallant,
he was dead.
The man who was hanged on Friday, by his
own desire, was a musician of some estimation ;
his name was Kotzwarra, a German. On the ex
amination of the girl, circumstances transpired,
which are improper for detail here—the mod fa
vourable conclusion we can draw is, that the man
was insane.
The Jury, after fitting till near 12 o'clock, re
turned with a verdiift—Guilty of Murder-but
not intentionally.
Weymouth, Saturday Evetiing.
This evening, at fix o'clock, their Majesties ar
rived at this place, with all their Roval Suite.
Immediately on their entrance in the Palace, the
Royal Fort Garrison fired, which was di ret'tly an
five red by the different rhips of war, and other
vellels (ha: were in the roads ; after which the
guns at Portland Cattle gave a Royal Salute. As
ljon as it was dark, a general illumination took
place ; ever* one vy,V,g with each other in point
of device. Several of Hie tradefneople had lome
transparencies — Richard Ton, the Woolen draper
S a V^ the l!cnti,t '. I ' >ela ' : " >tte ' & c - & c - but
na '' superb, on this occasion, were his Grace the
Duke of St. Al ban's ; and at Mr. Love's circulat
ins an.l miific-.l library was a capita] piece of
[iani:ii!g t.vcive feet by sixteen.
206
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA, Monday, October 24.
THIS day the Second Congress of the United States affemblcd
in this city, for the difpatrh of public business.
The following Gentlemen of the Senate appeared in the Senate
Chamber, viz.
The Vice-President of the United States, and Prcfidcnt of the
Senate,
Mellrs. Langdon
Wingate
Sherman
Cabot
Strong
Stanton
Foftcr
Burr
Dickenfon
Members present of the House of Representatives.
Meflrs. Ames Messrs. Madison
Boudinot F. A. Muhlenberg
Bourne, M. Smith, N.H.
Bourne, R. I. Smith, S. C.
Brown Steele
Fitzfimons Sturges
Gerry Stcrrett
Giles Sylvester
Gilman Trumbull
Grifiin Tucker
Gordon Thatcher
Heiftcr Tread well
Huger Vining
Lamed Ward
Livermore Wadfworth
R. B. Lee Williamfon
Lawrance Willis
A quorum of the House being present, they proceeded to the
ele£lionof their officers—the Hon. Jonathan Trumbull waschofen
Speaker—John Beckley, Esq. Clerk—Joseph Wheaton, Esq. Ser
jeant at Arms—-Mr. Gifford Dally, Door-keeper,and Mr. Thomas
Claxton, Afliftant Door-keeper.
Mr. Livermore adminiftercd the oath prescribed by the Consti
tution to the Speaker. The Speaker then administered the fame
to the Members, and the Clerk, refpeftively.
A message by Mr.Secretary Otis, informed, that the Sen3te, hav
ing made a house, were ready to proceed to business—and that
they had appointed a committee to wait on the President of the
United States with this information. Committee—Messrs. Izard
and Langdon.
A meflage from the House, by Mr. Beckley, informed the Se
nate that a quorum of the Members was assembled, and ready to
proceed to business—and that they had appointed Meflrs. Smith,
S. C. White and Lawrance, a committee on their part, to join the
above committee of the Senate.
The joint committee waited on the President of the United
States accoidingly, who was pleased to inform them that he would
meet the two Houses in the Senate Chamber, to-morrow, at 12
o'clock.
A mcflage from the Senate informed the House that they had
appointed the Rev. Bilhop White Chaplain to Congress, on their
part.
The House postponed their choice of a Chaplain till to-morrow.
Adjourned till 11 o'clock to-morrow.
TUESDAY, October. 25.
Mr. Clark, Mr. Dayton, and Mr. Kitchell, from New-Jerfev,
and Mr. Jacobs, member for Pernifylvania, took their feats this
day—and were qualified according to the Conilitution.
On motion of Mr. Livermore, the House proceeded to elc£ta
Chaplain ; the ballots being colle£ted and counted, it appeared
that the Rev. Dr. Blair was chosen.
A mefTage was received from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis,
informing the House th.it the Senate is now ready to meet the
members in the Senate Chamber, to rcceive the President of the
United States, and such communications as he may be pleased, to
make ; and that feats ate provided for the members of the House
accordingly.
The Speaker (preceded by the Serjeant at Arms, with his Mace)
attended by the Members, proceeded to the Senate Chamber —At
12 o'clock the President of the United States arrived, attended by
Mr. Secretary Lear, and Major Jackson, and accompanied by the
Secretary of the Triafury, the Secretary of State, the Secretary at
War, and the Attorney General, when he was plealed to make
the following speech. [For which fee next column.]
The Prefiden; then retired, and the Members returned to their
Hall, whtre the Speaker laid before them a copy of the Speech
which was lead by the Clerk.
On motiou of Mr. Lawrance, it was voted that the Speech of the
Prefid< nt of the United States be referred to a committee of the
whole House, and be made the order of the dav for to-morrow.
The House then adjourned to this day 11 o'clock.
City-Ha/1, Philadelphia, oSober 21,1791.
WE the fubfcribcrs, this day appointed b) the Stockholders of
the Bank of the United States, to preside at the elettion of twenty
five Dircftors for the said Bank, do hereby certify, that the fol
lowing Gentlemen were duly elected, agreeably to the number of
votes annexed to their refpe&ive names.
Votes.
James Waifon 2936
Philip I.ivingfton 2936
Rufus King 2936
Nicholas Low 2936
Joseph Anthony 2936
Herman Le Roy 2936
Thomas Willing 2936
Dr. James M'Clurg 2936
Samuel Johnfton, N. C. 2936
William Smith, S. C. 2936
Jonathan Mason, jun. 2928
Jeremiah Wadfworth 2935
John Lawrance 2935,
In wiinefs whereof, we have hereunto set our hands ana len
the day and year firft above written.
Tristram Dalton, (l- s )
Gerard Bancker, ( l * s -)
Samoel Powell. ( l * s )
NEW-HAVEN, O&ober 19.
On Monday ihc lythinftant, the drawing of NEW-HA
WHARF LOTTERY re-commcnccd—fince which, no prizes*'
drawn higher than 100 dollars.
Meflrs. Rutherford
Morris
Read
Johnfton
Hawkins
Butler
Izard
' Few
Votes.
Joseph Barrell 2928
John Watts 2928
Joseph Ball 2928
William Bingham 2928
James Cok Fi(her 2928
Robert Smith 2928
Archibald M'Call 2928
Charles Carroll, C. 2928
Charles Pettit 2 9 2 ?
John M. Nefbitt 292 c
George Cabot 28(77
Filher Ames 2897SPEECH
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
TO
BOTH HOUSES OF CONGRESS
Fellow Citizens of the Senate, and of the
House q*f Representatives,
I MEET you, upon the present occasion, with the feelings which
arc naturally inspired by a strong imprefiion ps the prosperous
Jituation of our common country, and by a persuasion equally
itrong that the labors of the session, which has just commenced,
will, under the guidance of a spirit no less prudent than pat * iotic,
i/Tue in measures, conducive to the liability and increase of national
prosperity.
Numerous as are the providential bleflings which demand our
grateful acknowledgments—the abundance with which another
year has again rewarded thV industry of the husbandman is too im
portant to escape recollc6lion.
Your own observations, in your refpe&ive situations, will have
fatisfied you of the progreflive state of agriculture, manufa&ures,
commerce and navigation: In tracing their causes, you will have
remarked, with particular pleasure, the happy effects of that re
vival of confidence, public as well as private, to which the consti
tution and laws of the United States have so eminently contribut
ed : And you will have observed, with no less iutereft, new and
decisive proofs of the encreafing reputation and credit of the na
tion. But you nevertheless cannot fail to derive fatisfa&ion from
the confirmation of these circumstances, which will be disclosed,
in the federal official communications, that will be made to you in
the course of your deliberations.
The rapid subscriptions to the Bank of the United States, which
completed the sum allowed to be fubferibed, in a Angle day, is
among the Unking and pleasing evidences which present them
selves, not only of confidence in the government, but of resource
in the community.
In the interval of your recess, due attention has been paid to the
execution of the different obje&s which were specially provided
for by the laws and resolutions of the last fefiion.
Among the most important ot these, is the defence and security
of the Weftem Frontiers. To accomplilh it on the most humane
principles, was a primary with.
Accordingly, at the fame time, that treaties have been provi
sionally concluded, and other proper means used to attach the wa
vering and to confirm in their fricndihip, the well.disposed tribes
of Indians—effe&ual meaCures have been adopted to make those
of a hostile deCcription sensible, that a pacification was deli red
upon terms of moderation and justice.
These mea Cures having proved unfuccefstul, it became neceflary
to convince the refra&ory of the power of the United States to
puniih their depredations. Offenfive operations have therefore
been dire&ed ; to be conduced, however, as consistently as pofli
ble with the dictates of humanity. Some of these have been
crowned with full success, and others are yet depending. The ex
peditions which have been completed, were carried on under the
authority, and at the expence of the United States, by the Militia
of Kentucky ; whose entcrprife, intrepidity and good conduit,are
entitled to peculiar commendation.
Overtures of peace are Hill continued to the deluded tribes, and
confideiable numbers of individuals belonging to them have latel)
renounced all further opposition, removed from theii former (itu
aiiom, and placed themfclves under the immediate prote&ion of
the United States,
It is sincerely to be desired, that all need of coercion, in future,
may cease; and that an intimate intercom fe may succeed ; calcu
lated to advance the happiness of the Indians, and to attach them
firmly to the United States.
In order io this, it seems neccflary,
1 hat ihey should experience the benefits of an impartial dispensa
tion of justice.
That the mode of alienating their lands, the main source of dis
content and war, should be so defined and regulated, as to ob
viate imposition, and, as far as may be pra£ticable, controversy
concerning the reality, and extent of the alienations which are
made.
That commerce with them (hould be promoted under regulations
tending to secure an equitable deportment towards them, and
that such rational experiments should be made, for imparting
to them the bleflings of civilization, as may, from time to time,
suit their condition.
That the Executive of the United States should be enabled to em
ploy the means to which the Indians have been long accustom
ed for uniting their immediate interests with the preservation
of peace.
And, that efficacious provision should be made for infli&mg ade
quate penalties upon all those who, by violating their rights,
ihall infringe the treaties, and endanger the peace of the Union.
A lyftem correiponding with the mild principles of religion
and philanthropy towaids an unenlightened race of men, whose
happiness materially depends on the conduct of the United States,
would be as honorable to the national character as conformable to
the dictates of found policy. a
The powers specially veiled in me by the a£l laying certain du
ties on diftilied Ipirits, which refpeft the subdivisions of the dif
tri&s into surveys, the appointment of officers, and the aflignment
of compensations, have likewise been carried into effefi:.—ln a
matter in which both mateiials and experience were wanting to
guide the calculation, it will be readily conceived that there must
have been difficulty in such an adjustment of the rates of compeu
lation as would conciliate a rcafonable competency with a proper
regard to the limits prefcribcd by the law. It is hoped that the
circuinfpeftion which has been used will be found in the result to
have secured the l?ft of the two objects; but it is probable, that
with a view to the fir ft, in fomc inltances, a revision of the provi
sion will be found advifeable.
The impreflions with which ihis law has been received by the
community have been, upon the whole, such as were to be exped
c ' among; enlightened and well disposed citizens, from the pro
priety and neceflity of the mcafure.—The novelty however of the
tax m a considerable part of the United States, and a misconcepti
on of some of its provisions, have given occ > r6pn in particular plac
es to some degree of difcontcnt.—But it is fatisfaclory to know
tnat this disposition yields to proper explanations and more just
2ppreht*nfions of the true nature of the law. And I entertain a
u ' co,l fidence, that it will, in ill, give way to motives which a
r> eont of a just fenfc of duty, and a virtuous regard to the public
welfare.
If there are any circumftanccs in the law, which, confidently
*uh its main design, may be so varipd as to remove any well in-
objcftions, that may happen to exist, it will consist with
•u 1 e moderation ro make the proper variations. It is desirable,
'II oceafions, to unite wth a ftcady and firm adherence to con
■tiit jonnl and neccffaiy efts of government, the tulleft evidence of
a ' po.nion, as far as may be practicable, to confulr the wishes of
3rt °' l^C communt y> to lav the* foundations of the
P u icadminiftration in the affe&ions of the people.
fh' A ,0 aut h° r »'y contained in the fevera\ a&s on that
u jeet a dftri£lx>f ten miles square for the permanent feat of the
£ v, , nment of the United States has been fixed, and announced
f, v reclamation ; which diftritt will comprehend lands on both
sn f the River Potowmac and the towns of Alexandiia and
' 0V n * A city hasalfo been laid out agreeably to a clan
'» w;Ji be p.accd before Congress : And as there is a prolpeft
I favored by the rate of files which have already taken pi ice, of am
cJerv A Carry, f g L ° n the neceffar V public buildings, there is
every expectation of their dueprogrefs.
vi COmp 'j tlO , n °/- the Census 01 the inhabitants, for which pro-
iaS ">!■ if h J ' has been du 'V not 'fi c d (excepting one in
it h,. k" lcl ? th ? return has been informal,and another in which
Whn ecn ° mlttc , d > ? r rnifcarried) and the returnj of the officers
no were charged with this duty, which will be laid before vou,
.: jS ,ve y®"'ne plciifingalfurancc that the present population of
> United Mates borders on four millions of peifons.
t is proper also to inform you that a further loan of two railli
has been completed in Holland ; the
terms of which nie funiW to those of the one last announced, ex-
J.' pt as to a fmalli reduction of charges. Another on like terms
"u ri-" ° i f '""" s h,i<l k"" k' on toot "ider circum
es that allured an immediate completion.
Gentlemen of t.hi Senate.
wo Treaties which have been provisionally concluded with the
lerokees and fix nations of Indians, wiil be laid before you for
your conuderation, and ratification.
Gentlemen of thf. House of Representatives.
in entering upon the dtfchatge of your legislative trust, youmuft
anticipate with pleasure, that many of the difficulties, necessarily
incident 10 the firll arrangements of a new government, lor an
exten.ive country, have been happily surmounted by the zealous
and judicious exertions of your predecefTors in co-operation with
»ie ocuer ranch of the legislature. The important objc&s,
v.h'ch remain to be accompli.'hed, will, I am perluaded, *be con
ducted upon principles equally co.nprehenlWe, and equally well
calculated tor the advancement of the general weal.
Fne time-limited for receiving fußferiptions to the loans pro
piled by the adt making pvovifion for the debt of the United
Sates having expired,flatements from the proper department will,
as loon as possible, a:>prifc you of the exa£l result. Enough how
ei er is already known, to afford an allurance that the views of
that afi have been fubftant'tally fulfilled. The fubfenption in the
d' »nv iiic debt of the United Stares has embraced by far the great
elt proportion of that debt ; affording at the fame time^proof
0 the general fatisfaClion of the public creditors with the
ft stem which has been proposed to their acceptance, and of the
ipirit o( accommodation to the convenience of the government
with which they are actuated. The fubferiptions in the debts of
tit .* relpcfliye States, as far as the provilious of the law have per
muted, may be said to be universal. The part of the debt
01 the United Staie>, whicii remains unfubferibed, will naturally
engage your further deliberations.
It is particularly pleating to me to be able to announce to you,
that the i even lies which have been ellabliOicd promifeto be ade
quate to their obje&s ; and may be permitted, if no unforefeen ex-
igency occurs, to fupei fede for the prcfent the neceflity of any new
b irthens upon our constituents.
An objrft which will claim your early attention is a provision
for the current service »f the ensuing year, together with such af
ccrtained demands upon the Trcafuiyas require to beimmediatc
lv discharged, and such casualties as may have arisen in the execu
tion of the public business, for which no fpecific appropriation
may have yet been made ; ol ail which a proper estimate will be
laid before you.
Gentlemen of the Senate and
House of Representatives,
I shall content mvfelf with a general reference to former com
munications for several obje£ls, upon which the urgency of other
affairs has hitherto poftponcd any definitive resolution. Their im
portance will recal them to your attention ; and 1 trust that the
p-ogrefs already made in the most arduous arrangements of the
government, will afford you leifureto resume them with advan-
There are, however, fame of them of wtrich I cannot forbear a
more particular mention.—Thele aie the Militia, the Poft-Olfice,
and Port Roads—tl)e Mint, Weights and Measures—a provision
for the sale ot the vacant Lands o* the United States.
The firft is certainly an object of primary importance, whether
viewed in reference to the national lecurity, to the faiisfaftion of
the community, or to the preservation of order.—ln connexion
v. ith this, theeftablifhmcnt of competent magazines and arsenals,
and the fortification of luch places as are peculiarly important and
vulnerable, naturally ptefent themselves to confederation. The
fafely of the United States under divine protection ought to reft on
the basis of systematic and solid arrangements ; exposed as little
as to the hazards of fortuitous circumstances.
The importance of the Poft-Office and Poll Roads on a plan
fufficiently liberal and comprehensive, as they refpe& the expedi
tion, l'afety, and facility of communication, is increased by the
instrumentality in diffufing a knowledge of the laws and pro
ceedings of the government; which, while it contributes to the
fecuritv of the people, serves also to guard them against the effctts
of misrepresentation and misconception. The establishment of
additional cro'.s Posts, efpeciaMy to some of the important points
in the Weitern and Northern parts of the Union cannot fail to be
of material utility.
The disorders in the existing currency, and especially the fcar
cityoffmall change, a scarcity so peculiarly diftrefling to the
poorer classes, strongly recommend the carrying into immediate
etfett the rcfolution already entered into concerning the establish
ment of a Mint. Measures have been taken pursuant to that reso
lution for procuring some of the raoft neceflaiy artists together
with the requisite apparatus.
An uniformity in the Weights and Measures of the country is
among the important objetts submitted to you by the conftitu-tion,
and if it can be derived from a standard at once invariable and
universal, must be no less honorable to the public councils, than
conducive to the public convenience.
A provision for the sale of the vacant Landsof the United States
is particularly urged, among other reasons, by the important con
siderations that they are pledged as a fund for reimbursing the pub
lic debt; that if timely and judiciously applied, they may save
the neceflity of burtheoing our citizens with new taxes for the ex
tinguishment of the principal; and that being free to discharge
the principal but in a limited proportion no opportunity ought
to be loft for availing the public of its right.
G. WASHINGTON.
United States, October 25, 1791
P R O V I D E N C E, October 15
PIRACY
The St. Euftatia Gazette of the i6ih ulr. con
tains the following Advertisement—" Last night
was run away with, the Sloop POLLY, of Provi-
dence. Rhode-liland, by her Mate, named Wil
liam Round, and a young Man called Sim—
She had on board 22 hogflieads and 6 barrels of
sugar, 21 cases of gin, 30 barrels of beef, and in
the Captain's chelt between 14CO and ijco dol
lais. Round is about 5 feet 6 inches high, a flout
well made fellow ; and Sam is about 5 feet 3 inch
es high, a dull heavy fellow. ihe Sloop is a
large black New-England built veflel. Four hun
dred dollars reward is offered by Hardtman and
Clarkfon, of Sc. Euftatia, for recovering the vcf
fel and securing the pirates.—N. B. The Captain
207
of the Sloop is Richard Low, who has her regis
ter and papers."
[ The above Sloop belongs to Meflis. Brown &
Francis, of this Town, who will pay the above
mentioned reward of four hundred dollars for
the lloop and cargo, and one hundred dollars so
the mate.—He is an active man, of a fair com
plexion, has long black hair, speaks very quick,
and calls hi in felt a Boftonian, though his pro
nunciation resembles that of air Irirtiman. He
married in Boston, where his vfiifer' now lives.
On the Portage-Bill he figrted hiVname' Natha
niel Rounds. "I
Philadelphia, O&ober 26.
Friday afternoon arrived in town, from his feat in Braintree
Massachusetts, the Vice-President of the United States his
Lady and Family. '
The Vice-President has taken the lioufe lately in the occupation
of the Hon. Judge .Bradford, the corucr of Fourth and Mulberry
1 lie people of the United States justly appreciate the superior
advantages they enjoy nnder the auspices of their present Govern,
ment. This Government is founded on the principles of justice
and freedom. It secures to every man the full possession of the
produce of his indnftry, and l'acrcdly guards the social and per.
l.onal rights of every citizen.
A confidence in the administration of this Government pervades
all classes and denominations of men—this has animated every fa
culty of the human mind to exertion—and so fully convinced are
the people of the unlpeakable importance of peace and domestic
tranquility to the public profpeiity and happiness, that we mav
justly anticipate a long succession of years in which those princi
ples, essentially connected with our national felicity and honour
ihall be maturing to a state of perfe&ion, hitherto unknown. '
I he Piefident of ihe United States, we arc well allured, expreffr d
preat fat.sfatfion at the punctuality wiih which the Meinbeis of
t ie National Lcgidature have taken their feats the present fdllou.
Some ft futures in the Englifli papers on the
Riots at Birmingham, reprelent theperfousprin
cipally active in those fceues of devastation, as
ignorant, savage and ferocious—This exhibits a
most gloomy piclure of the state of society in re
fpetl to the poor of that country—and suggests
some ufeful ideas to the legifl3tors of a free peo
ple*—lt fliews (he infinite importance of diflemi
nating knowledge among all classes of a commu
nity, particularly the poor. '
It is by force alone that an ignorant herd can
be governed—but when the judgment is regular
ed by reason, and the understanding is properly
enlightened, the people need only to be inform
ed of their duty, and obedience to the laws fol
lows of course.
The duties of society are performed with chear
fulnefs, when the people a<2 from the impulfeof
duty, and the dilates of an enlightened mind.
But the outrages of an ignorant multitude can
only be checlied by the interpolition of the mili
tary—Hence we fee that no riot can be quelled
in England without an armed force.
ExtraCt of a litter from Clafgow, July 2 S.
" There is a fine profpe<ft of a plentiful harvefl
both in Britain and Ireland—the crop in Franca
this year has been exceedingly good, and all <r o t
fafe in—from Poland and the Baltic, the grana
ries of Europe, the profpecfl is equally favorable.
If the war should he finilhed this year betweeii
the Turks and Ruffians, grain will be very low in
Europe.
" The United States will never find such a sure
and certain market for their grain as by eucou
raging manufactories. This will be a market at
tended with no riiks, nor liable to the regulation
of no foreign prince. In (hot t, if peace is restor
ed in Europe, it is doubtful if there will be occa
sion for a single cargo of American wheat. By
encouraging manufactories so much in Britain
all that the country grows ia consumed at home." '
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 22f V',£.
3 pr. Cents 12/6
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 13_/4
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Cenificartes 16/8 17/ 85 do
n ,■ 10 / 6 5*4 do.'
Bank. Sublcriptions, 1?0 Dollars.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
Class Second.
r ~T , HIS Class will positively commence drawing on Thurfdav
A the 24th of November next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition. The Managers pledgethem
fc Ives that no conlideration whatever shall induce them to postpone
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
liofton, O&ober 15, 1791.
PRINTS OK THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
'""I "'HE fubferibers to the Prints of the Battle of Bunker's Hill*
X and Ihe attack of Quebec, are informed, that Ktchii.es of
th„fc Prints are to be seen at Mr. Anthony's, Jeweller, in Mar
kei-ltreet (where may also be seen an Etching ot Mr Copley'l
celebrated Print of the Death of Loid Chatham.)
The fubfeription for this work (which has hitherto been confin
rd to Amenta) will be opened on the .ft of January next, in the
.nopal cues of Europe : Those Gentlemen therefore who mav
with to pofiefs early, and of course valuable impression. are re
qucfted to avail themfclves of this interval, in which a preference
i» Itil 1 given to America. „
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Trumbull, and by Mr
Anthony, Jeweller, Philadelphia; Mr. Daniil Pt,.,,,/
Water.ftrcet, New-York; Mr. W.LtUM V.
Mr.J*. Hazhhuist, Cliarlefton, South-Carolina.
(p - The price to fubferibers is Three Guineas for each Print—
Philadelphia, O&ober 24,1791
»io pr. cent.
do.
66J do.LITERARY ANECDOTE,
■WH I CH OO CHT TO BE HAD IN IV £* LAS CIN6 REMEMBRANCE.
THE performance known by the title of Burn's
tresuife on the otlice of a Justice of Peace,
was written by a poor clergyman in the north of
England. He went to London to fell h;s manu
script, and enquired of the landlord at the inn
where he lodged, if he was acquainted with any
bookseller ? The matter of the house introduced
him to a person in trade, who after keeping the
manuscript for examination eight days, at laitof
fered him twenty pounds for it. After a variety
of disappointments of the fame kind, the author
waited on Mr. Miller, who was lifing fall: into
fame and fortune. He had fufliciemfcihennrth of
mind to fee that " honelty is the belt policy
and by treating every wiiter with justice, and
often with generosity, he acquired a molt opulent
fortune. He had in his employtnent gentlemen
in every different branch of learning, who were
to inform him of the merit of the different books
fiibmitted to their inflection. The manuscript
in question was transmitted to a Scotch lludent in
the temple, and Burn in the interim received a
general invitation to Mr. Miller's table. In eight
or ten days, the manuscript was returned to Mr.
Miller, with a note that it would be an excellent
bargain at two hundred pounds. Next day after
dinner, when the.glfcfs had begun to circulate,
he asked Burn, what was the lowed sum that he
would take ? The poor man replied, that the
highest offer which lie had received was twenty
pounds, a sum too finatl to defray the expences
of his journey.—" Will you accept two hundred
guineas ?" said Mr.Miiler. " Two hundiedgui
neas !" cried the paifon, clapping his hands, "1
am extremely fortunate."—The book went thro
many impreflions, and Miller, of his own good
will, paid the clergyman an hundred pounds ad
ditional for each ,if them. As the author loved
port, the bookseller farther gave him a letter of
credit for the purchase of a pipe per annum dur
ing the reft of his life, in any wine-cellar in Lon
don, where he thought proper. " After all this,"
added Mr. Miller, in telling the story, " I have
lived to clear eleven thousand pounds by the
bargain."
Monthly Shipmcr.t, of Flour, at the Pot: oj Philadelphia, from the \JI
oj juh to September 30, 1791, irclufive.
Shipped in J u ' y 3 M 3.5 ) Barrels of ) Bsriels of
Augult 24927 £ flour < 531 > Middlings.
Stpt. fgio-i) C 2 33.)
Total, 86226
JAMES READ, Infpeftor of Flour.
Philadelphia, O&ober 7, 1791.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SEI-LS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,onC<jW7w^7o«,
at the following laies:
ON the fpecic amount of all falcs at auction, one eighth per
cent.
On ditto at private faledr purchafc, one-halj per ccnt.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving inierell at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the intcreft.
For making transfers at ditto, fiventy-five cents per transfer.
Such pcrfons as may incline to tavor the fublcriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punttuality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well e(\abli(hed correspon
dence throughout the Uniud States, enable him to condudi his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD.
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
Odober 15, 1791
Public Securities,
Bouc.ht and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place,
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Mairachnfetts, mod refpeft
fully informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testa moots of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BI BLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will be finilh
ed with all the d:fp;.tch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subsc r i ft ion Pa fer s, be begs will
return them to him at Worccjler, or to him and Company at Bojloti,
by the lad day of November next, and as much, {ooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its cheapness compared with EngliHi
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive Undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost:, he is led to.hope that all those
who with to poffls a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
Worcester, Sept. 29, 1791
ADVERTI S E M E N T.
B Y late arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
No. to to 31, both inclusive, of a Publication which cokes out twice a
week irt Paris, entitled, " Correspondancf. Nationale."—
From No. 1 to No. 10, have been /hipped, but are not yet come to hand.
Any p rfon who may incline to fu'bjcribefor this work, which appears to
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurvij/ied with the numbers
ms they arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
Funds of the United States.
A LL kinds of the Public Debt of ihe Union, bought, fold, 01 e*-
i~X changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange i.egociated;
ilertkinJiu ot all foils bought and fold on Lommijjion, and all other
Butinefs 111 the line of a BroKer, tranfatled by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At th: Office next door to the Custom-House,
"State-Street, B OST ON. 2m
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and 130I1EA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
And potfefiion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half [rum ihe former. It contains 213 acies, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. A'.fo a young orchard of 200 apple trees, Hefidcs a variety
cf peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two flory stone houfi
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole p.iir.ted and
fiiiifhcd. Also, a fmoke-ht.ufe, work-thop, granary, waggon
houle; barrack cow-houses, two (lories high and 90 feet long, and
a good barn, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm,
ins* views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining 10 purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Skowoen,
No. 141, South Second-ftteet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L.L. D. Profcffoi of Laws
m.the Coilqge'and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver next Winter, two Courfcs of Le&ures. One Course to
heein o'n the Sccond Monday, 'he other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, October 12, 1791. ( e P'D)
WANTED, A NUMBER OF
Journeymen Cordwainers,
Who will find contlant employment and generous wages, by ap.
plying to the Master Cordwainers of the City of Philadelphia.
OBober 22, 1-91. Teotf]
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be albwed. None need apply who
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NIZGRO
MAN, named Abraham, late the property of Nathaniel
WitkHJf, deeeafed—about forty-fiye years or age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pretty well let, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feetand ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone mifon and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a houfc-waiter, and is fond
of such business. He :i a great diflembler, and nr> doubt pretends
lie is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description ol
his prefcut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern Statis, as he often mentioned havim friends there.—
Twen'y Dollars reward will be given to any per Ton that will re
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; 2nd reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be given if he is broughtto Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kincheloj, l>v
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(tawgw)
J 379
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftamenls; j ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one fhiped velt and:
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jcifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real ofirich feathers, foine of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security o!
the above property! so that the owners may hav the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twent)
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
ISAIAH THOMAS.
208
Ot the firtl quality—by retail,
Mo. 19,
Th:ri?-Sireet, between Chefniit and Market Streets
TO BE SOLD,
Princeton, Oftobcr 10, 1791
Oflober 12, 1791
JOHN VAN EMBURGH,
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1. 1791. [ c P I G
W. M'D OU G ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter''s Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpettable (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may beaflured, they will be taught in the mod approved
flile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general praftifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wcdnefday ; when the
employers, and Grangers of genteel deportment, will be admitted.
Thcfe pra£tifings will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An EVEN ING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficicnt number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
University of Pennsylvania,
Oftober 7,1701.
JO- The MEDICAL LECTURES will begin on
the firfl Monday in November next.
Blank Powers to receive and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablifhed in the Trra*
fury Department: Also Blanks for abflraEts oj Certificate s y to be fold by
the Editor.
Gazette of the United States.
I.Early *nd authentic sccobmsof the Proceedings oj Congress,
communicaten so as to form an history of the tianla&iout of the
National Government.
I. Laws, &c. of the United States.
111. Impartial Sketches cj the Debates ofCovorefs.
IV. FJJays'on the great fubj. £h ol Coven,,-nent; also upon the
local and national rights of the American citizcns, as founded in
nature, or on the national or Gate Conftnulions; and on other fub
jitfs suitable for newlpaper difeuffion.
V. A [erics of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the « living man
ners as they rife," and to point the puhlic attention to objefls that
have an important reference to domcllic, social and public hap.
pinefs.
VI. The Ittterejls of the United States, as connected with their
literary Inflitutions; religious and moral objefis; improvements
in Scicnce, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foreign
treaties, alliances, connections, &c.
VII. Intelligence which may afftft the commercial, agricultural,
manufacturing, or political interells ot the Ametican nation.
VIII. A chain of Domejlic Occurrence
IX. A series of foreign articles of Intelligence.
X. ThtJlate of tiie Funds-, Courses of Exchange ; Prices Current.
Publilhcd every Wednesday and Saturday
Thcpiiceto fubfcribeis, Three Dollar's per annum.
The firfl semi-annual payment to be made at the time of fab.
scribing: The second at the end ol the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in all the capiul tnwns upon theContir.ent; alfoat No. 69,
High-Strut, between Second and Third Streets, Philadelphia.
fet> 2mJ
AT this important crifls, the ideas that tiii the niind, are preg
nant with events of the greatest magnitude—to llrengthcn and
complete the union of the States—;o extend and pro.efl their
commerce —to explore and arrange the national funds—to rellorc and
ellablilh the pOflic Credit— will require the enemies of the patriots
and faces of our enwnvy—Hence the propriety of encrcafing the me
diums of knowledge and in formation.
AMERICA, from this period begins h<!r national exigence—
" THE WORLD IS ALL BEFORE HE R the wisdom and foil)'—
the niifery and prorpeiity of l\\e'ei!ipircs,Jlates, and kingdoms, which
have had their day upon the great theatre of time, and arc now no
more, fugged the moll important mementos—these, with th - rapid
series of events, in which our country has been involved, have
taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that Jreedom
and government, liberty and laas, ire infc parable.
This conviction led to the adoption of the new constitution;
for however various the sentiments, refpeclingthe merits of this
system, all good men are agreed in the neceffny of an evidentfe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, elhblifhcd upon national, independent, and
impartial principle!—which (hall take up the piemifid articles, upon
a COMPETENT plan, it is presumed, will be highly inteicfting,
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored : —He i'olicits the assistance of persons
of leifureyd abilities—which, united with his own afliduity, he
flatters hivnfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not un
worthy general encouragement jnd is, v/ith due relpctl, the
public's humble servant,
April 15, 1789,
THE plan and execution of the Gazette of the Unite®
States, have received the approbation of a tribunal, from which
there is no appeal.
The subscriptions, which are encreafing, have long since exceed
ed the expe6lations of the publisher—a pun&ual compliance with
the terms would compensate his labours, and animate his future
exertions.
The Government that an enlightened and free people adopt, is
a sacred confederation —it knows no party —aud its profpcrity is
founded on the public good.
While ihe people are just to themselves, the administration of
their affairs will be committed to men of inregrity and competent
abilities ; 2nd it will be the duty of patriotism to impress the pub
lic mind with favorable i'entiments of the meaturcs of govem-
ment,
Our country continuing enlightened and free, the period can
not be anticipated when a publication 011 the plan of this Gazette
shall involve a dereliction of those principles with which the li
berties and happiness of the United States are connected.
With refpefi to the circulation of this paper, the Editor regrets
the recent difappoinmients which have unavoidably taken place—
he has always bten fully iinpreffed with the importance of punc
tuality, and cannot charge himfeif with a fingie un'lance of re
miffnefs.
It is very generally supposed that Congvefs, at the enfain?
feflicn, will take measures to ensure the circulation of news
papers m the United States; and particularly their tranfmiiTioii
from the Seat of Government to all parts of the Union. Justice,
policy and patriotism, plead irrcfiftcbly 111 favor of some eife&ual
provision's being made. The following pertinent and judicious
obfervatioHS on this fubjeft, lately appeared in an addrelstothe
public from the Editor of the Gazette of Maine. 1 hey
are substituted in preference to any thing which the editor of this
paper mtght further suggest, more particularly as coming from a
remote quarter of the Union.
" Perhaps there is no country, in any part of the world, the in*
habitants of which arc, (or may be) supplied with public News
papers at a chcapcr rate than those of Amciica. The Farmer and
ihe Merchant, the Laborer and the Mechanic, may, by the means
of a public Paper, when he retires from the bufinels and fatigue*
of the day, take a view of the situation, the circumstances and the
various revolutions of the several countries of the civilized world
And it must be a pleasing circumftancc, that this is the privilege*
emphatically the privilege of an American. > .
" Let it therefore be remembered, that by virtue of this privi
lege, the body of the people conllantly obtain and prefeive such a
degree of knowledge as fliall be competent to the prevention or
any attempt that may be made by cunning and deftgnmg men to
f?.p the foundation of our most iuvaluable constitution. But, l't
the'circulation of these Vehicles of Public Information becircum
fcribed. and the people will at once bccome uninformed o. 1 pub IC
tranfa&ions, and the more enlightened jew will engross the pn vl *
leges, immunities and prerogatives, which in the nature and fiine s
of things, are the indefeafible right of the whole body oi I ,c
people.
" It is piefumed no American will need a stimulus of tins na
ture to furnifh himfelt with public information. The cheap nte
at which it is offered, the love and glory of our country, wi aC
all times promote such a mode of condudt, as lhall forever bar t
attempts of tyranny, ignorance and lupeifbtion."
M.)
Several of the frfl volume of this Gazette are
and the original coJi t will be paid for them by the Editor.
PLAN* OF THE
CONDITIONS
ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
TO THE PUBLIC
THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.