PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 45, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE NEW-YORK DAILY ADVERTISER,
Meflis. Childs & Swaine,
*Tht following is an extract of a letter from Doctor
Priejlly, to the Rev. Edward Burne of Birwing-
ham ; as the publication from which it is taken,
' may uot be generally read, the insertion oj it in
your paper may poffibty be not uniuterejling to your
numerous G.orrefpondents.
" t ' l ' s account I rejoice to fee the warmth
V-/ with which the cause of Orthodoxy (that
is of long cftablijhed opinions however erroneous)
and that of the Hierarchy is rvow taken up by its
friends—Becaufe if their system be not well
founded, they are only accelerating its deftriiciion.
In fart, they are affijling ME in the proper dispo
sal of those trains of gunpowder, which have been
some time accumulating, and at which they have
taken so great an alarm, and -which mill certainly
blow it up at length, and perhaps as suddenly as
unexpetledly, and as completely as the late over
throw of the arbitrary government in France.—
If an inhabitant will not submit to a thorough
-examination and reasonable repairs of the build
ing he occupies, the consequence inuft be that
without gunpowder, or even a high wind, it must
some time or other fall, and happy may he think
himfelf if he can escape unhurt from the ruins. If
this {hould be the cafe with the Church ot En
gland, the Clergy cannot fay, they have had 110
warning ; —They are laboring for its destruc
tion more than 1 am J ! ! Jf I be laying gunpowder,
they are providing the match, and their part ot
the business seems to be in greater forwardnefs
than mine." What a contrail is exhibited be
tween the two rival nations of France and Eng
land, and how many Engliff/tnen blujh to look upon it J
'' Another foolilb and unjult war, like that
with America, which was chiefly urged by the
Clergy (and such another, if the court proposes,
the Clergy will second) can hardly fail to bring
their affairs to a crisis. If they be wife they will
consider the signs of the times, and be very temperate
in all their proceedings, tas eft andab hofte doceri.
" Let them take care left by too vigorously refill
ing our application, they should do theinfelves
tlie 7noft serious evil. 1 have always beenan avowed
enemy to all eftablifliments of Chriflianity !I I But
many ciiflenters are not so. I forefee however,
that thsy Jbon will be, and that by means of these
difcudions, the sentiment will become more ge
neral in the Nation at large. It begins to be
adopted even by the Catholics.
" The utility of ecclefialtical eftablifliments is
a question that it behoves the Clergy always to
keep out of fight as much as poliible ; and if
they proceed as they have began, I (hould befor
ry to en fire their system twenty years longer. Whe
ther 1 be more pleased, or displeased with their
present violence let them now judge. Thegreat
er their violence the greater is our confidence, and
final success.
" Nations, and all great bodies of Men, will
learn very little except in the dear School of ex
perience."
This letter carries with it its own comment.
Compare the bigotry which it breathes, with the
hypocritical ineeknels which characterizes the
one he addrefted to the inhabitants ot Birming
ham, and let an impartial person decide which
contains the real feiuiments of theDodlor —"which
we should be induced to believe lo be the real
and true principles of the dissenters as pi omul
gated by their Apollle ; those whicli in an hour
offecurity were prefcnted to the world, or those
which were extorted under the dread of an En
glilh L anttrne. The Kanaticifm the Rancor, the
intemperate zeal entertained against the esta
blished Church, with which the foregoing letter
is so replere, must fill every religious mind with
apprehensions for the security of their opinions ;
and makes us nlniolt rejoice at the deltrucllion of
those writings which (if we may judge from the
part) could only contribute to substitute
ous Icepticifin for religion, and under the inafk
of Liberty to introduce anarchy and licentious
ness. A RI ST IDES.
BIRMINGHAM
Is the largest rnanufa&uring town in England, and u fituatcd
about ito miles N. W. of London. It is no incorporation, and
therefore is fiee for any person to go and fettle theie. This has
contributed greatly to the increase not only of the trade, but ot the
number of the buildings. In the year 1782 there were about
io,oco dwelling-houfc* ; and the number has since been continu
ally mcreafing.
Saturday, October i, 1791.
FROM. THE VERMONT GAZETTE
Mr. Haswell,
If you deem the following worthy infrrtion, by giving it a place you wilt
oblige a cujlomer.
THREE gentlemen who late in converse far,
Thoughts bumper-rais'd infpir'd a learned chat,
Aspiring tancy fl.d on airy wings,
From well-prim'd grog to lupernatural things.
One (aid the moon was not ing but a log,
The second said, he'd lay a nip of grog
'Twas like the he could efpv,
Both land and water with his naked eye;
The third, a grave, well-fatt'ncd, witty man,
Slowly arose, and gracefully began,
My friends, I have a proof its weight will bear,
It is not land which we discover there,
For if it was, the jobbers ol New-York
Would have their patent* there, and men to work.
BERLIN, July 20.
THE rejoicings that have lately occupied our
Court, 011 account of the contrail of mar
riage, which was signed the 17th inllant, be
tween our charming Princess Royal and the King
of England's second son, an event thac seems to
give univerful fatisfaifcion in this country, have
been fuccecded by the various arrangements ne
ceflary 011 the breaking up of the camp of ob
servation that had been formed with things that
wore an hostile appearance, but to which the
prudeuce of your Court has, it seems, put a hap
py termination.
Our roads are filled with the regiments going
to their different garrisons, from whence they
will not be fuinmoned, for some time at Jeaft.
The Deputies from Dantzic left this city yes
terday, highly fatisfied with the success of their
million, and the condescension of our new Prime
Minister ; they are full to remain tinder the
protection ofthe Court of Warsaw ; but, on the
other hand, accorded foine valuable commercial
advantages to the Court of Berlin.
L I N T Z, July 14.
By letters from Vienna we learn, that 011 the
4th inlt. the Marquis de Noailles, the Ambailador
of France, had a private with the
Prince de Kaunitz, who delired him to inform
the National Aflembly, that his Imperial Majesty
had determined by 110 means to intermeddle with
the affairs ofthe French Constitution, so long as
they related only to France ; but that faithful to
his personal ties, faithful to the duties of blood,
of friendlhip and alliances, he fliould consider the
ill treatment which the King, Queen, and tami
ly, fliould fuffer, as done to himfelf, and theont
rages committed against Royal Majesty as viola
tions of the refpedt due to him.
The fame letters rtate, that for some days pad
an inveteracy had manifefted itfelf against the
French Nation, which had never before been ex
perienced, and which appeared likely to become
general ; and this disposition of mind indicat
ed a rupture, which many perfotis already conh
der inevitable, They likewise add, tnat all the
baggage ofthe Ambailador of trance had been
packed up ever since the beginning ofthe month,
in which state it continued, which probably niuft
have been occasioned either by his expectation
of being recalled, or of his determination of quit
ting a country, where he had ever before enjoy
ed all the blandiihments annexed to the eminent
post which he occupies, and which personal con
siderations have rather strengthened than weak
ened.
ROME, July 13.
The prevention of the flight of the king of
France has caused to disappear all the prepara
tions which had been made for public rejoicings.
The Pope, all infallible as he is, had ordered a
Nuncio to go from Bin dels to present to the King
whom he believed to be at Metz, a brief, in which
h? extolled and felicitated his majesty and abused
the French nation. The king of Naple3 went
even farther, he caused Te Deuin to be lung,
(lopped and dismasted the French veflels in his
ports, and gave 5000 ducats to the matter ot an
Engli'fli veflel, who fir 11 brought him news of the
flight of his brother in-law. A crowd of French
quitted Rome to join the Molt Christian King
whom they believed to be in Germany.
BRUSSELS, July 18.
The King of Sweden, although expected, has
not arrived here. The Congrels at Aix-la-Clia
pelle has become highly interelling.—M. de Ca
pon ne is expected here from London, where it
is fa id he has been unfucceftful. He will pro
ceed to Worms, to communicate to his Pnnce
177
04$ o
[Whole No. 255.]
(M. de Conde) the plans concerted with the Ca
binet of St. James's with refpert to France.
It is reported, that the manifetto of the Diec
of Ratilbon is ready for publication.
The French arrive here daily, among whom
the lawyers adopt the uniform of the Princes,
which is a bine coat, with red waiftcoac, aild gilt
buttonswith afleur de lys.
Many Parisian girls, impelled by their aristo
cratic principles, and the apprehension of being
more narrowly watched than heretofore, have
lately arrived here.
July 26.
Public affairs are very far from having taken,
a regular channel in this capital ; a buz of po
pular murmur, which increases every day, and
gains more and fubltantial advocates, is heard to
prevail.
This morning their Royal Highnefles appeared
on the parade at the Palace Royale, and reward
ed the squadron of the regiment de la Tour ca
valry with a gold medal, as an honorable ac
knowledgment of their vigorous condud: againlt
the Patriots in the last campaign ; the medal
was ellimated at 150 Louis d'ors, and bore the
portrait of his Majelty Leopold 11. besides other
military emblems ; at the fame time the subal
tern officers and soldiers, who had particularly
diftinguilhed themselves, were rewarded with a
medal of honor, and the officers with the cross
of the order of Maria Theresa. The above me
dallion was attached to the standard of their re
giment by her Royal Highness Maria Chriftiua,
amidst the applause of an immense multitude of
people, am on git whom were numbers of French
officers, with legions of other French, in white
cockades. The Prince de Wirteniberg assisted
their Royal Highnefles in the ceremony.
VIENNA, July 26.
A new plan is spoken of refpeifting Dantzic
and Thorne, which has been agreed upon by
Austria, Pruflia, and Russia.
It does not now appear that the Emperor means
to direst his armsagainft France, which he pro
bably would have done, had the King and his
family effected their escape.
Nevertheless, several persons have been ar
retted here for having exalted the conduit of the
French, and blamed the Austrian Ministry.
PARIS, July 29
The apprehensions of an invasion daily increase.
The Marquis de Bouille has obtained the fame
rank in the lervice of Sweden that he held ill
that of France. His prediction,fo much ridicul
ed, will probably soon be verified, of his leading
on the armies of foreign powers, to overturn the
new constitution.
The King of Sweden, it [is said, has actually
declared himfelf against France. He will no
doubt be soon followed by the Emperor, and the
other confederated powers,
The report of the revifional committee has
been made to the other committees. It will be
submitted to the Aflbmbly in a day or two. It
coinprifes all the decrees of the Aflembly which
are merely conllitutional, and may therefore be
termed the Magna Cha>ta of France. In this
form it will be presented to the King for his ac
ceptance or refufal.
Their Majesties are never feen,and little heard
of. They are as closely confined as if they were
immured for life in one of the cells of the for
mer Baftile to them, and from the present tem
per of the people, and the alarm which every
where reigns, there is little chance of their un
happy condition being bettered.
It is affirmed in fjnie of the papers, with great
confidence, that certain merchants at Bruflels
have advanced a loan of 12,000,000 of livres on
the credit of the Civil Lift, for the purpose ot
aiding a counter-revolution ; but it is not very
likely that nionied men would part with their
calh on ftich security.
It has long been expected by many, that the
right of Prielts to marry would be recognized by
the National Aflbmbly ; and in proportion as the
conllitutional body approached to the terminati
on of its labours, the decifionof this point leem
ed nearer at hand. In the mean time several
Priests have anticipated the wifhed-for reform,
and entered, as the phrafeis, into provisional cw
tra<Tts of marriage.
This day, at half part one o'clock, eight mil
lion livres of Alfignats were burnt in the Court
yard of thcCai[fc del' Extraordinaire, 208,000,000Jivres of the National Afiignats (about eight mil
lions sterling) have now been burnt.
Some few of the Departments have, as was
anticipated, lent Addrelfes against the Decree of
the 'sth, but tuey are extremely unimportant ;
and we find, even by the exception}, tliac France
is united 011 the qnettion of its Government by a
King.
At the celebration of the I 4th at Lisle, the head
of M. de Bouille was carried in effigy on a pike,
burned, dud the allies thrown in the air.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, July a 6.
\l, pcfineiMiicCs. from the Committee of Con
flitutiou. " It is upneceildiy to trouble you
■with arguments on the importance of a delibera
tion on m.ptle of calling out the public force.
Now that the revolution is almoin complete, you.
will naturally be deftrous of putting a Hop to po
pular tumults, and re eltabliihing obedience to.
the law. A judicious law on ihe action of the.
public force will encourage the timid, and iilence
the calumniators of your labours ; and if any of
the emigrants (huuld continue to shew hoitile in
tentions, it will protect their property till new
crimes oblige you to proceed to feqtietf ration.
This protection will be the only revenge worthy
of you, and the great nation whom you vepre
fent."
■The plan propQfed*by the committee was. then
read and adopted, by which infurrevflio-n or riot,
under all imaginable'circujnitances,is .defined,and
alt.perlons, whether enrolled in the National
Guard or not, are required to succour the Gen
darmerie Naiioruile.any magistrate or public of
ficer, as soon as the words farce a la Locate pro
nounced, without any other requihtion.
A letter was read by. the Council General of
. Corsica, written.on the news of the King's flighp,
exprefling thgir resolution to concur in whatever
measures the National Assembly (hould think fit
to adopt for the protection of the empire,.but at
all events to maintain that freedom which they
had so lately recovered.
A letter from Rethel announced, that General
Bouille is encamped near the walls of the Abbaye
d'.Ovyal vyitli an ai:my of near 15,000 men,which
,jycr«, the Nucleus of a more formidably, army
that was soon to attack them holtilely.
" Let them come," said the writer, ■' The
Frenchmanintrepid when he fought for his
Kings, will be invincible when he fights for Li-
BERT V."
The fallowing laconic addrefe from the citi
zens of Verdun to the National Aflembly, was
followed by twelve fofio pages full dffignatures :
■ we are' ready to die for the maintenance
and execution of 6ur Laws."
.. - ; 3°'
Shalltkene he Jlill.any Orders of Knighthood in Francs,
This queliio.n came under difpuffion.—M. Cu
min, in the name of the Committees appointed
to examine this question, endeavored to prove
that military and honorary decorations ought,
in a free Hate like France,to be considered as re
compences si in ply to individuals ; and 110 longer
to serve as a basis for colleflive bodies which the
new order of things does not tolerate.
M. Lang'iinus (hid, that it could only be by de
stroying the orders that they should at length
be able to cleanfeaway the remain's,of the dung
hill of AtiJlocracy.
M. Anthoine did not oppnfe the retaining some
military recompences ; but hepropofed that the
King, and the princes of his family, of
wearing a blue ribband, (liould for the future be
decorated wish one confilling of the three na
tional colours.
"" 'Meflrs. Regnhulr, Chabrautl, and la Panle,
•fpolte in favour o-f the extinction of thie Orders.
Without ihfifting thar all the orders ought to
be prelervecl. M.! Malouet main-rained, that the
prosperity, and even- the existence, of the fo
reign commerce of France, depended on the re
taining the Order of Malta.- I'he reasons which
he adduced, for his opinion, however did not
convince the Afiembly, which, after foiiiedebate,
palled the following decree :
1. All Orders of Knighthood, or other Orders,
all Corporations, Decorations, or external signs,
which' luppofe difliniSions of birth in France,
and fimilaronesfhall notbeeftabliihed in future.
2. The military decoration at present exilting
being, like every honorary recompense, pure
ly individual and personal, cannot serve as a
basis to any corporation, and there cannot be
exacted, upon conferring it, any other oath
than the Civic one. The decoration of the
heretofore Orthr of■ Merit (hall hereafter be
eonfidered as the fame with that of Sr. Louis.
3. No Frenchman (hall he permitted to take any
of the qualities and titles fupprefied by the
decrees of 19th of June 1790 —even not by ad
ding to their names the words heretojore, ire.
No piibljc officer can receive any co'mmiffion,
deed or other writing in which these qualities
Inall make a part, The Committees of Con
stitution and Criminal Jurisprudence fliall
make out a plan of a decree refpec r Cing the
ptiniihmenfs to be inflicfted on thole who fball
infringe this law.
4. Every Frenchman who fiial! demand or ob
tain adiniflioii t or ffiall p.eferve liis title in
ajiv foreign order tunneled npdil the dtltinc
tioiis of rank and birth, shall be thereby fti
velled of his quality;of a "French citizen, bnq
niay notwithltai.dihg be employed in die mi
litary service as well as any other foreigner.
On the motion of M. Tranchet, the following
addition, founded upon the firft article, was
adopted : 1 .
The National Afl'em-bly F€-fer~ves ro it felt to <tr
tennine the sole and commond.iftinxftion which
fliall be ettabllfhed t > recom'nence merit, vir
tue, and real Cervices rendered to the State—
Neverth'elel's the Military may preserve that
which they at prel'elit hold.
The election of a Governor for the Dauphin
ftiould next have taken place ; but M. Freteau
propolitig that the nomination (hould be proceed
ed by law; defining the rights and duties of the,
Governor, the election was deferred, and the As
sembly ordered that the plan of a law upon, that'
fubjedt (hould be presented to them in eight days..
LONDON, July IJ.
Mr. Paine the author of the Rights of Man,'
arrived in town 011 Wednefd^y.
Great numbers of French officers are at prefentj
in the Ruffian navy ; and one of these, Mr. Tre-j
venfai, has lately been.promoted to the rank of,
Vice-Admiral. He commands one division of the ?
flotilla, and has a Dutch officer, M, Pehffier, for"
his captain.
The Admiralty at Ainfterdam, lately destroyed
by fire," not'without suspicion of private incendi
afres,'wars esteemed the niofl magnificent naval
emporium of Europe. ' i
July 30. They write from Paris, that the eyest
of all'are turned towards the frontiers ; an at-
tack of a very formidable nature being confident
ly lookecl-for. This is to be directed by the
Prince of Conde, against the Department of the
Meufe the Moselle, where Ivl. Bouille command
ed. This Prince will rn'ake his invasion at the
head of 7000 or 8000 gentlemen volunteers, fii'p
po.rted by another body of 8000 or 10000 men,
levied and paid by the emigrants, and the two
brothers of the King-
f ~ > ' r, .
Twenty thousand citizens of Paris have en
rolled their names as volunteers to proceed to
the frontiers. Only 4,560 have been admitted
to the honor of mart-hirig for the present. Acon
(lderable number of young gentlemen of Paris
have offered to mount themlelves, and to go at
their own ex'pence to form a body of light horse.
But this offer has been declined, as tending to in
troduce into the National Guard a particular or
der.
The number of rioters killed 111 the la re affray
is not yet known. The detatchment of National
Guards was, upon that oCcasion, followed by
carts, into which the (lain were immediately
thrown, that the populace might not be irritated
to further violence by a view of the dead bodies.
The Americans have always profefled to consi
der the King of France as their friend. Since
the revolution there,is hardly a man in any of
the new states who is not attached to the Nation
al Aflenibly, which they consider as actuated by
the fame ideas as influenced the deliberations and
decisions of Congress during the American war.
Monsieur Fayette has a critical and difficult
talk to perform; His popnlarity has ebb'd- and
flow'd at leall twenty tiniSs within the last fix
months,
The American China Trade increases very ra
pidly. The greater part of the tea consumed in
our Weft-India Islands is smuggled into them
from Boston, New-York, and Philadelphia.
The dungeon or gaol at Birmingham was'
crowded oa Friday last with the most active of,
the rioters. Deriving confidence from their'
numbers, they began to be unruly ; and,thegaol
ery in imitation of his betters, began an address
through the key-hole with Friends and Fellovi-
Churckmen. .
Arig. i. It is afTerred in all the foreign papers,
that the King of Sweden has received the Mar
quis de Bouille into his service, with the fame
rank and appointments that lie formerly enjoyed
in that of his Moll Clu iftian Majelly.
During his stay at Spa, aconfpiracy against his
per foil was discovered, and one of the conspira
tors taken into confinement.
COUNTER REVOLUTION
What rumour has long without fufficient like
lihood affirmed, seems now to wear an afpeift
more serious. From the frontiers, paHengers as-!
fert that every day small parties of Auihian
troops arrive, 20, 40, and frequently 60 together,
generally in disguise. About 200 folciiers have
deserted from the regiments of Berwick and Lie
geois, to join the royal party.
Ihe troops of the Emperor, which arc now
ported adjoining to, and on the hanks ot the
Rhine, are said to amount to nolefs than 170,000
men.
]M. de Rouille lias had frequent conferences
with the King of Sweden fiucc his reception into
his Majesty's service.
178
At !in earl v period we submitted tfi fte poblie
llie plea ft n g ,infr>r irt ati on thart'nVlhe £th 7t j,
ainV Sch days # Jfttne feveral^* o p o f lti ;
ons nijute to :hfe Emprefc o,f KW|fiaTro«<»nrCouit
by Mr. Fawkner,- for . the accfJTtrplifhment of
peacc between the courts of Peterfburgh and Con
stantinople, had been acceded to ~o n~the pa rt 0 f
her' Imperial Majefly, and only waited the rati
-fixation ©f the Divan. -
T'hat rarificaiiori being acquired, and the Bel
ligerent Powers having mutually pledged tliem
fflves toefteet and perpetuate t he- eat o<>je<ft...
Peaci upon honorabli terms—which appeared all
that the allied coufts either prefled or ttifhed
agreed thereto, on certain fpecific terms propgfei
for that purpose ; and the Confts of Londonand
Berlin approved of the fame.
This approbation was the notification to Mr.
Fawkner, for appearing at the Court of Peterf
burgh,in the dignified appointment of EriSroy Ex
traordinary and -Minister Plenipotentiary *tfr o in
the Court of London, in which chnradier Re com
pleted t-he obje<fts effectually that he commenced
in a more private capacity, and transmitted offi
cially the intelligence thereof.
Thus, in the (pace of two months, has Mr.
Fawkner, with an uncommon degree of spirit
and expedition, completed the intent and deiign
of his million, iuid been the happy medium where-
by two jarring nations, which hacl been years at
variance, have become reconciled to each o
ther ; at the fame time that he displayed that
consequence, rank, and exalted pre eminence,
which Great-Britain holds among the nations of
the world, as the powerful arbiter of peace and
war.
Among oilier benefits which will refulr to this
counify f rom t he happy termination ofMr.Fawk
uer's miJTion, will be an in.crease of our trade
with llnfiia ; for the Einprefs has aliented to a
renewal of the Commercial Treaty which! expir
ed in i 786, and by which both countries were fi>
much benefited. ;
One great end of our present armament being
thus happily attained, a special meff'enger has
been difpatchcd from the Admiralty to Portsmouth
for a number of ihips to drop down to their moor
ings in the harbour, that they may be paid off as
soon as pollible,
All contracts for the fleet were yesterday coun
emnanded.
, ; . STATE PAPER.
The following proclamation by the KingofSpain,
clearly proves the apprehenfiotis entertained
by that court, that the French revolution niay
eventually be productive of discontents in liis
dominions. -
To all Governors of Provinces, Alcaides, Justices,
" Kis Most Catholic Majefly, aifhiated by a jiift
fnfpicioil, left: the Frenchjbecome fanatically ad
ili£ied ti> that liceiUioiifuefs which they term li
berty, (lionld introduce and circulate their d<-
testable* maxims of government, by means of
tinkers, knife-grinders, jand'o'ther itinerant me
chanics, who, liotwithftariding former regulati
ons, have cortfiderably increased ; hereby com
mands, that all the Governors, Alcaides, and Jul
tie'es of his Realnl, fliall especially watch over,
and caiife to be enregiftei ed, all strangers 'fol
lowing the above or any fimilarprofeflions, with
out using violence to any fiich as may be peacea
ble, but\carefully committing to prison all those
upon whom papers of a seditious tendency may
be found, whether printed,or in manufcript,awl
also alll those who may utter' fentimciiis ps a £-
milar hature
" Accordingly, I hereby command all and
each of you, in ihe King's name, to fee this ordi
nance complied with in your refpecftive govern
ments and tribunals. You are also to inform all
those who acfi under you, of the nature and ex
tent of the'p'refent decree, and you are to de
mand an exadt account of all their proceedings,
which you are to transmit to us.
" You are also enjoined to fend us notice of
every thing particular that may occur, so that
it may be, laid before his Majerty, who will m
confluence take those measures which may feent
molt fuit'able to his wifclom. ,
May God grant you longlifeand happmefs.
" Le Comte de Cifuenies,.
It is reported that Her Majesty lias ordered a
superb present of jewellery to the princess o
Praffia, lately betrothed to his royal highness t ie
duke of York. . ,
His royal highness the duke of York is t e
firft prince of the blood that has courted peifon
ally since Charles I. ,
As the princefles never go into public, t e
duche.fs of York will take precedence of all ot er
ladies. .
The fortune of the princess royal of Prulja
fpoken.of.ro the value of three hundred tou
sand pounds. The late Frederick, King of rU
fia, left in his coffers between seven and eig'
millions fternno-.
yh/guj7 4.
c E.
&c. ire.The exportation of gold from South-America
has rhis year been greater than for many years—*
the expences of the late armament,, the iucreafe
of pay to the military, the Moorifti war. &c. have
obliged the Court of Madrid almolt tod-rain their
transatlantic pofleffions of all their treasure.
Yesterday goods to the amount of one hun
dred and forty thousand pounds were entered at
the Cuftom-huufe for America.
Capt. B!ij*h is now on his way a fccond time,
for the purpose of transplanting the bread-fruit
trees ; and his success and fafety is eagerly de
sired and wilhed for by this nation.
On the 4th ult. at 110011, a miller at Minehead,
Somersetshire, was trying an experiment, by
burning a tar barrel, when the wind being very
]ii<rh the fire communicated to a large (lack of
furze that flood in his yard, which instantly got
into a blaze, and spread with the greatest rapi
dity to the adjoining dwellings, so that before
the next morning upwards of 72 lionfes, com pric
ing almost the whole qf the middle town, were
reduced to allies. By this terrible and (udden
fire, the centre of the above once refpecflable and
flourifhing maritime town is now become a heap
of ruins. Among the few good houses which
providentially escaped the general conflagration,
are those of Mr. Davis, Mr. Warren, Mr. H. Ball,
Mr. P. Ball, and a few others. One life was loft,
viz. that of Mr. D. Price, a poor maniac, who,
being confined, was in the hurry and confufion
forgotten till too late. What adds to this heavy
affiidion is, that few, if any of the hotiles were
infilled.
PORTSMOUTH, J-uly. 31
Friday evening the following experiment were
made on board a ftiip in this h.irbour, by that ve
ry ingenious artist Mr. Hill, carpenter of the Ac
tive frigate, and inventor of a machine for draw
ing bolts out of (hip's fides, &c. , ,
ift. He (topped a (hot hole 011 the outside of
the fliip, 4 feet under water, in the space of one
minute, without the assistance of any person out
of the vessel.
2d. He flopped, in the fame manner, a space
in the (hip's fide, 4 feet under vva:er, of 4 feet
by 4 inches, in two minutes and an half. Dur
ing the time of effecftually curing both leaks, the
(hip only made 10 inches water in the well.
3d. An experiment on the chain-pump, with a
new corcftrudted wheel of Mr. Hill's inventing,
which ac r ts upon infinitely better principles than
that at present in life, is much fafer, lets liable
to be out of order, and will be a material Hiving
to government in chains and saucers.
These experiments were made before theCojn
mifTioner, sundry officers of the navy, mailer
shipwright, his affiltants, mailer attendants, and
frveral of the nioft fcientific carpenters in the
fleet : by all of whom they were highly approv
ed. and pronounced to be of the greatelt service
in an engagement, and to navigation in general.
B O S T O N, September 21
We are informed that the National Aflembly has decreed, That
the new Legislature of France shall meet at Paris on the 15th of
O&ober next —and that the Constitution, intire, (hall be prelented
«o the King, for his approbation, tbe lft of that month. To this
period, the attention of the French nation is attracted. It is a
doubt with many, that LSuis will afient to it—and they found
their doubts on his late conduct, and present fnuation. If he
should not, much uneasiness is expected—and the Royalifls will
then, if ever, make their stroke to effett a Counter-Revolution.
The Societies in England, Scotland, and Ireland, which have
commemorated the French Revolution, amount in number to near
fifty, and are composed of the mod rcfpeftable character*. From
those of London, Dublin, Glasgow, Birmingham, Liverpool,
Manchester, Taunton, Norwich, and Plymouth, we have received
particular accounts. The sentiments given in their toasts are wor
thy British and Irish Freemen; an universal philanthropic spirit
animates them all ; and our country (hares liberally of their atten
tion. At Manchester, two of the toasts were—" May the -New.
World regenerate the Old"—" May the leaven of America leaven the
whole earth."
The magnanimity and coolness (hewn by Dr. Priestley, in his
address to the inhabitants of Birmingham, designates his chara&er.
Few minds could have supported the irreparable loss he has fuf-
tained
Mr. Benjamin Greene is chosen Treasurer of the Bojlon Tontine
■djfociation.
Lord IVycombc, son to the Marquis of Lanfdowne (known in Ame
rica by the title of Lord Shelburne) arrived in town, from New-
York, since our last.
The President of the United States has been plea fed to issue
Letters Patent, recognizing the appointment of Richard Cod
man, Esq. of this town, as Vice-Consul of her Mod Faithful Ma-i
jefty the Oueen of Portugal, for the Commonwealth of Mafla
chufetts.
NEW-LONDOV, September 22
Tuesday night lad, a negro man broke into the dwelling-house
Capt. Gabriel Siftarre, of the Great-neck in this town, and stole
•undry articles ; he then set fire to the house, by placing some
brands of fire at the corner of the kitchen. The smoke alarmed
a servant that lodged over the kitchen, who awaked the family ;
*7 which means the house, and perhaps several lives were pre
served He was taken into custody last evening.
From, a Country Correfpondcnt.
As the raising of Indian corn is no I mall part of the improve
ment of the farmer, and as the corn is often hurt with early froft,
I would remind those who wish to secure their crop, that it isne
*efl~ary to take the firft ripe ears for feed, which may be easily
done, by observing your field, when it firlt begins to ripen ; you
will then fee here and there an ear, all over the field,turned white,
which ears ftiould be'pluckcd off, hung up and thoroughly dried.
be neg'efted a few days, or if there comes a {mall froft, they
**nnot be known from the reft of the corn. Pra&ifing this mc
' ir)( U your corn will be ten days or a fortnight earlter in the fea
°n. and so efeapefhe early froft*. From my own experience, I
'Hieve that pra&ifing the ibovc method, there would be thou
of bushels more of found corn raised in a year, in one finglc
Counl y- A Frinni to the hdnjfriotts.
PROVIDENCE, September 22.
ExtraS of a letter from a French gentUmm, at New-London, to hit
— J «W-' j
friend in th's town, (tiit'ed September 14, i~gv.
Here I a n, in New-London with my wife and family,
le.t the Cape the 26th u!t. in the Bi THree Brothers, be
J n T appointed by the Ademblv'to come with one of the mem
bers to aflc afllllancejof Congress, for our poor diftrefTed Colony
which I lert in a most horrid Ihuation.— All the slaves of the
Planters have revolted, and they have burnt in the course of
three days about filty, plantations, and killed every person they
could catch. Every plantation and landing pl^cefrom Port MaU
l»g° to Limanard are totally ; it was supposed the fame
etFefl took place at Port-au-Prince and Aux-Cayes ; as (ome of
the negroes taken by our troops fay, it was to take place the fame
day throughout the colony."
G E O R G E -T O W N, (M.) September 24.
Monday evening last the PRESIDENT of the United States,
hisL ADY,and Suite, arrived in this town from the Seat of Govern
ment ; and on Tuesday took their departure for Mount Vernon.
DOVER (M H.) September 21.
The Convention Oif this State, which met at Concord to revise
and amend our State Conllitution, not being able to agree, have
adjourned to meet in February next—previous to which, they
chose a committee to digest and arrange their sentiments as the
public good may require.
FOR some time past our whole attention
Has been engrofs'd by'the
At Concord held—and where of late
Our sapient politicians met—
At o.nce with fervent ebullition, ' *
To boil us down, the Conllitution, v
Determined each and every man,
T' improve upon old Solon's plan,
To prove Lycurgus was a fool,
Each System writer—but a tool-
That at this day each wild Fanatic
Undoubtedly was democratic—
Aristocrats had fail'd in France,
Which led the King - and Queen a dance.
— Full long in quiet peace and patience,
We've waited their determinations,
And now our readers we'll inform
They met at Concord— did no harm.
Canvafs'd old errors—chatted—chid—
As orators at Athene did.
Some thought it wife, and some not bell
T'eftablifh a religious tejl—
Others found out a shocking flaw
Within our Courts of Common Law.
Some Justices, o'er fond of fees,
WiiH'd to destroy the Common Pleas.
Others contended with their might
Th' Representation was not right;
Each one orj his own*fide contended
That part alone he wifti'd amended.
When, after long and learn'd debate,
Too tedious- for us to relate,
Each party Zealot fully fir'd,
Took horse, and straightway home retir'd,
The Constitution, if 'tis lame,
As yet continues—all the fame ;
Whether a blefling or a curse,
Tis neither better, now, nor worse.
The labouring mountain after Toufe,
Has thus brought fifth—a fimpte Mouse.
Philadelphia, October i.
The Prttfburgh Cazette of the 17th in(t. contains the resolutions
of a meeting of Delegates at Pittsburgh, from the Counties of We(t
mrirelarid, Waftiingotn, Fayette and Allegheny, agairift the Law
of Congress laying Duties on di(tilled Spirits— also petitions from
the fame to the Legislatures of the Union, and of this Common,
wea-h-h—and an address to the neighbouring Counties in Pennfvl
vania and Virginia, and to the State of Kentucky, proposing their
co-operati6n in oppofirrg the said Law.
The Decree of the National Aflembly, confirming the inviola
bility of the has met the approbation of various parts of the
kingdorp-, and f) om which ad'drefTcs have been received by the
of their !condu£h
Major Snead was tried the 15th ult. at the Supreme Court at
Wilmington, N. G. on an ind|6fcment charging him with the mur
der of Col*. George Mitchell—The jury brought in a verdifl of
Man/laughter.
Previous to the organization of the general government the
States individually, we,re ajmqft constantly engaged in j.egiof)jipg
for the union at lar'ge—proportions and reqwifitions from the old
Congress engrofTed the attention of the State Legislatures from
feflion to feflion in such manner as fcarfcely afforded them any op
portunity to turn their attention to those important concerns with
which their immediate intereft-and prosperity were conne&ed—
andthough t'he idea of a part legislating for the whole, involved the
grofleft absurdity, and was attended with infuperable'difftdultied,
division, confufion, and ruin, yet such a wretched system found
strenuous advocates!
What a scene does the present fit'uation of affairs exhibit; re
lieved from the intolerable burthen of continental legi flat ion, the
fevcral States now turn their attention to objects within their con
troul ; these objefls present a field of legislation which strikes the
mind with pleasure in contemplating its extent and variety—and
while it is explored, the eflential and very important intereftsof the
State are unfolded to view in a new and surprising point of lig'it.
The Legislature of this Commonwealth has been mod honor
ably engaged during the present feflion in attending to these great
objedls ; Among other a&s which (hew their enlightened and li
beral policy, we may justly notice those for incorporating the
capal and lock-navigation company—for opening new roads on
the plan of turnpikes—for uniting the University and College—
for erecting a house for the Prpfident of the United States—for
supporting government, by granting competent and decent sala
ries to the officers of the judicial department, &c. These are
kegiflative tranfa&ions on a fq?le that must continue -to the State
that celebrity which (he now enjoys ; and whilethey must conduce
grratly to the wealth of her citizens at large, they will I'ncreafe
her weight and importance as a diflinguifhed member of the
great American family.
Party .is the engine by which the worst chara&crs often work
themselves into popular favor.
There is no government however pcrfeft, which is not alloyed
by a part} spirit ; The devil once raised a party in heaven.
The maxim of party is, that the end juftifies the means—hence a
facrifice of honor and honesty arc the almost universal result of
bandying with a party.
There are chara&ers in the world who poflefs so much probi
ty, dignity and independence of mind, that they never could be
brought to join the cabals of a party ; such are often rendered un
popular through intrigues, but :n the hour ofexiremity, their
virtue proves a rock ou confidence of their country re
poP. s with fafety.
It is almost impoflible that a party man should be dispassionate,
difintcrcfled or fincerc.
179
The collision of parties is deftru&ive of the public happiness—
for while the people are warmly engaged in supporting the con
led, the principals who often keep out of fight, are preying on their
interpft.
Such is the imperfeffcion of human wisdom, that the best admin
titration that ever existed in any country could never guard itfelf
from the fhafts of an envious party spirit—there is in
our natures which leads us to balance a foible against the whole
circle of human virtues.
" IN times ofgeneral agitation,
Some rife like scum in fermentation :
Who pufti and kick the whole world up-
Side down, to get themselves a-top :
And when they've gained their favourite point,
For want of strength can't move a joint.
As ufe!e r s as a leaky cask,
Or like a furnacc out of blast ;
Who shortly must be laid aside,
Like horse, unfit to draw or ride."
There is a fpeciesof pride among mankind which remarkably
distinguishes some chara&ers—they cannot boast of the bounty of
nature either■ in refpeft to their persons, or parts, and yet they
seem to be inflated with a stronger blast of vanity than even those
who value themselves on their ancestors, their literary advantages,
or an affluent patrimony. —An ignorant purse-proud upstart, who
has suddenly acquired property is probably intended by Butler
in the following lines—
" The truefl characters of ignorance
Are vanity, and pride, and arrogance ;
As blind men use to bear their noses higher
Than those that have their eyes and Jight entire
It has been doubted whether any human mind is totally free from
the paflion of envy—the love of flattery is unquestionably as ge
neral; of all the modes of attacking the understanding, this has
always been found the most fuccefsful —the draught when artfully
prepared finds a ready admittance—so true is the satire contained
in the following quotation—
<l An ass will with his long ears fray
The flies, that tickle him,, away ;
But man delights to have his ears
Blown maggots in by flatterers.".
The following very judicious paragraph,is copiidfrtm
the Freeman's Journal.
It is more than probable (fays a corrcfpondent
that the human race will never behold a govern
ment founded altogether on the principles of
equity. There are so many natural, as well as
artificial inequalities in the human faculties,
that this event can scarcely be ever expec'ted ;
and perhaps it would not prove even commonly
beneficial. Let us take a general survey of the
face of the globe we inhabit. We shall find it
/liverfified by the river and the cataradt ; by the
plain and the mountain ; which diversities indu
bitably contribute to the good of man. Let us
therefore decently enjoy our present happy con
ftirntion, which allows a laudable scope to am
biiion and ro induflry, and is capable of repel
ling their bad effects, if any should be meditated
against the peace of the community.
On Sunday mofnihg departed this life, in the 73d year of his
age, Mr. William Bradford, many years the Editor of the
Penvfy/vania Jonrna/, and ColoneFof a regiment of rmilitia during
the late war. He was descended from one of the firft settlers in
Pennsylvania, was one of four generations of Printers, who
have universally diflinguifhed themselVes by devoting the press to
the prcfervation and extension of the liberties of their country.
This venerable patriot took an early and a£tive part in every scene
of difficulty and danger which occurred during the American re
volution. Fear had no place in his breast. Nor did he cyer, in
a single instance, betray, or even disappoint the confidence which
his fellow-citizens placed in him, whether in the secret enterprizes
of the cabinet, or in the open dangers of the field.
His remains were interred on Monday afternoon, in the Pres
byterian grave-yard, in Arch-street, attended by a large concourfc
of the inhabitants of the city, and particularly by the early and
steady friends of the revolution, who can nevei recollett the im
portant events of the years 17,74, 1775, and 1776, without connect
ing them with the name of this Patriotic Citizen.
Total Avert
Ige PRICE oj GR
Jrorn April 171
Rye. 4 Barley.
■4/»f- 3/3
33 ft e6 /'
Wheat.
6/3*
.5?/ft
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS *t the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Adtiana, Robertfon, Liverpool
Brig Alfred, Earle, Madeira
Mary, M'lver, Jamaica
Anna, Lathmore. Oporto
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 20f6 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents i \J6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/52
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 1 gf6 97^
Indents 11f6 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15/
Bank Subscriptions, 133 134 Dollars.
SO- Tickets in the NEIV-HAVEN WHARF
LOTTERY, warranted undrawn the 22d of Sept.
being the late ft intelligence from thence, to be had of
SAMUEL ANDERSON, next door to the Bank, in
Chefnut-Jlreet.
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE removed their Office to the corner of Chefnut and Third
Streets—where they purchase and fell CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, &c. &c.
Bufint fs of all kinds, in their line, tranCa&ed 00 Coinmiflion,
They have for sale, TICKETS in ihe Secoud Class of the Mas
sachusetts Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing 9F which will com
mence on the 13th inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Oafs of the
Charlcfton Lottery, at the Managers prtccy
To be let, on moderate Ground Rent, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly litoatcd, in Kcnfington,
fronting on three ftrcets. There are improvements on tb;s loi,
which, added to its situation, make it worthy of particular {atten
tion. Philadelphia, 0(1. 1, 179*.
d and Walx>/
i Engla
nil 1791.
Beans.
3 M
LAIN, in
j9O, to Apt
I Oats. I
'7 ft
per Buftiel.
per Quarter,
io2ipr. cent.
. 57i do
-61 do.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
I NOW fend you a third Elegv, which is the only remaining one
that I ll.all pubhlh. Ido not know but that ihe situation ot
mind whioh I am now going to describe is entirely new ; at least,
I never remember to have heard it taken notice of. Congrcve, in
one of his Comedies, m kes a lover fay that, irritated with ihe
treatment ot his milliefs, he had dete, mined to forget her T«
aiEft himfelf in conquering his pallion, he made . lift of her im
perfrfl.ons; which begot by hear!, and repeated sco ten, »to
become, at length, attached to them. This appears natural lor
the habit of thinking on any thing, for a long time, ««
renders that habit agreeable—and generally me thing itfel.. I his
may poflibly account for what lam going to mention. It is now
ieveral years since I found myfeff prompted to write he si.st
Elegy. I need not relate to you what have been my feelings in
the mean time; the iwo pieces which I have already sent you Suf
ficiently declare, them. The custom of dedicating a particular
part of every dav for the purpose of rrflefling on a fubjt ft which
so much interested me, has induced a _ h * b '< v "y P le * fl "2'
Jo be departed Irom without pain. Ihe efteft o tus a>l as
been to place the obiett of my affettions always in a y vtt 1
and it has, latterly, been conftaml) attended with delight So
far am I wedded 10 this enjoyment, that 1 much fufpeft whether
any afiei fnuation in life will be able wholly to take it from me.
And so much have 1 accustomed myfelf to think of her with plea
sure, that I believe, even her marriage with another per Ton, (it he
were refprflable, and capable of making her happy) would hard
ly so far afftft my habit of contemplating her, as to make it
painful. r
I have placed these remarks before the Elegy, to prepare o e
who read it for what they might other wife condemn as a ingi.a
ritv, without existence in natuie. Few perlons feel interefttd in
things of this kind—-and in truth few things are so vi gu nig as
what aie commonly called Love Elegies. There seems to be an
indelicacy in a perion's making his afFeflions public, hicn oc
the mind too much lor it to relifli the beauty of verle, or t e pic
tures of paflion. Perhaps I deceive myfelf—but had I not though
that the pieces, which I i ave sent you, would be of ule to man
kind, the considerations already mentioned would have deterred
me from fending them.
ELEGY 111.
FROM the wild futy of the tyrant Love
Escaped, a gentle paflion fills mv breast,
That whispers peace, and calls my foul to prove
The milder influence of AfFe£lion's reft.
Soul of my foul ! where'er I chance to fir ay.
Thy pleasing image cheers the rugged road ;
Smooths with frefh fmilesthe variegated way,
And gives delight to Sorrow's bleak abode.
Still as I view thee, in whatever light,
Thou look'ft perfe£Hon to my partial eyes;
In female worth most excellently bright,
In woman's real duty truly wife.
Where, with such moving, such affe&ing grace.
Is filial piety so fair difplay'd ?
The look of love, of sympathy the face,
Is thine, to fond eft. parents, happy maid.
In all the bufnefs ojdomijlic life,
Thy toils relieve a darling mother's cares ;
And, a bright emblem of a worthy wife,
Thy hand the labors of the houflioid (hares.
Studious of fciertce, silently retired,
I fee thee bending o'er the page of truth ;
And with unceasing vigilance inspired,
Deriving knowledge from the tales of youth.
Thine is the power to ope the liberal flores
Of real tearjiing, and to seize the spoil;
To mark its ft ream of treasure as it pours,
And pierce the fountain wilh rewarded toil.
The slanderous charge of vain and haughty man,
Who talks of female pedantry and pride,
Affefls not thee ; felf-taught on wisdom's plan,
Who fhew'ft the inflruftion which thou feem'ft to hide.
Thine is that fecrct, and that namelefsgrace,
By Grangers honor'd, or thy fell their gucft,
Which lights up pleasure in each circling face,
And yileds foft ease to every anxious breast.
Thine too that dignity of female charms
Which gives fair order to the feftive dance;
And that accoidant ge,ntlenejs which charms
The foul with force frefH pleasures to advance.
In friend/Jiip's confidential hour, 'tis thine
The heart, attentive to thy voice, to cheer;
To ope afle&ion's inexhaufted mine,
And waken pity's sympathetic tear.
" Still let me view thee in this pleasing light,"
Mistress of every power the foul to move ;
From the fweetattion spreading mild delight,
To that which thrills with agonizing love.
Arm'd with Anticipation's eagle eye,
I pierce the mystic veil offuture life-,
And, with unutterable pleasure, spy
In thee the glory of a perfett wife.
At home, abroad, with strangers, or with friends,
Thy deeds, delighting, spread around thee joy ;
Thy steps accordant extacy attends,
And bliss, whose transports live without alloy.
With the fame look that holds thy husband's heart,
And binds to thee his confidence and love,
I fee thy eyes a mother's fmilcf impart,
Thy lips paiental tenderness improve.
Thy flattering hand, and loved embrace, delight
The child whose little lips are raised to thine ;
Thy hand maternal rocks, the winter night,
The infant cradle where thy hopes recline.
Oft as the lips of innocence are prefs'd,
\M ith all a parent's fondnefs, parent's zeal,
To thy carefling, and supporting breast,
I fee the look of rapture o'er thee steal.
And as thy arms their lovely charge sustain,
Whose little sports the tears of joy beguile,
I fee thy prayer a heavenly audience gain,
And draw from heaven an approbating ftnile.
And now futuritys loved pi&ures fly
\n real life I fee thee as thou art;
A friend whose cares can dry the tearful eye,
And breathe calm comfoit to the unhappy heart.
Now should my constancy hereafter fail
1 o win thy tongue to answering words of love,
May one more worthy, and refined, prevail
Thy yielding heart with paflion's power to move,
For with such pure, diuntereftcd carr,
I wish ihy weal, 'twould be my highefl joy,
Thy love forgotten, and unfelt despair,
To fee thy bliss a good man's tho'ts employ.
Yes, I could fee him fold thre in his aims,
And drain thy beauties to his raptured heart ;
And bend, enainour'd, o'er thy world of chatvns;
If ihou 10 me would fritndfhip's balm impart.
■ O come, with lenient care my spirit loothe,
Exalt each noble virtue of my foul ;
Win it to fnendfllip, dignity, and truth,
And bid the Muse's bleiTing o'er it roll!
1791
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEA S,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c,
Of the firtt quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jersey, 2d Class—to commence drawing 26th in (I. ?
Mdttachufetts Semi-annual, 2d Class, 13th October. J tively
May be had as above.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the subscriber, at Bor
dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; i ditto
containing one boille green cloth coat, one striped veil and
breeches, two (hires and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jersey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, pud of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. t, 1791. [ e P I O
W. M'D D U G ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his fmcere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years ; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpettable (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who plcafe to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the mod approved
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&iftng for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and iirangersof genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra&ifings will be aitended with no expence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
MASSAC HU SETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afTure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will pofitivcly commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of OElobcr next, or Joontr, if the Tickets
(hall be difpolcd of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afiigned, so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
S C H E M E.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25,600 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3°°° are 6000
3 2000 6000
6 1000 6000
,c> s°° 500 c
3° 200 6000
Boco
4500
4000
3600
3220
20C0
60680
80
9°
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
05000 Tickets.
5-lP TICKETS in the above Class may be bad of the several
Managers ,"ihow,ll paythe prizes on demand-, of theTR easu rer
% t , e , , o T, m °, n^ ealtl ' ; °f James White, at his Book-ilore,
Franklin s Head, Court-street— and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun. 1
DAVID COBB, *
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
no A,; J ° HN KNi£LAND . J
Hojton, April 14, 1791.
(PT Bank Powers to receive the Interest, and for the transfer of the
pnonpa! of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflabhjhci in the Trea-
Oh Editor 'f° fiLs, tobejolibi
180
CAR R Y L
CLASS 11.
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
TF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of Liitle York, in V
1 'but originally ot Scarborough, in Yorklhire, Git. -1! '
will make himfelf known, toother with hi» prcfent place of
lldtnce, either to his brother John Franks, who is now mi','
Port, or to the fubferiber, he will hear of fomethin ? erratlviol '•!
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON *
Portland, (Diftrifl of Maine) Augujl 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the dcceafe of Mr. Franks, his legal heir or
heirs are requellcd to forward their name* and placcs of abode to
Mr. Rob 1 nson, as above.
Georgetown, September 9,1701.
THE Sales of the Lots in the FcdfJal'Cit) will commence on
Monday the 17th day of O&ober next. The Commiflioneti
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the pu'uh
buildings to any desirable extent; with a view to draw thefun.l
into a&ion. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a (iepofit ut R
per cent, will require j~4th part of the purchase money to be paid
down, the residue to be on bonds with security, pa/able with i.u
tcreft. in three equal payments. The maonci of improvement will
be publiflud at the sale.
Philadelphia, 20ih July, i-jgi.
THE Commiflioners appointed to receive Subicnptiom 10 the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law in
form the Stockholders of the friid Bank, that an eleftionfortwentv
five Dire£lors will be held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, oa
Friday the 21 ft day of October next, at 10 o'clock in thr mornine
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
A large colle&ion of BOOKS;
Among which arc the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bills of Ex- Dallas's Reports.
change. Kirby's Conne&icut Reports.
Clerk's Vade Mecum. Condu&or Generalis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines of the Prac-
tice of Phvfic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries
Brown's Elements of Medicine,
Ofterwald's ChriftianTheology. Jcnyn'j Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion theChrifban Religion.
in the Soul. Reattie's Evidence of Ditto,
decker on Religious Opinions. Think Well On't.
"ordyce's AddrefTcs to Young Devout Cluiftian's VadeMecum
Men. Edwards's Hiflory of Redemp
tion.
Sermons to Young
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide.
Newton's Diflertations on the
Prophecies.
Le&ures delivered by Soame
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrancei
Future State Eternal.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons.
Ramfav's American Revolution
Hifloryof America.
Morfc's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
(<• f-)
Keatc's Account of the Pelew
I (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&ion to the mak-
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor-
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
Sele&ie e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftoriee,
Scott's LelTons on Eloctftion,
Saigeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Mefliah.
Lavatcr's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hillory, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ame
-6 vols. l ican War, 4 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation. New Annual Regiftcr.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations,
quiries. Walker's Academic Speaker.
~~ " Life of Robinson Crufoc.
Saville's Miscellanies.
School of Wisdom.
Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Description of 300 Animals.
Bovle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Belifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of Hift° rv -
Allifon's Etfay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w& f 3W iaw6t)
Experimental Essays.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra£ls.
125000
Beauties of the British Senate.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Philadelphia, August 6 i~Qi
A D V K RTISEM'EN T.
$3* BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has receive J
No. 10 to 3», both inc/ujive, of a Publication which comes ou.
week in Paris, entitled. " Gorrespondance Nat lONALE »" 7
From A r n. ito No. in, have been fliipbed, not ) e * lf: i 9
Any pcrfon who may incline to subscribe for this work, .
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnifhei with tic nu
they arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
Thomas Johnson, }
David Stuart, [ Commiflionfrs.
Daniel Carroll,)
No. 22, NoRTH-FR ONT-ST R E£T,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Buchan's Domestic Medicine,
lateil edition.
Clark on Difeafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pockct Farrier.
fe&ions.
against Chauncev.
Booth's Apology for the Bapiifls
Doway Tranflaiion of the Vul
gate Bible.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodist Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalms.
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenck,
Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Paley's Moral Philofophv.
Smellie's Philosophy of Natural
History.
Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Junius's Letters.
Hale's Affc&ionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beaufles of Johnson.
ofSteine.
Percival's Father's Inftru&ioni.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accomplished Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart.
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conqueftof Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po-
litenefs,
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More'sSjcred Dramas.
Present for an Apprcmice.
on the Religious As-