PIJKLIn '1 D
[No. 19, of Vol. lII.]
REPORT
or THE
SECRETARY of STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD and WHALE FISHERIES,
[concluded.]
No. XV.
GRAIN and FLOUR imported from the United States of Ame
rica, into the Ports of France, in the year 1789 —from an official
statement.
Fr. KentaJs. lbs,
f 24680 tierces of 500
123401 69 I Fren. lbs. each.
*5654.5 94 / <| 1 1°959 Amer. barrels.
3 >equal to j 3664176)
307390 96 1 5588 a! > Amer.bufaels
260131 52 L. 520262)
Rice,
Flour, I
Wheat, I
Ry.
Barley, |
ax r n / r") S'?trtncnt of ihe Vessels entered in the
Office of the Balance of/ lw , ;f France f|<jm |hr Ullitcd States
Lmtcrcc of France. of in thc ynr , 7 8 g .
Vejfels. Tons.
13 2105
3 37°
43 47 5 l
i 170
2CO
F>xnen,
Imperial,
English,
Duich,
Haufeatic,
American,
ABSTRACT of the Tonnage <>t foreign Veflrls entered in the
Ports ot the United States, Horn October Ift, 1789,10 Septem
ber 30th, 1790.
France,
Holland,
Sweden,
P 'fiia,
Spain,
Portugal,
Denmark,
Gerranv,
Briiiiß Dominions,
'XVIII
That the encouragement of our carrying business is interesting,
not only to the carrying dates, but in a high degree also to t it o
thers>, will result Irom the following fa£U,
Dollars.
The whole expor'sof the United States may beftated at 25,000,000
Great-Britain carries two-fifths ot these in value, thai*
is to fay,
and insurance on this in times of p<ace, are
about tw nty-two and one half per cent.
The fame charges in war are very various, according
to the circumstances of the war, we may fav, how
ever, fif'y-five per cent.
Thed'ffcrcnce between peace and war, freight arid in
surance, then is annually
Taxed on our agriculture t y British wars, during
their continuance, and our dependance on Bii
tifh bottoms.
Of the last one hundred years, Great-Britain has had * forty-*, wo
years of war and fifty-eight of peace, which is three of war to
every four of peace, nearly.
In every term of seven years then, we pay three times three mii
lion two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, or nine million fever
hundred and fifty thoi.fand, which, averaged on the years of peacv
and war,are annually and conllantly one million three hundred and
ninety-two thousand fight hundred and fifty-feven more than wr
should pay, if we could vaife our own (hipping to be compet< nt o
the carnage of all our productions. Besides this, many of our
bulky articles, not bearing a war freight, cannot be exported it
exposed to that ; so thai their total loss is to be added to that be
fore estimated.
*Y. M. 1689.
PEACE. 4 8 $ 1697
* ( 1702
c. S , 7 ,? -
6 4^7.8.
5 8 5 '~ 2l '
M7«7
s 1 7 2 7"
12 4? J T3Q.
7 o\^i 5 ('755-
('755-
Sl76=.
~ f 1778
6 os'7 8 3'
; ? '783-
57 9
/ INGENIOUS PIECE OF CLOCK-WORK.
Dublin, March 13.
''INHERE is now exhibiting in a room beloug
-!■ ing to the Dublin Society, in Pool beg street,
a mofl ingenious piece of Clock work, which the
curious artist has contrived to introduce into a
gardevine bottle, the neck of which is only three
quarters of an inch wide ; what mull appear ex
traoi'dinary indeed is, that one of the wheels is
5 inches indiameter, and thatindependent of the
•work, there are sundry ornamental figures in
terspersed in different parts of the bottle The
inventor, who ii an Irifliraan, had this matte;
twenty-live years in contemplation before he
brought it to its prcfentftatc of perfection.
V < Sr> AYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENS'O, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN' SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
No. XVI
2 4'73
32 799
No. XVII
•3435
881.5
B,«<
"9-4
i6iq
»368
22549.5
262912
Mav. } Y. M.
S.-pt. S 8 4 WAR,
Mav. ?
A"g- > ' 3
T DCC { 2 6
[une.
'Mar. )
Mav. J ° 2
°" I 8 ,
May. S 7
I 7 ,
Nov. \ 7 5
'Z:\ < 9
"'I- 4 , „
Saturday, July 2, 1791-
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UKITED STATES.
TO E L L A.
A RAIN thy sweetly warbled strain,
Thou leader of the ehnral train ;
Again thy sweeping harp I hesr,
That long has charmed my r»yi(hed ear.
New vigour to my foul thy words impart,
With fot'lcr pleasures touch rtubr wounded heart :
The moral lore ihat flows along thv line,
Might well befit aPi inv tn reheatfc ;
The hold descriptive thy Vcrfe,
Would bright on Titian's glowing.canvas shine.
When closed the blazing eye ps day,
And on m) downy couch I May,
Deep mufingon thy moral l< te ;
The God of Sleep around me threw
Mis mantle dipped in flumbroufc (lew ;
And thus arofc my fervent pray'r—
O ! thou from whom creation sprung !
O ! fend from thy blight realms above^
Some faint to cheer me with thy love,
And hid ms raise the rapturous song—
For I have heard thy spirits, who on high
Possess ihe plains of von cerulean Iky ;
Have oft, in pity to the mortal race,
Descending closed them in their pure fwnorace;
And whispering soothing mnfic to their bread,
Charmed all the tempers of the foul to reft—-
Scarce had the words escaped my moving tongue^
Yet on my lips the trembling accents hung ;
When lo ! a form dtfeending from on high,
On silver plumes 'hro' yorldcr orient sky :
Wide flow.-, in circling locks her golden hair,
And plays with every eddying of ihc air.
Her filmy lobes white as the falling snow,
A round hi r form in graceful foldings flow.
Her bright blue eyes beam forth a gentle light,
And fix and charm at once the gazer's fight.
When near (he moved I saw bewitching grace,
And hcavenl.v beauty lighten up her face.
Now by my fide upon the earth (lie flood.
Her quickened glance warmed all my chilly blood.
High waving in t"he ?ir a sky-blue wand,
She bade me follow to yon lofty land ;
The path she led, with joy ous heart I flew.
'Till near the high and veiciant hill I drew ;
Then turning round she took tOy,trembling hand,
Ai d waved -gain her bright ceru&an wand :
Soft as the found of some angelic lute,
Sweet as the breath of Orpheus' mellow flute,
Her words in rapt*rous warblmgs poured along,
And thrilled mv trembling foul with heavenly song.
Behold ! she said, that lovely country round,
With nature's rich<*ft gifts and beauty crowned ;
There purefl joy flows thro the circling year,
The happy people know no pain, nor fear;
Their queen am I, from realms of light I came.
Fair virtue's offspring, bJat~eytd Hope my name."
She ceased ; then rose before my ravifned fight,
Enchanting scenes in natnre's beauty bright;
Here spreads a wide and ever veidant plain,
And waves the yellow life-fupporting grain :
There grandly rife the proud aspiring hills,
Between whose rocky chinks Aide down the rills.
Here in tnajf llic beauty towering high,
The blanching groves {hoot to the cloudlets Iky;
The feathered warblers hop from spray to spray,
And hold their tuneful ftriie till doling day;
Then pours the plaintive Nightingale her notes,
And all night long her melting music floats—
Along the walks of those e'er b'ooming bowers,
Forever fpnng new crops of fragant flowers.
The prilbne colors of the fun are seen
W th countless changes waving o'er the green —
Rich sculptured figures formed of blazing gold,
Attratl the eve. and firm the senses hold—-
Here Dove-like Innocence, engaged in plav,
With frolic lambs prolongs the happy day ;
There Charity throws fiom her cooious itore,
Till the glad suppliants cease to ast for more :
Here, with celeflial fire in her eye,
Mild Faith with firmnefs gazes on the sky,
And Adoration pours her song of praise,
While tears of rapture wander down her face.
There o'er white curling lakes the nodding tieesj
Wave (lowly to the gentle pafllng breeze ;
And wildly-grand around deep rocky caves
Return the echo of the dashing waves.
Hetechiyftal mountains shoot into the sky,
And with the fun in fplcndor seem to vie ;
Where rife the rugged lock an awful height !
The fhecting torrent holds my wardeting fight :
From deep to steep down dalh with thundering roar
The mad'ning waves, and foam along the shore.
" Lo said the maid there bursting from the ground,
A bubbling fountain calls its waters round ;
And fee behind, where opens yonder bower,
The virtuous fouls enjoy the raptuious hour:
There many a harp, and many a breathing flute
Js heard ; responding founds the silver lute ;
Whilst ravished with the melody of found
The vocal chorus pour their ftmgs around.
Tbus all the bleit their happy days employ,
And each contributes to the other's joy;
Their grateful incense rifi s up lo heaven,
And for their praise a double joy is given :
Know thou, she said, whoe'er pursues the path
That leads to Virtue and unwavering faith,
Shall hail me Queen ! and where thev dwill (hall rife
A scene like this, enchanting to their eyes;
The fpherrj shall waible music iti their ear,
And all creation harmony appear."
Now cealed het voice, ftie efap'd hcrf.lver wings,
And tiling to the sky ibro Ether Tings.
10,000,000
2,250,000
5,500,000
3,250,000
A penny saved is as good as a penny earned.
" R UT ow t save my pence ? They will
J-J go as fait as I earn theirt." Reduce all
your affairs to order. Observe order in your fa
mily, in your meals, in your business, in your
amusements. Prescribe to yourfelf rules of con
duct. Beware of contracting expensive habirs,
and (übdue tliofe yon have contracted. Be in
duftriotis in your railing* Never lay oat your
earnings for that, which, in the long run, cau
do you no good. Form no connexions with fpend
thrifts. VVarte nothing that can be applied to
real use, for your own, or your neighbour's be*
nefit.
My neighbour Frugal, orders his family to bed
so early, that they may rife with the fun the
year round. Thus he saves candles ; for the lua
lights him for nothing; and he reckons the fun
affords a better light than a candle. Morning
drains, and diams before dinner he lias disused
for many years. This is a cor.liderable Caving t
and he now enjoys better health and eats with a
better appetite, than when he used thein. He
keeps a plenty of wholesome food, good beer,
and cider ; and requires of his labourers no more
work than they can perform with the strength
of these. Ardent spirits, he thinks, ought to be
referred for occasional use. And lie fays, iiis
people do more work, nud do it much better,
than they did four years ago, when he indulged
them in the free use of rum. Besides they fel
dotn quarrel with one another. When he fees
a young fellow turn down two or three glailes of
rum in quick succession ; " There," fays he, "is
a fellow who will always be poor: He will be a
drunkard before he is forty years old." As he
was once on a visit at a friei.d's honfe, in a town
at f«ne distance, he saw a man in a poor habit
wilh a bottle in his hand, palling the Itreet julk
before fun down on Saturday. Ht observed, that
the man went into a retailer's shop, and soon re
turned and entered a small house. " There,"
fays Mr. trngal to his friend, " is a miserable fa
mily, soon to be maintained by the town. They
waste the earnings of the week in rum. They
cannot keep Sunday without a bottle. They ne
ver go to meeting. I dare fay the woman and
children are as dirty and ragged as Hottentots,
and almoll as ignorant. They plead, I fnppofe,
in excuse for nor going to church, or fending
their children to school, that they are so poor,
and have so many rates to pay, that they cannot
procure clothes. If one of the family happens
to be sick, I presume, the neighbourhood must
be called upon to supply them with the necefla
ries of life. And all this for rum." " You have
hit it exactly," fays the gentleman of the house;
" and this is the cafe of several other families
among us. Rum is the ruin of them."
Frugal never goes to a tavern without business,
nor tariies longer than to finifh the business that
called him there. If he meets a friend, whom
he is glad to fee, instead of treating him at the
tavern, he invites him to his house ; for he fays,
he can better give a friend a dinner or supper
at home, than half a mug of drink at a tavern ;
and can enjoy with him a much more social
chat. He observes, that some men invite their
friends to the tavern, because they love the place
themselves : And then by tavern expences they
are become so poor, that they cannot entertain
a friend at their own houses. At the tavern they
can go lip on tick, and pay all off by and by in
a lump with a cow, or piece of land.
Frugal is punctual to pay his debts, and never
contracts more than he can pay in season. Thus
he saves infereft, the expense of fuirs and the
vexation of contentions with his neighbors. I
need not tell you that Frugal is a thriving man ;
and there never was a better neighbor.
DWELLS with the virtuous mind—virtue is
that Aire prop to the foul of man, which
fofiens woe to rapture 9 : makes the exile smile—
the captive rejoice—and removes all terror from
didblving nature. Virtue, then in the largest
sense of the word, is that jewel, which gives <t
true relish to all other podeflions ; it hlunts the
keen edge of misfortune, adds a flavor to prof
periry, and lifts the man above the frowns or
BI RT H A
[Whole No. 227.]
FROM THE (HAMPSHIRE) CHRONICLE,
THE ECONOMIST.
AN EXTRACT.
HAPPINESSfche flattery of the world. But liow shall I find
and obtain the golden prize ? By seeking it—
seek it earneltly, and yon will certainly find it :
but if you despise the proffered boon, you cannot
seek it; unless you hunger and thirlfc after it,
you cajinot relish it ; if yon are determined to
try every other thingfirft, your taite may be vi
tiated—if you are always gorged with trafli,you
can have no relilb for this, though a delicious
inorfel ; for the full foul loathed the honey
comb—he that often allays his tliirft at a putrid
dream, longs not for the pure fountain. Would
you know the happiness that fpringsfroin virtue,
try the experiment. I never knew the man,
who would own he repented of a moral life and
virtuous actions : From which I infer, that it is
more than probable, that none ever will repent
of it, that lives in the practice of virtue. Then
to attempt to is worth attention : By the
trial, we are like to lose nothing, and may, it
is more than likely, gain much ; for the reward
of virtue, is present happiness ; and future glo
rious profpefts.—Tafteof the pure fountain, and
you will fay with the poet:—
" Where now, ye lying vanities of life !
Yc evtr-lempting—ever cheating train !
Wlieie are you now ? and what is youramount?
Vexation, disappointment, and remorse.
Sad fick'ning thought."
And again
41 Father of light and life ! thon God supreme ;
O tcach me what is good, teach me thyfelf;
Save me from folly, vanity, and vice,
From every low pursuit! and feed mv foul
With knowledge,confcions peace, and virtue pure ;
Sacred, lubftantial, never fading bliss."
PARIS, April 20.
SINCE the fantflioning of the decrees concern
ing the civil conftiturion of the clergy, Lou
is XVlth's quiet acquiescence in all the measures
of the National Afiembly had procured him a
jrreat share of popularity, till within these few
days, when the murmurs have begun to revive.
The old story, of his intending to efcapeand put
himfelf at the head of the malcontents, was re
newed, and seemed to acquire probability from
his behaviour to the refractory clergy. His con
feflor, the Cure de St. Euftache, having taken
the oath, he difiniffed him, and took one of the
ron-jurors in his place. Several bilhops, that
had refufed to comply with the decrees, were
lodged in the Thuilleries ; apartments in the
empty palace at Versailles were afligned to ma
ny priests of the fame description ; and the other
day the King received the facranient from the
hands of the Great Afmoner, who is also in the
above predicament. These circumstances had
indifpoied the minds of the people, who found
an opportunity to manifefl: their discontent on
their Majesties preparing, on Monday morning
last, to set off for St. Cloud. A crowd aflembled
in the Court-yard of the Thuilleries, and refufed
to allow the Royal carriages to advance. The
King, a* ufua], was inclined to comply with the
wishes of the people ; but the Queen encourag
ed him to persist in his intention, and to remain
in his carriage. After a considerable delay, and
after the alarm of the royal person being invert
ed by the mob had been given, numerous de
tachments of the national guard and M. de la
Fayette arrived. Ihe Commandant-General al
fured the King that he fliould proceed if he wiJh
ed it, but that his way would be strewed with
dead bodies ; this, perhaps, would not have been
disagreeable to the Queen, whose love for the
French nation is notorious, and whofhewed signs
of the most violent impatience and displeasure,
especially when the young striplings of the
Court, that surrounded her carriage, were rather
rudely driven from their port by the soldiery.
It is not certain, however, that M. de la Fay
ette's promise would have been of easy executi
on ; for a great, if not the greater part of the
national guard were fully in the fentiinent of
the populace. After a full hour and an half had
elapsed, the King, rather than Occasion a scene
of blood, consented to alight and retire to the
palace. This is the history of the affair ; ficti
on has, as usual, added a variety of circumstanc
es—that four hundred horse were waiting in the
Boisde Boulogne to carry offthe royal perfon,&c.
On Tuesday the King went to the Assembly,
to whom he announced his perseverance in his
design jhe said his departure was neceflaryro (hew
he was at liberty, and to add force to his sanc
tion and acceptance of the decrees. The Assem
bly applauded, and a debate ensued that led to
no conclusion, the president putting an end to
the fitting in the midst of it. It is, however,
understood, that his Majesty is ro go to St.Cloud,
that is to fay, if the Majesty of the people will
permit him ; which is very doubttul, the minds
of the public in general being very much heated.
The department of Paris has presented an ad
dress to the King, couched in very strong terms.
They tell him he favors the refractory, and is
served by none but enemies of the constitution.
The club of Cordeliers, who are truly what are
called Enrages, and in comparison of whom the
Jacobins are royalists, have gone further ; they
have stuck up, all over Paris, an arrete, or reso
lution, by which they declare that the firft pub
lic officer, the firft citizen of the state, is liimfelf
res radlory to the laws ; they alio sent a deputa
tion to compliment a patriotic grenadier, who,
being on duty when the King was receiving the
sacrament, pofuively infilled 011 being relieved,
that he might not, as he laid, be witness to a per
jury-
It cannot be denied, that the condutft of the
Court, in a great measure, jullifies the public sus
picions. Every thing seems to indicate its only
yielding to circumstances of the moment. The
palace is full of avowed enemies of the conflitu
tion. Men of the fame description were felett
ed in the late choice of ministers to be sent to
foreign Courts ; and it is not a little extraord
nary that no French Amballador abroad has yet
officially notified the revolution, the change of
the King's title, or that of the national flag.
April 22.
Mr. Fleurieu, the marine minister, l\lr. Ville
quier, the firft gentleman of the bed chamber,
arid all the people of his Majesty's Chapel, have
resigned.
The following refolotion of the Club des Cor
deliers has been the fubjecfiof much conversation
at Paris. It has been publicly affixed in all the
quarters of the city.
Extract from the deliberations of the 17th of
April.
" The Society, on the information laid be
fore them, that the flrft public Placeman of the
"Nation permits the refra<ftory priests to enter his
house, and there publicly to exercise those func
tions which have been forbidden by the Legifla
rure, to the great scandal of Frenchmen and of
the law, and that he has this day even received
the Paschal Communion and heard Mass from
one of these refra<Sory Priests, have resolved
that, the truth of this fa(ft duly proved, they de
nounce to the Representatives of the Nation this
firft public Placeman, this fiift fubje(sl of the
Law, as a Violator of those Constitutional Laws
which he has sworn to maintain, and of which
ir is his office to enforce the execution ; and as
having thus authorised disobedience and revolt,
and prepared the way for those fa&ions which
she enemies of the Rights of Man are endeavor
ing to excite again ft the Constitution."
TTiovipfon's ScafonJ,
On Tliurfday evening M. de la Fayette, (hock
ed at not having been able to maintain disci
pline among the National Guards when his Ma
jefty proposed to depart for St. Cloud, sent in his
- efignation, accompanied also with those of the
other Staff Officers.
All good citizens, all thofewho, in their hopes
of the future, do not rejoice in the calamities of
theprefent, are afflitSed with a circumstance that
must conrribute greatly to the public inquietude.
Twenty-three battalians have waited on their
late General, and requested hiin to withdraw his
rcfignation. A detachment of the National
Guards also went to the municipality, to request
their mediation, and to befeecli them to join in
their supplications with them. At eleven o'clock
at night, M. Bailly, and the other Magistrates,
accordingly waited on M. de la Fayette, and
were immediately admitted. The apartments,
the court yard, and the street, were crouded
with tlje military, notwithstanding it rained ve
ry hard.
Madame de la Fayette appeared at midnight
at a balcony, and, addtefling herfelf to those on
the outside, lamented in the politest manner
possible, that the house could not contain them
all, and at the fame time teftified how much iTie
was charmed with their zeal for the person of
her husband.
M. de la Fayette soon after made his appear
ance, and promised to attend the general coun
cil next day, and there give a decisive answer.
He accordingly repaired there at nine o'clock
1 ast night, and had scarce pronounced the firft
sentence of his speech, before he was suddenly
taken ill, fainted on the spot, and remained so
long in that condition, that the meeting was ad
journed.
It is thought that M. de la Fayette will again
accept the command, after going through the
formalities of a new eletftion. He is constantly
attended by Mr. Paine, and the Marquis de la
Langle, author of the Piclnrefque Dercription of
Switzerland, who has just translated the "Rights
of Man" into the French language.
April 28.
A letter was read in the National AflTembly on
Saturday night from Mr. de Montmorin, the
Minister for foreign affairs, to all the ambafla
dors and envoys of the French King, in the i'eve
ral Courts of Europe.
This letter, written at the express desire of
the King, unequivocally fignified his attachment
to the New Constitution, and fully explained
what may be called his Majesty's political creed.
The reading of this letter met with reiterated
applanfe ; and a deputation was ordered from
the Aflembly, to thank his Majesty for the patri
otic sentiments it exprefled.
LONDON,
1 he Emperor and their Sicilian Majesties are
at Venice incognito, the Emperor under the title
of Count Burgan, and the King and Queen of Si
cily as Count and Countess Cartellamare. The
government endeavours to render their lituatiou
agreeable.
O
Thursday was launched, from Mr. Perry's
yard, at Blackwall, the Diligence, a new (hip
intended for discoveries, the command of which
is given to Captain Bligh, late of the BountV.
She is to cany ro o men, and mount 16 gun*, be
sides swivels. They proceed si.st to Botany' Bay
on survey, then to Otaheite to take the bread
tree plant 011 board, and cany them to the Weft
Indies.
Lall week two genteel men, foreigners, came
to an engraver, and desired him to engrave a
plate the fame as the French Affignats, and left
a copy with him. As he fufpedted that they in
tended to forge on the National Aflemblv, he
gave information of the afFair to Sir Sampfoi>
Wright, who, with the consent of the French
Ambafl'ador, caused them to be apprehended and
sent to Paris.
There are at present twenty nine houses of
Rendezvous jn or near Lotidon. for receiving
men for manning tne Baltic fleet.
The indignity offered at Bristol to Mr.Wilber
fotce, for exercising his humanity, gives no fa*
vorable indication of the general character of
the people of that mercantile city !
The son of Judge Buller is fhorrly to lead the
accomplished Miss Holliday to the hymeneal al
tar. The lady's fortune will amount to ioo,oool.
BENNINGTO N, June 20.
Some time since we publi/hed an account that
the British had withdrawn their guards from the
ports they had formerly bolden in this rtate:
The publication Was made in consequence of in
formation received from a gentleman who had
recently been near the spot ; but we now from
authority inform, that the intelligence was pre
mature.—On the contrary, the port at Point-au
fair, formerly garrisoned with a subaltern's
guard, is now augmented to a captain's; and
that on Dutchman's point, where formerly a cor
poral and four men were rtationed, is reinforced
with a sergeant and twelve: The schooner Ma
ria, likewise, which for a longtime part has lain
opposite Point-au-fair, in Windmill bay, with
four guns only 011 board, has received her full
metal, together with a company of marines, her
full compliment of feain--n, with her nettings,
&c. complete as in time of war. The Maria, and
the port at Point-au-fair, is five miles, and the
port on Dutchman's point twelve miles, this fide
the northern line of Vermont.
The northern post informs, that lieut. Ebend
zer Hyde of the isle of Motte, is miffing, and
supposed to be drowned. He left the island on
the 28th ult, in a canoe, in company with one
Wales, between whom, it is said, the 111 oft cor
dial agreement did not subsist ; Wales has since
returned, but Hvde has not yet been feet). The
account rhat Wales gives, as our informant fays,
is, rhat Hyde fell out of the canoe and was
drowned, and that it was out of his power to
save his life, or bring back his body, as it funk
immediately after heceafed struggling ; at other
times, it is said, he reports differently, so that
the real state of the matter is doubtful.
PROVIDENCE, June 33
A Bank is about to be eftablifhsd in this town,
to consist of Two Hundred Shares, of two hun
dred specie dollars each, making in the whole a
capital of forty thousand dollars, which maybe
hereafter enlarged, Ihould the stockholders think
it necefl'ary.—Three quarters of the proposed
rtiares were subscribed in two days, and the sub
scription will undoubtedly be filled in a few days
from this time, about thirty (hares only remain
ing unfubfcribed.
Yesterday embarked on board a packet for
New-Jersey, jo Recruits, under the command of
lieutenant Sherman—being part of the 2d Unit
ed States regiment, enlisted in this state.
1 he Providence AfTociation of Mechanics and
Manufacaurers, at a special meeting held on Sa
turday evening last, dire&ed Col. Amos Atwell,
their Treasurer, to subscribe, in the name of
the Association, for one (hare in the Bank of the
United States.
N E W-Y O R K, June 27
Yesterday arrived the Olive Branch,Capt. But
ler, in 50 days from Newry. Capt. Butler in
forms, that the hntteft press that ever was in
Ireland, was made on the Bth of May last ; and
that from appearances, a war inevitably would
take place. Lord Hood, with 26 fail of the line,
was ready for sea.
J-- - -
Died suddenly, on Saturday niaht, Dr.
miah Smith, of this city. His death was occa
fioned by his taking a large dose of laudanum
through miflake, supposing it to be tindlure of
bark.
April 23
JACA-*
THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ORTHODOXY.
IF you and I should difagrec,
'Tis plain as any cafe can be,
Your faith is wholly out of joint,
You're Heterodox in ev'ry point.
But if, as I do, )ou believe,
And pin your laith upon wiy flecve,
Whether in church aifairs/or (late,
You're Orthodox, fan s all debate.
PORTSMOUTH, June iS
The Organ of the church in this town has late
ly been put into complete repair, by Mr. Jofiah
Leavitt, organ-builder in Bollon. Thefausfac
tion this our ingenious countryman has given
here, is fuclj as entitles him to the attention of
those who wish to benefit by his profeffional abi
lities, and who are itudious to encourage Ame
rican artists.
The Rt. Rev. Bifliop Seabury is expeified to
arrive in this town on Saturday the 26th inilant.
The Episcopal Convention of the common
wealth of Maflkchufetts met lall month 111 Bos
ton. They have adopted the Constitution and
Prayer book, as formed by the late General Con
vention.
The Bev. Dr. Waltfr is arrived at Cam
bridge, and has accepted the care of the church
in that town, and of the North Church in Boston.
The Rev. Mr. Montague is to be the Afliftant-
Minister to those churches also.
PITTSBURGH,
John Moore, Esq. is elected to serve in the
Senate of this commonwealth, for the diftritft
composed of the counties of Weftmoreland and
Alleghany in the room of Richard Butler, Esq.
resigned.
M I D D L E T O W N, June 25
On the 24th inltanr, a compleat company of
federal troops, from Maflacliufetts, under the
command of Capt. Phelon, of the second regi
ment, and forty choien recruits from this {late,
belonging to the fame regiment, and commanded
by Lieut. Hanfliorn, of the fiift regiment, em
barked here, on board two s : anfpoi ts, for Brunf
wick, in New-Jerfej-. Among tliefe troops were
very few Europeans, and their military appear
ance and good conduct gave general faiisfaCtion.
H A R T F O R D, ~Jun»a?.
It is with regret we mention the ravagesmade
by the worms in various pans of the country
this summer. We are told that in New-Haven
county, and in the river towns through Mafla
chufetts, Vermont, and New Hampshire, and
in the eastern part of JViallachufetts about Boilon,
the apple-trees are Ilripped of their foliage by
these dellruiftive animals ; and that, in some
places, the oats and elms have not escaped the
fame fate. Perhaps the oldest man alive canno'
remember a season when these worms have ap
peared in such multitudes, and made such ha
vock with fruit trees. In many instances the
usual remedy of tarring trees has proved ineffec
tual.
The man who will discover an effectual method
for preserving trees from these devouring ani
mals, will deserve a monument.
It has been said that hogs will preserve orch
ards, by rooting about the bodies of the trees in
autumn. If so, by what means do they effect
this put pose? Is it by finding and devouring-the
e Sg s of the worm, or by turning uptlie foil and
exposing them to the air, rain and froft? This
deserves consideration. If the latter, which
feetns probable, then a spade might be used to
advantage, just before winter. To dig about
the trees would not injure them generally, and
the loss of the grass or grain under the trees,
might be dispensed with. This hint is fugged
cd merely as an inducement to experiments
which may ascertain the fact.
It is further suggested that trees growing up
on a hard clay are never injured by the worms.
In the town of Hartford, this is fully proved.
The (oil is too hard and unyielding to admit the
worms, and many old orchards on such a foil
have always escaped, while those which (land
on a light foil, at only a small dillance, are fre
quently dripped of every leaf. This fadt may
be of use to farmers in fele&ing the spot» for
their orchards.
BALTIMORE, June 28
Tlie National Assembly of France has paflbd a
decree which orders the arrest of Cardinal de
Rohan, for being guilty of High-Treason.
A letter from France mentions, that " Presi
dent Was hi ngton's letter to the National Af
lembly of that kingdom, congratulating the na
tion oi> its revolution, had been read with great
applause in the National Assembly, and ordered
to be printed."
We arc now brought to the close of the fifteenth ycai ot the so
vereignty and independency of the United States of America —
Amidfl the general joy and feftivity which distinguish this truly
glorious anniversary—say, can a retro(pe&ive pause be imperti
nent or improper ? With what accelerated rapidity has time urged
us on in our course, to Empire and happiness ! —Through the
smiles of Heaven on our exertions, we have laid the broadest
foundation for the temple of Liberty, that the world hath ever
seen.—At that solemn, all-important moment when the New
Government was adopted, the genius of Freedom and Indepen
dence leaped for joy—lt was then, and not before, that she saw
the fun of permanent prosperity rife on her favored clime—the
glooms of anarchy, disunion, and misrule which had brooded
over the political horizon of the States, were diflipated like a
morning fog—a clear, a glorious day fuoceeded, which has conti
nued to dawn upon us with increasing splendor. Under the aus
pices of a long, long fucceflion of Patriotic Heroes, Sages, and
Politicians, like those who at the present moment so wifely guide
our public affairs, we trust that the bleflings of our sacred Repub
lican Government will be transmitted from generation to genera
tion, till the angel of time shall fay, it is done.
We hear that the President is expetted in town on Monday
next—A circumstance which would crown the joy of the day.
The two Mr. Choates, who were captured in January last, by
the Delaware Indians at Big-Bottom, are returned to (heir friends
at Leiccjler, Massachusetts—They owe their liberty to the generosi
ty of the Britilh commanding officer at Detroit.
We hear that there have been federal recent conversions to the
Bank of the United States. One gentleman in particular, propos
es, it is {aid, to subscribe for sixty shares, whose scepticism
it was thought was irremoveable.—lt would not be the most re
markable thing that ever happened, if the great prognosticating
pamphleteer himfelf, was to come in.
We are informed that his Excellency the Governor of this Com
monwealth, pursuant to powers vested in him by law, has formed
two very advantageous contra&s, which are founded on undoubt
ed security, for removing obftru£lioos, and improving the naviga
tion of the Delaware and Schuylkill.
During the late circuit of the Judges of the Supreme Court to
the westward, we are told that the grand jury of the proper dif
triff, found bills of indi&ment against those persons who killed
the Moravian Indians.
June 18
Accounts from the westward inform, that no
Indians liave been seen or heard of, on the fron
tiers of this state, for three or four weeks past—
T hat ilie continental troops rendezvoused at
Pittfburg, have left that place, and proceeded
down the Ohio, though their particular defoliati
on was not known.
Accounts from various parts of the Continent
mention a great deftrudlion in the vegetable
world by Catterpillars, Canker-Worms, Cut-
Worms, &c. They are in such swarms in many
places as scarcely to leave the appearance of vei
dute behind them. The late rains, we trult, have
pur a stop to their depredations.
On Monday next, agreeable to law, the books
are to be opened (at the Bank in this City) to
receive Subscriptions to the Bank of the United
States. Perhaps it may not be too much to fay,
that from a great variety of novel, concurring
circtitnftances, no objetft of equal magnitude,
founded on so firm a basis, has ever presented it
felf to invite the attention of monied capitalists
as the Bank of the United States. Unlike many
other speculations, dependant on the most for
tuitous contingencies—here every man can with
a great degree of certainty make his calculations ;
and he cannot fail in realizing his just and rea
sonable hopes, so long as the peace, patriotifmand
prosperity of the Unired States continue—for
with rhefe, the encreafing revenue of the union
is inseparably connected. Further, this Bank
must continually appreciate in the public estima
tion (provided its affairs are conducted with ho
nor, ability and integrity, of which there can
exist 110 reasonable doubt) for a plan that will in
its operations reduce the interest on money
encreaie the circulating medium—facilitate bu
siness in every line and profeffion—enhance the
value of real property—and enable the govern,
ment ro reduce the public'debt and diminish the
public burthens, must, and will meet the appro
bation of every friend to his country and man
kind.
The last accounts from Europe wear a warlike
aspect. At Berlin all is bustle and business—cou
rier after courier is dispatched to the courts of
the allies—to the Prince of Brunfwick, who it
appears is to command the Prussian forces, seven
nieffengers were sent in one dav. The present
King of Pruflia has follow ed the examples of his
pi edeceflors, by keeping up a prodigious regular
army—one advantage appears to have resulted
from the system, and that is, the neighbouring
states have kept themselves at refpedtful dis
tance, and domestic peace has for a long time
been a refidert in his dominions. Frederic has
the fine machinery of an army—but whether dis
use ha* not rendered it left formidable than un
der the la'te King, a war with Russia, Ihould one
take place, will determine.
With refpert to the King of Sweden, there is no
determinate opinion how he will a <ft in cafe of a
rupture with the Empress. He is faidto be like
Mahomet s coffin—fufpended in air.
The King of Denmark continues nenter.
1 he Kings of Spain, the Sicilies, Naples, and
trance, rhe fame. So that the Empress, except
peace should p event it, will be attacked by the
I orre, Pruflia, England and Holland. How Leo
pold willcondutS, is problematical.
Philadelphia, July 2.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT
Extratt of a letter from Lan caper, dated June 28, to
a. gcr.tlitnan in this city.
" A mofl horrid and cruel murder was com
mitted a few days lince, on the body of a young
German, in the neighbourhood of Lebanon, of
the name of OrandoifF; I (aw the inquifitioii
taken before Jpftices Thome and Clarke. Itap
peared that, about 12 o'clock at night, when
asleep in bed, a fellow entered his room, fir lick
him on the head with *ui axe, and then cut his
throat, of which lie instantly died : This was on
the second story ; the ruffian then descended tou
room oii the firft floor, where his (the deceased's)
two fillers lay, entered the room with a lanlhorn
and candle burning, intending, no doubt, to mur
der them and rob the house ; ill this however he
was disappointed, one of them made refinance,
and in the struggle the candle went out, the axe
fell out of his hand ; the other filter escaped out
of the window to alarm the neighbours, and in
the mean time the villain fled, leaving behind
him the axe and two final) cords, with which he
firft attempted to tie the young girls. The man
murdered was to be married next Tuelday to a
very decent farmer's daughter."
REFLECTIONS,
Where truth is the objecfl of political discus
sion, personal invetftive and opprobrium will ne
ver disgrace the productions of a writer.
Every candid appeal to the public is entitled
to a candid reception.
The degree of refinement and liberality to
which a civilized community has attained, can
not be calculated by a more certain criterion than
the state of the Press.
A free press is not an illiberal one—nor will a
truly enlightened, free people, countenance im
perious dogmatisms: They naturally tend to ob
scure the rays of knowledge, and preclude free
enquiry. Intolerance, in Church or state, is e
qually detestable.
LAST CHANCE!
The present Semi-annual and Monthly Lotte
ries of Massachusetts, will compleat the io,ooOl'.
ordered to be raised by a Lottery, and will there
fore, it is said, be the last that will be offered to
the public by that State.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
03" The " Critics" is received. An "Ode to Timi," and
other favors, neceflarily podponed.
(£3" THE price of the PRU FILLS, advertised in the left page of this
paper, is reduced to \tks of a Dollar. One quarter zuill be refunded on
application, to those who have paid a Dollar.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at tht TORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig James, Rose, Cape-Francois
Sally, Fadding, dilto
Mary t Fitipatrick, Amsterdam
Sally, Havtdfon, Port-au-Princc
Sch'r Nancy, George, Jamaica
Sloop Franklin. Twamlev, Pifcataway
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 18/ pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 10/
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 10f
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett 1. and other Certificates 17f
Indents 10f
N. and S. Carolina debts, is( 15J6.
npHE Volunteer Company of ARTILLERY is defued to meeC
A at the State-House, precisely at 8 o'clock, on Monday
morning next, the 4th of July.
Pl.ilaH. jure 30. JEREMIAH FISHER, Capt.
GRAY'S GARDENS.
A «, ON , CERT of V . ocal and Instrumental Music will begin on
Monday, the glorious 4th of July, at fix o'clsck in the morn
ing, and conclude at ten at night, should the day be fair, to cde
brate American Independence.
Tickets delivered at one quarter of a dollar, at three different
gates.
Songs, with harmony and martial music, in honor of the day
will be performed. ,K
The Bridge will be ornamented.
The (hip Union, dressed with the colours of the different na.
nons in alliance with the United States, and elegantly lighted at
An extensive firework will b: displayed from an artificial island
on the river; the view can only be seen to advantage from the
gardens.
The mill scene on a plan entirely new.
Ihe goddess of Independency, an emblematical transparent
piece of painting, very large, will be exhihited ; this was
formed by a refpeftable character for last year, but no. executed
Three paintings tranfparenl, oneof the illustrious Piefident of
the United States, one of the immortal Franklin, the other, the
patriotic General de la Fayette, as large as the life, together
with leveral other transparent figures and landscapes, executed by
eminent artists. '
i he illuminations will be more extensive than any heretofore.
In order to furnilh the public with refreftiments, tea, coffee
and chocolate, and fruits of the season, will bereadv to, breakfaft.
Three tables, with joo covers each, furniihed with roast beef,
rounds, hams, See. &c. ready to cut and come again, from morn,
ing until night.
The great number of bars that will be fixed and plentifully
r m Wl l ors » l Hc provision for water cannot fail of being"
fufhcient, the wines, &c. kept in reservoirs of water and ice.
Iced creams of a great variety, fine cakes and macaroons, with
different kinds of sweetmeats, to be furuifhed by M. de la Croix.
We cannot but mention,!it will be impofilbleto carry the plan
forward without order being preserved, or farnifh the refrefti
ments to afford fatisfa&ion ; —but fcave not the least doubt, from
an en.ightened people, there will be not any reason to complain ;
every exertion will be made by the public's
Clraj's-Ferry, Jane 57, 1791
90 pr. cent.
50 00.
50 do.
Very humble fervar.u,
G. A S.'Gi A Y.Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, second Door below Market-Street
Francis White
TJUYS and Sells on Comtnifliou all kinds of
Public S-ciwuies and Paper Monies.
Tranfafts business for those who have claims
on the Unucd States, or against either of the States, particulai ly for
the Officers, Soldiers and Mariners, and others who hjve f-ived
in or about the late American Army, or for their leg.l Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornies, &c.
Certificates and ftich Paper Monies furnifhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. palled through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and di (counts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes oi hand, with or without de-
posits,
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profeflion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Famil rs.
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with suitable do
mestics.
Those at a distance who may address on either the above fub
jefts, their letters being post paid, will be duly attended to, by
FRANCIS WHITE.!
(ep tf)
Phi lad. June 22, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these pr fen s shall come, or in anv wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wil" ington, North-Carol in?,
deceased, did make four promifTory notes ayable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philad Iphia, Men hant, all bearing date the 19th
Julv, 1785, one tor three hundred 3nd seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds, •:
in nine months—one for seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (billings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and thrce-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackfou to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the lifetime
of the said* Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen Shil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These to caution all persons said
notes as they will not be taken up.
North-Carolina, 27tk May, 1791
A FINE CHANCE FoA A YOUNG PRINTER
FOR S 4 L.E,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publifhinga PAPER, in good repute,
the fubferibers to which are continually increasing - The prefenf
number of its patrons is between seven and eight hundred. The
types con ft ft of Bur g eoi s. Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger lit : cr to display advertisements to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part of Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles of an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on lhort notice. Perhaps no.cout\lry paper on thi
comincnt has a larger (bare of Advertifemems than the one offered
for sale. A very confidcrablc profit also accrues from the faleof
Blanks of all kinds, which are inudi used in the place—from the
publication of See. See. It is a good situation, also,
for a finall Book-Store—and it is fbppofed the Book-Binding bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For further particulars, enquire of John Fen no, at his Office,
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
ladelphia. (jaw 8w)
War Department,
May 30, I 79T.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, thai the lums to which they are entiil ct
for fix months of their ar.rmaJ pension, from ;he4th day of Mareli,
1791, and which will bccome due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpe&ively,under the usual 1 emulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by thfc fol
lowing vouchers.
The certificate given by the (late, fpecifying that the person
polTeflTing the fame is in tact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B came before me. one of the Juflices of the connty of in
theJfate of and-made oath that he is the fume A. li. to whom the
original certificate in his pojjeflion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the tertifcate given by theflate to be recited) That he served (re
giment', corps or vejjeL) at the time he was dfabted, and that he now re
fidcs in the and county of and has resided there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
f?id attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mull
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following foi m:
I, A. R. qf county of Jiate of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of my hiaful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an invjlid of the United States, from the
fourth d.iy of March t one thoufandfeven hundred arid niuety~one t and
ending the jouith day of September of thefame year.
Signed and f ealcd
in the prefcnce of
Wit ruffes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftratnrs mud be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their relpc&ive offices, and alio ol the
time [lie invalids died, whofc pension they may claim.
By command of the Prclidert of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refhrcHve States are retjuefled to ftublijli the
above ra their xenfpapers, for the space of two months.
■itZT Blank. Powers to receive the Iruereft, and for the transfer of the
principal nf public debt, agreeable to th * Rules efiablifkcd i;i the Tn\i
fury Department: Ast) Blanks for abflrcfls of Certificate.<> to be fold I)
the Editor. - " "
THOMAS WRIGHT,")
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executois.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, :
NEATI.Y exrcuied in Profile, have just come to hand, and for
sale by Messrs. Carey,Stewait and Co. Mi. William Young,
Mr. Robert Ca m pbel 1, MeflVj. Rice and Co. BookfclUis, and by
the Editor.—-Price One Dollar.
Pliilad. June 29, 1791. ______________
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
Chefnut-Strect, next door to the Bank, No. 97,
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Oafs Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791. ( e P tf )
And mav be entered on the eafuing Fall,
THAT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
(übfcriber now lives, situate in Elizabeth-! own, in the state
of N«*w-]erfey, within 16 miles of the city ol New-York. It is
finifhed in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large familv. The Lot contains about so
acres of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and (locked with
a good assortment of fruir. For further particulars, enquire of
William Bradford, Esq. in Philadelphia, John Pintard,
Esq. in New-York, or the Subfcribcr on the Premiles.
June 11,1791. (lawgw) ELI AS BOUDINO 1.
For ereftini; BRIDGES over the Hacki nsack and Passaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the State of
Ww-jcrfey.
THE Com mi (Doners appointed by 3" the of
theftatc of Ncw-Jerfev, to ere& bridges over the Hackinfack
and PatTauk rivers, having obtained thf necessary futv?ys, aie
.110-v ready to receive proposals for performing the (ame ; and
offer the following conditions for the confederation of such as may
be inclined to contra& ;
The fUuation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will b<-
atone of (he following IWions, as shall be hereafter determined
mod eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is eftabliflied, where
he width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western (bore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
hewidrh of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western shore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of tfe bridge across the PafTjick river, will be at
one of rhe three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present fei ry is eftablifbed, wher
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern (bore 8 feet 6 inch'es,
Do. western (Hore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
(c p. 3 m
2d. At a place more weilerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern lhore 11 feet,
Do. weftetn Ihore 4 5 inchcs,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a olace still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 4 feet 5 inchcs,
Do. weft: rn shore 10 8
Created depth 15 11
The bridges are to be coivftrutted on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to ?dmit a free paflage for vefTels with fix
ed {landing masts, not less than twenty-four feet vide, to he pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined moll con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as (ball be judged fufficiert
to aid vefTels in parting through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to fanrife, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges a«e to be built with such piles, timber, fcant'ling,
and plank, as fbaU render them peifeftiy substantial ard secure in
he opinion of the commiflioners, and arc to be of a fufficicnt
height to protest rhem against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides trom 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet,
Do. for font wailcs, railed oil on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 tcet.
Do. for hand-railsfor do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet,
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be furrendcred in good order,
agreeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commissioners arc au
thorised to offer to contractors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with atoll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
actual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that ium will consequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per arm. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiGioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads connected
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contrass for etefting them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contract on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to Wi llum Maxw ell,
Efo. in New-York, fpecifying the fhortcft period of lease for
which they will undertake to erefb the said bridges, together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUYHILL, *)
lOHN NETLSON, |
ROBERT KEMBLE. } Commiflioncrs.
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
lOHN PINTARD J
Newark, Slate of New- Jetfey, April 22, 1791
likenesses
Of THE
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
TO BE SOLD,
CONTRACT,
All per foes concerned will be pleased to take notice that the
following advertisement has been varied from that pablilhed in
our paper of the 23d of March.}
Treasury Department.
March 27, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Trcofurv, until the firft Mond.lv
in September next inclusive, for the fupplv ot all rations, which
may be required for the uie ol the United States, from the full day
of January to the thirty-fuft day of December, 1792, both davs in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftri&t herein after menti-
oncd, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Pcnn
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pirc.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt aud Fort M'lntofu
on the River Ohio, and at Foil M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt pott M'lntofh and the mouth of
i he River Mufkjng'im, and at the mouth ol the River Mulkingum.
At any place or placrs, betwixt the month of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River rb the Tufcarowas, and at theTuf
carowas, and thcnce over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from theuce to the Rapids, oil ihe Falls of the Ohio, and. at the
fa id Rapids.
At anv placc or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties icto
Lake Erie.
At anv place or places from "the rapids of the Ohio?to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Port St. Vincennes,
at Poll Sr. Vincennes, and thence up the laid river Wabalh, to the
Miami tillage, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of ihe river Ohio.
Atany placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miaifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of ihe 111 mo; s river.
At any olace or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village,
Ar any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandtiflcy,
«ind atSandufky, and from Sandufltv to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lflc, and be
tvyixt Prcfq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at anv pla:e or places, on
he route from Fort Pur, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
vavof Big Beaver crcck.
At anv placeor places, on the cart, fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At anv placeor places, from the said river Margot, to the ri M cr
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to conhit of t he following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
Orie pound of beef, or of a pound of poik,
Haifa jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, JQO rJlion!
I vvo pounds or loap, ( 4
One oound of candles, »
ALSO, That Prooofals will be received at thefaid office until
he firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
r om the firft day of january to the thirty-firft day ol December,
s 792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state ot MafTachu
"its, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist o»f the fame articles as
»re above mentioned.
ALSO, That propolis will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
*ations, which be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft.day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the fourcc of thefaid main fouih branch, ai.d
from thence to t'lie Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the {late ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent poils by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed ;n such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each ot the said pods, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all loflrs (uflained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by mean* of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or def
troved, oil the depolitions of two or more cred'table characters,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, afrertaining the cir
cumilances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for whicW
compcnfation is claimed.
The contract for the above supplies will be made either for ons
vear, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contract will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may make their proportions so as to admit an ele&ion of the
term of two years.
The piopofals maybe made for the whole of the above polls to
gether, or feparatelv for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for \ orktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia;
and they must fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
The Printers who have puhlifhed the above advert ifemcnt 3 are
requeued to reprint it with the alterations.
This day publifjied, Price 6d.
And to be fold bv the Editor, nnd the liookfellers of this City,
To the STOCKHOLDERS of the
BANK of NORTH- AM ERICA,
On the Subject ot tfoe old and new BANK.
|Cl7=" The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ann
i w. 3m.
ADDRESS
A N