PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS liY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA"
[No. 88, of Vol. ll.]
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES r
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the fixtb
of December, one thousand seven hundred atod ninety.
An ACT to incorporate the Subscribers to the
BANK of the UNITED STATES.
WHEREAS it :s conceived that the establishment of a bank
for the United States, upon a foundation fufficicntlv exten
sive to answer the purposes intended thereby? and at the fame time
npnn the principles which afford adequate security for an upright
and prudent administration thereof, will be very conducive to the
fucccfslul conducing of the national finances—wiJlien-d
»acilitv to the obtaining of loans,' for the use of the government,
,n sudden emergencies—and will be produ&ive of confidcrable
advantages to trade and industry in general—Therefore,
I. Be it enabled by the Senate and House of Reprejentatives of the
United States of America, in (ongrefs ajjembled, That a bank of the
United Slates shall be eftablilhcd; the capital stock whereof shall
not exceed ten millions of dollars, divided into twenty-five thou
sand shares, each share being four hundred dollars; and that sub
scriptions, towards constituting the laid stock, shall, on the firft
Monday of April next, be opened at the city of Philadelphia, un
der the fuperintendance of such not less than three, as
shall be appointed for that purpofc by the President of the United
States (who is hereby empowered to appoint the said persons ac
cordingly) which fubfenptions shall continue open until the whole
of the said stock shall have been fubferibed.
11. And be it farther enacted, That it shall be lawful for any per
son, co-pannei ihip. or body politic, to fubferibe tor luch or so
many shares, as he, she or they shall think fit, not exceeding one
as shall be hereafter directed relatively to the
United States; and that the sums refpe&ively fubfciibcd, except
on behalf of the United States, ihall be payable one fourth in gold
and silver, and three fourths in that part ot the public debt which,
according to the loan proposed in the lourth aad fifteenth feCfions
ot the a&, entitled, " An A£t making provWion for the debt of
the United States," shall bear an accruing interest, at the lime ot
payment, of fix per centum per annum, and shall also be payable
in four equal parts, in the aforefaid ratio of specie to debt, at the
distance of fix calendar months from each other ; the firft whereof
shall be paid at the time of fubfeription.
111. Ar.d be it further cnafled, That all those who fhal] become
fubferibers to the (aid bank, their fuccefTors and afligns, fha.l be,
and are hereby created and made a corporation and body politic,
by the name and style of The President, Directors and Company, of
the Bank of the United States ; and shall to continue until the 4th day
of March, one thousand eight hundred and eleven : And by that
name, (hall be, and are hereby made able and capable in law, to
have, purchafe,receive, possess, enjoy, and retain to them and t teir
.urceflors, lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments, goods, chatiels,
and eifc6ls 01 what kind, nature or quality soever, to an amount,
not exceeding in the whole fifteen millions of dollars, including
the amount of the capital ifock aforefaid ; and the fame to fell,
grant, demise, alien or dispose of; to sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, answer and be anfweted, defend and be defended,
in courrs of record, or any other place whatsoever : And also to
make, havt, and use a common seal, and the fame to break, alter
and renew, at their pleasure; and also to ordain, cllablifh, and put
m execution, such bye-laws, ordinances and regulations, as (hall
seem necessary and convenient tor the government of the said cor
poration, not being contrary to law, or to the constitution thereof
(for which purpose, general meetings of the stockholders shall and
may be called by the dir 6tors, and in the manner hereinafter Ipe
cificd) and generally to do and execute all and lingular ails, mat
ters and things, which to them it shall or may appertain to do;
lubjeft nevertheless to the rules, regulations, riftrittions, limita
tions, and provisions, herein after prefcribcci and declared.
IV. And he it further enafled, That, tor the well ordering of the
affairs of the said corporation,there shall be twenty-five directors :
of whom there shall be an election, on the firft Monday of Janu
ary m each year, by the itockholders or proprietors of the capital
flock of the said corporation, and by plurality of the votes a&ually
given; ai*i those, who shall be duly chosen at any ele£lion, fhail
be capable of serving as directors, by virtue of luch choice, until
the end or expiration of the Monday of January next ensuing the
'ime of such ele&ion, and no longer. And the said directors, at
their firft meeting after each elettion, ihall choole one of their
number as prelident.
V. Provided always, and be it further evaded, That, as fjon as the
sum of four hundred thouland dollars, in gold and silver, (hall have
been actually received on account of the fubferiptions to the said
flock, notice thcrcsf shall be given, by the persons under whose
-upenntendance the fame shall have been made, in at least two
public gazettes printed in the city of Philadelphia; and the said
pcifons shall, at the fame time in like manner, notify a time and
place within the said city, at the distance of ninety days Irom the
nine of such notification, for proceeding to the de&ion of direc
tors; and it shall be lawful for such election to be then and there
made; and the pci sons, who shall then and there be chosen, shall
be the firft dire&ors, and shall be capable of serving, by viitue of
such choice, until the rod or expiration of the Monday in January
next ensuing the time of making the fame, and (hall forthwith
thereafter commence the operations of the said bank, at the said
city of Philadelphia. And provided further, That, in cafe it
should at any time happen, that an ele&ion of direttorsfho«ld not
be made upon any day when puHuant to this act it ought to have
been made, the said corporation shall not for that cause, be deem
ed to bv difiolved ; but it shall be lawlul, on any oiher day, to
bold and make an ele&ion of dir<£lors, in such manner as shall
have been regulated by the laws and ordinances of the said corpo
ration. And provided lastly, That, in cafe of the death, resigna
tion. absence from the Umttd States, or removal of a dneftor by
the iiockholders, his place may be filled up, by a new choice, for
the lemainder of the year.
VI. And be it further entitled, That the direOors for the time be
-1 og, ihall have power to appoint such officers, clerks, and servants
Wednesday, March 2, 1791.
under them, as (hall for executing thebufinefs of the
fud corporation, and to allow them luch compensation, lor their
(Wvices rtfpcAively, as shall be reasonable; and (hall be capable
of exevcifing Inch other powers and authorities, for the well go
verning and ordering of the affairs of the said corporation, as shall
be described, fixed, and determined by the laws, regulations and
ordinances of the fame.
If. And be it further wafted, That the following rules, reftric
ii oils, limitations and provisions, Ihall form and be fundamental
articles of the of the said corporation, vi 7.
1. 1 he number of votes, to which each ilock holder. (hall be en
titled, (hall be according to the number of (hares he (hall hold, in
the proportions following: That is to fay, for one (hare, and not
more than two (harts, one voie : For every two lharcs above two,
and not exceed ins; ten, one vote: For every four fhaies above ten,
and not exceeding thirty, one vote: lor «°very fix (hares above
thirty, and not exceeding sixty, one vote: For every eight (hares
above sixty, and not exceeding one hundred, one vote: And for
eveiy ten ihares above one hundred, one vote: —But no person,
co-partnership, or body politic, shall be entitled to a greater num
be« than thirty votes. And after the firft election, no (hare or
hares shall confer a right of fuflrage, which (hall not have been
en [ hree calendar months previous to the day of eleffcion.
Stockholders a&ually resident within-the United States, and none
other, may in elections bypjox^.
2. \<>r inort than three-fourths ot the dire&ors in office, exclu
ive of the President, shall be eligible for the next succeeding year :
Hut the dire&or, who (hall be president at the time of an eledion,
may always be re-ele£ted.
3. None but a stockholder, being a citizen of the United States,
shall he eligible as a dire&or.
4. Nodire&or shall he entitled to any emolument, unless the
fame shall have been allowed by the flockholders at a general meet
ing. The stockholders (hall make such compensation to the pre-,
lidtnt, for his extraordinary attendance at the bank, as shall appear
to them reasonable.
5. Not less than seven directors shall constitute a board for the
traufa&ion of business, of whom, the president shall always he one,
except in cafe of sickness, or neceflarv absence; in which cafe, his
place may be iupplied by any other dire&or, whom he, by writ
ing under his hand, shall nominate for the purpose.
6. Any number of stockholders, not less than ftxty, who toge
ther shall be proprietors of two hundred shares or upwards, shall
have power at any time to call a general meeting of the stockhold
ers, for purpofea relative to the institution, giving at ieaft ten weeks
notice, in two public gazettes of the place where the bank is kept,
and fpecifying, in such notice, the objett or objetls of Juch
meeting.
7. Every cashier or treasurer, before he enters upon the duties
or his office, shall be required to give bond, with two or more
sureties, to the fatisfa&ion of the diresors, in a sum not less than
fifty thousand dollars, with condition '»•!' his good behaviour.
o. 1 he lands, tenements, and hereditaments, which it shall be
lawful for the said corporation to boJJ. shall be only such as shall
be requisite for its immediate accommodation in 1 elation to the
convenient tranfa&ing of its business, and such as shall have been
bona fide moitgaged to it by way of security, or conv yed to it. in
fjtisfatbon of debts previously contra&ed in the courfeof itsdeal
tngs, or purchased at sales upon judgments which shall have been
obtained for such debts.
9. The total amount of the debts which the said corporation
shall at any time owe, whether by bond, bill, note, or other con
trail:. shall not exceed the sum of Ten Millions of Dollars, over
and above the monies then actually deposited in the bank for fafe
keeping, unJefs thecontracting of any greater debt shall have been
pievioufly authorized by a law of the United States. In cafe of ex
cess, the directors, under whose admioiftration it shall happen,
shall be liable for the lame, in their natural and private capaci
ties: and an a&ion of debt may in fueh cafe be bronght Sgainft
them, or any of them, their or any of their heirs, executors or ad
ministrators, in any court of record of the United States, or of ei
ther of them, by any creditor or creditors of the said corporation,
and may be prosecuted to judgment and execution; any condi
tion, covenant, or agreement to the contrary notwithstanding. But
this (hall not be construed to exempt the said corporation, or the
lands, tenements, goods or chattels of the fame, from being also
liable for and chargeable with the said excess. Such of the said
directors, who may have been absent when the said excess was
contra&ed or created, or who may have diircnted from the refo
lutrou or "ait whereby the fame was so contracted or created, may
refpeditively exonerate themfeJves from being so liable, by forth
with giving notice of the fa£t, and of their absence or dissent, to
the President of the United States, and to the flockholders, at a ge
neral meeting, which thev shall have power to call tor that pur
pofc.
10 The said corporation may fell any part of the public debt
whereof its stock shall be composed, but shall not be at liberty to
purchase any public debt whatsoever; nor shall dirc6tly or indi
rectly deal or trade in any thing, except bills of exchange, gold or
silver bullion, or in the faleof goods really and truly pledged for
money lent and not redeemed in due lime; or of goods which
shall be the produce of its lands. Neither fball the said corpora
tion t3ke more than at the rate ot fix per centum per annum, for
or upon its loans or discounts.
11. No loan shall be made by the said corporation, for the use
or on account of the government of the United States,to an amount
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars, or of any particular
State, to an amount exceeding fifty thouland dollars, or of any
foreign prince or State, unlcfs previously authorized by a law of
the United States.
12. The flock of the said corporation (hall be aflignable and
transferable, according to such rules as shall be instituted in thai
behalf, by the laws and ordinances of the fame.
13. The bills obligatoiy and of credit, under the seal of the said
corporation, which (hall be made to any person or persons, shall
be aflignable by indorsement thereupon, under the hand or hands
of such person or pei sons, and ot his, her, or their aflignee or aili*-
nees, and fi> as absolutely to transfer and vest the property thereof
in each and every zflignee or aflignees fucceflively, and to enable
such aflignee or aflignees tc. bring and maintain an adhon thereup
on in his, her, 01 their own name or names. And bills or notes,
which maybe ilTucd by order of the said corporation, signed by
the Prefidcnt, and counteifigned by the principal cashier or trea
surer, promising the payment of money to any person or persons,
his, her or their oider, or to bearer, though not under the seal of
the said coiporation, shall be binding and obligatory upon the fame
in the like manner, and with the like force andeffeft, asupon anv
private person or persons, if ilfucd by him or them, in his her, or
their private or natural capacity or capacities; and ihall he assign
able and negociablr, in like manner, as if they were so lfTued by
765
o
[Whole No. 192.]
furh private person or persons,—'That is so fay, ihofe, which fhsll
be payable to any person or jferfom, his, her, or their order, (hall
be afiignable by indorsement, in like manner, and with the like e!-
feft, as ioreign bills of exchange now are; and those. wtveh are
payable to bearer, (hall bcnegociable and aflignable by deliver*
only. }
14. Half yearly dividends fhair*be made of so much of the pro"
fits of the bank, as shall appear to the dire&ors advisable ; and
once in every three years, the directors shall lay before the stock-
s > at a general meeting, for their information, an exact and
particular statement of the debts, which (hall have remained un-
P a, < a ' ter expiration of the original credit, for a period of
tie e the term of that credit ; and of the surplus of profit, if any,
after deduftmg losses and dividends. If there (hall be a failure
in t c payment of any part of any lum, fubferibed bv any person,
co-partnerfnip, or body politic, the party failing (hall lose the be
nt to any dividend, which may have accrued, prior to the time
for making such payment, and'during the delay of the fame.
15. It fhal Ibe lawful for the direttors aforefaid,to eftabliffy of
ces whcrefoever they shall think fir, within the United States, for
tnepurpousot discount and denofit only, and upon the fame
terms arid in the fame manner, as (hall he praftifed at the bank ;
a " to lrn j. t management of the said offices, and the making
of the fata discount?, to luch persons, and under such agreements,
and fubjett to luch regulations as thev shall deem proper; not
being contiary to law, or to the ronftitution of the bank.
The officer, at the head of the treasury department of the*
United States, shall be furnifhed, from time to time, as often as he
may require, not exceeding once a week, with ftatemenrs of the a
mount of the capital flock of the said corporation; and of the debts
due to the lame ; of the monies deposited therein ; of the notes in
circulation, and of the cash in hand ; and shall have a right to in
fpeft such general accounts in the books of the bank, as shall relate
to the said statements : Provided that this shall not be construed
to imply a right of infpe&ing the account of any private individu
al or individuals with the bank.
VIII. And be it further enabled, That, if the said corporation
or any person or persons, for or to the use of the fame, lhali deal
or trade in buying or felling any goods, wares, merchandize, or
commodities whatsoever, contrary to the provisions of this ast, all
and every person and persons, by whom any order or d ireaion for
so dealing or trading shall have been given,' and all and every per
son and per'ons who shall have been concerned as parties or agents
therein, shall forfeit and lose trebJe the value of the goods, wares,
merchandizes and commodities, in which such dealing and trade
shall have been ; one half thereof to the use of the informer,and the
other half thereof to the use of the United States, tO be ricvrnvvl
with costs of suit.
IX. And be it further ena&ed, That, if the said corporation
shall advance or lend any sum, for the use or'on account of the go
vernment of the United States, to an amount txceeding one hun
dred thousand dollars ; or of any particular state toan amount ex
ceeding fifiv thouland dollars ; or of any foreign prince or state,
(unless previously authoi ized thereto by a law of the United States)
all and every person and persons, by and with whose order, agree
ment, content, approbation or connivance, such unlawful advance
or loan, shall forfeit and pay, for every such offence, treble the va
lue or amount ofthe sum orfums, which shall have been so unlaw
fully advanced or lent ; one fifth thereof to the use of the inform
er, and the residue thereof to the ule of the United States, to be
disposed of by law and not otherwise.
X. And be it further fnafted, That the bills or notes of the said
Corporation, originally made payable, or which shall have become
pnyable on demand, in gold and silver coin, ftiall be receivable in
all payments to the United States.
XI. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for the
President of the United States, at anytime or times, within eigh
teen months after the firft day of April next, tocaule a fubferipti
on to be made to the stock of the said corporation, as part of the
aforcfaid capital stock of ten millions of dollars, on behalf of the
United States, to an amount notexceedinsj two millions of dollars
to be paid out of the monies which (hall be borrowed by virtue
of either of the a£ts, the one intitled, " an ast making provinon for
the debt of the United States ;" and the other entitled, "An ast
making provision for the redu&ion of the public debt borrow
ing of the bank an equal sum, to be applied to the purposes, for
which the said monies shall have been procured ; reimbursable in
ten years, by equal annual instalments ; or at any time sooner, 01
in any greater proportions, that the government may think fit.
XII. And be it further enacted, That no other Bank.(hall brf
established by any future Law of the United States, during the
continuance of the Corporation hereby created ; for which the
faith of the United States is hereby pledged.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Preftdent of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, February twenty-fifth 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent oftheUnited States.
(True copy.)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
AN ACT regulating the number of Represen
tatives to be chosen by the States of Kentucky
and Vermont,
BE it enatted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress afTcmbled, That, un
til the Representatives in Congress shall be apportioned according
to an a&ual enumeration of the inhabitants of the United States,
the Slates of Kentucky and Vermont shall each be entitled to
choose two Representatives.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker oj th< House ojßeprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President ofthe United State/,
and Prejidentof the Senate.
Approved, February twenty-fifth, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident the United Stater.
;TR irr. Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON', Secretary of Sttte.FOR THE 'GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
CONGRESS.
TT was a prudent caution of the Egyptians, to
poflpone the giving a character tijl after the
death of the party. During a man's life his con
du<ft might change, and falfify the praise or'cen
fure bellowed upon it. But death, which fixes an
unalterable stamp, extinguilhes the paiiions which
have flattered, or abused, the living man. To
morrow the fir ft Congress will terminate its poli
tical life. Its whole condudi is before the public ;
fubjeiflto fuchadecilion, as truth will pronounce
lipon it.
Other public men have found the path of their
duty as beaten as the highway. Administration
running in the fame channel for ages, has worne
it deep and wide : Congress had a new path to
tread ; the conflitution, by fencing ic up on ei
ther fide, has made it a narrow one ; and such was
the state of the times, and of parties, that they
found it covered with thorns.
• During the two years, Congress has, beeri en
gaged in business about 16 months. The book of
it's laws will fliew that it has been diligently en
gaged. Perhaps no body of men has ever at
tended more punctually at the daily hours of
meeting, or continued more closely occupied du
ring the fitting. The whole number has gene
rally voted. This however is an inferior kind
of merit. The great point which afFedts the re
putation of the body is, whether it's measures
have been wife and salutary.
The firft care of Congress, was to organize the
great departments of government. The merit
of the measure inay be tried by supposing a dif
ferent organization. If instead of a Secretary of
the Treasury, the business of finance had been
intrusted to a Treasury Board, of three or five
persons, let their good sense and integrity be e
ver lo it in ay be doubted whether
sn uniform felf cor.fiftent plan would have been
recommended or adopted. It is proper to try the
merit of the firft Congress, either by the differ
ence of the state of tilings, when it began, and
when it finifhed it's period, or by comparing what
Congress has done, with the manner of doing the
like things in the state legislatures. Leaving it
to the mind of every reader to purfuethele ideas
as far as he may think proper, it may be remark
ed, that Congress has so organized the great de
partments, as to secure an orderly, efficient and
uniform adininiftratiou of the government. -The
President with his usual prudence and discernment
has appointed able men to fill them ; who are
stimulated, by every motive, to a diligent and
active employment x>f their eminent talents. The
people will know where to bestow praise, and
on whom the blame should fall. This is the ad
vantage of eftablifliing heads of departments.
Provision is also made for a friendly intercourse
with foreign nations, by providing forMiniilers.
In the judicial department as much has been
done, as circumstances would admit. Judges
of eminent virtue and learning preside in the fe
deral courts. But the very narrow limits of the
judicial power of the United States, renders this
one of the most difficult branches of leglflation.
Coutts mud be ellabliflied, and provision made
to administer justice to men, almost at hojne,and
yet the business is very inconsiderable. This is
not the fault of.Congreft. If any thing is to be
regretted, it is, that a different arrangement had
not been nfade of the judicial power by the con-
fticution
The measures of Congress have given a great
Jpring to trade. The difference of tonnage and of
import on goods, if imported in American veflels
and the favours to the trade to India and China
have greatly increased thefhipping,as well as the
foreign trade. The coasting trade, no longer
fubjetft to State regulations is evidently gaining
strength. It has increased the tonnage and sea
men—it is already a young lion, and will afford
111 a few years such naval ltreiigtli, as to be a
terror to our enemies,
The duties 011 foreign manufactures are a di
rect bounty upon our own. The increase of manu
factures since Congress firft: imposed the duties,
is not certainly known. But every one who has
lived in the country the last two years, knows
that it is very extraordinary. Our exports have
increased to upwards of 20 millions of dollars.—
Many art of opinion, that our manufactures have
risen to an equal amount.
Future controversies between the States are ren
dered improbable, by the proviflou for an equi
table fettlemenc of the accounts, which the war
had swelled into a mass, so rmidable by its mag
nitude, and more so by its confufion. This very
difficult and necelTary talk has been accomplifli
ed, tho it had been despaired of by many.
The States have been eased of their debts,
which would have crushed some of them by their
weight. But the revenue of the whole country,
under one system of management, will enable
the United States to provide for them, almost
without feeling the burden. JVloderate taxes on
luxuries have made the reveuue chest overflow
with wealth.
The advantages of the funding system, are
not to be enumerated. America, at this moment,
is in a situation equally novel and refpeftable.—
It is in a condition for felf-defence, which can
not be too much admired. With an orderly go
vernment, an ample revenue, and almost unlim
ited credit and resources, it polTefles a strength,
which itftood in need of during the war. Popu
lar governments' fuffer more by the unsteadiness
of their measures, than by the corruption of their
rulers. It is thefirft time that a permanent sys
tem has been adopted in our country for support
ing credit. The people already enjoy the fruits
of it. The new capital is every where flying to
the aid of manufactures, trade and agriculture.
The Bank is an institution which our extensive
and wealthy country ought not to be without. It
will aflift us to extend our intercourse from North
to South, and we shall like one another better,
as we know one another more.
After every pacific mealure had failed ofeffett
with the Indians, protection is afforded to the
frontiers—Our frontier fellow-citizens, tho dif-
tant, are not neglected
It would be tedious to comment at large on the
several very important ac r ts of the firft Congress.
A mere Ikerch is intended. A great deal has been
done, and truth seems toanthorife us to fay, that
no very dangerous mistakes have been committed
in the two years. America, which was in the
Jhads before, seems now to Hand in the fmi-Jbtne.
Its profpetfs are the brightest that any nation on
earth enjoys : All that is wanting to realize them
is steadiness. If the next Congress should
make 110 violent alteration of meafures,our hopes
can scarcely meet with disappointment.
Tho great questions have called forth strong
paflions in Congress, it is a most grateful thing
to fee the harmony and mutual goodunderftand
ing, which subsist at the end of the two years of
its being. Opposition seems to have left no ftin<r
behind it. The Members will separate with an
high degree of personal regard and esteem.—
State prejudices and prepofl'efliont lose a great
part of their influence 011 the mind, when those
who at firft felt them, find themselves obliged to
acknowledge, on numberless occasions, the can
dor, patriotism, and high fenle of reditude and
honor, which diftiriguifh their opponents. The
ties of brotherhood and-mutual affeeftion, which
are to bind America together, ought to grow
stronger every day.
Hon. Jo H N B. A S H E, Jo H nSt E E LE and N AT H A
NIEL Macon, are elertcd Members of the second
House of Representatives of the United States
for the State of North-Carolina.
766
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE, Feb. 25.
OK motion, That the following relolutionbe
entered into, to wit :
Resolved, That it be a ftapding rule, that the
doors of the Senate chamber remain open, whilit
the Senate ftiall be fitting in a legislative capaci
ty, except on fuel) occasions asin their judgment
may require fecreey, and that this rule (hall com
mence and be in force 011 the firft day of the next
feflionof Congress
The yeas and nays were required by one fifth,
of the Senators present.
Mejfrs. Butler, Fojier, Cunn, Hawkins, King t
Lee, Mac lay, Monroe. 9.
Mtjfrs. Baffett, Carroll, Dalton, Dickinfon, Ellf
worth, Elmer, Few, Henry, John/on, JobnJlon, Izard
Langdon, Morris, Read, Stanton, Strong, Win
gate. 17. So it pafled in the negative.
A mellage was received from the President of
the United States, informing the Senate that he
had this day approved aud signed the bill, enti
tled, " All aift to incorporate the subscribers to
the bank of the United States," and the bill, en
titled, " An ac r t regulating the number of Repre
sentatives to becholen by the States of Kentucky
and Vermont."
The bill entitled, " An adl fixing the time for
the next annual meeting of Congress," was read
the second time, and ordered, that it pass to the
third reading.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 26.
A meflage front the Senate, by Mr..Otis their
Secretary, in formed thehoufe that they have pafled
the bill fupplenientary to (lie act incorporating
the subscribers to the Bank of the United States.
A second meflage from the Senate, informed
that they have palled a bill in amendment to the
adt for fixing the temporary and permanent feaq
of government of the United States, to which
they reqneft the concurrence of this house ; which
bill was read a firlt time, and laid on the table.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committee, to whom
was'refeiTed the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury, on the petition of CpmfortSands, and
others, brought in a report which was read and
laid on the table.
Mr. Trumbull from the committee, appointed
for the purpose, reported a bill in addition to an
a<ft entitled, " an act for eitablifhing the lalaries
of the executive officers of government, with their
assistants and clerks, which was received and read
a fir ft and second time, and referredto a commit
tee of the whole house, on Monday next.
The petition of Elias Hafket Derby, praying re
lief in the payment of duties on goods imported
from India and China, was read and referred to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
Information was received from the Members of
the Philosophical Society, that an etilogiuni as a
tribute to the memory of their late Prefideut,
Docftor Benjamin Franklin, will be delivered
on Tuefdaynext, at the German church, at which
rhey requell the attendance of the members of
this house.
i lie house, agreeable to the order of the day,
proceeded to the consideration of the reports on
sundry petitions.
The report of the committee on the petition of
Capt. Seth Harding was taken up for a second
leadiug ; and on the queifion to agree to the
fame, it pafled in the negative.
Reports upon a number of other petitions were
agreed to by the house.
A report from the Secretary at War, on the pe
tition o. Capt. David Cook was agreed to by the
house, and a committee appointed to bring in a
bill conformable thereto—
After which thegallery doors were flint,
MONDAY, Feb. 28.
The bill to amend the ast, for establishing the
temporary and permanent l'eat of government,
received from the Senate, was read the second
time, and ordered for a third reading to-mor-
row
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the house that the Senate concur
in their vote, by which, the report of the joint
committee of conference 011 the fubje»ft of <lifa
greement between the two houses, in refpet't to
the 6111. fertion of the bill, laying duties on di
stilled spirits, was adopted—He'alfo informed
the house that the Senate have pafled the bill
for fixing the time of the next annual meeting ot
C'ongrefs.
Another message informed the house that the
YEAS
NAYS,Senate have pafled the bill, supplemental to the
acft for establishing the Treasury department,
with amendments.
The report of the committee on the petition of
C. Sands, and others—was read the fecoiul time,
and after some debate, it was voted, that itfhould
lie on the table.
Mr. Boudinot laid the following motion on the
table—that the Secretary of the Senate, and the
clerk of the house, who ihall be in office the third
of March next, (hall continue till a new appoint
ment takes place—this regulation to extend to
the intervals which may succeed the dillblution
of every subsequent Congress.
Amotion to take into consideration the consu
lar bill was negatived.
In committee of the whole, the bill making
compensation to the several officers of the courts
of law was agreed to without alteration—and re
ported to the house, in which sundry amend
ments were made—and the bill ordered to be en
grofled for a third reading to-morrow.
The committee of the whole being discharged
from any further consideration of the petition of
John Tucker, Clerk of the supreme court, the
lame was referred to afeleiS: committee.
In'committee of the whole, on the bill grant
ing compensation to the several loan officers, for
extra expences and services—one amendment was
agreed to-—which was, to ftrilteout an exception
in the bill, by the allowance of one clerk
was to be deduced" from the coinpenfations to
be allowed the loan-officers of Maflhchufetts,
Isiew-York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia—The bill
•with this amendment was reported to the house ;
after some debate the house disagreed tt» the fame
—Ayes 23, Noes "27 —the bill was then pafled to
be engrofled.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) of the committee appointed
for the purpose, reported a bill, for the tempor
ary regulation of the Poft-Office.
Mr. Floyd of the committee of enrolment re
ported the bill repealing after the last day of
June heretofore laid oil distilled
spirits—and laying others in their Head, as duly
enrolled—the speaker then signed the fame.
The report of the Secretary at war, on the pe
tition of the children of John Harris, late lieute
nant in the army of the United States, and of
brigadier-general John Philip De Haas, were a-
to, and referred to a committee to bring
in bills conformable to raid reports.
The report of the Secretary of State, on the pe
tition of Ferdinand Weltfall, was taken up and
> agreed to, with this amendment, that no interest
be allowed on thefum granted—a committee was
appointed to bring in a bill conformable to said
report.
The committee to whom furidry reports were
'eferred on Saturday last, repoited bills, making
compensation to the several petitioners agreea
ble to said reports, which were severally read a
firfttime. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, March i
Mr. Benfon laid on the clerk's table a proposed
amendment to the constitution of the United
States, with intent that it ffiould be considered
by the succeeding House of Representatives :
The objetfl was, to empower Congress to insti
tute a for the Union, on prin
ciples varying from tliofe of the fyltem now in
existence. This proposition we expeifl to lay be
fore the public.
Sundry petitions were read, and referred to
the heads of departments.
Mr. White, of the committee to which was re
ferred the bill for granting lands to the inhabi
tants of Post Vincennes, reported sundry amend
ments, which were read.
Mr. Floyd, pLthe committee of enrolment, re
ported tile following bills as duly enrolled, viz.
The bill supplementary to the a<ft for incorpo
rating the Subscribers to the Bank of the United
States—The bill for giving effed: to the Laws of
the United States, within the State of Vermont—
The bill to explain a clause in. the acfi making
further provision for the Debts of the United
States—And the bill fixing the time for the next
annual meeting of Congress:—And the Speaker
signed the lame.
Mr. Boudiiiot's motion for arefolution to con
tinue the Clerk of the House in office till a new
appointment takes place, was agreed to.
■ Pafled, the bill providing compensations to the
several officers of the judicial courts, to witnelles
and jurors, and for other purposes. The ayes
and noes being demanded, were Ayes 30 —
Noes 2T,.
A ineffage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the lioufe that they have palled
the bill for eltablifhing Land-Offices in the Uni
ted States, for the purpose of disposing of the
unappropriated lands, with amendments.
The bill to amend the a<fl for eltablifhing the
temporary and permanent feat of government,
was read the third time and palled. Ayes 18,
Noes 39
Pafl'ecl the bill making coinpenfations to the
refpetftivc Coinmiifioners of Loans fur their extra
cxpences
The amendments of the Senateto the bill, fuo
plemental to the a# for eftabliffiing the Treasury
Department were read, and agreed to by the
house.
The bill supplemental to the act, making pro
vision for the reduction of the public debt, was
taken up 111 committee of the whole, and report
ed to the house without amendment. Icwasthei:
ordered to be engrofled for a third reading.
Palled, after fun dry amendments, the bill pro
viding for the temporary regulation of the Polt-
Office.
The bill making provision for the orphan chil
dren of some, and the widows of other officers,
who were killed, or tlied in the lervice of the
United States, during the late war, was consider
ed in committee of the whole, and afterwards re
ported to the house without amendments, and
pafTed.
The bill supplemental to the ast, making pro
viliou for the reduftiun of the public debt, was
brought in engrolled, r£&l the third time and
pafled.
The Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
concerning certain certificates iflued in some of
the Statesfubfequent to the fir'ft of Jaij. 1790, was
again read, and referred to a feleft committee.
After which, private business occuring, the gal
leries were cleared. >
Philadelphia, March 2.
/Letters from Welt Liberty, Ohio county,
tfennfylvania, of Feb. 19 —Inform that the In
dians had killed and wounded some hunters and
(other persons in that quarter.
** The Anniversary of the Birth Day of the I're
fident of the United States has been celebrated
in all parts of the union, from which accounts
have been received, with the highelt testimonials
of veneiation and affedtion ;.no trait in the Ame
rican character is more conspicuous than that of
respect to their civil rulers—and while the peo
ple enjoy " Peace, Liberty and Safety," under
the administration of an excellent system of go
vernment—they can scarcely exceed the limits
of propriety 111 exprefling their attachment to
tliofe diitinguilhed characters, who having saved
their country in war—are uow conducing it to
the summit of human glory, in peace.
A correspondent observes, that the propofcd discrimination in
navigation, between foreigners in treaty with the United States—
and those with whom no treaty exists ; —cannot be considered in
any other light, thap that of an experiment : the result of which,
it is difficult to conceive, would be favorable to the intcrcfts of
this country. We (hould mod alTuredly, risk. losing a certainty,
for an uncertainty.
Extrafi of a letter from a gentleman in Rhode-ljland
dated t'ebritary 4, 179 J.
" OUR tidings from the WelVern Frontier
ire difhefling.—lt is to be hoped the inoit deci
ive ineafures, whatever the expence may be, w ill
>e taken, to put an end to the Indian ravages in
future.—The conduct of the late expedition gives
great uneasiness : Perhaps the public mind
ought, by l'oine enquiry into it, to be fatisfied."
Extratf of another letter from another gentleman, da-
ted February 7, 1791
" The plan of the W eflern Expedition was nioft
certainly good.—Whether the operations of the
army were good also, I arti unable to judge
Thus much certainly appears very extraordinary,
that the commanding officer should detach 360
men, with orders to find and fight the savages,
and remain inatftive with the remainder of the
troops. Was ever a judicious attack made on
an enemy deliberately, without being prepared to
furnilh succour in cafe 6f need ? Might not
the army as well have been in the city of Phila
delphia, as to have been without supporting dis
tance, so as not to fuftfiin the troops detached
from the combat in cafe of misfortune ? 011
thai inauspicious day, fell two of my dear friends,
Wyllys and Frothingham. With these two
brave soldiers, I have, more than twice, faced su
perior numbers of veteran troops.— lam flung
to the foul, that so many brave officers and men
should thus have been facrificed. Can we give
two for one ? Infamous idea ! and for sa
vages too ? The President, who can discern
the lead error in military operations, will, I ac
knowlege,be the eye of the public, on this, as well
as on other occasions.—Certain it is that at pre
sent, the commanding officer's conduct appears to
ill advantage."
Appointments —State of South-Carolina
His Excellency Charles PiNCKNEr,Governor.
Hon. Isaac Holmes, Lieutenant-Governor.
John RurLEDGE, Esq. Chief Justice.
Salary of tlie Governor, £.900 —and of the
Chief Justice £.800 sterling per annum.
APPOINTMENTS. By Authority
THE President of the United States has ap
pointed, by and with the advice and con fen t of
the Senate, Thomas Auldjo, to be Vice-Consul
for the United States at the port of Poole, in
Great-Britain ; and Jaines Yard, of Pennsylvania
to be consul for the United States in the Island of
ianta-Cruz. Also.
Joseph Anderson, of the State of Delaware,
one of the Judges in the territory South-Weft of
767
the Ohio—via Willi am Perry, resigned, and
William Murray, of Kentucky, Attorney
for United States, in the laid dirtrid.—vie:
James Brown, declined.
Yesterday, puiiuant to a vote of the American Philosophic.
Society—an eulogium to the memory of Do&or HenjaMii
Franklin, was delivered in the German Lutheran Church, ii
Fourth-Ilreet, by the Rev. Do&or William Sm ith, one ot tbei
Vlce-Prefidems and provost of the university ot Pennfyivania. v A
crouded and truly refpettable audience attended on this occasion,
conftfting of the Members of the Society—The President and
Vice-President of the United States, and th>ir Ladies; the
S:nators, Representatives of theUnton—and the Members of the
Senate and House of Representatives of this Commonwealth. y
A SUMMARY of the Value and Dedication of
the EXPORTSofthe United States.
To the dominions of France, 4 698,735. 48
To the dominions of Great-Britain, 9,363,416. 47
1 o the dominions of Spain, 2,005,907. 16
To the dominions of Portugal, *,283,462
To the dominions of the United
Netherlands,
To the dominions of Denmark,
To the dominions of Sweden,
To Flanders, ...
To Germany,
To the Mediterranean,
To the African Islands and Coast of
Africa,
To the East Indies,
To the north-well Coast of America, 10,362
IN addition to the foregoing, a cotifiderablc
Number of Packages have been exported from
the United States, the Value of which, being
omitted in the Beturns from the Custom-Houses,
could not .be introduced into this Abftradh
Treasury Depasl-ment, Feb, 15^,1791.
TENCH COXE, Secretary.
Died on Sunday lafl, Mr. JOHN HALL, Shop
keeper. of this city, in the 74th year of his age :
Of Mr. Hall it may be J 'aid, that he was an inflex
ible patriot in " the times that tried men's fouls" —
andfo long as those virtues, which adorn the Chr'tf
tian, the Husband, Parent, Friend, Neighbor, #nd
good Citizen, are held in eflimation, so long will.Mr..
Hall's memory be precious to all who were acquainted
•with his char after.
fldr" Mr. Sedgwick's observations on the fubjett of the Bank of the
United States, prepatedfor this day's Gazettee, are unavoidably pojlpun*
ed till
The current prices of Public Securities as in our lajl.
ftflr A fated m< cling of the HIBERNIAN SOCIETY, for the
relief of Emigrants from Ireland, will be held at Mr. Patrick Byrne's
tavern, on Monday next, the -jth inf. at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March 3, 1791. MATHEW CAREY, Sec'ry.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already publijhed,
Written by Mathew Carey.
CONDITIONS.
I. r T I HE Work (hall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
X fineft Witing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to fubferibers two thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work shall be put to the press as soon as 250 copies
are fubferibed for.
IV. The fubferibers names (hall be prefixed
({df*SUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart,
and Co. and all the other Booksellers in Philadelphia; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout the United States, who supply fub
feribers with t,he AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1791.
Virginia, Culpeper County, 25th Jan. 1791.
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
THE PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town of Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a most
healthy part of the country :—Confiding of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fe nee, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so dispersed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, for that pur
pose, patting through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant ;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
lifting of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, and
/aw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in gieat abundance; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; abcut 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodii* quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhauftable
source for the saw-mill.
Aifo fcvcral detached tra&s within said county, of about 2,3,
and 400 acres each } and though not offo feri ilea foil,their*lcinily to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there-ate small
improvements, and the lands so situated, that they can ealily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovemeotioned pcfTeflions will
be disposed of, 011 very reasonable terms—a fm3ll proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the paymer.ts will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchasers, who may be
supplied on the fame terms, with all kinds of flock, work hor
fei, ®xcn, &c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f-]
1,963,88 a. 9
» 224,415. jo
47,240
14,298
487,787. 14
41,2y8
159,984
Dollars, 20,415,966.84Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
fubjeift of a Mint.
(CONTIKUED.)
THE neceflitv of fulfilling prior engagements, is a cause or pre
text for poflponing the delivery of the coin in lieu of the
bullion. And this delay creates a difference in the market price
of the two things. Accordingly, for some years pad, an ounce of
standard gold, which is worth in coin 17 lOj sterling, has
been in the market of London, in bullion, only £.%. 17 6, which
is within a small fraction of one half per cent, lei's. Whether this
be management in the mint to accommodate the bank in the pur
chase of bullion, or to effect indire&ly something equivalent to a
formal difference of price, or whether it be the natural corn fe of
the bufinefo, is open to conjecture.
If, at the fame time, indicates, that if the mint were to make
prompt payment, at about half per cent, less than it does at pre
sent, the state of bullion in refpeft to coin, would be precisely'
the fame as it now is. And it would be then certain that the go
vernment would save expence in the coinage of gold ; since it is
not probable, that the time afi ially loft in the course of the year
in converting bullion into coin can be an equivalent to half per
cent, on the advance; and there will generally be at the com
mand of the treasury, a considerable sum of money, waiting for
some periodical dilburfement, which without hazard might be
applied to that advance.
In what sense, a free coinage can be said to promote the abun
dance of gold and silver, may be inferred fiom the instances,
which have been given of the tendency of a contrary system to
promote their exportation. It is, however, not probable, that a
very small difference of value between coin and bullion can have
any e ffett, which ought to enter into calculation. There can be
noinducement of positive profit, to export the bullion, as long as
the difference of price is exceeded by the expence of transport
ation. And the profpett of smaller loss upon the metals, than
npon commodities, when the difference is very minute, will be
frequently over-balanced by the poflibility of doing better with
the latter, from a rife of markets. It is at any rate certain that
it can be of no consequence, in this view, whether the superiority
of coin to bullion in the market be produced, as in England, by
the delay of the mint, or by a formal discrimination in the re
gulated values.
Under an impression, that a small difference between the value
of the coin, and the mint price of bullion, is the least exception
able expedient for restraining the melting down, or exportation
of the former, and not perceiving, that if it be a very moderate
one, it can be hurtful in other refpefts—the Secretary is inclined
to an experiment of J percent, on each of the metals. The fact,
which has been mentioned, with regard to the price of gold bul
lion in the Engliffi market, seems to demonstrate that such a dif
ference may fafely be.made. In this cafe there must be im
mediate payment for the gold and silver offered to the mint. How
far £ per cent, will go towards defraying the expence of the coin
age cannot be determined beforehand, with accuracy. It is pre
lumed, that on an economical plan, it will fuffice in relation to
gold. But it is not expetfed that the fame rate on silver will be
fiifficient to defray the expence attending that metal. Some ad
ditional provision may therefore be fouud neceffdry, if this limit
be adopted.
It docs not seem to be advisable, to make any greater differ
ence in regard to silver than to gold : because it is desirable, that
the proportion between the two metals, in the market, should cor
respond with that in the coins, which would not be the c'afe, if
the mint price of one was comparatively lower, than that of 'the
Other ; and because also silver being proposed to be rated in ref
petftogold, somewhat below its general commercial value, if
there (hould be a disparity, to its disadvantage, in the mint pri
ces of the two metals, it would obflru&too much the bringing of
't to be coined, and would add an inducement to export it. Nor
does it appear to the Secretary fate to make a greater difference,
between the value of coin and bullion, than has been mentioned.'
it will be better to have to increase it hereafter if this shall be
found expedient than to have it to recede from too considerable a
difference in consequence of evils, which shall lnve been experi
enced. r
It is sometimes mentioned, as an expedient, which, confidently
with a free coinage, may fetve to prevent the evils desired to be
avoided—to incorporate in the coins a greater proportion of al
loy, than isufual, regulating their value nevertheless according to
the quantity of pure metal they contain. This it is supposed, by
adding to the difficulty of refining them, would cause bullion to
be preferred both for manufaflure and exportation.
But flrongobje&ions lie against this scheme An augmenta
tion ofexpence;—an actual depreciation of the coin a°danger
of ltill greater depreciation in the public opinion ; the facilitating
o . fco » n '« r «»s : wtllle 11 ' s questionable, whether it wonld have
the effect expected from it.
The alloy being esteemed of no value, an increase of it is evi
dently an increase of cxpence. This, in relation to the gold coins,
particularly, is a matter of moment. It has been noted, that the
alloy in them confills partly of silver. If to avoid expence. the
addition (hould beof copper only, this would spoil theappeaiance
ot the coin, and give it a base countenance. lis beauty would in
deed be injured, though in a less degree, -even if the usual pro
portions of silver and copper should be maintained in the tncrcaf
ed quantity of alio).
And however inconsiderable iin additional expenditure of cop.
per in the coinage of a year may be deemed ; in a series of years
it would become of consequence. Im regulations which contem
platethe lapse and operation of ages, a very small item ofexpence
acquires importance.
The .xflual depreciation of the coin, by an increase of alloy, re
mits from the very circumstance, which is the motive to it—the
greater difficulty of refining. In England it is customary for
thole concerned in manufaftuies of gold to make a deduction in
the price, of four pence sterling per ounce, of fine gold, for every
carat which the mass containing it is below the legal standard
". a ™' e . •"of a single carat, or 1-24 part
fl S J 'ld coins°f the United States, compared with the Er.gliffi
standard would cause the fame quantity of pure gold in them to
be woith nearly 4 _ 10 ths percent, less than in tile coins of Grea'-
Br.ta.n This circumstance would be likely, in process of time
to be felt in the market of the United S'atcs
A still greater depreciation, in the public opinion, would be to
be apprehended from the apparent debasement of the coin. The
• ofi magi nation and prejudice cannot fafely be difre E arded
in any thing that relates to money. It t he beauty of the coin be
impaired; it may be fouud difficult to fatisfy the generality of the
community, that what appears worse is not really less valuable"
and it is not altogether certain, that an impression of its beini? s o '
may not occasion an unnatural augmentation of prices '
Gr< ater danger of imposition, by counterfeits, is also to be at>-
prehended from the injury which will be done to the appearance
of thecoin. It is a just observation, that " The perfection of the
coins is agreat fafe-guard against counterfeiters." And it is evid, nt
that the colour, as well as the excellence of the workmanship.is an in
gredient in that peifeftion. The intermixture of too much alloy
particularly o. copper in the gold coins at least, mud materially
lessen the facility of distinguishing by the eye, the purer from the
Daler kind, the genuine from the counterfeit.
The ineffieacv of the arrangement to the purpose, intended to
be answered by it, is rendered probable by different confuta
tions. If the standard of plate in the United States should be re
gulated. according to that of the national coins; it is to be ex
petted, that thegoldfmith would preferthefe to the foreigncoins ■
because he would find them prepared to his hand, in "the date'
which he desires ; whereas be would have to expend an additional
cuantity of alloy to bring the foreign coins to that date. If the
ltandard of plate, l>y law or usage, ftiould be superior to that of
the national coins, there would be a poflibility of the foreign[coins
bearing a higher price in the market ; and this would not only
obftrutt their being brought the mint, but might occasion the
exportation of the national coin in preference. It is not under
stood, that the pra6lice of mak:ng an abatement of price for thr
inferiority of standard, is applicable to the Englilh mint—and if
it be not, this would also contribute to fruftrating the expelled
effect from the increafeof alloy. For, in this cafe, a given quan
tity of pure metal in our standard, would be worth as much there,
as in bullion, ot the English or any other standard.
[To be continued.]
Philadelphia, Februarv 24th, 1791
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS,
INTENDED AS MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
H 'olle&ion will be contained the Charter sof the
A leverai ltates which now compose the Union the Records
ot the United Colonies of \ew-Enci and Roval Inftruc
nons to Colonial Governors;— Extracts from Public
r? n DS;—a other .authentic Documents tending to elucidate
our Hiltory. 0
The design of this compilation was intimated to Concrrefs, and
honored with their approbation.— On the 20th July, 1778, their
committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it as
their " Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
defcrves the public patronage and encouragement, as being pro
ductive of public utility Whereupon they " Resolved, That
it be recommended to the Governors, Presidents, and Executive
Powers of the several dates in the union, to assist Mr. Hazard,*nd
give facility to his labors ; and that for this purpose he be admit
ted to an infpc£hon of public records, and be furnifhed without
expence with copies of such papers as he may judge will conduce
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He was, of consequence, admitted to the insertion and use both
of publ.c records, and the collections made by individuals, from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met with
on the fubjeft, and, he flatter, himfelf, the largest ever made in
America) was .ormed. It has since met the apnrobation of many
chara &"s,and even in its manuscript state, has facilitated
tne lettlement or Jorne important controversies.
The comp.ler cannot suppress the following letter from the honor
able the Secretary of State, to whose infpeftion Dart of the com
pilation was submitted, as it contains so flattering and refpefta
ble a teltimony in favor of the importance of the work.
" Philadelphia, February 18, 179*1.
S IR,
I return you the two volume, of Records, with thanks for the opportu
nity of looking into them. :—they are eurions Monuments of the Infancy
of our country. Heart, with great fatisfaffion that-you are about com
mitting to the Press the valuable Hiflorical and State Papers you have
been so long colleflmg T,me and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals depofted in our public offices : the late war has done the
work of centuries m this hifimfs : the lofl cannot be recovered; but let
" oti J V ' U " S a " dlocki < fence them from
the public eye andvfe m confignmg them to the waste of time, but by such
a null,plication of coptet as fha/l place them beyond the reach of accident ;
this being the tendency of ymir undertaking, be ajfured Here is no one who
wtfhes it a more complete success than SIR
Your mofl obedient and mofl humble Servant,
THOMAS JEFFERSON."
MR. Hazard
CONDITIONS.
I. The Work to be publiflied in numbers, each containing
months' 65 ' <3Uart ° number t0 be every three
fia °, dellv< j r y°f the firfl Number, payment to bemade for
the hrll and feeond, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(except the la ft, so that the price of one Number will beconftant
ly m advance. The very great expence attending so large a work, •
he'Tffl cond,tion absolutely necefTa
ry, w be fufficient apology to the candid for its insertion
111. The price to Subscribers will be one Dollar for cach num.
■ K, aV ' S , fu PP°/ cd that thc Work will probably be comprised in
eight Numbers, forming two handsome Volumes, i n large quarto
printed on a neat Type and good paper. '
IV. To those who choose to fubferibe for the Work in V O .
Umes the pr.ee will be Four Dollars and a Quarter of a Dollar, for
Cdch Volume, in hoards.
ft, lll' I ' ll^ col,eaion L wiU b e P»' t» the Prefsas soon as there
(hall be a fufficient number of fubferiptions to juftify an hope that
the expenccs will be defrayed. °P e lnat
%3TThofewho receive SybJcripHous will please trnfmit account, of
Subsc r iptions will be received in Portsmouth, (N H) bv
Jeremiah Lu.bcy; Boston, Thomas & Andrews ; Worcester
B"rr N° m 3 " artfo^ d ' Thomas ' Hildrup; New-Haven, Isaac'
. rs , New-London, Timothy Green ; Newport, (R. I.) Jacob
H.chardfon j Providence, John Carter ; New-York, Hodge, Al
len & Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. Lanfing ; Philadelphia
Thomas Dobfon, and Hazard & Addoms; Wilmington, (Dela
ware) Frederick Craig; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexfndria To
£ua Merr.man ; Norfolk. Mr. Lindfey : Frederickiburgh. 'cal-
f l ende ' fon : Peterfburgh, John Crammer; Rich
mond, Augustine Davis ; Newbern, (N. C.) F. X. Martin • Wil
m.ngton, John Bradley; Charleston, (S. C.) William P. Young
R A NEGRO MAN ELOPED.
AN away from his owner about the 2 5 th Jan. last, C.ESAR
a negro man country born, noted ». » prc.cher amtn. ,hc
blacks, 3 ° years of age, about 5 feet 7 inches high—thick, well
let; had on a brown cloth coat, light cloth jacket, leather breeches
and coarse w.lton (lockings.— He also had a tow linen frock with
bin, ; and wore a finall round hat. He is supposed to be gone ,0
Sta'.r'Vho 3 °" ?'■ Plantation, m that
eaol of ke faid ' ne « r "> and secure him i„ th e
gaol of Philadelphia, or of Trenton, and give noticc thereof to the
fubfenber , vl ng irt Bour.d-Brook, N'ew.Jerfey! S r «ewe
Twelve Dollars reward, and all necessary charges
P ÜBLIC NOTICE. "
oomerjet County, (T.
T3Y virtue of a writ of Jitri facias tome dire&ed ao-ainft thr
D goods and chattel,, rf nd / lnd imement. ot 01 .h..
lit f 'r levied on, and seized that valuable house and
lot of land, situate on the north fide of the Main Street in PHn„
Col'l "r . poffe ' l ' on of A(llm Shaw, and known bv'fion of the
occupied in "C " Cel em ft3nd f ° r 2 ? Üb,ic house, and has b n
sspsis?
**» «M* iM WAILACE - *•*
768
AMERICA.
HUGH ROWAN,
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
FROM an expe&ation that a mutual advantage would be der
ved by the dealers in public securities, and a person who
Ihould undertake to tranlaft such business on commission only % lus
concluded to offer himfelf for that purpose. Being of opinion
that every requisite to convince them and others.of his disinterest
edness ought to be attended to on his part, he has duly made oath
before the Hon. the Chief Justice of the State of Pennsylvania, thdt
he v v faithfully execute the trusts which may be rcpofed in him.
COPY OF THE OATH.
" / Henry Kahl, of the city of Philadelphia, flock broker, do Ivor
that I will not be concerned either dirc&ly or indireflly, on my own ac
count, in any purchafcs or files of the evidences of the debt of the United
States or oj particular States, but will truly and faithfully execute fuck
purchafcs andJales on commission only for shofe who may employ me :
that is to fiy, until I f hall announce in one or more of the newjpapers
printed at the feat of the government of the United 'States, my deter
mination to the contrary. HEKR Y KUHL
Sworn at Philadelphia, February 12th, 1791, before
THOMAS M'KEAN."
The commiflions he will charge for the prelent, are—
011 the specie amount of all sums below SCOO nominal dollars
one half per cent, on do. from 5000 to 10,000 do. one fourth per
cent, on do. from i®,ooo and upwards do. one eighth per cent.
Accounts Hated, and certificates funded at the Treasury or
Loan-Office of the United States, on moderate terms.
N. P. All orders for purchases or files to be in writing.
Philadelphia, February 19, 1791. (8,5 t. f.}
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. 91, Race-Streef, between Second and Third-Streets
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, orofanv
Philadelphia, Ftb. 1790.
THE Copartnership ot HEtf'ES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they requell those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their monev ; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5 , Ciief
nut-Street-Whai f. J O S I A H H E W ES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY
Philadelphia, Jar. 15, 1791.
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Boliea TEAS,
Three cases Cafiia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A sew.Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hoglheadsand barrels,
A quantity of prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best pickled Mackrel,
6by 8— 7 by 9— 8 by 10-9 by s i—and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has efiablifhed a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
w.llrunthro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Good Carnages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
Passengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed ,4 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pencc
per Mile tor every 1.50 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 179,, fixed hours for starting from the refpeftive Stare
o s,s abfolutelyneceffary—from which there can be nodevia
tlo"; , Norwich, Dec. 14, 1700.
The Stage for the Eaflward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wcdnefdays and Saturday s,
For the Weft ward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednefdaysand Saturdays.
JESSE BRQ WN. 6g —1 W3m
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor.
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris 7 own. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about iq acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is 0.1
the farm u very large collcaion of various kinds of the choicest
ru ! | t J_ lee I s ' bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York) fan. 1791
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Or the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
N B. A few Tickets in the New-York Lottery,
which ,s to be drawn the fir ft of April next, forfait.
TREASUR.Y DEPARTMENT,]
T January 25, i7or. J
HE Public Creditors are reminded that, in order to the pro
per dispositions for paying the Interest in the fevrra] States,
't is necessary that the amount to be paid in eaeh fliould be pre
viouuy known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the firfl:
quarter is not ar distant, it is withfd that those who have not yet
one it, may be expeditious in making and fignifving their elec
tion, pursuant to the ast making provision for the debt of the
United States.
INFORMATION WANTED.
Id?" THE Subscriber requefls, if any gentleman
cangive him information of a purchase of Lands made,
y a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year 1781 and
1782, infome part of the United States, he -will be so
k'nd as to inform his Brother, by direfling a line'ta
him, at the Printer's office. S. RICHARDET.
January, 179:.
particular Stale,
Martinico Coffee,
(2aw6w.)
80