PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 5, of Vol. lII.]
[Concluded from our
MR. FENNO,
AS to the tendency of the bank to make im
mense profits for the itock-holders and offer
ino- such vast emolument to the adventurers in
it time will (hew what these will be ; the ex
perience of banking as yet in America, has not
exhibited such advantages—and certainly it is
not likely the profits will encreafe with the com
petition, which is growing in this country : Pru
dent men will therefore look before they leap ;
they have time enough for any of the immense
preparations spoken os—since they have two
years to turn themselves in before they complete
their payment of subscriptions to the bank—and
years are eternally offering something new—it
is but about ten since the bank of North-Ame
rica was founded by Congress—and had we at
that time, Mr. Fenno, been favored with your
Gazette, doubtless it would have applauded as
highly the favorite of the day—who tho now be
come less fafhionable, still retains the mod un
deniable right to the grateful affecftions of this
country —atid will continue I hope to deserve
them, till perhaps by the lapse of a few more
years (he may again return like other falhions in
to vogue
On the present occasion the bank of North
imerica has certainly atfled the part of a mod
lutiful child to the union—perfectly lilent and
[uiefcent while the bill for a new bank was pen
lant before Congress, they now also are the re
ervoir where its treasures are to be accumulated
ind its subscriptions opened—exhibiting to the
»orld the very lingular f'peiftacle of one bank
tiding another in its eftablilhnient—tho for pur
poses calculated to avert the very sources of emo
lument from it ; so great and dilinterefted is the
attachment of the bank of North-America for
that of the United States that it seems to forget
what is due to itfelf in the care of the interests
of the rising inftitution—ungrateful will this be
formed if it attempts to injure its foftering
parent, or is unmindful as the magnanimous and
dilinterefted conduct, to which perhaps its ex
istence is to be so greatly ascribed—to the union
of the two, some constitutional obstacles indeed
oppose, and fortunately there are interests con
cerned in preventing it—but from this amieable
beginning we are to suppose the new bank will
treat her elder lifter, with at least fonie returns
for the hospitality and kindness (hewn her, and
be anxious in future to preserve the house where
her existence had been nurtured and commenced.
Newbern, (N. C.) April 23
THE President of the United States and Major
William Jackson, liis Secretary, escorted by the
rite Ligln-Horfe, under the command of Captain
Simpfon, eroded Welt's Ferry, and were met at
the landing by a number of the most refpedlable
inhabitants of this town, headed by Judge Sit
gveaves, and the Craven Light-Horse, under the
command of Capt. Williams, on Wednesday at
one o'clock, P. M.
The Newbern volunteers, commanded by Capt.
Edward Palteur, received him at the entrance of
the town. Alighting at his lodgings, he was sa
luted by a discharge of fifteen guns from Captain
Tinker's company of Artillery, and fifteen vol
lies and a feu de joys from the Volunteers.
In the evening the town was elegantly iilumi
nated.
The next day the President walked around the
town, and at four o'clock fat down to a public
dinner at the Palace, and continued at table un
til a number of toasts were drank, each of which
were announced by a discharge of cannon.
A committee of St. John's Lodge, No. 2, head
ed by the Matter, waited on the President and
handed him the following address.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, Esq. President of
the United Statu.
Sir,
WE, the Matter, Officei s and Members of St.
John's Lodge of Newbern, No. 2, beg leave to
hail yon welcome by the myttic numbers.
We approach you, not with the language of
adulation, but lmcere fraternal affection, your
vvofks having proved you to be " the true and
faithful brother, the fkilful and expert craftfman,
the j u ft and upright man."
But the powers of eloquence are too weak to
exprefswiih fufficient energy the cordial warmth
>vitli which our bosoms glow towards you.
Saturday, May 14, 1791.
We therefore most fervent!/ wish, most ardent
ly and most devoutly that the Providence
of the Most High may llrengthen, establish and
protetft you, in your walk through this life, and
when you are called from your terrestrial labors,
by command of our divine Grand Master, and
your operations sealed with the mark of his ap
probation, may your foul beeverlaftingly trefrelh
ed with the streams of living water which flow at
the right hand of God.
And when the supreme Architect of all worlds
(hall colled; his most precious jewels as ornaments
of the celestial Jerufalein, may yoi everlastingly
Ihine among those of the brightest lustre.
Signed by order of the Lodge,
ISAAC GUION, Majler.
SAMUEL CHAPMAN, S.IV.
WILLIAM JOHNSTON, J. W.
St. John's Lodge, N0,2, April 21 ft, 5791.
To which the President returned the following
To the Majler, Officers and Members of St. John's
Lodge of JVe-wberii,No. 2
Gentlemen,
I RECEIVE the cordial wslcome which you
are pleased to give me with fiicere gratitude.
My best ambition having ev;r aimed at the un
biafTed r.pprobation of my felow-citizens, it is
peculiarly pleasing to find ny conduct so affec
tionately approved by a frate inity whose aflocia
tion is founded in justice andbenevolence.
In reciprocating the kind viflies contained in
your address, be allured tha. I offer a sincere
prayer for your present and fiture liappinefs.
In the evening there was a ball at the Palace,
which the President attended—and on Friday
morning he left town for Wilmington under a dis
charge of cannon. The inhabitants of the town,
and Light-Horse, escorted him a few miles on
his journey.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ELLA.
! vainly Ella, do I hear
Thy lute complain, in notes so clear,
As would fcduce an angel's ear ;
That bids me check, the song of praise,
And give to other themes, my lays.
To fierce disease and grief a prey,
In pain I pass the lingering day.
No more I raifethe sprightly {train.
Or warble the melodious song,
That fill'd the breast with envied pain y
And could the joys of life prolong.
Now, when the glowing erb of day,
Hath funk, beneath the western wave ;
With melancholy heart I stray
To hear the ftrean>his border lave.
Or like Come pilgrim press the yielding grass.
And wet my sandals with the nightly dew,
A sprig of laurel breaking as I pass.
To thee I fay the honoring branch is due.
My dangerous course along the vale I take,
Beneath the hanging rock, that seems to (hake
Withev'rv blast, and threatens oo my head
Its crushing weight to roll
But my undaunted foul.
Enjoys the scene, nor feels the chill of terror spread
Now, near a cavern dark, and wild,
With folded arms I stand,
Like melancholy's gloomy child ;
I heave the swelling sigh ;
Upon the palling gale ;
While from my ever-ftrec.ming eye ;
Adown my cheeks, so wan and pj'e,
The tears incessant drop upon my hand.
There I hear the moping owl,
His dismal whoopings roll,
Upon the heavy ear of night,
In founds that would thy foul affright.
But Oh ! my bursting heart!
So tortur'd by the fang of grief,
In other scenes would feck relief 1
On fancy's rapid wing I'd dait
Where horror with his ftanng eye,
And upright hair,
Sits gazing on the fiery sky,
When sulphurous lightnings fly,
And {well the foul to wild despair.
Where the vex'd wave with mad'ning roar,
Rolls thundering on the craggy shore,
And aims with ev'ry dreadful (hock,
To burst apart the flinty rock;
When fti II like wretched man! invaia
He strives his purpole to obtain ;
Mad to despair, he flics again
And clamours to his parent main.
17
Answer.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
E I R T H A.
[Whole No. 215.]
Bennington, (Vermont) May 2.
IN out* last: we inferred a paragraph under the
Pennsylvania head, which mentioned, that jooolb.
of hemp were raised the last season, by Col. Wood,
011 the memorable heights ofCharleltown. Acor
refpondenc remarks, that the blood of the Ame
rican heroes, shed on those heights, in the unpa
rallelled action of Bunker's hill, &c. was in no
wiie spilt in vain. From those rich libations at
the sacred Ihrine of freedom, Colombia's inde
pendence took its date, and the blefling is once
more realized, by an extraordinary production of
so stable a commodity for manufacture—that
grand palladium of national greatness, on which
the happinefsof America eflentially depends.
Thus tho the honored heroes reft in peace,
Their beneficial influence doth not cease,
That blood which freefy flow'd at freedom's call,
Wafts federal stripes around this spacious ball;
In distant realmrf, Columbia's flag unfurl'd,
Displays their worth to an admiring world ;
While from the forehead of a brightening sky,
They view their country's farms with Europe's vie.
With pleasure we inform our readers,that faith
ful posts are once more appointed, to ride regu
larly from Bennington to Windsor. Any com
munications may be made with fafety, and the
demand for services will be reasonable. Rider 3
are likewise established from Bennington to On
ion river, and the rout in a few weeks, will be
extended to the northern extremity of theftate ;
which eftabli(hment, if duly encouraged, will
no doubt be extensively ufeful—more especially
as a regular communication with the filter States
is now permanently established.
'Tisby Intelligence Republic's live?
And a free service, not a ftavilh give j
Stop but the streams of knowledge, and you'll find,
The laws oppos'd, the people fa&ious—blind.
Return of EXPORTS from the Dijlrift of Bermu
da Hundred or City-Point, from theifi of January
to the 31 fl of March, I 791.
BREAD, ship, 18 barrels.
Pilot, 4 barrels.
Butter, 9 firkins.
Corn Indian, I9i7bulhcls.
Flour fuperfine, 223 barrels.
Fine, 319 barrels.
Common, 426 barrels.
Filh Cod, 6 quintals.
Iron Pig, 88 tons.
Indigo, 8 barrels.
Lard Hog's, barrels,
Oats, 446 bushels.
Pork, 94 barrels.
Pease, 36 barrels.
Rum, Bt6o gallons.
Skins Deer, 600 pound's.
Tobacco, 5040 hogsheads.
—Manufactured, 1 barrel.
« f Hogfliead Staves, 69,975 hhds,
b ■ Barrel do. 33,929.
s 7 Pipe do. 1952.
I- 11 dozen.
Wheat, 8238 i bushels.
Total value 203,886 dollars 73 cents.
Net value of every species of merchandise en
tered in the diftricft within the fame period,—
£.2426 4 Stl.—equal to 10,772 dollars 32 cents.
Salem y fMaJfachufettsJ april 26.
The following extrafl of a letter from London, andalfo that publijkcd
in our lajl*, were taken Jrom a series of letters; in which the writer
appears to be greatly interejled in the happiness and prosperity of the
people of this country, and solicitous that they may be guarded againfi
precipitation in forming their Commercial System. The
sentiments are thought to be deserving of public attention.
London, Jan. 179*.
DEAR SIR,
" V NOWING you to be a friend to commercial regulations,
X\. upon the belief that they may prove favorable to your na
tional interests, I ventured in my letter of the 21ft ult. to quote
to you the opinions of some refle&ing people upon the tendency
o\ all reftri&ive systems. You need not be told that here mercan
tile men and manufa£iurers generally entertain sentiments quite op
posite to those I recited, and that a man who should be bold
enough to aflert seriously the advantages of freedom in trade and
industry, would find no strength of realoning nor purity of mo
tives fufficient to shield him from calumny and suspicion : I hope
it is not so bad in your country, and that candid difcuflions
will establish right id**as—indeed it seems peculiarly eflential to
your general and permanent welfare, that just sentiments on such
fubjetts ftiould prevail among your people, because your govern
ment, more than any other, is diretted in its movements by the
present public opinion, let that opinion be well or ///-founded—
and it cannot be a matter of future indifference what Heps they
shall now take on this ground. I with they may take none but
such as (hall be clearly di£lated by the soundest policy—and I
call that policy found which, propofmg for its objett the most
extensive public good, has justice for its support and truth for its
light. I fufpett every mealure that is defe6hve in these as useless
ar best, and often pernicious. Although I am a native of this
island, yet you well know that ray heart, with its best feelings, is
wholly with you— your country has become and alresd/
* See Ns. 210 of this Gazette.Ny pe> r.nal happincfs is interwoven with the utiof the American
?u * hence it i» that I claim indulgence for the solicitude 1
n jiT' '? l" m r ,ef P cftj yo« fWd ast no w'/er than we hav
idted here, or Ufs wifely than you might.
Since I Jett the United S-atson this viflt it has given m<
pain to recollect the surprising facility with which you udi.pt a/.
our faihi'ins, mojt of our cußoms, and font el our word opinion!
and prejudices—prejudices which in certain afpefts are futopoftc.
to be ult tul here, but which in cv. ry view of them must be injuri
ous among you. I wl (h you wou | d nn „ c of our viccs or
errors to bt naturalized, but be faiisficd that those which are
pioperly your own will be more than enough. Undoubtedly
you ought to profi by our experience—but is this to be done only
by an jndilciiminate imitation of us? Does nothing depend on
circumstances ? Nothing on local situation and relation to other
otates On extent of territory and population ?On the manners,
habits, character and occupations of the people ? Instead of no
ting depending on these circumstances, does not the good or
ill policy of public measures depend principally on them ? And
»ls not 85 important, and at the fame time as difficult, for
you to know what to avoid in our conduct, as what to imitate ? 1
hink you will admit that it is.
'! The astonishing increase of wealth and power of the British
nation, within the last 200 years, cannot be contemplated without
suggesting an enquiry into the origin of this prosperity. To enu
merate the causes which incidentally have contributed to the mass,
■would far exceed the bounds of my letter, even if I had the ca
pacity to do it; but I take it to be certain that tnglilhrnen are in
debted principally if not solely to the comparative exccllence of
their government, as the primary and substantial cause of theirJu
ferior opulence.—This has given them advantages over other na
tion} that no other advantages on their fide could counterbalance.
In this country the people produce, consume and enjoy more than
other Europeans—because here persons and property are always
more fafe : here the weak and the poor are defended by the laws
against the rapacity and oppreflion, not of the rich and powerful
only, bat even of their rulers themselves.*
" An unreserved and habitual confidence in the individuals
♦' that they (hall be completely protested in the free exercise of
their talents, and that the fruits of their honest labors will be
perfectly secure to them," is all that seems necessary to give full
scope to their utmost powers :—this is fufficient to enable them
to an naturally—mi in doing this they will ast well for society ;
for it is evident that the Parent of our race, with infinite kindl
ness as well as wisdom, has implanted in our nature a principle
■which, while it stimulates the individual to the most ufeful in
dustry and the (everest exertions for the particular good of him
felf, provides also by this very operation for the general good of
the species—the good of the community or state. This provident,
this guardian principle, uniform as inftinft in the end it proposes'
but varying its means aicoriing to the voants of others, does more
toward the subsistence and comfort of everv society than the
■wisdom of the witeft governments of earth can even comprehend
flill less accomplish. Ought we not to be cautious then how we
touch with rude hands this exquisite part of the original design ?
for my own part, I know of no better way to judge of the Gene
ral merits of public regulations and laws than by their tendency
to strengthen the natural ties of public and private good. With
out a conftar.t refoorce tothi» in social arrangements, there will
often be an incompatibility, where there ought to be a coinci
dence of interests—there will be a disappointment of the public
and private hopes, in cases where the true objects of both might
have been well attained.
"I make no apology for giving you these desultory reflf flions
jujl as they arise in mind, because I presume not to inftruft you
but only at provoking you to examins for yourfelf a little more
minutely the theory of commerce and the progress of wealth.
Such a study must furnifh many valuable- lessons—it will teach
you that the accumulation of property in almost every nation has
been in an exa& ratio to the freedom and security of the citizens
in acquiring and enjoying it—that as these advantages have been
unequally distributed, fc have their natural effects been produced
■with a proportionate inequality—it will teach you that in the bed
governed couutries the legislators have seldom been willing to
trust the furc and beneficent operations of nature in the mod
fimplc cases, but like officious midwives have prefered their own
skill, and thus have frequently injured and fomelimes destroyed
both the parent and the offspring. In your researches you will
discover in the policy of ouranceftors much to admire and not a
little to condemn. You will join with those who celebrate our
Navigajion Ast as an txcclUnt fuppsrt of natal power, and in this
lefpeft you can hardly give it fufficient praise—but you will per
ceive also, that its true merits are totally mifundeiftood by those
•who consider it in any other view as favorable to the landed or
manufa£turing interests, or look to it as a fonrce of pecuniary
gain to the nation : -On the contrary, you will be convinced that
although it has extended our navigation, yet it has operated as a
heavy tax upon trade and industry—which however has been
cheerfully borne, because ejential to the national defence. That
mod of our lawgivers, as well as some of our ablest writers have
not supposed it to be favorable to commerce or beneficial 'to the
People in any other refpefls, may be inferred from the motives
and circumstances which have occasioned the forming this extra
ordinary law. After the flight provisions maie in the time of
Richard I Id. you will find the firft regulations of sea-carriage
■were in the time of Elizabeth, and that these were made expre/f
---ly with a deflgn to" increase and maintain the navy;" that about
90 years afterward, in the time of Cromwell, the more sxtenfive
outlines of the plan were drawn " partly from a jia/oufy of the
Dutch, and partly to punijh the Colonijls in the Sugar Islands who
lided with King Charles ;"andtho you will discover that the Re
storation Parliament in filling up the outlines have attempted to
combine other purposes with the original intention, yet you will
fee that ihzfrfi oijeff has been the only one attained, and that the
expectation of aiding commerce by such preposterous means has
been, as it always will be, disappointed; yon will discern that
the English, with all their success, have acquired less than they
might have done-and that by grasping at shadows they have
sometimes loft the substance; that by systems of exclusion and
monopoly, they have raised prices artificially above their natural
level to the prejudice of the comfumers and loss of the trade to
the nation ; you will be convinced that " cheapness in a fair com
petition is the befl Cecurity of any b'anch of trade," and that in
some cases it is the" only one ! and you will find that the Bri
ti!h Government by defpiftng this maxim have in fact loft some va
luable parts of trade which, if they had ,efp e £led it, they m i e ht
have retained A review of the effefls of her system will p.ove
to you that it has occasioned to Great-Britain the final loss of
nearly all the carrying trade flie once enjoyed within the Medi
terranean and Archipelago, and on the Atlantic coasts of Europe
and that in reality she has now remaining very little carrying
trade, except what ts properly her own.
* With, the exception of imprejivg seamen, and a few other cases.
(To be loncludcdin our next.)
N E W - Y O R K,
Accounts from Boston, informs us, that a large
double decked brig, was seen off St. George's
Banks, with her fails all handed, and the crew
dead on the quarter, supposed to have been kill
ed by lightning. She had four feet water in her
hold, and on her stern (part of which was niif
iing) \*ts wrote the Betsey of St. John's.
May 10,
FOR THE GAZETTL OF THE UNITED STATES,
O D
ODE 111.
YET OTHER HINTS TO REVIEWERS.
UPON my word—do what I will,
This trouHefoine, and restless quill,
Will scarce pernit my fingers to be dill.
My foul too, urg;s, to pursue
The Hints that Ihave promised you,
And all engagenents lo fullfil.
Come then thou Spiri, whose extended reign
Shall draw Mefliah tothia Earth again,
Heavenly Compajjon hight!
Tho thy mild fcepte ne'er inclines
Where the reviewing} goofe*quill (hines,
Yet, to my bosom kindly prefs'd,
Thou art an inmate of my brcaft,
When Fancy's hand upon my foul imprints,
This tho't—Reviewers stand in need of Hints,"
Come heavenly Sprite, on airy wing,
And, sternly moving, with thee bring
■« f- 1 f- 11 : L.;_
/ (j7
Advice, whose grey, and falling hair
Wakes to scar the sons of care.
Let him lift his squinting eye,
Wide fancying earth and sky ;
Stretch hij logic-bcaring hand ;
Strain cut his wisest hem and haw ;
With earrefl chin o'er-bending fland,
And fo'th his budget of ideas draw.
With such aTiftance, do ye think,
Most nobe pluckers of the Gander's wing,
My spirit fr«m the task will shrink ?
My tongic neglect to sing ?
My dear, deir Sirs ! pray reft assured
No such misfortune e'er (hall happen.
Sublime I fit with thinking-cap on—
Sage Cap ! vith much address procured.
—Whene'er You wish in ridicule to (hine,
And with Your Wit toftrike an author dead ;
Ne'er mind the clipping off of one peor line,
Or more ; they're never read.
But take two periods from a different page,
Place them togctVer ; and, exulting, cry—
u To make this fcnfa Creation we defy."
Then, tho the Auth>r ftiould run mad with rage,
Or boldly write spirited reply,
Severely provingthat You roundly lie;
No matter —laugh—Your purpose is obtain'd :
Or, you may anfwe— u Nothing good is gain'd
il By all this ; and a point we make it
" To (hun news-oaper wars with studious care,
" Where W <*, wk> judge of Books, are ne'er used fair ;
" A good resolve, aid we will never break it."
A fine Reply becaue contempt it lhows,
And lifts You gr«atly o'er the vulgar throng;
Beside, it screens Ycu from an Author's blows,
And bears Your vit triumphantly along.
—Again, with mrlaicholy voice, I cry,
To you, terrific S)ns of Science, ah! adieu !
Once more to ftrikcthe Jew's-Harp I may try,
Sweet, long-ear'd Judges ! I may try for You.
JOHN.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
TO E L L 4.
ALIGHTED from the azure sky,
A Seraph stood before my fight,
And checked awhile the anxious sigh,
And pointed to the Realms of Light.
Celestial Youth his Features fired,
His Eye theßreaft with Hope inspired,
Virtue's own Hand his Temples crown'd,
And Glory shed her Day aronnd.
'Twas Ella ! —wrapt in awe I stood,
And thrill'd with joy the Vision viewed.
Soft as the gentlest shower descends,
His soothing accents flowed,
And, winding thro' the maze of Song,
In playfdl eddies poured along,
Till Nature sighing—sinking bends,
And Life a pause bellowed.
Cease, Ell a, cease thy 'witching Song,
Nor lure me from the earthly throng ;
Too frail to (hine in Virtue's Train,
Too weak to wake the heavenly Strain,
In vain with borrowed Art I soar,
For fickle Fancy smiles no more.
The feeble Meteor's transient blaze
Unnoted finks in Night;
But Nature lives in Sol's bright Rays,
And Nations bless his Light.
7he address oj David Gampbt 11 y one of the judge/ of
the Weft em Territory of the United States, south
of the River Ohio, to the Magistrates of the said
Territory.
Gentlemen,
"PREVIOUS to your qualifications, I beg leave
A to make some preliminary observations. In
the firft place, permit us to bid his excellency a
hearty welcome to the exercise of his govern
ment in this county. His appointment as chief
magistrate over a free and magnanimous people,
inhabiting a fertile country, is Angularly agreea
ble to us, who have had the pleasure of being
acquainted with his great merit. To you who
have not had the happiness of being personally
acquainted with him, let it be a fufficient re
commendation, that he was appointed to his
high office over us, by George Washington, Esq.
Prelident of the United Statesof America, whose
merits are above all praise, by and with the ad
vice of the illuftrioasfenate, who are his Counsel.
While I repeat those strong motives to induce
the attachment of this country in general to the
person, and interests of his excellency. 1 should
do mjullice to my own fellings not to acknow
ledge in this place,his friendly interposition and
aid to individuals in this country in a very cri
18
E S.
HENRY.
tical moment. Any man who can fn A'c
edly serve, nay, I may fay, ft™ "J*"'?*-
venture to fay poffefles a "greatness of f Ol l WUI
proaching the last llage of human l- 8p "
All who are friends ro our present system 0/'°"'
vcrnment, are under equal obligation, ' f 0 "
excellency, who early patronized' our cause f r
tered it in its infancy, a „d concluded it br hi,
friendly aid to a happy i(Tue. J
The enlarged prol'peds of'happinefs in s uch .
country, so fortunately circumstanced, O uo ht
fill our minds with gratitude. Now is th c °ti„
to give fnch a tone to our territorial governinZ
as will enable it to answer the ends of its inftirn
tion It is his excellency's earnest wist, t0
folidate into one, the different interests of dir
cordant parties. Let me encourage you , 0 ur«
such a pacific and friendly difpofitior, amon e t£
people, as will induce them to love order and iu
some inflances to facrifice their individual' advan
tages to the interest of the community.
Let your hearts be inclined to cultivate a f D j
rit of subordination and obedience to the laws"
You may take this as a certainty, gentlemen that
the public can never have a firm existence u'nleft
all the different ranks of men co-operate to it*
preservation, not faintly, but with the utmost
spirit and energy.
We are now under the immediate guardian-
Ihip of Congress, who in all their tranfadtions
manifeft a great degree of magnanimity and jus
tice, let us then in our public and private cha
racters, unite with them, and with his excellen
cy our governor, in making this country great
and flourifhing.
As your court is approaching, you may be at
some loss about the admitting- attornies. It is
neceflary, I suppose, they should all obtain new
licences. The law and ordinance have directed
the mode. I would remind you of the necessity
of confining the attornies to special pleadings.
It will be your duty, gentlemen, to communicate
to the people at large, the principles of our new
mode of government, as far as they have, or
shall come to your own knowledge. Any person
who attempts to counteract so valuable an insti
tution, will merit the punishment, that awaits
him, and the feverell censure from the people.
Let me conclude with urging you to cultivate
harmony, to love order, and do the law.
LONDON.
MONSIEUR Mirabeau lias declared his inten
tion of producing an answer to Mr. Burke's
celebrated pamphlet. It will be, at least, a work
of eloquence, and may prove what is proverbially
denominated, lightning before death.
Madame delaMotte's return to Paris forebodes
no good She has been several times in the com
pany of Mirabeau. Some fay, she was sent for
thither by M. Orleans, in order to depreciate the
Queen of France's character on the famous neck
lace bufinels, and to fix that tianfadtion wholly
on her Majesty. For this purpose, she has pro
duced five letters written to her by that per
sonage.
The real cause of her visit it is difficult to as
certain. She surely cannot have gone to Paristo
have the Fleurs de Lis imprefled on her ftoulders,
erased by a decree of the National Aflembly.—
But (he has been offered ioe,ooo crowns as the
price of her absence, and (till refufes to depart!
The Cherokee chiefs having made us an offer
of 20,000 men, gratitude obliges us to make them
some acknowledgment, whether we accept the
offer or not. We can very well spare them the
members o"f the Halter Club—all our house-break
ers, highwaymen, pick-pockets, and swindlers,
Faro and Eo table keepers, and all their accom
plices, to aii amazing number. Such a colleiSion
would be a truly valuable present. Among them
are found difperfedly all the qualities of able ge
nerals, Ikilful financiers, able negociators, adtive
citizens, and men highly expert at a Coup de
Main,
Were Mr. Burke to appear in Paris, the French
would probably honor him with a lantern, for the
light he has thrown on their revolution.
Lord Kenyon's refufal to grant au information
for a libel, to a plaintiff who complained that a
defendant had published a hand-bill reflecting
011 his character, does that learned Lord the high
est degree of credit; and his directing the in
jured party to apply to a grand jury by way of
indictment, proves that he does not consider, as
other judges have done, that informations are
constitutional in all criminal procefles. Wewant
a few more such men as Lard Kenyon to fit upon
our benches in Weflminfter-Hall—Men who re
f'pedl a jury, and who consider them as the pro
pereft judges between man and man. Informa
tions were intended for the benefit of the fubjeft
—that is, in cases where the prejudice of grand
juries refufed to find a bill.
An authentic miniature of Mary Queen of Scots,
painted by liaac Oliver, from the beautiful and
unfortunate original, has been recently disco
vered. It isfaid to be in wonderful preservation,
as well as an admirable piece of workinanfhip.
The Theatres at Naples and Milan are said tebe the two largest in the world ; but that at Bo
loana is the moll lingular, except the icenery,
there is not a bit of wood in the whole building,
and the scenery indeed cannot properly be called
a part of the building. Almolt all the foreign
Theatres are uifulated. Surely tliey ought to be
so in such a metropolis as this ; where fires are
fo'frequent, and so fatal, the doors should open
outward, and the avenues be wide and straight.
In the road through the intricate paflages of one
of our modern Theatres, a country gentleman
lately enquired, Where wire the Finger Pojh ?
The politicians of Vienna and Peterfburgh
ronfider the capture of Conftaiuinople as almolt
certain, if properly attempted ; and dread the
corruption of Prince Potemkin much more than
the resistance of the Turks.
The degradation of the Grand Vizir, and the
confifcation of his effects, has been for some time
determined on in the Divan. The appointment
of a fucceflor alone delays the execution of this
resolve.
It does not appear that a Grand Seignior ever
takes warning from the fate of so many of his
predecessors, who have been either stabbed or
strangled. Sunk in the voluptuousness of a Se
raglio, how should he fufped: that the adminis
tration of his dominions is detestable, that his re
moter domains are difaffetSed, that his armies are
ill disciplined, or his Vizir faiihlefs ? the fortune
of the present Sovereign of Cotiltantinople will,
in all probability, terminate in some miserable
catastrophe
A military government, like that of the Turks,
tends to despotism, and in every despotic govern
ment the military dispose, sooner or later, of the
sovereign authority. The use which a despotic
Prince makes of his military against his fubje&s,
teaches that description of men what they can do
against their Prince.
BON MOT.
Lord Bute, who does know something of a
horse tho very little of a pidture, gave 200 gui
neas the other day tor a sea piece, which was ex
ecrably done ; for while the lhips appeared ro be
in motion, the sea was as smooth as glass. The
purchaser, desirous of taking Lord Scarsdale's
judgment of his bargain, Ihewed it to him, and
alking his opinion " why," fays my Lord, " -wav
ing the sea the painting would not be unnatu
ral."
BOSTON, May 4
It is astonishing what ideas some people have
of the Father of Mercies—The Empress of Rus
sia, has ordered all her fubjecfls to offer up
prayers to the Almighty for his goodness in grant
iu h«r aims so complete a vicftory, as the one
lately had at lfinail ! aud permitting her troops
to massacre 14,000 or 15,000 Turks ! ! !
The son of Mr. Seth Blake, of Dorchester, on
Saturday week, fell into the river, at Milton,
and was taken up for dead. A gentleman of
the faculty was called in, and after using the
means prescribed for resuscitating drowned per
sons, for three hours, he was again restored to
his joyful parents.
From the circumstance of the liigheft prize in
the semi-annual lottery being not yet claimed, it
is supposed to belong to some person at a distance.
One of the 3000 dollar prizes was drawn by a
deserving citizen of Philadelphia—One of the
1000 dollar prizes was fold in Carolina, and a
2000 in Newport.
It is supposed that the adventurers of the town
of Boston, loft 2 j,OOO dollars in the late lottery ;
besides wear and tear of conscience.
On Monday arrived here, his Britannic Ma
jesty's ship Alligator, of 28 guns, Isaac Coffin,
Esquire, commander from Halifax. On palling
the Castle, the Alligator saluted the flag of the
United States with 13 guns, which were imme
diately returned from that fortrefs. This mu
tual attention in powers who were but lately hos
tile to each other, shews the superior liberality
of the age we live in—and proclaims to the world
the verification of that memorable instrument
the Declaration of independence, in which our
political Fathers declared that they " fliould
hold the King and Subjects of Great-Britain, as
they did the reft of the world, Enemies in war ;
in pcace Friends."
BALTIMORE, May 10
The Bengal Journal, of the 4th of September
Jaft, furnilhes the following article of intelli
gence :—
" The commotions which had risen to a very
violent height at Mauritius, are said to have fi
nally subsided through the wife and timely in
terposition of fonie of the peacefully-difpofed of
the popular party —the rage which was firlt exci
ted against M. Con way and M. Macnamara, had
nearly ended in blood-lhed ; temporizing mea
sures pursued, had nearly revived the holtile
party from a spirit which they were said to have
felt at the despotic principles and machiaviliau
liodtrines broached by some of the parties du
ring the correfpondencc—the popular rage had
nearly vented itfelf on M. Macnamara, whom
they had led in rather an humble manner to the
House of Afl'embly—ths voluntary and manly
entrance of M. Conway, an avovvjl of himfelf,
alone being responsible for whatever atfts had
been done, quieted the minds of :he Aflembly,
and enmity was in an instant foigotten in the
magnanimity of the Governor's conduct—the
Aflembly continued fitting, and their intention
was to pass resolutions confirmingthe patriotic
measures adopted at Pondicherry,and followed
ac Chandernagore."
The fame paper, dated Oiftobei 4, mentions,
that " the ftorni which had so lojg collected at
the Isle of France, had well nigh built on the
head of the magnanimous Geneal Conway—
his only refuge was at length in flight—and, in a
disguise, lie effected his escape, by getting 011
board a finall merchantman then lying in the
harbour, which immediately failed, and arrived
at I ranquebar, 011 the beginning of la:t month,
w here his Excellency now is, and iuter.ds to re
main till some future opportunity ofFerj of con
veying him to any other country but France."
Extratt oj a litter,
don, oj a late dat;.
" may be agreeable information 10 Johi
Churchman, and may favehimfome trouble ant
expense, to know that it is in agitation here, tc
fend out two (hips, on discovery, in Baffin's or
Hudson's Bay, as there appears 'from !ate ac
counts, to be some probability of the exigence of
a north-weft paflage. Their obfervaticns will,
probably, be made with instruments superior to
any that John Churchman will procure in Ame
rica ; and as they will, no doubt, be published
with gre-at aocuracy in a few years, he will be
likely to colled: from them the fa&s which he is
so anxious to fail to Baffin's Bay to obtain."
Extratt of a letter from Capt. Jams Frazier, of
the Schooner Eliza, of this port, lated at Port
au-Prince, April 11, 1791.
" About one o'clock, on the nwrning of the
Bth inft. on my paflage from this Place, in my
boat, down to the Leoganne, witl two of my
people and a paflenger, Mr. William Judah, late
of Baltimore, in gibing the boat, ftie suddenly
overset and funk, with my trunl, which con
tained, amongst other articles, 10445 dollars.—
Myfelf and people, in a dark and dreary night,
after struggling a considerable time, in a rough
sea and ltrong wind, happily, yet beyond ex
pectation, swam to the shore, distant, as I sup
pose, about three miles, in aweakand diftrefl'ed
condition ; bur, I ain sorry {o add, that the un
fortunate Mr. Judah was drowned."
A S O N N E T,
Tranjlutcd front the original Iri/k.
IT was on the white hawthorn, on the brow of the valley, I saw
the ring of day firft break.
The foft, the young, the gay, delightful morning, kiflfed the
crimson off the rose, mixed it with their smiles, and laughed the
season on us.
Rife, my Evelina, foul that informs my heart ; do thou smile
too, more lovely than the morning in her blulhes, move modest
than the rifled 1 illy, when weeping in her dews. Pride of the
western lhore, the sky's blue face, when eleared by dancing fuu
beams, looks not ferener than thy countenance The richness of
the wild honey is on thy lip, and thy breath ex'iales sweet like the
apple trees in bloom.
Black arc thy loeks, my Evelina, and poliftied as the raven's
smooth pinions. The swan's silver plumage m not fairer than thy
neck, and the witch of love heaves all her encUmments from thy
bosom. Rife, my Evelina, the sprightly beamof the fun descends
to kiss thee, and the heath reserves its bloom togreet thee with its
odour.
Thy lover will pick the strawberries from the lofty cragg, and
rob the hazel of its yellow nuts. My berries fiall be red as thy
lips, and my nuts ripe and milky as the love-bejotten fluid in the
bridal bosom.
Queen of the chearful smile, (hall I not meet thee in the moss
grown cave, and contemplate thy beauties in the wood of Mifco
ther ? How long wilt thou leave me, Evelina, mournful as the lone
son of the rock, telling thy beauties to the pafling galr, and pour
ing out thy complaints to the grey stone in the valley ?
And didst thou bend to hear my song, O virgin daughter of a
meek-ey'd mother!
Thoucomeft, Eveliua,like fummerto the children of froft, and
welcome are thy steps to my view as the harbinger of light to the
eye of darkness.
EXTRACT.
THE lower class of mankind are generally in
jured by being deprived of the means of educa
tion, and then insulted for not being intelligent
and orderly. But it is time to correct our ideas
concerning government. Good government is
not bed supported by ignorant people. In Eu
rope the maxim has been to corrupt the enlight
ened few, in order to enslave the ignorant many;
but were the mass of the people enlightened, it
would be impoflible to corrupt them, they would
then be what the Englilh nobility are said now
to be, and what the enlightened of these States
really are, the guardians of their respective State
constitutions. A State which has 30,000 inha
bitants, and among thofeinhabitants but one per
son fit fora judge in a court of subordinate juris
diction, as has been said of the itate of Delphos
in the Peuinfula of Cambria.—ls such a itate pro
perly a republic ?—ln a republican government
we are told the supreme power derives from the
people.—But what fort of power will that be,
which flows from an ignorant people. The facft
is, the power does not flow from such ignorant
people, the enlightened and wealthy few alone
19
written by a gentleman in Lon-
pofiefs the power, as is evident from the history
of Delphos, where it is said, that at an election,
the niafs of people, are so ignorant, that they ne
ver consider who is a proper person to make or
abrogate laws, but uniformly, vote for the rich
elt man in the diitriift to represent them, and they
are represented accordingly.
Philadelphia, May 14.
Among the innumerable discoveries of moderir
times, there is none more surprising than this,
that the business of legillation, which in all ages
has been arduous and infinitely perplexing, is
now found to be one of the easiest and fimplelt
things in nature; and this simplicity and perspi
cuity is applicable to all inferior objeifls of dif-i
cipline and government —not only good citizens,
but Patriots. Lawyers, and Divines may now bei
formed without a tedious procefsof orders, rules,
and gradations. )
According to some recent calculations the mil
lennium is to commence the last year of thepre
fent century.
For then, O then the time will come,
Whco contradiction (hall be dumb.
And all that pleas'd mankind before,
Shall never, never please them more.
E'en fceptici now believe it true,
" That all old things, are growing new !"
As, by the Conititution of our natures, men
are formed to think differently—we (hould che
rifti the molt unlimited spirit of liberality to
wards each other—an intolerant temper of mind
is the basis of all the tyranny that ever existed.
Whenever an universality of the fame senti
ments and opinions is contemplated, the free
agency of man is loft fight of; and the reverie
has reference to fou>e species of being totally
diftin(fl from man.
There are some circumstances which attended
the commencement of the late Fire, that excite
strong suspicions of its originating in design.—
Mr. 1. Israel, one of the principal AifFerers, has
offered a reward of One hundred dollars for a
convi&ion of the perpetrator, or for such infor
mation as may lead to a conviction.
By the New-York papers we learn that several
persons have been prosecuted and severely fined
for having opened, set on foot and carried on pri
vate Lotteries—one person was lined five hundred
pounds, another ninety-tour—and both commit
ted to jail till the fines are paid.
This Spring has proved very favorable to the
Shad and Herring Fisheries of the United States.
Different accounts from the Northward concur
in proving this fact. In the Patowmac uncom
mon numbers have been taken—Shad have been
fold there at 6f6 per hundred, and Herring pro
portionably low.
Gulian Verplanck, Esq. is ele&ed Prefxdent of the Bank
of New-York. Hon. Isaac Roofevclt declining to serve any
longer.
On Friday the 6th mft. was executed at Newark, N.J. pur-I
fuant to his sentence, William Jones, for the murder of Samuel |
Shotwell—Jones confeffed the deed. /
The Secretary of State furnifhed the copy of Mr. Paine's Pam
phlet, from which the second edition was published in this city.
In a note to the printer, the Secretary observes
" I am extremely pleased to find it will be re-printed here, and
that something is at length to be publicly said againil the politi
cal heresies which have sprung up among us.
" I have no doubt our citizens will rally a second time rouad
theJlandard oi Common Sense."
Sacred to the memory of thi late
JUDGE HOPKINSON.
GRIEF ! from our presence vanish ! cease to rend,
Those hearts, which gentler pafTions should befriend.
I fee thy pallid cheek fuffus'd with tears ;
Thy agonizing groans assail my ears.
Yes, he is gone—and Genius has confefs'd,
O death ! thy empire o'er the human breast.
Yet, whilfl on earth efteem'd, belov'd, admir'd,
The Sage to everlasting bliss afpir'd ;
And views, whilst Heav'n with drains of rapture rings,
The Judge of Judges, and the King of Kin^s.
\_Dunldp's Daily Advertifer.J
* # * A single perforiy who has had a large share
of experience in the dirett'ton of periodical publications,
is desirous of procuring employ as Superintendant of
a Printing-Office.—Applications, it is requejled y may
be made to the Editor of the Gazette of the United
States, who will rtply to all requisite enquiries.
Philadelphia, May 14, 1791
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
KUiNDED DEBT.
17/1. 17/2 pr. i
9/' 9fi
q/I.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 16/
Indents 9/1.
N. and S. Carolina debts, T2/4 15J.
PUBLIC SECURITIES,
BOUGHT AND SOLD
On COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Uicfnut-Street, next door to the Bank,
No. 97,
TICKETS warranted undrawn, in ihc Cit y-Ha l l and Dickin
son-College-Lottery, to be had at the fame place
Every day trom 7 till 10 o'clock in the forenoon and fiom ± till
10 o'clock at night.
f3" Prizes purchafcd at this Office.
86 pr, cent.
46 00.
45 d °-
80
45 do.
do.REP O R
or THE
SECRETARY OK
Oil the fubje£t of the
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES,
[con T I N V EU.I
IN 1771, the Americans had one hundred and
eighty-three vellels, of thirteen thousand eight
liundi ed and twenty tons, in the northern fiih
ery, and one hundred and twenty-one vellels,
of fourteen thoufaiul and twenty tons, in the
louthern, navigated by four thouland and fifty
nine men. At the beginning of the late war,
they had one hundred and leventy-feven vellels
in the northern, and one hundred and thirty
two in tlie fotuliern fiftiery.
Ac that period, our fiihery being suspended,
the Engli/h seized the opportunity of pufliing
theirs. They gave additional bounties of five
hundred, four hundred, three hundred, two
hundred, one hundred pounds ftetling, annual
ly, to the five ships, whicii Ihould take the great
est quantity of oil. The effect of which was
such, as, by the year 1786, to double the quan
tity of common oil necellary for their own con
funiption. Finding, 011 a review of the fubjetf,
at that time, that their bounties had cost the go
vernment thirteen pounds ten (hillings sterling
a man annually, or sixty percent, on the cargoes,
a part of which went coni'equently to ease the
purchases of this article made by foreign nations,
they reduced the northern bonnty from forty to
thirty (hillings the ton of admeasurement.
They had some little time before turned their
attention to thefoiuhern fiihery, had given very
great bounties in it, and had invited the fifhermen
of the United States, to condutfl their enterpri
zes. Under their guidance, and with such en
couragement, this fiihery, which had only beo-un
them in 1 784 or 1785, was rising into rafue.
In 1788, they increased their bounties, and the
temptations to our fiftiermen, under the general
description ofJoreigners who had been employed in
the lubale-fifliery, to pass over with their families
and veflels to the Briti(h dominions either in A
merica or Europe, but preferably to the latter.—
The effetfl of these measures had been prepared
by our whale oils becoming fubjeifi, in their mar
ket, to the foreign duty of eighteen pounds five
/hillings sterling the ton, which, being more than
equal to the price of the common oil, operated
as a prohibition on that, and gave to their own
fpermacsti oil a preference over ours to that a
mount. The particulars of this history are pre
sented to the eye, more in detail, in the table
No. 7.
The fifhermen of the United States, left with
out resource by the loss of their market, began
to think of accepting the British invitation, and
of removing—some to Nova-Scotia, preferring
lmaller advantages in the neighbourhood of their
ancient country and friends, others to Great-Bri
tain, postponing country and friends to high
premiums.
The government of France could not be inat
tentive to these proceedings. They saw the dan
ger of letting four or five thousand feainen, of the
best in the world, be transferred to the marine
itrengtli of another nation, and carry over with
them an art, which poHeffed almost exclusive-
To give time for a counter plan, the Mar
quiMtlela Fayette, the valuable friend and citi
zen of this, as well as that country, wrote to a
gentleman in Boston to difi'uade the fifhermen from
accepting the British proposals, and to afl'ure them
that their friends in France would endeavor to do
something for them. A veflel was then arrived
from Halifax, at Nantucket, to take off those who
had proposed to remove. Two families had gone
a board, and others were going. In this moment,
the letter arriving, suspended their designs. Not
another went aboard, and the veflel returned to
Halifax with only the two families.
The plan adopted by the French miniftrv, very
different from that of the firft mover, was to give
a counter invitation to the Nantucket men to re
move and fettle in Dunkirk, offering them a boun
ty of fifty livres (between nine and ten dollars)
a ton on the admeasurement of the veflels thev
ihould equip for the whale filhery, vvithfome other
advantages. Nine families only, of thirty three
persons, accepted this invitation. This was in
178 J. In 1786, the ministry were led to fee, that
their invitation would produce but little efFetft,
and that the true means of preventing the emi
gration of our fifhermen to the British dominions,
would be to enable them ltill to follow their call
ing from their native country, by giving them a
Jiew market for their oils, initead of the old one
they had loft. The duties were, therefore, aba
ted 011 American whale oil immediately, and a
further abatement promised by the letter N. 8
and in December, 1787, the arret, No. 9, was
patted. To be continued.
_ 8C copies of the CONSTITUTION of th !
United State j, printed with Notes, may be had of the
Editor.
Blank Power to receive the Intercft, andfor the transfer of the
principal of public d,bt y agreeable to the Rules ejtabhfhed in the Trea
sury Department : lfo Blanks for abJtraEts of Ccrtijicates> to be fold by
the Editor.
STATE,
HAVING 'ampleted the fecund volume of this Ga
zette-, its patrois, and the public at large, are inform
ed that it will In prosecuted on its original plan, with
every improve',lent that friendfhip and ingenuity may
f"gS e J l -
The price of this Gazette, (published Wednesdays
and Saturdays J is Three Dollars per annum—one
half to be paid \t the time of fubferibing.
The utmojl ptnfluahty is observed in transmitting
the papers to fibferibtrs : The Editor thinks there is
the fairefl prof fie 61 that Information from the feat of
government, to the extremes of the Union, will in fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, than
through the pajl winter.—Additional fubferiptions
from all / arts of the Union are therefore f elicited.
An incex to the second volume is preparing for the
press.
This rolume contains the laws of the two lafl Jeffions
of Congtefs—the journal and debates of the house of
Reprefe'itatives—reports of the heads of departments
—be fides a greater variety of original communications
immediately connected with the interests of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Lditor acknowledges -with gratitude thr punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
fubferibtrs —some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident wdl very speedily be discharged.
Pay mints may be made to the several persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advernfements of one square, or lefi, will be in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
fubjequent infertions,t-wenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion No vehicle in the United
States gives fu immediate a circulation—and the num
ber of each impretjion it at present fourteen hundred.
MASSACHUSITS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afTure the
Public, that tie second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will pofitiv?ly commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday tie 13th of Ottober next, orjooner, if the Tickets
(hall be difpofcd if. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries :ommenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
25.000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduttion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 arc 6000
3 2000 6000
TICKETS <11 the above Class may be had of the fcveral
Managers, mho utll pay the prizes on demand; of the Tr easuker
of the Commonwtaith ; of James White, at his Book-flore,
Franklin's Head, Court-ftrret—and at other placcs, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun. "]
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojton, Afril 14,1791.
Certificates & Public Securities,
Oil COMMISSION, at public and private fdle, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent. ; and 011 all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving intereil at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(Jdf" Such persons throughout the United Slates, as may be
plcafed to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and difpntch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connections in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BI.EECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
THE Subfcribcr, who served a regular apprenticeftvp to the
bufincfs of VENDUE-M AST ER, under Mr. George
Kf. hy. has jult opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
i o lk, Virginia, ia a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharl, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com
mai,ds - * JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 2 i, , 7gl . (, rp
In Chesnut-St r e et, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCI ATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will rcceive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UN ITb D
STATES.
Philadelphia, Murck 30, 1791
20
ADVERTISEMENT.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
3
6
10
3"
80
90
100
120
161
2C'O
7585
OUUO
iooo 6ooc
£00 5000
200 6000
100 8000
5° 45°°
40 4000
3° 3600
20 3220
10 2000
8 60680
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
9.5000 Ticket?,
Pintari> and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
ADVERTISEMENT
Matthew M'Connell,
contract
For erefliog BRIDGES over the Hack, n sa r k ,„d p A11A1( .
N'e V w-j\rfe C ; W " n P ° wUs - Hook - .he Su./.f
THE Commissioners appointed bv an att nf th<- i...n
ana Pjlfaiack nvers, having ol.ta.ned the neccfTirv furvrvi
now ready to receive proposals for perform, n » the lame•', !!
otter the following conditions for theconfideration ol such air,
be inclined to contrail: raa X
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river will K.
atone of the following ftatioDj, as (hall be hereafter dctcriniJj
moil eligible.
j ft. At the place where the present ferry is eftablilhtd when
the width oi the river is 1448 feet. *
Depth at the eastern ihore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place inore northerly, called Douw's Ferrv wW
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern (horc 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western shore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge aciofs the Paflaiack river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as shall be hereafter deteimin
ed molt eligible.
lft. At the place where the orefent feiry is established, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western Ihore 9 (j
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more wcfterly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 11 feet,
Do. weftein shore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, ia
the town of Newark, where the width of the riv«r is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. western shore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11
The bridges are to beconftrufcted on the principlesof thofeereft
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free paflage for veilels with fix
ed standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid veflels in pa fling through. Also, one lamp on cach fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to fun rife, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges aie to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as (hall render them perfectly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commifiioners, and are to be of a futficient
height to protest them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiagc way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on cach fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails foi do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total. 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluitrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be Surrendered in good ordcrj
agreeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commifiioners are au
thorised to offer to contractors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
ient rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
aflual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last part,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that lum will conlcquently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This may fairly be
estimated as the fmalleit profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing intcr
courfe between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruflion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-Yoik, on the weflern fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulatc
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads connected
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpoie.
As loon as the places (hall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contra&s for eie&ing them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contra# on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to Wil li am Maxwell,
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to erefl the said bridges,together witb
proper security for performing the fame.
125000
SAMUEL TUTHILL, ")
JOHN NEILSON, |
ROBERT KEMBLE, }Commiflioners.
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
Newark, State of New-Jet fey, April 22, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt ot the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts Bought and Sold on CommiJJion, and all
other Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to the Cvjlom-Houfe, State-Street, BQSTO A.
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public —wifhesthey may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the belt chofcn
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pigou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening»t
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and -which he is determined to dispose ot (at wholesale or rctai J
on so low terms as mull make it an objcft to cujlomets.- y r e [*
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dll pate j
and the time of pa) ment made convenient.
Phtlad. May 2, 1791.
Phi ladelphi a, May 3•
T T J E. the Commiflioners, appointed to receive subscriptions
VV to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give
noiice,that the Books will be opened by us for that purpo e
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th day of Jul) n e
Thomas Willing,
Be a i l Bordley,
Davibßittenhouse, , t .
All the Printers in the Unitei States an requejlcd to pwijn Ut
(36. tf)
A CARD.
Samuei Howell,
Lambert Cadw/lade*>