PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS W JOHN FEN NO, No. 69. HICHSTREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND 77/77?/) STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
___________________ i.
[No. 15, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
(Continuedfrom No. 12 of this Gazette.J
LOOK at the Venetians, an handful of people,
living so freely that the nieaneft among
them would not be a King; and all so born and
educated, that tlicy know 110 other ambition than
that of taking the molt pains, and having the
greatest care to maintain their liberty : thus
taught and formed, in and from the cradle,they
would not accept all rhe other felicities of the
whole earth, in exchange for the final left point
of their freedom. Let him who has seen these
personages go from thence to the territories of
him whom we call the Grand Seignor, and fee
there people who could not be born but to fcrve
him, and who to maintain him abandon their
own lives. Would a man who has seen both these
forts of people think that they both had the fame
natural qualities; or rather would he not think
that coming out of a city of men he had entered
into a park of be alls ? Lycurgus, the Legillator
of Sparta,, having brought up two puppies from
the fame litter, brothers suckled with the fame
milk, fattened one in rhe kitchen, and used the
other to run about the forefts at rhe found of the
trumpet and the hunting horn—wishing to show
the people of Lacedemon that men are such as
their education makes them, placed his two dogs
in the market-place, and between them a soup
and an hare—one of them ran to the dish, and
the other after his game : nevertlielel's, said Ly
curgus, they are brothers. And he, with his
laws and his policy, educated so well the Lace
monians, that every one of them would have
rather fnffered a thousand deaths than recognize
any other mailer than the law and the King.
I take a pleasure in reflecting on a faying of
the favorites of Xerxes the great King of Persia,
touching the Spartans. When Xerxes made his
preparations of a great army to conquer Greece,
lie lent his Ambafladors through the Greek cities
to demand earth and water —this was the custo
mary summons of the Persians to cities to surren
der—but he sent not to Sparta nor to Athens ;
because that of those which Darius his father had
sent to these cities to make a similar demand,
the Spartans and Athenians had thrown fonie in
to the ditches, and others they had compelled to
leap into wells, faying to them, that they might
there take boldly both of earth and warerto car
ry to their Prince. These people could not bear
that by the smallest word their liberty Jhould be
attempted. For this condudt, however, the Spar
tans knew that they had incurred the resentment
of the gods theinfelves, especially of Talthibius,
the god of Ambafladors. They 1 efolved to fend
to Xerxes to appease them, two of their cirizens,
to present themselves to him, that he might do
with them as he pleased, and revenge himfelf on
them for the two Ambafladors which the Spar
tans had killed for his father. Two Spartans,
one named Sperthes and the other Bulis, offered
themlelves voluntarily to go and make this repa
ration. They went, and on their way arrived
at the palace of a Persian, who was named Hy
darnes, who was Lieutenant of rhe King in all
the cities of Alia which are on the coaft°of the
sea. He received them very honorably, and af
ter several observations, following one anoiher,
he asked them why they refufed the friendlhip
of the King? " Believe me, Spartans, (fays he)
the King knows how to honor those who are
worchy : consider, if you belonged to him, and
he were to know you, there is neither of you
who would not be the commander of some city
of Greece."—" In this, Hydarnes, (said the La
cedemonians) you are not capable of advifinrr
us ; because, although you ktiow the nature of
the good which you promise us, having had ex
peiience of it, yet you know nothing of that
which we enjoy. You have experienced the fa
vour of your King, but you know nothing of li
berty, what is its relish and howfvveet it is : but
if yon had tailed it, you would advise us to de
fend it, not only with the lance and the sword,
bur with teeth and nails." The Spartan alone
said w hat ought to have been said—But certainly
both the Persian and Spartan spoke according as
they had b?en educated ; for it was impofiible
that the Persian {hould regret liberty, having ne
ver had it—or that the Lacedemonian should en
dure fubjctTUon, having tailed freedom.
Saturday, JUNE I 8, i 79 1.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE,
TO B JRT HA.
ITH every changement of the vaiying mind
New feelings animate the mortal frame;
And new sensations of the body, claim
A foul to equal sympathy inclined.
See Malice on the face imprint
A dimpled smile, the down-drawn lip that fir aim,
Halt bend the brow, and place the eye asquint,
And (brink, with expectation, all the veins.
See pale Consumption o'er the Cage's foul
Spread idiot weakness, infantine distress,
Raise with falfe hope, with faithlefs joy controul,
With fancied, groundless agony depress.
While with invigorating health we tread,
And Youth, with dewy fingers, binds
Her Crown of roses round the head,-
Borne on the winged winds,
Imagination strays.
Wherever Nature's hand her charms displays—
■Be it to fee cc the rich-hair'd Youth of Morn"
Impearl the fragrance-breathing tkorn ;
To fee the milt wind {lowly o'er tie hill;
Or hear, from unseen bank, loud burst the gurgling rill;
Or Zephyr rustle fweetthe woodsamong
Whose thickets swell with mclod* and song;
To hear the voice of Industry resound;
The ploughman whistling o'er the loamy ridge;
The ihepherd's tinkling bell that talks around;
And hoofs loud rattling o'er the village bridge ;
Or torrents foaming down the mountain's breast ; —
There doth imagination love to reft.
But when the fallow hand of Sicknels spreads
Wan desolation o'er the human face,
No mote imagination loves to trace
The sportive beauties of the laughing meads.
But the drear cavern, and the darksome dell,
The wild faint-gleaming with the meteor's light,
The distant watch-tower's hollow-founding bell,
And tempests brooding o'er the inclement night;
Blue, sulphur-breathing, flames, from church-yard paths that rife,
Dim,*fhadowy forms, that dance before the fight,
The quick-departing flalh, that wraps the skies,
And horror's scream, the melancholy foul delight.
When deep disease hangs heavy on the mind,
Such sympathetic grief the body feels,
That he but half restores. who only heals
The woe with which the anguifh'd spirit
For health must give new vigor to the frame
Ere fofr Contentment can the bosom claim.
So, if the hand of agony distress
The fuffering body with diftra£ling pain,
No earthly medicine can so well sustain,
No costly cordial can so truly bless,
As the calm foul, to providence refign'd—
The steady sunshine of the immortal mind.
O then, my Birth a ! from the scenes
Where gloomy Contemplation loves to dwell,
From musing Melancholy's cell,
Your wounded spirit call,
To where eternal love the foul serenes,
And Heaven's own finger's 44 dress the dreary ball."
Read and reflect, refle£l and read;
Make it your conftantftudy and employ.
The grand, affe&ing, solemn, truths to heed,
Which wake, of pious hearts, the moral joy.
These as you study, torn from dreary views.
New bliss shall animate your foul,
New strength your body brace;
With sweet delight the fancy trace
The lighter paths of moral dues,
And fee contentment light the mental pole.
By foft degrees, the scenes which former days
On your imagination pictured fair,
Shall rife, bedeck'd with joy-reviving rays,
And from your bosom chafe the monster Care.
Then Happiness, with powerful arm,
Shall wrest his poignard from Disease,
And from the features that were born to please,
Scatter, of felon Sickness, far the fallow charm :
Again shall bid health lparkle from your fye;
In every step bid laughing pleasure dance ;
Young Love the dimpling cheek with smiles cnhance ;
And Youth, in glory bursting from the iky,
W r ith Beauty's rich, inimitable grace,
Throw her celestial roses o'er your face.
LONDON
MIRABEAU,
By his will,has left all his Papers relative to le
gislation and politics, to M. Cabania, his physi
cian and friend.
His writings on the revolution, and all his
minutes of intended motions and speeches, he
has left to M. de la Marck. And he begs M.
Koucberot, his calleague, to take front his libra
ry any books he likes, to the amount of four
tboufand eight hundred livres.
He acquiis M: Lamourette, Bilhop of Lyons,
and a Madame Lojay, of every thing they owe
liini.
Finally he desires he may be interred by the
fide of his father and uncle, at Argenteuil, where
he had ordered a chapel and maufoleuin to be
built.
The lad article will be fuperceded by the Na
tional Aflembly's last decree.
57
ELLA,
HtoPo
[Whole No. 22.5.]
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
Some account of the Cotton and Wool-Card Ma
nufactories, in the Co??imonwealth oj Majfa
ckufetls.
TH£ various manufactories of this Common
wealth, fini/h upwards of 10,000 dozen pair
of cotton ami wool cards yearly ; two thirds of
tliefe are exported to the several States ; they a
verage at the price of five dollars and an half
per dozen, and produce 53,000 dollars. Four
fifths of the whole, are made in the town of Bos
ton. One house alone produces 6000 dozen per
annum : This gives employment to at lealt 1600
women and children, who ltick them : If to
them, we add the great number of persons, who
are busied in manufacturing 30,000 flieep ikins ;
those who make 8 millions of tacks ; others en-,
gaged in the wood work ; and the hands em
ployed in cutting wire, and completing the
cards, this manufacture may be allowed to fur
nifh the principal means of fubfiftencc to 2,500
people.
About Ijo calks of wire at ajl. per caik, are
imported annually, which is all that depends on
a foreign source. There is a hope, that even
this trivial import will shortly cease, as some in
genious mechanics have in contemplation a work
of this kind.
The importation of racks, which at the com
mencement of these works, was common, is now
nearly abolished. The tack-fmiihs, within 20
miles of the capita), furnifh fufficient for home
corifiimption, and export ag r eat quantity abroad.
The manufactory of Mr. Giles Richards, and
company, is reputed thelargell in the Common
wealth. Their improvements in cutting wire,
have excited the attention of judicious Europe
ans ; and models of two of their principal ma
chii es, were lately purchased by ail English gen
'leman for nearly 1001. ilerling.
These gentlemen are daily profiting by r.e,w
and happy inventions, which diminifli the toil of
labour, expedite work, and leflen the price of
cards. The prefect year they have completed
machines for cutting of boards, which form both
the concave and convex parts, to great pe' fet rti
on, at a very few strokes. A lath is also invent
ed for turning the handles either oval or fiat, or
round with great ease and facility. At present
the works are in such perfection, that 8 men can
turn out 50 dozen per day ; and Ihould they lau
dably progress. in various improvements for two
or three years to come, as they have done for
the fame period pad, their manufactory may
justly challenge the known world, to equal rheiti
in goodness or dispatch in their work. His Ex
cellency the President of the United States was
pleased to honor the company with a visit ; and
exprefled himfelf highly fatisfied with their in
genuity.—To his belt wishes for their prosperity,
we can but add our own—-apd doubt not, buC
they will be finally patronized by an intelligent
community, as meriting public encouragement,
fuperadded to private emolument. Z. Y.
FROM THE HAMI'SHIRt CHRONICLE.
MR. PRINTER,
Pis ast to inftrt the following, if you think it merits
,a place,in your paper.
TO THE PROMPTER.
Sir,
I HAVE waited a considerable time, hopingyou
or fotne of your correspondents would take
notice of an evil,very common ; but as none have
touched upon it as yet, I beg leave to lay the
matter before you, ana with your opinion upon
it.—There are many farmers within the small
circle of my acquaintance, who raise barely grain
fufficient to bread their families from year to
year ; yet these men will run to the merchant
and retailer, and because they can be trusted un
til fall, and then pay in grain, they will rake up
twice as much gauze, cambrick, lace, &c. and
three times as inuch rum as they want. When
fall comes (and it will come once a year) a great;
part of their grain must go to pay up the mer
chant's and retailer's bills ; and by March or
April they are rambling about to buy bread for
their families, and very often go to traders they
have dealt with, and must give twenty-five or
thirty per cent, higher than what they fold for,
and mull pay the money too. Now, Mr. Promp
ter, 1 want to know whether these tnen work it
right ; or whether, as Dr. Franklin fays, they do
not pay very dear for their whittle ? J. K.From the Pouchkeepsii (Stateol New-York) Journal
Mr. POWER,
I Jtni you a copy of a letter I have lately received from one of my cor
refbondrnts abroad— Ijyouwill give it a place in yonr paper, you
aill oblige A Coftomer.
" Dear SI R,
" T HAVE just now received vour's of the 10th irftant. I
X thank, you for your remarks on the work you have lately
read. It appears to answer in your mind the recommendations
I gave of it in a former letter. Nothing gives me more pleasure
in my time of life, than to he imparting the little fruits of my
knowledge and experience to the generation that is coming after
mc, Tho' I have but a few moments leifurc, I shall endeavor, tho'
imperfectly, to comply with your requcft, and K iveyou mv thoughts
on the writings of Mr. Adams, the Vice- President, on which you
tell me vou are about to enter.
As you arc on a course of political studies, which I hope may
hereafter render you a wife, a ufefui, and above all, an honest pa
triot, I would have you always bear it in mind, that you cannot
imbibe too deep an acquaintance, nor cultivate too an at
tachment to the general and local constitutions of the United
States.
The Federalijl, tho' written in haste, and on the spur of the oc
afion, is, as I have observed to vou before, one of the best pub
lications on the former. It is full of correfl method, found sense,
•and luminous principles of liberty from beginning to end ; and I
•have no doubt but the commentary will be coeval in point of time
•with the text. But the writings of Mr. Adams, mull be read
with forte grains of allowance. There is a great deal of learning,
and a great number of ufeful and wife principles of government
brought into view ; but it appears to me that he is attached to
ariftocratical and monarchical principles. My belief is founded
on an attentive examination of his writings. This great malter
of politics is frequently, and pretty direflly, inculcating a scep
ticism as to the goodness of republican governments, and a be
lief of the utility of hereditary monarchy, in terms which cannot
but excite in the breast of those who are attached to the one, and
who despise the other, a painful regret, and a lively indignatmn.
I wish to make a firm stand agair.ft such pernicious tenets. They
are a'sdirefily in the face of our institutions and manneis, as they
are repugnant to our feelings and happiness. Betides, it is against
moral fitnefs, no less than political duty, lo be conftar.tly infu
fing distrust and diffidence asto the constitution of our country. —
An unshaken confidence, 'a reverential attachment to our esta
blished f>Hems, ought rather to be the leflon of the schools.
In vol. 1. letter 20, of his Defence of the American Conjlitutions,
he observes, " The Americans have not made their firft magis
trate hereditary, nor their senators : here they differ from the
Englilh constitution, and with great propriety : Land is so equal
ly divided among the people, that they would not endure an he
reditary King and Nobility ;or at lead, if created, they would
be entirely subservient to the Commons, in whom nineteen twen
tieths of the property would refide.—ln future ages, if the States
become great nations, rich, powerful, and luxurious, their own
feelings and good sense will dictate to them what to do ; they
Trray make transitions to a nearer refemblancc of the British con
stitution, by a frefh convention, without the smallest interrup
tion to liberty. But they will never become neceflary until great
quantities of property get into few hands."
Here Mr. Adams speaks of hereditary monarchy and aristocra
cy as not advifeable in this country as yet—we are not quite ripe
for them, because of the too great equality of property. Here
after the natural progress of things will render them neccffary,
and they may exist without the fmalleji interruption to liberty.
If this change should be thought proper, Mr. Adams informs
us, we have an Aristocracy already formed for our purpose, by
the kind hand of nature. —In letter 25 of the fame vol. he ob
serves, " There are sources of inequality in every society, and in
MafTachufets as well as in others.—l. Inequality of Wealth. 2.
Of birth. 3. of merits. And, 4. All these advantages of birth,
fortune, and fame united. These sources of inequality can never
be altered by any people, because they arc founded in the consti
tution ot nature. This natural ariflocracy among mankind, is a
body of men which contains the greatest colle&ion of virtues and
abilities in a free government."
Fame and fortune may be, and frequently are hereditary ; but
this is the firft time I ever heard a grave philosopher pronounce
virtue and abilities to be so.
In the 3d volume of his Defence-, and which costains a very in
genious and ufeful criticism on Mr. Ncedham's Theory of a Common
wealth, he observes (letter 6.) that, " We have adopted in Ame
rica one idea of Needham's, in making a fucccflion in our Senate
and Governors. It is still, however, problematical, whether this
succession will be the grand preservative against corruption, or
the grand inlet to it. There is room to hope, and groundsto fear.
The experiment is made, and it will have fair play. If corrup
tion breaks in, a remedy mull be provided ; and what that re
medy mull be, is well known to every man that thinks."—" In
•what manner annual elections of Governors and Senators will
opeiatein America, remains to be ascertained. It should al
ways be remarked, that this is not the firft experiment that ever
was made in the world, of elections t© great offices ol State : How
they have hitherto operated in every great nation, and what has
been their end, is very well known. Mankind have univerfaliy
discovered that chance was preferable to a corrupt choice, and
have trusted Providence rather than themfclves. Thank Heaven !
Americans understand calling conventions ; and \ f the time should
come, as it is very pofjible it may, when hereditary descent (hall be
come a less evil.than annual fraud and violence, such a conven
tion may still prevent the firft magistrate fiom becoming absolute
as well as hereditary."— 44 Th s hazardous experiment we have
tried ; and if ele&ions are soberly made, it may answer well—if
not, the people must again have reeourie to conventions, and find
a remedy."
The prevailing bent of Mr. Adams, in favor of hereditary go
vernment, seems to have acquired new force, as he proceeded in
his writings. In his ift vol. we have observed, he speaks of it
as a thing defirableonly at some future period, and not suited to
our present condition. Here he declares himfelf much more
emphatically in its savor—considers ele&ive governments as of
hazardous experiment, and of doubtful issue ; and in a strain of
exultation and devotion thanks Heaven that Americans can assume
with ease an hereditary monarchy.
Mr. Adams has lately obliged the public with a number of
periodical pieces, entitled, Dijcourfes on DaviU, and which, like
all his other writings, discover cxtenfive learning and superior
capacity, and are calculated like his former volumes, to point
out the neceflity of a balanced government. These difcouxfes,
however, arc constantly interrupted with his remarks on the na
tural love for iamily, and diftinflions, and property, and rank,
and that aristocracy and monarchy have their foundation in the
original constitution of our nature. In No. 12 he observes, " But
it (hall be left to the contemplation of our state physicians t® dis
cover the caufcs and the remedy o: that fever whereoj our power is
sick. One queltion {hall be refpe&fuiiy insinuated; whethercqtial
Jaws, the result only of balanced government, can ever be ob
tained and preserved, without some signs or other of dijlinflion
and degree."—ln No. after many arguments on the inextin
guifhablc passion for titles and diftinflions, he breaks out into
the following apoftrophe;—Americans! rejoice that from expe
rience you have learned wisdom ; and instead of whimsical and
fantaftic proje£b, you have adopted afromi/ing eJfajkMivards a well
ordered government."
Mr Adams has now begun, a discourse on Stephen Boetiui,
which will probably be the fame thing a: a second edition o. his
commentary on Needham. r
It would be easy for me to proceed with quotations of a
import ; but I trull I have already fufficently proved the truth
of m V assertion, and the justness of my belief in Ine beginning oi
this letter, thai Mr. Adams was attached to monarchical and
ariftocratiral principles. In faying this, T ave no c ire, I
had the power, to derogate f.nm the general repuia-ion ol his
works : I only wish that the falfr doctrines they contain may be
feparatcd from the salutary councils with which they are al led.
His writings have profoundedlv developed, and placed in all «s
variety ol altitude to the world, one excellent tru.h, long e re
known, recognized, and adopted by his countrymen in their po
litical fvftcms, and that is, the ncceflity of a div;fior, of the le
gidative, executive, and judiciary powers, and a partition of the
former into three independent parts, in order lo coiitroul the
fpiiit of rival (hip inherent in the mind of man. But his writings
have also inculcated, chetifhed, and propagated one abominable
ktrtfy, and that is, that hereditary monarchy and ariltocracy art
compatible with permanent freedom, and probably elfential to a
wife, happv, and perfectly balanced conflitution.
It is well worth observing, that Mr. Adams has undergone,
fincc his rcfidence in Europe, a very great change in his political
principles. In 1776, while he was a member of Congress, he
wrote a letter to Mr. Wythe, of Virginia, and which has been
recently published. In that letter he fays, " There is no good
government but what is republican —that the only vamable part
of the Britilh constitution is so—that the legislature ftiould be di
vided into two branches, a °d the executive should have a nega
tive on both ; but that the executive, as well as both branches of
the legislative, ought to be annually cle&ive, there not being in
the whole circle of the sciences a maxim more infallible than this,
Where annual eleflions end, there tyranny begins. Thcfe great men,
in this refpeft, should be once a year,
Like bibbles on the sea of matter borne,
They the* break, and to that sea return.
This will .each them the great political virtues of humility, pa
tience, and moderation, without which every man in power be
comes a ravenous beast of prey."
Mr. Adams ought to (hew us whether human nature has alter
ed since the year 1776 ; and what there is at this day, more tnan
there was at that day, to prevent a man who holds his feat by he
reditary right, 'Or (as .Mr. Burke fays the King of England hold?
his crown) in contemptoj the people, and who is not rejponfibleJot
his conduct, from becoming a ravenous beast of prey : Whereas,
the great leading maxim in all his writing is, that mankind arc
just as imperfect now as fo'merly—in America as in Europe—in
this century as in ten centuies ago. But it is the fate of Mr.
Adams, in many places, t") be as inconsistent with himfelf, as
some of his doctrines are inconsistent with the genius of his coun
try.
The English government is that perfe£l model to which al! his
observations are dire6ted.—" It is (fays he) the mofl stupendous
fabric of human invention, both for the adjustment of the balance.
and the prevention of its vibrations."-—But the furious wars be
tween the two Roses—the constant tyranny of the Tudors—the
con (taut tyranny and convulsions under the Stuarts—the two re
bellions against the house of Hanover, are rather bad precedents
in favor of hereditary fuccefiion. At present there is not indeed
the avowed oppreflion of former times. But the constitutional
tyranny (if I may so express mvfelf) of the hereditary part, has
changed its colour, not its nature —It has laid aside its fierce vis
age, and aflfumed the livery of Venus and the Graces. Henry
the 8 h was a despot, with the iron rod of prerogativc--George
the 3d is a despot also, with the courtly sceptre of corruption.
I finceiely believe the Englifa administration to be as much under
the influence of corruption, as that of any government in Europe.
The House of Commons, chosen once in seven years, is a mere
mockery of rcptefentation. The English nation would have, if
justice was done them, their Commons fairly chosen by upwaids
ol 400,000 elcftors—and yet a ninth part of the English repre
sentation is chosen by 364 votes, and a majority of the represent
ation bv 5723 ele&ors, inoft of whom have no property. The
House of Commons, thus wrctchedly constituted, has not been
able (as we might well fuppofc) to preserve its equipoise in the
system, and has submitted itfelf implic illy to the corrupt influence
of the hereditary department. Nothing but the independence of
their judicial, and the pride and honor of their judges, preserves
the remains of their liberties. The Roman civilians and judges
in like manner preserved their integrity and good frnfe long af
ter Tiberius, Nero, and Domitian, had infected their government
with the most accursed of all tyrannies. Mr. Hume, some years
ago, predi&ed (and he predi&ed right) that the tide of power in
England was running to the monarchical fide, and that absolute
monarchy was the true euthanasia ot the British constitution.—
This government, however, is held up to us as a model of wis
dom and imitation.
14 May 21, 1791
Mr. Adams has devoted the labor of years to point out the evils
to which free governments are incident, and to warn mankind a
gainll them. I thank, him for his learned labors. But Iwifhhe
would also warn us against the dangers of the opposite coast, to
which he is (leering our political veflel; aad together with his
commentaries on Machiavel, Needham, and Stephen Boetius—
would also give us his commentaries on the ieign of Tiberius, as
delineated by the mafteriy hand of Tacitus.
His writings have certainly the tendency (whatever may be his
intention) to make people weary of republican government, and
to sigh for the monarchy of England. To inculcate the dottrine,
that men are not fit to chufe their own rulers—that frequent elec
tions are dangerous—that diftin&ions, not of virtue and talents,
but of birth and fortune, are eflential to the order of government
—that riches and family lhould be the titles to preferment, and
poverty the obje£l of oontcmpt. Such dottrines I deem hereiies
in American politics. I am, dear fir,
Mr. RUSSELL,
THE late revolution in France, has opened
an extensive field of (peculation to the phi
losopher and to the politician. An event so af
tonifliing and unexpected in its nature, and so
important in its consequences, naturally arret
ed the peculiar attention of the whole civilized
world. The friends of liberty and of man, have
seen with pleasure, the temples of despotism, le
velled with the ground, and the genius of free
dom, lifing luddenly, in his collected and irre
(irtible strength, and snapping in an inftsnt all
the cords with which for centuries he had been
bound. Upon the downfal of the arbitrary sys
tem of government in France, there appears to
have been but one sentiment, and that, a senti
ment of exultation ; but while the friends of
humanity have rejoiced at the emancipation of
10 many millions of their fellow-creatures, they
have waited with an anxious expectation to fee
upon what foundations they would attempt toef
tablifh their newly acquired liberty. The pro
58
li To Mr.
FROM THE (BOSTONJ COLUMBIAN CENTINEL,
Your's sincerely,
ceedings of their Representative Afi'cinbly h- .
been contemplated in very different points"., f
view, by men of names equally illustrious and
of characters equally favorable to the cau'fe of
liberty. Among the publications which hav
appeared upon the fubjecft,two pamphlets found!
Ed upon very different principles, appear to have
been received with the greateit avidity, and stem
calculated to leave the deepest im prefiion.
one, written bv Mr. Burke, which is one cot"
tinued inventive uponalnioft all the proceedings
of the National AUembly since the revol u[ j o jf
and which pafles a severe and indifcriminatin?
tenfure upon almofl all their tranlaotions • Th«
other, the production of Mr. I'ain E) containing
a defence of the Afiembly, and approving every
thing they have done with applause as umlif.
tinguifhing as is the censure of Mr. Burke
We are told, that the copy from which an edi
tion of this work was reprinted at Philadelphia,
was furnished by the Secretary of State, and was
accompanied by a letter from which the follow
iilg extract has been pubiiihed in molt of our
newspapers. " lam extremely pleased to find (
" that it is to be reprinted here, and rhatfotne
" thing is at length to be publicly said, against
" the political hernfies which have sprung up a
" mong us. 1 have 110 doubt our citizens will
" rnlly a fecorid time round the standard of
" Common Seuft."
I confefs, fir, I am somewhat at a loft to de
termine, what this very refpeftable gentleman
means by political herefics. Does he consider this
pamphlet of Mr. Paine's as the canonical book
of poetical scripture ? As containing the true
doctrine of popular infallibility, from which it
would be heretical to depart in one single point.
The cxpreflions indeed imply more ; they feenj
like the Arabian prophet to call upon all true
believers in the J flam of democracy, to draw
their swords, and in the fervour of their devo
tion to compel all their countrymen to cry out,
" There is but one Goddels of Liberty, and
Common Sense is her prophet."
I have always understood, fir, that the citi
zens of these Stares, were poflefled of a full and
entire freedom of opinion upon all fubjedts civil
as well as religious ; they have not yet eflabliih
ed any infallible criterion of orthodoxy, either
in church or state : Their principles in theory
and their habits in pracftice, are equally a»eife
to that slavery of the mind, which adopts with
out examination any sentiment tTiat has the fane,
tion of a venerable name. Ie Nullius in verba ju
rare ma?iflri" is their favorite inaxim ; and the
only political tenet, which they would lligma
tize with the name of heresy, would be that
which should attempt to impose an opinion up
on their uuderftandings, upon the lingle prin
ciple of authority.
I believe also, fir, that the citizens of America
are not at present disposed ro rally round the
standard of any man. In the full pofieffipn and
enjoyment of all the freedom, for which they
have gone through so arduous a conftitft, they
will roc for the poor purpbfe of extinguilhing a
few supposed political heresies, return to the
horrors of a civil contest, from which they could
reap no possible benefit, and which would pro
bably terminate in the loss of that liberty, for
which they have b=en so liberal of their trea
fnre and of their blood.
If however, Mr. Paine is to be adopted as the
holy father of our political faith, and this pam
phlet is to be considered as his Papal bull of in
fallible virtue, let us at lead examine what it
contains. Before we determine to join the
standard let us inquire what are the articles of
war, to which our General requires our fubmif
fion.—lt is the glorious charaCleriltic of truth,
at once to invite and bid defiance to investiga
tion. If any opinions which have sprung up
among us, have really led lis ailray from the
(tnndard of truth, let us return to it, ar the call
of Mr. Paine, or of any other man, who can
lliew us our errors. But fir, if upon examina
tion, even this teflament of orthodoxy, shall be
found to contain many fpurions texts, falle in
their principles and delusive in their inferences,
we in ay be permitted, notwithstanding our re
verence for the author, at lead to expunge the
apocryphal docftitne, and to confine our faith
to the genuine tenets of real political inspiration.
—It is my intention to submit to the public a
few observations which have occurred to nie up
on the peruf.il of this pamphlet, which has so
clear and valid a title to the public attention.-—
But I must here observe, that I wish to avoid
every appearance of difrefpert, either to th»
real parejit of this production, or to the gen
tleman who has flood its sponsor in this country.
Both tliefe gentlemen are entitled to the grati
tude of their countrymen ; the latter still re ']"
ders them important services, in a very digni
fied ftarion. He is a friend to free inquiry tip
on every fnbjedl, and he will not be displeased
to fee the sentiments which he has made his own,
by a public adoption, cauvafled with as much
freedom as is confident with the reverence due
to his character.
PU3LICOLAFROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT
MefTrs. Hudson & Goodwin,
IT may not be improper to inform the public, that many of the
extra&s in the late papers refpe&ing Indian affairs, are m.ifre
prefentations. Capt. Armstrong who is reported to have been
attacked in coming up the Ohio, was, at the time fpecified, in
Philadelphia. Fort Pitt was not destroyed the 10th of May, al
though an express arrived at Philadelphia by the 20th of April
with the intelligence. The (lory of Mr. Stewart Wilkins has very
little foundation, and indeed very few of the reports circulated
have any, and such as have grounds are much exaggerated. Thai
the Indians are disposed 10 commit depredations and distress the
inhabitants of the frontiers, is beyond doubt; and that the dignity
of the Union requires a force to be f<*nt to protest and defend the
frontiers, and to teach the savages that the United States have power
as well as mercy, is equally plain; but that such frightful depre
dations are committing, is not true—the reports are calculated to
terrify, and circulated to prevent emigration to that country —they
tend to impede the wifhesof government in giving protc&ion to
that part of the Union, and to discourage the y®ung and enterpriz
ing from entering into the service of their country, and exploring
the most beautiful as well as fertile part of the United S atcs,
where not only a rational curiofjty will be gratifi d, but a know
ledge acquired which will richly compensate them in the future
prolpe&s of life.
SPANISH DECREE RESP;ctimg FLOUR
DON ANTOINE JOSEF d: POSADA, public
writer for our Lord the King in all his do
minions, and private secretary to the Land and
Marine Royal Tribunal of the Consulate of this
city of Seville and of the people of its Archbi
Ihoprick, &c.
Certifies, that Senior Don Diego de Gardoqtii.
Direcftdr General of the Customs of India, has
communicated to Senior Don J ' ez de Arrivadas,
of this city, the Rcyal Ordinance following, to
wit :
IN order to promote the commerce of flour to
America, an<l at the fame time that our colonies
are futficiently supplied with that article a re
course for it to foreigners under a plea of scarci
ty. may be prevented—His Majesty taking into
consideration the advice given on this fubj.ect by
the Coufulate ofSontander, that foreign flour is
now {hipped to the Caraccas without being; fnh
jei't :o the decree of the 28th Feb. 1759, and al*o
to conciliate the interests of commerce with the
progress of our manufactures, his Majesty has
resolved and determined, and now commands
that all foreign flour that may be embarked ei
ther for Caraccas, the islands, or the kingdoms
of Santa Fe, fljall be fubjeft to a new duty pro
portioned to the price of the Spanish flour, in the
following form and manner, to wir :
When the pricc per ban'l is thf* extraordinary d»tv Oiall be
Rv. 140 or 7 hard dollars Rv. 40 or 2 dollars
T 45 or 7 [ ditto
j 50 or 7.!; ditto
T 5 5 or 7! ditto
160 or 8 ditto
165 or 8} ditto
I 70 or 1 \ ditto
When 110 Spaniih flour {hall be at marker, 'lie
price shall be fixed by the toft of 17,- lb. (which
is fixed as the w eight of a barrel of foreign flour)
used for internal consumption, the amount of the
fluty fnnll be divided by way of premium among
ihippers of national or Spanish flour.
Of this I inform you by order of his Majesty,
coinmunirated ro me by his Excellency Senor
Don Pedro de Lerena, in order that you mav
make it known to the merchants in the mode r.c
cuflomed. God preserve your life for many
years
Madrid, the 27th of Jan. 179 T.
(Signed) DIEGO DE GARDO£UI
Some Account of STEPHEN BOETIUS.
STEPHEN BOETIUS lived in the reign of
Charles IX King of France—he was one of
the King's Counsellors in the Court of the Pai lia
ment of Bourdeaux, and the cotemporary and
friend of Montague. 15ei ween ! hefe two characters
i'uch an intimacy and confidence fubfifled, that, as
Montague himfelf fays, " There are but few such
to be read of; —and further, there never was a
better citizen, more affectionate to the quiet of
his country, nor more an enemy to the troubles
and seditions of his time.
His discourse concerning voluntary servitude
was publiflied fooii after the mafl'acre of Paris,
and the (laughter of the Pioteftams throughout
inoft of the provinces of France, although wrote
several years before. If any thing could have
whetted the author's llile with keener darts
again ft tyranny, to what a heigh :h of indigna
tion would that deferable and execrable scene
have raised the virtuous spirit of this yonii<r
man ? But as the fame causes must ever produce
the fame effects, he knew the nature of tyranny
to be such. that there is nothing so monstrous
and wicked hut what ic is capable of perpetrat
ing; and perhaps might not have been surprised
at so prodigious an event, but might have looked
npon it as a very natural confluence from those
principles npon whit h tyranny is founded.—
Boetius died at the are of "2, leaving a nioft ex
cellent charader to support and cheriih his me-
xnorv
PORTSMOU T H (N. H. June 4.
Accounts from Genoa, of Feb. 18, mention the
appointment of Mr. Ravara, as Consul to the
United .States. He is to vefidtf at Philadelphia.
In the National Assembly of France, nothing
has occurred more deserving ot notice than a
letter from the friends of the conflitution at
Marseilles, dated the 15th of March.
To the number of 2000 they offer them Helves
:o march to the frontiers, and by their valour
repel the invaders of the Liberties of France—
Not unappofitely they allude to the following
anecdote
" The Phocians, our ancestors, fay ihey, in
landing upon these cas a bar of iron into
the water, swearing never to returntodefpotifm
and their couutry, until that bar fliould swim
out. It is still in ourGulph, and WE again swear
never to return to slavery, until it floats upon the
furface."
On Sunday morning, the Right Rer. Bilhop
Carroll preached an elegant and candid fernion
at the Catholic Chapel, in School-street. His
Excellency the Governor and Lady, the Hon.
Thomas Ruflel and Lady, and the Hon. Edward
Cntts, were among a crouded and very refpedla
ble audience—who appeared highly gratified by
the charity, the benevolence, the piety which
graced the discourse of the Right Rev. Preacher.
PROVIDENCE, June 9.
At the annual town-meeting held here on
Monday last, a petition was presented, praying
rhat a fufficient number of Schoolmasters be ap
pointed to inftruft all the children in town, and
rhat their salaries be paid out of the town-trea
sury. The petition was read, and the consi
deration thereof referred to the adjournment on
Monday next—and the school committee were
requested to report at that meeting, rules and
regulations for the government of'fuch schools,
&c. From the alnioft unanimous approbation this
important measure received from all quarters,
we anticipate, with the greatefl pleasure and fa
risfa(ftion, the happy consequences which maybe
veafonably expected to result from an eflablifh
;nent which, will do honor to the town—be of
infinite service to the rising generation, andmuft
intereli every humane mind in its final success.
We cannot close this article without faying, what
we deem but jufl should be generally known,
that a number of the mofl opulent gentlemen in
town, who will pay largely on thiseftablifhment,
have inrerefted themselves warmly in its favor.
J or [ \ ditto
30 or 1' ditto
2 5 or 1 1 ditto
20 or 1 ditto
I 5 or 'ditto
10 or J ditto
Sunday last arrived at her moorings iu the ri
ver, the India (hip General Walhington, Captain
Donnifon, of this port, with a valuable cargo of
the productions-and manufactures, of the East,
from Canton, last from St. Euftatja; lhe made
her passage from Canton to St. Ehiftatia in 114
days, and in 10 days from the last mentioned
port home
A correspondent from Johnfton informs, That
last week, two small parties, with their guns,
went out a Bird-Hunting—and fro'in Monday till
Thiirfday tilled as follows:—One party
birds and 690 squirrels—the other, 4228 birds
and 670 squirrels.
MIDDLETO VVN, June n.
Yesterday morning arrived in this city, the
Hon. Mr. Jefferfon, Secretary of State, and the
Hon. Mr. Madison, Reprefenrative in Congress
from the State of Virginia. We are told they
are from Lake George, &c. on their route to the
southward.
We are informed that the Directors of the
Bank of Maryland have, since the receipt of their
Second Payment, commenced discounting at For
ty-five days fight.—lt is with pleafute we remark
that this Bank, although in its infancy, seems to
p defs the fulleft confidence of the public.— Its
paper is received here in preference to specie,
and is rapidly gaining the countenance and pro
tection of the trading people to the Southward
and Westward. We also learn, that it is re
ceived in the Bank of Non h-America as specie,
and that the Secretary of the Treafnry of the
United States, has directed the Collectors of the
Revenue to receive its paper in all payments, to
exchange specie for it, and to make the Bank of
Maryland the place of deposit for all the public
monies collected in this state.
The plan on which the Bank of Maryland is
formed, and founded, hath met with the appro
bation of some of the firft Statesmen and Mer
chants in Europe and America ; and while it re
flets high credit on its public-spirited founders
and liberal patrons, it mud afford great fatisfac
lion to every friend to this ufeful and important
inlHtution, to observe i f s rapid progress, and to
fee it thus early in pofTeffion of the confidence of
so sagacious a Minister as the Secretary of our
National Treasury.
59
BOSTON, June 7.
BALTIMORE, Jane, 14,
BANK OF MARYLAND.
Philadelphia, June iB.
The PrefiJent of the United States arrived at
Auguita, in Georgia, the ißihof May—where he
was received with every po;!ible deiuonftratiou
of pleasure and On the 2llV, he eroded
the bridge on his i - £tur.B<_ to his feat at Mount;
Vernon, at which place he is arrived, and may''
ected at the ieac of Government in a few
ue ex
days
The Pittsburgh paper of June 4, ftys—"Wei
hear from the town of Wafluiigton, that a man'
arrived there on Monday lalt, and brought the
following intelligence, viz. That some (pies who
were out from a Itation on Short Creek, had ccine
in and informed that they had discovered some
Indians—immediately a party of 27 men, under
the command of Lieut. Bulkirk, crolied the river,
and soon came upon the trail, and Lieut, Buf
kirk, with three of his men, being a little ad
vanced before the relt, were fired on, by which
Lieut. Buikirk was killed, and the three men
wounded. The Indians immediately run, and
were fired 011 by the refl of the men, who pur
sued them about two miles. It is supposed some
of the Indians were wounded, as blood was dis
covered where they were fired upon. This par
ty con filled of 14, and this affair happened on
Sunday afternoon lad." .v
The foregoing is all the account of Indian de
predations brought by rhe mail from Piitfburgh
this week—we doubt not that many recent ac-
counts, I
wii 1 turn out to be either*
premature or greatly exaggerated. A very for
midable force is now on the march to protest
the frontiers, and bring the Savages to reason,!
or punifbment.
The present war in India will probably be fcru*
tinized—this is said in a lace London paper—but
threats, of various complexions, for several years'
past, which appear to strike at the Miniller, have
only to fix him more flrongly as Premier.
£Is it an argument in favor or against a piiblil
cation that the author should be prosecuted ? *
Something has been said about a prosecu
tion of the author of" the pamphlet emitWci
" Rights of Man." Should that take place, if
the principles of the author are right and jult —
except all sense of freedom is extirid: in the Eng
lilh nation—a jury will never be found who will
convidt the writer ; and if the principles (hould
receive fnch a fan<ftion,it will not be long before
the people of England would adopt the language
of Mr. Paine, and fay, that " German Eletftors
make German Kings"—and then in the words of,
scripture. fay, "To your tent*, O Israel " A
The ifiue of a prosecution, (hould one tnkel
place, would be an index to the public opinion]
of that pamphlet in England. J
All that is (did in 40 of the latefl English newspapers, down to
17th of April, refpe&ing a prosecution of the author of the
" Rights ot Man," is contained in the following aiticle:
If the Attorney General should find it necelTary to make in
quiry of Mr. Paine refpetting his laie publication, it is not im
orobable but that the Secretaiy of the Conllitutional Sociery? »r> a y
be involved in the legal converzatiane. Columb. Centinel.
So imprefled is the Whig Club of Ireland with
the importance of dilleininating the principles
contained in Mr. Paine's pamphlet, through iliac
kingdom, that they have taken meafuresto have
ir printed and fold at the lowest rate, and alfb
detailed in their newspapers. This at least does
honor to their liberality, as Burke has always
heretofore been in high repute with his country-
men
At a meeting of the President and Fellows
of Harvard-College, Jan. 19, I 791.
VOTED, That the thanks of this Corporation be given to
Mr. John Fen no, for his prrfent to the Library of this Univer
fny, of the firft volume of his Gazette rj the United States, contain
ing the papers of the firft year—ufeful for tnany ingenious pieccs
of (peculation and important information, and more efpccially
valuable for a public Library, as comprehending the various tranl
actions and laws ot the general government, beginning from it's
organization.
Copy. Attest,
(J3" No Southern netvfbapers were received by the Editor yejlerday.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDF.D DEBT.
>7/6 17/7 ?'■£
9/6 9/7
9/l5 9/5
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defeied 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 16/6
Indents cjJ6
N. and S. Carolina debts, 13J 15J6.
TO BE SOLD,
And may be entered on the ensuing Fall,
THAT large, elegant arid convenient HOUSE, in which the
lubfenber now lives fi'.uatc in Elizabeth-Town, in the state
of New-Jersey, within 16 miles of the city of New-York. It is
finifticd in the very belt manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about tour
acres of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and stocked with
j good afTortmcnt of fruit. For further particulars, enquire of
William Br adfop.d, Esq. in Philadelphia, John Pi nt ard,
Efa. irr New-Yoik, 01 the Subfcribcr on tho Premises.
June 11,1791
JOSEPH WILLARD, Prefidevt.
88
48
47
82 J
474
(iaw3w
! LI.\S HOI'DIN'OT.
pr. cent,
ao.
do.
do.A KiNE CHANCE rOil A YOUNG PRINTER
FOR S A L E,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with ihe right, of publifhmg a PAPER» in good repute,
tfie iuofcribers to which arc continually incieafing—-The prclent
uumber ot ils patrons is between Itven and eight hundred. The
types confiil ol Bukgeois, Pica, and a fufficientquantity ot lar
ger letter to display advcrtifemenis to advantage. The situation
Ji in the interior part ot Massachusetts, in the centre ot a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles ot an ex
cellent P..per-Miil, where paper ot every quality and size may
always be nad on ihor; notice. Perhaps no country paper on tne
continent has a larger fnarc ot Advertisements than the one ottered
for sale. A very conhdcrable profit also accrues from the tale ot
liLnks of all kinds, which are much uted in the piacc—from the
publication of Hand-Bui , &c. See. It is a good htuation, also,
U>r a fmail Book-Store—End :t is supposed ihe Book-Binding bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For further particulars, enquire of John Fen no, at his Omce,
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
lad. Ipbia. (law 8w)
FOR SALE,
TWO THOUSAND ACRES of LAND, in Jrfferfon County,
ilate of Kentucky, situate 25 miles from Louisville, in a thick
fettled neighbourhood. This tract is fuppof-d by good judgfs
who are acquainted with its filiation and quality, to be the moll
valuable in that part of the country, as iis connexion by water
with Louisville, the pnncip.il town 111 all Kentucky, muftincreafe
its valu—it was some of the firfl land taken up in that neighbour
hood, so that the title is indisputable. Lands in the neighbourhood
of Louisville, not 111 quality or situation, have fold cur
reniJy at one guinea per acre.
The Proprietor of this tract wishes to dispose of it for Cash, in
order to improve other trails in that neighbourhood, and therefore
■will fell cheap.
Any gentleman desirous to bargain for the may, by appli
cation to rtre Printer, be informed of the price.
N. B. The above tract of land is well known to a number of
gentlemen in the state of Virginia, who will if required, certify
its value. (law gw)
MASSAC HUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
CLASS II
THE MANAGERS of th? STATE-LOTTERY aflure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Ottobcr next, or Jooncr> if the Tickets
lhal! be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
Ss«°oo Tickets, at Five Bviiars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be pgid in the following Prizes, fabjc£t to a deduction of twelve
and an )ici/f per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth,
J?riz££. Dollars.
1 of
2
a
6
10
3°
80
9 o
aoo
12a
161
200
7 5 8 5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blrnks,
25000 Tickets.
{fS" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Managers, mho will pay the prizes on demand; oftheTREAsuRER
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-ftrcrt—and at other placcs, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.^
DAVID COBB,
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNLELAND,
Bajlon, April J4,1791.
War Department,
May 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they arc entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid 011 the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpettively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment mud be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
Ift. The certificate given by the state, fpccifying that the person
poflelTing the fame is in fa& an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. 3 came before me. one of the Jujiices of the connty of in
the ft ate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his p&ffeffien was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the slate to be recited) Thai he served (re
giment, corps or vejjcl) at the time he was difabUd, and that he now rc
fides in the and county of and has refidcd there for the lafl
years, previous to which he refded in
In cafe an invalid should apply fsr payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a fpccial letter of attorney agreeably to the following foi m:
1, /j.B. of county of flute of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. J), of my laws ul attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension Jor fix months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, one thoufandfeven hundred and ninetyone % and
(Tiding the fourth fay of September of the firne year.
Signed and s caled
in the picfcnqo of
j| Witneffks.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their iefpe6tive officcs, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidrni of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War
$3" The Printers in the refpeclive States are requeued to pub/ijk the
above i/i their neufpapers, for thefpace oj tico months.
DO LLARS.
10000
6oco
6000
600 c
5000
6000
Soeo
45°°
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
10000 is
3000 arc
HQOO
1000
500
SCO
200
5°
40
3°
20
10
*
J»Manacers,
i
j
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strect, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791. ( c P'f)
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticrlhip to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. Gioiicz
Kelly, has jult openfd an OFFFCE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient Houle, liiuated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all ihofe that may be pleased to favor him with their com
rttandr. _ JOHN H. HALL.
Nojjolk, Virginia, April 2v, 179 *
WHEREAS by the death of John GEBBiE,the Partnership
of C-EBBIE and ELLIS is difTolved. The subscriber,
surviving co-partncr and administrator of said deceased, requests
all perlons who have any demands against their Late tirun, to fend
forward their accounts for settlement as.soon as convenient; and
all those who are indebted to said firm, by bond, note, or book
account, are earnestly requested to difc'narge the fame without
delay. CHARLES ELLIS.
BurUngton> Junt f % ( C P aw )
For ere£lin<r BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Passaick
Rivers, between Powle§-Hook and Newark, in the State of
New-Jersey.
THE Commiflioners appointed by an a£l of the legislature of
the state of New-Jerfev, toere£l bridges over the Hackinfack
and, Paffaick rivers, having obtained fche necessary surveys, are
no«v ready to receive proposals for performing the lame; and
offer the following conditions for the conlideration of such as may
be inclined to contraA :
The /ituation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
at one of the following ftauous, as shall be hereafter determined
mo ft eli.gihke.
lft. At the place where the prcfent ferry is established, where
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatefl depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western (bore 12
Greateit depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaick river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as lhall be hereafter determin
ed mod eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is established, where
the width ot the river is 6~6 fee*.
Depth at the eastern shore 8 6. inc.hes,
Do. western shore 9 6
Greatcft depth 17
2d. At a place more weflerly, called Bccf-Point, -where the
breadth of the river is 799, feet.
Depth at the eastern Iho.re 11 fee<,
Do. weQern shore 4 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place stilt more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the east.em Chore 4 feet 3 inches,
Do. wcftern shore iq 8
Grcateft depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftru&ed on the principlesof those erefl
ed over Charles, Myftick, and JJtvrrly Rivera in the Statq of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free passage for vefieU with fix
ed standing mads, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
ach fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficieni
to aid vessels in pafljng through. Also, one lamp on each fide, of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
tfee rontinuance of the lease.
125000
The bridges aie to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as shall render them perfc&ly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commissioners, and are to be of a futficicnt
height to prote£fc them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from sto 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for carnage way, 20 feet.
Do. far foot walks, nilcd off on ejch fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluflrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-tails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, g* feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleltown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the adt.
The following are the term? which the comrpiflTiojiers are au
thorised to offer to contra&ors ;
A lease of the cxelufive privilege of the bridges for 0 period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equak to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an eflimate as cpuld polftHly be obtained, the
actual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will consequently produce an
immediate income of gpo pounds pttr arm. Thij may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can lie calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give 10 travel
ling, the cafy communication thereby offered with the Hate of
New-York, on the weßern fide of the Hadfon, are all important
circumstances, which must necessarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conneftcd
with the budges, and have a lottery now on loot for that purpose.
As soon as the places lhall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contrafls for erefling them are executed
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contract on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their trrms sealed
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell
I?' u n , ':X°rk; Specifying the IWteft period ot lease for
which they will undertake to erect the said bridges, together with
proper fecurUy for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL, T
JOHN NEJLSON,
vm M ii E ' Commiffmners,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, I
IOHN PINTARD J
Acwark, State of ilcw-jitfcy, April 22, 1701
60
advertisement.
ADVERTISEMENT
contract,
[gST All persons conccined wiil be plcafed to take that •
following advertifcmoit ha« been varied from ;b* publill
our paper of the 23d of March.]
"'ARCH 22, 1-q |
NOTICE is hereby given, that PrapolaU wiii be received 'at ti
office of the Secretary of the Tre fury, timU the firft Mondav
in September next incluhve, for the supply ot all rations, whi I
may be required fortheufeof the United Stales, from the Hrit d-!
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, xjgz, both days n '
elusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein atter kicd* "
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Ten
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofl*
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lutofh,
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort M Intofh and the mouth of
ihe River Mutkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carpwa*, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the faiti
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
Atany place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scieto River, and
the mouth of tlie great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At an v place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafti, thence up the said Wabafh 10 Post St. Vincennes,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
Atany place or places, on the east fide of the river Miffifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any olace or places, from the mouth of the Miami iiver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and atSandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort P;tt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lQe, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla :e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclufivcly.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at anv places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to confiftof the following articles.
viz. One pound of or flo-ir,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whilky,
One quart of fait,
Two quarts of vinegar, f
1 • c r r P er - 100 rations.
Two pounds or loap, f r
One pound of candles, 1
(* e P 7 w }
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Massachu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be fupplicd, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days.inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
Arthe post on the river Apalacliee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main fou'h branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to she Currahee mountain.
At any ot her place or places within the (late of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future pofls.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that therp
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the faicV posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wbolefome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses sustained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid so r at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depolitions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commifTioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contra£s for the above supplies will be made either for one
vear, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contrafl will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may m*ke their proportions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the aboye posts to
gether, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the fevcntcen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia*
and they inuft fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
The Printers who hove puh/i/hed the aj/ove advertifervent, are
requeued to reprint it with the alterations.
This day if friblified,
By THOMAS LANG, No/21, Church-Allev, and fold by all
The
For the Ufc of CHILDREN.
By DOCTOR M A R T 1 N E T
Profeffor of Philosophy at Zutphen.
TR \ NSI-ATED FROM THE DUTCH.
Read Nature—Nature is a friend tQ truth.' 4
1 w. "?m,
Treasury Department.
the Booklellers, (Prise 3-8 of a Dollar)
Catechism of Nature;