4z?nz(fU fftb
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 27, of Vol. lII.]
PHILADELPHIA, July 30
GENERAL SCOTT.
ExtraSl of a Letter from. Brigadier General Charles Scott, to the Secre
tary Jor the Department of War, dated Lexington, the 20 th of June,
1791, —received by Lieutenant Belli, who arrived in town on Tuejduy
lajlyfrom the Wejlern Country.
*' T N prosecution of the enterpi ife, I marched four miles from
X the banks of the Ohio on the 23d oi May, and on the 241b
I relumed my maich, ar»d puflied forward with the utmost in
duitry, dire&ing my route to Ouiattanan, in the belt manner my
guides, and information, enabled me, though I found myielf
greatly deficient in both.
" By the 31ft, I had marched one hundied and thirty-five
miles, over a country cut by four large branches of White River,
and many smaller itreams, with steep muddy banks : During this
march, I traverfea a countr) alternately interspersed with the
moil luxuriant foil, and deep clayey'bogs, from one to five miles
■wide, rendered almofl impervious by brush and briars. Rain
icll in torrents every day, with frequent blafls of wind and thun
der itorms. These obflacles impeded my progress, wore down
iny horl'es, and dellroycd my provisions.
On the morning of the lit inft. as the array entered an ex
tensive prairie, 1 pcrceived an Indian on horfeback,a few miles to
the right : I immediately made a detachment to intercept Inm,
but lie escaped. Finding myfelf difcovercd, I determined to ad
vance with all the rapidity my circumstances would permit, ra
ther with the hope than the expectation of reaching the object
iought that day ; tor my guides were (hangers to the couiury
which 1 occupicd. At 1 o'clock, having marched by computati
on one hundred and fifty-five miles from the Ohio, as I penetrat
ed a grove, whieh bordered on an cxtenfive prairie, 1 difeovered
two imall villages at my left, at two diid four miles distance.
" My guides now recognized the ground, and informed me
that the main town was tour or five miles in my front, behind a
point of wood which jutted into the prairie. I immediately de
tached Col. John Hardin, with sixty mounted infantry, and a
»oop of light horl'c, under Capt. M'Coy, to attack the villages to
the left, and moved on b.rifkty, with my main body, in order of
battle, towards the town, the imoke from which was discernible.
My guides were deceived with itip*.6l to the lituation of the town ;
tor iuflead of (lauding at the edge of the plain, through which I
marched, I found it on the low ground bordering on theWabafh ;
on turning the point of woods, one house prefeuted in my front.
Capt. Price was o>deied to afldultthat with lorty men : He exe
cuted the command with great gallantry, and killed two "warri
ors. When I gain.d the summit of the eminence which over
looks the villages on the banks of the Wabalh, 1 dilcovered the
enemy m great confufion, endeavoring to make their escape over
the river in canoes. 1 inltantly ordered LicutcnanUColoncl Com
mandant Wilkinfon toiufh forward with the firft battalion : the
order was ex cu ed with promptitude, and this detachment gain
ed the bank or the river just as the rear of the enemy had embark
ed : And regardless of a brisk lire kept up from a Kickapoo
Town, on the oppofne bank, they in a few minutes, by a well di
rected fire from their rifL-s, deflroyed a.l the Savages with which
live canoes were crouded.
" To my great mortification the Wabafh was many feet be
yond fording at this place. I therefore detached Colonel Wilkin
lOQ to a ford two miles above, which my guides informed m<?,
was more pia&cable.
44 The enemy itill kept poflcflion of the Kickapoo Town. I
determined to dislodge them, and for the purpose ordered Cap
tauis King's and Longldon's companies to march down the river,
below the town, and cross under the conduct of Major Barbcc :
Several of the men swam the river, and others paflfed in a small
canoe. This movement was unobfeivcd, and my men had taken
poll on the bank belore they were discovered by the enem), who
immediately abandoned the village.—About this time word was
brought me, that Col. Hardin was incumbered with prisoners,
snd had discovered a llronger village further to my left, than
ihofe I had observed, which he was proceeding to attack. I im
mediately detached Captain Brown with his company, to support
the Colonel; but the diftande being fix miles, before the Captain
arrived the bufincfs was done, and Colonel Hardin joined me a
little before funlet, having killed fix warriors and taken fifty-two
prisoners. Captain Bull, the warrior who discovered me in the
morning, had gained the main town and given the alarm a fliort
tune before 111 c ; bu: the villages to my left were uninformed of
my approach and had no retreat. The next mouiing I determin
to ditach my Lieut.Col. Commandant with five hundred men,
tocku.ov the unporuiu lowu of Kethlipecanunk., at the mo.ith
c m,l s homin y cym P* a "d on the weft fide
ot the \\ abalh : But on examination I discovered my men and
horses to be crippied & so worn down by a long,laborious nwrch,
*ud the attivc exertions ot the preceding day ; that three hundred 1
-nd lixty men only couid be found in capacity to undertake the
cnterprife, and they picpaicd io march on foot.
" Colonel Wtlkinfon marched wiih this detachment at half af
ter fnc ill the evening, and returned to iny camp the next day at
one o'clock, having marched thiity-fix miles in' twelve hours, and
ueftroyed tiie m«ft important settlement of the enemy in that quar
ter of the federal territory : In No. 3 you will find the colonel's
ueport rcipe&iwg the tnicrprifc.
" Many of the inhabitants of this village were French, and liv
ed in o ftaic ot civilization : by the books, tetters and other docu
ments found therr,it is evident, that place was in close connection
with, and dependant oh Detroit ; a large quantity of coin, a vari
ety of hcuthold goods, peltry and other articles were burned with
this village ; which coufiftcd ol about 70 houses, many ot them
veil finifhed.
** the objett of a white flag, which appeared
on an eminence oppofitt tto me in the afternoon of the firfi, I Jibe
rated an aged squaw and fant with tier a nuffage to the bavapes,
mat 11 they would come in and furrcnucr, then towns (hould be
ipand and they should icceive good treatment. [It was after
wards found that this white flag was not intended as a signal of
I* a 11 y ; but wa« placed there to mat k the spot where a ptifon ot
ciftin&iou ainou# the Irulians, who had died foine time before,
was inteileei.J On tli*: I detci inifccd to difchaigc 16 of the
veakeii and moll infirm of my pri loners, with a talk to the Wa
t ash tribes, a copy ot which you w ill find inclosed. My mo
tives to this in;-.ifure were, to lid the army ol a heavy incum
brance, to gtatiiy the iuipulfioiis of humanity, to incrcafe the pa
i-.c.v ns\ upciaiioi.i had produced,aqJ by diftratting the councils
the enemy, to Uvyi iU*. v io&t oi government: fcnd I'flattcr mv
Saturday, July 50, 175)1.
fclf these obje&s will juflify my conduct, and secure the approba
tion of my country.
" Ou the fame day, after having burned the towns and adjacent
villages, and destroyed the growing corn ana pulse, I began my
march, for the rapids of the Ohio, where I arrived the 14th inft.
without the loss of a Tingle man by the enemy, and hve only
wounded, having killed thirty-iwo, chiefly warriors of lize and
figure, and taken fifty-eight prifoneis.
44 it is with much pride and pleasure I mention, that noa£lof
inhumanity, has marked tlie coudu£l of the volunteers of Kentuc
ky on this occasion, even the lhveierated habit of scalping the
dead, ceafedto influence.
" I have delivered forty-one prifonersto Capt. Afheton of the
firft United States' regimcflt at Fort Steuben.
44 I sincerely lament, that the weather and the consequences it
produced, rendered it impoflible for Mieto carry terror and defo«
lation to the head of the Wabalh.—The corps I had the honor to
command, was equal to the obje£l, but the condition of my horses
and (late of my provifious, were mfiiperable obstacles to my own
intentions', and the Wifhesof all.
'• It would "be invidious to make diftiriftions in a corps which
appeared to be animated with one foul, and where a competition
lor danger and for glory, inspired all ranks.
" I however, consider it my duty to mention, Colonel John
Hardtn, who, in the chara6ler of a volunteer, without commis
sion, had command of my advance party, and the direction ot
my guides from the Ohio River, ior the difcernmeni, courage
and ufchvity with which he fulfilled the trufl I repoTed in him.—
And I cannot close this letter in justice to the merits of General
Wilkmfon, who went out my Lieu enant-Colonel Commandant,
without acknowledging my obligations for the faithful discharge
of the several duties depending on him, and the able support
which he gave me in every exigency."
General Wilkinson's Report.
S 1 R,
THE detachment under my command, deflined to attack the
village Kethlipecanunk, wasput in motion at half after five o'clock
lad evening. Knowing thai an enemy whose chief iependenca is
in his dexterity 3s a marksman, and alertness ifc coveiing himfelf
behind trees, flumps, and other impediments to fair fight, would
not hazard an altion in the light, I determined to push my march
until I appioached the vicinity of the villages where I knew the
country to be champaigrte. I gained my point without a halt,
twenty minutes before eleven o'clock; lay upon my arms until
(our o'clock, and half an hour after assaulted the town at all quar
ters. The enemy was vigilant, gase way on my approach., and
in canoes trolled Eel Creek, which washed. the North Eail part
of the town —That creek was not fordable. My corps daftied
forward with the irnpetuofity becoming volunteers, and were sa
luted by the enemy with a brisk fire from the opposite fid-e of
the creek. Dauntless they rallied on t© the water's edge, unco
vered, to the Moccaion, and finding it impafTable, returned a
volley, which so galled and disconcerted their antagonifls, that
they threw away their fire without effect. In five minutes the
Indians were driven from the covering, and fled witn precipita
tion, I have thiee men slightly wounded. At half past five the
town was inflame*, and ai fix o'clock I commenced my retreat.
I want language to do justice to the courage and good conduct
of the gentlemen who cojnpofed my dctachmcnt; in neither could
they be exceeded by veteran troops.
Brigadiei-General Scott
To the various Tribes of the Peankafhaws, and all the Nations of
Red People, living on the waters of the Wabalh River.
THE Sovereign Council ot the Thirteen United States, have
long patiently borne your depredations againli- their fettle
inents on this fide of the great mountains, in hope th3t you would
fee your error, and correal it, by entering into bonds of amity
and lasting"peace. Moved by companion, and pitying your mil
guided councils, they have frequently addrefiTed you on this lub
jcd, but without effect. At length their patience is exhausted,
an 4 they have stretched forth the arm of power against you
Their mighty sons and chief warriors have at length taken up the
hatchet; they have penetrated far into your country, to meet your
warriors, and punish them for their tranfgreflions. But you fled
before them, and declined the battle, leaving youi wives and
childien to their mercy. They have destroyed your old town,
Ouiattanan, and the neigbouring villages, and have taken many
prifojiers. Resting here two days, to g : ve you time to colled
your strength, they have proceeded to your town of Kethlipeca
nunk; but you again fled before them ; and that great town has
been destroyed. After giving you this evidence of their power,
they have Hopped their hands, because they are as merciful as
strong, and they again indulge the hope, that you will come to a
sense of yourtru interest, and determine to make a lasting peace
with them and all their children forever. The United States ha?e
no desire to destroy the Red People, although they have thepow
ei ; l>ul should you decline this invitation, and eurfucyour i*n
provoked hofli 1 ilies, their strength will again be exerted againit
you, your warriois will be flaughtefed, your towns and villages
ransacked and defiioyed, your wives and children carried into
captivity, and you may be afTured, that those who escape the fury
of our mighty chiefs, shall find no resting place oo this fide the
Gieat Lakes. The warriors of the United States wilh not to
diftrels or destroy women and cjiildien or old men, a«d although
policy obliges them to retain some in captivity, yet companion
and humanity have induced them to let others at liberty, who
will deliver you this talk. Thole who are cairied off will be left
in the care of our great chief and warrior General St. Clair, near
'he mouth of Miami and opposite to the Licking River, where
hey will be treated with humanity and lendernefs; if you wifli
to recover them, repair to that place by the firft day of July next;
determined with truehraitsto bury the hatchet, and linoke the
pipeol peace, they will then be uftorcd to you, and you may
ag»»n let dov\n in security at your old towns, and live in peaai
and happiness; unmolested by the people <4 the United Sfates,
who will become your inends and prote&ois, and will be ready
to lurnifli vou with all the neceffai ies you may require. But (hould
you foolifhly peifift in your warfare', the sons of war will be let
loose againli you, and the hatchet will never be buried until your
coentry is defohted, and your people humbled to the dust.
Given uiider my hand and fcal at the Ouiatunau Tow*), this
fouith day of June, 1791.
(Signed] ' CHARLLS SCOTT# B. C. (Seal
105
Camp, Ouiattanan, June 3, 1791.,
One o'clock, P. M,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient
James Wilkin so #
(A Copy.) .
f(£sop o
[Whole No. 255.]
FOR Till GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
A Writer in the Columbian Centinel, unfertile
signature of Publicola, appears to have
excited a neit of hornets, which are continually
buzzing about his head ; but very fortunately
they are a new species, aud upon examination
are found to bte destitute of ftjngs. The princi
ples and lentiments contained in those publica
tions, are censured by people from no other mo
tive than the idea of rendering their writings of
more consequence, by circulating the opinion
that they are answering the Vice-President of
the United Stares—no other confideratioit could
make these writers of the fmallell importance.
Their object is evident, but their aflertions falfe i
for I can from the belt authority allure them, that
the Vice-President is not the author of those
pieces. But supposing liim the real author, I
will venture to allert, from an attentive perusal,
thar there is not as yet in any one of them a fen
tiinenc which can jultify the charges of aristo
cracy so liberally bellowed, or in the fmalleit
degree infringe the liberties of die people. The
good sense of the people of this country will lead
them to read and judge for themselves ; nor are
their bed, their firmed and most .independent:
friends, to be hunted down at the found of a
word. Years of experience will not be loft or
rendered ineffectual by the clamour of a thoafand
scribblers fucli as have hitherto appeared.
Your's, &c. A Friend to Justice.
Stockbridge, July 1 9 .
THE late Rqy. Dr. Lockwood, of Andover, in
Connecticut, who died a few years part, at the
Pool in New Lebanon, State of New-York, in
liis lad will and testament, left a legacy tt> Yale
College, the place of his education, to the amount
of between thiee and four hundred pounds, the
intereil of which is to be annually applied to
making additions to the College Library.
A very laudable and judicious inltance of bene
ficence ! The fame gentleman, two or three years
since, made-a donation of one hundred
upon condition that other friends of literature
would augment the fubfeription to three hundred,
pounds, for the pnrpofe of procuring an additi
onal philosophical apparatus for that College;
which was ac«ordi»ugly done. Such benefacftors
of literary initiations deserve the gratitude of
the public.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL -ASSEMBLY, May 16.
A N address was 1 ead from the Jewifli inhabi
tams of the capital, who, encouraged by
the decree which railed a number of 111111 at toes
10 the rank of atftivecitizens, begged that a simi
lar favor might be conferred 011 litem. The pe
tition was referred to the committee of reports
and conllituiion.
Jt was decreed, by aconfiderable majority, than
no member of the present, could be re-elected
into the nest Legislature.
_ Three letters were read—otfe from the depu
ties of St. Domingo, one from those of Marti
nique, and one from those of Guadaloupe Hat
ing, that the decree which the Aflembly had
on the fubjec f t of free mulattoes, obliged
iheni to decline assisting at the fittings of the
National Afleyibly.
May 17. After confide! able debate on the neces
sity of small change to conhnerce, several prora
tions for the emilhon of Atfignatsoflow value wene
rejected,and theAfl'embly finally agreed that a Ann
of copper money fliould itntpediately be coined.
May 2i. The difcufaon on the organization
of the Legislative Body was resumed, of which
several articles were pafled.
The following decree \vas patted :
1. rhe Kiug shall be entreated to appoint
Commiffioiiers, who, in conjunction wuh those
appointed by the National Allembly, shall bcen
trlifted to fuperimend the fabrication of fmalj
Affignats till their completion, and their belli"-
depofired in tbe extraordinary Bank.
2. The Couiuiiflioneri shall be authorised to
make furli bargains as shall appear to them pro
per, relative to this fabrication.
3. Tlie paper of ihe small Aflignars shall ccn
i">rm in quality 10 the model presented to the
committec of finances.
They shall be iinprefled with a reprcfentation
ofihe King, and with the words Domain:s A'a
t:o»aux, and uiidcrjiCath lha!l be written, A/fi:>w
dt tir/a H*r;:.
)FROM THE PROVIDENCE GAZETTE.
ON HEARING A PARTRIDGE DRUM
Wiittln by a gentleman of St. Johnsbury (Vermont.)
HARK \ whepce that hollow found which strikes the ear,
Ai.d fills the mind with rude alarm,
As I walk forth to view the blooming year,
And unfufpe&ing harm ?
'Tis not the found of violence and arms,
'Tis not to rouse the din of war,
'Tis love the gentle drummer's bosom warms,
And wakensall his care.
The woodland Partridge 'tis, by nature taught,
For double purpose makes the found,
'Reft of his mate ! —to banish anxious thought,
And fray intruders round.
On a fall'n tree he takes his centry-ftand ;
Near whe r e his mate upon her ncft
Sils brooding—and with trembling pinions fann'd,
Beats air upon his bread.
In all her painful abstinence he fares,
Hoping to lee the callow young ;
With her in all solicitudes he (hares,
Nor thinks the season loAg.
Does nature plant this inftinft in his mind,
And useless there to all beside ?
Not so—all creatures reason's search will find,
In ufefulnefs allied.
Wisdom examples gives, by brutes and bird?,
To man.—Her pupils here may learn,
(Altho' not drefs'd :n founding pomp of words)
And ufeful truth discern.
She bids the fire the teeming matron tend
With ch arful will to eafc her mind,
The sympathizing and protc&ing friend,
Affe&ionate and kind.
Alas! how few attend her hallow'd lore,
But coldly stray, whilst rending woes r
Tear a fond mother's tender bosom more
Than double all her throws.
" Shame burn his cheeks to cinder," who thus dares
Infringe on nature's sacred code ;
For whom awaits, —tho prefcnt mercy spares,—
The wrath of nature's GOD.
LONDON, May 19,
IT is said that the Prince of Wales has been so
licited to confirm a proposal of marriage be
tween his Royal Highness and a Princess of the
House of Naflau.
A great Female Personage is said to have offer
ed to liquidate all the debis of a young Perlon
age, if he will consent to wed a foieigii Princess,
and that an answer is to be given within a few
days.
Lord Rodney was in the House of Peers 011
Monday, seemingly much overcome by age, but,
as he said, very little oppreded by any particular
disorder.
May 30. The Duke of York arrived in per
tecfl health at Potsdam last Monday fe'nnight in
the evening. His Royal Highness wasgracioufly
received by the King of Pruflia. His' Majesty
lent the Duke two fine chargers as a present, and
the 1 eviews took place the two following days.
The Company of Booksellers at Paris, have
given public notice, that they have appointed a
1 reafurer to receive whatever specie the citizens
can spare in exchange for ajfignats of jo livres,
in order to facilitate the payment of such work
men as are employed in their diftrkl. Every
good ci izen is invited to this adi of patriorifm,
and ef'pecially the treasurers of public theatres'
who ai e in ihe daily habits of receiving money.
On Satin day afternoon as a gentleman, who
had been at the mufxcal feftival 111 Weftininiter
Abbey, was handing a lady along George-street,
and endeavoring to reach his carriage, his pock
et was picked of a gold watch. lie seized the
thief, and gave him into the cnftody of several
constables, who were inftantlv surrounded by no
ieis than twenty or thirty pic'kpockeis, that en
deavored to rescue the culprit. The horfe-gtiards
in.er'ered, and escorted the peace-officers, with
their ,pi ifoner, into New-Palace-Yard, but the
mob ioiced both constables and pickpocket un
der an arch leading to Cotton's Gardens, where
the dragoons could not follow. About thirty
pickpockets then aiiaulted t he constables, knock
ed them down, and freed theprifoner, with whom
they ran through a backtvay towards the Thames
and etaped by jumping over a wall about ten
leer „igh, 111 doing which one of the gang broke
his leg. ,he man was taken before Mr. Tuftice
Bona ,n the evening, where, as nothing more
v.t> p. oved agauift liim than that he was busy in
; ,'t > v;ls j idged that he was fufficiently
.puiufhed by the accident, which seemed to keep
- : a£ torture, and he was in consequence
discharged.
' lie kingdom of Poland, previous to its dif
msmoei inenr, contained 14,000,000 inhabitants ;
at prefen it they are supposed not to exceed 9000000;
and of this difference the Auftrians have acqiiir
e UVO »»H<ons and a half of fouls by their sur
reptitious part'of the provinces, tho' thole now
podefied by Ruflia are the molt extensive in ter
titory.
It could be wished that the coftom of carryino
life-buoys were as much practised by merchant*
™en, as it is on board the (hips of war, where
t::ey feldoni Ipfe a man that drops into the sea
it lie appears 011 the farface again. If not for
the fafety of the lives of featnen, will not mer
chantmen be ar the small expence of a life-buoy,
for their own interest ?
Poland is desirous of making their monarchy
hereditary, having experienced the inconveni
ences of their late government. Mr. Paine's
book therefore has rioc yet reached Warsaw.
The price given for the national domains of
France has so far exceeded the estimation, tlia.
we are at a loss to fee any ground whatever so.
the aristocratic party hoping ever to be restored
to tlieir power. If the nation considers the king
dom worth much more under the present govern
ment, they will not easily be persuaded to fuffer
it to go back again to its former one.
HOUSE OF COMMONS
IVeduefjay, May 18.
In a committee, Mr. Hobart in the chair, the
subsequent funis were voted :
To the Prince of Wales, for mason work
at Carleton-Houfe, £. 35,000
To American Loyalists, 31,000
For compensation to the proprietors of
ceded lands in Georgia, Florida, &c. 6,989
For Provilions, See. to Botany Bay, 29,611
For maintaining and employing convicts, 41.716
for guarding convicts in Homoaze, 10,849
For addrefles of the house, 66,948
For the trial of Warren Hastings, 14,116
To the officers of the board of works, 500
To the commilfioners appointed to en
quire into the American claims, several
funis amounting to 1 18,718
The report of these resolutions was ordered to
be received to-morrow.
THE BUDGET.
RECAPITULATION OF SUPPLY
RECAPITULATION _
Navy - - —
Arniy -
Ordnance -
Deficiency of Land and Male Taxes
Deficiency of Grants
Miscellaneous Services
Total of Supply, adding for frac
tions omitted
RECAPITULATION OF WAYS AND MEANS.
Land and Malt Taxes £, 2,750000
Surplus of Quarter ending sth April 303,221
Lottery - - . 306^250
Surplus of consolidated Fund - 2110000
Balances - , - . '154^00
Increase on robacco.arrears of land tax ; &c. 120,000
Toral; adding for fractions omitted 5.743,471
Deduct, paid to the Duke of Clarence 9,000
Total of Ways and Means
QUEBEC BILL.
The Quebec bill was read a third time, and
pafled.
I\flay 30.
PROROGATION
Mr. Grey being of opinion, that in the present
situation of affairs, it was absolutely necellary
tliat Parliameent should fit sometime longer,gave
no 1 , ice that on 1 hurfday he fliould nnve to ad
dress his Majesty, not to prorogue the Parlia
ment till a decisive answer (hall have been re
ceived from the Court of Peterlburgh.
MESSAGE FROM THE LORDS
s up p l r.
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of
Supply.
1 lie Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed the
Relolution, '' That iiis Majesty should grant out
of the Conlolated Fund, a sum not exceeding
[2,0001. as an annuity to the Duke of Clarence.
Mr. t rancis alked what saving had accruec
from the death of the Duke of Cumberland.
Mr. Powys said, in the provision granted to
his Majesty by the Civil Lilt, the re was a pro
fpeclive view to what his family might be at a
future period.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated the
great increase of expence, and the reluctance of
Ins Ma jelly to exceed the sum granted in the Ci
vil Lift.
Mr. Baker stated how unpleafanc it was in cer
tain circuin(lances to make any opposition to a
resolution of this fort, especially in the present
in fiance, when the provision was for a juung
Prince, who had received a regular education it
the f avoi ,te service of this country, and to whom
we were taught by anticipation to look forward
with the most flattering hopes. He stated the
v . nicreafe of the cxpences of the Civil Lift
within these five years, Tome of the articles of
winch he thought required explanation, fnftead
>t making such resolutions things of course if
900.0001. was fufficient for the expence of 'the
•"iv L,ft > 't would be better at once to augment
it to one million. 6
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said it was
by no means intended that such resolutions fhouid
be things of course. The sum of 34,0001. was
"OW wanted f° r ,h e Duke of Clarence, 24 of
vvhich had already been expended in payment of
o annuities, and the remainder given him
106
£. 2,151,000
1,853,572
44.367
£. 5,728,000
5,734,47 r
when he formed his establishment. TheP.r ,
tions.were then paflbd. The Report ordered "
be received to-morrow. * ueiea r
SCHEME of the English STATE lOTTFRy
of Prizes. Value of each
2 of 30,000!.
3 10,000
J s >° oo
— 2,000
3° - 500
5° ~
ro° _
M.150 — 20
14,367 Prizes.
1 First drawn
1 Last drawn
35,631 Blanks.
50 000 Tickets.
Two Blanks and a half to a Prize
PITTSBURG H, July ,7. 1
Ail express from Venango mentions, that a
party of Indians had arrived at Prefque Isle from
the other fide of the lake, but what their inten
iions are is not known.
Sunday lall some Indian tracks were difcovei ed
about three miles from this place on the east fide
of the Alleghany. A party of levies we.e or
dered out to scour the woods, but returned with
out making any discovery of the Indians.
B O S T O N, July 21.
Yesterday being the Annual Commencement
at the University in Cambridge, twenty-seven
candidates received the Degree of Bachelor
of Arts, and tweniy the Degree of Master of
Arts.—At the close of the exercil'es, the following
Address was delivered by his Excellency Gover
nor Hancock :
400,004
207,000
694,000
Mr. President,
THE Univerfny in which you preside (hinds
among the highest marks of the wisdom and pa
triotism of our ancestors ; —the men who fled to
the wilderness rather than to partake of careless
ease and splendid pleasures in a state of slavery,
gave birth to this institution. '
While this anniversary serves as a memorial
of rheir extraordinary virtu«s,.it enibeliilhes the
path of science, cherishes literature, and pro
motes the interest of our republic.
The exhibitions of this day evince to us the
great abilities you pofl'efs, Sir, and the careful
attention you pay to the duties of your impor
tant station ; and they also reflect 111 jch honor
upon all the immediate Governors of the Uni
versity.
The young gentlemen who have 011 this occa
sion given such ample proof of their genius a;id
application, have raised p3 to great expe&ations
of their future ufefulnefs : our best wishes accom
pany them i nto the world, and our ardent prayer
is, that they may serve and honor their country.
When we recolletft the wifhesof the venerable
founders of this seminary, we feel the inolt in
tereltirig hopes that there will forever proceed
from this place, men, whole virtues, vvifdom and
learning, will lead our enlightened and grateful
people in the ways of religion and patriotism.
It is with you, young gentlemen, who now
have your residence within Harvard's Walls, to
add lustre to the brightness of your country, or
to check her progress in glory with an interval
of darkness We wilh to inspire your ambition
with this idea, and to incite yon by a sense of
your importance in the community, to an exalt
ed nude of conduct.—Suffer 11s to do this, and
we shall rejoice in the honorableprefagesofyour
f uture greatness.
While this University, refpecHrable Sir, conti
nues to support such a reputation as it has always
enjoyed, and as the exhibitions of this day have
proved to be ju(t, it will merit and receive the
patronage and support of every man who loves
his country, and is concerned for its inrerefts.
The Gentlemen concerned in its inftruiftion, ren
der a mod important service to the community;
they form the minds and manners of its future
members, and give a complexion to those who
are hereafter to govern it. From the Public then,
from the Civil Fathers of their country, from the
Patriots, the of Maflachufetts; Har
vard College mufl receive countenance, encou
ragement and assistance. While the blood of
their venerable ancestors warms theirveins, while
the independence, the freedom and happiness of
America are dear to .her sons, this University
cannot be deserted. nor its faithful servants lejt
without a support.
To the protection and favour of the God of
the Spirits of all flefh, the God of our fathers, to
the patronage and assistance of all those who va
lue the happiness of posterity, and wish their
Freedom, we commend this venerable Seat of
Science.—May it flourish and increase—may it
bless America and the World, so long as the Suu
and Moon shall endure.
o
1,000
1,000PORTLAND, (Mass.) July 15
In palling 9. very high bridge within this allf
trid: the lalt week, one of the Hon. Judges of the
Supreme Judicial Court was in the utmost dan
ger of losing his life—His horse starting a little,
and there being no kind of railing or guard on
the fides of the bridge, the wheels of his carriage
■were carried over, and nothing but a very Hidden
exertion faxed him from absolute deltrucftion.
It is hoped that this accident will lead Surveyors
and Grandjuryinen to attend strictly to their
duty.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
Much has been faicl concerning the building
of bridges, and cutting canals, &c. but little feetns
to be said concerning the opening a Canal from
Lake Sebago, into Prefumfcot River, and thereby
effetft an inland navigation of more than 50 miles
into the heart ot the country—which may be
done by digging the small distance of 16 or 20
rods. It can scarcely be conceived whatafource
of traffic this would open betwegn the inhabitants
of this town and the inland country. Fonrtown-
Ihips alrnolt filled with inhabitants compose the
shores of this lake, lmmenfe forefts of Oak and
Pine Timber are planted by the foltering hand
of nature around the extensive (hores of Sebago
—add to this, many towns hrvve considerable
quantities ot the various articles produced 011
their farms to transport to this market, and front
thence such commodities as they fliould need in
exchange back again, which might be done with
one quarter the expence by water.
SPRINGFIELD, JULY 20.
During the severe thunder florin, 011 Wednes
day lall, the lightning (truck in the yard of Cap
tain John Bryant, of this town, and took its
direction to the cellar window, which it entered,
and lighting on a calk of rum, forced out <>nc of
the heads, and set the rum on fire, which raged
in such a manner, as to fire every thing of 0
combustible nature, almofl in an inflant; but by
the (eafonable exertions of the family, and othc's
who went to their afiiftance, the fire was happily
extinguished.
POUGHKEEPSIE, JULY2I
Lad Saturday afternoon, Captain Mott of this
place, being on his return with his sloop fron
New-York, was overtaken by a thunder squall
about 20 miles this fide the city.—The lightning
forfome time was very severe, with a heavy rain,
during which, the vefl'el was (truck by the light
ning, and so damaged, as to oblige his return to
Mew-York to repair. It is said it firft flruck the
lop-mafi, and descended till it came to the jib
ftay, where it divided, one part running down
the mad, and the other down the jib-stay to the
end of the bowsprit, and from that to the (Vein,
which it split iu several places to the water's edge,
— and to prevent the water running into her, was
obliged to (tick in oakum, &c. The jib-stay was
so burnt, that it broke near the middle. The
lightning is supposed to have gone off the veflel
by the anchor, which was so burnt, as to take
the rust entirely oft, and appeared like a new one
just out of the forge.
PROVIDENCE, July 21
The rapidity with which the subscription to
the Bank of the United States was filled, proves
that the wealth of this country is much bevond
what has been generally supposed, and that the
fame enlightened and magnanimous policy that
established the present happy constitution of the
government of our country, which has so highly
railed our national reputation, in the efteern of
the world at large,now continues to beautify and
strengthen the magnificent fabric, and to render
all its numerous apartments, as commodious as
pottiblefor the great people, resident under
its wide extended canopy.
As the heart, the arteries and the veins cive
life and motion, by the circulation of the blood
through every part and limb of the human sys
tem, so the Bank, by means of the regular and
iyftematical arrangements under which it will
be governed, will circulate through the most re
mote as well as all the intermediate parts of the
Union, an active, vivifying, confidential and ea
sy commerce, extremely salutary to the health,
■vigour and comfort of the political body. One
of its firft and most indispensable laws, is the ut
most punctuality in dealing, another to circulate
its specie, or its representative, the Bank Bills,
which are equally as good, to as great an extent,
if possible, as its conltitution will allow, and a
third, as a consequence of the two former, to
dilcountenance or extirpate all unlawful or ufu
r:otis oppressive interest. Thus punctuality in
dealing, a plenty of ready cash, and a 1 eduction
of exorbitant antl unreasonable interest, are its
immediate confeqnences. It is true that it cre
ates a great, active monied interest : But we
have a great landed interest to balance it, and it
is the monied inrereft that pays and will conti
nue to pay all the federal Revenue of our coun
ty- } his wife and prudent policy will render
the discharge of the national debt light and easy
to the peopie, and will promote industry, enter
prize and commerce, at the fame time that it will
i aife the value ot rents, and all landed estate,
which had funk greatly below its iuft and proper
level, And when agriculture and commerce are
thus benefitted, the manufacturing interest can
not but participate in the common good. How
pleasing to Mr. Hamilton mnft it be, that these
things are justly laid of a ineafure which he pa
tronized and recommended.
On Saturday morning last, was launched from
one of the {hip-yards in this town, the beautiful
(hip Kami i.tov, of 200 tons burthen, belonging
to Meflrs. Brown and Benfon. She is an excel
lent veflel, and we learn, designed for the Euro
pean trade.
NEW-LONDON, July 21
Canterbury, July I, 1761.
Died lately in Canterbury, the ailuined right
of Hopkintonian priests to turn other priests out
of the pulpit.—The fame aflumed right is said to
be It ruck with death in the town of Plainfield,
and in many other towns in the county of Wind
ham. The ecclesiastical constitution begins to
iook pallid and sickly. Thanks be to God that
;lie empire of reason is afluming its proper au
rhoritv, and the delusions of superstition vanifli
ing fact away.
Philadelphia, July 50.
A correspondent informs, that the treaty, late
ly held under commifiion from the President of
the United States, by Timothy Pickering, Esq.
of Wilkefbarre, with those Indian tribes com
monly called the Six Nations, at Newtown-Point,
on the north-weft branch of the Sufquehanna, in
the (laie of New-York, was concluded on the
rSth in ft. to the fatisfa<slion of all parties, by a
recapitulatory speech from the Commissioner.
The principal obje>ft of this treaty was, to con
firm the peace that has subsisted between us, ever
lince Ihe treaty of Fort Stanwix, in 1784, and
prevent the Five Nations from joining the Weft
em Indians, now at war. This desirable purpose
has been fully answered for the present, though
it is ivnpoffible to answer for the neutrality of
he Five Nations, in cafe they fliould still meet
with repeated injuries from those unprincipled
inhabitants of the frontiers, who have never yet
learned to diftinguifti friends from foes, under
rhe undiftinguiftiing appellation of Indians, or
Savages. The Five Nations, and f'ome other
tribes, came down armed to the number of ten
or eleven hundred, men, women, and children,
as their manner is ; but so slowly that the trea
ty, appointed for the x sth ult. was not opened
until the 2d inft. On the 27th, P. M. the cuf
toniary prefen*, confiding of a large quantity of
substantial cloathing, some of husbandry, and a
little powder and (hot, was diltributed to the
different tribes ; and the next day the commissi
oner, and the main body of Indians left the
ground. A few days before, letters had been
received from the Seneca warriors at Buffaloe
Creek, complaining of hostilities committed by
the Western Indians, and pressing the Chiefs in
Council to join the army of the United States in
reducing them to terms ; but little credit was
given to the accounts, and no answer returned
as they had determined to preserve a ftriift neu
trality. Amer: Dai. Adv.
Zxtratt of a letter from an officer at Fort Wajhhigton,
dated June I J, i 791
" I have lately made a tour toPoft St. Vincennes,
and returned the Bth instant, without having no
ticed an Indian, although they are seen commit
ting depredations in all places. They have killed
one man in the rear of Fort Washington, and ta
ken several horses, amongst which were General
Harmar's. lam in great hopes they will soon be
routed from all quarters of the Western Terri
tory. There is every exertion made for a vigo
rous campaign. Troops are arriving daily.
Captains Arniftrong and Kirkwood's companies
arrived the 13th instant."
A writer in the George-Town Weekly Ledger
proposes that the Federal City Jhould be named
COLUMBUS.
By the Hoop Friendship, Capt. Beecks, we have
accounts from Cape-Francois, so late as the 7th
inliant, which confirm what was formerly pub
lished rcfpeL r ting the disturbances there, as Capt.
Beecks heard the drums beat to collect the white
inhabitants who had resolved to wear black cock
ades the day following. Capt. Beeck's departure
on the 7th, prevented his feeing the ifi'ue of this
business.
We are informed that William Smith, Esq.
has declined the appointment of Auditor of the
Treasury of the United States.
COMMUNICATIONS.
It has been asserted, that Governmen* depends
on opinion ; if there is any truth in the plirafe,
it makes Government the most capricious idea in
nature. For what is more unftendy than the
107
ebb and flow of-the general sentiment on almost
every lubject submitted to public investigation ?
Such random, indefinite compliments may answer
temporary perfoiial purpoles, but their tendency
is to compliment the people out of their liberties,
peace and happiness.
The success which has attended the admini
stration of the genpral government, exceeds the
molt sanguine expectatitions of the warmest
friends to the Union of these free States.
Every anticipation has been more than realized ;
arid hitherto not one gloomy prediction has been
verified.—So great is the peace and tranquility
that universally prevail, that some eagle-eyed
politicians, who are never happy while their
neighbours are lb wife as to think themselves so,
affect to be astonished—and because the people
find 110 fault with their rulers, conclude that
either a stupid apathy hath seized the public
mind, or that a free investigation of publicmea-*
fures is fupprefled !
While every thing was afloat m these States ;
and civil discord was hovering over our tieads
while public and private confidence was deftroy
ed—ourCommerce was expiring, and our Credit
" a hilling and a bye-word among the nations,"
—our situation was, according to forge restless
scribblers, truly eligible—but when, awaking as
from a dream, v/e affertedour claim to freedom,
and to an honorable rank among the nations of
the earth—by ellablifhing the molt perfect Re
publican system of Government the world hath
ever seen—and under its blefled influences re
trieved our Credit, restored our Commerce, and
effectually succored and eftabliflied our agricul
ture, and mechanic Arts, strange to tell, we were
guilty of a dereliction of republican principles!
—Happy the People, whose rulers thus conduct;
and happy the Administration, who can only be
impeached for saving their Country !
" °.f Ffccdom" a paper which has bren published
\nßo(ton about three years, is now transformed into " The Argus,"
the firft number of which we received this weelc.—ln the acjdrefs
to the public the Editor informs us, that " conneEled with no
par t y , controuled by no government, we are differently situ
ated from most other Newspapers. Local attachments, or local in
fluence federalattachments orfederal influence cannot affect us !!"
In the fpecch of a celebrated Oratpr of the United States, the
following query occurs : —Is there a fmgle blade of grass, is there
any property in exigence in the United States, which is not fub
jeft to the Legiflatio/i, either of the individual States, or of the
United States ?
Ccnfus of the City of Savannah, in Georgia, January 1, 1791.
White males above 16 years of age, 657, under, 310 ' 967
Ditto females, 474, under, 271 ~
Free negroes, mulattoes, and meftizocs, of all ages and sexes 'j 16
Negro and other (laves, of all ages and sexes 1104
2932
Among the white inhabitants are 5 i persons above 6c years of
age, now alive, (nearly i in
Number of dwelling and irparate store-houses, exclusive of pub
lie buildings, 437.
Bill of Mortality, from ,fl July, 1790, to if! July, 1791.
White inhabitants above the age ot 50 years, ' 1 <l)
under 50, and above 14, 25 > 55
under 14 years ol age, jg\
Strangers or transient persons, „ c {
Seamen, 53
A'.B Among the strangers there was one accidentally killed,
and lix seamen drowned.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA
Brig £°r PC i Lee ' „ Jamaica.
Miss Anna, Marrenar, turracoa
Sloop Betsey, Atkinfon, Cape-Francois'
Experiment, Crawford, St. Thomas."
Schooner Recovery, Miller, Curracoa
PRICE SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents zof pr. /
3 pr. Cents 12 /
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents 12f
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates igf
indents , 2 y g 0 do '_
N. and S. Carolina dtbts, T4/ 15/6.
Bank Subfcriptioas, 50 Dollars
New-York, July 28. Six per cent, {lock fold yesterday at 20/ i
and 3 per cents, and deferred at 12/3. J6 '
G3- The.e can be little doubt ot the 6 per cents, beinsr verv
shortly above par-the holders of public paper would do well
therefore to deliberate leifurcly before they part with their stork
(See Gazette of the United States, }une 8.)
The VolunUer Company of Artillery is desired to meet
on Monday next, the firft: of August, at ten o'clock in the morn
ing, at the State-House, in complete uniform.
■? ulv JEREMIAH FISHER. Cant.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by ANDREW BROWN, and the principal Book
sellers in the City of Philadelphia, price one dollar and
THREE QUARTERS, the
LAWS of THE UNITED STATESOF AMERICA ;
Collated with, and corrected by, the original Rolls in the office
Of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Congress,
pafled the iß'.h February, 1791.
With a COPIOUS INDEX.
Volume I.
Coir.pnfing the Feder a l Constitution, the Acts of the
Three Sessions of the First Congress, and theTßi*nt.
To zihickis added, an APPENDIX,
Containing the Declaration of Independence, and sundry
Acts of Conor ess, under the Confederation.
r iST Tt" s ' :d,tion of the laws of the States is also to be
« 7 Mc ""- Thomas and Andrews, Boston ; John Carter, esq.
Providcnce, Rhode-Island ; McflVs. Hudfonand Goodwin, Hart
ford; Mr. Robert Hodge, NaVr-York; Mr. lfaac Collins, Tien
ton; Mefirs. Goddard and Anjcll, Baltimore; Augulline Davi<
esq. Richmond, and Mr.W. P. Koung, Cliarlefton, South-Carolina.
%• The Printers of Ne-xfpapers in the United State! are reqveliei
to inferi l/<n advert fctnent.
par.
60 pr. cent.
60 do.A PRINTING APPARATUS compleat, AND a
NEWS-PAPER ESTABLISHMENT.
ANY young Man, of refpeftable character, capable of conduc
ing the PRINTING BUSINESS in us diffeienc branches,
inay have an upportunity of engaging as a PAR I N'£R, in a laig<
commercial town, where the prcfent income and piofpccis aic
highly flattering to those ot an industrious turn. A fmalUum
will be requested in hand, and fuither particulars explained in
person, by addi effing a line to Z. Townly, at the Bar of the
Merchants and Exchange Cofiee-Houft,
Phi lad. July 20, <79'
Philadelphia, 20m July, J79 1,
THE Commifiioners appointed to receive Subkriptions to the
I'ankof the United States, do hereby, agiceableto bw, in
form the Stockholders of the hid Bank, thnt an election for twenty
five Directors will be he'.d at ihe Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of Oftobcr irext,at loo'cloek in the morning.
' THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTEN HOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Charleftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
CHE M E
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
Consisting of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dollars each, 21,000
Dollars.
1 Prize of
t
J 5
20
20
20
40
60
UU
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 2.1000
(jdT This Class will commence drawing on or before the id of
September.
Tickets may be had of the fev'eral Managers in Charieftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, ")
MATTHEW BRIDGE, Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleflon, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Maikcl-Strcct,
HAVE Tickets in ihe above, and in the Massachusetts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents shall come, or in any wile concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promifTory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philad. lphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hMildred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen ihillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen Ihil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
Thefc arc therefore to caution all persons from puichafing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,^
ROBERT SCOTT, > Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington. North-Carolina, 27th May, 17Q1
War Department,
May 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the fnms to which they are entitled
fotffix months of their annual pension, Irom the 4th day of iMarth,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflionersof the
Loans within the States refpeftively,under the regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment mult be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
ift. The certificate given by the flatc, fpecifyin-g that the person
poffcfTing the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and aicertaining the sum
to which as fnch he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. 3 came before me. one of the Jujlices of the county of in
the fiate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pojjcflion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the flatc to be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or vejjel) at the time he zuas disabled, and that he now rc
fides in the and county of and has resided there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, tli e
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following foi m:
J, A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby con/lit Lite and
appoint C. D. cf my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my per. [ion jor fix months > as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth dux of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the J out th day of September oj the fame year.
Signed and r ealed
in the presence of
Witneffcs.
Acknowledged before rue,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidcnt of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
L ADVERT ISEMEN "T~~
T'K E KAUSS, who left Germany in 1749, and came to Ame
>ica, if he he flitl lu ing, may hear of fomclhing to his ad-
Yfntage, by applying at the office of the Secretary of Slate, in
Philadelphia.
July 20, 1791
[4']
2500 Dolls, is
ICOO
2 5 00
1000
100 are 1500
1000
40 800
30 600
20 8»o
10 6 o
8 ' 5 60
6 480
4 JSjP
17872
Dedu&ion, 3*28
(c p. 3 TTT
(3 <•)
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Puklic Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and Inland hills oj Exchange negociated ,
Merchandize ot all forts bought and fold on Commifliofii and all other
Business in the line of a Broker, tranlacled by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Ortice, next door to the Cujlotn~Houje, State-Street, BOSTON.
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINiER
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publifning 3 PAPER, in good repute,
the fubforibers to which are continually increafing-The present
number of its patrons is between seven aud eight hundred. The
types consist of Burgeois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertisements to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part ot Massachusetts, 111 the centre of a
populous and thriv.ng community, and within i 7 miles ot an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on lhort notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger share of Advertisements than the one offered
for falc. A very considerable profit also accrues from the sale of
Blanks of all kinds, which are much iifed in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bill , See. See. It is a good situation, aifo,
for a lmall Book-Store —and it is foppofed the Book-Binding bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For further particulars, enquire of John Fen no, at his Office,
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
ladelphia. (law 8w)
CONTRACT,
For ere&ing BRIDGES over the ilacki nsack and Passaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the State of
New-] rfey.
THE Commiflioners appointed by an a6l of the of
ihe state of New-Jeifcv, to ere£t bridges over the Hackinfack
and Paflaick rivers, having obtained the neceflary surveys, aie
no*v ready to receive proposals for performing the lame ; and
offer the following coridaions for the consideration of such as may
be inclined to contract :
Tiie situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
atone of the following stations, as shall be hereafter determined
most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is established, where
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern ihore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. wefti'in shore, 8 11
Gteateft depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river it 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern fhoie 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western Ihore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the Paflaick river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as shall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is established, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern Ihore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more weftetly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
D:pth at the eastern Ihoie 11 feet,
Do. western shore
Greatest depth
3d. At a place ft ill more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the riv -1 is 520 feet.
Depih at the eastern shore 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. weft rn shore 10 8
Createft depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftrutted on the principlesof those ercfl
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free pafTage for vetTels with fix
ed standing mails, not left than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined moll con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid veffelsin palling through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the Icafe.
The bridges aie to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as shall render them perfc6Uy fubflantial and fccure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, a-nd are to be of a fulficient
height to protett them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at lpring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for carnage way, 2c feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet,
Do. for balluftrades, 1 fo«t each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Bo ft on and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept >n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good or.der,
agreeably to the adt.
The following are the terms which the commiflioncrs are au
thor 1 fed to offer to contradlois :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges fer a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pro
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
a&ual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years kill past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jerfev currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will consequently produce an
immediate income of gco pounds per aim. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru6lion of these bridges will give 10 travel
ing, the caly communication thereby oflered with the (late 01
A r ew-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
cii cumftanc.es, which mull necessarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads corine£led
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the plaees shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contra£ls for ete£ling them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contrast on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from to Willi Maxwf.ll,
, ln , ISew : York » Specifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to crest the said bridges, together with
proper fccurity for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHJLL, "|
IOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBI.E, J,Commiffioncrs
WILLIAM MAXWIU.L, |
IOHN PINTARD J
Aewarf, Stale of Ncw-Jeifey, April 42, 1791
108
4 5 inches,
*3 4
Public Securities
Bought and Sold, o„ COMMISSION l,v
SAMUEL ANDERSON X
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank \\,' M
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
and NEW-HAVEN '
LOTTE RY TICKETS,
4 Fo be had at the fame place.
[£3* All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice thatthe
!ollowin s advertifemcii*.has been varied irom thai n u b v\,rf
our paper ot the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791
NO riCE is hereby given, that Propolals will he received at the
office of the Secretary of the Tredfuiv, until the firft Monday
111 September next incluhve, tor the supply of all rations, which
may be required tor the use oi the United Spates, from the'niftda
of January to the thirty-finl day of December, 1792, both wu
clufive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein after menu
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof Pcnn
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
1 he River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mutkingum
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
caro was, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its ipouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio'.o River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio,and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mputh of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
ol the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vmcennes,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
M'ami village, before defcribcd.
At anv place or places, from tfce mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on thceaftfideof the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of tJielllinois rivei.
At any place tfr places, from the mouth of the Miami liver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufkv,
an-d at Sandufkv, and from Sandufkv to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv place or places, ontheeaft fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the laid liver Margot, totheii"er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, frpm the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Rear creek, on thefaid river inclusively.
Should any tations be required at any places, or within othGr
diftrifts, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the lame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the co,ntia£W.
The rations to be fuppiied are to confiltof the following articles.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar,f
i r r > pe r - 100 rations.
Two pounds ot ioap, C r
One pound of candles, }
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fitft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft dav of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office,until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which-mnv be required for the u(e of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the poll on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capi. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, frotn
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, ani
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future polls.
The rations arc to be fumiflvd : .n such quantities as tbat there
riiall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said ports, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned. ~ .
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all Losses fufta«nec vt ic
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops oft he
States, fliall be paid for at the priccs of the articlescaptured or e -
troved, on the dcpofitions of two or more creditable c ara er.,
and the certificate of a commifiaoncd officer, ascertaining t te cir
cumftances of the loss, and the amount of the articles lor vv 1C
comnenfation is claimed. . t f
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made eitner orfl
vear, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons <» p° c
to cpntra6l will therefore confine their offers to one > ear, or t
may make their proportions so as to admit an election o
term of two years. « .
The pjoooials may be made for the whole of the above po s
getter, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, lor \of tOVN '
and the fevenieeri places following it, and for the poiis in eorgi ,
and they muft.fpccify the lowcft price p'er ration,for prompt pay
ment.
The price of this Pnp/ris 3 Dollars per "nr.
1 w. gm