PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN TENNO, No. 6g, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 95, of Vol. ll.]
NEW REVENUE LAW.
CONGRESS OF THE UNIT ED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT repealing, after the last day of Jun e
next, the duties heretofore laid npon Distilled
Spirits imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead ; and also upon Spirits
Distilled within the United States, and for ap
propriating the fame.
(CONTINUED.)
AND be it further enattrd, That the chief officer of inspec
tion within whose survey any of the laid spirits shall be
landed, shall give to the proprietor, importer or consignee there
of, or h~is or her agent, a certificate to remain with him or her, of
the whole quantity of the said spirits which shall have been so
landed ; which certificate, besides the said quantity, shall fpecify
the name of such proprietor, importer or consignee, and of the
vessel from on board which the said spirits shall have been landed,
and of the marks of each cask, vessel or cafe containing the fame.
And the said officer shall deliver to to the said proprietor, import
er or consignee, or to his or her agent, a like certificate for each
cask, vefTel or cafe ; which shall accompany the fame wheresoever
it shall be sent, as evidence of its being lawfully imported. And
the officer granting the said certificates, shall make regular and exa£t
entries in the book to be by him kept as aforefaid, of all spirits
for which the fame shall be granted, as particularly as therein des
cribed. And the said proprietor, importer or consignee, or his
or her agent, upon the sale and delivery of any of the said spirits,
shall deliver to the purchaferor purchasers thereof, the certificate
or certificates which ought to accompany the fame ; on pain of
forfeiting the sum of fifty dollars, for each cask, vefTel or cafe,
with which such certificate shall not be delivered.
And be it further enabled, That upon all spirits which after the
said last day of June next, shall be distilled within the United
States, wholly or in part from molafTes, sugar, or other foreign
materials, there shall be paid for their use the duties following,;
that is to fay—-For every gallon of thole spirits more than ten per
cent, below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, eleven cents.
For every gall oh of thofefpirits under five and not more than ten per
cent below proof, accordingtothefame hydrometer, twelve cents.
For every gallon of those spirits of proof and not more than five!
per cent below proof, according to the fame hydrometer, thirteen
cents. Forfevery gallon of those spirits above proof, and not ex
ceeding twenty per cent according to the fame hydrometer, fif
teen cents. For every gallon of those spirits more than twenty
and not more than forty per cent above proof, according to the
fame hydrometer, twenty cents. For every gallon of those fpiriti
more than forty per cent above proof, according to the fame hy
drometer, thirty cents.
And be it further enacted, That upon all spirits which after
the said last day of June next, shall be distilled within the United
States, from any article of the growth or produce of the United
States, in any city, town or vi-llage, there lliall be paid for their
use the duties following ; that is to fay—For every gallon of those
spirits more than ten per cent below proof, according to Dicas's
hydrometer, nine cents. For every gallon of thofefpirits under
five and not more than ten per cent below proof, according to
the fame hydrometer, ten cents. For every gallon of those spirits
of proof, and not more than five per cent below proof, according
to the fame hydrometer, eleven cents. For every gallon of those
spirits above proof but not exceeding twenty per cent according
to the fame hydrometer, thirteen cents. For every gallon of those
spirits, more than twenty afid not more than forty per cent above
proof, according to the fame hydrometer seventeen cents. For
every gallon of those spirits more than forty per cent above pioof,
according to the fame hydrometer, twenty-five cents.
And be it furthei enabled, That the said duties on spirits dis
tilled within the United States, lh<>ll be collected under the man
agement of the supervisors of the revenue.
And be it fuither ena&cd, That the said duties on spirits dis
tilled within the United States, shall be paid or secured previous
to the removal thereof from the distilleries at which they are ref
pe&ively made. And it shall be at the option of the proprietor
or proprietors of each diftillcry, or of his, her or their agent hav
ing the fuperintendance thereof, either to pay the said duties pre
vious to such removal, with an abatement at the rate of two cents
for every ten gallons, ortofecure the payment of the fame, by
giving bond quarter-yearly, with one or more furcties, to the fa
tisfaclion of the chics officer of infpe&ion within whose survey
such diftillcry shall be, and in such sum as the said officer shall di
re#, with condition for the payment of the duties upon all such of
the said spirits as shall be removed from such distillery, within
three months next ensuing the date of the bond, at the expiration
•f nine months from the said date.
And be it further enabled, That the supervisor of each diftrift
shall appoint proper officers to have the charge and survey of the
distilleries within the fame, afligning to each, one or more dis
tilleries as he may think proper, who shall attend such distillery
at all reasonable times, for the execution of the duties by this a£t
enjoined on him.
And be it further enafled, That previous to the removal of the
said spirits from any distillery, the officer within whose charge
and survey the fame may be, shall brand or otherwise mark each
cask, containing the fame, in durable charafcleis, and with pro
greflive numbers, and with the name of the atting owner or other
manager of such distillery, and of the pi ace where the fame was
situate, and with the quantity therein, to be ascertained by attual
guaging, and with the proof thereof. And the duties thereupon
having been fir 11 paid, or secured, as above provided,the said offi
cer shall grant a certificate for each cask of the said spirits, to
accompany tftc fame wheresoever it shall be sent, purporting that
the duty thereon hath been paid or secured, as the cafe may be,
and describing each cask by its marks ; and shall enter into a book
for that purpose to be kept, all the spirits distilled at such distil
lery, and removed from the fame; and the marks of each cask,
and the persons for whose use, and the places to which removed,
and the time of each removal, and the amount of the duties on the
spirits so removed. And if any of the said spirits shall be remo
ved from any such distillery, without having been branded or
marked as aforefaid, or without such certificate as aforefaid, the
fame, together with the cask or casks containing, and the horses
or C ittle, with the carriages, their harness and tackling, and the
vefTel or boat with its tackle and apparel employed in removing
Saturday, March ly, 1791*
them, fliall be forfeited, and may be ftized by any officer of in
fpe&ion. And the fuperintendant or manager of such distillery,
(hall also forfeit the full value of the spirits so removed, to be com
puted at the higheit price of the like Spirits in the market.
And be it further enacted, That no spirits ftiall be removed
from any such distillery, at other limes than between sun-rising
and sun-setting, except by consent and in preicnce of the omcer,
having the charge and surVey thereof, on pain of forfeiture of such
spirits, or of the value thereof at the highest price in the market,
to be recovered with costs of suit, from the a&ing owner or mana
ger of such distillery.
And be it further enacted, That upou stills which after the last
day of June next, (hall be employed in distilling spirits from ma
terials of the growth or produ&ion of the United States, in any
other place than a city, town or village, there {hall be paid for the
use of the United States, the yearly duty of sixty cents for every
gallon, Englilb wine measure, of the capacity or content of each
and every luch dill,(including the head thereof.
And be it further enabled, That the evidence of the employ
ment of the said stills, Ihall be, their being ere&ed in stone, brick,
or some other manner, whereby they (hall be in a condition to be
worked.
And be it farther ena&ed, That the said duties on stills shall be
colle&ed under the management of the supervisor in each diftrift,
who shall appoint and aflign proper officers for the surveys of the
•said stills, and the admeasurement thereof, and the collc£lion of
the duties thereupon ; an-d the said duties (hall be paid half-yearly,
within the firft fifteen days of January and July, upon demand of
the proprietor or proprietors of each still, at his, her, or their
dwelling, by the proper officer charged with the survey thereof :
And in cafe of refulal or neglect to pay, the amount of the duties
so refufed or negletted to be paic,, may either be recovered with
coftsoffuit in an adlion of debt, in the name of the supervisor of
the diftritl, within which such refufal shall happen, for the use of
the United States, or may be levied by distress and sale of goodi
of the per ton or persons, refuting or negle&ing to pay, rendering
the overplus (if any there be after payment of the said amount
and the charges of distress ana sale) to the said person or persons.
And be it further enacted, That if the proprietor of any such
still, finding himfelf or herfelf aggrieved by the said rates, lhall en
ter orcaufe to he entered in a book to be kept for that purpose,
from day to day, when such fall shall be employed, the quantity
offpiiits distilled therefrom, and the quantity from time to time
fold, or otherwise disposed of, and to whom, and when, and shall
produce the said book to the officer of inl'peftion, within whose
survey such still shall be, and shall make oath or affirmation that
the fame doth contain to the belt of his or her knowledge and be
lief, true entries made at their refpe&ive dates, of all the spirits
distilled within the time to which such entries shall relate, from
such still, and of the disposition thereof; and (hall also declare
upon such oath or affirmation, the quantity of such fp'.nrsthen re
maining on hand, it shall be lawful in every such cafe, for the said
officer to whom the said book shall be produced, and he is hereby
required to estimate the duties upon such still, according to the
quantity so stated to have been atlually made therefrom, at the
rate of nine cents per gallon, which, and no more, shall be paid
tor the fame : Provided, That if the said entries shall be made by
any peifon, other than the said proprietor, a like oath or affirma
tion (hall be made by such person.
And the more effectually to prevent the evasion of the duties
hereby imposed on spirits, distilled within the United States.
Be it further enabled, That every person who shall be a naker
or distiller 'of spirits, from mobiles, sugar, or other foicign ma
terials, or from material? the growth ar.d produtlion of the Uni
ted States, shall write or paint, or cause to be written or painted,
upon some conspicuous part out fide and in front of each houfeor
other building, or place made ule of, or intended to be made use of
by bim or her for the distillation or keeping or fpiritous liquors,
and upon the doof or usual entrance of each vault, cellar, or apart
ment within the fame, in which any of the said liquors shall be at
any time by him or her d ifttlled, deposited or kept, or intended
so to be, the words " Disti lle A. of Spirits;" and every
such distiller shall withiq three days before he or she shall begin
to diftill therein, make a particular entry in writing, at the near
est office of infpeftion, if within ten miles thereof, of every such
house, building or place, and of each vault, cellar and apartment
within the fame, in which he or she fh\ll intend to carry on the
business of distilling, or to keep ar.y spirits by him or her distilled.
And if any such distiller shall omit to paint or write, or cause to
be painted or written, the words aforefaid, in manner aforefaid,
upon any such hpufe or other building or place, or vault, or cellar
or apartment thereof, or shall, in cafe the fame be situate within
the said distance often miles of any office of infpe&ion, omit to
msfke entry thereof as aforefaid, such distiller shall for every such
omiifion or neglect, forfeit one hundred dollars, and all the spirits
which he or she shall keep therein, or the value thereof, to be com
puted at the highest price ot such spirits in the market, to be reco
vered by a&ion, with costs of suit, in any court proper to try the
fame, in the name of the fupeivifor of the diftrift, within which
such omiflion or neglect shall be, for the use of the United Stats :
Provided always, and be it further ena&ed, That the said entry to
be made by persons who shall be diiiillers of spirits, on the firft day
of July next, shall be made on that day, or within three days there
after, accompanied (except where the dutier hereby imposed are
charged on the still) with a true and particular account or inven
tory of the spirits, on that day and at the time, in every or any
house, building or place by him or her entered ; and of the casks,
cases and vessels containing the fame, with their marks and num
bers, and the quantities and qualities of the spirits therein con
tained, on pain ot forfeiting for riegledt to make such entry, or to
deliver such account, the sum of one hundred dollars, and all the
spirits by him or her had or kept in any fucn house, building or
pla„e, to be recovered as aforefaid.
F O R S A L E,
In the City of New-B ruttjwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
■t- new, pleasantly situated on the banks ot the Raritan, to
gether with a large I.ot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entriesbetween the fame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have poffeflion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms ol payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis Form an , in said city, or
the fubferiber in Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not (old, to be rented from lfl day of May next
785
[To be continued.]
[Whole No. 19'7«]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 5.
The BANK BILL under conji deration.
[Conclusion of Mr. Boitdinot's Speech.~\
BUT even these loans, arising from this paper
medium, with which the market was glutted
were altogether infufficient; and by one change
of circumltances every hope was precluded of
being any ways fuccefsful in procuring money
from that source—The circumstances of indivi
duals too, in this country, are such, when com
pared with the wants of. a nation, as render the
source too vague and uncertain to rely upon, and
it would be a most improvident execution of the
powers granted for the express purpose of the
common defence and general welfare. Private
banks were almost as inadequate to the objetty
and for reasons already given, were neither to
be depended on, for will or capital, as to the
supply for the principal wants of government.
They are generally eftabliihed for commercial
purposes, and on capitals not always fufficient
for them. If they ftiould be prevailed upon at
any time to attempt to supply the demands of a
nation at war, it must be from a general combi-.
nation of their whole flocks, to the dpftrudtion
of the original designs of their several inftiru
tions. This ought not to be expeded, for as far
as it goes to the depreflion of the mercantile in
terests, so far it is injurious to the government—
besides a dependance upon such a combination
! would be impolitic, both from its slowness and
I uncertainty—The votes of a few individuals af
fected by local, felfilh, or adverse politics, might
endanger the whole people—Such a dependance
ought not to be attributed to the wife framersof
the constitution, neither does the language war
rant it. But foreign loans have been inentione4
as a proper source for this purpole. The impru
dence of placing the common defence of a na
tion, on the will of thole who have no interpft
in its welfare, is a good answer to this obferya
tion. Would it be prudent to trust a foreigner,
perhaps a rival, if not an enemy, with your sup
ply of what has emphatically been called the
linews of war ? Would it not expose us to exor
bitant demands, 'and often a refufal ? Many ad
ventitious circumltances—of a war—increasing
demands from other quarters —scarcity of
and difficulty of communication, as well as the
intrigues of Courts, all loudly oppole the mea
sure, as contrary to the spirit and meaning of a
provision for the common defence and general
welfare. The only resort then, he conceived,
was by a timely provision to secure institutions
at home, from which loans might be obtained at
all times, on moderate terms, and to such amount
as the necefllty of the Hate might require : But
gentlemen fay, that the constitution does not
exprefsty warrant the establishment of such a
corporation. If by expressly, express are
meant, it is agreed that there are no express
words ; and this is the cafe with most of the
powers exercised by Congress ; for if thedo&rine
of neceflary implication is rejedled, be did not
fee what the fupreine legislature of the union
could do in that chara&er. If this power is not
clearly given in the constitution by neceflary im
plication, then is a neceflary end proposed and
directed, while the common and usual neceflary
means to attain that end are refufed, as at
least not granted.
Mr. Boudinot was firtnlyof opinion, that a na
tional bank was the neceflary means, withoat
whichthe end could not be obtained. Theory
proved it so in his opinion, and the experience
of the union in a day of distress, had fully con
firmed the theory. The struggles of the friends
of freedom during the Jlate tonteft, had nearly
been rendered abortivje for want of this aid.—
That danger which was then so hardly avoided,
became a solemn memento to this house, to pro
vide against a similar cafe of neceflity—This was
the time to do it with advantage, being in such
profound peace. He had not heard any argument by which it was proved that either indivi
duals, private banks, or foreigners, could with
fafety and propriety be depended on as the effi
cient and neceH'ary means for so important apur
pofe. Although money was at present plenty in
Europe, and might be borrowed on ealy terms,
it might not be so to -morrow, in cafe a war should
break out, and our'neceffities become prefling.—
He again enumerated the harmless qualities with
which it was propoftd to veil the bank corpora
tion, by the bill on the. table, for the important
purposes of the common defence and general
weltare". Gentleman had not yet pointed out
any danger to the community, neither did
lie think it wap 'poflible that any could ever be
mentioned equal tothofeof fufFering the govern
ment to depefid upon individuals orprivate banks
for loans, in a day of diftrefi.
But it wai said that this bill gave the corpora-
Jon a right to hold real property in a state,
which Cengrefs had no powers to do. The terms
of the bill are misapprehended—this is a right,
which has already been shewn attaches to the ci
tizens individually, or in their aflociated capa
city ; the bill therefore does no more than to
■velt a number with an artificial single capacity,
■under a fictitious name, and by that name to hold
lands, make byc-lavos, See. &c.—all which they
might have done before as citizens in a collec
tive capacity.—So far from giving a new power,
their original individual rights are limited for
the public fafety as to the amount of their itock
and the duration of their exifteuce.
Mr. Boudinot then proceeded to cite numerous
instances of powers exercifedby Congress during
tlie last two years, deduced under the conftiui
tion by necelfary implication, to (hew the utter
impolfibility ofcarryingany one provision of that
authority into execution for the benefit of the
people, without this reasonable latitude of con
itru<Sion. He alio adverted to some indances of
the like condud: under the former confederation.
It had been urged that rhe newsCongrefs had no
rights or powers but what had been veiled injand
given to them by the individual States, and there
fore they could not accept a cession from Great-
Britain by the treaty of peace of the lands ex
tending to the lake of the woods, because not
before included in any individual State. Every
member was soon convinced of the abfurdjty of
this argument, and by a necessary implication,
eftablilhed the power of the confederated legis
lature. During the war the commander in chief
gave a paflport to a Briti/h officer to tranfinit
cloailiing to the Britifli prisoners at Lancaster.
He accordingly conveyed a very large quantity
of British goods into Pennsylvania for that pur
pose, which being direcftly against an exprel'slaw
of that State, they were seized and condemned
by the proper Magistrate. On a complaint to
the legislature of the State, they referred the
fame to their judicial officers, upon whose report
(that Congress being veiled with the power of
declaring war, the right of giving fafe palfports
to an enemy wasneceflarily implied, which there
fore was duly exercised by their commander in
chief, tho no express power was given to him
for that purpose) the legislature declared their
law directing the condemnation of tfie goods
•void ab initio and the judgment of condemnation
had no effect.
This was also the rule that governed this House
with regard to the removability of officers by the
President—and the authority given to a council
to legislate for the weflern territory. In fine he
concltlded, that it was universally understood
that whenever a general power was given, espe
cially to a supreme legislature, every neceflary
means to carry it into execution were neceflarily
included.—This was the common sense of man
kind, without which it would require a multi
tude of volumes to contain the original powers
of an encreafing government, that mull necef.
farily be changing its relative situation every year
<6f two.
If power was given to raise an army, the mak
ing provision for all the neceflary supplies and
incident charges were included.—lf a navy was
to be formed, the manning and supplying the
Warlike fibres are necellarily underltood.—lf a
power is given to borrow money, a right to mort
gage or pledge the public property to feeure the
re-payment, is underflood to be veiled in the
borrower. Take up the present statute book,
and every page will afford evidence of this doc
trine.-—Examine the law with regard to crimes
and punishments ; under the power of eftablifh
ing*courts, we have implied the power of punifh
ingthe dealing and falfifying the records, and
afceriained the punishment of perjury, bi ibery,
and extortion. Under the power of regulating
trade we have accepted ceflions of real estate, and
built light-houses, piers, &c.—All this is under
thedocflrine of neceflary implication for the pub
lic good ; and in cases not so flrong as the pre
sent, and on the exercise of which no gentlemen
thought proper to dart this objection.
This conftrucftion appears so natural and ne
ceflary, that the good sense of every gentleman
on the floor, has hitherto led him to proceed on
this principle ever finee we began to legislate :
What principle of the conllitution does it destroy ?
It gives nothing that can affect the rights of any
(late or citizen. Indeed it has been said, that it
is exerciling a high atft of power : He thought it
had been shewn to be rather of the inferior kind
—but allow the polition, and who so proper as the
legislature of the whole union, to exercise such a
power for the general welfare. It has also been
said, that this power is a mere conveniency for
the purpose of fifcal tranfaclions, bat not neces
sary to attain the ends proposed in the conftitu
tiou. This is denied, and at bell is mere matter
of opinion, and mull be left to the discretion of
the legislature to determine.
Mr. Boudinot laid, he lliould now conclude
what he had to f?y, had not an honorable gentle
man (Mr. Jackson) brought forward the obferva
tious of the author <*f the Federalist, 2 vol. pa. 72
73 and 74, to Ihew a different contemporaneous
exposition of the constitution, and charged the
auchor, who he alledged was said to be also the
author of the present plan before the houfe,with
a change of fentitnent-—As this gentleman is not
here to speak for himfelf, he ought to have the
next best chance, by having what he then wrote,
candidly attended to, especially as gentlemen al
low him to be good authority.—Mr. Boudinot
read only part of the 73d page referred to by
Mr. Jackson, in these words : " Had the conven
' tion attempted a positive enumeration of the
' powers necellary and proper for carrying their
' other powers into effect, the attempt would
' have involved a compleat digest of laws on eve
' ry fubjeft to which the constitution relates :
' accommodated too not only to the existing state
' of things, but to all the polfible ch9nges which
' futurity may produce ; for in every new appli
' ca;ion of a general power, the particular powers,
e which are the means of attaining the general
' power, must always neceflarily vary with that
' object, and be often properly varied whilst the
' object remains the fame.' How these senti
ments can be said to be a different contemporane
ous exposition must be left to the house to deter
mine. Mr. Boudinot then begged the indulgence
of the house to hear the fame gentleman when
arguing expressly on that part of the constitution
now under consideration ; and then read pages
144,5 and 6 of the ift. vol. of the Federalift,which
were too long to be inserted. He declared that
in his opinion it was impracticable to put toge
ther language in the fame length, that could
more forcibly and pointedly elucidate and prove
Ihe construction contended for in support of the
bill on the table. There remained yet but two
objettions, to wich Mr. Boudinot would detain
the house any longer. 1
The gentleman from Geoigia (Mr. Jackson)
had charged the measure with eftabliihing the
commercial interests, to the great injury of the
agricultural. If this was true, he never would
agree to it, for heconfidered the agricultural in
terests of America, as its great and sure depend
ance. Mr. Boudinot confefled that so far from
feeing these measures in this point of light, he
could not bring his mind to comprehend how the
commercial interests of a country could be pro
moted without greatly advancing the interests of
agriculture.—Will the farmer have any tempta
tion to labor, if the surplus of what he raises, be
yond his domellic consumption, is to perish in his
barn, for want of a market—Can a market be ob
tained without the merchant—lf commerce flou
rifhes the merchants increase, and of course the
demand for the produce of the land ; but if the
merchantile interests fail, there is none to export
the surplus produced by agriculture. If the far
mer lhould undertake to export his own produce,
he could not give his whole attention to his as
fairs ; or if the merchant Jhould attempt to raise
the grain he wanted, he could not carry on his
merchandize. The one interest depends on the
other ; a separation destroys both.
But the incapacity of the bank to extend its in
fluence to the extremes of the union, has been
argued, from the gentleman never having seen a
uoteofthe present Bank of North-America in
Georgia ; he therefore concludes, that bank has
never been of any service to her agricultural in
terests. Mr. Boudinot (aid, that he drew very
different conclusions from this fart—he supposed
that by means of the bank, the traders with Geor
gia had been enabled to fend her the precious me
tals, while the bank paper had answered their
purposes nearer home, where they circulated with
undoubted credit. He inltanced a cafe, of a Phi
ladelphia merchant, who was poflefled of £100
in gold, and £iooin credit at the bank ; the mer
chant wanted £100 worth of rice of a Georgia
planter, and the like value in flour of a Pennfyl
vania farmer.—When he purchased the one of
the Georgian, he could fafelypay him the whole
in gold, while he found the Pennfylvanian would
as readily receive the bank paper for his flour :
But had there been no bank, he could have pur
chased but £;o worth of each, and the Georgian
and Pennfylvanian both have gone without a mar
ket for. the residue. In short the whole union
may be likened to the body and limbs ; you can
not aid or comfort one, but the other nntft be
likewise benefited.
786
He said it was however difficult, and imprafti.
cable, to (hew that every measure adopted by the
government, (hould have an effe<sl perfectly equal
over so extensive a government as that ot'the
United States, it was fufficientif, upon the whole
the measures of government taken all together
produced the desired equality.
The lad objection was, that by adopting, tin's
bill weexpofed the measure to be considered and
defeated by the judiciary of the United Stai«,
who might adjudge it to be contrary to the con
lliuition and therefore void, and not lend their
aid to carry it into execution. This, he alledg
ed, gave hi in no uneasiness. He was so far from
controverting this right in the judiciary, that it
was his boaltand his confidence. It led him, he
said, to greater decision on all fubjefts of a con
stitutional nature, when he reflected that if from
inattention, want of precision, or any other de
fect, he Ihould do wrong, that there was a pow
er in the government which could conllitutional
ly prevent the operation of such wrong meafur<
from afFeifting his constituents.—He was legisla
ting for a nation and for thousands unborn, and
it was the glory of the constitution that there wai
a remedy even for the failures of che supreme le
giflature itfelf.
Upon the whole then, he said, that on taking
the power in question in every point of view and
giving the constitution the fulleft consideration,
under the advantage of having the objciiions
placed in the strongest pointof light by thegreat
abilities of the gentlemen in the opposition, he
was clearly in favor of the bill; as to its expe
diency, there could belittle doubt on the minds
of any gentleman, and unlefsmore conclusive ar
guments could be adduced to fliew its unconftitu
tionality he fliould in the end vote for palling the
[The foregoing speech of Mr. Boudinot, is copied
from " The General Advertiser"—the others, which
have appeared, and will be publijhedin this paper, on
the fubji'El of the Bank, are originals.~\
L O N D O N, Dec. 7.
Extrail of a letter from Paris, Nov. 2J.
| IWO celebrated Mechanics (Messrs. Per-
A riers) obtained permiflion in 1777, to con
ftrutfl, at their own expence, some fire pumps,
that were to raise and distribute the Seine water
into all the streets of the capital. A co.nfidera
ble sum of money was wanting to form such an
ettablifhment, and Mefl". Perrier's riches consist
ed, at that time, only in calculations ; but con
vinced that their enterprise would prove extreme
ly lucrative, they inspired some of the inhabitants
of Paris with their confidence, and several of the
citizens entered into a society with them, under
the name of Perrier's water company. The fun
damental base of this society was the creation of
1200 fliares of 1200 livres £50 (telling each : the
number of these (hares soon encreafed to 400, and
it was at the time, unluckily for the public Trea
sury, that stock-jobbing was very a»Sive about this
eftablilhment. Pompous advertisements, and al
luring proposals, were swarming in every coffee
houfe, and posted up at the Exchange, ana at
the corner of every public street. The cupidity
of speculators was so enticed by such flattering
advantages, that the fliares rose, from their ori
ginal price of T2OO to 4000 livres. This sucCess,
however, was likely to produce a total fall, for
in order to support such marvellous promises,
success must have been certain to the enterprise ;
the public, however absolutely refufed to let the
water into their houses. Every body appeared
alarmed at the expence. The company then, in
order to conciliate once more the favor of the
public, joined to it a Fire-Office for infurnnce,
but the inhabitants of the capital exprefled as lit
tle desire to preserve themselves from fire, as they
did to buy water—the stock-jobbers then chang
ed their manoeuvres.—They were bold and fuc
cefsful enough to add the credit of government
to that of the company, and the money of the
public Treasury to precarious and difcreditecl
(hares. In vain did M. de Mirabeau (the Elder)
publish a severe pamphlet against the enterprise,
and stock-jobbing ; upwards of twenty millions
of livres for the four thousand fliares, which ori
ginally were worth only four millions eight hun
dred thousand livres, and are at present °f no
real value. -Not content with this only, Men.
Per riers had influence enough to obtain from the
late Parliament of Paris a sentence, concerted
between them and the company's directors, by
which the said Perriers, were declared creditors
on Government for about two millions of livrtt-
M. de Batz, in the name of the committee of Li
quidations, reported the whole of this infamous
tranfacftion to the Natiorvil Aflembly on Monday
last, and filled the house with aflonifhment an
indignation. He concluded his report with the e
remarkable expreflions : . ,
" It is time the National Aflembly fliould begin
to impress the minds of individuals with a pio
found refpedt for the public weal, and for tie
painful fruits of the people's labor. A line o
demarcation ought certainly to be traced between
the errors of a vicious adminiftxation, and t iefinnnefs of a severe regimen, without which the
payment of the public debt and the re-eltabliih
meiit of the Finances would prove but imagi
nary."
" The National Aflembly decreed " ipfi fafio,
the three following articles."
ift. The Prefidentfliall be requeued to denounce
to his Majesty the Arret concerted between Rlcfl.
Perriers and the directors of the water company,
in order that the interettsof the nation, and of
the public Treasury may not be the fufferers
" 2d. The King lhall be entreated to order,
that all sums belonging to the said company ftiall
be returned, without delay, to the public Trea
furv."
" 3d. The National Aflembly reserve to theiii
felves the power to prosecute the authors, abet
tors, and adherents of all the manoeurves by
which have been extracted from the public Trea
sury the sums mentioned in the report of the
committee of liquidation."
December 31
On Thursday fe'night, during the storm, the
lightning was attracted by ar. iron-bar, which
was fixed as a supporter to the chimney of the
house of Sir James Marriott, judge of the admi
ralty, in Doctors-Commons ; the chimney was
thrown down, and broke through the roof into
the attic story ; which much alarmed the family
as Sir. James lay in a room immediately under
neath ; but fortunately no person was hurt.
January, 3.
INTELLIGENCE FROM FRANCE.
By advices from Paris, of so late a date as the
27th ult. we have the following interesting intel
ligence :
M, de Rochambeau, who, on the alarm spread
of the expecfted invasion of Franqe, from the
north, had been dispatched by the National As
sembly to command the patriotic army, and watch
the motions of the lmperialifts, has issued the fol
lowing inftrurtions to the general officers serving
under him.
" Let the tnoft sacred refped: be paid to all the
decrees fancflioned by the King. As every mili
tary man owes ablolute submission to the Law,
and the King, do not allow the smallest aspersion
to be thrown on their injun<ftions ; re-establish
discipline throughout the whole army ; wait
with refpeftful silence for the military constitu
tion. Every officer who does not think it his du
ty to art in conformity to these inftrudlions, is
liereby at liberty to retire."
The officers of the garrison of Lisle, have at
the playhouse, and other places of public resort,
publicly avowed their contempt for the National
Aflembly, and have gone fofar as to ridicule their
operations ; which seems to indicate, that M. de
Rochambeau will have much employment on his
Lands, as the danger to the revolutioniflrs offuch
a formidable fortrefs being in the interest of the
nobility, &c. is very obvious.
What the Aflembly may have to apprehend
from the discordant and threatning commotions
which prevail to the south of France, may be col
lected from the following articles of intelligence.
A letter froin Aries, in Provence, brings the
dreadful news of thie murder of twenty two per
sons by the mob of that city, and what renders
the crime still more heinous, the rabble were by
no means provoked to it ; whereas at Perpignan
and Aix the aristocratic party went to extreme
lengths, and, in a manner, invited the enraged
multitude to lay violent hands on them.
The magistrates of Lyons are busy in examin
ing the circumstances that attended the conspira
cy lately discovered in that city; every day con
firms its existence, and unveils the molt atroci
ous intentions.
M. Voidel, in the name of the committee of
enquiry, read, on the 23d. in the National Afleni
bly, a letter from the Administrators of the de
partment of the Var ; by which it appears that
some young men conspiring againlt the revoluti
on have allembLed, at Nice ; that they are buy
ing hoi'fes and military furniture ; and that can
non and other warlike Itores arrive daily from
Italy. The letter adds, that the views of the
enemy seem directed against Antibes and Entra
vaux ; and that some of their parties had advan
ced within fight of Antibes ; but finding it well
supplied with artillery, and defended by three
hundred national guards, they had not dared to
hazard an attack. Greater fears are entertained
for Entravaux, where the enemies of the revolu
tion have many partizans. It was decreed, that
the King should be supplicated tofend afudicient
garrison thither.
On the 10th, at Geneva, the people were so
certain of a counter-revolution being attempted,
that fifty louis d'ors were laid to four, that the
king would not be in Paris on the 13th, and in
Savoy it was looked on as a physical certainty.
FRANCE,
VARIOUS circumstances give us reason to be
lieve that a counter-revolution lias been
in agitation, and even planned by the friends
of defpotifin in that kingdom, affiited by such
of the arillocraiic party as were obliged to
fly from the vengeance of their injured country,
and to seek an ignominious Ihelter in foreign
courts. M. de Calonne's publication, On the pre
sent and future flatc of France, evidently announ
ces the existence of such a scheme ; and the au
thor urges the neceflity, and enforces the execu
tion of it, in the ftrongeftand mod preifing man
ner. Count d'Artois, who, for fonie time palt,
has been a voluntary exile at the court of Turin,
is looked up to as the head of this project ; and
great hopes have been entertained that the dif
trefles of the people in France, the natural con
sequence of the changes which have taken place,
would have irritated their minds against their
new rulers, and disposed them to receive favor
ably any proposal made for re-eftabliftiing the an
cient form of the constitution. A sense, how
ever, of their former wretched condition, when
under the despotic sway of petty tyrants, who
abusing the confidence of a good monarch, op
posed his fubjecfls to gratify their private ambi
tion, or to enable them to indulge in ihameful
pleasures ; a thorough convi&ion of the scan
dalous abuses committed, for many years past,
in every department of the State, and a remem
brance of the cruelties exercised against those
whaventured to complain, or to expose the fla
grant villainies of unprincipled minifl/ers ; ltrike
too forcibly on their minds not to make them
tenapious of the liberty they have acquired, >and
which must be permanent, as long as they con
tinue unanimous and firm in that federation which
they have solemnly sworn to maintain. The
miseries of the lower clafles of the people in
France, which have been painted in such gloomy
colours by some, and exaggerated by others,
seem to be in a great degree ideal, and are un
doubtedly not half so bad as they have been re
presented. The ready circulation of the affignats,
which is about to take place, will remedy the
deficiency of specie, *occasioned by the imm'enfe
funis that have been carried from the country by
aristocratic fugitives; commerce will consequent
ly revive, and agriculture be promoted ; while
all ranks, enlivened by the pleasing profpedt of
peace, harmony a«td concord, being restored,
will unite their utmost efforts to preserve these
invaluable blessings. When we fee the eager
ness with which the church property (b'tens na
tionaux) is purchaled, some of it being fold at
more than double its valuation, we mult be con
vinced that true patriotism is too deeply rooted
in the bosoms of the French to be easily extin
gui/hed ; and they consider 110 facrifice too great,
provided they can extricate their country from
the deplorable fituatipn into which it has been
plunged for ages, and transmit freedom and hap
piness to their posterity. The liberty
in France is, therefore, likely to be established
on a solid and lasting foundation, which neither
court intrigues nor despotic' fury, aided by dis
appointed ambition, c!m destroy. But the li
berty, or rather licentioufnefsof the brabant
ers has vanished, " like the baseless fabric of a
vision,". and scarcely "lefta trace behind." De
luded by infatuated demagogues, who had nei
ther abilities nor courage fufficient to carry on an
enterprise which required constancy, persever
ance, coolness and resolution ; and inftigated'to
rebellion by the inflammatory harangues of fa
natical priefls, ever ready to sow sedition, and
who, to encourage their weak followers, walk
ed before them with their religious ir.fignia, as
if inufty relics could have performed miracles,
they have lhared the fate of the frog in the fa
ble, which perished by endeavoring to swell her
pigmy figure to the gigantic size of the ox.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET II
•, with a. Song.
BLEST is the /W/if his songs can raifc
Some kindred genius th?t will catch the fire,
Sent to Mrs
With answering notes awake the trembling lyre,
And give to far poiterity his praise.
Yet double p eafure fills his aged days,
If chance, responsive to his fond desire,
While from the lips of youth the notes aspire,
In the warm bread the flame ot virtue blaze.
And (till a greater pleasure, Ihould he spy
That while from Virtue's brealt the mafic flows,
Caught by the song, the voice, the speaking eye,
In every heart the llluftrious purp'ofe glows.
Even he, the Poet, nobler worth should warm
By virtue, greatlv rous'd, in 's form
Philadelphia,
Further European Intelligence may be colleftedfrom
the following abjlrafl.
THE late Emperor Joseph, made sundry inno
vations in the government of the Dutchy of Mi
lan : Leopold has restored things to their for
mer situation.
Tranquility having been restored to the States
of Brabant, the Plenipotentiaries who ratified the
Convention of Riechenbach, which had, for one
principal object, the establishment of peace and
good order in the Belgic Provinces, have agreed
on certain articles, to regulate in the process of
finally adj tilting and fettling all fubjeifts ofcon
troverfy heretofore existing : These articles pro
787
ELLA.
March 19.
vide for the refloration ofpublic affairs nearly to
their former situation, particularly those relatino
to the clergy—but no ltanding armies or taxes
are to be raised in future except by the confenc
of the States.
The King of Sweden, by his envoy, has stated
to the Porte, the reasons, which induced him to
make a separate peace with Ruflia—and after fay
ing that " prefled by irrefiftable misfortunes he
had been compelled" to this measure—he solemn
ly allures the Sublime Porte, that no one fiiall be
more faithful than hinifef to his engagements ;
and that he will conflantly maintain his alliance
with that power.
The new government in France are carrying
their system into effecft in some fucli manner as
Henry the VHlth of England carried on there
formation, only on a more extensive plan, hav
ing opened the doors of the convents, they are
now opening those of their churches, and liber
ating the long confined mafles of gold and silver,
in the forms of Doves, Ladies, Angels, Sheep, &c.
These transformed into coin, will perform great
er miracles than legendary tales record ! The
bells are also to be melted down for the fame pur
pose.
The Pope it is said, has given permission to the
French Clergy to take theCiyic Oath; but many
of them did not wait for his Holiness' dispensa
tion.
The Ruffians have recently gained several vic
tories overthe Turks ; on the i 4th Nov. they took
the fortrefs of Iflatzi, the general (lore house of
the whole Turkish army ; and the Turkish fleet"
stationed before Tulcza, consisting of 17 fail,
were all captured and burnt.
An amballador was expected at Paris from the
Emperor Leopold, to demand, in form, the Queen
of France : It was not thought the claim would
be acceded to—and that the Emperor would con
ftrne the refufal into a just cause of war.
Great commotions are said to have broken out
in Spain—the port; offices are watched with the
greatell vigilance. In the province of Biscay the
people have commenced their operations in fa
vor of liberty, by hanging several of the King's
Governors.
Notwithstanding all that has been said to the con
trary, the Leyden Gazette, which is considered as
the most authentic vehicle of European Intelligence,
poptively ajferts, THAT NOT ONLY PARIS-—
BUT THE WHOLE FRENCH KINGDOM EN
JOY TRANQUILITY. The Affignats freely cir
culate in trade—and on the <)th Dec. were 10J per
cent, above par—ln Nov. the receipts at the public
treasury exceeded the expences of government by three
millions—and on the 4th Dec. there were in the pub
lic treasury, 29 millions, 684 thousand livris— 12,
millions of which were in specie.
JO™ Public Securities as in our lafl.
Just published, and to be fold by the Editor,
A TOUR in HOLLAND.
By an AMERICAN
SEVERAL Gentlemen of literary talents have perufcd the ma
nufcriptof this work—among others, the justly celebrated author
of M'Fincal ; who, after reading it, made the following obser
vations, in a letter to the author, viz. " I cannot return your Jour
nal, without exprefling ipy obligations to you for the plcafure I
fyave received in its perusal, nor without hinting my wilhes that
you would confenttoits publication. We have in English, no
good account of the customs, manners, &c, of the United Provin
ces. Travellers have exhausted themselves in descriptions of France
and Italy ; but the tour to those countries only has been faihion
able. Notwithstanding onr connexion with Holland, the people
of this country know little more of it than of Otaheite. Thiscir
cumftance will rendei your Journal both novel and ufeful.
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
Joseph Anthony and Son,
firm of
They have for Sale, at their Stores, (lately improved by Hewes
and Anthony,) North fide Chefnut-Street Wharf,
NEW-ENGLAND Rum, Hyson,) TCAC f , c A
MolafTrs, Souchong T£A , S > of the firft
Muscovado Sugars, & Bohea ) ua 1
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee, Boston Sail Duck,
Pimento, No r i, 2, 3, 4, and 7,
Caflia, 6 by 8 Window Glass,
Old Batavia Arrack, Boston Prime Beef,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles, A quantity of choice Caryot
Spermaceti, Right Whale, Tobacco*
and Tanner's Oil, N. England Tow Linen.
Best pick'd Mackarcl, Philadel. March 18. [e.p-3w.]
MACHINERY FOR SPINNING FLAX, HEMP AND
COMBED WOOL.
THE Subscriber he*ebv gives public notice, that he has obtain
ed a patent for a fltvering wheel and table, a movementfor wet
ting the threadby conical doth coated thrumblers, and anotherfor the fame
purpoje, by a cloth coated 1 oiler y a leathern belt moved by rollers, for the
pwpofe oj the pieparatory drawing oj the (livers, and another leathern,
belt moved in like manner, by rollers,for the purpose of drawing the rov
ed flax, hemp and wool, being improvements upon the mill or ma
chinery ofKendrew and Porthoufe of the town of Darlington in
Great Britain.
This machinery, with the original mechanism on which it is
grafted,being of the utmost value to the United States, the subscri
ber hereby offers to make and erect a complete mill or mills, in
cluding both the original works, and his above improvements
thereon, for any individual or company, on terms to be by them
agreed on ; and to conduct the Manufa£tory either for a fhaieof
the profits, or stipulated wages. GEORGE PARKINSON,
Philad. No. 65, Chejnut-Street, March 17, 1791. [93 6f.]*
In 1784,U
■
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT providing Compensations for the Offi
cers of the Judicial Courts of the United Stares,
and for Jurors and Witnefl'es, and for other
Purposes.
BE it enafled by the Senate and Houfeof Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress afTembled, That there
be allowed to the several officers following,in addition to the tees
(except milage to the marshals) to which they are otherwise by
law entitled, and also to jurors and witnefies, m the courts of the
United States, the following compensations, that is to fay: To
the attorney of the United Stales for the diftrift, for his expencca
and time in travelling from the place of his abode to any court of
the United States, on which his attendance shall be requisite,
at the rate of ten cents per mile going, and the fame allow
ance for returning; to the clerk of the diftrift court, for at
tending in the diftrift or circuit court, five dollars per day, and
the like compensation for travelling, as is above allowed to the
attorney for the diftritt : to the clerk of the supreme court for at
tending in court, eight dollars per day; to the marihal of the
diftrift, for attending the supreme, circuit or diftritt courts, five
dollars per day ; for summoning a grand jury, three dollars ; and
for summoning a petit jury, two dollars ; and for serving and re
turning a writ, five cents per mile for his necefTary t avel; to the
grand and petit jurors, each fifty cents per day for attending in
court, and for travelling, at the rate of fifty cents for every ten
miles from their refpe&ive places of abode, to the place where
the court is held, and the like allowance for returning : to wit
nesses summoned on the part of the United States, or in behalf of
any prisoner to be tried for any capital offence in any of the courts
thereof, the fanie compensation as is above allowed to grand and
petit jurors. That the several officers above fpecified Ihall be
deemed to have been entitled to the above refpe&ive cosnpenfa
. tions, from the time of their refpettive appointments ; and that
• the grand and petit jurors and witnefles, who have heretofore at-
W tended, shall also be deemed entitled to the above compensation,
in like manner as those who (hall hereafter attend. That there
shall also be paid to the marshal, the amount of the expence for
fuel, candles, and other reasonable contingencies for holding a
court, as hath accrued or shall accrue; and the compensations to
the grand and petit jurors and witnesses, shall be included in the
account of, and paid to the marshal, to the use of, and be by him
accordingly paid over to the several persons entitled to the fame ;
and the accounts of the several officers for the compensations afore
faid (except milage to the marshal, for the service of writs in civil
causes) having been previoufiy examined and certified by the judge
of the diftrift, shall be pasTed in the usual manner at, and the a
rnount thereof paid out of the treasury of the United States. And
a sum arising from the fines and forfeitures to the United States,
and equal to the amount thereof, is hereby appropriated for the
payment of the above accounts.
And be it further enacted, That instead of the provisions in
that refpeft heietofore made, the firft feflion of the circuit courts
in the eastern circuit, after the pafli.ig of this ast, (hall commence
at the times following, that is to fay : In New-York diftrift, on
the fifth, and in Connecticut diftrift, on the twenty-fifth days of
April next, in MaiTachufetts diftnft, on the twelfth, and in New-
Hampftiire diftrift, on the twenty-fourth days of May next; and
in Rhode-Island diftrift, on the seventh day of June next \ and
the subsequent feflions in the refpeftive diftrifts, on the like days
of eveiy sixth calendar month thereafter, except when any of those
days shall happen on a Sunday, and then the feflions (hall com
mence on the next day following. And the feflions of the said
circuit court shall be held in New-Hampshire diftrift, at Ports
mouth and Exeter alternately, beginning at the firft : In Maflachu
fetts diftrift, at Boston ; in Rhode-Island diftrift, at Newport and
Providence, alternately, beginning at the firft; in Connecticut
diftrift, at Hartford and alternately, beginning at the
last ; and in New-York diftrift, at the city of New-York only.
And be it further enacted, That from and after the pafling of
this ast, instead of'the provisions in the ast for that purpose, the
feflions of -the circuit court for the diftrift of Virginia, shall be
holden in the city of Richmond only.
And be it further enacted, That this ast shall continue in force
until the end of the next feflion of Congress, and no longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ofthe United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
Captain Armstrong,
INFORMS his fellow-foldier and others,who may wish to enlist,
that he bds commenced recruiting in the city of Philadelphia,
where a generous bounty, and other encouragement will be given.
Young men, who wish to become Adventurers in a new
country, by joining this command, may acquire a knowledge of
the Western World, fubjett to no experxe ; and after serving a
short period, set down on their own farms, and enjoy all the
bladings of peace and plenty. JOHN ARMSTRONG.
Philadelphia, March 14, 1791.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already pub!ijhed t
Written by Mathew Carey.
I. ' | 'HE Work (hall contain 200 pages ; be printed on th e
A fineft writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edgf
rolled and lettered.
11. Pricc to subscribers two thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work (hall be put to the press as soon as 2so copies
are subscribed for.
IV. The fubferibers names shall be prefixed.
SUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart,
ar) dC°. °^ ler Booksellers in Philadelphia ; also, by the
different gendemen throughout the United States, who supply fub
fcriVrs with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1795.
CONDITIONS.
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELIAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the sth of April next, at 10 o'clock, A. M,
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengal, Madras, and Isle ol France ;
Consisting of a large and valuable assortment of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz.
BAFTAS, ) „ ru . , r
Sanna,, a„d ( Cl ° ths ' P r °P er f ° r
Cartas S Sh,rtin 6« or Sheeting.
Dareas—or flriped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted striped do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagrenant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchiefs.
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, suitable for shirting."
Madras Patches, beautifully figured.
Camboys, or blue and white ttripcd Cottons.
Moreas, or plain white Cloths. . S
Madras Cambricks. ' ja
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
Book Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety.
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Surat Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the I lie ot France, of a superior quality.
An assortment ot fine Winesof the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfers, for Sailors' wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety oj other Goods, which ar
not enumerated.
100 Caflcs Raisins,
75 Chests BoheaTea.f r ». , « .
30 Ditto Hyson, >°f the best
30 ditto Souchong, j
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to the sale.
W. P BARTLETT and CO. Auctioneers.
Salem, Feb. 21,1791,
Virginia, Culpeper County, 25th Jan. 1791.
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town of Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a moil
healthy part of the country : —Confiding of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so difpei fed as to afford great opportunity 6f
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, pafling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant •
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about" 5 miles nearer said towns, con
fiding of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in great abundance; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodin quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhaullable
source for the saw-mill.
Aifo several detached trails within said county, of about 2, 3,
and 400 acres each,and though not offofertilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, ou some of them there are small
improvements, and the lands so situated, that they can easily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned possessions will
be disposed of, on very reasonable terms—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchasers, who may be
fupphed on the fame terms, with all kinds of stock, work hor
ses, oxen,&c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f.]
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they rcqueft those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5 Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. JOSIAH HEWES,
„ JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791.
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar^
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hogsheads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Bolton Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Bcfl pickled Mackrel,
6by B—7 by 9 —8 by 10—9 by n_and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an eIegantCHANDELIER.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
(ituate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 35 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, tpr further particular?,
Neu)-York } Jan. 1791
788
Bengal.
Atfi,
Martinico Coffee,
(aaw6w.)
Philadilfhi A, February 2 4 1h ( , 7 „ r
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION', A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS,
INTENDED AS MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OP
AMERICA.
IN this collection will be contained the Char t ens 0 f the
leveial dates which now compose the Union the Recor
of the United Co lonies of New-Engiand ;—Royal Infiruc'
tions to Colon ia l Gov rr nor s ; —Extr acts from Pl blic
Records ; —and other authentic Documents tending to elucidar,.
our History. " c
The design of this compilation was intimated to Congress and
honored with their approbation.—On the 20th July, 1778 ' t |„ lr
committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it a
their " Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
deserves the-public patronage and encouragement, as being p ro .
duchve of public utility;" Whereupon they " Resolved That
it be recommended to the Governors, Presidents, and Executive
Powers of the several states in the union, to aflift Mr. Hazard nd
give facility to his labors ; and that for this purpose h ■ be ad'nnt
ted to an infpeaion of public records, and befui nithed without
expence with copies of such papers as he may judge will conduce
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He was, of consequence, admitted to the infpeftion and use both
of public records, and the collcftions made by individuals from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met' wi-h
onthefubjeft, and, he flatters himfelf, the largest ever made in
America) was formed. It has since met the approbation of many
eminent characters.and even in its manufcrip! state, has facilitated
the fettlcment of fame important controversies.
The compiler cannot suppress the following letter from tlie honor
able the Secretary of State, to whose infpeaion part ofihe com
pilation was submitted, as it contains so flattering and refLcfta
ble a teflimony in favor of the importance of the work.
'' Philadelphia, February iS, 1791.
SIR,
I return you the two volumes of Records, with thanks for the opportu
mty of looking into them :—they are curions Monuments of the Infancy
oj our country. I learn with great fatisfaSion that you are about corL
mitting to the Press the valuable Hifterical and State Papers you have
been so long coUetling. Time and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals deposited in our public offices : the late par has done the
work oj centuries in this bujinrfs : the lojl cannot be recovered; but let
usfave what remains; not by vaults andlock I, which fence themjrom
the public eye and use in consigning them to the wafle of time, but by fuck
a multiplication of copies as fiall place them be) ond the reach of accident;
this being the tendency of your undertaking, be ajfured there is iwoneuiht
wijhes it a more complete success than, SIR
Your mojl obedient and mcfl humble Servant
THOMAS JEFFERSON,"
Mft. Hazard
I. The Work to be published in numbers, each containing
160 pages, large quarto A number to be delivered every three
months.
11. On delivery of the firft Number, payment to be made for
the firlt and second, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(except the last) so that the price of one Number will be constant.
ly in advance. The very great expence attending so large a work,
at the lame time that it renders this condition abfolutelv neceffj
ry, will be a fufficicnt apology to the candid lor its insertion.
111. The prjee to Subscribers will be one Dollar for each num
ber. It is supposed that the Work will probably be comprised la
eight Numbers, forming two handsome Volumes, i n large quarto,
printed on a neat Type and good paper.
IV. To those who choose to fubferibe for the Work in Vo
lumes, the price will be Four Dollars and a Quarter of a Dollar, for
each Volume, in boards.
V. The collection will be put to the Prefsas soon as there
ihall be a fulficient number of subscriptions to juftify an hope that
the expences will be defrayed.
who receive Subjcriptious will tmnfmit accounts«/
the numbers obtained to Thomas Dobfon, No 41, Second-flrtet. Phila
dilphid } by the firjl of May next.
Subscriptions willbe received in Portfmouth,(N. H) by
Jeremiah Libbcy; Bolton, Thomas & Andrews ; Worcester,
Ilaiah Thomas; Hartford, Thomas Hildrup ; New-Hai en, isaac
Beers; New-London, Timothy Green j Newport, (R. I.) Jacob
Richardson ; Providence, John Carter ; New-York, Hodge, Al
len & Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. Lanfing ; Philadelphia,
Thomas Dobfon, and Hazard & Addoms ; Wilmington, (Dela
ware) Frederick Craig ; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexandria, Jo
(hua Merriman ; Norfolk, Mr. JLindfey ; Frederickfburgh. Cat
lender and Henderfon ; Peterlburgh, John Grammer; Rich
mond, Augustine Davis ; Newbern, (N. C.) F. X. Martin ; Wil
ming<on, John Bradley ; Charleston, (S. C.) William P. Young.
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
FROM an expeflation that a mutual advantage would be deri
ved by the dealers in public securities, and a person who
ihould undertake to tranfatit such business on commiflion only, has
concluded to offer himfelf for that purpose. Being of op'inion,
that every requisite to convince them and others of his d.ifmtereft
cdnefs ought to be attended to on his part, he has duly made oath
before the Hon. the Chief Justice of the State of Pennsylvania, that
he will faithfully execute the trusts which may be reposed in him.
« I Henry Kuhl, of the city of Philadelphia, Jlock broker, Jo Jwear,
that 1 uii// not be concerned either direflh or indired/y, on my own ac
count, in any pur chafes or fates of the evidences of the'debt of the Unitei
States or oj particular States, but will truly anafaithfully execute fuck
purchajes ahdjales on commijfion only Jor ihofe who may employ me :
that is to Jay, until I Jhall announce in one or more oj the neujpapers
printed at the feat oj the government oj the United States, my deter
mination to the contrary. HENRY KUHL
Sworn at Philadelphia, February 12th, 1791, before
THOMAS M'KEAN."
1 he commiflions he will charge for the are—
On the specie amount of all funis below SCOO nominal dollars,
one halt per cent, on do. from 5000 to 10,000 do. one fourth per
cent, on do. from i©,ooo and upwards do. one eighth percent.
Accounts Hated, and certificates funded at the Treasury or
Loan-Office of the United States, on moderate terms.
N. B. All orders for purchajes or Jales to be m zvjitin*.
Philadelphia, February 19, 1791. (85 t. f.)
No.gj, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
80 3m
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
CONDITIONS
COpy OF THE OATH,
Manuel Noah,
BR OK E R,
particular State.