PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 95, of Vol. II. j
Discourses on Davila—No. 28.
THE siege and defence of Orleans, may be a
good lecfture on the military art, but is not
directly to our purpose which at present is only
to relate the- fortunes and catastrophes of the
great a<ftors in those scenes of emulation, which
have been before described. There was in the
party of the Hugonots a gentleman, named Pol
trot, of an active mind and a designing charac
ter. He had lived some years in Spain ; and
having afterwards embraced Calvinism, and re
sided some time at Geneva, he discovered so much
zeal for his new faith, and entered with so much
zeal into all the intrigues of the party, that the
Calvinifts in general considered him, as a per
sonage capable of attempting in their favor the
moll hazardous enterprizes. It is not one of the
leafc evils of a civil war, that ne man's charac
ter is secure against suspicions and imputations
of the mod enormous crimes. It is almott the
nniverfal pratftice for each party to charge the
leaders of the other, with every bafeaftion, eve
ry sinister event, and every high handed wick
edness, without much consideration or enquiry,
■whether there is truth or evidence or even co
lour to support the accusation. The Catholics
pretended that the Admiral and Theodore Beza,
engaged Poltrot to aflaflinate the Duke of Guise,
by proniifes of great rewards, and by persuading
him that he could do nothing more acceptable to
God, than to deliver his people from their most
cruel persecutor. Poltrot yielding to their in
stigations, pretended to have abandoned the
Calvinift party, and threw himfelf into the roy
al army, where having infintiated himfelf into
the house of the Duke of Guise, he watched for
a favorable moment to execute his design. The
24th of February, 1563, the Duke after having
given his orders for an aflanlt which lie intended
to make the next day, at the bridge of Orleans,
returned at right to his quarters about a
leaguediftant from the trenches ; Poltrot, mount
ed on a Spanish horse, very fleet, waited for him,
on his paflage, and feeing him accompanied, only
by a gentleman of the Queen, with whom he was
closely engaged in conversation, he fhor him in
the back, with an arquebufe, loaded with three
balls. The Duke was without arms, the three
balls struck him under the right Ihoulder and
pierced him through the body ; He fell from his
horse for dead. His gentlemen, who marched
before, that they might not interrupt his con
versation, returned, at this accident, and car
ried him to his lodgings where as soon as they had
examined his wound, his life- was despaired of.
The King, the Queen Mother and all the Loids
in the army, at the news of so fatal a disaster,
Jiaftened to the Duke's lodgings ; but all their
cares and remedies were useless ; he died in
three days, with great sentiments fays Davila,
of piety and religion, discovering in his dis
courses agreatnefsof foul and a moderation moll
admirable. This Prince, united with the high
est valour and lingular abilities, a consummate
prudence. As profound in council, as adtive in
execution, he always saw his designs crowned
■with the happiest success. The(e qualities had
procured him the reputation of the firft Captain
of bis age, and his exploits merited the title of
the defender and prote&or of the Catholic re
ligion. He left a name glorious and celebrated
10 posterity, tarnished however to endless ages with
the jttji imputation oj intolerance.
Poltrot had escaped into a neigliboiing sorest ;
but tortured by the remorse of his conscience,
and by the terror of being pursued on all fides,
he wandered all night in the woods, without be
ing able to find the road to Orleans. The next
morning exhausted by fatigue, he was arretted
by some Swiss guards and Jed to the Queen and
the principal officers of the army. He alter
nately accused and acquitted both on the rack
nnd at his execution the Admiral and Theodore
Beza, who published declarations throughout all
Europe, denying in the nioft solemn manner their
knowledge of the design of Poltrot. The court
battened the execution of this monster, before
an opportunity had been given to confront and
examine him, as the Admiral requetted by quar
tering him between four horses. The confe
rence was that the suspicion was fattened, on
these two austere and excellent characters, in
the minds of the Catholic party, though they
have been uniformly acquitted by the whole im
Saturday. March 26, 1791.
partial world. Irt consequence of the prejudices
of the Catholics, the children of the Duke of Guise
preserved a cruel resentment, and to-ok an hor
rible revenge.
NEW REVENUE LAW.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and*ninety.
AN ACT repealing, after the last clay of June
next, the duties heretofore laid upon Distilled
Spirits imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead ; and also upon Spirits
Distilled within the United States, and for ap
propriating the fame.
(CONCLUDED.)
AND be it further enacted, That in order to entitle the said
exporter or exporters to the benefit of the said allowances,
he, she or they, {hall previous to putting or lading any of the said
spirits on board of any ship or vefTel for exportation, give twenty
four hours notice at the least, to the proper officer of infpeftion of
the port from which the said spirits shall be intended to be ex
ported, of his, her or their intention to export the fame, and of
the number of casks, veflels and cases, or either of them, contain
ing the said spirits so intended to be exported, and of the relpec
live marks thereof, and of the place or places where the said spi
rits shall be then deposited, and of the place to which, and ship
or vefTel in which they shall be so intended to be exported.
Whereupon it (hall be the duty of the said officer to infpeft, by
himfelfor deputy, the calks, vefTe's and cafe? so noticed for ex
portation, and the quantities, kinds and proofs of the spirits there
in, together with the certificates which ought to accompany the
fame according to the direftionsof this ast, which (hall be pro
duced to him lor that purpose; and if he shall find that the said
casks, veflels and cases have the proper marks according to the di
rections of this ast, and that the spirits therein correspond with
she said certificates, he (hall thereupon brand each rafk, v (Tel or
cafe with the word " Exportation and the said spirits shall, af
ter such infpeftion, be laden on board the fame ship or vefTel, of
which notice shall have been given, and in the prtfence of the fame
officer who shall have examined the fame, and whofeduty it shall
be to attend for that purpose. And after the said spirits shall be
laden on board such ship or vefTel, the certificates aforefaid shall
be delivered to the said officer, who shall certify to the collector
of the said diftrift, the amount and particulars of the spirits so ex
ported, and shall also deliver the said certificates which shall have
been by him received, to the said collector, which shall be a
voucher to him, for payment of the said allowance.
Provided nevertheless, and be it further enacted, That the said
allowance shall not be made, unless the said exporter or exporters
shall make oath, or affirmation, that the said spirits so noticed for
exportation, and laden on board such ship or vefTel, are truly in
tended to be exported to the place whereof notice shall have been
given, and are not intended to be relanded within the United
Stales ; and that he or she doth verily believe that the duties there
upon charged by this ast, have beqn duly paid, or secured to be
paid ; and shall also give bond to the collector, with two furetics,
one of whom shall be the master, or other person having the com
mand or charge of the ship or vefTel in which the said spirits shall
be intended to be exported ; the other, such fufficient person as
shall be approved by the said collector, in the full value in thp
judgment of the said collector, of the said spirits so intended to be
exported, with condition that the said spirits (the dangers of the
sea s and enemies excepted) shall be really and truly exported to,
and landed in some port or place without the limits of the United
States, and that the said spirits shall not be unshipped from on
board of the said ship or vefTel, whereupon the fame shall have
been laden for exportation, within the said limits, or auv ports
or harbors of the United States, or relanded in any other part of
the fame ; ship wreck or any other unavoidable accident excepted.
Provided also, and be t further enacted, That the said allow
ance shall not be paid until fix months after the said spirits shall
have been so exported : And provided also, That whenever the
owner of any ship or vessel, on board of which any such spirits
are laden for exportation, shall make known to the collector, pre
vious to the departure of such ship or vefTel from the port where
such spirits are laden, that such ship or vefTel is not going to pro
ceed on the voyage intended, or the voyage is altered : It shall be
lawful for the co'leftor to grant a permit for th«* relanding of the
lame.
And be it further ena&ed, That if any of the said spirits, after
the fame (hall have been (hipped for exportation, shall be unlhip
ped for any purpose whatever, cither within the limits of any part
of the United States, or within four leagues of the coast thereof,
or (hall be relanded within the United States, from on board the
(hip or vessel wherein the fame (hall have been laden for export
ation, unless the voyage (hall not be proceeded on, or shall be al
tered as aforefaid, or unless ir cafe of neceflity or distress to save
the (hip and goods from periling, which (hall immediately be
made known to the pi incipal officer of the customs, icfiding at the
ports nearest to which such ship or vessel shall be at the time fucb
neccflity or distress (hallarife, then not only the spirits so un(hip
r»rd, together with the casks, vessels and cases containing the fame,
but also thj; (hip or vessel in or on board which the fame (hall
have been so (hipped or laden, together with her guns, furniture,
ammunition, tackle nd appaiel ; and also the (hip,ve(Tel or boit
into which the said spirits shall beunfhipped or put, alter the un
shipping thereof, together wuh her guns, furni ure, ammunition,
ackle and apparel, shall be foifeited, and may b« seized by any
officer of the customs, or of infpe&ion.
And be it further enatted, That the said allowance (hall not be
made when the said spirits shall be exported into any other than
j ship or veflel of the burthen of thirty tons and upwards, to be
ascertained to the fatisfa&ion of the col'le&or of the diftrift from
which the fame (hall be intended to be exoorted.
And be it further ena&rd, That the bonds to be given as afore
a:d, shall and may beaifcharged by producing within one y«ar
rom the refpeftive dates thereof (if the fame be (hipped to any
part of Europe or America, and within two years if shipped to
793
[Whole No. 199/
a iv part of Asia or Africa, and if the delivery of the spirits in re
lpeit to which ihe fame (hall have been given, be at any place
where a consul, or other agent of the United States refidesj 1 cer
tificate of such consul or agent, or if there be no such consul or
agent, then a certificate of any two known and reputable Ameri
can merchants residing at the laid place ; and if there be not tw'.
such merchants residing at the said place, then a certificate of an
other two reputable merchants, teftifying the delivery of the faii
spirits at the said place. Which certificate shall in each cafe be
confirmed by the oath or affirmation of the matter and mate, or
other like officer of the vefTel in which the said spirits (ball have
been exported ; and when such certificate shall be from any other
ihan a conlul or agent, or merchants of the United States, it (ball
be a part of the said oath or affirmation, that there were not upon
diligent enquiry, to be found two merchants of the United States
at the said p'ace : Provided always, That in the cafe of death, the
oath or affirmation of the party dving, (hall not be deemed ne.
ceflary : And provided further, That the said oath or affirmation,
taken before the chief civil magistrate of the place of the said de
l'very, and certified under his hand and seal, shall be of the fame
validity as if taken before a person qualified to administer oaths
within the United States ; or such bonds (hall and may he dif
harged upon proof that the spirits so exported, were taken by
enemies or perished in the sea, or deflroyed by fire ; the examina
tion and proof of the fame being left to the judgment of the col
lcftor of the customs, naval officer, and chief offi:er of infpeftion,
or any two of them, of the place from which such spirits (ball have
been exported. And in cases where the certificates herein direct
ed cannot be obtained, the exporter or exporters of such spirits,
(ball nevertheless be permitted to oft'er such other proof as to the
delivery of the said spirits, without the limits of the United States,
as he or they may have ; and i! the fame (hall be deemed fufficient
by the said colleflor, he (hall allow the fame, exci pt when the
drawback to be allowed shall amount to one hundred dollars or
upwards ; in all which cases the proofs aforefaid (hall be referred
to the comptroller of the treasury, whose decision thereon (hall
be final.
And be it further enafteil, That it (hall and may be lawful (or
the Prefidentof the United States, from time to time, to make fu'ch
allowances to the said supervisors, infppftgrs, aftd to the deputies
and officers by them to be appointed and employed foj-their re
fpeftive ferviccs in the execution of this ast, to be paid out of the),
product of the said duties, as he lhall deem reasonable and proper :
Provided always, Tliat the aggregate amount of the allowances to"
all tbe laid supervisors, infpeftors and other officers, shall n6t ex
ceed seven per cent, of the whole product: of the duties arifingfrorri
the spirits distilled within the United States : And provided also.
That fnch allowance sHall not exceed the annual amount of forty-
Ave thoulmd dollars, until the fame (hall be further ascertained by
law.
And be it further enacted, That this ast shall commence and
take effect as to all matters therein contained, in refpeft to which
no special commencement is hereby provi'ded (except as to the
appointment of officers and regulation of the didrifts and surveys)
from and immed lately after the lall day of June next.
And be it further enacted, That the nett product of the duties
herein before fpecified, which shall be raised, levied and collected
by virtue of this ast, or so much thereof as may be riecelfary, (hall
be, and is hereby pledged and appropriated lor the payment of
the intered of the several and refpeftive loans which have been
made in foreign countries, prior to the fourth day of Augud lad;
and also upon all and every the Joan and loans which have been
and (hall be made and obtained pursuant to the ast, entituled.
" An ast making provision for the debt of the United States;"
and according to the true intent and meaning of the said ast, and
of the several provisions and engagements therein contained an 1
exprefled, and fubjeft to the like priorities.and reservations as arc
made and contained in and by the said ast, in refpeft to the mo
nies therein appropriated, and fubjeft to this farther reservation,
that is to fay—of the nett amount or product during the present
year, of the duties laid by this ast, in addition to those heretofore
laid upon spirits imported into the United States, from anv so.
reign port or place, and of the duties laid by this ast on spirits dis
tilled within the United States, and on dills; to be difpoffd of
towards such purposes for which appropriations (liall be made du
ring the present feflion. And to the end thatthe said monies mav
be inviolably applied in conformity to the appropriation herchv
made, and may never be diverted to any other pnrpofe until the
final redemption, 01 reimburftment of the loans or sums for the
payment ot the interest whereol thev are appropriated, an account
(hall.be kept of the receipts and disposition thereof, separate and
diltinft from the product of any other duties, impod, excise, and
taxes whatsoever, except those heretofore laid aud appropriated to
the- fame purposes.
And be it iurther enacted, That the unappropriated surplus, If
any there shall be, of the revenue arising Under this ast, at the end
of this and every (ucceeding year, (hdll be applied to the reduc
tion of the public debt, in like manner as isdirefted bv the ast,
intituled, 'An acl making provision for the redtiftion of the pub-
and provided by the ail, entituled, " An ast making
provision for the debt of the United States unless the said sur
plus, or any part thereof, shall be required for the public exig
encies of the United States, and (hall, by special acts of Congrcfs,
be appropriated thereto.
And be it further enacted, That the several duties imposed bv
this ast, (hail continue to be collcfted and paid, until the debts
and purposes for which they are pledged and appropriated, (hall
be fully discharged and fatisfied, and no longer. Provided al
ways, That nothing herein contained shall beconftrued to prevent
the legiflaturd of the Uruted States from substituting other duties
or taxes of equal value to all or any of the said duties and im
posts.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker oj the House ojßeprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejidert of the United States,
and President oj the Senate•
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
FORM'D long ago—yet made to-day,
I'm most in use while others fleep—>
\Vhat few would wish to give away,
wifli to keep.
&k$ o
ENIGMA.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. y.
The B ANK BILL under cons deration
MR. STONE said : If upon questions like
the present he had given pain to members
he regarded, the)' might be aflured the pain was
reciprocal. Let us cherish mutual toleration.
We might conceive that each pursued improper
fyltems from the purest morives. We differ in
our ideas of government and our sense of the
facrednefs of the written compact. We varied
widely in our opinions of the dire&ion of this
government: The gieat lellon of experiment
would /how who is right ; but we are influenced
in our habits of thinking by our local situations,
and perhaps the diftin<ft interests of the States we
represent. He observed, that upon the present
occasion the opinions refpedting the constitution
seem ro be divided by a geographical line, di
viding the continent. Hence it might be infer
red that other considerations mixed with the
question ; and it had been insinuated that it was
warped by the future feat of government. But
other causes may be afligned for the diversity of
(entiment ; the people to the eaftvvard began
earliest in favor of liberty : They pursued free
dom into anarchy ; starting at the precipice of
confufion they are now vibrating far the other
way. He said that all our taxes are paid by the
consumers of manufa<stures ; thofc taxes are all
bounties upon home manufaiftures. The people
to the eastward are the manufacturers of this
country ; it was no wonder that they should en
deavor to strengthen the hands of a government
by which they are so peculiarly benefited.
It is a fadl that the greatest part of the Conti
nental Debt has travelled Eaftwardof the Potow
niack—This law is to raise the value of the Con
tinental Paper. Here then (fays he) is the
Jtrong impulse of immediate interest in favor of
the Bank—He took notice of the diltin&ion made
by the plan of the bill, between Continental and
State Paper—The State Paper on account of par
tial payments of interest still remained in the
refpetftive states. But this could not by the
present system be subscribed—so that the South
ern States were deprived of the advantage that
might have been given to the only paper they
have. But (he said) if Gentleman charge us
with defending the feat of government, let
them remember that this betrays consciousness of
ari attack. If they believe that this scheme tends
to break the faith of the union pledged to the
Potowmack, it is no wonder they suppose we op
pose it upon that ground. He would not have
mentioned this fubjetfl, had it not been hinted
at. But let the whole of it come forth—let gen
tlemen consult their own bosoms ; let the pub
lic decide the truth of his observations. He
hoped he should not be fufpecfted of any biafs
so uniform had been his conduit upon all
questions, turning upon principles fiinilar to the
present, that every member in the house, he be
lieved, had conjectured rightly of the fide he
would take before he had uttered a word upon
the fubjed. When implication firft raised its
head in this house, he started from it asaferpent
which was to Iting and poison the constitution.
He felt in unison with his country. The fears
the opinions, the jealousies of individuals and of
states, had been explained by a gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Madison). He should only remark,
that all those who opposed the government,
dreaded this dodtrine—thofe who advocated it
declared that it could not be resorted to—and all
combined in opinion that it ought not to be to
lerated. Never did any country more compleat-
Iy unite in any sentiment than America in this—
■' ' hat Congress ought not to exercise, by im
plication, powers not granted by the constitu
tion' And it is not ftrange—for the admission
ot this dodlrme destroys the principle of your
government at a blow—it at once bn?aks down
every barrier which the federal constitution had
raised against unlimited legislation. He said that
necenity was the rnoft plaunble pretext for break
ing the spirit of the social compact; but the peo
ple of this country have anticipated that pretext
They have said to the ministers of this coun
ry, " We have given you what we think com
petent powers; but if experience proves them
inadequate, we will enlarge them—but in the
mean time dare not usurp those which we have
reserved."
It is agreed on all hands that the power to in
corporate the subscribers to a bank is not ex
pressly granted, and although gentleman have
agreed that it is implied— that it is an incident
—that it is a means, for effectuating powers ex
prefsly granted ; yet they are not agreed as to
the particular power to which this is an incident.
They admit that the Iweeping clause in the con
stitution confers no additional power. But it
he understood the gentlemen, several of them
were of opinion that all governments iuftituted
for certain ends draw to them the means of exe
cution as of common right. This dotflrine would
make our's but afhoit constitution. (Here he
read the preamble) and then said—Here is youi
constitution ! Here is your bill of rights ! Do
these gentlemen require any thing more refpecii
ingthe powers of Congress, than a defenption
of the ends of government ? and if of ight they
can carry these into effetft, will they regard the
means tho they be expressly pointed out But I
would ask if there is any power under heaven
which could not be exercised within the exten
sive limits of this preamble f
The convention might have flopped here—and
there was no need, according to the dotftrine of
the gentlemen, to point out any of the means for
the ends mentioned in the preamble. That por
tion of the constitution which, by all America,
has been thought so important, according to their
logic, would become a dead letter; but the pre
amble in fair conftrudlion is a solemn compadt,
that the powers granted lhall be made use of to
the ends thereby fpecified.
He then reprobated in pointed terms the lati
tude of the principles premised. He faici the
end of all government is the public good—and
if the means were left to legiflaiion, all written
compacts were nugatory He observed, that the
sober discretion of the legislature, which in the
opinions of gentlemen ought to be paramount,
was the very thing intended to be curbed and
restrained by our constitution.
He then declared that our form of government
not only pointed out the ends of government,
but fpecified the means of execution. He said
we may make war—this would draw to it the
power of raising an army and navy, laying taxes,
establishing a judiciary, &c. But the spirit of
the constitution in this refpert had been well ex
plained by Mr. Madison, and he fliould not re
capitulate.
He faida gentleman from South-Carolina (Mr.
Smith) had remarked that all our laws'proceeded
upon the principle of expediency—that we were
judges of that expediency—as soon as we gave it
as our opinion that a thing was expedient, it be
came constitutional. What then, said he, re
mains of your constitution, except its mode or
organization ! We may look into it to refrefh our
memories, refpetfing the times, places and man
ner of cotnpofing the government—that as to
the powers of Congress, were he of that gentle
man's opinion, he would never look into it again.
Gentlemen fee the difficulties of their theories,
and are obliged to confefs, that these incidental
powers are not easily defined. They relt in the
sober discretion of the legislature.
One gentleman (Mr. Ames) has said, no im
plication ought to be made against the law of
nature—against rights acquired—or against pow
ers pre-occupied by the flakes ; that it iseafierto
restrain than to give competent powers of exe
cution. Now there notions are hostile to the
main principle of our government, which is only
a grant of particular portions of power, imply
ing a negative to all others. It has been fliown
that the ends of government will include every
thing. If gentlemen are allowed to range in
their sober discretion for the means, it is plain
they have no limits. By the cabaliftical word
incident, your constitution is turned upfidedown ;
and instead of being a grant of particular powers,
guarded by an implied negative to all others, it is
made to imply all powers. But, strange to tell,
America forgot to guard it by express negative
provisions. Is there any difference in effect be
tween lodging general powers in a government,
and permitting the exercise of them by subtle
conftruiflions ? He said there was a difference
In the one cafe, the people fairly gave up their
liberty, and stood prepared—in the other, they
were unexpectedly tricked out of their confti
[To be concluded in our next.~\
tution.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT
To the PROMPTER.
Sir,
T AM a young man of considerable fafhion, bur
A have not yet got into flioeftrings ; and my
buckles are so long, they prevent my toes from
bending when I walk ; and my coat and waist
coat croud my hair up out of its place, and scrub
my neck and cheeks till they are fore—it seems
tome our fafhion-makers " do not workitright.''
—Do, Sir, tell us if bucldes are to grow longer
than feet; or the collars of coats and waistcoats
into hoods. I am, Sir, your admirer, W.
N- R • I believe you meant me in your lass number,
for I always borrow afpade, a Jhovel, a crowbar, a
pickaxe, and a wheelbarrow when I want them—this,
1 think, is " "working it right'''—it is better than to
buy them.
794
PARIS, December 2r.
YESTERDAY M. Bailly, the mayor, received
the following letter from the king .•
" I wifli you, fir, to wait upon me this even
ing at seven, and to bring with you the commiffi.
oners of subsistence and public establishments
The season grows severe, and I feel nothing more
urgent than to concert means with you for fecu
rino (übfillence for the people, and providing
them with employment during the winter.
Signed LOUIS."
Plots and confpiraces continue to be talked of
in various parts of the kingdom ; but we have
been To much accustomed to filch alarms, that we
riafs less regard to them than formerly. The
ferment among the clergy has been general ; but
they have not been able to commuicate it to the
people, by whom all their attempts to excite di
fturbanres, even where the magistrates have be
trayed or neglected theirduty, have been watch
fd and defeated. The sale of church and crown
lands lias far exceeded expectation ; the aflijr
nats are alieadyin the process of being cancel,
led : the troops of the line in general continue
steady to their duty ; and taxes begin to be re
gularly paid.
LONDON, January 10.
It is very much apprehended that the Grand
Vizir will be obliged, in all cases, to give way to
the Ruffian troops, or run the rifle of havina the
reft of his army entirely destroyed.
Of more than too,ooo men which he had tin
der his command, above 60,000 Asiatics have de
serted, in i'pire of entreaties, remonstrances, and
menaces to induce them to stay.
Out of the 40,000 which remained some time
ago, many were daily deferring. And in thefe
veral marches, sieges, and Ikirmifhes which they
have made and sustained, many more have pe
ri lhed.
It is expected, that the negociations at Schif
tovi, will be interrupted by the Ruffian troops
particularly by the Colfacks, and that it will be
liecellary to name some other town for the meet
ing of the Congress.
It has been lately recommended to fuebgen
tlemen as chufe to travel with fire artns, when
they find themselves attacked by a mounted high
wayman, to shoot rather at the horse which the
highwayman rides than at the man. The rea
sons for this recommendation are said to be the
following: 1 It. They would not be so likely to
miss the mark they aim ai s not one highwayman
in a thousand would be able to keep his feat un
der the exertions that a wounded horse would
make ; and in cafe the horse fliould be killed,the
man would, of course, fall an easy prey. 2d.
Beranfe very few highwaymen ride upon their
own horses, and the killing the horse would be
a check to those jockies and others, who let out
horses for the scandalous purposes of robbing.
?d. Killing the horse would not so much wound
the conscience as killing one of our own species,
who by this means would be sent into hell out
right with the fin he was committing irreversibly
upon him.
On Monday lalt as Thomas Evans, a carrier,
was on the road to Shrewsbury, after being in a
moll: violent rage with one of his horses which
did nor go onto his fatisfaclion, beating the poor
animal, and uttering the mod dreadful oaths, he
suddenly dropped down dead—an awful warning
toprophane swearers, and to those unfeeliggper
fons who use poor worn out animals with wanton
cruelty !
On the police of the Turks, in the severe pn
nifliments inflicted upon those who make use of
falfe weightsand measures, Mr. Howard confirm
ed the account given by many other travellers.
He spoke highly of some part of the moral cha
racter of the Turks, particularly of their grati
tude for favors received, and said, that when he
has been lucky enough to cure a rich Turk of
some disorder, he offered him a purse of 2000 se
quins. This, however, Mr. Howard would not
accept of, and requested only that his patient
would permit him occasionally to fend to his
garden for some grapes and oranges to eat with
his tea at breakfaft. The Turk sent him every
morning a large baiket full of the choicest fruits
his garden produced.
NEW DISCOVERY.
Mr. Watson, plumber in Newcafile, (Bngland)\
has lately finifhed, by Mr. Ker's direction, two
coppers for condensing and preserving the eflen
tial oils of hops, which have been eredled in the
Tyne and Hexham breweries, and given the great
est fatisfacSion to the proprietors, who have most
liberally rewarded Mr. Ker, for the exercise of
his valuable discovery.
The inventor discovered, what is aftonifliing
no one ever observed before him, in the
common way of impregnating worts with the
virtues of the hops, the finer and more aromatic
flavorof these was dissipated in vapor, while the
disagreeable bitter quality alone remained.
In consequence of this observation he devise ,
a method of collecting the vapor, which he foun
to be principally composed of the eflential oil oIthe plant. This oil he returned into the worts
[in their fermenting Hate, and the result exceed
ed his mod sanguine expeditions—the liquor ac
quired an infinitely more delicate flavor, and what
is of equal importance, became beyond all coin
parifon less susceptible of passing into the four
state ; while, at the fame time, asone fourth less
hops was requisite in boiling the worts, their
nauseous bitter quality was imparted in apropor
. tionably smaller degree.
National Atfembly, December 27
Fifty eccleliaftical members took the Civic Oath
agreeable to a form prepared : On this occasion
the Abbe Gregoire pronounced adifcourfe to the
Aflembly, which was ordered to be printed.
Dicevtber 28 29
An address from a society at Clermont Ferrard,
informed the Ailembly, that the reports of a coun
ter-revolution, tho so often vague and unfound
ed, are real in regard to the commotions in Au
vergne where plotsagainft the government are
actually forming : This address prelfesthe a (Tern
bly to erecT; a High Court of Treason. It was or
dered to be published.
In the town of Paniiers, another bloody tu
mult has happened —in which many lives were
loft.
The Aflembly decreed that every discovery of a
new invention, in any kind of industry, is the
property of its author.
No new President is yet declared : M. de Mi
rabeau wanted but four votes in the last scrutiny
to get in the chair.
Jan. 4. The usual compliments on the renew
al of the year were paid on Saturday last, by the
President, at the head of a deputation, to the
King, Queen and the Dauphin.
These addrefles anticipate the moment as fact
approaching, which in terminating the labors of
the Aflembly, will invariably fix the public wel
ware : It recognizes the harmony and concord
which exist between the King and the Aflembly—
■which they fay rauft destroy the frivolous hopes
ofthofe who are equally the enemies of the King
and the Aflembly.
The answer of the King exprefles his sense of
the attachment of the Aflembly to his person—-
and recurs to that confidence which now subsists
between him and them, as that, which aloite will
perfect and consolidate the great wort—the con
flitution of the kingdom.
BOSTO N, March 12
Extra ft of a letter from Marietta f dated Nov. 25,
" Between Fort Pitt and this place, we were
hailed by people on an island, in the utmost dis
tress: They had funk their boat, and were obli
ged to swim to the island—men, women and chil
dren. They informed us that two of their chil
dren, a girl of iJ, and a boy of 5 years old, not
being able to reach the ihore, were gone down
the current on part of the wreck ; I immediately
got into a Ikiff we happened to have with us, and
two good men with me, and overtook the wreck
in three quarters of an hour, 8 miles from the
island, and fotind the girl with her little brother
fitting ofi a few boards which fell together in the
■wreck.—There were in all about 20 people on
the ifland—(Their boat funk about day-light of
a cold morning)—they were wet, and chilled al
310ft to death—they had been there almost: an
hour, and some of their children were almost
gone. The diftrefled mother would take nonou
rifliinent until they came down to us, and we
were able to make them hear from the wreck,
that all was well. They came on with us to this
place, and;-, continued in our boat to the Miami,
•where they were bound—The parents of the two
children were from New-Jersey, by the name of
Ludlow—they loft almost all they had, cloathing
money, cattle and horses."
BALTIMORE, March 18
" Ycfterday, being the Anniversary of the im
mortal St. PATRICK, the tutelar St. of Hibernia,
the day was celebrated here in ail unusual style
of taste and splendour. Agreeably to a recent
communication, the Saint made his personal ap
pearance, and honored his sons with his presence
in a procellion through the town. He was dres
sed in his primitive robes, and read, as he palled
along, the Holy Scriptures, with great apparent
devotion ; an example, it is hoped, his children
will follow in their pallage through life. After
the procellion was over, and the company had pai
taken of a repast, suitable to the day and occali
on, (at Mr. Brett's on Fell's-Point) the venera
ble Saint gave them the most interesting advice
for the regulation of their future conduct in the
pilgrimage of life, which appeared to have a ve
ry happy effecft—when, giving them his inoft af
fectionate and fervent Benediction, he disap
peared.
A gentleman's family, on a plantation in Ann-
Arundel county, have furnifhed the following
remarkable instance of industry ?
From the ift of April, 1791, totheiftof March,
1791, there were manufactured in this family,
J2f> yards of flieeting, 292 of other linen, 767 of
FRANCE,
brown rolls, 5:0 of bagging, 30 of Cotton, 18 of
Jeanet, 136 of Lin fey, 110 of ICerfey, in the whole
1529 yards ; 6r pair of fine, and 87 pair of
stockings—besides a number of leading-lines,
bed-cords, clothes-lines, and otherarticles for the
use of the plantation.—Though there are on this
plantation only 3 white Women, some small chil
dren, and about 12 working Negroes, they have
made and raised for sale, in addition to the arti
cles above mentioned, 20 hogsheads of Tobacco,
and 1000 buihelsof Wheat, yearly.
LITERATURE.
M. L'Abbe Vella, a very learned profeflor of
the Oriental Languages, in Sicily, has announced
that he saw at Girgentia, a volume of cotton pa
per, written in the Wetlern Moorish character,
that contains a translation into Arabic of seven
teen books of that part of Livy's History which
is wanting. It goes from the 6otli to the 77th.
This lail is not complete, and there are foine
chasms in the others, occasioned by being in some
places worm eaten. The 60th begins at the epoch
when the Consul Aurelius fubduced the rebels of
Sardinia, after a very considerable {laughter ;
and went afterwards into Corlica to punilli
who had bidden defiance to him.
The 61ft book opens with the foundation of
Aix, in Provence, by the Pro-Consul L. Sextius,
ft otn whom that city took the name of Aquse
Sextise
The Abbe has already translated some of this
valuable work, and promises to present the Re
public of Letters with an edition in the Arabian
language on one fide, and the Latin or Italian on
the other.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET 111.
Sent to Miss,
NOW o'er the world hath sober Evening fpreacl
Her ebon-tin&ured veil—the stars appear—
smiling Moon in mildest beauty clear,
As on my hand I press mypenfive head.
While not on earth is heard one echoing tread,
Look thro' the Southern uprais'd window near.
Down on my cheek tear courses after tear—
I think onabfent friends, on pleasures fled.
Now all their a&ions living in my fight
Awake new, mournful, pleasures in my foul,
And each memento gives a frefh delight.
Do not such joys my fair one's mind controul ?
They do—l fee th' aflenting tear descend—•
And {he will love this trifle for the friend.
Wc feldommcet with any thing m t hi* lin coequal to th£ following
FROM THE PROVIDENCE GAZETTE.
Elegiac Lines on the death of Mr. Moses Brown, jun.
DAPHNIS the young, the lov'd, is dead, —
And hence this universal gloom !
To-day the fable Hearse was led,
Inflow Proceflion, to the tomb.
That bosom senseless lies, and cold
Where Science ever lov'd to dwell,
Speechless that Tongue—which never told
Whatfpotlefs Virtue dar'd not tell.
That face which every fight could plcale,
That form in Symmetry so just,
Where dignity, combin'd with ease,
Are mouldering to their primal dust.
Departed Youth ! oft to thy grave
Shall science from her feat repair,
And there with tears the green turt lave,
Her bosom to the rude Winds bare.
There too (hall Virtue oft be seen,
When o'er the Vale spreads twilight grey—
With tearful eye, and sorrowing Mcin,
Bent o'er the Earth that ftir6uds thy clay.
Adieu, dear shade ! —accept thefelays,
From one to whom thy Memory's dear,
Who knew thy Virtues—and whose praise,
Although unequal, is sincere.
Philadelphia, March 26.
How much preferable to a (late of inquietude,
uncertainty and insecurity, it is, to be favored
with a government, that not only inspires confi
dence in its wisdom, by its judicious admini
llration, but produces the moll solid benefits to
the people :—Benefits—that like the kindly in
fluences of benignant Ikies, aflail our senses, and
demand our gratitude from every quarter.——
What art, pursuit, or profeflion, with which the
good of society is connec'ted, that, under the au
spices of the general government, has not imme
diately or remotely been encouraged :—Agri
culture, the moll noble of all arts, in a particu
lar manner, is emerging into consequence, and
afluming itsjuft rank in the eflimation of the peo
ple :—This will lay the foundation of Empire,
freedom and independence, broad deep.
Mr. Ellicot and Major L'Enfam, are now en
gaged in laying out the ground on the I atowmac,
011 which the federal buildings are to beereded.
Thomas Washington, alias Walfirigham, alias
Welsh, was tried at Charleston the 28th ult. for
counterfeiting and uttering counterfeit Indents
of that ltate, and found guilty.
Letters from Cape Francois of the 27th ult.
inform, that Oje and Crevin, 2 Mulattoes, the
nioft active in the disturbances at Sx. Domingo,
were broke alive on the wheel.
795
E L L A,
John Hamilton, Esq. His Britannic Majesty's
Consul for the state of Virginia, lately arrived
at Norfolk in that Hate.
The President of the United States, pnrfuant
to the powers veiled in him for that purpose, has
been pleal'ed toappoint the following gentlemen
to receive subscriptions to the Bank of the Uni
ted States.
Thomas Willing, p
David Rittenhouse, > Pennsylvania.
Samuel Howell, j
John Beale Borbley, 'Maryland.
Lambert Cadwallader, New-Jersey.
On the 4.'/) in ft ant—the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the-Se
nate, tva< f leafed to make the following
PROMOTIONS AND APPOINTMKNTS.
Arthur St. Clair,to be Major-General.
Samuel Ho dgd on , Quarter-Master.
John Hurt, Chaplain.
First Regiment.
Major—David vice Wyllys, killetj.
Major—Richard Call, vice Parker, (Vir.) decl.
CAPTAINS.
Thomas Doyle, vice Zeigler promoted.
John Armstrong, vice Mercer refigued.
JohmPratt, vice Heart, promoted.
! LIEUTENANTS.
Cornelius Sedam, vice Doyle, promoted.
John Jeffers, vice Erothingham killed.
Abner Pryor, vice Armstrong promoted.
Asa Hartlhorne, vice Heart promoted.
Thomas Seayres, vice Steele declined.
ENSIGNS.
Daniel Brier, Pennsylvania.
Hamilton Armstrong, do.
Bartholomew Shorn burg, promoted-
Bernard Gaines, Virginia.
John Wade, Pennsylvania.
Rofs Bird, do.
Second Regiment.
Lieut. Col. Command't, John Doughty, N.Jersey
1. Major Lemuel Trel'cott, Majfachufetti.'
2. Major John Burnham, Ditto.
3. Major Jonathan Heaft, Connecticut.
• CAPTAINS.
1. Robert Kirkwood, Delaware. 2. Thomas
Hunt—3. John Mills— 4. John Pray, Ma[fachufctts.
5. Richard Brook Roberts, South-Carolina. 6. John
H. Buell, Connecticut. 7. David Sayles, Rhode
lfland. 8. Jonathan Cafs, Neia-Hampjhire. 9. Con
stant Freeman—lo. Patrick Phelon—ll. Thomas
H. Cufliing, Majfachufettj. 12. Joseph Shaylor,
Connellicut.
LIEUTENANTS
I.Samuel Newman, Majfachufttts. 2. Bezaleel
Howe, New-HampJhire. 3. Henry Sherman, jun.
Rhode-Iflaud. 4. Daniel Bradley, Connetficut.
5. John Platr, Delaware, 6. William RickarH
7. Richard S. Howe—B. Richard H. Greaton
9. John Higginfon—lo. Winflow Warren, Mas
sachusetts. 11. Ruflell Biflell, Connetl'tcut. 12.
Francis Huger, South-Carolina.
x. Martin B. Sohier—2. Richard Edwards,
Majfachufetts. 3. Edward Miller— 4. John Thomp
son, ConneQicut. 5. George Tillinghaft, Rhode
lfland. 6. Joseph S. Gilman— 7. Joseph Peirce,
jun. Majfachufetts. 8. David Cobb, jun. Maf
fachufctts. 9. Joseph Dickinfon, South-Carolina,
10. Thomas Duff, Delaware, n. Edward Tur
ler—l2. Theodore Sedgwick, 3d. Majfachufetts.
Surgeon—William Euftis, Majfachufetts.
Surgeon's Mate—Joshua Sumner, Connetficvt.
John F.Carmichael, Neiu-Jerfsy.
AT TAVT ATITTT T T?TI V
THE BATTALION OF ARTILLERY
Major Commandant, William Fergufon vice
Doughty, promoted.
CAPTAIN.
Mahlon Ford, vice Fergufon, promoted.
LIEUTENANTS.
Daniel M'Lane, vice Moore, dead.
Abiinael Youngs Nicholl, vice Fowle, dead.
George Ingerfoll, vice Ford promoted.
ARRWALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Fair Hebe, Fcinour, Cadiz.
Schooner Aurora, Noble, St. Martins.
Sloop N.Y. & Phil. Packet, Bird, New-York,
Union, Toulfon, Norfolk.
Bcifey, Brooks, New-York,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents inf. iyfi
3 pr. Cents of
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/io of
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates *5^9
Indents gf.
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12J6
ADVERTISEMENT.
A PAMPHLET, containing fomc remarks on the firft volume o£
the '* Defence of the AmericanConftitutions," written by the
Vice-President of the United States, has been circulated in France,
as a production of the late Governor Livingston. Any per
son who will furnifli the Editor hereof with a copy of said pam
phlet, fliall be paid a double price for the fame.
Just publilhed, and to be fold by the Editor,
A TOUR in HOLLAND.
In 1784.
By an AMERICAN.
ENSIGNS
P r - L
«5
45 do
-45 do
7?| do.
45 do
-6?.j do.
pr. ccnt.*
By tbe PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS it hath been reprefcnted to me, that James O'
Fallon is levying an armed force in that part of the
State of Virginia which is called Kentucky, diftorbs the public
and lets at defiance the Treaties of the United States with
the Indian Tribes* the A£t of Congreft, intituled, 41 An Ast to
regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian Tribes,'" and my
Proclamations of the fourteenth and twfoty-fixth dajis ot August
last, founded thereon : And it is my earned desire that those who
have incautiously aflbciated themselves with the said James O'
Fallon, mev be warned of their danger, I havethereforethonght
fh to publifti this Proclamation, hereby declaring, that all persons
violating the Treaiies nnd A6t aforefaid, shall be prosecuted with
the utmost rigor of the law.
Ana I do moreqver require all officers of the United States,
whom it may concern, to use their best exertions to bring to jus
tice any persons offending in the premises.
In teflimony whereof I have caused the Seal of the Uni*ed States to
be affixed to these the fame with my Hand.
Don-tf/ the City of Philadelphia, the Nineteenth Day of March,
in the Year of our Lord one thousand fevtn hundred and nine
ty-one, and of the Independence of the United States the fifteenth.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
By the President,
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
firm of
Joseph Anthony and Son,
They have for Sale, at their Stores, (lately improved by Hewes
and Anthony,) North fide Chefnut-Street Wharf,
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
Molafles,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
Caflia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tanner's Oil,
Best pick'd Mackarel,
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELIAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the sth of April next, at to o'clock, A. M.
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengal, Madras, and Isle of France ;
r* r . . r . i .. . « « >» «•
Consisting of a large and valuable affbrtment of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz,
BAFTAS, White Clotfis, proper for
Sanrias, and > c ,. . ci
Caifas, ) Shlrtm g» or Sheeting.
Dun as—or striped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted ftriptd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagienant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Gmghams,
Biue Cott n Handkerchiefs.
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, suitable for shirting."
Madras Patchcs, beautifully figured.
Cami'oys, or blue and white itripGd Cottons. j;
Morcas, or plain white Cloths. 1 S
Madras Cambricks.
D"to Duto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
ii' ok Mu(l;ns.
Duto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety.
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Sural Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the Ule ot France, of a superior quality.
An allortment of fine Winesof the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quaniity of India Shirts and Trowfers, for Sailors* wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety of other Goods, which ar
not enumerated. d/Jbf
100 Casks Raifms, )
" D,tto S Hyh" TCa 'f ° f th£ best lualnics
-30 ditto Souchong, )
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to the sale.
W. P BARTLETT and CO. Auctioneers.
Salem, Feb. 21,1791
MACHINERY FOR SPINNING FLAX, HEMP AND
COMBED WOOL,
THE Subscriber hereby gives public notice, that he has obtain
ed a patent for a fliyering wheel and table, a movement for ioet
tingthe thread,by conical doth coated thrumblers, and another for the fame
furpoje, by a cloth coated 7 oiler, a leathern belt moved by rollers.for the
purpose of the preparatory drawing of the jlivers, and another leathern
belt moved in like manner t by r oiler sjor the purpose of drawing the rov
edjlax, hemp and wool., being improvements upon the mill or ma
chinery ofKendrew and Porthoufe of the town of Darlington in
Great Britain.
This machinery,-with the original mechanism on which it is
grafted,being of the utmost value to the United States, the fubferi
ber hereby offers to make and eredt a complete mill or mills, in
cluding both the original works, and his above improvements
thereon, for any individual or company, on terms to be by them
agreed on ; and to condutl the Manufaftovy cither for a rfiareof
the profits, or ilipulated wages. GEORGE PARKINSON,
Philad, No. 65> Chejnut-Street, March tj, 1791. [93 6f.]
Hyson, "> TEAS of the
i"tZSS *»""•
Boston Sail
No, 1, 2,3, 4, and 7,
6 by 8 Window Glass,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Phi/adel. March 18.
Bengal.
Treasury Department,
PROPOSALS will be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Tieafury, until the 28ih instant, inclusively, to furnifh by
contra#, the following articles of cloathing, to be delivered at the
city of Philadelphia, in seven weekly parcels, so as to compleatc
the whole delivery on or before the 15th day of May nex, viz.
2000 round hats, 4 irts »
zobo short coats, 4°44 pair of shoes
2000 vcfts 22 pair of buckles,
2000 pair of overalls, of drilling, 2009 Stocks,
40 pair of wollen overalls, 2002 Clasps,
2650 blankets.
The articles mud beagrceable to such pattrrns as shall be airefK
ed by the Secretary for the Department of War. Payment will
be made as soon as ihc whole oFjhe articles shall have becß del:-
vered,
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that l*ropolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Tre .fury, until the firfl Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use ot the United States, from the firft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both clays in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of penn
lylyania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh,
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf-
Carowas* 2nd thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place dr places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquctown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafti, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincenncs,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
Atany placeor places, on the east fide of the river MifTifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufk\,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Lc Beuf, and at
Le BcUf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavogl river, and at any place or places, on
the route from FoTt Pitr, to the|mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miffifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the ri'»er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth ©f the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftritts, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, branoy or Whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, f
~ 1 , c c > per. 100 rations.
Iwo pounds or loap, C r
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at t'ne said office until
the fir ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the fi'ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the (late of Mafiachu
fetts, and the P ft of W> ft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles a
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may he required lor the life of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftn&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at pTcfent commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbf-ck.
At the pott on the river Altamaha, at prcfent commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at prcfent commanded by Capt,
Joseph Savage.
At:he post on the river Apalachee, at prcfent commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot the
United States.
And ior rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are so be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption ot the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpareofat
leafl two months in advance, in good and whdiefo.'ne provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist or the fame articles, as
are abovementioncd.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all loflVs fuftainrd bv the
depredations ofthe enemy, orhy means of the troops ot the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depbfitions of two or more creditable chara&ers,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumflances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of the above posts to
gether, or separately for Springfteld, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia ;
aud they mull fpeciiy the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
JC7* AfeiD copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States, printed with Notes, may be had of the
Editor.
796
March i, 1791
Captain Armstrong,
JNFORMS his fellow-foldicrsandothers.whomavwifh to eniio
that he has commenced recruiting in the city of Philadelphia'
where a generous bounty, and other encouragement will be given
Young men, who wifli to become Adventurers in a new
country, by joining this command, may acquire a knowledge of
the Western World, fubjeft to no exper.ee ; and after fervir.~ a
(hort period, set down on their own farms, and enjoy all tk-
Weffingsof peace and plenty. JOHN ARMSTRONG.
Philadelphia, March 14, 1791.
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PER QUANTITY.
MARCH 25. —Dollars at 7/6,
ANCHORS pr.lb. 6
Allum, Englilh, pr. cwt. 35;
Diuo, Rich pr. !b. 10d
Afhrs, pot, per tOD, 37/ tor 40/
Peari, 50/52/ io.<
Arrack pr. gall. ICS 12s 6d
Brandy, common, 5J
Cogniac 8 ( 4^
Brazilctto, ■pr. ton. lil a 161
Bricks pr. M gos
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 1956
Ditto, pilot 35!
Ditto, final I wat<* 45/ 481
Beer, Ami rican, in bot. / .g
pr. doz. >
pr. bbl. 36*
<n f Oak pr.M feet, 4/1O!
® | Merch. pine 4/101 4/15J
Sap, do. z/-.ys6d 3/
O I N. Eng. 2/5/ 2/101
a (.Cedar 4/ 4/ 5*
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard pi ices add 151 pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 285
(■» f Irish pr. bbl. 55/ 6oj
S } Hofton 55 s
23 ( Country 45J
Butier pr. lb. 10d 12d
in kegs 9d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 11 d
Coal pr. bushel is Sd
Coffee pr.lb. is id
Cinnamon ißi 20s
Caflia 5i
Cheese, Englifli is 3d
Country 6d y^d
2 f Sper. pr. lb. 3 s &d
| Wax S s
Q Myrtle Wax \sid
| tallow nd 12d
U I Dipped sod
Cotton is i» B*/
Cuirants is 6 is
Cloves iOf
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J \ys6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 6256 d 6ys6d
Duck, Ru<Tia, pr. piece Bos
Ravens 67 s 72 s 6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 381
Common, 36/
Bur middlings, best 33J
Middlings 2
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. Bs6d 10/
Flax pr. lb. %d<sd
Fullic pr. ton, 135* 150J
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8d
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 5/
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/10.58/
Ginger, white race 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gd
Ginseng, is id
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter caflc, £ 3° S
Ditto, fine glazed 37 s 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5J 9d
Do. pr. cafe, 30J 331
" Wheat pr. buih 7s 10d
Rye 4 s6d
5 Oats isftdisGd
< Indian corn sj 6d 3 s
Barlev 4J gd
Best (helled 2or
Buckwheat 2 s6
Hemp, pr.ton, 50/56/
Hog (head hoops, pr. M 5/ 61
Herrings, pr. bbl. 22s 6d
Hid< s, raw pr. lb. 9 d 10d
Hops is%d?s6d
Indigo, French, ys 6d 1 <?s
Carolina 4J 7s 6d
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 56s
("Catlings 2256 d 30s
55 j Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
5 io^
£ | Sheet 60/65/
j Nail rods 36/
J J nk, pr. cwt. 27s 35J
Lard, hogs 9d 10i
Lead in pigs 401 42J 6d
in bars 45 s 50*
Lead, white Boj 851
red 4j j
Leather, foal pr. lb. Isidl s\d
Lignum viue pr. ton 42s 4§s
Logwood 7/55 81
M al, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rvc 2 6s
karri,bed 63/
■Common 30J 6d
pr. lb. 70 j
Mace
Mustard
Madder, bed
M*olafles pr. gall
9 J 4d
tsd 18 d
2S%d
Marblr. wrought, pr. foot, 13/
fact spars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany
12 d
67 s 6d
Nutmegs
pr. lb.
Nails, iodi?.d&L iod— 8d S! 2 d^d
"Linitred, pr. gall. 3 s 6d
Train is iod 2s
Spermaceti 3J 7d
j Whaie u 10d 2s
<{ Olive 6s 6d
Diito pr. cafe 28s 30J
L —baskets 12 bottles
°ak timber pr. ton 40/
Porter in casks. pr. gall. 2.r
London,pr.doz. 12J 6d 15s
Portcr,American pr. doz. j 2 j
Pitch, pr. bbl. 2oj
Pork, Burlington, 7736 c/
Lower county 701851
Carolina
P as, Albany * s 6d &4^
Pepper, pr. lb. 2/ gj
Pimento Jf
Rjcc pr. cwt. 21s
Rosin pr. bbl. 2C /
Raisins, best, pr. keg
Ditto pr. jar
Ditto pr. box
f Jamaica pr. gall. s s6d
| An'igua &f
g J Windward
Barbadoes 4 i
■ Country, N. E. " 3 j 3 rf
ITaffia 2Sid is6i
Sadjlras pr. ton 45 , 6ot
Saltpetre, pr. cwf. 4 /, of
Sulphur, flour 40*41.
Sh °t 48.
J C German pr. cwt. 60170/
W )Engli(h, blifteied %zs6i
P pr. ton 40/45/
<*> ( Crowley's pr. fag.
Snake root pr. lb. u 6d 2ssd
Soap, Common 6d
■ Brown ' 6i
Castile
Starch
Snuff is6d 316J
Spermaccti, refined, 3/
Sail Cloth, English, ) c ,
pr. yard, '( »" ««'
■ Boston, No. I. 2*3^
No. 11. 2J .'d
Ruflia sheeting. pr. p. qo*
C Lump, pr. Ib. I(4d
I Loaf, fijjgle rcfijicd is $d
j Ditto, double do.
| Havannah, white gi
J Ditto, brown, yd
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt, 60sj$f
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. 4,
f Allum pr. bush. ?.
2s ?i
< ) Cadiz isiofe
00 QLifbon 'is 2i
Ship build. W.O. frames ) 90
p. ton, $ 100.
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5
Shingles, fhnrt, p. M. 15* 20
■ -long drefled 90; 100.
Scantling, heart, $03150.
Sap 42 s 45.
C Pipe pr. 1300 pieces 12
J W.- O. hogshead 7/ 5
> j R. O. do. 5/ jj
< I Lcogan gl'tgi
V 3 { Barrel 4/ icj
L Heading 8/ioj
' Otter, be ft pr. piece 301
Minks isSd
Fox, grey 2s 6d 6s
red 4 s 8j
Martins 3J
<J F;fhers 2s6d 51
Bears 12s 6d 25s
Racoons 2s 4s
Musk-rats $d 1/64
Braver, pr. lb. 5* ioj
_Deei, in hair is6d9s%d
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 9c
Carolina, 32 gall. iss 6d
Turpentine 2.0s 22s 6d
. C James R. new bell 305
£ inferior 231251
o — old 35J 3& f
Rappahannock 22s 6d
C Colo. Maryland 40; 60s
y Dark 20s
<j Long-leaf 20/
Eaftorn-fhore 15i 16r
P Carolina, new 23/25/
l_ old 3 os
Hyson pr. lb. fsfydd
co Hyson lltm, 4M f
i Souchong, best *,s6d%s
f-, | Congo, 3*4^3*9^
I, Bohea, 2.* 6</
Tallow, refined
fin pr. box, iooj
/eidigrcafe pr. lb.
/■ rniillion, 11-f 3^
7 arnifh, 2i
Turi
r Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
1 Lisbon 3^/
Tcncriffe 22/lOi 30 1
w F-iya) pr. gall. 3 siJ3>3 J
1 Port pr. pipe 39/ 4 2 *
r j Ditto pr. gall. V
Do. in bottles, pr.doz. 30s
Claret
o~- -IW
ihciry pr. gall. 6> gd 9 s
daljgi 4 s bs
Bees pr. lb. 22 "
le-bone, long pr. lb. 2J3d
fliort, pr. lb. lS
Wax
Wha
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London*
go days, 7 2 §
Ditto 60 Hays 73i
Ditto 30 days 74
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 11 d 3*
30 days 3 s
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 6s 8 j
30 days 6s 10a
Hi oj
6 4
3 0S 45