&gz(fU
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 101, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila No. 50.
THE Hugonots lay siege to Poitiers. The Duke of Guise re
solves to throw himfclf into it to succour the garrison. This
young Prince, the obje£l of the hopes of the Catholics, proposed
10 himlelf to become one day their Chief, by imitating thus, at
the beginning of his career, b) an illustrious and memorable ex
ample, the glory of his father; who, by the defence of Metz
igatnft the forces of the Emperor Charles the Vth. had prepared
his way to the highest power and molt brilliant reputation,
The Duke of Anjou proposes to raise the siege by a diversion—
he aflembles his army, and leads it to Chatelleraud. The Admi
ral raises the siege of Poitiers, and obliges the Duke of Anjou to
raise that of Chatelleraud. The Duke of Guise, however, by his
activity in defence of Poitiers, and his frequent ("allies, came out
of it covered with glory and applause ; the whole Catholic party
began to consider him as the support of religion, and the worthy
iucceffor of the power of his father. Sanfac in vain lays siege to
la Charite. The Earl of Montgomery defeats the Royalists in
Beam, surrounds Terfide, and takes him prisoner. The Duke of
Anjou comes to Tours, to consult with the King his brother, and
the Queen Mother : The Duke of Guise camc there alio, ftiining
with honor and glory for the great a&ions by which he had figna
lizcd himfclf at the defence of Poitiers. They all deliberated on
the means of pushing the war, and the Duke of Guise, coming in
the place of his father, was then admitted for the firft time into
the secret council: he owed this favor to the splendor of his birth,
to the services of his father, to his own valor, to the prote6lion of
the Cardinal of Lorrain his uncle, but above all to the implacable
hatred which the King had conceived against the Admiral. After
the death of the Prince of Conde, at the battle of BafTac, Charles
had entertained hopes that the Calviniftical party, no longer fup
poited by the authority of a Prince of the blood, norof a General
r.apable by his reputation and his valor of supporting the weight
of so great an entcrprize, would separate and disperse, or at leafl
incline to submit. But he saw, on the contrary, that the policy of
Xhe Admiral had re-animated the forces of his party; that his valor
and his ability, by availing himfelf of the name of the two young
Princes of the blood royal, had preserved union among the Cai
vinifts, caused greater commotions, and exposed the State to dan
gers more terrible than any which had been before experienced.
He therefore caused the Admiral Coligni to be declared a rebel,
by an arret of the Parliament of Paris, which was pubiifhed and
translated into several languages. They dragged him in effigy
upon an hurdle, and attached him to a gibbet in the place destined
•to the execution of malefa&ors : they ordained that his houses
should be razed to the foundations, and his g«ods fold at auction.
From this time the King resolved to pursue the Admiral to death,
began to elevate and favor the house of Lorraine, and above all the
Duke of Guise, who, burning with ardor to revenge the death of
his father, did not dissimulate the implacable hatred he bore to
Coligni. The Admiral continues the war with vigor. The Duke
of Anjou, whose army had been reinforced, fecks a battle: the
Admiral endeavors to avoid it. At length he prepares for it, for
ced by a mutiny of his own army who demand it: he endeavors
iieverthelefs to retire : the Duke of Anjou pursues him, and joins
hitn near Moncontour : the two armies come to a&ion on the
plains of Moncontour, and a bloody battle ensues; victory i emains
to the Duke of Anjou, with a great carnage of the Hugonots.
The party is discouraged; but the Admiral, although dangerously
wounded, raises their spirits, and persuades them to continue the
war. The Princes and the Admiral abandon the whole country,
except Rochelle, Angouleme, and Saint Jean d'Angeli.
Their design was to join the Earl of Montgommeri—a resource
which fortune seemed to have referred to re-eflablifti their forces
and repair their loffe*. After that jun&ion, they intended to re
main in the mountains until the Princes of Germany and the Queen
of England should fend them succours. They founded, moreover,
some hopes on the Marlhall of Da in vi lie, Governor of Langue
doc, who for some time appeared inclined in their favor, and wiih
whom they maintain a secret intelligence. While the Constable
lived, Damville had held a diflinguifhed rank in the Catholic
party, and had (hewn himfelf a declared enemy of the Hugonois.
His jealousy against Francis of Montmorenci, his elder brother,
who was connected in friendfhip with the Prince of Conde and
the Colignis, his relations, had inspired him with this hatred of
the Calvinifts; which had been fomented by the eftcem which
'he Guises pro felled for him, and the favors they procured him.
Able and profound in difliinulation, according to conjunctures,
they had employed all poflible artifices to retain him in their party,
and by his intervention to attach to them indiflolubly, the Consta
ble, who discovered much predilettion and partiality for Dam
ville, whom he believed luperior 111 courage and abilities to his
other children. The Queen Mother made him the fame demon
orations. Obliged, during the minority of the King, to manage
the grandees, (he employed the Marital Damville to prefeive her
the attachment of the Constable; but, after his death, all these mo
tives and confederations ccafed. The Queen, who had no longer
occasion for Damville, gave herfelf little trouble to reward his ler
vices. The Guises, far from showing him the lame regard, em
ployed the management and persuasions of the Cardinal of Lor
raine, who was now very highly in favor with Charles IXth. to
depress and disserve the Marshal, as a sprout of an house which
tad been long the object of hatred and jealousy to that of Lor
ran.e. Damville soon perceTvcd this change: the death of his
fatnei put an end to his differences with his elder brother, who
was not less exasperated than himfelf at the refufal of the office of
Constable, pofleffed so long by their father, and which they had
Solicited more than once. He began to make advances to the
friends and relations of his family, and fought to renew an inter
com fe with the Admiral, to whom he intimated secret, though
uncertain hopes. This motive had hindered him from fuccour
mg Terfide in Beam, and from taking from the Htigonots the
places which they held in Gafcony and Langucdoc. He was the
inore inclined in favour of the Calvinifts, as he saw the Admiral
a.rcady advanced in years, and every day exposed to evident dan
gers. If this nobleman should die before the Princes were of an
a gc to command, Damville hoped to lucceed him in the command
die Calviniftic party finally, he dreaded, that if the King
and the Guises should overbear the Princes, the Admiral and all
r Nugonots, they would then turn their efforts against the family
or Montmerenci, which would remain alone of all the ancient ri
xa's, who had iufpi* ed him with jealousy. These dispositions did
not cfcapc the penetration of the Admiral. Excited by such hopes,
• c persuaded the Princes to abandon the flat country, and retire
a small number of troops into the mountains of Gafcony and
Langucdoc. The Duke o! Anjou besieges and takes Saint Jean
o Angeh, and lnfes much time and many soldiers : he falls Tick
retires fiift to Angers, and then to Saint Germain. The
Saturday, April 16, 1791.
Princes join the Earl of Montgommeri, and reinforce their troops
111 Gafcony. Tliey pass the winter in the mountains,and descend
into the plains in the spring : they pass the Rhone, and extend
themselves into Provence and Dauphiny. They march towards
Noyers and la Charite, with the design to aporoach Paris. The
King fends against them an army under the command of the Mar
(hall de Code, a general of little attivity, and who desired not the
ruin of the Hugonots. From a fear of confiding his armies to no
blemen, whom their elevation, their power and their animosities,
or the great number of thcr partisans, had rendered fufpefted by
him, the King committed the conduit of it to a General, who,
persisting in his ordinary inclination, gave the Hugonots a favora
ble opportunity to revive. This resolution was also attributed to
the policy of the Duke of Anjou, who dreaded that some other
General might take away the fruit of his labors and viflories. It
is pretended that luch motives engaged him to inspire the King
with suspicions against all the other Princes and Genera's, and to
prefer, to them, a man whom he considered as incapable of gaining
my great advantages.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
r ~T<HAT the legislature has a right to inftrucfl
A the Senators of the State in Congress, is an
aflertion made to vindicate the condudl of fotne
particular State Afleinblies.
I will let the question of right alone, because
I hate long argumenis—and so I believe your
readers do. A inan has a right to do a great
many unvvife things : He has a right to spend
his estate—or if he should not, to cut off his chil
dren with j/. a piece—and feme maintain that
he has a right to beat his wife. By doing either
he would diflurb the peace and happiness of his
family, and so far as their consent would go, the
world would cheerfully give him a right to hang
hitnfelf. Without touching the queltion of right
in a legal sense, no wife AHembly will do a very
mischievous atft—we speak accurately enough in
common when we fay that they have no right to
do it.
What is the tendency of an Assembly voting
and giving instructions to their Senators againlt
the proceedings of Congress ? When 1 scribble
in your Gazette, 1 barely obtain notice—the rea
ders glance a careless eye over the page—and
even if it amuses, it is soon forgotten: A few
ideas may be laid up by some—but they are re
ceived without any authority, and retained with
out knowing whence they cauie—a memorial
from a town, and especially from a great city,
has weight—each individual receives it as the
opipion of a great many individuals, and there
fore refpeiiable —still they are only individuals,
vvhofe opinion dispute, because he never
anthorifed them to decide the matrer for him.—
The cafe is far otherwise with a representative
aflembly: They arcchofento enquire, to decide,
and to enforce their decisions ; their doings are
published, not as problems for dispute, but as so
lemn judgments to put an end to it—and this
work ofjudging, the citizens commonly let thein
pursue without taking any part in it on ordinary
occasions ; they mind their business, and leave
their fei vants to do their duty, in making laws
for thcin. In a free country, the legislature will
poflefs the entire confidence of the people—they
will not only make their laws, but in moll cases,
regulate their opinions. Men cannot act as a so
ciety but by their representatives, and there are
reasons deduced from the nature of man, which
will (hew that these representatives cannot long
govern a freefociety, without the trust and con
fidence which has been noticed.
Is not the tendency of the resolutions of state
assemblies cenluringthe at'ts of Congress; destruc
tive of this confidence, and of consequence of the
peace and fafety of government ? What is it but
resorting to the confidence of their constituents,
to weaken and destroy that which is placed in
Congress ? It is an attempt by means of the in
fluence and authority of the legislature of a slate,
over the minds of the people, to throw them in
to thefcale against the general authority of the
Union. Jt breaks asunder the very ties offocie
rv and incites one part against another, by fett
ilio- rhe fundamental principal of social union, in
opposition to itfelf: Some will answer that it is
true, state-remonstrances against Congress have
this tendency—but they will fay, the interests
and opinions of the people of a state are matters
of fa(ft, which it is very proper Congress should
know and that a remonstrance from the state
legislature, conveys this information. To prove
facts, and to establish arguments, Congress fliould
resort to the authority of truth, not of a state.
A measure that is likely to effedl men's interests
will be remonstrated against by private persons,
and their fa<fts and arguments will be brought to
817
[Whole No. 20r r ~\
Che test of truth. If the people should overlook
or negled: their interetts, their members in Con
gress may be supposed watchful and a dive enough
to afl'ert them. But when a state interposes to
stop a measure, will it be pretended that it is to
represent facts or arguments merely, or to over
awe Congress—some late events remove all doubt.
To be continued.
Fromthe New-York Daily Advertiser.
TT is a very rare occasion indeed to fee a fafhion-
A able practice receive such an improvement as
to become a real utility, and to challenge the
approbation of every discreet and reflecting per
son.—Wealth judiciously applied is treasure in->
deed—But I must remark that, the jollity of
clubs;—the felfi(h pursuits of new-fangled socie
ties—and the interchange of polite attentions a -
mong those wealthy citizens who reciprocate
splendid civilities in order to pamper and gratify
each other, come in no lhape within the pale of
such a reflection. The feftivity ordinarily at
tendant on marriages in this city, has never till
yesterday, as tar as I know, penetrated into those
doleful habitations
Where wants and debts and fickncffcs devour,
And heart-enliv'ning freedom's quite Ihut out.
The uncommon method, which I am well in
formed Mr. Alexander Robertfon took to honor
the nuptials of his daughter gave rife to these
thoughts, and furnifh a leflon well worthy ofte
cord, and highly deserving of imitation. '
The following ftateinent while it exhibits Mr.
Ptobertfon's manner of making merry, will
illustrate without the aid of further commentary,
those sentiments which cannot fail touching eve
ry heart alive to the impulses of a disinterested
benevolence. To cheer the hearts of the lick in
the Alms House, and the hapless Debtors in
Jail:
I jo Loaves of Bread,
300 lb. of Beef,
130 lb. of Cheese,
3 barrels strong Ale,
3 barrels of Apples.
These items I conceive evince a spirit of inge
nious humanity:
1 Blush grandeur, blush, ye proud withdraw your blaze,
* Share, if ye dare, your wealth ; —if not, give praif;.'
Friday, April 8. Old Times.
ExtrqCl from the reports of the London Humans So'
TWO of his Sicilian Majesty's gallies being on
a cruize, pursued and took an Algerine ves
sel of 20 guns and 100 men. The prize wasfent
to Naples, and whilst lying under guard at the
Mole, a young gentleman then bathing, was
seized with the cramp, and immediately funk,
in the presence of numbers who did not attempt
any thing for his relief. One of the Algerine
sailors who was standing on the gunwale of the
prize, instantly jumped into the water, and hav
ing laid hold of the body in its rife, tied one
end of a handkerchief round the shoulder, the
other end of which he fattened to his own, and
swam with it to shore. The drowned person was
recovered by proper applications ; and the Mar
quis de Palluchi, whose son was thus preserved,
being introduced to the King, threw himfelf on
his knees, and requested the liberty of the gal
lant Algerine. His Sicilian majesty's reply was
truly noble. " Your request, Sir, (said he) is
bothreafonableandhumane ; the Moor is your's,
and you may dispose of him as you please. The
remainder of the crew are mine, and by the
laws of war perpetual slaves : but they are free
from this moment. Ten righteous men would
havefaved Sodom from the wrath oftheAlinigh
ty, and fhal! not one gallant and humane man,
who has risked his life for an enemy, and restor
ed to me so valuable a fubjetft, merit the pardon
of a few companions? Next day an order was
published for their release, and they departed
ainidft the acclamations of the populace.
JNECDOTE
ON the arrival of one of the last Indiamen in
England, a monkey, in the absence of his
matter (one of the officers) amused himfelf with
throwing from the cabin into the custom-house
officers boat, rolls of silk, to the value of iool.
which were intended to be sent on /here by a
different conveyance. The silk was of course
seized, and the offender hanged at the yard-arm
for his ingenious imitations.
&tiso
ciety.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OK REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, Feb. 8.
The BANK BILL under confdsration.
MR. VINING
APOLOGIZED for rifmg to offer his sentiments
on tliis fubje<ft, which had been already so
ably difcufled ; but considering the nature of the
objections as arising from conltituiional princi
ples, it had acquired an importance which would
juftify his troubling the lioufe with foineremarks.
He began by noticing the leading argument of
Mr. Madison, refpecfling the sense of the conti
nental convention, on the power proposed to be
exercised by Congrels in this bill. He Ihewed
that the opinion of the gentleman, in this in
flance, was, if not Angular, different from that of
his cotemporaries ; at lealt a similar objection
bad not been started by those gentlemen of the
Senate, who had been members of the conven
tion ; but granting that the opinion of the gen
tleman from Virginia, had been the full sense of
the members of convention, their opinion at that
day, he observed is not a fufficient authority for
Congi ess at the prefcnt time to construe the con
llitution by.
Mr. Viniiig, in explaining the powers proposed
by the bill to be given to the corporation of the
bank, adverted to the particular power of " mak
ing rules and regulations not contrary to law."
He (hewed that this terra law, means the common
law—and alluding to the enquiry of Mr. Madi
son, what law was intended by this clause ? who,
in answering his own queition. had said, that if
the laws of the United States-were intended, the power
contemplated was dangerous and unconjlitutional f as
those laws were very few in number,
Mr. Vining observed, that the reftri<ftion con
tended for by the gentleman as the result of his
ebjeiftion, would annihilate the most essential
rights and privileges of the citizens of the Uni
ted States. He then observed a corporation is
nothing more than conftitutinga body with pow
ers to eftedi certain objects in a combined capa
city which an individual may do in his indivi
dual capacity—agreeable to the usage and cus
toms of common law.
Adverting to the atfl by which the United
States became a free and independent nation, he
said, from that declaration, solemnly recognized
at home and abroad, they derive all the powers
appertainingto a nation thus circnmftanced. and
consequently the power under consideration. He
traced the origin of corporations to the time of
Moraa-the firft of which was for agricultural
purposes, they weie afterwards extended to other
objects—and from that day to this, said he, all
civilized and independent nations have been in
the practice of creating them, and what do they
amount to but this, enabling a number of per
sons in a combined capacity to do that to a more
certain effedt that an individual may do but
fubjetil to the controul of common laiu, in all its
regulations and transactions.
On the do&rine of conftru&ion as applied to
the constitution ; he observed, that on some oc
casions the constitution is like the sensitive plant
■which (brinks from the smallest touch ; on others,
it is like the sturdy oak which braves the force
of thunder. He referred to the a»ft containing
the power of removability—in which the utmolt
latitude of construing the constitution was con
tended for and adopted ; and, faidhe, the fund
ing system cannot be defended on any other prin
ciple than than of implication.
He then enquired, of what right does this in
corporation deprive a lingle citizen ? And can
an act poliibly meet the disapprobation ofafingle
person which does not infringe his rights, and
which puts money into his pocket ? I think not.
He insisted that the power of Congress alone was
equal to establishing a bank competent to creating
a currency which shall pervade all parts of the
union ; the paper of the State banks cannot cir
culate beyond the bounds of the particular States.
From the reftritftions to the government con
tended for by the oppofers of the bill, he simi
lized tha constitution to a horse finely propor
tioned in every refpecft to the eye, and elegantly
caparizoned, but deficient in one, and the molt
efletrtial requisite, that of ability to carry the
owner to his journey's end ; he had rather, he
said, mount the old confederation, and dragon
in the old way, than be amused with the appear
ance of a government so eflentially defective.
N EW-HA V EN, March 30.
Extrad of a letter front the Rev. Mr. Holm;s of
Georgia, dated March 3d, to the publijher of this
paper.
*' We have no news ofimportance, else I would
have communicated it with pleasure to the prin
ter of the New-Haven Gazette —W eare in a (late
of perfect tranquility in regard to our Cree
neighbours; even your friend , who antici
pated so much danger, is under no apprehen
fionfrom this quarter. Several Indians have le
peatedly been down of late to trade with our
merchants, without insult or injury on either
fide. Our winter has been very levere for this
climate ; in one instance we had a snow
which lasted for three hours, and though it die
not whiten the ground here, in many places in
the vicinity, the snow was two or three inches
deep, which was conlidered very extraordinary.
The mercury, however, by Farcnhcit's thermome
ter has never fallen below 17° above o : In Con
necticut, I am informed, it has fallen ij° be
low o—What a surprizing difference in our cli
mates ! Our spring has been very temperate ;
vegetation comes on rapidly ; we have peas very
forward in our gardens, and our peach trees are
in full bloom."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
To ELLA.
NO {kill I boast, no forccful art,
To (hake the nerves of Ella's heart;
Save such as from the Thrufti's throat,
Is ufticr'd in her feeble note,
When fitting on the hawthorn bufti,
She whistles to her fellow Thrush.
But Ella, dost thou think to find,
Hid in my lines, the artful,flattering mind ?
Far from the tow'ring city was I rear'd,
Where pois'nousflattery ever vig'ror.s grows ;
In earliest youth my Parents I rever'd,
To what their virtue taught, my spirit bows :
Here have I liv'd and heard sweet Nature's voice,
Where Brandywine rolls on with rushy-noise ;
The stream from many murm'ring rills supplied,
Along a curving channel pours his tide;
'Ere long the flood its mazy windings leaves,
And fwift from clift to clift down da(h the waves ;
Now sweeping round beneath a lofty hill,
With rapid force it whirls full many a mill.
Below, the smoother current, spreading wide,
Full freighted Barks along its bosom glide ;
Above, the trees their verdant branches spread,
And o'er the tinkling stream throw their deep (hade ;
Here oftentrane'd—l've slowly ftepp'd along,
And heard the Robin's solitary song;
Touch'd by his thought-exciting note,
I cast my tear-wet eyes around,
Beheld the richly flower'd ground,
Whilst borne on zephyrs airy wing,
The spirits of the bluftiing Beauties float ;
And overfwelling hill, and delving dale,
Their sweetest odours fling,
Upon the bosom of the flowing gale ;
Then fading, fink in earth,
And when the Spring returns again come into birth.
But Man, when ibme few hasty hours have flown,
Drops in the yawning grave,
Nor lives again on Life's e'er changing wave ;
Where throbs of anguish tear the feeling breast,
And from the heavy lid steal nature's healing reft ;
Bur, " pleafmg, dreadful thought!" mounts into worlds
When the rofv-color'd morn ! [unknown.
Came lightly tripping o'er the hills,
Dancing on the dimpling rills,
And lucid pearls pour'd from her dewey horn :
Here have I heard the warbling Lark awake
The voice of Echo, (leeping in the brake,
Ana as the heaven-taught bird pour'd out his loul,
The lift'ning Fairy half his music stole,
And blew the thrilling founds fiom grove to grove,
Till nature feem'd to breathe but harmony and love.
The foft-eycd Turtle breath'd her plaintive note,
Soul-tend'ring notes ! which on clcar asther float,
And oft prophetic, tell the tardy swain,
To shield his harvefl from the coming rain.
When the creative God of Day,
His flaming Car drove down the Western sea,
And sober Evening's twilight grey,
Borne on the wings of Time had pafs'd away.
Along the curling wave in radiance bright,
The fair Moon shot her silver fhaftsof light,
And all was silent as the cave of Death,
Where shadowy beings walk,
Who ne'er presume to talk,
Nor ruffle silence with a founding breath :
There have I flood, and wrapt in Thought sublime!
Mark'd the quick flight of light'ning-footed Time !
Or gaz'd with rapture on the worlds on high,
Till my full foul would breathe th' extatic sigh,
And the big pearl flart from my glifl'ning eye.
While late I prefs'd my downy bed,
And sleep her poppies bound around my head ,
A heav'nly Phrenzy seized on my foul,
And fwift as lightnings dart from pole to pole,
A hofl of Beauties rufh'd upon my fight,
By Fancy, clad in changeful robes of light!
I saw again the verdant grove
Its wild, luxuriaut foliage move,
And heard the plumy Songsters shout their love.
I heard again the dashing wave,
Its wild and rocky borders lave.
I saw thy Spirit, like the Bird of Jove !
On never-failing v\ ings, mount to the Iky ;
With eyes of light'ning pierce the realms above,
And hail the God of Music, thron'd on high.
Charm'd with thy air, he gave a heav'nly Harp,
And bade thee pour the music sweetly sharp ;
Then sweep the golden firings,
And rouse the deeper tones—and form the awful Pause,
That opes the sacred springs
Of joy sublime, and wafts the spirit up to Nature's Caufc !
Then wake the swelling founds to roll
In burfling floods of harmony upon the panting foul.
He> o'er thy toi m a sky-dipt mantle threw,
Where silver flars glow'd on th' etherial blue ;
And bade thee to old Earth descend, and take
Thy Lyre, and from the firings the sleeping Music wake.
I saw thee in the shady Grove alight,
Whose woven branches caught the blaze of light;
1 hy rosy finger* careless swept the Lyre,
And drew the music-breathing Spirit from each wire.
Lur'd by the founds of thy sweet Strings,
The fcather'd Warblers diopp'd their wings,
818
And liftcn'd to thy melting tone,
Still more enchanting than their own !
Borne on the undulating breeze,
Thy heaven-taught Notes my Spirit seize,
And waft it to ihc iky :
Now sweetly fofi they lingVmg die ;
Now in awful solemn found,
Float on the Air around ;
The deep majcftic base most sweetly clear,
Now burftsupon my car ;
And where the rushing Waters roar,
" It winds in wild'ring echoes down the dalhing Ihore.''
The thrill of rapture darting through my breail,
Mv nerves with heav'nly anguish ihook,
And I awoke !
But found no jitlion broke upon my reft ;
For how the truths unfold,
In thy nervous Song is told.
What e're I heard, or saw, and as I read, "my foul, mv
El la, " Seraph, opes the Skits." [lancy rife,"
Delaware, April 10, 1791.
NEW-LONDON, April 1.
Ext raft of a letter from a foreign correspondent, tt
the editors oj this paper, dated Jan. 21, 1791.
" TT is with great pleasure I learn that the in-
X habitants of your country have grown more
industrious and temperate, and have left off the
excessive u(e of Rum. It is also highly pleafino
to observe the number of ufeful inventions of se
veral kinds—the rapid progress making fc in ma
nufactures, and the perfection to which some of
them are brought ; particularly maple sugar,
coal mines, lead and copper; and the Boilon fail
duck ; and ,the cotton and silk manufactures,
See. The water machines for spinning 3or 4000
threads of cotton, flax, and long wool (of which
I perceive there are models in Philadelphia) will
doubtless soon be conflruCted, and begin to work.
These will enable them to make a rapid jirogrefs
indeed, and I apprehend nothing will promote
the general interefl of the country, and the in
terell: of the farmers, more than such a progress
in manufactures.:—Wonderful is the coincidence
of events 111 favor of your country.—This ma
chine, I think, was invented by Arkwright, a
bout the beginning of the late war, and hath
since been broughc to great perfection.—This
hath led to the invention of the other machines
for spinning flax and long wool. This happen
ing at a time, fixed in the decrees of heaven,
when a great i>ation which had been dependent,
and not allowed to ereCt manufactures, without
discouraging and embarrafling circuin fiances, was
freed from the galling yoke, seems to point out
a particular providence ; as if directed chiefly
for the benefit of a country which had but a few
hands to spare from the culture of the land, that
it might be able, with those few hands, to fuppl*
itfelf with neceflary and decent cloathing, and
be no longer dependent either in name or in faß.
—Yon have a moil brilliant prospeCt before you.
" Amazing is the progress England has made
in the manufacture of cotton since the invention
of the machine above mentioned. So great a
quantity of cotton cloth is made there, and it is
now so cheap, and so commonly worn by rich and
poor, that it hath nearly annihilated the use of
lilk. Some of the articles are brought to such
perfection, that the English East-India company
exports a great quantity of them, even to China;
and if the Chinese do not make thenifelves tnaf
ters of this invention, this trade will become a
great object in so populous a country. From all
this you may plainly perceive what it will be pos
sible for your countrymen to do in time, and
what they ought to do without delay.—The ma
nufactures of England are the principal fourc t of
her great wealth and (trength, and the chief ba
lls of her navigation. Experience I think has
furnilhed fufficient evidence to prove that you
will never grow rich merely by agriculture, na
vigation and commerce. It is weak to suppose
the farming business cannot be overdone.—lt is
certainly overdone when the produce of the land
and labour of the farmer far exceed the demand
ofevery foreign and doineftic market ; and when,
through its abundance, he is unable to procure
a living pries for it. You ought not to depend, so
much as you have done, on foreign tnarktU. What
is it that renders land in Europe so valuable to
its proprietor beyond any thing of the kind in
America ? It is the number of the inaniifafturiiig
towns in the neighborhood of every farmer, to
which he can carry his produce, and where lie
is sure to receive such a price, as will enable him
to pay his rent, and yet maintain his family.—
This certain market and good price, alfogWe ef
fectual encouragement to the high cultivation ol
land which prevails in some countries, but es
pecially in England. Your land will never be
so valuable as land of equal goodness is there,
until you can find markets as certain and as good
as their's. But this you mull never expeA un
til the number of your manufacturers bears a!
just a proportion to the number of your farmer».
(To be continued.J
LONDON,
In confequenceof the premiums offered by the
Hon. Board of Trustees, at Edinburgh, twopw
ces of cotton were completely bleached in n ve
hours ; one piece of linen in forty hours
half, and another in forty-eight hours and a hal,
January a 6all completely whitened without exposure to the
j- UII and air. The judges have declared the co
lour to be as perfect as can be given to goods of
the fame quality, and that the ttrength and tex
ture were not at all injured or weakened. Seve
ral other experimentsaremakingboth in Ireland
and Scotland, with respect to this important dis
covery.
We are informed, by private letters, that the
Governor General and Ctfuncil have judged it
expedient to appoint collectors of the revenue in
the territories of the of Arcot, under their
own immediate direction, not only without the
confenc of the Nabob, but againit a pofirive re
monstrance from him, in which he declares his
intention of appealing from the orders of the
JBritifli government in India, to the Britilh go
vernment at home.
It is easy to conceive what effect so strong a
measure towards a prince, under our immediate
protection, mult have on the minds, and proba
bly on thecondudt of our other Indian allies,
who are less dependent upon us. ,
There is no species of impofitionon the public
which it is of so much importance to expose, as
imposition in the education of youth. The man
who profelTes to fell ease and elegance in a pair
of eUflic spring garters, or health and longevity
in a pair of breeches made on geometrical principles,
inipofes only on the ignorant and the credulous
of his own time ; but the man who inipofes up
on the public in the education of youth, lays up
a stock of ignorance and credulity in the rising
generation for future quacks and impostors to
work upon.
Thursday the collection of music and musical
instruments of the late Duke of Cumberland,
were fold at auction by Mr. Christie. The cele
brated violin, by Stainier, supposed to be the
ckiej d' ceuvre of the maker, was knocked off to
Mr. Braidyll for one hundred and thirty gui
neas ! Another by the fameartift produced fixty
five guineas, and a violin by Amati for seventy.
His Royal Highnefs's favourite tenor, which he
deemed inestimable, was fold for fifty guineas,
and a foreign organ, by Green, for seventy three.
The cheapest inltrument fold was a harpficord,
by old Kirknian, which only produced twenty
fix guineas.
The villain who robbed the Rotherham mail,
was so dextrous as to negociate in London the
French bill for 1231. 14s. (which was unfortu
nately due) in thirty-fix hours from the time of
committing the robbery.
Of thefuccefs of our troops in India many peo
ple speak confidently ; we wilh they may not be
mistaken; but when we recoiled: the fate of
Braddock and Burgoyne, we feel cautious in an
ticipating victory.
One of the objects of the bill to be brought
into Parliament, by Mr. Milforcl, for the relief
of Roman Catholics, is to permit gentlemen of
that persuasion, to serve his majesty in the army
and navy.
Extract of a letter from Paris, Jan. 14,
From the LEYDEN GAZETTE, of Jan. 21
" Contrary to the expectations of our opposi
tion Bilhops, a majority of the Cures of Paris
have taken the civic oath, 011 Sunday last, the
9th instant. The churches were never more
crouded : The exhibition in them has varied ac
cording to the different condutft of the several
ininifleis : It was easy to discover by the behavi
our of ihe flock what the fiiepherd had been do
ing. The Cures who have shewn fubmiflion to
the decrees of the National Aflembly dire<fted the
ceremony to begin by hymns of joy and feftivity,
and patriotic sermons adapted to the occasion,
previous to their taking the oath ; while those
in the oppolition pronounced from their pulpits
discourses, which at any other time would have
made the people oppose the decree of the Aflem
bly ; but which at the present jun(flure have on
ly raised themob against themselves. Had it not
been for the zeal and firinnefs (hewn by the Na
tional Guard, the last would have paid with their
lives for the imprudence of their conducS. The
Cute of St. Sulpice was near falling a facrifice to
the fury of the people, while the Cure of St.
Euftache, the King's confeflor, was carried back
to his home in triumph, in the midst of popular
shouts. It (hould be observed that thele pariihes
are the mod wealthy and populous in the city.
Next Sunday is the limit prescribed to those of
the clergy who wilh to take the civic oath : All
our troops will be under arms. It is hoped that
mod of the Cures will by that time have made
tip their minds, and taken the resolution of fol
lowing the example of the friends of peace. Af
ter this day all such as fliall not have taken the
oath, are ipfo faclo to be deprived of their bene
fices, according to the meaning of the decree.
Extratt of a letter from Paris, dated Jan. 31.
41 The agitation and discordancy of opinions here, refpe&ing
our revolution, forebode serious evils. The almost entire una ""
imity of the Bishops and parochial Clergy in refufing to take the
civic oith, will have an extensive influence. The whole number
of Bishops in the kingdom is about one hundred and thirty, or t lee
one hundred and twenty five have protelted against the decree o
November 27, refpe&ing the Ecclesiastical constitution. c
®aies, or rediori of parifties,in general, and almost all our Clergy
men, adhere to the Bifliops in reje&ing the oath. Only two cler
gymen of note have yet taken it ; the Abbe Poitier, an eminent
preacher, who has since retraced ; the other is the Rettor of the
parifo of St. Euftache,and conteUor to the King. It is confident
ly aliened, that to prevent the unfavoiable impreflion, which
might be the consequence of so general a rejection ot the oath, ma
ny Laymen have been employed to personate priests and take it.
The day on which it was to have been adminilteied, the Rector
of St. Sulpice, the largest Parifti in Paris, said to contain 200,000
Souls, narrowly escaped being murdered by an enraged multitude.
Two Parish Priests, one of them near Rheims, have been actually
put to death. Such is the spirit prevailing in cities and large
towns. In molt country parishes, the people would be out
rageous, and insult their pallors for taking it. Many things are
publithed in the dailv prints to support pubiic credit ; but you
may be assured, that the lose credit daily."
DUB LIN, Feb. 12
The vast increafeof Our exports every year, is
one of those felf-evident truths of the augment
ation of our trade and manufactures, owing, in a
great nieafure, to the bounties and other judi
cious encouragements ; as also, to the wife laws
devised for luch purposes. Thus, to extend our
commerce, promote internal exertion, and to
protect our coalt and other fiflieries, evince more
true patriotism, thah all the laboured harrangues
ever pronounced to serve the purpole of Party
or Fadtion, in order to oufl if poflible an admin
istration uniformly labouring for the national
good ; or, at least, who can be said never to have
deviated from that unerring principle,
EXETER, Dec. 29.
On Friday last was slaughtered the large we
ther lheep lately belonging to Mr. Wreford. It
weighed, when alive, lixteen score aud sixteen
pounds, which is exactly three hundred weight.
Its length, from the nostrils to a perpendicular
at the rump, was 4 feet 6 inches ; and its height,
at the shoulder, 32 inches. The four quarters,
when dead, weighed eight score and thirteen
pounds. Meflrs. Swale and Youlden were to give
ten guineas for the lheep if its mutton weighed
42 pounds per quarter; if under that weight to
have the sheep for nothing; in consequence, the
ten guineas became payable.
Philadelphia, April 16.
Some persons appear very much disgusted with
the contradi<fiory accounts of the situation of af
fairs in France : but so long as different interests
exiit, so long will the world be abused with con
tradictions. Time alone is to bedepended 011 as
an honed interpreter —he will do justice—and we
mult wait for this infallible umpire to decide.
What are fifty years in the age of a nation ?
The alarming incident ot the finking of the
houses and streets in White-Haven (England)
was occasioned by the Town's being undermined
with coal-pits, which were not properly secured ;
as in other places—no account is given of any
lives being loft.
The quality of Bohea Tea, has been much
complained ps within the last three or four years.
In a late English paper this is accounted for, by
the demand's being greater than formerly, and
the Chinese to supply the market put in every
kind of rubbifti that used heretofore to be thrown
away.
The Legislature of this State adjourned on
Wednesday last—their next meeting will be on
the third of August next; fifty-five acts have
palled during this firft fitting of the firll feflion.
Died, the Bth inft. at Bordentown, N. J. Jo
seph Borden, Esq. formerly coinmiffioner of
Loans for the United States, for the State of
New-Jersey - A steady friend to the liberties of
his country, in the most trying times; a refpetfa
ble citizen and an honelt man.
A CORRESPONDENT SAYS
Some modern reformers of government extend
their ideas so far, that they would not only re
form ns out of peace and tranquility in this world,
but also deprive mankind of their dernier hope,
the expectation of happiness in the world to come ;
hence the many indirect and open attacks upon
revealed religion with which not only foreign
newspapers, but even American publications are
disgraced.
Have mankind yet to learn, that he who f^ ars
not God, will not regard man ? The plan of fub
iugating America—and making a property of
the lives and fortunes of our citizens originated
in principles of infidelity. When Britain was
virtuous, she felt the influence of honor and hu
manity—but when Hume, Mandeville, Bolingbroke
and Voltaire formed a creed for British statesmen
the appetites of luxury, ambition and avarice
absorbed the idea of right and wrong, and the
whole contest with America was considered by
them but as a game of hazard on their part, in
which as individuals, they might gain much, but
could lose nothing—such are the uniform effetfis
of infidelity ; immediate inter eft alone controuls
the actions of such men—and it is by accident
that they ever promote the public prosperity.
When it is considered that in a Lottery of
25000 Tickets, there are 24999 chances to one
a gain ll drawing the highest prize, a most exten
sive group of long faces is portrayed to the fan
cy, when the fate of all the tickets is known.
819
We are informed that tickets in the New-York
City Lottery have been fold for five dollars and
three quarters each—a pretty speculation—more
than 15 per cent, per month.
Wednesday laftthe ship America, Capt. Depeyfter, arrived
New-York from London ; and brings accounts to the 3d March.
She failed from the Downs in company with the Pigou, tor Phila
delphia—the Young Eagle for Boston, and'the Ann, Cowan, for
Maryland. On the 2d March the Albion Mills, London,
were consumed by fire ; there were in the Mills upwards of 4000
sacks of corn, which were likewise entirely destroyed.
According to a late decision ot the Court of King's Bench, the
Law of England now is, That three days grace are to be allowed
on Promiffary Notes, as well as Bills of Exchange.
The Chamber of Commerce of Normandy, in France, toteftify
their grateful sense of the generous conduct of Capt. Thomas
Hem son, an Engliftiman, towards a Capt. Boqui e, the crew 06
whose (hip had mutinied and murdered the mate and cabin boy,
have ordered a letter of thanks, and a gold medal to be sent to
Capt. Hemson.
The houfeof reprelentatives of this Commonwealth, on the 8(h
inft. unanimously adopted an address to the National Assembly
of France,
We are authorized to fay, that the City-Hall and Dickinfon-Col- *
lege Lottery will positively commence drawing-o.) Tuesday next.
We are informed, that a plan has been adopted to give a spring
to American Manufactures, on a scale, hitherto unattempted in
the United States : A loan on the basis of the public securities,
for this highly patriotic purpose, to a competent amount, *ve also
hear, meets with the greatest encouragement.
Public Securities have lately risen very considerably in New-
York.
The proprietors of the schooner Fly, intended as a confbnt
packet between this place and New-Castle, on the Delaware, de
serve much credit for their ingenuity in uniting in so small a veflel,
every convenience usually met with in the best of ships. A cabin
18 or 20 feet long, of height fufficient for the tallest person ; 12
births ; a division, if desired, between the ladies' and gentlemen's
apartment. Two entrances into thecabin,and a consequent draught
of air, which must make it very pleasant in the summer season ;
with every other convenience that can be thought of, is found on
board the Fly.—She is a well built, fact failing veflel,
and perhaps in every refpe# may stand as a perfect model for a
frefh-water packet-boat.
FROM A BOSTON PAPER
We are happy in being able to lay before our readers, the in
formation contained in the following—more efpccially as we
think it to be authmitic, and as it effettually contradicts certain
publications which have appeared in the papers, on the state of
affairs in France.
Extratt of a letter Jrom Amjlerdam, dated January 31, 1791.
1 i In France, every thing goes on very well. The Aflignats
have risen to 15 and 16 per cent, above par. They have been
enabled to commence the discharge of their debts by the sale of
the lands of the clergy, which are, on an average, fold at one
third higher than the appraisal.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, APRIL 7
Prizes indrawn, - - 2 9°5
Blanks ditto, - - 6395
Blanks and Prizes drawn,
Among the Prizes to be drawn at the above date, are, 1 of ioooo,
2of 3000, 3of 20C0, los 1000, 3of 500, 6of 200, and 28of 100.
Mr. Fenno,
IN the New-York Journal of 13th inft. the laudable, emulative
spirit of two eminent Butchers in that city, in parading two fine
Oxen of 1000 weight each, is very curiously complimented as
" regaling the sight of roast beef epicures, and exhibiting <he
lust of taste, and the pride of country !!" On which one of
your readers would observe—
If " lujloftafle" and gluttony abound,
Where'er an Ox shall weigh a thousand pound—
How great thoje vices, where the Oxen weigh
Two thousand each, in Market every day !
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Thomas, Ridley, N. Castle, on the Tyne, 49 days.
Sloop Alexandria, Monroe, Virginia, 6.
Do. William, Scott, Virginia, 5.
Schooner Polly, Jacobs, N. Carolina, 8.
Brig Nancy, Driggs, St. Johns.
Schooner Hero, Ramfey, Baltimore, 10.
Do. Sally, Norris, Virginia, 6.
Sloop Alexander Hamilton, Buron, do. 7.
Do. Polly, Beatty, do. 6.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/2,
3 pr. Cents 9/2,
Defered 6 pr. Cents 9f.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16J] 80
Indents 9 f- 45 0#
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12/2 15J.
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In the Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French, and Italian
Languages—being part of a private Library,
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufaniai, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Cxfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
OBttvo (3 infra. Septuagint, Ariftophanea, Longinu<, Theo
phrallus, Epitketus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
Ifocrates, Polyaenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetae minores Latini, Callipxdia, Strada, L.
Valla, &c.
A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejn Rice and Co
Market-Street, where further particulars may be learned.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, See.
Of the firft quality—by retail.
No. 17,
Third Street, between Chefout and Market Streets.
ICT A few New-York LOTTERY TICKETS
come to hand, for sale.
93°°
15700
P r * £
86 pr. cent.
45 do.
45 do -
K S,CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the lixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT to continue in force the Act therein
mentioned, and to make further provision for
the payment of Pensions to Invalids, and for
the support of Light-Houses, Beacons, Buoys,
and Public Piers.
BE itenafted by the Senate and House of Reprefcntatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflembled, That the
ast, entitled, " An to provide for mitigating or remitting the
forfeitures and penalties accruing under the revenue laws in certain
cases therein mentioned," (hall be and is hereby continued in
force until the en 4 of the next feflion ot Congress, and no longer.
And be it further enadled, That the yearly pensions which have
,been allowed by or in pursuance of any act or law of ihe United
States, to persons who were wounded and disabled during the late
war, (hall for the space of one year from the fourth day of March
rext.be paid out of theTreafury of the United States, under
such regulations as the President of the United States may direst.
And be it further ena&ed, That all expences which (hall accrue
from the firft day of July next, inclusively for the neccflary sup
port, maintenance and repairs of all light-houses, beacons, buoys,
and public piers, (hall continue to be defrayed by the United
States, until the firft day of July, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-two, notwithstanding such light-houses, bea
cons, buoys, or public piers, with the lands and tenements 'there
unto belonging, and the jurifdiftion of the fame, (hall not in the
mean time be ceded to or vested in the United States, by the State
orStates refpcftively, in which the fame may be, and that the
said time be further allowed to the States refpe&ivelv, to make
such cession. Provided, that nothjng in the laid ast (fiall be con
strued to limit or rcftrain the power of the Pre i.dent ot the United
States, to grant pardons for offences against the United States.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentativcs,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United State*.
and rrefident of the Senate
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United Stata
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State.
RESOLVED by the Seriate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress affcmblcd, That
the President of the United States be, and he hereby is requested
to cause an cflimate to be laid before Congress at their next session'
of the quantity and (ituation of the lands not claimed by the In
dians, nor granted to, nor claimed by any of the citizens of the
United Suites, within the territory ceded to the United States by
the State of North-Carolina, and within the territory of the United
States north-weft of the river Ohio.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prefident oj the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in thr Office of the Secretary of State.
iHOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That a
mint (hall be established under such regulations as lhall be dirt&ed
by law.
Rc-folved, that the President of the United States be, and he is
hereby authorized to cause to be engaged, such principal artists
as lhall be necefTary to carry the preceding resolution into
and to stipulate the terms and conditions of their lervice, and also
to cause to be procured such apparatus as shall be requisite for the
fame purpose.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the HovJ'e of Reprcfentativcs.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, P,efUent of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls ir, the Office of the Secretary of State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State'.
ANNAPOLIS, April 7.
To the President of the United States
Sir,
WE, the Faculty of St. John's College, beg
leave to exprefsthefincere joy which the honour
of your presence in our infant feininary afforded
us. In common with all those who.superintend
the education of youth, we must feel a lively gra
titude to the defender of liberty, the guardian
of his country, and consequently the great pat
lou of literature. But as this feniinary was be
gun since the united voice of free America cal
led you to preside over its molt important inter
ests, and ensure to them the continuance of those
blessings which your calm foreflght and steady
fortitude had been the happy means of procur
ing, it seems in a peculiar manner to look up to
you with filial refpetf. That it dates its birth
from this grand aera, which has placed you at
the head or fifteen diftindi sovereign slates united
into one mighty republic, is regarded by its
friends as an auspicious circumstance and flatter
ing afliirance of its future eminence and ufeful
iiefs. To the friend of virtue and his country
the rife of colleges, where the youth of genera
tions, yet unborn, may be taught to admire and
emulate the great and good, must give a heart
felt delight, as they promise perpetuity to the
labours and renown of the patriot and hero.
Our earnest prayers, that a kind Providence
may constantly watch over you, and preserve a
life, long, indeed, already, if measured by deeds
of worth and fulnefs of kouours, but coo (hort as
yet for your country.
Signed in behalf, and ac the request of the
Faculty, JOHN M'DOWELL, Pr.
March 26, 1791.
To the Faculty of St. John's College
Gentlemen,
The fatisfaiftion which I have derived from my
visit to your infant seminary, is exprefled with
real pleasure, and my wishes for its progress to
perfection are preferred with sincere regard.
The very promising appearance of its infancy
matt flatter all its friends (among whom I intreat
you to class me) with the hope of an early, and
at the fame time, a mature manhood.
You will do justice to the sentiments, which
your kind regard towards myfelfiufpires, by be
lieving that I reciprocate the good wishes con
tained in your address, and I lincerely hope the
excellence of your seminary will be manifefted
in the morals and science of the youtli who are
favoured with your care.
From the (London) MORNING HERALD.
EPITAPH for VOLTAIRE
Mr. Editor,
AS your paper is particularly circulated in
Paris, 1 fend you for insertion the follow
ing Epitaph on Voltaire. It conveys, I believe,
the general sense which all good men entertain
of that celebrated character, who was alike ad
mirable for his talents, and detestable for his
abuse of them. If his enthufialtic admirers can
not disprove its allegations, let them adopt it, to
decorate his tomb at their approaching celebra
tion of his funeral obsequies.
HERE lie deposited
The ashes of VOLTAIRE.
This man
" In poetry was—much,
In politics was—something,
In religion was—nothing at all."
He was Chief of a herd of freethinkers
Who affected the belief and practice of a certain
system of Morality,
Which they had the hardihood to maintain as
superior to revealed religion.
But Voltaire, tohisown dil'gracc,
And to the mortification of his followers
Did in his own person give the lye '
To their viiionary hypothesis.
For,
Under the influence of this new-fangled Creed
He, like many others of the Confraternity,
Became notorious
For the want of Honour,
The wantofVf racity,
And the want of common Honesty.
Reader, when thou reflected,
That among the bighefl orders of mankind
The only restraint on Powerful Tyranny
Wild Desire, Mad Ambition and Oppressive
Avarice, is RELIGION,
And that among the subordinate ranks of thy
Fellow-Creatures,
The fame Principle
Is their great support and consolation under
every species of adversity,
Thou wilt perceive,
■That the man who endeavors to invalidate its
Authority,
And diminifli its influence,
Is an enemy to the Weil-Being and Harmony
of SOCIETY.
Gallaudet andEwmc,
HNo. 54, South Second Street,
AVE tmportcd ~, the Lady Walterjlorf from London, Man.
Pn I ,(•' a n,""" 1 L ' wr P° oi . and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. |J3" On hand for
Pt , J g , , ds of OLD J AM £S''RIVER TOBACCO
Philadelphia, April 1791. , 00 "
NOTIFICATION.
Colonel Thomas Prqctik, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
es of Philadelphia, being neccffarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Governor hath thought proper to authorise
NV.twl gc ulof that Office until his return •_
OTICEis therefore giver., to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia, the Northern Liberties of said
City, the Townftiips of Moyamenfing and Pafl\unk, that thev are
to meet and exercise under their refpeftive Officer. ©n the'fol
lowing Days, viz.
First Battalion on the 2d Day of May next.
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do."
Fifth Battalion on the 6th of do.
Sixth Battalion on the gth of do!
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Licntenant,
pro tern, of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791.
T . CO P'" of the CONSTITUTION of the
Edit 11 ' £ r,nUd W!th -Notes, ?nay he had of the
820
G. WASHINGTON
Pintard and Bleecker
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of '
Certificates & Public Securities
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the '
following term*:
ON the specie amouut of all i'alcs or purchases at aufiion
eighth per cent. '
On ditto of all fdles or purchases at private sale, on all funis
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cent. ; and on all fumj
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving intercll at the Loan-03ice, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar cach transfer."
tf3~ Such perfoqs throughout the United as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders may rely on
their being executed with punSunlity, fidelity and dispatch, as confi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York ana different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
A'eu>-York, No. 57, King-Street.
197 law 6m)
March 1,5, 1791
TIfHEREAS HENRY WEBB, put out appren
» » tice by the Greenwich School for the sea service, mot
Übout the year 1776, who was then of the age of t 4 years, oi'there
fcbouts, and kiUd from England in that year to some part of
tJonh-Ameiica, in the fliip or vcHcl called the Arlcmlfa, and
which (aid ship or vellcl was at that time a Navy Vittualln-, Capt
Lewellyn, and which ship or v-ITel w.s also a Spanifli Trader and'
atterwards became such Transport in his Britannic Maiolty's' ler
vtceas aforefaid ; and whereas the said Usury H'M defened and
ran away from the said ship or veflel, and entered on board a cer.
tain privateer or vessel called the Revenge, or Fengeame Privateer
of which orie John Dcatc was then mailer or commander, tiieii
lying at Ne.o-York in America ; and the said Vengeance Privateer
oil or about the sth5 th day of November, i 77 9, failed from New.
York aforefaid to Savannah, and arriv ed at such lad mentioned
place on or about the month of March or the month of April fol
lowing, from thenceto some port or place in America, but to what
portor place is not known; and in the month of May,l7Bo, was seen
at Barbadoes inthe Weft-Indies: but the said Henry Webb hath not
lince been heard of, and is luppofed to be dead, it havino hem
reported that the tender belonging to the said ship or ve(lVl°called
the Vengeance,with a number of her men, to the amount of 20 or
thereabouts, and among whom the said Hcr.rx Webb it is fuppo'fed
was one, were taken by an American vcfTel and carried into Phi.
ladelbhia If any oerfon or persons will give any info,.nation of
the laid Henry Webb, or of the time and place of his <lea:h, to Sa
muel Nay lor, F.iq. No. 4, Great Newport-ftreei, near Lone-
Acre, London, or to the Rev. Mr. John St a n for d, No. M.lohn.
ltreet, Xew-i'ori, they lnall be handsomely rewarded lor their
troublc - (97»W 8 W)
FOR SALE,
In ths City of Ncw-Brunfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE,aJmoft
new, plealantly situated on the banks of the Rantan, to
gether with a large I.ot iri the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame
and a good {lone cellar under the whole.
Any perron inclining to purchafc may have poffeflion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and tcrmsol payment which
will he made cafy by applying to Lewis Forman, in said city, or
the iubfcribcrm Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not (old, to be rented from ill day of May next,
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets.
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
» , „ , . , Pemfylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kind. of SECURITIES of the United State.,, or of any
particular State.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Striet, No. 66,
D U y S and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
I~J THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to N EGO CI ATE
* .AND BILLS Of EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
SU3SCRIp TIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
o IATES.
Philadelphia. March 30, 1791
MACHINERY FOR SPINNING FLAX, HEMP AND
T . COMBED WOOL.
HE Sublcriber hereb? gives public noticc, that he has obtain,
ed a patent for a Jlivering wheel and table, a movement fur wet
ting the thread*, conical doth coated t/irumilers, and another for the•fame
ra< C ' coa *°d 7 oiler, a leathern belt moved by rollers, for the
purpoje oj tic preparatory drawing of the /livers, and another leathern
JfFi Ukc ™" ver > b rollers,for the purfofe of drawing the roi
eafl.ix, hemp and wool, being improvements uoon the mill or ma
chinerv of Kendrew and Porthoufe of the town of Darlington in
<-»rcat Britain.
This machinery, with the original mechanism on which it is
grafted,being of the utmost value to the United States, the fubferi
'tr ieieby offers to make and erect a complete mill or mills, in
eluding both the original works, and bis above improvements
ereon, for any individual or company, on terms to be by them
agreed on ; and to conduct the Manufactory either for a fhareof
V',.' s > r ?' ftl P"lated wages. GEORGE PARKINSON,
Plnlad. ho. 65, Chejnut-Street, March 17, 1791. [93 6f.]
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
L 1 V 1 N C S T 0 N,
fttuate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
i °J r, s Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acrtsof
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
t le faim a very large coJle&ion of various kinds of the choicest:
ruit trees, &c. in lull bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, tor further particulars.
Ncu)-York, 7an. 1791
LOST,
T)Er\\ EEN this city and New-York, on the port road, two
XJ bundles containing the Gazette oi the United States—No.
32 deilined for New-York and Boiton. As they can be of no
use, but as paper, except to the Subscribers, many of whom
keep files of that publication, any pcrfon who can give informa
tion to the Editor, so that the whole or anv part of them may be
recovered, fha!l receive a generous reward. The two bundles
contained 300 papers.
( 9 6 tfj
80 3m