PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 94, of Vol. ll.]
NEW REVENUE LAW.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT repealing, after the last day of June
next, the duties heretofore laid upon Distilled
Spirits imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead ; and also upon Spirits
, Distilled within the United States, and for ap
propriating the fame.
(CONTINUATION.)
AND be it further enacted, That the supervisor of the reve
nue for the diftrift wherein any houfe,building or place shall
be situate, -whereof entry shall be made as last aforefaid, ftiall
as soon as may be thereafter, visit and inl'peft, or cause to be
-ifited and infpefted by some proper officer or officers of inspec
tion, every such house or other building or place within his dif
trift, and shall take or cause to be taken, an exalt account of the
spirits therein refpeftively contained and shall mark or cause to
be marked in durable characters, the several casks, cales or vefTels
containing the fame, with progressive numbers, and also with the
name of each distiller to whom the fame may belong, or inwhofe
custody the fame may be, and the quantities, kinds and proofs
of spirits therein contained, and these words <c Old Stock.
And the infpeftor of each survey shall keep a book, wherein he
shall enter the name of every distiller, and the particulars of such
»ld flock in the poffefTion of each, deftgnating the several casks, J
cales and vefTels containing the fame, and their refpeftive quan
tities, kinds, proofs and marks, and shall also give a certificate to
every such distiller of the quantity and particulars of such old
Hock in his or her poffefTion, and a separate certificate for each
cask, cafe or vessel, describing the fame, which certificate shall
accompany the fame wheresoever it ihall he font, and such ci/-
tiller, his or her agent or manager, upon the sale and delivery of
any of the said spirits shall deliver to the purchaser or purchasers
thereof, the cerficate or certificates that ought to accompany the
fame, on pain of forfeiting fifty dollars for each cask, cafe or ves
sel, with which such certificate shall not be delivered.
And be it further enabled, That every importer of distilled
spirits, who, on the firft day of July next, shall have in his or her
poffefTion any distilled spirits, shall within three days thereafter,
make due entry thereof with the officer of inspection within
wh fe furvev the fame shall then be; who shall mark the casks,
vefTels or cases containing such spirits, in like manner as is herein
before directed, touching such spirits as shall be in the poffefTion
of distillers on the firft. dav of July next, and shall grant the like
certificates therefor as for such spirits, which certificates shall ac
company the refpeftive casks, cases and vefTels to which they shall
Telate, wheresoever they shall be sent, and such importer, his or
her agent, upon the sale and delivery of any of the Cud spirits,
shall deliver to the purchaser or purchasers thereof the certificate
or certificates which ought to accompany the fame, on pain of for
feiting fifty dollars for each cask, cafe or vcfTel with which such
certificate shall not be delivered. And if a-ny such importer or
importers shall refufe or neglect to make such entry at the time
and in the manner herein directed, all luch 1 pirits as shall not be
so entred shall be forfeited, and the importer or importers in
whose custody the fame be found, shall moreover forfeit the lum
equal to the full value thereof, according to the highest price of
such spirits in the market.
And be it further enacted, That if any cask, cafe or vefTel con
taining distilled spirits, which by the foregoing provisions of this
ast, ought to be marked and accompanied with a certificate, shall
be found in the pofTeffion of any person unaccompanied with such
marks and certificate, it shall be presumptive evidence that the
fame are liable to forfeiture, and it shall be lawful tor any officer
of infpeftion to seize them as forfeited ; and if, upon the trial in
confluence of such leisure, the owner or claimant of the spirits
feizeel, shall not prme that the fame were imported into the
United States according to law, or were distilled as mentioned in
the thirteenth and fourteenth lections of this ast, and the duties
thereupon paid, or were distilled at one of the stills mentioned in
the twentienth feftion of this ast, they shall be adjudged to be for-
fcited.
And be it further ena&ed, That it (hall be lawful for the officers
of infpe&ion of each survey, at all times in the day time, upon re
qurft, to enter into all and every the houses, store-houses, ware
houses, buildings and places which shall have been entered in
manner aforefaid, and by tailing, gauging or othcrwife, to take an
account of the quantity, kinds and proofs of the said spirits there
in contained ; and also to take samples thereof, paying for the fame
the usual price.
And be it fnrther ena&ed, That if any person or persons shall
rob out or deface any of the marks set upon any cask, vessel or
cafe, pursuant to the dire£tions of this ast, such person or persons
shall, for every fu:h offence, forfeit and pay the sum of one hun
dred dollars.
And be it further ena&ed, That no cask, barrel, keg, vessel, or
cafc, marked as u Old Stock," fhn 11 be made use of by any dif
filler of spirits, for putting or keeping therein any spirits other
than those which were contained therein when so marked, on pain
of forfeiting the sum of <sne hundred dollars for every, cask, bar
rel, keg, vessel or cafc wherein any such Ipirits (hall fee so put or
kept; neither shall any such distiller have or keep any diflilled
spirits in any such cask, barrel, keg, v< (Tel or cafc, longer than for
the space of one year from the said last day of June next, on pain
of foifeiting the said spirits : Provided, That nothing in this sec
tion contained shall be construed to extend to casks 01 velfels, ca
pable of containing two hundred gallons and upwards, and which
are not intended to be removed 1 .
And be it further enacted, That in cafe any of the said spirits
shall be fraudulently deposited, hid or concealed in any place
whatsoever, with intent to evade the duties thereby imposed upon
them, thev shall be forfeited. And for the better discovery of
any such spirits so fraudulently deposited, hid or concealed, it
/hall be lawful for any judge of any court of the United States, or
either of them, or for any justice of the Deace, upon reasonable
cause of fufptcion, to be made out to the fatisfa&ion of luch judge
or juftire, bv the oath or affirmation of any peifon or persons, by
special warrant or warrants under their refpeftive hands and seals.
to authorise any of the officers of infpeftion, by day, in the pre
fcnce of a constable or other officer of the peace, to enter into all
and every such place or places in which any of the said spirits
shall be fufpe£t*d to be so fraudulently deposited, hid or conceal
Wednesday. March 23, I 79 1,
cd, and to seize and carry away any of the (aid spirits which shall
be there found so fraudulently depolited, hid or concealed, as foi
feited.
And be it further ena&td, That after the lafl day of June next,
no spirituous liquors except gin or cordials in cases, jugs or bot
tles, shall be brought from any foreign port or place, in calks of
lcls capacity than fifty gallons at the lead, on pain of forfeiting ot
the said spirits, and of the (hip or vessel in which they (hall be
brought: Provided always, That nothing in this ast conta ned
(hall be conltrucd to forfeit any spirits for being imported ot
brought into the United States, in othei calks or velTi.-ls than as
aforefaid, or the (hip or vessel in which thev (hall be brought, if
such spirits (hall be for the use of the seamen on board such (hip
or vessel, and (hall not exceed the quantity of four gallons for each
seaman
And be it further enacted, That in every cafe in which any of
the said spirits shall be forfeited by virtue of this ast, the casks,
vessels and cases containing the fame, shall also be forfeited.
And be it further enacted, That every distiller of spirits, on
which the duty is hereby charged by the gallon, shall keep or cause
to be kept, an exact account of the said spirits, which he or she
shall fell, fend out or diftill, distinguishing their several kinds and
proofs ; and shall every day make a just and true entry in a book,
to be kept for that purpose, of the quantities and particulars of the
said spirits by him or her fold, sent out or distilled on the preced
ing day ; fpecifying the marks of the several casks in which they
shall be so fold or sent out, and the person to whom and for whose
use they shall be so fold or sent out : which said books shall be
prepared tor the making such entries, and shall be delivered upon
demand to the said distillers, by the supervisors of the revenue of
the several diftrifts,or by such person or persons as they shall re
fpeftively for that purpose appoint, and shall be severally returned
or delivered at the end of each year, or when the fame shall be
refpeftively filled up, (which shall firft happen) to the proper offi
cers of infpeftion; and the truth of the entries made therein shall
be verified, upon the oath or affirmation of the person by whom
those entries shall have been made, and as often as the said books
shall be furnifhed upon like demand by the proper officers of in
fpeftion, to the said distillers refpeftively. And the said books
shall from time to time, while ip the poffeflion of the said distil
lers, lie open for the infpeftion of, and upon request shall be shewn
to the proper officers of infpeftion under whose survey the said
distillers shall refpeftively be, who may take such minutes, me
morandums, or tranferipts thereof, as they may think fit. And if
any such distiller shall neglect or refufe to keep such book or books,
or to make such entries therein, or to shew the fame upon request,
to the proper officer of infpeftion, or not return the fame accord
ing to the directions of this ast, he or she shall forfeit for every
luch refufal or neglect, the sum of one hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the penalties by this ast im
posed on distillers for neglecting to make report to the infpeftors,
of their intentions of distilling spirits, or for neglecting to mark
the houses, apartments or vessels to be employed, or for neglect
ing to enter in books the quantity of spirits distilled, shall not ex
tend to any person who shall employ one still only, and that of a
capacity not exceeding fifty gallons, including the still-head.
And be it further enacted, That the feveial kinds of proof here
in before fpecified, shall, in marking the casks, vessels and cases
containing any distilled spirits, be distinguished correfpondincr
with the order in which they are mentioned by the words " firft:
proof"— u second proof " — 4t third, proof'*—" fourth proof"—"fifth
proof' * —fixthproof. *' And that it be the duty of the Secretary of
the Treasury, to provide and furnifh to the oMicers of infpeftion
nnd of the customs, proper inftiuments for ascertaining the said
several proofs.
And be it further enacted, That in any prolecution or action
vvhich may be brought against any supervisor or other officer of
infpeftion, for any seizure by him made, it shall be ncceffary
•for such supervisor or officer to juftify himfelf by making it ap
pear that there was probable cause for makingthe faid/cizure ; up
on which, and not otherwife,a verdict shall pass in his favor. And
in any such action or prosecution, or in any action or prosecution
which maybe brought against such supervisor or other officer, for
irregular or improper conduct in the execution of his duty, the
trial shall be by jury. And in any action for a seizure, in which
a verdict (hall pass for such officer, the jury shall nevertheless
a fiefs reasonable damages for any prejudice or waste (according
to the true amount in value thereof) which shall be shewn by good
proof to have happened to the spirits seized, in confcquence of
*uch seizure ; and also for the detenfion of the fame, at the rate of
fix per cent, per annum, on the true value of the said spirits at the
time of such seizure, from that time to the time ot restoration
thereof ; which shall be paid out of the Treasury of the United
States : Provided, That no damages shall be assessed when the
seizure was made for want of the proper certificate or certificates,
or by reason of a refufal to shew any officer of infpeftion, upon
his request, the spirits in any entered house, building or place:
And provided alfo,That if it shall appear from the verdict of the ju
ry, that anv such prejudice or waste was fuftaincd by the negligence
of the officer, he shall be responsible therefor to the United States.
And be it further enacted, That if any supervisor or other of
ficer of infpeftion, in any criminal prosecution against him, shall
he convicted of oppreflion or extortion in the execution of his
office, he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, or im
prisoned not exceeding fix months, or both, at the discretion of
;he court ; and shall also forfeit his office.
And be it further enacted, That no fee shall be taken for any
certificate to be issued or granted purfuantto this act.
And be it further enacted, That if any of the said supervisors
or other officers of infpeftion, shall neglect to perform any of the
duties hereby enjoined upon them refpeftively, according to the
true intent and meaning of this ast, whereby any person or per
sons shall be injured or fuffer damages, such person or persons
shall and may have an action founded upon this ast against such
supervisors or other officers and, shall recover full damage# for
the fame, together with costs of suit.
And be it further enadled that any action or suit to be brought
against any person or persons, for any thing by him or them done
in purfuanceof this ast, shall be commenced within three months
next after the matter or thing done,and unless brought in a court
of the United States, shall belaid in the county in which the
cause of action shall have arisen ; and the defendant or defendants
in any such action or suit, may plead the general issue, and on
the trial thereof give this ast and the special matter, in evidence;
and if a veidift shall pass for the defendant or defendants, or the
plaintiff or plaintiffs become non-suited, or discontinue his, her
or their action or prosecution, or judgment shall be given against
such plaintiff or plaintiffs, upon demurrer or otherwise, then such
defendant or defc ndants shall have costs awarded to him, her or
;hcm, against such plaintiff or plaintiffs.
789
[Whole No. 198.]
And in order that persons who may have incurred any of the
penalties of this ast, without -wilful negligence or intention of
fraud, iray be relieved from such penalties.
Be it further enacted, That it (hall be lawful for the judge of
the diftri£l within which such penalty or foifeiture (hall have
been incurred, at any time within one year alter the lafl day of
June next, upon petition of the partv who (hall have incurred the
fame, to enquire in a summary way into the circumstances of the
cafe, firft causing reasonable notice to be given to the person or
persons claiming such penalty or forfeiture, and to the attorney
of such diftriil ; to the end that each may have an opportunit" of
shewing cause aga'nft the mitigation or remiflion thereof ; and
(hall cause the facts which (hall appear upon such enquiry, to be
dated and annexed to the petition, and dire£l their transmission
to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, who lhall
thereupon have power to mitigate or remit such penalty or for
feiture, if it (hall appear to him that such penalty or forfeiture
was incurred without wilful negligence, or any design or inten
tion of fraud, and to cause any spirits which may have been seized
to be restored to the proprietor or proprietors, upon such t«rms
and conditions as (hall appear to him realonable.
And be it further enacted,. That the one half of all penalties
and forfeitures incurred by virtue of this ast, except as above pro
vided, shall be for the benefit of the person or persons who shall
make a seizure, or who shall firft discover the matter or thin*
whereby the fame shall have been incurred; and the other half
to the use of the United States. And such penalty and forfeiture
shall be recoverable with costs of suit, by action of debt, m the
name of the person or persons lntitled thereto, or by information,
in the name of the United States of America; and it shall be the
duty of the attorney of the diflrift wherein any such penalty or
forfeiture may have been incurred, upon application to him, to
institute and bring; such information accordingly : Provided al
ways, Thar no officer of infpeftion other than chief officer, or of
ficers of a survey, shall be intitled to the benefit of any forfeiture
unlets notice of the seizure by him made, shall be by him given
within forty-erght hours next after such seizure, to the said chief
officer or pfficers ; but in such cafe ths United States shall have
the entire benefit of such forfeiture.
And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons (hall
counterfeit or forge, or cause to be counterfeited or forged any of
the certificates herein before directed to be given, or shall know
ingly or willingly accept or receive any falfe or untrue certificate
with any of the said spirits, or shall fraudulently alter or erase any
iuch certificate atter the fame shall be given, or knowingly or
willingly publish or make use of such certificate so counterfeited,
forged, falfe, untrue altered or erased, every person so offending,
shall, for each and every offence, forfeit and pay the sum of five
hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That any person or persons that shall
be convicted of wilfully taking 3 falfe oath or affirmation, in any
of the cases in which oaths or affirmations are required to be ta
ken by virtue of this a ft, shall be liable to the pains and penalties
to which persons are liable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons shall
give, or offer to give any biibe, recompence or reward whatsoever
to any supervisor or other officer of infpeftion of the revenue, in
order to corrupt, persuade or prevail upon such officer, either to do
any ast or acts contrary to his duty in the execution of this ast, or
to neglcft or omit to do any ast or thing which he ought to do in
the execution of this ast, or to connive at or to conceal any fraud
or frauds relating to the duties hereby imposed on any of the said
fpiritfs, or not to discover the fame, every such person or persons
shall, for such offcnce, whether the fame offer or proposal be accept
ed or not, forfeit and pay a sum notexceedingfive hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons (hall
forcibly obftruft or hinder any supervisor or other officer of in
fpeftion, in the execution of this ast, or of any of the powers or
authorities hereby vested in him, or shall forcibly rescue or cause
to be rescued, any of the said spirits after the fame fhsll have been
seized by any such supervisor or oth r officer, or shall attempt or
endeavor so to do, all and every person and persons so offending,
shall, for every such offence, for which no other penalty is parti
cularly provided by this ast, forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding
two hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That if any such supervisor or other
officer, shall enter into any collusion with any person or persons
for violating or evading any of the provisions of this ast, or the du
ties hereby imposed, or shall fraudulently co.icur in the delivery
of any of the said spirits, out of any house, building or olace,
wherein the fame are deposited, without payment or security for
the payment of the duties thereupon, or shall falfely or fraudu
lently mark any cask, cafe or vessel, contrary to any of the said
provisions, or shall embezzle the public money or otherwise be
guilty of fraud in his office, such supervisor or other officer shall
for every such offence forfeit the sum of one thousand dollars, and.
upon convidlion of any of the said offences, shall forfeit his office,
and shall be difqualified for holding an) other office under the
United States.
And be it further enafled, That in every cafe in which an oath
or affirmation is required by virtue of this a6t, it shall be lawful
for the supervisors of the revenue, or any of them, or their lawful
deputy, or the lawful deputy of one of them, where not more than
one in a diftritt, to admmifter and take such oath or affirmation.
And that wherever there are more than one supervisor for one dis
trict, a majority of them may execute all and any of the powers
and authorities hereby vested in the supervisors of the revenue;
Provided, That this shall not be construed to make a majority ne
cefTary in any cafe in which, according to the nature of the ap
pointment or service, and the true intent of this a£t, the authority
is or ought to be several.
And tor the encouragement of the export-trade of the United
States : Be it further enacted, That if any of the said fpii its (where
upon any of the duties imposed by this ast shall have been paid or
secured to be paid) (hall after the last day of June next, be ex
ported fiont the United States to any foreign port or place, there
shall be an allowance to the exporter or exporters thereof, by way
of drawback, equal to the duties thereupon, according to the
rates in each cafe by this ast imposed, deducing therefrom half a
cent per gallon, and adding to the allowance upon spirits distilled
within the United States, from molafTes, which (hall be so export
ed, three cents per gallon, as an equivalent for the duty laid up
on molafTes by the said ast making further provision for the pay
ment of the debts of the United Slates: Provided always, That
the said allowance (hall not be made, unless the said exporter or
exporters shall observe the regulations herein after prcfcribed :
And provided further, That nothing herein contained (hall be
construed to alter the provisions in the said former ast, concerning
drawbacks or allowances, in nature thereof, upon spirits importea
prior to the firft day of July next. (To be concluded in our next.)Discourses on Davila No. 27-
WE (hall now content ourselves with recit
ing the summary of this firft civil war.
After the publication of declarations and mani
feltoes, the two armies take the field. The
Queen mother wishes to avoid a war, and procure
peace: She negociates an interview for this pur
pore with the Prince of Cotide, but without suc
cess : She continues however to negociate an ac
commodation, and obtains a conclusion of it.—
The prince repentsof it, by the persuasion of his
partizans, and resumes his arms. He attempts in
the night to fur prize the royal army: His enter
prize succeeds not. The King receives power
ful reinforcements from Germany and Switzer
land. The Prince of Conde is obliged to (hut
liimfelf up in Orleans, and separate his army,
■which he could not hold together in a body.—
He fends to demand succours in Germany and
England, andconfents to deliver Havre de Grace
to the Englilh, and receive their garrisons into
Rouen and Dieppe. Tne Queen, irritated and
afflitfted at these resolutions, joins the Catholic
party, and declares the Hugonots, rebels. The
royal army takes Blois, Tours, Poitiers, and Bour
ses. The ijth of Sept. 1562, it lays siege to
Rouen—in the course of which, the King ot Na
varre, visiting the trenches to reconnoitre the
(late of the place, was wounded in the left should
er, by a shot of an Arquebufe, which broke the
bone, wounded the nerves, and felled him to the
ground as if he were dead. He was carried im
mediately to his quarters, where all the other
generals afleinbled. The surgeons who drefled
his wounds, in the presence of the King and
Queen, judged it mortal, because the ball had
penetrated too far, into the body.
The 26th of October 1562, the city was carried
by allkult, and the whole army entered, making
ail horrible carnage of ihe garrison and inhabi
tants, by putting to the sword, without any quar
ter, all who presented tliemfelved armed or un
armed : The city was delivered up to be plun
dered, except the churches and consecrated
things, which the soldiers were made to fefpetfl,
by the vigilance and good discipline of the ge
nerals.
The King of Navarre, fuffering under the
pains of his wound, and wounded in spirit al
lnoft as much as in body, infilled on embarking
on the Seine, to be tranfportea to Saint Maur, a
pleasure-house near Paris, where he often went
to take the air, and enjoy the tranquility of so
litude. He scarce arrived at Andeli, a few
leagues from Rouen, when his fever was aug
mented by the agitation of the batteau, he loft
his senses, and died in a few hours. He united
to his high birth, an elegant pei-fon, and a foft-
Jiefs of manners : If he had lived in other times,
and under a better conftitutipn of government,
he might have been reckoned among the great
ell I rincesof his age ; but the candor and sin
cerity of his heart, the sweetness and affability
of his difpolition, in the midst of political trou
bles, and civil diflentions, served only to hold
him in continual agitation and inquietude, In
constant in his projects, and uncertain in his re
solutions—drawn away on one fide by the impe
tuous charailer of his brother, and excited by
the party of the Calvinifts, in which he long
held the fir ft rank—restrained on the other hand
by motives of honor, as he thought, by his na
tural inclination for peace, and aversion for ci
vil wars, he discovered on many occasions but
little firmnefs or constancy in his designs. Pla
ced in the number of those, who lay under the
reputation of seeking to disturb the state, he
shared in their disgrace—and he was seen after
wards, at the head of the opposite party, pet T
eeming those, whom he had formerly protected.
In point of religion, foinetimes allured to Calvi-
Jiifm, by the nerfuafions of his wife, and the dis
courses of Theodore Beza—and sometimes bro't
back to the Catholic faith, by the torrent of fafh
ion, and the eloquence of the Cardinal of Lor
raine, he gained the confidence of neither party,
and left in his dying moments, suspicious and e
quivocal ideas of his creed. Many thought, that,
though he was in his heart attached to c. Ivinifm,
or rather to the confeffion of Augsburg, lie sepa
rated from the Hugonots from secret views of
ambition—and fuffering impatiently that the
Piince his brother by his valor and greatness of
foul had acquired among them more efteeni than
himfelf, he chole rather to hold the firft rank a
mong the Catholics than the fccond among the
Calvinifts. He died at the age of forty- two, in
a time when his prudence increasing with age,
lie might perhaps have furpalfed the opinion
which had been conceived of him. Jane of Al
bret, his widow, continued in pofl'effion of the
title of Queen, and of what remained of Navarre.
She had two children, Henry, Prince of Beam,
then nine years of age, and afterwards the all
glorious Henry the fourth of France, and the
Princess Catharine, then very young. Their
mother lived with them atPau and at Nerac, su
pervising their education in the new religion.
The Prince of Conde, reinforced by the auxil
iary forces from Germany, makes hade to attack
Paris. The King and Queen return thither with
their army, and after various negociations the
Prince is constrained to depart. The two armies
march towards Normandy—a memorable battle
is fought at Dreue, where the Prince of Conde
is made prisoner by the Catholics, and the Con
stable by the Hugondts. In the firft onletof this
action, Gabriel of Montmorency, the son of the
Constable, had been killed, the Comte of Roche
fort had been thrown from his horse, and loft his
life, and the catholics, in fpightof all their bra
very, began to give way. The German cavalry
armed with pistols, and divided into two large
squadrons, having joined the Admiral in this
critical moment, made a fre(h charge with such
fury, that they broke the Catholics, and forced
them to fly. The Constable who fought in this
placewith great bravery, exerted himfelf in vain
to stop and rally the fugitives : His horse fell
under him, and he was wounded in the left arm,
surrounded by the Germans, and made prisoner,
after having seen perish at his fide, the Duke of
Nevers, and several other officers of distinction.
The Prince of Conde, in charging the cavalry
of the Duke of Guise, was afterwards wounded
in his right hand, and covered over with blood,
and dull and sweat, was made prisoner by Dam
ville, who, wishing to avenge the capture of his
father, fought with desperation. The Duke of
Guise remained mailer of the field of battle, the
baggage and artillery of his enemy. The Prince
of Conde was brought into the presence of his
conqueror, and it was a memorable scene to fee
those two famous men, whom past events, and
especially the la(t bartle, had rendered implaca
ble enemies, reconciled at once by the caprice of
fortune, sup at the fame table, and for want of
other lodgings, and better accommodations, pass
the night in profound sleep, on the fame bed.
Those who firft: fled from this acflion, carried
to Paris the firft news of the defeat and captivity
of the Constable, and threw the Court into deep
mourning and great inquietudes. They were
diflipated however, a few hours afterwards, by
the Captain of the King's guards being dispatch
ed by the Duke of Guise. The news which he
spread, and the aff'urances which he gave of the
vicfiory gained by the Catholics, diminished the
grief caused by the death of so many brave men,
whose loss had put all France in mourning. Be
sides the Lords and Knights, of diftinguilhed no
bility and reputation, they reckoned eight thou
sand men among the slain. The Duke of Guise
acquired a glory without bounds by this vitfiory,
which gave a great check to the Hugonots. ' The
King and Queen declared him General of the ar
my, and he took the rout to Orleans, that he might
not leave his enemy the time to repair their lofles.
N A M U R, Nov. 2.
AT half an hour pad ten o'clock in the morn
ing of the 30th of O>ftober the laboratory of
one of the powder magazines of this town took
fire in the part destined for making cartridges
It blew up, and destroyed a considerable part of
the quarter in which it wasfituated.
Four hundred persons and a great number of
children were the victims of this disaster, which
does not appear the effedl of chance, as twice be
fore matches had been found evidently disposed
with a design to accafion an explosion.
Some time before two patrols of Patriots, con
sisting of 400 men each, met in the night. 111-
flead of crying, " Qui vivi /" as usual, the com
mander of one of the parties spoke in German.
Deceived by this the other patrol fired. The
battle immediately began with fury, and, if the
dawn of day had not thrown light upon this un
fortunate mistake, the combatants would have
destroyed each other to the laftman.
Three hundred men were killed on the spot,
without reckoning those that were wounded. '
"LONDON, Nov. 8
A warrant hasjuft received the Royal fio- n atiire
for granting 10001. for special service to the Rev.
Thomas Willis, youngest son of Dr. Willis, who
was, as the public will recoiled:, a materialaflift
ant to his father during his Majesty's late indif
pofit ion.
A further reward of 4001. per annum, during
life, has also been granted by his Majesty to the
fame gentleman, in consideration of his services
during that period.
November 12
Doifior Price on Sunday last pafling Northum
berland House, Charing Crols, took two handker
chiefs out of his pocket, and as he wiped his face
with one, a very shabby looking fellow snatched
the other from him openly, and by way of excuse
said, " Dodtor, you know all men ought to be on
an equality ; you have two handkerchiefs and 1
had none." A mob gathered, there was a loud
laugh, and the Docftor walked away.
November 26.
At a quarterly communication of the Grand
Lodge of Free Masons, held last night at Free-
Mason's Hall, Lord Rawdon in the Chair, his
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales was unani
mously elected Grand Master in the room of his
790
late Royal Highr.efs the Duke of Cumberland •
refpe<ftful artenrion to whose memory t] r 1
thren appeared in mourning or. the '
December 16. I 0"'
Rhenwick Williams, the monster, i s sentf ent
to fix months impi ifonment in Newgate 'f C<
the expiration of that term, to enter bail'/"V
good behaviour, for the term offeven y
himfelf 2001. and two fineries in iool. each
Lord Weft moreland, by his elegant hofn" i
ties at Dublin castle, is popular and beloved
The factious and disappointed are awed b 1,~
virtues, and silenced by his manly and unden
ting rectitude. * Vla '
A correspondent is of opinion, that Mr. Sh ■
dan's indolence, whatever may be his in c |j "•
on, will not permit him to reply to Mr, BuT
on paper.
Alderman Curtis has avowed himfelf i n .u
house of commons, a fifherman, by which decl'
ration (having acquired a handsome fortune - *
bifquit-baker), he only meant to fay, h e was de'
termined to have both loaves and fifties.
The grand Sultan is about fending an embafl'y
of fifteen persons to the court of Berlin.
At Conitaiitinople, something more than fvmp.
Toms -favorable to the cause of Freedom, have
appeared—and fame open resistance to delpo
tifm, has a<ft ually taken place, according to the
newspapers.
Fruit seems to have been very scarce in the
time of Henry VI. Apples were then not lei's
than is. or 2S. a piece, and a red rose colt 2s.
Lord Abercorn's tomb in the Highlands hasfo
extraordinary an echo that 011 opening or shut
ting the door the noise refeinbles a very loud
clap of thunder ; therefore they who are ambi.
tious after death to have a good report should
make intereftfor interment there.
January 20.
Gavois, the wretch who cut madam Madore's
throat at Paris, with a razor, was broken 011 the
wheel at 40' dock on Thursday last. At two he
eat a large cheesecake, and drank a bottle of
wine. At three he alked with the greatest com
posure, whether it was not time to march.
* It is remarkable that the new years day of
t 791, has not been observed at St. James's, and
the ode prepared by theLaureat was forbid to be
performed.
It is confidently aflerted that the Spaniards will
not acknowledge the new flag adopted by the
French.
The Bible is now publilhing in France,in their
vulgar tongue, ornamented with copper plates
in the Englifli manner.
A Dutch paper mentions that MelTrs. Vander
Noot and Van Eupen have disappeared, the one
having retreated to Ha]] (in the French domini
ons,) the latter to the Hague. It is said further
that both are contemplating an embarkation for
America.
A gentleman in town has received a letter from
tlie clergyman at Botany Bay, who informs him
that provisions are so scarce, that the Governor
allows only two ounces of meat, and five ounces
of flour per day to each person. If a relief is
not speedily thrown in, the consequences may be
fatal. Thewriter of theletter adds, that he has
at different times engaged three of the female
convidsas house servants, but that they have all
robbed him. He has now a native gi los the
place, about twelve years of age, whom he is in
hopes of making a ufeful servant.
The latelt accounts from India mention, that
Lord Cornwallis had formed three separate ar
mies to art again!! the tyrant Tippoo, and in
tended to lb ike a decisive blow, by attacking Ar
cot, the capital of his usurped dominions ; but
it was much feared the undertaking would prove
too arduous.
By the taking of Ifatifia, the great magazine
and the principal depot of the (lores of the Turk
i(h army, they became masters of a vast tract on
the south of the Danube, and it was supposed
that they would find no difficulty in taking the
town of Varna, about a day's inarch from thence,
which is a commodious and commanding harbor
on the Black Sea, and which was but slightly for
tified.
If the Prince Potemkin should not think it ex
pedient to cross the Balchan, or the great chain
of mountains which forms a natural barrier to
Turkey, it was in his power to transport his army
by sea within a few miles of Constantinople, in
a day or two, with 110 other obstacle than what
the Black Sea, which is often dangerous and rem
peftuous, presented ; and thereby get over the
principal impediment to his farther progress.
The winter campaign of the Ruffian army may
appear very extraordinary in this country, but
military operations in those warm latitudes are
molt practicable in winter, and the Ruffians are
affedied by the heats in fuminer more than other
troops ; and therefore they prefer carrying on a
war in the winter i'eafon.
From the little resistance which the Turks
make, as the last conquefb is said to have been
gained without any loss, Russia may puffi her
conquells before any other power can poHibly in
terfere ; and either take Conltantinople, or dietate such a peace as ffiall give hef a free paflagd
through the Dardanelles, open a traffic from her
new Empire in the Crimea, and become a mari
time power in the Mediterranean.
This great probable event would add to the
wonders of the present age ; nor is it likely that
the Empress would be arrested in her progress
by any mediation, whofc operations mult be clif
tant. —
January 27.
Yesterday an eminent Banking house in the
Strand received letters from France, Hating that
accounts had been received from Pondicherry,
confirming the rumour from Madi as, that colo
nel Floyd's detachment has been cut off. The
banking house thought it their duty to fend the
letter to the office of the secretary of itate, for
the information ofgovernment.
It is alio said, that the Britifli army have found
as they advanced, the streams and springs poison
ed, by the milk tree, which is cut and fixed in the
bed of the river, and which emirs a juice for ma
ny days, that mixing with the water, produces a
dysentery. In consequence of this impediment,
and fearing alfothat the country might be clear
ed of all provisions, general Medows has notlefs
than 80,000 bullocks in the train ofhisarmy.
BOSTON, March 9
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
THE SENATE
Has referred to the next session of the General
Court, the letter of the General Afl'embly of Vir
ginia, refpefting the right of the citizens to hear
the debates of the federal Senate.
The refolve,directing theTreafurer to subscribe
to the loan of the United States, certain Conti
nental Securities in the Treasury, has pal Ted both
Houses.
A bill to determine how far officers in the pay
of the government of the United States, (hall be
eligible to offices under the authority of the go
vernment of this Commonwealth, was read afirlt
time, and on motion for its havinga second read
ing, it palled in the negative.
Bills appointing commissioners to afcertainthe
boundary lines between thisilate and Conne&i
cut ; and this state and Rhode Island, have pas
sed the House.
A resolve has pasTed both Houses, appointed
Hon. Samuel Philips, Nathaniel Wells, and David
Cobb, Efqrs. William Euftis and Thomas Davis,
Elqis. a committee to fell the l ight of this Com
monwealth to the Western lands, to Mr. Samu
el Ogden. (The sum we are told, which has been
agreed 011 is xoo,oool. payable by installments,
to be on intei ell after a certain period.)
To the amount of 800001. has been fold of the
Eastern lands, in this commonwealth— 70000 of
which has been paid into the public Treasury.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ELLA.
STRIKE, strike again thy silver-sounding lyre
Ella, thou darling of the God of verse ;
Again in thy clear, claflic strain, rehcarfe
Decay's fierce ravage, wiih a poet's fire.
So when the fainting Sun's last golden rays,
Have gliinmer'd o'er the foam-white billowy sea,
I've heari a Seraph's voice in heav'nly lays,
Ofi bid me think on dread Eternity !
" Thy feeble star now shoots its paley beam,
" Dim'd by disease, o'er life's temprftuous surge,
" And soon the murmuring waves lhall found thy dirge,
11 While deep thy star is funk beneath theftream.
<# Then shall it rife in the bright realms of Truth,
" Deiide Decay, and smile eternal Youth."
Philadelphia,
Monday last, before noon, the President of the
United States, accompanied by Major Jackson,
Jat off from the Seat ofGovernment, on a tour to
the south ward, in anew chariot and fix. It isfaid
the President intends to visit the Carolinas and
Georgia. }
The Secretary of War, and the Secretary of
State, escorted the President part of the way on
liis journey.
The above carriage was built by Mr. Clark of
this citj*|- and may be pronounced a superior spe
cimen of mechanical perfection in that line.
IMPORTANT CHRONICLE!
Thirty-two duels were fought in Great-Britain
and Ireland, last year—fourteen of wliich were
fatal.
Twelve fcientific, regular bruising matches in
the fame period !
An English paper mentions the following events
which have taken place in the course of the French
revolution, The order of nobility annihilated—the
clergy humbled and degraded—the court an object of
hatred, suspicion and contempt —the church lands fold
at an {lion—and the lowefl of the people exalted to the
rank of legislators : This lafl: lentence wants ex
planation— the word /o'vejl is now obsolete. The
writer then adds—it appears after all, that it is
BIR T H A
March 25.
extremely probable—nay almofl: certain—that
the Revolution of France is fixed—and not to be
subverted !
The revolution in France is (said to be) the
work of the people—not that of a party or par
ticular fatftion of nobles—of the clergy—or of
artful demagogues, working on the passions of
part of the people —with whom they are popular
to day—and execrable to-morrow : Should this
be thecafe, acounter-revolution will be found
nor so easy a business, as some visionaries imagine"
—but was it never known before, that the whole
body of the people in any country had changed
their mind ? If the French nation are in favor of
the revolution, they afford an inltance in point.
The French Alfignats begin to find their way
into England—Bottomed 011 terra-firma—the ever
lasting hills are their balis !
By accounts from Europe,- via Boston, to the
22d January, it appears, that the Turks and Ruf
fians continue the war with unabated fury. An
alliance has lately been formed between Poland
and the Turks.
5000 pounds of hemp, raised by Col Wood, on
the memorable heights of Charleftown, was fold
in Boston the beginning of this month : It was
pronounced by Judges to befuperior to any they
had ever seen : This hemp grew on 6 acres of
land, and produced, (with the bounty from go
vernment, which is 50 dollars per ton) five hun-.
dred dollars.
Extratt of a letter from Quebec, to the Editor, da-
ted February 10.
" I enclose you a paragraph, cut out of our
Gazette, of 2d December, refpeifting the anions
with the Indians, ir. your Weflern territories—
That publiflied in your Gazette ; I had reprint
ed here—it certainly is more consistent; however
you may be allured, the loss of the lavages was
not great.
" It is not supposed here, that government will
give them any support, particularly as they are
iituated on your fide of the boundaries. The
Indians with whom the furr-trade is carried on,
lye to the N.W. of us and the lakes,from whom it
is not probable you will receive any encroach-
mems."
Advices from Detroit, as late as the 6th of No
vember, received by yesterday's port, inform us
of two aifiions fought between the Indians, and
part of Governor St. Clair's army, in the Miamis
country. y
We have reason to believe the following to be
as accurate an account of these events, as has yet
come to the knowledge of the public :
The American army consisting of 2700 men,
1000 of which were horse, had made a very rapid
movement by the 14th Otftober, to within nine
leagues of the Miamis villages ; the Shawnefe,
and Potowatomeis, after destroying their own
villages, and what grain they could not remove,
[they allowed the Indian traders fettled among
them to remove every thing but ammunition] en
camped about 800 strong at some distance from
the ipot, and were attacked on the 16th by the
1000 horse, who they defeated after killing about
300 —the remainder retreated to the main body;
on the 20th the Indians being reinforced, attack
ed that body and defeated them with the loss of
250, or more ; and from the daily growing
strength of the Indians, who were determined
to purJue the retreating army of the Americans ;
news of a general engagement was hourly expect
ed when these accounts left Detroit : Such Ame
rican prifoneri as they took, [after endeavour
ing to learn what the designs of them were,which
they said was, to erect some forts, for theprefent
and to attack Detroit in the Spring] they killed.
By letters from persons near the place, it is
said, very few of the American army will reach
their homes ; had not a chief of the Ottawa Na
tion dreamed they would not lucceed if they at
tacked that day, the major part of the American ar
my would, on the second engagement, have been
cut off.
The Indians have called on Major Smith, and
the officers in the Indian department, to know
what alfiltance they are to expert, and fay, it
Great-Britain will not affifl. them, they will go
over to the Spanifli lines, and we must abide the
consequences.
|C 7* Public Securities as in Gazette of the 16th.
Treasury Department,
March x, 1791.
PROPOSALS will be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, until the 28th instant, inclusively, to furnifh by
contract, the following articles of cloathing, to be delivered ar the
city of Philadejphia, in seven weekly parcels, so as to compleate
the whole delivery on or before the 15th day of May nex, viz.
2000 round hats,
2000 short coats,
2000 vests 22 pair of buckles,
2000 pair of overalls, of drilling, 2009 Stocks,
40 pair of wollen overalls, 2002 Clasps,
2650 blankets.
The articles must beagreeab'e to such palterns as shall be dirk
ed by the Secretary for the Department of War. Paymeut wil
bemadeasfoon as the whole of the articles (hall have been del:
vered
791
Quebec, December 2,
4263 shirts,
4044 pair of (hoes
By the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS it hath been represented to me, that JamisO'
Fallon is levying an armed forcc in that part of (hf-
State of Virginia which is called Kentucky, dilWbs the public
peace, and sets at defiance the Treaties of the United States with
the Indian Tribes, the Ast of Congress, intituled, "An Ast to
regulate trade and intercourfc with the Indian Tribes," and my
Proclamations of the fourteenth and twenty-sixth dajs ol Auouft
last, founded thereon : And it is my earncft desire that those who
have incautiously afTociated themselves with the fa id James O*
Fa llon, may be yarned of their danger, I have therefore thought
fit to publish this Proclamation, hereby declaring, that all persons
violating the Treaties and Ast aforefaid, ihall be profecutcd with
the utmost rigor of the law.
And I do moreover require all officers of th;? United States,
whom it may concern, to use their best exeitions to bring to jus
tice any persons offending in the prcmifes.
In teflimony whereof I have caused the Seal of the United Statei to
be affixed to theje Presents, and signed the fame with my Hand.
Done at the City of Philadelphia, the Nineteenth Day of March y
in the Year of our Lord one thou fund seven hundred and ninc~
tx-one, and of the Independence of the United Statet theffteenth.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
By the Pr esident,
THOMAS JEFFERSON
Treasury Department.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Treafurv, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use of the United States, from the full day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftn&s herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh,
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
ihe River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said.
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the month of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence Over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincennes,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
rom the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the inouih of the Miami river to
.he Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky*
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfie, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to thejmouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the ri-'er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confiit of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or § of a pound of p®rk,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, T iQQ rations _
Two pounds or loap, C r
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fiilt Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the fiift day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of MaHachu
fetts, and the Poftof Welt-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the id day of January to the 3iftday of December, 179 a,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the space of at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
aie abovementioned.
It is to be understood in cach cafe, that all lofTes fufta-.ned by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable chara&ers,
and the certificate of a commifiioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above posts to
gether, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Y
and the seventeen places following it,and for the ports in Georgia ;
and they mull fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay
ment. March 22, 1591.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OK REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. j.
The BANK BILL under confideralion,
MR. SMITH, (S. C.)
OBSERVED, That he considered it his duty
to offer the reasons which (hould influence
him in giving his vote on this occalion. He had
wiflied amendments to the bill, as some parts of it
he confefled, did noj perfectly please him, but his
wilhes having been over-ruled, the question now
is, Whether the bill /hall pass ? Tho lie caine from
the southward of the Patowmac, the principle
of the bill met his approbation : It would be a
deplorable thing, said he, if" this government
ihould en ad; a law subversive of the constitution—
or that so enlightened a body as the Senate of
the United States, Ihould, by so great a majo
rity, as were in favor of this bill, pass a law,
so hostile to the liberties of this country, as the
opposition to this ineafure have suggested the
bankfyftemtobe;andit would be very extraordi
nary if an officer of this government, who has
produced a performance explanatory of the con
llitution, of such celebrity, as to be resorted to
as an authority, Ihould be so inconsistent with
himfelf as to propose a law entirely subversive of
the principles laid down in his able defence of
the constitution.
He then adverted to the obje&ion drawn from
that article of the constitution, that no prefer
ence ftiall be given to one port over another : He
Ihewed that the clause was inserted for a parti
cular purpose—and could not be cited as a rule
not to be deviated from—as a preference was
and must neceflarily be given to one port over
another. He produced numerous instances in
point in consequence of various clauses in the re
venue laws—general regulations sometimes ope
rate partially—and commercial arrangements,
apparently unequal, produce the good of the
community at large.
In reference to construing the Constitution,
lieobferved, that the present momenr, when the
powers of the government were aflailed from va
rious quarters, he conceived the molt improper
to contract tliofe powers.
The right to construe the constitution he ar
gued from the principles advanced by Mr. Madi
son, in the debate on the power of removability,
and read sundry observations from Lloyd's Re
gister, made by that gentleman, corroborative of
this sentiment—Those arguments he conceived
applied very aptly to the present fubjeft.
Matters of a fifcal nature necefl'arily devolve
on the general government, and he urged, that
every power resulting from the acknowledged
right of Congress tocontroul the finances of this
country, must be as neceflarily implied, as in the
cafe of the power of removability.
He then alluded to the expediency of a nation
al bank : The Secretary gave notice in his firft
report, that this plan was in contemplation.—
Nothing was ever read with gi eater avidity—and
tho it is now more than a year since this intima
tion was given—yet no obje<ftions have been of
fered against it, either by the States or by iudi
viduals—even the State of North Carolina have
not mentioned it.—[Here Mr. Bloodworth, (if
the Editor did not misunderstand him) informed
Mr. Smith, that the report had not been ieen by
the legislature of North Carolina.] Mr. Smith
said he was sorry for it—and then proceeded to
notice some partial quotations, made by Mr. Jack
son, from Dr. Smith's Wealth of Nations, against
banlc systems : He said he could have wished the
gentleman had been more copious in his quota
taions from that author—if he had, he would
have found that that author has fully demon
strated their utility.
He noticed the division of opinions on the sub- I
jetft of a national bank in the city of Philadel
phia—he supposed ideas of personal advantages
induced these opposing sentiments—he however
ihought this fubjedt {houkl be taken up altogeth
er on general principles ; and even if its imme
diate influence Should not extend to the extremes
of the union, if the establishment promises a ge
neral preponderating advantage, local confeder
ations must be confideredina secondary point of
view.—The principal enquiry is, will the Insti
tution facilitate the management of the Finan
ces ? This he thought had been made apparent.
This is the opinion of the Secretary of the Trea
i'ury, after due and mature consideration of the
fubjedt; he certainly enjoys the best means for
forming an opinion—he is at the head of the
fifcal department, an'd deservedly enjoys the pub
lic confidence : Very little has been offered to
disprove his sentiments on this part of the ques
tion—and the inexpediency of the measure ihould
be clearly proved before the plan , is rejetfted—-
for an officer who deservedly enjoys the public
confidence, is entitled to the support of the legi
llature in those plan 3 which are expedient and
constitutional. _ 4
Mr. Smith mentioned iuftances, in which Con
gi ess exercised power by implication and ob
served, that this was neceflary to the execution ol
the duties which devolve on the government by
the Constitution : The power to eftablijh a nation
al bank niuft reside in Congrefs—for 110 indivi
dual State can exercise any such power—The
right of no particular itate is therefore infringed
by the institution : It had repeatedly been said,
that Philadelphia would derive peculiar advan
tages from the Bank of the United States—-but he
observed, if theprefent plan fliould fail, it was a
queltion whether the Stockholders of the Bank
of North-America, would not derive greater ad
vantages from the necessity which in that cafe
government would be under of refortingto them
for loans. The inltitution as before observed,
is founded on general principles—and will un
doubtedly in its operations prove of general
utility.
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
Joseph Anthony and Son,
firm of
They have for Sale, at their Stop
and Anthony,) North {it
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
Molasses,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
Cassia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti 8c Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tanner's Oil,
Best pick'd Mackarel,
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has established a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Bolton, by way of Norwich and Providencc, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
PaiTengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hours for starting from the refpe&ive Stage
Houses is absolutely neceflary—from which there can be 110 devia^
tion,
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartfprd- Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Westward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROWN,
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A WORK, Entitled
The Art of Writing,
REDUCED TO
A PLAIN AND EASY SYSTEM,
On a Plan entirely new.
IN SEVEN BOQKS.
By JOHN JEN K J NS, Writing- Majle r,
THE firft book contains a very plain, easy and familiar intro
duction to this art, and leads the learner to a right under
(landing of the principles of the work. The small letters are dif
fered—the principal ftrokesare placed by themselves. and accom
panied with particular explanations. A table, or scheme, is ad
ded, which exhibits at one view the component parts of each let
ter, both small and great, placed in different classes, that the learner
may at once perce : ve, by infpe&ion, the relation and dependence
which one letter has upon another. To which is annexed, a Dia
logue, calculated to fix the attention of children, and impress their
minds with right ideas of the letters. This work is defi'gned for
the benefit of schools, and may be used with advantage by all who
would acquire a knowledge of pcnmanfhip.
Five of the remaining fix are proper Writing Books, with Cop
perplate Copies, and are designed as an execution of the foregoing
plan, each book proceeding by regular steps, from the firft princi
ples to Joining-hand Copies, and gradually proceeding from a
large Round-hand, to an easy Running-hand; all which are pre
paratory to the seventh and last book, which is a colle&ion of
Writing Pieces, Promissory Notes, Orders, Receipts, Bills of Ex
change, See.
CONDITIONS of the first book
I. It will be printed on fine writing paper, and contain about
twenty-eight pages, quarto, with eight copperpl-ate engravings.
11. The price will be Three Fifths of a Dollar, ditched in blue.
111. As the author risks the publication, he requests that each
subscriber would advance One Quarter of a Dollar.
N. B. As the engravings are not yet completed, the price of the
remaining fix cannot at present be ascertained.
■%* Gentlemen who have these fubfeription papers in their
hands, are requested to return them to Isaiah Thomas. Esq. of
Worceftcr, or Thomas and Andrews, Boston, by the full of June
next.
The plan of the above work has been fabmitted to, and
approved of by the Governors of several of the States, several
members of Con^refs—the Presidents of Cambridge, Rhodt-
Island, Yale, Columbia, the President and Vice- President of New-
Jersey, and several of the Profellors of Pennsylvania Colleges—
Also, by many of the Clergy, and several eminent Writing-Mas
ters and Inftru&ors of Youth. Philadelphia. March 7, 17051
Captain Armstrong,
INFORMS his fellow-foldiersaridothers,who mav wifli toenlift,
that he has commenced recruiting in the city of Philadelphia,
where a generous bounty, and other encouragement will be given,
Young men, who wish to become Adventurers in a new
country, by joining this command, may acquire a knowledge of
the Western World, fubjeft to no expence ; and after serving a
short period, set down on their own farms, and enjoy all the
ble flings of peace and plenty. JOH N ARMSTRONG.
Philadelphia, March 14, 1791.
792
es, (lately improved by Hewes
ide Chcrnut-Street Wharf,
Hyson,") T£AS o f t hefirft
Boston Sail Duck,
No, 1,2,3, 4' anc * 7>
6 by 8 Window GJafs,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Philadel. March 18. [c.p.^w.]
Norwich, Dec. 14,1790.
69 —1 \#3m
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELIAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the 3th of April next, ?t 10 o'clock, A.M.
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Be kc.h, Madras, and Isle of Franc*;
Consisting of a large and valuable alfortment of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz,
BAI'T AS, ) white Cloths, proper for
Samias, and > Shirting, or Sheeting.
Caiias, )
Dureas—or ftnped Muflin c .
Durea Chintz, or painted ftripcd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jag tenant Muflias.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchief'.
Long Cloths, of a fupcrior quality, suitable for (hirting.")
Madras Patchcs, beautifully figured. j
Caniboys, or blue and white itriped Cottons. |
Moreas, or plain white Cloths. ! 2
Madras Cambricks.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders. j
Book Muslins. |
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety. J
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Suiat Cottoji, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the Isle ot France, of a superior quality.
An atlortmrnt of fine Wines of the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfers, for Sailors' wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety of other Goods, which ar
not enumerated.
100 Casks Raisins, }
75 Cherts Bohea Tea,( of the best , l£ics
30 Ditto Hyson, f 1
30 .ditto Souchong, )
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to the sale.
W. P BARTLETTand CO. Audioneers.
Salem, Feb. 21,179 1
Virginia, Culpeper County, 15th Jan. 1791,
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town of Dumfries,
30 from Frederickiburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a moil
healthy part of the country : —Confiding of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so diiperfed as 10 afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the fir ft quality,perhaps more t han 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, fs already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pofc, palling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleafam;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer fa id towns, con
fiding «f about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, snci
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large conflant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in great abundance; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, tor drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
houfeand ieveral other improvements moitly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodin quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhauftable
source for the saw-mill.
Alio several detached tra£ls within said county, of about 2, 3,
and 400 acrescach,and though not offo fcrtilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvements, and the lands so fitudted, that they can easily be
made convenient little iarms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned pofieflions will
be dilpoled of, on very reasonable terms—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchasers, who may be
fupphed on the fame terms, with all kinds of (lock, work hor
ies, oxen, &c. &c. &c. by JOHN STRODE. £c. f.J
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor.
L 1 V 1 N C S T 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the hotife is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, 'Jan. 1791.
FOR SALE,
In the City of Nezu-Brunfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
new, pleasantly situated on the banks of the Rantan, to
gether with a large I>ot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. ' Said House is thirty-four feet
square has four rooms on each floor, wth entries between the fame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchate may have pofTeflion the nrlt
dav of Maynext, and know the price and terms ol payment which
w 1 be made easy by applying to Lewis For man, in fa id city, or
ttic lubfcribcrm Borden Town. J. VAX EMBURGH.
N. B. If not-sold, to be rented from day of Maynext
Manuel Noah,
BR O K E R,
N0.91, Race-Street,, between Second and Third-Sticets*
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United State?, or of any
Bengal.
Also,
particular Sta:c.
8b 3 m