L
&*:<*< ofSAteij^
PUBLISHED (VF.nvHnivc i«f .-.. TrrrlT " —. — ...
t/
y
[No. 47, of Vol. lII.]
FROM TBOMAS's MASSACHUSETTS SPY.
For much it boots which way you train your boy,'*
AMONG the many dirc&ions and rules which have been li
berally prescribed for the well educaiing of children and
youth, none has been oftener repeated, or more strongly inculcat
«d than this, That they Ihould be carefully guarded from bad ex
am pies, and encouraged and led on in the right way by those that,
are good. Children are prone to imitaiion, and form themfelvcs
by means of it. They immediately adopt the language they heai
uttered, and the attions they fee performed. Hence, in all trea
ties, in all methods, in all schools, of genteel education, it is an
invariable maxim, to keep children, as much as possible, our of the
company of low and mean people, and especially of fcrvants left
tJieir manners and sentiments Ihould be tainted with any thing
that is low, vulgar and mean. The wisdom of this rule has been
universally acknowledged, and the advantage of it in*ariably ex
perienced, wherever regarded. But by some observations I hav
made of late, 1 have been led to conclude, that the rule i« pretty
much laid aside, 1.1 some ot those ftaus, families and clafl"e< that
ought to know and obserVe the rules of good breeding and polite
nets; or, that the tables are now turned; that language and ac
tions, which none butt he Uferfort were supposed capable of, may
fce now learned of some wno call themselves the better lor: • and
that those things which heretofore were looked upon as degrading
and fcandaloiis, and against which children and youih we're care
fully warned and guarded, are now considered as manlv and
genteel. , 7
J have a little Ton whom I have wiftied to be brought up both
genteelly and virtuously, aud always supposed that these were per
teaiy confident ; nijr, that virtue was cffential to the character of
a gentleman ; and that, to be well bred, he mull neither he Vulgar
nor vicious. I therefore cautiously retrained him from mixing
with pcrfons of a mean education, and with those whose occupa
tion was low and servile, whose language ts apt to be fcurnlous
and profane, and whose manner of fpcaking and behaviour would
be degrading and contemptible in a gentleman.
With a view to the improvement of my boy, as well as my own
gratification, X made several exen/fions with him the lad year and
the lad season, through the mod populous counties in this date,
and through some of the neighbouring dates, exciting his ambition
toobferve and imita-e the manners and language of those who a j
peared to be tafliionable and genteel, not doubting but such guides
would be fafe, considering their education and advantages, and
that they would lead him in the way in which he should go. R u t
before I got home from my last journey, I found to hly mortifica
tion, that, through my ignorance of modern improvements in the
iafhionable world, I had carried my son to a wrong ichooj, it 1
meant to preserve the purity of his language, ideas' and morals.
ros i e began to mow high spirit and resentment at fmaTl provoca
tions; to hludei and ilorrtV at the servants ; to fwetfr when in a
palfion, and sometimes in good humour; he would blackguard to
<ii fplay his wit, and play mischievous pranks to (hew his fun.
When I reproved him for his indecent and ungentiemanJike be
haviour, he replied that he had carefully followed my directions;
that he had learned nothing of the lower fort of people; that he
had spoken and done nothing but what he had heard and seen in
those families into which I hnd introduced him. I was con
ounded and fil'enced, knowing that he /poke the truth, having
been myfelf eye and car witness to the fame. . In some families
tie mailer would seldom speak to the servants, especially when he
was out of temper, without oaths, taunts, and leproaches. The
*ons would do the fame, and often intermix.their chcerful talk
With unnatural and dreadful profanity.—l heard of a man in the
neighbouihood of my lodgings who was engaged in an impoitant
undertaking, hich required skill arid abilities, as well as fidelity.
I had thecuriofitv to 'ee him while in the execution of his trust.
J Judged that every man who was employed, by persons of the
nrft chara&er, in matters of great and extensive conlequence to the
public, if he was equal to the undertaking, mud have manners and
address equal to his Nation, and to his skill in his employment;
2nd that his attendants, being awed by his manly deportment,
would behave, ai lead, with decency. But what was my surprise
when he replied to some of my moded inquiries in the roughed
language, and nothing was to be heard among his attendants but
t c fouled oaths! I soon made my escape from such company, and
urried with my son to my lodprings. When I returned to the
lnn > I found a number of people collected, daring and grinning,
Tound a handsome carriage; and soon heard paflionate exprcfEons
and profane oaths delivered in a haughty tone. Upon inquiry I
was told that ?he well drelfcd man who was raving and {wearing
at the driver, for some trivijl accident, or failure, was ,
I will not tell who he was; but I should not have been more
* onilhed, it I had heard imprecations and scurrility from the
mouth of a Judge, or even a Member o JCongrefs. It immediately
rou»ht to my mind an ex predion v\ nich I heard from a chaplain
?I if w ht'n I was a boy—" What honour can there be in
elching out oaths, when the mcanrjl fcnundrel can do the fame ?"
FROM THE MARYLAND JOURNAL, Be.
| City of Washington, in the diftritt of Columbia, in-
JL tended lor the p' rmancnt feat of the Government of the Uni
c . t«'tcs, bf ing now begun, a concise d fenptionof the situation,
® n pre le nt fete of metropolis, may not be altogether unin-
to those at a distance.
Ihe frat 01 the city Hands at the jun&ion of the rivers Patow
*nac and the Eaftern-Hianch, extending nearly four miles up
i, including a tratt of territory, exceeded in point of con
venience, salubrity, and beauty, by none in America, if any in
1 ' r lc'—For, although the land is apparently level, yet, by
gent e and giadual fwelhngs, a variety of elegant profpc£ls are
P'o need ; while there is ajTufficient descent to convey off th»- wa
lrr occafionerl by rain.—Within the limits of the cit), are a g'eat
< x'cellent fprinos, and by digging wells, water of the belt
Ua readily be had ; besides, the never-failing dreams,
"t rmw run through that territory, are also to be colle&ed for the
O'cof ihecitv.
K-, ► C -Branch is one of the fafeft and mod commodious
a 'ors in America, b~mg fuffioiently deep for the largelt Ihips,
1 * out ,<>ur iniles above its mouth ; while the channel lies close
»iongt if oTthe city, and is abundantly capacipu*. The Pa
bir??' a^ou &honly navigable for fmjll-cratt, for a confidera
-1 anrt from its banks adjoining the city (excepting about
for/ OVCr,K> j Unaion of «he rivers) will nevertheless as-
8 r " M,s urnm ' r -harbor; as an immense number of (hips
*r•' M, the great channel, opposite to, and below,the city.
' * metropolis, being fituatcd upon the great poft-ioad, ex
THE NEIGHBOUR.
Saturday, October 8,
aftly eqmdiftant from the northern and southern extremities o<
the Union, and nearly so from the Atlantic to Fort-Pitt, upon the
belt navigation, and in the midst of the richest commercial terri
tory in America, commanding the moftexteofive internal refour
■ ces > 18 b Y far <he most eligible situation for the residence ot Con
) ; and as there is no doubt of it, being pressed forward, by
. the public-fpmted enterpnfe of the people ot these United States
. and by foreigners, it will grow up with a de get* of rapidity hi.
t, >wto unparalleled in the annals of cities, aud will soon become
} tnc admiration and delight of the world.
The plan of this city, agreeably to the directions of the Prefi
k 7,', o!<ed States " was defi K ne <l. and drawn, by, he cele
brated Major i.'Enfant ;and is an inconceivable improvemem
upon all other cities in the world, combining not only conven
ience, regularity, elegance of profpeft, and a free circulation of
air but every thing grand and beautiful, that can possibly be in
troduced ,nto a city—As the plan of this elegant city will be
pubhfhed early in next month, a particular description of it here
would neither be poflible nor necessary : A few sentences, on
that fubjeft, must therefore fuflice.
The streets, in general, run due north and south, and east and
welt, forming rcSangular fquarej._The area for the Congress-
House, is situated upon the most beautiful eminence, little more
than a mile from the Eaftem-Branch, and not much more from
thePatowmac ; commanding a full aud complete view of every
part of the city, as well as a considerable extent of the country
around. The President's Hovse will (land upon a rising
ground, not far from the banks of the Patowmac, possessing a de
lightful water profpeft, together with a commandingview of the
Congress-House, and most of the material parts of the city. The
Houjes for the great Departments of State, the Supreme Cour:-
Mouse and Judiciary-Offices, the National Bank, the General
Exchange, and the several Market-Houses, with a variety of other
public buildings, are all arranged with equal propriety,judgment
and taste. in such situations as, in practice, will be found the most
convenient and proper.—Due south from the President's House,
and due weft from the Congress tfoufe, run two great Pleasure-
Parks, or Malls, which interfeft a rid terminate upon the banks of
the Palowmac, and are ornamented at the firies with a variety of
public gardens and elegant buildings, interspersed
through the city, where the most material streets cross, in the most
important situations, aie a variety of open areas, formed in various
regurarfiguies, which in great cities are extremely ufcful and or
namental.— Fifteen ot the best of these dress may be appropriated
IO the different States ctvmpofing the Union, not only: to "bear
their relpedive patties, but as proper places for them tqereft sta
tues, obelilks or columns, to the memory of their favorite heroes
or ftatelYnen ; providing they contribute towards the improve
ment of the lots around these areas, in (uch manner as may be a
greed upon.—From ih* Congref.-Hotife, the President's Houfc.
and fame of the other important areas in the city, run tranlverfe
avenues, or diagonal streets, from one material objfft to another,
which not only produce a variety of charming profpefts, and fa
cilitate the communication through the city, but temoyethat io-
Cpid sameness,- that renders Philadelphia and Charleilpn uuplea
fing.—Thffe great leading (trfffs are all 160 feet wide, including
a brick pavement of 10 feet, and a gravel walk of go feet planted
with trees, on each fide; which will leave 80 feet of paved street
for carriages.—The reft of the streets, are in gensral, 130 and no
feet wide, and are now mostly run out upon true principles, from
celestial oljfervaiions, by thf Geographer-General of the United
Stales, whose astronomical knowledge, and fcientific talents, are
so univtrfally known and admired
The founding of this city, in furh an eligible fltuation, upon
such a. liberal and elegant plan, will, by fumre be
confidejed as one of the mull important tranfa&ions of the pre
sent President of the United States ; while its name will keep frefh
in mind, 10 the end of time, the mjiiy important fervicet he has
rendered hiscountry.
Among the many fortunate circumstances which have attended
this country, during the present administration in government, the
residence of Major l'Enfant in America, at this time, may be con
fide red as one of the moll material.—The plan he has now pro
duced, and which is happily adopted, exhibits such striking pi oofs
of an exalted genius, elegance of taste, extensive imagination and
comprehension, as will not only produce amazement in Europe,
but meet the admiration ot all luture ages ; having theiein so hap
pily combined ihe beauties ot situation with general convenience
and, at the fame time, effectually guarded against thofc inconven
iences which arise in other great cities.
The public buildings, now planned by this great engineer and
archited, and carrying on under his direction, will befuperbano
elegant, and such as will do honor to the capital of a great and
prolperous empire; while,fortunately, it is not in the power of
Congress to interfeie with the funds obtained for those public
works ; the whole being from private grants of individual State*
and citizens.
It mutt, no doubt, be admitted, that Congress have power, even
at their next feflion, to repeal the present law, by which they arc
obliged to remove to the city of Washi NCTON,at the time there-
in mentioned ; but they have no power to fay that, from the prefeni
tunds, certain houses (hall not be erected, or that the proprietor
shall not proceed in building the city : Hence, therefore, it wi];
remain, at any future period, with Congress, to choose their per.
mafient residence, in the moil central situation. Here it may \ c
proper to observe, that, agreeably to the new constitution of the
Union,the States of Virginia and Maryland surrendered a diftri6l
of territory, which Congress have, by law, accepted of That, a
greeably to the fame law of Congress, these two States have made
a grant of money, for the public buildings, part of which is now
a&ually paid and expended—That, in consequence of the fame
law, a large tract of land is granted, by a number of individuals ;
which land is now cut up into a city, and, belore the meeting of
Congress, will, in part, be fold to a variety of people throughou
the Union.—The repeal of a law, therefore, so groisly to violate
pub'ic and private faith, would not be mentioned in a Congress
of fiends imt in Pandemonium ; far less in the general legifLturt
of these United Stares, whose tenacious adherence to uublic faith
prevented their altering t'nefunding-law last feflion when proposed.
With regard to the fufficiency of the funds, now obtained, so?
the pubJic purposes of this new city, it will, in a great measure,
depend upon the management of the sale of the lots ceded to th<
public. If they are fold off gradually, as money maybe wanted
to thole who will attually improve thein in a reasonable time, th«
fund will be produ&ive, far exceeding the mod fangume calcula-
tions that have been made upon it —For the lots remaining 01,
will rife in value, in proportion to tbe growth and namr*
advantages of the city, as is evidcut in the mod trifling town and
village in America.
185
A SPECTATOR
//J '*-/-* 1 r ■jSs-J*
a f // </,
/
HUso
[Whole No. 255.]
i 1 A R I S, July 30.
r T"VHE eighty articles which have been for some
X time part preparing by the Committee ofCon
titutiop [°r the Royal acceptance, and which are
i° i"i\ ° f the nevv to "ftitution, are to
[be la,ci before the Aflbmbly on Monday next
I . lieie is 110 doubt but that they will extend the
King s prerogative much wider than it was ac
1 ""tended ; for the majority of the kingdom
leems to be of opinion, that it is impoL'ifcle, from
the nature of encumftances, to carry ou the go
vernment without giving a strong arm to the ex
ecutive power, and the nation is unanimous ia
being governed by a king.
It is certain that the magiftrares of the Swift
Cantons are the most inveterate enemies of all
the people in Europe agsinfl the French consti
tution.
A creditor of Monfienr, the King's brother
went ycfterday to Brunjoi, the Prince's countryl
hotife, accompanied by an usher (bailiff) andfeiL
ed as much of his goods as wer? wtinh 30,000 l
itres, the amount at' the demand vyhich he had
upon hun. , . «•
M. de Noailles, ambaflador at the Imperial
Court, it is allured, is returning honie, fu that a
rupture is inevitable. • "
dug. r. In the feliion of the h, they read
an address from the department «>f the uiume
reqnetting that 290 individuals, who bad fi<>ned
a protefl againit the decrees of the Nation? AC
(e.nbly 0 f which they themselves are members
might be proceeded against and tiied for perjury
and treason. J '
An address was also read, signed by a frreat
number of citizens of Clermont Kerraud ex
cl a lining agamlt the suspension of Electoral' As.
leinblles, and terminating as follows :"U j s
time lor the peoplejo; exercUeJLhcixJLvereignt v.
ana 10 wi.iKe Known their vvi/hes ; anci as tiie
country is in immediate danger, we declare to
you that if 111 a fortnight your decree is not re
voked, we will employ the means with which
the law has furnilhed a free people to exercise
their rights."
The detachment of the National Parjfian
guards, which was encamped in the plain of
Crenelle, let off for the frontiers Jaft night ;
they are to be replaced directly by the citv mili
tia of the dirtritfis of St. Eennis, and of Bourg ] a
Heine, which will shortly proceed to the fame
place of destination.
O N DON, Augufl 4.
The King of Sweden has difTuantled all the
fortifications eretfted duringthe war, 011 tlie fron
tiers of Ruffian Finland ; a measure which In
dicates an early aiul permanent pacification in
the North, and may by Come politicians be fpp,
poled to look favorable to that Confederacy a
gainlt France, which has so long been spoken of.
The present combination of Kings again ft the
liberty of France plainly shews that their Ma
jesties want wisdom. If they were poflefled of
much penetration, they would know that it was
the interference of the French in the affairp of
America that firft made them pane for freedom
and that the soldiers of the German, Spanifli'
and other Princes, by now interfering in the af
fairs of France, may learn that they were noc
born to be slaves.
1 he putting a ftopto theprefs is an indication
that the establishment of peace is in a promising
train, but the cot tinnance of the bounties u>
sea nen rtews, that it is not yet accomplifted
I lie Paris letters of Fiiday do not even anti
cipate any thing with refpeift to the decision of
the Aflemhly on the great question refpetftine
the flight of the Royal Family. The only ru
mour with refpecft to the latter is, that as Toon
as the decrees on the conftitorion are completed
a digest of them is to be made up and offered to
'he King. The Monarch, on this oceafion, is ta
be allowed to remove to one *>f his country pa
laces, and there to frame his decision with alt
polhhle freedom. Jf he aflentshe is to be reftor
fd under certain provifious ; if not, the ibve
reignty dexolves instantly to the Dauphin.
A gentleman who had lately occasion to *jfi t
the country, gives a most favorable account of
the a ppearance of harvert. The highly season
able and beneficial influence of the late rain*
has been most happily felt, and the barley and
oats are in excellent condition.
Jiignit Oran hns been relieved, and the
.oors have received a complete overthrow. TheSnaniffi forces landed off Cape Ferat, and attack
ed the Moors in the rear, while the garnfon who
were apprised of their r.pproach, made a v.go
ous fallv from the town.
The National Aflembly, by their last bold mea
sure of the total deduction of hereditary rank,
have caused tlieYevolt of all thole officers wh
have reached the rank of Captain, who ir
course are honoured with the Croix de St. Loin. .
Such a decree, by rooting out the diftindhons np
which that illultrious body had been iiccl j it °' ne
to pride themselves, has totally destroyed
link which bound them to the caule.
The late declaration of the King of Spain, < -
gainlt the introduction into the Span,lh domini
ons of the political fanaucifm of the biench, by
tinkers zn<l knife-grinders, &c. is a very civr-ous
con.polition for a crowned head, but not ill-luite
to ignorance and pride. The allocation of 1 -
berty with such contemptible vagrants, in an ad
dress to the Spanilh nation, is not without policy
and dexterity.
Extra ft of a letter from Ne-w-York, I'lay 30. _
<< The Britif.i have driven every other nation
out of the trade of this country ; their goods are
both superior in quality, andl to.very cheap that
scarce any article ot manufactured goods has
been imported tor these last twelve months from
any other place than Great-Britain and Ireland.
It is believed, however, that the imports ot Bn
tifh goods this Spring already, is more than can
be consumed in the United States tor two years
to come."
A PEEr INTO THE COURTS OF EUROPE.
Ruff,a. The Empress dying in fine flyle, iur
rounded by general officers on one fide and mi
nifters on the other, quarrelling in such a .nan
ner as *> ftim the old lady, in consequence o
Prince Potemkin having made them all drunl
■with brandy. , ,
Germary. The Emperor blustering about wha
he will do, if the Diet will give him the power
France. The King, in a little parlour ot th.
Thnilleries, making wry faces, while he is learn
ine to smoke on the principles of liberty' ; bu
comforting himfelf with frequent quafls of bran
dy punch s at the fame time he is improving hu
mind by reading—in a cookery book. The Dau
phin, in another apartment, amusing himfeli
with a pack of cards,-without honours, on which
are written democratic fenteuces; a member ot
the National Aflembly teaching him to play wit*
a political te totum.
Ti/rifv. The_C
jier ofthe Seraglio, praying to the god o.
gland ancl Prussia, to keep the Ruffian Bears fron
■ over-running h*s dominions. The Grand Vizier
chewing vast quantities of opium, to lull his po
litical apprehensions ; and starting, as it were,
every moment from a dream, to feel if his head
be on.
Italy. His Holiness helitating itfhis own mind,
whether he should anathematize the whole French
Nation ; or in some fort, meet the reforming
ideas of the National Afl'embly, and marry the
two old aunts of the King
Spain. His Most Catholic Majesty bawling out
of his palace windows, for his (übjecls from eve
ry quarter of the kingdom, to bring their com
plaints before him ; at the fame time instructing
his Prime Minister in the room with him, to fer
that the military (lop them in their march, an
drive them all home again about their own bus
ness.
Poland. The King, at the bead of a table of
dainties, toasting liberty, and diretfing, that dish
after difli (hould be sent out to the populace, a
gainst the will of many of the old Nobles, who
have no notion of giving the vulgar so refined a
tatte,
Naples and Sicily. Kis Neapolitan Majesty row
ing for a wager, jumping over a stick, (landing
upon his head, and fin gin g opera Tongs louder
than the aiftors upon the stage.
Holland. The Stadtholder smoking his pipe
and faying nothing about politics.
England. The King beloved as a father by e
very individual fubjeift in his kingdom, and his
people happy.
BIRMINGHAM, August: i
The Diflenters of Birmingham have publickly
returned their thanks to those members of the
eftablithed*Church, who exerted themselves dur
ing the late riots, in defence of their persons
and property ; more particularly to those who
in the true spirit of Christianity received into
their houses, and under their protection, many
families of Diflenters who were obliged to leave
their own habitations ; and also to tliofe who re
ceived and protected their goods, thereby expos
ing themselves to danger from a lawless mob,
■who wanted only a pretence for depredation.
We have the happiness to fay, that the tran
quility which immediately took place here upon
the arrival of the military, has been uninterrupt
ed by any of the disturbers of the public peace.
From Monday until Friday lafi, the Earls of
Plymouth and Alesford, the Magistrates of the
town, and several other Magistrates of the coun
ties of Warwick and Worceiter, affittcd by Mr.
■and Sig-nior in a private cor
- - . - C L' —
Leycefter, an eminent Connfel, Mr. C
layne, the Treasury Solicitor, and Mr. Jojti
Bond, have fat at the Swan Inn, taking p
ons and examinations refpedt.ng the late tumults.
Warrants have been illucd to apprehend num
bers of the rioters, whose persons are kno .
Ofthofe that have been already taken up and
examined, fifteen have been commuted twelve
,o Warwick, and three to Woweller gaol. They
are chiefly delperate men, of liotorioufly badcha
racfters.
BRISTOL, August i.
The moil serious apprehensions were yelter _y
entertained of popular commotions in conse
quence of a report in S enera ' Cl"ula''°"'Meet
jJodlor Priestley was to preach in the New Meet
inc Ho life on Sunday—The major part the
Corporation of this town is composed of Diflent
ers, and they having invited this Political Divine,
would, no doubt, endeavour to shield him from
popular outrage.
ELEGANT IMPROMPTU,
Of Mr. Barlow, author of the " Vision of Columbus, now in
J France.
The French no more in Rupid joy,
Torment the air, with " Vwe le Roi."
A nobler with expands the mind,
Let justice live—and live mankind.
Extracts from a Military Discourse, delivered by H.
H. Brackeuridge, to the Light Infantry Company
of Pittjburgh, Sept. 17, I 79 1 -
IN the Peloponnefian wars of Greece, when
the Lacedemonians, by order of the oracle, sent
-o Athens for a general, that difdainful and ri
val republic sent them Tyrtxus, a chaplain, lame
in his feet, diminutive in hisperfoli, and sent as
a bnrlefque, not as a general. What was the
eventßy his discourses, which he compoted
in verse, he ronfed the Spartans to the noblest
ardor, and though not a soldier, or a general
himfelf he gave foul and animation to those that
were. An ii resistible enthusiasm was kindled by
his words ; the enemy were vanquiihed in every
battle ; and the Athenians too late were convin
ced of their error in furnifhing their rivals with
a leader so formidable.
Great is the power of speech..—What did not
Demosthenes do at a later age ? The Athenians,
after the Persian victories, had become luxurious
and effeminate. Yet even these did he rouse to
encounter the Macedonian phalanx. Well said
Philip of him, " I regard not the Theban foot,
or the Illyrian horse, so much as the lightning
of that orator." The Athenians were effemi
nate,, luxurious, and averse to war; yet at a An
gle adjuration of the orator, swearing by those
who fell at Marathon and Platxa, as in other
cases he would have sworn, by the immortal
Gods themselves, there was produced a delirium
of the brain, a madness of intellect, and an im
petuolity of valor. To war—to war—was the
word and at the battle of Charonea, which
took place, it may be said to have been his voice
which rendered, for a long time dubious, a con
test for the liberties of Greece.
The Spartan discipline is well evinced from the
circumltance, of the soldier, who had his hand
lifted to strike a fallen enemy, yet, at that in
fant, a retreat founding, he withdraws his foot
and spares the blow. It is also related of the
troops of Cyrus, that on the march, a soldier re
ceiving a stroke on his cheek from foinething
thrown, yet turned not his head to fee from
whence it came.
As to the glory of a soldier it is the highed a
mongst mortals. We value eloquence and admire
wifdoin ; but the prowess of the soldier is fafci
nating to the mind, and we are affonifhed at his
intrepidity and boldness.
So high an opinion had the ancients of milita
rv Ikill and valor, that to one of thefeven worlds
of our system, they gave the name of Mars.
While he moves in his bright circle round the
fun, let every one remember that he is the fa
vorite of Venus, and not far distant from her
sphere : Venus the ftarof the morning, the har
binger of day ; and as she smiles upon Mars, so
may the fair ever smile upon those who draw
their swords in their defence.
The glory of the American soldier is pecu
liarly diltinguifhed. He fights for 110 despot.
He draws his sword at his own will, and goes in
to battle in a cause which is his own.
Particular legislators have laid the foundation
of other fyfteins : Moses amongst the Jews ; So
lon at Athens ; Lycurgus at Sparta, and Numa
Pompilius at Rome. The citizen of America has
himfelf delegated representatives, to devise forms
of government ; he has considered and tried
these forms, and has ordered them to be altered
and amended at his pleasure. He has been a
Solon, a Lycurgus, a Numa Pompilius for him
delf. In him therefore unites the double glory
of a legislator and a soldier. Happy people to
have been your'own lawgivers, and to harve
arms in your hands to guard those laws.
186
WINCHESTER, (Vir.) Sept. 17,
From the Kentucky Gazette, of Aug. 27.
A Volunteer Expedition, under the command
of Brigadier General Charles Scott, will rendez
vous at George-Town (Craig's Mill) 011 Thurs
day the Bth day of September next, with thirty
days provision, in order to go againlt the common
enemy. The expence of this expedition is not
to be defrayed by the general government, un
less services fliould be rendered which, in the
eye of Congress, maybe thought deftrving of
. foine compensation.
Fort Wajhington, Aug. 3, 1791.
Great liberties having been taken with General
Harniar's reputation, relative to his expedition
againlt the Mauniee towns,and being informed
that much of the calumny spread upon thisoc
cafion was invented in Kentucky—he gives thi»
t PUBLIC NOTICK,
THAT, in the course of this month, a Courtof
enquiry will convene at this Fort, for theinvefti
gation of his condu<ft. Such persons in Kentucky
as have been actively malignant, and have round
ly aflerted, as truths, things intended to sap his
good name, are hereby invited and challenged
to avail themselves of this opportunity to pro
duce their proofs—otherwife they mult expect
to be considered by every honest man, every man
of honor, as calumniators, designing knaves,and
malevolent members of society.
PORTLAND, (MaflT.) Sept. 23
On Wednesday last, two regiments of the mi r *
litia of this county were muttered at Falmouth,
for a review by Major General Goodwin, viz.—
Col. Cobb's and Col. Larrabee's—They made a
respectable appearance, and merit as well offi
cers as privates the approbation of their fellow
citizens ; —Capt. Bowman's Troop ofHorfe.from"
Gorham, appeared in the field, in uniform, for
the firfl time—their appearance and perform
ance added much to the pleasure of the day,their
appearance was brilliant, and does honor to the
town from whence they came—lt is a pleasing
circumstance to observe a disposition to promote
military knowledge reviving, encreifing, and
diffufing itfelf among all ranks of people in this
diltri<si.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
While we read of the havoc among the inha
bitants of the Eastern hemisphere, by raging
wars and a more deltrudive pestilence. While
we consider the present (late of Europe, where
almolt every nation is involved, or to appearance
about to be involved in contention and disorder.
While we observe with horror the dreadful
tidings from the Weft-Indies; and, in short,
while we reflect on the troubles that.fnbfift in
almost every other part of the world, how ought:
our hearts to glow with gratitude to the Supreme
Being, for the bleflings we enjoy in this.—Here:
peace dwells within our walls : Health, plenty
and prosperity smile upon all our towns. —Un-
der the administration of a wife and efficient go
vernment, such a government as no other people
could ever boafl of, we enjoy the happiefr re
flections and the faireft profpetfts. What is in
the womb of time we cannot tell—lt is not for
mortals to know the defigtis of Providence, or
even to understand His ways. The present Itate
of the world fee ins to portend great events.
Great events have indeed already taken place
the present year, and are now btirfting forth, te
the astonishment of every reflecting mind. Oil
whatever secular principles they may be account
ed for, we ought to ascribe thein to the over-rul
ing hand of GOD. He did marvellous things a
mong the inhabitants of the earth in ancient
times, and is now performing wonders in our
days. What has been done for us of late years,
is a part of His great plan.
Americans ! call to mind the days of your
diltrefs—View your present happy situation ;
and bless him who hath delivered you from the
former, and eftabliftied von in the lattei wo
hath diftinguilhed you among the nations of the
earth : and while he fuffers dark clouds to over
spread them (perhaps, however, only to prepare
them for the enjoyment of resplendent days) i
crowning you with loving kindness. Ma e ""J
the heft "return you can, for his gooknefs, ana
he will give you continual cause to cleern you
selves a happy people.
E A S T O N, (M.) Sept. 27.
On Thursday last came on before the J" (1 S eS
of the General Court, holden for the Saltern-
Shore, the trial of David Rathell, for the niur
of Sarah Rathell, his wife. Although no P olul
proof could be given of this horrid fact, ) e
many circnmftances offered in evidence v> e!
strong and fatisfaftory, as to convince the: ju
of his guilt ; who, after retiring Irora the la
bout fifteen minutes, returned and 10 »
their verdict accordingly. Theprifonei *
manded to gaol ; arid the next day l ec^ 1 * M r _
tence of death, which was pronounce y '
Justice Goldfborough, in a very tender a
feeling manner.fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET.—TO ANNA.
WHEN' fporiive Spring renews his chearlul reign.
And spreads bis vtrdant robe o'er field and grove ;
The winged warblers chauni their heavenly strain,
And breathe away theii fouls in blifsful love.
The lovely rose, the queen of Flora's vale.
Improves her transient reign in beauty's clisrms,
And calls vnung Zephyr from the ambrosial gale,
To ptefs her ioftly in his downy arms.
Then come, my Anna, in thy spring of love.
While i" thy cheek the rnl'e's beauty-glow?.
Oh! now ihy youth, thy melting chaims improve,
And bid mc lol'e in rapture all my woes.
Fnr age fonn o'er thy head will spread his snows,
And a»e no ioys of love, no rapture knows.
C H A M O N T.
EXTRACT
RELIGION is the onlv foundation ot morality—as the latter
derives all its force and eflicacy from the former. If the rules of
morality are to be held binding on mankind, they must, like the
Jaws ot human judicatories, infer, it not rewards for compliance
with them, certain punishments for the ditobedience of them.
How are theft; punishments difcoverablc, and by whom infli&ed,
it we are not to take into the account religious principles, which,
whether denved from natural or revealed religion, inftruft us that
•we are accountable to a Supreme Being, who will certainly vindi
cate laws, which, if they have any foundation in truth, must be de
rived from him ?—Disjoining religion from morality, has given
rife to many falfe systems, which, by being fucceflively shewn to
be erroneous, has had a tendency to inspire Icepticifm in refpeft
to there being any solid hafis for morality. Paley's fyflem of
ethics, by making religion the foundation" of morality, avoids this
great stumbling block, which is a ltrong recommendation ot that
woik to the public.
PITTSBURGH, September 24
Lieut. Jeffers, from Fort Franklin, has related
to us the following, in order to Ihew the disin
terested attachment of Cornplanter tothe United
States.
A propofa] having been made to Tome of the
•warriors of the Six Nations to join the hostile
Indians, in order to prevent our army from pe
netrating into their country, and several had ac
tually accepted the proposal, and were endea
voring to pei fuade others to join them. As soon
as the Cornplanter heard of this, he immediate
ly fetit a runner, with a speech, which he order
ed to be spoke three times to them ; the purport
of which was, that if they were determined for
war, to go off immediately, and never return,
for should he, or any of his warriors ever fee
them, they would put them to death. This had
the desired effect—the Indians immediately dis
banded, and thus the affair subsided.
Capt Buell, of the 2d United States regiment,
arrived here on Saturday lalt with a fine com
pany of men, enlisted for three years.
B A I. T I i»i O R K, October 4
Extract of a letter from a ? Officer in General But
ler's Army, on the IVtJicrn Expedition,dated Camp,
Fort Wapjington, Head-Quarters, Aug. t, I 79 1.
" We arrived here the 2Stli of lait month, af
ter a trouble ferine passage of I 7 days, front Fort-
Pitt : Though the Indians were along lide of us
all the way, they never gave us afire.—Our fleet
consisted of 27 fail of large Boats, 40 by ij feet,
manned with about 500 men."
Extratf oj another letter from the fa?ne Officer, dated
(at the fame place) Aug. 6. 1791 .
It is uncertain when we (hall leave this
place; the auival of the other part of the army
determines our departure : I have learned where
we are for : We (hall strike up the country a
lorig the Great-Miami, acroPs the Mad River, to
Pawixtwi ; from Tawixtwi to Miami, or Maame
Fort ; we shall then leave the .Miami-Village,
and go down the Miami-River (that empties it
fe'f into Lake Erie) a lino ft to the mouth, where
we (hall build a Fort : About 3001- 40 miles from
Detroit, a Fort will likewiPe be built, or reinforc
ed, on the Sandufky Lake—We shall travel this
country without any baggage or tents."
NEW-BRUNSWICK, Oct. 4.
Last Tnefday was held, theannu.il Commence
ment of Queen's College, in this city, where the
Rev. Dr. Linn prefixed. The exei cifes of the
day were introduced by a prayer from the Presi
dent—aster which the following gentlemen spoke
orations. Mr. Staars Van Deurfen, a Latin Sa
lutatory ; Me firs. Elijah Rofegrant, Luke Eger
ton, Henry Traphagen, Eflays ; Mr. William
Dunham the Valedictory.— \he Degree of Ba
chelor of Arts wns conferred on the foregoing
gentlemen. The Degree of Doiftor of Laws on
the Hon. Robert Mort is, Diftritft Judge for New-
Jersey. The Degree of Mailer of Arts, on Meflrs.
Walter K.Cole, Jacob R. Hardctibergh, Alpheus
Freeman and John Jackson ; Mr. Robert H.
Chapman, A. B. of Pi inceton, was admitted ad
tun dor., as also Mr. Charles Smith, A. M.
Lalt Friday, was finiftied, the d awing of die
Second Class of the Newark Bridge Lottery.
NEW-YORK, October 5
The brigade of the city and county of New-
York, together with Col. Bamnan's regiment of
artillery, the whole commanded by Lieut. Col.
Commandant Alner, were reviewed on the ufital
ground last Monday, when they, particularly the
uniformed companies, made a soldierly appear
ance, and pei formed the duties of the annual re
■view in a manner highly honorary to ihenifelves
and officers.
Philadelphia, October 8.
By the Englifti Packet, arrived at New-York, accounts are re
ceived from Europe to the 12th August. The English papers
contain numerous reports relative to a Counter Revolution in
France, among others, that the Swiss Cantons have complained to
the National AfTembly of their troops being paid in af&gnats, in
stead of cash, as was formerly the cafe—The Diet of the Cantons
havealfo forbid their troops to take the new oath decreed by the
National AfTembly—That the refugees are leaving Brulfels daily ;
and that ammunition and warlike stores arc continually transport
ing to Mons, Luxembourg and Tournay.
The marriage of the Duke of York with the Princess of Pruflia,
is to be celebrated in Q6lober.
Every appearance on the continent of Europe indicates peace—
His Holinefsthe Pope has congratulated the King and Republic
of Poland'on their New Constitution.
The code of laws framed under this Constitution, is to be called
:hecodeof Sianiflaus—they went into operation the sth July.
In the Betsey, from Cape-Ftancois, came passengers, Monf. Go
bert and family. Shi. gentleman has had his plantations, houses
and cattle all destroyed, to the value of 20,0001. sterling. His ve
nerable age was not any prote&ion againtt the depredations of the
outrageous slaves. Neither age nor lex are considered by a brutal
flocK ; other wife it might have been hoped that this veteran would
have escaped their fury: he fought in Thurot's squadron at Car
rickfergus, in the war of 1759 and 1760.
What will be the lfTueof these dreadtul disturbances, God only
knows. The general conje&ure is, that the negroes mull very soon
disperse for want of provisions, as they are almost starving, whilst
the people in the towns have great abundance, and seemed to be
in good spirits on the 14th September.
Thursday arrived in this city, the Earl of Wycombe, a Mem
ber of the Britilh Senate.
It is said in a Richmond paper, that Mr. Ro
bert Carter, of Nominy, Virginia, has emanci
pated 442 Haves—This, if true, is a facrifice on
the Altar of Humanity of perhaps an Hundred
Thousand Dollars—and is the more extraordina
ry and praiseworthy in an age vvheri Mammon is
the god that commands the molt extenlive con
gregation of worihippers.
Among a variety of accounts from Cape Fran
cois, the following has been related :—A widow,
who owned a plantation on which there were a -
bout 500 negroes, having always treated them
with humanity and kindness, on-the alarm from
the insurgents, these flslves applied to their own
er for arms to defend her property —and when
the'plantation was attacked, they repelled and
beat off the adailants, by which means the estate
was preserved from deftru&ion.—Humanity as
well as honpity will be found to be the belt policy.
ce Nothing creates more discontent among tlie
people than the secrecy which rulers are apt to
affeift. The difaffed:ion arising from this, is as
(ure as from mal-adminiftration. It is hard to re
train people to order very long, without making
them lee their interest in it. From this observa
tion we will not except the fubjeds of the molt
despotic monarchies : for not even the iron rod
of (lavery can always reduce to tame fubmilfion,
people who can fee no advantage accruing from
allegiance. But in free States, there can be no
authority maintained, without making the sys
tem of policy apparently conducive to the gene
ral good. The people of the American States,
have long lain under a general odium for want
of patriotism ; which has arisen from their re
peated opposition to government, —and their
backwardness jto comply with the demands of
the public upon their property. The late peace
able and patriotic condu<ffc under the operation
of the new government, will, we hope, retrieve
them from this reproach, and serve to discover
the cause from whence their former
arose.
" The qnietnefs of our land under the equal ad
ministration of this government —leaves us well
allured that the former ditturbances, arose from
a defective system of policy.—One of the moil
observable defecfis, was that intricacy with which
our revenue fyjlems were clogged. The people
were utterly unable to comprehend the compli
cated measures which were adopted in raising
supplies ; and from thence derived the idea,that
all their monies were anticipated, before they
came to the public treasury. And nothing could
awaken the spirit of resentment more than to
have theirproperty wafted in supporting the idle
ness, and making the fortunes of their insolent
colletflors. In the apprehension of all, the least
attention from government, would have removed
this evil. But when they saw the mystery (till
kept up, against the general wish, and the sys
tems of revenue covered in abstrusity, they were
provoked with an honed indignation against the
measures of their rulers. For a season they laid
a fide their industry and patriotism, which they
were convinced, could no longer be viitues.
"By the operation of the federal government,
this evil is removed ; and the spirit of industry
and patriotism has returned. This evinces both
the perspicuity of the present system of admnuf
trarion, and the riling glory of our country.
And fliould our rulers continue to discard all
mviteries in politics, and condu(ft their national
bu'finefs in a plain, easy, and intelligible man
ner, we have every rea(on to expecft that the\
! will feenre the public confidence, and find an ea
j 1 y access to the property oi the citizens.
187
The Prize of s,OOO dol/art in the New-Haven
Wharf Lottery, was drawn by Mr. Benedi<st
French, of Roxbury parish, in Connecticut.— It
has been said that the original purchaser of the
ticket which drew the above prize, fold it at a
discount, and took goods in payment.
A gentleman arrived at Boflon from England, informs that a
peace had a&ually taken place between the Emprefsof Russia and
the Porte; and that, in consequence, the British fleet had been put
out of commiflion, and the seamen paid off and discharged.
Dr. Franklin's Life is advertised in the London papers as
being in the press, and shortly to be published. An event much
desired.
50,000!. of American Final Settlements were fold in London, a
few weeks since, at 14/.
The Quebec of the 22d August, contains a protrft of a
number of the Merchants against the address prefenied to Lord
Dorchester, published in our last.
On Tuefdav last the Pkifodelphian Raptijl AJJ'ociation convened in
this city—the business of their churches was introduced with an
excellent sermon, by the Rev. Mr. Oliver Ha rt, of Hopewell,
New-Jersey—aster which the Rev. Dofior Samu e l Jones was
chosen Moderator—Their session closed on Thursday.
Representation constitutes the essence of Republicanism—and
the rights of ele&ion are the highcft, moll sacred and impor
tant that freemen can poflibly exercise. At the return of those
periods, therefore, when they are called npon by the Constitution
to give their fuffrages for those whom they chu'e should be their
political fathers, the majesty of the people appears iu its full dig
nity—if then, as has been laid, every freeman pofleffes in his pro
per person a portion of this majesty, no confederations can absolve
him from Che obligations he is under to attend his duty as an elec
tor. —So long as eleltions are tree, and made by a full vote of an
enlightened community, so long will their liberties, conjlitution and
laws* which are all inseparably conne&ed, be fate; —but if the
people are falfe to themselves, and leave their elections to be made
by a small number, who may happen to have no other business to
attend to at the moment, they (port with their dearest privileges ;
and it depends on a mere contingency whether the conduit of their
affairs is committed to the able friends, or the fpecipus, tho un
principled, enemies of their country.
" A good man will certainly be happy, either in this life, or
the next."
The inequalities therefore which appear in the dispensations of
Providence, Ihould lead to no conclufioris unfavorable to the cause
of virtue; for what are the momentary fufferings of this point of
existence contrasted with an eternal.display of the jtiftice and good
ness of the Deity.
" The generality of men make themselves miserable by desir
ing what is fuperfluous"—the real wants of nature lie within a
very nrrrow fancy, and the refinements of fo
cietv, extend the limits of hnman desires in such manner, that
imaginary evils vartly exceed the catalogue of those brought upon
us by real misfortunes.
-THE grcatefl part of the works which the public eftcem at pre
sent, have only arrived by degrees at that appro!>ation,
(e. ft. Shakefpear). A success too brilliant at the firft, affords but
a bad augur for its continuance, and only proves the mediocrity of
the work. Beauties which are within the reach of ail the world,
immediately make their impreflion; great beauties are often less
flriking, and it is rare that a work ot the firlt merit, obtains, at
the beginning, the fuffrage of a great number. It is only a few
who are able at: ofprr" n rTf*pH/»r»f;p j_ bat.
by degrees the falfe glare which dazzled at the firft, begins to wear
off, and men gradually discover beauties that at firft escaped their
notice. This„rlifcovery occasions an agreeable surprise. They
return to the fubjeft, and discover flill more ; so that their admira
tion continues to augment from day to day.
MR. FENNO,
Having seen an advertisement, signed D.J —, ported up at Bristol,
by a Candidate to represent this State in Congress, in which- he
fays that, if the people will chufe him, he will relinquish to the
use of his constituents two dollars per day out of the fix to
which he will be entitled—the following Impromptu was occa
sioned by the circumstance :—
FOUR dollars for abilities like thine !
Genius and jreedom at the thought repine
For change the dollars to a fngle groat,
Thy services mould be mofl dearly bought.
As an encouragement to the pra&ice of those virtues which
constitute the excellency of a Legislator for this great Republic
diligence, confiflency, integrity and independence—there is every rea
son to suppose that FrederickAucustus Muhlenberg will
be ele£ted to serve in the next Congress, by a laige and rcfpedlable
majority of the votes of his fellow citizens.
Married, on ThurTday evening last, Mr. David Price, of this
city, to the amiable Miss Polly Dally, late of New-Yoik.
Died in New-York,after a long and oainful illness, Mrs. Har
per, late of the American Company of Comedians.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS *t the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Henrietta,
Brig Ruby,
Betfev,
Schooner Bet fey.
PRICE CURRENT. —PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. CentJ 20/6 pr. £ .
3 pr. CcntJ 11/3
Defered 6 pr. CenM 12/2 12/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificate! >6/8 i-J 85 do.
Indents i°/6 5 2 & d°.
Bank. Sublcnptions, 130 132 Dollar«.
University or Pinnivlvamia,
O&obcr 7,1791.
The MEDIC AL LECTURES will begin on
the firfl Monday in November next.
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom (jrnieel wages will be allowrr]. Noneneed apply wb*
cannot be well recommended. EoquircoX the Printer.
EXTRACT.
Weeks,
Peeples,
Watson.
Halifax
Cape-Francois
Rhode-lfland
Bratton,
lOtJpr. cent.
do.
61 5 do.
LisbonMR. FENNO,
I fend you a Poem oj the uell-hnown Del la Crusca, zvhtcyt, 1 be
lieve has never been printed in America ; few, even of his grcatejl
admirers, have etcr Jetn it, as it is not included in the Bi itifh Album.
HOWARD,
THE PHI LAHTHROrE
AN ODE.
Written by Robert Merry, Esquire, under thefigrature of
Del la Crusca
THE roving Zephyr's gentle gale
That flutters in the flowery vale ;
That liovci s on the high hill's fide,
And curls the river's rtpling tide;
Shall oft, BENIGNANT HOWARD, shed
A winnow'd fragrance round thy head,
When chance at lultry noon thou'rt laid
Beneath the Afpin's quiv'ring shade.
At night no dissonance shall rife,
To chace light fiumber from thine eves ;
Near thy abode no found be heard,
Unless the melancholy biid,
Thar leans her bosom on the spray,
Shall warble all her woes away.
Yon pearly moon that beams so bright
Upon the fable breast of night,
Has seen thy wandering footfteps go
To (liores where distant billows flow,
Where Europe owns a Sultan's nod,
And {"marts beneath a Tyrant's rod.
Yon pearly moon now fees thee roarn
O'er Britain's Ifl'e, thy native home,
Explore each prison cell to cheer,
Sorrow and lonely want and tear :
For still compafTion bids thee wend
Towards him who has no other friend ;
Towards him who all forgotten lies.
Deep channels funk around his eves.
While from their balls' diftra&cd glare,
Looks forth the meagre fiend despair.
Alas for many a tedious year
His only folate was a tear ;
But now by time the source is dried,
And that hft ifolace is denied.
Methinks thro' forme small grate afa'*,
He nightly woos the POLAR STAR ;
That ever fettled as his woes,
Is all the fympithy he knows.
Yes, yes, in fancy, can I feel,
The keen delights that o'er thee steal;
The look of thanks, the wretch's prayer,
In Ihort forgctfulnefs of care ;
The fond wife's fmilc, the child's caress,
And all the luxury to bless.
O HOWARD, not the Poet's lays,
Tho HAYLEY celebrates thy praise ;
Nor yet the SENATE'S loud applause
To hail thee firft in Virtue's caufc;
Nor e'en the public's just design
To give the STATUE and the COIN ;
Can one cncreafing bliss impart
To that which centers in thy heart.
On earth thy recompence is giv'n,
Already iscommenc'a thy hcav'n.
rrxr-N IJ O ,\% Auguit i.
DR. KIPPIS, the well known and much re
l'pe&ed editor of Biographia Britannica, in
the address he delivered on the interment of the
late Rev. Dr. Price, said, " The joy which he
(Dr. Price) derived from the French Revolu
" tion has been strongly displayed to the pub
" lie, and it has occasioned a difcuflion that will
" only tend to the defeat of the enemies of free-
" dom,
" May I never poiTfefs the head or the he3rtof
<e those who Jo not exult in the emancipation of
" twenty five millions of people from a wretch
" ed tyranny and def'potifin ; in the diffufion of
" equal happiness among ftich numbers of men,
" and the prospect which is now afforded re
" fpeding the gradual melioration,. and the
•" growing, perhaps too rapid improvement, of
" the fitate of the world in general ! Amidst the
•' strange eccentricities and obliquities of the
" human understanding, we have feci) it to be
" possible for the Revolution in France to be at
" tacked by all the power of genius, by all the
" richness of imagery, and by all the lustre of
" flowery and diverfified language but the
" molt brilliant efforts of this kind are now no
" inoTe tliah the corrufcations of the nothern
" lights, which diverge into a thousand lines,
" and entertain the eye with their various ap
" pearances, but Which at belt present only a
" splendid confufiun, and foonend in total dark
" ness."
COURT or KING'S BENCH.
Westminster-Hall, July 16.
Oldham vsrfus Emerson.
The plaintiff, an eminent ironmonger in Pol
born, had in April last purchaleda horh?from the
defendant for 601. for which sum he got a receipt
with a security that the horse was quiet, steady
free from vicc, &c. &c. But, when the plaintiff
began to ride him, he would flop, plunge, start
and go back (all which the plaintiffs servant and
several oihers swore to) upon which the horse
■was lent back to the defendant, who said he
would write about him to a Mr. Rainbridge, his
owner, who lived in the country, and would'pro
vide the plaintiff with another horse ; but after-'
wards refufed to give him either another horse,
or his money : to recover which, this atfion was
brought.
Mr- Erftine, for the defendant, insisted, thaf
he never intended to rescind the contract' and
that the plaintiff should have brought a special
adtion on the cafej instead of one far money had
and received ; he knew the horse was high-bred,
and blooded before he bought him ; and if he
afterwards met the fate of "Johnny Gilpin, from
his ignorance in h jrfemariihip, it was not the
defendant's fault. Belides, the defendant only
a<fted as deptuty for another. Mr. Erlkine then
called thirteen witnefles, some of them gentle
men of property, who all knew the horse; and
declared that he was gentle, well broke, well
worth the money given for him, and that little
boys used to ride him ; and that any man who
could not ride him, was not fit to ride at all.
■ Lord Kenyon said, that although the witnefles
on both fides differed very much, there wa3 no
ju(V reason to discredit either ; a horse might
one time be quiet, and another time thereverfe.
The plaintiff's servant was thrown, and himfelt
in danger of his life, as appeared on evidence ;
and therefore the horse could not be said to an
swer tlie purposes for which the plaintiffgot him.
As to the defendant's acting as a deputy, the
plaintiff, at the time of the contradi, provided a
gainst that.
The jury, after deliberating for some time,
gave their opinion, that the plaintiff fliould get
back his money, and that each party Ihould pay
his own corts : which was agreed to.
Gondiifxjn of M. Muguet's speech in the National
Jtfembly, on ths fubjttt of the King's inviolability.
"In vr,in some unquiet spirits, always dellrous
ofchange, have persuaded theiufelves that the
flight of one individual could change the form
ot Government, and reverse all the (yltem of your
constitution ; in vain have they wished to play
upon you their errors, and persuade you that
iheir opinion was that of all Frenchmen ; in vain
fonie other persons, still slaves in the mid it of a
free people, always courtiers, never citizens, re
garding only one man, when they ought to at
tend to the Stare ; guided by personal interest,
when they ought to be directed by the public ;
bowed under the yoke of habic and prejudice ;
devoted to an ancient idolatry, and aflerting the
principles of monarchy which are not attacked ;
attributing to the reprefenratives of the nation
intentions which they have not difcovered—h'ave
wilhed by partial opinions to influence your de
termination, and anticipate your decrees. The
National Aflembly, without giving way to the
exaggeration of the one, or the scurrility of the
other, before it determine further refpedting the
King, will allow their spirits to calm, will ad
vance towards the end of its institution, and will
complete the Confliturion, which,whateverevents
may follow, must in all future time be the centre
of union for the friends of liberty."
NOTIFICATION
THE arrearages of Sulfcriptions for this Gazette amount
at this time to upwards of Two Thou fond Dollars.—The'.Editor flat
ters himfelj that na apology can be tho't necejjary for earnejlly requefling
a compliance zvitk the terms of subscription, in a speedy discharge of the
sums due. Those gentlemen oj whom the papers are immediately re
ceived, are authorised to receipt for any payments that may be offered.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Managers of NEW-HAVEN WHARF LOTTERY,
have ur.expeiledly received information from abr&ad, of a con
(iderablc number of Tickets yet unfold. This rendeis it necejfars
for them (in order to answer th<* of the Lo'.tery) to adjourn
the drawing to Monday the 17th of O&ober next, at which time
She drawing will pof lively re-commcnce, and continue without in
terruption until finifhed.
Nth)-Haven, Sept. 28, 1-791
N. B. The numbers already drawn, both prizes and blanks,
will be publilhed immediately, in hand-bills, and in the Connecti
cut Journal, for the information of those who wish to puichafe
Tickets now undrawn.
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE rcmovrd their Office to the corner of Cliefmit and Third
Streets—where they purchase and fell CERTIFICATES
BANK STOCK, &c. &c.
Bufim fs of all kinds, in their line, tranfafted on Commiflion.
They have for sale, TICKETS in the Second CUf< of the Mas
sachusetts Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing of which will com
mence on the 13'h inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Class of the
Charleflown Lottery, at the Managers prices.
To he let, 011 mode ate Ground Relit, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly fitiiatcd, in Kensington,
fronting on thiee ftretts. Tliere are improvements on th"s lot,
which, added to its fituatiun, make it worthy of particular atten
"""■ Philadelphia, 08. i, .7q t.
W. M'DOVC ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School.R>om,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
H" returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
ot his Ichool (or decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will 11,11 er.l'ure him a rclpeftable lhare of the
public lavor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season. B
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may he assured, they will he taught in the moil approved
■ hie, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners. °
A general pra&i.finfr for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held ;it the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when th»
employers and genteel deportment, will be adrmucd.
1 nele • pracnfirias will be attended with no exi>ence
N B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grow.,
Gentlemen, a S soon as a fufficieut number offer.
Philadelphia, September %4, 1751
188
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, aniBGHH
T E A? s, 1
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, & SPICES
Of the firil quality—by retail ' •'
No 19, ' '
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market'Strettr 1
LOTTERY TICKETS.
Ne^-Jerf" y , ti Clais-to commencc drawing 2 6th inft.) p,,-
Mallachufetts Semiannual, ad Class, 11th o£t >bcr ( i
May be had abovr. C '
Public Securities,
Bought artd Sold, on COMMISSION hv
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank J,'n m
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
and NEW-HAVEN '
LOTTERY TICKETS
To be had at the fame place.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST nigbt was broke open the Storeof the fublcriber at
dentown, and llolen from the fame the following a, nc 'l fs v -'
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel- 1 1 nj|"
box, containing lour clocks and one dozen tcftamcnti'- , j'~
containing one, bottle giren cloth coat, one ftripid veil am
breeches, two shirts and a fin.ill bag with 36 dollars and 23' u
30s. ]cifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, wichot'he
(mall books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich leathers, ft,me 0
them large and elegant, and of different colours; e barrels ry
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream papc, ,„j
t doz*n paste-boards. Stolen at the fame lime, a large Ba:'i f j,
wiili black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security,
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles a»j,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Tweni
Dollars will be giver, for the security of ihe perpetrator ot pcrpi
tutors, so that they may be biought to justice, by
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, >791.
Georgetown, September 9, i-q t .
THE Sales of the Lots in the Federal Oil) will commence of
Monday the 17th day of o£lober next.' The Commi(!i„ne,,
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the public
buildings to any desirable extent; with a view to draw the fund
into a&ion. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a deposit n! I!
percent, will require I.4th part of the purchase mgnev tobe p.id
down, the refidueto be on bonds with fecuritv, payable with 1.1.
tereft in three equal payments. The manner of improvement will
be publillied at the laic.
Phi l adelth 1 a, 20th July, 1791.
THE Commi dinners appointed to receive Subicriptions 'to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, igieeaWe to law in
form the Stockholders ofthe said Bank,that anelcftionfortwemi,
five Dire&ors will be held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, <m
Friday the 21 ft day of October next, at to o'clock in the monlun.
Thomas wttnmr;
DAVID RirTENHOUSE, '
SAMUEL HOWEI.L.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
CLASS 11.
Till". MANAGERS of ih- STATE-LOTTERY allure tU
Public, that the second Ciafs of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawingon the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Otlobet next, or Jooner, if theTickeu
fliall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, (•
they aic determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BI.ANKS TO A PRIZE
25,000 Tic kits, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubje£l to a deduction of twekt
and an half per cent, for the ufc of the Commonwealth.
PRIZES.
1 of
2
3
6
10
30
80
9° •
100
129
16l
200
7585
1
8388 Prizes
16612 Blanks,
95000 Tickets.
(£3" TICKETS in the above Class mav be had of the several
Ma nao e r iyViho will pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasure*
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-ftorc,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.*)
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
fto/lon, April 14, 1791.
IF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of Little York, in
(but originally of Scarborough, in Yorkshire, Great-B"iiaui)
will rnake himfelf known, together with his present placeol re
fidenoe, either to his brother John Franks, who is now mthis
Port, or to the subscriber, he will hear of (oroethintf greatly to his
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diftnft of Maine) Augufl 29, 179 1 *
P. S. In cafe of the dcceafe of Mr. Fk. a n k.s, his legal heir or
heirs are requeftcd to forward their names and places of abode to
Mr. Ronr \son, as above.
((ST Blank Powers In fpccivc the ImereU, miferthrt'arijtr°f ,i! -
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Ru/ti in t.i rea
fury Department : A'fu Blanks for ojCer/'jicutes* to cjo
the Editor.
fiSr Thr JOURNAL of the TUtRD SfSSJONcf SEl * al c
of tilt UNITED STATES, may be hiiof the EJitor kereoj■
77;:■ pric: of this Paper is 3 Dollars p:r ant ' k .
■t. f.)
Thomas Johnson, )
David Stuart, > Commiffiotirrs.
Daniel Carroll,)
Dot I.ARS.
l" S 10000
are 600©
6000
6c op
soo°5 oo°
60O®
Boco
45 00
DO t LARS,
1 0000
3000
2000
1000
500
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
3«»*l
JOCO
60680
125000