I
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FBNNO No fin HICU rucur .... .... ' — =«
STREET, BEjWEEN Sv.LOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 56, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, November <j, 1791.
fOR THE GAZETIE OF THE UNITED STATIS,
MR. FENNO,
I HAVE been just reading the addrtfi of our il
lustrious Preiident, to tiie Senate and House
of Representatives—its communications afforded
me the highest pleasure, and I make no doubt of
its having the fame effetft on every friend to the
profperi'.y of the United States. Many are the
nnportant objetfts submitted to the consideration
of our genera] )f giflature ; but in my humble
opinion, the eftablifhinent of a National Milifia,
ought to be one of the firlt that ihould engage
their attention. The more I reflect on this fub
jet'i, the more I am convinced that a well regu
lated militia is the natural strength of a country,
and absolutely iiecellkry for its lafcty and p:e
fervatioH. A more pernicious idea cannot enter
into the heads of our citizens, than to imagine
that an institution of this kind is incompatible
with civil liberty ; for to remain without ;t, is
•the ready way to abridge the continuance of that
liberty, we have so happily established among us.
The freedom of every commonwealth mult be
protected ultimately by military force ; military
force depends upon order and dii'cipline ; and
without order ond discipline, even the gieateit
number of armed men are only a contemptible
1110b, that may be dispersed by a handful of ve
teran soldiers. It follows then, that our citizens
at large must submit to the ordinances of a well
regulated militia, or commit the protection of
their lives and properties to a diflincl body of
men, who will naturally in a short time, fee up
a profelfional interest, i'eparate from the commu
nity' at large
so this caofe we tngit attribute the subversion
if every free ltate that hiilory prelents to us—
;he Romans were certainly the firtt and most glo
rious people that have figured on the-face of the
globe—they cbntinucd free the longest : «very
—a- + foMicr, crstHj-foMfci lianie
but in faifl ; by which is meant, that they were
the moll rigid observers of military iultiiutions.
Let it then be the glory of every American to
hiye arms in his hands, with some knowledge
how to use them, on proper occalions, :igaii.lt
the enemies of his country : and let it lie efta
blilhed, as a point of honor, and the criterion of
a virtuous citizen, to pay the greatest deference
to the common and neceflary laws of a camp.
While I was engaged in thisfpeculation, 1 hap
pened to find among my papers, the Englifla Mi
litia La\v, and judging it might be of some use
in framing one for this country, I made an a
bridgement of the fame, which 1 have now sent
you for insertion in your tifeful and widely cir
culating paper, if you think proper.
1 am, Sir, your very humble servant.
INSPECTOR.
Elkton, November 2, 179 1.
An Ad for the better ordei ingof the militia forces
in the several counties of that pare of Great-
Britain called England, &c.
Whereas a well ordered and well disciplined
trii/itia is ellentially neceflury to the fafety, peace
and prosperity of this kingdom.
Be it enacted, that from the firft day of May,
1757. the lieutenants of counties (hall arm and
array proper persons ; and the lieutenants lhall
appoint their deputy lieutenants and give corn
millions to lieutenant colonels, majors, and other
officers, w'nofe names (hall within a month, be
certified to the king.
The lieutenants of every county lhall have the
c-liief command of the militia of that county.
In each county lhall be appointed twenty or
more deputy lieutenants, if so many can be found
qualified, each of whom lhall pollefs four hun
dred pounds a J ear, in freehold, copyhold, cuf
toinary estate lor life, or an eltate for some long
term'>f years, determinable upon lives, or shall
be heir apparent of a polleffion of eight hundred
a year. A lien-tenant-colonel, or major, lhall be
pofiellcd of th ree hundred a year, or heir appa
rent to fix hundred. A captain lhall polfefs two
hundred a year, or be heir to four, or be the son
ol one who polieU'es, or at his death did poffefi
'Wo hundred. A lieutenant lhall poUefs one
hundred a year, or be the son of one who poflefl
es, or at I»is death did pofltfs two hundred a year.
An enlign lhall pofleli fifty pounds, or be the son
of one who podelles, or at the time of his death
did poflefs one hundred. One moiety of the
ellate in all these cafrs. lying; within the countv.
J*. SSViV**.., -■
■-«r|r ■
— - c t/f
In counties where twenty deputy lieutenants
wiiii proper qualifications cannot be found, it
(Stall be luflicient to appoint so many as can be
found.
An ensign or lieutenant nny be promoted to
be a lieutenant colonel, on extraordinary occa
lions, on account oi merit.
i'he king may displace a. y deputy lieutenant
or officer, <sml the lnrimn«n .Ts (hall appoint others
in tliejr ffead.
Every deputy or officer 1..a1l give 111 his quali
fication 10 tlie clerk of the jeace, and lake the
oaths to the government, thin fix months al
ter he shall begin to act, on penalty of £.200;
oil deputy lieutenants and ail above tlie degree
of captain,and iool. on captains and those under.
Peers are exempted from H i ving by themselves
or substitutes ; but they and heirs apparent of
peers, may be appointed deputy lieutenants, or
connnillion officers, and their qualifications need
not to be left with the clerk, of the peace ; and
011 taking the oaths, &c. they may without
being atherwife qualified.
A coniniiliion in the l.iilit a shall not vacate a
feat in Parliament.
At the end of every four years a number of of
ficers shall be discharged, ei|ual to the number of
thofe,who duly qualified fhaii solicit for admilfion.
To each regiment an ant lhall be appoint
ed who has served in the regular forces, in which
he fliall llil! retain his rank ; and to every com
pany of militia shall be appointed two or more
lerjeants (in the proportion of one ferjeant to
twenty private men) out of the regular forces,
who fhail be entitled to the hospital of Chdfea ;
and ferjeants appointed from that hospital lhall
be readmitted 011 producing certificates of good
behavior.
No persons felling liquors by retail fliall be ca
pable of being a ferjeant of he militia.
The number of private ten feiving in the
militia lhall be ; for Bedlortlihire - 400
Keikftiire, - - j6o
Bucks, &c. &c.
There shall be no more than one captain, one
lieutenant and one eniign, to eighty private men.
Where the proportion of men direifted by this
a<st to beraifed in any county, iliall be judged
by the lieutenant to betoo large, theprivy-coun
cil, on application may regulate it.
The lieutenant ©f each county with two de
puty lieutenants, or three more deputy lieuten
ants in the absence of the lieutenant, Jhall meet
on the twelfth of July, 1757, and on the firft
Tuesday in June, in every subsequent year, and
require the head couftables to deliver in a lift of
all the men between the age of 18 and Jo, in their
fcveral diitri&«, except peeis, officers of the ini
liiia, officers of the regular forces or gariifons,
men of either univeifity, clergymen, teachers
of separate meetings, peace and parish officers,
articled tlerks, and apprentices and Teamen, no
ting in the lilt the men laboring under any bo
dily infirmity,
Every deputy constable, or other petty officer,
hall transmit to the head constable the lift of liis
fiivifion, having firft affixed it to the door of the
church or chapel for one Sunday,
Oil the day appointed for receiving these lifts,
the lieutenant, and deputy lieutenants (hall let
tie the number to be taken from each hundred,
or division of the county. They lhall then sub
divide themselves, and three or more deputies,
or two deputies with one justice of the peace, or
one deputy with twa jullices, lhall meet, within
a month in every subdivision, to hear the com
plaint of those that think themselves entitled to
exemption; and upon any just cause lhall cor
retft the lifts. They fliali then fettle the nutn
ber to be railed in each parilii, and chtife the in
dividuals by lot ; and within three week* after
wards the persons so chosen fliall appear befoi e
them ; each of whom fliali take the oaths ant)
enter into the militia for three years, or brinj
one to serve as his i'ubfliiute, or forfeit tei
pounds, and be liable at the end of three year
to serve again.
Three deputies, or two deputies ahd a jufticf,
or one deputy and two jufticcs, ft all inee ( t in
their feverai subdivisions occasionally at other
times, and annually on the Tuesday before Mi
chaelmas ; and if any person thirty-five years
old {hall shew just cause for his discharge, it fliall
be granted and another chosen by L>t in his room ;
and the vacations by death fliall Le filled up in
the faiue manner.
y < <TJ-St
221
o
[Whole No. 264.]
A militia man removing ro another parifli, Hull feivc the re
mainder ot his time in the new parish.
hew lilts ot men qualified for service shall be made every year.
A new body shall be chosen every third year, so that all pei
fons duly qualified may serve in their turns each for three years-
A lift ot the per ions serving in each parifli shall be tranlmiucd
lo the lieutenant.
An officer neglecting to return his lift, or making a falfe or par
jtal lift, shall be committed for a month to the common gaol, or
be fined not more than five pounds, or less than forty {hillings.
livery private man serving for himfelf shall be exempted from
itaiute work, from serving peace or parilb offices, or in the regu
lar forces.
He that has served three years shall not serve again, until by ro
tation it comes to his turn.
Married meri having personally served in the militia, if called
out in cafe of invasion or rebellion, shall be entitled to the fame
privileges of setting up trades in any place of Great-Britain, or
lieland, as by an ast 22 George JI. is granted to marineis ot
(oldiers.
A Quaker refuting to serve (hall hire another in his (lead ; and
<t he neglects a sum [hall be levied upon him by dillrefs, fufficieiit
10 hire Another man.
Within one month after the return of the lifts, the lieutenant
and two deputies, or without (the lieutenant, three deputies lhall
lorin the militia of cach county into regiments, confiding of not
moie than twelve, or lets than (even companies of forty men each ;
.ippointing the commiflioned and non-commiflioned officers to
each company.
Ihey (hall be exercised thus: On the fit ft Monday irv the
monthssot March, April, May, June, July, Auguff, September
and Ottober, they lhall be cxercifed in half companies, and on
ihe third Monday in the said months in companies.
And once every year, on the Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurlday
•»nd triday of Wintfun-vveek, they lhall be exercised in whole
1 cgiments.
No man (hall be exercised in half company, or company more
than fix miles from his own house.
Notice of the time and place of meeting shall be sent by the
lieutenant and two deputies, or without the lieutenant, by threa
deputies,- to the high conltables and by them to the petty con
stables, who shall fix them upon the door of the refpe&ive churchcs.
Ihe lieutenant lhall appoint at pleasure a regimentaKclerk, a
ferjeant major, out of the lerjeants and a drum major out of the
drummers.
In countie* where the militia do not amount to seven compa
nies, and theiefore cannot make a regiment, they shall be formed
into a battalion, under the lieutenant and field officers, one adju
tant who shall be a fubahern in the army, a ferjeant major, a
dium major, and a clerk shall be appointed them, and they shall
be exercised as a complete regiment.
Wnere a whole company or half a company cannot be brought
together, they may be exercised in smaller numbers as the lieuten
ant or deputy shall diredf.
One commiflioned officer fhallattend the exercise of the half,
company, and infpeft their arms and accoutrements.
The arms and cloaths of the militia (hall be carefully kept by
ihe captain of each company, in chests. provided by the parifii
where they are depofiud. The mu(kcu shall be marked with an
M. and the name »f the county.
The king's lieutenant, or the colonels, may seize, or remove
whither they (hall think proper, the arms, cloaths and accoutre
ments, when ner.effary to the public peace.
Any person entruftcd with the cultody of any arms or cloaths
delivering them out, unlets for excrcife, or by command of his fu'
perior officer, or by the order of any justice of the peace, under
his hand and seal, may, by two jufticcs, be committed to thecouti*
ty gaol, for fix months.
No pay, arms, or cloathing, (Trail be iflued, nor any adjutant or
ferjeant be appointed, till lour filths of the men shall have been
chosen, and the officers have taken out their commillions.
The officer who superintends the exercise (hall call over the lift
and certify to a jullire the n nncs ofthofewho arc absent from ex.
ercife. The juitice (hall examine the excul'e offered, andifit be
inefficient, (hall putnlh the defaulter lor the firft offence, by fin
ing him two (hillings, or setting him in the stocks for an h'oui ; Inr
the second he (hall fine him four (hillings, or fend him to the li'oufe
of correflion for four days ; for every offence afterwards, he shall
fine him fix (hillings, and if it be not paid, fend him to the house
of correction for any time not exceeding one month.
If any man shall be convitled upon oath before a justice, of be
ing drunk at the time of excrcife, he (hall forfeit ten (hillings or
(it an hour in the stocks. ° 4
He that (hall be tonvifled onjoath before a justice, of infolocc
ordifobedienceto Ivis officer, (hall forhis fii ft offence be fined tw.>
(hillings and fix pence, and in default of payment, be sent to the
house of corretlion for four days ; for the second be fined five (hil
lings, or committed for seven days ; and for evcrv offence after
wards be fined forty (hillings, and committed to the houfc of cor
te:hoii lor any time not more tiian a month, nor Ids than fourteen
vlavs.
It any man shall fell, pawn, or lofc his arms or accoutrements
lie shall be finea a sum not exceeding three pounds, or in default
of payment, be committid to the house of corredion for one
•nonth j and if he cannot then raise the sum required for thicc
nonths. '
He that (hall neglect to return his arms in good order after ex
rcifing the fame, or the next day, shall be fined two (hillings and.
lix pence, or be sent to the house of correction for 7 days : if he
. cglcft to return them by Monday after Whitjun-vicck, he shall fori
ten five (hillings, or be sent to the house of corrcaion for four
teen days. And the person entrusted by the captain with the
arms and cloaths, who shall omit to complain of such neelift
lliall forfeit twenty '(hillings. '
The soldier or non-rommifTioned officer, that (hall be absent
from his annual cxercife, shall foifeit ten (hillings a da/, or be
cemmitted to the house of correflion for a month.
It a non-com in i fli on cd officer Ihall be convicted upon oath of
being negligent in his duly, or disobedient or insolent to the nd
j.il.ni, or other fupenor officer, he (hall be fined by a lullice a
turn not exceeding thirty (hillings, or in default of payment be
committed to the house of coneftion for 14 days, and „ jav 1,-
uncharged by the lieutenant.
No man [hall be cenfuied for abfencc occasioned by a'.tendin
ane!e£lion. 7 6
The militia are to be fuhjeft in military affairs to their own of
ficers, and in civil to the' civil magistrates.
Iti cafe of actual invasion, ot. upoo imminent danger thereof
a id in cafe of rebellion, the king firft notifying th. occafioo iJ
I
I
2".Parliament, if then fitting, or in their recess to the privy c " unc '"
and to the people by proclamation, may direß the lieutenant., o.
any three deputy lieutenants, to draw tHr.r reg.me.it., who
ftiall m >rch by hi. majesty's order to afly part of the kingdom,
under the command of fuel. generaUashe [hall appoint, receiving
during the (crv.ce, the f.me pay with the regular regiments ot
foot, and the officers holding the fame rank with tiie regu ar o in
ters of the fame denomination, rhe m.l.tia, during the time ot
service (hall be liable to the law martial then fubfiltmg ; and any
man wounded (hall be entitled to the hospital of C:ielfea. A mi
litia man not appearing, or refuftng to march on such uccaiion.lhail
iorlcit forty pounds, or be commuted to the county gaol tor 12
months. , , . - ,
The militia or regular troops (hall be tried in courts-martial,
each by their own officers.
The militia (hall not, 011 any occafton, be compelled to go out
of the kingdom. . .
All fines and forfeitures (hall be paid to the regimental clerk,
and made afcommori (lock in each subdivision ; ol which an ac
count {hall be given to three deputies, or two deputies and onejuf
ticc, or one deputy and two justices, who (hail apply it to the i iec
tion of huts, and the provifton of gun-powder, to be used iin (hoot
ing at marks ; and the remainder (hail be diltributed in p. izes to
the be ft inarkfmcn, or employed in any pther way for tne use of
the militia.
Persons committed to the house of correction upon this acijlhall
be kept to hard labor.
Thefearethe piincipal clauses of this aa, the remainder chiefly
contains provilious rcfpc£ling the privileges or convenitncics ot
particular places.
LISBON, August i 3,
ALL foreigners here, who have no other resi
dence than inns, have been 'summoned be
fore tl)e Corregiclor, who has interrogated them
refpeifting their names, their qualities, their
country, and their buiinefs. Verbal procefles
have been drawn up in consequence of live in
formations taken, and orders have been given to
tliofe pei'fons, whole business or intentions were
Aifpetled, to depart the kingdom as soon as pos
sible. We presume that a fiipilar procedure has
taken place in alt the towns of Portugal.
LONDON, August 31
On the 3d of January the Nabob of Arcot re
ceived a pistol fliot from ail unknown hand,which
carried off one of his fingers, and made its way
through his arm. His son-in-law was shot thro
the body. Tliefe alarming circumstances hap--
pened during a review, and are indisputably ow
ing to the army being kept (hamefully in arrears.
A worthy citizen, whose immeasurable capa
city has much puzzled many able calculators bf
the cube root, is now at Margate: previous to
his voyage, he was advised to avoid the fait wa
ter, and told by his physician, that immeriion
might thaw all his solid.i. A letter to his lady
he thus concludes :—" Maugreall their;nonfen
fical warnings, I determined td take the leap
and having, with no little difficulty,fqueezed my
/elf into ? machine, was dragged to the deep.
It is a prodigious fine thing, and such a help to
the appetite !—As to their being amazed at my
bathing, ahd ajlonijhed at my stomach—what's
that to I ? One little fellow, I have silenced by
swearing: if he fays any more about me, I'll
stick him between two of bread and but
rer, and eat him up like an anchovy ; and as to
all their gigg about,my floundering in the water,
leaving a monstrous cavity in the fund, and the
devi! knows what, I think 1 shall silence them by
a little poem of my awn, which shall be in some
of next month's magazines. Thus it begins,
" Whrn in the flood I leap'd, the young whales gaz'd,
The dolphin fled—the porpus wasamaz'd;
A shoal ot herrings made a quick retreat,
Thinking, agamft the chalky cliff they'd beat;
Plaice, whiting, maid, would here no longer (lay,
Crabs, prawns, and lobster«, backwards crawl'd away.
Thinking it a new isle, a foolifh gull,
Furt circling thrice around, dropt on my skull ;
While numerous wilks and lympets float around,
And think in I they a great rock have found.''
Thus do I begin, but after describing sundry
plunges—thus I end—
u Bat now no more I seem a prodigy,
But pass for an inhabitant o' ih' Tea."
DUBLIN, Augufl: 9
Thedifpute between Paine and Syeyes on the
great queltion, " Whether is Monarchy or Ke
publicanifm the better form of government,"
promises to alford much more information and
amusement to the world than political disputes
usually do.—The queltion is one of the moil im
portant to the welfare and peace of mankind,
that could possibly be llarted. The ability and
precision of Paine, the accuracy of thought and
expielfion of Syeyes, admirably qualify the dis
putants to dilcufs it with effccft, and to prevent
the conceit from becoming what such Cornells
generally become a dispute about words.
Both of these proficients in the science of go
vernment agree in the outset, that " a govern-
inent by representation" is the only legitimate
one, and that no government is good, but i'o far
as it ii founded 011 this principle—What then
liuift be their opinion of that government which
rules over millions and is founded only on the
representation of a few thousands ? Would they
not—would not every rational man—laugh at
the ignorance or absurdity of him who would
call the people I'o governed a Free People !
V OIITSMO U T H, Sept. 7
Lalt niglit, after post; failed the Triton, of 28
guns, Capt. Murray, for Weymouth, to take 011
board Colonel Simcoe, and from thence to pro
ceed to his Government; of Oucbec.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Fill DAY, November 4, 1 79 1
THE report of the committee on the memorial
of the fheriff of Suffolk county, in the state
of Maliacnufects, being called up,
Mr. Sedgwick moved that the house should ac
cept the report,viz. that a committee should he ap
pointed to bring in a bill, allowing to prifoneis
confined in any state, under the authority of the
United States, the fame privileges and immuni
ties as are enjoyed by persons confined under the
authority of t.he (late.
Mr. Livermore doubted whether the house «iad
a right to accept the report. Certain indulgen
ces, he observed, are allowed toprifoners in some
states, which are not granted in others ; and he
would alk, whether the house could eitabliili any
uniform rule for such cases throughout the United
States. If the indulgence was only granted in
conformity to the state laws, it would not be uni
form. He wilhed, for the fake of humanity, that
in every state there were laws equally indulgent
to confined debtors : aui were this the cafe, he
would chearfully concur in accepting the report.
But iince the cafe was otherwise, and tiiat the
adoption of the propoftd tneafure woultl establish
a fyftetn, not uniform,,he wiihed that the teport
should be referred to the committee, that was
proposed to be appointed, to bring in a bill for
the eftablifliment of an uniform system of bank
rupt laws; throughout the United States.
Mr. Sedgwick, several remarks in support
of his motion, concluded by expressing his hope,
that the house poflefled fufficient authority to
make such provisions in favor of unfortunate
debtors, itfelf dictated. He did not
recolledt tojhave ever heard so many disagreea
ble observations made on any fubjetit, as on the
confinement of prisoners' under the authority of
the United States, wbicjl was more rigorous than
could be the cafe Updtr the laws of the state
which he represented; ,
Mr. White was against the appointment of a
conimittee on this particular cafe, as it was one
of many, that wqnlct of coarse occur in the exe
cution of the judiciary system. He wilhed the
cafe in question flioold be referred to the com
mutee appointed yesterday, on the report of the
attorney-general ; and that every inconvenience
that might be forefeen in the judiciary system,
should as far as possible, be remedied.
Mr. Sedgwick having consented to withdraw
his motion, in favor of Mr. White's proposal,
The report was referred to the committee of
the whole House on the revision of the judiciary
fyltem, as stated in our last.
MONDAY, November 7
Mr. Baldwin, mernber from Georgia—Mr. Afhe,
from North-Carolina, and Mr. Findley, of
Pennsylvania, appeared and took their feats this
day
A letter from the Secretary of the Treasury,
dnclofing a report and sundry ellimates, was laid
before the Ho use by the Speaker, which were read,
viz. lit. Ellimate for the year 1792.
2d. Estimate of certain liquidated claims 011
the Treasury.
3d. Ettimate relating to the Department of
War, for 1792.
Ordered that ico copies of the report, &c. be
printed for the use of the members.
On motion of Lawrance it was voted that the
Report and Estimates be referred to a feleift com
mittee of three members—and Mefl'rs Lawrance,
Baldwin and Afhe, were accordingly appointed,
who were inlhuifted to report a bill or bills, ma
king appropriations accordingly.
A metlage was received from the Senate by
their Secretary informing the Honfe,
That the Senate have palled the bill allowing
further time for coinpleating the enumerationof
South-Carolina,with amendments—in which they
request the concurrence ot the House ; these a
mendments being read, were agreed to by the
House
A committee of enrolment was appowited, con
lifting of Mr. Bourne of Mailachufetts, and Mr
Smith of Vermont.
The report of the Secretary of War 011 the
petition of John Torrey, was taken into consi
deration ; this report was againlt the prayer of
the petition—as the late Major Torrey died be
lore the expiration of the war, and leaving no
widow or orphans, his heirs are not entitled by
any law to commutation or half pay.
222
Mr. Ames observed, that Congress tlipuluic 1
with tlie officers ofthe army, that those Miic.i
continued in the service to the end of the \ VU:
fliould be allowed half pay for life, or commiita'
tion.—The quelHon then was, whether fbj , r
Torrey had performed his part of the contract
in his opinion he had—for though the army wni
continued in pay till November, yet it is well
known tli3t hollilities had ceased before the pe
riod at which Major Torrey died. Mr. Atnei
further observed, that this was a cafe fu'i gcneri)
— that the application was founded i<i the ftrici
ell jurtice, and were he to determine it in a judi
cial capacity, he fliould be ks clear to deriJe i c
in favor of the prayer of the petition, as he fliould
in the cafe of a limple note of hand. He added
several other remarks, and concluded by a moti
on that the petition, together with the report
thereon, be referred to a fdect committee, in or
der that tlie principle for which he contended
might be fully difculfed in the House.
ivir. White opposed the motion for a reference
to a (elect committee—he mentioned several dii".
icnlties which mult occur in t!ie course of the
difculiion, on account of past detifions of Con
gress. The petition, laid he, appears to create
a debt which is not cognizable by Congress, as it
did not exilt agreeable to the adt of limitation at
the time of adopting the new Constitution. H e
said he fliould rather be in favor of a reference
o a committee of the whole house.
Mr. Ames observed that he considered the ap.
plication in a quite different light from the gen
tleman 1a It speaking. It is not a petition for a
grant from government —but for the settlement of
a jlift account, and payment of a jtill debt, which
really existed prior to the organization of the
present government.
Mr. Boudiuot observed, that all the difficult'.-
in the cafe appears to arise from a difference of
opinion as, to the time when the war ceased.
This he conceived might ealily be determined,
by the period to which the army of the United
States had been paid and discharged.
Mr. Clark was against a reference to a com-
liiitee of the whole—he saw no difficulty in de
erinining the business—but if we go into a corn-
mittee of the whole, it will appear as if we were
fifhing for applicants. This has been called a
finale cafe; but lie believed, if the door was once
opened, we should soon find a great many like it.
He wished rather that the business should relt
where it was.
Mr. Williamfon said he was equally oppofedto
a committee of the whole, and to a JeleCC rcu<i.-
mittee—lie was in favor of proceeding in ilic
usual way—and coming to a vote upon the re
port. Congress, said he, promised that the wi
llows and oi'phans of those officers who died in
the service of the country, should be entitled to
half-pay for life—in the present cafe it happens,
that there are neither widows or orphans, but
some more dillairt relation who wants it. He
enlarged on the confufion which would be con
sequent on establishing a precedent like that pro
posed, and concluded by fayingthat he had heard
nothing fufficient to induce a deviation from the
line already prescribed.
Mr. Page was in favor of a reference
mittee of .the whole—lor tho lie had an high te
fpetft for the opinion of the officer who had made
the report, yet if an individual member ot the
house fliould at any time express a wilh to have a
report from the head of any department what
ever difcufled in the committee, he fliould be in
favor of his being fully gratified.
A further difculfion of this fubjedt tool: place, .
the majority of the speakers, as Mefl'rs. Seagwic
Lawrance, Dayton, &c. were evidently in favui
of adopting the report.
The motion for a felecl committee was nega-
Mi*. Ames then moved that the repot: fliould
be rejected. f
This motion was followed by one for a reie •
ence to a committee of the whole by Mi. ,1(
worth—who observed, that he considered the ap
plication as involving this quel.ion— -V» ietn
the heirs or representatives of every officer
died in the service of the United States, at..in
pei iod of the war, fliould not be entitled to co
mutation or half-pay for life. .
The question for a reference ro a commute
the whole was carried in the afnrinativw,
taken up to-morrow.
The report of the Secretary of W ar,on P
tition of John Yourtglove, and a counter-pe f
thereto, from sundry inhabitants ot t ie
New-York, was next taken into confn e
The counter-petition contained sundry cna g
unfair conduct in procuring the pennon g >
to Mr. Younglove. The repbrt
petitioner from any imputation of >' ,
f e rp„ t «.npl.yrf *-«
pension, and affigus the realons on
granted by Congress—and conclude* X,
fhis enquiry, Whether it would be
> repeal that pare of the law w. hlch ' S vei - 0 (
' ■ fion to the petitioner, agreeable to the l .
ilie cui;!!'.ei--i'eui;oi;Mr I awrance moved the following resolution,
That'it would be inexpedient to repeal that part
f the law on which the pension to John Young-
W was founded. Some discussion of the fubjetf:
k place in consequence of this mondn* which
was eventually fupeiceded by a motion offered
bv'Mr.' enfon, to this effect—l liac the prayer
Jthe petition of sundry perlbns in the fta.c of
New-York, that lb much of a law ot the United
States as grants a pension to John Yonnglovc,
may be repealed, cannot be granted.
This motion was laid on the table, and the fur
ther confuleration of the lubjeift poUponed.
On motion of Mr. Thatcher, the report of the
Secretary of War made to the fir it Congress on
the petition of.Jofeph Tucker and others, piay
i,l(r compensation as agents to certain regimen.s,
last war, was taken into conftderation. This re
port was again It the petition. The fame being
read Mr. Thatcher moved that the report be re
iet'ted by the house—and that there be allowed
lathe Paid Joseph Tucker and others, the Juni of
one per cent, on the amount received and paid
by them re('pe<ftively, including the funis grant
ed by the state of Mafl'achufetts.
Mr. Bondinot objected to this motion—he sup
posed the proper queltion before tlife houi'e was,
Whether the report of the Secretary fliould be
agreed to, or not ?—The motion, hp said, mvolv
ed'a partial decision oil a cafe which was by no
means lingular, as similar applications had been
nude to Congress. He moved that the report
fliould be agreed to by the house.
Mr. Smith (N.H.) enquired whether the amount
of the fmns received by tliofe agents from the
public, had been all paid over by then, to the
nfes for which they were received, and what was
the aiftual amount of their commifkons on the
funis paid. .
The amount of the funis received was only
mentioned in the Secretary's report.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that the accounts of
the petitioners, it appears, have been fettled by
the le<*iflature of Mallnchufetts —and ihoiud the
motion be agreed to, it would lead to a revision
of all the accounts which had been fettled at that
period on similar principles.
Mr. Thatcher, in reply, said that his colleague
was mi (taken in refpeift to the accounts being let
tied, as Come of the parties had informed hmi
that they never acquiefeed in Uich settlement,
and would not receive the certificate tendered
them as compensation for their (ervices, as ltsin
trinfic value was much less than their juit demand.
The motion for agreeing to the Teport of the
the} of War being put, was carried in the
affirmative—and Mr. T hatcher's motion was fu
perceded of course.
The Speaker laid before the house a report
from the commiflioners appointed pursuant to
the aift providing for the reduction ol the public
debt—which was read and laid on the table.
This reporr stated the progress made in that bu
finefs'fince the lalt account laid before Congiefs
by which it appears that the whol« amount pur
chased is one million, one hundred and thirty-one
thonfand, three hundred and sixty-sour dollars
and feventyfix cents—for which, the fuin of fix
hundred and ninety-nine thonfand, one bundled
and sixty-three dollars and thirty-eight cents, 111
specie, lias been paid-
A tseflhge was received from the Senate, in
forming the house of their concurrence in the
vote for appointing a committee 011 enrolled bills,
and have appointed Mr. Rutherfurd on their pai t.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, November 8.
Mr. Grrgg. member for Pennsylvania appeared, was qualified,
and took his feat. ,
Mr. La-wrance prefcntcd the petition of —— M'Elroy, who
had been a soldier in the ligl't dragoons of the Lnited rates ,
piaying to receive the pay due to hun tor his services, laid on
the table.
Several petitions praying the renewal of certificates lott and de
ployed, were read, and referred to the committee appointed to
re port a bill on that fu'ojetl.
Mi. Bourne, of the joint c ommittee of enrolment, reported the
hill for allowing further time for making returns ot the cnumcra
ton of the inhabitants of South Carolina, as duly enrolled the
Speaker affixed his signature to the fame.
In committee of the whole, on the petition of John iorre,
and the report of the Secretary of War thereon —Mr. Muhlenberg
>n<he chair—The petition a»d report being read, u was moveu
that the repoit be accepted :
Tins gave rife to a debate ; the motion was op#ofcd by Mr.
Ames and Mr, Wavne—and was fupporled by Mr. Boudinot,
Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Williamfon, Mr. Hillhoufe, Mr. Wadlworth,
Mi. Dayton and Mr. Claik, and was finally determined in the
affirmative by a large majority ; thecommutte then role and rc
portid accordingly. .
The Houfetook up the report- which on motion of Mr. White,
amended by adding these words, " and that therefore t c
prayer of the petitiorv cannot lie granted" —the report, as thus
amended, w-s fuilhcr difcuilcd n the Houfc—and then ac-
•c pfed.
A mflTagr was received from the Prtfident of the United States,
bv Mr. Sccretei y Lear, informing the House, that lie had this
•ppiovid and fumed the afl allowing further time tor making rt
lunr* of ihc enumeration of the inhabitants of South-Carolina.
On mo .on of Mr. Steele, the details of the purchases accompa
nying the report of the commiflioners, appointed puifuaiu to t 1
law making provi(v.>n for the reduction ot the public deot, were
lead—dca icc copits ordeicd 10 be printed,
frT It fViouJd have been noted »n the proceedings Fi.d
lhai Mr. iiiiilcu lock his fcai day.
BOSTON Oltober a 6. Liberty fans cost blood—but it is worth more than the purchase.
' The nation which maintains it longest will be mod eminent at
ri*r r H E ART IS i. lo it. The effe6l is to raifethe condition of the great body of the
[We feel much plea Cure in being able to givethe American pub- pcoo i e# They will learn the talents which arc brought into de
lic, the following articles refpefting the abovegentleman, extract- ; and it is gaining a point against barbarism to prefer the
ed from late In fh papers. They contain testimonials of applaule understanding to the pa (lions. Perhaps no nation has done so
honourable to the American A-itifl, and to the generous Nation in much f or [he general mai >of the people as America ; and all seems
which they are given.] to be done with a design, and with a tendency to enable them to
London-Dcrry, July 19. Lad week, Mr. Cox concluded his <lo a great deal for thcmfelves ; should Am lica make progress
contratf with tfee Corporation of Derry, reipe&ing the Bridge, a f oracenturyj as it has done of late, a Spartan, thould he come to
work which refletfs much honour on the public fpintof that re- ~,e again, would have cauie to blulh tor the bigotry of his coun
fpe£lab!c body.—After allowing the whole ot his charges, the ir^
Corporation, over and above, gave him tool, as a mark of their
approbation of the eminent abilities of this truly ingenious Artist.
The citizens of Derry have voted Mr. Cox, tVie builder of their
Bridge, a Gold Medal, value fifty guinea?, with a perfpe&ive view
of that city on one fide, and the followiog inscription on the other :
y— u To Lemuel Cox, of Bollon, in America, the builder of the
" Bridge of London-Dcrry, (a work for magnitude of design, and
4< fimplicitv of conftru&ion, unparalelled in the eaftero world)
the gentlemen of Derry in tokra of theii value for his abilities,
" have presented this Medal, July 23, 1.791."
[In addition to the above articles, the Editor has been inform
ed, from the best authority, that a silver Urn, of the value of 601.
is fabricating at Dublin—intended as a present to Mr. Cox, trom
the cloth merchants of London-Dcrry, in Ireland.]
Fur the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
1 IwA'i th a base polluter of the foul!
The honey'd poison flowing from thy tongue,
Swret as the music of a Syren's song,
May lure awhile, but ne'er my heart controul.
When die the youthful roses on thy cheek,
And leave the lilv's fading color there ;
Then will thv conscience in hoarle thunders speak,
And with his scorpion scourge tily bol'om teai.
Then nigbtlv rising from her verdant grave,
Thv lovely Laura bursting on thy fight,
Shall bid thee feck thy perjured foul to lave,
And weeping vanilli into realms of lighi.
Touched bv her warning voice, thy tortured heart
Will curse the Flatierci and his fiend-like art.
Philadelphia, November 9.
No. 6313 has drawn the prize of 10,000 Dollars in the Neu-
Haven Lottery—it was purchased by a gentleman in this city lor
a person in Virginia.
Six per C«u. Stock of the United States, a Boston paper fays, is
now remitted to London in lieu ot Bills of Exchange.
Exftafl of a letter from Cape Francois, dated OBober 6.
" The damage fullained in the Province is moderately estimat
ed at 500 millions currency ; besides ihc Coffee eftjtes, the num.
ber ot which cannot be ascertained, two hundred and twenty
Sugar Plantations have been destroyed ; we have now fomc hopes
ot an accommodation with the biacks, on condition ot a genial
amnesty "
A man in this city, having adifpiite with his Wife, 'lift W <*V
latched up a pair of tongs, wi& which he aimed 4 blow at her..;
* child of eight years eld, unfojtWvately ruthing between lis miT
gtfjffed jit the bn«h p«» rf-w
head, which put a period lo its exiilence. ■ ■
The lury of Inquest brooftht ih sverdict, " accidental murder.
The man surrendered himfelf, and is ia confinement to (land trial.
By accounts from Cape Francois we learn, that Mr. Bourne,
who was appointed Consul of the United States for St. Domingo,
has been, alter some difficulty, admitted provisionally; to execute
the duties of Confu! in the three ports of St. Domingo, called the
ports of entry, and not elfewhert. . ( .
The ransoms demanded by the Dey of Algiers, for fbe Atnen
can prisoners detained there, amounts thirty-four thouland, le
vel! hundied and ninctv-two dollars. ■ r
* It is mentioned in a Baltimore paper of of the ift inft that on
the Sunday preceding, between the hours of ten and twelxe, A.M.
ninety-five fail of different kinds of vessels pasTed the fort point,
bound to Baltimore, a confutable number of them from sea.
A letter was a tew days ago received by a gentleman in New-
York from his correspondent jn the island of Jersey, mentioning
that " it is the prevailing opinion theie, that the American vel
fcls which had been fcized upon their arrival at Guernsey and
Terfey with cargoes of tobacco, under an afi of Parliament in the
reif.ii of Charles the fccond, will be released, and meafu. es taken
to fee ure indemnification to the concerned.
Last Friday arrived the brig Hetty, Capt. Davis, from Cape-
Francois, which (he left the i6tb of OSober, ult. when the fixa
tion of public affairs in that lOand wa« much the lame as at the
date of the last accounts. The negroes continued to burn and de
stroy the plantations, arid although many of them had been killed
in different excursions, and others executed after their capture, it
had not the effect ot subduing the mfurgents. All fears ot them
at the Cape had however fubfidcd. » . . f
On the 24th ot Oaober, upwards of seventy fail of vefTels left
the port of Kofton, bound to different parts of Asia, Europe, and
America.
The DireSors of the Bark of ihe United States have completed
the appointment of their officers, and fixed their fal " , "^° l r 1 j ows:
3000
*700
1 5 0°
IGOO
Thomas Willing, President
John Kcan, Calhier
George Stinpfon, ill Teller
Gulian M'Evtrs,2d do.
William Lawrence, ift Book-keeper
John Rudd, 2d do.
Philip Etik, ill Difconnl Clerk
Fdward Stow, jun. 2d do.
Guft.vus Rifbeig, Runner
COMMUNICATIONS.
c rlier I forset who, has fa id, knowledge is powrr. This
is an important political maxim. It wcwsuld ban.ih defpot.lm,
1« US banilh ignorance sot ignorance aether name for gul
lilv (iv infufing knowledge into ilie body of the pe°r <le, we
remove them from the influence of the anftocrauc few Instead
of bein. the tool., Ihey become (he partners, pcihap. the rivals,
of the men of we alth and < ducat,on :v, e may conf.der thatpo*.
er a , harmless which tnflrad ot bc.ngenßrolfcd by an ar,ftocrac%
j ff,!f,d among the people. The fupcrior.lv ot the mind is U e
" ft lmDofing Wily then tre those who make a noise about the
m 1 Tnd the richts of man, so much at their tale about the ne-
T'fl nf education The people never can bo impoted upon wh.n
fta lbe. -U informed as teachets ; for lu-elv it
,-r . ariftocracv to put their weaoons into every man »
dtfarrn."! e , m fifc.t lO n of the wealth of .he supposed
n country Men of A-n-ica. let your /,al lake
aristocrats atc l| tn cmies ot h.eedom.aie among the
lukewarm frit lud geueial diifuliun of cducauon atm,n 6 tic
people.
Adjourned.
223
SONNET.
To a ; vc r y eloquent> but bufc, FLATTERER.
There are a<Tts of bafenels and villainy which
while we contemplate their attrocity, appear so
great, that we can hardly persuade ourselves to
believe tiiat any of the human race are to be
found so depraved as lo perperrate tliem.— Among
tliefe we inay reckon the infernal machinations
of the incendiary, who to gratily a malicious dis
position, artfully and deliberately enkindles a
fire in the heart of a populous city, that may in
volve thousands in poverty and Wretchedness—
but the villainy of the aflailin who lays .in wait
for innocent blood, who with a steady arin levels
the inltrument of death against the innocent', a
gaind a worthy man, an upright magistrate, a
friend to his country and mankind, mult be ac
tuated by a superior degree of diabolical pliren/y.
—Such wretches there are—but to the honor of
human nature, and of our country, the instances
are but few. Thiotigh the favour of a protect
ing providence this city has in a good measure
been preserved from the destruction that was
threatened by the attempts of the agents of Satan
—and we doubt not that vengeance awaits the
perpetrators of the cruel murder recently com
mitted in the (late of New-York.
In a free republic, the officers of the people
are entitled to double honor, because they have
no inheritance in their office, and when actuated
by just principles accept of public employments
from motives I'uperior to mercenary coniidera
tions. The crime therefore of individuals who
devise thedeftrut'tion, and imbrue their hands in
the innocent blood of foch characters, is tinged
with the blackest hue of hellish darkneli.
CHAMONT.
The President of the United States has formally rocognized the
appointments of
Richard CoDmak, Esq. Vice-Consul of Portugal for the Hate
of Massachusetts ;
John Abrams, Esq. Vice-Consul of Portugal for the state of
New-York ;
James Ba rr y, Esq. Vice-Consul of Portugal for the dates of
Maryland and Virginia ;
Francis Jam es Ver enocke, Vice-Consul of Portugal for the
state of South-Carolina ; and ot
Joseph Ravara, Esq. Conful-Gcneral ftom Genoa, for the
city of Philadelphia, &c.
APPOINTMENTS.
Tlie Prefiderit of the United Stares has nominated, and by and
with the advice and content of the Senate, appointed—
Thomas Johnson, of Maryland, one of the aflociate justices of
tire supreme court, vice John Rutledge, refrgned.
William Lewis, diftrift judge ol Pcnnlylvama, vice Francis
Honkinfon, deeeafed.
William Rawle, attorney for the United States in Pennfylvama
diftriit, vice William Lewis, appointed a judge.
Matthew Cbrkfon, marshal of New-York diftriQ, vice William
Smith, appointed supervisor of said diftnft.
John Brooks, marftral of MafTachufetts diftrift, vrce Jonathan
Jackson, appointed mfpeftor of one of the surveys within laid
diftrift.
David Meade Randolph, marshal of Virginia diitn6l, vice Eq
ward Carrington, appointed supervisor of laiddiftnfl.
Alexander Campbell, attorney tor the United States in Virginia
diftrift, vice William Nelson, jun. resigned.
Oliver Wolcoi.juo. comptroller of thetreafury, vice Nicholas
Eveleigh, deeeafed. _
Timothy Pickering, poftmafter-gencral, vice Samuel Ofgood,
Holmes, collector of the port of Charleston in South-Caro
lina, vice George Abhot Hall, deeeafed.
lofiah Murdaugb, surveyor of the port of Hertford rn North-
Carolina, vice Jolbua Skinner, jun. son of Wm. deeeafed.
Andrew Barieti, to be supervisor of the diftrift of Delaware,
vice Henry Latimer, refrgned.
INFANTRY. First Regiment.
Promoted— Wm. Kersey, capt. vice M'Cuidy.rcGgned ; Robert
Thompson, lieut. vice Kersey, promoted ; Jacob Melcher, iieut.
vice Seayres, refined.
Appointed—William H. Harnfon, ensign, vice Thompson, pro.
moied ; Hailing* Mark, ensign, vilc Hcth, promoted; johu Van
Hoeftn Huyck, ensign, vice Melcher, promottd.
Appointed— James Wilkinfon, lieut. col. commandant, vice
Doughty, declined.
Promoted— Samuel Newman, capt. vice Pray, declined ; Thomas
Hughes, capt. vice Sayles, declined ; Jonathan Haflccll, capt. vice
Freeman, declined ; Martin Btimmer Sohter, lieut. vice Newman,
appointed capt. John Heth, lieut. vice Rickard, declined ; Corne
lius Lyman, lieut. vice Higginfon, declined; Joseph D'ckinfon,
lieut. vice Huger, declined ; Edward Miller, lieut. vice bhermau
1000
800
75°
6 o
600
rcfignfd.
Appointed—John ensign, vice George Tillinghaft,
declined ; Daniel Tflton, jun. cnlign, vice Gilinan, declined ; Sa
muel Andrews, enlign, vice Pieice, declined; John Bird,enlign,
vice D» kinfon, appointed lieut. John Sullivan, jun. ensign, vice
Edwaids, resigned ; John EHiot, surgeon, vicc Euftis, declined.
ARTILLERY.
Appointed—Stan Morris, lieut. vice Ernest, resigned
fcT Many articles deligned lor this day't paper, are seccllai.ljr
uoftponed
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
6 pr. Cents
1 '/3
t 3j
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and othei Certificates Icj 95 do,
Indents »>/6 574 do.
Bank SuUfcriptioul, 140 to m Dollars.
3 pr. Cents
Deleted 6 pr. Certs
Second Regiment
FUNDED DEBT,
si f6 pr.
I©7\ pr. cent.
6i£ do.
65 do./ROM THE CONCORD HERALD.
THE NEW-HAMPSHIRE CONVENTION
Mb. Holch,
WELL, Mr. Printer—as of late,
Convention fat in tree debate,
In order duly to revile
And guard our rights with eagle eyes,
To mend them wheresoever torn,
And patch in places fairly worn—
1 look a feat on gallery-bench,
To hear the daily eloquence,
Nervous and strong as brais or iron,
And Iweet as comb in Sampson's iion,
Winch fljvv'd in Ciceronian ftiains,
From heads compos'd of tongue and biains.
The Bill ot Rights fir ft underwent
The chemic-force of pailiament,
Wheiein majority agreed,
That all mankind were Adam's feed,
And had an equal right by nature,
To certaingrants from God Creator;
This was the general voice—tho tome
(Who prophesy of things to come)
Contended, tiiat great Nature's God
Had plac'd the governmental rod
In fav'rite hands, with power to use it,
In whipping rebels, when they choose it,
And plead their special reason lor'r,
Tiiat they are much the better fort,
By plastic hands much more rcfin'd,
As well in body as in mind;
Therefore, by reason mathematic,
God made a few aristocratic,
Willi full prerogative to rule,
No matter whether wife, or fool—
It must be fo—for who (with cafe}
Can ftcm the current of decrees ?
Upon this easy ground 'twas urged,
That legislation might be purged
Ot every thukfculPd, muddy head,
Whose lining is compos'd of lead;
And that all pow:rol legislation
Be plac'd in men of penetration,.
Of whom ('tis afcertain'd of late)
'1 here are but Jixty in the State;
Who, if emp'iw'r'd with full commiflion,
Would legifiatc with expedition,
Make laws and things for simple sheep,
Morejuft, more gentle, and more cheap,
More fafe for any christian flocks,
Because they're always orthodox f—
And furthermore, that kind of rats
Which some folks term ariJlocratSy
Will never bite—like bugs—and fleas;
And fiily eat—the public cheese.
It may be so—but yet—peihaps,
'Tis bell to keep—a cai—and traps.
The next atchievement, worth attcnti6n,
(Which felt the hammer of Convention)
Was that heroic coup-dc-main,
Whereby the Common Pleas were flail),
Condemn'd to end their wicked dajs,
By magic force of yeas and nays ;
So vicious men, for breach of law,
Once felt the weight of Sampson's jaw,
Which, tho devoid of tooth 01 marrow,
Was certain death as gun to sparrow. .
Well, when they'd kilrd these naughty courts,
Dame Fancy led to other sports—
As, changing minim fifh to flounders,
And making two-pound shot four-pounders,
Which, elevated two degrees,
Will overshoot the murder'd pleas,
And which, when fir'd across the trench,
Will lodge inr the Superiour bench ;
Whcrf justice holds her golden balance,
And weighs all coins, from mites, to talents.
Good lack ! thought I, what horrid stashes
The Couftitution feels—what gashes
Are cut upon this great emergence,
1 o manifeft the fitill of surgeons,
Who sometimes busily are found
Creating a tremendous wound,
(The patient, dismal pain enduring)
That they may fTiow their art in curing.
Nextly, when each had done his best,
(This artem dreft)
A certain junto-cratick brother,
Dcelar'd 'twas best to make another
In some more noble tender part,
Perhaps upon the head or heart,
That when the fubjett's head is broke
By the atorcfaid random fttoke,
He must inevitably die,
Or seek for cure in chancery
Which ipjo JaElo lays the devil,
As stroking carries off king's evii,
And as by magic operation
It chancers down all inflammation,
Dispels the gout, the fplecn, and agues,
With many other pains that plague us ;
In short 'twill cure the deadly pthifis,
And bring about a sudden crisis*.
Thus while its friends laid much about it,
And swore we <?ould not do without it,
Other's decUi'd, with honest breath,
They'd rather die a nat'ral death ;
Would sooner clofc with grim disease,
1 han pay the chancellor his fees.
In fine, the code ecclcfiaftick,
Was fumbled o'er with fingers p l a ft ic k,
Which ach d and uch'd to form a fyft. m
Of new made things—but could not twift'em.
run many curious propositions
Were made by zealous politicians,
And then presented to the chair,
Defining conscience to a hair ;
Which is, that tvery man and woman,
U heiher a Hebrew, Greek, or Roman,
?? be found, and good,
Must live on Calvinlftick food ;
hich, tho a most delicious huit s
To mod— yet some it does not suit;
sco that their (Vomachs heave and work,
Like fqueam.fti Jews at fight ot po.k !
However, viU, ungodly crew,
■J our vain pretencc will never do I
Molt CCTtainly you must be cram'd r
For he that doubteth must be damn'd !
But stay our catholick committee,
Perhaps youp dismal cafe may pity •
Thus meekly—patiently l> e merry,'
And wait th' approach of February,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—-who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & A DOOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Thud Street?.
(J3* The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from it&ftrft fettlemciu lo the adoption of the present Con-
ItitMtion of the United States ; —the third, containing a geographi
cal delcripiion of the State, iketcbes of its natural htiiory, &c. is
in the press.
* ¥c * A few copies of the firft two volumes for sale—price 2cj".
November 5, 1791.
In the Prcfs, and speedily will he publiihtd,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiftins* of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
%* The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, v:z. the firft
and frcond Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the (11ft ; and each subsequent one (except the lait) at the tune oi
delivery.
Subfcrintions will be received, in this city, by Thomas
Dobson. and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookfellcrs
ihere. Philadelphia, November 5. ,1791.
Which may be fcen every day, unlil five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xeuophon, Plato* Plutatch, Eufcbius, Sozo
in men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Taciius, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concotdantia Gr. Thcfauius Ci
ceroni?. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,WHls's Map«,
Scapulas—Phavorini—Martinii—Hoft'mani Lexica, VoHiiEtymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclcf. Britannicar. &c.
Qjiarto. Pmdar, Cyropasdia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Pha;drus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronisop. om. C«far, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Grain. Ciuve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, See,
Oflavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, I-onginus,
Theophraftus, Hcfiod, Poetae Gr. Ifocratrs. Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus. Aufonius, Buchanan,
Sallult, Curtius, Florus, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gcllius, H«il.
August. Scriptores, English and French Transitions of fomc of ihe
Gaffics, a great variety ot Gre-ek and Latin Giammars, See. See.
Qdf Catalogue.® may be had of MeiTrs. Rice & Co. Bookfell rs,
Markct-ftreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oftobfrflt. septs.)
Funds of thej&nited States.
ALL kinds of the Public J)eioof the Unidh, bought, fold, orex
changcd ; Foreign and Inland Bills of f-Xhangt nc^oriated;
Merchandize ot all forls bought and fold on Lommitfion, and ill other
Bufnicfs in the lineot a Broker, t tat) failed by
WILLI AM CLELAN D,
At it: Office next door to tht Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2m
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&r
Of the fiift quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chrfnut and Market Streets
Class Second.
This Clals will positively commence drawing on Thursday
the 24th of November next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition. The Managers pledge them
fclves that no consideration whatever shall induce them to postpone
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
Boston, O&ober 15, 1791.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every deCcription^nCoMwiJ/io/i,
at the following lates:
Q N c th « fpccie amount of all falcs at au&ion, one eighth per
On ditto at private Talc or purchase, one-half per cent
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at dittoJcvtntv-five cents per transfer.
ouch pcrlons as may incline to favor the fubferiber wilh
! r jVr ay / el , V .° n , their b "»S«ecuted with punclud/ity,
fidelity and d,/patch. His lo<ig experience and extensive dealings
in the public ftucks, together with a well eftablithed correspon
dence throughout the Untied States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
OElober 15, i7gi
Lectures on Government&Law.
T«E Honorable JAM MS WILSON, L. L. D. Profcffo, of Laws
X in the College a „d Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, rtext : Winter, two Courses of Lcdures. One Couife ,0
t>e« n m°be l r M °»<H other on the Second Tucfday of
btrr " WILLIAM ROGERS,
1 ' r»ii • Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, Oflooer 12, i 7 qi. ep'D
SPECTATOR
224
The First and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the StateJ
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
Nn. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOKS,
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C OMMISS I O N by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
be had at the fame place.
JOHN PIN-TARD,
New-York, N0.57, Khig-Street,
WANTED, A NUMBER OF
Journeymen Cordwainers
Who will find conlhnt employment a..d ireiierous « a ,
P ' y rt7 *V he M " ftCr CQ,dv V" le " of th = Cu V"* Ph.Udl'l^
Otobfr n, 1-qi. |- cptt j "pnn.
Wanted, a good C~OcTk^
To whom genicel will „c allowed. Nonenrtri
Enquire ~f -h- Hr.„, ,
TO BE SOLD,
And p-ilfdliou given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Faxm
Wheieou the lubfciibrr now lives.
IT lies on the road trom Princeton to BrunU k ahr„>
and a half from the former. It contain. »','•» acie,' vh""f
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, ai..J 20
made. Also 1 young orchard of 200 applets, i.elid-s a
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; tl, c wi,„ .V
good knee. There are on the premies a t w „ (,„ ry a
ana kitchen, with an elegant piazz.2. the wi»nl#> » V
finilhrd. Also. a smoke-house granary "
houle ; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and no f,-i' Il' 'j
a good bain, with (tabling. From the building an re'arecf'
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and M minom"
hills. Any per foil inclining to purchafc, may know theterm.'w
anplyingtn the fubferiber Oil the oremifcs,or to Is A AO Snow
No. 141, South Sccond-lticet, Philadelphia ' Dt,,r
ISAAC SXOWDEN, Junior.
[rr> 2 m 1
Princeton, O&ober 10, 1791
ly. JU'D GUGJLL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
TTE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
1 I has experienced thefc eighteen years; hopes the rrpu,
ot Ins Ichool (or decorum and good order, as well as the perform
anee of his scholars, will fttll enfurc him a rtfpcaablc Cijr" ol V"
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will betauirht
during the fcafou. ' ®
Thole who phase to honor him with the tuition of ihcirchi!
Irrn, ,nav be assured, they will be taught in the mod a pp fo v,'j
' and th;lt P'UP" atteiuioi. will be paid to their carriage and
manners. 0
A general prjftifmfr for the improvement of the scholars, wiil
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wedurfday ; when the
employers, and 11 rangers ot genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra&ifmgs will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An LVKNIN T G SCHOOL will be opened for grov.n
Gentlemen, as loon as a fufficieht number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fuhferiber, at Eur.
den town, and flolen from the fame the following art icVs, viz
One hair trunk, containing womeiis' weaiinj apparel; 1 (Vnali
box, containing four clocks and oue dozen tcfiinients'; i ditto
containing one bottle giccn cloth coal, one itripid veil and
breeches, two shirts and a finall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifcv coppers; 1 keg containing a laige bible, with other
f.n.ill books ; 1 box containing 447 real olli ich leathers, foinc of
ilicm large and elegant, and of diii'e.cnt colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Inilav; 1 banc! pork, 1 ream pau'7;~arid
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Baitcau,
with black fide*.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecurityof
the above property, (o that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they rtiay be brought to justice, bv
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. i, 1791. [ e P I O
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, some time in Augufl: 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, laie the property of Nathaniel
Wickliff, deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches h ; gh, pretty well set, with a large wooll) head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, ilotie mason arid
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of such business. He is a great diHembler, and no doubt pretend#
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefcut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to anv person that will se
cure laid Negro in any jail, so that the fubfenber may get him
again; and- reasonable charges will be paid—<>r Thirty Dollars
will be if he is brought to Prince William County, Virgioify
to Mr. John Kinchelor. by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(ta wgw)
O&ober t2, 1791
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Maflachufetts, mod rcfpc6l*-
tullv informs the public, ihat he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will be finilh
ed with all the difputch the nature of the woi k will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pa per s, he begs will
return them to him at Worcefltr, or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the last day of November next, and as much foonci as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work lias been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corrc&nefs, and iis cheapness compared with EnglilH
copies of the fame lize and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all tbofe
who with to poljefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudaUle undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the lubfcription,
fVorceJier y Sept, 29, 1791
$3"* Blank Powers to receive the IntercU," andjor the lr in sjer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflablijiied in ihe'lrta
fury Department : AIJo Blanks for abjlrafts of Certificates, to be Joldbf
(he Editor.
A D V li R T I b ii M £ N '1'
$3** BY late an ivals from France* the Editor has received Jrcm
A r o. to to 31, both inclufivc, of a Publication which comes ou! tune*
iveek in Paris, entitled. " Correspondance Nationale. —-
From Nc>. 1 to No. 10, have been flipped, but are not )Ct covtc to hand.
An\ pcrfon zc/10 nia\ incline to fubjcribe for this work, which appears -t
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, 'nay beJurmjhed witLLhc /mir.kU
as they arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazelle.
(r.f.)
*ISAIAH THOMAS.