QfrtiztfU o'fth
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS IIY JO.'l.V FEXXO, No. 69, HIG/I-STtEET, BETWEEN SuOND AND THIRD Si REFTS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 2% of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL,
MR. RUSSELL,
THE papers under the signature of Pubi. ico
la, have called forth a torrent of abufc,
not upon their real author nor upon tlie feim
ments they express, but upon a supposed author,
and supposed lentiineius.
With refpedl to the author, not one of the
conjeifiures that have appeared in the publick
prints has been well grounded. The V ice-Pr--
sident neither wrote nor corre<3:ed them ; he
did not give his fandlion to an individual lenti
ment contained in them, nor did they "go to
the prels under the afliimed patronage of his Ion."
With refpetft to the sentiments, to thole who
have read the pieces with attention, it is need
less to fay, that they are limply an examination
of certain principles and arguments contained
in a late pamphlet of Mr. Paine's, which are
supposed to be directly opposite to principles ac
knowledged by the conflitutions of our country.
And the author challenges all the writers that
have appeared in support of Mr. Paine's infal
libility, to produce alingVe paflage in these pub
lications which has the mofi diilant tendency to
recommend either a monarchy or an ariltocracy
to the citizens of these States.
The writer never hail the intention to defend
the corruptions of the Englilh conilitution : nor
even its principles in theory, except Inch as
were adopted in our own. Mr. Paine has drawn
a coniparifon between certain parts of the En
glilh and French conltit utions, in which are con
tained principles of government, that are not ac
knowledged by our own conflitutions. l oi'ar as
the principles of the Engli'.li conilitution, have
been adopted by the Americans, I have defended
them, and I am tirmly convinced, that vse can
not renounce them, without renouncing at the
fame time the happy governments with which
we are favoured.—The question of fupe.iority
between the French and Englifli conflitutions,
has no connection with aqueltion relative to mo
narchy. If this be true, it niuft apply equally
to the admirers of the French conftituiion, and
Mr. Paine himfelf is chargeable with having
supported a monarchical inltitution.—lt is well
known that by the French conilitution, a (land
ing army of near 300,000 is eftablilhcd, and plac
ed beyond the annihilating'arm of the legillature.
Is it impollible that Mr. Paine lhould admiie
this conilitution, without being a friend to stand
ing armies ?—The argument is the fame, and
the assertion might be made, with just as much
truth, us that Publicola is an advocate for mo
narchy or for arillocracy.
When Mi. Paine fays that a whole nation
(by which it is admitted that he means a majo
rity of the nation) have a right to do what it
chooses, and when he fays that before the fonn
tion of civil society every man hasa natural right
to judge in his own cause, it appears to me that
he resolves all into power ; it is this opinion
which I have combated, because it appears to me
to be of the molt pernicious tendency, and it'it
is not really contained in the pamphiet, I con
fefs inyfelf greatly railtaken. But the enlighten
ed writers, who have defended the principle of
Mr. Pai nE, differ so edentially in the ground
they have taken, that the one or the other would
certainly have been charged with propagating
detcjlabte hcrefies, had not the end faniftified the
means, and the objetft of defending Mr. Paine,
reconciled the inconsistency of their reasonings.
One writer supports the principle through thick
and thin ; and tells you that the -will of the con
trading parties, is the only circumilance that
makes treaties obligatory. Another tells you
iliat I have grossly mifreprcfented Mr. Paine,
and that the national omnipotence which he ef
tablilhes relates only to the internal concerns of
the community. He agrees however that the
will of the majority mult be taken lor the will
of the whole nation, and that with respect to the
forma-ion of a government, a majority have a
right to do what they pleftfe. So that it is 110
longer the " rights of men," but the rights of
the majority which alone are unalienable.
Upon the CjUeftion whether a constitutional go
vernment can be made alterable otherwise than
by the people in their original character, I have
defended the constitution of the United States a-
gaintt the principle of Mr. P*ine, thongh in
w the republication of the paper in several of the
•foutfhern paper*, the pafiage which funports my
Saturday, August 6, 1791*
opinion hy the authority of the constitution, is
.mined
Upon rlie article ofreprefentauon, I l)3vc con
emiecl that the French reprefentatien is no rc
pi efentation of the peoplear all. Is there a man
in the United States who would recommend it as
a model to us ? I have contended that our re
presentation of the people is infinitely luperior
hoth to the French and the JOnglifli ; and this is
laid to he an abominable herely.
Upon the fnbject of monopolies,of game laws,
and of exclulioits from the legifkuuie, 1 have
defended the principle J adopted by our own con
ititutioiis, arid not the abules of the Englilli go
vernment. L poll that of war and peace 1 have
done the lame, and wherever Mr. Paint's ob
ferva' i r.s Wave appeared to be founded upon any
other foundation than truth, 1 have endeavored
to liiow their fulliey. But a defence ot monar
chy or aiiifcocracy was no more in my intention,
than ihe defence ot: he Salic Law oi deicents was
to that of Mr. P ink.
I (hall now conclude these papers with requeu
ing that those only who re;d them would judge
upon their principles ; and I am well pei luaded,
that the candou of the public will not take mis
representation for reason, ior inveOtive ior ai
gument. U I C O L A.
FROM THE AENiU(f>Y GAZETTE.
MR. Bradford,
By injer.tivg the ivciofed, you ivifl oblige a Volunteer.
A MON'G tb >'° who have exerted'themfelves for the dcftruc
x\. tion "f our fnemv. no one hold so diftinguifhrd a
r, nk as Cnlur.er ]0.,n C ntipbel>, of Louifviile : nothing can give
more cnco' ia ' 'pent •' ihofe who turn oui as voiunteeis, than the
holding out to them the idea, that by encountering difficulties and
dangers, they w 1] en (lire to themfelve* the vei v highest of rewards,
the applause and affiltance of th ir fe'low citizens.
When the late army under the command ot General Scott, ar
rived at Fort Steuben, on their return from the expedition, fa
tigu d, hungry, and the greater part of them without money, they
were invited by Colonel Campbell to retrefh themselves at his
house, where all who went were furnifhcd good be f or
mutton, and as much grcg as they chose. The writer of this letter
partook of the Colonel's bounty, and saw at least three hundied
men eat and drink at his house in one day—lndeed as long as any
of the troe>ps remained in L< u'fville, the tables were kept con
ftantJy fprc-ad. The writer has it in view to return public thanks
to Colonel Campbell, for the entertainment lie received, and to
call the attention of the diftrift to his conduct, as Highly worthy
of imitation.
J SWISH ECONOMY.
TWO criminals, a Christian and a jew,
Who'd been to honest feelings rather callous,
Were on a platform once expos'd to view,
Or come, as some folks call it, to the gallows;
Oi, as of late, as quainter phrase prevails,
To try their weight upon ihe city scales.
In dreadful form, the constable and fhrieve,
The pneft, and ord'nary, and croud, attended,
Till fix'd the noose, and all had taken leave,
When the poor Ifraclite, befriended,
Heaid, by cxprtfs from officer of state,
A gracious pardon quite reverse his fate.
Unrnov'd he feem'd, and to the spot close flicking,
Ne'er offers, tho' he's bid, to quit the place,
Till in the air, the other fellow kicking.
The fheriff thought that some peculiar grace,.
Some Hebrew form of silent deep devotion,
Had for a while depriv'd him of his motion.
But being queftion'd, by the fheriff's orders,
Why not with proper officer retiring,
In tone of voice that on the maiv'lous borders,
While that his looks were to the beam aspiring,
" I only vait," fa id he, before I coes,
" Ov Mister Catch to puy the ted man's clothes
ANECDOTE of Sir Robert Walpole and Dr. Campbell
DR. Campbell was a believer in the divine hereditary right of
Kings, and confeqiuntly attached from principle to the
House of Stuart. It happened that a mcflenger, who was em
ployed by the Jacobites in England to carry on their correfpon
dcnce withthe pretender, iiad prevailed upon the Doctor to write
a letter to the Pretender's Secretary, and, as the mc.ffenger was
in Sir Robert's pay, he carried it with the reft to Sir Robert,
who sent for the Do&or the following morning (as he often did
at other times, having frequently employed his pen in writing in
defence of his adminiftration)on pretence of talking to him about
something he was to write. He took, him to a window which
looked into the street; and, while thoy were standing rhere toge
ther, Sir Robert had contrived that the meflenger (hould pass by,
and, looking up, moved his hat at them ; upon which Sir Ro
bert asked the Do&or, if he knew that man, and who he was.
The Do&or, in some alarm, immediately answered, that he was
very well acquainted with him, and that he couM allure him he
was a very woithy honest man. 44 He may be so," (said Sir Ro
bert) " but he is certainly a very careless one, for he gave me i
letter yesterday which I believe was not intended to come inf>
my hands, and I think its dire&ion is your hand-wiitingand
pulling out the Do&or's letter he gave it to him unopened. The
Doctor fell upon his knees, and vowed, that as he had given him
his life, it should be devoted to his service, and he never ceafec
to be his fervent advocate throughout the remainder of his life.
And Sir Robert was so well convinced of his fmcerity, that hi
would have given him a valuable office ; but the Do&or would
not facrifire his principles to his intcreft, and declined the offer,
and continued a nonjuror as long as the old Pretender lived.
113
&J&0
[Whole No. 237.]
The Speech of Tfeeuyeanthaxu, or the Speaker that kteps his audience
awake, commonly called Red Jacket, at the late Treaty of foewtoun
Point, in reply to a charge of partialityJor the Rntijh.
Brother Canisadf-h,*
LISTE Nto what lam going to fay to you. You have been
sent here by the thirteen council fires, to treat with us of
peaceand friendfhip. You have already heard a part of what
you said to us in rharge from them, repeated, according to our
custom, by my brother (Oquilondnnguas.) You then heard a
speech from your brother of the Five Nations. We told you,
that a strong wind had blown over us, and scattered some of us
on this fide, and some on that. The wind seems to be rising
again. We do not know but it may blow some of our younj
warriors among the western Indians—but this would give us great
iineafincfs. When we replied to your speech the other day, we
thought every thing relating to the war, had been buried : but
y >u have since told us, that _you think we are mofl inclined to
(he Britilh interest Do you think it wrong for us to make friends
of our nearest neighbours ? We and all the nations present, were
f jrprifed to hear you fay fo—for we have been very peaceable and
friendly with the Thirteen Fires, ever since the last war. As soon
as the wind had done blowing, we looked round us : we saw our
wives and children in distress. and we immediately turned our
'wees towards the Thirteen Fires for peare. You ask us in your
fprech, what is the reason we incline more to one fide than the
other, as we profefs to be our own matters ? We wonder that
you should ask fucn a question. Formeily our treaties were con
firmed and iecorded with wampum : but the Thirteen p ires feeni
desirous tofet our ancient customs aside, by treating with us upon
paper. There is not a man in our nation who can explain your
rolls to us, and we are obliged to apply to our Britifii neighbours
to know what they contain. This prevents us from being alto
gether independent of them. But this is not all : Our Brothers
the Br it i fh, al ways advifc us to what is best for us. They tell us
to listen to what the Thirteen Fires fay, when they speak to us ot
peace: whenever they hear of any thing in our favour, they let
us know of it; and, as they give us good advice, we depend
upon them. These, Brother, are some of our rcafons for con
fiding in our brothers the British. Their King advifcs us to
peace : and to listen to the fame advice from the Thirteen Fires;
but not to hear them when they advise for war. This is the
counsel we receive from Niagara. They always tell us, we ought
to be an independent people, and do nothing but what we think
right. We are free nations, ruled by nobody, You complain,
that we never make known to you what the British fay to us ;
but always inform them of what you fay : we wondered to hear
vou fay so. As you speak to us in writing, we are obliged to go
to the British to hear what vou fay : but as they treat with us by
wampum, of which they keep great store, -we have no occasion
to come to you to explain it to us. You know very well that the
Thirteen Fires are so distant from us, that it would be too diffi
cult to travel down to them foi advice. The reason why we
know so little of one another is, that we have nobody sent from
you to stay wijh us, and explain your purposes tons. Well,
Bro her, do you begin to perceive that we have reasons for our
peculiar attachment to the British ? You have thanked us for ac
cepting the offers you brought us; and told us you were glad to
find that we had no obje&ions to them. Do not think hardly,
Brother, of what we now fay, nor fufpett that we are in any de
cree deceived by listening to the voice of those who carry tales.
You know we covered up every thing that was amiss, the day
before yesterday. We are now joined hand in hand with th<~
Thirteen Fires. We think of nothing but peace. If you had
defued us to bring you the speeches of our brothers the British,
we would have hrought you the belts and firings along with us,
and thrown down the bundles before you. You did not ask us
to do so, yet we have told you a few things that you might knowr
what they fay to us. Have you heard us plainly. Brother ? We
>re but iuft now beginning to tranfaft our business at this Council
Fire. We hope a man will soon be appointed to a£l between us,
as it was in old times. Then we went to one place to tell every
thing we heard, and there we used to hear of every thing that
concerned us from all quarters. As soon as an agent is appointed,
we shall begin to apply to the Thirteen Fires for advice. Now,
Brother, we have freely told you the reasons for our conduct,
beta life we know that we are alike inclined for peace. Our true
friendfliip is now beginning. We have buried all these difficul
ties. What fault have you to find with us now, Brother?— Let
:s no longer listen to those that would make mifchief between us,
nor change our present refoli.tions. It is best not to repeat disa
greeable things that are past. Let them be buried in the earth.
This, Brother, is all that the Chiefs and Head Warriors have to
fay to you now :
A Broad White Belt.
You have found so much fault with us, -Brother, that we are a
little afraid of vou : We have told you some of the principal
speeches we have heard from the British. You shall now be our
counsellor : Tell us whether there is any harm in them ?
* Commiffioncr Pickering, so called by them, after an old torJbn, on the
fide of a hill, in which they lived peacefully.
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
OBSERVATIONS on Amertcan PORTER and CHEESE.
TH E friends to the interests of mankind were lately gratified
by a fa£l communicated in the various periodical publicati
cations in this city, viz. that there had been no spirits used ainnnr
the sailors on board the (hip Brothers, Capt. Jofiah, during her
late voyage to Canton; and that this circumstance had been so far
from injuring the crew, that th«v enjoyed an uncommon degree
of health- It will please the friends of American manufactures*
be informed, that Mr. Hare's porter remained perfectly found
and good the whole paflage. Some of that article, indeed, whick
was taken out in casks, received injury, from not being placed in
1 favorable fituarion : but a hundred dozen, originally bottled its
his ciiy, not only remained good, but was improved by the
voyage.
In another vcflel which went to Canton from this city, some
F.nglilh porter was taken out, as well as that made in this city,
but not the least superiority could be perceived in the former over
the latter, as appears by the candid and unprejudiced teilimony
of the persons belonging to the vessel.
American manuta&ures of every kind, but especially porter,
have long laboured under the unjust imputation of inferiority
when compared withEnglifh: but after this fair trial we hope
that prejudice will be laid nfidc, and justice be done.
Cherfe is another article, which, although it has been made ia
this country, 2nd especially to the eaitward, for a number oi years,
■tvery good, yet hallways been thought greatly inferior to that
made in Cneihire in England. Howev r, theßlock-lQand cheeses.
which were carried out, in the fame ship Brothers, provea, on
companfou, to-be no ways inferior to the £n jl:fh ones on board ;
but bore the heat of Chun, and the vicilfitudes of the weather,
equally with ihat imported.'
It is with the greaicft plafure that a friend to American manu
fa&urcs communcates these which can be read'.ly attested
by all on ship- They will serve to show, that the fup
]hA d infcriv>rity of those capital articles of American production,
chcefe and porter, is a mere designing pretence.
Critique on the different Englijh hijiorians, by Dr.
C''o:r, p-efixed to th: fir ft r-A:nm of his Uijlo'-y r,f
Fpghra'd, lately publijfied.
HUME, as an hiilorian, lias long enjoyed an
extraordinary fliare of popularity; and liis
performance feerrvs to be conlldered, by the ma
jority of readers, as the belf account of the as-
fairs of this nation. His abilities were compe
tent to t he prod utftion of an history which might
have far furpafled all the efforts of iiis Britifli
predeceflbrs; and if his talents had been exerted
■with a jnit regard to candor and impartiality,
nnd with the sole view of exhibiting a fair and
accurate delineation of the trail factions of for
mer days, his liiftoric fame would have retted on
a more solid bnfis than that which now supports
it—The spirit of philosophy which animates his
work, gives it a manifeft fuperioriry over moil
of the Lnglifh hiflories by which it was preceded.
His style is elegant, without affectation ; and
nervous, without an appearance of labour. His
arguments in defence of a favorite hypothesis,
poUeis all the actutenefs of sophistry, tho' their
force is difirmed by the application of found lo
g:c, and the addutSion of undiftorted facfts.—
Under the pretext of exposing the delusions of
fanatkifm, the weakness of bigotry, and the arts
cffelfilh and deligning ecclefiaflics, he indirectly
endeavors to sap the fabric of religion itfelf, and
undermine the dearest imerelts of society. His
political principles are adverse to the claims of
freedom ; and under the cloak of impartial
discussion, he vilifies the exertions of the patriot,
and depresses the generous flame of liberty.
The reputation of Rapin is now in the wane.
The multiplicity of his errors, his want of ani
/rnation, and his injudicious use of his materials,
llisive occafioncd the decline of that eminence
which he once enjoyed, and which produced an
■unprecedented sale of his voluminous work.
His general impartiality was the original cause
of the success of his history ; but that quality is
not so conspicuous in this author ns his advocates
pretend ; nor, on the other hand, is his perfor
mance so defective in this refpetfi:, as some later
hiiioi ians have iniinunted.
Though Carte is supposed to have employed
more time and labour on his history than any
preceding or fubfequeiit writer, his fnccefs did
rot correspond with his hopes. The well known
prejudices entertained by him, precluded the
:ob'«i«nts reqwifite which such a work demands ;
ajiii the public could not be expected to cherish
a'verv high opinion of the sagacity or penetra
tion of thaV author, who, in an enlightened age
could decisively attribute the imaginary cure of
the fcrophula by the royal touch, to a fanarive
virtue conferred by heaven on anointed sove
reignty. Carte, however, where his preposses
sions do not intervene, is a faithful and accurate
writer: but he rarely displays any portion of the
graces or the energy of composition.
Guthrie was a good claflical scholar, and an
ingenious author. His liiflory of England is no
contemptible work; but it appears to have been
written with too great rapidity, and too little at
tention of the mind. His remarks too frequently
disgust by the vanity with which they are offered',
or merit cenfnre by the want of a deliberate ex
amination of that point on which he confidently
pronounces his sentiments.
The charge of harte and inaccuracy, which
the prefenc critic has ventured to fix on Guthrie
is more jufily imputable tohis countryman Smol
let, as the history compiled by the latter, is solely
borrowed from modern writers, whose misre
presentations he has copied, and whose errors he
has multiplied. A companion of his work with
the historical labours of Rapin, Carte, and Guth
jie, will perhaps convince the examinant, that
he did not consult one of the original authors
whom he has quoted in his margin. Hut his defects
as an historian are in some measure palliated by
that nevons elegance which often appears in his
diction, and that judgment which prevents him
from dwelling on occurrences of inferior moment.
Goldsmith wrote wiih spirit and ability; but
his history of this kingdom is a mere ep'ttnme, and
is calculated rather for the amtifementof an idle
hour, than for the improvement of those who
aspire to a competent knowledge of En E lifh af
fairs. b
Henry is an accurateandjiidicious author ; but
his plan is too detached and disjointed to please
the general reader; and that divifon of his work
which comprehends the civil and military hiftorv
of Great-Britain, is too concise to be fat it fac
tory.
A Friend to American Minufafiures.
Advantages of pnfcrvbig Parsnirs by drying.
[By the Rev. J. Belknap.]
AMONG the number of esculent roots, the
parsnip lias two singular good qualities.
One is, rhat it will *ndtire the feverell froll, and
may be taken out of the ground in the spring,
as sweet as in autumn ; the other is, that it may
be preserved, by drying, to any defiied length
of rime.
The fir(t of tbefe advantages has been knoyn
v for many years pnft ; the people in the most
northerly parts of New-England, where winter
reigns with great severity, and the ground is
often frozen to the dep:h of two or three feet,
for four months, leave their parsnips in the
ground till it thaws in the spring, and think
them much better preserved than in cellars.
The other advantage never occurred to me till
this winter, when one of my neighbours put into
my hands a substance which had the appearance
of a piece of buck's horn. This was part of a
pat snip, which had been drawn out of the ground
]a!t April, and had lain negle<fted in a dry closet
for ten months. It was so hard, as to require
considerable strength tovforce a knife through it
cross-wise; but being soaked in warm water, for
about an hour, it became tender ; and was as
sweet to the taste, as if it had been frefli drawn
from rhe ground.
As many ufeful discoveries owe their origin to
accident, this may fugged a method of prjfferv
ingfo pleaf.tnt and wholesome a vegetable for the
life of seamen in long voyages, to prevent the
fctirvy and other disorders incident to a fea-far
ing life, which 55 ofren rendered tedious and
diftrefling for want of vegetable food ; since I
am persuaded that parfiiips, dried to such a de
gree as above related, and packed in tight casks,
may be tranfporred round the globe, without
any loss of their flavour, or diminution of their
nutritive quality. Asylum.
St. J O H N, July j
Lad night about tr o'clock, a Smoke House
belonging to Mr. Tl'.oims Barker,on York-Point,
was difcotered to be on fire ; the flames almost
instantaneously bnrft out in a tremendous man
ner, which soon rendered it impofl'ible to be ex
tinguished—The whole town was instantly a
larmed, and great numbers aftembled—The en
gines were set to work with all poifible expedi
tion, but no efforts could prevent the flames from
communicating to the dwelling house of jVlr.Bar
ker—a dwelling honfe, blacki'mith's (hop, and
two other buildings the property of Mr. Thomas
Jennings, which were soon reduced to a/lies,
when fortunately a flop was put to the threat -
ning progress of this diftrefling calamity.—The
united efforts of the Naval and military officers
and men (who kindly afforded every poflible as
fiftance) together with all ranks of the inhabi
tants to prevent the conflagration from spread
ing, mull: otherwise have proved ineffectual, and
the whole ra-nge of buildings, together with the
Ordnance flore, which contained a quantity of
powder and other combustible materials would
inevitably have been consumed.
Recent accounts from. Quebec, brought by a
gentleman who arrived at the Great-Falls, a few
Hays since, inform us, that His Royal Highness
Prince Edward, with the 7th regiment had ar
rived, and that the 65th were under orders for
this place, to relieve the 54th stationed here,
who will then embark for England.
The fame accounts add, that his Excellency
Lord Dorchester intends shortly for Europe.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) July 27.
Arrived here, brig Elizabeth, Capt. Hooper,
in 52 days from Greenock, in Scotland. At the
time of Capt. Hooper's failing, (June 2d) prepa
rations were still making for war, theimpreffing
of seamen in England, Scotland and Ireland, was
carried on with ipirit, See'. But it was generally
imagined, by persons of difcermnent, that these
preparations were only defined to divert the
attention of the people from revolution princi
ples—The British fleet had not failed.—The
brig ABC, from the Potowmac was at Port Glaf
g;>w, waiting for freight, expected to fail 15th
July. The ihip Duchess of Haddington failed
14 dqys before Capt. Hooper, for Boston.
CONCORD, (N. H.) July 20
We hear from Warner, that on Thursday last
a barn belonging to Mr. Jonathan Straw, was
taken up by a whirlwind, from the ciUs, and
torn to pieces. There was a yoke of oxen in
the barn at the time, but they were left ftandino
without injury.
On Friday last, in the severe thunder storm
there was a heavy gale of wind about a mile and
an half wide, which patted through the fout'n
weftern part of this town. It tore up many trees,
and did confioerable other damage. Deacon Her
nek and Mr. Sleeper had each of them a cow
killed by the falling of the trees.
The earth is now well watered, and the pro
duce on the farms appears to be rapidly ap
114
preaching to maturity, with profpe&s of al„ Tn
riant h3rve(t. »«iuxn-
Died, at Haverhill, MaflLchufctts, on W e( l„.r
day the 6th instant, JOHN THAX I KR Efooir
attorney at law. It is but just, to obfc™ e rh
his character marked him an ornament L .if'
profeffion : by his death the public are deprived
of a ufeful man ; h,s acquaintance, of an ka re
able companion ; his afibciates, „f a gj *'
friena ; and his bereaved consort and an n„i
child, of a tender hnlband and an afFedtiona
parent. ,e
In 1779, when Mr. Adams was appointed Mi
nifter Plenipotentiary, to make a treaty of peace
and also a treaty of commerce with Great-Britain'
Mr. Tbaxter accompanied him to Europe in the
character of Private Secretary. In that fituatioi,
he obtained the fnendfliip of Judge Dana, who
at that time was Secretary to the Conmiiflioners
With Mr. Adams he resided in France and Hoi'
land : And while his tafle for Literature render
ed him an agreeable companion—his integrity
and perfect fidelity, in the duties of his Ration
claimed and received the ntmoft confidence of
that patriotic Statesman, and his great antTfaith
fnl aflociate, the present Chief Tuftice of th*
United States.
Peace being confirmed, in 178?, the Commif
fioneis Pent him to America, with the charge of
presenting the Definitive Treaty to Congress:—
He was received with attention and refpedt.
W ORCESTER, July 28.
We hear from Royalfton, that on Tuesday e
vening the 12th inft. a barn belonging to Mr.
Benjamin May, of that town, was fee on fire bV
lightning and entirely contained, together with
fibout seven tons of hay, and a quantity of flax.
By the extraordinary exertions of the inhabit
tants, the frame of another barn, 36 feet by 30,
was eredted on the fame spot by sun-set the next
day.
N E W - Y O R K, August 3.
The Directors of the Bank of New-York, yes
terday forenoon, appropriated three hundred
(hares of that Bank, which were unfnbfcribed to
be offered to the Bank of the United States. This
vote of the Directors being made public, the re
maining vacant (hares of the Bank (about three
hundred) were all fubferibed in the space of
twelve minutes after the opening of the Bank in
the afternoon.
W I N D H A M, July 23.
Died, in New-London, Monday the 11th inft. Mrs. Eliza-
BETH ne Bracei onci, widow of Mr. Lemerieu Dt Com
demanche, aged 56 years. She arrived at New-London from
Guadaloupe about lix weeks since, in a declining state of health.
In conformity to the requefi: of the friends of the deceased, the
Rev. Hcvry tharning, Prelbyterian Minister of the firft Proteftan:
Church in that city, attended at the funeral, and officiated, reading
the butial service of the Epifcopa! Churcli in the United States.—
This attention to the feelings of the afflicted, in the true spirit of
the Gospel, rauft be pleasing to every benevolent and chriftiaa
mind.—One Lord, one Faith, and one Baptism.
Philadelphia, August 6.
James Barry, Esq. is appointed Vice-Consul
within the States of Virginia and Maryland, for
her Most Faithful Maiefty the Queen of Portugal,
and has been recognized as such by the Supreme
Executive of the United States.
In the Supreme Court ot the United States, on
Tnefday last, in the cafe of William Weft, plain
tiff, in error, versus David Leonard Barnes and
others, defendants.
Mr- Bradford offered to the court a writ, pur
porting to be a writ of error iff'ued out of the
office of the clerk of the Circuit Court for Rliode-
Island, directing to that court, and commanding
the return of the judgment and proceedings by
them rendered in this cause to this court with
such returns.
On motion of Mr. Bradford, counsel for Wil
liam Weft, the said writ and papers annexed
thereto, were read. Mr. Bradford then moved
for a rule, that the defendant rejoin to the errors
afligned by the plaintiff in this cause.
Mr. David Leonard Barnes, one of the defen
dants, and a counfcllor of this court objected t®
the validity of the writ in question, and on that
principle, to the rule moved for.
The arguments 011 both fides being heard, the
Court informed the parties that they would con
sider the question. Adjourned.
Wednesday the Court refufed to grant the
rule moved for on Tnefdav, in the above cause ;
being unanimously of opinion that writsof error
to remove causes to this court from inferior ones,
can regularly issue from the clerk's office, of this
court
The attorney-general of the United States in
formed the court that there were several persons
now confined in the jail of Philadelphia, charged
with crimes committed again ft the United States.
He then read a letter on the fubjeifl, from Wil
liam Lewis, Esq. diftricft judge,to Wil 1 iam Rawle.
Esq. attorney for the fame, informing, that fede
ral of those persons had been confined for alength of time, and recommended that a special
diftritfl court Ihould be held for the purpose of
trying them ; whereupon the court ordered a
special diftridl Court on next Monday week, for
the purpose of trying Eleanor McDonald and
others : N. B. The said Eleanor was committed
on a charge of robbing a fliip of eleven doubloons
and some other property.
The attorney-general also moved for a com
mission to iflue from the court, appointing cer
tain perlotis in Holland to be commifiioners for
taking evidence in a cafe depending againlt the
State of Maryland, which was ordered accord
ingly.
The following named gentlemen took the 11-
fual oaths, and were appointed counsellors of
the Supreme' Court of the United States, viz. Da
vid Leonard Barnes, of Maflachufetts ; Charles
Swift, of Philadelphia ; Thomas Smith, of Car-
Jifle ; and Jacob R. Howell, of Philadel])hia.
Adjourned.
On Monday last, tlie Mayor of this city, ac
companied by two Aldermen, two county Ma
gistrates, two county Commissioners, and one of
the gaol Infpecftors, met at the gaol of this city,
in order to lay out the ground for erecting l'o-li
tary cells, agreeably to the late penal law of this
state, for the purpose of confining thole criminals
who cannot be reclaimed limply by hard labour.
- By Capt. Clonfer, of the brig Hetty, in J 2 days
from Cape-Francois, there are letters received by
merchants in this city, informing, that a perfect
reconciliation has taken place between the white
inhabitants and the people of colour; in conse
quence of \yhich, a day of rejoicing and public
feftivity was kept with great splendor ; no work
was allowed to be t ran fa ('ted. even on board ves
sels in the harbour': And every thing wore the
appearance of peace and harmony at the time of
Capt. Cloufer's departure. Mail.
A writer in the Pittfß'iS'g paper speaking of
Indian treaties, obfervea,*?A_lf (eems to me that
the principle on which .t/.aa'ies are held with
the Indians, might be altered a little for the bet
ter. I mean only in one particular inftance,viz.
that instead of carrying goods to make presents
to them, they Ihould be obliged to bring furs to
make presents to us. I illuilrate the matter in
this way. If you examine an Indian, you will
find that he lives a dog's life, lazy and hungry :
Never goes to hunt when he can help it, and if
he can get blankets by stealing, will prefer it
much to getting them by purchase. A war is a
profitable thing to him, when the things that
our house-wives and weavers have made in peace,
come to his hands without much trouble. But
a treaty is belt of all, and crowns the matter ;
for there he gets rum, and covering for his
breech, jnft for the word brother. If a treaty
can be brought about at any time, by a little war,
preceding it, is an Indian such a fool, as not to
go to war, within a little time after the treaty,
that he may treat again ? 7hus war begets treaties,
and treaties beget war.
Tranflatioji from a late St. Dc?nii:go Paper.
The Revolution in Sr. Domingo was prema
ture. It should only have kept pace with that
©f the empire. It has already colt the Colonics
above two years of disturbances, and 2J or 50
millions of livres*, in extra expences, loss 011 re
coveries, and diminution in the price of pro
duce. It has deltroyed, or at least weakened,
the confidence of the mother country ; it has
flopped the circulation of even that small porti
on of specie, which the Arglo-Americans have,
for a few months longer, left in our possession. It
is at length time to open our eyes, and to view
the precipice, to whole brink we had been drag
ged by the united efforts of error and ambition.
It is time to appreciate the fine speeches, which
have hitherto concealed the truth from us : It
is time, at length, to alter ourcourfe. The law
points out to us the right path—that let us pursue.
Where is the man, who can so far be imposed
upon, as to think us happy and free? The public
prints are full of the names of those whs adver
tise their departure from the Island. A bad
proof this, of our boasted happiness. When once
we listen to the voice of justice and reason,
when private gives way to public interest, then
only can we call ourselves happy. It is a cruel
reflexion, that the present state of our affairs
should make 11s look back with regret on the part.
May the time to come, banish all remembrance
of both past and prefeut !
The generality of"our public prints have been
instrumental in producing our misfortunes.
They have exafperared the minds of the people,
and raised them to a state of fermentation. To
the inflammatory paragraphs in the Courier Po
litique, we owe ill e Caricatures, that were ft nek
up on the church gates : and had it not been
for tliofe Caricatures, the inhabitants of Port-au-
Pr.nce would hardly have been temptecLto run
the rift of being cut to pieces in disarming a re
giment of fnldiers. It were, indeed, much to
fee wi fiied, that the writers of both parties would
agree to throw by their pens.
* Thirty millions oflivrcs make above five millions and a naif
•f dollar*.
rCLITICAL SKETCH.
WHAT n truly pleafingprofpetfl does our coun
try exhibit at the present moment !—That confi
dence which the general government has inspir
ed, has given new energy to the human mind.—
Recent accounts from the State of Georgia are fa
vorable-— peace reigns in her borders—the savages
are quiet—and the population, commerce, and
wealth of the State, are hourly encreafihg.—The
late detail published in this paper, of the happy
revolution, and posture of affairs in the impor
tant State of South-Carolina, mull impress with
real pleasure every bosom susceptible of the be
nevolent feelings.—What a glorious reverse of
circumltances has taken place!— May South-Ca
rolina always know, and pursue the things that
belong to her peace—domestic, internal tranqui
lity, mult accelerate her progress in solid wealth
and confequencc. In North-Carolina,the voice
of complaint is not hear' I —and if any disagreea
ble apprehensions have been entertained refpeJl
ing some recent acfts of Congrefs,as light and in
formation extend, they appear to be subsiding and
dying away. A gentleman acquainted with the
affairs of that State, informed the writer of this
article, that the patriotic exertions and represen
tations of the firft characters there, had been at
tended with the molt salutary effeiftsin removing
prejudices, and diffufing just and liberal senti
ments refpetfiing the general government, parti
cularly among the people in the interior parts of
the State: The proceedings of all their social
circles 011 the late anniversary of Independence,
evince the federal difpotftion of North-Carolina.
Virginia, the ancient, is also tranquil and hap
py— the heavens have flied their benign influen
ces on the labors of the husbandman—her fields
have brought forth abundance, and she will more
and more realize her policy in converting her to
bacco fields into wheat fields. No disagreeable an
ticipations appear to be realized—from a happy
confidence in the wisdom of her elecfted civil fa
thers, a spirit of candor and calm invefligation,
we may always expecft, will diftinguifli the coun
cils of this gieat and refpe«flable member of the
Union. The great bufinefsof preparing the feat
of the general government, and of giving effec
tual protetftion to the frontiers, now engage her
attention. The late brilliant stroke of the Ken
tuckians eftabliflies the spirited, patriotic and
enterprizing character of the inhabitants of that
young, but riling State.
Many rerem tran factions serve to develope the
genuine character of the people of Maryland :—
Their liberal tolerant principles have long; been
known and celebrated—their commercial impor
tance is daily more and more apparent—the in
dependent and generous plan of their new insti
tution, the State-Bank, rnuft be productive of so
lid commercial advantages, facilitate their nego
ciations, and give a spring to their manufactures
and agriculture. The population of this State
has advanced with rapid strides, which, added to
many other favorable circumstances, her federal
and republican attachments, mult continue to ad
vance her prosperity and importance.
Pennsylvania, from her situation, may be con
sidered as the lap of Columbia, in which the trea
sures of agriculture and commerce are poured
with a liberal hand.—While {lie is exploring her
interior resources and advantages, the nations of
Europe, particularly Hibernia, is fending forth
her hardy sons by thousands, to encreafe her
strength and population. It is hardly neceflary
to advert to the numberless benefits derived from
her being the natural centre of the union, and
the present feat of the general government
there can be no doubt of her avai ling herfelf of
these circumstances to enhance her wealth, and
by the spirit and enterprize of her difcerningci
tizens, to place her affairs in such a situation, as
that whenever the feat of the general govern
ment shall be removed, fbe may by the force of
her own internal principles, be impelled forward
in every political, commercial, and agricultural
improvement. (To be continued.)
The amount of Duties on goods, wares and
merchandize, imported into the District of Pro
vidence, between the last day of December 1790,
and the firft day of July I7ir, as secured at the
Custom-House, is — 59,440 45^
Amount of ditto on Tonnage, 325 69
Total Dollars —
X E W- YORK, Augujl 4.
Cash Price of STOCKS last evening at Public Auction.
Six per cents2is. Bd.J; three per cents 131 J; deferred 135.2 d
National Bank scripts, 100 and 3 dollars.
Bank of New-York, 25 percent advance.
New-Yoik State Debt, 18s. id. principal and interrfh
From PELO'Sl's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT <rf PHILADELPHIA.
Ship James and Catharine, Crawlord, Jamaica
Brig Betsey, RulTrll, Port-au-Prince
Hetty, Cloufer, Cape-Francois
Sukev, Atkin:, ditto
Chrifliana, Brown. St. Fuflatia
Paca, Lee, St. Croix
Barqu'* Virgin, Cape Francois
Sloop Pomona, Church. St. f.uftatia
Hope, Lake, s tj Thomas
115
59,766 1
Wehearthat Governor Blount, under the aufplces, and by the
direction of the President of the Uniied States, on the second of
July concluded a Treaty with the Cherokee nation of Indians.—
,rhis nation consists of about 2500 warriors, who are situated
principally upon the waters of the beautitui river Tennessee.
They have been greatly agitated since the treaty of Hopewell,
in November 1785, by the encroachments of the whites upon
their lai.ds; but are now entirely fatisfied by the liberajity and
jufticeof the United States.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 21/21/3 P r - L ■
3 pr. Cents 12/6 i./g
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/" '13/11
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates iof
Indents 12/6 12/9
N. and S. Carolina debts, 14/6.
Bank Subscriptions, 130 to 135 Dollars.
Gray's Gardens.
A CONCERT of VOCAL and INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
will begin This Day, the 6th of August, at 4 o'clock in
the afternoon, and conclude at 9 at night, fliould the day he fair.
Tickets delivered at one Quarter of a Dollar at the Bar.
The Ship Union, the Water-Fall, and Gardens, will be ele
gantly Illuminated at night. G. Sc R. GRAY.
A YOUNG Gentleman, who was bred to business, and can be
favorably recommended, intending to visit the Manufa&ories
in the South of France, the ensuing Winter, will accept of Orders
for Goods, and execute them on a moderate Commiflion.
N. B. He will continue there, if encouraged. -Applications
dire&ed to A. Z. and left at the Printers, will be punttually at
tended to.
Philad. August; 6, 1791
B O O K S.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, North-Front-Street,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bills of Ex
change.
Clerk's Vade Mecum.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines of the Prac-
tice of Physic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries,
Brown's Elements of Medicine
Ofterwald's ChriftianTheology. Jenyn's Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion the Christian Religion.
in the Soul. Beattie's Evidence of Ditto.
Necker on Religious Opinions. Think Well On't.
Fordvce's AddrelTes to Young Devout Christian's VadeMecnm
Men.
Sermons to Young tion.
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide. against Chauneev.
Newton's Dissertations on the Booth's Apology for the BaptilU
Prophecies. Dowav Tranflaiion of the Vul-
Lectures delivered by Soame gate Bible.
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrancer.
Future State Eternal.
RufTel's Seven Sermons.
Ramsay's American Revolution Life of Baron Trenck,
History of America. Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Morse's Geography. Paley's Moral Philosophy.
Siege of Gibraltar. Smellie's Philosophy of Natural
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's History. ,
Travels. Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Keate's Account of the Pelew JuniuJ's letters.
I (lands. '
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&iontothc mak
ing of Latin.
Dodflev's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
Seleftae e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftoriar.
Scott's Leflfons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Mefiiah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities.
Trimmer's Sacred History,
6 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation.
Alexander's Experimental En-
quirics.
Experimental Essays.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of i Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra£b.
Beauties of the British Senate.
Davids'* Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stiiart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrcfpondcnce
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Auguji 6, 1791
m 6£ pr. cent.
63-J do.
70 do.
r par.
63J do.
(eptf)
Dallas's Reports.
Kirby's Connc&icut Reports.
Conductor Generalis.
Euchan's Domestic Medicine,
latest edition.
Clark on Difeafesof HQifes.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
Edwardi's Hiftpry of Redemp.
• — on the Religious Af
fe&ions.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Mefhodift Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalm*.
Price's Sermons.
Hale's AffcAionate Epifllcs to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
——— of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftruftions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accomplished Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart.
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conqueftof Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Apprentice.
School Dialogues,
Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ame-
rican War, 4 vols.
New Annual Regiftcr.
Vattel's Law of Nation*.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life ol Robinson Cruioc.
Saville's Miscellanies,
School of Wisdom.
Knox's Sermons, t vols.
Description of 300 Animals.
Bovle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey,
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Bclifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of History.
Allifon's Eflay on thr Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w&f3w iaw6t)advertisement
HAVING completed the second volume of tkii Cd
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, are inform
tdthat it will be profecutsd on its original plan, with
tvery improvement that f riendjhip and ingenuity may
fuggefl.
The price of this Gazette, (publijhed Wednesdays
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—one
half to be paid at the time offubfcriiing.
The utmojl punttnahty is observed in transmitting
the papers to subscribers : The Editor thinks there is
the fairefl profpetl that Information from the fiat of
government, to the extremes of the Union, ■will in fu
ture circulate withgreater facility aud certainty, than
through the past winter.—Additional subscriptions
from all parts of the Union are therefore fulicited.
This volume contains the laws of the two laji sessions
of Congress—the journal and debates of the houj'e of
Repr'efentatives—reports of the-heads of departments
—,be fides a greater variety of original communications
immediately connected with the interefis of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude the punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
subscribers—some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be discharged.
Payments may be Made t'j the several persons of
•uhom the papers are received.
Advertisements of one square, or less, will be in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
fubfeifuent tuferiions, twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion : No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation —and the num
ber of each impression is at present fourteen hundred.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and Inland Bills oj Exchange negocuted ;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commission, and all other
Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ud by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to the Cujlom-Houfe, State-Street, BOSTON.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by AN DREW BROWN, and the principal Book
sellers in the City of Philadelphia, price one dollar and
THREE QUARTERS, the
LAWS
OF T H F
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corrected by, the original Rolls in the office
of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Congress,
passed the h February, 1791.
With a COPIOUS INDEX.
VOLUME I.
Compr sing the Federal Constitution, the Acts of the
Three Sessions of the First Congress, and the Treaties.
To which is added, an APPESDIX,
Containing the Declaration oj Independence, and sundry
AcTsof Congr ess, under the Confederation
This edition of the Laws of the United States is also to be
fold by MtfTrs. Thomas and Andrews, 801 l n; ]ohn Carter, esq.
Providence, Rhode-Island ; M Ifrs. Hudson and Goodwin, Hari
ford ; Mr. Robert Hodg?, New-York; Mr. lfaac Collins, Tien
ton ; Messrs. Goddard and Angell, Baltimore; Augustine Davis,
esq. Richmond, and Mr.W. P.Koung, Charleston, South-Carolina.
*** The Printers of Ncwfpapers in the United States are requejled
to infer: this advert ifernent.
War Department,
May 30, 1 79T.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months ot their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, w 11 be paid on the said dav by the Cotnmiflionersof the
Loans within the States refpeftively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by thefo]-
lowing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the (late, fpecifying that the person
poflVfling the fame is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B came before me. one of the fuflices of the county of in
the Jlate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pofjeffion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by theft ate to be recited) That he served ° (re
giment, corps or vejfel) at the time he was disabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the lafi
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to thefollowing foim :
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby constitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
rny pension Jorfix months, as an invalid of the United States,from the
fourth di\ of March, one thoifindfevsn hundred and and
ending the Jauith day oj September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealed
in llie presence of
JVitncffcs.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiflrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and alfp of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefid-nt of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
Philadelphia, 20th July, j791
THE Commiflioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders of the said Bank, that an eleftiorifor twenty
five Dire&ors will he held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of O£tober next, at 10 o'clock in the morning
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Charleftown (MafT.
CLASS XXII
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
s
CHE M E
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
Confifling of 7000 Tickets, at 1 hrz £ Dol laks each, 21 ,cco
1 Prize of
t
'5
20
20
20
40
60
70
80
2008
2335 P"zes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
ps This Class will commence drawing on or before the id of
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the ulual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, ~)
MATTHEW BRIDGE, £ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleflon, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets in the above, and in the MaflTachufetts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS II
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afTure the
Public, thjt the second Class of the SEM I-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Tkurfday the 13th of October next, or Jooner, if theTtckets
shall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligntd, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, arc 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of
2
3
6
10
30
80
90
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000 Tickcu.
(J3f" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Ma nag e rs, mho will pay the frizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun. - )
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojltn, April 14, 1791-
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in any wile concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promissory noies payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount ot two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the Cubfcribers have fufficiem vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
M. R. WILJLKINGS,)
U Umington, North-Carolina, 2jth Afay, 1791
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER.
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with Oie right of publifoing a PAPER, in good repute,
the fubferibers to which are continually increafins-The present
number of its patronsis between seven and eight hundred. The
types confifl; of Bu rgeois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertifem;nts to advantage. The Puliation
is in the interior part-ol Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles of an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on ihort notice. Perhaps no country paper 011 the
continent has a larger Ihare of Advcrtifcments than the one offered
for sale. A very considerable profit also accrues from the faie of
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-BilU, &c. See. It is a good situation, also,
for a small Book-Store—and it is supposed the Book-Bindin» bu
nefs might be carried on in the fane place to advantage. °
For further particulars, enquire o r John Fen no, at his Office,
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, phi.
!a(kl P hla - (taw Bw]
116
Lottery.
Dollars.
250°
1000
1500
1000
800
600
800
600
560
480
Bo 3 i
2500 Dolls, is
1000
100 are
5° 1
40
3°
20
10
8
6
4
17872
Dcdu£tion, 3:28
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
100
.5°
40
3®
20
10
8
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, n COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Street, next door to ;he Bank N,> Q
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
[$T All perlons concerned will be pltaltd to uke notice ihatThi
foHowra; advertisement has been varied from that pi.blilhed in
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 2?., 1701.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Trr. furv, until ti, c fi r ft Mondtiv
in September next inclusive, for thefupply ot all rations, which
mav be required tor the life o» the United S-ates, from the ft,ft d av
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1795, both days in',
clufive, at the places, and within the diltnfls herein after memil
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the (late of Pcnn.
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofli
011 the PJver Ohio, and at Foil M'lntolh.
At any placeor places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth cf
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any placeor places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, end at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixf the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of tbe Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and fromthenceto the Rapids, on the Fallsof tneOhio,and at the
said Rapids.
At anv place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
ud the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name wfiicn empties into
Lake Erie.
At anv place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafli to Post Sr. Vmcenncs,
at Post Sr. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, *
At any place or places, fronf the.mouth of the Wabafh rivci to
the mouth of the river Ohio. •
At any placeor places, 01Y the eafl fide of the river Miflifipsi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, ffom the mouth of the Miami iiver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufkv,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga rivei.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
lOQOO
6000
6000
6000
500 c
6000
80C0
45°°
400 c
3600
3220
20&O
60680
12500©
At any placeor places,betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and 3t
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lflc and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by tbe
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the eafl fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, totheii"er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creck, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or wiihin other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame iv
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the following article*,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quartsof vinegar,(
rr 1 , r r > P er - ico rations.
Iwo pounds 01 toap, ( r
One pound of candles, 1
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office un?il
th»firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for ihefupply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
f»om the fitft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post onthe river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altama'na, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At thepoft on the river Oconee, at prefentcommandcd by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
Atthe poll on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of theTaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places-within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupicd as permanent posts by any troops of
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future pofls.
(e p. 3 m
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as tbat there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufEcient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said potts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the lame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofles sustained by the
depredations ofthe enem\, orbymeans of the troops ofthe United
States' shall be paid for at the prices of thearticlescaptured or de:-
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for whicn
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons difpo e^
to contract will therefore confine their offers to one year, or t ey
may make their proportions so as to admit an election or t..-
term of two vears.
The ptopofals may be madr for the whole of theabove poi s w
gether,or separately for Sorinofield, for Weft-Point, for \ orktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the poftsin Georgtaj
and they must fpecify the lowefl price per ration, for prompt pa}
ment. -
£T The JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSION oj the SENATi
tftheUNir£& STATES, may be had of the Edittr hereof.
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTT E RT TICKETS,
To be had at the fame nlace.