PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 2, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
[CONTI N U ED.]
Ovk ctyot9cv ttolvkch pectin i/? xopavoj f5«,
E/C Iliad, lib. 2, v. -h 4. 205.
TO endure the depredations, the debauche
ries, the cruelties, not of" an army, not of a
camp of barbarians, against whom we ought to
Ihed our blood and fucrifice our lives; but of
one, alone ?—not of an Hercules oraSampfon :
but of a little man, frequently the moll cowardly
and effeminate of the nation : not accustomed to
the powder of battles, nor yet scarcely to the
dust of a liorfe-race ?—not one who, by force,
can command over men, but one who is wholly
unqualified to contend even with women ? Shall
we call this cowardice ?—Shall we fay that those
who serve thus are paltroons and drivelers?—lf
two, if three, if four, (hould not defend thern
felves against one, this would be strange ; (till it
is poflible. But, even in these cases, we fliould
have a good right to fay it was for want of heart
orfpirit. But if an hundred, if a thonfand, fuf*
fer from one alone, shall we fay that they will
not refill, that they dare not oppose ?—fliall we
fay that it is fear, cowardice, or rather contempt
and disdain ? If we fliould fee, not an hundred,
not a thousand men, but an hundred countries, a
thousand cities, a million of men, not attempt to
attack or oppose one alone, from whom these who
were best treated, received nothing but slavery
and villainage : How could we name this con
duct? Is this cowardice ? There is to every vice
fonie limit, beyond which it cannot pass. Two
may be afraid of one ; and so poilibiy may ten :
but a thousand, a million, n thonfand cities, if
these defend not themselves against one, this is
not cowardice. Cowardice extends not this
length, no more than bravery can extend so far
as that one man might scale a fortrefs, defeat an
»rn>v or a WnHom. What mnnftpr
then of vice is this, which merits not the title of
cowardice ? which cdnnot find a name base e
nongh, which nature denies to have produced,
and the tongue refufes to name ?
Place, 011 one fide, fifty thousand men in arms—
as many more on the other—make your difpofi
tions for battle, and let it begin—one army con
sists of freemen fighting for their liberty—the
other to take it away from them—to which fide
fhonld you prophesy the vk'tory ? Which would
go the most gallantly to atlion —those who hoped |
as a reward of their pains the maintenance of j
their liberty ?—or ihofe who could cxpecft no
thing for the blows they might give or receive,
but the fervitudt of others ? 1 he one have al
ways before their eyes the happinefsof their past
life, and the hope of the like to come. They re
gard not the pain to be endured for the iliort
time of tlie continuance of a battle, so much as
those to be borne forever by themselves, their
children, and all their posterity. Ihe others
have nothing to embolden them but a little point
of covetonfnefs, which is suddenly blunted by
danger, and which cannot be so ardent, but that
it ought and must be extinguished by the smallest
drop of blood which flows from their wounds.
In the battles so celebrated of Miltiades, of Leo
nidas, and of Themiftocles, which were waged
two thousand years ago, and which still live as
frelh in the memory of books and of men, as if
they had been fought but the last month ; battles
which were fought in Greece, for the good of
Greece, and for examples to al 1 the world : What
was it which gave to so finall a number of men as
were the Greeks, not the power but the heart to
support the force of so many liiips, that the sea
seemed to be overloaded with them ? to defeat
so many nations, who were so numerous that the
whole squadron of the Greeks could not have
furnifhed Captains to the armies of the enemy?
In those glorious days, it was not so much a bat
tle of Greeks against Persians, as the victory of li
berty over domination, of privilege over avarice.
It is a wonderful thing to speak of the valour
which liberty inspires into the hearts of those
who defend her. But a thing that happens in
all countries, anion"; all men, and every clay, or
in nil ages, that a single man (hou'd become the
"'after of an hundred cities, and deprive them of
'heir liberties—who would believe it, if he only
heard it related, and did not fee it ? If he saw it
Wednesday, May 4, 1791.
not in his own country, and only heard it related
of foreign nations and dillant lands, would he
not think it to he ficftion and romance, fraud and
forgery ? (To be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
O D
ODE 11.
FURTHER HINTS TO REVIEWERS.
AGAIN, dispensers of the lirck and bays,
The Muse inspires ; an ' John advice difplayi.
Such is my nature—when 1 .Hee pretend,
Or undertake, a purpose > perform;
No power that purpose from my foul can rend
I heed not hatred, javri plague, or storm
In all your criticisms, mind one thing :
Bepojitive. For O what help it gives,
To be determined that peifcftion lives,
In all you fay, or sing.
Whene'er you praifc, with high, enthusiastic zeal,
Your commendation, ev : 1 to cracking, drain;
And swear that he who differently doth feel,
Is idiot, baby, and devoid of brain.
Yet do not praifetoo much ; —of that beware; —
But freely deal, rich condemnation forth :
Then, in particular, when modest worthy
And youthful merit, novel truths declare.
For thev will dare but small icfiftance make.
And you may press them with feveretl hand;
Exclaim—" Eftablilb'd orde* they forfake,
44 And spread opinions new, around the land."
How will the people wonder at your wit,
Scared with the dreadful fhunder of your words !
And, with your rueful length of visage fmit,
Adore the felf-created Lords.
So have I mark'd the Owl, with horrid scream,
Fright the sweet songsters of the warbling grove ;
And with a face, made wife with manv a seam,
Reign a dread Lord where once smiled joy and love.
JOHN.
R. E P O R T
OF T V IE
SECRETARY, OF STATE,
Oa the of *he
CODAND WHALE FISHERIES,
Made comformably to an Order of the House of Representatives
of the United States, referring to him the representation of the
General Court of the Commonwealth of Mafiachufetts on those
fubjefts February xft, 1791.
THE Secretary o f State, to whom was referred by the House
of Representatives, the representation from the General Court
of the Commonwealth of iMaffachufetts, on the fubje&s of the cod
and whale fifhcies, together with the several papers accompany
ing it, has had the fame under consideration, and thereupon makes
the following Report :
The representation sets forth that, before the late war, about
fourthoufand seamen, and twenty-four thousand tons of (hipping
were annually employed, from that State, in the whale fifhery,
the producc whereof was about three hundred and fifty thousand
pounds a year.
That thcfe branches of business, annihilated during the war,
have been, in some degree, recovered since : but that they labor
under many and heavy embarrassments, whieh, if not removed,
or lessened, will render the fiiheries every year less extensive and
important.
That these embarrassments are, heavy duties on their produce
abroad, and bounties on that of their competitors : and duties at
home on several articles, particularly used in the fifheries.
And it aflts that the duties he taken off ; that bounties be given
to the fifbermen ; and the national influence be used abroad for .'
obtaining better markets for their produce.
The cod and whale fifberies, carried on by different persons,
from different ports, in different veffe'.i, in different seas, and seek
ing different markets, agree in one circumstance, in being as un
profitable to the adventurer, as important to the public. A fuc
cinft view of their rife, progress, and present state, with different
nations, may enable us to note the circumilances which have at
tended their profperitv, and their decline, to judge of the embar
rassments, which are said to opprefsours; to fee whether they de-.
pend on our own will, and may, therefore, be remedied imme
diately by ourfelves,or, whether, depending on the will of others,,
they are without the rcach of remedy, from us, either directly or
indire£lly.
Their history, being as unconncfted as their pra&ice, they (ball
be feparatelv considered.
Within twenty years after the supposed discovery of Newfound
land, bv the Cabots, we find that ihe abundance of fifh on its:
banks, had already drawn the attention of the people of Europe.
For, as early as 1517, or 1519, we ate told of fifty Ibips being seen
there atone time. The firll adventurers iu that filbery, were the
Bifcavans of Spain, the Bafquesand Bas-Brctons of France, all uni
ted anciently in language, and still in habits and in extreme po
verty. The last circumstance enabled them long to retain a consi
derable share of the filberv. In 1,577, the French had one hun
dred and fifty vessels there ; the Spaniards had still one hundred ;
and the Portuguese filtv, wben the English had only fifteen. The
Spaniardsand Portuguese Teem, at length, to have retired silently,
the French and Englith claiming the filhery excluiivelv, as an ap
purtenance to their adjacent colonies, and the profits being too
small for nations surcharged with the precious metals pioceedmg
from their mines.
Without materials to trace the intermediate progress, we only
know that so late as 1744, the French employed there five hnndred
and fixtv-four ships, and twenty-seven thousand five hundred fca
men, and took one million two hundred and forty-fix thousand
kentals of fifh. which w*t three times the extent to which England
and her colonies together carried this filbery at that time.
5
E S,
Hkso
[Whole No. 2 i o.]
The English, in the beginning of the feventeenrh century, hai
employed, generally, about one hundred and fifty vefTels in the
Newfoundland fifhery. About 1670, we find them reduced ro
eighty, and one hundred, the inhabitants of New-England begin
ning now to supplant them. A little before this, the British par
liament, perceiving that their citizens were unable to subsist on the
scan y profits which fufficed for their poorer competitors, endea
vored to give them some advantage by prohibiting the importation
of foreign fifh ; and, at the close of the century, they formed some
regulations for their government and protettion : and remitted to
them some duties. A fuccefsfnl war enabled them in 1713 to force
from the French, a ceflion of the island of Newfoundland. Un
der these encouragements, the English and American fifheries be
gan to thrive. In 1731, we find the English take two hundred
thousand kcntals of fifh, and the Americans two hundred and thir
ty thousand, besides the refufe fifh not fit for European markets.
They continue to gain ground, and the French to lose it, inso
much, that about 1755, they are said to have been on a par : and,
in 1768, the French have only two hundred and fifty-nine vefTels
of twenty-four thousand four hundred and twenty tons, nine thou
sand seven hundred and twenty-two seamen, taking two hundred
thousand kentals, while America alone, for some three or four
years before that, and so on to the commencement of the late war,
employed fix hundred and fixty-five veirels, of twenty-five thou
sand fix hundred and fifty tons, and four thousand four hundred
and five seamen, and took from three hundred and fifty thousand,
to upwards of four hundred thousand kentals of fifh. and England
a still greater quantity, five hundred and twenty-fix thousand ken
tals, as is said.
Spain had formally relinquiflicd her pretensions to a participa
tion in these fiftieries, at the clofeof the preceding war ; and, at
the end of this, the adjacent continent and ifiands, being divided
between the United States, the EngliOi and French (lor the last re
tained two imall ifiands merely for this cbjed) the right of fifliing
was apprqpriated to them also.
Franc-e, fenlibleof the necessity of balancing the power of F,n<r.
land on the water, and therefore, of improving everv resource for
raising fcamen, and feeing that her fifhermen could not maintain
their competition without some public patronage, adopted the ex
periment of bounties on her own fifh, and dutie* on that of foreign
nations brought into her markets. But, notwithftandins; this, her
fifherics dwindle, from a change taken place, infenftbly, in the
character of her navigation, which, from being the mod economi
cal, is now become the most expenfivc. In 1786, file is said to
have employed but seven thousand men in this fi:hery, and to have
taken four hundred and tweniv-fix thousand kentals ; and in 1787,
hut fix thousand men, and and twenty-eighj thousand
kentals. She seems not yet sensible that the unthrtftinefs of her
.fifheries proceeds from the want of economy, and not the want
of markets ; and that the encouragement of our fifhery abridge
that of a rival nation, whose power on the ocean has long threat*
ened the loss of all balance on that element.
(To be continued.)
By the Skip Can-ton, Captain Truxiox.
CALCUTTA, October 21.
THE following account of the lare nftion of
the J 3th and 14th, received in a letter from
Arnee, of date the 26th September, in several
refpetfts differs from, and is more particular than
others which have been given to the public;
and we trust it will therefore be acceptable to
our readers.
Tippoo descended the Gauts on the 12th of
September, and reinforced Seyd Saheb. He mo
ved earlv in the morning of the towards
Colonel Floyd, whose detachment confilted of
his own regimen: of dragoons, two regiments of
native cavalry, three battalions of feapoys, and
two companies ot the Bengal artillery, under
the command of Captains Samp foil and Elwood,
with one eighteen-pounder, two twelve pound
ers, and eight fix-pounders.
The enemy's cavalry firft began skirmishing,
but were woffled by our cavalry. About eleven
o'clock in the forenoon, Tippoo's whole army
eroded the Bavani, and advanced within 600
yards of our line, before they fired a single shot;
they then opened at once, with all their guns
and rockers, and, having ascertained our dis
tance, did amazing execution.
The enemy's cavalry repeatedly charged our
line, with great order and regularity : butwere
always repulsed with cojifiderable loss.
On the night of the 13th, a board of field of
ficers being aflembled, it was resolved upon to
retreat: accordingly, the detachment moved off
before day, on the 14th, leaving the whole of
the baggage, together with the eighteen-pound
er, two of the twelve-pounders, and three fix
pounders, for want of bullocks to draw them.
The enemy were not long in getting informa
tion of this letreat, but they were so bufilv oc
cupied in plundering the baggage, that they did
not again come up with the detachment until 12
o'clock that day, when a second engagement
commenced, in which the enemy made every
poflible exertion to break our line, but without
effect ; for both Europeans and feapoys behaved
with the utmofl steadiness and cool intrepidity.
Night coming on, put a flop to the action ; and
our little army continued retreating in good or
der until 8 o'clock, when they halted. About
3 o'clock the next morning, (the i?th) they a
gtin moved, and mat ched to effect a jumftionwith General Meadows, which they happily ac
complilhed in the evening, without having seen
any of the enemy during that day.
The loss fultained by the artillery in privates,
lalcars, See. was verv trifling;, in comnaril'on willi
' * O' < ,
what tiiey fuitered by officeis, killed and wound
ed.
The following is an exatft return of the killed,
wounded, and milling, of the noncoininifiioned,
and privates, &c. of artillery.—
One corporal, and 6 lascars, killed.
One gunner, 6 privates, (or inatroffes.)
One ferang, I tjndal, and 11 lascars, woundec
One private, and 9 lascars miffing.
One iafcar taken prisoner.
The 36t Li regiment had no ids than iij killed
and wounded, and other corps lutFered nearly in
proportion.
We are happy in being able to announce to
the public, from the belt authority, that the
fortrefs of Paliguatchery has at lalt yielded to
the British arms.—This completes the conquelt
of the country below lhe Gams.
Extract of a litter from an officer of Major Montgo-
mery's Detachment.
" Camp at Burnt ore, Sept. 12
" Within a few cofs of this, between us and
the Kiftnah, lived a Rajah who governed his
country, handed to him from his t'ore-fathers,
with much jultice and moderation, and paid his
tribute regularly—his name Rangapali Naick,
Rajah of Dewardrug, but when at the Soubah's
Court lately, he as usual, paid his chief attenti
on to Teyg Jung Bucklhee and commander in
chief of the troops, which was noticed with a
jealous eye by Mesfheerul Mullock, the miniiter,
as the other Teyg Jung is in the minority. At
the fame time, another Rajah who lives within
16 or 18 cofs of this, on the fide of the Kiltnah,
was at Court, and noticed to the miniiter the dif
fatisfac'iion of the Dewardrug man to him, of
fering him 7 lacks of rupees for permiflion to at
tack and difpollefs him ot his country, also acon
fiderable encreafe of revenue.
" The terms were acceded to, and the Na
zim's troops were actually sent with this man
(the Rajah of Solapore) and after ail obitinate
defence, and many lives loft, the place was car
ried, by the treachery of one of his own people,
who fold the gateway. The Rajah, on finding
this out, went into his powder magazine, and
that no branch of his fain% ihould be liable to
the insults of the Salapore Rajah, his inferior
call—they all accompanied him, and with his
own hand he applied the match, which plunged
about jo into eternity, of their own free will and
choice. This happened about the 6rh or 7th
instant, very near us, not above 10 or 12 miles,
and is an abfplute facft."
November ii
The Right Honorable the Governor General
has publicly declared his intention of proceed
ing to Madras, the beginning of next month ;
and though we may reasonably expecft that some
decisive blow will be (truck before his Lordship's
arrival, yet his presence cannot fail to be of the
Utmost importance to the public service, by giv
ing vigor to our enterprizes, confidence to our
Native Allies, and forwarding any negociations
that may be neceflary without the delay of a re
ference to the Supreme council.
Notwithstanding the numerous reports that
have been daily circulated in town, no intelli
gence whatever has been received from the Grand
Army since our last ; the mail of 24th ult. arri
ved yelterday from Madras, when an interval of
thirteen days had elapsed without any letters
having been received from Camp ; there can be
no doubt that the incourfe has been interrupted
by flying parties of the enemy's horse between
Trichinopoly and Caroor ; we may infer, how
ever, with certainty, that no events can liaye ta
ken place of importance.
It is with much pleasure, we understand, that
the Center Army, under Col.* Maxwell, had ac
tually marched on the 24th ultimo, into the ene
my's country to the South-Weft of Amboor,
The last accounts from Poonah, dated the 19th
nit. mention, that the Mahratta Army under Pur
feratn Bhow had greatly encreafed in numbers ;
a very valuable and extensive tract of conntry
belonging co Tippoo had been subdued, who
must find himfelf much embarralfed by the pro
gress of the Mahrattas ; Perferain Bhow had ap
plied for a reinforcement of Artillery and Sea
poys from Bombay, previous to his commencing
the Siege of Derwar ; in the mean time the ad
jacent country had been laid waste to distress
thegarrifon as much as pofiible.
LONDON, March 4
Conclusion of the late address of the National Jjfem
bly to the People of France, on the civil Conjiitu
tion of the Clergy.
[Translated from Mr. Luzac's Leyden Gazette.]
" AND you too, ye natives of France, the
adorers of religion and of your country ; Ye
geople faithful as ye are generous and bold as
ye are grateful, pause a moment and contem
plate with wonder the changes which your vast
empire has undergone ! Contiaft your late fuu
6
ation with that which is to come . What was
France a few months ago ?—Oar philofoplieis
and f.iges invoked the goddess of liberty, but Ine
wasdeafto theircries.—Every enlightened Chris
tian demanded Freedom in a country where the
splendid religion of his forefathers still remain
ed, buc where the true religion, inculcated in
the morality of the gofj>el, was scarcely to be
found. We were a nation without a country, a
people without a gjvernrnent, a church without
a character, orauthority. Nothing seemed fixed
or permanent amungll us but the propagation of
vice, the moil scandalous injullice between man
and man, divine and human laws were alike set
at defiance, and every principle of religion and
morality were upon the verge of a total extinc
tion !—was this a country for man to exist in,
where the liberty and property were at theabfo
lute disposal of rulers without restraint, without
honor, without underltanding, and in whose
preposterous view of things both the Deity and
his creatures were held as nothing !
But what a revolution has succeeded to this
scene of disorder and confufion ! a revolution,
which has reduced all government to the sub
lime simplicity of the honest dicftates of nature ;
a government opposed only by a growling herd
of reptiles (meaning th* Aristocratic party) whose
impotent rage, and iufatiate third for revenge,
prevents them from imbibing a fingleray ofpub
lic I'pirit, from contemplating the dignity of man ;
and whose whole desires center in the fordid, ab
ject love of felf! ye Frenchmen ! ye are the re
deemers of your own liberty ; ye have witnefl'ed
her revivification in this extended empire,by your
noble and disinterested endeavors—may your wis
dom and moderation preserve her in eternal vi
gour. Let the spirit of patience, and the cool
ness of reaf'on, univerlally expand among you ;
let yonr friendly consolations be the support of
those of your fellow-citizens, whose facrifices to
the revolution, have been peculiarly heavy. Re
colledl, that if the regeneration of Empires is
brought about by the enthusiastic efforts of the
people, that they can only be maintained in that
Hate, by the amiable and endearing virtues of
peace. Be convinced too, that the present repose
and silence, so visible in the nation, after so ma
ny plots and base attempts upon its liberty, is
the moll: certain proof, that the fiend of tyranny
has quit us in despair, and forever let go his hold
upon us. He has struck his tents and departed !
In future, be allured, nothing will more effectu
ally disconcert the designs and plots of the mali
cious, than an equitable and moderate adminis
tration of the affairs of the kingdom."
[The above animatecl speech was delivered in
the National Aflembly, on the 14th of January,
by M. tie Mirabeau ; »ad was afterwards styled
the Manifesto of the Aflembly againit the Clergy. J
February 25.
" The celebrated M. de Mirabeau, has been
chosen one of the adininiftrators of the depart
ment of Paris. The Bishop of Autun (both a
patriotic and philosophical character) is also cho
sen to the fame rank, and has consequently quit
ted his dignity of Bishop. Wefbould not be fnr
prized to fee him chosen Archbishop of Paris,
finte it is now certain that M. de JuigMe, the for
mer Archbishop, will not appear again in that
station ; having retired to Chamberry, in disgust:,
and there published a pastoral letter, which has
shared the fate of the other compositions of that
kind, neglect. "I am persuaded (fays he to the
clergy of his diocese) that you will not prove re
bels to the cries of confciente, and that you will
extort praise even from your enemies, in prefer
ring honest poverty to the Jcandal of apoftacy."
The Americans have at length finally ratified
their Treaty with the Court of Portugal—
which, as it is a separate one with rhat Power,
only bids fair for being of considerable utility to
the United States, though it must militate (trong
)y against the interests of foine of the European
Courts.
://y///< >///;/
TRANSLATION.
Philadelphia, nyth April, I 79 1
Sir,
IN consequence of orders which I have receive<
from his Majesty, I have tlie honor herewith
to tranfinit to you the law which fixes the dispo
sition of the colours in the different kinds" of
flags, 01 other customary marks of diftinc r tio»
among ships of war and commercial veflels of the
- rench nation. I requeit the favor of you to
nake this law known in the ports of the United
itates. And have the honor to be,
With a refpeOlful attachment,
Sir,
Your 1110 ft humble and
Obedient servant,
OTTO.
M.Jefferson,
Stcretary of State jor the United Stat a
A LAW,
Fixing the Difpojition of the Colours in the difi c f,
kinds of Flags, or ether etifiomary narks of
lion among Jh-ps of war, and comnurciat vtfftl, *
Done at Paris the 31 ft
LOUIS, by ths Grace of Cod, and by the conffitu,;
al Law of the State, King of the FrenchT
To all whom it may conccrri,
Ths National fembly has decreed, and -ae ord•'
the following ;
Decree of the Natlo sa l Assembly or
October, i 790.
THE National Aflembly having ena&ed \»
their Decree of the 21ft of October, thattlw
French Flag should bear the National Colours
and willing in consequence to fix the difpofoj '
of these Colours in the different kinds of FU'n
or other customary marks of diftindtion, amow
warlike and commercial vefleJs, it is decrecd •
Art. I. The Jack shall be conipo fed of three
equal stripes, and placed vertically; The one
nearest the ltaff, (hall be red, the center one whit,,
and the third blue. '
Art. 11. The Ensign (hall bear in its upp er
quarter the fame as the Jack above described
that part of the Flag (hall be exacftly one fourth
of its full size, and encircled with a narrowftripe
one half the length of which ihall be red and
the other white ; the remainder of the flag (hall
also be white. This Flag (hall be borne by Ihips
of war and commercial vedels.
Art. 111. The Pendant of the ships of war
and other veflels, belonging to the State, fhali
bear in its broafteft pare three vertical stripes,
red, white, and blue—the remainder white. The
Vane shall bear in a striking manner the Nation,
al Colours.
Art. IV. The Flags of Commandants stall
have in their upper quarter three vertical stripes,
red, white and blue ; the National Afl'embly not
conceiving any change neceflary in the difpofi.
tions, whose objetft is to diftinguifb in a naval
army, the three squadrons of which it is compo
sed—the reft of the Flag may be as hitherto, red,
white, and bine.
Art. V. The Flags and Pendants of the Na
tional Colonrs cannot be made of any other than
those Stuffs which are manufactured in France.
They shall be carried without delay by the war
like veflels, agreeable to orders given by the Kino-.
Art. VI. The King (hall be intreated jo f'anc
tion this Decree, and to order to be taken both
in the French and foreign ports, the neceflary
steps for iis prompt and certain execution, and
to fix the time when the commercial veflels may
without inconvenience bear the new Flag.
We have fancftioned, and, by these pre Tents,
which we have ligned with our hand, do fantftion
the present Decree.
We command and order all our Tribunals, Ad
minilVrative Bodies and Municipalities, to have
these presents transcribed in theirßegifters, read,
published, and ported up in their refpedtive dif
tridits and Departments, and to execute it as a
Law of the Kingdom. We likewise command
and order our Commandants of Ports and Arse
nals, Commandants of Squadrons, Ships, and other
Veliels of War, Governors of Colonies, Intel)-
dants and Ordonnareurs of Marine, and of the
Colonies, and all others to whom it shall apper
tain, to conform thereto and to aid in the execu
tion, each agreeable to the duty of his Itation.
IN Testimony whereof we have signed, and
caused to be countersigned the said Pre
sents, and the Seal of State to be hereto
affixed—at Paris, the 31 It Day ofOdlober.,
in the Year of our Lord 1790, and of our
Reign the Seventeenth.
(Signed) LOUIS.
(Signed) _
And lower down,
L'ARCHEVEQUE de BORDEAUX.
And sealed with the Seal of State.
Certified to agree with the Original,
(Signed) L'ARCHEVEQUE de BORDEAUX.
Sent by tlie Department of Marine,
(Signed)
PROCLAMATION OF THE KING.
IN execution of the law of 51ft day of Ociober,
fixing the ilifpofition of the Colours in the dif
ferent kinds of Flags or other customary marks
ofdiftinc'tion among (hips of war, and commer
cial veiiels—
The law of 31ft day of October, having deter
mined the form of the French Flag, and fixed
the disposition of the National Colours in the
different kinds of Flags and other customary
marks of difHn&ion among the ships of war and
commercial veflels, and the 6th Art. of the said
law directing " that the King fliall be intreated
to order to be taken as well in the French as in
Foreign Ports, the necetlary measures for its
prompt and certain execution, and to fix the time
when all the commercial vefiels may without in
convenience carry the new Flag."
His Majelty has ordained in consequence, that
all Flags, Pendants, Flags of commandants and
other marks of diftin<ftion which /hall hencefoi
ward be hoisted by fliips and other veflels of
war, shall carry the national Colours agreeable
to the difpofuions announced in the law c*
MONTMORIN-'ill day of October, and similar to tlie models
which /hall be sent to the different ports. Com
mercial veflels (hall likewise lioilt, without delay,
the fjid Flag Jn the ports of France : His Ma
jesty having fixed on the ill day of Ap>il nexr,
as thetime when ihe said commercial veflels may
without inconvenience hoifl at sea and in foreign
ports the new National Flag, provided the fo
reign maritime powers fiiall then have been in
formed of the change in the Flag, and have
triven information in theirrefpetftive ports to the
commandants of their Jhips of war andpiiva
teers —His Majesty ordains that computing from
the said time, (id day of April next) there flial!
not be borne onboard of any French commercial
veflels, either-in port, or at sea, any other than
the National Flag according to the difpofitloiis
announced in the 2d Art. of the law of the 31H
day of October, hereby prohibiting the use of
every other Flag, and of all thole particularly
designated under the names of City Flags, Port
Flags, Flags of the late Provinces, and others
which may have been used ; and in cafe any com
mercial veflel now at sea and not informed of
the arrangement made by this Proclamation,
jhould not enter into the Pons of the kingdom
till after the epoch of the lit day of April next
above fixed on, they shall not lie permitted to go
out of the said ports, or again to put to sea, till
after having hoilted the new National Flag.
His Majelfy commands and orders the Com
mandants of Ports, Arsenals, Commanders of
Squadrons, Ships and other Veflels of War, Go
vernors of Colonies, Intendants and Ordonna
teurs of Marine, and of the Colonies, and all
others to whom it fliail appertain, to govern
themselves agreeable to this Proclamation, and
to aid in the execution of it.
DONE ar Paris the 31ft Day of O(Sober, 1790
(Signed) LOUIS.
And lower down,
MONTMORIN
Newrern, April 9.
ON Monday last, the Diftnft Courts of the United States, for
the No r th-Carolina Diftrift, was held at the Corn t-Houfc in
this town, before the Hon. Judge Sitgreaves.
We have been favored with a copy of the CHARGE delivered
to the Grand Jury, on this occasion. It is as follows :
Gentlemen of the Grand Jury,
YOU are now lmpannelled as an inquelt for the United States,
for the North-Carolina diftritt. undei the authority of a Constitu
tion, which has received the alTent of all America.
To forbear to speak of this government on this occasion, (altho
it may not be necefiary to the bufirtefs for which you are now af
fcmbled) might argue an infenfibihty towards it, which no citi
zen should ever feel.
It was a happiness refcrved for the people of America, after hav
ing fuccefsfully aflerted their claim to independence, to be per
mitted calmly and deliberately, in the mild season of peace, un
awed by external force—undifturbed by internal commotion 1 , to
upon a system of government, which fliould bear the test of
the most jealous examination, and be fan&ioned by general ap
probation.
What may not be presaged from a constitution thus framed ?
In which local prejudices are made to yield to the primary object,
thtfafety and happiness of the whole, by which a people inhabiting
a vast extent of territory, under the influence of different climates
«nd habits, have blended their interests in a perpetual union, pre
fentingto the world a nation commanding admiration and refpedl.
It would be pleafmg to contrast the present, with the former
government ; to point out the energy and (lability of the one ; to
ftiew the impotence and instability of the other. But this would
be an unnecessary digreflion. It will fuffice to observe, that among
the many advantages we had anticipated from the change, a few
month's experience has already evinced, a rapid establishment of
public and private credit, and an encreafed circulation of solid
coin. Bythefeour commerce is already reviving; agriculture
nnift soon fee''the effect.
Under * government thus made by a people for themselves, ad
ministered by their own citizens, and alterable at their pleasure ;
in which the rights of mankind arc fully recognized and refped
fd ; tie citizen as a member of a nation, forming a conspicuous fi
gun-- in the grand society of the human race, while he laments the
dfbafed situation of millions of his species, must be elevated with
hs dignity and importance, and be readily induced to revere and
lupport it.
As members of such a nation, you are now called upon to per
form a duty of great trust and importance.
O.i grand juries depend i». a great meafnre the observance of the
lows; through them the guilty is to be punished the laws to be
refpe&ed. As the duty is similar to that -which you have often
rendered to the state, the frequent performance of it, and the oath
you have taken will cause a more particular direction unnecessary.
The criminal jurifdi&ion of this Court extends to all crimes and
•ffences against the United States committed within this diftrift,
or upon the high feiis, by any person now -within the Diftrift,
where no other punishment than whipping not exceeding thirty
ftripej, a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, or a term of im
prisonment not exceeding fix months is to be inflicted. All such
it is your duty to enquire into, and present, as well as ali breaches
of the laws of impost, navigation or trade of the United States,
which fubjeft the offender to indi£lment and punishment in this
court. And it may not be improper here to observe, that how
ever prevalent might be the opinion, when America was part of
'he British empire, that the evasion of the payment of the duties
was riot dishonorable or unjust, vet such an idea, at this day must
be generally execrated ; and it should be remembered that he
who is guilty of a fraud on the revenue, commits a species of rob
bery, by which every citizen is injured.
It will be also your duty to present the misbehaviour of the offi
•ericfthe revenue, if such should come to your knowledge. '1 he
pofiil ulit'/ of negligence and corruption in th: subordinate officers
wiJ! render the vigilance of the public eye proper.
The gentleman who now acts as <\ £torne y f° r United States
will preparenny business that mav be offered for your confidera
'ion, and the Court will be ready to afford you any efliitance or ad
dict that may be neccfTary.
ihc Hon. JOHN SITGREAVES, Esquire, Diftria Judge
of the United States.
May it pi cafe your lienor,
.THE Grand Jury of the United States for North Carolina dif
cheerfully embrace this in'erefliug occaiion to thank your
%>npr for th« Charge delivered thenj ydterday, and feci a pica-
hire in cspreffing to you their jpprobation of the Cotlftitution,
under which this Court is- now fitting.
Ihe organization of the government of the United States and
the adininiflration of it realize the hopes we had formed of the
benefits and advantages to he derived from it.
Imprefled asl we are with the tnoll favorable opinion of it, and
the adminiftration,convinced that the happiness and fafety oV the
people of America, mull depend on an efficient government, which
can aflert the dignity of the nation, and secure the liberty of its
citizens, we lhall with great cheeifulncfs give every facility to the
execution of its measures.
The Grand Jury are fully convinced of the propriety of your
Honor's observations, relative to the drift execution of the reve
nue laws, and lliall always consider that man, as an enemy to his
country, and not worthy of being a citizen of a free state, who can
deliberately defraud the public oF any part of its revenue.
We should doviolenceto our feelings, if we did not express to
you the pleasure we enjoy, in beholding the distribution of justice
placed in the hands of a man, lor whom we have the greatcft re
gard and affe&ion.
Frederick Harnett, Foreman. W. Shepard. F. Lowthiop,
W. Good, E. Bell, W. Dennis, jun. W. Blount, N. A.'
14ray, W. Randal, J. Blount, A. Harvey, S. Willis, J.
Cook, W. Lawrance, fc. Tinker, W. Henry, J. Small
wood, E. Alexander.
Jitry-tloom, Apjit 5.
William Slade, Silas White Arnett and Benjamin Woods,Efq'is.
were admitted to practice in this Court as Attornies and Counl
fellors at Law, and qualified accordingly.
The number of fouls in the diftrift of Newbern, as enumerated
by the Deputy-Marshal, is 5603^,
From the (Bojlon) Co-lumbi an Cen rin el
SOUTHERN WHALE FISHERY
An obliging correfpot dent lias furnifhed the
Editor with the following accurate account of
the product of the English South Whale Fishery
— From which some judgment may be formed, of
the importance of the object which has lately oc
casioned the armaments and conventions between
Great-Britain and Spain—and which niuft arrest
the attention of the enterpiiziiig merchants of
the United States.
PRODUCT ill 1790.
Ships. * whale oil. \fperm. do. %whaltbonc. seal /kins.
47 3420 tons. 809 tons. 2522 cwt. 85461.
average value —llerling.
*16/. per ton. per ton. J7/. per cwt. \ About
2s. 6d. per /kin.
Philadelphia, May 4
The following Jlatcmcnt of the trarjaflions of the general governmcrt,
relative to the Indian Tribes, is the result of the mofl diligent enquiry
zve have been able to make into the'fubjeft. We doubt not it willproie
satis factory, as it contains fads y arid such general information as the
public have a right to recetve; it will alfofur nijh the means of forming
jufl ideas of the present pojlure of Indian Affairs.
THE measures adopted bv the general government, relative
to the Indian tribes within the limits of the United States, are re
plete with moderation, justice and humanity. Philolophers, ani
the intelligent part of the human race, approve the wisdom of such
conduct, while itsoppofei* will wonfift. entirely of people of a dif
ferent description.
Infteadof anoppreflive system, having for its object, the extir
pation of a race of men more finned against, than finning, it ap
pears to be the design of the general government, to impart to the
Indians, who were the original lords of the foil, all the bleflings
of life, of which their situation will admit, and to lead them, by
degrees, to a more fettled and civilized mode, of existence.
Waving the consideration of civilizing the Indians, which by
many is deemed impra&icable, the policy of obfeiving a liberal
and humane condu& towards them cannot be well denied.
It may be fafely affirmed, that the expence of and
attaching all the neighbouring Indians to the interests of the Uni
ted States, for a period of fifty years would not be so great, as the
expences of one campaign against either the Creeks, or the Choc
taws.
At the commencement of the present constitution, the affairs
upon the south western frontiers, presented a gloomy afpetl.
The State of Georgia had been involved, for a number of years,
in feriou? hostilities with the Creek nation of Indians In this
contest, the State of Georgia had been greatly diftrefled, its fron
tier inhabitants compelled to abandon their plantations, and
guards were mounted, even in the city of Savan»ah ufclf, to pre
vent a surprise.
Congress early took this fubjeft into confederation, and voted
the sum of twenty thousand dollars, for the pnrpofe of defraying
the expences of negociations, or treaties, with the Indian tribes.
Three CommifTioners weie accordingly appointed lor the pui
pofe of holding a treaty with the Creek nation, in Sept. 1789, who
were about to aflemble at that time by virtue of a previous ar
rangement made under the dire&ions of the old Congress,
Altho these CommifTioners were charatters of high reputation,
and repaired to the place appointed in due season, yet they failed
of effecting a treaty at that time, owing to caufcs which are here
unneceflary to be detailed.
But, altho no permanent treaty -was concluded, an informal
truce was agreed to until the spring ot the year 1790.
The issue of this business placed the United States iri a new and
critical situation : Before, it seemed a contest arising out of dis
putes between Georgia and the Creeks, relative to local boundar
ies. Bu% the United States having interposed, they became inter
ested therein, and responsible for ail consequences.
The'treaty had been broken off iatber abruptly, on the part of
the Creeks, and under circumstances which indicated aversion to
an intimate connexion with the United States. Had the Creeks
committed hostilities, either before or after the expiration of the
truce, it would have been difficult to have found the colour of an
exenfe, for the United States not entering into an immediate war
with that nation.
While on the one hand such a war, in which neither honor nor
profit could be obtained, was to be avoided ifpoflible, so on the
other the United States were bound to protest all their citizens
from violence.
In order therefore to prevent the former, and to establish the
latter, meafurcs, honorable to the government, were devised, and
executed with great ability, to induce the chiefs of the Creeks, to
repair to the refidcnce of the general government, as the only
means by which they could avoid ihe juin impending over their
nation,
The treaty with the Creeks at New-York, on the 71b of August
1790, was the consequence of the visit of the Chiefs. This treaty
has been reprobated by land-jobbeis, iutcreftcd individuals, and
feme of the inhabitants ot Georgia.
But, the eolightened citizens of Amcrica, highly approve of the
treaty, as the ground work of attaching the C r eeks. and the whole
bod) of fouihcrn U'dian.-, to the m.cr«ffts of the United S-.atcs, up
7
on principles cntitlrd to ihe approbat'njn oi the dilintcrefted pars
of maukind. 1
The supreme executive of the United States, has also taken
measures to secure the Choctaws and Chickefaws, in their attach
ment to the United States, hv alluring them of the lull perform
ance.of the treaties of Hopewell.
And, a ireaiv is to be held by Governor Blount,of the territo
ry of the United Stales foutb of the Ohio, during the , present
year with the Ciierokecs.
Indeed there is the faired profpef}, of not onlv making a per
manent peace with all the southern nations of Indians, but of at
taching them in fuel/ a manner to the interests of the United
Slates, as to command their aitivc Cervices, if necessary.
The Yazous company, so called, who have purchased of the
State of Georgia, the pre-emption, to almost the entire lands of
the ChoQaws, Chickefaws, and part of the Cherokees, are dwind
ling away, and the boasted plans of Mr. O'Fallon and his afioci
ates, are tar from being realized. The general government will
never be so loft to femiments of justice and virtue as to fufter a
number of land-jobbers to dispossess the Indians of their country
exifling laws and treaties, and thereby to plunge the Uni
ted States in a war with those powerful tribes, who are otherwise
zealously disposed to be our firm and intimate friends.
The warriors of the Creek Nation of Indians, are eftimatea at
6000—theChoftaws at 5000—theChickafawsat 1300, and theChe
rokees at 2500, amounting in all to nearly 13,000 warriors
The friendfhip of such powerful tribes, even upon principles of
policy, is well worth cultivating. The value of their friendfhip
is to be eflimated by the expence of their enmity, independent
of the disgrace attendant upon the injufticeof attempting to de
prive them of their lands, against the faith of the United States
stipulated by lolemn treaties.
It were devoutly to be wished, that in turning our eyes to the
regions north-weft of the Ohio, that the fame piofpe&s of peace
appeared.
The general government took early measures for this purpose
Treaties had been formed, under the old government, with the
fix nations, the Wyandots, and Delawares, and some of the more
western Indians—but, the Wabafh Indians always declined to
attend at the negociations of those treaties, notwithstanding they
were invited thereto. 0
In order, if poflible, to bring those deluded people to a jufl
sense of their situation. the President of the United States, dire&rd.
that they should be invited a-new, to treat of peace, and that the
consequences of their refufal, and persisting in hostilities should
be fully placed before them—and at the fame tim<», the people of
K(ntuckywere prohibited from making any further mcurfions
into the Indian country.
This invitation was executed early in the last year, to all the
tribes inhabiting the river Wabafh,' from Post Vincenncs, up to
the Miami village. The invitation was not only refufed by the
Indians, but their hostilities were renewed with greater violence
than ever.
1 he campaign therefore of the last year was a measure of ne
cefTity—The Indians had been invading our frontiers, and had
killed many hundred innocent men, women and children.
It became just and highly proper, 10 manifeft the power of the
United States over these blood-thirsty tribes. That the expedi
tion did not entirely succeed, is to be much regretted, but it is
unnecefiary in this place to investigate the caufcs of its failure.
Notwithstanding the provocations of these Indians, it is said
measures have been taken to open their eyes to their true situation,
and if poflible, to induce them to peace, without the necefiity of
ana&ive campaign against them ; but, if the measures taken for
this purpose should be in vain, the meekness ofchriftianity, will
juftify the government, in taking effe&ual measures to prevent
the murder of its peaceable citizens.
And the arrangements made, and which are in train of execu
tion, will in all probability be entirely adequate to the full con
vittion of the hostile Indians, that they have abundantly more to
hope, from the mercy, than to expert fiom the weaknels of the
United States.
_ It was to have been expetfted that some par
ticular circumttantial accounts would have been
received from India.by ihe Canton ; the papers
however now bro't from that country bear too
great a resemblance to thole published in En
gland to enable us to ascertain faifts with any
precilion. It appears that Tippoo has gained a
very considerable victory, in the outset of .the*
war ; Col. Floyd's detachment being in a great
measure cut to pieces, loft its artftery and aban
doned its cncainpnient and baggage which fell
into the hands of the enemy.—Notwithft»nding
this the English prediifi success to their army
from every particular enterprize on foot—and a
mortal raging sickness having got into Tippo's
army—his entire deftru&ionis to followof course!
Famine—the concomitant of war in India, h
expected to add to the evils of the wretched in
habitants of that ill-fated country.
The rapid fubfeription to the loan 111 Holland
on account of (he United Stales, is a molt une
quivocal evidence of the rising credit of this
country.
How much then are the people of America in
debted to those diltinguifhed characters, through
whose influence such favourable impreflions have
been made on the minds of the wary Holland
ers—The administration in whose hands the go
vernmental concerns of the country are now hap
pily placed, is entitled to great applause—but
the foundation of our refpecftability in the eyes
of that people, was laid in the unparalleled, pa
triotic and fuccefsful negociations of the Vice-
President of this confederated republic.
Monday last the Vice-President of the United
States, his Lady and family," left this city 011 a
tour to the Eastward. We hear that his Excel
lency proposes to pass the summer at his feat in.
Braintree, near Boston.
Monday, pursuant to a vote of adjournment,
palled at the general meeting of the Cincinnati
the last year, a number of the Delegates from
several States afleinbled in this city. The Presi
dent and Vice-President being absent, the Hon.
Gen. Knox was chosen President, pro. tevipire.
|5C7* Securities as in our ia]t,
This day is publijiied, for the Proprietors,
By WILLIAM YOUNG, Bookseller,
No. 52, Second-Street, the cor nerpj Chef nut-Street >
The Universal Asylum,
For APRIL, 1791SALEM, April 19.
Extract oj a letter from Londoi:, Dcccjnbcr 21, I 79°'
DF. A r SI R,
<< "J\ T"V heart rejoices at the present happitiefs
IVJL and future profjieifts ot your country.
Every thing combines to eftablifli in Europe a juit
ideaofyour inci easing respectability. 1 herevival
of punctuality in public and private engagements
is a lure evidence of the wisdom and energy of
your National Government. —We have felt anxi
ous for the fa:c of your political (hip, tofled a
bour as flic has been without a captain or pilot,
without rudder or compass-—happily, howevi,
110 llorins overtook her in that unprepared (late,
and she now holds a right course for the haven
of fafety. Great are the expectations of the
wife and the good from the advantages you pof
fefs ; they hope you will exhibit the fail ex
ample of a people who (hall make the enjoyment
of life consist in fulfilling its duties, and who
will look for social benefits only in the piatftice
of social virtues—They flatter themlelves that
the period is commenced, when the superiority
of nations is to be marked by the productions of
indullry instead of the ruins of war—when a peo
ple will be distinguished for what they enjoy in
itead of what they facrilice.—America lias the
merit of opening this new field : I pray to Hea
ven that flie may neither mar its cultivation nor
despoil its fruit! May fhc be willing that the fub
fiitence and comforts of life (hall be distributed
in the cheapest manner and enjoyed universally ;
and for this purpose I pray that (he may avoid
those reftri»ftive and partial systems of commer
cial legislation whichimpoverilh the people they
are intended to favor, and only provoke those
they are intended to punish. 1 his left-handed
policy, which disgraces Europe, can never be
approved by the poor man's friends. The scan
ty pittance of the poor in all countries is made
Hill scantier by this abule of power; itcannot
therefore (without very strong reasons indeed)
be praiTtifed among you by those who unite kind
est hearts with wife heads.
The interests of nations are not often incom
patible, tho they are commonly considered so
by those who have the guidance of them. It is
a wretched error to estimate the wealth and opu
lence of a people by the comparative poverty of
other nations. However just such a mode ot cal
culation may be for estimating power, nothing
can be more abl'urd in estimating wealth. But
what absurdity is so great as to be without its ad
vocates among those who are called wife ? Even
Agriculture, Manufactures and Commerce, which
are indispensably neceflary to aWift and support
each other, are frequently treated as rivals—
fotnetimes as enemies. If your country is wil
ling to profit by the niiftakes of others, you will
conduifl these things better than they have been
conducted here—and yet I am so much an En
glilhman in my prejudices as tobelieve that their
several interests have been less frequently injured,
and more frequently promoted by the interference
of government in England than in other coun
tries ; but be This as it may, it is now a prime ar
ticle in the political creed of our ablest dosftiors,
that the hand of labour is misguided by'the inter
ference of government ojtemr than it is directed to
any valuable purpose—They admit that an ufeful
art or branch of commerce unpratftifed and un
known in a country may deserve and require pub
lic assistance to introduce it—but tho there are ca
ses in which government maya;</tbe individual,
there are none in which it may guide him : they
believe " that the general industry of every coun
try if left free will be unerringly directed to
the best obje&s, and will therefore extend the
production of every thing ufeful further than
it can be extended in any other way."—" That
the individual when left to himfef applies
liis talents and his capital to the purposes he
can best: accomplifli, and in a manner the moll
profitable—that he purchases from others such
neceflary things, and such only, as he cannot pro
duce himfelf with so much advantage as he can
buy them, and thus secures to himfelf of those
things he needed the greatest abundance possible
for him to obtain—and that the nation, which is
the aggregate of individuals, inuft have the ac
cumulated mass of benefits which the eagle-eyes
of private interests can dilcover, and its incefliint
exertions procure." They believg " that com
merce, when free from all restraints, will flourifh
molt, and thus prove the greatest encouragement
to agriculture and manufactures—and that these,
being so encouraged, will by multiplying the ar
ticles of commerce repay the benefit with ample
interest."
I ftiould be unneceflarily tedious to be more
particular, and therefore only give these leading
principles. If they are foplaufible|as to be tho't
tleferving examination, this would gratify my ar
dent wishes—to call your attention to a subject
so very important, is my aim—for altho it be ad
mitted " that the interests of commerce are too
complex to be fully comprehended in all their
relations and combinations," yet foine valuable
knowledge may be attained by a patient lnvefl •
gation of them, and this I wilh to excite.
And now, my dear Sir, you are readv to en
quire what is the disposition of Great-Britain to
wards the United States ? Truth compels me to
fay, that.in her sentiments (lie is less liberal than
her honor as well as interest requires; but flie
will be true to her belt interest finally, which (he
can never be, without fervingyours —(he is grow
ing better humored, and every day discovers an
increasing disposition to cultivate a harmony with
you that must be reciprocally beneficial: her late
apprehensions of a war with Spain made her sen
sible that your friendfhip might be eltimated too
]ow—and (he has at length advanced one step
toward you by the appointment of Mr. Elliott, as
public minister to the United States. This gen
tleman was formerly in the custom-house at New-
York, where he has left some friends—he is much
esteemed here, and is said to have the confidence
of the niinifter, with whom he is also remotely
connected, his nephew having married Mr. Pitt's
sister.
ADVERTISEMENT
HAVING completed the fecund volume of this Ga
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, Are inform
ed that it will ie prosecuted on its original plan, -with
every improvement that friendfhip and ingenuity ?nay
fuggefi.
'The price of this Gazette, (ptiblijhed Wsdnefdays
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—one
half to be paid at the time of fubferibing.
The utmost punctuality is observed in transmitting
the papers to fubferibtrs : The Editor thinks there is
the fairefi profpett that Information from the fat of
government, to the extremes of the Union, will in fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, than
through the pajl winter.—Additional fubferiptions
from all parts of the Union are therefore solicited.
An index to the second volutne is preparing for the
press.
This volume contains the laws of the two lajl Jeffions
of Congress—the journal and debates of the houft of
Representatives—reports of the heads of departmenti
be fides a greater variety of original communications
immediately connected with the interefls of the United j
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude th< punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
fubfer'tbers —some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be discharged.
Payments may be made to the several persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements of one square, or lef, will be in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar
fib [equent infertions,twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion, : No vehicle in the United
States gives so immed'tatea circulation—and the num
ber of each impression is at present fourteen hundred.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeflvp to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com-
mands.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791
Gallaudet and Ewinc,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady Walterjlorf from London, Man
chejler and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. On hand for
sale, a few hogrticads of OLD JAMES's RIVER TQBACCO
Philadelphia, April 9, 1791
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In the Hfbrew, Greek, Latin, French, and Italian
Lancuaces—being part of a private Library,
Among which arc the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demoflhenes, Xenophon, Plato.
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Niccpho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Casfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Oclavo & ivfra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinu% Theo
phraftus, Epidetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris.
liberates, Polysenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statins, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetse minorcs Latini, Callipsedia, Strada, L
Valla, &c.
ftT A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejfrs Rice and Co
Market-Streets whcrejurtker particulars may be learned.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-St r eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THEUNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
8
JOHN H. HALL
To be difpofcd of,
K S,
[(j3" All pei sons concerned will be jm-An to lakirr.lice iSjtrt
following adverlifeniciit has been varied liom th« pablifl»J ;
our piper of the 93d of March.] *
Treasury Department.
MARCH 2 ■*, IQI
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propol j!s will be receive"; 0 -
office of the Secretary of the Trejfury, until the fir ft Mondj
in September next inclusive, for the fupplv of ail ratio;,;, v.lu c i,
may be required ior the use oi the United Siacs, from the'lii;, d Jy
of January to the thirly-ftrft day of December, 1792, both s,n
clulive, at the places, and within the diftridls herein alter mentil
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yirktown in the ftateof Pe nn .
Ivama and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntolh
on ihe River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntolh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M-Intofti and the mouth nf
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkmqum.
At any place or places, betwixt the month of the Puvcr Mnfl
kitigum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
c irowas, and thence over to the Cavoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf.
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, anrl
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thcncc to the Rapids, 011 the Falls of the Olllo,and at the'
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over 10 the
Miami Village, 011 the river of tiie fame name which empties im»
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Pjft St. Vincennts,
at PoftSr. Vincennes, and thence up the laid river Wabafti, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
:he mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the river Mtflifippi,
"rom the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllip.ois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami liver to
he Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandnfkv,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, it Prclq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by tbe
way of B'g Beaver creek.
At anv place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the ri"cr
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of tbe river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecificd in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contrattor.
The rations to be supplied are to confiltof the following article!,
viz. One pound of bread or flour.
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of p«srk,
Half a jill of rum, branoy or whiflcy,
One quart of fait,
Two quarts of vinegar,
Two pounds of soap,
One pound of candles,
ALSO, That PropofaU will be received at t'ne said office unfil
the Gift Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United State?,
from the fir ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the ft ate of MaflTachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the ill Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may be required (or the ule of the United States,
from the ill day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftritts herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river AUamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the Ttver Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the R.ock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said rives from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch,and
(1 ep7w)
from thence to the Currahee mountain,
At any other place or places within the state ol Georgia whicH
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any trOops ol the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future polls.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
lcaft two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned. .
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTes sustained bv t.
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the Unite
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or de -
troyed, on the depohtions of two or more creditable charsctcrJ,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining I he r r "j
cumftances of the loss, and the amount of the article# for whic"
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made eithef , OTC ™
year, or for two years, ss may appear eligible. Persons c.ifpo f
to contrast will therefore confine their offers to one year, or tr cy
may make their propositions lo as to admit an ele&ion or t e
term of two years.
The piopofals maybe made for the whole of the above potts to
gether, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for'YorKtown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the ports in G'. orgia,
and they must fpccify the lowest price per ration, for prompt p")
ioo cptm
The Printers roho have publijked the above advertiffnent, an
quelled to reprint it zuith the alterations. —-
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
Xo.gt, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Street.
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Permfvlvanh and Jerfry Paper Money,
An J all kincJt ofSECURITIF.fi of the United States, oro: /
particular Stare.
(cj6 tf)
per. ico rations.