PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEKXO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 4-) of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, September 21, 1791.
FROM T HE % COLUMBIAN CENT IS EL
AMERICAN FUNDS,
Mr. Russell,
QO short is the time whiph bath eiapfed since the establishment
O of public, credit by the Funding Sylfcem,.and pun&ual payment
ot the interefi, that the people fee m not to have tormea jutl ant'
fixed idea? asto the permanent value of their property in the funds;
hence arises the fluttation in the price of (locks. These flu6}ua
tions being injurious to the people in general, it is the duty of go
vernment, and of every individual, to use endeavors to cftablifh a
just and fixed price to the funded Securities. The raoft natural
and rational standard for our Funds, feetns to be the Brilijk\ be
caufc we are well informed refpe£?ing every circumstance ielating
to them. But it must be allowed that the fma Unci's of our debt,
compared with the lijitijh, and the Superiority of our situation in
many important refpeds, ought to give our Funds the preference.
It is allowed by the Britifti writers, that their nation in regard to
■wealth, and numbers, and profpe&s, is come to its heighth ; but
all the world fuppofesthe wealth and numbers, and profpetts of
America are increasing rapidly—and that the United Stales will be
come the mod wealthy, powerful and happy nation, under the
fun. These being the state of things, nothing is wanting to ren
der the American funds permanently higher than the Britijh y but
just ideas refpe£ting them. The Britifri people, and" (our own for.
merly) have been in the habit of thinking their funds the belt in
the world, but they, and the reft ot the world, will soon be con
vinced from the present slate of Europe and America, that the Fund.s
of this country are in many particulars luperior to the Britijh, or
any in Europe. As the territory of the United States is much larg
er than all the kingdoms and States of Europe, and polishes all
the variety of climate, foil, and situation, moil tavorablr for agri
culture, manufacluresi and commerce; —As the mcreafe of peo
ple, and the emigrations from Europe, and the progress in every
thing tending to the growth and prolperity of a nation, have been
and now are fully anfwcrable to the natural advantages of this
country, it ought in reason to be a fixed principle in every mind
that our Funds are now fully equal to the British, and will rife
higher—Four per cent, for money in American funds, paid every
three months, is the great eft sure profit to be any where obtained
—and will be an object with every man of property. As the peo
ple of this country, are abundantly able to hold their own debt,
and as it will be beneficial to the country, it is wifiied foreigners
may not purchase into Americann Funds.
Speculators will aim to keep up a fluctuation, as their trade de
pends upou vps and downs, but every wife ruler and good citizejn
will exert himfelt to make the funds permanent-at then uuevalue,
as this would greatly facilitate all kinds of business, and eilentially
promote the general prosperity of the country.
Syf.lo. An AMERICAN.
LONDON,
/ f JVLY tp.
f [ MEMOIR,
ADDRESSED TO THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY AXD FRENCH
I NATION,
j BY LOUIS JMEPH BOURBOK CON'DE,
j In answer to the Decree of the nth oj June.
I PROSCRIBED by a milled people, and To long perfccuted
\ X with an unprecedented fury, I now come 10 cxpiefs the facud
Manguagc oftru:h to the reprcfeniatives of the nation, to confound
impoflure and calumny, and to lay open my whole toul.
I know that I have been, and Hill am, daily cxpofed to the
fhafisof malignity ; I know that the bare mention of my name
ierves as fuel to public hatred ; t>ut I must at length tear off the
bandage from the eyes of my cruel enemies, and present myfclf
to them in the armour of truth.
A simple account of my conduct since the revolution, will, per
haps, open the eves «f a noble, but volatile—a humane, but in
conliftent people', who, always extreme in their hatred as in their
love, fuffer thcmfclves to be carried away by the impull'e of the
present fentimenf.
On the 14th of July, 1789, in the moment of a terrible explo
sion, I thought it my duty to quit the capital, to escape from
evils, perhaps from crimes. Soon alter I thought it right to leave
France, to take away all pretence for frefh outrages. This volun-
Jary exile was a facrifice to the public tranquility. At a diftancc
from my country, 1 waited, in melancholy expe&ation, the
moment when the French nation, reftorcd to milder fer.timents,
and to its native urbanity, should permit me to return. I was
far from thinking that my expc&ation, perpetually deceived by
new troubles, and frefh calamities,, mull be lated to fee so deli
cious a moment inceflantly removed to a dillant period, and that
calumny and hatred, guarding the entrance of France, would pre
vent my apptoach to it. 1 was far from imagining, thai a pro
greflive fci icsof horrors and usurpations would bring on the creat
ed of crimes; and that a King, lately the delight of his fubjc&s,
"would be kept in his own palace as a State Pi ifoner ! and that (ah !
how could I think it ?—pofterity will with difficulty believe it !)
— I should myfelf be tempted to consider this cruel fpe&acie as
one of thofc tormenting vifioms which sometimes harrafs our fouls
10 sleep !
I muftdraw the veil over these affe6ling scenes ; expreflions
•cannot describe them ; thev can only be felt. Ah ! what lan
guage can paint the impreflion made upon my mind by the fight
of my King, the heir of St. Louis and Henry the IVth. drinking
the cup of bitterness, c7;hauftcd with outrages, and funk into the
d-pth of misery, aliec having in a short space of time borne every
kyid of misfortune, and felt every variety of fufferiry* ?
(yHow {hall I a: this time dare to speak of myfelf shall I
paint theinjuftice T have expeiienced, when I fee before n»e still
greater ?JCan I compare my fuffcrings with those of the king ?—
No matter ; I nvuft speak, since I am called upon ; I mult lay
open my heart, since franknefs is required of me; it shall be
worthy of a Carnde ; it shall be worthy of a Frenchman.
I have bceu represented as the (worn enemy of the French na
tion ; who, / ndefatigable in my hatred, have hern endeavoring 10
raise enemves against them in all the courts of hurope ; as an ene
my eager '.0 bi mg fire and sword into the heart of his own coun
*ry ; and I am now industriously represented a* a tiger athirfl toj
blood, watching the favorable moment to tear its prey in pieces.
AiTurrdly, neither my anceflors normvfelf were ever the par
tizans of despotism ; and the hiftorv of France produces many
<-xao>pks to Uic contraiy, taken out of my family. —Ilcnry Comic
fought for liberty of confciencc ; and the second Henry of the
•me name attacked the delpoi ism of the Regent and her Minif
rs during the minority of Louis XIII. and openly declared
himfelf the Protestor of the Tiers Etat. The Great Conde, uni
ted with the Parisians armed under his command, attacked the
tyrannical power of Cardinal Mazarine.
In common with all good Frenchmen, I was desirous of the
afTembling of the States General in 1789. I even advised the
King to lake this measure. I always detested abuses, and abhor
red the despotism of Miniftcrs. 1 have long formed in the bot
tom of my heart, a fiucere wish lor the refto'ration of the finances,
and the regeneration of the kingdom. Alas !itis to this fatal de
sire, then participated by almost the whole nation, that France
owes the evils which now con fume her, and if the desire of doing
good could be a crime, with what bUternefs might we now le
proach ourselves.
But it is not the thing itfelf but the abuse of it which has destroy
ed the kingdom ; it is envy, jealousy, ambition, and Jicentioufnefs,
which, united under the mafkof liberty, have laid waste this pow
erful Monarchy. And it is expe&ed that I fbould come into the
mid ft of the factious to applaud these horrors ! Even partake in
them by my presence ! A French Prince is wished for amidst these
ruins, to witness the last grafpof Monarchy : No, I would rather
confeut to a perpetual banifhrrtent ; I would rather abandon all
my to fire and plunder, than return into the kingdom
mthemidft of disorder, and after the commission of the tnoft
f'diGus crime. No, France shall never again behold me within
hci limits, so long as reason and justice are banished from hef,
and so long as she is the prey of the factions who mificad her. If
the French, at a future time of opening their eyes, fliake of the
yoke of their new tyrants; if they will acknowledge that liberty
does not empower men to feizc and destroy every thing, and fub
jedfc it to their ferocious chimeras ; and if they should at length
learnthat a nation has not a right to be unjust to a single indivi
dual, then I fay, I will hasten wish the grcateft cagernefs, I wi,ll
fly into the arms of my fellow-citizens.
But, perhaps this time is not far off—foon terror will pofTefs
the fouls of those criminally ambitious men who have made the
most polished people in the universe the most savage. Heaven
and men will not fuffer fojmany crimes to go unpunilhed. As to
myfelf, I shall not dirett my arms against my country :—faftious
men always wiftito identify themselves with it ; but the reft of
the French, and all Europe, are not to be imposed upon. He is
not a traitor to his country who woiiM take the mask cfF them ;
and a decree, into which the religion of the Aflembly has been
surprised, and the illusory fan&ion of the King, cannot make me
a rebel. I have received the person who brought me this injuri
ous decree with the attentions due at all times, and under all cir
: cum fiance's, to thfe chara&er" of an Envoy, and to the law of na
tions. I have received this Decree, and thisis my answer. I de
clare it boldly ; and I make it public, that the Aflembly, France,
and Europe may read, at the fame time, into the bottom of my
heart, and judge me. i
LETTER fiom the OFFICERS in M. de BOUJLLE's Army, to t/J
COMRADES in France. /
" YE French !—relatives and friends ! of all ranks,
sex, and of all ages ! —know ye, been employed in fol
lowing the measures adopted by out General, and in using our
endeavors, so give etfccacy to the efforts made by the Marquis de
Bouille to Tave the Royal Family, and to break the fetters of the
bell and molt unfoitunate of Kings!
" The insults, to which we have been obliged to submit, are
lot to br described ; yet wc had tljc courage to ISeaf them all with
patience: because we fialterta ourselves with the pleating hopes
ihat we (bould, at Tome time or other, reap the fruits o/.our mo
deration and prudence.
" One Tingle word, one rash (lep, might have ruined all our
schemes, and Iruftrated all our attempts to set our King at liberty,
and to restore him to his exalted ilate in the midst of those bis
fubjefty, whose loyalty remains unshaken.
" Nothing has been able'to cool our zeal: our attachment to
the King h?s remained iirin amidst. insults, outrages, and perfec
tions of all kinds.
" The moment —so long wiflied for, and which has been pru
dently provided for—has arrived ; but unfortunately it has been
produ&ive of fatal consequences to the French Nation, or rather
to all true Frenchmen. Our projefls are all fruftrated ; our hopes
are vanished into air ; our fouls are full of bi.tternefs and anguilh;
and we should be, at this moment, a prev to despair, were we not
convinced that our military brethren, and all other true French
men now in France, who have been prevented from treading in
the (legs of the Marquis de Bouille, will adopt our profeUion of
fidelity j which we now tranfinit to the corps, ft ill remaining, but
almost at the laftgafp, of one of the most gallant armies in the
univerfc.
44 The outrageous, insulting, and barbarous manner in which
the French nation—become ferocious—watched every step of the
most unfortunate of Princes, the departure of the King—his sub
sequent arrcftation at Varenncs—his forced return to the capital;
—all these circumstances prove to all the world, the crimes of a
fa&ion, and the captivity of our mailer.
"We therefore con fid er every thing which the foi difeint Na
tional AGembly have done, as null and void.
" We declare that we shall never lubmit to any other govern
ment than that of a Monarchy.
" We demand a free King ! —We demand our Xing!
" It is the duty of the Frertch Nobility, formerly famed for
lovalty, u is the duty of every French soldier to fly to the relief
of his King, to tear him away from his piifon, to facrifice our
lives and fortunes for this unfortunate Monarch, to pursue, to our
last moments, the monsters who have wrested the sceptre from his
grasp, and have placed it in hands blasted with mon
gers who have dared to insult the tendered of mothers, a mother
in whose veins flow the noblest blood in the universe !
« We are rcfolved to live, and to die, profefiing the religion o!
our anccftors.
ii 44 Wc theiefore swear, and our oath will be applauded by the
whole world, that we will transmit, to our children—to our
neighbours—to our friends—the molt implacable hatred against
all fa&ious persons, who live on rapine and murder.
44 All those, who flill remain loyal to their King, and to the
French Monarchy—all thofc who are the friends ot mankind—
must rid the wdYld of those monsters who infefl the finell king
dom upon earth, who insult the best of Kings, and who bli:idly
lead, to every excess and outrage, a nation formerly dillmguifhcu
far generous sentiments and the noblest a&tons.
44 Ye French officers—hear the oath wc arc going to bake, and
repeat i: at the fame time with us f
165
&us°
[Whole No. 250.]
1 Wo fwcar, upon our honor (the only thing which remains to
us) that we will die for the deliverance of our King—that we Ihall
educate our children in these principles—that we will purine, so
long as we live, the fadlious leaders who have inlulted our King,
or who Hi all dare to touch their Majeflics ;—and we lhall consider
eVery military person as infamous who ihall to take this
oath.
" Neither fire nor sword, neither flames nor prison, nor the
malfacre of our relatives, of our wives, or of our children -no
thing, in one word, (hall make us fotget the firft oath which we
have taken in favor of our King.
" This is the only legitimate oath which we can take, and for
its inviolable preservation we are ready to die.
" All ye inhabitants of the earth ! And all ye French people of
either sex, and of all ages ! —ye will applaud our courage. You
will fay to your children— u Misfortunes were their portion ; but
though they fell vi&ims to factious fury, they prefcrved their ho
nour."
" Such is the profeflion of lovaltv made by all ofßcers who ie
main faithful to their King; and this profeffion it is the duty of
all true Frenchmen to make.
" Signed by the General Officers and Aids-de-Camp of the
army of M. de Bouille.
<c The Olfccers of the following regiments join their signatures
with ours.
41 Royal Allemand, Royal Champagne, ChafTeurs de Cham
pagne, Chaficursde en(trie, de Royal Bourgoync, de Conde, In
iantrv. de Lauzun, Huflarf, deSchomberg, Dragoons, de Nassau,
Chafleurs.de Cevennes, Corps Royal of Engineers, de Alonfieur
Dragoons, de Royal Dragoons, des Gardesdu Corps, du Roi,cie*
Gardes de IVZonfeigneur, le Comte d'Artois, See. &c.
" N. B. Instead of cach individual signature, it was thought
fufficrent to name the regiments to which the officers now with us
belong.
" Thcv have rcqucfted me to make their sentiments known,
and to authenticate them with my signature, that all Europe may
be acquainted with them.
(Signed) « DF.JOTEUX,
Adjutant-General to the Marquis deßouiile.
Approved. LE MARQUIS DE BOUILLE."
Luxemburg, June 27, 17914
W A R S A W, June 12.
The Diet are busy relative to a plan proposed
irJfavour of the Jews, who are very numerous
il/ this country, amounting to from 5 to 700,000
i/clividuals, and they they will probably experi
/ufce the cftetts of that wifdotn which governs all
ryne deliberations of our Senate.
f They still talk of arming the citizens of this
capital.
June 22. Connt Staniilaus Potocki, who was
charged with the important com million of offer
ing the Crown of Poland to the Elector of Saxo
ny when a vacancy therein took place, is return
ed from Dresden without a decisive answer. His
Electoral Hignefs presented the Count with a va*
luable fnufF-box.
The labours of the Diet employed on tlie Con
stitution are almost at an end. The principal
objeift of deliberation which remains, is the es
tablishment of Municipalities and the interior
adininiltration of towns.
N JERSEY, July 6.
Since the bringing back of the King, it is be
come very difficult for the French Aristocrats to
emigrate. As soon as a Jersey veflel arrives at
Grenville, or St. Malo, three or four chaloupes
are moored round her, to prevent the exportati
on of men or money. An express arrived yester
day from'the latter place, to a Jersey man, who
Jiad brought foine paflengers over, with private
advice, that if he returned to France, he would
inevitably be hanged. Several, however, made
their escape on Sunday.
Some of the emigrants were preparing to em
bark for Oftend,ou the intelligence of the King's
escape. But since they have been informed of
his captivity, and of the disposition of the French
nation to refill all attempts of a Counter Revo
lution, the barometer of their fpiritsaud of their
hopes has fallen very law.
PARIS, July 8.
It became a question of etiquette, whether, in
the prelent situation of affairs, Ambafladors from
crowned heads (hould continue in Paris, and they
all desired to have inffruiftions from their respec
tive Courts. Earl Gower received immediate in
ftru<flions to remain, and they all continue to
make their appearance at the Thuilleries, and
to tranfadt business avec le Roi as usual.
You will fee, from the Declaration of 290 mem.
bers, that the Royal party is by no means extin
guished in Paris. You find them every where,
and it is a proofof the confidence of the majori
ty, that the malcontents are at perfe<fl liberty to
speak, write, hold their confutations, and to be
as outrageous as they please.
The profpecft of the harvest in France is good
beyond the memory of man. The corn countries
were never so loaded, and they are not overrun
rby game, to destroy and eat np the bounty of
providence. " All this," laid a joyful farmer, in
tne neighbourhood of Montreuil —" all this Mon
lieur is destined to the use of man—What a Re
volution is this ! We (hall reap what we sow."
A under the titfe of
by a Society of Republicans, has made its appear
ance,in the firft number of which isaletter from
Mr. Paine.
LETTER from M. Rocderer, a celebrated Patriot,
to M. Bouille.
" I received yellerday, Sir, a packet with tlie
poll-mark of Luxembourg, sealed vvitl) your
arms, containing a printed copy of your letter to
the National Allembly. I flatter myfelf that in
iranfmitting this letter to me, you wish to indi
cate that 1 am personally intereiled in the insults
which it contains, and 1 thank you accordingly.
" Perhaps you may recolledt a conversation
which we had together at Metz, during the epoch
of the Revolution. 1 was then at the head of the
Patriotic Party, and you were commandant of
that place. The citizens diflrufted you ; they
were afraid lett you lhould invite the King, and
those courtiers whom the Revolution had con
demned to the punishment of equality, within
their walls. You were at that time the cause of
a continual fermentation, but you were taught
to know (how much havejou (ince forgot this
ul'eful leilon !) that your cannon wereol'no avail
against the eternal batteries of reason, which
fiom the Priuting-houfe as Laudouiu, began to
humble all the supporters of Tyranny and of Ty
rants, and which, be allured, will continue to
humble them, to whatever distance they may re
treat, or within whatever citadel they may en
trench themselves.
" Penetrated with these truths, so humiliating
to you, you then waited on me and alked methis
question—" Do you think that the public wel
fare, demands that 1 fhoiild give up my command !
If you do, I am ready to give in my resignati
on." " If the fugitives," J replied, " intend
to rally in this country ; if the King intends to
to take refuge here ; if Metz is destined to be
come the cradle of a Civil War, I with you were
a thoufarid leagues distant. But on the contrary,
if the King ihould adhere to the Conltitutiort, if
the fugitives difperled throughout the world are
content to ac r t thepart of Knights-Errant, I (hall
be-very happy to fee in the chief garrifan of our
frontiers.a General like-you, who has gained the
attachment of thefoldiery, and is capable of en\
forcing obedience at home and iefpe(ft abroadv'\
" Your reply to me was a memorable
lam able to recapitulate it exactly —I give yon
my"word of honor, toeujorce the Decrees of the Na
tional A[feml>!y with my utmoj/ power, whether 1 ap~
prove them or not ; 1a!fo pledge my word oj honor,
never to involve my country in a Givil-War.
" Perhaps this couverfation has been recol
lected by you firrce vour arrival at Luxembourg ;
you may have been afraid lelt one of the -words
of honor which you have betrayed Ihould be for
gotten, and you have undoubtedly addrefied your
letter tome, for fear that this claim to public
infamy /hould lofe.lis just reward.
" If this is your motive, Sir, 1 doubly thank
you for your correspondence.
" For some time part, Philosophy has laboured
to diihonour honour, and to elevate Virtue in its
room. Louis XVI. and you have at one and the
fame time rendered this i'crvice to the nation,and
have advanced the morals of mankind at leaf!
half a century nearer perfection.
"In fine,l hope thai public opinion and the laws
will no longer confine themselves to fmts of chi
valry and wards of honor, as neceflary titles for
public employments : but that they will also in
lift 011 proofs of virtue and atfts of patriotism:
(Signed) " ROEDERER,
" Jeputy to the National Aflemb'y."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, July 7.
The President.—" 1 have received a commu
nication from the King."
" Mr. Prefidetu,
" I fend you a note, which I request you to
read to the National Afl'embly."
" GEN-tlemrn,
" I AM informed that several officers, gone
into foreign countries, have, by circular letters,
invited the soldiers of the regiments to which
they belong, to quit the kingdom to join them ;
and that as an inducement, they protnife to ad
vance them ; by virtue of full powers, directly
or indireiftly, flowing from me, 1 think it my du
ty to give a forma] contradiction to these afler
tions, and to repeat my former declaration, that
in leaving Paris I had 110 intention but to go to
JVlontmedi, and there to make to the National
Affdmbly such representations as I thought ne
ceJaryj on the difficulties experienced in the ex
ecution of the laws, and of the adminiltration of
the kingdom. 1 declare pofnively, that all per
lons who (ay they have received such powers
from me, are g'lilry of a mod culpable impo
sition.
(Signed)
Ordered to be entered in the proceedings
JULY 12.
Decreed, that 130,000 livres hitherto paid an
nually to the Pope, and the annual rent paid to
the Apostolic Chamber of Avignon, (hall cease to
be paid, from the ift of April, 1 79 1 *
The Call of the All'embly wa&in the morning ;
bv which.it appears that the number of members
present was 1029. The number ot thole who are
dead, or absent with or without leave, &c. or who
have resigned, is 132.
Read a'letter from Pondicherry, giving in.-
formation that Tippoo had ravaged the country
as far as the walls of Madras ; but thac he had
1110 ft carefully spared the French and their pro
perty, and that the French Flag, wherever dis
played, had been the means of preserving those
vrho had hoilted it.
July 14. M. de Liancourt attended the tri
bune, and drew a uioft lively and animated pic
ture of the prefenc situation of France. He de
clared that he would deliver bis opinion with all
the courage of a man who is free and indepen
dent. He said, that to oppose the inviolability
of the king, yvould be to overturn the conftituti
-011. " A king who is not inviolable, (fays he)
cannot be ail hereditary king, but a king of a day."
Whether the king in his flight, be considered
as a king, or a simple citizen, his person is invio
lable.
One thin" is wanting to onr revolution ; that
is the liberty of the king. To complete the con
ititution, it was jieceflary that the King, at a dil
tatice from Paris, might be enabled to re&ify all
defecfts, and afterwards come back to his capital
with all the dignity of a man who forms an inte
gral part ofthe constitution.
Arc then measures, adopted with that salutary
view, to be thought criminal ?
M. de Liaticourt then observed, that previously
to the sth of Ocftober, the king had not any thing
to do with the declaration of rights.
His next attempt was to juftify the declaration
which the king had left behind him when he left
Paris. He spoke highly in praise of the king's
personal integrity, of his love of justice, of his
fondnefs for his people, and of his endeavours
to rectify all kinds of abuses.
Tlie king, fays he, is no longer a king, except
for those who have the courage *udefpife all fac
tious people.—The king is attacked, but through
him it is that royalty is intended to be deftroyedc
It is by the fall of one that foine seditious people
hope to be on a level. His concluflons were that
the projert of the committees ought to be adopted.
M. de Lialicourt was mod virulently attacked
'Jjy'M. Ricard, whose arguments solely confiftecf
personal reflections.
• M. de Liancourt's answer was that of a gentle
man.
M.Touftain de Tide asked if the King be not
liable to be tried, what methods the committees
would Adopt to prevent Louis XVI. from corrupt
ing, with his lift of thirty millions, as many peo
ple as he pleases. How, fays he, will it be pof
jible to prevent him from choosing another de
Calonne to be put at the head of the finances,
and another de Bouille to be at the head of an
army ?
M. Badier made a fpeerfi well becoming the
deplorable iituarion of a man who has a straight
waistcoat on. Of course it cannbt be worth re
peating. According to him, a perjured man, a
traitor, a parricide, a house-breaker, or a high
way man, are complete gentlemen, compared to
Louis XVI.
M. Montefquiou with great energy, defended
the King and the Monarchy, aful spoke with zeal
against the arguments of the wholfe republican
'phalanx.
M. Frngnon argued forcibly on the fame fide.
M. Roberfpierre watof a different opinion;
and his speech was much in the fame ftyleasthat
of M. Badier.
M. Duport delivered his sentiments in favottr
of the King, and in favor of monarchy, and his
arguments were irrefiltilvly conclusive. He very
ap ly alluded to the English constitution, of
which the king is the perpetual equilibrium.
The farther difcuflion of the fubjecft was at
length adjourned to the day following, which,
Vve may fafelv prophecy, was one of the mod tu
ni ul rno us of. all the noisy days since the aflembly
was felf-created.
From the very puny (late of health which the
Dauphin labors under it is not expe<fted that he
will live out hisa-pprenticelliip ; in cafe of death,
the Democrats will be gratified with their favor
ite fyflem, unless they should happen, by that
time, to go uito the other extreme, which is not
improbable.
1 he total of the subscription money for the
projected canal between Hereford and Glouces
ter, amounts to 80,0001.
It was very natural for the Prince of Wales to
set his face against the Revolution Dinner peo
ple. Those who rejoice at the demolition of a
crowned head in France, oh the principles of
" LOUIS."
166
LETTER FROM PONDICHERRY
LONDON, July iy.
Democracy, would make no Temple t 0
upon the Crown worn by a Britiffi So*erei»T
der the idea of Republicanism. Tbeir in 1
murdered Charles the First, and to this d»» v™
fuccellors January/in' k
of-tfie horrid regicide*thenxommittcd. CansT
men be called friends to the British Conftitß,- >
The conlternarion of Meffi s. Priestley p
and Co. at the refinance of the people to
trines of Repulilicanifm, is great indeed. E,° C *
shadow of hope is now departed, and w e
hear no more of the rights rtf man.
The Swediih Minitterat Poland,inconfequ«,
of having married a Polilh lady, has been hoßou'
ed with letters of indigenat, or naturalizatj 011
A camp is about to be formed in Poland to
prevent any attempt against the new conftitn'ti,,!
of that Kingdojn.
Mr. Humphreys, whose houle at the turnpike
was pulled down, offered the mob 4000 and as.
terwards 8000 guineas, if they would desist ; ], Bt '
they declared that money was not their obie6
and that they pulled down his house because tbev
considered hiin as a principal person concerned
in the inflammatory handbills. He is a principal
merchant in the town, and a gentleman much
esteemed in his private chararter.
To pay a compliment to the afties of Voltaire
is facrificing found sense to idle theory, and ido
latroufly worfliipping—" falfe doctrine, herefv
and fchifin."
Arillocratics and Miniflerialifb will, doubtless
be surprised when we draw against them a re!
mark (for which we rel'er thein to the immortal
LoCKF.in his Treatise on Civil Government)
made by James the Firit ; that king, so prodinj.
onfly attached to the prerogatives of royalty,and
who had himfelf endeavoured, in his writings to
consecrate this doctrine. " All kings, (he ob
serves) who do nor wifli to become tyrants, and
to experience the fate of tyiants, ought to keep
chemfelves under fnbmiffion to the laws. Who
soever maintains to the contrary, is a pest and a
viper,"
The condu&ofthe advocates for defpotifm,ky
calumniating with mifconftru&ions, asabfordas
they are atrocious, the natural exultation! of
freemen, when they perceive millions of their
fellow creatures gloriously emancipating then*,
selves frorp the (hackles of lawlefspower,remind*
us of the too just observation of Vohaife—" that
persons are always to be found who havenothing
in their composition which belongs to either the
age, or the country in whieh they exist.
America, though happy under her own free
Government, does not view the commotions in
Europe without much concern. Situated,.^ (he
is, in a sequestered corner of the earth, she
terniined to repose herfelf for a long while yet
to come in tranquillity, withaut meddling
the affairs of other nations. Peace and frient
(hip are all (he claims, and all (he delires. HeV
commerce is flourifhing, ahd her revenue Jawsftt
Well regulated, that at the close of the two firtf.
year's experience of her new conflitution, (he
found iir the public treasury, after deducting all
the current expences of Government, a million,!
towards discharging the National Debt.
In the fix departments of Brest, Toulon, Roch
fort, Bourdeaux, Havre and Dunkirk, there are
132,110 seamen.
The Clergy of Spain have much more reason
to dread a Revolution than the King. Their re
venues and their power are exorbitant. Many of
the antient nobility have long viewed the over
bearing influence of the Church with an evil ejt,
and should his Majesty be disposed to imitate the
illuftrioua example of the King of Poland; he
might, in conjun<siion with his molt enlightening
nobles, effect a reform of the Government, which
would at once secure to him the gratitude an
affection of his people, and as great a degree of
power as a good King would desire to „
Poland, patriotically inattentive to the buttle
of Europe around her, pursues the'completion 0
the mod wonderful revolution ever produced y
the concurring a (lent ofan awakened people, wi>
a philosophical ivnanipiity. , .
Sir John Sinclair has found, that the m«r«ie
of inhabitants over all Scotland, within the t
forty vears. notwithstanding wars, emigratio ,
&c. is'little short of half a million of peop'f
parishes, which in 1755 contained 10,59 1
tants, in 1790 contained 25,249, an incre
8668.
LIVERPOOL, July x 6,
The man who overftepstheg geni us' ° f h 'V£e
whether it be a statesman, who has the co
and virtue? to break through the rimpa" °
pillar and ancient prejudices, cemente W
felf jnterefl. of those who profit by ' e
or the philosopher, who by his di cove ft
tens the progressive improvement or
mind ; or the moralist, who by some JTrrnpt
fort of genius is able to stem the tide o j:
ed manners, and turn it into P ur f r ° jjmes,
carries with hini his exigence nit" " " e [, t i
and becomes one of the links often unp
of the great chain of causes and ette
the moral world is suspended.BIRMINGHAM, July 19.
An inflammatory bill in Doctor Prieltley's
hand writing was found among his papers, and
has been transmitted to the Secretary of State—
the Doctor is at Kidderininfter, to which place
it is (aid the populace mean to follow him. His
doctrines, they avow, were meant to subvert the
Conllitution.
When all the Difienters are extirpated from
Birmingham, the people fay riot fliall cease.
The realon why there is 110 military quartered
at Birmingham is, that it is not a market town,
and that quartering soldiers upon manufacturers
would be considered as a grievance, where pro
visions of courle would be extremely dear. The
highelt Civil Officer i?i the town is a Constable.
JVlr. Caerlefs and Mr. Spencer, are the two near
est Magistrates, Mr. Caerlefs attended and did
all in his power to flop the fury of the enraged
multitude.
The mob wear blue ribbons, and are particu
larly observant in guarding the Churchmen's
houses.
In the beginning of the riot, about 300 people
of the town, attempted to oppose the mob, but
were repelled and extremely ill treated.
About 60 of the mob have been killed, besides
a number of people on both fides much wounded.
The Diflenters have all of them fled from the
town in the utmost confirmation, and mod of
them are gone to Wolverhampton and Kidder
miniler.
NEW-HAVE N, September T4.
On Monday the 12th instant the drawing of
the New-Haven Wharf Lottery commenced in
this City.—No Prizes higher than 50 Dollars are
yet drawn out—a large proportion of Blanks are
drawn—of course the Lottery is considerably
richer than it was when the drawing began.
BOSTON, September 10.
The orders issued for a review of the Salem Regiment, the Inde
pendent Coaps of Cadets, and Artillery Campany, at Salem, on Tuesday
last, were countermanded, in confequcnce of the weather being un
favorable— N 7 everthclefs the officers of the several corps, with the
Judge and other officers of the Didrift Court, the clergy, and a
number of other refpe&able citizens, and strangers, moved from
Col. Bbbot's in procellion, attended bv the music, to the Court-
Houfe —where an elegant dinner was previously provided, at which
they partook. After dinner, among other patriotic toasts, was
the following—" The per fevering and ftccefful Negotiator for the
FISHERIES of our country —/so Vice-President of the United
States J ' —which was received with great applause.
Two fifhing.veficls, which arrived at Beverly, on Monday last,
brought in above ftven hundred quintals of filh.—The largest fare
ever remembered.
Since the last publication of Donations,the American Academy
of Arts has received,
The fir ft part of the third Volume of a Botanical Arrangement
of British plants, by William Withering, M. D. F. R. S. and Jo
nathan Stokes, M. D.—presented by Dr. Stokes, and communi
cated bv the Rev. Dr. Culler.
The fifth Volume of the Bath Agricultural Society's Papers, and
four copies of ihe rules, orders, and premia of said Society, for
the year 1790.
Several copies of a Profpe&us of an intended new periodical
work, to be called the Bee, or Universal Literary Intelligcncer.
The Library of the late President of the Academy, confiding
of more than 1200 Volumes, alfb loel L. M.
1 wo Catalogues of the Library of Harvard University, presented
by the Corporation.
rwo Volumes of the MaJJachufetts Magazine, presented by the
Editors >
Several Copies of the Sermon preached hv the Rev. Perer Tha
chfr, on the late President of the Academy—-presented by Mrs.
Eowdoin.
The firft Volume of the Gazette of the United States—presented
by the Ed nor.
14 Les Arts, et lis Metiers" in 32 Vols. Folio—bequeathed to the
Academy, by Dr. Franklin.
The Byzantine hlifiory, in 28 Vols, and Muraton's CoHeflion, in 29
Vols.—prefented by the President of the Academy.
Mathematical Tables, containing Common, Hyperbolic, and Lo
gistic Logarithms, &c. Elements of Conic Sections," a Treatise on
Mensuration, and an authentic Narrative of the DifTentions and
Debates in the Royal Society—presented by Charles Hutton, L. L. D
F. R. S.
A young Alligator, and a very curious Pipe, from the Emperour
of Morocco's dominions—given by Mr. Cneckley, of Savannah
( Georgia.)
Petrified Worms, with the wood which they had penetrated,
and a petrified Lemon, and some curious Shells—presented by
Thomas Beautii>_au, of Point-Petre, communicated by the Pre
sident.
' Diogenes Laertius—prefented by Dr. Mitchel, of Long-Ijland,
communicated by the Prefidenr.
N E W- L O N D O \ T , Sept. 15.
INSURRECTION OF NEGROES.
Last Tuesday evening arrived here the Brig Three-Brothers,
Cape. Edger'ton, in 20 days from Cape-Francois. In this vessel
came MclT. Ruftan and Fauras, who are deputed from the AflVm
b!y at the Cap , to folifit alTiftance from the United States. They
inform, that on the 23d ult. a general infurre&ion of the Negroes
took place in that quarter of the Cape—that they had deftr yed
all the plantations by fire—that they maflacred without diilin&ion
every white man in their power—and that the morning this vessel
failed, the village of three miles of the Cape,
•wa* deftroved—that the negroes are in immenfebodies—that they
have cut off all communication with any part of the country—
have entirely surrounded the Cape, and are within two miles of
it on every quarter —that a general embargo had taken place, and
all the failoi s were on shore doing military duty—that all the
flipping were crowdetj with women and children, and effects of
the inhabitants. ExpreflTes have been sent to Jamaica and the
Havanna, to procure afliftance.
N E W - Y O R K, September 19
Extract of a letter fro.u agentleman at Cape- Francois,
to his friend in this city, dated duguft. 26, I 791.
" Tlie day after my ]alt (Aug. 22) an infur
recflion broke out amongst the Negroes and Mu
lattoes, and they are now destroying every per
son and thingthey come across. Thereare now
eleven plantations on fire in fight, and where it
;wU] .end.God^'only-knows. The inhabitants ar£
in the greatest Fear the town will be burnt, and
every American here mounts guard nightly. The
inhabitants will not fufFer any vessel to depart,
fearing they will be under the necessity of em
barking."
SALE M, September 13.
Mr. Ebenezer Gillies, of Marblehead, a few
days ago,, fell in with a large fhell-fifli, about 15
leagues from Cape-Ann, which he took and bro't
in with him. It differed in many refpecSs from
the turtle—in the form of its head and
fippers-— and the lines of partition 011 the upper
shell were raised into ridges, the several parts
folding over each other; which makes it, ac
cording to Dr. Lifter, of the multlvalvia kind. It
weighed 7121b.
ERUM THE BEE.
THERE is a strange propenfny in perlons of genius, to obtrude
forgeries on the public, and a ftilj stranger propenfuy in the
public, to admit them as genuine, without anv examination at all.
Let me give a few instances in proof of this; they are the firft
that occur to my memory. " The memoirs of a Cavalier" was
twenty years ago an esteemed book of authentic history: that it
was a lorgery, some unknown writer demonstrated, in an Edin
burgh magazine ; nevertheless it would have maintained its repu
tation, had not a sudden zeal for the glory of Daniel Derte lately
announced him as the ingenious former.
There are many who Bill bjieve Hardicanutc to be an ancient
ballad, though the language, manners, every thing, shew it to be
a modern composition, and though the author be perfe&ly well
known.
" The travels of Mr. Marshall" had their reign, though (hort,
over popular credulity. Genel/i and Kolbcn still keep their ground.'
" The letteis of Pope Gangantlli" were read with much admi
ration, even by protestants: but Voltaire deteded the imposture,
and justly ; for he owed that to the public.
It is but the other day that " the letters of the Duchess of Or
leans" came out with a new aflortment of chara&ers and anec
dotes. The impoftuie haidly lived to fee a translation from the
French.
Philadelphia, September 21.
The firft clause of the Bill which was sent to the Senate from
the House of Representatives, giving Justices of the Peace Cogni
zance of Debts amounting to 201. was negatived in the Senate on
Satuidav last:—in consequence of which the bill is loft.
The sum of 20,000!. was voted by the Senate to be inserted in
the Federal Building Bill, to defray the cxpences incurred by the
Corporation for the accommodation of Congress, See. and to ere£}
a House for the President of the United States.
The Corporation are to be confined in their choice of a lot for
this purpose, to High-Street, between Ninth-Street and the
Schuylkill.
The General Aflembly of the State of Delaware have refojved,
that a Convention shall be chosen by the people of that state, for
the purpose of revising and amending their Constitution, which is
to tneet in the'town of Dover on Tuesday the 29th of November
next. The Convention is to con flit of thirty pcrfons. The three
counties, viz. Newcaflflc, Kent, and Sussex, to chafe ten each.
Wednesday the 12th inft. the anniversary Commencement of
Rhode-Island College was celebrated at the Meeting-house of the
late President, Dr. Manninc. The Hon. David Howell,
Esq. was appointed President for the day, and did himfelf honor
by the judicious manner in which he executed the important trust.
The young Gentlfefoen acquitted themfelvcs to the univcrfal ap
plause oF cr'ouded audiences in both parts of the day.
The exercises being finifhed, the Degree of Bachelor in Arts
was conferred on sixteen candidates, and that of Mailer of Arts on
thirteen.
No eledion of President took place, but efFe&ual meafuresare
taken to secure the inftru&ion and dilcipline of the College for the
enfuiitg year.
Proposals for eftablifliing a Bank in the State of Rhode-Island
are publilhed in the Providence Gazette of the 10th inft.
It is to consist of 400 shares, at 400 dollars each. The fubferip
tion to be opened at the Court-house in Providence on the firft
Monday of October next. The stock to be one half specie, the
other half in 6'per cents, and three per cents fecuiities of the
United States. Payments to be made in four equal parts of secu
rities and specie—the firft payment the firft Monday in O&ober,
the fecoud in January, the third in April, and the fourth in July
next. Those who prefer paying their whole fubfeription in gold
and f»lver, are to allow 21s. for 2Cs. of the 6 per cents, and 12s. for
the 3 per cents.
By the {hip Atlantic, arrived at thir port from Liverpool, fur
ther accounts are received of the laje riots at Birmingham the
papers arc-to the 28th July, and contain among other articles an
acidrcfs to the people, from Dr. Piicflley ; which ihall appear in
our next,
COMMUNICATIONS.
The ted of patriotifin in almost every country
where rhe government has long been eltablifhed,
has been considered as confiding in an opposition
to the exiding adminidration. On this princi
ple, what a fucceflion n f patriotic charatfters have
rilen, and floated for a time on the sea of British
politics—When the triumphs of a Marlborough had
eclipsed in glory, all his cotemporaries, and had
thrown the exploits of ancient heroes into the
and high-churchmtn, unable to be
hold the splendor of his actions, formed a coali
tion, and became the patriots of the day—nor
could the nation have red, till ihofe patriots suc
ceeded to the appointments enjoyed by the ob
jects of their enmity and malignity.—ln Wal
pole't time, the patriots rung an inceflant peale
in the ears of the people, till, having effected
the removal of that odious minider, their zeal
was cooled by the breath of royal favor. Stars
and garters succeeded—and the patriotifin of
a Pulteney was hid in the blaze of a coronet.
In the reign of George the Third, what a series
of patriotic names in rapid succession havepafled
away !—till the present prime ininiiter, Mr .Pitt,
became fixed, changes wer* perpetually taking
place—Many and powerful were the exertions
tnade to effedt hit removal ; they have hitherto
proved ineffe 'tnal; and conrary to former times,
167
thefwnJs of the government flow begin to as
sume with its oppofirs the honourable appellati
i on of patriots. rr
® ut , j £ he P e ople of England are justly to be ap
plauded for their attachment to an adminiftrati
son which has done more in seven years • to re
trieve their affairs, than had been effected in the
Jf 1 , \ U !.y Preceding .years, yet, that this spirit
ftould dilcover itfelf in the revival of prejudices,
which to the honor of human nature are ahnofl:
extinrt in every other country, is greatly to be
lamented—" Church?nen and ' -Diffe/itets," —What
grating founds for the 18th century ! Religiour
bigotry and intolerance, are yniverlally repro
bated by the enlightened part*of mankind ; and
it is no longer afubjecft of conjecture, but of ac
tual experiment, that the human mind may be
left in perfetft freedom, as to religious and moral
truths, and the mode of performing religious
worihip ; while at the fame time, all the pur--
poses for which government ought to beinftitut
ed, are fully obtained and realized—Of this trufh
the, United States, under the present form of go
vernment, exhibit inconteftible, and irrrefraga-'
ble evidence. ___
It has been said that " there is a system of
opinions peculiar to every age"—the experience
of the present day fully confirms this sentiment;
one opinion of the present system is that liberty
ought 10 bs universal; happy would it be for the
human race were mankind united, in the means
of eftetfting this noble idea ; but as in our pur
suit of happiness the route is as various, and as
opposite, as the tastes and propensities of our
species, so in refpetft to the methods to be adopt
ed for the attainment of universal Freedom, Jll
- paflion, ignorance and prejudice hi
therto presented infuhnountable barriers to the
efforts of the friends of humanity. In the Uni
ted States, Liberty found a foil congenial to her
nature ; the way was prepared for the compleat
triumph of her charms ; we freely admitted her
influence into our hearts, and prepared an im
mortal dome for her refidencein a just equal and
energetic government.
In Europe she has to encounter corruption in
every form, gigantic prejudices, and the darkness
of ignorance among the great mass of the pee-"-
ple : The rays of reason have however glorious
ly broke in upon their minds, the night is far
spent, and the day is at hand," and we doubt
not that the time is not far distant when with one
voice the worid shall proclaim, that tyranny '
shall be no longer !
Tentanda via tjl. ' \
The commercial enterprizesof the Americans have been crown
ed with a fuccels unequalled, but by the unexampled boldnefsand
originality which charafterifed their formation. Every thing,
therefore, which affymes the least countenance of practicability,
may very properly be unfolded to speculation. It is a known
fa6t, that the populous city of Constantinople derives its subsistence
by the way of the Archipelago : this, during a war with a mari.
time power, renders a supply precarious and contingent. A
eminent writer, thoroughly conversant in the polity of the Turks,
relates, that during the whole of a former war, " neutral velfcls
br.ly were employed in carrying corn on the Grand Seignior's ac
count; and the Porte'gave the French a preference'very profitable
to their merchants. I mult not omit (fays he) to mention in this
note a speculation of commerce, capable of enlightning the policy
of nationsAn Englilb veflel, loaded with rice, from Carolina,
failed dire£Hy for Constantinople, induced by accounts publilhed
in newspapers; (he was conGgoed to no one, but fold her cargo '
in the harbour." Gen. Adv.
Married, on Tuesday the 13th inft. at Friends' Meeting, Mr.
Joseph James, Printer, to.Mil's Hopkins, daughter ot Mr. Sa
muel Hopkins, all of this City. ,
At Newport, Rhode-Island, John Cofpin Jones, Esq. to
the amiable Miss Eliza daughter of Chriftophcr
Champlin, Esq. of that place.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Success, Pitt, Lisbon
Apollo, Billings, Oporto
Atlantic Swaine, Liverpool
Brig Planter, Poole, St. Croix
Mary, Moil, Barbadoea
Prince of Wales, Dawfon, Newfoundland
Schooner Two Brothers, Baker, Havanna
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC.SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT. ,
6 pr. Cen(» ao/(5 sofy pr. £ . io3jpr. cent.
3 pr. Crnt» 11/9 57 } do.
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents lif go do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 19/ ig/6
Indents \\.f&
N. and S. Carolina debts,
Bank Subscriptions, 135
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night wa» broke open the Storeot the subscriber, at Bor- ,
dentown, and (lolen from the fame the following articles, viz.'
One hair trunk, containing woroeci' wearing aft>arel; i fmali
box, containing four clocks and one down leftamenU; 1 ditto
containing one boitle green cloth coat, one striped veil and
breeches, two rtiirts and a small bag with 36 dollars a«d 201. to*
30s. |e.ley coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible," with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
ihcm large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen pafte-boaidj. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau.
with black fides.
A reward ol Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the pbove property, so that the owners may have the articles
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
JOHN VAN EMB' RCH
Bordentown, New.Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. f<P"l
97i
s"i do '
Dollars,NEW CONSTITUTION
OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF POLAND, See. &c.
ARTICLE VII
Tht King, or Executive Piwer.
F T" , HE King's Council of lufpeiftion is toconfilt,
JL ill, Of the Priniare, as the head of tlie
Clergy, and the President of the Commifiion ot
Education, or the firl* Biihop in Ordinc.
2d, Of five Minillers, viz. the Minilter of Po
lice, Miniller of Jultice, Minilter of War, Minis
ter of Finances, and Minilter for the Foreign
Affairs.
3<l, Of two Secretaries to keep t'.ie Protocols,
ope for the Council, another for the Foreign De
pairtjnent ; both, however without decisive vote,
The hereditary Prince coming of age, and ha
■vi«g taken the oath to preserve iheConilicutioi!.
may aililt' at all fellions of the Council, but fliall
Jiave no vote therein
The Marftial of the Diet being chofcn for two
rears, has also aright to lit in this Council, with
>ut taking any (hare in its resolves ; for the end
mly to call together the Diet, always exiitingin
;he following cafe ; Should he deem, from the
emergencies hereunder fpecified, the convocation
of the Diet absolutely neceflary, and. the King
refuting to do it, the Marshal is bound to iflue
his circular letters to all Nuncios and Senators,
adducing real motives forfuch meeting.
The cases demanding such convocation of the
Diet are tile following.
ift. In a prefiing necessity concerning the law
of the nation, and particularly in cafe of a neigh
bouring war.
2d. In cafe of'an internal commotion, mena
cing the revolution of the country, or of a collu
sion between magillratures.
3d. 111 an evident danger of general famine.
4th. In the orphan state of the country, by de.
mife of the King, or in cafe of the King's dan.
gerous illness.
All the resolutions of the Council of Infpeftion,
ire to be examined by the rules above mentioned.
The King's opinion, after that of every Mem
ber in the Council has be?n heard,fhall decisively
prevail.
Every resolution of this Council fliall be iff'ued
tinder the King's lignature, countersigned by one
of the Minilteis fitting therein ; and thusfigned,
ftiall be obeyed by all executive departments, ex
cept in cases expressly exempted by the present
Constitution.
Should all the members refufe their counter
lign to any resolution.the King is obliged to fore
go his opinion ; but if he should perfilt in it, the
Marshal of the Diet may demand the convocation
of the Diet ; and if the King will not, the Mar
shal himfelf shall fend his circular letters as a
bove.
Ministers eompofing this Council cannot be
employed at the fame time in any other commii
fion or department.
If it lliouhl happen that two thirds of secret
Votes in both Houses, demand the changing of
any person, ehher in Council, or any Executive
department, the King is bound to nominate ano
ther.
Willing that the Council of Inspection (hould
be responsible to the nation for their actions, we
decree that, when these Minilters are denounced
and accused before the Diet (by the fpecia] Com
mittee appointed for examining their proceed
ings) of any tranfgreflion of positive law, they
are answerable with their persons and fortunes.
Such impeachments being determined by a Am
ple majority of votes, collected jointly from both
floufes, /hall be tried immediately by the com
mital tribunal, where the accused are to receive
their final judgment and punilhment, if found
guilty ; or to be honorably acquitted, on fuffici
cient proof of innocence.
In order to form a neceflary organization of
the Executive power, we eftabli/h hereby sepa
rate commilfions, connected with the above Coun
cil, and fubjetfted to obey its ordinations.
These com millions are, tft, of Education ; 2 d
of Police ; 3d, of War ; 4th, of Treafnry.
It is through the medium ofthefe four depart
ments that all the particular orderly conimillions,
as efiablifhed by the present Diet, in every pala
tinate and dtftricfi, (hall depend on, and receive
all orders from the Council of lnfpe<2ion,in their
reipeiitive duties and occurrences.
Georgetown, September 9, 179,.
Sa ] CS °[ ,hc Lots in lhe Fedf ral Cit\ will commence on
JL Monday the » 7th day of October next. The Commiffioncr"
finding they may enga K e material and workmen for the public
build,ngs to any def,table extent; with a view to draw ,h f J
~.">,fV»..,0 facilitate thework,
down "ih W1 r ', CC ' Ulrt l '"4 th P art ot lhe p 11, chafe money to be paid
ter ft ' e be on with fecuritv, pa ,able with i.i.
bc pubkfi.cci at.Thc Me """"' """"" lm P r °«n>c,,t will
Thomas Johnson,
Dav i u Stuar t, ( Coir.mifljoaers,
Daniel Carroll, )
(concluded.)
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and EOHEA
TEA S,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,icc.Sic
Of the fit it quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Sirect, between Chefnut and MarketStrcet».
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New.Jersey, id Class—to commcncc drawing 26th inft. ) Pofi-
Malfachufeils Semi-annual, 2d Clals, 13th October. ) lively
Mav be had above.
JF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of Little York, in Virginia,
(but originally of Scarborough, in York(hire, G r eat-Britain)
will make himlelf known, together with his prcfent place of re
fidcnce, either to his brother Joh n Franks, who is now in this
Port, or to the fubferiber, he will hear of fomethino greatly to his
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diftri£fc of Maine) Augujl 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the decease ot Mr. Franks, his legal heir cr
heirs are requeftcd to forward their names and places of abode to
Mi. Robinson, as above.
W. M'D OUG ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks lor the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
ot his fchoo) for decorum and good order, as well as ihe perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpedtable (hare of the
public favor.
A number of now Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the moil approved
llile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carnage and
manners.
A general pra&ifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wtdnrfday ; when the
employers, and ftrangcrsof genteel deportment, will he admitted.
Thefc pra&ifmgs will be attended with no expcnce.
N, B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number oifeJ".
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
LOUISIANA.
A LL those persons who have an inclination to fettle on the rich
lands oi the Mtfiflippi, can have a palfage to New Orleans
about the 20th of O&obcr next. Each single man on his arrival
there, will have a grant of two hundred and forty acres of land,
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, a larger quantity, in proportion to the numbcrof his familv.
For further particulars, enquire of MeiTis. Stew art & Nesbi tt,
No. 15, South Water-Street.
Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on CO M M IS S I O K by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chrfnut-Strret, next door to tin; Bank, No q-
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
and NEW-HAVEN '
LOTTERY TIC K E TS,
To be had at the fame place.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private file, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all isles or purchases at auflion, one
eighth per cent.
O" ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, opc-halj per cent.; and 011 all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, onc-fouith per cent.
For receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, onedo/lar each transfer."
83" Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the Cubfcribers with their orders may rely on
their bein K executed with punauality,jdclity and diflatch, as conli
derable exoenence in the public (locks, together with extcnfive
connexions in the cuy of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Strict.
(Q7 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all io whom these presents (hall come, or in any wife concern'
1 nat J'j GARDNER, ' a 'c of Wilmington, North-Carolina!
i.r'i'cn,. f ,°^ r P rom,ff '"y notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the iqth
July, 1785, one for three hundred and fevemy-one pounds, pay
able in fix monihs—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds
in nine months-one lor fevenhundred andforty pounds, intwelve'
momhs-ai,d one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
L '° THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the .aid Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and fo.ty-feven pounds fifteen ll,il
lings and lix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co
in proof ol which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers
a u rc ,h ' r f, lore all persons from purchase said
notes as thev will not be taken up. g
THOMAS WRIGHT )
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors.
_ ,M. R- WILLKINGSA
» I'wrtoK. Nmth-Caroln.a, yjtl Mm, , 79 ,
THF frimmT Philadelphia, 201b July, 1701.
***y»»•*
form the Stockholders of the id Bank that antlefH V '' n
five Direflors w ill be held at : h7c"iU. HIIH
Friday the „ft day of October next, a. ,o o'clock in
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTEN'HOUSE
- SAMUKL HOWKLL.
§§=-OSSSSSS~
168
(ep. 3 m
Price current—Philadelphia,
SEPTEMBER 2\.—Dollars at 7/6.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 J
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 32* 6i
Dmo, Roch pr. lb. \cd
A foes, pot, per ton, 37/ ioj
—Pearl, 50/
Arrack, pr. gall. ICS I2s6d
Brandy, common, 75 6J
.Cogftiac 9' 6d
Braziletto, pr. ton. I*2/16/
Bricks pr. M 2*,s to 3ss
Bread, ship pr. cwt. ist
Ditto, pilot 27s 6d
Ditto, small water 40* 45/
Beer, American, in bot. ]
pr. doz. hot. incl. J ( J
pr. bbl. 35*
to (" Oak pr.M feet, 67s 4/
0 j Mcrcb. pine ioo.r
5 Sap, do. 3/
O I N. Eng. 82s
23 [.Cedar iooj
The above arc the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard pj ices add 15s pr M.
Brtmftone in rolls pr.cwt. £6j
Clrifn pr. bbl.
< Boston 55 r
( Country
Butter pr. lb. 141/
in kegs 10d
Cedar,rednmbcr pr.foot2J2.»6j
Chocolate pr. lb. i2</
Coal pr. buihel is 6d
Coffee pr. lb. 13d
Cinnamon ißj 20/
Cheese, Englilh is 4 J
Country gd
2 f Sppr. pr. lb. 3J 2d
~ I Wax 4 s 3 d
P Myrtle Wax 12d
{ Mould,tallow 11 d
G I Dipped 9£</
Cotton 1J 81/ ?.j
Currants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 14J
Cordage 6oj 62i6</'
Cocoa 62i6d 6"js6d
Duck, RufTia, pr. pure Boj
Ravens 6ys-jn6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 'j6i6d
Common, , 33J 6d
Bur middlings,beft. 31J
Middlings ' 24/
Ship-fluff pr. cwt. jj6d io*
Flax pr. lb. B^d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8d
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 4s gd
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, ■wlnterace 65J
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginfcng, 1/6 1/10
Gunpo w der, cannon,pr. )
quarter.calk, )
('• f-)
r«']
Ditto, fine glazed 35J 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5s $d
Do. pr. cafe, 30/
J Wheat pr. buHi 6s 8d 7s
Rye 31 6 d
I OalS ii 6d
< <{ Indian corn 3 s 3 s
I Bailey 3/
| tteft fhclled pr. lb. yd
Buckwheat 2s 6d
Hemp,for. pr. ton, 45^53^
American, pr. lb. 4d
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5.6/
Herrings, pr. bb). ißj 20J
Hides, raw pr. lb. 91/ 10d
Hops 7S
Indigo, French, ioj
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f Callings 22s 6d 30J
Tt, j Bar pr. ton, 29/32/
3 «< Pig 10/
m j Sheet 65/
Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. ioj 40/
Lard, hogs qd 10d
Lead in pigs 40J $2S 6d
in bars 50s
Lead, white 75J 801
red ijoj
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 1 s6d
Lignum yitae pr. ion 42s 45J
Lot wood 7 / 5 j 8/
M>al, Indian, pr. bbl. ijs
Rye 25 s
Mackarel,beft none.
Common 2^r
Macc pr. lb. 55s
Mustard r>.s
Madder, bed 1 18d
MolafFes pr. gall. 2s6d2sgd
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 14*
Ma'ft (pars 2J 6d js
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails, iod\2d&.2od—
' Linseed, pr. gall. 6d
Train u 10d 2s
Soermaccti 3J 6d
Whaie is 6d 2s
•T <j Olive 6f 6d
I Ditto pr. cafe
I Best fwcet in )
flalks.pr. bo\, $
L--bafkcts 12 bottles37j6t/
Oak timber pr. ton 38*
Porter pr. bl. 405
London,pr. doz.i 2s 6d 15/
Published, and to be fold by the Editor, price £th of a Dollar*
TWENTY- SIX LETTERS,
On the most important SubjeOs
Refpe&ing the REVOLUTION* of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the year 1780.
By the Vice-President of the United States.
gCT* 'The price of this Paper is 3 Doll"'' 1 t er ttnr '
Tt*. QUANTITY
Porter, American pr. doz •-'
pr . bbl. P '70
Pork, Burlington, ro,
-- -Lower county " '
Carolina
Peas, Albany .' [
Pepper, p r . lb. " '
Pimento
k"T P r - cwt - ti'll
Rohn pr. bbLi
Kaifins, best, pr. ke-
Ditto pr. jar °
Ditto pr. box
f Jamaica pr. g,n. 6 ,^
? I w "5 ua w
C? Windward { , ►~/ ,
< R I J 0 6'
ci ) Barbadoes 6 ,
• Country, St
tTalfia ' ,j V
SafTafras pr. , on 4 . J'"
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. Iliad
Sulphur, flour
Shot
j f German pr.cwt.
g )Engli(h, bhttered -' s
h jAmertcan pr. ton 40 / f w
«I. Crowley's pr. fag. 8o(
SnaKeroot pr. lb. „SJ 2jM
Soap .Common
• Brown
r-C.oile
Starch , »
2J 4 i 3 ,6J
Spermaceti, refined, ,; ir »
bail Cloth, Engl.flO "
pr. yard,
Bolton, No. I
~ No. 11. 2 i.d
• Ruflia (hecting. or. p cor
f Lump, put?' P J£
j Loaf, (ingle ufined uOi
<J Ditto, double do. üßi
1 Havannah, white 12d
tsi Ditto, brown, r,I
I Mufcovada,or.ewt 67.1821
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall, 4[
( Allum pr. bull,. U
} Liverpool 2JJ j
< J Carl,,. '
1/1 (Lifton 2mJ
Ship build. W.O.frames'] 901
P- lon » j 100 X
LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5;
Shingles, ihort, p. M. 22s 11
lowg drcflcd 37-'6i
Scantling, heart, Bo> low
Sd P S os w
c Pipe pr. 13co pieiCi b;i
2 | W. O. hoglhtdd 7/ 2/ 6J
li 6 2s
9 s
R. O. do,
I.cogan
> J R.o.
< , Lcogan
Barrel
I Heading
Otter, best pr. piece 3c
Minks u6u ji
Fox, grey o,
red 4*B).}
Martins
~ <j Jifhcr? 2s6d
Bears i*i6dzsi
Racoons 2s 41
Musk-rats gd is HA
Beaver, pr. lb. ;j6 10/
_Decj,mhair is 6d 913 d
Tar,N.Jer(ey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 7/6
• Carolina, 32 gall. ioj
Turpentine pi. bbl. 12s 6d
. j' James R. new heft 28/
2 • inferior •ios2 r, Jbd
— old ■ m
~ J Rappahannock 18/9 2-,J S
O J Colo. Maryland £0j tog
y ' Dark j8;
Long-leaf ißj
cs Ealicrn-lhore 1531716*/
P ! Carolina, new 22j 6/
old 2216^251
j Hyson pr. lb. ysS.<qiJ
co i Hyson fk.ll, 41 6i 64
<■( Souchong, 3! Cdp
h I Congo, 3.41/ 3*91
l_liohca, 2J9</
2 s I s
50s
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box,
Vcidigreafe pr. lb.
Vermillion, 12/
Varnish, 2 /6i
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/751
Lisbon
TenerifFe 20/10J 3c f
w Fayal pr. gall. 3 jo<2 '
1 Pore pr. pipe 36/43'
r 1 1 Ditto pr. gall.
j Do. in bottlci, pr.doz. 30J
J Claret 3 0i 45 5
! Sherry pr. gall. 6*9"' 9'
L Malaga 5' 616J
Wax, Bees pr. lb. zs
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2*3*
—fliort, pr. Ib. l f
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go davs, '3
Ditto 60 days 74
Ditto 3c aays ",h
AmfUrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 11® 3'
30 days 3 Jia
Government bills, diawn ai
days per 11 guilders, 23 s ~
213 i
it 613 d
61
si l i>
61
ioos