PUBLISHiv}.)- V V DNXSDA {S. AND SATURDAYS MY J/i/i v rr»;*ro *. T' ~ — — — ..
' ' ' ' : ' • 6l ' MC'H-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 57, of Vol. lII.]
PHILADELPHIA
ORD I N
BY E -
r O R THE
REGULATION
BANK OF THE UN I TED STATES.
Ar a general meeting of .the Stoc^husf
!:« M ?-•' • C tUts United State:,\ held at the
Citv-i.all in Philadelphia, on Monday evening,
Ofteber 31, 1791, agreeably to adjournmenf—
"JV/TR: BINGHAM, from the Committee ap
pointed or the last meeting to report such
fiy.-'.aw Ordinances, and Regulations, as flial]
seem necefi'u y and convenient for the Govern
ment of the Corporation, made report—and the
fame being Laken into consideration, after debate,
the Stockholders agreed to the following Ordi-
nancf : —
SECTION I.
THE Charter of Incorporation granted to the
•Bank of the United States, amongst other rights,
privileges and abilities therein conveyed, having
impowered the Stockholders at general
legally convened, to make, ordain, establish and,
put in execution, such Bye-Laws, Ordinances and
Regulations, as shall seem neceflary and conve
nient for the government of the said Corporation :
Be it ordained, by the President, Directors and
T —j --
SECTION 11.
• That the Bank shall beopen for the tranfadion
of bhfinefs, every day in the year (Sundays, Christ
mas-day, and the fourth of July, excepted) du
ring ftich hours as the Board of Directors flial!
deem advisable.
SECTION 111.
That the boots and accounts of the Bank shall
be kept in Dollars and Cents, and ftiall 'Je regu
larly balanced on the firll Mondays in January
and July, in each year; when the half-yearly
I)ividends ihall be declared and published in at
least four of the public riewfpapers.
SECTION IV.
That the Bank Ihall take charge of the Ca(h of
*11 those who chufe to place it there (free of ex
pence) and (hall keep it fubjedl to their erder,
payable at fight; and /hall receive deposits of
ingots of gold, bars of silver, wrought plate, or
other valuable articles of small bulk, :n the fame
manner, and return them on demand of the de-
politor.
SECTION V
That the Bank shall receive all specie coins,
according to the rates and value that have been
•r (hall hereafter be established by Congress.
SECTION VI
That until offices of discount and deposit /hall
be eftabliihed, there lfaa.ll be at lead twodifconnt
days in every week, when meetings of the Board
of Directors Ihall be assembled.—Discounts (hall
be made at a rate not exceeding Six per Cent, per
■annum, on Notes or Bills of Exchange that have
not more than sixty days to run, and wi ih at lead
two responsible names, and under such modifica
tions, as the Board of Directors, in their discre
tion, shall deem fatisfatfory and expedient.
SECTION VII
That the President /hall have power to con
vene the Directors on special occnfions, and with
the approbation of the Board of Directors, to as-
A N C E,
AND
a iv s;
% *
OFT H E
* r*. ,
Saturday, November i 2, 1791.
fix the seal of the Corporation to all conveyan
ces or other inftrunitnrs, and sign the fame in
behalf of the Corporation—the fitjd seal /hall
always remain in the custody and fafe keeping
of the President.
SECTION VIII
That a Committee of the Board, confiding of
at lead three members to be elected monthly by
bailor, fi-r.H \;!;t th -.iults,iii which the cafliaind
utfc : r eftecls fliall « ,"'epofited, at lead once in
every month, and make an inventory of the fame,
to be compared with fise books, in order to ascer
tain whether they perfectly agree therewith.
SECTION IX
That no notes of the Bank (hall be (truck or
signed, or Bank Paper made, but by direction of
the Board
SECTION X
That in cafe the Ba-rd of Directors fliall at
any time mai;e a Dividend exceeding the profits
of the Bank and thereby diminish the capital
Stock, the Members aflenting thereto, shall be
liable in their feverai Individual capacities for
the amount of the fun sfo divided.
SECT O N XI.
That the Board of DJreiflors fliall, previous to
the firft clay of D.eceni'icr in every year, call a
Teueral Meetingof the Stockholders to be affem
>led, within three days after each annual Elec-
tion
S E C 1J O N xir,
powered to demand, and receive from the Com
missioners appointed to superintend the fub'fcrip
tions to the capital Stockof the Bank, all Monies
which have been paid to the said Cotnmiffioners
on account of the fir ft specie payment, together
with the original Book of subscription.
O I
SECTION XIII,
That the Board of Directors are hereby autho
rized to ascertain and determine in what manner
the remaining portions of the capital StQck, due
on the (hares subscribed, consisting of specie and
public Debt, (hall be paid and received, and they
are hereby further authorised and impowered
to receive into their pofeilion the Certificates of
said public Debt, and demand and receive by
their I'refident, or in such other manner as they
(hall think proper, the interest that shall accrue
and become due upon the fame, and to give re
ceipts therefor in behalf of the said Corporation.
SECTION XIV.
That the Board of Directors are hereby au
thotized and impowered to fix and eftabliffi re
quisite, fafe and convenient forms for transfer
ring Bank Stock ; for receiving half yearly di
vidends ; for conveying a right to Proxies to re
present Stockholders at any general Meeting af
ter the second Monday of January next ; for the
Certificates of capital Stock of the Bank ; for the
circulating and post Notes of tlie Bank ; and for
the oath or affirmation of the Officers of the
Bank, previous to their entering oil the cxecu
tion of their refpeiftive duties.
SECTION XV
That the Board of Directors are hereby au
thorized and inipowered to establish a common
seal, with fnitable devices ; toafcertain and mark
out the various duties and employments of the
Officers, Clerks and Servants of the Bank, and
to diretft them accordingly—as well as to deter
mine the amount of Securities they ffiall refpec
225
Ukso
[Whole No. 265.]
tively give for the faithful discharge of their
duties : to aiiign to the President such additional
functions, as are not already designated by law—
and to re-iflae or renew at their discretion the
Notes in circulation
SECTION XVI,
That file Directors fliall have power to make
loans to the government of the United States, or
of any State, to fueh extent and on fucli terms,
as they fliall deem expedient, not contrary to
law ; provided that a Board consisting of notlefs
than a majority of the whole number of Direc
tors, fliall be neceflary to decide in all such cases.
SECTION XVIf
That the Board of Directors are hereby author
ized to lease or hire for a term not exceeding two
years such Suitable buildings as the administra
tion of the affairs of the Bank may require.
SECTION XVIII
That in cafe it /hall happen that an eJedtion i
Directors (hall not be made at a meetibg of t'
Stockholders for that purpose on the fir(t Mont
■ of January next, and on said day in each fucce.
year, it (hall be lawful for the Stockholdt
to adjourn said meetingtoany future day vvithi.
five days from said firft Monday of January," and
at said adjournment to make, complete and finifli
said election.
SECTION XIX
That the Board of Directors are hereby ini
powered to form and establish all other BjjJei
and Regulations unanney may aeem neceil'ary
for the interior management of the Bank.
On motion, Resolved, That it is the sense of
the Stofkholders of the Bank of the United States,
that ilie President and Directors, ffiould turn
their immediate attention to the establishment of
Offices of Difconnt and Depofic at such places in
tbe United States as the interest and fafety of the
inflitution will admit. Attest,
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
If it is not in coup [lent -with the plan of your paper, to
admit oj Respondents as well as Correspondents,
you -will oblige me by publijhing a few remarks, from
time to time, upon the obfrvatiotis occafonally made
by some of the latter.
IN your Gazette of the 2d inft. one of them ob
serves, that " the general happiness difTufiM
over the face of our country, is traced by every
man to iis proper source, the Constitution and
Laws of the United States." By happiness here
I suppose we mod underfland, that gay, pleafanc
and prosperous appearance, which the face of the
country afl'umes from a lively and luxuriant ve
getation. Now, if the Constitution and Laws of
the United States are the true source from whence
this happiness flows, then I fear we must conclude,
that there is some capital defect either in the Con
stitution, or the Laws—for a good Government
will ever dispense happiness with an impartial
and equal hand over the whole community; —
whereas a very considerable portion of our coun
try did, in the course of the lafl Summer, while
the Constitution and Laws of the United States
were in full force and operation, wear the most
dismal, diftrelfing and doleful countenance thac
can be imagined—almost every green herb was
dried tip, and the grass of the field was as if it
had been scorched in an oven.
If these diftrelfing calamities are to be ascribed
to the Oonftitution of the United States, is there
not reason to fear. Mr. Fenno, if your Gazette
ftiould reach Rhode-Island, that they would call
a new Convention, and rescind their adoption of
it I—Let me also ask your correfpondeut, if this
is not puffing ?
Kevunber 10, 1791
EDWARD KOX, Sec'ry
A RESPONDENT.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, November 8, 1791
• IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Debate on the motion to agree to the report of the Secretary at H ar t on
the petition of John Torrey.
MR. AMF.S obje&ed to the motion for accepting the report
of the Secretary at War. He (aid, it must be apparent that
ho was placed by accident in a relation to the fubjeft in debate,
which he should not have adopted of choice. With very ll ' c
knowledge of the parties and their connexions, and the
that would be involved by the decision, he seemed to be confider
cd as (landing sponsor for the petitioner—He might juftify this ac
tive support of the petition, by afTigninsj motives which were
common to other gentlemen—But as they have continued silent
I will aflign a reason for {peaking, said he, which is peculiar to
myfelf. Nothing excites a person to a more fervid defence of his |
opinions,than the supposed discovery that they are misunderstood,
and the force of the reasons on which he had formed them, undu'y
estimated.
Congress promifedhalf pay to the officers who should continue
in service to the end of the war—This was afterwards made a com
mutation for half pay. Major Torrey continued in service till
Sept. when he died. The question is, did he continue in
fcrviretothe end of the war ?
The provisional articles of peace were figued on the 30th No
vember, 1782 ; but they were to reraa+rr without force till terms
peace should be agreed upon between Great-Britain and France.
This took place on the 30th January, 1783, and the ratifications
"were exchanged on the 3d February, 1783, at Paris. The provi
nal treaty between Great-Britain and America was then a treaty
peace, and according to the words of that treaty was concluded.
\ccordingly, on the 11 th April, 1783, Congress by a proclamati
-1 made known those facts, and the Imputations made, in regard
the periods when hostilities (hould cease, by the contracting
rties to the treaty. Hostilities did cease, and before the end of
oril, 1783, all America was in perteft peace—The late hostile
tions shook hands, our veflels failed in fafety—and by sea and
nd reconciliation succeeded to boftility.
But did all this put an end to the war ? The chitdren in the
ft:cet would answer this qucftton—They would fay, it is peace
when it is not war. Of all fa£ls, the mod notorious fecms to be
the slate of war ; and it is the fa& that the war was at an end,
(and not any after resolve of Congrefj.) that the commutation ot
Major Torrey was made to hinge upon. When the meaning of a
bargain is difputcd, it is usual to search out the intention of the
parties when it was made ; supposing, instead of in
terpreting a resolve of Congress, any twelve of this body had to
try a cafe between two private persons—suppose that a man had
P'ven his note of hand for a sum to be paid at the end of the war.
Would twelve of this House, or would any jury in th" rrwmrry fau !
hat the cxTnTinxrctt-txyfrgn vrrarrmmntirtrvr nf piivale life, a
man would think it touched his chara&er 10 refufe paying his
note in such a cafe—Surely a public ought to perform its promise
with as much delicacy and exattnefs. Congress did not promise
the half pay, and afterwards the commutation on 'the condition
that a man should serve till they should think proper to fay the
war was at an end. He depended on the flubborn fact that it did
end, which no resolution of Congress could change; and not on
the refining opinion when the officers might fafely be discharged 1
—for that we fee might be differently formed, according to the
different views of policy and fafety at the time. An officer hav- |
ing this promise of Congress, has a right to this commutatian on
the cefTation of hostilities, in pursuance of the treaty. If this is
disputed, the meaning of the words " the end of the war'' should
be decided as it was understood at the time of the promise. Will
any one believe that the 3d November 1783, was the term ; after
the state of war and all the treaties which put an end to it, had
been long pafled. If any doubt still remains, writers on the law
of nations should be confolted. For the officer may justly claim
an execution of the promise according to law ; that is the umpire
between government and the people.
On appealing to the law of nations, we find that war is defined
to be " the state in which a nation prosecutes its right by force"
—" Peace is opposed to the state of war—an accommodation is
proposed and conditions agreed on, and thus peace puts an end to
war." " When the powers at war agree to lay down their arms,
the agreement is the treaty of peace." " The general and necessa
ry effe£ls of peace, are the reconciliation of enemies and the cefTa
tion of hostilities ; it restores thetwo nations to their natural state."
Would any jury in this country fay that the matter of fact and
the principles of law were not in favor of the petition. Apply
these maxims of law to the cafe. The provisional articles of No
vember, 1782, were of themselves nothing, it is true, but they
were to conftitutethe treaty of peace, whenever Great-Britain and
France had agreed on the terms of peace. As these two powers
did agree on the 30th January, and ratified the terms on the 3d
February, 1783 ; then the provisional articles, to use the very words
of the preamble, did conflitute the treaty of peace ; it was then a con
cluded \\\'\r\g—And peace in tact took place in the several parts of
the world on the appointed days.
It has been said that the preliminaries were no more than a sus
pension of arms, that the state of war still continued, until a defini
tive trebly. To this it is answered, that preliminaries bind the
national faith, if violated, the perjured faithlefs nation would kin
dle a new war. By the law «f nations there is not such a diftinc
tfon as that which isalledged, between preliminary and definitive
treaties. Let the authorities for such a diftinftion be produced
by those who make it—But they do not exist a truoe does not
put an end to a war—a truce is, however, a suspension of war for
a fpecified term. At she end of this term, the war begins again
of course, without any frefh declaration. But a suspension of hos
tilities for an indefinite period, is not a truce, but a peace ; efpeci
aily if it is added, that it is agreed upon by the belligerent nations
in consequence of a settlement of their disputes, and if it happens
in fafl that the war is not revived.
Those who make so much of a definitive treaty, and so light of
preliminaries, ftiould consider that, on their own system, the for
mer is a kind of defeafincc which annuls the latter. But when
the definitive treaty isfigncd, the preliminaries,which before were
liable to be annulled, now become of force, and the treaty, now
become indefeafible, takes its date from the preliminaries. Tho
this mode of reasoning has not much weight on my own mind, it
ought to have some with those who have fct up the diftincti'on
which it is adduced to overthrow.
I nefe are the reasons on which I have formed my opinion that
the wnr ended in fatl in April, 1783, when hostilities ceased by
mutual agreement of the powers at war. My opinion is supported
by authority much more reputable than any I can give to it. The
law courts in this country have decided it judicially ; cases of
captured vcfltls, and thequcHion of inteieft on Britiflt debts,hav«
produced deeifions in every state of the Union, unless I am mifin
formcd, that the war ended in March or April, 1783. The courts
in England, and in every country where the war ipread, on trials
of property, have made funilar decisions. Major [orrey died in
September, 1783, —(1ia1l this body <(fcide against the fettled rule
of ail the law courts ?
It remain* to remove some objeflions.
It is allcdged, that Congress have by vanous refoJve* fixed ,
period of the war, and have decUred the 3d November. 1783?
istbe term. If they had declared that it ftiould be compli ed from
the end of the world,it would not alter the truth of the fa£l. AJtcr
declarations ought not to be received to change their own promiles
— But a declaration, or a do/.en of them, made for another pur
pofc, and not to declare the meaning of the contract, cannot on
any principle be received to interpret it. It is not neceflary, how
ever, to contend against those resolves of Congress. They are re
concileable with the former engagement to Major Toriey.
In undertaking to reconcile them, I feel that I impose a task
on inyfelf, which is made heavy bv the prepoffeflions of many of
my friends ; I believe the minds of gentlemen are perfe£tlv fair,
and well disposed to doing the petitioner justice. But I hope I
shall not be thought to intend any offrnce, when I remark that
certain ideas, such as that this claim is cut off by resolves of Con
gress, and that on allowing it, confufion would take phce in the
business of the public offices, were darted with the difculfion, and
they have remained so woven into the texture cf the debate, that I
think it hard to unravel them. It was soon manifeft that there
was a general disposition to vote against the petition. This oppor
tunity for debate seems to have been accorded as of grace, rather
than as a means of removing any existing doubts of their own.
Having adopted these opinions, this iw'ather a form of refufal than
a mode of enquiring ; and itfeems to have been chosen with every
circumstance of decency, and with alf ftedfaftnefs of pur
pose.
Yet I will proceed to (late, that the point whether the war was
at an end when hostilities ended in April, 1783, being already
considered fully, we are to look for other reasons than such as re
late to the commutation, to explain the resolves of Congress which
continued the service oi the officers beyond the end of the war,
and as late as November, 1783. A mistake seems to have crept
in here, it seems to be supposed that the officers were engaged to
serve to the end of the war, just long enough to secure their com
mutation. But the commutation depended on one thing—the
term of their service on another. Tfce former was their right at
the end of the war ; but they were to remain in service till difmilT
ed, unless they ftiould think fitfooner to rcfign. They held their
commiflions during the pleasure of Congress. Though when the
war ended they had a right to the commutation,the/ had no right
to fay their service was at an end—They did not chufe to resign
—Congress for wife reasons did not chufc to dismiss them. A
foreign army was still in New-York. They were sent home on
furlough, but drawing pay, and iiableto be called into the field—
Congress in their resolves did not fay that it was not peace, but in
effect that it was unfafeto disarm. Gentlemen are not well agreed
among themselves as to the end of the war. Some fix it at the de
finitive treaty of September 3, 1783, others to November 3, —
Their conclusions agree as illy with their principles ; for if the
definitive treaty put an end to the war, how can the fame gentle
men fay that the war was kept alive on the journals of Congress,
till November, 1783. Here then were peacc and war fubfiftiug
quietly together dui ing two months.
The fears of making confufion by opening a door to many ap
plications, seem to be groundlels. A man must have died between
the end of hostilities, and November 1783, to place a claim on
the like footing : The living have had their commutations. They
cannot come, and no other officer died in that period as far as I
can learn—l have enquired and cannot find at the office of the Se-
Tcfirv ax ***7" whicH 1 tJtes with this claim, nor
anyreafon to luppofe that any (imilaTljne wilt be" : The
cafe is a new one, it ftinds alone, and probably ever will, arid it
must be decided on its own merits.
Believing the fa£fc to b« indifpuuble that Major Torrey served
to the end of the war, confiding in the principles of the law of na
tions, and the fettled decisions of the judicial courts, I have endea
vored to explain my ideas with perspicuity and to impress them
with force. I have said more than questions touching an indivi
vidual will, often, be found to merit; bat when public principles
are conflrued to the prejudice of private rights, the debate cannot
be treated too fcioufly.
Mr. Boudinot said.he differed in opinion from the gentleman
in his conftru&ion of the business. He did not coincide in the
idea that the decision of the present qieftion fliould be on a flrift
ly judicial principle. The petition is founded on certain resolu
tions and laws of Congress ; and as there are certain eflablifhed
rules which have been observed in fettling with every other offi
cer similarly circumflanced, Congress cannot now with propriety
break, through those rules, to these they ought to adhere, till by
the decision of some judicial court it shall appear that they are
contrary to the rules of justice. [Here Mr. Ames requeued Mr.
Boudinot to point out the rules to which he referred.] Mr. Bou
dinot referred to the report now under confederation, which was
founded on a resolution of Congress, that the time for which the
army was engaged (hould expire in November 1783. This has
been made a rule in all the icttlements with the officers of the
army.
The terms of the contrast, between the officers and the United
States,depended (he said) on the decision of the sovereign power ;
that was authorised alone to determine when the war should cease.
That power was veiled in the then-exifling Congress, who, altho'
they entered into provisional articles in Noverpoer 178;, did not
however think proper immediately to disband their armies, or
put an end to the war, as it was yet uncertain whether those pro
visional articles would be ratified by Great-Britain, or a treaty of
peace concluded between Great-Britain and France ; a circum
stance, which was necessary, beforethofe articles could be defini-
tively binding. It was only when the definitive treaty was made,'
that Congress determined the period of the war. The army when
finally disbanded, and paid up to that day, acknowledged, by
accepting their pay, that it was then only the war ended ; and,
as far as was in their power, assented to the principle which he
maintained, that the provisional artirles had not before put an end
to the war. Suppose (continued he) that, on the arrival of the de
finitive treaty, Congress had not agreed to the terms, would the
war have then been considered as at an end ? would not Conerefs
have been in the fame situation, as before the signing ot the pro
visional articles ? It was necelfiry f'lat Congress Should, bv a de
finitive ast, determine when the war ceased : Congref» had naffed
such an ast ; and thehoufe at present cannot with propriety' enter
into a resolution to alter the period.—The argument of incon
venience ought also, he observed, to have some weight with the
house : for if any alteration were now to oe mide in the law it
mud have a retrofpeft to all the widows and children of decea'fed
officers, who have received half pay for vears pad. Besides mi.
Ny officers, who have not hitherto considered themf-Ives as en
•uled to half pay, would, in consequence of such an alteration
have a right to apply for it. '
Mr I.awranre said he doubted nit the ? entlcrmn who fun
ported Ihe peutition was fully fjlisfied as to th- iuftire of t'v
clawr, which he advocated with so m „ch „H„ r .he be'd le.iv
to IVitehnooimon however o-i the fubjeft, in which he (hjuld
dittcr fro m th»t :
The eon-raft with the officer* of the !i-r army was. that thof
hould be entitled to certain benefvs who served to the end of iV
Vir. BH M iior Torrev ..vis not hmci'C.l-nWH, as h- du d
ircvio'is to the period u-hen me war crated. an 1 lef, ~-uh-r w
dow or orphans,to receive tho ben:fitofthe provifun, allowed by
226
law; his cafe is not contemplated by any exiftiog rcfolution of
Congress.
It is well known that hostilities ceased at the time* of publifh
iog the provisional articles which formed the basis for the treaty of
peace ; but can any man fay that every foldjer had a right on that
event to demand a discharge? Surely not. The provisional ar
ticles had the peace in contemplation, bu" the army was not to be
riifcharged till the articles of the definitive treaty were ratified by
the belligerent powers. The army of the United States was there
fore only furloughed, and retained the power of retail
ing th-m into service ; and had the officers and loldiers been re
cajled from their furloughs to take the field, it would have breu a
continuance of the fame war ; but it the definitive tr aty had been
signed and hostilities had commenced the very next day, it would
have been a new war, and would have been profccuted on entirely
new principles. The 2d article of the provisional treaty looks
forward to a future period tor a condufion of the war—and ne
inferred that the definitive articles being latiiied, and the ratifica-
tions exchanged, alone constituted a termination of the war. Mr.
La wrance added some observations on the legal ideas of Mr. Ames,
in which he also differed from that gentleman ; and concluded by
expn fling his approbation of the report of the Secretary of war.
Mr. Ames's remarks were further combated by Mr. William,
son, Mr. Dayton, Mr. Hillhoufe, Mr. Wadfworth, Mr. Clark,
and Mr. White.
Mr. Wayne was'oppofed to the report, and Hated certain par
ticulars to shew that the army was not furloughed by Congress,
becaufeit was apprehended there would beany further demand
for their services, but becaufeit was inconvenient to give them
an absolute discharge at that period.
The motion for accepting the Secretary's Report was carricd by
a large majority.
WEDNESDAY, November 9.
Mr. Sumpte# from South-Carolina, and Mr.
Murray from Maryland, appeared, and took
their feats.
The Speaker laid before the house a letter
from the executive of the State of Maryland, en
closing a copy of the resignation of William
I'inckney, who had been eletfted one of the Re
prel'entatives of that State, and a certificate of
the eletflion of John Francis Mercer, to serve in
his stead.
On motion of Mr. Seney, those communicati
ons were referred to tiie committee of elections.
Mr. Sedgwick, of the committee appointed to
prepare a bill for the renewal of destroyed or
loft certificates, represented to the house the im
polfibility of guarding against fraud, when ap
plications Ihould be made for the renewal of
those that inighc be said to have been Jolt ; and
moved that the committee should be discharged
from the further conlideration of the fubjetfl, so
saras it extends to 101 l certificates.
Some remarks being made for and against the
motion ; aud the queition being taken oil it, and
1011,
Mr. Sedgwick soon after reported a bill for the
renewal of 101 l or destroyed certificates, which
was read a firft time.
Mr. White laid on the table a resolution that
a committee ihould be appointed to bring in a
bill to provide for the settlement of unliquidated
claims against the United States.
Oil motion of Mr. Benfon, the committee of
the whole houfc was discharged from the fur
ther consideration of the proposed amendments
to the constitution, which were then referred to
a committee of seven.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, resolved that the
attorney-general should be diredted to report to
the house such further information as he might
partefs, r dative to the operation of the judicial
system.
Mr. Vining called up a motion, heretofore
made by him, for the appointment of a commit
tee to prepare a bill or bills to establish an uni
form system of bankruptcy throughout the Unit
ed States, The queflion being taken on the mo
tion, and carried, a committee was accordingly
appointed.
A committee was also appointed (pursuant to
a motion heretofore made by Mr. Fitzfiraons,and
since amended) to bring in a bill or bills, for the
regulation of pilots, and the fuperintendance of
the beacons, buoys, and public piers in the bay
and river of Delaware, and in the bay of Chesa
peake, and the rivers difeinboguing thereinto.
The report of the Secretary of the department
of war, on the petition of John Younglove, and
thecounte r-petition offundry inhabitants of the
slate of New-York, being then called up, a reso
lution was moved,
That the prayer of the petition offundry in
habitants of the counties of Albany and Washing
ton, in the (late of New-York, for the repeal of
so much of clie acffc, entitled, "An acft for the re
lief of disabled folJiers and feainen lately in the
service of the United States, and of certain other
persons," as relates to the pen lion of John Young
love, cannot be granted.
[John Younglove having been, but not then
actually being in the service of the United States,
was disabled in his own house, in repelling an at
tack of the enemy during the late war. He ob
tained from the late Congress a pension ; and the
contra petitioners endeavored to efl'edi the
cation of the grant. All the papers on this fub
jedl being referred ro the secretary of the war de
partment, he reported as his opinion, that Mr.
Younjrlove did nor, by any of the existing acfts
of Congress, seem entitled to a penfion.j
An intereding debate took place on the pro
priety of withdra ving the pension. On the one
land, it wis urged, that if Mr. Younglove s title
•v is admitted, every man, who might fnfFer 111
•lis person or liis property, from an attack ox theIndians, or of any other aflaiiant, would have an
eoual vigilt to claim a compeiil'iuisa, at the na
tional expence, and that tlie multitude of such
claims would drain the public coffers ; tnat Con
„,. e f s was not infallible; and if the lace Congrefi
had committed an error in granting a petition
■where it was not justly due, the prei'ent Congreii
have a right, and are, in duty to their conititu
ents, bound to rediify the miltake, by revoking
the grant. On the other hand, it was said. that
although Mr. Yonnglove was nor, under the thet
gifting lavrs, entitled to a pension, yet, as thi
late Congress thought him defervingof one, am
conferred it on him, it would ill become the pre
lent Congress to revoke the grant. They ough
ro suppose that tlieir anceitors had fufficient re a
I'ons to influence thein in making it; at all events
the grant being once made, and the public faitl
plighted for the continuance of the petition, thei
could not now withdraw it, without deltroyinj
the public confidence in the promiles of g->vern
went.
The question being taker, on tlie motion, it
carried in the affirmative. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, November 10.
I UL/iiJi/n i j \j.
Sundry petitions from officers and faldiers of
the late anny, praying compenfatioras and pen
sions for services and disabilities, were read, and
referred ro rhe Secretary of War.
The bill providing a mode in which the evi
dences of the debt of the United States, which
have been loft: or destroyed, fliall be renewed,
was read the second time, and on motion of Mr.
Dayton, referred to the committee of the whole
house, to be the order of the day to-morrow.—Or
dered, that too copies of the above bill be printed.
A melfage was received from the President of
the United States by Mr. Secretary Lear, com
municating a report from the Secretary of State,
refpeifting the quantity and situation of the un
claimed lands in the North and South Western
Territories of the United States. This report
being read, it was ordered that 200 copies of it
iliould be printed.
Mr. Williamfon laid the following motion on
the table—"That a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill to prevent the invalid penfioncrs
of the United States from felling their pensions
before the fame fliall have become due."
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, the meflage from
the Prelident of the United States, and the report
. from the Secretary of State, which accompanied
the fame, were referred to the committee ap
pointed to bring in a bill providing for the sale
of the vacant lands in the YVeltern Territories of
the United Stares,
On morion of Mr. Parker, the house came to
the following resolution, "That the Secretary
of the Treafiiry be directed to lay before the
house, a statement of the amount of the exports
from the several diftricls of the United States
refpedtively—alfo the amount of the duties on
imports and ronnage, from 29th Sept. I 790, to the
50th Sept. 1791."
ORDER OF THE DAY —THE CENSUS
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The proposed amendment to Mr. Lawrance's
motion, by (hiking out thirty before the word
tboufand, under consideration.
Mr. Gerry oppcfed the amendment, and in a
speech of foijie length, advocated the original
motion of one representative to every thirty thou
sand persons. He was replied to by Mr. Boudi
not, Mr. Steele, Mr. Clark, Mr. Barnewell and
Mr. Goodhue. Mr. Baldwin coincided with Mr.
Gerry. The committee rose without comiijg to
a vote, and had leave to fit again.
[Our limits will not admit of giving a llcetch
of the debate this day—it fhnll appear in our next.]
Mr. White's motion for a committee to report
a bill for fettling unliquidated claims against the
United States, was taken into consideration—
wany difficulties, were suggested in opposition to
it—and on motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, being va
ried to read in the following manner, viz. " A
till to provide for the settlement of the claims
of persons under particular circumstances, barred
by the limitations heretofore eltabliflied," was
agreed to—and Mefl'rs. White, Fitzfimons and
Niles, appointed the committee accordingly.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, November it, 1791-
The House met pursuant to adjournment—but
is a great proportion of the members were on
committees who were not ready to reportj Mr.
S'.eele moved that, in order to afford tbofe com
mittees time to prepare and bring in their re
fpe&ive reports, the House should adjourn until
Monday next—which motion was unanimously
■greed to.
WINDHAM, (Con.) October 29.
last Wednesday, four men, Paid 10 be concern
ed in a late riot in Columbia county, state of New-
York, whereby the fheriiFof the county was un
fortunately killed, were apprehended by their
pnrfaeis, in Canterbury, in this state, and the
ame evening lodged in the goal in this town —
° m whence they were taken yesterday to be
c ondadted back to the state of New-York for trial.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE FIRST SESSION Or THE SECON» CONGRESS.
/,n AC I cri anting further rime for making return
ot the Enumeration of the Inhabitants in the
Diltricft of South-Carolina.
.■DR it enaftH by the Senate and Honfe of Representatives of the
JLJ United States of America, in Co.ißrefs assembled, That it
hall oe lawful lor the Marshal of the Dillrifl of South-Carolina,
to compleat and make return of the Enumeration ofthe Inhabitant,
of the said diftrift to the Prefidcnt of the United States, in the
torm and manner prescribed by the ast, entitled, >• An att provid
inK lor the enumeration of the inhabitants of the United States "
at any time on or before the firft day of March next, ar.v thin* in
the laid ait to t-he contrary notwithllanding.
JONATHAN TRUMBULI.. Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prcfidcvt of the ,United States,
and Prefidcnt of the Senate.
APPR OV ED,
SONNET.
BY DR. AI KIN.
To his Excellency Georce Washington,
President ofthe United States of Amerka.
A OINT of that Pyramid, whose solid base
Rcfts firmly founded on a Nation's trust,
Which, while the gorgeous Palace finks in dust,
Shall stand sublime, and fill its ample space :
Elefled Chief of Freemen; greater far
Than Kings, whose glitt'ring parts are fixM by birth.
Nam'd by thy country's voice, for long tried worth,
Her crown in peace, as once her shield in war :
Deijrn, Washington ! to hear a British lyre,
That ardent greets thee with applauhve lays,
And to the Patriot Hero homage pays !
O would the Muse immortal drains inlpire,
That high beyond all Greek and Roman fame,
Might soar to times unborn thy purer, nobler name f
Philadelphia, November 12.
We are allured, that General St. Clair, with 'the main army,
must probably have arrived at the utmost point of his destination
by the jioth of the]aft mojith. will -be to esta
blish strong polls in the Indian country, to cbrb and overawe
such of the neighboring tribes as may be inclined to hostility.
His force and talents are so refpeflable, th»t it may be justly ex
pected, he will effeflually answer the public expectations: It is
rather improbable, the hostile Indians will meet in such numbers,
as to occasion any serious contest. On the contrary, it is probable,
as he carries the olive-branch in one hand, and the sword in the
other, that the campaign *rill cftablifh a ftrm peat? with the un
fortunate natives of America.
Thursday laftarrived here from Cape-Francois,
Sylvanus Bourne, Esq. Consul of the United
States for St. Domingo—ln the fame vefiel came
also two French Gentlemen, Agents from the Co
lonial Aflembly.
TheLegiflature of New-Jersey is now in session,
and we hear that there is every reason to believe
a most liberal plan of incorporation will be
granted to the aliociation for promoting manu
factures in the United States.
By the latest accounts from Cape.-Francois, it
does not appear that tranquility is in any good
degree restored to St. Domingo.
The salutary effects of the treaty made by the
United States with the Creek Indians, are now
apparent ; the settlements on St. Mary's River,
in the State of Georgia, it is said are in a molt
flourifhing condition.
Some accounts from Cape-Francois fay, that the
blacks have put some of their white prisoners to
death, by breaking them 011 the wheel, and by
other cruel and infernal modes.
Besides the civilities which flrangers, on visits
among us, have a right to expert, on the princi
ples of hospitality, the Countess of Effingham,
just arrived at New-York from Jamaica for her
health, has claims to the diftinguifhfed attention
of our citizens. Earl Efki ngha m, in the begin
ning of the late contest with Great-Britain, alone
opposed, in the House of Peers, an attempt to re
duce these States vi ct arviis. Finding his oppo
sition of no weight, he resigned a commiilion of
Lieutenant-General, rather than ac't against: us.
Last Wednesday evening, at a meeting of the
Directors of the National Bank, it was determin
ed that four branches (liould be eftablifiied, one
in Boston, a I'ccond in New-York, a third in Bal
timore, and a fourth in Charlefton—tocommence
operation in January next. These brandies are
to have the benefit of a part of the specie capital.
Some of the papers have mentioned that the
salary of the President of the National Bank is
fixed at 3000 dollars. This is a miitake—tbe sa
lary of the President is not fixed, and cannot be
fixed by the Dirertoi s ; but mufl be fettled at a
General meeting of Stockholders. C". Adv.
227
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefidevt of the United Stales.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Those perfor.s are greatly deceived, whotliiiiK
tha: government derives advantage from flatter-
C f S f • overnn,ent > :lr > individual, hns need
oi friends—iuit it is injured by deception. \\ hen
any tiling £ () es wrong in public affairs, it is do
]ng government a favor to point one the error.
"I here is no channel for conveying this kind of
advice fi> ufeful as the newspapers. Ky
mg the Poft-Offiee in a manner to con\ey infor
mation to every part of the country, the rulers
are placed in a condition to receive advice fron
all their wel!-wi(hers. And if ever ill humor's
are engendered in the body-politic, it is mofl sa
lutary that they fliould have some pores to per
spire thro. The I'oll-OfHce fliould be a kind of
chimney to the federal edifice. If it was not for
a vent, the house would be 011 fire, or would llifie
its inhabitants with fmoak. The Po!t-Office
should be, in matters of opinion, a kind of Hank
the common centre of circulation, the iuflru
ment and the measure of improvement—Know
ledge is cheaper than luxury—yet it is worth
more—l lie Poll-Office affords a means of obtain
ing it, which pays its own way.
The people of America have tun thotifind rights ; any onr of
them would be fufficicntto change ihe political condition, and ,|„-
order of thinking in almofl any other country. Hut what air thev
all worth unless the people are taught, and taught too in the
school house to understand and to climate the value of them.
Ages would pass away before a people could be brought intofuch
nabits of thinking as we in America have adopted ; we have done
lo much it isfcavcely pofflble we should Hop where we are we
,™ ake P r "grefs—our political Rate is good—let us mend'our
moral Hate—let our knowledge be made commcnfuraie with our
liberties.
There are two ways of governing ir.en—either to make them
govern themselves, or to govern them by force. The latter is
the European and Asiatic method ; it is governing by main ftrongt'h
—the former is the American, which is governing by flight of
hand For what have you to govern ? Mens' passions—surely
and if you make their reason do it for you, which it always will
when enlightened, your work is done to vour hand.
But as governing the youth in the way of education is a flow af
fair, which we have not patience to wait to fee the effefls of let
us tell the grown gentlemen their rights and duties. Why (hould
not the p oft.Office be madeufe of to tell the people what is done
and why it is done ? Fame fays that the people in the back part*
of North-Carolina do not get dispatches from the feat of govern
ment in lefj than two months. What an hazardous interval is
jeftforartto dupe credulity, or credulity to dupe itfelf! Men
have a right to know how their affairs are managed ; it is doing
the public business behind their backs to neglect or to conccal
from Ihrm ihe facts and reasons which are necessary to the form,
ing a found judgment upon men and measures. The people do
not know and can scarcely overrate their own impoitance, as it
refpefls public men and measures. The public is a court, which
tries both ; they bring vice and error to the test, and expose them
to lhame.
Died, at Trenton, New-jfrfey, the ift I.ifT. much iafricntrd,
Mrs. Joa nN A sren cE *, relist ot the late Rev. Dr. Elihu Spencer,
in the 63d year of her age.
Her illnrfs, which was longapd severe, she bore with uncom
mon fortitude and christian resignation.
On the Thursday following, her remains were interred in the
Prefbvterian Church-yard of said place; when a well adapted
discourse was delivered by the Rev. James F. Armstrong, Irora
Revelations 14 —13. '
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS it the PORT of PHJLADELrHIA.
Ship Four Friends, Volans, Madeira
M »T. Curry, Grenada
Brig Theodofia, Lake, Cape-Francois
Georgia Packet, Carson, Savannah
Sloop Three Sifters, Thompson, Pnrt-au-Prince
Schooner Industry, Shackford, Porlfmouth (N.C.)
Ifahella. AnHrrfpn. St. Fuftatius
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 21/10 22_/* pr. £ .
3 pr. Cent# 12J6
Defered 6 pr. Cents I$J 13/2
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett 1. and other Certificates igj
Indent? 1
B?nk Subscriptions, 1 *
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS it appears by the proceedings in a certain eaufe
now depending in the High Court of Chancery in Eng
land, wherrin William Webb is the plaintiff, and John Parker, (exe
cutor of Thomai Bradly, deceased) is the defendant, thai Henry
Webb was put out an apprentice to the sea trade by the Greenwich
school. in or about the vear 1775, was then of the age of
14 vears, or thereabouts.ana failed from England in the year 1776
to some part of N6rth-America, in the ship or veHel ArlemiJ(a 9
Capt. Lezvellyn, formerly a Spanish trader, and at that time a navy
vi&ualler 01 tranfpoit in hi< Majesty's service—and whereas it ap
pears that the said Hevry Webb deserted and ran away from said ship
or vcflfel, and entered on boarS a certain privateer called the Re
venge, or Vengeance Primteer, of which one John Dean was mailer
or commandrr, then lying at New'-York, North-America; and
that the said Vengeance Privateer, on or about the sth of November,
1779, failed from New-York alorefaid to Savannah, and arrived at
such last mentioned port in or about the month of March, 1780,
and on the month of April following, to some port or place in
America, but to what port or place is not known; and in the
month of May, 1780, the said fliipor vefTel was f<-en at Barbadoes
in the Weft-Indies, but the said Henry Webb has not since been heard
of, and is supposed to be dead ; it having been reported that the
tender belonging to the said (hip or veflcl callcd the Vengeance,
which ship wai then commanded by Capt. Knozvles t with a num
ber of her rreß, so the amount of 90, or thereabouts, (and among
whom the said Henry Webb is supposed to have been one) were ta
ken by the enemy, and carried into Philadelphia. Now, in
purOianeeof an order made in the said cause, bearing date the 3d
of December, 1790, any perlon o r persons who can give any ac-
count or information touching the said Henr\ Webby or of the said
(hip Vengeance, or whether the said Henry Webb be living or dead,
and if dead, when or wherefocver he died, are requeued to give
such information to William Welter Pep\s, K'q. on of the MaPers
of said Court, at his Chambers in Symonds'-Inn, Chaneerv-Lane,
London ; and such prrfon or persons will be rewarded for thnr
trouble hv applying to Samuel Naylor, Esq. the Solicitor in said
cause. No. 4, Great Newporf-ftreet, London; or to ihe Rev. John
Starjord. N«. 33, John-fhecl, New-Yoik; or to John Prettyjohn 9
fcfq. Bridgetown, Sarbadocs. W. W. PE P Y S.
JlO pr. cent,
do.
66 do.
9j do.
do.
Dollars,FROM THE BALTIMORE DAILY REPOSITORY.
THE IMPORTANCE AND GOOD EFFECTS OF RIGHT
INSTRUCTION IN YOUTH.
TO rudr, mi<(hapen, craggy ftonrs,
Good statuaries give
A form divine, which makes us think
That they indeed can live.
So o'er the tender, flexile heart
Of all .ingenuous youth,
Is early culture's charming pow'r,
To form their minds to truth.
Hence native strength will be improv'd,
And native faulis fupprcfs'd :
So /Icademia's pleasant groves
Their faithful vot'ries blefs'd.
From Education's forming hand,
The purpose and the vvill
Of doing good to all mankind;
And of avoiding ill.
Hence Liberty, dearfacred name,
Instills the strong desire,
To live with her, to feel her rays,
Or with her to expire.
For, if we lose that noble boon,
('Tis fix'd by lawsdivin*)
At once we fink beneath the brutes,
And all our AOrih resign.
No barrier will be ever found,
No strength of laws prevail,
To guard the People's sacred right?,
If Education tail.
From her we fcek, in her we find,
The mofteffe&uai cure,
For our depravity and ills,
Which num'ious wc endure.
Health, Patience, vig'rous Fortitude,
Walk in her fmiliog train;
And flow'rs spring where'er (he treads
To cheer the dreary plain.
GALLIPOLIS.
THE settlers of Gallipolis are in great hopes
of fucceedifig in making wine,—not of the exo
tic vine, but oy cultivating the wild American
grape. A lingular circumstance gave rife to
these hopes. In the Ohio, immediately opposite
to Gallipolis, is a sandy illand remarkable for the
goodness of the wild grapes produced on it.
They are juicj', the Ikin much thinner and (tone
smaller thin the gtapes of the fame kind in the
other parts of the country. This difference is
attributed 1 to the effe«st of the ice in winter, which,
when the river rises, sweeps over the island arid
trims the vines. This coarse drefiing, though it
happens at an unfavourable season of the year,
together with the exposed (ituation of the illand
to ihe direct rays of the fun, is conceived to be
the reason of the fuperiority.of the grapes in this
small fpor. Very palatable wine has already been
made of these grapes, and when the hint is im
proved upon, and a regular conrfe of cnlture be
ftewed upon our native vine,( which it is the deter
mination of the settlers to attempt) Scioto wine,
who knows, may perhaps, one day supplant the
Madeira on onr tables.
ALBANY, Oiftober 27.
We have it now in our power to congratulate
the public, on the subject of the projected canal
between the Mohawk river and the western
Wood-creek, which has for some time engaged
the attention of our fellow-citizens.
The ingenious Major Hardenbergh, who was
commissioned by government to explore this con
nexion and report to the ensuing legislature, ar
rived ill this city from thence a ihort time since.
It appears, that this very important operation
is not only practicable, but will be found very
easy on the south fide of fort Stanwix, the dis
tance in a dire<ft line between the two waters is
one mile and two chains—the bed of the Mo
hawk in that line being higher than Wood creek
—the land so level that the depth of digging will
not vary more than three feet above che com
mon level.
GOSHEN, November r
A report, some lime current here, has been re
lated vavioully : the following, however, we are
inclined 10 believe, is nearly the truth,viz. That
on or about the firlt of Octo'ber, the mills of the
Hon. Cornelius C. Schoonmaker, Esq. at Shawan
gunck, were set on fire and consumed, for which
he censured several persons— ihat a short time
alier, as a pei son was polling an unfrequented
road, in the neighbourhood, he fell in with a
man in a thicket of woods, armed with a mulket,
who enquired of him where Mr. Schoonmaker
was, on being answered that he did not know,
they palled each other—the unarmed person had
not proceeded far, before he began to reflect that
the iituation and appearance of the man, were
myfteiious—ln Ihor:, he was imprefled with an
idea that lome fatal proceedings were in aaitati
on. Under these apprehensions, he concealed
his horse, with an intention to return and place
him (elf in a lituation where he might watch the
actions of the suspicious character"; he accord
ingly advanced to an nncommonly thick group
ct laurels, where he might lay concealecf ; 011
penetrating the duller, he found a grave newly
dug—long, and very deep—in consequence of
this, he made a fccrct retreat and had the man
apprehended, who, we are informed, has since
confefl'ed that he burnt the mill* and was, at the
time he was secured, laying in wait to execute
his desperate intentions of murdering Mr.Schoou
inaker* and -depositing his body in the grave men
tioned .
B A L T I M O R K, October 31.
E::trafl of a letter from a gentleman in Nantz, to hi'
o
friend in this town, dated Sept. 10.
" We learn with concern, by the Captains of
veflels from your fide of the water, the errone.
ous reports made you ol the situation of this
country —We can alVure you that we are in the
mod perfect tranquility, and that commerce ne
ver was more flourifhing or better protected."
WORCESTER, Odtober 27
On Tuefdny last an oX which weighed, alive,
2520 lbs. neat, was driven through this town on
his way to Boston market. He was fix years old,
and was railed by a Mr. Rich, of Brookfield in
this county.
The Firil and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To zvhich is prefixed an accurate Map of the State/
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Arc ready for Deliver)- to Subfcribrr? —who rmy receive their
Books on application to HAZARD oc ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and l'hiid Streets.
The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from its fiift feitlement to the adoption of the present Con*
ftitation of the United States ;—the thirc', containing a geographi
cal description of the State, (ketches of its natural history, See. is
in the press.
%* A few copies of the fii ft two volumes for sale—price zof.
h'ovember 5, 1791.
In the Press. and fpeedilv will ne publilhed,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Consisting of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularlv of the United States.
By E$ EN EZER HAZARD, A.M.
* # * The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and second Numbevs, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each subsequent one (cxcept the lait) at the time of
delivery.
Subscriptions will be recefved, in th>s city, by Thomas
Do3So.\',and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Booksellers
th-rc. Philadelphia, November 5, 1791.
IO Bfc SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
So. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, until jive o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TT OMER, Xeoophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
ii men. Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Plinv. Cnncordsntia Lat. Concordamia Gr. Thcf?uius Ci
ceronis. B'blia junii and Tremellii. Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulae—Phavmirii — Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicoo. Antiqui . E<clef. 3ritannicae, See.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropsedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Pheedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Marulius, Ciceronis op. om. Czefar, Su
etonius, Julius Poilux, Hcderici Lexicon, VoflTii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Juftiniari Code, See.
Odavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariftopbanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus. Hefiod, Poetae minorcs Gr. Ifocrates, Phalai is, va
rious editiont of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
us, Luran, Martial, Claudinn, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, V'lorrs, Juftin, Val. Maximu*, A. Gellius, HilL
Auguit. Scriptores, English and French Tranjlations of some of the
Claflics, a great variet\ ot Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. See.
Catalogue? may be had of MellYs. Rice & Co. BonkfelUrs
Markj?t-ftreet, of of JOHN CAREY.
October 31
TO BEHOLD,
And pofielTion given immediately,
That pleasantly fltuated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on thd road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the formef. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more ma\*be
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. Vhere are on the premises a two story stone house
ana kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole paii.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-shop, granzrv, waggon
houfe; bwracV. cow-houses, two ftorics high and 90 feet long, and
a good barn, viih {tabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any pirfon inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Snowden,
No. 141, South Second-lhect, Philadelphia.
Prinrrt-'m. o£l->ber to, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and (lolen From the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel ;'i small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped vest and
breechrs, two ftirts and a ftnall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jersey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books: 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paftj-boards. Stolen at the lame time, a lar <re Batteau,
with black Odes.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecurityo]
the above property,fo that the owners may have the articles again
or in proportion for part thereof; also a fursher reward of Twent)
Dollars will be giver, for the security of the perpetrator or perpc'.
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
n JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordcntown. New-Jersey, Sept. i, 1791. [cpifj
228
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[ep2mj
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex.:
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange nrgociatrd "
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on i omTnifJion y and all other
Business in the line ol a Broner, tianfa&ed bv
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office ntxt door to the Cuftom-Honfe
State-Street, BOSTON. jgj
MPER.IAL KYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c*
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
bet ween Cbefnut and MarketStrerts.
Al A>b A C HUS fcTTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOT'IERy
Class Second.
THIS Clals will pofitiveiy commenc drawing on Thursday
the 24 ? h of November next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition. The Managers pledge them
selves that no confederation whatever (hall induce them to poUpone
the drawing 3 moment beyond that time.
Boston. 15, 1791.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSIO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. Q7.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER& AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,on CommiJJitn,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of ail sales at au&ion, one eighth per
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-kaj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Ofnce, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto,Jeventv-Jiie certs per transfer.
(hT" Such pcrfoos as may incline to favor the fubfenber with
their orders may rely on their being executed with punfluafit\ y
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extenlive dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well eftahlifhed correspon
dence throughout the Untied States, enable him to condu& his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
0 Sober 15, 1791
A Young Gentleman, of American birth and education (being
a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and English Languages. He has had Tome experience in
teaching, and trusts he can exhibit fatisfa£lory recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjrft, post paid, addrefled to A— S—,
and the care of the Editor hereof, prior to the 25th December, will
be pun&ually attended to.
ORober t 1 791
DANCING SCHOOL,
HE returns his fincerc thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpe&able (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and CoUntry Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may beaflured, they will be taught in the mod approved
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&ifing for the improvement of thefcholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday; when the
employers, and ftrangersot genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra&ifings will be at tended "with no expence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grow*
Gen" If men, as loon as a fufficient number offer.
(eptf.)
Philadelphia, September 14. 1791
WANTfcD, A NUMBER OF
Journeymen C ordwainers,
Who will find constant employment aod generous wages, by ap
plying to the Matter Cordwainers of the City of Philadelphia.
OBober 22,1791. C e P*f]
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apply wii*
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L L. D. Profcffor of Laws
in the College and Academy o( Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Le&ures. One Course t»
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty
Philadelphia. OftoVir»- \ i. 17Qt. feDtD)
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcefler, Mairachufctts, moll refpeft
fullv informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, <fcc. will be finifc
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will adra:t.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejlcr, or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the last day of November next, and as much fooncr as they con
veniently can.
He is hafjpy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its chcapnels compared with Engliln
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all thole
who with to polTefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription,
Wc 29, 17.91
IV. M*D OUC ALL'S
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 23, Carter's Alley.
[.aw]
(t. f.)
ISAIAH THOMAS.