" 7
&az(fU oftS fUtMisf
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 10UN FR\r\'r> m " ~i7, T~ " '
— — " ' °' 6 9" BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 58-, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, November i 6, ijyi.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
IN SENATE, November 7, 1791
The report of the trujlees of the Jinking fund, was read asfollows :
THE Vice-Pre/idem of the United States and President of the Senate,
the Chiej Jujltce,the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Trea
hry, and the Attorney-General, refpectful/y report to the Qonzrefs of the
United States of America—
That purluant to the ad, intitled, «An Ast making provision for the
reiiuflion of the public debt," andin conformity to two refeiutions agreed
upon by them, one on the 15th day oj January, and another on the 1 tfh
*f Auguji lajl, andfeverally approve'd by the President of the United
States, they have caujed purchases of the said, debt to be made through
the agency 1 efpeSively of Samuel Meredith,Treafurer of the United States,
fVilljam Seton, cashier of the Bank of Mew-York, Benjamin Lincoln,
tolleflor of the dijtrift of Boflon and Charleflon, and William Heth,
eolleßor of the dijirkl of Bermuda Hundred, to the amount of 852,67 7
dollars 46 cents, for which there have been paid 540,924 dollars and 14
tents, in specie, as will more particularly appear by the several documents
Ho. 1 to 8, herewith submitted as part of this report, and which fpecify
the places where, the times when, the prices at which, and the persons
of whom thefaid purchases have been made.
That tho theflatements of ft illiam Seton and Benjamin Lincoln have not
yetpajfed through the forms of fetilement, it appears by the document No.
8, being a certified tranfeript from the books of the Treasury, that the
amount of thejlock by taem refpeflive/y reported to have been purchased,
tas been duly tran ferred to the said books.
That the purchases now ana keretofore reported, amount in the
whole to 1,131,364 dollars and 76 cents, for which there have been
paid 699,163 dollars and 38 ccvti, m specie.
Signed in behalf of the Board,
JOHN ADAMS.
I. a oo K ■&>
01 coto co CO
1&> &> o iio 4*
CO "000 t")6 pjo
M Vf> Ol lO -Tji O Cl o
«
u
'S -C
: «L&
3 v 3
O •- £X
*3
G
"o
Q
*>
u
"o
a
G
"o
ft
G
"c
Q
I_«S,B
I o -o
*
o
9
T3
%i
&
«
A
u
«2
$
<
■5
•tr
E '
19
6
to
4*
V
«
a
*4
H
£-°
£Q
52 «
£2
ta£ 3
« 4)
4-» M
>»<+•
fC a
i? c
o .2
• ~
10
o
*4
W
fc>
ft* g
"2 <
« s
to w
(U «
C 8 *
ifl .
o at
3 x
*• *
U
s
w ■
Q
M
c
«
S
w
+*
«
£
O O w 00 to « O
CO CO (N O) to CO
~" to" -" ®»- to con
M ifi f> IM CD coto N Tf
tq to rs Ol O 'vO CO
00 cf)00 00 '-O - -? 00
f~~« Nto COOO *COO Nto
Cl W «
I =
3 a.
-i .
. p'O
° u- J=
Ho o
2 "0
Is
£ J- W
-« i, o
<-c «
c*
o
a e
5 w
3 o ,
on
S fc. w
5 o 9
;< &.«
vo
o
s c
s u
O « jrf
C k. u
5 * o
< o.cs
s £
•tl ~ o
T3 C _£ 2
wo * .5
4* oo c oc 22
2=.= = E.= .5 E!
Jflfiß.:flQ.» °
e ='?
]_ te &'
1 lie following was laid before the House of Re
preleniatives on the 7th inft. by the Secretary
«f ilie 1 reafury.
Treasury Biiartmekt, Kov. 4th, 1791
s I R,
HAVE the honor to transmit herewith a Report to the House
•*J^ c P re fcntativcs, accompanying certain climates of sums ne
, j.ry he appropriated for various obje£U therein fpecified, in-
service of/the year 1792.
I have the honor to be, with great refpeft, SIR,
Your most obedient, and humble fervanr,
Honorable Jonathan Trumbull, Efquire t
Speaker c] the House of Reprejentativcs
The SECRETARY of the TREASURY
Relbeclfully Reports to the
HOUSE* of REPRESENTATIVES
The ESTIMATES
Herewith rraufmittcd, No. i, 2, 3, 4.
00
CO
tO
C?l
<£>
O ~ 00 CO CO O &) o
10 to — - CO'O^f'O
t>.
I©
co
co
\o
&>
<S
0
•o
vo
«5
IN
*£>
01
O
co
CO
e»
CO
N COOO f-00 C' f-^VO
•*r - - oo oo oo r>.vo
« N CJI 1000 OO O N
O "■ <■«
O T" r>vc r- >0 G r--
~vo-90CO -o" oT
VO IN « CO t-- T Tf n
CO - CO *>.00 - r>VO
CO 'OVD VO « VO -3«
<© MOO N« Nt£l<o O
O O o*ioo \D C'
P5 V N K **• f
— «■> ■*£ Tt« «*3 cT
SO "* M M ' M OJ .04
000 - ♦
U3<« Ol O
t*. *f
CO
00 - 00 N
OCO oi?)
co t>- .- vo
VO ci -o
u-> CO
e»
CV~
1 O
CJ r—
•0 CO
o -
O-I CT)
oOOoOCOco
4, ** *•* w *-* *■»
Q
o
" rT •• _C —
v*s JS - ~
~ w t 1 - J64 *•
<*rfc ~
c_S * - coo rc
g°s.s«g« :3 3
S§°g= 5° S.-S Jo
sin?? «j
pwQ •—>< < vi u, si
a
o
& *£
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
The firft relating to the civil lift, i t the expehditure
■or the support of government during the year
1792 (including incidental ard contingent ex
peuces of the several dcpaitroe.-tj and offices a
n.ount.ng.o - . _ . 328,653.56
inolecond relating to certain liquidated claims
upon the Treasury ; to certain deficiencies in for
mer ellimates lor the cutrent £ ; vice, and to pro
vtfion in aid of the fund here'r.iuic appropriated
for the payment of certain officers of the courts,
jurors, witnesses, &c,
Tiie (iiird relating to the depart riK i .'if v ar, (hewing
the stated exp nditure of thatc lartmciit frr the
year 1792, . . 357,73,. 6.
I he amount of a years petitions to invalids, 87,463. 60
Pay and fubiiftence to sundry ofF.cers for which no
appropriation has yet been ma* e,
Arrearages due upon Indian affairs for the year 1791,
and the sum supposed to be neceffarv for the,
year 1792, - . . 39,424. 7
Expences incurred for the defcafive protection of
the-trontiers for the year 1790, and 1791, and
for which no appropriation ..as yet been made, 37,339. 4!
Amounting together to
As appears by No. 4, which contains a summary of the three pre
ceding ones: exhibiting in one view the total fuin as above
stated, for which an appropriation is requisite.
The funds out of which the laid appropriation may be made,
are, firft, the sum of fix hundred thousand dollars reserved an
nually out of the duties on imports and tonnage, by the ast mak
ing provision for the debt ot the United States, for the support of
the government thereof : And Secondly, such surplus as fnall
have accrued 10 the end of the present year, upon the revenues
heretofore eftablifhcd, over and bov,e the fnms neccfl'ary for the
payment of interest on the public debt during the fame year, and
for the fatistying of other prior appropriations.
Judging from the returns heretofore received at the treasury,
there is good ground toconcluck that, that surplus, together with
theabovementioued sum of fix hundred thousand dollars, will be
adequate to the object.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary cf the Treafiiry.
c
C, '
w\
V)
(A
General Ejlimate for the Services of the enfuitig Year.
CIVi JUST.
I)oh. Cts. Vols. its.
o
2
K
a,
«
C/ 3
o
»— J
ON
H
•\
*r
v.
*>
a
£
«v»
VJ
«e»
o
*-»
"v.
V.
ft!
•\
55
«u
SS
«•
Q
C>
«v»
£
Forcompenfation to the prefident,vice-pre
fident,chief justice and aflociate judges, 51,500
Ditto to the diftrid judges, - - 21,300
Members of the senate, houfeof repiefen
tative® and their officers, 129,730
Treasury department, - - 60,300
Department of (late, - . 6,000
Department of war, • • 9,600
Board of commiflioners, - 15,100
Government of the weilern territory, 11,000
Grant to baron Steuben, - 2,500
Pensions granted by the late government, 2,767. 7$
Incidental and contingent expeoces of the
civil lift eftabliflimcnts,
EXTRAORDIN ARIES.
For discharging certain liquidated claims
on the United States, - - 117,626.70
To make good deficiencies in the civil lift
eltabli foment, - - 49,043.79
Clerks, of courts, jurors, witnefles, &c. 5,000
Maintenance of light-houses and lepairs, 16,000
Keeping prisoners, - - 4,000
Arranging the public securities, 2,450
Purchase of hydrometers, - - 1,000
Building and equipping ten cutters, 2,000
WAR DEPARTMENT.
Stated annual expenccs, - 357>73i-6i
Annual allowance to invalids, 87,463. 60J
For formtr deficient appropriations, 47,829. 84
Indian departmeut, - . 39>4 2 4-7 i
Treasury Department,
Regijler's Ojficc, Nov, 4, 1791
JOSEPH NOURSE, Register.
THE canal of Languedoc is the most ftupendn
ous work of art in Kurope.—The projeift origi
nated among the Romans who abandoned it as
impracticable. Monf. Riqnet began the enter
prize in 1666, and completed it in 168 c, sur
mounting every ebftacle in a broken uneven
country, carrying his works over and through
mountains, and even removing rivers which lay
in his way, by aquedudts. Where the canal is
carried through mountains it is curiously arched
over with fiee ltone, Descending towards the
ocean there are 15 locks, and towards the Medit
erranean 45, as well as 47aqueducfls and 8 bridges.
Near Beziers there are 10 locks which have a
pretty effect down a descent of 936 feet, and 66
feet from the level above. This amazing work
cost upwards of 2 millions of crowns, half of
which was paid by the king. It communicates
the Mediterranean with the Bay of Biscay, parting
by Bourdeaux and Montpelier, being upwards
of 150 miles in length, and of the utmost utility
especially in time of war, as flats carrying 60
tons burthen keep up a fafe and an easy inland
water communication.
229
Dollars
CANAL OF LANGUEDOC
Doh, Cts.
197,119. 49
i 0,49°. 36
1 <058,222. 8: J
Mr. Gerry observed, that in all the decisions
legislature, we ought to follow as far as
pollibje the opinion of the great body ofthe peo
ple.—'f this opinion should be found to be a
gainll the ratio of thirty thousand, the amend
ment ought to be adopted ; but if we refer to
the amendments proposed by the conventions to
rhe constitution, we fball find that five dates were
m favor of one reprcfentative to every thirty
thousand persons, till the number should amount
to two hundred. None of the propositions now
moved as amendments to the motion of the gen
tleman trom New-York, amount to that number
— Several others of the conventions were of opi
nion that rhe representation was too small to fe
cu. e thr lioci tits of this country. This govern
ment, laid he, is a government of representation ;
the people may controul their reprefetitatives,
but their influence is small in respect to the se
nate and the executive, and (till less over the of
ficers of government—On what then do the peo
ple depend for checking encroachments, or pre
venting abuses ' On their reprefetitatives—lf
these should be too few, or if they ffiould fail
them, they never can redress their grievances
without having recourse to violence.—lf the
number is small, a majority may be the more ea
sily corrupted—on the other hand, too large a
number will be attended with difficulties a°me
dium then is moll eligible.—An adequate number
is absolutely neceflary,—and to fliew that one to
thirty thousand would r.it produce more than aU
adequate number, he referred to the ratio of re
presentation in England and France, in wliicl#
there was a greater proportion of reprefentativci
than in the legislature of the United States.
It has been objected to an increase of repre
sentatives, that it would lead to encroachments
on the part of the general government, over
those ot the individual governments—He tho'c
that the reverse of the objection was true, and
instanced the opinion and plan of Gov. Hutchin
fon of Maflachufetts, who proposed and advised
a redudion of the representation of MafTachu
fetts, as a neceflary Rep in order to effect the de
ficits of Great-Britain—decreasing the number,
therefore, will be leflening in proportion the se
curity of the liberties of the people.
He then adverted to the objection arising from
the additional expence—but, he observed, after
Congress fliall have pafled a few more of the raoft
important arts, it is not probable that the Public
bulinefs will in future require that the leifiona.
should be for more than four months annually .
this would reduce the expence'greatly, in the fii It
instance ; and agreeable to a calculation, an ad
dition of 47 members to the present number,would
make the aggregate expence but about one eigh
teenth part more than at present, supposing the
feftions to be four months long—But he consider
ed the objetfion on account of the expence at
merely speculative.
Although Congress is not positively bound by
the conflitution to give one member for every
thirty thousand inhabitants, yet he wauld ask,
whether the citizens of the United States did not
expert that this ratio would be adopted ? and
whether the 3' would not consider it as an abufa
of power, if Congress, instead of or.e to thirty
thousand should fettle the representation at one
to forty thousand ? Eight States have already
adopted the firft: article of the .proposed amend
ments to theconflitution : and if thelioufe lhould
t0 >555- %
-328,653 56
197,119. 49
— 03®'449 7 6 !
Dollars, 1,058,222.8 if
[Whole No. 266.'
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, November 10.
IN COMMITTEE OP THE WHOLE.
Debate on the Ratio of Representation.
"|\/TR. LAWIiANCE had previously moved That
-L»-L until the next enumeration, the number
of Reprefencatives should be one for every thirty
thousand persons.
Mr. Dayton had moved to strike out thirty be
fore thousand—this amendment was under coa
fideration.
ftt&oeither fettle the number of the repreTentative
body, as it now stands, or reduce it, or eftablilh
it at one hundred, perhaps they might, before
the end of the fellioil, be obliged to repeal their
adt ; as they would be bound by theamendinent,
as soon as it is ratified by a (alßcient number of
States. If gentlemen thought it probable that
the proposed amendment would be ratified by the
fevernl Mates, they ought already to consider it
as a rule for their conduct, and be retrained by
it, from giving less than one i for
thirty thbufand inhabitants, rit'ter the repre
sentation amounts to onehmidreil, Congress will,
do doubt, have a right to fix it there, until it is
encreafed by the ratio of one to forty thousand :
but that isa power, which, he piefutued, Con
gress will not exercile ; but that they then will
eitablifh fonie ratio, by which the. encreafe of
representation shall keep pace with the encreafe
of population, until the lioufe confilts of two
hundred members. '
Mr. Boudinot was convinced of the propriety
of striking out the Word " thirty." The House
ought to consider what would be an adequate
number, fordoing the bufipefs of the union :
and that number ous>ht nor to be exceeded, ex
cept to unfwer some very valuable purpose. Bu
siness would proceed with difficulty, if the re
presentation was so numerous, as it would be
come by the ratio of one ta thirty thousand. ihe
present representation of the United States is in
a ratio very different from that of one to thirty
thousand ; and yet he thought it fully adequate.
From a rough calculation, he said, that the ra
tio ol" thirty thousand would produce one hun
dred and thirteen members; thirty-fivethoufand
would give ninety-seven ; and forty thousand
■would produce eighty-one. If the number once
fettled was to reft there, he would not be over
anxious to oppose the encreafe : but if gentle
men would take into view the encreafe consequent
on the next enumeration, they would find that
the number must by far exceed the due bounds.
The encreafe of expence had been mentioned.
He thought it would greatly exceed the calcula
tion of the gentleman, and, for his part, although
he was willing to tax the people for the neces
sary purposes of government, yet he would ne
ver consent to fubjeifl them to unnecefl'ary hut
dens. Every man must fee, that if the number
was doubled, it would take aim of! double the
time to do the bufinels, as every member would
have an equal right to deliver his feiuiinents, and
thus protratl their deliberations.
He thought the people of the United States
svould be duly repfefented, and to their entire
atisfaiftion, if the ratio was let higher than thir
ty thousand ; nor could he imagine that such an
exaift proportion, between the representatives
and the reprefen'ted. was at all rcquifhe to se
cure their liberties, or to do the neceliary busi
ness of government. This indeed might be the
cafe, if the power, vested in Congress, was pro
portionate to their number : but since the House
would poflefs the fame powers, whether it con
fided of a greater or a smaller number, he tho't
the people equally fecvire in either cafe. The
ratio of thirty-five thousand, which would pro
duce ninety-seven members, would, in his opin
ion, be a ver) proper one. If however the peo
ple should think otherwise, they had it in their
power to correct the uftllake, by ratifying the
proposed amendment. Their not having as yet
ratified it, was to him an argument that they
thought :he ratio too low ; or at lealt that they
considered the question as doubtful. Some of
the States, he oblerved, have postponed the con
ftderation of the amendment ; and eight only
have as yet agreed to it. On the whole the
house might fafely adopt the ratio of one to
thirty-five thousand ; for that the encreafing po
pulation of the United States would ever supply
a representation fufficieiuly numerous to answer
every good purpose.
Mr. Clarke observed that his objection was not
merely 011 account of the pay of the members,
but an encreafe in the representation would bring
an additional expense on the people, by encreaf
ingthe number of public offices, as alinofl every
mail would wifli to fee his friend provided for.
The liberties of America, could be in no danger
from the present ratio of representation. The
doors of the House ai e open, and t lie people know
what their representatives are doing.
Mr. Steele was in favor of the motion for ftrik
jng out thirty. In difculTing the important fub
je<st before the committee, he observed that there
were two enquiries to be attended to—What is
the proper number to conflitute a representative
body for the United States, and what ratio will
leave the fewert fractions in the refpetftive states
—One member to thirty thousand he conceived
would give too numerous a representation ; ac
cording to the present number of inhabitants
it will almost double the present number ; it will
divide and diminifli the refponlibility, make the
House too unwieldy, retard public business, and
encreafe the public expences unnecessarily—An
adequate representation he thought would be
comprized within a much smaller number.
Gentlemen have called our attention to the
House of Commons of Great-Britain, and the
National Allembly of France ; but, said he, God
forbid that we should draw our precedents from
such examples as may lie cited from European
representation.
He was opposed to thirty thousand astlie ratio
—ic would in fraction's throughout tlie United
States, leave above three hundred and sixty-nine
thousand citizens unrepresented. Thirty-five
tlioufrfiul he thought the molt eligible number,
as it would leave the fe>velt fractions.
Some gentlemen fee.n to favor the ratio of thir
ty thousand, because that number has been re
commended by loine of the contentions, in their
propo fed amendments to the conltitution ; but
he hoped that no Hecifion would be founded on
thof;: subsequent amendments—lt would be well
to recollect the sentiments of gentlemen in the
feverat conventions—ln many of them, they were
agreed to, without any wifli or expectation that
they lhould ever be taken into consideration,
and therefore he thought that no argument ought
to be drawn from them** Neither ought Congrcfs,
said he, to be influenced by the example of the
state governments —Business is so t ran failed in
most of them, on accoi l.t of their numerous re
presentation, that is very little permanen
cy, or consistency in their systems. Too nume
rous an aflembly is perpetually liable to disorder
— and when that is thecafe,government becomes
contemptible-—this consideration had greater
weigh: with him than ail additional expenditure of
a few dollars. He again objected to any example
fromGreat-Britain orKrance ; their aflembltes,faid
he, are too numerous and unwieldy to trar.faifl
business without confnfiou—and compared with
what he considered as an adequate number, aie
mere mobs.
WiLli respect to the proposed amendments, he
laid that they have not been adopted by three
fourths of" the Hates ; and from thence he infer
red that they would be finally rejected.
He thought the amendment respecting the ra
tio of representatives, not so good as the original
claul'e in the coiillitution—and laid he would not
hclitate to declare that it ought never to be a
dopted as a part of ir. It has been said that the
voice of America is in favor of the ratio of thirty
thousand ; were this the cafe, he would obey
the voice of America—but he believed that the
opinion of enlightened America was that forty
or fifty tliqufand would not be too high a ratio
—he fliould give the preference to either of ihofe
numbers to thirty or thirty-five thousand, were
it not on account wf-thr fraCtijns that would re
main—he concluded, by faying he fnould vote
for thirty-five "thousand.
Mr. Laivraiice agreed that an adequate number
was the great object to be attended to—but he con
tended that the original motion would give this
number more completely than alarger ratio—and
it ought to be considered thatjbefore the next enu
meration, it will not be probably more than one
to fifty thousand. As to the encreafe of expence,
he observed that the great objects being accom
plished, the future feiiions will be short ; besides
which, the compensation of the members may be
diminished—but he coufidered a necessary in
crease in the expence, to be fully counterbalanc
ed by affording greater security to the liberties
of the people. Tlie jfirmnefs of a government
depends on a strong executive—but this execu
tive fhoulcl be founded on a broad bottom—and
the broader the basis, the more secure is the pub
lic freedom under a vigorous executive.
The exigence of the Union may depend on
the fullnefs of the representation.—The inequa
lity in the proportional encreafe of the number
of inhabitants in different (fates, ought also to be
taken into consideration, —for it was very proba
ble (hat in a (hort time, while fomeof tl;r ("mail
er ffates had a representative for every thirty
thousand, others would not have one to forty
thousand- He laid he was governed by general
principles, and not by any calculations of frac
tional numbers— the constitution contemplates
the ratio he had proposed, and therefore he hop
ed the motion for striking out would not obtain.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that the situation and
circumttances of the government of the United
States were so different from those of France or
Great-Britain, that no parallel \could be drawn
respecting them—Nor is there, said he, an abfo
lnte finularity between this government and those
of the Hate governments. The objects of legiila
tion which come under the cognizance of Con
gress, are but few compared with those which
engage the British House of Commons r.nd the
National Aflembly of France—A much larger re
presentation for them, and in our Itate legisla
tures is thereiore proper, than is necefiary for
us in the general government.—He doubted the
opi.iiori that a large representation was lef» lia
ble to corruption than a ftnall one—fume fac c ts
appear to confirm the former font iment.—Hedid
not consider the expence as a material objection,
if an encreafe of tiie number was necefiary to do
ing more ample juflice, or for the greater secu
rity ot the liberties of the people—bur us he tho't
.his was by no means the cafe, he was in favor of
fmkingout 30, in order to iiifert a larger number.
230
Mr. Barnewell agreed with *he gentleman last fpeakin* • h
said he should vote for ftrikin* out thirty, in order to iubiVt t
the largcft number that had been trjention d.—Mr. Bjrnevvell '
tered into an abftraft and philoCophical difcuflioa of ibe princrT
of representation iri government —the leading fentimeni w,s =
a large proportion of reprefentitive« was not necelDrv to ob:in'
the bell obj 6ls of legillation, in exprefling the wills of the n C "
pie, or to fccure the liberties iff the conflitu nt bodv—V.k'
point, he observed, was to combine the greatelt portion of
with a due degree of att vity—That number which' would eoni'
prise a due proportion of these, would be cqmpfetent to all Uie
purposes of legiflition, whether the number for which it i c !
lates is ten tiioufaud, or five hundred thousand. On this principle
he was decidedly against a large nurnbei, and in favor of a
one. Adv 1 ting to the Bi itilh House of Commons and-.he >f 4lI
onal Alfcmbly of France, with refpett to the formir, he laid
their corruption is in a great_ degree owing to their numbers
to the latter, heohferved, that the National A(Tembly had acud
in Ins opinion politically and wifely—they fat out with a la™-
representation in conformity to the fentimems of the people at t^f
tnoQient ; but on experience, finding the number too yreat tn> v
have reduced it from twelve hundred to about 250. He ochcv.
Ed, he said, that the general sense of the people was ogainft a lar *e
representation in Congrcfs—the inconveniencies experienced from
numerous bodies in the Hate legiflaturcs, has led several of ir, e
Hates to lelfcn the number—He in (lanced Geergia, South-Carolina
and Pennfvlvania.
Mr. Baldwin Was opposed to the motion. One representative
for thirty thousand appeared to him by no means a great reprefcn
tation. The opinion that, of late, had been so often advanced
horn the prtfs, and in public difcyflion, for reducing the repre
sentative branch in government to a fniall number, he held to be
lull of dangerous error. He was sensible, that the terms great and
small were so merely relative in their figntfication, that itwasdit.
ficult precisely to underlland each other in the use ol them. Per
haps they may mOit properly, both of them, be conlidcn as ex
tremes. No doubt representation, which of late feetps to be used
as the character of republican government, is a,great improvement
upon democracy or legifiation by the whole body of the people.
He couid conceive that fc representation might be so large as to par
take or the evils o( alle-mbling the whole body of the people ; but
it w. s a very improbable and not a dangerous extreme : the other
extreme was lull of danger. Thele observations acquire much
force when applied pauiculariy to the governments of this coun
try ; enfeeble the representative, part of them,and you sap the very
principles of life. They stand on a different balls from the Go
vernments which have gone before them, and may justly be laid
to be new experiments in government; time, as yet, has fcarccly
given room iojudge ofihe probable iIT ic; but this v.e may pro
nounce with much certainty, let the principles of repiefcntation
languish, and they have no chance of (uccefs.
It had not been found pra&icable to ground representation ir
the federal constitution upon any other principle than that of num
bers—but extent of territory is unquestionably one of the natural
< rinciples on which it rests, and would it poftiblc be regarded.
One for thirty-four or thirty-five thousand may be deemed a pro
per reprefentaticn in the kingdom of France, or of Great-Britain.
The four millions vyhich compote the United States, compa&ly
fettled where there was great fa-mends in the country, and pretty
equally di^ 1 .it from a common center, would be properly rcpre
fented by a smaller number than fit their present sparse fctde
ment :—But still farther, the fettiement ot the United States is.a
fillet stretched along the sea coait for hundred miles,
comprehend ng as great a variety of climate and iutercfts as otic
of the other quarters of the globe. It is difficult to conceive of'
a situation which calls for a greater extension ol the principle of
representation.
It h<»s been said that one for thirty thousand will make tor* large
and unwieldy a body : he was sensible that was a poini ilidt did
not ad mit of being determined by an) toticlafive reasoning; ic
was a mere matter of opinion, found judgment only is to be ulcci,
tune and experience will come on and confirm or corrc£t the opi
nion. In such a cafe, said he, it is wife to enquire how this has
been judged of by others who have had a rcprel'cntative bodv.
In France 1200 waanoi thoughttoo great a repiefcntation in form
ing their national aflembly, and the number cftablifhed by their
new coiiftitution for frheir slated legiflatuie, was not 250, as the
member last up had llated—but if he had not been mimformed
by the publications in this country, it was nearly 750.
It) the kingdom of Great-Britain, 500 is not thought too great a
reprcfemation; and can 113, whi-h is the grcateft number con
tended fcr, be confidcrcd in this country as a huge and imparti
able maf&ol repi eferttation.
It had ever appeared to him to be among the marks of
our youth and inexperience, that we grew wife too fudoenly He
was afraid this inltantaneous wifdgm which sprung .up lo at once,
and set at nought, or ifmov::d to the extreme of abfurditv and
t »Hy, the deliberate and tried opinions of the moil profound and
enlightened among men, in circiimltances peculiarly favorable t»
hbnclt dccilion, will itfelf be left by time on that extreme.
And how does this compare, he alked, with the opinion and ex
perience of this country in the Hate governments ? The idea had
before been called up, but in his opinion justice was by no means
done to the cotnparifon. It had been said that the ftaces in gene
ral had found their representation too large, and Were diminilhn
ing it. Let another view be taken of the comparison ; afhtcwill
not fu&er the ordinary bufmefs ot its own interh.il legislation t»
be intruded to fewer rcprefentatives than from oite to two hun
dred, and in some instances more, and vet in the federal govern
ment they are obliged to submit to a legislation which can .nuch
more lubllantiallyaffcl their happinefsand property, and perhaps
they have there but a Tingle representative, or at most but fiveorftx.
The slightest comparison shews that there is no manner of propor
tion between them, that they are irreconcilably distorted ; surely
gentlemen of the opposite opinion will noi have the effrontery ti»
to draw an argument from that source for
the present representation
The several itatc conventions which had thought proper toam
nadvert at all upon the federal Confhtution, had pretty uniformly
expressed their wilh that the reprclentation should be iucieafed.
The/*rifts in government, so far as he had been infoi mcc, had ge
nerally given their opinion that this part was too small, and outo
proportion. He was as far from venerating mere theories o. go
vernment as any man, and was sensible they must adjuftthemfeives
to. the times and circumstances of the people. But it would not
be useless to enquire, how does this appear in praslce ? He coul
fay for himfelf that it brought his own mind to the lame conc.u
fion, that it was the part of the federal conftitutinn, of all others
mofl defective and infeeure. Thirty-three naembers had fo rrne
the house, fevenieen was a majority, and equal to the cecifion>o
any question. Questions had already occurred, involving proper
ty to the afnount of from fifty to eighty millions of dollars, an
much of it in the hands of the most daring individuate,
desperate by their speculations. He did not fay there had been
any foundation for uncafy apprehensions from thatquaitcr, u
he did fay, that in other countries it would be supposed to ea
mofl dangerous experiment upon the paißons and iiupet.c tons
of human nature.- But it had been said, and with an unexnt e
affuranre, that increasing the numbers did not increase t e ecuri
ty against these evils. If so, why not reduce it at once to '
nerable number thirteen, or indeed three, which would g'.ve us a
areata security as the whole body of the people ? It is id
tue observations onfucha point—the mind that can or ica:
• ina; upon it, can scarcely be fuppoted in a fituationto be bene
by r afons. • • r A rttV
The federal government, it must. be admited, is i' l 2
highly seasoned with preiogative —practice lias aheady evuthe ncccffity, in many instances, of increasing it, by devolving
much of the legillative power upon the executive department",
arising from the difficulty of making particular provisions and de
tails ni our laws, and accommodating them to the various intercfls
of so extensive a country.
The other branch of the legislature has many traits of a perpe
tual, at least of a very solid ionftituent part of the government.
He did not mention these at linperteftions in the government
they are perfedfions if the other parts can be in due proportion;
but it is lurely a fountf reafoti against taking pbfitive mcafuies at
this time to diminish the rcprefentative branch ; lor his own pa, t
he was not well fatisfied as to the intention. If there is any rea
son to apprehend that the government will depart from the point
on which it was iirlt placed, he could scarcely fuppufc that any
one could be boneftly alarmed vviin the fear that the departure
would b« towards demociicy. He concluded by ex'pieflimr his
hopes/hat the representation to the next Congress would be fixed
atone for thirty thoul'and, as it had hitherto been, and that the
motion for fti iking out would not prevail.
MONDAY, November 14.
The Speaker laid before the house a memorial
from General Moses Hazen,which was read and
laid 011 the table- ' ,
Mr. Baldwin presented the petition of General
JamesJackfon, (taring that an improper and undue
return has been made to the house of the election
for the lower diflricl of ihe Rate of Georgia and
praying that the house would pollpone any de
termination on the election of General Anthony
Wayne, for such reasonable period as may enable
the petitioner to come forward with such proofs
as the cafe may require.*
Mr. Lawranee presented a p3tition of fqndry
inhabitants of the state of New-York, holders of
the continental paper called new emiUion, or for
ty for one money—laid on the table.
A meflage was received from the' Frefident of
the United States by Mr. Secretary Lear, with a
copy of a resolution of the Legislature of Virginia,
'nia, ratifying the firft article in the amendments
proposed by Congress to the Conliitution of the
United States—also sundry papers relative to a
purchase of land on the Great Miami, by John
C. Symmes.
Mr. Seney presented a memorial from the dif-'
tillers of Baltimore, praying a modification and 1
a reduction of the duty on spirits of domeflic nia
nufadure read, pud referred to the Secretary
of the Treasury. '
Sundry petitions were read, praying for pen
fious and compensations—-these were committed
to the Secretary of War, to report thereon.
The petition of Stephen Zachary, merchant,
of Baltimore, was read, stating that in confe
quenceofan unintentional error in a bill of sale
of a veflel purchased at Port-au-Prince, he had
been obliged to pay extra tonnage duties, and
played relief. On motion, this petition was re
ferred to :A feletft committee, consisting of Messrs.
Fitzfimons, Huger and Gilman.
Mr. Baldwin moved that the petition of Gen.
Jackson (hould be referred to the committee of
elections. Jie offered several observations to
fnew the propriety of giving early attention to
the bpfinefs, particularly as [he conteiled election
took place in the remotest part of the remote
Hate in the Union
It was observed rhat a reference to the com
. mittee appointed to bring in a bill for eltablifh
ing an uniform mode of proceeding in cases of
concerted elections, appeared to be the molt eli
gible. A reference to the committee of elec-
tions was objected to, as the fubjeift not conic
within their cognizance, as that committee can
only determine vefpetfting the certificate, &c.
*nich are required from the executive of the
tate to entitle to a feat in the house. A refer-
ence to the committee appointed to report a bill,
was. also objected to, as that committee was
not authorized to take notice of part tranfadtion's,
or '° report a rerrofpedive regulation.
seleCt committee was mentioned, agreeable
ot e mode adopted in the two contested elec
lons which occurred in the firft Congress—but it
eing observed that the petition was-unaccompa
•'^e ,ei l"'fite documents mentioned in
' . /' Baldwin withdrew his motion, and the
petition was laid on the table.
The liieflage from the President of the United
tates being read, the papers refpeciing the pur
s Western Territory, werere-
C tO . l'. 16 co ' nn 'ittee appointed to bring.in a
piovnlitig for the sale of vacant lands.
T . re P, ort > put fuant to orders of the house, was
«in> e,<eo a 1 e:lc '' f | oni the Board of Commi/Ii
tcH o* a PP o,nte d to fettle the accounts of theUni
' „ ates w ' lh the individual States. Th, re
th. c * '' lat l ' ,o ' e accounts may be fettled by
refnlit-• 3r * a before the house sundry papers
re<S»H , ' 8 al * ne Hospital which had been e-
Leirifl l ' lC tate Virginia ; also an acft of the
thc"r» UrC .°*" t ' lat late > authorizing the sale
oninnt-' 0 '. e n ' tec ' States—Thele being read,
the S* ,0 " r ' ar ' ter » they were referred to
of the Treasury.
'"ions' r^P orts roin the Secretary of State on pe
ofWiir 6 er J t0 m 7 were read—one on that
Colvin ' am J? owe ' . t * le °'her, on that of Charles
How e j. 1 . n, °t'on of Mr. Madison, William
othtrf- ea * e to withdraw bis petition—the
T er report was laid on the taMe.
late r r' ort £ ' ,e Secretary of War, made 10
ongrefs, on the petition of Rufus Ha-
mil ton, which wag againtt the prayer of Pml t-e
•'"on was, on motion of Mr. WarT taken into
con fid era: ion. A subsequent petition from the
wa p t also •»
granted 0t petition ca,)l,ot be
called 6 fm-' e ri° f , rhe r !ay ' °". the C^"fuS bei »g
I ~ > ou^e went into a committee of
the whole Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
Heifter moved that the Clerk should in
the'am l'° 3f the of the ratifications of
the amendments to the Conftitmion proposed by
Congi ess, to the several States.—lt appealed that
The debate was then renewed on the amend
mem proposed to the motion of Mr. Lawiance,
toi ltnkmg out thirty before thousand.
* r. Findley and Mr. Giles spake largely against
iolied" 0 Th°'" llrikin £ °ut and Mr. Boudinot
replied. rhe committee . ofe without taking a
vo.e, and had leave to fit again.
t ,. TUESDAY, November 15
Mr. Wayne presented the petition of J. Davis, a surgeon in the
Sssifs 5?* su '" 1 L
Sed f wi r ck "ported a bill refpefting fugitives from mftice
and from the f crv ; C col Masters . whuh si » J»»«.
whole'H eS 'r a " d " d " ed 10 b ° COmm,,tcd <° a committee of the
on r F , r,da y next—too copiesto be printed for the ac
conimodation of the members.
In committee °f the whole, on the Schedule of the Ccnfus.
Air. Muhlenberg in the chair.
n„W C h B t""f 0r ftr ' king ° Ut thirty ' from "'c resolution pro
poled by Mr. Lawrance was further discussed ; Mr. Pace Mr
findlty, „lr. Gerry, Mr. K'tchcll and Mr. He.lter oppoled the
motion for (Inking out. Mr. Steele, Mr. Clatk, Mr. Hillhoufe
Mr. Vining and Mr. Sedgwick, were in favor of the motion ■ the'
debate was continued till 3 o'clock, when the quellion being ge
nerally railed tor it was put and negatived-and the original mo
tion, I hat until the next enumeration, the number o» Represen
tatives 'hall oe one to every thirty thousand persons was agreed to.
i he committee then rose and reported the rcfolution to the Houfc
and on the motion to agrffe to the fame, the ayes and noes beir, J
demanded aie as follow : b
ayes
B 3ldw i n . Beaton .Brown, Findley, Fitzfimonj, Gerry,
G IT, Gordon, Gregg, Griffin, Heifter, Huger, Jacobs, Kitchell
K-ittera, Lawrancr, Learned, Lee-, Muhlenberg, Madifoo, Mpore,
Page,Parker, Scney.Sheredine, Sumpter, Sylvester, Tfead
wcll, Tucker, Venablc, Wadfworth, Wayne, Wfiite, Wiili«_3 s ,
MffTrs. Ames, A (he, Barnewell, Bondinor, S. Bourne, B. Bourne
vr i c j Goodhuc > Grovf . Hlllhoufe, Livermore, Macon'
Ni.es Scdgv.'.ck, j. Smith, I.Smith, W. Smith, Steele, Sturzes'
Thatchrr, Vining, Ward—l.3 .surges,
A committee confiding, of Messrs. Page, Murray and Macon,
was appointed to report a bill pursuant to the above resolution.
[OR THE GAZETTE OF THE U\'ITE~D STATES ~ '
Number of Representatives in Congress.
\A/"^ EN ' hc P' efcm Constitution of the United Slates was firft
VV formed, the Senate confided of twenty-fix members, and
the House of Representatives of fixty-five. The proportion was as
two to five. By the accefliori of Vermont and Kentucky, the
number ol Senators will be encreafed to thirty. To preserve the
original proportion, the uumber of Representatives should be en
creafed to feventy-fivc, and apportioned to the several States agree
ably to the Constitution, according to the late census. Would it
not be best to amend the Constitution, so that for the future the
number of Representatives may be always in the fame proportion
to the nnmbcrvof Senators as at firft ?—That rule would afcertaiji
the number, without the interference of Congress, which will no;
be done by the amendment that has been already proposed ; but
as that is not yet become a part of the Constitution, Congress can
fix the number at the rate aforefaid for the next cleftion, and te
commend the amendment here proposed in lieu of the former.
The objects of legifiation in a federal government are fcW. com
pared with those in a national or state government, and therefore
will not require so great a number of Representatives. Those gen
tlemen who are acquainted with doing business in a Icgiflative as
sembly, can judge better by experience than argumentation, what
number will be most convenient to tranlaft the public business.
Any gieater number would add nothing to the power ot thai
branch of the legiflaturc, but would renderthe exercifeof its.pow
ers more inconvenient, and lessen the weight and tefponfibility of
each individual member. An tncreafe o( members would also
enhance the public expence, If feventy-five members can tranf
aEl the public bufmefs as well as one hundred, the saving the ex
pence of twenty-five members (which in a ftllion of fix months
would aVnount to 26,000 dollars) would be an object worthy of
attention. A CITIZEN.
FROM THE GEORGIA GAZETTfe, OF OCTOBER 13.
THE Light-House on Tybee I Hand will hereafter be regularly
lighted, and the following directions are given for failing in
over the bar :
Bring the Light-House to bear Weft, or not more than W. i S.
or W. J N. and calculate the tide, at J pall 7, at full and change
of the moon, to be full sea. If little wind, in ftanding'iii, allow
for the tide. The ebb setting to the fouihward, over the fopth
breakers, you must ftcer W. N. W. as loon as you shoal your wa-
ter, haul up more to the northward ; but be sure not to vary from
the course above mentioned. Obfervt the flood tide fcts to th
northward ; then you must steer W. S. W. with light winds. When
you get the Light-House to bear from S. £. to S. you may bring
up from 3j to 5 fathnfns, at low water, muddy bottom, being
within 1 i cable's length of the Ihore. There you may lie fafc
with anv but an easterly wind. When you get on the bar, you
will have 18 feet at low water, with a hard bottom; at high wa
ter, from to 4 fathoms. After pr.fling the bar you wiil have
a foft bottom. Tire diftancc from 3 fathoms water, coming over
the bar, until the water is half a mile. The width of the
-channel, from breaker-head to breaker-head, is half a mile. Ob
serve when you find you 'get either to the southward or to the
northward of the foregoing Jdireftions, and have no wind, let go
your anchor.
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 21/10 22/ ?'■£•
3 pr. Cents ie/6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13\J 13/s
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and othei Certificates igj
Indents 11/6
Bank. Subfciiptions,
231
Adjourned
NOES.
Adjourned
110 pr. cent.
625 do.
66 do.
95 d o.
do.
143 IJ&lhrs.
Philadelphia, November 16.
Sem LC °On'!| f i orn tf' 0 'f d >, n ' VM ltc ' m,lda > arc received to the igrh
' , P n . l, 'e »4'hof that month dud at Weymouth, the JVi,,
quis de la Luzerne, Ambaffado, from the Court of We A
treaty of peace ,s figncd between Rullk and th Tu.ks ■ the Em
press retaining Oczakow and its dependencies The' Kitie of
France has accepted the new condition, and had been put ~
pofTeffion of the crown ;-a general st y hjs bcea pub (
favor of all who assisted the iiing in makin , c fca J 1 " i
rhoTe who have refilled the decrees of th," N,„ lu nal Wmbly"
passports and momentary reftri£t,ons in regard to entering into or
depart.ngoutofth.k'ngdomHte done away; the gaols® of tL
v- 3re t0 thrown °P en on the occasion.
of Spain has declared war again If the Em peror of
LordCo'' A f, COUntS from India tolh = =3d March, inform that
r Cornwallis was carrying every thing before him ; the Kuf
'JWI f . r ?.™ the best information from Cape-Francois that
the ,fl, nd H .rp,mola mu st be loft for fcrn/timc : ,h e 'forc'
the rev ok en B 5 meanS to d ' eooquH
a oer/to ,1 I . A ™ rlcan Properly at the island which i«.of
arrwW must be m " rd y loft :no k "' d °f provifionj
are want, ng , it 13 uncertain whether the Capi is not at themercv
of the revolters when they choose to make a small facrifice AM
gree that the island can never be recovered but by a irreat and
eany exertion of France. g
U-f J c i Hammond was introduced to the Prefidfflt
cr,H« I u StateS ' by thc Secreur y "f State, and- presented hL
as his Britannic Majesty's Minister Plenipotentiary. '
gi fUtc." G ° V ""°' ° f Vir S inia b V Le.'
Mr- Bourne, Consul of the United States for St. Domini'o
wt.o arrived here on Thursday last ,n the brig Theodof.a from
theemh anC °r' " ,f °, rmS thatthe Coloni'l'Mlembly had laken off
fro,nTh b : r i g fla„ f r
1 he Ship Sampson, Capt. Howell, arrived at the Isle of Franc
on the 24th April last, an d was to fail for Canton the firft of June •
The Ship Piehdem Washington, Capt. Nicolfon, was also at ihe'
above place on the 27th May. The Ship Neptune, Capt £ai 1
had failed from thcncc lor Madras.
Much has been fald about making the Pod-Office the medium
of news and information to the people ; and it Teems to be the
general sentiment that, if it is pradicable, this medium (hould be
adopted (or this truly patriotic purpose. It is however said, that
Fnr, rC y e J ery gr T obfta^ iesm the wa y the expence is the moll
formidable—another is, that it will interfere with that dispatch f,.
neceliary to give fatisfa&ion to the mercantile interrft, which is
confidercd as the great support of the Poft-Office depaitment ■ and'
whose convenience and accommodation ought therefore to be or
manly consulted. With refpeft to the expencc, it may be pre
uined, that if newlpapers were particularly fpecified in the con
trails lor traufporung the mails, those contrails might be made
on nearly ihe prefer,t ; and it is univcrfally supposed, that
ounftuahty in receiving ihe papers, would induce every uerfon
chcarfully to pay (uch a sum over and above the fubferi-.tuni as
won d ampl/ compensate the deputy Post-masters for the fmaJl
■ ddilion to their bufmefs, which a more particular attention -has
is now paid would occasion. A separate portmanteau, and feoa
raje arcounts, would prevent an interference with the lelteis -
which ought always to receive the firft attention. At prch nt it
is a mere.matter of courtesy, according to the exiftmg refoluuonj
ot Congrcfs, that newspapers, even exchange papers between P,in
ters, are permitted to be sent by the mail—this is so e, ner.-Hv
known, that the idea of property is scarcely ever affixed to the n
at lean after they or.ce leave ihe Poll-Offices, It fee in sas if t wa l
proper that the Printer* (hould know oil what ground thev ftaurj •
or their prelent indulgence in regaid to diilant fubfcribeis, is ill
lufory and deftrufhve to them, and proves a vexatious deception
and dilcouragetnent to their patrons.
I Exiraß of a Utter from Edinburgh, Augufl 22.
Yesterday, a gentleman ndingbythefeacoaft
betwixt Liniekills and North ob-
Terved three whales playing in the water.' He
l ode directly to the ferry and gave the informa
tion to the fifhermen there, who immediately
launched their boats, and set off in pursuit of
them. In a /hort time they overtook them, and
the moment they struck them with their harp'oons
all three run afliore. In theafternoon they were
brought inco the North £)ue£nsferry. One of
them measures (ixteen feet in length, another
twenty feet, and the third twenty-two feet.
At Davis's Straits, forty-fix flnps have caught
ISi fifh, which are computed to yield 1812 long
of oil, and 120 tons of whalebone. Fourteen
Amsterdam veflels caught 1 7 fi/h.
George Meade
Has for SALE,at his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will d.fpofe of by the pipe, hoXad or
quarter calk. °
London matket Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old
Old Sherry WINE of the firft quality, by the I,'ogfhead or
quarter calk. 0
Three and 4 years old LilW, WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter calk or
quantity. •
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or lar er
quantity. »
A few quarter cherts of firft quality Hyson TEA
He hasjuft received by the Pigou, Loxlev, maftcr/from London
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINK—And
By the bri s Mercury, Capt. Steven., from Dublin, a few bo*,.
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well alTorted ; a few bal°"l
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft quality a „J
Burlmgton PORK of prime quality. y>and
STAVES aH ° l ° d ' rP ° re ° f ' 3 qUa " tity ° f drcffcd White Oak
He means to krep a constant supply of First Onallt« ■
and who^ r^%l e,red t o^vo; y h^t;t "
Lheir cultom, may be afluicd of being well served.
Winter and S P rm <?' buy undreflcd HAND
■11 11 P ,Kch ' ,r " , K FLAX-SEED and BEES-W \a anJ
will give the htgheft price f'.r them.
N.B. A few hamper- of excellent London PORTER , n J
Taunton ALE, just received, and to bed.fpofed of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
(<p 6w.J«
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
Pfc R gU AK TITY.
NOVEMBER 16. —Dol la* » at 7/6.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7d Porta,American pr. doz. 10/5
Aliutn, pr.cwt. 305 Pitch, pr. bbl 13J iss
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d Pork, Burlington, 9OJ iooj
Aihe»,pot, per toe, 37'»°» Lower county 901
. Pearl, . 501 Carolina 701
Arrack pr. gall. ioj 12)64 Pea!, Albany ssbd
brand v, common, Slid Pepper, pr. lb. 3J 9<l
Cogbiac
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/15/
Bricks pr. M 30 s to 37s 6d
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 1,5*
Ditto, piJot 27J 6d
Ditto, fmail water 40J 455
Beer, Am.rican, in bot. ] ID /g
pr. doz. bot. inci. J
pr. bbl. 35 s
c/ 2 f Oak pr.M feet, 67*4'
j Merch. pine toor
<<i S 'P. d °- .3'
c | N.£ng.
« I Cedar
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yardp» ice* udd 15s pr
Briroftone in rolls pr. cwt. 26s
u. f Iri(h pr. bbl.
g < liofton , 6of
03 ( Countiy 52* 6i
Butter pr. lb.
in kegs to^
Cedar, red timber pT.foot
Chocolate pi. ib. 13d
Coal pr. bulbel isGd
C' ffee pr. lb. 14d
Cinnamon ißi 20J
Chcefe, £ngli(h ii
• ■ Country 9^
f Spcr. pr. lb. 3 J
J j Wax
p Myrtle Wax isi
j Mould,tailow
Coiton 25 4^
Cu 1 rants
Cloves 9*
Copperas pr.cwt. *4*
Cordage 6oj 62'5J
Cocoa
Duck, Rudia, pr. piece Boj
—— Kavpns ti 7 j 72J 6<f
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37M
Common, S5 J
— Bur middlings,beft 33s
- Middlings
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. y6d 10/
Flax P r - lb - 9*
Fustic pr- ton, 1351 15CS
Feathers pr. lb- 3 J
J'laxfeec; pr- bufti. 5J od
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/ iOi 8/
Ginger, white race 65J
Ditto, common 50*
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
»inieng, I J° l / l °
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. >
quaitercafk, $
Ditto, ti.ic ;ljz.d 5 : -
Gin. Holland, pi. gall. -■
D>. pr. cafe. 32i ().
f Wheat pr. b»& 7/ 7 J 3
i R v c 3
: I Oats 2 >21
C Indian corn 3-f 4
* i Bailey 4-> &
■5 | Bell Ihelled pr. lb. 3<
2J 6:
Hemp,for. pr. ton, 45^53
American, pr. lb. 4<
Hogftirad hoops, pr. M £16
Herrings, pr. bb!. ißj 20.
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9d io<
Hops 9
Indigo, French,
. Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
C Callings 22i6i30/
£ j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
C ptg 10/
£ | Sheet 6,5/
Nasi rods 30/
Junk, pr. cwt. loj 401
Lard, hogs gd icd
Lead in pigs 401 42/ 6J
in bars 50s
Lead, white 75J Bqj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. is \d is6d
Lignum vitae pr. ton 43* 45s
Logwood 7/ 5J 8/
M ai, Indian, pr. bbl. 19s
Rye 20 s
Mackarel,beft
6oj 67* 6d
Common 26r
Mace pr. lb. 555
Mustard is 4d
Madder, best isd 1 Sd
Molaflfes pr. gall,
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 145
Mast spars sj 6d jj
Mahogany 8d iod
Nutmegs pr. lb. 671 6d
Nails, todizdSc 20d— 8d
' Ltnfeed, pr. gall. 3* gd
Tram is 10d is
Spermaceti 3/
Whaie 1 s €d vs
jr <[ Oiive 6f 6d
®I D ito pr. cafe ißj qi
J Best fwett in )
I ttafks.or. box, )
I.—balkets 12 bottles37j6</
Oak limber pr. too 381
Porter pr. bl. s
—— London, pr. doz. 12/6 d 15s
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
JR.EFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Ot ihe Sift quality—by rciaij
No i 9,
Third-Street, betweta and Mai k.et Streets.
Pimento
Rice pr. cwt. 21/ '6d
Rosin pr. Lbl. iß> 9 u
Raisins, best, pr. keg
Ditto pr. jar 32J
Ditto pr. box 25 s
C Jamaica pr. gall. 6j 94/
• Am-.gua 6j 6j
f 5 j Windward 6 j
Barbados 6<i
• Country, N.E. 4M J
t.Tatfia 2*4 d us6d
Saffafrat pr. ton 453 6oj
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 4/10*3/
Sitlphar, flour $cj
SfiOt 2 J
f German pr.cwf.
r 1 / Lnglifli, blistered ~£.<
P pr. ton 40/60/
«o pr. tap. Bci
Snake root pr. lb. u6d 3 joa
Soap, Common 60
Brown 6a
Caltile 10 dk
Starch qd 6a
Snuff 1s 6d 2s\d 35 6t:
Spermaceti,refined, 3J lOts
Sail Cloth, Enghib, ~l . c
r r , M IJ °d 2J2U
pr. yard, J
Bolton, No. I. 2J 3<i
No. 11. 2J LA
RufHa (heeting. pr. p. 90J
f Lump, pr. lb. 1s 5a
c 4 • Loaf, Tingle refined lsiod
<j Ditto, double do. 2J 6d
1 Havaonali, while i7<i
00 Ditto, brown, ntf'j
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt.
Spirits Turpentine or. gall,
. ( Allum pr. butb. 2J Id j
_j 2J
* " *:;!
Ship build. W.O. frames") g oj
P-ton, j , OCj
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5J
Shingles, short, p. M. 2 2j 6j
• long dressed 3~i6d
Scantling,heart, 80j iooj
j ~°' p . 5««
* rPipc pi. isoo pietes 6ci
1 1 W hogihead 7 l is U
' 5 1 do ' &3^
' 5 I L «°g»n 61
<t «« Barrel 3/ 15 ,
I. Heading g
* f Ouer, btft pr. piece 33
■ Mioks ~64 3
I F °*> t"y
j ( rf d
I-Martins
Fifhcr?
1 I Bear.
| Racoon
J Mu&-
; -.'iK-iats gd üB.
!B. W,pr. lb. ;j6 io.
L D.-ei, in hair lj&Jpjgt,
Tar,N.Jti(ey,s4g a l. p. bbl.
Carolina, 3: , 0j
Turpentine p . bbl. i2j i s j
.f* James R. new heft 28j
~ inferior zcsi.JSa
o old gtj j
Rappahannock 18/9 29/6
O J Colo. Maryland 501 6cj
y Dirk 19*64
< Long-leaf ,gj 6«
a Eaftern-lhore 153 i~s 6<t
O ! Carolina, new 22i6<
L old 22J 6d ijt
( Hyson pr. lb. jj&gd
« ; Hyson Ik n, 4s 6j 6a
Souchong, 3s6dy,
[_ 1 Congo, 31 3J gj
2.t gd
Tallow, refined 8j«
Tin pr. box, ioo<
Veidigreafe pr. lb. 3 1 6d v
Vermillion, !2i
Varnish, "«j 6«
r Madeira, pr. pipe 40
1 Lisbon 36,
Teneiiffc 20/tOj 30/
K I Fa y a! P r - g a "- 3>6<i
J Port pr. pipe 36/ 43/
j Duto pr. gall. 6j
Do, in bottles, pr.doz. 30J
j Claret 3OJ 45J
! Sherry pr. gall. 6sgd gj
Malaga y 6i bd
Wax, Bees pr. lb. sj
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2J3«
lhort, pr. lb. w
3' 7*
s='
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go davs, ;cj
Ditto 60 days 71^
Ditto 30 oayt j2j
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, gr
30 days gj 4 i
Government bills, drawn at i*
days per 11 guilders, 33J
WHEREAS it appeals by the proceedings in a certain cause'
now depending in the High Court of Chancrry in Eng
land, wheiein William Webb is the plaintiff, and John Parker, (exe
cutor of Thc-nai Bradly, deceased) is the defendant, that Henry
Webb was put ou: an apprentice to the sea trade by the Greenwich
school, in or about tl»e year 1775, and who was then of the age of
14 years, or thereabouts,ana failed from England in the year 1776,
to some part of North-America, in the (hip or vefiel Artemijja,
Capt. Leuellyn, formerly a Spamfh trader, and at that time a navy
victualler or traufport in his Majesty's service—and whereas Jt ap
pear * fhatthe said Henry IVebb deserted and ran away from said ship
or veirel, and entered on board a certain privateer called the Re
venge, or Vmgeahce Privateer, of which one John Dean was matter
or commander, then k'Mg at New-York. Nortb-Aratnsi; and
' that the laid Vengeance Privateer, on or about the sth of November,
1779, failed from New-York aforefaid to Savannah, and arrived at
such last mentioned port in or about the month of March, 1780,
and on the month ol April following, to some port or p'a-e in
America, but to what port or place is not known; and in the
month of May, 1780, tbe said fhipor veflVl was fcen at Barbadoes
in the Weft-Indies, but th- said Henry Webb has not since been hard
of, and is supposed to be dead ; it having been reported that tbe
lender belonging to the said (hip or vc(Tel called the Vengeance,
which (hip was then commanded by Capt. Knozcfes, with a num
ber of her men, to the amount of ao. or thereabouts, (and among
whom the said Henry Webb is supposed to have been one) were ta
ken by the enem>, and carried into Philadelphia. Now, in
pursuance of an order made in the said cause, bearing date the 3d
of December, 1790, any person or persons who can give any ac
count or information touching the said Henry Webb, cfr of the fa-d
ihip Vengeance, or whether the said Henry Webb be living or dead,
and if dead, when or wheresoever he died, are requested to give
such information to William Wetter Pepys, E*q. one of the Mailers
of said Court, at his Chambers in Svmonds'-Inn, Chancery-Lane,
London ; and such person or persons will be rewarded for their
trouble by applying to Samuel Nay for, Esq. the Solicitor in said
cause. No. 4, Great Newport-street, London; or toihe Rc». John
Stanford. No. 33, john-street, Ncw-Yoik; 6r lo John Prettyjoki
Esq. Bridgetown, Barbadoes. W. W. PEPYS.
i f ba
The First and Second Volumes of :he
HISTORY OK NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
( To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belkn-v,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Thud Streets.
£3" The above two volumes contain the political history of the
Slate, from its firft fettlemeat to the adoption of the present Con
futation of iheUni id Stales; —the third, containing a geographi
cal ttefenption of the State, iketcbes of its natural history, <£:c. is
in the press.
%* A few copies of the firft two volumes {or falc—price acf.
November 5, 1791.
In the Press, and fpeedilv will be publilhcd,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBESEZER HAZARD, A.M.
*** The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
couiaining 160 large quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards; to be paid as viz. the firft
and second Numbers, cr Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each fubftfcjuem one (except tfte lail) at the time of
delivery.
g3"Subfcriptions will be recefved, in this citv, by Thomas
Dobson, and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookftllcrs;
there- P/tifaJe!piia, Kmemter j, 1791.
4 J 8 3 4
2J 7J 6«
sj 6J
25J
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the PuHic Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange ncgociated;
Merchandize ot all forts bought and fnidon CcmatJSon, and other
Bufinefj in the line of a Broxcr, tranfatied by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office Htxt door to the Custom-House,
State-StreetBOSTON. 2m
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, od COMUISSION, ky
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
AND NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER& AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every deferipiion,o \\Com?uiJJion,
at the following rates:
the specie amount of all sales at auction, one eighth per
On ditto at private faleOT purchase, one-kafj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving intertft at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making at Ahlo, fcventy-Jivt cents per transfer.
&3T Such per Cons as may incline to favor the subscriber wilh
their order", may relv on iheir being executed with pun
fichty and dispatch. Hu long experience and extensive dealings
in the public flocks, together with a well eftablilhed correspon
dence throughout the United Slates, enable him to condutt his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
OHoCfr 1 , i?gi.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
T} UN AWAY, Come time iu August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Asrhham, late the property of Komsnci
H deceased— about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inchcs high, pretty well set, with a large wooih head
and large beard, walk.* with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feetaod ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone m«ifon and
plalterer. He is a very Handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
ot such buQnefs. He is a great diflfembler, and n6 doubt pretend?
lie is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went t©
the Northern States, as heotien mentioned having friends there.
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure laid Negro* in any jail, so that the subscriber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be ? iven if he is brought to Prince William County, VirJma,
to Mr. John Kinchelor, by.
O&ober 12, 1791
232
ADVERTISEMENT.
JOHN PIXTARD,
Mew-York, Vo. 57, A7>;-;-S:r ec t.
CH.-Kl_£b \\ ICKIIfF, Ad minuli stor.
TO BE SOLB.
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pca*-street
a collection' of
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may he fern rvery dav, until five tfcUck »
Ai*org them arc thefo'louiri ;
Folic. TTOMER, Xfiiophon, Pino. Piuiaich, Eufr 1 : t
n men, The doret, Viigtl, Horace.! -v. Ta . p,'*"
cuius, Pliny, Conco'danua La>. Coiuo-daniiaGr. Thtfic'm r
ccroois. Btblia Junii and Tremcllii, Bible dc Martin W\'
Scapul«—Phavorifti—Martinii —H off man i Lexjca \\ •" 1. 1
loz'oon. An'iqun. Erclcf. Hruanrrcir. <scc.
Quarto. P ndar, Cyto; idia, Brn->V« Horace, Tfrm-r ar '
Phxdrui, Ovid, Juvenal, Manillas, Ciccrnmsnp. , , n . c A -, r
etnniiK, Jul.us Pollux, Hedcriei Lexicon, VoGu AiiCin C.u.t'l
rii Justinian Code, See.
Ofttco et injni. Homer, Anaereon, Ariftophar.rs, Lor- - >
Theophraltus, Hcliod, Poetae miporcs Gr. Ifocraus. Phil r!
rimu editioni of Houce, Vutpl, Terenre, and Oviti, Tibu. : >. p, 3 .
mis. Lucan, Martial, Cland'an, Val. Flaccuj. Aufomus, Bichan;"
Salluft, Curtius, Florus, [uftin, Val. Maxiinu. A. Gei'i is
Au»iift. Scnplorrs, Eigh/lt and French Tranjljt en of feme of it c
CI "Tics, a great rnrietv u I Greek and Laiin Grammars, 4c 4.-
g: T Catalogues may be had of Mcflrs. Ktct & Co. liork dim
or of JOHN CARLY '
Oft"h'r 31. (cp»f
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the subscriber now lira.
IT lici on the road from Pgloccton to Brunfwick, about aaiill
and a half from the former. It contains »1 J acm, wheroif
47 are woodland, upward! of 30 meadow, and so morr mtr be
made. Also a young orchard of aoo apple trees, befidei • variety
of peach and cherry treea, and * large garden; the whole tinder
good flnce. There are on the premifet a two story ftooe hAaft
and kitqhen, with an elegant piazza, the 'whale paicted an|
finifhed. Also, a fraoke-hou(e, work-Hup, granary, waggo*.
house; barrack cow-bouses, two ftoricihigh aad 90 ferl long,n4
a good barn, with (tabling. From the building* there arc chaniv
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Xotunomk
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubfcribcr on the pirmifr-s,or to luAcSxovai*
No. 141, South Second-Hi eet, Philadelphia.
Pr-nreton, OQobf? 10, 1791
W. M'D 0 UC A L L'S t
DANCING SCHOO"'
Is now opened at his School.Room,
No. 2S, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his finccre thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputaiion
ol his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will fttll ensure him a refpeSable fharc of tit
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will betaurht
during the fcafon.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be assured, they will be taught in the most approv i
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general praftifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednefd3y ; when the
employers, and Grangers of genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra&ifings will be attended with no expence.
X. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for growa
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number oiFer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791. (f. f.)
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke opeo the Store of the subscriber, at Bw
-J dentown. and stolen from the fame the folio*ing articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing women*' wearing apparel; 1 fmafl
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftjmeots; i ditta
containing green cloth coat, one striped vest and
breeches, two .arts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. t»
30s. Jerfev coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
final! books ; 1 box containing 447 real ottnch feathers, (bine of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stont and Imlay; t barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with.black fides.
A reward of Twenty will be given for the fecurityof
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
D jllars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, bv
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. [ c P I O
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
Class Second.
THIS Class will positively commence drawing on ThurMay
the 24th of November next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition. The Managers pledge thero
felves that no consideration whatever (hall induce them to postpone
the drawing a moment bevondthat lime.
Rofton, O&ober 15, 1791. '
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genieel wages will be allowed. Nooeneed apply wk*
cannrw l>e well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L. L. T). Profeffor of Laws
in lbe College and Academy of Philadelphia, propofrs i»
deliver, next Winter, two Courfcs of Leflures. One Courfc «•
on the Second Monday, the other on the Second o
December. WILLIAM ROGERS'
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, Oftoher it, 1791. (cptDi
tyT" Hiavk Powers to receive thelmerei\, andjor the transfer t
principal of public debt, aqrerable to the Rules ejlsiiifiud in t e <
fury Department: Also Blanks JorabJlraQs oj Certificates) tote J.
the Editor.
CcT The JOURNAL of the THiRD SESS 10Kef *e SEh.iT
oft he UNITED STATES. im\ be had of the Editor A>W.
Pubiifhed, and to be fold bv the Editor, price *tn <>» < * oi *
TWENTY- SIX LETTERS
On the moll important Subje&s,
Refpeaing the RF.VOLl T TION' of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the vtar 17
Mj the VicE-PjiftsiD»»T 0/ the Umtci State*.
lawgw)
TO BE SOLD,
And poffeflion given immediately.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
f
rp imj