PiH>LIs.IE.D Wh D \ ESP AYS AK!) SATURDAYS «Y JOHN FEN NO. No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. i r, of Vol. lII.]
/ yS*" S%va nn A ii, (Georgia) May 19.
//_ \Comluded from our lajt.l
I/'| 1H E President of" the United States dined
// . w ' t ' l l h e Sotiety of the Cincinnati of Geor
/ / ?' a 011 '3 1 ' 1 °f Way inlt. ar Brown's Cos
, I ieehoufe, when the following toalls were d'nvnk
/ under the federal salutes from the ArriHery Com
pany of this city.—l. The Uniied States of Ame
rica. 2. The Memory of our worthy deceased
Brother Gen. Greene, \_By the Freftdent~* 3. ihe
Governor and State of Georgia. 4. May the vir
tues which inspired the Revolution continue to
support the present Eltablifhment. 5. May the
principles of a free government be universally
dilleminated. 6. Agriculture and Commerce.
7. Louis XVI. and the French Nation. 8. The
Powers in alliance with the United States. 9.
The Vice-Preiident. 10. The Memory of Dr.
Franklin. 11. The Non-Commiifioned Officers
and Soldiers of the late American Army. 12.
The Memory of those brave Men who fell in de
fence of American Libeity. 13. TheMembeis
of the Society of the Cincinnati throughout the
globe [By the Frejidetif\. 14. Thp American
Fair. 15. The Marquis de la Fayette.—The
President retired, and a 16th toast was drank,
" ThePRHSiDENT of the United State.s."
In the evening a Ball, in honor of the Presi
dent, was given at the Long Room in the Fila
ture. At half past 8 o'clock the President ho
nored the company with his presence, and was
personally introduced by one of the Managers
to 96 ladies, who were elegantly drefied, foirie
of whom displayed infinite rafte in the emblems
and devices on their faflies and head drefles, out
of respect to the happy occasion.
The room, which had been lately haiulfomely
fitted up, and was well lighted, afforded the
President an excellent opportunity of viewing
the Fair Sex of our city and vicinity, and tlve la
dies the gratification of paying their refperts to
our Federal Chief.
After a few minuets were moved, and one
country dance led down, the President and his
Suite retired about 11 o'clock. At 12 o'clock the
flipper room was opened, ai.d the Indies partook
of a repalt, after which dances continued till 5
o'clock. The company retired with the happy
fatisfaftion of having generally contributed to
wards the hilarity and gdiety of the evening.
On Saturday morning the President, attended
by Gen. M'lntodi and leveral ethdr gentlemen,
took a view of the remaining traces of the lines
conftruifted by the Britifti for the defence of Sa
vannah in 1779 ; the General having been se
cond in command under Gen. Lincoln at IVorm
ing thetn had an opportunity of giving an ac
count of every thing interesting during the liege
and in the attack.
In the afternoon the Prefidenc honored the
Citizens with his company at a dinner prepared
for him under a beautiful arbor, supported by
three rows of pillars, entirely covered with lan-,
rel and bay leaves, so as to exhibit uniform green
columns. The pillars were higher than the ar
bor, and ornamented above it by feftoons, and
con itemed below by arches covered in the fame
wanner. The place on which it flood was ju
diciously chosen, presenting at once a view of
the city and of the fbipping in the harbor, with
an extensive profpetft of the river and rice lands
boih above and below the town. But the prin
cipal advantage which resulted from its lunation
and ftruftnre was the opportunity which -it af
forded to a great body of people to have a dif
tin ft and uninterrupted view of that object to
which all eyes and hearts appeared to be at
tracted.
A company of nearly 200 citizensand strangers
dined under it, and the fatisfac'lion which each
one enjoyed in paying this personal tribute to
the merit of a man who is, if poffihle, more be
loved for his goodtrefsthan admired for his great
ness, produced a degree of ■convivial and har
monious mirth rarely experienced.
Every one beheld with delight in the person
of our President, the able General, the virtuous
Patriot, the profound Politician ; in a word, one
of the mod shining ornaments that ever digni
fied h uin'an nature.
The Artillery Company dined under another
arbor eredled at a small diihince, and received
merited applauTe for the great dexterity which
they displayed in firing at each roast. 1 heir
fires were returned by Korc Wayne, and the ihip
Thomas \Vilfon, which was moored opposite to
Saturday, June 4, 1791-
the arbor ; herdecorartohS through the day, and
illumination at night, had a fine effect.
The following toalVs were given : The United
States of America. Prosperity to the citizens of
Savannah audits vicinity [/?>' the Prefide>U~\ The
Fair of America. The Vice-President of the
United States. The memorable Era of Inde
pendence. The Count d'Eftaing. The memory
of Gen. Greene. The Arrs and Sciences. The
memory of thofc brave men who fell before
the Lines of Savannah on the yth of Odtober,
i 779. The Friends to free and equal government
throughout the globe. All Foreign powers in
PriendThip with rhe United States. May Religi
on and Philosophy always triumph over Super
fli ion pnd Prejudice in America. The present
dexterous Corps of Artillery [The Prejldent's
roajl.] (/ifter the President retired,) The Pre
side nt of the United States.
The conftrutftion of the arbor, and the manner
in which die entertain input was provided and
conducted, did great honor to the gentlemen to
whose direction the whole " as committed.
Jn the ovaniiig ihere 3 hnndiome exhibi*
lion of fireworks, and the amusements of this
clay of joy and feltivity were concluded by a Con
cert.
On Sunday morning the President attended di
vine service in Chriit Church, and soon after let
out 011 his way toAugufta. On taking his leave
of the Mayor and committee of the Citizens he
politely exprefled his fenfeof the attentions I'iewn
him by the Corporation and every denomination
of people during his Hay in Savannah. He was
attended out of the city by a number of gentle
men, and escorted by a detachment of Augusta
dragowns commanded by Major Ambrose Gordon.
the Spring Hill the President was received by
Gen. Jackson, where the Artillery and Light In
fantry Companies were drawn up, and was there
saluted by 59 discharges from the lieldpieces and
IZ vollies of platoons. After which he proceed
ed with several gentlemen .to Mulberry Grove,
the feat of the late Major General Greene, where
lie dined, aYTft then refuiiVed hi* tour.
It is highly pleasing to a grateful and patriot
ic mmd to reflect upon the happy consequences
which will probably _flow from the to\ir which
the President isliow performing. His admira
ble qualiries had long since extended his fame to
the ntmofl: of civilization, but it is only
by personal interviews that a jult idea can be
acquired of the amiablenefs of his temper and
his engaging manners. The Intelligent serenity
of his countenance, the unaffected ease and dig
nity of his deportment, while they excite the
1110 ft profound respect, naturally rivet the affec
tions to hiin. As the most unlimited confidence
is reposed in his prudence, abilities, and patriot
ic, this effeiS miilt have essential influence in,
giving energy to that government in the adminj
illration of which he has so considerable a part J
— _ .
From the Delaware Gazette
TO FARMERS.
EVERY mcafure fiiould be adopted by the
owners of lands, lo lave timber. Every
Farm fliould be hedged for outside fences, and
dry ditches made to separate fields.
With refpecft to fencing. From the great ease
of propagation and rapid growth of the yellow
willow, it might certainly be made a good fence
by setting the flips very close in double or even
treble rows. These may be taken from even the
(Vnalleft branches or the largest ltalks of willow.
All w ill grow, and may be set at any time of the
year. When at a fufficient height, they (hould
be fallen or cut off. least they blow up by the
roots, and make breaches.—Though in many
parts of Germany, many of the lands are lup
ported with fuel intirely from the branches and
tops taken off their hedge-trees, being willows,
&c.
Bur the more formidable and permanent
hedge-fence, is the thorn. This is more trou
blesome to propagate, and flow in its growth.
The acquifuion of quicks has hithe rt o been the
great difficulty. But the writer happily has
tearneg themeafure pratftifed by Miofe who fol
low raising quicks in Europe, and which he with
pleasure communicates to the public. Gather
the haws any way moil easy, when full ripe,
perhaps in November—dig a pit or hole in a dry
hill or bank of earth, from two to three feet
deep, putin the bottom a layer of dry flraw—
throw your haws upon the straw, and cover them
41
[Whole No. 219,.]
with the fame, then fill in the earth, and' do it
up neatly, so as to prevent the water soaking to
them. In March or April, according to the sea
son, raise them, and with an open riddle, flit the
sand or mould from them, (though getting them
clean is no ways material) they will now.beclear
of their meat, and juiltlie nut or kernel reinain>
ing, which immediately sow in beds of well pre
pared ground, nearly in the fame manner par£
nips are sowed, leaving fufficient space between
for a person to pass to weed them—they will
come up as foonas any garden feeds, and if kept
clean and wed, may be transplanted into hedges
in two years.
REPORT
OK THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES.
£c ON TIN U ED.]
KTo. JV
ABSTRACT of articles imported into the United
States from British colonies, for one year, com
mencing the 15th August, 1759, and ending on
the 14th August, 1790, as far as the accounts
have been rendered.
6,343 barrels of pickled fifh,
Cwt. 3,701.2. 20 lbs. of dried fifti.
Note.—Oil and lumber imported, paying a duty ad valorem,
the quantity of each can only be ascertained by the several
collectors, having reference to the original entries.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Rcgiftr.
Treasury Department,
Regijlcr's Ojficc, 23d November, 1790,
No. V.
WF. the subscribers, being a committee appointed by the own.
ers of fi(hin» veflels, in the town of Marblehead, to take into con.
fideration the many grievances and burdens the cod fithery now
labours under, and to make a statement of them ; which ftatejnent
so made, to be handed to Co!. Glovw, by him to he laid before
the committee of the General Court, appointed to confidcr the
fame, do report the said statement as follows, viz.
1. Impost duties on fait.
2. duties and excise on rum, sugar and ipolaflcs,
3. on hooks, lines and leads.
4. on coarse woollens.
5. on duck, cordage and cables.
6 on hemp, 4nd /wine
7. Tonnage and naval duties.
8. The ineffe&ual duties on foreign fifti.
9. The duties our filbcries pay at foreign markets, while the
fitheries of France and England receive large privileges
and bounties from their governments.
so. The heavy poll-tax laid on the filhermen.
11. Excise on New-England rum.
It appears to (he committee, from an exa£t invefligation, that
the earnings and expences of the si thing schooners of this town, for
the years 1787 — 8— 9. were to the earnings of each schooner, viz.
For the year 1787, - - £. 145
For the year 1788, - - 137
For the year 1789, - 82
And that the annual average cxpences of these )
veflels, inclusive of iofuvance, J 12^
It also appears, that the number of frhooners employed in the
|*rand bank fifhery for the year 1789, were one hundred and
Jwenty-four, nineteen »f which were property of persons not be
longing to the town, and of which number thirty-three fail have
I been taken out of the filhery from the declension of the bufincfs*
exclusive of the aforementioned disadvantages.
That the bounty granted to the fifhery by Congress, as a com
pensation for the duty on fait, this committee humbly conceive
will not operate to that purpose so effeftuallv, as if paid diieft
into the hands of the owners of the vessels, inftcad of the (hip per«
of the fifh.
Marblchcad,, Feb. \Jl y 1790.
A rru« Copy,
JOHN AVERY, jun. Secretary,
No. VI.
An estimate of the duties paid by the proprietors
and navigators of a fifliing veflel of fixty-five
tons and eleven hands.
Duty on fait,
Rum,
Tea,
Sugar,
Molafles,
CoaFfe woollens,
Line;, lead and hooks,
Sailcloth, yearly average,
Cordage, cables, do.
Tonnage, - —
Iron, yearly average,
138 divided on eleven
men, is 12 5 cents per man,
But deducing the drawback of the duty on fait, it remaint 57. 70
dolls, on the whole, or 5. 25 dolls, on each man.
(To te ctntinued.)
JOHN GLOVER,
ISRAEL FOSTER,
EDWARD FETTYPLACE,
WILLIAM KNIGHT,
SAMUEL HOOPER,
ROBERT HOOPER, jun.
WILLIAM R. LEE,
RICHARD PEDRICK,
KNOTT PEDRICK,
SAMUEL R. GERRY,
RICHARD JAMES,
JOSHUA ORNE,
MARSTON WATSON.
Attest,
80. 15
>4-
2. 64
3- 3
99
7- 33
2 - 9
«• i
20.
3- 9
1.■m
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TO ELLA.
HARK! while I found my trembling shell,
And bid the nymph, sweet ccho tell;
Wnerc on her velvet couch (he Ii s,
Hid from the gairifh burning fluo;
How the foul-enlivening fouqd
Of thy enchanting lyre,
Was borne on Ether's waves around,
Fiom each foft-fpeaking wire.
Twas when beside the wizard stream,
I saw the fun's last golden beam,
"With yellow tip the aspiring heads,
Of timc-contending oaks, the king of (hades !
I the night ffies buzzing round,
I heard the beetle's humming found :
My foul to sober thought inclin'd,
Thus ran the current of my mind.
N » longer now my checks disclose,
The beauty of the budding role ;
No longer, as in former days,
I joy, the sprightly laugh to raise.
Of then each lovely, summer's night,
'Twas my enraptured foul's delight,
To tread the lonely silent vale,
And *' drink the spirit of the gale
Or wh<*n the cloudlcfs moon on high,
Beam'd forth her radiance from the flcy :
To wander o'er the airy hill,
Where pattering falls the lucd rill;
And fee the wild fl w'r> Aiming bight,
Crown'd with the tears of weebing night.
ButO! the wondrous change!
Now. if delights me not to range,
The fields and vall'es, bright and
With beauties of the laughivg May.
When the fhiill fpiritsof the coming dorm,
Th ir shrieks of terror pour along the wind ;
And fiercer raging all itu.- grove deform,
The branches tear, ana shatter down the rind :
Wheri heav'ns bright fires def< ending from on high.
An awful day slash thro' the gloomy Qry*
And from their dwellings the hoarse thunders roar,
And dusky torrents down the vallies pour :
'Tis ihen my foql enjoys the dreadful hour,
And bows m\ God ! in rev'rence to thy power.
'Twas thus I mus'd, when borne along the air,
Thy heavenly notes came trembling on my ear ;
Sweet as the gentlest showers
Of spring, descending on the flowers,
When murmuring Zephyr finks to reft,
Soft-fighing on the lily's breast.
Ah ! wouldft thou with thy arm sustain
My weaned form, and footbe my pain ?
And would ft thou all the lingering Eve,
With thy foft founds my foul relieve ?
And haftihou learn'd the healing charm,
The power to bid the tyrant sickness fly ?
O ! hither come, extend tb\ potent arm,
And bid the beam of Hopefkand sparkling in my eye !
Ah ! now, ev'n now, this very hour,
I contefs thy magic power !
Charm'd with thy notes divine,
No more my troubled foul,
Or scenes of horror loves to brood,
N<« more my freezing blood,
In !a7y tides doth roll;
Bright in my eye the tears of rapture fliine,
Thro'all my nerves I feel a tremor run,
Now cold as Zambia's (now, nnw f. rvid as the fun,
O ! may thy generous sympathising heart,
Ne'er teel the anguish of afßifiton's dart ;
May dreams of earthly * eafure on thee flow,
That thou, the pur* celfftial joy may'it know,
To bid the b ggar fm.'le, and cheer his hou/e of zvoe.
From the (Stockbridge) W stekn Star.
[BY R . Ql) EST ]
TO THE PUBLIC.
CON IDERING the knowledge of the pro
perties and virtues of medicine of such va(l
importance and necelfity, in order to adtniniller
it with prop ie?y and fafery, I have ventured to
off-r my fen ments, (which ate ihe result of a
v ety of ex icrimems and observations) to the
Public in general, on the medicinal qualities and
efWis of the celebrated Spring in New-Leba
non.
r rom a variery of experiments that I have
made (which are too numerous to insert here)
it appears that the water is podefied of several
valuable properties ; two of the mod important
thai 1 have difrovered are an alkalefcenr quality,
and 3 deg; ee of fixed air. But the water, with
all its pi ope ies, is not an infallible fpecific for
every difcife, i hough alinolt every kind of inva
lids attend it.
i here are a great number who attend the
POOL, that might receive benefi'., which do not,
on account oi i ne mifapplica i >11 of ihe water.
Theie are oihe s, who lequire some medical af
liftame with :he wa'er ; and there are others
aj;.:iii, who <>!>f.iin a cu. e from the c immon nie
tlnd of using me water, wi'hout any other afliit-
ance
#ut jt is. certain, the difference of difeafes,age.
eonftiimion, &c. niuft require a different life oi
the wafer (where it is indicated) a* well as an\
o;!.ei medicine.
For tx 'riple—fuppofe a medicine is held up
to view which is much celebrated for redoring
health, and every person has an eqial right t<
partake, and life it according »o thei* - own jndg
ji em.—buppofe so: inltance Peruvian Bark
vh'cliis a ve-y powerful tonic and anrifepric
ai"i well adapted to many cases ; bat even 11
ca'es where ir is (trongly indicated, some prepa
rr ion it. often necellaiy for the falety and eligi
bility of the cure.
BIR'THA.
But this valuale medicine in many cases (if |
taken) would pt>ve as fatal as al . e ,
oilier virulent pifoii ; —particulai ) 1
(tage of inflamaovy fevers.
Similar objectbns may be offere to g
ral tife of aI in oft every medicine , an
> he general use sf the water• . .
It appears frnn a parity of that
jn-eat improvement he '"ecefTary aSftance
he water; and with other nec y
it will undoubtedly be of very gi eat pu ic i
For example—last fum.ner a gentleman the
Faculty viiW the POOL to regain his health,
(being in a very infirm state) but the comnio
nfe of the water alone, proved detriments o
him- whereupon he made use of la ' >
medicine, (which had proved lneffetfual alone)
together with ihe water, which proved, (as
have fmce heard) a radical cure for his disorder.
A variety of similar cases might be mentioned ;
but a publication of this kind will nor admit of it.
I expeA to publilh more largely, after the en
suing season.
By i equeft of a number of my friends, in con
currence with my own inclination —I have un
dertaken to keep a register of every disease,
symptom, age and sex of the patient ; with the
method of applying the water ; which is an un
dertaking that has long been required.
Any gentleman that wishes for mj advice,may
find me living within a few rods of the Spring,
where 1 expect to be able to fatisfy any gentle
man's curiosity with regard to the quality of the
water, &c. &c
From the Publick's
Moll devoted, humble Servant,
STEPHEN HALL
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 25
THE late misfortunes experienced by the Ot
toman arms, have thrown this city into con
sternation and fright, but the Grand Signior has
abated nothing of his haughtiness and inflexibi
lity.
It is said that the Sultana Valide, having, at
the solicitation of the principal people of the
empire, endeavored to employ that influence
which ftie had over him, to enduce him to enter,
as soon as poflible, into a negociation with Ruf
fia, the Sultan treattd her with the greatest
liat jhnefs, and confined her to the old Seraglio.
lie ascribes to the Divine difileafure all the
misfortunes which he has experienced, which he
hopes to fofien, by recalling ihe Muffulmen to a
more rigid observance of the laws of their reli
gion : he has, in consequence, given the ft■ iotell
orders that all di inkiug-houfes should be iliu;
up, not only in Constantinople, but throughout
the empire.
These orders have produced a violent fermeir
among the people, who, notwithstanding ihe
precepts of their Prophet, are much addicted to
wine, and a general rifitig could only have been
prevented by ttie greatest vigilance. Eight days
only have been allowed to the Christians to lay
in a store for fix months, and the foreign min
ilters have been ordered to give in an account
of the quantity of wine which will be necellary
for the confuinprion of their households.
VIENNA,
The public do. not expecft a peace : They can
not imagine that our Court will abandon Russia,
and remain without allies, or that the negocia
tions at Siftovia will terminate by a difinitive
treaty, before it is known what the Court of
Rufiia may hope or fear from the allied powers
who interest themselves in the fate of the Otto
man empire.
SARDINIA
The spirit of liberty is daily spreading. Some
very serious risings of the people have taken
place in Sardinia. The King has given orders
for the marching of 10,000 men, to prevent the
meetings, or to disperse the people who may
have so aflembled.
PARI S, March to.
At five o'clock yellerday afternoon te deum
was chaunted at the metropolitan church at Pa
ris, by way of thanksgiving for the happy reco
very of Louis XVI. A deputation from the Na
tional Afiembly, accompanied by the Municipal
ity, the Judges of the new tribunal, and his
Majesty's Minilters, aflifted at the ceremony,
which was grand and brilliant. At the conclu
sion, the bands of music belonging to the mili
tary, at the desire of the people, played several
favourite airs, as ca ira : Ou peut-on etre m'teux
qu'au fain de fa famille [where can the poor king
Sjo ! where will he be better off than in the bo
som of his own family '] and Vivs Henri IV.
Die people teftified their joy on quitting the
church, by repeatedly (homing—" Long live
ihe Nation ! Long live the King !"
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
March 13
The Military Committee informed the Afl'em
!>ly, that 14,000 mufquets had lately been diftri
■ited ainon 5 the departments bordering on Ger
many, Piedmont, &c. &c. °
42
March 2
M. D'Andre said, that the Dukes Deux Ponts
and Wirtemberg had agreed to accept of an in
demnity in lieu of their invaded pofleifions in
Alfjce ; and that the Courts of Prussia and Vi
enna had resolved not to inteifere in the affairs
of France. E»en the Bishop of Basle seems in
clined to accede to fair and jull conditions.
The Assembly was informed that the health of
the King is almost entirely re-established.
March 17.
The Prefidenr announcing to the Aflembly
that on the following Sunday, Te Deum would be
chaunred in the church of Notre Dame, on ac
count of the improved Hate of the King, that
august body determined that it would atiiltby a
deputation ar that interesting ceremony.
A memorial was read to the Aflembly, dating,
rhar many Ecclesiastics, who had not taken the
oath before the expiration of .the time limited
by the Aflembly, wilhed now to take it ; and
praying the Aflembly to pass a decree, that all
Ecclefiaflics whose benefices have not already
been filled up by fucceflbrs, be allowed to take
the oath, and continue in the enjoyment of their
Gtuations.
LONDON, Ap>il 3
The French king's aunts had very powerful
reasons to wish to leave France, it being disco
vered that they had been deeply engaged in abet
ting, planning and forwat ding the conspiracy of
Lyons ; or in other words,in furnifliing inunenfe
sums to bring that infernal plot to the wished for
end. The bnfinefs is now before a committee of
enquiry, and proofs the mod incontrovertible
appear against them. The conspirators will be
instantly tried and the whole appear in puris na
turalibtis.
Thursday night lottery tickets were so low as
Ceventy guineas—and at that price there were in
(lances of some people and their money being soon
parted.
The late Earl of Strafford was the fourth from
the friend of Charles the First, who did not long
survive the execution of his favorite upon the
fcaffold.
The colledlion made at the London Tavern,
by the benevolent Society of St. Patrick, amount
ed (including 100 guineas each from the Prince
of Wales and Duke of York) to the unprece
dented ftim of 12001. The company present were
about 600, of which the majority were Irilh; but
in the minority there was not a kingdom, or
even a colony in his Majesty's dominions, that
had not its proper representatives. Or. Lord
ftawdon's health being drank, his Lordlhip, af
ter thanking the company, took occasion to ob
serve, that all difti ndtions between kingdoms un
der the fame sovereign were in fadt idle, except
those that tended to promote an honorable emu
lation, and a principle of probity. Thus far,
said his Lordship, my ideas of Nationality extend,
but no farther—For it is my opinion that he who
prefers any man from the single circumltance of
his having been born in the fame country, to a
more worthy candidate of any other, not only in
dulges a very reprehensible prejudice, but de
grades the cause he wiflies to support. National
partiality, within proper reftri<stien, is natural
and laudable; beyond that, it is illiberal and
unjnft
The offenfive remark given to the British Mi
lifter at Peterfburgh, is said to be'in substance
as follows: ' I am iniftrefs of my own adtions,
the free executrix of my own councils ; if mjr
measures give offence to the British Court, the
British Minister inay retire.'
All the convidls, since their arrival on board
the veflels at Gravefend, have been stripped of
their clothing ; the heads of both men and wo
men being closely shaved, they are furniflied
with woolen caps, jackets, and petticoats, of blue
baize, &c. Barrington, though he made one of
bis bed speeches for the preservation of his head
of hair, was obliged to fubtnit to the humilia
ting operation.
Dr. Price lies dangerously ill at his house in
Hackney. His complaint is a strangury.
It is scarcely credible, but the fa<ft is so, that
there are American 2,etlots in this city, who are
iufiduoufly employingthenifelves in propogating
as opportunity serves, the dodtrines of rebellion.
But John Bull is a sturdy fellow, and though he
does pay plenty of taxes, he is not very easily to
be persuaded that Old England is not the belt
place in the world—that King George is not the
best King in Europe—and that he does not enjoy
as much liberty as is neceflary for the happhiefo
of a rational being,
Though John Wefley was a thin man, his boneJ
will afford good picking to the Biographers, a
legion of whom are now brandishing their grey
goose quills about his Jife. Neither elegance
nor accuracy are at all requiute ; the whole de
pends upon expedition, for the firft oars wj!l be
sure of a filvet badge.
The age is certainly much improved—every
little Grocer's/hop is a tea warehouse—every gin
(hop a wine and brandy vault—every th ee pen
ny spelling school an academy—Mantua niaksr*
and milliners are taught music—and the Greenfeller's daughter has her Italian and French in
ftru<ftors—there are routs and card parties in the
garrets, and coricertsand suppers in the cellar—
the very lamplighters powder their hair, and
orange wenches paint their cheeks—apprentices
dress like puppies—tradesmen have country vil
las, and kept Miftrefl'es " How then are we
ruined?"
Last Monday the daughter of Mr. Na!h, at
Tenderden, in Kent, a fine girl about fixyeais
of age, being put to bed, was heard to cry out
and scream very much. The mother being
greatly alarmed, went to the bed, when flie
found the child's face bit and torn in a terrible
manner- On turning down the bed clothes, a
large rat jumped out of the bed, but the door
being; (hut, the rat was soon killed. The poor
child's face is so mangled and torn, that /he lies
dangerously ill.
EDINBURGH, March 23
IMPF. RI A L GOLD MEt) A I
Last week, Mr. Alexander Bruce, late mer
chant in the Weft Bow, but who has now re
tired frotn business, received as a present from
the Empress of Rnlfia, a gold medal of the fir ft
magnitude, a great number of which of different
lizes her Imperial Majesty ordered to be struck,
for the purpose of bestowing upon those whose
merits she might think entitled them to that
mark of her favor. This medal weighs about
twenty guineas in gold. On the one fide is an
elegant bull: of the Empress : On the other, aca
pital and well executed representation of the sta
tue of Czar Peter the Great 011 horseback, at St.
Pete {burgh, whose pedestal is theiminenfe piece
of rock brought to that city at so much labor and
expense.
This medal to Mr. Bruce was accompanied
with a flattering letter from the Empress's firft
minister, Count de BefborodkofF, and another
from his Excellency Count Woronzow, her Im
perial Majesty's Ambaflador at London.
Asthereafon for this dillingnifhed mark of fa
vour conferred upon Mr. Bruce, it is neceflavy
to mention, that that gentleman, several years
ago, had cotnpofeda molt ingenious trearife, in
tituled, " An enquiry into the pi incipal cause of
the wide deftrudtion of mankind in time of war,
and of the flow ineffectual progress and perma
nency of military and naval operations in gene
ral; comprehending the source of plague through
out the world."
Mr. Bruce, hearing of a great many deaths in
the garrison of Cronftadt, presented a manufcripr
copy of the above treatise to the late brave and
justly celebrated Admiral Greig, who, upon pe
rnfal of it, was so well pleased with the doc
trines it contained, that he determined to put
them in practice, and fotfn fouud their f.lutary
efFe<fts, by the preservation of the lives of thou
sands of his soldiers and sailors, who otherwise,
in all human probability, would have perished,
as had been fatally experienced on former oc
calions.
This induced the Admiral to communicate the
matter to his Royal Mistress, who immediately
commanded the treanfe to be translated itito the
Ruffian language by Mr. Nikettin, principal of
the college at Cronftadt, and at the fame time
ordered a very handsome present to Mr. Bruce,
which was tranftnitted to him bv Admiral Greig,
•with that politeness for which he was ever re
markable.
The medal which Mr. Bruce has now received,
was long since intended to have been sent. But,
owingto the unfoi tunate death of Admiral Greig,
and the fit ft minister of RuJlia knowing no orher
address for Mr. Bruce, than, " Mr. Bruce at
Edinburgh " it his lain in the Ambaflador's
hands at London (ince Augnft last.
D A N B U R Y, May 26
Sunday of Inft week, the wife of Mr. D. Mal
lei v jun. of Reading, in a dropsical cafe, had ta
k.;n from lier, qiar;s (if water, which weigh
ed r25 pounds. In pe feet health, Mi s. Mallery
•was supposed ro weigh 100 pounds.
BOSTON, May 26
An unfortunate accident happened on Mon
day lalt, in [he family of Capr. Lamb of this
town, a child of his, a beautiful boy of about
rwo years old, being in a thiid (tosy with the
•woman who attended him, ran inio the back
chamber, and fell out of the window, which put
an immediate end u> his existence.
His Excellency JOHN ADAMS, Esq. Vice-
President of the United States, was 011 Tuefda-.
elc&ed President of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences.
WORCESTER, (Mas.) May 16
Mr. Levy Bixby of Winchendon, now in the
forty-fifth year of his age, has killed 24 wolves,
33 bears, 10 deer, 5 moose, 16 otters, 17 bea
vers, 2 woolenegs, 22 racoons, 33 foxes, a'oout
I*o minks, 500 musquash, 7J fables, 17 porcu
pines, about 100 hares, j rattlesnakes, and jr
polecats, besides other small game and wild fowl
almost innumerable."
Philadelphia*, June 4.
A letter from Petersburg inform?, that the Empress of Rufiia
is making immense preparations to guaid and secure the fron
tiers of the empire—they could not be greater if a war was inevi
table. In Livonia and Courland are 60 battalions of infantry,
22 of grenadiers, 80 squadrons of cavalry, and 12 regiments of
light troops—all of which have seen service', many more regi
ments, and 200 pieces of artillery, are to be added—soc pieces
of cannon have been sent to Riga and Dunaburgh. The prepara
tions on the fide of White Rufiia are equally great; the number
of large battering pieces destined for "Skloff and Mof
eow, amount to 120. There will be a c<*rps de reserve of 30,000
men in Little Rufiia.
Not wvithftanding all this, it is evident that the Emprefsis greatly
afraid of Frederick ; and it is highly probable that his iinmenfe
armv. co-operating -with the BrTtUh navy, will teach Catharine
moderation.
A letter from Havre de Grace, of 22d March, fays, the New
Constitution of France must come to a fair and honorable estab
lishment—that a counter revolution is impoflible—and that the
paper-money has not depreciated.
A late writer in a London paper on bodily exercise, lays it down
as a position, that walking is the most perfect exercise for the
human body ; every limb is put in motion ; every artery from
the hea r t to the extremities propels the blood quicker and more
equally in walking than in a.iy other exercise. The blood is
d rawn from the h?ad and upper parts, where it is most flow and
languid , and is circulated with rapidity to every part.
On the 19th of April a Committee of the City Council of Sa
vannah, (Georgia) presented an address to Gen.Jackson, expres
sive of their sensibility of his merit,and teftifying their approbation
of his condu6t in the Congress of the United States—at the fame
time regretting that he is deprived of the opportunity of continu
ing his services as a public chara&er. This address was politely
communicated, and gratefully received. The General concludes
his answer in the following words :— u I beg leave to return you
my fmcere thanks for the favorable opinion you have been pleased
to entertain of me, and to afiure you that I (ball rank the honor
now done me. and the refpeftful manner of its communication,
among the most valuable testimonies of my life."
A letter from Paris, of March 10, published in the General
Advertiser of yesterday, contains the following information :—
That the National AfTembly has decreed, that the importation of
Oil from any country but the United States of America, fhaU be
prohibited. The Oil imported from the United States in French
or American velTels, to pay a duty of twelve livres per quintal.
The new election being at hand, it is expected that the tumul
tuous and indecent party of Ariftocrates that now disgrace the Na
tional AfTemblv, will be thrown out.
The organization of the executive departments is compleated.
The rreafury is to be under three infpeftors; there will be fix
Ministers,, one for justice, one for inferior affairs, one for war, one
for the marine, and one for foreign affairs. They are all to be
appointed by the King—salary 20,000 dollars each ; the Minister
for Foreign Affairs excepted, who is to receive 30,000. The or
ganization of these departments is considered as a master-piece.
About 30 millions of AflTignats have been burnt, and it is ex
petted that in a few weeks 30 millions more will be committed to
the flames.
The regular troops are to be 250 thousand ; the enlisted militia
amounts to more than 300,000. You fee we are prepared for
any attack.
As to the Pope, we heartily wish he may refufe to consecrate
our new Biftiops—it would give us a good opportunity to bid
him ala fling farewell I fend you the performance of Common
Sense, translated, with comments, by one of our best writers. Our
friends in America wiil read it with pleasure.
By the last Pittsburgh papers we learn, that four companies of
ihe new railed troops had arrived at that place, and considerable
numbers were hourly expe&ed.
The Trees in New-Y >rk have lately been in jeopardy, through
an ordinance of the Cot poration— but agreeable to a poetical hint
in a poetical fupplica-ion to procrastinate their fate till next win
ter, the law has been fulpended till the firft of December.
The Circuit Court of the United States was opened and held in
Portsmouth, (N. H.) the 24th ult. before the Hon. Chief Justice
Ja y , and their Honors Judge Cushing and Judge Su li i v an.
The eleventh edition of Mr. Burke's pamphlet on the French
Revolution, is advertised irftjthe. Dublin Chronicle. A hod of
answers are following close at his heels—exclusive of Mr. Paine's,
seven are advertised for sale in Dublin.
Wednesday last was published, No. i, of The Mail; or,
Claypoole's Dai lv Advertiser.
Diflin&ions will take place among mankind, so long as there
is any difference between an honest man and a knave.
Were all the words now uled to express our approbation of
merit, to become extindt, would the difference between right and
wrong, truth and faljhood be diminiflied—or could that difference
be annihilated ?—Till human nature becomes totally changed,
the impulse to virtue and patriotism, must be adapted to the prin
ciple of emulation—a human being without this principle, is
" Fit for Treasons, Stratagems and Spoils."
The abolition of tnoft titles now in use, is perhaps the neceflary
result of that severe and just invelligation which many cuitoms and
habits, long faniltoned by ignorance and prejudice, have under
gone—the abuse of a thing often leads to its disuse and reprobati
on—But mankind will fuppiv the vacuum which their own hands
•lave made—and often do it to their cost. Cromwelljuftly observ
ed, that his power was more secure, exercised by him as Lord
ProteSor, than it would be, Ihould he aflume the title of King—
the prerogatives of a king, said he, are known—those of a protec
tor are undefined, and consequently unlimited.
To fay there shall be no titles or diftinftisns legally annexed to
merit and otfice, is in fact, to open the widest door, to the most
ulfome, flattering, absurd and abominable epithets that the grati
tude, wcaknefs, ignorance and folly of mankind can adopt for
they will have their savories—and to fay that they shall not
express their feelings in their own way, is to deprive them of the
liberty of speech—And if it is left optional to withhold or bejlow
what titles they please, experience shews that their inventions are
unlimited. However, there can be no doubt that the titles now
i i use, havebcen used long enough—and if there is no other ob
jection againftthein, their age is enough to ensure their condem-
iii '.on,
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Neiv-Tork,
J - °
/o his friend in this city
" I HAVE jult finifhed Cecilia, and agreea
bly to your request, will transmit to you some
irleas which occurred to me on a cursory reading
of it.
" Confklering it as the work of a very young
lady, it certainly is entitled to applause. The
characters are greatly diverfified, and extremely
well supported. Several of them are to me ori
ginal. Mortimer Delville, and Cecilia,
are very amiable, and excellent personages
Mrs. Delvili.e, tho poilelled of manj' uncom
mon, and brilliant traits, is on the whole not a
: leafing character. Her husband I despise —
Even old Bricgs is by no means as di(agreeable.
43
The infuflferable haughdnefs, unlimited pride,
and full-blown conceit, which are so conspicuous
in " Don Pedigree," l ender him an object of
contempt and di'fguft. A parenr, whole whole
nappinefs conhlts in recounting the glory of an
cellors, who perhaps had fmatl claim to merit ;
and who is so deflitute of feeling as to force the
nearest, and molt important interests of his child,
to become subservient to his own pride and weak
ness, is a monster in exiltence. Perhaps there
is nothing more consonant to human imperfec
tion, than family pride : Certainly there is no
thing more opposed to the perfection of human
reason. To experience a degree of fatisfadtion
upon hearing the viitues of our progenitors ap
plauded, is rational and to please
ourselves with a descent from persons, whose on
ly merit was an ellate incapable of alienation ; or
to take pride in the dignity, and importance, of
a parent, or grandparent, whose career commenced
on the dunghill—is beneath the character of a
human being. Yet, notwithflanding t lie jultice
of these observations is acknowledged by every
person, how many are there, even of our acquaint
ance, who are ready, and disposed, to facrifice
the highest happiness of a beloved child, at the
(hrine of mammon ! Is it not aftonilhing, that
multitudes of people, who in most circumstances,
judge rightly of human life, when property is
concerned, will persuade themselves that no re
gard is due to the fined: and most exquifire feel
ings of the foul ; and that, even in the business
of marriage, a daughter, possessed of the moll re
fined and delicate ideas on the fobjeiS, ought
to force herfelf into the arms of an unfeeling
brute, whose only attractive charm is an ellate,
and whose conceptions never extended beyond
the limits of a well drawn purfe-llriug ?
" These observations I consider as applying ro
the charadler of Mr. Delville, in Cecilia. Alany
things, however, may befaid in palliation of fa
mily pride in an Englilhman. The English na
tion has long been in the habit of considering
wealth and merit as inseparable companions—
and it is certainly a happy circumrtance for
many, that worth is an hereditament; otberwife
their situation would be truly deplorable. Bun
in an American (and there are many Delvilles
in America) it is altogether without excuse. Ve
ry few families in this country can trace their
pedigree farther back than two degrees, without
(tumbling on an ancestor, whose itate and con
dition in life was at teajl humiliating. In fact
there is considerable danger that family pride,
in this country, will experience firft orlafl. a rood
fatal mortification. For who will fit and observe
the ebullitions of this species of pride and not
revert back, on the lift of anceftors,to find if the
firft of them who fettled on this fide the Atlantic,
were not fold for their paflage, or transplanted
for felony."
Hon. Thomas Tr eadwe t. L is chosen member of the House
of Reprefcntatives of the United States, for the State of New-
York, in the room of James Townfend, Elq. deceased..
A correspondent fays, that those who are solicitous that fails
should appear refpefting the letter from Lord Mansfield, may reft
allured that ijit is possible, the parties concerned will give due fa
tisfaftion.
MARRIED—Last Monday evening, by the Rev. Dr. Nefbit,
president of Dickinfon College, the Re». Dr. Witherspoon,
president of New-Jersey College, to Mrs. Ann Dill, widow
of the late Dr. Dill, of York county in this State.
A SHERIDANISM.
A. YOUNG Gentleman and Ladv, who were soon to be made
one, were lately purchasing wedding clothes—she frequently ap.
pealed to his judgment in chufing the articles, till at lift he gave
her one general answer, by faying—" Shoot yourfelf Molly, and
you will shoot mr."
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Union, Bell,' Hamburgh,
Mancy, Hathway, Cape-Francois,
Hetty and Mary, Hodge, Dublin,
Hetty, Clowfer, St. Euftatia,
Schooner Adventure, Steward, St. Croix,
Friendship, Henderfon, Savannah,
Wenfield, Sutter, North-Carolina,
Sloop Polly, Atwood, Alexandria,
Eliza, Tatem, St. Croix,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents '7/34 P r - / • 86 pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents g/4 47 £ do.
Defered 6 pr. Cents qf 2 0/3 46 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 16/2 16/4 81J
Indents 9 /, ..2
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12/6 15f.
fcf The Volunteer Company of ARTILLERY is direfled
to meet at the State House on Monday next, at 2 o'clock, in the
akcr , no °"- JEREMIAH FISHER, Capt.
Philad. June 3, 1791.
This day puotjkcd,, Price 6d.
And to be fold by the Editor, and the Booksellers of this City,
AN ADDRESS
To the STOCKHOLDERS OF THE
BANK of NORTH-AMERICA,
On the Subject of the old and new BANK.
This day is publi^ied.
By THOMAS LANG, No. 21, Church-Alley, and fold by all
the Booksellers, (Pri«e 3-8 of a Doilar)
The Catechism of Nature;
For the Use of CHILDREN.
-By DOCTOR MARTINET,
Profeffor of Philosophy at Zutphen.
TRANSLATED FROM THE DUTCH.
Read Nature—Nature is a friendjo troth."
v '-ADVERTISEMENT
HAVING completed the fecund volume of this Ga
zette,its patrons, and the public at hrge, are inform
ed that it mill br profcuted on its original plan, -with
every improvement that frieudjhip and ingenuity may
fi'ggeft.
The price of this Gazette, (published Wednesdays
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—one
half to be paid at the time of subscribing.
The utmofl pmrßuattty is objervsd in transmitting
the papers to fttbfcribers : The Editor thinks there is
the fairefl profpeO that Information from the feat o[
government, to the extremes of the Union, will in fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certaintythan
through the p a st winter,— Additional fubfcr'tptions
from all parts of the Union are therefore foliated.
An index to the second volume is preparing for the
press.
This volume contains the laws of the two lafl sessions
of Congress—the journal and debates of the house of
Representatives —reports of the heads of department i
be fides a greater variety of original communications
immediately conne£led with the interejls of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude thr punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
subscribers —fame arrearages remai/i —which he is con
fident will very speedily be discharged.
Payments may be made to the fevsral persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements of one square, or lefi, will be in
fa ted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
fib feqnent infer tions, twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion : No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation —and the num
ber of each imprefifion is at present fourteen hundred.
War Department,
May 30, 179*-
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
eniuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpettively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must. be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the (late., fpecify'mg that the person
poflcfling the fame is in fa& an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as filch he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B came before me. one of the fuflices of the convt'y of in
the Jlate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pofjeffion was given < of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by theJlate to be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or vcfjel) at the lime he was djabled, and that he now re
fdes in the and county of and has resided there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apoly for payment by an attorney, the
f<?id attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following foi m :
I, A. R. of county of Jlate of do hereby confiitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fx months, as an invalid of the United Stater, jrom the
fourth d i) of March } one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the fourth day of September of the fame year.
Signed and s ealed
in the prefcnce of
| Witnesses.
Acknowledged before me,
A pplications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpettive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
Bv command of the Prefidrnt of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War,
(tin The Printers in the refpeftive States are requejled to pub I ijh the
Above in their new/papers, for the space oj two months.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY alTure the
Public, ihat the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Otlober nc*t, or Jooner, if the Tickets
fliall be difppfcd of. As the Managers have in their fcvera!
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
*5,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dedu&ion ot twelve
and an half per cent, for the ufc of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. I
1 of
2
3
6
19
3®
80
- 9 o
100
120
16l
200
7585..
8,588 Pl iers.
16612 Blanks,
25000 Tickets,
(£3 TICKETS in Ihe above CI ass may be had of the several
Managers, mho will pay the prizes on demand; of the TR e asur-er
of the Commonwealth ; of James Whi ti, at his fiook-ftore,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at-other places, as usual. ,
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun-1
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R: MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
SoJlcn, April 14,1791
CLASS II
Dollars.
10000 is
3000 arc
2000
1000
$oo
zoo
100
40
3 3
f>°
S
I
Public Securities,
Bought and Soxd, on G O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMOKL ANDERSON,
Cbefnut-Sireei, next coot to thr: Bank, No. 97*
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28,
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raifethe fqm of FOUR THOUSAND Pounds,
agreeably to an Ast of the Legislature of the
State of New-jersey, pafled the 24th Novem
ber, 1790, for the purpose of laying out and
improving the Roads and Causeways between
the Town of Newark, in the County of Eflex,
and Paules-Hook Ferry, in the County of Ber
gen, in said State.
THIS Lottery is composed of 15,100 Ti'kets, to be drawn 10
Three Claftes, as detcribed 111 the inserted Scheme : The
(price of a Ticket in the Firil Class is. One Dollar ; tn the Sccond
iClafs fwo Dollars, and 111 the Third Class Feu* Dollars. The ope
ration of this Lottery will appear in the following order : The
whole 15,100 numbers will put in one wheel, and 3100 prizes
in the other wheel, of which 3100 numbers only will be drawn jo
'the First Class, which shews the whole number drawn in this
-Class are prizes, agreeably to the Scheme.
The numbers which remain undrawn compose the Second Class,
of which 4000 will bedrawn 2000 prizes and 2000 blanks ;
vthis shews there is only one blank to a prize, agreeably to the
tfcheme.
The remaining 8000 numbers undrawn, composing the Third
iClafs, will be diawn againfl 2667 prizes and 5333 blanks, which
fliews there are about two blanks to a prize, agreeably to the
fcJieme,
i The Adventurers in this Lottery will please to ohferve—That
the numbers drawn in the Firjl and Second Clares.are precludedJrom all
chance in the Third and ntfl -valuable Class, as the pojjejjo* s of the num
bers undrawn are entitled to the fame numbers, in the Jucceeding Cl<iffd,
' provided they apply to renew their tickets fifteen days before the time fix
led for the drawing the Second and Third ClaJJes. On negteß the un
drawn numbers will be fold to others. Such Adventurers aswi!hto
| benefit bv the superior. chance of Capital Prizes in the Ttoird
i Class, will fee their interest by supplying themselves with a fuffi
icient number of tickets in the First Claf?. Every application for
j renewal must be attended with the Original Ticket in the pre.
< ceeding Clals. ;
f The drawing of the Firll Class will commence in the town of
i Newark, in the State ot New-Jcrfey, on Monday the 20th day of
June next, if full. The Second Class will commence drawing
' two months after the First. The Third, and last Class, will coin
; ineiicc drawing two months after the Second.
■ The drawing of this Lottery will be under the constant fuper
\ intendance of, at lead, two of the Commissioners, appointed by
; the Legiftature of the State of New-Jcrfey, to contrast for the
; cietlion of the bridges over the Hackenfack and Pafaick rivers.
FIRST CLASS.
1 Prize of 300 Dollars is 300
200
100
5°
20
10
4
2
a
5
1a
35
80
225
2740
3100 Prizes
12000 Undrawn,
Carried to Third Class
15100 Tickets at 1 dol. cach is 15100
3
7
*6
45
mo
iB>B
2000 Prizes
2000 Blanks,,
8000 Undrawn,
Carried to Third Class 12188
12000 Tickcts at 2 dol. each is 24000
1
2
4
10
20
40
100
225
8265
2667 Prizes
5333 Blanks,
First Drawn
Lad Drawn
Dollars.
ICOOO
6000
6000
600 c
5000
6000
8000
45°°
4 oco
3600
3220
2000
60680
8000 Tickets at 4 dol. each is 32000
Brought from Firfl: Class 54 2 °
Brought from Second do. 12188
The object of this Lottery being of such evident utility to the
United States in general, and the States of New-York, Ncw-Jer
fey, and Pennsylvania, in particular, that it cannot be doubted
but the undertaking will meet with the most liberal support, as
every traveller will experience the happiness of enjoying Tegular
compleat Roads, leading to and from well-conftrufted bridges.
TICKETS are to be had of the Subscribers, who are duly ap
pointed Manageis of this Lottery by the Commiflioners. The
Prizes will be punctually paid by the refpettive Managers who
signed the fortunate numbers, immediately alter drawing the ie
veral Clafles—fubjett to a dcdu£tion of fifteen per cent.
125000
JOHN N. COMMING, )
JESSE BALDWIN, \ Newark,
JOHN D. ALVEY, New-Bruvjwick,
New- JerJey, March 8, 1791.
N. B. For tht accommodation of those who would wiffi to become Ad
venturers in the above Lottery, letters, pojl paid, direaed to John D.
Alvey, New-B r anfwick, Philadelphia,, or New-York Bank
Notes, wili be particularly attended to, and Tickets forwarded on receipt
effuch letters.
44
SECOND CLASS,
i Prize of 500 Dollars is 500
200 600
100
So
20
10
4
CLASS,
THIRD
Prize of 5000 Dollars is 5009
2000
1000
400
200
100
40
20
7
49608 49608
ADVERVisEMfeNT.
THE Subfcribcr, who served a regular apprcntieelhip'to the
bufmefs of VENDUE-MASTF.R, under Mr. Gioicr
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the BorougK of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, lituaEed near
the County Whart, where he is in lvipes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all thofc chat may he pleased to favor liirn with their com-
manris.
A'crfolk, Virgin*. April n, 179 u
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the fpeeie amount of all sales or purchifes at au&ion, c r.
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all fumi
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-kalj per cent.; and on all films
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-jourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, ene dollar each transfer.
ffcT Such persons throughout the United States, as roiv be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with panduality,fidelity and difpateh, as conli
derable experience ill the public (locks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduS their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD A BLEECKER,
° New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791.
For erc6ling BRIDGES over the tIACKiNSACK and Passaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook. and Newark, in the State of
New-Jersey.
THE Commiflioners appointed by an a& of the le?iflatuTe of
the state of New-Jerfcv, to erect bridges over the Hackinfack
and Paffaic-k rivers, having obtained the necessary surveys, are
no at ready to receive proposals for performing the lame ; and
offer the following conditions ior the consideration of such as may
be inclined to contrast :
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will bo
at one ot the following stations, as (hall be hereafter determined
most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is established, where
the width of the river i> 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western shore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaick river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is eftablilhed, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at tlie eastern £hore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
400
£®o
600
700
800
QOO
5480
Do. wcftern shore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place flill more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern fhorc 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. western shore 10 8
Greatest depth 11
The bridges are to be conftrufted on the principles of those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free pafTage for vefTels with fix
ed standing malls, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as (hall be determined mod con
venient for the navigation of the rirer, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid vefTels in pafiing through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
9GBO
5420
700
800
900
1000
7312
The bridges aic to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as shall render them perfe&ly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a fufficient
height to proteffc them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
11812
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept >n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the a£t.
4000
4000
4000
4»oo
4000
4000
4,500
»5 8 55
The following are the terms which the commiflSoners are au
thor i fed to offer to con traitors :
A Icafe of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the prc
fent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
a&ual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum. will corifequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ana This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated apot). The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter*
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neccflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commilfioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conne&ed
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places (hall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contracts for eiefting them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contrail on thp
above principles, will be plcafed to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell,
Esq. in New-York, fpecifyirig the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to erc&thc said bridges,together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEL TUTHILL,
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBLE,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
49353
12 .5
128
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
CONTRACT.
Depth at the eastern Ihore 11 feet,
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet;*
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
A'mtrk, State if New-Jet fey, April 22, 1791
JOHN H. HALL.
(i <-P7w)
1 w. 3" 1 '