PLK'.LISHI D WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F F.N NO, Nn. 69. HIGII-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 13, of Vol. lII.]
R E
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD and WHALE FISHERIES.
[con T.I N U F.D.J
No. VIII.
JVI. JEFFERSON, Minister Plenipotentiary of the
United Stares.
SIR,
AS it is the intention of the King to favor, as much as poflible,
the commerce of the United States, I have the honor to com
municate to you the measures that have been taken on this fubjeft.
Bv a letter of the 9th January, 1784, to the Marquis de la
Fayette, I informed him that instead of two free ports promised
by the treaty with the United States, the King had determined
so them four, which has born done ; and I promised him
that I would dire# my attention to the custom-houses and du
ties which are p' ejudicial to commerce, observing however that this
object demanded long invt {ligations, which are not yet corn
pitted. By another letter I informed him, that his Majesty had
fuppreiTVd the duiies upon the exportation of brandy, and I ex
pe£fed t nis fnpo> eflion woul .1 be ufrful to the American com*
merre; I likewise promised him that the duties of the King
and the admiralty, payable by an American ve(T;l on her arrival
in a French port, should be diminish :d and reduced to a (ingle
duty, and regulated according to the number of masts and draught
of water, an . not by the uncertain estimation of measurement.
This reduttion requires a perfect knowledge o* all the duties paid
in our por s ; and as they aie of various kinds, the statements
which I have ordered o be made are not ready.
You know, fir, the King has appointed a committee for the
particular purpose of examining our commer rial connexions with
the United States, and that the Marquis de la F-ivette has pre
sented a conformable to the ide3s contained in your letter
.to the Count deVtgennes; but you will consider how impru
dent it would be to huzard by a change of fvftem, the product of
a branch of revenue which amounts to twenty-eight millions, up
on an article which i noi of thefirft neceflity—■ after a long dif
rufiion of every means'hat can beat present adopted to encourage
the importation of American tobacco, it has been refoNed not to
break the agreement made with Mr. Morris, but that after the
expiration of th's contrast, no similar one shall be made, wd
that in the mean while, the farmers general should be obliged to
purchase, annually, about fifteen thousand hogsheads of Ameri
can tobacco imported directly from the United States, in French
or American vessels at the fame price, on the fame conditions
■which have been stipulated by the contract with Mr. Morris.
You will remember, fir, that before a regulation could be made
in favor of (he importation of whale oil, the Marquis de
Fayette had taken a particular arrangement with Mr. Sangrain for
Ihe tale of this article, to the amount of eight hundred thousand
"Jivrcs, and that I had granted him palfports in ord.r to render
-♦his firft importation, free from all duties whatsoever. The fame
Mr. Sangrain, afterwards made an agreement with some met
chants of Bollon, to the yearly amount of four hundred thousand
Jivres, to la ft during fix years, for which his Majesty has granted
the fame favors which arc enjoyed by the Hanfe Towns.
This matter having been lately more extensively examined ;
the adminiflration to whom the committee communicated their
wish, agreeable to the Marquis de la Fayette's deman' 1 and your
opinion, entirely to abolish all duties upon oil, have found that
at prefent,they could not consent to it, on account of the engage
ments made with other powers. All that could be done was to
gran', during ten years, to the whale oil, fpermacaeti, and what
ever is comprehended within these denominations, imported from
the United States in French or American vessels, the fame favors,
the fame diminution of duties which ihc Hanfe Towns enjoy.
His Maiefty hopes that the commercial connexions between
the United States and France, will become so considerable as to
engage him to continue the effect of this provisional determina
tion ; and as it has been observed by the committee, that a great
fluty of fabrication has been hitherto piid upon the moll favored
■whale oil, and even upon the national, his Majesty consents to
abolish the duty of fabrication with iefpeft to the whale oil and
fpermacaeri, direttly imported from the United States in French
nr American bottoms, so that this oil and fpermac<cti shall not
J»ay, during ten years, any "ther duty but seven livres ten sols, and
ten sols, perlivre; this last augmentation of ten sols per livre,
shall cease in 1790.
It has also been determined that particular informations be fa
ken concerning the consumption of Carolina nee in France, and
that means be devised to encourage the importation of this ar
ticle.
Representations having been made concerning the considerable
duties laid upon the importation of pot-alh and pearl-afti, also
upon beaver-Huns and hair and raw leather, his Majesty has sup
pressed all duties whatsoever upon thofc articles, if imported of
the growth of the United States in French or American vessels.
He is likewise desirous of encouraging every article of American
fur.
His Majesty has moreover consented to abolish all duties upon
▼nafts, vards, keels for (hips, red cedar, green oak., and in a word,
rll kinds of wood fit for (hip-building imported from ths United
States in French or American veflels.
The committee having; likewise rep r esented that there wasa du.
Tv of five per cent, on the purchase of foreign built (hips, and thai
this riiitv was prejudicial to the sale of American velfels, his ma
yfly has brrn olrafed to exempt from all dutirs, the purchase o;
ihms which shall be proved to be built in the United States.
Great duties having formerly been laid upon all (hrubs, trees
snd feed, his Majesty has abolished these duties, when the above
articles (hall be imported in French or American veflVls.
It having been represented that the State of Virginia had or-
thr arms for her militia to be made in France, an order is
j»?flcd, that the prohibitions which hitherto have prevented the
importation of arms and gunpowder, as well as the duties laid
r:pon these articles when exported by permiflion, shall be abo
lilhrd; and that whenever the United States shall think it ex
t-'-oirnt to export from France, arms, guns and gunpowder, they
< >all have full permiflion, provided iliefe articles are exported in
Frrnch or American veflels, and they lhall be liable only to a ve-
ry <mall dntv, in order to facilitate the calculation of exports.
Lafily, his Majrftv has received with the fame favor, the appli
cations made tothr Committee for the fuDpreflion of the heavy
duues actually paid upon books and papers of all kiuds : The
PORT
Fontainblcau, OElobcr 22, 1786.
Saturday, June i i, 1791-
King abolilhes all these duties when the above articles shall be
exported to the United States in French or American veilels. "
It is with great pleasure, Sir, that I inform you of the dispo
sitions oi hw-Majelty ; they area new tcftimony of his great de
fireto eftabli (h the most intimate commercial conneflions between
the two nations, and ot the favorable attention he will always pay
to any propoial madein thename of the United States of America.
I have the honor of being, with fmcere attachment,
Si r ,
Your most humble, and
Most obedient servant,
P. S. Your nation will undoubtedly receive with plealure, the
information of the facilities which the King has just granted to the
exportation of the wines <<f Bourdeaux, Guienne, and Touraine,
and the suppression of the duties granted by different arrets ot
Council, of which the Marquis de la Fayette will give you notice.
(To be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
O D
ODE VI
N BIDDETH ADIEU, WITH A LAST PIECE OF ADVICE
Joh
to Reviewers.
SALT of the Earth ! Ye stimuli to Fame !
Of rising Genius, kind and bfft Manure !
Ah! can I, can I, without tears, endure
The fad neceflity to name,
And my last, last, adieu, proclaim ?
How doth fad memory, with recurrence vain,
Call up to view past scenes of dear delight ;
Now gone, nay vanifh'd, from my wifhful fight ;
When, reckiefs of the filthy joy of gain,
I did, with micicle toil, and woful pain,
Much weariness and sweat of brain,
Sing forth, to you, the monitory strain !
Now, as wiih swan-like notes, my kind monition's fail,
Let me relate one much improving tale.
THE TALE.
An Irishman, with body half o'er-bent,
On all fides looking, thro'a market went. —•
It happen'd, that as Teague proceeded,
Quite undetermined what he greatest needed,
He saw paraded, with enjoyment big,
Full many a heavy hog, and roasting pig.
With cautious touch, on one he placed hii hand,
And foftly uttered forth this kind demand—
" If I should bear you to my home away,
" How long, confin'd, in prison must I stay ?"
Scar c was the question ended, but, " squeak ! squeak !"
The Pig affrighten'd crics.
44 A ha, a ha, a week, a week"
The Irishman replies—
44 Ifthatisall I'll off a couple bear,
44 Ana by St. Patrick ! flay two weeks, my dear."
*********
Now I expect, with deep bent brow,
To fee your countenances lower ;
And hear you a(k— 41 Why whence, and where, and how,
44 Can this viletale, on us, improvement shower ?"
Yes, I cxpett that each will tell his brother ;
And this respond to that and thdt to t'other—
44 I can't fee how this ftcry will apply—
44 No, on my foul, I can't—not /—nor I; nor /.'*
My dear, dear friends, to lead you thro' the wood
Sav, don't you think that John is very good ?
Well then—why this isall that's meant—
It's true, the story don't apply at all—
But then, if with the wisdom John hath to you lent,
You hard should study, tho' your wit be small,
I do not doubt but on the sense you'd fall.
This is the meaning—as you write for pav,
Tho greatest nonsense swell the impartial page,
Still write, remark, teview, and dash away,
The joy, and wonder, of a flupid age.
life other's wisdom ; if you can, sense shew ;
Hut, if you can't, by all means, fltll review.
Savannah, (Georgia) May 19.
Addreft of the Citizens of Savannah , and the
Inhabitants of its Vicinity,
To the Prejidcnt of the United States.
SIR,
\\JKEN, having accom pliflied the great ob
* * jetfts of a war, marked in its progress with
events that astonished while they inftrutfted the
world, yon had again returned to the domeflic
enjoyments of life, to which you were known to
be io strongly attached, there was little proba
bility, in the common order of things, that the
people of Georgia, however ardently they mio-lit
defne, fnould ever be indulged, the happineft!
of 3 personal interview with you—but i'ummon
ed again, as you were, from your retirement, by
the united voice and the obvious welfare of your
country,you did not hesitate t > furnifhone more
proof that, in companion to the great duties of
social life, all objects of a private nature are with
you but iecpndary considerations : And to this
your ruling palfion of love for your country it is
rhat we owe the opportunity now afforded of
congratulating you on your fafe arrival in the
city of Savannah—an office we the committee,
49
De COLONNE
E S.
JOHN.
[Whole No. 2 2 I.]
under the warmed impreflions of fenfibiiity and
attachment, execute in the name and behalf of a
refpeetable and grateful number of citizens.
History furnifhes instances of some eminently
qualified for ihe field, and of others endued with
talents adequate to the intricate affairs of State ;
but you, Sir, have enriched the annals of Ameri
ca with a proof, to be sent abroad to all mankind,
that, however rare the alfociation, the virtues
and talents of soldier and republican statesmen
will sometimes dwell together, and both charac
ters derive additional lultre from a subserviency
to the precepts of Religion.
Roused by oppreflion at home, and inspired by
example from America, the people of enlighten
ed nations in Europe are now beginning to allerc
their rights : And it is observable that those
brave men, the fubjedls of foreign powers, who
were votaries to our cause, and companions' in
your victories, are always found foremoft in the
struggle for just and equal government.
You have now, Sir, an opportunity of viewing
a State which, from its exposed situation, has
been peculiarly affedted by the calamities of war,
but which, under the influence of a happy go
vernment, will rife fact ro that rank of prosperi
ty and importance to which her natural advan
tages so justly entitle her, and which will enable
her to reflect back upon the union all the bene
fits derived from it.
We fliall always take a deep concern, in com
mon with the other citizens of the United States,
in whatever regards your personal welfare and
happiness. We make it our prayer to Almighty
God that you may be long continued to your
country her Ornament and Father, and that it
may be more and more exemplified in you. Sir,
that to know how to conquer, and to improve the
advantages of conquelt into blessings to a com
munity, are faculties sometimes bellowed on the
fame mortal.
In the name and behalf of a number of
citizens of Savannah, and its Vicinitv,
convened for the Reception of the
Preftdent,
N. W. JONES, 1
LACHN. M'INTOSH, |
JOSEPH CLAY, The Commhtee
JOHN HOUSTOUN, |
JOSEPH HABERSHAM, J
THE PRESIDENT': ANSWER.
To the Citizens oj Savannah, and the Inha
bitants of its Vicinity.
GENTLEMEN,
I AM extremely happy in the occasion now af
forded me to express my sense of your good
ness, and to declare the sincere and afFedtionate
gratitude which it inspires.
The retrofpedl of paftfcenes, as it exhibits the
virtuous character of our country, enhances the
happiness of the present hour, and gives the nioffc
pleasing anticipation of progreflive prosperity.
The individual fatisfa&ion to be derived from
this grateful reflexion niuft be enjoyed in a pe
culiar degree by the deserving citizens of Geor
gia—a State no less distinguished by its services
than by its fufFerings in the cause of freedom.
That the city of Savannah may largely par
take of every public benefit which our free and
equal government can dispense, and that the
happiness of its vicinity may reply to the bell
wilhes of its inhabitants, is my sincere prayer.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Charleston, May 28.
A T a meeting of the citizens and inhabitants
in the City-Hall, on Friday the 27th inrt.
.Amold 11s Vanderhorft, £fq, was recjuefted to
take the chair, aud Mr. David Alexander to adt
as feci etary, when the following resolutions were
adopted:
Whereas the establishment of a branch of the
National Bank in this city, would be of great
and general advantage to'every class of inhabi
tants in the ilrtte: Therefore,
hefolved, 1 hat it be recommended to all per
sons to lubferibe for a share or shares in the pro
pol'ed National Bank, and to the fubferibers to
use their endeavors to procure the establishment
of a branch thereof in this city, and that the un
der-named gentlemen, to wit, Mefl'rs. Nathaniel
Iluflell, i hoinas Stewart, Robert Hazlehurft,
r.dward Darrell, William Crafts, Joseph Vefey,
IMvid Kamfay, Daniel Hall, John Edwards, James
1 heus, Samuel Smith, William Thayer, and John
*'%
•lanfon, be a committee to hand about a subscrip
tion in the following words :
" We the subscribers agree to pay thefirft spe
cie proportion required by the law lor eitabliih
ing the National Bank, to the committee appoint
ed by the citizens and inhabitants, at a meeting
held at the City-Hall, on the 27th May, 1 791 for
as many (hares as are oppolite to our relpedtive
names, and in appointing fuc li an agent or agents
to vole and a<ft for such ot_ us as may be absent,
in 01 tier that our votes may be concentrated with
a view to obtain a branch of the National Bank
in this cirv." And that the inhabitants of the
state be invited by public advertisements to sub
scribe their names ; and that the laid committee
transmit the money they may receive, together
with.the names ot subscribers, that they may be
entered at Philadelphia as subscribers to the Na
tional Bank: And that the said committee beau
thorifed to call a meeting of the subscribers when
ever nete/lu' y.
A. VANDEIIHORST, Chairman
David Alexanukr, Secretary.
PARIS, March ;i
IT appears that the Legion d'Afi>: a' Toulouse
had conceived the infernal project of mur
dering the commander in chief of the National
Guards, the whole Municipality, and fevera! pi
triotic merchants. The people, informed of this
diabolical plot, resolved to annihilate the whole
Legion. Three of the foldievs had been killed
and two made prisoners. The pi iloners reveal
ed the whole plot, and the Legionaries, finding,
that their intention had transpired, have escap
ed a-nd fled into Spain. It is supposed that there
is concealed somewhere a magazine of arms ;
lVuitleis attempts have been made to find it out.
Information is received from Colmar, that a
ranq;e of Beacons have been prepared along the
Rhine, which are ready to be lighted the mo
ment an alarm is given of the approach of an
enemy. They reach from Htiinyue to Straf
burg.'
Four Members of the Diplomatic Committee
waited on the ift. instant, on M. Monttnorin, to
«xprefs their surprise and indignation, at the ap
pointment of new ministers to foreign courrs.
M. Montmorin answered, " that the King had
approved the choice which had been made, and
that, for his part, he thought it an excellent one."
" But, fir," fays M. de Menou, "M. Gouvernet,
appointed to go to Holland, is Member of the
Monarchic Club." " What fignifies that," an
swered M. Mommorin, " He is not the worse
Patriot on that account. M. Clermont Tonneri e,
is he also a true Patriot ?—Certainly. And all
the members of the Monarchic Club—ace they
alio true patriots !—Who doubts it :—For mv
part, I firmly believe they are ; liefides, i:i the
present moment it would be highly improper to.
lend to foreign courts, persons who have fignai
ifed themselves in the revolution."
M. de Menou denounced this conversation,
which pafled between him and the Minister, to
rhe Clu'odes Jacobins, who mean to take it into
serious confi.ieraiion. M. Montrnorin is Mitiif
ter, but the members of the club are sovereigns
over ministers
The removal of some plate from the Clippel
Royal, by order of the King, is highiy reproba
ted, and is likely to be produ<fiive of dilturban
ces.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
Received information of the Election of two
Conllitutioual Bifliops, one of Valines, and ano
ther of Ninies.
M. Maury moved, that an enquiry be made in
to the validity of the debt of 4,000,000 livres,
claimed by M. d'Orleans, and which it was his
opinion ought not to have been voted to be paid,
as the public owes him nothing. The Jacobins
got rid of the motion in a moment, by moving
the order of the day.
A motion w.is made that the fartrefs of Vin
cennes be demolished ; but it appeared t hat there
were so many people imprisoned the'e, that there
are no other prisons capacious enough to contain
them. Of one class there are 1820 ; and of ano
ther 1004; beside 600 who infill to accompany
thole eight lately imprisoned in consequence of
the late Iracas atthe fhuilleries, as being, equal
ly with them, either guilty or innocent, and
claiming to have a legal trial.
Resolved, that tlie works on the Dungeon of
Vinceanes be llopt for the present.
M. Scutaz informed the AtFembly that an ad
drels from tlie Diltrict of Auch had been receiv
ed, giving an account that the whole country is
in the greatest fermentation, owing to the refu
fal of moil of the efcclefialtics to take the Civic
Oath,
The order of the day was, the qtaeftion relative
to pet Tons in public employments, among whom
the King was included. The debate which fol
lowed was, if pollible more tumn'tuary than uf'i
al. M. endeavoured to read the
April 3
March 9
March 27
form of a decree containing a declaration, tli3t
ic was highly criminal to take the propoials of
the committee into consideration. inilantly a
number of voices were heard together, clamour
ing, a cha> cnton —to prison ! but M. d'Elpreme
till continued to read till Jie was silenced by tlif
President. Before he fat down, lie made use of
the following proverbial exprelliqii, to which he
probably applied a much Itronger meaning than
his antagouilt did—Rira hen qui bira le dernier.
The third and fourth Decrees of the series
which then palled, are very remarkable, and
will probably be productive, hereafter, of the
mod serious consequences. They are as follows :
" The King, holding the firlt pnblic employ
inent, shall relide at no greater distance than JO
leagues from the National Afl'embly, while h is
fitting. At other times hemayrefide any where
within the kingdom."
MARCH 29
Several more articles were decreed, " On the
efulence of persons in public employment," a
,nong whom were included tlie prefuinptive Heir
to th; Crown and his Mother. The word queen is
(tudioufly avoided.
CO PENHAGEN, March 12
We are allured that Russia has accepted the
mediation of ourcourt for fettling a peace with
.he Porte. -
LONDON,
With unwearied diligence and progredive
zeal, the National Aflembly, the glorious Nati
onal AiT'enibly of France, proceeds in the efta
blifament of her new conltitution. Every friend
to the rights of mail will rejoice to hear-that all
ihe endeavours of die Ariitocrats prove ineffec
tual, and that - -
" Even handed jaftice returns the in
gredients of ilie poisoned chalice to their own
lips."
The court of Lisbon entertains the fame ap
jrehenfions, with regard to internal disturban
ces, as the court of Madrid. Great rewards are
bellowed on those who are infatnous enough ro
wield their pens in defence of defpatifm, and in
opposition to the cause of liberty.
That one man however, poflelled of equal abi
lities, and equal patrioiifin with the author of th:
rights of mar., may step forward to check these
aristocratic endeavours, is our earnest wifli and
our sincere prayer.
From lie good condition of the finances and
the forces of Denmark, that power is treated
with great refpeifl, and though it may not be
laid to trim the baianct, it is very certain that the
Empi ef's of Raffia would be sorry to fee its weight
in the adverse scale.
By a survey lately made of the Coal Mines in
the neighbourhood of Birmingham, it appears,
that they can produce 6q0,000 tons of coals an
nually for iooo years, lb that we are provided
with fire unto the third, fourth, fifth and iixth
generation.
Mr. Seward, of Gofwell street, by profeffion a
dyer, had his carriage Hopped near the Hornfey
turnpike, about five o'clock, in November lalt,
by two footpads, one of whom held a drawn
hanger, which he frequently brandished as if
ready to llrike, though repeatedly urged by Mr.
Seward not to frighten his lady.
Mrs. Seward, at length, almost wild with her
fears, caught hold of a broken Hick on the feat
of the coach, with which {he (truck the ruffian
011 the head, who in return, the coach door being
open, made a desperate blow, which was receiv
ed by Mr. Seward on his arm, who, norwithltand
ing the wound, seized the hanger, and for atime
(truggled with the fellow, who was, however,
immediately assisted by his accomplice, when all
farther refinance became ineffectual—after com
pleating the booty, they made off.
Lalt Monday week,.Mr. Seward was surprised
with an application for work in the dying branch,
from the very man who held the hanger—his
person being perfectly tifcertained by the coach
man, the wretch was taken into custody, and has
since been committed for trial.
The Empress of Rulfia, it is said; has given par
ticular orders to Prince Potemkin, on his taking
pofleffion of Conftsntinople, to fit up the Sultan's
Seraglio for her spring residence.
The Eniprefs of Russia has already taken one
measure for rendering the Turks less averse to
her government, provided she can once conquer
their present matters ; an edition of the Koran
has been printed at Petersburg, for the benefit of
her Mahomedan fubjeCts.
At Brett 2JO naval and military officers have
disappeared. Their conduit has been denounc
ed to the National Aflembfy.
The late Grand Vizir, before he could be our
to death, discharged two pistols at the officers
sent to execute hint. A third then shot him thro
the breast, and his head was immediately cut off.
The Emperor has consented to prolong the
armistice between him and the Turks till the
latter end of September.
The King of France is still extremely indifpof
ed, although the French Patriots have ordered
50
March 28
Te Deum to be sung upon the occasion of hi ;
recovery. His cough is exceedingly crouble
forne, and his deep at nigh: is very much dillurb
ed.
A rait. j.
Death of M. Mirabtau,
The last letters from Paris have brought a con
firmation of the death of M. Mirabeau on Satur
day morning last, tlie 2d init. at half pait ei[>lit
o'clock, after aniHnefs violent and (liorr, in the
firit part of which he was frequently delirious
and throughout in great pain.
From the lii it appearance ot his indisposition,
it was known to be dangerous, and bulletins,
announcing insinuation, were published hourly ;
notwithstanding which, the populace waited ac
his gate in great numbers, anxious, through af
fection and curiosity, to obtain the earliest in
telligence of his fate.
The buzz of the crowd, and even the voices
of the hawkers who cried these Bulletins were
audible in his chamber. A few hours before his
death, one of his friends remarked to him this
instance of the eltimation in which he was held
by his countrymen —" Ah ! (said he) I perceive
that it mult be acceptable to tlie for them." In
the beginning.of his disorder, his hope of reco
very was great ; but his courage in the fubfe
quentftages of it, was not Jess. He deliberately
made his will, and recollecting that a law relat
ing to teftauients was then before the National
Ailembly, he said to the Abbe de Taleyrand, t lie
late Bifliop of Autun—" The National Afiembly
is now engaged upon a law relating to testaments,
and they will not think it unfuitable,that anian,
who has juil made one, should offer them his opi
nion upon the queltion, as his last homage. I
entrull this paper to your care, to be read to the
Afiembly."
He died in the 42d year of his age, leaving
many of his intended plans imiin»/hed ; but at
a time when his reputation had attained a height
which it probably would not have exceeded. .
A rumour was I'pread the moment that M. de
Mirabeau was dead, that he had been poiToned.
This rumour has been proved fnlfe, by opening
the body of the deceased ; which operation was
performed by the molt Jkilful Surgeons, in tlie
presence of a great number of other Surgeons,
and multitudes of people. Every Vifcus was fe
paratelv examined. Not the least foundation
for the injurious suspicion appeared.
He had in a great measure destroyed his con
stitution by excessive indulgences and tuirultu
ous pleasures. The evening that he was taken;
ill, he had given himfelf up to every riotous en
joyment which a depraved imagination couid
desire. Every medical alliftance was procured
which the capital could afford : bark, camphire/
blisters, &c. were tried, without effect. His b»-
dy was wrapped in sheep's ikin, warn from the
newly killed animals, with a view to restore ani
mal heat.—All to no purpose.
He fuffered a great deal, but he fnffered like a
man. The new Conllitution, and the welfare of
the Nation, occupied his .whole attention to his
very last moments. The spirit and energy of
his mind remained to the lail.
His Secretary wounded hitnfelf by three stab»
in the jugular vein, given with a pen-knife.—
This ralhnefs is attributed by the world to a va
riety of motives, none of which are perhaps the
true ones.
All the members of the National Assembly are
to attend the funeral of M. de Mirabeau. A de
putation from the municipality of Pai is, with the
Mayor at their head, are also to be present at the
mournful ceremony.
The following anecdote of M. de Mirabeau
will be the surest trait we can give of his moral
character. It is original, but universally known
to every person acquainted with the French
court.
M. de Mirabeau was the son of the Comte de
Mirabeau, a man of learning and perfectly well
bred, but not remarkable for the severity of his
morals. The Conite and his wife having lived
unhappily together, were at length set at liberty
by a mutual reparation. The Comte, whose con
jugal unhappinefs was still fie(h in his mind,
applied to his own son to write a pamphlet for
him against his wife.—The pamphlet was writ
ten by young Mirabeau againlt his own mother f
It was entitled I'Ami des Hotumes ; and the price
of his labors was 100 Louis d'ors, which he re
ceived from liia father. His mother complain
ing to him of the indecency of this filial outrage,
—" Madame," fays young Mirabeau, "givenie
200 Loi/is d'ors and 1 will write another pamphlet
against my father, in vindication of your cha
racter."
Mirabeau was certainly, in point of genius and
talents, one of the greateil men trance ever
knew
The champion of the oppoftre, or Monarchic
party in the National .Allembly, is the Abbe
Maury.—He has frequently been (liled the Bcjfu
et of the present age. He is all'uredly far fupc
rior in talents ami eloquence to any one of ilie
Jacobins whom M. de Mirabeau has left belniihitn ; he may, therefore, be expetfced to make
proselytes to his cause, provided conviJiion were
fufficient tp ensure a reformation.
M. de Mirabeau was the author of several
works which are held in high eltimation ; a
niongothers Memoirs Secrets de la Cottr de Berlin,
Sur /'Agiotage, ire. ire. The Courier de Provence
was also publilhed under his direction. He was
afluredly the prop and pillar of the Duke of Or
leans's party, and of the Jacobin's club, which
may be confideted as the privy council of the
French nation.
How many reflexions does the death of this
JM. de Mirabeau occasion ! He has experienced
the turbulence of mad ambition ; he has been
the admiration of some, the envy of others, and
the curse of many ; he has ih utted his fliorrhour
on the stage, and while he was dreaming of im
perial power, the grave yawns beneath his feet,
and he finks into it a lump of clay ! Ye sons of
ambition ! You are all walkingover your graves !
—While you are gazing on thrones and sceptres,
you stumble at noon day, and lose your honors
in the dust !
Mirabeau, at a very early period of life, ac
quired a very extensive reputation, by the bril
liancy of his wit, and (till more by the solidity
and extent of his mental acquirements. His pe
netration was acute, his talents were various and
versatile ; and his knowledge of men and man
ners remarkably extensive. When he was of an
age at which many are still novices at fchool,one
of the fir ft characters in France, who had with
wonder witnelfed the vail compass of his under
standing, in a letter to a friend ltyles him a
Phenomenon !
He was one of those few, who are able to unite,
with a life of dissipation, literary pursuits, and
deep researches into the nature of government,
the law of nations, and the relative interests of
the powers of Europe. His ambition prompted
him, at the ssra of the revolution, and his su
perior abilities enabled him, to take the lead in
the framing of the new Conllitntion, and in
overturning the old system.
He was the Ulyjfes, and M. de la Fayette was
the Ajax. The views of both were unlimited
power ; the pretexts or ostensible motives of
both were pattiotifm and the securing of equal
and universal liberty to all mankind. The
Dupes of both were a great majority in the
Senate and in the Municipality of Paris, and
the millionsoftheprovinces. [Extensive indeed /]
The Orleans party has fuffered an irreparable
loss by the death of Mirabeaii. This party was
in a fair way of triumphing over all others, and
of ettablilhing pure republication, which would
shortly have degenerated, as it was intended, in
to renovated defpotifrn under a new head, deco
rated with a new name.
M. de Mirabeau and M. de la Fayette had been
for some time secret but inveterate enemies ; but
the imperative boalt of Cicero—cedant ArmaToga
—would have been realized, had M. de Mirabeau
lived a little longer.
Allowing M de la Fayette, which is a doubtful
claim, to be Armh Prcepoteus, it might with more
truth have been said of his antagonist tantum valet
ipfe loquendo.
Oxford (England) April 2
At the sale of the Breeding Stock of the late
Mr. Robert Fowler, of Rollright, in this county,
which began on Tuesday ]a(t, there were indis
putably more people allembled than have ever
before been collected on a like occasion ; some
aver, not less than fix thousand !
The firft three lots fetched the amazing sum
of 620 guineas, viz.
Lot 1. A five years old bull called Garrick, by
Shakespeare, out of the broken horned Beauty
235 guineas. '
Lot 2. Sultan, a two years old bull, by Gar
rick, out of Garrick's mother, 210 guineas.
Lot 3. Walhington, two years old, by Shake
speare, out of the bow-horned cow, 20$ guineas.
Lot 26. Young Sultan, a yearling bull by Gar
rick, out of Old Nell, 200 guineas.
Lot 28. A yearling bull, out of White Nancy,
145 guineas.
29- A yearling bull calf, 100 guineas.
20. A row called Brindled Beauty, 260guin
32. Walhington's mother, in calf, 185 do.
35. A black heifer, 3 years old, 13s do.
37. Young Nell, out of Old Nell, 120 do.
A Cow Calf, lot 16, fold at 21 guineas, which
■was the lowelt funi in this day's sale, except a
welch nurse cow, which fetched 8 guineas.
BOSTON, June 1.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
IN SENATE — MAY 31, 179 t.
The bill to explain an a(fl for rhe fafe keeping
all prisoners committed under the authority of
the United States, in the several gaols within
this Commonwealth, which palled the House 011
Friday la It, was debated—and on the qnellion
fhail the hill pass to be engrofled it was negati
ved hy a large majority—Four only being in fa
vor of its palling.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, (M.)JJuris.e s.
Latl Sunday was discovered, trefpaiiing on the
meadows and pai'dens in and about ttfis town,
an inminiet*able and inconceivable number of
Caterpillars ; who have totally deltroyed some
grass lots. They inarch in legions from place
to place, devouring all before them. Any per
son who can devile some means either of destroy
ing or checking the progress of chefe infeifts,
will be entitled to public thanks.
CHAMBERS BURG, June 2
011 Monday i a it, about thfee in the
afternoon, the house of Mr. James Lindfay, on
the Falling Spring, was itruck by lightning, and
one of his children, a lad of about I 3 years of
age, was killed by it. There were fix persons in
the room at the time, all fitting very near each
other, and this lad was nearest the fire place ;
the lightning had descended through the funnel
of an uplfairs chimney, and breaking through
the hearth, came diretfily 011 his head—he fell
back in his chair and expired initantly. The
hair on the crown of his head was burned oft",
and his ikin, though unbroken, was in some
places much blistered. Three other persons who
were near him felt the fliock, but escaped with
out material injury.
/ GEORGE-TOWN, June 4.
I On Saturday last, Mr. ElllcoiT ,the Geogra
pher-General of the United: States, completed
ftix main lines of the Federal ,City : He is now
[engaged in clearing and bounding the lines of
Ithe tliltriifl of ten miles fqua,re. .
■TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET IX
To Mr. JOHN TRUMBULL.
I'RUMBULL ! to Wiee, with hrfitating hand,
I wake the tremulously-breathing lyre;
Fearful that Age, altho the Muse inspire,
Should weep that Modesty had loft command.
Tis not, alone, that energy divine
Lives o'er the canvass, as thy pencil moves;
That tint perfe&s the exquisite design,
And lije is present; that my foul approves:
But. that thy Spirit brooding o'er the immenle
Ot unknown Beauty, to exiftencegave
The plan, where Wisdom, Liberty, and Sense,
The high-foul'd Patriot, and the Warrior brave,
Live, with the appropriate chara&er of face,
In all the pencil's manners-painting grace.
Circular Letter oj the Convention of the Univers
Churches, met at Philadelphia.
THE Ministers and Representatives from the
several Churches, believing in the Salva
tion of all Men, through our Lord Jesus
Christ, met in annual convention in Philadelphia,
May 25, i79f.
To the several Churches and Societies in the belief of
the fame most precious truth with us—Greeting.
Beiovedßrethren,
IT gives us great pleasure to inform you that
we had a most agreeable meeting, and that we
have received tidings from several Churches and
Societies, that the troths of God's univerfa], ab
solute and unchangeable love, of the universa
lity of the atonement for fin through the blood
of Christ, and of the final restoration of the whole
human race, to a state- of happiness (notwith-
Handing the reality of future panifhments) pre
vail against all opposition ; and that God our Sa
viour hath infome instances over-ruled the oppo
sition to the forwarding thereoFv
We are happy in being able further to inform
you, that the request of the convention of lall
year, that those persons who believed with us in
the Salvation of all Men, ihould atiociate and form
themselves into Churches, has been complied
with in a degree which has equalled our mod
sanguine expectations. Several Churches have
likewise formed, which are too remote to unite
with us. Nor is the encreafing prevalence of the
glorious truths we believe, confined to the United
States: We have lately heard with great plea
sure that they have been manifefted to many in
foreign countries. And now, dear Brethren, as
the genuine tendency of this mod precious dif
covery of God's unchangeable and univerfa! love,
is to promote love and good works, we hope every
believer in it will manifeft the fame in his life
and conversation, and that you will in meekness
bear with those of your fellow heirsof Salvation,
who, thro' prejudice, are opposed to the blefl'ed
truths we maintain—and that you \*ill endeavor
to remove such prejudices by holy, harmless and
ufeful lives, conformable in all things to the ex
ample and precepts of our defied Lord and Sa
viour, whose will it is that all shall come to the
knowledge of the truth.
We conclude, by commendingyou and all men
ro the care of him to whom all fouls belong, and
who hath redeemed them to himfelf by his most
precious blood, to whom be glory forever. Amen.
Signed, by order of the Convention,
NICHOLAS COX, Moderator.
Artis Seagrave, Clerk.
May 28, 1791.
51
ELLA
Philadelphia, June 11.
i uefday afternoon Col.ProCtor arrived in town.
He informs that on the 2lli of last month he held
a conference with the Chiefs of the Six Nations,
who appeared perfectly dil'pofed to remain an
peace with the United States. Col. Pickering is
to hold a treaty with them 011 the 15th inflant.
The latje Rev. Mr. Wefley, during the last jo
years of l(is ministry, is, upon the mott moderate
computation, fuppoled to have preached upwards
of 35,000 sermons, and in that time is supposed
to bave travelled 160,000 miles. \_l\laiL~\
ih e trading inhabitants •of Philadelphia will
soon experience a very considerable convenience
from the pavements lately fiuifhed in Water
(li eer, .near the drawbridge, and that in Dock
ftreet. Indeed the rapid improvement and in*
creafc of this city are aftonithing, at.d will juftify
the expectations of the original projector, Wil
liam Penn, that Philadelphia would extend from
Delaware to Schuylkill, and from Kenimgton
to Gloucester Point, in less than two centu
ries. [Mail.]
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
1 he good people of the United States are fre
quently entertained with remarks on the excel
lency of eletflion and representation. Our go
vernment is a free republic, principally on ac
count of its being a government by representa
tion. All the powers veiled in the rulers being
delegated powers—and we justly expedt that a peo
ple so enlightened as the citizens of America,
will never negletft their duty in electing the molt
meritorious characters for legislators and magi
strates. So long as the light of education is kept
clear and bright, the people will duly estimate this
privilege. The feturity of liberty is universally
acknowledged to depend on this molt eflemial
point. But, it seems a notable discovery has late
ly been made,* and that is, " that the eleflion of
the members of the general government is liable
to so much corruption by parties, cabals, briberies,
interefls, connexions, and an infinite group-oi other
jjnifler prejudices, that it is not conceived that one
instance 111 ten can be produced of an appoint
ment of the bell qualified and fitteft pcrfon by such
elections—and therefore the grand check, for the
feturity of our liberties, lies in the ft ate govern
ments." But, alks a correspondent, is it probable
that the legillatures of the several Ibates will be
chosen by better elertors than tliofe of the gene
ral government ? Are they not the fame indivi
dual electors ? If so, whence the propriety of
making a difference in our ideas refpetling them.
It may be fafely aflerted, that the general go
vernment is at Jeafl equally, if not more popular
in its organization, than any of the individual
governments —and therefore an attempt to de
preciate it, in any refpetfl whatever, is in fatft to
llvike at the liberties of the people.
* Sec P-mphlet against th- Bank of the United States.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Rawleigh,
Brig Fame,
Schooner Rebecca,
Sloop Wonder,
Harriot,
Union,
Brig Kitty,
u Ui.lu," in our next.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents j 7/6 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents yfc
Dcfered 6 pr. Certs qfo
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16/4 \bf(> 82 J
Indents q/ 4 g / 5 47
N. and S. Carolina debts. 12J6 1 $J.
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER.
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publilbing a PAPER, in good repute,
the fubferibers to which are continually increasing —The piefen:
number ot its patrons is between seven and eirht hundred. The
types confifl of Butctois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertisements to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part ot Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles o( an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on short notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger (hare of Advertisements than the one offered
for sale. A very considerable profit also accrues from the faleof
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bills, Scr, Sic. It is a good situation, also,
lor a small Book-Store—and it is supposed the Book-Bindiug bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For further particulars, enquire of John Frnno, at his Office,
No. 69. High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
'"b-'phi-i. fiaw 8w)
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHERE AS by the ilealh of John Gebbie, the Partner Hi! >
of GEBBIE and ELLIS is diffolvcd. The fubferib-r',
fmvivirlsj co-partnrr and adimmilrator of said deceased,
all persons who have anv demands againfl their late firm, to fend
forward their accounts for settlement as soon as convenient; and
ail those who are indebted to said firm, by bond, note, or book
account, are earnestly requested to difenarge the fame without
a -'"V- ' CHARLES ELLIS
Burlington, June 7, 1791. (ep2w)
Wyatf,
Borch,
Buxton,
Hooper,
Kirhv,
Wat Ton,
Montr,
Halifax,
Capc-Francois,
Maffachule tts,
North-Carolina,
C lurleflon,
New-York,
Capr-Fiancois.
®7& pr, cent,
47 no.
46J do.
do.B
War Department,
May 30, 179 T - ,
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
ot the United States, that the fitms to which thev air rntitled
lor fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day ot March,
1 -c,i, and which will become due on the 4th day ot September
enfuino. will be paid on the said dav bv the Cotnmiflioners ot the
Loanswithin the States refpeftively,under the usual reg ulations,viz.
Every application tor payment mult beacc«mpamed by the to).
lowing vouchers. . . , , r
iff.' The certificate given by the slate, fpecitying that the person
polfcffing the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and afcertJining the turn
to which as f.ich he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. S came before me. one of the fufiices of the connt" of in
the Hate of and made oath that he is the fume A. H. to who* the
original certificate in his pofle/fion was given, of which the allowingy a
coby (the certificate given h thejlate to he recited) rhal he fated (re
giment, corps or icjjc!) at the time he was dijahted, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there Jor trie lafl
•ears, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for piymrnt by an attorney, the
aid attorney, bffides the certificate and oath before .ceiled, mud
jroduce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following foim:
I ,/t.8.0f county of Jlate of do hereby conjlitute and
appoint (. I), of my lawful attorney, to receive in ray behalf of
my hen/ion Jor fx months, «i an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth di\ of March, ove thoufund seven hundred and and
ending the Jouith day of September oj the fame year.
Signed and 'caled
in the presence of
IVitnejfes.
Acknowledged before mc,
Applications of exccutors and administrators must he accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also ot the
time the invalids whose pcnfu.ti they mav claim.
Bv command of the Prelident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
Q3T The Printers in the refpeelive Stales are requejied to publijhthe
above ti; their vewfpapers, for the space oj twG months.
[Q3" All petfons concerned will be plealed to take notice that the
following advertifemcnt has been varied from that published in
our paper of the ' 3d of March.J
Treasury Department.
March 27., 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Tfeafui until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the fupplv of all rations, which
may be required for theute ol the United States, from the fitil da
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both .lays in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftrifls herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh.
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lritofh.
At any place or places, hetwixt Fort M'lntoffi and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Mnf
kingum, and np the laid River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
czrowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf-
Kip'gum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth ol
Xlie fald River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio v .o River, and
the moiiih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio,and at the
(aid llapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At anv place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
o! the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vinccnnes,
at Port Sr. Vinoennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before defi tibed.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippij
from the mouth of thcOhio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufkv,
and atSandufky, and from Sandufkv to the mouth of Cayoga rivei.
At any placc or places, betwixt Fort Pitt-and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and ai
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mou h of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by th<
way of B'g Beaver creek.
At anv placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, to the ri-e
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river incluHvelv.
Should any rations be requited at anv places, or within oth<.
diftri&s, not foecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied at e to consist of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of perk,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, r P cr * lwo rat,ons *
One pound of candles, j
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office unti
the fir ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of al
rations which may be required for the use of the United Stages
from the fir ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of MafTaehu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the lame articles a
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, unti
the tft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of al
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States
from the lft day of January to the 31A day of December, 1792
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftritts herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at prefect commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At tHe poll on the river Altamaba, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
A, theoo.lon the r'.ver O.onee, at present commanded by Ca P t.
Apalachee, at present commanded by
c 'a. s TJ'Z Z&2SX
from thence to the Currshermoun'a.n.
lcatt two months in advance, in good and whoiefome provisions.
Tte k, fappLl ... .» ™«« Ol.!» »
deoredations ofthe enemy, orbymeans of the troops of
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the article.captured
troved, on the dcpolition. of two or more ereduablr charaft r ,
and the certificate of a eommiffioned officer,J afcertainin tlh -
cumflances ofthe Inf., and the amount of the articles for w c.
compensation is claimed. •♦u-.. /.«*
The contra&s for the above fuppltes will be made either rove
year, or for two vears, as may appear eligible. Perform dMpoi
to contra# will therefore confine their offers to one year,
may make their proportions so as to admit an clc tion o .
term of two vears. , , , n
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of the above polls to
gether, or feparatelv for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the ports in Georgia,
and they mult fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay
menf. - ——
CONTRACT,
For erefUns; BRIDGES over the Hacki nsack and Passaick
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the Matr ot
New-Terfcy. , n i
THE Commi (lionets appointed by an ast of the legifbture ol
the ftateof N'dw-JetTev, to erect bridges over the Hackintack
and PalTrfiok river*, having obtained the necessary surveys, arr
now ready to receive proposals for performing the ar " e » an
offer the following conditions for the consideration of such as may
be inclined to contract : . ,
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, wu be
at one ot the following Nations, as ftiaU be hereafter determ.nec.
mod eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is eftablilned, where
th 6 width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern snore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western Oiore, 8 11
Grczteft depth, 25 4
2d. At a olace more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at tlie eaftc n fliore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western shore 12
Grrateft depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaick river, will be at
one of the three following Illations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed moil eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is established, where
the width of the river is 6~6 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more wefleily, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is yqo feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 11 feet,
Do. western shore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place dill more northerly, called Hedden's in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eaflern shore 4 feet 5 inches,
Do. western shore 10 8
Greatcft depth it
The bridges are to beconftru&ed on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Mvftick, and Beverly Rivers in the vState of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free paflage for vessels with fix
ed standing maftr. not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as (ball be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid vefiels in passing through. Also, one lamp on eaeh fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges ate to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as shall render them perfe&ly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commillioners, and are to be of a futficient
height to protett them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, i foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept 'n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commissioners are au
•horifed to offer to contractors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an eflimatc as could pofifiblv be obtained, the
a&ual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jerfev currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will confequentlv produce an
mmediate income of 900 pounds per aim. This mav fairly be
eftimatcd as the fmallett profit that can be calculatcd upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
com V between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftru&ion of these bridges will give to travel
ing, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
drcumftances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioncrs are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conne&ed
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the contra&s for eie&ing them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contrast on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Max w f. i. l,
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to ereftthe said bridges, together with
proper security for performing the fame.
SAMUEI. TUTHILL, ")
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBLE,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
Newark, Stale of t-'m- Jersey, April 22, 1791
52
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raifethe Aim of FOUR.THOUSAND Pounds,
agreeably to an Ast of the Legislature of the
State of New-Jersey, palled the 24th Novem
ber, 1790, for the purpose of laying out and
improving the Roads and Caufewa;'s between
the Town of Newark, in the County of Efl'ex,
and Paules-Hook Ferry, in the County of Ber
gen, in said State.
THIS Lottery iscompofed of 15,100 Tickets, to lie drawn in
Three ClafTes, as described in the inl'-rted S. heme : The
price of a Ticket in the First Class is Oie DMir ; in the Second
Class Two Dollars, and in the Third Class Fout Bo'lars. The ope
ration ot this Lottery w!l appear in the following order : Ths
whole 15,100 numbers will be put in onewheel, and 3100 prizes
in the oiher wheel, of which 3100 numbers only will be drawn in
the First Clal's, which (hews the whole number drawn in this
Class arc prizes, agreeably to the Scheme.
The numbers which remain undrawn compose the Second Class,
of which 4000 will be drawn against 2000 prizes and 2000 blanks;
this (hews there is only one blank to a prize, agreeably to the
scheme.
The remaining 8000 numbers undrawn, composing the Third
Class, will be drawn against 2667 prizes and 5333 blanks, which
shews there arc about two blanks to a prize, agreeably to the
scheme.
The Adventurers in this Lottery w»U please to obferve—Ttaf
the numbers drawn in the Firjl and Second Chffes are precludedJrom til
chance in the Third and ntjl valuable Oafs, as the pojefins of the num
ber! undrawn are entitled to the fame numbers in the ficceeding Gaffer,
provided thfv apply to renew their tickets fifteen days before the time fitt
ed for the drawing the Second and Third Claps. On nrgleS the un
drawn numbers will be fold to others. Such Adventurers as wish to
benefit by the superior chance of Capital Prizes in the Third
Class, will fee their interest bv fupplving themfeives with a foffi.
-lent number of tickets in the First Class. Every application for
renewal mull be attended with the Original Tickct in tile pro
ceeding Clals.
The drawing of the First Class will commence in the town of
Newark, in the Slate of New-Jersey, on Monday the 20th day of
June next, if "full. The Second Class will commence drawiag
two months after the First. The Third', and lad Class, will com.
mence diawing two months after the Second.
The drawing of this Lottery will be under the constant fupcr
intendance of, at least, two of the Commiflioners, appointed by
the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey, to coritraft for the
ereftiou of the bridges over the Hackenfack and Fafaick tiver«.
1 Prize of 300
2 200
r :oo
12 50
35 20
10
4
2
80
225
2740
3100 Prizes
12000 Undrawn,
Carried to Third Class 54°°
Tickets at i do!, each is 15100
SECOND CLASS.
1 Prize of 500 Dollars is 500
3 200 60a
7 100 700
j 6 50 800
45
100 10 1000
18-8 4 73>»
2000 Prizes
2000 Blanks,
8000 Undrawn,
Carried ro Third Class 12188
12000 Tickcts at 2 dol. each is 24000
THIRD CLASS.
1 Prize ot 5000 Dollars is 5000
2
4
10
CO
J OO
2 2,5
2265
2667 Pli7.cs
5333 R|anks >
Fir ft Drawn
Lad Drawn
8000 Tickcts at 4 dol. each is 32000
Brought from First Class 54 2 °
Brought from Second do. 12188
The object of this Lottery being of such evident utility to thff
United S.ates in general, and the States of New-York, New-Jer
sey, and Pennsylvania, in particular, that it cannot be doubted
but the undertaking will meet with the most liberal support, as
every traveller will experience tV»e happiness of enjoying regular
compleat Roads, leading to and from well-conftrufted bridges.
TICKETS are to be had of the Subscribers, who are duly ap
pointed of this Lottery by the Commiflioders. The
Prl7.es will be punctually paid by the refpe&ive Managers who
signed the fortunate numbers, immediately after drawing the le
veral ClafTes—fubjeft to a deduttion of fifteen per cent.
JOHN N. CUMMING,; N ■ k
JESSE BALDWIN', $
JOHN D. ALVEY, Neui-Brunfwick.
March 8, 1791.
N. B. For the accommodation of those who would wifli to become 4*-
venturers in the above Lottery, letters, pojlpaid, direiled to John I)*
Alvey, New- Brunfwick, enclojing Philadelphia, or New- York Bar
Notes, wilibe particularly attended to, and Ticketsforwarded on recerpt
of fuck letters.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfnut-Slrcet, next door to Bank, No. 97*
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be liad at the fame place.
May 28, 1:91. ( c P tf >
1 w. 3m,
CLASS.
FIRST
Dollars is 300
400
.5 00
600
2000
1000
400
200
101
40
20
7
49608 49608
700
800
900
5480
9680
11812
4000
4000
4000
4000
4000
4000
4500
*5%5
49355
12 5
128