PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7 OHM FFNNn \7« c. uir n c-td r c-t
7 iANo - ®9> HIGH.STRESI, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 65, of Vol. lII.]
LETTERS,
EARL OF DUN DONALD,
ON MAKING BREAD FROM POTATOES
A VARIETY of other business has put it oui
of my power ro have made all the experi
ments I could have wifljed, so as to leave nothing
to others but lo follow the directions and hints
fuggeited to them. Imp re (Ted, however, with
the importance of a fnbjeifl, which has for its ob
ject the more plentiful and cheaper supplying
mankind, particularly the lower clafles, with
food, I venture here to throw out fonie ideas on
the fitnefs of the potatoe, and its farina, to cer
tain uses not yet mentioned :—To which will be
added a statement of the value of an acre of po
tatoes, manufactured as recommended, and com
pared with the value of an acre of wheat.—
Whence it will not be difficult to forefee the ef
fect, that the more general cultivation of pota
toes, especially by cottagers, and manufacturers
residing in the country, will have, in keeping
down the price of provisions, adding to the ge
neral comfort of individuals, and in tending to
the increase oj population, which every where
thrives belt where food is to be had in abun
dance ; making true the old Roman faying, Sine
Baccho et Cerere frige: Venus.
Experiments have been made, with the finer
part of thepotatoe-powder, by myfelfand others,
to fubltitute it as a light, nutritive food, for lick,
tender, or convalescent persons, instead of fag'>
or falup ; which it very much refenibles, in the
fine clear jelly, or vegetable mucilage, it forms,
when mixed in a proper manner with boiling wa
ter. It may be taken with wine, milk, or broth.
—If found, on further trials, to be equally nu
tritive and reitorative, as I believe it to be, it
will prove a molt valuable addition to the sup
plies, which government have been so careful,
of late years, in fending to sea, for the use of
our seamen.
1 here is reason to believe, that it will not be
fubjed:, like wheat-flour, to fpuil, or to be de
ftroyed by infeifts ; and that it may bepreferved
found, for a length of time, in the warmed cli
mate.
The reasons which lead me to form the above
opinion, are, that it is homogeneous, and docs
not con fill; at two diftintf, and opposite fubftau
ces, as wheat-flour does : In which, when it be
gins to spoil, there may be supposed a chemical
action-os the one part on the other. Heat will
thereby be let loose, the original arrangement
of the parts will be altered, and the flour will
no longer be fit to be used for food, exclusive of
the final! infetiis, always found in bread, or in
flour, when in a decayed, or decaying (late. It
is probable, that potatoe-powder will not be lia
ble to thole inconveniences, from the reasons al
ready given.
Potatoe-powder does not occupy near the space
of an equal weight of wheat-flour. It is capable
of being made fully dry, by exposure to air. It
does not imbibe or absorb nioifture, as other meal
er flour does in datnp weather. It is extremely
cold to ]he touch ; or, in other wordsf a power
ful abftra<slor of heat from bodies to which it is
applied. These its properties seem to ensure,
a priori, its keeping in warm climates :—Where,
indeed, a similar flour, or powder, may be made
from the yam, and sweet potatoc :—perhaps to
greater advantage than from the potatoe produc
ed in this country.—A circumstance of no incon
fiderahle moment to the inhabitants of the Weft
India islands, who are totally fnpplied with flour
and grain from North America, and from Eu
rope.
Potatoe-powder is very inflammable. When
burning, it emits a fniell similar to burningfugar,
with an acid which sensibly effects the eyes, as is
the cafe likewise with sugar. From tliefe, and
other circumitances, I am led a priori, to fay,that
althoug sugar may not be made from potatoes,
at least, in the present state of our chemical
knowledge, yet, it is my opinion, that potatoe
powder may be n<ed to very great advantage in
making ardent spirits, by mixing it with the pro
portion of malted grain, commonly used with un
nialted grain at the distilleries. I think, also',
that the spirit will be much purer than what is
got from a mixture of malted and unmalted grain.
The defedt of which articles consist in their con.
taining too large a proportion of vegeto-anima)
BY THE
LETTER 2
Saturday, December 5, 1791.
matter, more than is neceff'ary, in the proceiles
of germination or malting ; and afli:iiilation for
forming a saccharine fubllance or juice. The
ftiperabundant proportion of vegeto-animal mat
ter is the reason why malt spirits acquire an em.
pyreumatic flavor from the tendency which it has
to be ailed on, by the great heat applied to the bot
tom of the still.
I have every reason to believe, that the process
of afimilation will succeed equally well with po
tatoe-flour, mixed with malted grain, as when
ground barley or other unmalted grain is made
use of; and that the spirit will be much purer.
If this, on trial, (hall prove to be the cafe, much
less wheat and barley will be consumed in the
manufacture of spirits : ofconfequence the price
of grain will fall, one of the objects which 1 have
in view, by communicating to the public what Is
stated in this and in the preceding letter.
1 row come to state some of the purposes to
which the liquor got from potatoes is applicable,
lit, It may be used as a nourilhing food, or li
quor for cows, lo as to make them in the winter
time give a much larger quantity of milk, the
milk richer, yielding more and better cream,
than the milk of cows fed on cabbages or tur
nips ; and free from the rank disagreeable taste,
and smell which milk from thence acquires.
The other life to which it is recommended to
apply the liquor got from potatoes, is in the pre
paration of vegetable fixed alkali, vulgarly called
pearl or pot ashes : from which it may be obtain
ed in large quantities. According to the expe
riments 1 have made, in a proportion from the
produce of a Scots acre of potatoes, rated at 40
bolls, of notlefs than 2cwt. of fixed alkaline fait.
The applying the superabundance of the pota
toe-liquor, or more than is requisite to give to
cows and cattle, to this last mentioned purpose,
will diminish our importations from abroad of
an article so indispensably neceflary to different
branches of manufacture.
Culrofs Abbey, Feb. 1791.
[letter 3, IN OUR NEXT.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO ,
If you will give this a place in your Gazette, you will
oblige a conjlaiit reader.
WHEN a wicked person is determined to
take offanot her by poison, it is always ne
cessary to the success of the design, that the poi
son should be concealed by being mixed, with
something that is good ; I observe that some of
your correspondents pradtice the fame art, in
administering their political poisons to the peo
ple ; for if you will examine their compositions
with care, you will find in many of them, amongst
a number of good sentiments some dangerous
ones concealed, tending to corrupt the political
sentiments of the people, and poison the very
sources of freedom.
One of your correspondents in your "Gazette
of the 2d ult. afFords a mod linking proof of the
justice of the above assertions ; for while he is
warmly advocating the great utility, and necef
fity of difFufing knowledge amongst the people,
and of the public opinion's being enlightened
and unprejudiced, by mifinformation, or misre
presentation—how strenuously does he endeavor,
to mislead and deceive the people, and that on a
point the most eflential to their freedom and
happiness, that is, refpeJiing the Constitution
and form of government they live under ; for
it must be evident to any one who will read his
observations, that he is endeavoring to establish
the opinion, th it we must form our judgment of
the nature of the constitution by the operations
of the government, an opinion than which no
thingcan be more delusive or dangerous to liberty.
and prosperity of a people under
a government, may be a proof of good adminif
tration—but is no proof of a good constitution ;
for it is allowed by all that an absolute monar
chy, if there be a wife and good monarch at the
head of it, may make a people very happy and
prosperous ; but would our men of worth and
talentj endeavor to persuade us from this to adopt
that system of government. These zealous in
formers of mankind, while they propagate this
sentiment, mean rather to deceive,than to inftrutft;
to blind, than to enlighten, to mifinform, rather
than to inform the public mind. I hey wifli us
blindly to transfer that confidence which we
have in our rulers, to the constitution itfelf—but
249
[Whole No. 271.]
if thayhope for this, they mufl indeed think we
want enlightening—for the worst form ofgovern
menc oil earth may chance to have good men a:
the head of it, and while that is the cafe it liiav
operate well. Theßaftile in France would have
been an harmless building, had it never been
made use of for bad purposes ; the pernicious
effedts of poison are not experienced while it re
mains corked up in the apothecaries vial, nor
can we feel the evils of a bad government, while
the dangerous powers of it are not put into ope
ration ?
Tho' the above was not designed for my Oppo.
nent, yet he may take some part of it, fori think
it will suit his performance very well : but I can
not take leave of liini without congratulating
hiai very sincerely upon the success of my little
eflay ; for it has clearly converted one foul from
idolatry, to the acknowledgment of a divine
Providence. A RESPONDENT.
L O N D O JS, September 21.
The Spanifli edicts refpeciting foreigners have
undergone repeated modifications, and are now
reduced to a simple oath of fubmiflion to the
King and the laws during the reildence of the
person taking it in Spain.
Their Majesties the Emperor and Emprefi of
Germany made their public entry into Prague
on the 3d inftai)t.
The Count d'Artois also arrived at the fame
time ; but not with a view [o afiifl at the ceremo
ny of the coronation, for, accompanied by the
Prince of Naflau, he set off the fame day to Ha
nau, on his journey from Pilnitzto Coblentz.
It was remarked, that during the stay of the
Emperor and his Pruffiavi Majelty at Pilnitz, the
Minifler of France to the Eletftor of Saxony ap
peared neither ac that place nor even at Dresden,
when the augull company came there to alfiit ac
the meeting.
On the 27th of Augufl: the Count d'Artois had,
in the apartment of the King of Prussia, a con
verfatiou of two hours and a half Em
peror and his Prussian Majesty. After this con
versation, the Count d'Artois having retired, the
two Monarchs continued in conversation for a
whole hour.
After the conferences at Pilnirz, on the even
ing of the fame day, when the company had
reached Dresden, there aflembled, after supper,
in the apartment of the Emperor, the King of
Prussia, the Count d'Artois, Field Marlhall Count:
de Lafcy, Baron de Speilinann, M. de Calonne,
and Major General de Biflchofswerder. The
conference laited till half paftone o'clock in the
morning, when the Emperor continued liis route
for Bohemia.
By the llegifters of Cadiz and Lisbon, the im
portation of gold and silver from South America,
upon an average, is five millions annually. Of
this above a million is brought every year into
England, in return for the manufactures Tent to
Spain and Portugal, independent of raw mate
rials, wine, fruit, fait, &c. obtained from these
countries. Thus it happens from the superior
industry of the British manufacturers, and the
spirit of enterprise among the merchants, that
the mines of Mexico, Peru, and Brazil, produce
more solid advantages to this country, than they
do to the Spaniards and Portuguese.
Hostilities between the Moors and Spaniards
have already begun by an attack made by the
former 011 Ceuta, which has turned out luccefs
fullyfor the Spanilh arms.
The Moors cannonaded the place, and damaged
some of the works : but the besieged made a sortie
and spiked up the cannon of the enemy.
bmice John, the African Prince, is arrived
here ft otn Sierra Leona. His business to this
country appears chiefly to be refpefting the
Slave Trade. He has met with a very cordial
reception in this city, and particularly among
the gentlemen who with for the abolition of the
Slave Trade.
Yesterday accompanied by Mr. Clarkfon and
other gentlemen, he dined with Samuel Frederick
Milford, Esq. To day he dines with T. Hill, Esq.
His visit hereengrofles a great part of our pre
fentconverfation—He has displayed great disgust
again it his former traffic in huinan o flefh. Yes
terday a gentleman in conversion, observed
him pull out his watch, begged to know how
much lie gave for it in Guinea ? <•' Oh ! I give
I give—what I never give more." What might
that be Prime John ? " On! I give a fine boy."CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, November 21, i 79 r -
Debate on the Ratio oj Representation.
(COSTIK 'J ID.)
MR. MACO moved rbs t the firll lection be
amended, by infertitlg the word five after
the word thousand.
Mr. Bourne (R..1.) obfl-i ved that she gentle
man did not advert to thr amendment to the
conllitution, which proposes that the number of
jeprefentatives flial! amount to ioo—this amend
ment will inoft probably be accepted, and then
Nve fliall have to repeal the proposed law, (hould
it be enacted. He was in favor of 34,000, be
cause that would be conformable to the amend
ment —and he law no good reason why the ie
prefentation (hould exceed 100 —that nunibcr will
be fully competent to express the wills, wishes
and ideas of the people—and he favv no neceflity
to burthen their conilituents with the additional
expence of thirteen additional members.
Mr. Macon laid lie did not conceive that the
amendment referred to was to be a guide to the
house till it was fully ratified—and as it was un
certain whether it ever would be, we ought not
to be swayed by it on this occal'ion.
Mr. Sedgwick expredbd himfelf in favor of
34,000, as it was the opinion of the people from
that part of the country which he represented,
that the number of rcpiefentatives in this house
jhould not exceed icq.
Mr. Lawrance said that the qtieflion had been
so fully debated, that he did not think the opi
nion of a single member would be changed by all
that can be said —he wilhed therefore that every
proposed amendment should be put, and the quel
tion taken 011 each with as little debate as pciiible,
Mr. White advocated the clause—he was in fa
vor of one representative to 30,000 persons. The
queltion now is, (aid lie, whether the people shall
have that 'hare of influence in the government
to which they are emitled by the conftitutiot),
which plainly contemplates one representative
for every 30,000 peifons. He wifliedto preserve
the independency of the several parts of the go
vernment. Corruption has been mentioned — lie
wished it might never take place—but the pre
sent, lie conceived, was the time to guard against
it.—He would not fay that any undue measures
had ever yet been taken to influence the house—
but that it was the wish of fotne to innovate, was
apparent, from some attempts which had been
made to encreale the importance of the execu
tive—from the predilection for titles anddiuiric
tions which the journals of the Senate would
fliew Hill exilled. He hoped that the proposed
ratio would be eftabliihed, as more consonant to
the spirit of the conßitmion than any winch had
been mentioned. Ihe independence of the Se
nate cannot be afFei/ted by the number of this
house—they will always have a negative 011 our
atTts.
Mr. Dayton said that-be fhouJd be iit favor of
the amendment, not becanfeit was a number the
inoft agreeable to him, for heconfcfled that even
this would have produced a more numerous re
presentation than J-e could have wiihed, but be
catile a greater number would be less likely to
meet the approbation of the commirtee. He a
greed with the- member from Virginia, (Mr.
White) in one of his declarations only, which
was, that this queltion was of greater moment
thaw'the gentlemen who advocated thirty thou
sand (the largest representation) leem to have
"conceived. He agreed, he said, wirli the gentle
man from New-York, (Mr. Lawrance) that this
fubje(ft had undergone a pretty full discussion,
but he at the fatiie time believed that some new
light might It ill be rhrowfcupen it. There was
one'point of view, Mr. Dafßivobferved, in which
it had not yet been exhibited by any gentlemen
in the course of debate, but in which, 011 account
of its magnitude and importance, it ought to be
critically «xafnined. The Senate, he said, were
co'nfidered as the representatives of the States,
or of the State governments —The Holife of Re
prcfeniatives were fuppufed to contain, under
certain' qualifications, a pure representation of
the people—Such was the apportionment of its
members with refpeft to the unequal diltriots or
states into which this country was divided, as to
give the three great flares a very predominant
influence upon that iloor. They had only to
combine their ftrengrh, and to afl'ociate almost
any one of the other eleven Hates with them, in
erder to ensure success to any favorite projctft
that they might have in view. lie was aware,
that it would be answered by gentlemen, that
such combination was not likely to take place
between itates io dilfant in point of situation,
and differing in local intesefls and circDinflances.
He had been ever flow, lie (aid, in the prediction
of evil but reafoiling from the temper and dis
position of man, and judging from part observa
tion and experience, he would venture to pro
nounce, without any pretenlions to the fpirir of
prophecy, that ti>e gieat Itates would thus coin
bine their influence, whenever they fliould deem
it for their advantage, and that the mterefts of
the other ftatcs would of coiiiequence necoitie
the facrifice. Those Itates then that arethusex
pofed, of which number he considered at leaf!
two thirds of those which now formed tlie union,
would find their only security and protection a
gainst the effeifts of such combination in the Se
naie. Would it, he alked, be confident with
prudcnce or with fafety, for those very dates to
a (lent to a measure directly lending to weaken,
if not destroy that security ? Even now, he laid,
the Senate would have need of ail its firmnefs
in continuing to oppose any adit, in the carrying
of which the House (hould be determined to per
severe. But what, he enquired, would be the
consequence, when the encreafe so ardently wish
ed for by many gentlemen (hould have taken
place. Would the Senate have fortitude enough,
even where they thought they had just cause,
ItedfalHy to cotinteradt the will and determined
purpose of a body confiding of two hundred mem
bers, boaiting to derive their appointments from
a purer, and from the purelt fource,calling tliein
felves the representatives of the great body of
the people, and profeffing to speak the lenfe of
their constituents ?
Let 30,000 be adopted as the ratio of represent
ation, and he hesitated not, he said, to declare
that whenever the representatives lhould think
proper to resolve any important point of dispute
into a question of firninefs between the two Hous
es, the Senate inuft yield to their superior weight
and flirink from the unequal contest. In the e
vent of their defeat in a fiiigle inllance, the in
dependence of that branch would be materially
affected, and the legislative balance ihaken in
its centre.
These dangers, Mr. Dayton further observed,
were by no means imaginary, but would too soon
be realized, if the House continued to encreafe
by fifties in the manner they were beginning.
If the motion under consideration for encreaf
ing the ratio, and levelling the number of re
presentatives, ihould prove unfuccefsful, their
reliance, he said, would then be upon the Senate.
Th:it body, he was sure, was too mindful of their
own privileges and importance, to make a volun
nry and deliberate surrender of their indepen
dence—rhey were too regardful of the interests
of their conftitucms, to aflent to ail- atfl giving
an undue weight to that branch of the legiflarure
in which the great dates had such unreasonable
influence. If, however, in this his lad reliance,
he.lhould be disappointed, and the bill be likely
to, pais both Uoufes, he hoped the yeas and nays
would be entered upon tlvejournals, that it might
be known hereafter, when.the events hehad pre
dicted /hould have taken place, who it was that
had thus given up the union to the controul of
three oy four of its members, who were the men
that had voted for the extraordinary encreafe of
one ,branch, at the expence of the independence
of,the other, and thereby destroyed that equili
brium of the government, upon the preservation
of which, the faireft hopes of its well-wilhers
were founded.
Mr. Gerry contended that the conftirotion was
misconstrued by the gentleman from N Carolina,
and in reply to the gentleman from New. Jersey,
he laid he was furprizcd to hear the remarks
which he made when he recolletfted his being a
member of the convention—in which it mutt be
remembered by that gentleman, that the larger
States contented to placing the small States on a
par with them in the Senate, to obviate the dif
ficulty which the smaller States objected against
ihe large representations from the'larger States.
He.laid the independence of the Senate is secur
ed by the Constitution—and he was not appre
henlive that the encreafe proposed would over
whelm that branch of the government, or leden
their importance, or /hake their firiiinefs. The
gentleman had talked of combinations in the lar
ger States—but. he preiumed no fatfts could be
produced to support such an apprehension.
The proposed encreafe in the representation
is founded on the principles of justice and equity,
it is Strictly agreeable to the spirit and delign of
the Constitution, which contemplates ah encreafe
m Tome degree proportionate to the encreafed
population of the States—he hoped therefore that
the Constitution would be fairly and honorably
carried into effeift.
Mr. Boudinot was not yet convinced, from all
the arguments he had heard, that by rncreafing
the number of representatives to i r 3, as proposed
by the bill, the wants, ,wilhes and interests of
the lr coriftituentSj would be more fully embraced,
250
than by adopting the amendment then utul.,
consideration. It had not yet been taken iuu,
the account, that a certain species of property v,
three or four of the States ((laves) would be rc
prefcnted in the next Congress, if the bill paJi'eU
by at lealt 12 members, above the proportion of
other States, whole property (tliough of lupcrio,-
value) was not entitled by the Conttitution t 0
any representation at all.—Tliathedid not mean
to find fault with the Conltitution in this refpec't
but to make it tiie rule ®f his conduct althou<r|[
in the conltruction of it, he would not incre.u'e
the evil when two extremes were given, and the
intermediate number was optional.—He had laid
and he reltcd on the Conftitutioti for i!ie proof
that it contemplated one member for each State
as the low elf, and the ratio of one for 30,000 per
sons as the highell numbers. That the Conven
tion in fettling the present Houfeof Representa
tives, without a precife,knowledge of tlieamounc
of rhe citizens of the Union, had done it in a cer
tain proportion to the number of Senators,which
he hat' thought a good rule to go by, till thepro
pofed amendment to the Constitution was ratified
by three-fourths of the States—but as gentlemen
seemed to think that this would soon take place
he had consented to agree to tiie ratio of 34,000
which would give too members.—This would ac
cord with the spirit of the amendment to the
Conititution, and prevent the necelfityof passing
any other act when the amendment should be
completed. —He wns therefore in favor of in-
after thirty, or any ratio that would
confine the number of representatives to 100, or
under.
Mr. Lawrance remarked, in answer to Mr.
Dayton's objetftions. that the States were dispro
portionate refpe<fting territory, and consequently
were so as to the number of people. That an
equality would take place amonglt the people of
the several States by the ratio proposed, although
more members would come from foine States than
from others. He mentioned that every member
of the House of Representatives flood i/i relation
to the people of America, and ought to consult
the intereit of the whole, and not the particular
intereff of the State in which he was eletfted.
Should this general principle operate, and which
he supposed ought to actuate each member, 110
danger was to be apprehended from a combina
tion, as the general good was the objecft of con
sideration. It this (hould not be the prevailing
principle, it might be the inrereft of the States
to have as great a number of representatives as
could be obtained—yet he supposed, unless a di
vilion of territory rook place, the people in each
State would be entitled to be represented in pro
portion to the numbers in each—and the danger
that it was supposed would exill, could not be
readily remedied. He also: observed, that he
imagined the Senate would not be fubjedlto the
influence suggested. The Senate was an inde
pendent part of the Legillature, and would de
cide all questions that came before them, as the
judgments of the. members will ditftate. Salons;
as a reciprocal negative exilled, as to the aifts of
either branch of the Legislature, he hoped wfc
ftiould find firninefs in each to decide properly.
The Senate had frequently rejetfied the bills of
the house, and had amended others—some very
important ones—and the influence of the mem
bers of the House of Representatives did not ope
rate 011 their decisions.—The objection to the
proportion not being agreeable to the amend
ment proposed to the Conllitution, he observed,
was unfounded.-^-He explained his ideas refpeift
ing the nature of the amendment, and concluded
that the proportion was conformable to it—and
observed, that the nature of the amendment was
contemplated, when the proportion refpetfiing
the ratio was made.
WEDNESDAY, November 30.
The hill sent from the Senate, conccrning consuls and vice-con
fnls, was read a firlt and second time, and referred to a committee
of the whole on Tuelday next, —100 copics ordered to be printed.
A letter ftom the attorney-general of the United States to the
Speaker was corrtmunicated to the House. The attorney-general
intovms. that'he has Something additional to propofc relative to
the judiciary system, which he thinks can best be brought before
the House as modifications to his report. He Submits to the House
the propriety of permitting him to communicate this to the com
mitted to whom his report may be referred, rather than introduce
it to the House in the form of an additional report.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the committee of the whole were
discharged Irom further proceeding on the report of the attorney
general, on the fubje£l of the judiciaiy lyftern ; which was then,
on motion, referred to a committee of seven, confidingof the fol
lowing members, viz. Messrs. Sedgwick, Hillhoute, Lawrance,
Boudinot, Kittera, Murray and Madison.
A bill conccrning the regifteringand recording of vefiels, was
read a firft and second time, referred to a committee of the whole
on Tucfday next, and 100 copics ordered to be printed.
Mr. Bourne (R. 1.) presented memorials from the distillers ot
rum and gin, of the town of Providence, against the diftilied lpl
- a£h Referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Lawrance moved a resolution to this effe£l, that a commit
tee be appointed to bring in a bill declaring the extension of the
relolution of Congress, of Aug. 1780, rclpefcling the widows and
orphan children of officers, who were killed or have died in the
ferviceof the Uuited States, and for the examination of the clairrv®
of invalids, See, the rcfolve of the 1 nil of June, 1788, notwit
standing : which was read and ordered to lie on the table.
The House proceeded to consider the amendments reported )
the committee of the whole, to the bill making compensation t®
widows, orphans and invalids in ccrtain cales, some of whic
weredifagreed to, and others agreed to with amendments, an
the bill was ordered to be cngrollcd for a third reading.\ meffa>c was received from the Senate, communicating for
urrcnce, a bill pass din thai body, entitled an ast relative to
COI -' ication ofthe PrelideiVt and the Vice-Pi'tffident, and declaring
the oiiicer who ihouid ast as President in caie of vacancy in the
nice of President and Vice-Prefident* Adjourned.
THURSDAY, December i
eogrofied bill making com p|nfat 1011 to widows, orphans
an rt invalids in certain calcs, was read the third lime, and parted
__il e title was altered to read—" An ast for the relief ot widows,
orphans, invalids and other persons."
The bill which has palkd the Senate, entitled, " An ast relative
10 chafing electors of President and Vice-Piefident of the United
Siatcs, &w." was read the full time.
"A report from the Secretary of War, on the petition of Captain
Thomas Campbell, was read and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on tire bill for the relief of David
Cook This bill received conhderable difcufliqn—various alura
tions were propoled, and reeled —the bill was finally agreed to,
without any amendment, and so reported to the lioufe.
Mr Parker moved in the houie, to add a clause to the bill pro
viding for the placing Capt. Thomas Campbell, an invalid, oh the
pcnfion lift. This motion being agreed to, itwasordcied that
the bill be engrofled for a third rcadtng.
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, resolved, That a committee be
appointed to bring in a bill to explain and amend the acts relating
to the 7 years half-pay, promised to the widows and orphans ot
officers who have died in the service of the United States, and of
pcrfoiis who are or have been entitled io pensions as invalids—and
Messrs. Lawrahce, Fitzfimons and Barnwell, were appointed.
A representation ot the legislature of New-llamplhiie r on the
fu'ojcft of invalid penfioncrs, was read and referred to the above
committee. •
A number of petitions were read and reterred to the Secretary
of War.
A petition from sundry seamen who were in the service of the
United States the late «rar, was read and referred lo the Secretary
of War.
A petition of Peter Hezler, praying the renewal of a 101 l certi
ficate, was read, and referred to the Secretdry of the Treasury.
FRIDAY, December 2.
Faffed, the bill for the relief of David Cook and
Thomas Campbell.
Rend the .Second ri;rte, and referred to a com
mittee of the whole house on Wednesday next,
the bill relative to the election of President and
Vice Prefident—alio determining the officer who
iliall atS: as President in cafe of vacancy in the
office of President anil Vice-Pi efidem.—Ordered
to be printed in the interim.
A petition from the Society of the United Bre
thren, refpeifting certain lands in the WcUern
Territory, was presented by Mr. Hciltcr—read,
anil referred to the committee appointed to bring
in a bill providing for the sale of vacant lands.
11) committee of the whole, on the bill making
appropriations for the iupport ot Government
for the year I 792.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair
The bill ami eltimates being read, Mr. Parker
observed that he could have wished the result of
a full enquiry into the expenditures of monies
heretofore appropriated, had been communicated
to the committee of the whole, by the feled: com
ini:tee—if such enquiry had been made, he should
wilh to hear.it; for he (hould not think liirnfelf
'jurtifieii'in giving his vote for the bill, until (bine
information 011 this fubjedt was obtained.
These observations led to alengthy difcufiion 1
of the biifinefs—the remarks principally refpeft
ed the gross funis in the eltimates, on which the
bill was, founded—it was contended that the
items which composed thofc ftfms should be par
ticularly detailed to the committee, in order to
judging of. the propriety of making thfc appro
priations mentioned in the bill ; the difcpilion
ended a motion for the committee to rife, and'
report progress—which being put,was carried in
the affirmative.—The committee accordingly rose
and had leave to fit again.
On motion of Mr. Lawranceit was voted, that
the Treasurer's account of the receipts and ex
penditures of public monies (hall be printed.
Mr. Gerry laid the following motion in fub
•ftarree on the table, that the executive officers of
government fhoulcLqn the third Monday of eve
ry annual feflion of Congress lay before the house
a particular account of the expenditure of public
money, committed to their disposal by adis of
appropriation.
Mr. Fitzfimons laid on the table the following
motion—That a committee be-appoirrted to exa
mine and report, at every feflion of C<>ngrefs,
the state of the Treasury Department—and that
such report be made to the house on the second
Monday of the session.
A reprefentarion from the legislature of Maffa
ehuf'etts on the fubjeift of invalid pensioners, was
. communicated by Mr.Atues,and read. Adjourned.
BOSTON, November 19.
The receipt of the intelligence of the Ratification of the French
Constitution, by Louis XVI. spread fatistattion and joy through
all ranks of citizens in this metropolis. The bells were rung, and
arnidft the Thanksgivings of the day offered to Almighty God, in
our Temples, that pleasing event very largely partook. In the
evening the houfc of the Hon. Coniul of Fiance, and several others,
were beautifully illuminated.
N E W-Y O R K, November 29.
The present situation of the Suic debts, is a curious one. Con
gress resolved that as thofc debts were contra&ed for the support
®' the war, they ought to be paid out of the Continental treasury.
1 ncy were therefore adopted as Continental debts, but under
•ertain rcftriftions.—lt was clear enough that if one State debt
which was incurred for the general defence, ought to be ailumcd,
another ol the fame complexion ought likewise to be alTumed ;
y«from an oveillrained fqueaniiHinefs, a certain limit was fixed,
and only a given sum a (Turned in each State, tho' it was prcviouflv
known that the debt exceeded that limit ir» several of the
ta f- The creditors of thole States fubferibed to the loan open-
Cl by Congress, but it turns out that there is an overplus beyond
1 uium aflumed— what is to be done with it ? If the creditor ap-
p.ics to the State to pay, or fund that overplus, the State will na
turally (ay to h'nn, '• your debt is no longer a State debt—it is a
C lntinental debt— CongTefs have so declared it—we are bound
by tlieir acts you inuft look to them for ic—you have taken them
as paymalU i ,s, bv fubferibing to tin ir loan, .and you have Oi.'wri
that you preferred their credit to our's, you cannot therefore with
any decen y resort to us." Unless Cowgrefs make a provision for
this overplus, the Creditors mull lore it. This is, however, not
to be apprehended : tnc ftrift regard hitherto (hewn to juftice,by
that body, 1 ;.a flattering prel.ige, that they will not leave undone
that work they have so honorably begun, more t facially,as they
have by their atfc Induced the State creditors into this dilemma,
and as (rom the present ;*ufpicious (late of the public revenues, it
is manifett that a com pleat afluinptiou will require no impolitions
of further burdens.
LF i others boafl that they are brutes, I glory thnt I'm a
i "• ° ; '-ers w :1a lor eternal flcxp. I (hall be for ever a wake.
Let others waste their golden hours in proving that God is falfe,
I ieel some thing within which proves that his word is true, though
others confjgn foul and body to the dull, the clods of the valley
cannot cover my foul. No ! legions of angels can't -confine me
to the grave, my body was dirfigned ror the dud; but my foul
will inherit the world of fouls ! alas ! what is l.i/* if w.e
LIVE NOT FOR EVER !"
MAN
Philadelphia, December 5.
Accounts from the Southward iuform, that the Commissioners
who met at R*nck Landing, in Georgia, for the purpose of running
the line agreeable to the tieaty with the Creeks, waited till the be?
ginning of November for the Creek Chiefs, when they despaired
of being able to effe& the buiinefs this season. The difficulties
which preventea thc Chiefs from attending, are said to be raised
by the famous Bowles, who aruved in the Creek country in SeD
tembei !alr.
Adjourned
i he samples of Buttons from the manufa&ory in Connecticut,
which are presented for inlpedtion to the members of Congress,
afford the fulleft evidence of the practicability of furnifhing, with
out importation, (hat ncceffary article, upon the cheapest terms,
and of the best quality
We have the pleasure of announcing to the public, that the sub
scription book lor opeuing the Canal and Lock Navigation, be
tween the rivers Suluuehaunah and Schuylkill, by the waters of
Quitapahilla and Tolpehocken, in this State, was opened by the
Commissioners appointed by law, at the State-House, on Thursday
last, when upwards of 500 (hares, the number required by la»v to
empower the Governor to incorporate the said Company, was fub
feribed for before one o'clock. This is another initance of the
public spirit of the inhabitants of this State.
We received by vefterday's poll. No. 3, of 44 The Morning
Ray ; or impartial oracle." a new paper published at
Wind for, Hate of Vermont. Motto,
44 The icildernefsfhallbud and blojfom as the rose."
".Your papers for three months past, have not more than two
thirds reached this place, and not one since the 9th inft. whereas
wc ought to have them as late as the 16th or 17th. Many times
their transportation may be impeded by the quantity of public
dispatches to the different officers ; but this is not the sole cause.—i
The Salaries ol Postmasters do not pay any thing for their trouble,
and until some law of the United States is passed for the fafe trans
portation of papers, they-will continue to be flopped. The office
of Postmaster is a confidential one, arid the pay should be Sufficient
to employ men who are attached to "the public intereff, as con
nected with the means of information."
Why should we he terrified at the charge of opening free
fchools for all the children ? It is not every expence that makes
us the poorer. It is baying feed com—it will fpraut and bear a
crop that will pay the firft cost an hundred told.
The more men can be made to think, the better; books have the
tendency-—But they are dear and scarce. All the lazy, and aim oil
all the busy, negle6l them, because it is a talk. Who would be
gin that could not or would not finifh the reading one? Every
body reads the Almanac—it is the poor man's library—but the
lesson, though good, is too seldom taught.
A newspaper is cheap, of small bulk, and goes everywhere—be
sides, it is a treat which always creates an appetite, lorcuriofity is
sauce to ir. Add to all this, it is daily, or weekly, served—it is a
kind of (landing dish. A newipaper, therefore, is a valuable
utensil of knowledge—it tells us fatls at the minute we are curious
to know them-—it tells us also the opinion oi the world upon
them. We keep company with the absent; we are, by their
means, made acquainted with strangers—we feel, in solitude, a
sympathy with mankind—without abstruse thinking, we receive
the truths which others have hammered out. Men stick to their
business, and yet the public is addressed as a town meeting. Yet
the Gazettes follow us to our closets, and give us counted there.
With all this pleasure, and more than all this use, they need not
cofl any thing, to the public, to be made easy of circulation thro'
all parts of the country.
Where equal laws secure property, men will exert all their fa
culties to get it. Thecaufe being general, the efforts will be so
too. Industry will spring up, and work wonders. In this way,
the rration will grow rich. Government has nothing to do, in
this affair, but to maintain the laws which protefl property. For
who would work for what he could not be allowed to keep ? The
boast of their laws of navigation—their bounties on the
cod and whale fiftieries, &c,—as if the hands of industry could
work the better for being tied. They may have more seamen,
for having bounties and prohibitions—but they certainly have less
wealth. The fa£l proves it—for if more was not to be gained
otherwise, there would be no occaficn for bounties,to the whale
men, &c. A rich nation will have much to buy—an industrious
nation much to fell. This is traffic or commerce. When will
nations follow the laws of nature, and depend, for the prosperity
of trade, on the abundance of the sources of iudividual industry,
from which it is to be supported.
The public good is the supreme obiett in forming the social
compact—and every government is good in proportion as iis ad
ministration appreciates tha» object—but a (Irange infatuation has
prevailed at different periods of the world, which lias led ihe rulers
of {fates and kingdoms to draw a fatal line of separation between
their own interrft and that of the people. Mankind are at length
awaking from their lethargy, and alfeiting their own dignity and
importance. It will not be long before a jull policy will lead the
legifiators of the earth to adopt the public opinion as the guide of
their condu£f—Th'is will ensure prcfent applaule, and future fame,
for the people are always in favor of conterring honors and re
wards on the benefa£lors ol the human race.
It fomctimes happens that the love nf one truth is so warm a;
to make men cold towards another. The right to wordi'p God
according to one's own conscience, is no longer disputed in our
country. Perhaps the care which has been wifely taken to pre
vent any violation of this right, has produced an over jealousy in
regard to the provilions which are made in some Stales, and not
made in others, for the public tcachin* of morality. It feeros to
251
The SOUL.— an extract.
Extratt of a letter to the Editor,
be manUeflly ira proper to make a man of one persuasion pay
taxes for the propagation of another. But the great duties of mo
rality are alike inculcated by all feds. The world is doubtlels
mended by the pains which have been bestowed upon it once a
week. —The Clergy of this country h jve been the patrons of lite
rature, and the examples of good morals, ever iince it was fettled.
Who can fay that the laws we have in force would have been
fmnd ftroncr eriough., had not the love and relpetl for good mo
rals, which for more than a century have been infufed from the
pulpit into the minds of youth, as well as confirmed in persons of
mature age, contributed all their influence to enforce them ? The
more is done by opinion, the Icfsoccafum for law and for punish
ments. As no provision is made by law in fevcral of the States
"for the regular support of the C! rgy, should not this great ad
vantage be secured by the munificence of individuals? While,
therefore, (o many new eftablifhmcuts are making, new funds
created, and new settlements forming, it will be proper to reserve
_ lands, or by other means to begin funds for so laudable a purpose.
What better use could be made of wealth than to form such funds
by fubferiptions ?—if to this fhonld be added provision for
schools, it would be a further security again (I vice and barbai ism.
When men live alone, they run wild—to tame them, they mil ft be
broui'ht together. The advantages rcfulting from regular public
worship, have been too long enjoyed by focicty to require any ii r
Juftration. It is to be lamented if there is any part of our coun
try where these advantages are yet to be secured.
It is proposed bv the bill reported for the eftablifnment of the
Pbft-Office, that Newspapers (hall he sent to fubferibers through
that medium, fubjeft to a tax of half a cent each. This idea has
been obje£ted to, as a precedent on which a heavy impofmon may
be founded at some future period; it is said also, that it will
check the circulation of those ufeful vehicles of information.
The object contemplated bv the committee which reported the
bill, it is fairly to be presumed was not to check, but to promote
the ci 1 culation of Newfpapeis. The complaints of irregularity in
receiving the papers published at the feat of government are in
numerable ; supposing a small addition to the expence of the sub
scription would inlure their punctual reception by the fubferibers,
it mufl be evident, that their circulation would be greatlv extend
ed. Something mull be done to remove present complaints and
difficulties, or the idea of a general diffusion of intelligence by
the means of Newfoapers will be abandoned altogether—on its
present plan, it is ruinous to the printers.—Additional trouble
and expence in the Poft-Office department, will be the cons
quence of making that a sure and certain medium for the circula
tion of Newfpapeis. The qucftion is, how shall this expence be
defrayed ? Let the government of the United States fay, that the
expence shall be a public charge. A correspondent is firmly per
suaded that such a measure would meet the approbation of the ci
tizens of the United States, he is very sure it would merit the ap
plause of every fiiend to the 44 rights of man" throughout the
globe.
At a meeting of the Subscribers to the National Manufactory on
Monday last at Trenton, the following gentlemen were chosen
Dirc&ors.
Thomas Lowrey,
John Bavard,
Eliflia Boudinot,
Archibald Mercer,
Moore Furman,
John Neilfon,
William Duer,
William Marshall, a tinker, of Crofsmichacl, is now u&. He
might pass for a man of 60.
Here is a fjne fellow for a Tontine !
An action was lately tried, brought by Mrs. Bcckford, against
farmer Throp, her tenant, for leaving her farm, at the expiration
of his lease, greatly out of repair ; and for carrying the dung and
comport off the farm, during the last year of his term. VerdiCt
for the plaintiff 201. damages.—This verditk eftabhfhes the fun
damental law that tenants, holding under a repairing lease, shall
leave the premises in a tenantable condition ; and that the dung
made upoii.the.land (hall, be expended upon it. London pap.
IMPROMPTU.
THE people pay, and ought to know
For what the public taxes go ;
To this no mortal e'er said nay,
And yet they talk'd the live-long day.
From PELOSrs MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS *t the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Jason,
Bet fey,
Lydia,
Snow Jane,
Schooner Sanfoucie, Cooper,
Mary, Welden,
Metompkin, Barafit,
Tryal, Vannenan,
Eagle, Spren,
Sloop Ann, Forreft,
Sophia, Connell,
Philadelphia Packet, Tanner,
Polly, Bunker,
Favorite, Smith,
Dolphin, Bailey,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
N FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 22/ 22/2 pr. £. jn pr. ccnt.
3 pr. Cents 12/6 12/$ 63J do.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/ 13/3 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates i$J6 20/*
Indents 11fS
Bank Subscriptions, 144.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Leab-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-ft reel Wharf, adjoining their New Factory
where they have now made, arid ready for sale, a general alFort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced EnglilK workmen, they warrant 11 to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the prime cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Faflories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
lhorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosis Austin&Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, Dacmicr 3,1791,
George Lewis,
Benjamin Walker,
John Dewhurft,
Nicholas Low,
Royal Flint,
Alexander M'Comb.
Meafc,
Rut Tell,
Aux Cayes
Cape-Francois
Martinique
Oporto
Vlrginia
Van fife,
Prance,
St. Thomas
Halifax
Virginia
Curracoa
Euftatius
Fayal
Marseilles
New-York
par.
5/i do.
Dollars.Ftvm a late Englift Paper.
RETALIATION,
ON THE BIRMINGHAM RIOTS.
WHFX Reverend Prirfls do hourly preach,
Those dottrincx which they should not teach,
When crowd* are told 41 they might cafiitr
7 heir Kings" without or dread, or fear;
That Lord» are vain and empty things,
And Bishops vroife than even Kings :
That fouls and bodies mix tog< ther,
]uft like two pieces ol neats leather:
Wear out the lame—and when they're ended
Answer the purpose—Hi ft intended.
In short whin levelling spreads apace,
And bourdUfs rights oj wen—take place.
'Til fit—wt\o poifon'd firjl the dart,
Should be theJirJl to jeel theJmaft.
PARIS, September 18
YESTERDAY, for the firft time since the
journey to Varennes, the King took an air
ing on liorfeback. Upon his Majerty's arrival at
the drawbridge, avail concourse of people, who
had been drawn together by the report of his
defism to take anairintr, and a desire to fee him,
• • • - '
hailed him with repeated and sincere fhours of
Vive le Rot. An affecting joy was visible in his
countenance at these marks of love and attach
ment.
A deputation from the community of Paris re
paired to the Thuilleries. The Mayor who wa3
at its head, addrefled the following speeches to
the King and Queen ?
"Sirs,
" The community presents to your Majesty
the homage and refpecft of the city of Paris. It
lays before you the joy and the benedictions of
the people. Two years of labour, of evils, and
of florins, are happily terminated by the com
pletion of the Constitution, and by your Majes
ty's acceptation of it. Henceforth resting upon
this Constitution, Sire, and governed by immu
table laws, you will promote the public pros
perity. When every heart is devoted to you—
when your's is devoted to the French—who will
undertake to disturb that intimate agreement of
tlie nation and its King ? The moment which at
taches you anew to France, and it to you, will
secure the tranquility of the city of Paris, which
has been so long agitated. Peace and goodness,
the justice and the virtues of your majesty are
our trne friends. You will fix them among us,
Sire : and you will be happy in the love of the
French, as the French will be in your welfare.
ANSWER. OF THE KING,
" The welfare of the nation will ever be the
wifli most dear to my heart. Its true welfare can
only be attained by maintaining public order and
tranquility. You are to avail yourfelfof all the
means with which the law inverts you, to con
cur with me in attaining that end."
" M A D A M,
" The community presents to your Majesty
the refperts of the city of Paris, in the most me
morable epoch—thejoy has been universal. The
King has received the benedictions of the people
—you have participated them, and the city of
Paris joins the exprelfion of its sentiments to the
voiceof the nation. May these fentimenitsprove
pleasing to your Majesty—Deign frequently to
recall them, and to recall them to the King.
" Say, Madame, to the august Prince, brought
up for France near your person, that these sen
timents are destined for him, and that we will
one day pay him all the welfare which his ten
dernefs which his cares /hall have fiied upon the
King and upon your Majesty."
1 ' le Q, uen answered, " That ilie coincided in
every thing with the sentiments of the King ;
and entreated the municipality to aflure the ci
tizens of the capital, that ihe fliould daily inspire
her for. with them, and that (lie would contri
bute to the utmost of her power to the welfare
of the nation."
In the evening, by order of the King, the Thu
illeries and the Champ Elyfles will be illumi
nated."
The day that is to terminate the labours of the
memorable Legislature, is at length fix
ed ; this important event is to take place 011 the
30th inflant.
The new Afl'cmbly will then meet ; and after
verifying their powers, will proceed to business.
L I N T Z, September 3.
As the Duke de Polignac has given orders to
remove to Vienna all the furniture and effects
which he had in Italy, and has hired a house for
two years at Leopoldftadt, where he lives in a
fort of retirement, it Teems highly probable that
it is his intention to spend the reft of his days in
Auuria, and endeavour to forget all the unea
siness which he has experienced from his own
nation.
£3" Blank Powers to jwiV; wintered, anrffor the transftr c! the
principal oj fubhc debt, agreeable to the Rules e/hblifhed in the Trca
ih'Lda" tmCnl ABlank 'Jo ra y ira ® s tubefi/dh
of the United States.
Bank
Phi i. ade lphi a, November 22, 1791.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United States
are hereby informed, that according to the ftatatc of incor
poration, a general eleOion sot twenty-live Di rectors will be
held at inc Bank of the United Slates, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the (econd day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fcftion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified t<> ail mble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on T-. Tday the third day ol
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
Bv order of dip President and Dire&ors,
JOHN K E A N, La flier.
Second fundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
" Not more than three-fourths ol the Directors m oihce, excli
five of the Piefident, (hall be eligible for the next fucceccling yeaj
But the Dirt&or who (hall be Piefident at the time of sn eleftioi
may always be rc-eleclcd." C c P l 0
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Merchandize ol all forts bought and fold on ( ommifjion, and all other
Buiinef* in the line of a BroKer, iranfafted by
WILLIAM C L E L A N D,
At the Office next door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2 m
George MEADE
Hayfor SALE, at his Stores on Wa l n ut-St reet Wh ar f,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dilpofe of by ihe pipe, hogftiead or
quarter cask.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of ihe firft quality, by the hogshead or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 vears old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choiee old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity;
A few quarter chests of firft quality Ilyfon TF^A.
He hasjgft received by the Pigou, Loxley, master. from London,
a few quarter caiks of old Madeira WlNE—Arid
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well aborted ; a tew bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and fomc GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES cf the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantity of drcllcd White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lifbrtn WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, tnay be adit red of being well served.
Hr will, through the Winter and Spring, buv undrefTcd HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALF, jufl received, and to be disposed of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
B O O K TS,
Which may be leen every day, until Jive o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TJOMER, Xeuophon, Plato, Plutarch, Enfebius, Sozo
m men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Taciius, Pater
culus, Pliny. Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and TremelHi. Bible dc Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapula:—Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannicas, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phicdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Caesar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Juftiniari Code, See .
OElavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetje minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufomus, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Florus, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hilt.
August. Scriptores, Engfi/h and French Translations of some of the
Claflics, a great variety of Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
fldf" Catalogue? may be had of Messrs. Rice & Co. Booksellers,
Market-dreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
O&ober 31. (pptf.)
IV. M'D ou GALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his finccre thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the leputation
of his school lor decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will flill ensure him a refpe£Uble (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be alTured, they will be taught in the moll approv. d
(tile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carnage and
manners.
A general pra&ifinpj for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and ftrangersof genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra£tifmgs will be attended with no ex pence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficierit number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
The Fnft and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Hap of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subfcnbcrs—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnutand Thiid Streets.
PT The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from ,ts firft fettle ment to the adopt,on of the p,« sent Con
st. .t.on of thel.nne<i States the thud, containing a geograph,-
in the press' of its natural history, &c is
%* A few copies of the firil two volumes !or falc—price -of
November § 5 1791. r •*'
252
(ep 6w.)
it. r.)
John Pinr au d,
SWORN BROKF. R& AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES, and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBTofevery aefcriprion,onCommito,,
d{ the following rates: 9
OX 1 lie specie amount ot all lale"s at auction, cn' „
cent. 6 4 ' P CI
On ditto at private falc or purchase, one-ha/J pcr cent
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving iniereft at the Loan-Office, cr.e pcr ccnt. on th
amount of the interest. "
For making transfers at ditto,/airn/v-yStr cents per transfer
C 3" Such pcrfons as may incline to favor the fubfcriiier with
their orders mav relv 011 [heir being executed with p, : ., 7 M /„
fidelity ar.d dispatch. His long experience and extenfivc de.lmo,'
n the public flocks, tr-'thcr with a well cftablilhcd correfpon
dence throughout the United States, enable him 10 condutl h;i
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
October 15, 1 791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION by
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Cliefnut-Strect, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
LOTTERY TICKETS, '
To be had at the fame place.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and MarkrtStreetj.
TO B E SOLD,
And poffeflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road Ironi Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more may Le
made. Alio a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the. whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two llory ttone houfc
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-shop, granary, wagoor
houle; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and go feel long, and
a good bam, with stabling. From the buildings there arechaim
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any pcrfon inclining to purcliafe, may know the terms by
applying 10 the fubferiber on the nremifes, or to Isaac Skowden,
No. 141, South Sccond-llieet, Philadelphia.
Princeton, October 10, 1791
In the Press, and fpeedilv will be publilhed,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
ConiUling of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particulai Iv of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
*** The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards; to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each fublcquent one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
will be received, in this city, by Thomas
DoßsoN,and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit fpecimcns
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookfrllers
there. Philadelphia, November 1791.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and (lolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens* wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one ftiipcd vest and
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
lma'l books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau.
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property,lo that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof; alio a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
„ , JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. [eptfj
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
THOMAS, of Worcester, Mafiachiifetts, most refpe£l
lull v informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finifh
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will ad rnit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Su bscr i tt ion Pa f e r.s, he begs will
return them to him at Ji orcejlcr, or to him and Company at Bojion,
by the lad day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
Ht is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its correftnefs, and its chcapnefs compared with English
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who wifii to polFefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
Worcester, Sept. 20. 1701
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
Ao. 10/031, both inclusive, of a Publication which comes out twiien
week in Paris, entitled. " Correspondance Nationale." —
From Ao. 1 to No. 10, have been fliipped y but are not yet come to hand.
Any person who may incline to fubjeribe for this work, which appears t»
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnifhed with the numbers
as they arrive bx applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
The JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSION of the SENATE
of the UNITED STATES, may be had of the Editor hereof.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, N0.57, Ki«g.Sir eet ,
' S,
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[ep amj
ISAIAH THOMAS.