&#z(fU of§
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fENHO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADKI.PHIA.
[No. 99, of Vol. ll.]
The Tablet No. 155.
" A renown, acquired by error, is a phantom of
glory, that is driven away by the firjl rays of truth
and reason."
SO ftronga paflion, as the love of fame, when
flowing in a direction, which virtue does
not di<state, and which discretion does not con
trol, nuift become <i fruitful source of anxiety,
delusion and mifchief. To whatever age or coun
try we turn our attention, we find that no small
share of the vices and mileries, with which focie
ty is difgracedor tormented, owe their origin to
a triifdireified ambition. And yet without the
forcible impulses of this paflxon, men would fink
into infignificance and depravity ; the elevated
purfuics of life would be suspended ; and hard
ly a glinipfe of science or virtue would shine over
the face of the earth. As the propensity, of
which I am speaking, exists more or less in every
human being, and as it cannot be extinguilhed
without eradicating the germe, from which
springs an immense variety of ufeful and noble
productions, we should nourilh it with care, and
shape its windings with vigilance and skill. From
a negletft of a proper cultivation, the sprouts take
an ill course, are choaked with weeds, and bear
a fruit that is useless and deformed. Remarks,
like these, however common and familiar they
may be, can often be repeated with some degree
of utility ; because the most obvious truths are
generally the most interesting ; and it is rather
to awaken the attention, than to afford instruc
tion, that eflays, similar to this, are put into cir
culation. If any perfonfhould complain that the
sentiments offered to his perusal are trite or dull,
he lhould be told that this is of itfelf a reason
why they deserve his inspection and regard.—
Those maxims, which carry with them the sanc
tion of ages, acquire a solidity and value which
are apt to be overlooked, merely because they
cease to be new and flriking. I: is not the no.
veliy of ideas, so much as their intrinsic propri
ety, that gives them a claim to be embraced and
carried into practice. Under this imprelfion, I
have veniured to introduce this speculation, j
tho at the fame time I do not believe the i eader
will confefs he collects one new idea from it. i
Perhaps no circumltance has contributed so es
sentially to the final prosperity of the United
States, as the just fentimentsour leadingcharac
ters have entertained on the score of reputation.
The ambition of our nioft distinguished men has,
in most inttances, been well-direifted: It has co
operated with the suitable means to promote the
public prosperity. There -are some exceptions ;
but the art and management, requifue to preferre
a character made of falfe materials, prove that it
is too difficult a task to meet with general success.
Moll of those men who have come forward into
public view, through any other medium than
that of virtue and talents, have been sent back
to the (hades of obfeurity, from which no new
stratagem can give them an elevation.
It will be natural to ask, how it has happened
that the affairs of the United States have been so
generally managed by defervjng characters, while
111 other countries promotion has flowed from fa
vor and intrigue, or foine cause extrinsic from the
merit of the candidates ? The remark in my
motto, furnifhes a Satisfactory Solution to the
qucftion. In this country the information of the
people is competent to invefligate the preten
lions of those who Solicit public honors. There
probably never was, nor will be, a race of en
lightened men so depraved as to prefer ignorant
and vicious magistrates to those of knowledge
and probity When a person becomes conspicu
ous he exposes hintfelf to a Scrutiny ; and if he
reside among a knowing people, his qualifications
at e truly estimated, and his destiny properly fix
ed ; but if he take a station w here ignorance
and ft 11 pidity chara<fterife the inhabitants, how
are bis qualities to be diflinguifhed ? The glare
of external pomp, the influence of connections,
pretexts of patriotifni, and many other adventi
tious causes, may palm him upon the world as an
extraordinary man, one who deserves to be
eiteemed and promoted. In such a fitnation,
how can his pretentions be Scrutinized and weigh
ed ! If the people are too ignorant and debaled
to perform such a talk, they must quietly Submit
to the caprice and oppreflion of those who govern
them. There can be little inducement for pub
lic mentobe at the pains of acquiring knowledge,
Saturday, April 9, 1791.
or cultivating virtuous qualities, where the bulk
of the inhabitants are too uninformed to efliinate
the value of such attainments. Nothing can se
cure to a community the blefiings of a wife and
virtuous adininiftration of affairs, but such a de
gree ofinformationdiffeminated amongall grades
of people, as can fairly examine, and rightly cal
culate the relative qualifications of those, who
seek fame and promotion.
The natural indolence of the human mind is
routed into virtuous exertions, in proportion as
motives of responsibility are heightened by the
circumfpecftion and wisdom of a discerning com
munity. But where such attributes do not pre
vail, it is easy to conje<fture that the love of cafe
and pleasure will prevent public officers from
maturing their talents and virtues, since they
have no occasion to go through so irksome a trial.
Men, in purfuic of fame, will acquire it in that
mode which fubjetfs them to the feweft efforts
of undemanding; and where falfliood or igno
rance will attain the object there can be no (ti
mulus to severe application. A celebrated wri
ter asks, " Where is the philosopher, that to
premote his own reputation, would not willing
ly deceive the whole human race. An ingenious
falfliood will pals current among a servile, illi
terate people, and for a while seem fair to im
mortalizethenameofitsinventorbut addsthe
writer above quoted, " such aonedeceives him
felf; truth alone can have a durable fuccefe."
Error can assume no disguise that will not soon
er or later be detected ; and the air-built hopes
of fallacious projectors vanilh at the approach
of reason and science. These reflections (hew
the importance of eftablilhing the means of edu
cation in all parts of the country. Such an ex
pedient will try the characters of men, and those
who have risen into diftindtion, by impressing
falfe or exaggerated opinions of their talents,
will have their career checked. Those gilded
bubbles,which dazzle an ignorant multitude,will
appear vain and ridiculous when the light of
truth beams over society. The world has been
too longamufed whh an idea that the pageantry
of courts, and the mysteries of religion were ef
fcntial to the proper government of mankind.
It is no doubt true, that the fanftions of religi
on, and the dignified Rations of public men,con
tribute to produce subordination and virtue in
society ; but these may be founded on a rational
balls, and are something different from fuperlti
tion or despotism. A blind attachment and love
to an object that does not deserve admiration,
does not seem, by the conllitution of nature, to
be the best method to draw people to their duty.
Let truth and reason have a fair chance, and
men will be obedient to law without being slaves,
and attentive to religion, without being bigots.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES
SATURDAY, Feb. 7.
The BANK BILL under consideration,
MR. GERRY,
SAID he should principally confine himfelf to
the objections of the gentleman firft up from
Virginia, (Mr. Madison) not from a difrefpe<ft to
the observations of other gentlemen in the oppo
sition, but because he considered their arguments
as grafts on the original stock of those urged by
the gentleman alluded to, and if the trunk fell,
its appendages must fall also.
The ohje<fls of t he bill, he said, were to render
the fifcal adminillratioH fuccefsful—to give facil
ity to loans 011 sudden emergencies, and to bene
fit trade and industry in general—and that these
were obje<fts of high importance had not been
denied—neither had it been aflerted that they
ought not if pollible to be attained.
It is objected however that the mode proposed
by the bill is uncon/litutional, and the bill itfelf
defcßive.
The mode proposed is a national bank—to es
tablish which, he thought Cowgrefs were as com
petent as either house were to adjourn from day
to day.
809
[Whole No. 20^.]
It is said that Congress have no power relating
to this subject, except what is contained in the
clauses for laying and collecting taxes, iinpofts,
excises, &c.—for borrowing money—and for
making all laws r.eceflary and proper for carry
ing these powers into effect—and that these do
not authorise the eflablifhment of a national
bank.
To ascertain this, the gentleman from Virginia
proposes a candid interpretation of the conllitu
tion, which we lhall agree to, and he offers to af
nft us with his rules of interpretation for his
good intentions in doing which, we give him full
credit—but as he acknowledges that he has been
long decided againll the authority of Congress to
eftablilh a bank, and is theiefore prejudiced a
gainst the measure—as his rules being made for
the occasion, are the result of his interpretation,
and not his interpretation of the rules—as they
are not fandtionedby law exposition, or approved
by experienced judges of the law, they cannot
be considered as a criterion for regulatino- the
judgment of the house—but may, if adumted,
prove an ignis fatuus, that may lead to deftruc-
tion
We wilh not however, by eftablifliing our own
rules of interpretation, to enjoy the privilege
which is denied to thegentleman—but will meet
him on fair ground by applying rules which have
the fandiion mentioned—and as the learned
Judge Blackstone has laid down such, it is pre
lumed the gentleman from Virginia will not con
tend for a preference, or refufe to be tried by
this standard.
The Judge observes, " That the faireft and
molt rational method to interpret the will of the
legislator, is by exploring his intentions at the
time when the law was made, by signs the moil
natural and probable—and these signs are either
the words, the context, the fubjedt matter, the
effetft and consequences, or the spirit and reason
of the law." With refpedt to words, the Judge
observes, that " they are generally understood
in their usual and inoft ordinary fignification, not
so much regarding the grammar as their general
and popular use."
The gentlemen on different fides of the ques
tion do not disagree with refpetfl to the meaning
of the terms taxes, dutia, impojls, excises, ire. or
of borrowing money, but of the word itecejfary :
And the question is, what is the genera] and po
pular meaning of this term ? Perhaps the ans
wer to the question will be truly this, that in a
general and popular one, the word does not ad
mit of a definite meaning, but that this varies, ac
cording to the fubjetl and circumjlances. With
refpe<ft to the fubjetft for instance—is the peo
ple speaking of a garrison besieged by a superior
force, and without provisions, or a profpedl of
relief, should fay it was under the neceflity of sur
rendering, they would mean a physical neceflity,
for troops cannot subsist long without provisions,
—but if speaking of a debtor the people should
fay, he was frighted by his creditor, and then
reduced to the neceflity of paying his debts, they
would mean a legal, which is very different from
a physical neceflity—for altho the debtor by re
fufing payment might be confined, he would be
allowed subsistence, and the neceflity he was un
der to pay his debts would not extend beyond
his confinement. Again ,if it should be said that
a client is under the neceflity of giving to his law
yer more than legal fees, the general popular
meaningof neceflity would in this instance be very
different from that in the other—the neceflity
would neither be physical or legal, but artificial,
or if I may be allowed the expreflion, a long robe
neceflity.
The meaning of the word " ncccffary," varies
also according to circuniftances—for altho Con
greft have power to levy and collect taxes, duties,
&c. to borrow money, and to determine the time,
quantum, mode and every regulation necessary
and proper for supplying the treasury, yet the
people would apply a different meaning to the
word necessary, under different circumstances :
For instance, without a fufficiency of precious
metals for a medium, laws creating an artificial
medium would be generally thought necessary
for carrying into effetfi the power to levy and
collecfr taxes—but if there was a fufficiency of
such inetals, those laws would not generally be
thought necessary. Again, if specie was scarce,
and the credit of the government low, collateral
measures would be by the people thought necef
lary, for obtaining public loans—out not so, if
tit&othe cafe was reversed. Or if part of the States
ihould be invaded and overrun by ail enemy, it
would be thought necedary to levy on the reft
heavy taxes, and collect them in a short period,
and to take flock, grain and other articles from
the citizens without their consent, for common
defence ; but in a time of peace and fafety such
measures would be supposed unnecef'ary. In
itances may be multiplied in other refpetts ; but
it is conceived thr-t these are fufticient to fliew
that the popular and general meaning of the
word " neceflary" varies according to the fubjedt
and circuinftances.
The second rule of interpretation relates to the
context, and the Judge conceives that " if words
are (till dubious, we may establish their meaning
by the context; thus the preamble is often called
in to help the conftruc r tion of an act of parlia
ment." The constitution in the prefenc cafe is
the great law of the people, who are themselves
the sovereign legislature; and the preamble is in
tliefe words—" We, the people of the United
States, in order to form a more perfecfl union,
establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, pro
vide for the common defence, promote the gene
ral welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and estab
lish this Constitution for the United States of Ame-
rica."
These are the great objeds for which the con
stitution was established, and in administering it,
we fliould always keep them in view. And here
it is remarkable, that altho' " common defence
and genera] welfare" are held up in the pream
ble amongst the primary objetfis of attention,
they are again mentioned in the Bth fetfion of
the firft article, whereby we are enjoined in le
vying taxes, duties, &c. particularly to regard
" the common defence and general welfare;"
indeed common sense di<slates the measure; for
the security of jour property, families, and liber
ty—of every thing dear to us, depends on our
ability to defend them. The means, therefore,
for attaining this object, we ought not to omit a
year, month, or even a day, if we could avoid it,
and we are never provided for defence unless
prepared for sudden emergencies. Should go
vernment be surprized in this cafe, it would be as
dishonorable as for a general to be surprized in a
state of warfare, and the event to the community
may be much more fatal. If provision then for
sudden emergencies is indifpenfible, it must be
evident that it will depend in a great measure on
the ability of government to command at all
times, for this purpose, a fufficient sum of money,
which is justly denominated the sinews of war ;
and how is this to be efFe<sied —by cmifions of
bills of credit ?—During the revolution, bills of
credit, it must be acknowledged, have done won
ders ; they have, in confliifi with the banks, trea
sury and public cred.it of Great-Britain, risen su
perior to them all, and have lince died a natural
death. We have honored them with a funeral
pile ; we now bid peace to their manes, and de
voutly hope that bills of credit will forever be
extinrfi in the United States. Are we to depend
then on taxes for commanding money in cases of
urgent neceflity ? These, as has been fliewn by
other gentlemen, will be too flow in their opera
tions, unlels, indeed, we should levy a tax for
drawing into, and locking up in the treasury,
three or four millions of dollars—a law which
would be universally considered as unneceflary
and improper.
By loans, and loans only, can provision be made
for sudden emergencies : But if loans fliould be
made previoujly to an emergency, the people
would be unnecessarily burthened by the inter
est: thereof and molt of the other evils would en
sue that would arise from previous taxes ; and if
they were to be made at an emergency, without
previous arrangements, of whom are we to bor
row ? of individuals ?—Thefe cannot be depend
ed on, as has been fully proved by our own ex
perience at the commencement of the revolu
tion.—Are we to apply to the hank already ef
tablilhed in the States for loans ? These can 110
more be depended on than individuals; for stock
holders having not more attachment to govern
ment: than other citizens, would in cases of pub
lic danger attend to the preservation of their
property by other means than loaning it to go
vernment. And moreover the united capitals of
all the banks existing in the union, would be in
efficient for government, for they do not amount
to a million and an half of dollars, and only a
part of this could in any cafe be reasonably ex
peified on loan.
Are we to apply to foreign banks or individu
als ? These, as has been ihewn, are too remote ;
and if not, we have not been able, without the
assistance of an ally to obtain foreign loans dur
ing the war, and perhaps the (fewer in whose as
sistance we may rely, would be hortile to us.—
Such dependance then as has been stated would
neceflarily leave us in a deplorable state—and it
mult be evident that a previous arrangement to
aid loans in cases of sudden emergency, is neces
sary and proper in the general and popular use
of the term, inasmuch as any other measure that
Cotigrefs can adopt would be inadequate to the
purpose of common defence—and what previous
arrangement can we make so proper as that ot a
NATIONAL BANK ? If gentlemen in the op
poficion know of any, let them produce it, and
let the merits of it be inveftigated—for il is un
reasonable to propose a rejection of this plan,
without producing a better. The plan proposed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, which is now
thefubjeft of difcuflion, does honor, like all his
other measures, both to his head and heart ; it
will be mutually beneficial to the llockholders
and to government, and consequently so to the
people. The rs by this plan will be
deeply intereUed in supporting government ; be
cause three quarters of their capital confiding of
funded certificates depend on theexiftence ofrhe
government, which therefore is the prop of their
capital, the main pillar that supports the bank :
Again, the credit of government, which is imma
terial to the other banks, is ellential to the na
tional bank, for the annual intereflof three quar
ters of its capital, which molt form a great (hare
of its profits, will depend altogether on the cre
dit ofgovernment, and produce, on the part of
the llockholders, the strongest attachment to it.
On the other hand, it will be for the interest of
government to support the bank, as well on ac
count of the benefits which the public will gener
ally derive from the institution, and the profits
arising from the shares of government in the
flock which will be hereafter noticed, as of the
supplies of money which it will be for the interest
of the bankto furnilh in cases of urgent necessity.
Whenever theft exifl Congress may lay a tax for
supplying the treasury, and anticipate it with
certainty, by means of the national bank. It be
ing then our duty to provide for the common de
fence in cases of emergency, the provision must
evidently be made by taxes, loans, or by arrange
ments for obtaining the latter on the earliefl no
tice—and previous taxes and loans being oppres
sive, improper and unneceflary, the arrangements
for aiding loans become indifpenfable,and a bank,
of consequence, neceflary and constitutional.
(To be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET IV
AdOWN the melancholy stream oflife
Who joys the veffcl of his Years to guide ?
Nor fears the roarings of th' incertain tide,
The inclement Winter, or the Ocean's ftrife ?
And who, regardful of his certain end,
Can bear the inccflant struggles of his Youth ;
Force thro enticement to an age of truth ;
And welcomc Death as freely as his friend ?
Who, that when Poverty's torpedo hand
fcbs chill'd even Charity's lost-answering foul;
When green-eyed Malice hunts him thro the land,
Can i'mile serene, superior to the whole ?
He, who the paths of Re&itude has trod—
His friends—his life, his conscience, and his God.
LONDON, February 15
DIED last: week, a Mr. David Davies, a native
of Montgomeryfliire in Wales; in a certain
part of which county, he had given directions
that he (hould be buried, and ordered in his will
one (hilling to be given to every person attend
ing his funeral. This extraordinary bequest be
ing previously publiftied about, no less than one
thousand and thirty persons from off the moun
tains ailembled on this (to them) joyful occahon,
and received an English /hilling each.
A Jamaica Creole, belonging to the revolution
society, and who has resided Some years in Lon
don, was the other day arguing on the impro
priety of this nation styling their monarch "King
of France —And pray, fir, what would you fub
llitute in the room thereof? said another mem
ber.—What would 1 substitute ? cried the other
—Why, I would call him, King of Great-Britain,
Ireland, and Jamaica —three of the noblelt isl
ands in the univerl'e !
In Paris now, the business of the nation is
tranfaded totally in the clubs patriotic and mo
narchic—the latter are now so lerioufly augment
ed, that in number they exceed the Jacobins.
Lord Stanhope and Dr. Price are performing,
amidst the greatelt bursts of laughter, upon the
French Theatre, almost every evening.
Varna, where the great part of the Ruffian
and Turkish forces are afiembled, is 145 miles
north-weft of Constantinople.
The words in Dr. Johnson's dictionary amount
to ! Mr. Croft promises to add upwards of
elevensthoufand more ; —and yetourparliament
ary speakers preface with a—"'Mr. Speaker, 1
want words !"
The Archbishop of Canterbury waited on Mr.
Burke some days ago as Metropolitan, formally
to present to him the thanks of the Established
Church, for his invaluable work on the French
revolution.
DUBLIN, February 10.
Amongftthe many proofs which are daily adduced of the pro
grcflive increase of tillage, it may not be amiss to inform our read
ers,that in the couifc of last week, upwards of seven thousand
barrels of oats were purchafcd by the merchants of XVaterford,
for exportation.
810
ELLA
PARIS, February y.
The intended journey of the King's aunts ftm
occupies public attention. The democrats » 1
have it they were going for Turin, immediate']!
to join the royalists. The old women of this c
ty go further, and declare they were to have
headed a party that were to have attacked th*
frontiers.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE
January 2J.
The fitting of tliis evening was more tempest.
ous and di(orderly, even to indecency, than any
that has of late disgraced the majority 0 f a d e |j_
berative Aflembly. The devoted Ecclesiastics
driven to despair, by every poflible mode fought
to impede the progress of the measure propo'led
by the Ecclesiastical committee; it was however
carried at length.—The purport is as follows
" The Aflembly decrees, that the law ofD e .
cember 26, ordering the replacement of f uc |,
Ecclesiastics (Fontftionnaire Publics) as (hall re.
fufe the oath, is to be carried into efFetfl by the
adminiftrant bodies and the municipalities; with
exception however, to such cases as fall within
the compass of the articles marked 6, 7, and Bos
that law, which are cognizable by the tribunals
Approves the particular conduct of the direction
in the department of the Somme, and charges
that body with the fulfilment of these its legal
functions."
M. Maury, with infinite verfatilityand addrefj
(irritat, mulcet falfis terroribus implet,) endea
voured to defeat so dangerous a consignment of
authority over spirituals tending even to the de
privation of all religious rites, if the noncontor
mifts were displaced before fuccelTors were selec
ted ; but it was all in vain. At length the en
raged party, in retaliation, denounced theclub
(tiled Jacobins, to be a nest of murderous ruf
fians, limiting with their pack, the people, a
persecuted order to deftrudlion.
The president continually interposed, but the
hall was :n the extreme of anarchy presenting
neither the wisdom of the senators nor the lan
guage of gentlemen.
I O
LIVERPOOL, February j.
The quantity of tea for the next East-India
House sale, amounts to four millions eight hun
dred pounds weight.
The general average price of wheat through
out England and Wales, by last return, was fix
(hillings and two pence half penny per buihel.
One of the fad effects of forgetfalnefs.—A re
sident of Howarden, in Fintfhire, lately employ
ed a friend, who had business in Chester, to put
a letter into the poft-ofHce for him. He accord
ingly went, and returned home with the letter
fiiug in his pocket, though unluckily out of hi»
head. A few days after, vvhilit in company,
taking some papers out of his pocket, the letter
presented itfelf in a very foiled {tate, and, ad
ding imprudence to reniiffnefs, he committed it
to the flames, fayincr his friend could Coon write
another. But how mutually agreeable mnft have
been the furprizeof one hearing the fate of bis
letter, and the other, that it contained a bank
note of jol.
When arsenic, or cerrofive sublimate, has been
incotifiderately swallowed, a solution of common
pot or pearl allies, or any other alkaline fait giv
en after, renders it nearly harmless. Two or
three absolute proofs of tliishave been madepnblic
and in one instance recorded, nearly half an ounce
of the sublimate had been intentionally swal
lowed.
CHARLESTON, March 24.
Yellerday between twelve and one o'clock,
was executed pursuant to his sentence, Thomas
Walfli, who has long been known in this state
and Georgia, by the appellation of major Wash
ington, for counterfeiting the indents iflued by
the authority of this state. His countenance was
sickly, but his demeanor manly, and would have
suited a conscience void of offence. At a few mi
nutes past twelve, he ascended the fcafFold, at
tended by the officers of execution ; and was af
filed in his devotions by the Rev. Dr. Keating,
pastor of the Roman Catholic church, to whom,
as we are informed, he had confeff'ed that hi'
name was Walfh, and was born of a refpeiftable
family in Ireland ; that he had not profefled an/
religious perfnafion for a series of years, but as
he had been baptized agreeably to the rites of
the church of Rome, he wished to die a Catholic -
At the conclusion of his devotions hewasalked
by the Iheriffif he had any thing to fay—he re
plied, nothing more than he had already decla
red, that in this business he died innocently.
He mentioned that he had been indisposed since
the day before, and intreated the multitude not
to attribute his sickly countenance to the fear ot
death ; for as he died innocent, he trusted, he
(hould also die brave. "As Chriflrdied upon the
cross forgiving his enemies, so I forgive mine-
He politely waved his hand to the crowd and faidj
" Good day gentlemen then ilepping forwar
on the deadfall, he pulled the cap over his
faying " col. Ofbarne, I am readyand wa->
immediately launched into eternity.FROM A LONDON PAPER.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
Members of theh ers Etat, according to the titles
affixed to their names, in the lijl pubtifhed by au
thority.
Avocats
Avocats du Roi
Confeillers
Lieutenants Criminals
Lieutenants Generaux de Baillage
ißi
18
ir
9
45
34
Procureurs 2
Procureurs da Roi 34
Total limbs of the Law (out of 588
Members) - - 334
Cukivateurs 23
Fermiers - - * 11
Laboureurs ...
Medecins ...
Marchands (Anglice Shopkeepers)
Negociants (Anglice Merchants)
Notaries
Total appertaining to agriculture,
science, and trade of 588
Members) ...
Members to whose names 110 title is
affixed ...
Total of the third estate
The Representatives of the Clergy are about
300, and those of the Noblefle about 280, which
make nearly the number originally aflembled ;
but aconfiderable proportion of the last bodies
have been non-attendant for some months past.
\ ANNAPOLIS, March 31.
Early on Friday morning last, this city was
honored by the arrival of the Presi dent, at
tended by Major Jackson.
Intelligence having been received of his
intended embarkation at Rock Hall, he had been
anxiously expetfted on Thursday evening—but
the Governor, and several other gentlemen, who
had failed to meet him, were compelled to return
without tidings. The veflel, which contained
the chief treasure of America, did not enter the
river Severn until ten o'clock, in a dark tem
peftaous night. She struck on a bar, or point,
within about a mile of the city ; and although
Ihe made a signal of distress, it was impofiible,
before day-light, to go to her relief. The guar
dian angel of America was still watchful; and we
are happy in alluring our countrymen that the
health of their dearelt friend has not been at all
affedted by an accident, far more diftrefling to
those who were apprised, or rather apprehen
sive, of his fltuation, than to himfelf.
At 10 o'clock on the fame day, attended by the
Governor, and a number of refpecftable citizens,
hevifited the college, and exprefled much fatif
faftion at the appearance of this rising seminary
—He then pursued his walk to the government
house. At three o'clock he fat down to a public
dinner at Mr. Mann's with a numerous company
of inhabitants, and continued at table until there
had been circulated a number of toasts, each of
which was announced by the discharge of cannon.
On Saturday the President again dined with
a large company at the government house ; and
in the evening his presence enlivened a ball, at
which was exhibited every thing which this little
city contains of beauty and elegance.
On Sunday, at eight o'clock, he rode out of
town, attended by a company of gentlemen, of
whom he took leave at South river. The go
vernor waits 011 him to George-Town, where he
O '
purposes to remain some days before he pursues
his arduous patriotic journey to the fouthwarcL,
WINDHAM, (Conn.) March 26.
There is now lining in this town, three bro
thers, whose ages added together, amount to
Two hundred and seventy-eight years !
BOSTON, March 26.
FRENCH CONSULAR-OFFICE.
Extrafl of a letter, dated Bourdeaux, December 8, 1790.
,l Memorandum of the timber, proper for the Bourdeanx mar
ket. Oak Plank, for ships bottoms, should be 24 to 50 feet
long, 2 to 4A inches thick, and at least 9 inches wide at the nar
rowed end. The usual price from 2 to 3 livres per cubick foot.
White Pine Plank should not exceed 12 inches in width (all over
is loft) and 1 and A inches thick, and is worth 3 sous the running
foot, those of one inch 2 sous.—Pine Rafters arid Beams from 10
to 16 inches fquarc, different lengths are worth from 201024
sous the cubick foot.—Scantling from 4 to 6 inchcs square, from
22 to 26 sous the cubick foot.—Marts and Bowsprits, straight,
clear of faults, from 72 to 75 feet long, 25 to 27 inches diame
ter, are worth i«oo to 1200 livres each ; those of 66 to 68 feet
l"ng and 22 to 24 inches diameter, from 600 to 800 livres—and
Bowsprits from 45 to 48 feet long, and from 26 to 27 inches di
ameter, from 400 to 500 livres each : The diameter of Mads and
Bowsprits is taken at A the distance from the big end, and the
frnall cud ftiould hold less than at the ft''ft measurement—small
Spar* fell in proportion—OaA. Beams and Rafters from 10 to 15
inches fauare, aie worth from 45 to 50 sous per cubick foot—
Knees, See. in proportion to their lize, quality, &c.—Southern
hogshead staves from 250 to 300 livres per M. of 1616 —Northern
from 200 to 250 livres. Tnefe are the general prices—at present
'hey are something lower, owing to a stagnation of Ship-building
'nee the disturbances in this country ; but as they are now at an
t-d, we may expert to fee commerce revive, and with it the pri
ces of the necefl*aries for carrying it on of course.—The feet and
"'cnet above are French, which arc one twelfth longer than En
filifh."
, * P on inquiry the circumstances refpe&ing Mr. Cox, at Lon
donderry, are no more than these : Mr. Cox received orders from
">c Mayor and Corporation of Derry, to open the bridge on the
■•y mentioned, for the benefit of the people, and as the work
men and timber were American, permitted him to display on
the bridge, the American flag. The noveltv of these circum
stances drew together a large concourse of people. The water
men, who were thus thrown out of business, collected in numbers
to oppose the pafling and repaying of the people—thisoccafioned
a J raca *i a °d the Mayor, at the head of the main-guard, endea
vored to suppress it, which lie could not effect until the troops
had fired, and killed several of the rioters. Mr. Cox was taken
into custody for his own prote&ion from the rage of the watermen.
The Lottery, seems to arrest the attention of all ranks of
citizens—to describe the disease is impoflible—all are fafcinated
—all expe£l to be the favored children of Fortune.-—The rich
court her smiles, as eagerly as the poor—and whilst, O ! fickle
Goddess, the Young pour fourth their supplications for thy favors,
" With fait'ring pace, and feeble knee,
See Age advance, in JkameJul hafle ;
The p&lfied hand is fir etch'd to thee,
For Wealth, it wants the pow'r to tafie."
The delusion is general-and general must the mortification be.
But as attention must be paid to the infatuation—we have endea
vored, by a regular publication of the foitunate numbers, to alle
viate its frenzy.
12
9
11
3i
97
175
588
By the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA,
A Proclamation.
Vy'HEREAS by a Proclamation bearing date the 24th day of
}/ c J anuar y of this present year, and in pursuance of certain
acts of the states of Maryland and Virginia, and of the Congress of
the United States therein mentioned, certain lines of experiment
were directed to be run in the neighbourhood of Georgetown in
Maryland, for the purpose of determining the location of a part
of the territory of ten miles square for the permanent feat of the
Government of th« United States, and a certain part was directed
to be located within the said lines of experiment on both fides of
the Patowmac, and above the limit of the Eastern branch prescrib
ed by the said ast of Congress.
And Congress by an amendatory ast, passed on the 3d day of
this present month of March, have given further authority to the
Prcfident of the United States, " to make any part of the territory
below the said limit, and above the mouth of Hunting Creek, a
part of the said diftrift, so as to include a convenient part of the
Eastern branch, and of the lands lying on the lower fide thereof,
and also the town of Alexandria."
NOW THEREFORE, for the purpose of amending and com
pleting the location of the whole of the said territory of ten miles
square, in conformity with the said amendatory ast of Congress,
I do hereby declare and make known that the whole of the said'
territory (hall be located and included within the four lines follow
ing, that is to fay—
Beginning at Jones's point, being the upper Cape of Hunting
Creek, in Virginia, and at an angle, in the outset, of 45 degrees
weft of the north, and running in a direst line ten miles for the
firft: line: then beginning-again at the fame Jones's point, and
mnning another direst line, at a right angle with the firft, across
the Parowmac, ten miles for the second line : then from the termi
nations of the said firft and second lines, running two other direst
lines, of ten miles each, the one crossing the Eastern branch afore
faid, and the other the Pjtowmac, and meeting each other in a
point.
And I do accordingly direst the Commiflioners named under
the authority of the said fir ft mentioned ast of Congress, to pro
ceed forthwith to have the said four lines run, and by proper metes
and bounds defined and limited, and thereof to make due report
under their hands and seals; and the territory so to be located,
defined, and limited, shall be the whole territory accepted by the
said a£ts of Congress as the diftrift for the permanent feat of the
Government of the United States.
IN TESTIMONY whereof I have caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
fame with my hand. Done at Georgetown aforefaid, the
30th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1791, and of
the Independence of the United States the fifteenth.
BY THE PRESIDENT,
THOMAS JEFFERSON
$3" THE above location will include about four thousand five
hundred acres of land. The proprietors in the diftrift give up
their lands, on the condition of receiving, after the town is laid off,
one-half of the lots so laid off; and the President Iras the sale of
the other half, for the use of the public—which will, it is said,
produce the sum of three, hundred thousand pounds.—
The spot for the public buildings is not yet fixed.
Philadelphia, April <?.
Accounts from Pittsburgh mention various depredations and
murders committed by the Indians ; 13 persons on the Alleghany
a few miles from that place have recently been butchered, and a
number carried into captivity ; this last attack, has struck a dread
and caused a general alarm—and the people aie abandoning their
farms and retreating to a place of fafety. Similar accounts are
received from Mufkingum—where the inhabitants arc now all
garrisoned waiting with anxiety succours from government—this
we are happy to learn, they will fpeedly receive ; the recruiting
service is prosecuting with vigor and success, in this and the Eastern
States—and every poflible exertion is making in the war depart
ment to expedite the requisite preparations.
Monday last being the anniversary of their Institution, the Hi
bernian Society dined at Byrne's tavern, in Front-Street. They
were honored with the presence of the Governor of Pennsylvania,
the Vice-President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of War, the Attorney General of the United States, and
the officers of the other national societies. The entertainment
W3s splendid, and a number of patriotic toasts concluded the fef
tivity of the day.
We are frequently presented with an article from foreign pa
pers, under the title of '-'The state of politics during the lad
week," when the articles refer frequently to countries $00 miles
distant from the place of publication !
The TurkiAi garrison of Ifmael, which was butchered by the
Ruffians in storming that place, was at firft said to consist of 12000
men : This number is multiplied by two in a more recent account,
and out of 24000, 5000 only, it is said, escaped the carnage—
Thus the red thunderbolts oj war are hurid,
And mad ambition desolates the world.
All the Barbary powers are arming to aflifl the Turks ageinft
Russia—and in older to do this, have made a genera] peacc wah
other powers.
811
GEORGE WASHINGTON
England, Pruflia and Holland are now interpofing(heirmedia
torial influence to bring about a peace between Catherine an d
the Porte : How far they will succeed, appears verv uncertain :
The propositions made to the Emprefsgo so far as to suggest a r*-
linqnilhment of her conquests ; fluftied however with ifi« great
success of her arms, she reje&s the mediation ; and this appears
to have been expected, for the several powers are making the most
vigorous preparations to enforce their propositions.
It is nearly two years since the foreign news-mongers began to
uinufe lis with accounts of plots, counter-revolutions, and mailj
cres, in f ranee—and their inventions are not yet exhausted : The
latest details under the London head, in fotnc of the papers, slate,
Thatihe consternation of the citizens of Paris, has for fomc days
been incxprcflible ; but on what account they do not know."—
1 his appears curious indeed, when it is confideied as chara&er
lftic of the French—
T' enjoy the prefenty and to leave to-morrow f
To find an antidote for its own sorrow.
Seasonable Remarks from a late London Paper.
1 THIS morning upwards of five hundred people paid for
feats in the galleries at Guildhall, in expe&ation of hearing their
tickets drawn, and to their infinite surprize not one of them is
twenty thousand pounds richer than he was.
" Only think, three twenty thoufatids !" fays one.—Somebody
must have them, and why not I as soon as another ; well, I shall
certainly get one of the little ten thousand four pounders, and that
will be some comfort at least ! -Hush ! God bless my foul, that's
mv number, it only »vants two figures of it blank
Thank God it is not mine."
The space below was occupied by dreamers of dreams and
seers of visions, ftrift observers of times and seasons : here flood
a poor fellow without a shirt, which he had pawned the day be
fore, to avail himfelf of early and cheap insurance, poring over a
long lift of the different ages of his starving children, having loft
his money, losing his time, in expectation of a miracle being
wrought to redeem both ! There fat a wretched woman, her na
ked shoulders wrapped in a miserable red cloak, anxiously iiften
ing for a number which fho had dreamt of and of which (he in
tenaed to continue d reaming so long as her scanty houfhold lhould
furnifh the means of insurance !
Another class of beings were drawing their own chances from
the pockets of such as the mania of the moment had not robbed,
of all before ; in the midst of these ingenious fpeftatois, a country
squire, in a marketable foi 'm 9 who had come to town on purpose to
hear his ticket drawn a twenty thousand, and who was Douching
away with the Hobfon's-choice comfort of a four pound prize,
had his pockets reduced to the ltandard of his head, for, havirig
loft his time, it was thought he needed no inftruraent to reckon it
bv, and having a four pound prize, it was imagined, that sum out
of his pocket could be no loss to him.
Those who have got prizes, afFefct to despise their infignifirancy;
those who have blanks, pretend that they never expected any
other; and such as have yet to wait the event of their purchases,
will teli you, though you ftiould meet them in the hall every
day during the drawing, that they are totally indifferent about the
matter.
from the VERMONT GAZETTE.
Mr. Has well,
Th>following is a copy of a letter from Adonijah Crare, while in goal at
New York, to his relations in Rupert, as appears from its contents :
It came to ha nd by accident; I havefh'wn it to a number oj the prin
cipal characters in thir toivn y who wijh to have it infrted in your
gazette, as it may be of consequence in expoftng the villainy of that
club y and making the people cautious in their connexions with tlicm.
Friends and Relations,
" THIS is to inform you that Francis and I are well, and live
together very comfortably. I hope you are all well. I have not
heard from you since we received a letter from Lemuel; brought
by Old Head to us. Old Head and the Green p****g are good,
and give us what money we want; and stand ready to advance
300 dollars for our benefit, if requefted—for they are able and
willing: they have 3000 dollars, 111 cash, on hand. Thev have
repeatedlv promised that we should not want for 1000 dollars.
Mr. Spring is honorably discharged, and exerts himfelf for us.
Old Morris is out, and jud<*e no more.—Three evidences are heie,
two ot them you know. Desire Mr. Hafey to attend court, and
fail not. We fliall have our trial by the sth of Jan. desire the evi
dences to not delay the time one day. It is already the opinion
of the people that we (hall get clcai upon trial : and if our evi
dences come as I expect, I am sure of whipping tliem properly.
Our friends encreafe fact : attorneys grow mad in our behalf;
and our past ill-usage echoes through the city. Mr. Willard is in
danger of his life from the prisoners, because he is an evidence a
gdinft us ; and he has to keep in a room by himfelf to keep from
being killed : Many a time he hasbeen kicked down stairs.
I hope that Lemuel will take care of that Scott matter : make
yourselves as comfortable as poflible : I hope to visit you before
long, but God only knows when : but I verily expect to be
cleared. This from your friend, ADONIJAH CRANE.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA,
Ship Adrana, Robertfon, Liverpool, 33.
Brig Hetty* Cloufer, Charleftrm, 13.
Schooner Thomas, Jones, Hifpaniola, 18.
Do. Friendship, Bowen, Maryland, 6.
Sloop Three Sifters, Thompson, Virginia, 7.
Brig Fame, Stephenfon, Cork, 48.
Sloop Phenix, Shepard, Virginia, 6.
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 16/io. 17/2. pr. /.
3 pr. Cents Cj\f.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/ii o,f.
UNFUNDED" DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/0
Indents 9 f.
N. and S. Carolina debts, Ul/2 15/
Post-O: sicK) Philad. April 8, 1791
By information rcccivcd this day from the Agent for the British
Packet, her failing is postponed until the 20th inft. Letters
will be received at this Office until Tuef.day Morning the 19th
inft. at half pail 9 o'clock.
NOTIFICATION.
Colonel Thoma* Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being neccflarily absent from the city, his
Excellcncy the Gov ir nor hath thought proper to authortfe
me to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return : —
NOTICE is therefore giver., to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia, the Northern Liberties of said
City, the Townships of Moyamenfmg and PaflT\ unk, that they arc
to meet and exercise under their refpeftive Officers on the fol
lowing Days, viz,
First Battalion on the 2d Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on the 6th of do.
Sixth Battalion on the 9th of do.
Seventh Battalion on the lothof do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Limtenttir,
pro tern, of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791
New-York, Nov. 28, 1790.
88 pr. cent.
45 do
-45 do
do.
do.
7»i
45CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the Hxth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT for granting Lands to the Inhabitants
and Settlers at Vincennes and the Illinois Conn-
try, in the Territory North Weft of the Ohio,
and for confirming them in their Poflefllons.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and houfeof Representatives of the
United States of America in Congr fsaflcmbled, That four
hundred acres of land be given to each of those persons, who in
the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, were heads
of families at Vincennes or in the Illinois country, on the Miflifippi,
and who since that time have removed from one of the said places
to the other. And the Governor of the territory north-weft of the
Ohio is hereby dire&ed, to caufc the fame to be laid out for them,
at their own expense, either at Vincennes or in the Illinois coun
try, as they (hall severally elett.
And be it furtlv r ena&ed and declared, That the heads of fa
milies at Vincennes or in the Illinois country in the year one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-three, who afterwaids removed
without the limits of the said Territory, are notwithstanding, en
titled to the donation of four hundred acres of land made by the
ltfolve of Congress of the twenty-ninth of August, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-eight ; and the Governor of the said ter
ritory, upon application to him for that purpose, is hereby di
rected to cause the fame to be laid out for such heads of families
or their heirs ; and Ihall also cause to be laid off and confirmed to
such persons the several tra&sof land which they may have pos
sessed, and which before the year one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-three may have been allotted to them according to the laws
and usages of the government uuder which they had refpedively
fettled : Provided neverthelcfs, That if such persons or their
heirs do not return and occupy the said lands within five years,
such lands shall be considered as forfeited to the United States.
And be it further enacted, That one hundred and fifty acres of
land, heretofore in poffefiion of the Piankefhaw Indians, and
now under actual improvement, and conllituting a part of the vil
lage of Vincennes, be given to the persons who arc severally in
poffefiion of the said land.
And be it further ena&ed, That where lands have been a&ually
improved and cultivated at Vincennes, or in the Illinois country,
under a supposed grant of the fame, by any commandant or court
claiming authority to make such grant, the Governor of the said
territory be, and he hereby is empowered to confirm to the per
sons who made such improvements, their heirs or assigns, the
lands supposed to have been granted as aforefaid, or such part
thereof as he, in his discretion, may judge reasonable, not exceed
ing to any one person, four hundred acres.
And be it further enacted, That atraft ot land, containing about
five thousand four hundred acres, which for many years has been
fenced and used by the inhabitantsof Vincennesas a common,alfo a
t a&of land including the villagesof Cohosand Prairie du Pont,and
heretofore used by the inhabitants of the said villages as a com
mon, be, and the fame are hereby appropriated to the use of the
inhabitantsof Vincennes and of the said villages refpe&ively, to
be used by them as a common, until otherwise disposed of by law.
And be it further ena&ed, That the Governor of the said ter
ritory be authorilcd to make a grant of land not exceeding one
hundred acres, to each person who hath not obtained any dona
tion of land from the United States, and who, on the firft day of
August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety, was enrolled in
the militia at Vincennesor in the Illinois country, and has done
militia duty, the said laud to be laid out at the expense of the
grantees, and in such form and place as the said Governor shall
dirett. Provided nevertheiefs, That no claim founded upon pur
chase or othcrwile, shall be admitted within a tra£l of land here
tofore occupied by the Kafkafkia nation of Indians,and including
their village, which is hereby appropriated to the use of the said
Indians.
And be it further enacted, That two lots of lan') heretofore in
the occupation of the priests at Cahok'a, and fituatcd near that vil
lage, be, and the fame is hereby granted in fee, to P. Gibault; and
that a tra£l of land at Kafkafkia, formerly occupied by the Jcfuits,
be laid off and confirmed to St. Jam Bcouvais, who claims the
fame in v irtue of a purchase thereof.
And be it further enabled, That so much of the ast of Congress
of the twenty-eighth of August, one thousand seven hundred and
cightv-eight, as refers to the locations of certain tra&s of land di
rected to be run out and reserved for donations, to the ancient
settlers in the Illinois country, be, and the fame is hereby repeal
ed, and the governor of the said territory is directed to lay out
the fame, agreeably to the a£l of Congress of the twentieth of June,
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houje oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Preftaent of the United States,
and Prejident oj the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ojtheUnited States.
Deposited among the Rolls ir» the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State.
LOST,
BETWEEN this city and New-York, on the port; road, two
bundles containing the Gazette ot the United States—No.
82—destined for New-York and Bollon. As they can be of no
use, but as w?fte paper, except to the Subscribers, many of whom
keep files of that publication, any perlon who can give informa
tion to the Editor, fothat the whole or any part of them may be
recovered, shall receive a generous reward. The two bundles
contained 300 papers.
MACHINERY FOR SPINNING FLAX, HEMP AND
COMBED WOOL.
THE Subfciiber hereby gives public notice, that he has obtain
ed a patent for a fltvcring wheel and'tableau movementfor wet
ting the thread by conical doth coatcd thrumblers y and another for the fame
purpoje, by a cloth coated ioiler, a leathern belt moved by rollers, for the
purpose of the preparatory drawing of the slivers, and another leathern
belt moved in like manner, by rollers'for the purpose of drawing the rov
edflax, hemp andwo&l, being improvements upon the mill or ma
chinery ofKendrew and Porthoufe of the town of Darlington in
Great Britain.
This machinery, with the original mechanism on which it is
grafted,being of the utmost value to the United States, the fubferi
ber hereby offers to make and erett a complete mill or mills, in
cluding both the original works, and his above improvements
thereon, for any individual or company, on terms to be bv them
agreed on ; and to conduct the Manufactory either for a lhaieef
the profits, or stipulated wages. GEORGE PAJIKINSON,
Philad. No. 65, Chejnut-Strcet, March 17, 1791. [93
HENRY KUHL,
HEREBY gives public notice that he discontinues to cesoti
ate ill the Funds on Commiluon.
Philadelphia, April 5. 2t *
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Stkeet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS ail kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION' ; has frequently occasion 10 NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receivc Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK, ot the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at auction, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent. ; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(£3" Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages.
March 15, 1791
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
firm of
Joseph Anthony and Son,
They have for Sale, at their Stores, (lately improved by Hewes
and Anthony,) North fide Chefnut-Street Wharf,
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
Molasses,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
CafTia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tanner's Oil,
Bed pick'd Mackarel,
FOR SALE,
In the City of New-Brujjfwicky
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE,almoft
-*• ■*» new, pleasantly situated on the banks of the Rantan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have poflefiion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms of payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis For man, in (aid city, or
the fubferiberin Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not (old, to be rented from lft day of May next.
"YX/'HEREAS HENRY WEBB, put out appren
' * tice by the Greenwich School for the sea service, in or
about the year 1776, who was then of the age of 14 years, 01 there
abouts, and failed from England in that year to some part of
North-America, in the (hip or veflel called the Artemijfa, and
which said (hip or veflel was at that time a Navy Vidtualler, Capt.
Lewellyn, and which (hip or veflel was also a Spanish Trader, and
afterwards became such Transport in his Britannic Majesty's ser
vice as aforefaid ; and whereas the said Henry Webb deserted and
ran away from the said ship or veflel, and entered on board a cer
tain privateer or veflel called the Revenge, or Vengeance Privateer,
of which one John Deane was then master or commander, then
lying at New-York in America; and the said Vengeance Privateer,
on or about the sth day of November, 1779, failed from New-
York aforefaid to Savannah, and arrived at such last mentioned
place on or about the month of March or the month of April fol
lowing, from thenccto some port or place in America, but to what
port or place is not known; and in the month of May,i 780, was seen
at Barhadoei in the Weft-Indies: but the said lienry Webb hath not
since been heard of, and is supposed to be dead, it having been
reported that the tender belonging to the said ship or veflVl called
the Vengeance,with a number of her men, to the amount of 20, or
thereabouts, and among whom the said Henry Webb it is supposed
was one, were taken by an American veflel arid carried into Phi
ladelphia. If any person or persons will give any information of
the laid Henry Webb y or of the time and place of his death, to Sa
muel Nay lor, Esq. N0..4, Great Newport-ftreef, near Long-
Acre, London, or to the Rev. Mr.Joh nStanfor d, No. 33>John
ftreet, New-York t they (hall be handsomely rewarded lor their
trouble. (97 iaw 3W)
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Parity original, and partly already publijhed,
Written by Mathiw Carey.
CONDITIONS.
I. HPHE Work shall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
JL fineft writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to fubferibers two thirds oja dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work (hall be put to the press as Toon as 250 copies
are fubfci ibed for.
IV. The fubferibers names (hall be prefixed
SUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart,
and Co. and all the other Booksellers in Philadelphia ; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout the United States, whofupply fub
feribers with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1791.
tCT 4few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
United States, printed with Notes, ?nay be had of the
Ed'tiof\
812
PINTARD & BLEECKER,
Netu-Yorky No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
Hyson,") T £ AS of the filft
Souchong > ,
& BoheaS Imh1 mhl y>
Boston Sail Duck,
No, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7,
6 by 8 Window Glass,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Philadcl. March 18. [c.p.gw.J
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL B.—Dollars at 7_/"5.
ANCHORS pr. lb.
Allum, Enfflilh, pi.cwt. 33 s
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tod
Arties, pot, per ton, 37/101 40/
Pearl, 50/52/ ioj
Arrack pr. gall. ics 12s 6d
Brandy, common,
Cogniac 8f 4d
Braziietto, pr. toil, ill a. 16/
Bricks pr. M 30/
Bread, ftiip pr. cwt. 17f ißj6
D:tto, pilot 35J
Ditto, small water 40s 451
Beer, American, in bot. /
pr. doz. > •'
(96 tf)
pr. bbl. 36*
c/ 5 f Oak pr.M feet, 4/IOJ 4/181
0 j Merch. pine 4/1 os 4/ 15J
< Sap, do. 21-.ys6d 3/
O I N. Eng. 2/5/ 2/ioj
M t Cedar 4/ 4/ 5J
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard, pi ices add 1 $spr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 28/
u- C IriQi pr. bbl,
g <Boston
M ( Country
Butter pr. lb.
in kegs g~d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2S2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d
Coal pr. bushel is 8d
i s 2 d
.. IBJ aoi
Caflia 5i
Checfc, English
Country 6d 7 kd
£ fSper. pr. lb. 3s 3d 3s6d
►J | Wax 3s
Q Myrtle Wax 12/
) Mould,tallow
O I Dipped
Coffee pr. lb.
Cinnamon
Cotton
is ij ßd
Currants is 6 2s
Cloves ios
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J 17 s6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 62i6d 6js6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 6"jS"]2i6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 38*6
Common, 36*
Bur middlings,beft 34J
Middlings 26?
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. Bj6i i2j
Flax pr. lb. 8d 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135 s 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2j 8d
Flaxfeed pr. bufli. 5s
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/1018/
Ginger, whiteracc 52s 6d
Ditto, common
Ditto, ground pr. lb.
Ginseng,
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, ) 3 OJ
Ditto, fine glazed 35/ 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5s 9d
Do pr. cafe, 30 s 33/
f Wheat pr. bufli 7s 6d
r R y e 5*
Oals \sßd2s6d
Indian corn zsgd
71 Ba,le Y 4-* 9<i
Bed flielled 20s
Buckwheat 2 ?6
Hemp, pr.ton, 50/ 56/
HogHiead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 22j 6d
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 d 10d
Hops 2s 3 d ?j 6d
Indigo, French, js 6d 12s
• Carolina 4 s js 6d
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 565
j" Callings 22s 6d 30J
£ j Bar pr.ton, 29/30/
2 pi s >o/
5 | Sheet 60/ 6 5 l
t Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 301 4os
Lard, hogs gd 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42J 6d
——in bars 45 s 50s
Lead, white 75J Boj
red 4 5 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 2d
Lignum vit« pr. ton 42J 45J
Logwood jl 5 s 8/
M<al, Indian, pr. bbl. lys
Rye 25s
Mackarel,bcft 63^
— Common 30* $8.» Gd
Mace pr. lb. 70J
Mullard 9s /\d
Madder, bell tsd 18d
MolaflTes pr. gall. 2sSd
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, i3r
Mart spars 2J 6d 6s
Mahogany B</ 12 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails,
l~ Linseed, pr. gall. 3J 6d
I Train is lod 2s
Spermaceti 35 yd
I Whaie u iod 2s
r <j Olive 6s 6d
j Ditto pr. cafe sßj 30/
I Best sweet in ) CJC
flafk.,pr.bo x ,ss"«6<»
L —baskets 12 bottles 28*
Oak timber pr.ton 40/
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London,pr.doz.\2s 6d 15/
A TABLE of ihe COIN of the UNITED STATES, cftabliflird
JC?* 7hc pricc of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ann,
PER. QUANTITY.
Porter, American pr. doz.
Pitch, pr. bbl. ,g (1
Pork, Burlington, 77>oi
Lower county 7oJ g. J
Carolina g of
Peas, Alb-inv M
Pepper, pr. Ib. 2J
Pimento ~
Rice pr. cwf. r. 2 "g
Rosin pr. bbl.
iaiiins, belt, pr. keg j 2jM
>a ° P r -j- r 3 u
Jirto pr. box y . r
<" Jamaica pr. gall. s , fa
| Anti;ua .
j Windward
S Barbadors ,
11 Country, K.E. 3,3.
LTaffia 2j g (
-a .a r js pr. ton 45 .. b0
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 4 / 10j
Sulphur, flour 4 0,
Sh °' 5-6
j ( Wnnsn pr. cwt. 60(701
W )Englift, blittered 82J6d
(_ J American pr. ton 40/4J
C Crowley's pr. fag. ?5 ,
Snake root pr. lb. ij 6J 2 jjy
Soap, Common
Brown
Caft.le & j
>tarch
is 6d 2s±d 3s
55'
45'
lOd lid
Spermaceti,-refined,
Sail Cloth, English, ) r ,
pr. yard, .' [ *'U
— ■ -Boston, No. I
' i\o. 11. 2J 'id
■ RulTia sheeting. pr. p. go*
C Lump, pr. lb.
si j Loaf, (ingle refined u
Ditto, double do- IfiofrJ
g I Havannah, white 9J
« Ditto, brown',
L. Mufcovada,pr.cwt. 60/78:
Spirits Turpentine pr. gslf. 4,
( Allum pr. bulh. 2.
_i ts ii
< Cadiz
2J 2< /
Ship build. W.O. frames ) gfcj
P-lo», S IOOr
Do. 1.0. & red C. do. 6/6/51
Shingles, (hort, p. M. 15.1 20/
long drefled gojioSr
Scantling, heart, t)Cjijbj
Sap 42s 4jj
f Pipe pr. 1200 pieces it/
2;W. O. hoglhead 7/ jr
> R. O. do. 5/
< I Lcogaa 5 /1 5 ,
is) - Barrel 4/ iy
L Heading 8/icx
Otter, best pr. piece 301
Minks u6d p
Fox, grey z*6d 6<
-red 4^838
Martins 3/
2 < Fifhcrs 2f 6d 5s
Bears i?s6d?ss
Racoons 2s 4/
Mu Ik-rats qd u 6-i
Beaver, pr. lb. 51 101
_ De£r, in hair is6d9ssi
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. gr
Carolina, 32 gall. 12s
Turpentine Igs 2256 d
. (- James R. new bell 30J
£ 1 inferior 2QJ2«
§ old 35 , 3 8r
jo
9 id
9 d
2s 2d
Rappahannock 2256 d
Colo. Maryland 40J 60/
Dark 20 s
Long-leaf 20s
Eaftem-fhore 153 16/
Carolina, new 23 s 25/
old 30X
( Hyson pr. lb. 7s B.«g</
or) ! Hyson {kin, 44 4* (vi
Souchong, bed ys6dSs
h I Congo, 2> 5 3 s 9;i
2s 6d
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box, iOoj
Verdigreafe pr. lb.
Vermillion, 11*3^
Varnish,
C Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Lifoon 38/
I Tener iffe 22/IOJ 30/
W I Fayal pr. gall. 3<
i Port pr. pipe 3b' \ OL
Ditto pr. gall. V
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret 30J 4,5*
Sherry pr. gall. 6s<sd 9 s
4 j
Wax, Bees pr. lb.
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 253 d
• -(hort, pr. lb. 1/
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 70
Ditto 60 days
Ditto 30 days 735
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 11 d
30 days 3 s
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 6s Si
30 days 6s tod
August 8, 1786.
io® Mills
ic Cents
10 Dimes
10 Dollars
2J 3 i
2s 6d
t Cent.
1 Dime.
1 Dollar.
1 Eagle.