( —lB9 — ■
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY M»v v f " ~ =
/ * FENNQ, No. 69, HiCH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHI!. ADELPHTA
[No. 48, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF TIIE UNITED STATES. \
Extract of a litter front the Hon. Ezra L'Hom m E
dieu to S.L. Mitchi LLj Efj • dated Suffolk court
ty, September 12, I 791.
" \\JE have fufFered equally with you by tlie
VV severity of the drought. I have found
out one manure which, notwithstanding the dry
nefs of the season, has caused the land to pro
duce wonderfully more than any other manure
in a wer season. You will he anxious 'o know
what it is- I'll tell you.—'Tis Fifli.—The fame
they call Mosjbuncurs in New-York. We call
them Mtnhadcn. Some call them Shad. A very
■Jong fifli, but fat.
" 1 have not time to give you the particulars,
but as there are millions of these fifhes around
Long-Jfljnd, 1 have thoughts of making it one
fubje<ft of communication to the Agricultural So
titty."
Extratt of another letter from SiMEot Dr. Witt,
Esq. Surgeon-General of the State of New-York,
to Mr. Sam. L. Mitch ill, dated Albany, May
8, 1791.
" I AM very much pleased with your idea of
keeping a Calendarium Flora;, in addition to llie
common Meteorological obfei vntions. It will at
lead enable us to make the neceflary allowances
for difference of climate, when in practical agri
culture we wish to improve from experiments
made in different places. For the want of this
knowledge for instance, we are in this place in
I'ome measure at a loss in following the practice
of Pennsylvania ; and much more so, that which
is given tis in books written for the several parts
of Europe. But before this can be done to ad
vantage, a plan must be formed for making cor
respondent observations, not only in ths State, but
it Jhould extend at leajl, throughout the Union. For
this purpose, I would choose those vegetables in
the tirlt place, vvnich bitd or blollom earlielt in
the Spring, and which are universally to be
found throughout the States. I have thought of
the Anemone, the species I believe is thaliclroides,
a plant very common throughout this Stare,grow
ing chiefly in the woods, and one of the fir ft
which makes its appearance. The Dandelion may
be another, its flowers coming out early. The
Mefpilus Nivea, (so called in Barnaul's Arbuftrum
Americanum) the excellent or vjild-fervice
tree, is very common in this State at least, and
one of the earlielt blofl'omers we fee in the woods :
the banks of the Hudson from hence to New-
York, are now white with them ; with us they
are in much greater plenty than the Cornus Flo
rida, or Dog-wood ; this, 1 think, would be ano
ther proper vegetable to place particular depen
dence upon ; —befides which, there ought to be
remarks made on exotics, particularly fruit-trees.
By carrying into effet f t a plan like this, it is pro
bable foinething new, and more ufeful than has
been usually done by Agricultural Societies might be
flruck out, and an endeavour made to obtain the co
operation of the Societies of that description in the o
ther States."
[Gardeners ami Farmers will undpubredly be
benefited by attention to the above remarks, for
instead of regulating their planting and sowing
by the day of the mouth found in the Almanacks,
they will be guided by the unerring phenomena
ot the fealon itfelf ; 'tis well known that the ve
getation of Spring is in some years fix or eight
weeks more backward than in others, whereby
the husbandmen who go to work by the day of
the month, rather than by the (late of the wea
'her, commit egregious mistakes. How much
better is it for inltance, to fi>Tv fax -when Peach
trees are in blojfom, than to flick to the old method of
putting the feed into the ground 6>i the firjl of April,
he the feafoti as it may. How much more intelli
gible to strangers and foreigners, to read in the
atfts of Agricultural Societies, that Cabbage-plants
Jhould be fct far ivi/iter eating, when cherries turn
read, rather thar. on the twenty-sixth day cf June !
&c. A register made on Mr. De Witt's plan,
voold be Co advantageous, that it is earnellly to
be desired !he several Agricultural Societies on
the continent may adopt it."] /
The capital town of Cape-Fraacoi', which by
the late accounts was in imminent danger of de
rtrudtion, is large, elegant, and very opulent.
It is (aid to contain upwards of 6000 lionfes, and
between ;o and'6o,ooo inhabitants, three quar
ters of which are Negroes—a circumftr'nce high
ly unfavorablein the jjrefent conjuncture.
is
Wednesday, October 12, 179.1.
No. Til.
'"T'HE Bank of the United States will be one of
the ellential ami oioft powerful springs in
this great republic, being; conllitoted with great
discernment to anl'wer rite many beneficial pur
poses intended. It may justly be quefHoned.
whether there is a bank in any country so well
calculated to promote the inrereitof the commu
nity. It will increase the revenue, and facilitate
the collection of it ; it will throw into circula
tion from time to time as much money as the
neceflary trade and buiioefs of the people may
require ; by these meat's it will be the general
regulation of money, and while ir moves a thou
land wheels of indtittry i: will check any excess
in the circulating medium. The wisdom of go
vernment, will aid the body of DireiSors, in the
wife management of this great source of national
and individual wealth. As one fifth of the bank
is owned by the public, it will constantly engage
the moll discerning eye of government; and as
twenty-five Directors are annually to be eletfled
by the llockholdei s, to watch over and preserve
its bell interefl, no inilitution can be better
guarded or have a clearer profpetfl: of exrenfive
ufefolnefs. During its prugrefs while the in
ilitution was forming, every possible circuinftane
unfavorable was suggested, which learned in
genuity could invent j but the more it has been
considered the more it has been admired. As
the Stockholders will soon meet for the choice
of Directors, the time draws near for the com
mencement of its operations. It being highly
intereiling to thegovernment, and to the people
in general, in particular the Stockholders, to
have the bank commence its loans as soon as pos
sible, the wisdom and energy of the Directors,
will make every effort i'or this purpose. And as
the business of banks is now so well underllood,
and this great national objedl has been folong in
contemplation, we may suppose the Directors
will commence its operations early in December.
Congress will commence their next felfion
with a profpe<ft so grateful and under circuin-
Uauces so animating, they may proceed with fa
cility and pleasure to complete the bulinefs of
thie Union. The President, and the Congress,
may jnlHy be considered as the molt fortunate
and iuccefsful legislators and rulers that ever go
verned a nation. May the glorious work ttill
prosper in their hands, and the world be illumi
nated by their wisdom. A TRAVELLER.
No. IV.
IT is of infinite importance to the welfare of the
Americans, that their exports heal ways at lealt
equal to their imports—On this balance will for
ever depend innumerable advantages. To this
capital point the government will attend with all
its wisdom : For so long as the balance is in fa
vor of the country, (considering its natural fnpe
riority, and valt agriculture) it nmfl flourifh far
beyond all former experience. The increaling
emigrations from Europe may aid the balance of
money ; but the exports and the imports are the
sure criterion to determine how the balance falls.
It is neceflary to the landed interest, and to the
manufactures, that the rateof interest for money
should be low, and this can never happen until
the funded debts are fold as high as they are 111
England. So long as four per cent, can be re
ceived for money in the public funds, individuals
will nor easily obtain loans under fix per cent.—
which is tnuch more than the profits of land or
manufactures will allow. Therefore the govern
ment, and all men of patriotism and influence,
must unite their constant exertions to raise the
value of the funds, as the only means to lower
the rate of interell. This circumstance seems not
to have been attended to in time part, and the
state of the finances did not permit a proper re
gulation ; but the revenue is now amply fufficient
to raise the credit of this country immediately to
fhat of England ; and as the general profperiry
•To eminently depends upon it, the utmofl energy
of government will undoubtedly be directed to
this g r eat object. It is well known that mere
fuperfluities colt this country a great sum ; if by
the wisdom of government, and the aiding ex
ample of the rulers, and the rich, the importa
tion of these fuperfluities might be discouraged,
a large balance of money would annually be left
to carry on manufactures, and hasten the reduc
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
PUBLIC HAPPINESS
' t~e , / s c st /
' ''/ / - // &*1
cPUHSo
[Whole No. 256.]
tion ofintereft and the extinction of the public
debt. This mighty concern ihould engage the
laboured attention of all the people—every one
can do fomethingin this important matter to serve
His country, and his exertions will be rewarded
by the savings he may hereby make in liis own
person and family. It is certainly pradticabls,
and the patriots of America Ihould never leave
ihe fubjetft until it fliall be fully accomplished.
Let their enlightened writers pursue it.
AN [English] ILLUSTRATION OF THE
RIGHTS OF MAN.
THE doctrine of the Rights of Man in
reduces itfelf to this—" I am a man, consequent
ly 1 am free ; no man is, or can bemy superior ;
this world was created for me, and not being
accountable to any one for my anions, I will do
what 1 please : Having neither fortune nor in
dulhy, I address myfelf to the firft rich man that
1 meet, and demand the half of his property : —
He has the temerity 10 refute me—l present the
decree of the National Aflembly with one hand,
and a piflol with the other—demonllrateto him,
most clearly, that the Legislature whom he fup
]>orts, and whom he is bound by oath to obey,
has decided, that the nobility and gentry have
no longer any patrimony ; that the rights they
poflefled, by inheritance or purchase, are tranf
terred to the nation oi which 1 form a part, and
that 1 claim nothing but what is absolutely and
justly my due :—Having no lodging, 1 fix myfelf
in the fir ft convenient mansion thail'uits me, and
if my neighbour has a pretty wife or daughter, I
will po(lefs myfelf of one or the other, or both,
il 1 like it. 1 here is nothing more reasonable,
according to these new discovered Rights of Man.
Such is the practice, and such the strange inter
pretation that has been given to the doctrines,
lately ©cached in France, of the lights I
Such is ths abominable perversion !—Such the a
bilfes that have already been committed, under
the pretext of equality ;—and Heaven alone can
tell where the miieries already commenced will
terminate."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
The proceedings of Thursday and Friday, August , and , hav
mg been limited to matters of but little importance we (hall
come at once to
THE FRENCH CONSTITUTION.
Such is the title of the Report wh ch M Thou ret prefentcd o»
Fr'dav trom 11, Committees of Constitution and Revision with
the following short address : ' W " h
" LAST. night was the anmverfary of the memorable 4th of
August, 11, which the Rcprclentatives of the French nation laid
the foundations of the Conflitution. Theday following,of which
this is the anniverlary, was confrcrate.l to digesting those pre
cious foundations ; and at this epoch it is, that after two years lal
bour, we prcfent to you the conftiiutional Act."
The report was read and applauded ; and on the motion of M
la Fayette, the Committee ol Constitution was ordeicd to pre'
parea plan for prefeniing the Conftnmional Ast to the nioft i n l
dependent examination and Iree acceptation bv the K'n«
After the preamble, and <7 articles o! the Declaration of the
Rights of a man aud a citizi n, it proceed* ;
The National Aircmbly, meaning to cftablifh the French Con.
dilution on the principles recognised and declared above abolish
es irrevocably the institutions that injure liberty and equality of
1 here is no longer Nobility, or Peerage or diflinflion of orders
or feudal system.or patrimonial jurifdiftions, or any of the titles
denominations, and prerogatives derived from them, or any orl
ders of chivalry, corporations, or decorations, lor which proofs
of nobility arc required, or any other luperiority, but that of
public officers in the exercise of tlieir funftioos.
No public office is any longer saleable or hereditary.
There is no longer, for any part of the nation, or for any in.
d,vidua], any privilege or exception to the common rights of all
Frenchmen.
There i, no longer wardenfhip, or corporations of profeflions,
art*, and crafts.
The hw no longer recognises religious vow«, or any other en
gagement contrary to natural rights or to the ConftitutioD.
HEAD I.
Fundamental Difpofiticns guaranteed by thiCanJlilution.
The Constitution guarantees, as natural and civil rights,
I. That all citizens arc admifliblc to places and employment*
without any dillinftion, but thamf ability and virtue.
11. That all contributions (hall be divided equally among all
the citizens, in proportion to their mean?.
111. That the farrte crimes diall be fubjeft to the fame puniflj
mems, wi'hout any diftiriftion of pcrfons.
The Conllttution in like manner guarantees, at natural and civil
rights,
Liberty to ail men of going, flaying or departing without be
ing arnfted, acciifcd, or detained, except in cafe, determined by
the law, and according to the forms prefenbed by it.
Liberty to all men of fpcaking, writing, and printing their
thoughts, and of cxcrcifing the teligioua worfh.p to which they
are attached. '
Liberty to ail citizens of aiTembling peaceably, and without
arm*,c mplving wn h the laws of Police.
Liberty of addrcfling to a!t couftitiKcd authorities petitions in
dividually Gjaed.
A TRAVELLER.As liberty consists but in the power of doint; whatever neither
injures the rights of another, nor the public fafety, the law may
cltablifti penalties again {I fa&s, which, attacking either the rights
of others, or the public fafety, wouid be injurious to foofety.
The Constitution guarantees the inviolability ol property, or a
just and previqns indemnity for that, of which public neccflity,
legally proved, shall require the fucrilice.
that were formerly dcftir.ed to ferv'.cesof public utility
belong to the nation ; those which were appropriated to the ex
pencee of worfbip are at the disposal of the nation.
A general eftablilhmerit of public succours shall be created and
organized lor the relief of the infirm poor, and of the poor not
infirm who want work.
A public inftru&iou lhall be created and organised, common to
all citizens, gratuitous with regard to those parts of tuition indil
\>cn{ableior all men, and of which the eftablilhment lhall be gra
dually diilribuitd in a proportion combined with the divifiou of
the kingdom.
lIEAD II
Oj the Division oj the Kingdom, and the State cf citizens.
T. Fiance is divided into 8j depart department into
di ft rift s, each diftrift into cantons.
11. Those ore French citizens who are born in France, of a
l'rench father ; who, having been born in France ol a foreign fa
ther, have fixed their refidencc in the kingdom; who, having
lu en born in a foreign country, of a French lather, have returned
to fettle in France, and have taken the Civic Oath ; in fine, who,
hi ving been born in a foreign country, being delcended in what
ever degiee from a Frenchman, or Frenchwoman, who have left
their country from religious motives, come to refidc in trance
and take the Civic Oath.
111. Those who, being born out of the kingdom, of foreign
parents, reside in France, become French citizens alter fi v e years
of continued residence in the kingdom; if, besides, they have
acquired real property, or married a French woman, or formed a
commercial eftablifhmcnt, and if they have taken the Civic Oath.
IV. Thp legislative power may, from important conliderations,
naturalize a foreigner, upon no other condition, than that of re
ading in France, and taking the Civic Oath.
V. The Civic Oath is : " I fwcar to be faithful to the Nation,
the Law, and the King ; and to maintain, with all my power, the
confiitution decreed by the Constituent National Aflembly during
the years 1789, 1790, and 1791."
VI. The right ol French citizenship is loft,
i ft, By naturalization in a foreign country ;
adly, By being condemned to penalties which involve the Ci
vic degradation, provided the person condemned, be not rc
inftatcd :
3dly, By a sentence of contumacy, provided the sentence be
not annulled ;
4(hly by an initiation into any ioreign order or body, which
shall be supposed to require proofs of nobility.
VII. Fr nch citizens regarded in the light of those local rela
tions, which irife out of their afiociation in cities, and in certain
divisions of tcriitorv in the country, form the Communities.
The legislative power may fix the extent of boundary of each
communiiy.
VIII. The citizens who compose each community have the
right of choosing, according to the forms prescribed by the law,
those among them, who, under ihe name of Municipal Officer,
are charged with ihe management of -.he particular affairs of the
community. To the Municipal Officers may be delegated cer
tain lun&ions relative to the general intereftof the State.
IX. The rules which the Municipal Officers shall bound to
follow in the exercise, both of the municipal functions, and of
those which shall be delegated to them for the general imereft,
ihall be fixed by the laws.
HEAD 111.
Of the public powers.
I. The sovereignty is one, indivisible, and appertains to the
nation ; no fe&ion of the people can arrogate the exercise of it.
11. The nation, from which alone flow all the powers, cannot
exercise them but by delegation.
The French constitution is representative ; the representatives
are the legislative body and the King.
111. The legislative power is delegated to a National Aflembly,
composed of temporary representatives, freely cholen by the
people, to be exercise d by this Aflembly, with the fan£tion of
the King, in manner afterwards determined.
IV. The government is monarchical : the executive power is
delegated to the King, to be exercised under his authority, by
Mini (Vers and other rcfponfible agents, in manner afterwards de
termined.
V. The judicial power is delegated to judges, chofcn for a
time limited by the people.
Of the Legislative National AJfembly.
I. The National Aflembly, forming the legislative body, is
permanent, and confiftsof one chamber only.
11. It (hall be formed by new elections every two years.
Each period of two years lhall form one legislature.
111. The renewal of the legislative body shall be matter of full
right.
IV. The legislative body (hall not b« diflolved by the King.
Section I.
Number of Representatives.—Basis of Representation.
I. The numb r of representatives to the legislative body, shall
be 745, on account of the eighty-three departments of which the
kingdom is composed ; and independent of those that may be
granted to the colonies.
11. The representatives shall be distributed among the eighty
three departments, according to the three proportions of land,ol
population, and the contribution direst.
111- Of the 745 representatives, 247 are attached to the land
Of these each department (hall nominate three, except the depart
mentof Paris, which (hall nominate only one.
IV. Two hundred and forty-nine representatives are attributed
to the population. The total mass of the a&ive population of
the kingdom is divided into 249 parts, and each department no
minates as many ot the deputies as it contains parts of the popu-
lation.
V. Two hundred and forty-nine representatives are attached
to the contribution direst. The sum total of the dirett contribu
tion of the kingdom is likewise divided into 249 parts, and each
department nominates as many deputies as it pays parts of the
contribution.
Section 11.
Primary AJfemblies, Nomination nj Elcflorf.
I. In order to form a Legislative National Assembly, the a&ive
citizcns shall convcne in primary AflVmblies in the cities and can-
tons,
11. To be an adtivecitizen, it is necefTary
To be a Frenchman, or have become a Frenchman ;
To have attained 25 years complete ;
To have resided in the city or canton at least for the fnace oi
one year;
To pay in any part of the kingdom a direst contribution, at lead
equal to the value of three days labour, and to produce the ac
quittance ;
Not to be in a menial capacity, namely, that of a servant re
ceiving wages;
To be inferibed in the Municipality of the place of his resi
dence in the lift of the National Guards ;
To have taken the Civic Oath.
-111. Every fix years the Legiflatlve Body (hall fix the minimum
and the maximum of the value of a day's labour, and the Admi
uiftiators of the Departments shall determine the rate for everv
diftrift. 7
Chhapter I,
IV. None {hall exercise the rights of an active citizen in more
than one place, nor employ another as his substitute.
V. Those lhall be excluded from the rights of an a&ive citizen
who are in a ltaie of accusation. Those who, after having been in
a slate of failure or bankruptcy, shall not produce a geneial dil
charge from their creditors.
VI. The ptimary Assemblies shall name electors in the propor
tion of the number of adlive citizens residing in the ciiy or can-
ton ;
There (hall be named one elcdlor to the Assembly. or not, ac
cording as there lhall happen to be prefeut a hundred adlive ci
tizens ;
There shall be named two, when there shall be present irom 151
to 250, and so on in this proportion
VII. No man can be named elector, if along with the condi
tions necessary, in oidcr to be an a6tive citizen, he dots not join
that of paying a contribution direel of day's labour.
Section 111.
Eledoral Aflcmblies —Nomination of Representatives.
I. The elc&ors named in each department shall convene in or
der to chafe the number of Representatives, whose nomination
lhall belong to the department, and a number of substitutes equal
to the third of the Reprefentativcs.
11. The Reprefentativcs and substitutes shall be chosen by an
absolute majority of votes.
111. All a£live citizens, whatever be their (late, pro r eflion, or
contribution, may be chosen as Representatives of the Nation.
IV. Excepting nevertheless the Ministers and other agents of
the Executive power, revocable at pleasure, the Commiflioners of
the national treasury, the colle£lors and receivers of the dire£l con
tributions ; those who fuperinUnd the colledlion and manage
ment of the indirect contributions, and those who, under what
ever denomination, hold any employ in the Royal Houlehold.
V. The exercise of the municipal, administrative and judiciary
fun£tions, shall be incompatible with the fun£kions of a Represen
tative of the Nation, during every period of the Legiflaturc.
VI. The members of the legislative body may be re-ele&ed to
the next legislature, but not till after an interval of two years.
VII. The Representatives named in the departments, shall not
be Representatives of a particular department, but of the whole
nation ; and their freedom of opinion cannot be controlled by any
inftru&ions either of the primary assemblies, or of the ele&ors.
Section IV.
Se/fion and Regulation of the Primary arid Elefloral Assemblies.
I. The fun&ions of the Primary and Electoral Affenablies, lhall
be limited merely to the right of chufing ; as soon as the ele£tion
is over, they shall (eparate, and shall not meet again till they (hall
have been summoned.
11. No a&ive citizen can enter or vote in an Assembly, if he is
armed or dressed in an uniform, unless he be in the service, in
which cafe he may vote in uniform, but without arms.
111. No armed force can be introduced in the meeting, exrept
at the express desire of the AfTembly, unless in the cafe of a£lual
violence, when the order of the Piefident lhall be fufficieut to call
in the aid of the public force.
IV. Every two years there shall be drawn up in each diftri£l lifts
by cantons of the a£live citizens, and the lilt of each canton shall
be published, and polled up two months before the meeting of
the Primary Assembly.
The protells which shall be made either against the rights of ci
tizens, named in the lift, or on the part of those who shall affirm
that they are unjustly omitted, (hall be carried to the Tribunals, in
order to be there decided upon.
The lift, (hall fcrve to regulate the admission of citizens in the
next Primary Assembly, in every point that lhall have been ascer
tained by a sentence pronounced before the fitting of the Assembly.
y. The Electoral Assemblies have the right of verifying the
quality and powers of those who lhall present themselves there,
and their decifionsfhall be provifi>nally executed with a refervc for
the sentence of the Legislative Body at the time of the verification
of the powers of Deputies.
VI. In 110 cafe, and under no pretext, (hall the King, or any
agents named by him, interfere in quellions relative to the regula
rity of the Convocation, the fctting of Assemblies, the form of
elections, or the political rights of citizens.
Section V.
Meeting of the Representatives in the Legislative National Assembly.
I. The Representatives (hall convene on the firft Monday of
May, in order to supply the placeof the last Legislature.
11. They shall form themselves provisionally under the prefi
dence of the eldest of their number, in order to verify the powers
of the Repiefentatives present.
111. As soon as these (hall be verified, to the number of three
hundred and seventy-three members, they (hall constitute them
selves under the title of Legislative National Assembly ; they shall
name a President, Vice-Prelident, and Secretaries, and enter upon j
the exercise of their funflions.
IV. During the whole of the month of May, if the number of
Representatives present fall short of three hundred and feventy
three, the Assembly shall not perform any Legislative atl.
They may issue an arrete, enjoining abfeut members to attend
their functions within 15 days at fartheft, under a penalty of 3000
livres, if they do not produce an excuse which shall be deemed
lawful by the Legislative B6dy.
V. On the last day of May, whatever be the number of members
present, they shall constitute themselves a Legislative National
Assembly.
VI. The Representatives (ball pronounce in|a body,in the name
of the French people, the oath—" to live free, or die!"
They (hall then individually take the oath to maintain, with all
their power, the Constitution of the kingdom, decreed by the
Constituting National Assembly, during the years 1789, 1790, and
1791, to propose or assent to nothing in the coutfe of ihe Lcgifla
ture which may at all tend to infringe it, aud to be in every ie
fpe& faithful to the Nation, the Law, and the King.
VII. The Representatives of the Nation are inviolable. They
cannot be examined, accused, or judged at any time with refpedt
to what they m3y have said, written, or performed in the exercise
of their functions of Representatives.
VIII. They may, for a criminal ast, be seized as guilty of a
flagrant crime, or in virtue of an order of arrest, but notice shall
be given of it, without delay, to the Legislative Body, and the pro
fccution shall not be continued, till after the Legislative Bodv lhall
have decided that there is ground of accusation.
( To be continued.)
LONDON, August n.
IT is said, that Mr. Faulkner has.fully execut
ed the purposes of his embally ; that the good
understanding which long subsisted between our
court and that of Peterfbnrg is perfectly re-efta
blillieil ; and that the Empress has alTented to a
renewal of the commercial treaty, which expired
in 1786, and by which both countries were so
much benefited.
By a letter from Peterfburgh we are informed,
that the Empress of Ruifia is at the lad extremi
ty. From the (late in which she lay when the
poll away, it is more than probable, that (he is
no more.
There are different accounts refpefting the
Empress of Ruflia as to her health. The follow
190-
ing, as to her person, lier manners, and her ta
lents, cannot be unacceptable to th» reader
This very distinguished woman, though foinc
what corpulent, is not ungracefully formed, and
is above the middle ftze. She lias rather a fair
complexion, and uses paint : her eyes are ex
prellive, and her features in general notunpleaf
ing. In molt of the portraits given of her, her
features are too ltrong, and her "air too maCou
line ; for, with regard to her appearance alto
gether, though {lie be not one of the most deli
cate of the fair, yet (he is by no means one of
the most coai fe. 'Her demeanour is courteous •
and a prelence of mind, penetration and acute
obfervarion, are among her principal character
istics : her reason is practical reason, and this
has railed her to a knowledge superior to thai of
most of her sex. Her mind lias great sensibility,
and is very ful'ceptible of jealousy, ofdifguft, and
of vengeance. With refpeift to her diefs, it is
very superb when Ihe appears in public ; fte
sometimes wears a very coltly necklace of dia
monds, bracelets and ear-rings, with a blue rib
band of the highest order of knighthood.
A letter received on Thursday from Birming
ham mentions, that since the beginning of this
week, several persons who had attempted totake
Ihelter in the coalpits at Wednefbury had been
apprehended, and have proved to befome of the
mod active of the rioters. What is more extra
ordinary, a guard is put over the principal of
these subterraneous regions, to hinder the ad
miHion of any person except the workmen, tilt
the present troublesome investigation has subsided
Extratl of a letter from JVarfuw, July 16.
" A report having been circulated of an in
tended- plot to carry off the King from the palace
of Lazten, every neceflary precaution has been
taken against such a mejifure ; the guards about
the Royal person have been doubled, and addi
tional cannon placed round the palace ; a fufc
pected person has been apprehended,and brought
here under a strong guard ; but as no particulars
can be developed, it is supposed to be a falfe a
larm."
Sleep Walkers.—A gentleman who was troubled
for a length of time, with a visitation of this un
fortunate kind, discovered a very simple way of
preventing ir. He had all round his bed a large
mat of very itrong horse hair, with the ends of
them (ticking up about a quarter of an inch ; and
which, whenever he Hepped upon them, by
pricking his feet, always waked him.
An advertifemenc addrefled to Undertakers,
and the public in general, describes a newly con
fee-rated bury ing ground, in the environsof Welfc
miniler, as, " the mod choice, commodious,fafe,
quiet, and fnu% fit nation, that it is polfibJe to Us
in." It is emblazoned info lavifli and luxuriant
a style, that one would really think the person .
that announces it, intends to tempt people todie,
char they may get into a pleasant situation. it j
is i'oniewhat finiilar to the handbill of a Club,
where each member,for paying sixpence a week,
has tjjofl tmmenfe advantages as long as he lives,
and a fuin set apart for his funeral, when hecaa
live no longer. It concludes with these memo
rable words : "Jt is worth any gentleman's while
to belong to this Society, if it were only to rp
flecft on the handsome wanner in which he is sure
to be: carried to his grave, and the pleasant pro£
pe<ft there is from the place in which he is sure/
to be buried."
Peter Pindar, who now and then it seems can
write Loyal Odes, thus happily addrefles that
Son of Sedition, daring Pai ne—
" Say, didst thou fear that Br ita i n was too blefl,
Of peace thou mod delicious pest ?—
How sh /vMEFU l that this pin's-head of an Isle :
Whilst half the Globe's in grief, should wear a Imile,
How dares the Wr epi amidst his hedges ling,
Whilst Eagles droop the beak, and flag the wing ?"
Original Letter from the I\i"g of Fohnd /#
M. de Viß'tnghoff, at Paris,
M. DE VICTI NGHOFF,
I HAVE been very much flattered by receiving,
after an absence of thirty years, fnch an affedh
onate tettimony of your sentiments as that af
forded by your letter of the 4th of June last.
The active and honorable part which you have
taken in the revolution in France, is related in
a paper which has been, for some timepaft, COI 'T
ftantly brought to me. The fame humane and
civic motives, that have governed your condudfc
in the country, which you inhabit, induce you
to take a part so agreeable to me in the revolu
tion in Poland.
The success of the latter can never be more
pleasing to me, than when I find it approved by
thole whose merit has long commanded my P ar "
ticular elteeiH. My mod sincere thanks are due
to you for the fentimeuts you express upon an
event, that protnifes to Poland a more happy a n "
secure exigence for the future.
I am very happy, fir, to have found this op
portunity of alluring you of the conllancy of that
friendfhip which was formed, when I had the
happiness of knowing you.
Stanislaus Augustus, King.BOSTON, October i
By Cape. Prince,from Aux-Cayes,we learn,that
information bad there been received of au insur
rection of the Negroes in that quarter of the
Cape ; but that no particulars had come to hand
prior to his failing, two polls which were due
had been detained.
A letter of a lace date, from a gentleman on
the coast of Africa, to his friend in this town,
fays, " That Mr. John Ormond, (a famous chief
and factor) of the Rio Pengus, is no more. His
white people are all maflacred by the natives,
and his property became a prey to his own slaves.
Numbers of people are fufferers, unfortunately
lam one. 1 his event has caused such tumult
and confufion, that the trade is almost at a stand."
HARTFORD, October 3
The woolen manufacture in Hartford, after
ftruwling with every obstacle, begins to flou
rifh'and bids fair to be advantageous to the pro
prietors as well as to the public. The quality of
the cloths,more especially the coarser, is acknow
ledged on all hands to be superior to that of the
EiMilh of the fame finenefs*. It is an undeni
able fad; that the coatings made here, are more
durable than the English. The great objection
formerly made to the colouring and finifhing the
cloths is now removed—it being agreed by the
best judges that the difference between the belt
finifhed English cloths and those of this manufac
ture are hardly perceivable. And the writer of
this paragraph, a few days ago, saw a tayiormif
take cloth from the Hartford manufactory for
English. This being the fa<ft, the reputation of
American cloths will rife and facilitate the sale,
especially as they can be afforded as low as En
glish cloths of the far.ie finenefs.
As this manufacture consumes large quantities
of wool, it is recommended to our farmers to at
tend to the raising of ilieep and also to the im
proving of the breed. Wool will always be in
demand, and command cafli.
The bell foundery, by Mr. Doolittle, also de
serves notice. The bells cafl at this foundery are
equal in quality to any imported ; and the whole
continent may be furnifhed at this single foun
dery.
* However (ingular this may be thought, it is undoubtedly a
fa& ; as is well known to those who have either examined their
refpe£Hve textures and materials, or have experienced the durabi
lity of each.
Philadelphia, O&ober 12.
EngtWh papers by the last arrivals, contain the
following accounts in addition to those in our
last, viz. That the plague rages in the Morea—
and continues to spread in Constantinople and
the neighboring villages. A second decree has
been publilhed in Spain relative to ft rangers—
this enjoins that all strangers who dwell in Spain
must be Catholics—renounce all privileges as
foreigners, and take an oath of fidelity to reli
gion and the sovereign, under penalty of being
sentenced to the gallies, &c.
The prospeCt of peace continues to brighten,
and some great fucceiles gained by the Ruffians
render the event 110 longer dubious ; the Em
peror it is said has already signed the articles-
Prince Repnin has defeated the Turks at Maczin
—they loft 4000 men, 30 pieces of cannon and
fifteen ilandards—the Ruffians only 150 killed
and 300 wounded ; the number of the 1 urkiih
army exceeded 70,000 in en.
A sortie of 9000 men was made from Brailow,
but Prince Repnin obliged them to retire with
loss. It is expetfted that the Ruffians will now
besiege Brailow in form : Further accounts add
that the inhabitants of Brailow fearing the fate
oflfinael are fleeing from that city in great num
bers.— The Ruffians have also pofleiled them
selves of the fjrtrefs of Amafla, in the Cuban,
the whole garrison consisting of 14,000 men be
ing made prisoners of war ; the magazines, and
every thing in the place, wirh all the veflels in
the port fell into the hands of the conquerors.^
The Germanic body aflembled at Ratilbon in
'lie high Colleges of the Empire, have pas
sed sundry refulutions relative to the present si
tuations of their podeffions in Alsace and Lor
raine ; in these thev thank the Emperor for his
interposition with his Most Chriflian Majesty
they express their surprise that the answer of the
King is not in the Latin Tongue according to
treaty with France ; they fay the answer is un
latisfartory, as the French discover 110 intention
of making restitution, or even to offer an indem
nification in territory and in fubjeifts, for the
pofleffions in Alsace and Lorraine which have
been violated and infringed upon by the deciees
of the National Aflembly. 1 hey request that
the Emperor fliould make new representations
to his Most Christian Majesty on these fubjecfts—
and, that the end may be obtained, they fut
ther resolve, That all the guarantees of the
peace of Westphalia lhall be fumuioned, with .ill
the powerful States in Europe, and be requefied
to manifeft and teftifv their participation in this
important affair, and to support tlie rcprefcnta
tions of the imperial Ambaflador at Paris—and
that the Emperor be supplicated to enjoin all the
circles and States of the Empire, duly to com
plete the numbir of their troops, so as to be able
to furni.'h their contingent in duplo, to defend
the dignity of the Germanic Empire, its autho
rity and l ights, by employing all the measures
authorised by the law of nature and nations.
N. B. The electors of Bohemia, Saxouy and
Hanover, did not accede to the above—and the
Elector of Brandenburg has infilled 011 prelimi
nary negotiations.
Of all the secular powers who have a fuffrnge
at the Diet of the Empire, no one has exprefied
a more unfavourable opinion of the present sys
tem of France, than the King of Sweden.
Notwithstanding the combination and resolu
tions of the Electoral College of the Germanic
Piinces againlt the proceedings of the National
Afleiiibly of France, there ai e many circumttan
ces which conlpire to prevent any acSive opera
tions againil the revolution. The financesofthe
Emperor are exhausted, and the debt of the em
pire amounts to 592 millions of florins—added to
this, the Emperor and the Electors cannot feel
secure in respeCt to the attachment of ihe people
to their own governments —and some of the Elec
tors are themselves so much the friends of the
Rights of Man, as secretly to with success to the
Revolution of France. The dependance of the
Emperor for money mufl be on the Kingof Spain
— and it is well known that the affairs of Spain
are not unembarrassed—and that butafmall pro
portion of the produce of the mines of Mexico
and Peru, go into the royal coffers.
In confluence of the speech which Mr. Fox
made in the House of Commons, against a war
with Russia, the Empress has diretfted her Am
baflador to procure a bull of that orator, in white
marble, which (he intends to place between those
of Cicero and Demosthenes, in her cabinet.
Succinf! flatement of the diflurhances in Hifpaniola
from the account tranfiated for the Central Ad-
vertifa\
Aucust 21. Somes negroes seized from a bo
dy of 2 or 300, being questioned relative to the
cause of their meetings, said that they wanted
to enjoy that liberty, they are intitled to by " the
Plights of Man."
22. A while man taken among several leaders
of the black insurgents j several plantations burnt.
23. Every citizen of the Cape under arms—
all the plantations on the plain, on fire, and the
whites found on them murdered.—twenty ne
groes killed ; their number amounts to 2000—
the troops attacked them—they flee and are pur
sued, 35 killed and 50 wounded, many whites
among them ; the Cape regiment is joined by
the citizens, —all in consternation.
24- Intelligence the molt distressing—all is on
fire—this is seen from the Cape ; the city put
ting icfelf in a posture of defence, a battalion of
volunteer citizens set out —600 of the insurgents
escaped—killed 8 or jo—found the plantation
Ckoifsuil burnt —troops returned to the Cape.
The quarter Morin is now on fire ; the
infurre&ion becomes more general, numbers of
the negroes taken, and condemned to be Ihot.
The free negroes and mulattoes armed, and are
formed into a separate division, they are eager
to attack the insurgents
26. Every avenue to the city is guarded—the
legroes are at the distance of one league, and
frequently approach in numbers to bid us defi
ance many of them are killed by our cannon,
notwithstanding which they come up unarmed—
a few whites belonging to the Cape have been
killed, owing to their own imprudence.
27. In several engagements the whites have
been fuccefsful ; and the negroes always driven
back with loss ; 60 or 70 men have frequently'
beat back 7 or 800 of the negroes ; they are now
10,000 strong—7 or 800 of which are on horfc
back, and tolerably well armed.
28. Above 100 Negro prisoners have been (hot
in the burying place within two days—One Ne
gro, a leader, has been broken on the wheel—
and a white leader hung ; —he had been an Ab
be, and declared that he was sent from France
with four more, to teach the Negroes to revolt ;
there are other white rebels in prifon.—lt is said
there are at least 100 white men in the Negro
camp. About 150 whites have been murdered
on the plantations.
29. The Mulattoes and free Negroes have dis
tinguished themselves greatly, and killed many
of the insurgents.
50. The Americans fitrnifh a guard every
night—also the French sailors.
31. Some indications of a conspiracy ;— it ap
pears that the plot is to set fire to the city in 400
houses at once—to butcher the whites, and take
the city by escalade.—M de Rouvray the com
manderin chief of the whites, has killed 290 in
one engagement —We have loft M. Lehon the
commander of the JVlulattoes.
This Journal is continued to the 13th Septem
ber—in which there is a detail of the attacks
made on the Negroes from day today, generally
191-
with success. TheONcgroes were however fonie
times victorious—they have taken foine of the
whites prisoners—and 011 the jth September, the
account Hates that they had taken a fort in which
were fix 24 pounders. The Negroes have seve
ral field-pieces in their camp on the Heighths of
the Cape. The infurredtion, so far from being
quelled, appears to have encreafed.
A chief of the insurgents, named Cappe, was
taken and broke on the wheel—he was peflefled
of an income of 30,000 livres, all in town houses.
The number of Negroes killed to the 13111 Sept.
is supposed to be upwards of 3,000 —and before
the iiTurrediion is quelled, it is judged that x or
2,000 more muff be aifpatched.
A letter from Cape Francois of the 18th Sep
tember, received here on Monday, fays that no.
tiling of importance had been done towards quel
ling the dilturbances, nor had any thing further
happened to encreafe the evil. A sortie of 2,000
whites was to take place on the 19th.
Sunday last the Minister of France ffct off for
Mount Vernon, on a visit to the Prcfident of the
United States. *
The jßth of August, Lord Dorchester and his
family failed from Quebec for England, onboard
the Alligator, Isaac Coffin, Esq. commander.
The Quebec Herald contains addresses of the
Citizens of Ouebec to Prince Edward, lately ar
rived there from Gibraltar.
A plan for cutting a Canal, between Clubfoot's
and Harlow's Creeks, in North-Carolina, lately
appeared in the Edenton paper—the distance
from Creek to Creek is about two miles—Thus
the spirit of improvement is catching from State
to Slate.
Ratifications of the articles of amendment to the Constitution of
the United States proposed to the States by the firft Congress un
der said Constitution at their firft feflion
Maryland, North-Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode-Island and
South-Carolina, have ratified the whole—Delaware has postponed
a decision on the firft article, which was lately ratified by Penn
sylvania— New-I-lampfhire, New-York and New-Jersey, have ra
tified all but the second article. Returns from the other States
have not been received by Congress.
Eulogium on the Conjlitvtion of the United States, j rem Dr. Linn's
Sermon, 4th July,
AS far as this Constitution has been tried, its influence is
found to be fafeand beneficial. It is a representation ot the peo
ple, from whom all legitimate government is derived. It is a go
vernment of laws, not of men. It ptomHVs to unite mildness and
energy ; to lecure and defend ; to fleer the happy medium be
tween oppreflion and licentioufncfs.
It is calculated to encourage genius, and bring merit to view
from the oblcure walks of life. Titles and birth give no claim to
rank or precedence; but a capacity for business, with learning,
eloquence and virtue, are the fuieft ways to rife to honor aud pit
ferment.
SHIP NEWS.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS *t the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Prefidenr, Cole, Briflol
Brig Suckey, Cross, . Dublin
Betsey, Shackford, Cape-Francois
Schooner Induflry, Patrickfon, Cape ot Good Hope
Nancy, George, " Jamaica
Sloop Ann, Lightburn, Tortola
The Editor has been favored with the following intelligence from Mar-
blehead, by Richard, Harris, Esq. Collector oj the Jaid Fort
Captain Hooper left Bilboa the 9th Augufi J a 11, and brings th
allowing intelligence—That during his (lay at Bilboa, feveralvef
fels arrived there from Gicat-Britain, all agreed uniformly in ih»
following particulars— That the courts of Great Britain and Spain
had combined together to make war on France, tor the purpoie of
compelling her to reinflate the French monarch on his throne—
That a hotter press was never known—And every other prepara*
tion for war, which was universally believed would be declared in
form. Capt. Hooper on his outward paflage, in the bay of Bis
cay, spoke two Spanish frigates, two armed brigs, and one large
transport ship, (the latter of which was full of soldiers) from Cadiz,
bound to St. Sebaflian. The principal merchants, as well as every
other rank of the people of Bilboa, had no doubt but that a war
was inevitable.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
ao/6 20/8 pr. £ .
1 */3 IIA ,
12/3_ 10/4
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 60 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEIiT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates i6jt ijJ 85 do.
Indents 10j6 do.
Bank Subscriptions, 130 132 Dollars.
(}3~ The articles Jrom our Correspondent C. were received too late
Jor this paper—with other favors, theyjhall be attended to in our next.
* # * Our Subscribers are refpeflfully informed, that their late disap
pointments in not receiving the Gazette with the ufualpunctuality*
were occasioned solely by the number of large packets difpatchedfrom the
Treasury Department, which filed the mail portmanteau to the exclujt
on of Newf papers.
E r r a t u m—ln thejirjl column oj this paper, for Surgeon-General>
read " Surveyor-General oj the State New-YorA.'*
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negociated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Lommijfton, and all other
Business in the line of a Brojccr, tianfattcd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
Jit the Office next door to tht Custom-House,
Utate-Street, BOSTON.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L L. D. ProfcflTor of Laws
in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, nexi Winter, two Courses of Leflures. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Philadelphia, October 12, 1791
lC 3i P r - cent
57 d°-
62 do.
Secretary to the Board ol Faculty.FROM A LATE LONDON PAPER.
The fo/lowivg SONG, bi Piter Pjmdar, prepared for[ the
alluded to, and humoioi'Jly given as the production of t.<e o
Thomas PAINE. \
COME good fellows all—Confufion's the toast,
And (uceefs to our excellent cause :
As we have nothing to lose, lo! nought can be loft,
So, perdition io rnonarchs and laws!
France shews us the way —an example how great .
Then like France let us stir up a riot :
Mav our names be preferv d by some damnable feat,
For who but a wretch would lie quiet?
As wc all arc poor rogues, 'tis most certainly right,
At the doors of the rich ones to thunder,
Like the thieves who Yet fire to a dwelling by night,
And come in foi a {hare of the plunder.
Whoever for rriifchief invents the heft plan,
Best murdcts, sets fire, and knocks down,
The votes of our club (hall be given to that man,
And Hemlock shall form him a crown.
Our empire has tower'd with a lustre too long,
Then blot out this wonderlul fun ;
Let us arm thrn at once, -ind in confidence strong,
Complete what dark Gordon begun.
But grant a defeat—we are hang'd and that's all,
A punifhmcnt light as a leather;
Yet we triumph in death, as we Catalincs (all,
And go to the devil together.
LINES
On Peter Pindar's Ode to Paink.
BROTHER Peter ! your Muse very brilliant h;;s been,
In describing exploits, ol a good King and Queen,
Due praise on the Prmceffes too, you've beftew'd ;
There your p?n with the honey of Hybla has flow'd :
And for many droll things we return you our thanks—
For Rozzi, Piozz;. and great Sir Jo. Banks.
Well have you arretted Sir Joseph's bold treason,
The grand purple Emperor, daring to fcize on !
But if mere roving Royalty, iudg'd by your betters,
Is fafejl in caf< s of glass, or in fetters,
Think how highly expedient to keep in close durance,
Thole Emp'rors, who Ihcw a despotic dfiurance!
Tho' T love (brother Peter) a jest at my heart,
Yet on Politicvery dull jests vou impart;
Deep, the ocean of Government doctrines! — beware !
Your Muse on this ocean, fhou'd (land ftilJ, and flare f
* sis a fubjed too mighty!—thou lafhe-ft in vain
The intuitive strength, wit, and wisdom of Paine!
Pain e, and all anti-Bu rkit rs, regard with a finite,
The rage of the Viper thus biting a file!
T 0 MARIA.
LES FLEURS,
c< Flowers worthy ojParadife." Mi lton.
AH cease, dear Maid, to po : nt the sceptic drain,
Which tells mc that with Life's Ihoit day
Thy Charms for ever fade away,
And that fond memory treasures them in vain !
No, when the beauteous progenv of Heaven,
Man, from the ftniling lap of earth
Was horn by Reafoninto birth,
Immortal Bliss unto his Soul was given.
Not like the laughing Flow e r s, whose breast
A thousand glittering hues adorn,
Which catch their lustre from the Morn,
And only bid the wand* ring Spoi leks reft.
Whose fragrance every pafling breeze exhales,
Transmitted to the Peasant's (heel,
And fluttering round his thankless head,
As sluggishly he plods to yonder Vales.
No ! for the darling of supernal care,
The finer fabric of his mind
Was not to reckless winds refign'd»
Nor waited on the barren fie'ds of air.
But, when thro' all this trembling mortal maze
The harraf&'d Spirit winds its way,
It druggies to diviner day,
And burns around the Throne where Angels
B I. A L E
ANECDOTES
MOLIERE, the great Coniic-Poec of France,
was efteetned an excellent a<ftor. He died
in performing the pare of the Hypochondriac, in
aComedy of his own writing, called Le Malade
Imaginaire, (which is part of a Comedy in En
glilh called the Mother-in-law) on thee 17th of
February, 1679, in his grand Climaifteric. The
Archbilhop of Paris would not allow his body to
be inhumed in consecrated ground, which the
King being informed of, sent for the Archbilhop,
and expoftnlated with him ; but he was an ob
ilinate churchman, and would not willingly con
descend to his Majesty's perfuaiions. The King,
finding him unwilling to comply, desired to know
how many feet deep the Holy Ground reached !
The Bifliop replied, " about eight." " Well,"
replied the King. " I find there is 110 getting the
better of your scruples ; therefore let his grave
be dug twelve feet, that is four below your con
secrated ground, and let them bury him there."
The Archbifliop was obliged to comply ; for Louis
XlVth would be obeyed.
A MAN, by the name oFHerring, being very
lick, and his affairs in a deranged situation, ex
prefl'ed much concern to his brother, liow his
child ren would he provided for. " Hah !" said
he, •' take comfort, dear brother ; he that pro
vided! food for the young ravens, when they cry
will undoubtedly take good care of the young
Herrings. &
University of Penksy lvania,
, Oft()i)£r 7, I7QI.
BO" The MEDICAL LECTURES will begin on
the fir ft Monday in November next.
THE arrearages of Subscriptions for this Gazette amount
at this time to upwards of Two Thousand Dollars. —The Editor flat
ters himfelj that no apology can be tho't neicjjary ftr earnepy requeuing
a compliance with the terms of subscription, in afpeedy discharge of the
funs due. -Those gentlemen of whom the papers are immediately re
ceived, are authorised to receipt for any payments that may h offered.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, sometime in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, late the property ol Kathtnul
IVickliff, deceased — about, forty-five vrars of age, about five feu
eight or nine inches high, pre, ty well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
paim in his feet and ancles-by trade a bricklayer, ttone raalonand
plaflerer He is a very handy si llow as a houle-waiter, and is tond
of fitch business. He is a great diffcmbler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description ol
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having Friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any pcrfon that will le
curefaid Negro in anyj.il, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will he paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. Tohn Kl NCHELOU, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, AdminiArator.
(i aw pw)
October 12, 17.91
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apply who
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Manacf.ks of NEW-HAVF.N WHARF LOTTERY,
have unexpected!y received information from abroad, of a con
futable number ot Tickets yet unfold. This renders it veeejjary
for them (in order to answer the of the Lottery) to adjourn
the drawing to Monday the 17th of O&ober next, at which time
the drawing will positively re-commence, and continue without in
terruption until finilhed.
New-Haven, Sept. 28, 1701.
N. B. The numbers already drawn, both prizes and blanks,
will be publithcd immediately, in hand-bills, and in the Connecti
cut "Journal, for the information of those who wiih to puichafe
Tickets now undrawn.
HAVE removed their Office 10 the corner of Chefnnt sr.d Third
Streets—where they puichafe and fell CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, &c. &c.
Bufincfs of all kinds, in their line, tranfa&ed onCommiffion
kappa.
They have for sale, TICKETS in the Second ClaU of the Mas
sachusetts Semi-annnal Lottery (the drawing of which will com
mence 011 the 13 h inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Class ot the
Charleftown Lottery, at the Manager* prices.
To be let, on moderate Ground Rent, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly situated, in Kensington,
fronting on thice ftrects. There are improvements on this lor,
which, added to its fnuation, make it worthy of particular atten
tion. Philadelphia, Oft. 1,1791.
IV. M'D OH G ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of Wis fchoo] for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpe&able lhare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Thole who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, mav be assured, they will be taught in the moil approvrd
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&ifins; for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and ilrangcrsof genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
Certificates & Public Securities
On COMMISSION, at public and private falc, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all Tales or purchafts at au&ion, ope
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent. ; and 011 all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving iniereft at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(pT Such persons throughout the United States, as inav be
plcafed to favor the subscribers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public (locks, together with extenfivc
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARI) & ISLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
1 aw 6m)
.Yf.7rrh 15, lrqi
LAST night was broke open ihe Store of the fubfcribcr, at Bor
dentown, and llolen from the fame the following articles. \'iz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 ("mall
box, containing four clocks and one dozen tertamcnts; i ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped veit and
breeches, two shirts and a frnall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
tmall books ; i box containing 447 real oltrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; ? barrels rve
meal, branded Stout arid Imlay; , barrel pork, t ream paper, and
1 dozen piste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecuritv ol
the above property,fo that the owners may have the articles again
or in proportion for part thereof . also a further reward of Twents
Dollars will be given for the fecur.ty of the perpetrator or perpc
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
„ , . „ JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordcntown, New-Jcrfey, Sept. 1, 1791. [ e ptf]
192
NOTIFICATION
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
PURCHASE and SELL all k.nds of
Forty Dollars Reward.
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, acdBOHSA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICESAc.ic
Of the iiril quality—by retail,
No 1 9 ,
Third-Street, between Chefnut =nd Market Street).
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jrrfey, 2<J Class—to commence drawing 26th inft. ) p o f,.
MalTachufetts Semi-anmr.il, 2 d Class. 13th Oaober. J tin-ly
May be had as above.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M IS S I O JJ by
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Street, next door to thr Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
L OTTER r TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Georgetown-y September g, 1751.
Sales of the Lots 111 the Federal Cit) will commonccon
X Monday the x 7th day of OSobcr next. The Coromifiionns
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the publr
buildings to any dt lirablc extent; with a view to draw the fund
into action. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a deposit ot
percent, will require I.4th part of the purchase money to be pjui
down, the residue to be on bonds with fecuritv, pa /able with i.».
terefl in three eqiul payments. The manner of improvement
be publiftied at the sale.
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
r I "'HE Commiffioncfs appointed to receive Subicnptions to the
JL Bank,of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law in
form t he Stockholders of the (aid Bank, that an eietlionfof twenty,
five Directors will he held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of Odtober next,at 10 o'clock in the moraine
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RI ITEM HOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
MASSACHUS£TS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of th? STATE-LOTTERY allure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT.
TERY will pofitivcly commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On ThurfJay the 13th of Otlober next, o rjooner, if the Tickets
(hall he disposed of. As the Managers have in their fevcnl
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligncd, so
they arc determined to be equally as punflual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars,!®
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twekt
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes
1 of 10000 is ICCOO
2 3000 arc 6oco
2 000
6 1000 6000
10 s°° ,5 000
QO 2 00 600#
80 100 8000
90 50 45 09
100 4 C0 ®
30 3 fo °
161 2iy 322*
SCO 10 2OCO
75 8 5 a 60680
8388 Prizrs. 12500,
16612 Blanks.
'>5000 Tickets.
(Jlj* TICKETS in the above C lass may be had of the fevcral
Ma nackr s, vtho will p.i\ the prizes />n demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of Jame 8. Whi te, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-llrcet—and', at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.*)
DAVID COBB'., I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. Ml NOT, I
JOHN KNEELAJs'D, J
80/lon, April 14, 1791.
(«. f.)
IF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of JLittle York, in Virginia,
(but originally of Scarboiough, in Yorkshire, Great-Biitaiu]
will make himfelf known, together with his prcfent place of re
sidence, <-if her to his brother Joh n Franks, who is nowintbi*
Port, or to the fubferiber, he will hear oi fomethino greatlyt«> In®
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diftrift ofMainr) dugufl *79 1 -
P. S. In cafe of the decease of Mr. Franks, his legal heir or
heirs are requeftcd to forward their names and places ot abode t»
Mr. Ron 1 \son, as above.
Pubhlhed, and to be fold by the Edito-i, price £th of a Dollar,
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the mod important Subje&s,
Kefpe&ing the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the year
By the Vice-President of the United States.
(tT BY late arrivals from France, tic Editor hit received frm
No. 10/031, both incl'jfive, of a Publication which coma out twtti *
neck it Paris, entitled. " Corres pondancJ. Nation ale. —
From No. i to No. in, have been /hipped, but are not ut com to to".
■Any p rjon who may incline to fubjeribe for this work, which appear* »
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic* may be fvmijhed with tie nun tT
if they arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
f£F Blank Powers to receive the Imereft, and for the "ansjir tj «J»
orinc'Dal ff public'-deht, agreeable to the Rules eflabhjhed rn tie 1
Turw Department : Also Blanks for abJlraSs of CertiJUatci, toh JfU"
Ihe Editor.
ftr The JOURNAL of the TUIRD SESSION of At SENATE
of the UNITED STATES, mv he h-dofthe Editor hereoj.
copies of the CONSTITUTION■ofth
United States, printed noith Notes, way <> £ " a *'
Editor.
gC The price of this Papi ris 3 Dollars pet *" r
and NEW-HAVEN
Thomas Johnson, ")
David Stuart, \ Commiflioners,
Daniel Carroll,^
Do L LARS*
ADVERTISEMa'T.
Pol lars.