PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No . 6 9 , HIGH.STREET, BETWEEN' SECOND AND 7 HIRD STREETS, PHH A DEI PHT A
[No. 24, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
Mr. RUSSELL,
IVTR- PAINE has undertaken to compare the
-L A English and French constitutions, upon the
ai ticle of reprefentacion. He ha\ of course ad
mired the latter, and censured the former.
This is unquestionably the molt defective part
of the English constitution—but even the uioit
ellcntial of those defedls appear to flow from the
natural order of things which a revolution in go
vernment could not reform ; from a Hate of lo
ciety, where every principle of* 1 religion or of
morality has loft itsinfluence, and where the on
ly shadow of virtue, public or private, remain
ing among a great majority of the people, is
founded upon an imaginary point of honor, the
relicfl of the exploded age of chivalry. Such at
piefent is the situation of the national character
both in England and in France. To attempt to
govern a nation like this, under the form of a
democracy, to pretend to«ftabli(h overfuch be
ings a government, which according to Rousseau I
js calculated only for a republick of Gods, and
which requires the continual exercise of virtues
beyond the reach of human infirmity, even in
its belt it may poflibly be among the
dreams ot Mr. Paine, but is what even the Na
tional Aflembly have not ventured to do; their
system will avoid some of the defetfls, which the
decays ot time and the mutability of human af
fairs have introduced into that of the English,
but I do not helitate to affirm that they have de
parted much farther from theeflential principles
of popular representation ; and that however
their attachment to republican principles may
have been celebrated, die theory of their Na
tional Allembly is remote from the spirit
of democracy than the practice of the Englifb
House of Commons.
1 he grounds upon which Mr. Paine acknow
ledges his approbation of the French constitution
are that they have limitted the number of their
i eprefentatives, in proportion to the numbers of
citizens who pay a tax of 60 sous per annum, and
the duration of the aflembly to two years. It is
certainly eflential to the principles of represen
tation that there should be a frequent recurrence
to the constituent body for election, because it
is the only security of the conftitueiu for the fi
delity of the agent : It is the only practical re
fponllbility by which the representative is bound.
The term of seven years for which the House of
Commons is elected, weakens the refponlibiliry
too much, and is a proper fubjetft of constitu
tional reform ; but by the French constitution,
there is no responsibility at all; no connexion
between the representative and his constituent:
The people have not even once in seven years an
opportunity to dismiss a servant who may have
dilpleafed them, or to re-eleifl another who may
have given them fatisfatfion. 7 here is upon
the French system less dependence of the repre
sentative upon his constituent than in England,
and the mode of election renders the biennial
return of the choice almost wholly nugatory.
It is not true that the French constitution allows
he privilege of voting for a representative in
the National Aflembly to every man who pays a
tax of 6c sous per annum. Mr. Paine has mis
taken the tact, for u is impossible that he should
have intentionally misrepresented it ; though
it differs a!molt as much from his principles as
from those of a real popular representation I.
is as follows. Every Frenchman born or natu
ralized, of 25 years of age, who pays a tax equal
to three day s labour, is not a hired servant, nor
a bankrupt, nor the son of a deceased bankrupt
(a very unjufl qualification) fliall be allowed To
A ' e P re '" eilta tive to the Nati
onal Aflembly ?_By 110 means. Yet one would
think the exclusions fufficiently severe, for a Go
vernment founded upon the equal rights of ail
men ; but he fliall vote for members of a certain
aflembly : This aflembly is allowed to choose,
not the representatives of the nation, but ano
ther body of electors, who are to be the imme
diate constituents of the legislative afTembly.
Thus the supreme legislative council of the na
tion, are to be the representatives of a repre
sentative body, whose constituents are the re
prefentaiives of the people ; and at every ftae;e
ot this complicated representation, the free citi
zens ot the state, are excluded from their natu
ral rights, by additional qualifications in point.
Wednesday, July 20, 1791.
of property.—Yet this is the system which we
are told is to abolifli aristocracy.
In the formation of the legislative body, the
National Aflembly, contemplated three different
objects of representation, the perfoiu of the peo
ple, their property, and the territory which they
inhabit .- They have endeavoured to eftablifli a
proportion compounded from the three, but in
the refinement of theft- metaphysics and mathe
matics, they have loft the primary objecft itfelf,
and the people are not represented.
But setting aside their calculations, what is
the ejfential principle upon which the represent
ation of the people in the legiflalure is ground
ed ? it is, that a Freeman, /hall never be bound
by any law unless he has consented to it. It is
impossible, except in a very small slate, that eve
ry individual lhould personally give his voice,
and therefore this practice of voting by repre
sentation was invented. In its moll perf'cdt state
it cannot folly anfvier the purpose of its institu
tion, because every representative is actuated by
several powerful motives, which could not ope
rate upon his constituents. It is an artificial de
mocracy, which can never perform completely
the funiftions of the natural democracy ; but
imperfect as it always mult b», no other con
trivance has been hitherto which could
so effectually give their operation to the opini
ons of the people. In the theory of representa
tion it is a personal trust, by which a thousand
individuals may authorise one man to express
their sentiments upon every law which may be
enacfled for the benefit of the whole people :
And therefore in theory every representative
ought to be elected by the unanimous vote of
his constituents ; for how can a man be said to
have been consulted in the formation of a law,
when the agent authorised to express his opinion
was not the man ofhis choice ? every pecuniary
qualification imposed either on the electors or as
a condition of eligibility, is an additional restric
tion upon the natural democracy, and weakens
the original purpose of the institution. Thus
far the people of America have submitted to ne
cefTlty in the constitution of their popular afiem
blies. But when the principle is abandoned so
completely, the individual citizen, even in
the pretended exercise of his infinitefimal frag
ment of sovereignty cannot possibly form an o
pinion, who will be the cletfor of the repre
sentative that is to be the depofirory ofhis opi
nion in the acfts of legislation. The aflembjy
thus formed may indeed afTume the name of a
democracy, but it will no more be entitled to the
appellation than an ill drawn miniature portrait,
to that of the animated original which it may
profefs to represent.
It is obvious that the reafoji why the National
Aflembly have chosen to refine their representa
tion through so many (trainers was to avoid the
violence, the tumults, the riots which render al
most all the populous towns in England a scene
of war and blood at the period of Parliamentary
-Elections. Time alone will inform us what the
success of their system will be, even in this parti
cular. Their elections however must be ex
tremely expensive, and mult open a thonfand a
venues to every fort of intrigue and venality.
The National Aflembly as a body, will be in
theory an aristocracy without refponflbility.
This aristocracy thus constituted are to podefs
the supreme power of the nation, limitted only
by a priuted constitution, fubje<ft to their own
conftrudtion and explanation.
Happy, thrice happy the people of America !
whose gentleness of manners, and habits of vir
tue are still fufficient to reconcile the enjoyment
of their natural rights, with the peace and tran
quility of their country—whose principles of re
ligious liberty did not result from an indiscrimi
nate contempt of all religion whatever, and
whose equal representation in their legislative
councils was founded upon an equaliry really ex
iting among them, and not upon the nietaphy
fical (peculations of fanciful politicians, vainly
contending against the unalterable courfcofe
vents, and the eltablifhed order of nature.
PRINTING.
t firft Pr I NTI nc-Pr ES.< ere6}ed in America, wai v Cam
t7o J'' hy Mr. Samuh G».e», ,n ,he year
1 tie fiift work printed was the Freeman'j Oath—th-next
a:> Almanack, made lor New-England/soy Mr. Pmci, manner
— and then the Pfalras, newly turned imo metre.
93
PUBLICOLA
fyfl'oo
[Whole No. 252.]
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE Uh'fTEl) STATES.
MR. FENNO,
' I ' HE nioft i'lgrmous authors are apt to involve themfcNf in
A contraaifliom, when they afTume principles winch aic refu
table. Th us it has happened that Mr. Paine, after laboring haid
to prove that the English nation have no conltituuon, incautiouSy
throws himfelf off his guard, and makes the following ob'ferva'-
tions : " The laws of evei y country niuft be analagous to some
common principle. In England, no parent or mailer, nor all the
authority of Parliament, omnipotent as it has called itfeif (and as
Mr. Paine himfelf has called it, for he fays it can change what in
England it called their Constitution) can bind or controul the
personal freedom even of an individual, beyond the age of twenty
one years." Admitting this alTertion to be true, whence antes
the do£lrine, if not from the constitution of England ? Wt'.v can't
a parent controul the personal freedom of his foil, or a master of
his servant, after they have attained the age of twenty-one, unless
they bereftraincd by the conftitmion ? Is there any law in that
countiy which impofesfuch a restrain; ? I know of none—perhaps
Mr. Paine does. But what is very extraordinary, why cannot
the omnipotent power of Parliament, which some writers have
said can do every thing, except make a man a woman, bind or
controul ihe personal freedom of any individual of the age of
twenty-one ? I suppose Mr. Pa ne would answer, beeaufe (he laws
of every country mufl be analagous to some common principle;
and this is a common principle in England. As I deny the truth
of this position, which is nothing more than a fanciful theory, un
wari anted by fa ft, and difptoved bv the hiflory of many coun
tries, I (hould answer, because it makes a part of the conllitution,
acknowledged from time immemorial, engrafted in the breasts of
Englishmen, and which the Parliament dare not therefore vio
late. What is meant by a common principle, to which the laws of
every country mull be analagous ? I confefs I have no clearer
conception of it than of Mr. Burke's ttnbought grace of life, which
Mr. Paine could form no idea of. I i ave no idea of a principle
paramount to the legislature of a nation, unless it be a covkitutional
principle—where is this common principle to be found ? Does it
exist merely in the minds of the people -or is it recorded on
parchment? Whence is it derived ? If it be found in every coun
try, then I should wi!h to enquire, what is a common principle
"1 Algiers, m Turkey, or in AbyiTinia ? Whether it is a religious
as well as a political principle in some countries, or whether it is
merely political ? Whether the despots of Asia are always re
drained by this principle in their decrees ? And whether the laws
of ever) country are ipfofatto null and void when they oppugn
this common principle > And finally, who arc to judge whether
they are null and void ? Unless these queries are fatisfaftorily an
swered, I Hull continue to believe that this tranfeendent common
principle exist* only in the imaginations of theoretical politicians.
Brit before I dismiss ihis fubjefl, I with to be informed with
what truth theaficrtion is made that the Parliament of Great-Bri
:»in cannot bind or controul the perform! freedom of any individual
of the age of twenty-one. The alkrtion is a very broad one. and
includts a great number of cafcs which 1 am fatisfied Mr. Paine
had not in view, viz.—the cale of debtors, lunatics, and many
others, which mull readilv occur to persons acquainted with En
glilh jurisprudence. Believing lhat he stated or meant to Hate a
modified proposition, but at a loss totfeertain the nature and ex
tent of the modification, I beg leave to recall to his rcolleftion the
power of each house of Parliament to commit to prison thofc who
have infringed their privileges, even their own members, who of
courfc mufl be twenty-one vears of age. Now I have no other
mode of reconciling this fact with Mr. Paine's afTertion, but fuo
po.ing that imprifonmrnt in England is not binding or controll
ing one's personal freedom, as it is in other countries. To com
ment a little further upon this flrange text, what magic is there in
'he age . tuevty-one, that a parent or master, or the omnipotent
Parliament, cannot controul the personal freedom of any indivi
dual who has attained that age, but have liberty to do what they
pifale i! he wants a month ot it ? Unless this particular period of
life be definedby some conditional principle, there will be some
difficulty in deducing its origin. Why Mr. Paine's common
principle fhouid exaQly fix on the age of twenty-one as the period
of free agency, he alone can. I fancy, explain. This is certain,
that this common principle is not common to all countries, for m
fomr, majority takes place only at the age of twenty-five. I (hall
be told that the common principle of England has fixed that par
ticular age, and that the laws mufl conform thereto. Common
principle is then only another appellation for constitutional prin
ciple ; and Mr. Paine admits that England has a conllitution, but
under another name. The whole difputc is then about words.
Here is admitted by Mr. Paine to exist a certain principle, call it
what you plcafe, which the Parliament ot Great-Britain mufl con
form to. Is not this alTertion dire£lly inconsistent with his other
afTertion of the power of Parliament, to do what they please, un
controuled and uncontroulable, unlimited by any constitution, and
fully competent to change the form 6t government as often as their
capricc shall dittate?
Paragraph from an old ncufpaper, printed above
90 years ago
foolilh young Men have lately
v> brought aboute a new Change in Falhione—
They have begun to faften their Shoes and Knee
Bands withe Buckles, inflead of Ribbandii,whcre
wuhe their forefathers were well content, and
moreover found them more en(y and convenient,
and surely every reasonable Man will own they
were more decente and tnodefle, than those new
fangled, unfecmly Clajps, or Buckles, as they call
them, which will gall and vex the bones of these
vain Coxcombes beyonde fufFerance, and make
them repent of their Pride and Folly. We hope
all grave and honourable perl'ons will withholde
their countenance from such effeminate and im
modede ornament*. It belongeth to the reve
rend/? Clergy to tell these thoughtlefle Youths
in a folemne manner, that such things are for
bidden in Scripture.
gracch us.
rßojlon Cazette."]T
HU>M THE I L.U i- RAI-'CAZt.r I £
AT a meeting of the General Council of tlie
Commons of Paris", 011 the 22d April 179 r, M.
de la Fayette delivered the following address :
Gentlemen,
I COME in the Commons' Hotife where foniany
agreeable remembrance'sllrike me, to acknow
ledge these lall initances of your goodness, with
all the lenlibility of ai> heart, whole firlt «i(li is,
after that of serving the people to be loved bj
them; and who is altonilhed at the importance
ascribed to an individual in a free counti j , where
nothing ought to be of importance but the law.
If my condatft on this occalion, gentlemen,
were to be directed only by thole sentiments
which 1 feel of tenderness and of gratitude, 1
Ihould only make reply to the regrets with which
you and the national guard have honored me,
by obeying your requeils ; but as in this business
I have listened to no personal motive, so amidst
the tumults which agitate us, it is not by the
suggestions of private feelings that 1 am to be de
termined.
I do not think that the national guard, the ma
jority of whom were ever deaf to the voice of
faction and of party, can have seen with indif
ference the cause of my difcourugement—The
conftirutional authorities set at nought—their
orders def'pifed—the public forces oppufed tothe
execution of the law, whose defence was entrust
ed to it. We are citizens, gentleman, we are
free ; but without obedience to the law, there
remains only conftifton, anarchy, defpotifin ;
and if this capital, which has been the cradle of
the revolution, instead of ftrrrounding with its
light and its refpedt the depositories of the na
tional power, fliall besiege them- with tumults,
or fatigue them bv violence, it will cease to be
an example for Frenchmen ; it will be in danger
of becoming their terror.—Eefides, gentlemen,
in the striking tokens I have received of affec
tion, too tnnch has been done for me—too little
for the law ; 1 have felt with the tendered emo
tion thatmy'fellow (oldiers love me ; but I have
not yet learned how far they cherish the princi
pies upon which liberty is founded.
I deposit in your hands, gentlemen. this fmeere
avowal of my sentiments; be pleal'ed to make
known to the national guard, whose tokens o(
friendlhip I have received with so much fenfibi
lit}', and to whom 1 fliall be ever a brother as af
feiftionare as grateful.
I acknowledge, to command them I warned to
b'e afl'ured that they firmly believed the fare of
the conftitntion as depending on the execution,
oftlie law, the only fovereigu of a free people ;
that the liberty of individuals, the fafety of
liotifes, religious liberty, refped: for legitimate
authority; that these, without exception, would
be held by them as facreel as by me. We not
only want courage and vigilance, but also una
nimity in the principles I have just laid down ;
and I have thought and Hill think the constitu
tion will be better served by the deliberate re
llgnation I have given in, than by my acquies
cence with the invitations with which you have
deigned to honor me.
Fur the GAZETTE of the USITED STATES.
Qnoufque tandem akuterc pat'untia 'noflral
HOW long, Sir, are we to be bored with the
idle speculations of endless writers about
(he British constitution ? Of what concern, ]
should be glad to know, is it to us, whether
Great Britain has or has not a written conflitu
tion, or whether it has certain principles in the
nature of a constitution, or whether it has only
a form of government instead of a cor ftitution?
The celebrated Mr. Burke lamented, that France
in her revolution had not more closely attended
to the British constitution ; Mr. Paine thereup
on gets in a rage, and writes a dozen pages to
prove a negative, that is, that Great Britain has
no constitution.— Publicola is displeased at this,
and infills that it has, and Brutus and Agricola
again contend that it has not. The three firft
of these writers having managed the subject
with ability, a patriot reader might peruse their
publications wijh tolerable attention, but I can
not help wishing that Agricola would attend to
his fields and his plough ; and when 1 saw the
fir 11 number of Brutus, I involuntarily exclaim
ed, Et tu, Brute ! Indeed, Mr. Printer, I dont
fee the neceliity of fluffing the newspapers day
gftei' day. morning and evening, with all these
pros cons, and 1 recommend to these
great politicians, who are so fond of writing,
to turn their thoughts and their hands to some
other i he people of England have
sense enough to take care of themselves, and if i
rhev have not, its no business of onr's. Every
body acknowledges our constitution to be a good
one, and that under it the people of the Ui7ited
States are happy and growing rich. Whar then
is the tendency of these numerous diflertatiuns
about revolutions, new constitutions, abolitions,
informations and so forth ? Tqueftion whether it
be 3 salutary one. These authors had bettet
write fomeufeful treatise on agriculture, or fug
some improvement on our domcftic manu
factures: Indeed they would, in my opinion,
render more service to society, if they were to
invent some mode of getting rid of the flies at
this troublesome season, or discover how wem ight
keep ourselves cool in this city. A. B.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Away- each (ast and lenddr bli-fs—
The laugh of jiy—the glance of love—
The gay dilcourfe—the heart of peace—
The hours, winged with rapture, move.
A friend, oncc wont to give and share
Each Iranfport of the fleeting year,
A femblant angel, good and fair.
To every thought ancf feeling dear;
Explored my heart
In fmiFing Friendlhip r s faithlefs guise,
Exulting found a tender part
Where lives foft pcace and where it dies.
Arid there—ah there ! her causeless hate
Ifn pre fled an undeterved blow,
That fcalc d with endlcfs grief my fate,
And plunged me deep in hopeless woe.
Then trufl npt, Youth, the melting air,
The thrilling touch, refined embrace;
Since Treachery has a 'form so fair,
And Malice'wears fa sweet a face.
On feeing Governor Paterson on board his
Barge the Cirrielia-, at the late celebration of
INDEPENDENCE.
O.N Raritotflhfop,Ofh gliding (Iream we view,
Eniaptur'd vijew the man whom we admire,
On this aufpicions day, -with laurel crown'd,
How gracefully the honor'd barge moves on !
See Neptuns's hardy sons.all clad in white,
Timeing their oars to the melodious flutes;
Not Cleopat racelebrated barge,
When she full arm'd with cach bewitching charm,
A tyrant bound in the foft chains of love,
More elegant, or pleasing could appear;
Nor did contain a jewel of such worth,
Not freighted with a proud intriguing Queen;
She nobly bears New- Jerfefs fav'rite fob,
Our guardian chicf\ oui jfhnd> a Pate r s on.
New-Brunfwitk, July 4, 1791.
W A R S A W, May 3
"PHE new conflitntion has just parted in tlic
S. Diet, by which the Eledtoi ofSaxony is declar
■d immediate fucceflyr to the Throne of Poland;
afier whose demise, his daughter is to inherit ;
and the choice of her husband, if she iwarries,
is to he decided by 'lie States. Afier this Condi
tution had pa(ll*d, the King, attended by the
Marlhalsof the Dier, and a great number of the
Members, went to the Cathedral, and took an
oath to maintain it.
f he Union of the Noblcffe with the class of
citizens meets with daily encouragement. Prince
Czartorvflci and Count Potocki.Marflial of Lithua
>iia, are become burghers; Count Malachowflky,
Marflial of the Diet, has also added himfelf to
the class of citizens, faying at the fame time
" that lie flionld think it an honor to be a magifV
trare of Warsaw."
One of [he magnates has declared his intention
of opening a warehouse in his palace, to (hew
that it is by no means degrading for a nobleman
to be concerned in trade.
The King himfelf has declared that the re
eftablifhment of the rights of the citizens, re
wards him for all the difficulties of his reign, and
even gives him cause to rejoice at being a King.
Q \ 6 O N, May 20.
Wednesday Rear-Admiral Col"by lioifted liis
flag at Spithead, on board the Impregnable, of
98 guns, Sir Thomas Bayard, Commander.
There are now at Spithead five Admirals, and
one in the harbour.
Fourteen Pilots, acquainted with the naviga
tion of the North Sea, particularly the Beit, are
arrived at Portsmouth from London, and several
others are daily expected. Orders are received
in the dock-yard for all the gun-boats to be o- 0 t
ready for immediate service.
Lord Kawkefbury, on Tuesday, entered his
Protest: in the Honfe of Peers against the vote of
the preceeding evening, relative to the further
prosecution of the trial of Mr. .Haltings.
Sir Jothua Reynolds and the Gentlemen who
are a Committee to superintend the ereiftion of
monuments to the memory of eminent perfonsin
St. Paul's Cathedral, had a meeting there vefter
day, to fix on a prop er spot for the proposed mo
numents of Mr. Howard, and Dr. Johnson.
It is remarkable that with the late Dr. Price
originated the plan now in adoption for reducino
the_ National Debt—perhaps the only one in
winch the sentiments of the Adminiflration and
hnnfelf were united it is fervently wilhedrhat
there may always be that clear underrtandino;
and genuine integrity, in the ruling powers to
gether with that anxiety for prcl'e rving theblef
fings of peace, which (hall, enable them to carry
this great design into full effect [—France, in ail
her confufion, p.-.vs off her debt fatter than when
94
SONG
H F N R Y.
[HY REOUEST.]
/lie was said to be in tranquility and orofue •
what difintereiled counfeliors flit tnuft hav
at that time i e * la( '
To what causes do medical Gentlemen as . •,
theincreafing number of paralytick cases '.Ij ,
lunatics and suicides ? The fact, it is to b e f
ed, is indisputable, and the source of these alar"'
ing evils requires a very lenous invelHeotio""
Are we to attiibute tlieni to the general iif' "p
tea, wine, or spirits, or to those ledentaiy
fures, which are now fubdituted in the roou "r
active ones ? ' °'
The Pope's Bull, which has Ice,, publi c ] ; i
burnt at Paris, contains these words : " ti
King would not have fancftioned the Cisii C
dilution of the Clergy, had he not been c °,"~
drained, and even forced to it by .he
4flembly—as the letteis which die Kiiiir i
written to us plainly teftify ! Pius the M
This declaration has set new'fpirits at «o !'
who publickly, though not very politely d C cl ,'<!
—thar ei'her the French King, or the Itaj;
Pope must have told a ! and they will ice
which it is. These letters, therefore, are to be
moved for in tlie National Aflembly, that »;
Montmorin niayjudify himfelf on the fubj-c't
On Thnrfday M. de Clermont-Tonnerre \v as
marked by the mob, for having supported the
intereds of the Pope againd the nat ion. Heform
mtely took fl'ielter in a coffee-houfe. until! th e
National Guards came to his refctte. Thev after
wards attacked his house, which thcv' would
have demtritfhed, but for the guards.
The claims already colleded in, on account of
a yoqng gentleman [duke of York] 1 itely em l
barked for the Continent, amount to 240 000 l
127,000!. of which are unfunded debts Of the r,-
fpefiable compaify of Bluck legs.
Two thousand dram shops or whiskey houses
have been (but up in Dublin finee the palling of
'he late ac r t of tlie Irish parliament, to prevent
the alarming use offpiri'nous liquors in Ireland.
The laie popular commotions in France, have
been highly advantageous t< the enufe of liber
ty, for the di;':ifFe<sied at iftocrates, and prelatical
nonconformids. have been banished from about
the throne ; the fove eign has c onfented to a
public recognition of the French C'onditmion at
foreign courts ; and the national guards tannin
he danger of difobediencc by the refignaticn
of their beloved commander, will hereafter e
vince a fcrupalons attachment to their funeiior
officers, and with M. de la Fayette once mote
at their head, will become the defenders of their
country, and the guardians of those laws which
cliey have sworn to enforce.
The 18th of*ttpril, 1791, will be therefore
another p' oud day in the annals of Francc, e
qually honourable for the Parisians, equally
nfeful for the nation, and equally creditable to
he Monarch as the 14th ot July, 1789 !
The impeachment of Mr. Hailing® niay no\»
be Hud to have died a natural, The dif
.inion of its conductors has palsied that accusing
inn, that no effectual pursuit of the accufatiohs
can any longer be expeifted.
Mr. Burke has become the object of pity to
his friends. The oppositionists fay he i*
now mad—Common Sense aSlerrs that he has ,b:cn
so—and the noble orator himfelf confelles " that
his faculties are impaired through a long and
severe attention to public business."
The refuni ptio" of Avignon, and the Cotulat
Venaiffin, will add nearly one million of inhabi-
ants to the population of Francs
Those Chevaliers of the order of Sr. Louis,
who have merited that honor by their fervkes,
ashamed of the spies, piyips and parasites who
had been decorated with the Croix, have deter
mined to relinquifli it i«n 1i 1 the refpedtive merits
of the pofTefTors, ffiould be canvafled by the Na
tional Aflembly.
This is certainly the epoch for unaccountable
revolutions in Church, as well as State—for
what astrologer could have divined that in the
year 1.791, the mild legislature of Britain would
have been occupied in granting toleration and
indulgences to the Rotnifh Church, at the pre
cise moment that his Holiness the Pope was
burnt in effigy at Paris, by the hand of the corn
man hangman ! —Sic tranljt gloria Ecclefuc.
The answer of his DaniSh Majesty, to the late
communication from our Court, is said to liavs
been, that he was in hopes his Britannic Majesty
would not have asked any thing that mightconi
mit him with BulTia.
A veflel called the experiment arrived at Li
verpool on Saturday fe'nnight, laden with linen,
from Dundee, being the firll that has come to
that port through the canal.—.She was only
four days in her pafl'age from the east coast of
Scotland ; a voyage which, when attempted
round the land, has been known to take lip a}
many months
On Tuesday fe'nnight, after a litigation of
e ight years, the claimants on the goods f'eized
by Lord Rodnev and General Vauglian. at St.
Euftatius, in the vear 1752. were paid the full
amount of their several claims, pwrfuatit to a fi
nal decision of the Lords of the Privy CouncilEftunate of the present value ofthellaves in
»he Britifli Iflauds in the Weft-Indies, diftingruifb
ing each island. The slaves in as] the islands are
estimated at 401. each, except in Bermudas, where
they are estimated at 451.
Jamaica)
Antigua,
Montlerrat,
N cv i s,
St. Christopher's,
Virgin Islands,
Barbadocs,
Grenada,
St. Vincent,
Dominico,
Bjhamas,
Bermudas,
InTEW-YORK, July 15.
On Saturday last a boat belonging to a Portu
guese vellel in this harbour, lately from P'ayal,
having been to Long Island to fill several calks
with water ; on her return, the people feeing
unacquainted with the set of the current ill the
East River, were drifted below Governor's Is
land ; a heavy squall arising about the fame
time at south-west, and meeting the ebb tide,
railed so ihort and hollow a sea, as to founder
the boat, and leave the people adrift. Mellis.
William Colles, butcher, and Peter Van Nof
trand, fail-maker, perceiving their distress arid
imminenr danger, at the risque of their own
lives, generously put off at this critical moment
in a small boat, from the Whitehall, and were
fortunate enough to save the people, who nttift
I'oon have perilhed, had not this timely alfiltance
arrived to their relief.
OF JURIES.
Extract from a fpach oj judge Wilson
IT may seem, at fiift view, to be foniewhat ex
traordinary, that twelve men, untutored in the
study of juri fp. uclence, should be the ultimate
interpreters of the law, with a power to over
rule the directions of the judges, who have made
it the lubjedt of their long and elaborate re
searches, and have been raised to ilie feat of
judgment, for their profeflional abilities ati-cl
Jkill. But a deeper examination of the subject,
will reconcile us to what, at fiift, may appear
incongruous. In criminal cases, the design is,
as iias been already intimated, closely interwo
ven wjth the tranfatftion ; and the elucidation of
both depends 011 a collected view of particulars,
arising not only from the testimony, but also
from the character and conduct of the wit-nefies,
and sometimes likewise from the character and
conduct of the ptifoner. Of all thcfe the jury
are fittelt to make the 1 proper comparison and
estimate; and, therefore, it is molt eligible to
leave it to them, after receiving the direction of
the court in legal questions, to take into their
confiderarion all the circumstances of the cafe,
the intention, as well as the facts, and determine
upon the Whole, whether the conduct of the
prisoner has or has not been within the meaning
of the law.
Juries undoubtedly may make mistakes—they
niav commit errors—they may commit grols ones
—bur, changed as tliey conltantly are,' their er
rois and miltakes can never grow into a dange-
system : The native uprightness of their
sentiments will not be bent under tlie weight <U
precedent and authority. Befidrs, their mil
takes and their errors, except the venial ones on
the fide of mercy, made by travcrfe juries, are
not without rediefs.
Philadelphia, July 20.
Further European accounts by the latest arrivals -in brief.
The British Mimftry informed a deputation nf the Ruffian mer
cantile company, that there appeais a great degree ot probsbiliiv
that ffiips falling from London, under such circumstances as would
enable them to leave the Ruffian ports with their cargoes l,v the
middle of July, would not be endangered by reason of anv event
ol the prefe nt negociation with the Court ot PeteriWgh — Lenttin
ncgociationsJelaom terminate in icar. 6 *
IVyrouit*. the great Gallic circumnavigator, is fafe Accounts
are received from him, w.th maps, t*a, & c . ot his com fe, down
to his arrival at Botany-Bay.
Remittances to the amount of i60,00®1. w.ere received from the
United States by the merchants in the Portland Packet
"Which arrived at FalmoutTlthe beginning of May.
France dill proceeds happily in the great work of the revolu
tion, liotwithftandiHg all the arts of the enemies of that important
undertaking— 90 millions of Aflignats have been burnt. Sonu
ferious disturbances however prevail in the neighbourhood ot
Avignon.
The King of $acdii)?a, anticipating the influence of the French
example, has wifely aboliftied a number of feudal grievances in
his kingdom.
T 1 1 nfalfing immense preparations for the ensuing
campaign. The new G«and Vizir, Julfup Pacha, is indefatigable
in forming mag;.7^B/and colletting an army which it is said is
to be commanded by the Sultan in person.
In our lad we mentioned that the insurgents in the Comtat Ve
iiailfon, frontiers of France, who were besieged by the patriotic
farmy in Carpeniras, offered to capitulate on the 21ft April. Sub
cquent accounts extend the ficge of that place to the 29th of the
amemouth,and ho mention of acapituiation; on that day the
besieged made a fallv, and took 2 pieces of cannon. The Patriots
oi Avignon, it i s affirmed, have bad near 900 men killed and
wounded.
There has been a warm debate in the Britifli House of Commons
•n the Canada Bill, or rather on the fubjeft oi Conilitutions of
£. IQ, 240,000
j.5i~,,320
400,000
336.800
81 7,4'j0
:6Q,000
2,484,000
957)°4°
574, IRO
598.680
$9,640
221.355
Total,
'8,491-355
\ )
Government. Mr. Pitt, Mr. Burke, and Mr. Fox, appear to have
aken the mo ft conspicuous parts. JBurkc inveighed in a lengthy
invest vc against the French Revolution ; he was <o intemperate in
his «"ifp. i (ions on the new couftitution of th,at coutitry, that he has
been pitied by the E'nglifh paragraphias as a mail in a state of rn
-1 anl ly. Mr. Fox cxprefled [limi'elf as highly in favor of the revo
lution—pointed personalities pa/Ted between him and Mr. Burke,
so that a mutual renunciation of all political and'focial intercourse
took place. Mr. Put's - ondu&on this occasion is complimented —
he in . rpofed as a mediator, and prcferved a digntty ot deport
ment worthy ot a great mind. Mr. Burke (trongly insinuated that
oiots and conspiracies against the peace of the country, and the
Britilh couftitution, were on loot ; but did not fully explain him
fclf—His insinuations did not appear to produce any cifeft on the
ho use.
The society of the friends to the constitution at Paris, went into
mourning as a mark of iei pe£l to ihd -memory of Dr. Price,
friend of liberty and ot man/ ■ '
ExtraS of a letter from llcjlon, July 10.
1 he author of Pukhcola is nor known ; some suppose one per
son and fomeanother, but there'is ti6 solicitude discovered about
it; people arc too much engaged in business to attend to newspa
per wi iters; very few cvpn read their Icing fpecillations—-the gene
lal idea is that we have fijenrtime enough to form Conftiiutions;
and now we have a government, anv change is contemplzted with
disgust. '
It will not be e»fy for demagogues to stir up ftrife and raise a
duff at this time—the predictions of the enemies to the govern
ment and its institutions, have been generally proved falfe by ex
pel ience and faffs, which again have confirms the confidence of
the people in its friends, as their favorable anticipations have been
more than realized.—-Those therefore who wilh to bccomr great
by reducing really great men to little ones, will m*et with a due
reward, dilappointment and chagrin.
As to Paine, he has great merit in pulling down bad govern
ments, and in opposing fad men (Bui ke in particular) but I do
■licit suppose him the bed qualified 10 /orm a Constitution.—His
motives I believe were laudable in writing against Buike, ani the
world w: 1 i allow him the merit ofhis labors. Your city it fecms
1 as its wrongheads; as well as less enlightened places; the egotic
pamphlet against the national bank is too poor a thiwg for any one
except a political eunuch to father; but America.must. itfeems,
liaveoth t kiuas of heads as well ;;.s clear-heads. Beforethis
reaches you it will be (een how much thiifWdnllerful pamphlet
has operated to prevent fubferiptions to (Ke'fcShk : It is conjectur
ed here, that the whole will be fubfenbed m a lew days alter the
books are opened.
Should the firft fcflion of the next Congress pals with tolerable
harmony, and their decisions be marked with wisdom, the go
veinmcnt may then be considered as firmly fixed, even by the
Cid doubters. Cur in our free country, some mull have liberty to
abuse liberty. May heaven in mercy to mankind pieferve our
general government as an example and blefling to the world."
The Commissioners appointed to receive Sub
scriptions for the Bank of ihe United States, have
agreed to call a meeting of the Stockholders, to
he held in Philadelphia on the 2i(t of OJtobcr
n.ext, for the choice of Directors, agreeable to
law.
/ very interefti) g and important treaty is now
)/lding at Newton, 011 the Tioga, by Col. Pick
yi,!g> with a large body of Indians 600 of
thorn arrived there on the 29th ulr. On tire
dinftant the business was opened by a concilia
ory speech from Col. Pickering.. The treaty ap
>ears so far to be strongly marked with traits of
leace and friendfliip, which Jeads to a hope that
c will terminate very favorably on both fides.—
he following judicious remarks occur in a
[jeech of one of the Sachems
" In the last war, when we heai d that bro-
thers were going to fight againfi: brothers, we
thought it ftrange—wecould hardly believe that
people of the fame blood would rife up arid de
stroy one another—we saw that they could not
fetch a clear stroke, because Lhey could scarce
ly diftmguifh between friends and enemies.—lf
we had had our senses about us, we fliould not
have taken up the tomahawk on either fide—we
Might to have let you alone, until yon became
irothers again, and then joined you as friends."
In the debate on the Canada Bill, in the BritiCh
House of Commons, several of the speakers on
bo«h fides of the question alludetf to the Consti
tution of the United States. Mr, J'ox, in parti
cular, "recommended (in framing a tbnftitution
for Canada) an imitation df thegnvernment of
the United States of America, wlVich he declared
to be THE Bi- S T GOVERNMENT SOW EXISTING.
He suggested this modification not as an enemy
to ariUocracy, but as a friend. When the seve
ral parts of the constitution are happily blended,
fajd he, there is less danger of corruption."
is to the honor of the kngli/h'tJovernment,
pat every fubjetft with which the rights of men
EJio the intererts of humanity are> connected,
'meera with the moll: ample and independent dif
cnllion—and tho it is to be regretred that their
decisions are not always agreeable to the fenti
inents of (onie of their belt characters, yer thf
happiest confequencesmutt eventually rei'ult from
such a free ill veUigation as almost every topic
undergoes in the deliberations of both branches
.of their government.
A proposal for re-publi&ing by fttbfcription
rhe Pobms of Ph'tllu Wheatky, an African, is if.
sued by Thomas <7 Andrews', of Bolton : To which
w ill be added (never before publillied) her Pos
thumous Work s, confiding of Poems on various
1 übjects, and Letters to eminent persons in Great-
Britain and America, with their Answers—Price
One Dollar. riie book to contain 300 paces
demy duodecimo.
Among the Letters is an elegant Epillle from
the /rcjident of the United States, several Letters
from the celebrated Gilbert Sharpe, L. L. D.&c.&c.
and Original Thoughts on Poetry, by Henry Hul
tou, Lfq. Comptroller of the Cuftoins at Antigua.
95
- ■ •. -commuiCAZi&m. ,
THRRE is an independency of foul which some
men poftefs, that the generality of their cotetn
poraries can form 110 idea of.,
I It has been aliened thatwifdom is always with
jthe majority—the alfertion, if capable of demou-
Y''aiion, would save mankind an infinity of Ja
ipur in their refearch.es to find out the residence
as the goddess. T his opinion is however fotind
jd on a (Vippolttion of constancy, couliftency and
/inifonnity, which cannot be predicated of any
(man or body of men for any series of years.
" rhe fnccefs of certain events in thiscoun
try (fays an extract in a late New-York paper)
has been ascribed io individuals; events, which
in reality were either accomplished by the fpiric
of the people, or the blunders and mistakes of
enemies."
1 he disappointed envy ant! malice of some
characters in tile world, have been discovered ou
in anv occasions,- but it was hardly to have been
expected, that they would have blundered oil lo
palpable a misrepresentation as the above, This'
is truly a modern discovery. There is Hot an in
dividual, in the United States, nor in any part of
the civilized world, who does not know, that
knows any thing, that the salvation of America
was efFeified thro the wjfdom of those plans which
were formed by " individuals." 7he people
railed to power those whom they considered as
their bell friends and wisest patriots ; the people
were not difap'pointed—thofe " individuali"
sketched the outlines of freedom, empire, and'
happiness for the (Jnited States—the people being
properly enlightened in their duty, executed the
plans that were designed by these " hi dividual!—
and while, a free, an independent, grateful fehti
ment, shall glow In she brealt of a free citizen of
these ftates,tliat iTliillrious roll of worthies which
they have been.in the habit of honoring foleng,
shall contjiiue to receive their grateful applauses.
Another modern discovery is, that the hbn.
Continental Convention, which aflembled in this
city in the. year 1787, did not 1 form that consti
tution which they proposed to the people; and
to which the members, with ilie Pi efident at rheir
head, affixed their fignarures. " Almolt all im
portant hims (it seems) were taken from com
munications, the authors of which may never be
mentioned; aud the plan was adopted, not in
vented, by thoje who will have the hidorical
fame thereof"—it is easy for some men to fay any
thing—truth and fallltood form no differing ideas
in their minds. '1 he above infintiations are a
bai efaced attack on the doctrine of reprefenta
tion—for if this illustrious convention of the ge
nius and patriotism of A merica, was incompetent
to the objeif* of/A.'/r appointment, we may aban
don all liqpes of ever beholdjjiga representation
of the people, which shall be adequate to any
good purpose wharever.
APPOjNTMEN I"S.—BY AUTHORITY.
Uilliam Smith, Esq. ot Baltimore, Auditor of the Trea
" C " ™co», Es q . appointed
Esq. of this City. Judge of the Diftrift
ourt for I , of Pmnfylvania—vice Francis Hopkinfo.i,
ilq. dectaled, 1 '
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Alexander,
Brig Hclly, Davis,
Barque IlDpc, Makins,
Sl'iop Defiance, M'Cann,
— Clara, M'Williams,
Industry, Green,
PRICE ,C\JRRENT. —PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents ,8/9 , 9 / pr .£. gs pr . cem .
3P/-Certts ?°/9 * 53} on
Defeied 6 pr. Ccnt> ,o/q j'
UNFUNDED DISS.. . \ ' >
Final Setll. and othei Certificates 884 * do.** r
Indent s <jo v
N. and S. C>rolina debts, 13'/ 1 i/g. j
Bank Subfciiptions, - DolltrJ>
A PRINTING APPARATUS compleat, AND a.
NEWS-PAPER ESTABLISHMENT.
ANY youoj Man, of rcfpeftablc charafler, cap.ibleof condaS.
ing the PRINTING BUSINESS in its different branches
may have an opportunity of engaging as a PART*®*, in a laree
commercial town, where the present. income and profpefls are
l"ghly flattering to those ot an induflrious turn. A small fom
r' recjutfted in hand, and furH„r particulars explained in
perfcn, by addressing a line to Z. at .the Bar of the
Merchants and Exchange Coffee-Houfe.*
Philad. July 20, 1791. "
gray l ! gar dln's.
A of y° cal and Inftru mcntl Music will begin on
TH . b . RSI ? AY the siftofjuly.at 4 o'clock in the Afternoon,
and conclude at 9 at right, Ihould (he day be fair.
Tickets delivered at one quarter of a dollar, at the Bar.
Song s with harmony and martial music, will be performed
The (tup Union, JreflVd with the colours of the different nati
ons m alliance with the Unit, d States, and elegantly lighted at nifiht.
The mill Icene on a plan entiicly new.
The goddess Indcpendency, an emblematical transparent piece
of painting, tery large, will be exhibited in the day, and illiimi
minated at night.
Three paintings transparent, one of the iiluflriooj Prrfident of
the United States, one of the immortal Franklin, the other, the
patriotic General de la Fayette, a> large as the lile; together with
several other tianfparent figures and landscapes.
T he illuminations will be moic extensive than any heretofore.
Ciay's Ferry, July 18. G. & R GRAY.
Newry.
Cape-Francois.
Sligo.
New-Providence.
Virginia.
Frenchman's Bay,
; MMatthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Str 1 ei, No. 66,
BUYS «nd SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THEUNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will reccive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Intelligence-Office,
In F(Hj rth-Street, ltcond Door below Markct-Stieet,
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Commifliou all kinds of
Public Securities and Paper Monies.
Tranfadis business for those who have claims
on the United States, or againil cither of the States, particulaily for
the Officers, Soldiers and Mariners, and others -who have fsrved
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
rainiftrators, Attornies, &c.
Certificates and such Paper Monies furnifhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. passed through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and di (counts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de-
posits.
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profeflion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with suitable do
mestics.
Those at a distance who may address on either the above fub
je£fo, their letters being post paid, will be duly attended to, bv
fRANCIS WHITE
( c p tf )
Philad. June 22, 1 791
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SEI,L all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
f6llowirig terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purclnfes at au£lion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such pcrfons throughout the United States, as may be
pleafcd to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punftuality,fidelity and difpatch> as consi
derable experience in the public (locks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 taw 6m)
March 15, 1791
To be difpo'ed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In various Languages—being part of a private Library,
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Horner, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Csefar, Suetonius.
Juvenal. Manilius, &c.
OEl&vo & infra: Septuagint, Aristophanes, Lorginu , Theo
phraftus, Epi&etus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
Ifocrates, Polyacnus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Patcrculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetse minores Latini, Callipsdia, Strada, L.
Valla, &c.
(£lr Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
Book-Store of Mejfrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
slfo fbitched up with the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April.
June 1, 1791. (c2wj
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in anv wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Cardlina,
deceased, did make four promiflbry notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole totwothoufand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —'Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia,and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
m proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all pcrfons from purchasing said
motes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, Nortk-Carnfina, vjlh May, 1 jqi
George-Town, June 30, 1791.
THE PRESIDEN r of the UNITED STATES having approv.
Ed the sites for the Public Buildings, to be erected in pursu
ance of the ast of Congress for establishing the temporary and
permanent feat of government of the United States, the Com
miflioners, appointed in virtue of that ast, will meet at George-
Town, on Monday the fevcnteenth dav of O&ober next, and pro
ceed to lei 1, at Vendue, a number of lots in the bed situations in
the federal City. A deposit of 8 per cent, will be required ; the
refiduc to be on Bonds, with security, payable in three
equal yearly payments.—The farther terms will be made known
at the sale.
THOMAS JOHNSON, )
DAVID STEWART, > Commissioners
DANIEL CARROL, )
(96 *)
K S,
(e p. 3 m
Public Securities,
Boc cht and Sold, on COMMIS SI O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
eiicfnut-Strctt, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791- eptf )
HAVING obtained Patents for several Improvements on
Clocks and Watches, begs leave to inform his friends and
the public, that he is now ready to execute any work on the said
conftru£tions ; which may be either applied to clocks and watches
already made, or to new ones,and on trial, have been found supe
rior to any heretofore brought into common use. He has so fim
plified the repeating part of a watch, as to enable him to make it
at two-thirds of the common price, which will not only be an ad
vantage in the firft purchase, but ever after, as it can be cleaned,
when neceflary, for two-thirds less than the present price. He has
also fimplified theftriking part of clocks, which enables hiKi to
reduce the price one-fourth ; and repairs, at the lowcft prices, ho
rizontal, repeating, plain, and other watches, and muficaJ, chim
ing, and plain clocks, with punctuality and dispatch, and warrants
all the work done in his (hop.
An affortmentof Clock and Watch-makers Tools and Mate
rials for sale, on reasonable terms.
rr Two JcTCTR ne v ME n. an Apprentice, arr wanted.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legidature of the Stne of Connecticut, at their feflion in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful difchirge of their truil, present the public with the
following
SCHEME.
10,000 Dollars, is 10,000
5009 * 5000
400b . 4000
acoo arc 4000
4000
2500
2400
iooo
® 250
»000
1830
2000
1400
43> 12 °
i Prize of
, 1
1
2
4
5
12
3 0
45
5°
61
100
140
53
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
1 7500 Tickets, at Fire Dollars each, is
Not twoßlanks to a Prize,
Subje£t to a dedu£hon of twelve and a half per cent
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpaflcd, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necessarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all claflfes of people, for
the success of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
Ameriea) induce the managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or fooncr, if the
tickets are fold, L
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
jor the use of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rice,
Jeremiah At water,
Joseph Drake,
New-Haven, April 14, 1791.
TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of MefTrs. Stefhen Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pavthe prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them iri said Lottery.
Ticket® in the MafTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER.
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publiftiinga PAPER, in good repute,
the fubfenbers to which are continually incrrafin<r_ The present
number of its patrons'is between seven and eight hundred. The
types consist of Burceois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertifeajents to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part of MiUsACHusETrs, in the centre of a
populous and thriving commtfuity,and within 17 miles of an ex
cellent Paper-Mill where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on ihort notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger share of Advertisements tlwtn the one offered
»T t r v , c . r y, eon 'iderable profit also accrues from the sale of
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bilh, &c. &c. It is a good situation, also
For a final Book-Store—and it is supposed the Book-Bindino- bu
linefs might be carried on in the fame olace to ail-jantage °
lor further particular, enquire of John Fbnno. at his Office
ladel ,hia g SCC ° ad a " d Third - St "«»." Phi
' * (iaw 8w)
96
1000
500
sod
10(3
5°
40
3°
20
io
8
Ml CHAR L TODP,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph How el i .
ADVERTISEMENT.
HAVING completed the fecund volume oj this Cm
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, are inftr
edthat it will be prosecuted on its original plan, whl
every improvement that friendjhip and ingenuity ma
The price of this Gazette, (publifJud Wednefi a . s
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—
half to be paid at the time offubfcr'tbing.
The utmofi punctuality is obfirved in tranfmittinr
the papers to subscribers : The Editor thinks there
the fair eft profpett that Information from the fiat 0 f
government, to the- extremes of the Union, wilt i n fj.
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, ih an
through the pajl winter Additional subscripti on ,
from all parts of the Union are therefore filiated.
This volume contains the laws of ike two lafl Jefilms
of Congress—the journal and debates of the house of
Representatives—reports of the heads of department i
—be fidti a greater variety of original communication
immediately connected with the interests of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude th- punc
tual payments received jrom a great proportion if his
subscribers —some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be discharged.
Payments may Tie made to the several per fans »f
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements ef one square, or less, -will be in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar
fubjeqtient insertions, twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion : No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation—ajid the num
ber of each imprefton is at present fourteen hundred.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LQTTEO
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afrure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will poftt.ively commence drawing on the day appointed
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Ottobcr next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligncd, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjefl to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes,
1 ZES.
1 of
2
3
6
10
80
9°
100
1 ?.o
161
200
7585
87500
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
25000 Tickets.
TICKETS in the above Cl as s rp, a y be had of the several
Managers, mho zvill pay the prizes on demard; of theTR easur er
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.^
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND, J
fiojion, April 14, 1791.
War Department,
May 30, 1791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for,fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th dav of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said dav by the Commiflionersof the
Loans within the States refpe&ively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the person
poflTeflTing the fame is in fa6l an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B came before me. one of the JuJiices of the eonnty trf
the Jlate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pojjeffion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited) That he served (re
gimenty corps §r vessel) at the time he was disabled, and that hi now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the lajl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, muil
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of m\ lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension )or fix months, at an invalid of the United States,from the
fourth day of Marck y one thousand seven hundred and
ending the fourth day of September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealed
m the presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidfnt of the United States,
' H. KNOX, Secretary of War-
$T Blank Powers to receive /talntereft, and 'for the transfer of th
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflablifned in the Tret
fury Department: Also Blanks for abfl rafts to be fold*
th< Editer.
Do L L A RS.
icoco i s
3000 arc
2000
1000
s°o
*00
100
> 5 °
40
3°
20
IO
Witnesses.
Dot LARS.
10000
6000
60 CO
6000
5000
6000
8000
4500
4000
.3600
3220
toco
60680
125®°,©