l
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII. A DELPH IA
[No. 55, of Vol. lII.] Saturday, November 5, 1791.
ANSWER of M. SYEYES,
ft Mr, Paine's Letter, and to fevcrai other publt
cations of a simitar nature..
(CONC LUDED.j
" T UNDERSTAND by a republic," fays Mr. Paine," a go-
X vcmnnnt founded upon the principles of thi Declaration ot
Rights." Ido not fee why this government Ihould not be a Mo-
"Principles," fays he, " with which many pans of the French
Conltiiulion are in contradiction." This is poflihle ; and it is
probable, that if it was proposed to form a republic, offences
might be committed against the Declaration of Rights. But who
do. s not fee that thele contradictions may be remedied without
an abolition of the monarchy ? Mr. Paine will permit me to tell
him a fccond time, that since I do not require him to fupportany
particular republican form, it is vight that he should allow me the
lame liberty with refpeft to monarchy.
I dcfne, that our difcullion, it it takes place, may not depart
from the spheres of theory. The truths winch we lhali establish
may descend too slowly, or too fuft, to be applicable to lacts.
.But I have already said enough to make it undcrllood, that at
present, I feel much more powerfully the instant nccellity ot el
ublifning the decreed Constitution, than that of reforming it.
" The Declaration of Rights of France and America aie onl)
one and the fame thing in principles, and nearly so in words."
So much the worse. I could wish that ours might be the bell,
and it would not be difficult to make it so.
" And this is the republicanism which I havr undertaken to
defend against what is called monarchy and aristocracy." A man
•who liycs in France, or any other part ot Europe, will allow, that
it we are to take the word? jepublic and monarchy only in th< ir
common acceptation, we shall be disgusted by the mere mention
otthem. Have I not an opportunity, it I was to follow the ex
ample givt 11 rre by Mr. Paine, to cast lome discredit upon thai
■which is called republicanilm and aristocracy ? Would a ieuati of
execution be less ai iftocratical, when ministers a&ingunder the li ce
and lrrcfjjonfible choice ot a monarch, whose evident and palpa
ble intereit * ould be always li.fcparable irom that ot the ma
jority ?
I have, perhaps, done wrong in making so eailv a discovery of
oy doubts as lo the excellence of ihe republican system. How
iar are ihofe from understanding me, who reproach me with not
adopting a republic, and believe, thai not to proceed so far, is
to Hop upon the road ! Neither the ideas nor the sentiments which
arc called republican, are unknown to me ; but in my design oi
advancing alway? towards the maximum ot locial liberty, 1 ought
to pass the republic, to leave it Ur behind, and to arrive at true
monarchy. If lamin an error, I declare, that it is neither for
want of tune nor attention ; tor my refearchcs and results pre
ceded the revolution.
I acknowledge, that, for a note, this is become very long;
but 1 was defirousot providing, that if our d J leu ill on look place,
it fliould not degenerate into a dispute of words. It will iciult,
I believe, from the perusal of the above, that men who are wil
ling io speak in precise terms, will not permit them (elves to fup
poieihat republicanilm is the opposite of monarchifm. The cor
icllative ot one is many. Our adverlarics are Polyarchifts—Poli
cies ; ihofe are their true titles. When they caii themselves re
publicans, it thou Id not be by oppohtion to monarchy : they
■are republicans because they aie lor the public intcrclt, and cer
tainly we are so too.
The public iuiereft, it is true, has been for a longtime facrificed
to private views; but has not this evil been common to all known
States, without regard to their leveral denominations? If, inifcead
ot adopting clcar notions, happily by etymology lifelf,
it >s deteinuued to perliti in a confufion of words which can be
ufeful to no poflible end, without doubt 1 (hall not obstinately
oppoie it. 1 will permit the word •• Republic" to be fynoin
rnous to *« Reprt-fentaiive Constitution but I declare, that after
having taken it in this fenle, I ihall feel a neceility of enquiring,
alter all, whether they Ihould wish that our republic (hould be
monarchic, or Poliarchic. Let us then, if we can, eltablith the
quUtion in thele terms—" In a good republic, is it better that
ine government fliould be monarchic, or Poliarchic (
1 tinilh this letter by a remark with which I ought to have be
>t. My letter inserted in the Moniteur of the 6th ot July, dot s
not announce, 41 that I have le sure to enter into the controversy
with the republican Policraics." My words are these— '* I shall
soon have time to attend to this question." Why soon ?
Because 1 am persuaded that the National Aflembly will, in a Ihoit
linae, put the la ft hand to their work, and that it is upou the very
point of being ftnilhed.
Until then, it i* impoflible for me to leave my daily occupations
to fill the Journah with any fort of difculfion. 1 may be told,
thai this qurition is the order of the day, but 1 do not perceive thai
it is. Belides, a friend of l'berty does not chufe to discuss qucf
tions ol right, under the empire of queltions ot taCL '1 tlis enqui
ry into pi inciples, and the publication them, has been already
so fufficirntly laborious, to a man lett to his individual pow rs,
thot he should not expose himfclf to the regret of having wilhcd
to speak reason, at a time when the mod decided determinations
deprive manv of the poflibilitv °1 attending to it, and leave only
the refplutiou ot (civing, in spite of him, the one or thr othi r
party. EM. SYEYES*
THE MAN OF HONOR
By Dr. Berkenhout
A Man cj honor, a gentleman (they arf fynonimous terms) is emi-
A nently dittingutihed from the rett of mankind by the uni
form unrestrained reflitude ot his condu£K Other are ho
fleft in fear of the punifhn rn»s which the law might inflict : they
**'e rrlij>iou» in expectation of bring rewarded, or in dread ot the
devil in the next world. A gentleman would be juit. if there * ere
*10 written laws, human or divine, except thole thpt are written
14 n his hrart bv the finger of his Creator. In every cl'.mate, under
fv ery fvftrm of religion, he is the fame. He kneels before the
•*nivprlal throne of God, in graiitudefor the blelfings he has re
ceivrd, and in humble folicitatiou for h's future protection. He
venerates the p'ety of good inen ot all religions. He disturbs not
the religion oh his country, bee»ufe the agitation of Ipeculative opi
nions prr-ducrs greater evils than tlie eirois -t is intended to re
nv" e. He rcttraius his paflions, because they cannot be indulged
v, tho»it injuring his neighbour or himfelf. He g ,ve s offence,
doe* not chufe to be offended. lie com rafts no debts
tohith Ik- .* uul ecrtain ibat he ca i difcliarge, becaule he is hont li
upon principle. He neve r utters a falfehoo^,becaufe it ta*-%h.\vard
ly, and infinitely beneath the dignity of a gentleman. He bribes
no man for his vote, because he will not make a villain. He mea
sures all oflences by the intention, but he relents with the fpint of
a gentleman every palpable insult; because, in the present humour
of the world, it is the onlv means of preserving good manners,
and of feenrina so himfcU that refpedl which, as a juil man and a
gentleman, he delVrves.
FROM A LONDON PAPER
AGRICULTURE.—LEICESTERSHIRE
TO (hew what a good name, and a good use of
it will do—Mr. Bakewell lets three Ranis this
season lor i hree Thousand Guineas !
A Society of Farmers, called the " Tupp
Club," offered him an annuity of 25001. per an
num, for five of his Fiams, which he refufed :
and apparently not unwisely, as he makes three
thuufand on three of them.
The excellence he boalts in his breed, is to
have the lealt given quantity of bone, with the
greatelt quantity of (lefli. He (hews carcases of
them with ten inches of fa: upon lhe ribs ; and
whiie they feed to this (ize, they do it 011 a very
finall proportion of food, when put in competiti
on with others.
Their heads and limbs are very small. They
have no horns, but a large quantity of wool,
vvhich is rather of a coarse kind.
Mr. Bakewell has been lately trying an expe
riment somewhat lingular. He has been rotting
some llieep purposely, for the fake of trying a
medicine, sent to him by the Odiham Agricul
ture Society, for the cure of that difoider.
Thus lie has made sure of the disease, what
ever he may do of the remedy.
E} improvements adopted by the Monmouth
(hire Agricultural Society, since the drawing up
of the firft plan, it appears, that premiums are to
be given for the encouragement of industry a
niong the lower orders, viz. to servants who have
lived the grfateft number of years in one place ;
to laborers who have reared the greatest number
of children without parochial affiltance ; or any
other description that may hereafter be proposed
as eligible objerts.
The Heighth of the principal Mountains in the luorld,
brought into one view, as taken jrt»n the Level oj
the Mediterranean end Sea Ocean.
The highefl: mountain which bounds the
Lake of Geneva is - 188
That of Neufchatel - - 214
From the valley of Chamonny J26
From the valley of the Green Mountain 877
The fumniic of the 13re*en - >387
The Capuchin's convent 011 Mount St. Go-
thard
The Platter of Mount Citi'u
The fuinmit above the PJatter
Tlie fnminit of Vesuvius
The fumniit of Mount yttna
The summit of Cauigou, the highest of the
Pyrenees
The highest pare of Snowden
The fuinmit of the 1 able of the Cape ol
Good Hope - " _ " 542
The fuinmit of the Tlcdc Raco in the liland
of Madeira k - - * 795
Summit of Teneritte - - , *94
Summit of Catapoxi in the province of Quito 3126
The highest part of the Cordilleras 3220
The above heighths were afrertained by Meflrs.
Condamine, De Luc, Needham, La Lance, and
Sauflure ; by whose meal'urements it appears,
thar all the mountains on this fide of the Atlan
tic Ocean arc* mere monticules, or mole hills,
when compared with those of thefonthern parts
of the globe; and perhaps there are, m un
known regions, mountains flill more lofty.
KINGSTON (Jamaica) Sept. 6.
Amongst the nianv philolophical and mechan
ical inventions which this speculative and expe
timental age daily produces, we are led to no
tice two new and curious ones, for which patents
have been obtained ns advenifed in the lalt Lon
don prints: The firli, Sympathetic Hinges and
Locks, for folding doors : it is peculiar to theft
hinges, that which ever door be opened, the
other receives precisely the fame motion, so that
both doors open and font e*a<ftly together ; and
ir is peculiar to these lofks, tha: the handle of
either door will open both ; this mvent.on,
though evidently cojitribming to domcitic con
217
T oifes
venience and elegance, is nirich exceeded 111 uti
lity, by the other, which is called a Thermonie
trical Kire Alarm, and poliefles the invaluable
property of giving immediate notice, to any re
quired diftan.ce, of the leall increase of hear
which mny happen in the premises in which it is
fixed. This early communication and alarm will
enable families to resort to the neceflary mea
sures to stop the progress of the flames ; or, in
the worit cafe, to provide for the fafety of their
persons and properties.
We every now and then liave accounts 111 the;
papers of the flotirifliing and prosperous state of
America, fincc lhe was ieparated from Great-Bri
tain, but we fee nothing of what Great-Britain
has gained by the reparation, and yet (he has
gained very considerably, and rather more than
America has to boast of—The million and a half
which America nfed to cost the mother country
annually, is entirely.laved, and all the hazard of
being again engaged in a war as her friend and
ally, is at an end. The 600, qoc tonnage of ship
ping usually employed in that trade, are now en
tirely Britiih bottoms—whereas before they were
nearly one half American. And the 600,000 tons
which it was fairly eltimated at in the time of
peace formerly, is now encreafed to above 800,000
tons ; and as to the trade with America, we have
jult as much as we can supply ; and tho' fomc
times the orders are not complied with, yet this
circumstance fbews that we have more of their
trade than we like, as we please ourselves in it,
and take just as much of it as we please.
Our loss by quitting the American colonies,
may really be said to be only a fort of feather of
sovereignty, which, for all the croaking of the
deceased Dr. Price and his parry, it may be doubt
ed whether, when every thing is considered, it
did England any good upon the whole.
[ jCT" To this may be added what Reynard
said when he could not reach the grapes—•>
" 1 jumf'd but for a frolic
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) Sept. 28.
The court of general felfions adjourned on Mon
day last, to the third Monday in January next,
after pronouncing judgment on the following
criminals :
James Welch, for killing a negro by undue
correction, in a fudilen heat of passion, to pay a
fine of fifty pounds sterling, or remain committed
until the lame be paid.
Thomas Douglas, horse dealing, (recommend
ed to mercy) to be hanged on Monday, the 3d
of October next, between 10 and 1 o'clock, a. m.
James M'Naille, littering forged bills of the
corporation of Charleston, to receive thirty lafii
es at the lower market, which was accordingly
inflicted on Monday lad.
1061
1000
1490
< BALTIMORE, Odober 28.
Extratt of a letter from George-Town, dated 0(1. 2fw
*' The public sale of lots in the Federal City,
ended on Wednesday evening ; but the private
sales Itill continue,and probably will all the week.
In the whole, there have been at least 1200 lots
fold.—The average of the public sales is some
thing upwards of 1001. for a lot of 40 feet front
and 130 or 140 deep. The sales made by indivi
duals, I fufpedl, were at a lower rate. Indeed
they have fold, in many parts of the city, and the
public sales were confined to that part which lies
between the President's square and George-Town,
which, it is imagined, will be firft improved, be
ing so convenient to the present feat of trade.
Tell your friend , that it is not yet too late
to make good speculations ; but that, if he means
to do any thin# to this purpose, he inuft not de
lay it too long."
300
1672
1441
5 76
P. O S T O N,
Yesterday failed from this port, with a fair
wind, the copper bottomed ship Margaret, Ja mks
Magee, Esq. Commander—bound on a voyage
to the North-Weft Coast of America. It is the
intention of this enterprising Navigator, to pr o
ceed much farther North, than any of his prede
cefl'ors have ever attempted.—May his determi
nation be crowned with that success, so hazard
ous an undertaking justly merits !
BENNINGTON, OJI. 24.
Thomas Chittenden, Esq. is elected governor
of this state for the year enfning.—And the hon.
Moses Robinson, and Stephen K. Bradley, Efq'rs,
Senators of the United States.
[Whole No. 265.]
Oiftober a;.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, November I.
ORDER OFTHE DAY — THE PRESIDtNT's SPEECH.
MR. SEDGWICK said that the lad feifion of
Congress, the House of Representatives by
the appointment of committees, to which almolt
every <*bje»st of difcuflion in the Prelident's Speech
was referred, so far monopolized the public bu-
Unefs, that during great part of the feilion, the
Senate had very little to attend to.
He thought it of importance that a ftmilar in
terference fhonld be avoided the present Session.
He then recapitulated the principal objects re
commended to the attention of Congress in the
Speech; and informed the House it had been inti
mated to him, that the Senate proposed to take in
to consideration the fubjeifts of the Mint, Weights
and Measures, Consuls, eleiftion of President and
Vice-Prefident,and the eltablifhinent of LandOfli
ces. The House therefore, if' they thought pro
per, might avoid a primary difcuflion of these
fubjeifts, and employ their deliberations on other
important parts of the speech. Some of these
the House had already provided for. by the ap
pointment of committees—others remained to be
attended to—among these, the reference in the
Speech to the excise law he thought of very ma
terial coniequence, and accordingly moved that
a committee should be appointed to take into
consideration, that part of the Preftdent's Speech
which relates to the carrying that law into exe
cution—and to report such circum!iances in the
law, as may, with confirtenty, be so altered as to
remove any well intentioned objections againfl it;
alto to ascertain and report whether there exists
a due proportion between the duties on foreign
spirits and those >>f domeUic manufacture.
Mr. Boudinot observed, that it (truck liiin as
an impropriety for the House to receive any
information from the Senate except through an
appointed medium ; this informal mode, if it
was allowed, would be a bad precedent and pro
ductive of great einbarraflment ; the difficulty
which has been mentioned might be avoided by
the appointment of a joint committee—which he
thought to be the moil eligible mode.
Mr. Sedgwick replied that he meant only to
convey to the House the information lie had re
ceived, which he supposed was of importance—
he had no intention of eltablifhing a precedent.
Mr. Lawrance called for the reading of the
Speech, which being read—committees were ap
pointed on the several articles as ftatcd in our
last.
Mr. Sedgwick's motion occasioned considerable
debate ; Mr. Steele moved an amendment bv in
ferring the Secretary of the Treasury in lieu'of a
Committee. 1 his officer he observed was more
competent than any other person to give informa
tion on the fubjeJt, as he had paid the molt mi
nute attention to the operation of the law preju
dices,he said, were entertained against: theSecreta-
J y, on account of his having originally drafted the
law—these prejudices hewifhed should be remov
ed, as he was well fitisfied that it was the wjfh of
the House, as well as ofthe Secretary that every
reasonable objection against the lawihould be re
moved.
The motion for a reference to the Secretary
was supported by Mr. White, Mr. Lawrance
M l "' r • Smith Mr " A " ies >
Mr. VVilliamfon.
Mr. Sedgwick contended for a Commi-tee •
he was supported by Mr. Vining, Mr. Parker'
Mr. Boudinot, and Mr. Goodhue j on this lide
.' h n e . < l ucftion h was urged that there wasa ma
lufelt impropriety and want of respect in refer
ring any part of the Present's Speech, or a Law
of the Union to the head ot any particular de
partment ; that the information to be derived
from the Secretary, would of course be received
by a committee, and by them be communicated
to the House.
P , r ! re,,t considerations
.hat ffiould arrest the particular attention of the
-egiflatuie, as they only wltc competent to de
ciding upon them. The motion has reference
to the rate of duties, and the House was cer
tainly the molt competent to judge of and clti
mate the public taxes. ° ' CKl '
After some further debate Mr. SecW.ck with
drew Jus proposition—and a motion by Mr Ames
for a reference to the Secretary of the Treafu, y
In^ ornla ''on refpeifting any difficulties in the
execution of the Law, was agreed to.
1 he business of Offices for the sale' of vacant
Lands within the Territory of the United States,
being considered as particularly connected with
revenue—a committee of the lioufe was appoint
ed to prepare and report a bill, or bills on that
fubjeet.
WEDNESDAY, November 2.
A number of petitions were read and referred.
Mr. Giles called up a memorial from the offi
cers of the Virginia line, and other papers rela
tive thereto, which were communicated by the
Prefiilent, to the late Congress, but not ac'ted up
on. The papers being read, he laid on the table
the following- refolutiou :
That so much of the melfage and communica
tion' from the Prefidenr of the United States to
both houses, 011 the 17th of January lalt, as re
lates to the bounty lands granted to the officers
and soldiers of the Virginia line 011 the continen
tal establishment, be referred to a feleft commit
tee, to examine the matter thereof, and report
the fame with their opinion thereon to the house.
On motion of Mr. Dayton, it was resolved, that
the Secretary of the Treasury be diredted to re
port to the House, whether any and what altera
tions in favor of the fpiiits which fliall be diftill
erl from articles of the growth or produce of the
United States, or from foreign articles within the
fame, can, in his opinion, be made in the excise
law, confidently with its main design, and with
the maintenance of the public faith.
Mr. Giles laid on the table a motion, that the
Secretary of the department of War, thould be
inftrutfted to before the House an accurate
Uateinent of all balances of pay which appear,
by the bouks of his office, to be due to the officers
and soldiers of the late army of the United States,
and which either remain unclaimed, or have been
claimed but not paid ; together with the reasons
for with-holding payment from those who may
have i efpec r tively entered their claims therefor.
Mr. Vining laid on the table a motion for the
appointment of a committee, to report a bill or
bills, to eiiablilli an uniform system of bankrupt
cy throughout the United States.
Mr. Dayton laid on the table a motion, that
the board of cominiflioners, for fettling the ac
counts between the United States and individual
States, be directed to report to the House the pro
gress ihey have made in such settlement ; and
iheir opinion as to the profpeift which the present
state of the business affords, of its speedy and fi
nal conclusion.
Mr. Smith then called for the order of the day,
pursuant to which,
Tlie House resolved itfelf into a committee of
tlie whole (Mr. Muhlenberg in thi chair) and
took up the bill for the enumeration of the in
habitants of the diltridt of South-Carolina.
Some gentlemen having exprelTed their appre
hensions, that, by the words of the bill, the inar
flial of ihe diftriet of South-Carolina might be
empowered to make a new enumeration of the
inhabitants, which was contrary to the sense of
the House, and would give that State an undue
advantage over the other States, an amendment
was moved and adopted by the committee, in the
following words, " Provided that in the said re
turn" [oj of t/je inhabitants of the
tliflrifl of S. Carolina] " such persons only shall
be included, as were inhabitants of the State at
the time prescribed for taking the census," &c.
Another amendment being also proposed and
adopted, the committee rose and reported the
bill as amended.
The House tlien proceeding to consider the
aniendincmsof the committee,fome remarks were
made, to.lhew that the one above quoted might
tend to violate the return, and was moreover an
unnecetlary precaution,as the proposition was not
for making the enumeration of the whole State
but of giving in the return of the enumeration
already made, and completing the census, bv
the addition of a very small diltrift, that was not
yet included in thegeneral return. The amend
ment was therefore rejected by the House, and
the bill was ordered to be engroOed.
Mr. Gerry from t!ie committee to whom
referred the memorial of the iheriffof Suffolk
county, in the State of MafFachufetts, made a re
port tending to grant to all persons, confined in
any State, under the authority of the United
States, the fame privileges and immunities, to
which they would be eniitled, if confined under
the authority of the State. Ordered to lie on
the table.
Mr Secretary Otis, by order of the Senate
ft' 6 C v C V PUfe 3 P edtio,i fro "> ihe diitil!
' Pr '*'" S i»
The committee appointed to consider and re
port on the petition of Susannah Fowle, „ la <] e ■,
report wh.ch was referred to the committee ap
pointed to prepare a bill for compe,,fating Z
lids, widows and orphans in certain cases.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, November 3.
Mr. Page and Mr. Lee, members from Virei-
X d P a^ arCd ' We, C and took their feats
218
The bill to extend the time allowed hv 1
for compleaur.g the census of South Car„l '
was read the third time and palled. '
Mr. Giles' motion laid on the table v £ (le r( i
refpedhng the bounty-lands to the officers anil'
soldiers of the Virginia line, &c. « aS taken in,
conlideration, and after fonie variation mad
the instance of that gentleman, was adopted
Several petitions for compensations, neiiLn.
we| e presented, read and referred - 0 ,h
heads of departments. '
A perition froui Abraham Hunt was read w ,
ing to be reiniburfed certain lolles incurred f"
the town of Rofton by the Briiifh army_ a lfoth«
he may receive hall'-pay or commutation as a,
officer of the late army of the United States O
tl ' e ,?, uefti . on l ° re /? r said petition to the Secretary
01 War, it pafled in the negative.
A petition of David Cook was read, pravino-t
be placed on the pension-list— this was referrel
to riie committee appointed to bring i„ a bilj
allowing compensations to widows, orphans nd
disabled persons-, in certain cases.
Several petitions being presented for the r,
newal of loft certificates of public debt-Mr
Sedgwick observed that it would, in his opinion
be the 111 oft eligible method to take up the Tub!
jest at large—and he accordingly moved that a
committee/hould be appointed to prepare and
report a bill direding the mode in which evi
dences of the public debt of the United S;ate<
which have been, or may be loft or deftrovpl'
shall be renewed. c "royed f
The motion being amended by (Irikino-out the
words " or may be" was adopted, and" Meff'rj
Sedgwick, Giles and Dayton, appointed the com
mittee.
Two petitions from Capt. John Manly pre .
fented by Mr. Gerry, were lead and referred t 9
the Secretary at war.
Mr. Dayton's motion laid on the table yester
day, refpetfing the board of comuiiffioners ap.
pointed to fettle the accounts between the Uni
ted States and individual States was taken into
confiderarion, and adopted.
Mr. Ward, of the committe appointed for the
purpose, presented a report on the petition of
Francis and Isaac Chonte, the purport of which
was that the prayer of said petition cannot be
granted.
ORDER OF THE DAY —THE CENSUS.
In committee of the whole.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The motion of Mr. Lawrance was again lead,
viz. [ hat until the next enumeration of the in
habitants of the United States, there shall be one
reprefentaiive for every thirty thousand peifons.
Mr. Sedgwick moved to insert the word four,
between thirty and thousand.
Mr. Dayton moved to ilrike out thirty before
tlioufand, and leave the blank to be filled up.
Mr. Livermore moved to insert forty thousand.
Mr. Clark observed, that it was well known
that great unealinefs prevailed among the people
in various parts of the Union, on account of the
salaries and coinpenfations to the officers of go
vernment— the expence of supporting the govern
ment was increasing—and it mult therefore be
contrary to the general willies of the people to
enlarge the representation, which would add to
the public burthen, without being productive of
any advantage.
He was in favor therefore of the motion for
fti iking out thirty, and would then move to infect
forty.
Mr. Williatnfon, after a few preliminary re
marks on the ieveral calculations that different
members had made, and applying the various re
sults to the population of the fniall Stares in par
ticular, observed, that futh a ratio fliould be 2-
dopted as would leave the feweft fractions, and
at the fame time do as much justice as pofllble to
those Slates. With refpec't to the general quel - -
tion, lie thought the people were divided in opi
nion— feme were in favour of a large reprefen
tatioH—others were opposed t.j a great addition
to the prefei.t number. The expence of fupport
mg the government is great—the peojjle realize
that in the nature of things it mult encreafe—this
consideration should lead to adopt a medium, and
if poflible to fix on a ratio that might give gene
ral fatisfadiion. At all events he wished that
Congress would reserve to itfelf the powerofen
creafing the number of Reprel'entatives, in cafe
the sentiments of the people should be in favor
of the measure. He observed that the l.oweft
number of Conftitnents which had been menti
oned was thirty thousand, and the lugbeft forty—
if gentlemen could not agree in either, he hopd
they would adopt the medium.
Mr. Lawrance objecfted to ftrikingout thirt'
1 iiis fubjetft, laid he, has been canvalTel
throughout America—innumerable are the pam
phlets and newspaper publications which have
appeared in all parts of the United States. T ,e
final lnef's of the representation was early objccld
to—and it was verv generally expected, that when
tlie amendments to the Conllitution took plaee,
that one Reprefcntative to every 30, cOO perfo« s
would be the ellabliflied ratio.The majority of the publications on this f;ihje&—the various
amendments proposed by the States, all plainly declare that the
fenfeof the people is in favor of one for every 30.000.
And what, fa id he, are the objc&ions ? — It is said that the pub-
Jic business will be impeded by a large number of members in the
house and that the ex pence will encreafe the public burthens of
ihc people. With refpeft to the firft obje&i®n, it seems to be a
general idea of gentlemen, that about ico members would be the
most eligible number—the proposed ratio will give about 11 ;an
addition of ten or twelve cannot embarrass th'e public business.
The objr&ion on account of an encreafe of the expence, he did not
confidcr as well founded. The encreafe of the rep: efentation will
be in proportion to the encreafe of the people who pay tor the
support ot the government.
Theobjeftion he could not consider therefore of fiifficient weight
to deter Congress from establishing such a ratio as would give a re
prefentauon iuiiy competent to doing full juftite to every pare oi
the Union.
The government is a government by reprefentatio.i, and it is of
thelaft importance that the confidence of the people ihould be in
lpired by feeling that their interests are fully represented.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that eucreafing the ratio would un
doubtedly excite unealinefs and complaint in some of the States,
by diminishing their present representation. He concluded by
faying that the few remarks he had made, were crude and undi
gested not expelling the fubjett to be brought forward this day,
he had not revolved it fufificiently in his mind—he hoped howe
ver that what had been said, would prevent a sudden decmon of
thequeftion.
Mr. Giles moved that the committe fliould rife, report, and
a(k leave to fit again. The motion was agreed to.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, it was resolved, that the report of
the Attorney-General on the Judiciary System—also sundry pro
positions on the fame fubjett, as amendments to the Conllitution,
which were laid before the late House—be referred to the com
mittee of the whole—and that 100 Copies of cach be printed.
FRIDAY, November 4.
Sundry petitions were presented, read, and referred to the Se
cretary oi War.
The petition of Charles Coiv'tn, some timea prisoner in Algiers,
presented by Mr. Fitzlimons, was read, and leterred to the Secre
tary of State.
The reports of fcveral committees on petitions were taken into
consideration, and disposed of.
That on the petition of Jeremiah Allen, was referred to the
committee of the whole house on the report of the Attorney-
General, refpe&ing the Judiciary Syftern. That on the petition of
Susannah Fowle,which was 111 favorot the petitioner, was leferred
to the committee of the whole house on the State of the Union.
Ou the petition of Francis and Isaac Choate > which was againlt
the prayer of the petition, was accepted by the houie.
Mr. Fuzfnnons laid the following motion on the table—That
a committee be apoointed to bring in a bill or bills, to regulate
pilots,and to provide for the appointment of fuperintendanrs of
lighi-houles, beacons, and public picis, throughout the United
States.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, the order of the day, on the ccn
fus of the inhabitants of the United States, was postponed to Thurf
daynext; at which time it was to be expetted there would be a
fuller representation on the floor of the Houle.
Mr. Sterrett, member from Maryland, having very fpccial buli
nefs to tranfaft with the legislature of that State, now in feflion,
and which required his personal attendance, aiked leave ot absence
for ten days, which was granted.
The house then adjourned to Monday morning, 11 o'clock.
ALBANY, Oi'.iober 24.
It is with the mud infinite regret, we announce
the premature and premeditated death of so wor
thy a character as Cornelius Hogkboom, Esq.
Sheriff of the county of Columbia, whole disposi
tion and eondudt, not only in the walks or fecial
and private life, were such as to gain him the
friendfhip and refpe<Tt of all his intimate acquaint
ance, but whose lenity in his official capacity,was
such as ought to have made friends of all who
lenew his benevolent character. —The circum
stances attending this much lamented event, as
related to us, are as follow
" Saturday last, Cornelius Hogebooj?i, Esq. She
riff of the county of Columbia, iiccompanietl by
two other gentlemen, went to the faie of some
property, legally ndvertifed, in the town of No
bletown, expecting that his deputy had arrived
there before him and had commenced the sale.
When he came to the spot, he found that his de
puty had not been there—waited a considerable
time—deputy did not arrive—adjourned the sale
'to a future day—mounted with his companions
—a pistol immediately discharged—no notice ta
ken of it by either of them—proceeded about jo
yards from the houfe-—fifty (or thereabouts)
-armed men, difguilcd like Indians, started up out
■of the bufties—fired a shot from thu whole with
out effect !—Mr. Hogeboom said to his compani
ons, " they only mean to frighten us' —a lecond
charge was fired, when Mr. Hogeboom received
the fatal (hor, and liad time only to fay, " I am
a dead man."
This, of all murders within our knowledge,
fee ins to lie the moll horrid !—A public officer le
turning, not from thedifcharge of his duty, but
before it had been executed, murdered by aco>v
arclly set of afl'affins, who had taken upon them
the appearance of savages, a badge, which even
nature did not entitle them to ; and under this
garb perpetrated a crime far below the meanness
of savage brutality !
This is one of the numerous instances which
frequently occur, either ot the lols of life 01
some pevfonal iujury being fuitained by public
officers in the legal discharge of their duty. \V e
would not presume to reform, but there is a tan 1 '
somewhere—there can therefore be noitiipropr
ety in fuggelting an enquiry
This day, obfei ves a correfpondenr, the fecotid
Congress under our tree constitution, are ro meet
in Philadelphia,after a recess of nearly 8 months.
On this occasion it mud occur to every onf, the
clamor that was made two years part, re/petting
'he exorbitant naf*esofthe members ofCongrc s.
If under the nev/ fyftein, Congress can dispatch
the business ot the Union by litting one third of
the year, they will be less burthenfome to the
Union til in the Congress under the old confede
ration, who were a perpetual body—to a very
final] purpole.
It gives us lingular pleasure to have it iu our
power to inform the public, iit.it 011 Friday last
ac the trial of Mr. Molter, proprietor of theglafs
h . ife, that gentleman wa/ acquitted. After hear
ing the evidence, it was deemed umiecellary, by
the counsel on each (ide, to fay any tiling either
pro or con ; and the jury without hefitauon de
clared his innocence of the charge.
CARLISLE, October 26.
Last week the courts of quarter-felfions and
common-pleas were holde'n at tliis place for the
fii ll time under the new constitution of this com-
monwealth.—A charge, adapted to the occasion,
was delivered to the grand jury, by Thomas
Smith, Esq. prefie'ent of the circuit.—He after
wards addreiled the officers of the court, and the
gentlemen of the bar, and after stating briefly
and in general terms, the fcveral duties of each,
he added, " Let us conclude, by iinpreHing upon
the minds of all our fellow-citizens, of every
class, vrhofe duty it is to attend at court, that it
is only by our united exertions in a punctual, di
ligent and faithful discharge of the duties of our
several Rations, that the real dignity of the court
can be supported ; and jtilhce administered to
the fatisfaCtion of the public."
The couwfel who firlt addrefled the court, be
ginning with the words, " Ma'y it please your
honours," the pieftdent requested him to post
pone the motion tor a tew minutes, and made ihe
following obfervaiions : " The gentlemen of
the bar frequently use this expression in addrefl
ing this court but the appellation not being
given to us by the conltitution or laws of our
country, it will be agreeable to the court, if you
decline giving it in future. The expression "this
honorable court," has indeed crept into one of
our aCts of Membly :—Should that form of ad
dress be used in the other circuits, we fliall not
fay that it is improper. For, as on the one hand,
it would be falfe niodefty, or rather falfe pride,
under Ihe inalk of inodelty, to refufe any titles
(riven 11s by the conltitution or the laws ; so on
■the other, it would disclose uninformed minds,
ihould we arrogate to ourselves appellations not
given by either.
" If we poflef's fufficient legal abilities, and an
intimate and accurate knowledge of the practice
—if we administer the laws with decision, dif-
Adjourned,
patch, and rigid integrity— if we consult and pro
mote the real and permanent jnterelts, an'd locial
happinafs of our fellow-citizens, as far as in our
power, in our present itation, they will refpeift
us without any titles !—But fliould we appear un
equal to our office—(hould we betray the want of
legal abilities, or ihould our judgments be led or
influenced by our affections, or passions, or by
any pcrfonal or party considerations, 110 titles or
appellations, however pompous, could secure to
us the refpert of an enliplitened people.
" We beg leave on this occasion to point, out
another impropriety, ot which, indeed, 1 was as
guilty as any of you when I was at the bar, al
though 1 scarcely ever was in the other inltance:
The gentlemen in whole favor the courtgave
judgment, generally rife and thank the court. We
reoueil you will discontinue this practice ; were
the counsel on the other lide to fay, wc blame the
court, the expression would certainly be thought
improper—the one indeed Hows from politeness
the other would be looked upon as rude ; in
every other point of view they are equally ex
ceptionable.
" We mull give judgement according to law
we could not give it otherwise than we do, to
•rain the applause or to shun the cenlure of mil
lions we mull be actuated by considerations in
finitely higher than the applause or cenlure of
men. God forbid that any of the parties in this
court, or in any of the other courts which 1
fit, should ever have it in his power to lay, with
truth, either that he has a jrietid or an enemy on
the bench."
The remains of the wid jvv of the late Bishop
of Durham were 011 Tuesday brought from Wan
dead in Suflex, and interred in the Temple.
It is remarkable that she fiiit Itruck the late
Dr. Thurlow with her charms, when flie was
weeding a garden belonging!©a gentleman with
whom he was dining. Such was the humble Iphet e
in which that lady originally moved. Ihe Doc
tor had her called into the hall, where with her
fineing and native beauty (he so much enraptur
ed him, that he sent her to a boarding fcliool,
and in due time married her.
Monsieur, the King's brother, was, on the 2 jrh
of Anguft, appointed Regent of I ranee, with the
unanimous consent of all the emigrants, who ce
lebrated, 011 that day, the fealt ol St. Loins, ar
Coblentz.
219
LONDON, September 6
Mrs. THURLOIV.
Philadelphia, November 5.
A southern pnper by yesterday's mail informs, that the Court
Martial which (at for the trial of General Harmar j has acquitted
him with honor.
By the Boston Independent Chronicle, it appears that the town
ofßofton has voted in town meeting, to inftruft their representa
tives to endeavor to eifcdl a repeal of the law against Theatrical
Exhibitions.
At a meeting of the Dire&ors of the Bank of the United States,
on Wednesday evening, the following Gentlemen were appointed
a committee to prepare and report a plan for Offices of Discount,
viz. Wii lt am Smith, Jonathan Mason, William Bing
ham, Jeremiah Wadsworth, and James Watson, Efqrs.
In consequence of the late daring attempts to burn this city, the
most fpiritted measures have been adopted to guard against the in
cendiaries— and to dete£l and bring them to justice, patroles of ci
tizens are formed in the several wards, whole nightly vigilance
will secure the repose and preservation of the inhabitants, and their
property.
On Monday last Joseph Ravar a, Esq. was introduced to the
President, by Mr. Jefferfon. as Consul-General in the United
States from the Republic of Genoa.
Within thefc tew nights pafl several attempts have been made to
set fire to buildings in different, parts of the city, bit they were
happily fruftrated bv the a&ivity of the citizens, different parties
of whom have patrolled the streets for the purpose of preventing
those diabolical incendiaries from executing their horriddcfigns.
His Excellency Governor Clinton has ifiued a proclamation
offering a large reward for apprehending and securing the mur
derers of Mr. Hogeboom.
The Constitution of France was exaflly two years, three months,
and fifteen davs in forming—the empire of despotism, on the ru
ins of which this fabrick of Freedom is raised, was the work of
ages. At the moment of finifhmg the Constitution, all parties
seemed to unite—Feuillans and Jacobins joined in equal expreflions
of triumph.
The motion of Mr. Languinais, that the Constitution cannot be
changed, was carried unanimously.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
In consequence of the success of the Boston Tontine, a plan for
an United States Tontine will be published in a few days, in all the
principal towns throughout the Continent; and as the objedfc is to
effect a union of public and private benefits, there can be little
doubt of its fuccceding.
A fvftem of Bankrupt Laws has long been expected by many
persons. It has been said that the United States is almost the on
ly civilized country in the world, which is not in poffeflion of
such a fvftem ; an idea is excited by this circumstance, which
fomc may construe to the disadvantage of the general character of
the people of America. If we can boast of equal honesty with
the reft of mankind, we do not appear to Hand on an equal foot
ing with the citizens of European government in this refpeft.
There may be peculiar difficulties attending this business in this
country, owing to the extenfivenefs of our circle of credit; but
we certainly in this cafe, as in many others, enjoy fupertor ad
vantages by having all the light to direst us, which can arise from
the practice and experience of the greatest commercial, and moll
enlightened nations of Europe.
It is doubtless for the intercft of individuals and communities,
that men should pursue the paths of honor and re&itude. An en
lightened people will always make it for the advantage of their
public officers to be honest and patriotic. How highly favoured
is our country, in having those to conduct her public affairs, wh®
feel the force of the above remark.—On every occasion, the pro
moting the public good will be the supreme motivp to a&ion, so
long as\he people distinguish worth and abilities by their fuffrages.
On the 2 ift ult. at a meeting of the American PhilofophicalSociety,
agreeably to the order and rule of proceeding in the choice of new
members, the following gentlemen were duly elected :
Andrew Murray, M..D. ProfefTor of Botany in ihe University of
Gottingen.
Peter Simon Pallas, M. D. ProfefTor of Natural History at Peterf
burgh, &c. &c.
Dugald Steuart, Profeflor of Moral Philosophy in Edinburg.
Alexander J. Dallas, Esq. Secretary to the Commonwealth ot
Pennsylvania. Extratt trom the minutes,
Samuel Macaw, Sec'ry.
ARRIVALS At the FORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig A6tive, Baflet, Berrrmoa
Union, Bell, Hamburg
Scho'r Fanny, Bents, North-Carolina
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents ai/6 21/8 pr.
3 pr. Ci-ntJ 12/4 > a /6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/ 13/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 18/ 90 do.
Indents 11f 11/6 do.
Bank Subscriptions, Mi to 118 Dollars.
Inspector is received.
The First and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Thiid Street®.
£3H The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from its firft settlement to the adoption of the present Con
fti'Htion of the United States ; —the third, containing a geographi
cal description of the State, (ketches of its natural history, See. is
in the press.
* # * A few copies of the firft two volumes for sale—price 20/ I
November % 5, 1791.
In the Press, and speedily will be publidied,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
* # * The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards t to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and ferond Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
thr firft ; and each subsequent one (except the last) at the time of
de ivery.
tfpf Sflbfcriptions will be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Do? son, and Hazard Sc Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of ihe work) and in other places by the pr ncipal Bookfc-llers
there. November 1791.
icß| pr. cent,
do.
' 66£ do.ODE to HYMEN
BY PETER PINDAR
GOD of ten million charming things,
Of whom our Milton To divinely lings,
Oner dove-ui I'd to a devil ot a wife—
Hymen, how comes it that I am so flighted ?
Whv with thy myft'ries aw I not delighted,
Which I have try'd to peep on half my life ?
God ot the down-clad chains, dispel the mist—
O put me fpcedily upon thy lift !
A civil lift, like that of Kings, I'm told,
Bringing in swelling bags ot glorious gold !
What hnve I done to lose thy good opinion ?
Agamft thee was 1 ever known to rail;
And (ay, (abusing thus thy sweet dominion)
11 Curie me! if thi» Boy's trap ftiall catcil my tail ?"
PJo! no!—I praise thy knot with bellowing bieath,
Which, like Jack Ketch's, seldom Hips till death.
* Lo! 'mtdftthe hollow-founding vault of night,
Deep coughing by the taper's lonely light,
The hopeless He&ic rolls his eyeballs, sighing :
" Sleep on," he cries, and drops the tend'reft tear;
Then kifTcs his wife's cherub cheek so dear :
" Blest be thy (lumbers, Love ! tho I am dying,
Ah ! whillt thou flcepctt with the fwectell bieath,
I pump, for life, the putrid well of death !
I feel of fate's hard hand th' oppteflive pow'r;
I count the iron tongue ot ev'ry hour,
That fcems in Fancy's startled car to fay —
Soon mull thou wander from ihy wife away.
" Dread found ! too folc mn for the foul to bear,
Murm'ring deep melancholy on my ear :
And fullen —lingering, as if loth to part,
And cafe the teirors of my fainting heart.
Yet, tho I pant for life, sleep thou, my dove,
Eor well thy constancy deserves my love."
And, lo! all young and beauteous, by his fide,
His fofi, frelh blooming, incenfe-breathmg Bride,
Whose check the dream of rapt'rous kiflls warms,
Anticipates her spouse's wilh so good ;
Feels love's wild ardours tingling through her blood,
And panis amidst a Jecond husband's arms ;
Now opes her eves, and, turning round her head,
" Wonders the filthy fellow is not dead!"
TO Bt SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 112, Union-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOKS,
Which may be scent very day, uvtil five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following ;
folio. T_TOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
rl men, Thcodorer, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Puter
culus, Piinyj ConcorjJaritia Lat. Concoidantia Gr. Thcl .u;us Ci
ceroni s. litblia J unit and Tiemellii, Bible de Martin, Willi's Map:,
Scapulae— Phavorini—Martinii—HofTmani Lexica, Vollii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. BritanniciE, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phaedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciccronisop. om. Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hcderici Lexicon, Voflii Ais Gi am. Cluve
iii Geo >raphia, Julbnian Code, See .
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacrcon, Aristophanes. Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Po.etac mi notes Gr. Ifocrates, Ph«lai is. va
rious editions of Horace, Vitgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Maitial, Claudian, V'al. Flaccus. Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, CurtiuA Horns, juftiri, Val. Maximum, A. Gellius, Hill.
August. Scriptores, Etighfk and French Translations of iome oi the
Classics, a great variety oi Greek and Latin Grammars, See. &c.
(£3T Catalogues may be had of MeflYs. Rice & Co. BoWktellers,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
Ofto'orrgi. (ep if.)
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every tlefcription^nC^ra/^raw,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at au&ion, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private falc or purchase, one-half per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
rmount of the iuteieft.
For making transfers at ditto, feventy-five cents per transfer.
(£3f* Such pVrfons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their order*, may rely on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive deaVingi
111 the public '.locks, together with a well eflablifVicd coriefpou
den.ee throughout the Urtned States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
OElober ?5, 1791
PRINTS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
HpiE fubferibers to the Prints of the Baitle ol Bunker's Hill,
X and the attack ot Quebec, arc informed, that Etchings 0+
those 1 t ints are to be fcen at Mr. Anthony's, Jeweller, in Ma>-
ket-ftreet—-(where may also be seen an Etching ot Mr. Copley's
celeb 1 a ted Print of ihe Death of Lord Chatham.)
The fubfeription for this woik (which has hitherto been confin
ed to America) will be opened on the Ift of Januaiy next, in the
pi incipul cities of Europe : 1 hole Gentlemen therefore who may
wiih to poflefs early, and of conrfe valuable impreflions, are re.
queued to avail thcmfelvcs of this interval, in which a preference
is lull to America.
Subfcriptlons arc received hv Mr. Tri-mbuli, !)nd by Mr
Anthony. Jeweller, Philadelphia ; Mr. Dan.el Penfie.d,
„ a,r ,. r "o fa ' Ncw - York '- Mr - W.LL.AM VAV NE, Boftun ; and
n_i\- Hazl khurjt, Charlellon, South-Carolina.
1 lie P 11 " 10 fubfcribcrs is Three Guineas (or each Print—
fUb,C,ibinS ' the -'-n
Philadelphia. October 24, iyq t
Lectures on Governmenc& Law.
'T'HE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L. L. D. Prof, ffo, of Law'
X in tlie College and Academy of Philadelphia, propores to
deliver, next Winter, two CWes of Lcflurcs One Corn sco
begin on the Sccond Monday, the other on the Sccond Turfday of
Dccc " ll,cr - WILLIAM ROGERS,
, , , . . Secretary to the Board ot Faculty.
Philadelphia, 12, 17QU feptD)
tmViK.IT* or Pr. N Si , L 1 AM A,
Y Thi MEDICAL LECWREstj/ll^
jfjtfirJl i\t.otiaaj m Noiwwtbsr next.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-Yorky No. 57, King-Street.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Merchandize ot all forts bought and fold on (ommijfian, and all other
fiufiuefs i« the line ot a Brother, ti an failed by
WILLIAM C L E L A N D,
At the Office next door to the Cullom-Houfe,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2 m
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, &SPICES,&c-&c
Ot the fir it quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street. Hpt ween Chefmit ai
A Young Gentleman, ot American tnrth and education (being
a graduate) would for a liberal coinpenfation engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and English Languages. He has had fomc experience in
teaching, and trusts he can exhibit fatisfa£tory recommendation?.
Any letters upon this fubjedt, poll paid, addiefl/*d to A— S—,
and the care of t he Editor hereof, prior to the 25th December, will
be nun&ually attended to.
O&obcr 22, 1701
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
Class Second.
r I "'HIS Class will positively commence drawing on Thntfday
X the 24th of Novefnber next, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which will
be completed with all expedition. The Managers pledge them
selves that no conlideratton whatever (hall induce tliem to poltponc
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
Boston. O ; b>bor 15. 1791.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnui-Street, next door to the Hank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN.
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To he had at the fame place
TO BE SO LD,
And pollt-llion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubfetiber now lives.
TT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
L and'a trom the former. It contains 2! 3 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard 'if 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
*ood fence. There arc on the premises a two story (lone house
ma kucbtn, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.tcd and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-(hop, granary, waggon
houfe; barrack cow-houses, two stories high and 90 feet long, and
good bain, with stabling. From the buildings there arc charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
• nplying to the fubfenber on the premises, or to Isaac Sno wd en ,
'No. 141, South Second-Ri cet, Philadelphia.
Princeton, o£b>ber 10, 1701
IV. M'D 0 U G A L US
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School .Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his (incite thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
ol his fchortl 'or decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance ol his I'eholars, will flill ensure him a refpctlable tharcuf the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during ihe feafun. a
Thole who plcafe to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught In the most appiovid
(V.le, and that proper attention will be paid to their cai riaae and
manners.
A general pra&ifmg for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New, Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and llrangcrsol genleel deportment, will be admnud.
These praftifiriss will fie attended wiih no expcncc.
N.li. An nVLNING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gen-.lemen, as soon as a fudicient number offer.
Philadelnhia, September 14, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the S;ore of the fubfci iber, at Bor-
J rU ntown. and flolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 f.nail
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftainents; 1 ditio
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one Itriped veit and
breeches, two fliirts and a I'mall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. feifcy coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
f nail hooks;. 1 box containing 447 real oltiirh feathers, some i.f
'hem large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; t barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
j dozen plile-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Bat'teau
wiih black fides.
A reward oi Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again
or in proportion for pan thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be giver, for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
_ , , r JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bnrrlrn""A-n. \W. I f . r,„. Smr. 1. i 7nii [~enif]
WANTED, A NUMBER OF
Journeymen Cordwainers,
Who will find conibnt employment and generous wages, bv ap.
plying to the Mailer Cordwainers of the City of Philadelphia
OFloher 22,1791. [epLfJ
Wanted, a good COOK
To whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apply who
r """" ' ,lf '" n "nendi'(l. Enquire qf the Printer!
r ADVERTISE M E NT.
B\ fate dryivals from France, the Editor has * (
tffSumr*~i)sr ° f r "', R ? sess 'ov»fn t SE.\ute
»/ we uah ~JS maybe had of the E,Vu»rktn,->\
220
ind Market Streets
[law]
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior,
[ep 2»nJ
Gazette of the United States.
I.Early and authentic account of ih<- ProceeJingi »/ C<nrr,r
communicated Co as in form an history of the inuficl,uo s of < h 'l
National Government.
11. Laws, See. of the United States.
111. Impartial Sketches cj the Debates of Con%refs.
IV. Flays mi the great fubj. £b of Coven,me,.it- alfn upon the
local and national rights ot the American cilircns, as tound- i
nature, or 011 the national or (bte Ounftitutions; and on other ful!'
jftU fuitablc for newi'paprr difcuifion.
V. A fenes of Paragraphs, Calculated to catch the " livin* mjr ,
ners as th«y rife," and 111 point the public attention to nl --cts • "
have an important tefcrence to domcltic, locial and public lij
pinefs. ' *
VI. The Inter efts of the United States, as connefled with thdr
literary Inftitutious; religious and mnral objeas; improvsmenis
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; tlieir fun, n
treaties, alliances, connexions, See. °
Vi(. Intelligence which may affect the commercial, agricultural
maiuifa&uring, or political mtcrcftsof the Arncricau nation. '
VIII. A chain of Domejlic Occurrences.
IX. A series of foreign articles of Intelligence.
X. The Jlate of the Funds; Courses oj Exchange ; Prices Current
Pubiifhed every Wednesday and Saturday
The pricc to fubferibers, Three Dollars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of fu-b.
scribing: The fecund at the end o! the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Will be received in a/' the capital towns vfion theContinevt; also at No. 60
High-Street, between Second and Third Streets, Philadelphia.
AT this important rrilis.the ideas that (ill the mind, are preg
nant with event's of the greatcft magnitude— to fticngthen and
complete the ui,ion of the States—to extend and protect their
commerce —to exolore and arrange the national funds—to reftoreand
ettablilh the public credit—wiU require the energies of the patriots
and ("ages of our cotmtry— Hcr.cc the propriety cf encreofing the me
diums cj knowledge and in formation.
AMERICA, tiom this period begins her national existence—
" tht, world is all nero re he r "_t he w i Mom and (ollv-
the miferv and profpcuty of the empires,flutes, and kingdoms, which
have had their day uoon the great theatre of time, and are now nr>
more, suggest the most important mementos—thcfc, with theraoid
series of events, in winch our country has been involved, have
taught the enlighirned citizens of the United Stales, that freedom
and government, Hberti and /das, ire nifepaiahlc.
Tr.is conviction led to the adoption of the new constitution •
for however various the femiments, refpeftingthe merits of this
system, all cood men are agreed in the neccfliiy of ail efficient ft.
dcral government.
A paper, therefore, eftitl.lithed upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which (hall take up the ptemircd aitieles, upon
a competent plan, it is prtfumed, will be highly interfiling,
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
The Editor of ihis publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored : —He foliciu the afiiftancc of persons
of letfurc an,l abilities—whirh, united with his own assiduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not un
worthy general encouragement and is, with due rei'pe£f, liie
public's humble ftrvant,
April 15, 1789,
THE p!an and execution of the Gazette of the United
States, have received ihe approbation of a tribunai, from wtnch
there is no ;ippeal.
The fubfcripiions, which arc rncreafing, have long; since exceed
ed the cxpc&ations of the oublifher—a punctual compliance with
the terms would compensate his labours, aud animate his futuitf
exertions.
The Government that an enlightened and free people adopt, is
a sacred confederal ion—it knows no party —and us prosperity is
founded on the public good.
While the people are juft'.o themselves, the adminiflration of
their affaiis wiil be committed to men of integrity and competent
abilities ; and it will be the duty of patriotism to impress the pub
lic mind with favorable sentiments of the mcalures of govern
ment.
Our country continuing enlightened and free, the period can.
not be anticipated when a publication on the plan of this Gazette
shall involve a dercliftion of those principles with which the li
berties and happiness of the United States are conneffed.
(t. f.)
With refprft to the circulation of this paper, the Editor regrets
the recent disappointments which have unavoidably taken place—
he has always been fully imprerted with the importance of punc
tuality. and cannot charge himfelf with a finale lnllance of re
mi (Kiefs.
It is very generally luppofed that Congress, at the ensuing
feflion, will take measures to ensure the circulation of news
papers in the United States; ariji particularly their tranfmiflion
from the Seat of Government to all parts of the Union. Jultice,
policy and patriotism, plead irrefiflably in favor of iOme ctte£lual
provision's being made. The following pertinent and judicioirs
observations on this fubjecl, lately appeared in an address to the
public from the Editor of the Gazette of Maine, They
are lublliturcd in preference to any thing which the editor of this
paper might further suggest, more particularly as coming from a
remote quarter of the Union.
** Perhaps there is no country, in any part of the world, the in
habitants of which arc, (or may be) supplied with public News
papers at a cheaper rate than ihofe of America. The Farmer and
the Merchant, the Laborer and the Mechanic, may, bv the mean's
or a public Paper, when he retires from the business and fatigued
ot the day, take a view of the (ituation, the circumltauces and the
various »evolutions of the several countries of the civilized world —
And it must be a pleasing circurnftance, that this is theprivilege,
emphatically the privilege of an American.
Let it therefore be remembered, that by virtue of this privi
lege, the body of the pcoplf constantly obtain and prefeive such a
degrte ol knowledge as (hall be competent to the prevention of
any attempt that may be made by cunning and design ng men to
lap the foundation of our moll invaluable conflitution. But, let
the circulation of these Vehicles of Public Information bccircum
fcribed, and the people will at once become uninformed of public
tranfaflions, and the more enlightened Jew will engrofsthe privi
legts, immunities and prerogatives, which in the nature and
of things, arc the indefejfibic right of the whole body of ihc
peoplp.
It is pr^futried no American will need a ftimtilus of tbis na
ture to furnilh himfclt with public information. The cheap rate
at which it is offered, the love and'glory of our country, will at
all tunes promote such a mode of condudf, as shall forever bar the
attempts of tyranny, ignorance and fupcillhion."
, los the JxrJl volume, of this Gazette arc wanted—&Jl,
th: Qiiginul ccjt> will be paid jor them by the Editor.
PLAJi Qjf THE
CONDITION'S
ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
TO THE. PUBLIC.
THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.