PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 28, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT IN EL
MR. RUSSELL,
THE next article upon Which Mr. Paine has
pronounced the superiority of the French
conflitution, is upon the fubjeOt of making war
and peace. rlie right, he fays, is placed where
the expense is ; that is in the nation.—Whereas,
" in England, the right is said to reside in a me
taphor t shewn at the l ower forfixpenceor a {hil
ling a piece." He answers himfclf again in this
pallage, and fliows the folly of placing such a
formidable right in a metaphor ; but in this in
ltance, as in the former, there is much wit, and
110 truth ; and I mult take the liberty to affirm,
in contradiction to Mr. Paine, that the French
constitution has not, nor could not place the
right of declaring war, where the expense must
fall ; and that the English conflitution has not
placed this right in a metaphor.
Ihe expense of supporting wars must in all
countries be defrayed by the nation, and every
individual must bear his proportion of the bur
then. In free countries that proportion must al
ways be determined by the representatives of
the people ; but the right of deciding when it
may be expedient to engage in a war cannot pos
sibly be retained by the people of populous and
extensive territory, it must be a delegated pow
er ; and the French constitution has veiled it in
the National Ajfembly. By the Englilh constitu
tion it is vested in the supreme executive officer :
but to guard agai 11 ft the abuse of this formidable
power, it has given to the representatives of the
people the exclusive right of providing for the
lupport of the war, and of withholding the sup
plies, " the sinews of war," if it fhnuld fver be
declared contrary to the fenf'e of the people
themselves. Mr. Paine ftippofes a perplexity
which is warranted neither by theory nor by
the experience ofhiitory, " if the one rallily de
clares war," fays he, " as a matter of right, 3iul
the other preremptorily withholds the fuppliesas
a matter of right, the remedy becomes as bad if
not worse than the disease."
But every war in Eugland tiuifl be the war of
the people : the King is in reality no more than
the organ of the nation, and inuft be more than
an idiot to declare a war, upon which he inuit
depend altogether upon them for irs ftipport,
without being certain of that fupporr. imagin
ary conclusions drawn by reafoiling againlt the
inevitable order of things, are unworthy of a
politician, andfhould be left as a feeble vefource
for the fatyrift. To have given this objetfion e
ven an appearance of plausibility, Mr. Paine
should have mentioned an initance, when this
clalhing of the the King and of the Com
mons has ever been productive of the ill effects
which his fancy has sagaciously drawn front them.
Indeed Mr. Paine himfelf, upon further re
flection acknowledges the futility of his objecti
on, and fays " that in the manner the
nation is represented, it fignifies not where this
right resides, whether in the Crown or in the
Parliament." But 1 apprehend, if the repre
sentation in England were as perfect as human
wil'dom could devise, their present fyftetn with
vefpect to peace and war, would comprize all the
advantages of the French fyfleni, and at the
fame time be iVee from many inconveniences to
which that tnull be liable.
It must be clear to every one that tlie French
have nor. as Mr. Paine pretends, united the
right anil the expense : The impracticability of
such an union, mult be equally evident ; and the
only qneftion which can eflablifh a fair ground
of comparison between the two constitutions is,
Whether it is expedient to delegate to the legif-
Jative, or whether to the executive authority,the
right of declaring war.
As l am not a convert to Mr. Paine's opinion,
that a nation has a right to do what it pleases, I
must be allowed to fay that they have no right to
make war upon their neighbours, without pro
vocation. The people by their representatives
must judge, when the provocation is Sufficient to
tliflolve them from all the obligations cf morali
ty and humanity, by which nations are bound to
prtferve the blessings of pcace. But when they
lia'e determined that the great law of felf-pre
leivation, to which all other laws mtift give way,
orthat the laws which they have enacted in con
ference of the primitive Contract which united
all their power for the benefit of every individu
al, compel them to appeal for justice to the God
of lattles, the declaration of war, the for
Wednesday, August 5, 1791.
111 al art, by which they announce to the world
their intention to employ the arm of power in
their own defence, feeins to be proper attri
bute of the executive power. The difference
therefore, between the English and French con
iHtutions conlidered in this light can involve on
ly a qnellion of propriety, and as such the En
glish appears to me to deserve the preference.
If this idea should be considered as heretical,
I must beg leave to call to my ailiftance the au
thority of Roajfeau, a name ftil! more refpertable
than that of Mr. Paine, because death has given
the ultimate fanrtion to his reputation. " The
art of declaring war," fays he in his social com
part, "and that of making peace, have been
conlidered as arts of sovereignty, which is not the
cafe; for either of those arts is not a law, but
only an application of the law ; a particular art
which determines the operation of the law, as
will be clearly perceived when the idea annexed
to the word la-w fiiall be ascertained." The spi
rit of the English conllit ution is perfertly agree
able to this idea.
But let us cnnfider the subject a little further.
Whenever a difference arises between two na
tions which may terminate in a war, it is proper
and cuflomary, that previous negotiations fliould
be held, in older to use every possible means of
fettlit.g amicably the dispute. These negotia
tions, the appointment of the agents, by whom
they are ro be conducted, and the communication
of the proposals for accommodation,' which are
offered by either of the parties, are
all appropriated ro the executive department.
When the restoration of peace becomes expedient
in the opinion of the people, agents mult again
be appointed, and proposals of pacification niuft
again be made. Ir is obvious to every man, that
in the management of these concerns the Htmoft
secrecy and dispatch are frequently of essential
neceflity to the welfare of the people ; but what
secrecy can ever be expected, when evei y inftrnc
ticn to an Ambadador, every article of a proposed
treaty, and every circumstance of information
from the minister, in the progress of his opera
tions, must be known to twelve ihundred men as
sembled in the capital of the republic ; what pro
bability of dispatch, when all these things must
be debated in this afiembly of 1200 men; where
every thing must in the neceflary order of events
be opposed, by interested individuals and irritat
ed factions, who may protract the discussion for
months or years at their pleasure.
By the constitution of the United States, it is
true, the right of declaring war is vested in the
Congress, that is, in the legiflntive power. But
it is in the point of form that it agrees with the
constitution of France ; it has wifely placed the
management of all negociations and treaties, and
the appointment of ail agents and ministers in
the executive department; and it has l'o tho
roughly adopted in this inllance the principlss of
the Englilh constitution, that although it has gi
ven the Congress the right of declaring war,
which is merely a difference of form, it has vest
ed in the President, with the advice of the Se
nate as his executive council, the light of making
peace, which is implied in that of forming trea
ties. This is not the firft instance in which Mr.
Paine's principles attack thole of the conflitu
tion of his country. Highly as we may revere,
however, the principles which we are under eve
ry obligation to support, we may without irre
verence acknowledge that they partake of the
human imperfection from which they originated,
and if Mr. Paine's principles in opposition to
tliem, are in any instance founded upon eternal
truth, we may indulge the hope, that every ne
ceflaiy improvement will be adopted in a peace
able and amicable manner by the general con
sent of the people. But if the principles of Mr.
Paine, or thole of the French National Aflembly,
would lead us by a vain and delusive pretence of
an impracticable union between the right »f de
claring, and the expence of supporting a war, to
the facrifice of principles founded in immutable
truth, if they could persuade us, -by eftablilhing
in the legjflative body all negociations with fo
reign nations relative to war and peace, to open
a thouland avenues for base intrigue, for furious
faction, for foreign bribery, and domestic trea
son, let us remain immovably fixed at the ban
ners of our conflitutiotial freedom, and nor desert
the impregnable fortrefs of our liberties, for the
unfubfta:itial fabric of visionary politicians.
109
PUBLICO LA
fsiop>o
[Whole No. 236.]
FROM. THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
Bruxellhs, April 21.
NEITHER the internal disturbances which
followed theinfuriection, nor the agitation
which flill exists, have been an; oppofnion to the
execution of the Emperor's intentions. It was of
importance to Leopold that the Belgic people
(hould feel the necelfity of order, and wi(h for the
return of any kind of government. Princes have
more patience than the people—theyunderftand
the art of wearing out the courage of the people,
simply by fuffering them to adt. They sometimes
even irritate the unfortunate beings who fuffer,
in order to tire them the sooner—and then they
become an easy prey: They then fteo forward,
and the people contend who shall firft be placed
under their paternal protection, and adore the
iron hand that protects them. This is our his
tory.
A remarkable operation, partly commercial,
and in part political, has been performed here.
Government has granted totbehoufeof Hayeand
Co. of Krnxelles, the cxclufive privilege of buy
ing the mulkets and other arms, of the patriots
of Brabant. Who Mould credit the fhameful ea
gerness with which our citizens run to difpofeof
their arms? The company of Haye has already
bought tip an aftoniftiitig quantity; they have
upwards of 28 or 30,000 mulkets. What must we
think of this people, who resume the yoke as a
garment ? What are we to conclude from this in
conceivable docility, but that this people, the
sport of intrigue, have never acted from proper
fpirit,and a sentiment of their own dignity ; ancl
that excited, by the mere cry of liberty, by some
seditious characters, they now coliceive their past
conduct founded on an erior, and inwardly re
gret and pant after the habits of their ancient
and comfortableobedience ; The government ap
pears yet to fear a popular clamor against there
inftared States General, and are busy in protect
ing them, as the allembly,by a military force,
which is looked on by the peonle only as a di
verting fliew. This is our present situation.
THE REV. DR. PRICE.
A —..
Lift of some of the writings of this excellent
man, may be acceptable to our readers :
His firft publication was a Thank]giving Sermon,
preached in the year 1759. Be has since publish
ed a Review of the principal questions in Morals,
Bvo. A treatise 011 Reversionary Payments', 1 vol.
Bvo. afterwards enlarged to 2 vols. An appeal
to the public on the National Debt. In 1776, he
publiflied a pamphlet on the justice and policy of
the American war, which made a great impref
lion on the inhabitants of this country.
This work has been since enlarged to an Bvo.
volume. In 1779 and 1781, two or three fact ser
mons : A treatise 011 annuities and afl'urances for
lives; with an eflay on population, in Bvo. : State
of the Public Finances and Public Debt in 1 783 :
Observations on the American Revolution, and a
volume of Sermons on the Christian Doctrines.
He contributed largely to a volume of Friendly
Correlpondence, publiflied by himfelf and Dr.
Priestley, on the Dodirines of Materialism and
Philosophical neceifity. One of his last publica
tions was a Discourse on the Love of our Coun
try, preached at the Old Jewry to theßevoluiion
Society, on the 4th of November, 1789.
LANSINBURGH, July 22
It is observed that several farmers are spread
ing their flax before beating out the feed, by
which they are like to lose what the more pru
dent will save. It is I rue, flax-feed has run low ;
but if we may credit the late accounts from Ire
land, that article will this season be in demand :
exports lall year turned out so, that it is -very
pofliblethe shipments will be larger this. Far
mers, save yur feed ! at any rate, if it be proper
ly cleaned, it will bear a price with wheat.
N E W - Y O R K, July 28.
A generous and humane acftion of a sailor de
serves to be recorded. A fine little boy, son of
Mr. James Saidler, of this city, accidentally fell
into the Eafl-River yesterday, from Jones's wharf.
Mr. Launcelot Chalmers, of the brig Sally of
London, fortunately observing the accident, im
mediately at the imminent rilk of his own life,
jumped into the river, and happily saved thelife
of the boy.CIRCULAR.
TO THE FRENCH AMBASSADORS AND MINISTERS
Copy of a Utter frorrythc Minijler of Foreign Affairs, addrejfed by order
of the King, to all (he Ambajjadors and Mn.rjlers oj his Mujefly y in
Foreign Courts.
" SIR,
THE King has charged me to inform you, that it is his will that
you make known his sentiments refpe&ing theßevolution and
the French Constitution to the court at which you refulc. The
fame orders arc tranfmitfed to the ambalTadors and ministers of
France, at all the courts of Europe, to the end that no doubt may
remain with regard to his majesty's intentions, his free acceptation
of the new form of government or his irrevocable oath to main
tain it.
His majcfly had convoked the States General of his kingdom,
and resolved in his council that the commons should, in that as
sembly, have a number of Deputies equal to those of the two o
ther orders ihen existing. This ast of provisional legislation which
the circumstances of the moment did not allow to be more favor
able, fufheiently announced his majesty's wish to restore the nati
on to all its l ights.
The Stares General met, and took the title of the National As
sembly ; and in a short time. a conllitution fitted to fccurc the
happiness of France, and of the monarch, took place »f the anci
ent order of things, under which the apparent power of the king
only served to conceal the teal power of certain aristocratic bodies.
The National Aflembly adopted the representative form of
government, conjoined with hereditary monarchy. The legisla
tive body, was declared permanent ; the choice of the miniflers
of public worship, of magistrates, and judges was given to the
people ; the executive power was conferred on the king, the
formation of laws on the legislative body, and the power of fane- 1
tion on the Monarch. The public force, both internal and ex
ternal, was 01 ganized on the fame principles, and in conformity
"with the fundamental basis of a distribution of powers. Such is
the new constitution of the kingdom.
1 hat which is called a revolution, is no more than the abroga
tion of numerous abuses that have been accumulating for ages,
through theeirors of the people, or the power of the ministers,
which was never the power of the king. Those abuses were no
less prejudicial to the nation than to the -monarch, Authority,
under happy reigns, had never ceased to attack these abuses, bin
without being able to destroy them. They exist no longer; the
nation, now the sovereign, has no citizens but such as are equal
in rights ; no despot but the law ; no organs but public officers,
and of those officers the king if the firft. Such is the French re
volution.
This mull naturally have for its enemies all those who, in the
firft moment of error,regret, on account of personal advantages,
the abuses of the ancient government. Hence the apparent divi
iion which (hewed itfelf in the kingdom, and which is daily be
coming less ; hence perhaps some severe laws and circumstances
which time will correct ; but the king, whose true power can ne
ver be diftinfl from that of the nation, who has no aim but the
happiness of the people, and no authority but that which is dele
gated to hi.m, the king has adopted without hesitation, a happy
constitution, which will at once regenerate the nation, the mo
narchy and his authority. All his powers are preserved to him,ex.
cept the dreadful power of making laws. Jt remains charged
with the power of negociating with foreign nations, with the
care of defending the kingdom, and repelling its enemies; but
the French nation will in future have no external enemies, but its
zggrefTor ; no internal enemies but those who, flill flittering
themselves with vain hopes, believe that the will of twenty-four
millions of men, restored to their natural rights, after having orga
nized the kingdom in such a manner as to leave only the memo
ry of ancient forms and abuses, is not an immoveable and irrevoca
ble conflitution.
I he mod dangerous of those enemies are they who afte& to
difleminate doubts of the intentions of the Monarch. These men
are much to blame, or much deceived. They suppose themfeves
the friends of the King, and they are the only enemies of royalty.
They would have deprived the King of the 1 *ve and the confi
dence of a great nation, if his principles and his probity had been
less known. What has the King not done to shew that he consi
dered both the revolution and the French constitution as his titles
to glory! After having accepted and fanftioned all the laws, he
has ncglc&ed no means of causing them to be executed. Since
the month of Februaiv, of the last year, he has promised \u the
bosom of rhe National Assembly, to maintain them. He has
taken an oath to do so, in the midst of the general federation of
the kingdom. Dignified by the title of the Restorer of French
Liberty, he will tranfmi* to his son more than a crown; he will
tianfmit a constitutional r oyalty.
i he enemies of the constitution are conftantlv repeating that the
King is not happy; as if it were poflibfe for a King to enjoy any
happiness but the happiness of his people. They fay that his
authoi ity is leflened, as if authority, founded on force were not
less powerful, and more precarious, than authority founded on
law. Finally that the King is not free; a calumny atrocious, if
they suppose that his will could be constrained ; absurd, if they
take for a want of freedom the consent repeatedly ex pre fled by
his Majesty to remain among the citizens of Paris, a consent that
was due to their patriotism, even to their fears, but above all to
their love.
Those calumnies however, have reached foreign courts; they
nave been repeated there by Frenchmen, who are voluntary ex
iles from their country, inuead of {baring its glory, and who, if
they are not enemies, have at least deserted their stations as citi
zens. The King, fir, charges you to defeat their intrigues and
their projects. The fame calumnies, while they spread thefalfeft
i£ cas refpe&ing the French revolution, have rendered the inte' , -
tH'ns of French travellers fnfpcftcd by several neighbouring na
tions: ani. the King expressly orders you to protest and defend
ill em. Keprefent the French conflitution rti the fame as
that in which the King views it ; and leave no doubt of his in.
tew,on to maintain it to the utmost of his power. By fecurini
lie libetty and the equality of the citizens, that conflitution
lounds tnc■national profnerity on the molt immoveable bafts- it
confirms the royal authority by the laws; it prevents, bv a Mori
ons revolution, a revolution which the abuses of the old' govern
ment would probnblyfoon haveeffeSed by a dissolution of the
f," 1 ?". o',0', a . fi na "y! it will constitute the happiness of the Kin».
°j A "'i 10 f and to con 'ider it as the rule of your
conduct ought to be your firft duly.
I have frequently before communicated to you his Maicfty's
fenttments on th,s head ; but after the information he has received
of the opinion endeavoured to be cftablifhed at foreign Courts,
refpcaing what is passing in France, he has ordered me to charge
you to nuke known the contents of this letter to the government
which you res.de; and that it may be flill more public, his
Majefry has oraered it to be printed.
(Signed)
ScXite.Si.'S'i"" 1 ' A «- -"»«. -
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
Revolution in Poland.
TN different foreign letters, we have already
A laid before our readers details of the events
which have lately taken place in Poland, and
which have entirely changed the Constitution of
that Republic. It cannot, however, prove un
acceptable to our readers to have the whole pro
ceedings laid before them in one connected "view.
At three o'clock in the morning of May 3d, a
number of patriots, who had preconcerted the
great objetfs which they meant to accomplish in
the fitting of the Diet that day, afl'embled in the
King's chamber. There, in the presence of the
King, they engaged to effectuate the Revolution
that day, and they pledged themselves to each
other, by a solemn engagement, not to separate
until they had accomplished their end.
The assembly was opened at the nfual hour.—
The galleries were crowded with fpeclators, and
the House was Wounded with thousands who
could not gain admission. Instead of the Mar
shals, the King liimfelf opened the felfion. He
said in substance, that " notwithstanding all as
" furances to the contrary, there was an alarming
" rumour, confirmed by the advices daily receiv
ed, that the three neighbouring Powers would
" "P and terminate all their jealosies and
" divisions at the expence of the pofleffions of
the Republic; that the only method of aflur
" lr l^> to P° lan{ l the integrity of its pofleffions, and
of preserving it from the ruin which foreign
" politics were preparing for it, was to establish
" a Constitution, which should secure as internal
independence. That in this view there had
" been prepareda plan ofa Constitution, founded
" principally on those of England, and the Unit
"ed States of America; but avoiding the faults
" and errors of both, and adapting it as much as
poifibie to the local and particular circumftan
" ces of the country." In support of the infor
mation relative to the foreign powers, the King
communicated to the Diet some difyatches re
ceived from the Minifies of the Republic at
ioreign courts, Hating how eager they were to
oppose all settlement of the Constitution, and
t hat every thing Teemed to announce their holtile
designs on Poland. The King desired that the
plan, winch he fubnntted to them, might be
read and that they should proceed forthwith to
enact it into a law, if they approved of it. The
plan was accordingly read, and a very long and
important debate cook place.
All the reprefentativesof the Provinces of Vol
liyma and Podolia, declared themselves against
the new form of constitution.
IM.SnchorzewJki, who fp recently distinguished
,n so brilliant a manner L an advocate
ior the people, and who is justly regarded as the
principal author of the movement tIS have
MONTMORIN.
110
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE.
THE FAREWELL.
HOPE, holy lifter of the cherub Pcace!
Thy path cclcftial thro' the heavens I trace,
As now, reclining on the amber brcaft
Of yor. far-failing cloud.
Thou deirn'd thy hallowed form to reft,
Thy beauties half enshroud.
Yet, tho' thy glories faintly fill the fight,
Fair Q ieen I know thee, and adore thy might.
Thy robes of friowy white I know;
The golden lock that o'er thy (houlder ftr^ys,
And on the skirting of the cloud doth throw
The fplmdor of the solar blaze ;
Thy skyey mantle now I spy,
That, backward floating, on the breezes plays;
The dim mills now thy visage fly,
I meet the comfort of thine eye.
Offspring of Virtue, Consolation's child !
Thy power, thy kindness, and thy love, I blcfs;
And with adoring heart thy care confefs,
Whose conaefcenfion mild,
Hath spread new caJmnefs o'er my Birtha's foul,
Bid new-born transport' thro' her bosom stray,
Their tides frefh spirits thro' her veflels roll,
And sweet Contentment o'er her features play*
Henceforth my idle song (hall ceafc,
No higher comforts can I give
Than those which in her bosom live,
Thy voice serene hath spoke, and all her foul is peacc.
*************************
— -Go little Lyre, unbend thy useless chords,
Untune each speaking firing;
No more my voice of youth shall give thee words,
My feeble touch responsive bid thee ring.
For now severer Study lifts her voice,
And chides the lingering accents of my lay ;
Points to the waiting object of my choice,
That shuddering trembles at each fond delay.
Now cares aw?it me, and the frugal toil v
1 hat builds, of Competence the peacefuj dome,
And gives, it length, the happy haven home.
Pcrchance, in days to come, may Leisure smile,
And fond P.emcmbrance give thee to my fi^ht,
Not all unused thy warblings to awake,
Not unacquainted to arotife delight,
To soothe the fad, the warm to love excite,
And bid, with deepest dread, the foul severely shake.
Aud then, perchance, in happiest union join'd,
Thy chords, kind answering to my song,
May p6ur some happy {train along,
And please, of Wisdom's Sons, the tafle refined.
LONDON, May 19,
brought about the Revolution, opposed this
with great zeal. The patriotic. n' by which \
was animated, was alarmed, by the Crown's bV
ing made hereditary. He advanced, and thr,-
hnnfelf on his ]<nees at the foot of the Thr
supplicating and conjuring his Majesty, «° ne '
"ounce his ideas of the hereditary fucceffio
the Royalry, as it would be the tomb of theV°
berty of Poland." Many Representatives w
were on the fame fide, alledged the inftru'dJ
ot their provinces, which prevented them fV,
agreeing to make the Throne hereditary Tl"™
infilled that at lead the plan lliould be taken 7{
delibtrandum, as every other new law was nken'•
but a great majority of voices refufed to aeree'J 1
this. "We inuft pass the whole this day -
will not depart from this place until the whole
is accoinplilhed." The majority requested th
King to be pleased to unite with them f or tl *
acceptance and support of the new Constitution
in a solemn oath. The King called to him the
Bishop of Cracovia, and took the oath from hi s
hands. They cried out, " All those who deftre
the welfare of their country will join their King
atfift and support him." They surrounded the
throne on all fides. The King, to be seen by i|, e
Affenibly, could not remain seated ; he mounted
on the feat, and swore aloud. A great majority
of the Diet held up their right hand, followed
his example, and swore the fame. " Every man
that loves his country," exclaimed his Majesty
" follow me to the Church, and thanking God'
let us repeat the oath at the altar." All the Bi
shops, all the frcular Senators, with a great
number of the Nuncios or Representatives, ac
companied the King to Church, and there again
solemnly engaged, before the Supreme Being
and their Country, to maintain a Conftitution 5
which, combining liberty with subordination,'
and fubjedting the firft citizen as well as the la ft
to the law, secures to all the means of happiness
and gives to each citizen the true enjoyment of
his rights. It was that time seven o'clock in the
evening, TeDeum was sung, and the new Con
stitution was announced to the people by the dis
charge of 200 pieces of cannon. There were
between thirty and forty Nuncios who did not
follow the King to church. The King, with his
suite, returned to the Afl'embly House, and ad
journed tho Diet to the sth of May, after charg
ing the Marshals to give the oath to all the De
partments. The opposing Nuncios, feeing that
all retlftance was ufelels, resolved to protest
affainft the new Constitution, by the publication
of a Manifefto, after which they retired without
iioife to theiiv own lioufes. There was no at
tempt made to interrupt them, nor was any in-
Cult whatever oft'ered to their persons. Cries of
joy filled the streets, buj. this joy was the ex
pressions of pure and calm patriotism. Through
the whole day there was not the fmallelt confu
fion, nor disorder, nor riot. At eleven o'clock
the streets were so perfectly calm, that one
would scarcely believe that it had been the epoch
of a new order of things.
It is pretended, that on the eve of this menlo
rable day, a certain foreign Minister had endea
voured, by the dextrous application of 50,000
ducats, to avert the revolution ; but all was fore
seen and prevented. The bufijiefs was executed
in every point with as much address as it was
framed. On the 4th inft. eighteen Nunciospub
lifted their Manifefto againlt the proceedings of
the day before; and Mr. Suchorzewlki returned
the Cordon bleu, with which his Majesty had in
verted him fifteen days before. On the ?d May,
the port was flopped, and even foreign Ministers
submitted to the genera] order; but 011 the 4th,
exprefles were sent oft* in all directions.
ELLA
The following is an authentic copy of an ad
dress, presented to W. Wilberforce, Esq. on
I hurlday the sth of lad month, by the Africans
in and about London.
Sir,
WE are sensible that the acknowledgments of
a few humble natives of Africa, can add but lit
tle to the fatisfadtion of a gentleman, who finds
his generous exertions amply recompensed in
the consciousness of worth ; yet we have pre
ftinied to gratify our own feelings at Jeaft, by
presenting this small tribute of thankfulnefs, as
well on our own behalves as on that of our kin
dred in misery and chains.
We are, fir, as you well know, though partici
pating of personal freedom, yet in very low Na
tions, claiming however, and not unworthily we
hope, to be considered as sober, and diligent find
just : with faces of colour indeed, but unknown
to the magistrate, and with names not to be
found in the lift of offenders of any kind ; vet,
lowly as we are, if, upon the queffion lately agi
tated in Parliament (involving the fate of our
whole race) we were without the fenfibi 1 it ies nt
admiration, and gratitude and hope, we should
in good truth not be men.
As concerning rhe event of this question, it
may not, perhaps, become ns to speak ; yet
ilrong an J lively is our hope, that the principles
explained, and the sensations excited by you, can
never befatisfied til] they have obtained theirend.Conscious of our humble condition, we have
considered that this paper lliould be presented
only by a few and that at your door, without
seeking any nearer access. And as towards those
gentlemen, who, like you, have been swayed by
110 other intererts than those of humanity, we
have also considered that it may be beiV to express
our acknowledgments only here, taking the li
berty however to diftinguiih, by name, Mr. Pitt
and Mr. Fox, great rivals as we are told, in poli
tical pursuits, but whom we have found to be
friends in those of virtue, seeking with one ac
cord, and with congenial minds, that better
prize which both alike can gain.
As towards you, fir, we know not what it may
become us to fay : but we mean, at lealt, by the
presentment of this paper, honor of every kind.
Our voice'is too low ro prail'e ; yet JYnall as it is,
•we however consider it as the firft imperfect
breathing of a name, which shall, one day, swell
the cheek of Africa, and be founded with uni
versal acclaim.
In ancient time, a great conqueror (if we are
truly informed) having ravaged Africa, and de
stroyed a whole people, made spoil even of the
name, and wore it as his own : but haply, fir, in
some future time, this name may be voluntarily
and gratefully bestowed by Africa itfelf, for na
tions preserved civilized, enlightened, and rendered
commercial, the trophy of benevolence, not the spoil oj
•war
George Samuel, Thomas Cooper,
William Tyrwitt, Caesar Pidon,
Thomas Johnson, James Bailey.
PORTLAND, (Mai):) July 18.
e< On Thursday the 14th inflant, at Pownalbo
rough, came 011 the trial of Louis Paronneau, a
young "Frenchman, who was indicted for the
murder of his uncle, a Mr. Joseph Junin.
" The Attorney-General, with great candoi
and fairnefs, opened the cause to the Jury, and
Hated the evidence, which he said was not pofi
tive, but depended upon a combination of cir
cumflances attending the facl. The aniount of
the evidence was, that the night preceding the
discovery of the murder, the prisoner lodged at
the house of a Mr. Dennet, having previoufh
pafled the evening there—that about 12 o'clock
he went out of the house, faying that he was go
ing to the (lore to bed—that lie returned in 8 or
10 minutes, appearing terrified and agitated, and
said he saw two Indians Handing at the store
door, with guns or flicks—cried outfeveral times,
in the night that he saw Indians going to shoot
liim. 1b the morning lie went down to the store
with two young men of the house to deliver them
rum—appeared as usual, and told them to awake
liis uncle, which they refufed ; he then went in
to the bed room to awake him, reached towards
the bed, and cried out that his uncle was mur
dered. A gun was discovered in the flore room,
appearing to have been newly discharged ; but
was in a disordered slate, there being no flint, &c.
The rod of the gun was found in the kitchen ;
and the balls which had pafled through the head
of the deceased were ot the fame weight with
others found in the flore. Two mufqtiafli skins
were found near the store ; and there was evi
dence that there was a settlement of Indians at
about 10 miles distance from the flore ; one of
whom had, in Augufl last, threatened to murder
Mr. Junin, whenever he should get an opportu
nity.
" Messrs. Gardiner and Lithgow were counfcl
J"or the prisoner, and very ably pled his cause.—
The Jury brought in their verdidl that the pri
soner Was NOT GUILTY."
HUDSON, July 21.
Extratt of a letter jrom a gentleman at Frankford,
on the Kentucky river, to his. brothej- in this city,
dated May 16, I 791.
On the 19th of March we left Fort Pitt with
only 4 men, in company with two boats, to go to
Limestone. On the 22d we took in j men at
Mulkingum. The next morning, our boat being
foremoft, we were hailed by the Indians, who
came up with us in four boats, with about 20 men
in each, and killed one of our men and wounded
two the firft (hot, we waited till they were within
30 yards, and then fired, which did great execu
tion ; I then received a shot through my arm ;
one of the boats attempted to board us, but we
beat them off; they then attacked a boat in our
rear, took her, and in a mod inhuman manner
placed the women and children in the ceritcr of
their boats, and attacked lis again ; we had only
three men and myfelf able to fighr, but we beat
them off. During this attack we drifted within
yards of the (hole, where they attacked us
again, and pursued us about a mile arid a half
along the fliore, before we could get out of their
teach, Out of 9 men two only elcaped unhurt.
We had 011 board one woman and eight children,
one of the children received a flight wound. We
arrived at limeltone at it o'clock that evening.
The Indians are very troublesome in this country,
and do great mifchief; but they have not at
tacked a boat on the river since our action. The
loss they filftained from us we could not ascertain,
Lu: they fuffered leverely-for their attempt."
B IJ II L I N G T O N, July 26
A correfpondetu remarks, that the condudt of
the grand jury, im pan helled at the lad court of
oyer and terminer held here, is both exemplary
and commendable, and shews their zeal for the
public welfare in an eminent degree; for after
taking a view of the circumstances and moral
condition of the county in this vicinity, they ac
tually adjourned to Egg-Harbour, in order to en
quire more particularly on the spot, into the fate
of Capt Douglafs, and the unfortunate circum
stances attending his (hipwreck ; prompted there
to, by a suspicious report circulating, and gene
rally creditted, to the prejudice of Mr. T r,
living on the (bore. On this occasion we are au
thoriled to afl'ure the public, that, this doubtful
bulinefs having been minutely inveitigated, not
a scintilla of evidence was found that could afford
the leait foundation for the report, or cast any
suspicion on the old gentleman : on the contrary,
the paflengers and crew speak favorably of his
hospitality.
Extract of a letter from Cooper's-Town, State of New-
York, to his friend in thisccityy y dated June 30.
I have again resumed the pen, to acquaint
you with foirie of our northern occurrences ; the
firft: of which, or that which seems more particu
larly to engross our attention at this time, is our
new courts of justice, which were held in this
place for the county of Otfego, on the 21 ft inft.
The honorable William Cooper, firft judge on
the bench, from whence he delivered a decent
and spirited charge to a very refpec c iable grand
jury—the court-house having been prex ionfly in
augurated, by a sensible and well adapted prayer
from the Rev. John Christopher Harrwick—the
following gentlemen were then admitted coun
sellors and attornies, viz. Christopher P. Yates,
Amaziah Rust, John 1. Morgan, George Metcalfe,
James Cochran, Abraham Tenbroeck, Andrew
Wimple, Anthony Mai vine, and Jacob G. Fonda,
£fq*rs. all men of refpeiftability, and (the two
firft excepted) young adventurers like myfelf.—
The court was conducted with the mm oft regu
larity and decorum, and but indi&ments
found. We were favored with the company of
Mr. Rutherford, one of the senators of the United
States, who was on a visit to his friends in this
county, and like most other ftaangers, seemed
pleased with the fituarion of our town, which, 1
a(Ture you, is become quite a genteel place."
Philadelphia, August 5.
Monday being the anniversary of the birth-day of his Excellency
'he Governor of this Commonwealth, the fame was announced by
the appearance of a detachment of militia. At one o'clock a fe
deral salute of 15 guns was fired by Capt. Fifhrr's company of
Artillery—after which, the Governor received visits of personal
refpeft from /he citizens.
Same day the Supreme Court of the United States aflembled at
the new City-Hall—present,
Hon. John Jay, Chief Justice,
Hon. W. Cushing, )
J. ( Associate -lud"CSI ud " CS -
J.lredell, j
John Tucker, Esq. having resigned as Clerk of this Court,
Samuel Bayard, Esq. of this city, was appointed, and took
the neceffarv oaths.
John D. Coxe, Esq. was admitted and sworn a Counfcllor o!
the Court.
After several motions refpe£ting suits depending,were made, the
Court adjourned toyefterday.
The latest Britifli accounts at Cadiz, on the gth June, mention,
lhat the impress service was going on with vigour, and no certainty
of any accommodation likely to take place between the Ruffians
and the Porte; but every thing looked like widening the breach
between Britain and Ruflia.
The ship Chapman, Captain Garbut, is arrived at Portland,
Cafco Bay, from Plymouth, England, and brings accounts, that
the prof peel of a war with Ruflia has very much abated, aud is
esteemed a very unpopular measure ; that a large fleet of mer
chantmen had failed for the Baltic before he came away,—and
that no American vessels were at Plymouth at the time of his
failing. [A more direst account than that from Cadiz.)
We hear from Londonderry, that the bridge built over Lough
Foyle, or Londonderry river, by Mr. Cox, of Boston, is com
pletely finifhed, to the fatisfa£lion of the people there, and is
• hought to be a very capital piece of architecture, comprehending
thirty-four piers. The workmen who went from America with
Mr. Cox, he has taken paflages for, in order to fend them home
again. Mr. Cox's son remains in Ireland, and has urtdertaken to
raise the ship Happy Return, formerly commanded by Captain
Ewing, which was cast away la ft winter on the St rand off Magiligin.
In the fh>p Anne, Capt. A. Miller, arrived here on Sunday last
from Londonderry, came 363 paftengers, all in perfett heakh.
The following was signed by the paflengers who came in the
Anne, from Londonderry :
** We the undernamed pafTengers on hoard the ship Anne, from
Londonderry to Philadelphia, commanded by Capr. Miller, jun.
do return him our sincere and hearty thanks for his kind and hu
mane treatment of us, and the carc he took to render the paflage
agreeable to us."
AbJlraEl oj the Census of North-Car din a, as taken by the Marshal of thai
Biftria.
Heads of families,
Free white males, of 16 years and upwards, including
heads of families, - - - 69,988
Free white males under 16 years, - - 77,^06
Free white females, mcludisg heads of families, 140,710
All other free persons, . 4-9/5
Slaves, - 100,572
.The people of Delaware State are taking mea
sures to aflemble a Convention for the ptirpofe of
revifmg and amending their State Constitution.
111
52,989
Total,
393>75'
The inhabitant* of the Wea, or Ouittanon, and Kickapoa
towns, upon the river Wabafh, which were the object of Gene
ral Scott's expedition, were among the inoft vindictive race of
savages inhabiting the western regions.
They have no: enly conilantly refufed the pacific invitations of
the United States, but they have carried on the moll fuccetsful
and cruel 4epredatipns cn the detencelefs frontiers.
It is to be hoped the punishment which has overtaken them,
the humane treatment of their priloners, and the mild offers of
the general government llii) held forth to them, and within their
reach, will incline them, and all their neighbours, to peace.
But, should they still perfifl in their hollilities, they will pro
bably be removed from their fuuation on the Wabafh, if not
utterly extirpated ; for the general government will not fuffer the
inuocent women and children of the frontiers to be facrifiied to
indian barbarity, with impunity.
Good Government is to the body politic, what discipline is to
individuals—in a slate of nature, the materials of which mem
bers of civilized society maybe formed, are unconne&ed with
those numerous inveterate prejudices, and falfe ideas of happiness,
which are inseparably attendant on a voluptuous and vicious iiate
of civilization, —a government therefore which will probably be
competent to forming the social habits and manners of men in a
savage slate, should be simple in its conflru&ion, and plain in all
its applications to their exigencies. Bat when a Conflitution of
Government is contemplated for a people who have long been in
a civilized situation, whose affairs are become involved and per
plexed—whose habits and manners are corrupted and difiipated,
who entertain falle ideas of charafler—are impatient of all re
flraint. and confound liberty with licentiousness—whose taste
is vitiated, whose emulation is guided by a vain ambition, and a
fondnefs for diftin&ions founded on falfe principles, the work ot
government becomes arduous and difficult in the higljefl degree—
in such a slate of things all ideas of discipline will be spurned at
till the diseases of the public mind become inveterate—a fyflem
of government which shall answer any salutary purpose in such
circumstances, mufl possess a tone of energy and efficiency, which
mankind will very seldom submit to voluntarily—and this I take
to be the origin of Tyranny—for focietv cannot exifl without
government, either free or arbitrary. Hiflory ani experience
unitedly proclaim that.discipline alone can preserve freedom—a
discipline which is the genuiue effect of a firm government; for
we may just as reasonably expc£l that a total negle£l of fchoo!
discipline will produce a wife, virtuous and intrepid riling gene
ration, as that a relaxed system of things which fuffers everv man
to whatever is right in his own eyes, will produce virtuous
citizens, and perpetuate freedom.
SKETCH OF MR. HASTINGS's TRIAL.
Monday the 23d of May, the trial of Mr. Hastings recommcnc
ed in Weltminfter Hall.
Mr. St. John opened the fourth article of the charge relative to
contracts, agencics, and exorbitant allowances* corruptly and il
legally given t° various persons.—Mr. St. John summed up the
lols to the company by these a&s, forming a total of 584,3811.
This charge was enforced by the manager, by a very clear and
elegant opening of the facts on which it was founded.
Mr. Hastings, as soon as Mr. St, John had concluded, addrefT
cd the court with an uncommon folcmnity—he complained that
he was compelled to hear the most virulent language without be
ing allowed to offer a reply ; —his trial had lasted four years, and
he was convinced 111 his own mind, that it would never have an
end—The changes by creation or demise affe£ling the identity of
his judges, were not less than 60,—he could not but feel it an
liardfhip to be tried by one generation, and have judgment paflfed
by-another. He concluded his speech, by praying that the court
may continue the lefTlon from day to day, until he may be heard
in his defence, and the trial be brought to a final decision.
To this speech Mr. Burke and Mr. Fox fenarateiy replied, with
pointed severity—the former charged him with reversing his situ
ation, and dilating to his judges the manner in which they were
to proceed, and when the process was appwachmg to its end,
when guilt was driven to its last retreat, and the lash of justice
was about to fall on its proper object, the culprit made an appeal
to compafTion, and exclaimed " that his trial would never have
an end."—Mr. Hastings complained that he had been charged
with crimes oi an atrocious nature ! —certainly he had been so
charged—it was the atrocious detail of tortures and murders that
drew forth the Commons of England to this accusation
Mr. Fox observed in reply to the complaint of virulent language,
that in charging high crimes and misdemeanors, he felt it his du
ty to use the proper and corresponding language ; —the grievance
of not being allowed to answer, was the result of Mr. Hastings*
own conduct—the managers had proposed that the prisoner Ihould
have been heard on each of the charges at its conclusion ; their
Lordships had decided against that mode—hut their Lord (hips
would not have refilled that plan of proceeding, if the prisoner
had given his content, he could not therefore complain of that
which was the result of his own choice.
3ir James St. Clair Erfkine then proceeded to adduce a great
variety of documentary evidence in support of the charge; and
at lix o'clock the court adjourned to Wednesday.
CORRESPONDENTS.
MR. FENNO,
YOU will oblige at Itajl one of your conjlant readers, by remarking in
your next paper, that your resolution of avoiding religious controversies
was unfortunately formed too late; and that on the present occasion, it
would have been ailing with more equity, not to have given pUce in your
paper to the " Circular Letter," which gave occasion for the " Re
marks" of HUMANUS.
Philad. July 28, 1791
In reply te the above, the Editor wouldobferve, that there is a certain
degree of refpett due to ajj'ociated bodies, which individuals cannot claim
with propriety—on this principle the " Circular Letter" was published.
The ttfertion of a public any ajjociated denomination what
evert we do not consider as deviating from a determination long fincc an
nounced, that we mean to avoid religious controversies.
We have received " Aurilian," but requejl to be exevjed from
publishing it—Come alterations might be fuggejled, which we are not au.
thorijed to make.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Anna, Franklin,
Mercury, Gardiner,
Sloop Merrimack, Williams,
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 20f 50/6 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents 12/4 "12/6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/B 13f
1 UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates lg\f 19/6 do.
Indents 12/6 1 65 do*
N. and S. Carolina debts, i«J6.
Bank. Subscriptions, 62 to 63 Dollars.
Thr JOURSAI. of th: TIIIRD SESSION of the SENATE
i f the f/.V n iD prey b? tht Editor htrtof.
Bristol
St. Croix
Salem
pr. ccnt,
625 do.
65 do.fVST PUBLISHED,
' And 16 be fold by ANDREW BROWN, and the principal Book
fellert in the City of Philadelphia, piice one dollar and
THREIOUAHTERS, '' ,c
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corrc£icd by, the original Rolls in the oHice
of the Secretary o( Stale, agreeably to a resolve ol Congress,
pafled the ißih February, 1791.
With a COPIOUS INDEX.
Comprising the Federal Constitution, the Acts of the
Three Sessions of the First Congress, and the Treaties.
To which is added, an APPENDIX,
Containing the Declaration ot 1 ndei'Jindenc r, and fundr*'
A _ _ _ _ f /-» _ J - _ . L *-
Acts of Congr ess, under the Con fede rat ion
This edition of the Laws of the United States is also to be
fold by MeflTis. Thomas and Andrews, Boft>n ; John Carter, esq.
Providence, Rhode-Island ; Messrs. Hudson and Goodwin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Robert Hodge, New-York; Mr. lfaac Collins, Tien
ton ; Mclfr.s. Goddard and Angell, Baltimore; Augustine Davis,
esq. Richmond, and Mr.W. P.young, Charleston, South-Carolina.
* # * The Printers of New/papers in the United States are requejled
to inferi this advert)fernent.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates &c Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, onc-haj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving intercfl at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
$3" Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality, fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extcnlive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to rondufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKEK,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6ip)
March 15, 1791
TAKE NOTICE
r PHE Manacers of the Newark Bridge Lottery will
-L ,begin paying the Prizes drawn in the Fiift Class on Monday
the 1 ith of July, bv which time the Tickets in the Second Class
will be ready to deliver to applicants agreeable to the scheme.—
To accommodate holders of Tickets undrawn in the Firlt Class.
the fame numbers in the Second Class will be lodged, if conveni
ent, in ihe fame places where the firft were fold, as soon as polfible,
and if not, such holders mud apply to the Manager who signed
their Tickets. Such persons will please to take notice, that appli
cation for renewal in the Second Class mud be made before the
11th of August next.
JOHN N. CUMMING,)
JESSE BALDWIN, ( Managers
JOHN D. ALVEY, )
_ f XT
Newark, June 17,1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
f T I HE Legiflatyre of the State of Conneflicut, at their fefjfion in
X Deceinbei laft,j-anted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the subscribers manage! s, who having given bond
for the faithful difchargc of their trust, present the public with the
following
SCHEME.
Prize of
2
1
1
2
4
5
1 2
3°
45
6i
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
Y7500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subject to a deduction o! twelve and a halt per cent
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful fnuation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necefTarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when complcat
cd, will be the molt extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3>4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interell of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime intercft of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clafles of people, for
thefuccefsof this enterpri/e, together with the very great advan
tage which this fchcme holdsout to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publiftied in
America) induce the managers to believe the tickets wijl meet with
a speedy falc.
The drawing will positively commence at the Statc-Houfe, in
on the 13th ot September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes nor called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
jor the use of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rice, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howeli.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791
»j-.9 1 ICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of MelTrs. St efhen Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased or them in (aid Lottery.
Tickets in the MafTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received m payment lor the above tickets.
W
OF THE
VO LUM£ I
of Ncw-Brunfwick,
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
2 000 are'
1000
5 00
200
100
5°
4°
3°
20
IO
8
A PRINTING APPARATUS compleat, and a
NEWS-PAPER ESTABLISHMENT.
A NY y>ung Man, of refpeflable charatfer, capable of conduft
l\ ing the PRINTING BUSINESS in its different branches,
may have an opportunity of engaging as a PARTNER, in a large
commercial town, where the present income and profpefts are
highly flittering to those of an industrious turn. A small lum
will be requelted in hand, and further particulars explained in
person, by addrefling a line to Z. lownly, at the Bar of llie
Merchants and Exchange Coffee-Houk'.
Philad. July 20, 1 791
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
THE Commissioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders of the said Bank, that an election for twenty
five Dire&ors will be held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of O£lober next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RITTENMOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Charleftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII'.
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
Con(ifling of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dol la r s eack, 21 ,000
1
15
20
20
20
40
60
70
80
2008
2335 P , J zes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
This Class will commcnce drawing on or before the i fl of
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, [ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleston, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE T1 ckets in the above, and in the MafTachufetts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afTure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEM I-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of O&ober next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers I1•e in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
(law 1 m)
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubje£t to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the ufc of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 arc 6000
o 2000 600©
10,000
5000
4000
400©
4000
2500
2400
3000
o
6
10
30
80
90
100
1 20
16l
200
75 g 5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
2250
2000
1830
2000
1400
43,12°
25000 Tickets.
(£3" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Manager s, rvill pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; ol James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as ufuql.
87500
JOHN KNEELAND,
Boflon, April 14, 1791.
Public Notice is he r eby given,
to all whom these presents shall come, or in any wife concern,
1 hat JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceafcd, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merrhant, all bea ring date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one lor seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen {hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen {Killings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which {aid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACK IE and Co.'and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have fmce, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen {hil
lings and fix-pence, to the laid THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufiicient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, fjthAlay, 1791
(f3T Mavk Powers to receive Mclntercft, andfor the transfer fff the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablijhed in the Trea
l"ry Defurtmeut.: Afo Blanks for abjlrails of Certificates, to be fold by
112
CHE M E
Dollars.
2500 Dolls, is
1000
1 Prize of
100 are
s'>
40
3°
to
10
8
b
4
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
1000
500
200
100
/ 5 °
4°
3°
20
10
a
BENJAMIN AUSTIN,
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
M
2500
1000
1500
1000
800
600
800
600
560
480
8032
17872
Dedu&ion, 3128
6000
500 c
6000
8000
450°
4000
3600 ,
3220
2000
60680
12500®
{►Managers
I
(e p. 3 m
Public Securities,
Bolght and Sold, on COMMISSION Lv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Ch<r!nu:-Strrel, next door to the Bank No q-,
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
[83* All persons concerned will be pleased to take notice thatthe
following advertifemcnt hat been varied from that publilW , a
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
N March 22, , 7 q,
OTICE is hereby given, that Propobls will be received at tl e
office of the Secretary of the Treifurv, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all ratiot.s, wh>ch
may be required for the use ot the United States, from the kilt day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both Jays in
clusive, at the places, and within the diilrifts hcicin after menti
oned, viz.
At any place orplaces, betw'xt Yorktown in the ftateof Prnn
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntolli
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntoth. 1
At any placeor places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any placeor places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thenceto the Rapids, on the Fallsof the Ohio.and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth
ol the Wabafh, thence up the said WabaOi to Post Sr. Vinccnnes,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafti, to the
Miami village, before defcribcd.
At any place or places, From the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of the Illinoisriver.
At any place err places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandtifky,
and atSandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any pla;e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, totheri-er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within oth®r
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the followingarticlei.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quartsof vinegar,(
~ 1 , r,• > per. 100 rations.
Iwo pounds or loap, C r
One pound of candles, J
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
ftom the fti-ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1 792, both davs inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles 85
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Capt,
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place r places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the fnurce of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the slate of Georgia which
may hefeafter be occupied as permanent pofls by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future ports.
The rati< ns are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that ther«
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufiicient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said pofls, for the space of at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in cach cafe, that all lofles furtained by the
depredations ofthe enemy, orby means of the troops of the United
States, fhalJ be paid for at the prices of thearticlescaptured or des
troyed, on the deputations of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contracts for the above supplies will be made either Torout
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons difpolcd
to contrast will therefor e confine their otters to one year, or the\
may m-Ske their propositions so as to admit an cle&ion ol the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above polls to
getber, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for \ orktow r >
and the seventeen places following it, and for the ports in Geotg.3,
and they rnuft fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay
ment. _
IC7 3 " The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars Per <f»»