■ ANI) SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN' SECOND AND THIRD !
[No. 20, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CEN'TINEL,
Mr. RUSSELL,
rt 'T" , HKRE are in all European countries,"
A favs Mr. Paine, a large class of people of
that description, which in England are called
the mr.j." It was by the people of this descrip
tion that the Baftile in Paris was deltroyed. In
London there is no Baltile to deuioliili ; but
there is a government to overturn ; and there is
akingand parliament who mull either be put to
flight or compelled to call a convenciou for the
purpose of forming a conllitution. " In the
commencement of a revolution those men are
rather the followers of the camp than of the// and
tird of liberty, and have yet to be inftruc'ted
how to reverence it." As these men were made
instrumental to the accomplishment of the revo
lution in France, Mr. Paine appears to intimate
that they may be employed forafimilar purpose
in England—! am as little disposed as Mr. Paine
be, to reproach either the whole nation to
which they belong, or that unhappy class of hu
man beings themselves for the devaltation which
they commit.'.They cannot be considered as free
agents, and therefore are neither the fubjetfts
of praise or blame; but the friend of humanity
will be extremely cautious how he ventures to
put in action a tremendous power, which is com
petent only to the purposes of deftrutftion, and
totally Incapable either to create or to preserve.
This class of nien of whom it is the happinefsof
Americans, scarcely to be able to form an idea,
can be brought to adl in concert upon no other
principles than those of a frantick enthufiafin
and ungovernable fury ; their profound igno
rance and deplorable credulity, make them pro
per tools for any man who can inflame their
paifions, or alarm their fupetftition ; and as they
have nothing to lose by the total dissolution of
civil society, their rage may be easily directed
againlt any viiHirn which be pointed out to
them. Thev are altogether incapable of form
ing a rational judgment cither upon the princi
ples or the motives of their own conduct ; and
whether the objedt for which they are made to
contend, be good or bad, the brutal arm of pow
er is all the alhftance they can afford for its ac
complishment. To set in motion this inert nials,
the eccentrick vivacity of a madman, is infinite
ly better calculated than the sober coolness of
phlegmatic reason. They need only be provok
ed and irritated, and they nevertan in anyothei
manner be called into a*Sion. In the year i 7SO,
they aflembled at London, to the number of
60,000, under the direction of Lord George Gor
don, and carrying fire and flaughtcr before them,
were upon the point of giving the whole city of
London to one undistinguished devaftion and de
ft ruction : And this, because the parliament had
mitigated the fever ty of a languinary and tyran
nical law of perfec utian, against the Roman Ca
tholics. Shold these people be taught, that they
have a right to do every thing, and that the ti
tles of kings and nobles, and the wealth of bi
fhopsare all usurpations and robberies cotnmited
upon them, I believe it would not be difficult to
route their paflions, and to prepare them for
every work of ruin and deftrntftion. But, Sir,
when they are once putin motion, they soon get
beyond all reflraint and controul. The rights
of man, to life, liberty and property, oppose
but a feeble barrier to them ; thebeautious face
of nature and the elegant refinements of art,
the hoary head of wisdom, and the enchanting
("mile of beauty, are all equally liable to become
obnoxious to them ; and as all their power con
fills in defti union, whatever meets with their
difplea'ure mil ft be devoted to ruin. Could any
thing but an imperious, over-ruling necefiity
juflify any man or body of men, forufing a wea
pon like this to operate a revolution in govern
, nrcnt ? Such indeed was the situation of the
French national aflembly, when they directed
the elertric fluid of this popular frenzy, against
ihe ancient fabrick of their monarchy. They
justly thought that 110 price could purchase too
dearly the fall of arbitrary power in an individu
al, but perhaps even they were not aware of all
the confeqtiences which might follow from com
mitting the existence of the kingdom, to the
cultody of a lawless and desperate rabble.
But do the people of England labour under
ftich intolerable oppretfiou, as would authorise
auy of their patriots to employ an arm like this
for their relief,' Suppofc sixty thousand men
Wednesday, Jul! 6, 1791-
should afTemble round Wellminfter-hall,
and with clubs and firebrands for their sole ar
guments, should compel the parliament to call a
convention to make a conflit ution, what would
be the probable consequences ? Is it clear that I'o
large a majority in the people of England, have
lolt all their attachment to their conltitiuion,
as to insure an acquiescence in the measure
throughout the kingdom ? Is it certain that one
quarter part of the people would obey an ac't
extoi ted by such violence as that ? Would not
ail the friends of the present government rally
round the (landard of the conllitution, and would
not their duty compel them to defend it with
their lives and fortunes ? If it should soon appear
that they were decidedly the ftrongelt party,
would not the insurreCtion be extinguilhed in
the blood of its leaders ? If the parties should
prove to be nearly equal, would not the nation
be involved in all the hoprors of a l° n g and
bloody civil war ?—ln whatever point of view,
the effects of this scheme are contemplated, they
present nothing but profpe&s at which every
friend of mankind mult fliudder, nor can I possi
bly believe that Mr. Paine, who is certainly a
benevolent man, would deliberately recommend
this method, th nigh in his ardent zeal for the
honor of the French nation, and the propagation
oft heir doctrines, he has incautiously fuggelted it.
But he recommends revolutions by accommo
dation ; which applied to England, must mean
that a convention be called by a free and delibe
rate act of parliament, to alter the conllitution ;
but this plan appears to be equally dangerous
with the other, and more impracticable : while
by a lingular fatality an acft of this kind would
be the completed evidence of its own inutility,
it would be equally dangerous, because by a for
mal afl of competent authority it would expose
the kingdom to all the evils of anarchy and of
war, which in the other cafe would result from
a popular convulsion. It would be less practica
ble, because it is contrary to nature, that any
body of men should venture to perform the moil
tranfeendnnt acft of power of which human be
ings are capable, for the lingle puipofe of divert
ing themselves ofall power whatever. It would
prove its own inutility, because no man will pre
fnme that they ought to take such a measure, un
less the wiihes of a clear and decided majority
of the people are favorable to an alteration of
the government. If they are disposed to act in
conformity with the desires of the people, the
very fame power which would authorise tbem to
didolve the government, would likewise jullify
them in making any alterations which (liould
meet with the wilhes of the nation, and would
render a recurrence to them " in their original
charadler" perfectly unneceflary.
Whatever Mr. Pa in e's opinion may be with
refpecft to the existence of an Englifb constituti
on, it is certain that every member of the British
parliament, who gives his vote in the making of
a new law, or the alteration of an old one, mud
suppose that he arts by virtue of a conllitutional
right, veiled in him ; but the fame right which
authorises him to give his fuffrage in the mofl
trifling objecft of legislation, has veiled in the
parliament of which he is a member, the whole
power of the British nation, and he cannot pos
sibly deny their right without utterly destroying
his own. The right of the individual depends
altogether upon the right of the corporation, and
his right to vote for the regulation of a turn
pike or the toll cf a bridge, is the fame with
ihei r's to make every neceflary and convenient
alteration in the conllitution of the kingdom it
felf. While they are thus convinced of their
right to exercise these great powers, would it
not be the summit of extravagance, and folly in
them, nay, would it not be the molt flagrant
breach of the trull reposed in them, of which
they could possibly be guijfy, to abdicate an au
thority lawfully committed to them, to'declare
themselves altogether incompetent to a wife and
prudent nfe of a conflitu.yonal power, and to
commir the peace, the welfare, the very exilt
ence of the nation, to the uncertain and hazard
ous event of a revolution ?
If, however, we can fu|ipofe that the parlia
ment ffiould finally accede to the idea, that thev
are mere tyrants without the shadow of a right
;o the authority which they have hitherto exer
cised, the only act which they could agree 10,
would be a vote to diflblve themselves, and leave
the vell'el of the dare without either a pilot or a
HUso
TREFTS, PHILADELPHIA
[Whole No. 228.]
rudder. Kor the very adt of calling o tonveay
-011 would be an usurpation, and from the impor
tance of its consequences, an ufurpaiion of the
molt daring natore : It would be afiiiiniiig tliti
right to diilolve the ties of society ; and -at the
fame instant acknowledging that this afi'mned
right: was without any J'ort of foundation. In
short, this plan of calling a, convention to alter
the conflitntion, by act of parliament, appears
to me in whatever light Jit is conlidered, to in
volve an absurdity.
But, as there is unquestionably somewhere in
England, a combination of the right and of the
power to alter the constitution of the country,
and as that constitution is indubitably liable to
be improved, we may be permitted to enqtiire,
whether a blind imitation of the French national
aflembly would probably promote the happ'niefs of
the people ; the only object for which all govern
ments were instituted, or which can authorise
their alteration. PUBLICOLA.
FROM Till CONNECT ICU T COURANT.
THE present revolution in France has been
llightly hinted at and predicted by Voltaire
and others; but by none does it appear to be so
clearly predicted and ascertained, as by Monsieur
le Mercier, in his Tableau de Paris, or Piifture of
Paris
The following paflage, translated from that in
terfiling pi(fture of Parisian manners, will clear
ly evince that the prefetit revolution was inevi
table ; that it was not the efFctl of popular ca
price, or blind zeal of enthusiasts—but the neces
sary consequence of the rapid advancement of
science in that kingdom, and a just knowledge
of the rights of human nature.
" For these thirty years alone, a great and im
portant revolution, iu our ideas, has been effect
ed. The public opinion, this day, in Europe,
has a preponderating influence, which nothitig
can refill : Thus while we admire the progreis
of science, and the change which must flow from
it, we are permitted to hope, that it will produce
to the world the greateil good, and that tyrants
of every kind will tremble before that universal
cry, which now resounds and continues to fill and
roufejill Europe.
" It is by means of letters and of writers, that
ji!fl ideas have, for these thirty years, with rapi
dity, pervaded all the provinces of France, and
that the offices of government have been filled
wiih excellent magistrates. All the enlightened
citizens, at this da}, are actuated by the fame
sentiments. New ideas circulate freely ; every
thing that relates to inftru«ftion, is adopted with
boldness. The fpiritof observation is fine, which
spreads in every part, promises us the fame ad
vantages that some of our happy neighbours now
enjoy. Writers have diffufed real treasures, in
giving us the moll ju ft, the most delightful ideas,
and inlpiring us with those gentle, those indul
gent virtues, which form and embellish society.
" Preachers of morality appear not to be igno
rant of man, and to enflame his palfions, inltead
of rendering them calm and moderate. The
bias, which letters have, for these some years
past, thus produced, will at length become ufeful
to humanity ; and those, who are incredulous of
their salutary influence, are either blind or hy
pocritical.
" The influence of writers is furh, at this day,
that they can announce their hopes, and no lon
gei disguise that lawful authority, which they
have over the human inind. Standing firm on
the basis of public good, and the real knowledge
of human nature, they will direcft national ideas.
The wills of individuals are already in their
hands. Morality is now become the principal
fludy of noble minds ; literary glory seems here
after to be destined to him, who (hall, with the
most firm voice, support the interest of nations.
"Writers, sensible of their august employ
ments, will be jealous of anfwerir.g the import
ance of theirtruft ; and wealready behold, truth,
with boldnels extending herfelf on every fide.
It is prelumed, that this general tendency will
produce a happy revolution."
The Philanthropic and the Philosopher are
highly gratified in reflecting, that this revolution
has in fact taken place, and upon such principles
as mtifl: ensure its fiiccefs; and may fafelv con
clude, from this pleasing profpedt, that similar
revolutions, in favor of the rights of humanity,
and founded on similar principles, will loon per
vade not only Europe but the world.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE to TIME.
THOU wad«re Woilds began to be,
And (halt continue to eternity.
Tho' oft the Painter's pencil, oft the Bard,
On canvas, or on Fancy's airy scene,
Hath (hewn thee laughable, with grisly beard,
Stiff-darting from a peaked chin ;
A few white hairs thin-scattered round thy head,
Thine eyes turn'd grey with age ;
Thy nose quite (hrivel'd, like a pointed hook,
Thy visage bearing all a wrinkled wizard look :
Bent down and crooked was thy form,
And tottering on thy weak, lank legs,
Like some Aim reed amid the (baking dorm :
Thy blood poor, miserable dregs
Of life , crept thro' each wind-puff*d vein,
Which feem'd as tho' 'twould burd with ev'ry drain
Thy long and dangling arms a scythe fudain,
To lop otf men as they cut down their grain:
Mod laughable indeed ! thus to deform
A God in power fird, as firft in form !
But look ye Painters! hear ye Bards this truth !
His face (hall ever bloom unfading Youth.
Bright golden locks adorn his head,
Majedic beauty seems his form;
Where'er he steps, his awful tread
Sounds like the thunder of the dorm,
Imperial Rome! once Miftrefsof the World !
Who rear'd her palaccs, her towers on high,
Bade her tall obelilks shoot to the iky !
Jn ruin lies, by his flrong arm of power hurl'd:
Tall fane?, proud palaces and arches thrown
B) his flight touch come headlong down;
The dreadful weight the mountains (hakes around*
And hiils and vales the horrid roars rebound.
Some broken arch, or nodding tower,
falls prone to earth each passing hour ;
And oft the wary traveller hears the found
Of some lofty column broke,
By Time's rudely (battering stroke,
When clown it comes loud-crashing on the ground.
Behold yon figure darting on the fight!
His awful brow iround,
With palm and laurel bound ;
His forceful eye, with genius bright,
Seems now in Fancy's view to roll,
And (peak the bloody Ccefar's warlike soul 1
But Ccefar ! thou art gone !
And Time shall bid thy statue follow soon.
The spacious Foium where great Tully's voice,
A clear and fwellirig torrent pour'd along,
'Till the tumultuous fa&ion check'd their murmuringnoife^
And mute—with dumb attention hark—as to the song
Of Orpheus, did fierce Cerberus of old,
\Vhen he with mujic's tongue his tender dory told ;
Touched by Time's deftruttive, potent wand,
Lies in ruins mouldering on the land.
£Rom Rome the Muse now turns her eagle-eye,
To where the fun burns in the western (ky—
Where Niagara loud and strong,
Her deep, majedic current rolls along :
From many a noble dream and lake fupplicd
The rushing tide,
With rapid force, mod dreadful roars ;
While echo fwe'ls the solemn found upon its solitary fhoies:
But lo ! the boiling flood check'd by a rockv mound,
It madly foams, and whirling round,
In one stupendous (heet,
From the dizzy awful height,
Fierce i u filing, slashing, falls headlong thundering to the ground
The trembling groves and caves around
For many a league the dreadful shout resound—
And while the bellowing flood, 'miaft craggy rocks below
Boils into foam; above the heaven-depi&ed bow
In rapture holds the wondering traveller's eye;
And al! his senses whirl with heavenly extacy.
But hold, my Muse ! rcpres thy airy flight;
Nor give thy rapid foul to sweet delight;
For e'en those haughty rocks, that rear on high
Their shaggy heads, and rend the vaulted (ley
With their loud-roaring founds lublime,
Shall bow beneath the (battering hand of Time:
And ere thrice ten times the God of Day,
Hath drove his flaming, annual car,
Adown the rosy Weft;
My (lender frame of clay,
With Time and fierce Difeafeat war,
May moulder into dust:
These grief-ftrung nerves ot mine may cease to move
In fad vibrations to the voice of Love;
With many a hapless Bard whose tender bread,
Now knows no more the goading thrust
Of penury, or pride his nerves of feeling.tear.
But hold ! ah hold thy lilted hand !
Nor lowly bow,
Beneath thy awful blow
The Father of Columbia's favor'd land :
Oh spare! the glorious Patriot spare!
Nor give the stroke of late
Until his equal shall appear,
To fill with equal dignity the lofty Chair of State.
R O M E, April i
TTIS Holiness has written a very afFecftionate
A-L letter to the Emperor Leopold, inviting his
A!ajelly here with the King and Queen of the
two Sicilies.
The Holy Father lias had some rich presents
made for their Sicilian TVlajelties, among which
are two Chaplets, of Lapis Lazuli, a gold chain,
and two double Cameos, set round with brilli
ants, of the value of five thousand Roman crowns.
Me/James of France ate expedted here about
the 22<l inilanr.
P A R I S, March 16
Yesterday a (latement of the land and other
was produced by the central committee of
liquidation to the National AUembly ; by which
it appears that those on real property amount to
254.000,000 livres, and those of moveables to
?>7,c00,000 livres annually. Several members ob
je6ed to the enormity of the taxes on real pro
And Vicloire-Louife-Marie-Therefe dc France,
born May ij, 1735.
The lineage of tlrefe ladies is uncommonly il
lustrious: they are the daughters of Louis XV.
the great grand-daughters of Louis XIV. the
aunts of Louis XVI. and, like all these monarchs,
claim their defceut through Louis XIII. and Hen
ry IV. opto St. Louis, the founder of the House
of Bourbon.
In their mod tender years, Mefdames imbib.
Ed in early and a violent attachment in favour of
Religion. The debauchery of a court, proverbi
ally licentious, could never warm their minds
from the practice, or tin<fture their moral cha
racter with the prevailing viccs of the times.
They have been known, on their knees, to
conjure Louis, as a father and a sovereign, to
dismiss his mistresses, to listen to and relieve the
distresses of his fubjeifts, and in his own person,
to give an example to the world worthy of a
Monarch who claimed the titles of the " Mo'l
ChriJJiau King," and the " Eldtjl Son of the Church
His favourite daughter, Louise-Marie de France,
was, if polnble, ft ill more preiling in her folici
taiions ; but finding all her attempts, her pray,
ers, her entreaties, and her tears, ineffectual,
(he at the age of 34 took the veil, and becoming
a Carmelite, in that character, as more nearly
connerted with heaven, (he continued with un
exampled piety to exhort her father to repent-
I ance and amendment. She is now no more 1
Her fiffers, 110 less fond of a solitary and re
elufe life, would have followed her example,
and adopted a monadic life ; but the policy of
the French government prevented it.
On the death of Louis XV. the present kino
prefented them with Belle Vtie, a royal residence
formerly belonging to the celebrated Madame
Pompadour ; in this palace they lived with great
privacy till the Revolution, at which period they
were obliged to attend his Majetty, the
snd the Dauphin, to the capital.
This great event, which conferred freedom on
25 millions of men, however it might hurt their
pride, could nor but be pleasing to their fnifibility ;
for they are naturally humane, tender, and be
nificent!
It was the decrees ensiled in regard to religi
on that struck them to the heart : they thought
that in enjoining toleration, the National Aflcm
bly were about to extirpate Catholicity ; they
imagined that in the popular election of Bishops,
the power of the Sovereign Pontiff was annihi
lated, and the general intereds of chridianity
undermined !
Imprefied with tliefe ideas, they resolved to
leave their native country, and approachino
nearer to the centre of Chridian Union, leave
that kingdom forever which liad so long been
' governed by their'ancedors. In a private audi
ence which they demanded of his Majesty, they
cad theinfelves at his feet, and implored hiscon
fent for, and protection during their journey.
Louis XVI. a Prince of the molt benevolent
disposition heard their requed, and after many
delays, occasioned by the druggie between pub
lic judiceand natural affection, at length yield
ed his consent. Rome, so often the asylum of
fugitive princes, and which is now about to re
ceive part of the honfe of Bourbon, in the fame
manner as it formerly entertained the House »f
Stuart, will be extremely solicitous to give them
a reception worthy of their high rank. They
themselves rejoiced in being relieved from the
authority of the Departments and Municipalities,
which have impeded their journey, will»think
themselves fortunate in having departed before
the decree has palled for redraining the family
of the ruling Dvnady ; and afcer receiving the
holy benediction of Pope Pius Vr. on their arri
val, will no doubt be happy to celebrate with a
BIR T H A
perty ; while others contended tlu'.t they were
very moderate, and far less in proportion than
thole of the lame denomination in England;
which, it was affirmed, amounted onthe authori
ty of Mr. Arthur Young, to 310,000,000 livres,
though England in population and extent of
country is only equal to one-third of France.
The queltion was adjonrned.
On Thmfday M. de la Fayette went to the
Naiional Alieuibly, and exprellbd his desire to
resign ; ac the fame time declaring that M. Char
ton, Commander of the 6th regiment, was both
capable and willing to cccept the office of Capt,
General of the National Guards.
A State Coach is arrived and put into his Ma
jesty's coach house ; from whence it is conjec
tured that the King will go during the holidays
to his parish church, with all tiie splendor and
pomp of royalty.
LONDON, April 23.
MESDA M E S.
\\ HILE tliefe augult Personages are still 011
this fide the Alps, it may gratify our readers
by giving some fliort account of them.
Marie-Adelaide de France, called Madame by
way of diftin&ion, was born 011 the 23d March,
1732 :
April 23
Te Dium Laudamut in St. Peter's, an event t ;,-.
looks more like an efcapc than a ntriat.
rheir projpcdi are no doubt Heavenwards
were they dire vied towards earth, nothing on
the banks of the Tiber could be found more
beautiful or romantic than their retreat 011 tit;
banks of Ihe Seine. Of that enchanting spot we
may lay something hereafter,.
MIR A BEAU's WILL.
The dispositions found in his Will were as firf
lows. 1 "
M. Dnfailant, his nephew, is named his uni
versal Legatee.
He bequeathed each of the Miss Dnfailant*
2900 livres per annum, "to make them amends,"
said he, " for the loss they h:ive futlained as C*a.
nonelles —to each of the other fillers he ha*
left 600 livres.
He bequeathed 24,000 livres to an infant
that was dear to him ; and the like sum to his
Secretary, the fame person who llab'oed liinifelf
the day before his mailer's death.
To all his servants, without diflindlion, lie
bequeathed as many year's wages as they have
respectively lived with him.
All his papers relative to legifiation and poli
tics, he has left to M. Cabanis, his physician and
friend.
His writings on the Revolution, and all his
minutes of intended motions and /peeches, he
has left to M. de la Marck. And he begs M.
Fancherot, his colleague, to take from his li,
brary any books he likes,to the amount of 4800*
livres.
PORTSMOUT H, (N. H.) June 23.
Lafl Saturday the General Court of this State
finiflied their fefiion at Concord, and adjourned
to meet on the last day of November next, in
this town.
The President and Treasurer of this State are
directed by the General-Court to subscribe one
hundred and fifty (hares in the Bank of the Unit
ed States.
By a late statement made by the Treasurer,
there appears to be in the state treasury about
fix thousand pounds in hlver and gold, of the
funded debt forty-feven thousand poands.
The revision of the State laws were compleat
ed at the late session, and an adt pall suspending
their operation until February next.
An acfl has passed the legislature for calling a
convention on the firft Wednesday of September
next, to meet at Concord, for the revision of the
conflitution of this (tate.
Thursday the 17th day of November next is
appointed to be observed as a day of public
thanksgiving and praise throughout this stare.
BALTIMORE, June 28
From a Corrcfpondmt.
The following letter is from a person of high
rank, in Europe, concerning the new method of"
finding the Longitude, The accounts from that
part ofthe world, 011 this occasion, generally
breathe a fpiiit of liberality unknown in any
other age. It is hoped that some things therein
contained may be uleful to the public, and ex
cJte (tich ofthe American navigators, and others
who have it in their power, to lend a hand to
bring this scheme to the test :
« Sir,
" SINCE my lad, having applied to my frieniL
the King s principal Adronomer, Mr-Bernouilly,
at Beilin, for a more exact note of the memoirs
of the Swedifli Royal Academy at Stockholm, re
lative to your object, particularly Mr. VVilke, I
received the enclosed answer, by which means
I loon got fight of them. They are many, very
indructive, and peculiarly intereding, for efta
blijhing your theory, being the result of many
thouland observations, carefully made by fevc;-
ral members and sea-captains, both in regard to
the magnetic needle's declinations and inclinati
ons, at various time# and places, both regular
and irregular ; accounting, very minutely, for
the effects of electricity, thunder,lightning, tem
pests, and hurricanes, Itill more for those of the
frequent aurora borealis, visible and invisible,
happening in the da;-' time as well as night, and
much stronger towards the poles thap towards
the equator, to a far greater extent.
" To collect all these, and to translate theip
into Englifh,with the necellary maps and figures,
would take np at lead fix month's application ;
but would furnifli you with a rich supply of new
and ufeful materials for your work in liand.*
" The German edition, made by profeffor
Kxftner, at Leipzig, containing the philofophicaf
tranfaiftions of the Royaj Swedi/h Academy, of
Sciences, wis,!) many copper-plares, and two co
pious alphabetical indexes, consists of about fifty
volumes, in Odtavo, and costs, at Leipzig, a dol
lar each vol mne in fbeets. Perhaps the pliilofa
phical society is already fnrnifhed with a com--
* Tin Mjgnnic Almanac.
" Hamburgh, April 2, 1791,
*
>!ete rt>py, and underfianding either ilie Sw e,
iiih original, or the German learned rranflation
>f Mr. Ksfter, with his remarks, Hands in no
leed of Englifti extracts from the fame.—But,
houid ic be oihervvife,and my further afliftance',
)ii this and other occasions, prove acceptable to
he Congress, or any of the confederate States,
ii their learned, and patriotic focieiies, or to
join fit-i r, friends and patrons in particular, vou
inay fieely command and dispose of mv time
Slid labour, whillt living and unengaged, for
whatever compensation of unavoidable expenses
and trouble fliall be thought adequate and equi
table ; it being still, though far advanced in ajje,
(being born in 1723) my nrmoft ambition, as it
was that of my deceased friends, Doctor Benja
min Franklin, Thomas Mollis, General H. Lau
rens, (of South-Carolina) &c. to promote, even
in my narrow sphere, every philanthropic pur
fuic, agreeably to the duties of our various pow
ers and destinations in lite.
'• ] hefe were the motives which prompted
me to direct the whole of my present communi
cation to j'our great protestor, General Wash
ington : with an intimation of my readiness
to cheerfully obey any commands of his Excel
lency, and of doing yon, alio, what further Cer
vices you may wish for, within the reach of,
Sir, your humble servant, * * * * *
" To Mr. John Churchman."
Translation from a New/paper, printed at Paris, on
the llth of April.
" AS nothing is more charadleriftic of the fen
timents ot a free people than the irnpr-ej/ion and
legend of their coin, new dies, cut by the nbleft
Artists in France, are about to be engraved im
mediately. Afier a confutation with the Aca
demies of Inscriptions, and of Painting, the Na
tional Aflenibly has decreed, that the effigies of
his Majesty shall appear on all the money in the
kingdom, surrounded by the motto, Louis XVI.
Roi des Francois .
" On gold coins, of all denominations, as also
on crowns and half crowns, the reverse is to be
adorned with a figure representing the genius of
France (landing before an aliar, and engraving
the New Conftitiition on it by weans of the
Sceptre of Reason, which is particularized by
an eye at its extremity. At one Jit!e of the altar
a cock is to appear, as a symbol of vigilance, and
on the other a bundle of rods, in the manner of
the Koman Fa/as, as an emblem of the union of
an armed republic; the legend surrounding
these, is Regue de la L oi, and on the edge of
the coin, La Nation, la Loi ir te Rot.
" Copper money, on tlie reveife, is to have a
half-pike, piercing rhe bundle of rods, and sur
mounted wiili a Cap of Liberty, encompafled
with a wreath of oak.—Thus the new coinage
will be an emblem of the new conftiturion, and
every piece of money in the kingdom will exhi
bit the triumph of Liberty !"
GEORG E-T O W N, July 2.
On Monday 1 a It, being the appointed day, the
Presipent of ihe United States arrived in this
town ; and 011 Wednesday put the finifhing hand
to the location of the Federal City.
On Thursday the President, with his fuite,fct
r fr from this town fort lie feat of government.
Jle goes by the way of Frederick I own, in this
ilate, and through York and Lancafler in Fenn
fylvania.
At a Court of General Setfions, Oyer and Ter
miner, Assize and General Goal Delivery, be
gun and holden at Charleston, in and for rlie
J iftrk't of Charleston, on Tuesday the seven
ttenth day of June, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one,
and in the fifteenth vea r of our independence!
Ti:: prefnitments of tht Grand "jury far the DiftrUi
of Charleston.
■VKJ E present as a grievance of a very serious
>r and alarming nature, 1 lie mifehievous prac
tice of d uelling, in conf'equence of which, the (tart
is frequently deprived of its citizens j children
of their parents, parents of their children, wives
of r'nei r husbands, and families of their support.
We recommend, that the legislature provide
some more effectual means, than the pi efent juri
dical farces, called indictments for murder al
ways .ending in total acquittals. —For the'pre
vention and punilliment of this relicft of hit
barbarifm, so evidently opposed to every [Trinci
pie of our holy religion as Christians, of our po
litical conftirutiori as republicans, and so dif
graceful to a civilized people, in this age of re
finement.
We present the necessity of the present pnni fo
ment for killing negroes, as a great defeift in the
legal system of this state. And we <lo mod ear.
neftly recommend, to the attention of the Jegif
larnre, a revision of that clause of the negro act,
which confines the penalty of killing flav'es to
fine and imprisonment only.
We present as a grievance, the evil practice of
negroes belonging to ihe neighbouring villages
coming to the city on the ftbbath day, and hold-
public market on South Bay, to the g~ent
detriment of their owners, and to ilie disturb
ance of the good citizens in that pare of the city.
Vi e present ::s a grievance the too frequent
profanation of che fubbath day, and the altnoft
total negletl of the lav, which enjoins the fhit't
ohfervance of peace and good order on that holy
day: by which neglecft, negroes are f'uffered to
frequent dram-shops, and aflemble in many pla
ces in a riotous manner, to the great difbui brnce
of the city.
We present as a grievance, of a very alarming
nature, the number of idle and diforderjy hoofet
in and about this city, tending to debauch the
minds and corrupt the morals of youth.
We present as a grievance, the bad state of the
pavements in the ttreets, in many parts of the
city, and the deficiency of posts to preserve the
fame.
We present as a grievance, the evil practice of
foreflailing provisions, in and about the cirv, to
the great detriment of the inhabitants thereof.
Lastly, we recommend that these presentments
be publillied in the several gazettes of the city.
John Be ah j foreman Sibajlian Spencer,
John Withers, Elias Haufcr,
Daniel Rouple. William Scoft, jrm.
Jacob Safs, Robert Gibfon, jut:.
I. Lock-wood, F.agar Wells,
John Reid, Jume' Ceejler,
John Toad, David Hamilton.
June 20.
Philadelphia, July 6.
Monday being the Anniversary of the Inde
pendence of the United States of America, the
day was devoted to feiliviry, rational and intel
lectual araufement. The day was ufliered in with
the ringing of bells, and n discharge of cannon.
At 10 o'clock the Society of the Cincinnati, and
the Independent and Light-Infantry Companies,
walked in proceftoori to the German Lutheran
Church in Fourth-lbreet. A well adapted ad
dress to Heaven was there delivered by ihe Rev.
Dr. Rogers; and a spirited and patriotic Oration
by Robert Porter, Esq. which was received
with great applause by the audience. Several
pieces of mn'ic, composed for the occasion, were
performed by a choir of fingers of both sexes, ac
companied by the organ. The performances had
a fine effect, and were well received. From
Church the Society walked in procession to the
State-House, where their annual business in elect
ing officers, &c. was tranfaded. At four o'clock
they fat down to an elegant entertainment at the
rooms in the new building in Chefnut-fbeet.
The different places of entertainment in town
and country were crowded with company. Gray's
gardens, Harrowgate, the Wig-warn, and evcrv
other beautiful villa, whether public or private,
exhibited one continued concert of national har
mony and exultation.
Monday morning the commiflioners appoint
ed to receive Subfcriprions for the iiank of the
United States, met at the Bank in this city. At
an early hour many refpeftable gentlemen of this
and other flares aliembled before the doors were
opened, for the purpose of delivering in their
subscriptions, which, we learn from the bell au
thority, amounted to twenty-four rhoufand shares,
— four thousand more than could be received.
The number of persons ready to subscribe wasfo
great, and the amount of t heir intended subscrip
tions so far exceeded the limits prescribed iu the
constitution of the Bank, that the Commissioners
thought proper to adjoqrn, in order to form forne
rule by which to regulate the bnfinefs, so that no
preference or partiality should prevail in the ef
rablifhment of an institution that so much con
cerns the welfare of the United States and the
inrerefts of the individuals who are disposed to
become Stockholders.
It in ay be proper to observe here, that the num
ber of (hares limited by law is 2j,ooc—oi which
the United Stares retain 5000, consequently 20,000
o l nly can be fnbfcribed for. About 24,000 were
offered, but a few fnbfcriptions only received
for the reasons above mentioned. ' Mai/. '
Yesterday the Subftribers to the Bank of the
Ignited States aflembled at the Bank-house in this
ciry, for the purpose of adjusting the difficulty
refolding from the great number of fur plus fnb
fcriptions, over and above the number limited by
!aw, which had been given in — and we hear that
the gentlemen, from a spirit of compromise
agreed that a deduction should be made from the
refpei r tive subscriptions, so that the whole number
of Subscribers should be proportionably accom
modated.
Extraß of a Utter from Bofion, J,me jf 3
" I fancy this town will fubfcri be "three or four
tlio.ifi.nd shares in the Bank, if they rt.ould not
all be taken up Toon. This activity in compet
ing the iriuitution, muftbe pleasing totheSecre
ta.y of the Treasury, and to the other friends of
the fvlte.ii It is, I think, favorable to our na
tional government, as it «ill give energy to the
executive departments, and be a powerful spring
in national operations. h
It is, I thipk, favorable to our government
and to the general liappinefc A that the people are
tired with polincnl writers upon systems of <ro
vernmenr; they suppose we have one
good as we ever (ball make, and the bed way is
to enjoy it as it is, and not trouble their heads to
read ellays and dilputes. lam much inclined to
this is belt on the whole ; aud therefore
am not imprefled with the utility of foine recenc
publications,' either 011 one fide or the other.
However, foine may read and write, and whet
their geniuses, and thereby keep the knowledge
of every form of government circulating in our
country, for tree discussion is the parent of truth:
the wife and humane may thereby improve. Buc
I do not wish to fee much halte in Mending our
government, left, as Dr. Young exprefles himfelf
011 another occasion, it fliould'be " the -worTe for
":i:n ding.''
In the brig Savannah Packet, which arrived
here on Sunday J ast from Georgia, General An
thony Wayne, Member of the House of Repre
sentatives of the United States, came pafl'enger.
A large quantity of grained Maple Sugar, in
boxes of about 4001b. each, and also about" 5,000
weight of the fame fort of sugar in cakes or
lumps, are advertised for public sale at New.
York, oil the nth instant.
The present situation of the United States a
bounds with circumstances of a truly original com
plexion—The extraordinary union which subsists
and links in one harmonious band fifteen differ
ent governments, composed of so great a variety of
persons, prejudices, passions, and Vnterefts, and ex
tended over so large a territory, is unexampled
in the history of mankind. The universal aixl
cordial approbation of one plan of general go
vernment to cement the union, promote justice,
and preserve the liberties of so various a people,
is something in our experience, that language has
not furnifhed terms to express. It is the happy
result of a combination of causes ; one of which,
and the greatest is, that superior pervading intel
ligence derived from early education, which illu
mines the minds of the great body of our citi
zens—another is, that stream of public informa
tion which, through the medium of the public
Gazettes, is conveyed to all parts of the union .
" line upon line, precept upon precept," are re
peated— so that, like the Mosaic inltrudiions of
old, the volume of intelligence is continually be
fore our eyes. The ridmihiftration of the gene,
ral government has been conducted upon ftuli li
beral, jufl;, independent and fuccefsful principles,
that we fliall seek in vain for a parallel to thac
acquiescence and applause which it has received
from our citizens. The difference between the
frefent and pa]} cireu In fiances of our national
character, credit and importance, whileit aut»hc
to irifpire our bosoms with thanksgiving to that
Being, from whom all wisdom descends, fhoulcl
at the fame time excite our gratitude to the a
gents in these aflonifliing events. Judging from
the pa]/, what may not be anticipated of tile fu
ture ?
The PRESIDENT of the Uni ed States is expected to arrive
at the Seat of Government this day.
EXTRACT.
_ Ceorgjus Leti, in hishiftory of the Duke d'Of
funa, gives a remarkable instance of theperverfe
nature of Man. A rich merchant,
Jacob Morell, prided himfelf in not having once
set his foot out of the city, during the space of
forty-eight years. This coming to the ears of
the Duke, Morell had notice sent him, that he
was to take no journey out of the kingdom, un
der the penalty of ten thousand crowns. The
merchant smiled at receiving the order ; but,
afterward, not being able to fathom the reafori
of inch a prohibition, grew so uneasy, that he
paid the fine, and took a little trip out of the
kingdom.
o
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA
Biig Hannah, Marftall, Toharo
Lyd.a, Vannife, Cape-Francois
(reorgta Packet, Burrows, Gcoh-ih
Minerva, Anderfon, Cadiz
Sloop Amelia. Oldham, St Tohn,
P°»y, -•Valf-eharn, N. Carolina
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents , 7 y,0 yr. £.
3 pr. Cents qf,,
Dcfered 6 pr. Cent* gf\\
UNFUNDLD DEBT.
Final Setll. and other Certificates 16/io 85
, I " <icms . 9/.1 50
N. ?na S. Carolina debt*, tof 1 5J6.
G f.o r c p.-To w\, Tunc qo. i~m
X H S R * SID r EN ' T of the UNITED STATES having appn'.v-
A c d''"J foes for the Public Building, to be erefled in ourfu
anceo, Iheaflof Cpngrefa for cftablifhing (he temDoraiyand
permanent feat of govinirent cf the UniieJ Stales,'the Coin,
milhoners, appointed it' virtue of that »&, will meet at George
Town, on Monday the fever.teenth day orOflohcr next, and pro
ceed to lell, at Vendue, a i.urrber of lots in the heft fuuations in
I' c tederal City. A deposit of 8 per cent, wili be reouired • ihe
refidne to be ft cured on Bonds, with fecurily, payable in three
equal yearly payment;.—The farther terms will be made known
at ihe fair.
THOMAS JOH.VSON', )
P.': .ID STEWART, , Commiflioners
DANIEL CAKROL. )
&~r THE Printer* ihroughout the United Slates are requeflei
4o tn'ei t the in their papers.
90 pr. cent.
5° ro.
,60 do.A CARD.
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments so his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wifhcsthey may
be fnormed that he has received a very hand Tome Assortment
of the bed chosen
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pi cou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on so low terms as must make it an objefl to cujlomers. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with pun£luality and dil patch,
and the time of payment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firtt quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets,
|CT LOTTERY TICKETS,
New-Haven Wharf, to commence drawing 13th September,
Maflachufetts Semi-Annual, ?d Class, 13th October,
may be had as above.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au£Hon, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5 000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-jourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
conne6lions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages,
March 15, 1791
Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, second Door below Market-Street,
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Comniiflion all kinds of
Public Securities and Paper Monies.
Tranfadls business for those who have claims
on the United States, or against either of the States, particularly for
the Officers, Soldiers and Mariners, and others who have served
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornies. See.
Certificates and such Paper Monies furniflied
for country people and others, who have to make payments toth
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to fpccie,
and their warrants, patents, See. palled through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without dc-
posits.
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profeflion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with suitable do
mestics.
Those at a distance who may address on either the above fub
jefts, their letters being post pdjd, will be duly attended to, by
FRANCIS WHITE.
(ep tf)
PhilaH. June 22, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Cldfs Second, to be had at the fame place
May 28, 1791.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these prefenis (hall come, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promifTory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785. one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen shillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen shillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen Shil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in.proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th May, 1791
Published, and to be fold by the Editor, price £th of a Dollar,
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the most important Subjects,
Refpe&ing the REVOLUTION of AMERICA
Written in Holland in the year 1780,
By the Vice-President of the United States.
PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
(e p. 3 m.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and Inland Billsof Exchange ntgociated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commission, and ell other
Bulinefs in the line of a Broker, tranfj&rd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
•At the Office, next door to the Cujlom-Hcufe, State-Street, BOSTON.
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
NEATLY executed in Profile, have jutl come to hand, and for
sale by MclTrs. Carey,Stewait and Co. Mr. William Young,
Mr. Robeit Campbell, Mcflis. Rice and Co. Bookfclltris, and by
the Editor.—Price jths of a Dollar.
Philad. June 29, 1791.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legifiature of the State of Conne&icut, at their frflion in
December lalt, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with the
following
s c
Prize of
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Subject to a dedu&ion of twelve and a half per cent
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafTed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necessarily extended 10 the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3>4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all dalles of people, for
the success of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
America) induce the managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, iri
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
naid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
tor the ufc ot the wbarf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers;
J a me? Rice,
Jeremiah Atwater,
Joseph Drake,
New-Haven, April 14, 1791.
$3" TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Meflrs. Stefhen Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the MafTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY attire the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Oflcber next, or sooner, if the Tickets
shall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as pundlual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
(eptf)
Prizes,
120
161
2CO
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
95000 Tickets.
TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Managers, mho will pay the prizes on demand-, of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; ot James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.-j
DAVID COBB, i
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT, )
JOHN KNEELAND,
Rojlorty April 14, 1791.
(£3" Blank Powers to receive the Interefl, and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablijhed in the i'rea
fury Department : Also Blanks for abflradls of Certificates, to be fold by
the Editor.
ENES S E S
L I
or THE
H[ E M
10,000 Dollars, is
5 000
4000
2000 arc
1000
5 00
aoo
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Michael Todd,
El i j ah Austin,
Joseph How el i .
CLASS II
Dollars
10000
3000
2000
1000
500
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
HAVING compltted the fecund volume of tiir Cm
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, are injorm
ed that it-mill be prosecuted on its original plan, -with
every improvement that friend/hip and ingenuity may
figg'fl-
The price of this Gazette, (published Wednefdayi
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum—one
half ta be paid at the time offubferibing.
The utmofl punUuahty is obftrved in transmitting
the papers to fubferibtrs : The Editor thinks then it
the fair eft prefptel that Information ■from the feat Of
government-, to the extremes of the Uni.cn, wi.'linfy*
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, mtM
through thi past winter.—Additional
from all parts of the Union are therefore folicitei? '•
This volume contains the laws of the two la]} Jiffioni
of Congress—the journal and debates of the house. if
Representatives—reports of the heads of departmentt
—be fides a greater variety oj original communications
immediately conneded with the interejls of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude th* punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
fubferibers —some arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be discharged.
Payments may be made to the several persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements of one square, or less, will bt in
serted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
fubjequent insertions,twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion : No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation —and the num
ber of each imprefjion is at Jirefent fourteen hundred.
i 0.000
1400
43.' 20
By CAREY, STEWART, if Co.
87500
RELIGIOUS OPINIONS.
BY M. NECKER.
Extratts from the Monthly Review, vol. 78, page 598.
De I'importance des opinions religieufes. By M. Nbcker.
6<r TPHE offering here made at the fhrinc of religion, by a man of
A business, a man of true political wisdom, and a man of the
world, in the city of Paris, is a curious phenomenon. —It is alio
noble one—and gives M. Necker, who has been long eftecmed for
his great capacity, literary merit, and eminent virtues, a new and
dijlinguiflied title to the veneration oj the public. It has been this vir
tuous man's destiny to arrive at eminence in every line that he has
pursued, from the counting house to the thrcfhold of the cabinet,
And it is impoflible, if we icad the work before us with candour
and attention, not to fee that both his head and his heart make a
d'jlinguijhed and ajfecling appearance in the cauje of religion.
Vol. 80, page 370.
" We rejoice to fee this excellent work naturalized here—and it
ought to be translated into evciy European language." (4^
Scarce
In various Languages—being part of a private Library,
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufania?, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horacc, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, See.
Quarto. Pindar, Ariflotle, Terence, Ovid, Casfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Ottetvo £3 infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinu% Theo
phraftus, Epiaetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phataris,
Ifo~rates, Polyasnus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Properties,
Paterculus, Flora*, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poera: minores Latini, Callipaedia, Sttada, L.
Valla, See.
Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
Rook-Store of MeJJrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
aljo Jlitched up with the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April.
June 1, 1791. (eaw)
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER.
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publishing a PAPER, in good repute,
the fubferibers to which are continually increasing— The present
number ot its patrons is between seven and eight hundred. The
types consist of Burgiois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertisements to advantage. The situation
is in the interior part ot Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community,and within 17 miles ot an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had 011 thort notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger Hiare of Advertisements than the one offered
for sale. A very confidcrable profit also accrues from the sale of
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bill-, See. Sec. It is a good situation, also,
for a small Book-Store—and it is supposed the Book-Binding bu
siness might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
Dollars.
10000
6oco
6000
6000
500 c
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
125000
For further particulars, enquire of John Fen no, at his Office,
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phi
ladelphia. (law 8w)
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelbhia, March 30, 1791
few copies oj the CONSTITUTION of the
United States, printed with Notes, may be had of the
Editor.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings J
No. 22, North Front-Street,
TREATISE
on the IMPORTANCE ok
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
800
FOR S A L E,
K S,
(96 tf)