PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS \ND SATURDAYS ~V
[No. 18, of Vol. lII.]
Compendium of the Law of the United States,
laying DUTIES on Distillfd Spirits, as
ter the la ft day of June, 179r, by AA of Con
gress, of the 3d of March, 1 79 1 -
THE duties heretofore laid on distilled fpirils imported from
abroad, are repealed.
On all spirits imported, more than 10 percent, below proof,
according to Dicas's hydrometer, per gallon, a duty of 20 ceuts.
Under 5 and not more than 10 percent, below proof ditto, 21
cents.
Of proof arid not more than 5 per cent, below proof ditto, 22
tents.
Above proof, but not exceeding 20 per cent, ditto, 25 cents.
Ditto, more than 20 and not more than 40 per cent, ditto, 30
cents.
Ditto, more than 40 per cent. do. 40 cents.
To becollefted in thefame manner as the duties heretofore laid
If the duties do not exceed 50 dollars to be paid immediately.
From 50 dollars and not moic than 500 dollais lo be secured b)
bond or deposit 111 4 months. »
If above 500 dollars to be lecured by bond or deposit in 6
months.
The maftcr of any vefTel having diflilled spirits on boatd with
in 48 hours of arrival, to report the fame to one of the infpe&oi\s
of the port, under penalty of 500 dollars.
Two manifefts to be delivered and the permit from collector
lor landing, to be indoried by the officer of iufpe£lion before the
spirits are landed.
Calks containing spirits to be branded, when landed.
Certificate of entry of the whole to be given by the officer cf
infpe&ion to the importer, and one ccrtihcate foi each cask, to ac
company the fame wherever lent.
On all diflilled spirits within the Uuited States frqm foreign ma-
IF more than 10 per cent below proof, per gallon, 9 cents.
Under 5 and not more than io per cent, do. 10 cents.
Proof and not more than 5 per cent, below proof, do. 11 cents.
Above proof but not exceeding 20 per cent. do. 13 cents.
Ditto, more than 20 and not more than 40 per cent. do. 17
cents.
Ditto, more than 40 per cent. do. 25 cents.
The duties to be paid or iecured before removed, at the option
of the proprietor of the distillery, to be paid down with 2 cents
pei gallon abatement, or the whole lecured by bond payable
quarterly.
Before removal the officer to brand the number and name of
difliller, place where situate, quantity of gallons and pioof, and
the duties being oaid, the officer is to grant a certificate which is
to attend each cask on removal. If rrtnovc-d without such brands
and certificates, the fame together with horses, carriages, vefTcl or
boat employed in removal forfeited ; the officer alio forfeits the
value of the spirits.
No fpn its to be removed from distillery except between sun
rise and sun-set, except by confcut ot and in prt fence of the offi-
pain of forfeiture.
Stills employed in distilling from materials of growth or pro
duce ofthe United States, in any oiher place than a city, town,
or village, to pay 60 ccnts for every gallon of such still including
the head.
Duties to be paid in the firft fifteen days in January and July,
Proprietor of stills keeping daily accounts of spirits distilled,
may on proof by oath or affirmation pay 9 ccnts per gallon on the
quantity distilled, in lieu of duty on Hills.
Distillers from foreign matenals, to have painted or written, in
front of the house or building, used for distilling, and upon the
door or entrance ot the place where the liquois are kepi, ihe
words. " Dittiller ot Spirits." And three days before distilling
to make entry of Inch distillery and building under forfeiture of
100 dollars, and thefpirits.
Distillers on lft July to make entry on that day or within three
days.
Stock of spirits on hand on lftjuly to be branded by the officer,
*'Old Stock." And on removal to be accompanicd by certifi
cate from officer on pain of forfeiting 50 dollars.
Every importer ot distilled spirits on ill July next or within
three days, to cater all spirits in poffeflion, to be maiked and ac
companied with a certificate in cafe of removal, as is dire&ed
above from distilleries, on failure of such eulry to forfeit value of
spirits.
Any cask with fpi 1 its which ought to be marked, found in pof
fcflion without such mark and certificate, may be ft-1 zed, and if
not proved to have paid duties or to have been distilled as alorc
laid, toifeited.
Officers in da\ time, on requcft may enter such houses, {lores,
&c. entered as aforefaid, and take an account and (ample, on pay
ing the usual price for the fame.
For defacing the marks set as aforefaid on any cask, the pcrfon
to forfeit one hundred dollais.
Tso cask marked 4 * Old Stock" to be used for putttng any other
Spirits in, nor (hall distillers use such calks after 12 mouths on
pain of forfeiting the spirits, except casks of 200 gallons and up
wards not intended to be removed.
Spirits fraudulently bid or concealed are forfeited, and any
ot the United State sor jultiec of pcacc, on fcafonable caufc*
of fufpicioH by oath or affirmation may bv warrant auihorifc the
officerin day time in preftnee of a constable, to enter and seize and
carry away the fame.
After the last of June next, no fpintuous liquors exccpt gin or
cordials in cases, jugs 01 bottles, to be brought from foreign por
in less calks than 50 gallons, on pain of forfeiting spirits, veflfei
and cargo, except fpiritt not exceeding four gallons for each fca-
man.
Every distiller of spirits on which duty is charged by the gal
lon, is to keep a daily account of the (pirns he (hall fell, fend oui
or diftii!, to be entered the day after m a book 10 be furmlhea
their, by the supervisors on demand, and to be returned at the
end of each s ear, 01 when filled up to the officer of infpectfon,
and the truth of the enti <es venhfid by oath or affirmation of th<
petfou making them : The book to be open to the infpettion o
Purveyor, who may take minutes ; foi everv negltft or refufal to
I»ccd such book or fliew the fame, the difttller forfeits 100 dollars.
Penalties aic not to extend to peifons having otic ilill only not
ex<:« edni* 50 gallons in< ludintj the head.
Any fupcr\ifoi or officer of infpcftion convtfled of oppreflion
or extoition forfeits 500 dollars, or impiifjnmtnl not cxceed.ng
fix iTion*.hi or both and forfeit ins office.
u fee to be taken for any ceitiftca e.
terials.
70H,V FENXO, No. 6q. /// :H-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AXD THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
Wednesday, June 29, 1 75? t-
Supcrvifors or infpeftors neglecting to perform the duties en
o ned. are subject to damages to the liarty fuffering.
Actions for any thing done in purfnance of this ast, are te> !)'
■mnmenced within three months, and in the county, utilefs bro't
n a court of the United States.
One half of the penalties and forfeitures are for the benefit of
the person making feiznre or differing the offence.
Counterfeiting or forging certificates under this ast, accepting
or fraudulently altering the fame, the person guilty forfeits 50c
dollars.
Taking falfe 03th or affirmation nunifliable as for perjury.
Giving ot offering a bribe to officers, the person forfeits not
exceeding - 500 dollars.
For obftru6ting or hindering officer in execution of his duty, or
rescuing or attempting to itfcue fpiriis after fcizure, forfeit not
exceeding eoo dollars,
Osirc? entering into rnllufion or concurring in fraudulent deli
very of spirits, or for falfe marks or guilty of fraud or embezzle
ment, forfeits 1000 dollars, lof> of office anddifabled from hold
ing an) other office.
DRAWBACKS.
In cafe of exportation the whole duties to he remitted, dednft
<ne ± cent prr gallon, and adding to the allowance upon spirits
distilled within the United States, fiom molafles 3 cents per gal
lon. The exporter to giv 24 hours notice to the proper officer
who shall examine and infoeft the fame and brand each calk, Sc■
with thr word " exportation." and ceriiff the tranfa&ion to 'he
collector: provided, the said allowance not to be made until after
t he exporter make oath that the said liquors are not intended to be
re-landed ithin the United States, See. tken the allowance to be
paid in fix months. And in caf" that the ovner shall countermand
the said exportation, and give due notice thereof, it (hall then be
lawful for the collc&or to grant a permit for the re-landing the
fame.
Breach of this feflion punifbable bv forfeiture of veflel and
cargo, rxcept in cases of necessity and diflrefs to save the ship and
goods from perifhmg.
No foirirs to be exported in vrflels under 30 tons burthen.
Bonds given in consequence of 1 his article, may be discharged
after one vear bv the certificate of our consul resident at the port
to which such liouors were exported, which fha'l be confirmed
by the 03th or affirmation of the captain and mate, or where no
consul is resident. the certificate of two rnerchants of the United
States or of the chief civil magiflrate of said place, and in cases
that will admit of either, fhen the exporter mav offer such
other proof as he c?n produce, of which the colle&or is to be
deemed fufficient iudge ; except in cases where the drawback
amounts to loode'lars or upwards, then to be referred to the
comptroller of the treasury, whose. decision (ball be final.
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
CQD AND WHALE FISHERIES.
No. XIII.
[con T I N UED.J
THE instances which have proved profitable to the owners are
bul few; greater loffesare to be apprehended from the pre
fer!' high prices of all the n-ceffaries and materials. To clear the
expencc of a voyage, each veflel must at lead bring a return of
fifteen thousand guilders, exclusive of oi.e thousand guilders for
insurance, hefnles the yearly decrease of capital, which tray be
calculated on an average, at thirtv 1 houfand guilders for every
vessel completely equipped, makingthe firm of three million eight
hundred and seventy thousand guilders for one hundred anct
twenty-nine vefle's which have been fitted out this prcfent year,
and which must each fetch out of the Tea twenty ions of net goods
to clcar thcmfclves. The profpeft of doing this is very unfavora
ble, as all onr neighbours life greater exrr lions in that trade than
ever ; to which they are encouraged by the aid of their refpeflive
governments, iri particular the British, who allow forty (hillings
(let ling per ton to cach velTel which is employed in the whale
filheiy ; by which means the number of their whaling veflels have,
since the year 1749, (when 'he bounty was granted) inrreafed from
two to one hundred and nine vessels, which in the spring 1775,
failed from England and Scotland, measuring in the whole thirty
three thousand three hundred and eighteen tons, and amounting,
at forty (hillings per ton, to sixty-six thousand fix hundred and
thirty-fix Dounds, equal to seven hundred and thirty-two thousand
nine hundred and ninety-fix guilders, which amounts upon an
average to fix thousand seven hundred and twenty-five guilders
(or each veflfel.
The fifheries in Sweden and Denmark have also received addi
tional strength from the . ncouragements offered by their govern
ments, without which they would have but little inducement to
'hat trade ; so that intiead of Holland 'ormerly exceeding aII the
o'her nations together in the whale filhcrv, the\ at present exceed
the Dutch by one third in the number of vessels—nay, England
alone now fends out nearly as many vessels as Holland.
Another obstacle orefents itfelf with rejard to the whale-bone
trade. Of this article Holland formerly (hipped five-eighth parts
' Great-Britain, of which sale we are now deprived, on account
ol the high duty imposed on all foreign whale-bone imported in
•o that kingdom, and which may be coofidered as ar. additional
premium 011 the fifhery ol that nation, amounting commonly to
fifty guilders per one hundred weight. Our exportation of whale
oil is also on the decline Hamhurgh and Bremen receive great
fnpolies, partly from their own fifheries and partly from England
a d Russia, so as to be able to furnifh thegreareft part of Ger many
with that article. France and Spain ate mostly supplied from
England ; and as it has been alwayi computed, that three-fourth*
the product ot our filheries ate exported, the competition of
those and other rival nations will scarcely leave a foreign market
for us: our own provinces and the liver Rhine, will be our
limits.
Another disadvantage not lo pais unnoticed, which is, that
the prices ot the produce of the filherio are confide,ablv reduced •
the whale-hone of the latest vovage having already been foid as low
as ninety guilders or less, which gives a loss. Oil may also, in
cafe of a 'ucce'sful season, nil from fluty to forty guilders per
twelve ftekan (fixtv-three gallons); ai.d in that cafe, vessels that
return With one half or two thirds of their cargo, must (ink money
I hefe are the mod material circinndances that impedethe pro
jrc:- 0! our fiffceric;. The efFcft of the premium granted bv the
69
[Whole No. 2.26.
British parliament, has already been severely felt by our Green
!<md fleets, having, iince that period, citcreafed one third in
a umber.
Abstract of LIVE STOCK exported from the
United States, from about August 20th, 1789,
to September 30, 1790, from returns in the
T reafury-Office.
French W.lnd,
He^ds.
I Value. |
66915,
[263281
Horn'd cattle
Horfcs,
357 3
6970
22
5379
8 33
850 c
9580
Mules,
Sheep,
Hogs,
4>85
.349 111
20129;
"0 be con a
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
MR. RUSSELL,
lIIAVE afi'mned for a principle, that the En
gliHi nation, having delegated all iheir col
lective power, have no right in their original
character, to change their form of government,
unless it has become absolutely inadequate to the
purposes for which it was inllituted. The peo
ple themselves, innll from the necessity of the
cafe be the judges of this facfl; but if in forming
this judgment, and acting in purluance of it,
they proceed from passion and not from princi
ple, if they diflolve their compact from an idea,
that " they have a right to do whatever they
choose," and break the bands of society, in the
forms of defpotifin, " because such is their plea
sure, " tliey may indeed go through the opera
tion by the plenitude of their irrefillable power,
but the nation will meet with ample punifliment,
in their own misery, and the leaders who delude
them, in the detestation of their own posterity.
It is nor by adopting the malignity of a political
fatyrill, by converting the sallies of wit into the
maxims of truth or justice, or by magnifying tri>-
vial imperfections into capital crimes, that a na
tion will bejuftified in resorting to its original
flrength, to contend against its delegated power.
It is not a mechanical horror against the name of
a king, or of ariitocracy, nor a pliyfical antipa
thy to the found of on extravagant title, or to
the fight of an innocent ribband, than can au
thorise a people to lay violent hands 'upon the
conftitntion which prorecls their rights, and
gua'-ds their liberties. They must feel an aiftual
deprivation of their equal rights, and fee an ac
tual impossibility for their reftoiation in anv
other manner, before they can have a right t<*
lay their hands on their swords, and appeal to
Heaven. These are not the principles of slave
ry ; they are the tenets of the only genuine li
berty ; which confifls in a mean equally diftanc
from the delpotifm of an individual, as of a mil'
lion. They are fantftioned by our own uniform
example, and will, I trust, never be departed
from by the molt enlightened, and most virtuous
people on the globe. For fixreen years the peo
ple of America endured a continual fufceffion of
every indignity, which the ppide of dominion,
the insolence of power, and the rapacity of ava
rice, could inflict upon them, before they coultl
resolve to renounce an authority, three tlioufand
miles distant from them ; and even then,' they
were so far from thinking they had a right to
do whatever they chose, that by the very art,
which renounced their connection with Great-
Britain, they exposed to the world their own
f ttfFerings, and the various ac'ts of tyranny, which
had compelled them to " acquiesce in the necef
firy which denounced the Separation," and, " ap
pealed to the Supreme Judge of the world for
the rectitude of their intentions." No, Sir, the
venerable character who drew lip this declara*
tion, never could believe that the rights of a na
tion, have 110 other limits, than its powers.—
Since the revolution, the people of the United
States, have again been compelled to form a na
tional government, and in its forma)ion proceed
ed in the fame spirit. The confederation wa>
found totally incompetent for the purposes for
which it was instituted ; not from an abuse of
the delegated powers, in those by whom it was
adtniniftered, but because Scarcely any powers at
all had been given. The inffieciency of that
fylteni had long been fully demonstrated, and
had reduced us to extreme distress. The States,
United but in name, were upon the verge of ge
neral brnkruptcy. Their crcdit funk to the low
No. XIV.
AM other countries,
Heads.
>833
1658
215
4679
1119
Heads.,
.54°6
8628,
Value.
33°4 5
76235
8013
8537
4901
2 37
10058,
53°4
95°4 i '3°73'
2 9 6 33!
luded in our next.)
Total
Value.
99960
3305>6
8846
17039
14481
[479842eft ebb, was upon I lie point of expiring, and
iheir exhausted treasury, gave perpetually the
Jie to their public faiih so often and so solemnly
pledged. Tlie forcible ties of a common interelt
direc'ted to one great objedt during the war, were
greatly loosened by the accomplishment of tliat
objetft, and the feeds of mutual hostility were
sown, by the partial commercial regulations ol
the relpeiftive states. The revenue laws which
liad been enac r ted in several of the states, were
not able to support their credit, and yet were so
unequal in their operation,.that numerous bodies
of men in more than one of the states appeared
in open rebellion against the mildelt governments
that ever were instituted. Inflead of the glori
ous reward which the people had expected for
their virtuous exertions, internal discord, and
infamy abroad presented themselves in dreary
perfpetftive before them. At that critical peri
od, when the fyltem to be annihilated, was an
empty name, and there was only a government
to be formed, the national constitution was pre
fented to t lie people of America "in their origi
nal charadler," and even then its existence was
to depend upon the allent of nine states, that is
two thirds of the people. Very fortunately it
has at length been freely adopted by all the
members of the union ; but the extreme difficul
ty which impeded the progress of its adoption,
and the various amendments, which in many of
the states were in a manner made the condition
of their assent, exhibit the fulled evidence, what
a more than Herculean talk it is, to unite the opi
nions of a free people upon any system of govern
ment whatever.
Under the fantftion of fucli authority, I ven
ture to a flirt that the people of England have no
right to destroy their government, unlels in its
operation the rights of the people are really op
prefled, and unless they-have attempted in vain
every constitutional mode of obtaining redress.
These principles ought to operate with peculiar
force upon the people of England, becauie in the
uncertain and hazardous event of a revolution,
they have more to lofe,and less to gain, than any
other European nation, and because whatever
they may acquire, mult in all probability be pur
chased at theexpenfe of a civil war. Whenpro
vifion is made for the alteration of a constitu
tion, otlierwife than by the common legislative
power, it may be done comparatively without
difficulty or danger ; but where this power is al
ready delegated, with the other powers of legis
lation, the people cannot use it themselves, ex
cept in their original, individual, unrepresented
character, and they cannot acquire the riglit to
atflin that capacity, until the power which they
have thus conveyed in trust, has been abdicated
by the extreme abufesofits adminiltration.
When Mr. Paine invited the people of En
gland to destroy their present government and
form another constitution, he should have given
them sober reasoning, and not flippant witticisms.
He fliould have explained to thein the nature of
the grievances, by which they are opprefled, and
demonstrated the iinpoflibiliry of reforming the
government in its present organization. He
flyould have pointed out to them some poflible
method for them to act in their original charac
ter, without a total diflolution of civil society
among them ; he lhonld have proved, what great
advantages they would reap as a nation from such
a revolution, without disguising the great dan
gers and formidable difficulties, with which ic
must be attended.
Tlie principal and most dangerous abufts in
the Englifli government, arise less from the de
feats inherent in the constitution, than from the
state offociety ; —tlie universal venality and cor
ruption which pervades all clafles ofmen in that
kingdom, and which a change ojf government
could not reform. 1 fhal! consider this fubjedl
more largely here ftev; but at present with re
fpecfl to tlie expediency of a revolution in En
gland, I mull enquire how the nation can be
brought to act in their original character ? Mr.
Pains, perhaps from the delicacy of his (itua
tion, has said nothing openly upon this very im
portant point. Yet in two different parts of his
work he seems obscurely to hint two methods for
the accomplishment of this object. When he
compares the htuation of the citizens of London,
to that of the inhabitants of Paris, just before
the taking of the Baftile, it seems as if it was
with an intention to recommend a similar infur
redtion for the pnrpofe of dispersing the parlia
ment, and expelling the king, nvhich would
leave the nation without any government at ail,
and compel them at all events to ast in their ori
ginal character. When he advises " Revolutions
by accommodation," he mult probably mean that
a convention (hould be called by atft of parlia
ment to regenerate their constitution.—l cannot
imagine any other method of answering his pur
pose. Mr. Paine seems to think it is as easy for
a nation to change its government, as for a man
to change his coat; but I confefsbolh the modes
of proceeding which he (uggefts, appear to me
to be liable to great objections.
Mcifrs. Childs & Swaine,
TF the following hints refpetfing Toll Bridges
1 and Turnpike Roads, will be of any use, please
to insert them.
Roads and Bridges, especially upon the great
port: road, through the Union, are objects of na
tional moment. Dispatch in a courier, may (up
prefs an insurrection in the bud. Expediting the
baggage or artillery of an army, one day, may
save a seaport of fir ft rate conlequence, or a P°ft>
which is the key of the union. Shortening the dii
tance, and lefieuing the time, which it consumes
to allemble our national representatives, is a ve
ry important object. The speedy promulgation
of their acts and proceedings, lias the happieit
tendency to preserve peace and good ordei , as
well as to prevent the sudden palling of injurious
laws. To commerce, it is of great consequence.
The enterprising merchant makes his {pecula
tions, or saves his insurance, with advantage, and
promptness. Early intelligence, and dispatch,
are of very great use to liim. The gentleman of
fortune, or the invalid, travelling for pleasure,
or health, vific various states and climes, and
scan limn an nature in its varied modes and ha
bits, with ease and fafety. I conceive that Toll
Bridges and Turnpike Roads, are the moll effec
tual and most equitable means of accomplishing
so deiirable a business. The smaller advantages
arising from them would be, impeding the im
portation of foreign convidts, vagabonds and
paupers: detecting highwaymen, hoife thieves,
and other villains. I have heard that in En
gland, if a gentleman is robbed, he gives notice
at the firft turnpike, the alarm is pailed ; and
villains are often detected in this way. They
generally keep tie high roads to great cities;
when they deviate into villages, and bye roads,
every cottager notices the horse, and dress of
theftranger; so will the toll gate man, for he
may get a reward by it. If.attention was paid
to the selection of steady, discreet men, they
might be cloathed with the powers of a consta
ble. Let us suppose that besides the bridges,
there were ten toll-gates, between Paules Hook
and Philadelphia ; and that the whole amount
of the toll, came to one third of a dollar, for
each traveller on horseback, or in a carriage ;
I presume the prodntfi of this money properly
laid out upon the roads, in three year's time,
would save half a day's time and expences to tra
vellers, who then would lose by it ? or rather,
who would not be benefited by it ?
The comparatively litfle state of New Jersey,"
has set a noble example of public spirit; ihe has
no foreign commerce, and of vf
ry prompt, or productive sources of revenue.
She has undertaken three magnificent bridges.
I could wifli them ceded to the union, on the
fame footing as light houses. It would be no
great affair for New-York and Philadelphia, to
advance on loan, the film requisite for their im
mediate completion. The rwo bridges between
Newark and Paules Hook, wi: 1 give access to a
great tracl of fertile country, between it and
Morris-Town, near thirty miles back, to come
to the New-York market, with great ease. Mar
ket people chufe in hot weather to travel in the
night, with their perifiiable commodities; to
cross ferries at all hoursin the night, withhorfes,
carts and waggons, is troublefonie and dange
rous, as well as very expensive. In cold weather,
when the sledding is good, hundreds of sleds
will probably pass these bridges with loads of
fire wood, poultry, meal and other pro villous so
as to reach the banks of the Hudson 111 season in
rhe morning for market. Loads of fuel would
scarcely pay the sxpence of the two ferries. In
a severe feaion, the ordinary water communica
tion which supplies New-York with firing is cut
off, and wood is scarcer for the distance of fortv
miles by land, than it is within twelve miles of
1 aules Hook, on the Jersey fide.
Should either our corporation, or individuals,
form temporary magazines on the Jersey fliore'
to receive the wood when scarce, they would find
their account in it. Seldom a day pafles, but a
boat may rrofs.
So long as Philadelphia continues to be the
feat of government, she would have a great in
flux of company, and money ofcourfe, from the
states east of her, in consequence of good roads
and budges. February and March, are the mofl
leisure months in the year, to men of business
to merchants and tradesmen ; and at this very
leafon, the floating or rotten ice, in my concep
tion, make.s the transportation of a family, f 10 m
New-York to Philadelphia, by land, more" dange
rous than n ,s by sea, to Richmond, in Virginia
I have known mftances of persons, having Jeil
sure only at th,s season, and lifting go, prin
.pall, from » hom thc ~f f, a ' d J.
I hope the state of New-Jersey will proceed
•11 K 3U exa ! n P le t0 her neighbors.. That (he
w.ll by turnpikes and tolls, tax com
merce, ami speculation, for their own, and the
PUBLICOLA
70
FROM THE (NEW-YORK) DAILY ADVERTISER,
public good ; which they doubtJefi will cheerful
ly pay.
That to prevent clamour and opposition sh e
will permit persons inhabiting townships or dif
tritls, on the port road, to work on the highways
as they have been used to do ; to pass free into
other dilti iifts, where they actually occupy, and
improve lands or mills ; or usually go to mi'll to
public worship, or to call the physician. That
suitable exemptions will be made refpecftino- the
clergy, physicians, jurors, witnefles, &c. X|m
is the age of revolution, and beneficial improve
ment. The human inind has burst its prison
and demoliflied the formidable baftile of deeo
founded, (hong built, ancient prejudice—Let
us, reverencing the wifdoin of our anceltors, pay
no more refpedt to old customs, solely on account
of their antiquity, than is due to an old man
merely for the length of his beard, or a longpre
di(fted comet, for the length of its proo-refs and
tail. A NATIONAL°MAN.
FROM THE (CONNECTICUT) FARMER'S JOURNAL,
Messrs. Printers,
I NOW t ran fin it to you for publication, the
Census of Connecticut, taken in 1756, and
1762, by the King's order, which bj being'com
pared with the lad return of the Cenfus,°taken
in 1790, may serve to (hew the rapid increase of
population, notwithstanding the vast emigration
from this State to others.
In r 7?6,
111 1762,
Increase in 21 years, 12,788 1,003
By the ]ast return, made in t 790, there appears
to be 232,371 Whites; lo that the difference be
tween the numbers in 1 756, and 1 790, (the term
only of 34 years) appears to be 104,159 Whites,
and 1,981 Blacks: The Blacks in 1 790 amount
j"g t( > 5,568. The difference from 1762 to 1790,
is 91,371 Whites (the increase in 28 years) and
978 Blacks. So that the increase of Blacks in the
last 28 years is not so great by 25 perlons, as it
was iiuhe preceding 6 years.
Greenfield, June I 791.
Charikston, June 7, 1791.
THE ADDRESS OF THE CITIZENS OF AUGI'STA,
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
Sir,
YOUR journey to the southward being extended to the frontier
of the union, affords a frefli proof of your indefatigable zeal
a the service of your country, and an equal attention and regard
to all the people of the United States. With these imprefiions
the citizens of Augusta present their congratulations upon your
arrival here in health, with the assurance, that it will be their
greatefl: pleasure, during your flay with therr., to teftifv the sin
cere affe&ion they have for your person, their feivfc of obligations
'or your merits and services, and their entire confidence in you as
the chief magistrate of country. On your return, and at all
f imes, their best wishes will accompany you, while thev retain
the hope ih.it a life of virtue, benevolence, and patriotism, may
be long preserved, for the benefit of the age, and example to pos
terity.
In the name of all the citizens,
GEORGE WALTON,
JOHN MEALS,
THOMAS CUMMING,
PETER CARNES,
SEABORN JONES.
Augusta, May 19, 1789.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
TO THE CITIZENS OF AUGUSTA.
Gentlemen,
T RECEIVE your congratulations on my arrival in Augusta
1. with great pleasure. lam much obliged by your alfumnces
>" regard, and thank, you with unfeigned sincerity for the favor
able lentiments you are pleased to express towards me.
Entreating you to be persuaded of my gratitude, I desire to af
ire you, that it will afford me the moll sensible fatisfaftion to
learn the progreflion of your prosperity. My bed wishes for
your happiness, colle&ively and individually, are sincerely offered.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
London, April 26
' I 1 HE strength of the present Minidry does not
so much confiit in its political connection as in
us incorruptible purity. There are no dark do
ings, 110 secret jobs—no bribe worthy services—
ill is open and above board, directed by wisdom,
upheld by truth,and fancftioned by justice. Even
the avowed political enemies of government are
at a loss for any fubjetft of complaint.
I he Princefles of France, when they were the
King s daughters, were fomethinjp, now they are
become the King's Aunts, they are nothing.—
r hey are amiable, they are decent, they are in
nocent, and they are women, and while the pri
vileges and honors of their birth are taken from
them, they are not permitted to employ the liber
ty which is given them in exchange, in running
away.
In Germany, an excellent anil cheap die h3S
been invented by Mr. Vogler, adapted to woolen
and cotton manufactures. It consists limply of
the feeos of ihe red trefoil, a plant very common
in this country, and used to feed horses and cat
tle. A decotftion of these feeds is mixed with
different mineral fubttances, and the dies pro
duced are very beautiful, and of a great variety.
Among these are yellows and greens of different
(hades, as alio citron and orange colours. These
dies re flit the action of thefubltances with which
Whites
Blacks
3> 58 7
4.59°
128,2T2
141,000trials are usually made, better than tlia common
dies, and pronufe many advantages, if adopted,
to the manufactures of this country.
Died lately, at Shirehampton, in his Bift year,
after a long and painful illness, without a ftru<r
gle or a groan, the Rev. Walter Chapman, Doc
tor of Divinity, Mailer of St. John's Hospital,
Bath, Vicar of Bradford, Wilts, and Senior Pre
bendary of Bristol. He held the very valuable
Mastership of St. John's Hospital 54, and Preben
dal Stall in the Cathedral 45 years. He was not
only a contemporary, and Fellow Collegian, but
in habits of the cloi'eft intimacy and friend(hip
wilh the late Dr. Samuel Johnson, Shenftone, and
many other literary characters ; he partook of
their several excellencies, and was t-ijually dif
linguiflied for deep and universal erudition, a
brilliant and piercing genius, and a challe claf
fical taile. He was unrivalled in pulpit elo
quencc, the happy effect of which was experi
enced by numberless converts to the truth " as
it is in JESUS/' He bore his last fatal illness
■with manly fortitude and chrillian resignation.
FALMOUTH, (Jam.) May ?.
The (hips now employed by government to
carry out convicts to Botany-Bay are, bj stipula
tion with the East-India Company, to load home
with Cotton.—This may be a very ple.aftng cir
cumstance to the manufacturers, but cannot be
very agreeable to our Planters, vvhofe interest is
never permitted to (land in competition with
that of the Eaft-Jndia Company.
K I N G S T O N, (Jam.) April 16.
Saturday morning, in consequence of a difa
greement of Tome Handing, a rencounter took
place between Robert Ewart and Walter Brett,
Esquires, in the piazza adjoining Edie's coffee
houfe, in which the former received a pirtol ihot
in his body, which almolt instantaneously put a
period to his existence. An inqweft was imme
diately held on the body, and several witnefles
examined, when the verdicfi returned was,
" That Robert Ewart, the deceased, did on the
nineteenth of April, aflault Walter Brett, of the
parish of Kingston, gentleman, with a whip,
which he, the said R. Ewart, then and there had
in his right hand, and did strike the said Walter
Brett several times with such whip : whereupon
the said Walter Brett, in his own defence, drew
a pistol from his pocket, and then and there (hot
the said R. Ewart through the body, by the
means of a ball, which the said W. Brett, in his
own defence, fired from the said Pistol ; by
means of which fliot or wound, the said R. Ew
art came by his death." Mr. Brett immediately
forrendercd himf'clP iu ilic officers orjultice. Oh
the inquest, a loaded pirtol was found in the
pocket of Mr. Ewart.
On Tuesday Mr. Brett was removed by habeas
corpu3, from the goal of this town to Spnnifh-
Town, and entered into recognizances before
the hon. \V r . Jackson, Esq. one of the judges of
the supreme court, himfelf in 40001. and two
Jureties in 20001. each for his appearance at the
ensuing affixes for this county.
Wednef I ly the grand jury found a bill against
IMr. lit ctt, for the murder of Robert Ewart : and
yefterd.iy his trial came on at liie court ho life,
when after a long and patient examination of
evidence, the general tenor of which went to ex
culpate the prisoner, and to involve in inextrica
ble infamy the character of the deceased, a few
arguments were heard from counl'el on both
fides, and the jury, without hesitating, returned
a verdict of not guilty ; to the fatisfadtion of a
crowded audience, who testified their approbati
on by repeated fliouts of applanfe,—The trial
lasted from eleven o'clock in the forenoon, until
near fix in the evening.
J he advance in the price of raw fngars has, as
it might be expecfted, had considerable effetft on
the 1 etail price of what is refined ; single is now
at fiftten pence per pound, powder-loaf at eigh
teen pence, and doubie refined at twenty-one
pence halfpenny.
There are (aid to be, at this time, upwards of
thirty fail of large ships engaged in the African
(I tve-trade alone, at the port of Havre de Grace,
which trade the merchants there carry 011 with
a very high hand ; notwithllanding our humane
Have bill has actually caused a very considerable
rile in the price of (laves, not only in the Welt-
Indies, hue 011 the coast of Africa likewise.
GEORGE-TOWN. June 8
Extra!} of a litter from a gentleman now in Philadel-
phia, to his friend in this toivn
" T t a town lie not formed accommodating, to
lerably coinmodioiifiy, the government and its
numerous followers, delay will be urged by the
partizans of Philadelphia, at all events, if not a
change of the place of Permanent Residence
with what success, may be conjectured, from the
near equality of partizans forandagainft Potow
mack. Therefore it behoves those, who consider
the public happiness to depend, in some degree,
on a central governmental flaiion, to Ilir in due
Arsj 1. 50,
season, a:nl Co promote with zeal those measures
which will remove all the existing obftruiftions.
" As for the little politics of your town, and
your neighborhood, it is not for me to deter
mine between you—Suffice it, that you will all
be right if the Public buildings are To placed as
to encourage private improvements, where, with
out Inch aid, they would go on with the mod ra
psdity—And you will as certainly be all wrong,
if the fituatioii of the buildings fhotild have a
tendencj io encourage private improvements,
wheie, in the nature of things, they cannot
grow into importance in f'o Ihort a period as ten
years. 1 look not forward to a century hence ;
nor is it ndw the question, what events may
a rife m jo or 100 years.—Remember that your
time of probation is only nine or ten years !"
A Correspondent informs, that a {'peculating
gentleman who made large purchases of Federal
City lots has in Contemplation to import from Eu
r°pe, Jour thoujand bands! viz. Brick-makers,
Hone cutters, masons, carpenters, &c. to build a
number of elegant edifices ; the plans of which
for some time pall have engaged his whole atten
tion and time, ( lajiat think you of the Federal City
>10111 ?)
Jamaica, April 9. Capr. Hanna, lately re
turned from Virginia to this island, discovered
on his passage, in lat. 19, 53, N. long. 63, 40, W.
a ridge of breakers, lb etching north and south,
about a quarter of a mile in length : they lie a
little above the furfaceof the water; and as the
weather was moderate, Capt. Hanna could the
more ealily determine their situation and appear
ance. 7 hey are not laid down in any of the
charts, so far as can be discovered.
Philadelphia, June 29.
The PRESIDENT of the United States has been pleased to ap
point Oliver WolcotTj jun. Esq. Comptroller of the Trea
'urvofthe United Siates.
Saturday last arrived here from Charleston, the Hon. Ralph
Izard, Senator, and William Smith, Esq. Representative of
the State of South-Carolina in the Congrels of the United States.
We hear that one thousand fharcs in the Bank of the United
Stales, by the last account from that place, are already fubferibed
by the Citizens of South-Carolina, principally by the Merchants
and others ol Charleston. Between seven and eight thousand dol
lars, part of the specie deposit, were lodged in the Bank of North-
America this week by William Smith, Esq.
A fubfeription for twd thousand four hundred shares in Boston
was filled in four days, and the specie deposit, amounting to sixty
thousand dollars, paid in to-the Maffachufctts Bank.
By a proclamation of the 18th ult. of the Governor of St. Kites,
the provisions mentioned in an ast of parliament prohibiting an
intercourse between the United States of America, and the Ifiands,
are (ufpended until the twentieth of next.
The Right Reverend Bithop Carroll,"before he left Boston, on
his murn to Maryland, suspended Mr. Rouffelet from his minis
» of the Roman
The Legislature ig pror d
to the second Wednesday or JaTrtra-ry-J.^ xt-—-pre-
vious lo which, the further confiderationoF'*T7>«~
petition from the inhabitants of the Diftridt of
Maine, that the Ealtern part of the Common-.
wealth might be separated and made an inde
pendent Stare, was postponed to the next feflion.
In die English papers, there is a royal procla
mation, and a reward of 100 guineas offered for
difcoveringand bringing to justice Richard Perry,
of Bristol, charged with having felonioufly and
forcibly taken away, and compelling to undergo
a loini or ceremony of marriage in Scotland,
Clementina Clarke, an infant of the age of fifteen
years
European politics have for some time part been
involved in clouds and thick darkness. Great-
Britain, not long since, incurred an enormous
expence to arin the nation—ro negotiate—that ne
gotiation it isfaidturned out favorably fortheni
but whether the advantages counterbalanced the
colt, has never appeared. They are now arming
again; some letter-manufadturers on this fdrnf
the water, fay this is all king-craft to divert the
people from revolution-making, and to prevent
the contagion of the French lever—the ostensi
ble object, however, fs to preserve the balance of
power, by preventing Catharine from adding to
her immense dominions the empire of the Turks.
Commercial douceurs have doubtless been ten
dered to the British government by the Porte, to
induce this interference; there is every probabi
lity that they will interfere; whether luccefsful
1y or not, is uncertain—the profpetft is in favor
of a peace between the Belligerent powers with
out another campaign, 'i here is, however, a
very great opposition in England to a Ruffian
war. Some of those ideas have been called up
which would have operated against the Turks a
century ago—but at this day, the only oljetf with
nations is to promote their immediate interelt, at
the facrifice of every other confederation.
Our allies of Trance are pursuing the work of
reformation—the Revolution is a great work;
and tho it has been long in hand, we ought to re
member that its ohjecfts are itnnienfe. Nothing
less than ro regenerate twenty-five millions of
fouls ! —and this regeneration has refpedi not only
to turning this 2J millions from darkness to light,
and to transform them from idolators of the
Church, the Pope, aud the Grand Mcnarqne, that
71
ttiey may become enemies to all three—but it also
includes the idea of annihilating all factitious me
rit, and tiiles of honor anil nobility founded 011
f'uch fallacious ideas—to which, by precept, edu
cation and hnbit, the people of France have for
a series of ages been accuftomcd and attached—
tills regeneration alii) refpefis the mercantile cha
racter which the French nation is to aflume, and
there is no doubt at all that this great transfor
mation will take place—but then they will require
time, except political regeneration is like rl-ec
tßl city—which indeed fceins to be the cafe.
The Emperor of Germany, by pursuing a dif
ferent line of conduct from that adopted by his
brother Joseph, lias tranqtiilized his dominions for
the prefeut ; but some appearances seem to indi
cate that the embers of infurreciion are but slight
ly covered, and that the firfi. untoward wind that
blows, will puff them into a flame. Whether
Leopold will desert Catharine, is uncertain—some
accounts wear that complexion ; others fay, he
never will abandon so faithful and powerful an
ally.
The petty states of Germany, who were afFeifl
ed in their property by the French revolution,
and who appeared to be making preparations to
aflert and vindicate their claims, according to
some late French paragraphs, have had their de
mands liquidated, and no apprehensions are en
tertained of their attempting any thing lioftile
to the revolution. An article has however ap
peared in a late paper, purporting that M. de
Conde had aflembled an army of 10,000 men in
the neighbourhood of the frontiers—time, the
great interpreter, will ascertain the truth of all
reports.
" Who shall decide when Doctors disagree."—But do they so
essentially differ that their advice cannot fafely be followed ? The
condu£t of mankind in general puts a negative on the qneftion.
At the last extremity, at least, the Doctor must be sent for—and if
we have faith in their prescriptions at the most critical and difficult
moment, surely it is more rational to take their advice, when dis
ease has but just begun its attacks, and when nature is able to co
operate with art and medicine in our favor. Intemperance is said
to destroy more than the sword ; but it may well be queried whe
ther want of information docs not destroy more than either. The
Faculty have long since had my applause awarded them ; as pro
felfional men, their benevolence and philanthropy is abundantly
exemplified. May they not ftlll add to the lustre of their charac
ter, by publishing in those vehicles which insinuate themselves al
most every where, such hints % cautions, admonitions, advice and pre
ftriptions, as the fcafon of the year, and the apparent state of the
public health may require ?—There is but one obje&ion to this
proposition that I can think of—and that (hall not be mentioned.
Forthelaft fifty years the world has been amused with the
dreary anticipations of gloomy fpeculatifts, who have been conti
nually predicting the downfall of the credit of Great-Britain
but, judging from thepajl, there is no great reason to conclude that
the experience of the juture will fanclion the dreams of fucb vj_
fionarics. The present Prime Minister (Mr. Pitt) has abfolutelv
checked the accumulation of their national debt: He has funk,
moie than fix millions of the capital during his administration
which is at as great a rate as is compatible with the real, eflential
intcrefts of that people. For let any one soberly rcfleft on the
-ttobable consequences which would result from suddenly paying
WJ *"*"~" , .the whole debt of Great-Britain, and they wiil be
1-5 ' >|c£ would not produce greater
precious metals as
lith
ronvince<
mifrhiefs than such an immen
would in that cafe inundate the country.— *
Mr. Pitt are to preserve the refpe&ability, the
of his country —these are the only solid basis on which the iriduf
try of a country rests—an undifiurbed produ£live industry will
work out the political salvation of any country on the face of the
globe.
IC7* Preparations are Mating for a fplcndid ex
hibition at Gray's Gardens on the tfh'july— next
Monday.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Harriet, Ellifcyi, Georgia.
Brig Charleston, Gardner, Charleston.
Gayofo, Grayberry, Cape Francois.
Pratt, Florence, Aux-Cayei.
Polly, Gyer, Cape Francois.
Adventure, Potter, Antigua.
Lord Dorchester, Breeo, Jamaica.
Active, M'Keever, Cape Francois.
Eliza, M'Kay, Jamaica.
Sch'r. Maria, Horton, St. Johns.
Ruby, Glover, St. Euftatia.
Industry, Stiles, Cape Francois.
Sloop Sally, Conklin, Martinico.
Diana, Welsh, St. Auguftme.
Phcenix, Burrows, Jamaica.
Liberty, Montaine, St. Kitts.
Jafnn. Beak. Turks-Island.
PRICE CURRENT—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 18f pr. /. 1
3 pr. Cents 10f
Defered 6 pr. Cents \of
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates
Indents 10f
N. and S. Carolina debts, T3_/ is_/"6.
LIK E N E
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
NEATLY executed ill Profile, have jufl cometo hand, and for
sale by Messrs. Carey,Stewait and Co. Mr. William Young,
Mr. Robert Campbell, MeTrs. Rice and Co. Bookfellcis, and by
the Editor.—Price One Dollar.
Philad. June 29, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
/\ LL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex-
ITy* changed; Foreign and Inland Bills oj Exchange negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commi/ftony and all other
Business in the line of a Broker, tranfatted by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to the Cujfom-Houfe, State-Street, BOSTOX.
90 pr. cent.
50 do.
50 do.
85 do.
50 do.
SS E S
OF TH£IMPER.IAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c. fee
Ol the firft quality —by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets
LOTTERY tickets,
Ncw-liavci. Wharf, to commence drawing 13th Septem >r,
MafTachufettt Semi-Annual, 2d Class, 13th Octobc ,
may be had as above.
Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, second Don. below Market-Street
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Coinmiflion all kinds of
Public Securities and Paper Monies. .
TranfacTts business for thole who have claims
on the Uniied States, oragainibeither-ofthe State,, particula ,lylor
the Officers, Soldiers and Manners, and others
in or about the late American Arr.iv, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
nrmlirators, Attornies, &c. ,
Certificates and such Paper Momes furni(hed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or l.aud Offices, as will pass equal to fpece,
and their warrants, patents, &c. palled through the d.lferem
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de-
! ' Hoiifes, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houfts, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or fci, or pro
cured lor Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
protdlion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Farmhes,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be iupplicd with iuitable do-
Those at a difbnee who may address o.i either the above fub
jefts, their letters being poll paid, will be
(ep tt)
Philad. June 22, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
Oil COMMISSION, at public and private (ale, on the
following terms :
OX the specie amount of all falcs or purchafcs at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private tale, on all lums
below 5000 nominal dollars. one-haJJ per cent. ; and 011 all turns
above 5000 nominal dollars, oncffourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
fy3T Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
plea fed to favor the fubferibers with their' orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,Jidchty and dijp&tch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PIN TARD & BLEECKEK,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 1,5, 1791
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings)
BY CAREY,
No. 22, North '
A«KEA T I S E
on the IMPORTANCE of
RELIGIOUS OPINIONS.
BY M. NECKER.
Extra6ls from the Monthly Review, vol. 78, page 598.
De I'importance des opinions religieufcs. By M. Necker.
<ir PHE offering here made at the (brine of religion, by a man of
A business, a man of true political wisdom, and a man of the
•world, in the city of Paris, is a curious phenomenon.—lt is alio a
noble one—and gives M. Necker, who has been longeftcemcd for
his great capacity, literary merit, and eminent virtues, a vezu and
dijlinguijhed title to the veneration oj the public. It has been this vir
tuous man's destiny to arrive at eminence in every line that he has
pursued, Irom the counting house to the thr. (hold of the cabinet,
And it is impoflible, if we read the woik before us with candour
and attention, not to fee that both his head and his heart make a
dijlinguijhed and ajfetting appearance in the cauje oj religion.
" We rejoice to fee this excellent work naturalized here—and
ought to be translated into every European lauguage»" (4ij
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents shall come, or in any wife concern,
i hat JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-live pounds thir
teen shillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen shillings and thrce-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty.feven pounds fifteen lhii-
Imgs and fix-pence, 10 the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fuflicicnt vouchers.
fhctc ai e tlu relore to caution all peifons from purchaftng said
notes 3s they will not be taken up.
Wilmington, North-Carolina, I'th May, i-gi
Pubhlhcd, and to be fold by the Editoi, price Jth of a Dollar
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the inoft important Subic&s,
Refpeftmg the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the year 1780,
.Bv the Vice-President of the United States.
Vol. 80, page 370.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executor.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Joseph Wheaton
ol the belt cliofen , „ „ « n n c
SPRING G O O D i>,
By the P,coc, and other U«arri "
ir/rs asaK % £**>«£»
and the time of pa>m;nt made convenient.
Phil»d. Mav e. 179 1 -
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
r-1-.HE Leeiflalure of the State of Connecticut, at their Mic»i >"
1 Dcccn.be. Utt, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend-
Union Wharf, m the harbour of New-Ilaven, to the ch-.ni, ,
and appointed the fubleribers manage.*, who having given bond
for the faithful difcliarge of their tru.l, pa-lent the public Willi the
following
s c
Prize of
1 1
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5°
6 i
ioo
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Ticket , at Five Dollars each, is
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A Prize
Subie£Uo a deduction of twelve and a halt per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too cvioent :o re
quire any comment, to those who arc acquainted with the town
,ind harbour of New-Haven j to those who aie not, fufiicc it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; b< -
in<r in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be laid
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by realon of the flats, this whaif is ncccffarily extended to the
channel, where (flips can load and unload ; and when complet
ed, will be the molt cxtenfive and commodious wharf in Amci ica,
the whole extent being about 3-41(18 ot a mile; and not only the
mercantile intcrcft ot New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime intcrcft of all the States will be benefited by it. Ihe
general wish that prevails in the minds of all claiTes of people, for
the success ot this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being; mord
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhed in
Amcriea)inducc the managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, it the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publilhed, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called lor in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
lor the ufc ot the wharl, arid appropriated accordingly.
James Rice,
Jeremiah At water,
Toseph Drake.-
Nctc-Hav & +" 1 1 ?9 1 -
"TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe ol MeflTis. Stefhen Aust in, and Co. coiner ol
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the; prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the Maflachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
r T I HE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY afTure the
A Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day aopointcd,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Ottobcr next, o 1 Jooncr, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Manageis have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
25 000 Tickets, at Five Dollars cach, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, lubjcft id a tledu6lion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
or 10000 is iooco
3000 are 6oco
2000 6oco
1
2
3
6
30
30
80
9°
100
120
161
200
75^5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
25000 Tickets,
(f-T TICKETS 111 the above Class may be bad of the fcveral
Ma nagee s ,mho anil pay the prizes on demand-, of thel'R e asu rer
of the: Commonwealth; ol James White, at his Book-ftorc,
1 ranklui's Hcau, Corn t-flreet—anil at other placcs, as usual
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iuii.J
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, '
Mcfton, April 14,1 791.
~ This day is publiflicd,
By THOMAS LANG No. 21, Chu.cb-Allcy, and fold by all
the Looktcllers, (Puce 3-8 of a Dollar}
1 Catechism of Nature *
For the Use of CHILDREN.
By DOCTOR MARTINET
I rofeffor of Philofopby at Zutphen. '
<• o "'"'latid from the dutch.
Nature—Nature is a Jrietfi to truth."
(e p. 3 m.
72
A CARD.
II E M E.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
are
2000
1000
s°°
2CO
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
Managers: _r~ -""
MiCHAfi I ODD,
Vj,rfAh Austin,
Joseph HoW£li,
CLASS II
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
'3000
500
200
3 OO
4 Q
3°
20
10
8
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
JUNE 28.—Dollars at j/6.
33'
to d
35/
AXCHORS pr.lb.
AlJum, Enghlh, pr. cwt
Dtuo, Roch pr. lb.
A(hcs, pot, per ton,
l'earl,
Arrack pr. gall.
Brandy, common,
Cogrnac
Braziletto, pr. ton.
Bricks pr. M
Bread, ship pr. cwt.
Ditto, pilot
Ditto, small -water 40J 45s
Beer, American, in bot. /
pr. doz. >
pr. bbl. 3° s
■si f Oak pr.M feet, 4' 4/3J
Q | Mcrch. pine 95'
<( Sap, da. 3'
o I N. Eng. ili°i
[.Cedar 55 J . 5 s
The above arc the Shallop prices ;
jor the Yard pi ices add 1 $sprM.
Brim stone iu rolls pr. cwt. 27*
C Iri(h pr. bbl. 6oj
< Bollon 55'
cq (Country 45 f
10,000
s°°°
4000
4000
4000
iSutier pr. lb.
in kegs 10<J
Cedar,rcdtimber pr.foot 2S2i6d
Chocolate pr. lb. izd
Coal pr. bulhei 2s
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d
Cinnamon 20j
2 5 °0
2400
30C0
2250
2000
1830
2000
Call! a
1400
43> 120
Chcefe, Englifti
Country oa
2 f Sper. pr. ib. 3 s(j d
3 | Wax 3 s
O Myrtle Wax
| Mould, ,o s^
5 L^'PP ca
Cotton 1J 1 ' 9^
875°°
Cui rants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt
Cordage
Cocoa
Duck. Ruflia, pr. picre 80s
Ravens 6-jsy2i6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl.
Common, 34 J
Bur middlings,beft 31J
Middlings 2 4 J
Ship-ftuifpr. cwt. 73 8j
Max pr. lb. $d
Fullic pr. ton, 135J 150 s
Feathers pr. lb. 2s B<i
Flaxfeea pr. bulb. 5J 6d
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, white race 52s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. yd
Giufeng, - s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. >
quarter cask, $
Ditto, fine glazed 355 6d
ttottrrmi, pr. gaii.
Do. pr. cafe, 29s
f Wheat pr. bufli 7s
Rye 4s 6d
Oats \ssd2s6d
< <{ Jndian coru zsyd
Barley 4J 8d
Bed shelled pr. lb. 3^
Buckwheat 2 s
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/53/
HogQiead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bb). ißj 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. icd
Hops ?s
Indigo, Frcnch, ioj
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 50
C Callings 22J 6d 30
£ j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 30
O 4 pig 10
_ j Sheet 65
t Nail rods 36
Jank, pr. cwt. ioj 40.
Lard, hogs yd io<;
Lead in pigs 40J 42 s 6c
in bars 50J
Lead, while 75J Boj
——icd sOjsOj
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1 s 1j 6d
Lignum viiae pr. ton 42s 45J
Logwood 7/ 8^
M ai, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rye 25 j
ilackaieljbeft 63J
Common 30J 58.3
•lace pr. lb. 70J
flu Hard 2 j 4 d
/ladder, befl: 1 18d
tfolalles pr. gall, zs&dzsicd
Garble, wrought, pr. foot, 14s
.last spars 2.f 6d 6s
Mahogany 8d \od
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 5 j
Cails, lodizd&c 20d— 8d
C Linseed, pr. gall. 3* gd
I Train ij 10d 2s
Spermaceti 7d
j I Whale u iod 2s
* <1 Olive 6s (id
6ooc
5000
6oco
Boco
45°°
4 000
3600
3220
2oco
60680
125000
I Ditto pr. cafc q6j
I Bcftfweetin ) c
flafks,pr.bo X ,J 60i
I—bafkcts 12 bottles 28s
Oak timber pr. ton 38J
Porter pr. bl.
London,pr.Hoz. 115J
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chcsnut-Str eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SFI.LS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OK EXCHANGE—ond will uceive Orders
lor making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia. March 30. i;gt
PER QUANTITY
American pr. doz. \ofr
'itch, pr. bbl. 2
> OTk, Burlington,
Lower county ~ Cf
Carolina
> ea«=, Albany ~sf)J
'epper, pr. lb. 2J j
> imento '
lice pr. cwf.
lofin pr. bbl. 2Qf
iaifms, bcft, pr, leg 52jW
Ditto pr. jar
Ditto pr. hox
f Jamaica pr. gall.
r; jwXVd £,6/
R <! Barbadoes
ICS I2sbd
9 !
12/ 161
25s to 28s
16r
32J6
X i jes 4' 6.
. Country, N.E.
c„S 21 4<i "6,
Sajlafras pr. ton 6o
saltpetre, pr. cwt. 4 / 10
Sulphur, flour , n
Shot
j (German pr. cwt. 6jj 70
W )Englifh, bliftcred 81.
American pr. ton 40/60
<n (Crowley's pr. fag. Baj6
Snake root pr. lb. u6J 2j 8,
Soap, Common g (
Brown g.
Castile jci;
Starch 4 J 67
Snuff 1 j 2.14 a! 3; 6a
Spcrmaccli, refined, oj
Sail Cloth, Enghfti, ) ~ "
pr. yard,' ' [ "6<* *««<
Boston. No. I. 2i
No. 11. 2J yi
Ruflia {heeling, pr. p. qor
4 i 8 d
is 4d
J" Lump, pr. lb. Usd
cd j Loaf, finglc refined 1 s6d
< <J Ditro, double do. uioaf
j Havannah, while \id
co Ditto, brown, yd
L Mulcovada,pr.cwt. 75590*
SpiritsTurpcntme pr. gall.
f Allum pr. bulh. 2s 2d
2s 2d
< }Cadiz uiod
00 (Lisbon 2J 2d
Ship build. W.O. frames > 70s
p. ton, \ Boj-
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/5*
Shingles, short, p. M. 2aj 6d
is 6
6oi 62j67
62>6d 6756 d
• long ditiled
Scantling, heart,
Sap . 5 0S 55*
C Pipe pr. 1200 pieces \d
j W. O. hogshead 7/ 51
J R. O. do. 61 iOt
e/j J
W 1
> <
< j
</a .
Leogan
Barrel
Heading
' Otter, btft nr. piece 30J
Minks isbd 3?
Fox, grey 3*
red as 834
co * r . •
Martins 3*
~ <| Fiihers 2s6d 5J
£ Bears 12s 6^251
Racoons 2j 4/
Musk-rats 9*2? üB4
! Beaver, pr. lb. 11J3
[_ Deer, in hair is 6/1 vstyl
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. "jf6
Carolina, 32 gall. 12s
Turprntine 12 s€d 15s
. I" James R. new belt 2&f
- 1 inferior 231"
old oys
Rappahannock
O J Colo. Maryland 4OJ 58s
Dark ißj
Long-leaf 18/
M Eaftcrn-Ihore 15J 17s 6d
p i Carolina, new 22s 6d
L old 22 J (jd I(jS
3 s 7 s
Hyson pi. lb,
CO j Hyson fkn,
<{ Souchong,
H I Congo,
l_ Bohea,
Tallow, refined B^i
Tin pr. box, iooj
Vetdigreafe pr. lb. Q>d
Vermillion, 12 s
Varnish, 2s 6d
Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon 36/
Tencr iffe
w | Fayal pr. gall.
I Poit pr. pipe
£ j Ditto pr. gall.
"" j Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30X
I Claret 30J 45*
! Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd 9 s
L Malaga $s6s6d
;,Bces pr. lb. 2S
tic-bone, long pr. lb. zssd
fhoit, pr. lb. lS
Wax.
Whal
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days,
Ditto 60 days
7°
Ditto 30 aays 723
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 13 s
30 days 3
France, Co days,pi. 5 I*v. 6s
30 days 6j id
»
3°x
90J15CJ
61
4/ 10J
22 J 6d
7 j BJ9^
4/ 4*
3; 3J
2 j 9 d
20/ioj 30/
3 6/
6/
(96 tf)