_—— - ... ~.-v n v HFCH STREET BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENXO, No. 63, HIGH-al khr.l, lit-1 w jlua
[No. "8, of Vol. lII.] * Wednesday, September. 7, 1791.
PHILADELPHIA.
St. Petersburg, 27ih Tel). 1791
SIR
THE contents of your letter, which »e received with the en
closed Magnetic Atlas, and its explanation, in due time, wen
the more interelting and agreeable 10 (he Imperial Academy tij ci
cuces, that the fame matter is the fubjea ol a premium, even now
proposed by our academy ; as you will fee by the printed adver
lifement, which I fend vou herewith.
The proerefs you have already made, gives me a plealant hope,
this important matter will derive no small increafc Irom your in
genious works; add I make no doubt, but your labours will great
ly contribute to the final solution of this queftioti.
' By the communication of your fur her enquiries and di cove-
Tics (especially relating to the souther.i hemifpheie, the calculation
of the univcrfal set of tables, and the afcertaming the ex ast revolu
tions of the two magneiic points round the poles of the earth, tn
a Greater number of observations) you will very much oblige
Your humble servant,
Princess of Daschkaw.
To Mr. John Churchman, >
Morth-Jmcrica. >
SI R
THIS Royal Academy has received by two different ways,
nearly at the fame time, your explanation of a Magnetic Atlas.
Commiflion was inßantly given to gentlemen of the protdnon and
mathematicians, members of the society, tocxamme it acru.alely,
and to bring in their advice in some of the ordinary academica
meetings. This they i ave performed, and I am din&ed to ten
You in this letter the result of their examination and 3dvice.
' They acknowledge the originality and ufcjulnejs of your ideas
and icheme, and that both highly deserve to m a!'
ihinkthe observations are not yet so much, nor to tully eltat)in -
cd, as to enable impartial readers to form an absolute judgment ol
the matter. . .
They believe indeed, that when the proportions you enunciat
•will be demonllrated, a great step will be made owards the per
jc£tion of magnetic knowledge* Thele demondratiofts thcycx
pc£l from you, and in the mean while they readily acc pt : theinvi
lation of giving you what magnetical observations u will be in our
power to afford you.
As for my part, I am,
with fentimentsof esteem, and refpeft,
Sir, your moll obedient,
humble feivant,
JOsEPH CORREA DE SF.RR A,
Secretary to the Royal Academy of Scieaccs at Lisbon.
To Mr. John Chutchman.
To the Friends ot Liberty and Religion in the C.ty oi
Phi l adelphi a.
The Address of the Reprefentativa of the African Church offaid City
Respectfully Sheweth,
Til AT a number ot Afnrans, and the defendants of A r ncans,
'belonging lothe city of Philadelphia, have aflociated for the
purpose ol eftablifliing religious worship and difeiplineamong their
brethren : thereby hoping to produce more order and happiness
among them, than could be introduced, while a majority ot them
are ignorant and unknown to any religious lociety ; and while
the few who worftiip God, arc the scattered and unconnefleii
appendages of molt of the religious focieiieain the city —'1 hat men
re more influenced in their morals by their equals, than by their
Superiors, where they exceed a certain rank, and that they are
more eaftly governed by pcrfons chosen by themselves tor that
purpose, than by persons who are placed over them by acciden
tal circnmftanccs. That the attraflioo and relanonlhip which
are rftabiilhed among the Africans, and their defcendanis, by
i lie I'aincnefs of colour, by a nearly equal and general deficiency
of education, by total ignorance, or only humble attainments in
religion, and by the line drawn by cuttom as well as natuie, be
tween them and the white people, all evince the necellitv and
propriety of their enjoying separate and exrlufive means and op
portunities ot worflii pping God, of inftru&ing their youth, and
of taking care of their poor. To enable them to carry these im
portant obje&s into execution, they arc under the neceflity of ap
plying to the friends of libert and religion, in the city of Phila
delphia, for .ifliftanceto ercd a Church for the benefit of their
focietv. They recoiled with heartfelt gratitude the many a&s
«»f kindness they have received from the citizens of Philadelphia.
By patronizing the prcfent undertaking, they will convert their
numerous favors into fubflantial and durable blcflings, and per
haps l>v this frcfli ast of charitv, they may lay a foundation for
Similar churches, being established among the Africans, and their
defendants, in other States, as well as tor the fame fucceG in ex
tending the Goi'pel of Jesus Christ to their brethren in Africa,
which thedefcendantk of Europeans in America have had in ex
tending fieedom to the nations of Europe.
Subscriptions foi the purpofc of building a Church arc received
ly
Absalom Jones, *1
William White,
Mark Steven fen, | Representatives of the
William Gardiner, \ African Chuich in Phila-
William Wiltfliire, • dclphia.
Doras Jennings,
Henry Stewart, & !
William Gray, J
AMb by Robert Ra/Jion. No. 127, south Third-Mrcet, who ba
kindly undertaken the office of Treafurcr of the laid African fo
ci icty. Au S ult 2 7'
FROM THE BEE
ItT thof; v.ho fcrl a pirdileflion for vcrfe, be informed, tliai
_J among all the ttifling acquirements a young perlon can am
at, mat or making ibitnt s, is one ot the eatiell and at tlic fame time
the raott infignificanr. Young people, in general, think it a proo
~1 extraordinary genius, it they ran pot two or three lines toge-
iliei, tii.-.t lhall IUI , in any incfurr, like vcrfu; and whenevei
iHey cdii do ihi>, tK-v think. lo ii.acli oi it, as .tevrr to be latished.
till they fee it in pmi'. In this refmtt, they judge moneouflv.
Tne !a:utv of inrafiinn:; a lew I'y'iijMes, is a thin* that jnv pei
ion, wiih a toierahiy juii e?i. c.in eellly aitain. lint a poetic ta
lent, which coi.:".tU in a livciv an srdciu vigsur o!
UiL:id,a e..'-i,K. :ij .ji j»ci a oi ii;alj.ii:ng ob
iefls toeether, foastofnnn new and (Inking images is as rare a,
the other is common ; but it is this last alone, which forms thi
poet Would our youthful rhimers attend to this diftinftio it
would check their vaniiv in fame degree,and make them hef.tate,
before Jhey became candidates lor the title of poets merely be
au f c they had made a few linooth and uumterelting lines.
A PICTURE OF GOVERNMENT, A LA MODER.NE,
DRAWN BY AN OLD MASTER
IN the commonwealth I would by contraries
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
Woujd I admit, no name of magistrate;
Letters Ihouid not be known; poverty and riches.
And use of service, none; contrafls, fucceffinn,
Bourn, bond of land, tilth, vineyard, olive, none;
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
No occupation, all men idle, all,
And women too, but innocent and pure ;
No foverrigniy :
All things in common, nature (hould produce
Without sweat or endeavour; treason, felony,
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
Would I not have; but nature (hould bring forth
Of its own kind, all foifon, all abundance,
To feed my innocent people.
I would with t'uch perfection govern, Sir,
To excel the golden age.
TO NIGHT A SONNET.
lI.OVE thee, mournful fober-fnited night,
When rhe fair inoon, yet ling'iing in her wane,
And veil'd in clouds, with pale uncertain light
Hangs o'er the waters of the reftlcfs main.
In deeo depreflion funk, the enfeebl'd mind
■\Vi!l to the deaf, cold elements complain,
And trll th* embofom'd grief, however vain,
To fiillen forges and the viewlets wind.
Though no repose on thy dark brcaft I find,
1 {till enjoy thee, cheerier ts thou ar ;
For in thy quiet gloom, th' exhausted heart
Is calm, though wretched; hopeless, yet resigned,
While to the wind and waves its sorrows given,
May reach, though loft on earth, the ear of heaven !
PARIS, June 30,
WHILE tlie Aflembly receive on one liand
the congratulatory addrefl'es of various
municipalities, diftritfts, departments, and clubs,
in different parts of the kingdom, on the other
hand, every day brings accounts of officers who
quit ilic regiments, and are retiring into foreign
countries, rather than take the oaths lately pre
fer i bed by the Aflembly. Some of them have
been anefted, but a confulerable number have
cicaped.
What will be the final event of all these trou
bles it is yet too early to foretell. Ihe republi
can party now declare their fentimcnts as pub
licly, and with as little rellraint, as they would
on any Aibjec r tof the greatest indifference. The
History of ( harles I. is in every body's mouth,
and the club called " The Brotherly Society,"
who are a kind of agents to the Jacobins, have
formed a petition to the National Aflembly, (and
by a public advertisement requested thefignature
I of every citizen) the objeisl of which is, without
any disguise, to demand the abolifhinent of mo
narchy,"" and the eftabliihment of a republican
government. They speak of their niajellies un
der the title of late king and lati queen. By the
bve, the word rtint (queen) is effaced from the
French language ; the terin king's wife is substi
tuted in its place,
It is remarkable, that though so much is now
depending upon the conduct of the Aflembly
with vefpetft to the king, no decree or motion
relating diredly to him, took place during the
whole fitting of Tr.efday last.
His niajefty is not at prcfent in the exercise
of any public function.
Apartments for the King had been made rea
dy by the order of M. de Bouille, in the Abbey
of Orval.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, June 29
M. tie Noailles, after having dwelt upon
that grievance in the antient form of govern
ment, which compelled brave soldiers to leave
the country from its refilling to give them rank
if thev were not of noble birth, proposed a de
cree, the object of which was to invite all French
officers dispersed in foreign nations to return to
iheir Country, in order to be promoted to ntili
tary rank, according to their talents and pat
riorifin. The consideration of this decree, the
Aftenibly referred to their Military Committee.
M. de Noailles then proposed a decree to lecnre
upon the civil lift a pension to the officers, sub
altern officers and guards oi the company body
guards fupprefled two days (ince. This decree
;ilfa the Aflenibly ordered to be printed, and ad
journed.
149
Sh akespear
Jctli'a
[Whole No. 246.]
M. Dnport then made a report in the name of
the comniitiees of the conrtitution and revision,
on tlie labours of the National Afi'embly.—ln a
long speech he enumerated what had aheady
been completed by the Legislative Body, and what
yet remained to be done. He mentioned the
approaching termination of the prefent'Legifla
ture, and the neceility which thence arose, that
the constitution should be fantftioned by the peo-
ple. And in the conclusion, he proposed that
there should be appointed at Paris, 011 the 4th of
August, a Federation General, coinpofed of the
National Guards, and the Mayors of the Muni-i
cipaliries. .
M. Rewbell was of opinion that this idea had
been drawn up in a paper dirtxibuted this morn
ing by M. Bacon, Elector of 1789. in which, af
ter having invited Ik is fellow-citizens to gi v e up
all views of republicanif'm, and to restore the
pilot to the helm, he remarked, that Paris would
lose twenty-five millions, if we had no longer a
Kin<>, and that this capital subsisted only by the
tribute of the Provinces.
M. Buzot took this occasion to demand that
tliey fhonld withdraw the decree, which suspends
Electoral Afl'emblies, which he regarded as calcu
lated to retard their labours. He added, that it
was iinpoflible that, during the harvell, the De
partments (hould fend to Paris their men and their
money, and that every one ought to be allowed
to take their oath to the Constitution into partial
confederation. '
M. D'Andre opposed the reserving of the De
cree which suspends Electoral Diets. Endeavors,
he undcrftood had been carefully set to work to
induce these Aflemblies to form another consti
tuting body. Of consequence, it would be dan
gerous to alTemble the Electors in the present
moment of agitation. What would be the con
sequence of the King's flight could not yet be
known ; we were still ignorant of the prepara-
tions against us ; perhaps war is at our gates ;
and the only meaira of fafety are a general unan
imity of fentitiient. M. D'Andre then demanded
the adjournment of the plan of confederation, in
which M. Duport readily concurred.
M. Camus demanded, that it should be dif
pofedofby the previous question. It has re
course, said he, to adventitious aid, while in
circumflances the moll critical we have poficfled
t'ne national confidence. I may affirm, that we
have merited the admiration of all Europe. The
proposed confederation would be attended with
much expence and bultle ; if the Aflembly £&
with wisdom and firmnefs, it is always secure of
the ratification of the nation.
M. pefuieuuiers endeavored to prove, that
this federation was neceflary, in order to accele
rate their labours, and pbtain a still higher (hare
of public favor.
M. feythioti observed, that the nieafure pro
posed was puerile and dangerous. If a Federa
tion is requefleil to deliberate on the Conftiruiion,
it is a ciicumllatice of degradation ; it is not
ainidft the noise of arms that a free people deli
berates ; and a i'mall number of municipal offi
cers cannot pronounce upon the fundamental
laws of the kingdom. This constitution has
been rarified, it is in the hearts of the people.
The Nation will perceive without concern, that
the new Legislature cannot be the
Body, for if they reversed all the two years of
the Constitution, our government would become
the molt detettable of all—ic would then be in
reality an anarchy, all would iflceflantly be trou
ble and confufion.
After fon.e formalities, it was decreed, that
there was no room to deliberate on the plan of
Federation, as at present there would be no
room to deliberate on the abrogation of the De
cree which suspends the Ele<ftoral Afiemblies.
LONDON, June 24.
The charities of the late cotmtefs dowager of
Huntingdon were so unbounded, that, though
paffefled of a ve-y large fortune, and her doinef
lic expences never exceed 6001. a year, flie was
always in arrears one quarter of her annual in-
come
Tlie late coantefs of Huntingdon, in the win
ter of 1787, received a cover directed to her, in
clofinc;two mafqucrade tickets. She paid no re
gard 10 the inluk, but giving them to one of her
Diacor.s, bid hitn fend c hem to I'orae Coffee-Houfe
at the well end of the town, and get what mo
ney lie could for them, and give it to any de
v r
V
ftrfg object of distress lie thought proper. He
' disposed of them for a guinea, an<
with it, and fiwue finall addition to it, liberated
a poor man from Pretence
and tranquility of mind, benevolence, panella
tion, and acuteobfervation, are laid to have been
the science of the countess ot Huntingdon. She
delighted in meditation, that spring of ulice.'f
iug pleasures, and true fcliool of wiTdoin. Uis
but jultice to her memory to fay, that (he (Iriiitly
adhered 10 the maxim of the primitive christians,
viz. " that religion eoulilled not in taixing, but
in doing good things."
Lately diedat tiieCoal Pits, near Wedenlburv,
in Staffordshire, Joseph Rawlins,commonly known
by the appellation of the Pit Preacher, Jronl the
eircumftance of his performing religious du
ties in the Methodiitical manner, for a number
of years pail, among the colliers in that neigh
bourhood, and which he was firft impelled to
from ill-using Mr. J. We fly, when preaching
near that place in 1749. Tl,is fi'>g ular P astor .
thoucrh blind, worked on the week days as a col
lier, and, what is more extraordinary, distributed
the mod of his earnings among his auditors, in
cases of sickness, &c.
In the history of mankind there are but very
few instances to be found, where kings, unfoli
cited and unintimidated, have made a voluntary
surrender of their power. There are many
great sayings of great ai r ts ; but we read of none
that deserves to be preferred in the judgment
and eftitnation of mankind to the late condui. 1 !
of the King of Poland. The form of the new
constitution of Poland, is not merely jfandtioned
by the King ; but diiftated,framed, and falliioned
in the exalted superiority of his own mind, af
fords a new leilon to the world. It fhewsaKing
who knows and reverences his own Itation ; not
a King of Robes and Sceptres, not a King of Di
adems and Prerogatives, but a King in Mind, in
Principle, a King in wisdom and virtue.
The King of Sweden arrived at Aix-la-Chapelle
the 13th in It an t, and the next day he was vilited
by all the French nobility at that place.
The age of the Prince of Conde, the leader ef
the anti-revolutionists, is fivsnty. Perhaps he
may think the remnant of his life but a fmallfa
crifice to his principles !
It is to the honor of Great Britain, that flie
knows how to sympathize with the joy, and to
acknowledge the virtue and heroic condudt of
the French nation, without wantonly imitating
their example. Whatever may be said by wrong
headed scholars, whom too much fancy niultipli
ed into much learning has really and actually
made mad, on the one hand ; or by hot-headed
and vulgar desperadoes on the other ; the sensi
ble and moderate part of the nation, the molt
patriotic, judicious, and able part ofthe commu
nity have not concealed, but avowed their con
gratulation with the French people rellored to
the rights of their Francian and Franco-Gallican
ancestors, But while they acknowledge it was
wisdom as well as fortitude to incur hazards in
France, it would be egregious folly, they know
to unhinge the actual government of England,
as there would be many chances against its eve.
fettling again in so jnlt an equilibrium betweei
despotic oppression and democraiical madness.
Yet is not I'HE REVOLUTION IN FRANCE
without a happy and practical influence on this
kingdom, It has been obl'erved of the reforma
tion in religion, that the Proteflants reformed
the manners and the doctrines too ofthe Catho
lics, without makingany impression 011 theirout
ward forms and ceremonies. Jufl so the French
revolution may be expected to operate on mo
norchical governments. Nor Kings, nor com
Lined Lords, nor haugjity Commone s, will here
after dare to commit such a cits of injultice and
oppression as they have done.—Perhaps we may
trace, in some meal'ure, to what has happened
in France, the ease with which the bill for the
trial of libels by juries, that is, the liberty ofthe
press, palled through the House of Commons.
It is in this way that we wish it may operate : as
a gentle alterative, not as a drallic purge.
Mrs. Hart, th e fair friend of Sir William Ha
milton, poilefTes an uncommon degree of protnp
tirude, in placing herfelf in the attitudes of all
the celebrated llatues of antiquity. This may
appear a whimsical species of aecomplifhment to
those who have not seen a specimen of her Ikill
in this way ; bat those who have been present,
pronounce it a very beautiful and diverting spec
tacle.
On Thtirfday last the lady of Charles Strau
l>enzfe, Esq. of Carr-Lodge, near Wakefield,was
fafely delivered of a daughter, being her 18th
child.
Died a few days since, at Chefliamford, near
Bury in Lancailiire, in his 89th year, llobeit
Haworth, bedd?r. He had refided'ac the above
place 51 years, as tenant to five different land
lords ; but what is Hill more remarkable, he was
father, grand-father, great grand-father, and
great great grand father to 1 74 children ; twelve
grand-children lived with him at his dcceafe.
liv the death of Mrs. Macauley Graham, her
who'le fortune goes from her husband ; 4001. a
year to the executor* of Dr. Wilson, and the re
mainder to her daughter. Her perfoual effects
are laid, however, to be conliderable, and they
of course are her hulband s.
That the people of this country fliould cele
brate a revolution in France, is ridiculous 10 the
highest degree. What have we to do with the
coiillituiion of another country ? Our bulitie.s is
to look to our own, and watch all incendiaues
who may attempt to inflame the minds of the
people, and create another June 1780 in this me
tropolis.
An act of parliament is much wanted to regu
late building houses, as it is lately become a
pra<ftice to build 011 a ten years lease, and to use
such materials as (hall only last for that time.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Jam rq
A member of the central committee of liquida
tion presented a report relative to the debt of
moie than four millions of livres claimed by the
Duke d'Orleaus. According to this report the
debt is clearly proved, but other members pio
pofed to adjourn thequeftion, some to the Thuii
day following, and some to the next legislature.
M. d'Orleans, who little that thislat
ter motion would prevail, made a (how of difin
ereflednels and generosity, by voting himfelf
ior it; and, to his great aftonifhmenr, the quef
[iou was adjourned sue die.
June 19. M. Beauharnois was declared Prefi
clent.
The Jacobins, dilappointed in their attempts
to seize the Cardinal de la Rochefoucault as their
ptey, were resolved to iflue a decree not wily au
thorising the public accusers to do their duty,
but to compel them to doit, on pain of being dil
iiiifled and punilhed for their neglect.
Their reiolves were crowned with success : and
now, the Committee of Enquiry and the public
accusers will form an inquifi-orial coalition, more
terrible in its efFects, beyond comparison, th3n
any infticution under the ancient form of Go
vernment.
" It was also decreed, that the Priests who
f.iall ret raft their oath from conscientious mo
tives, fliall not receive any salary. So that this
tolerating Legislature deprives of the means of
subsistence all those who do not exactly think as
they do; though it be utterly impossible tor them
to procure by any profeflion, except the honora
ble profeflion of begging, the means of fupporc
ing life."
An estimate of national effecfts was laid before
the Assembly, and aneyv fabrication ofaffignats,
to the extent of fix hundred millions, was decreed,
one hundred and sixty millions of which to be
ifl'ued for the present demands of the itate.
Before the conclusion of the fitting, M. d'An
dre proposed the following decree, which was
adopted :
" The National AlT'etnbjy decrees that their
decree of the 28th of" October last, relative to the
Princes who have pofle(fions in Alsace, (hall also
extend to the pofleflions which they have in other
departments: decrees also, that in the damages
and the interest to be paid them, (hall be includ
ed all arrears, &c. until they (hall be reim
bursed."
EDINBURGH, June 27.
John Cooper, who was lately convicted before
the Court of Sellion of being a fraudulent bank
rupt, and was sentenced to stand 011 the pillory,
underwent that punilhmcnt at Aberdeen.
PORTLAND, (Mass.) August 19.
Agreeable to engagement in the last week's Gazette, the refulr
of the survey of the Committee chosen by several towns in lb s
ounty, for the purpose of ascertaining the practicability ot open-
j canal from Sebtgo pond, into Prefumfcot river, or, build
ng S!uce-ways is inserted.
The following contains a brief account of the survey, as minu
ted by the Clerk of the Committee.
" Falmouth, May 16, 1789.
" Obfcrvations of the Committee, chofln by several towns in
this county, for the purpose of viewingthe situation of that partol
Sebago Pond lying near* and joining Prefumfcot River, in order
to ascertain the pra&icability of opening a canal, or building
Sluice-vVays from laid pond into said river. The Cominitte aitei
a regular survey find that,
id. From Sebago to the firft Otter
Pond water level, furface of the Otter,
Do. of Sebago,
30 rods distance, leave a fall of
2d. Water level of firft O :er Pjnd,
Second do.
20 rods leave a fall of
3d. Water level to the great Swamp,
Second Otter do.
40 rods leave a fall of 35
The fall of water level, between S'bago and the great Swamp,
(wnich is 90 rods distance) is 52 1.2 feet.
The Committee estimate the expences of digging, at 18001.
Damages that would be fuftjined by individuals, in con equence
otoverflowing their lands, 1200 I."
DESCRIPTION OF SEBAGO.
Sebago Pond lies about 14 miles from the sea-coast, is 20 miles
in length, and 12 in breadth ; is bounded on the S. W. and W. l y
* Where the Canal is firopofed to be cut is at fame a P.znce ; and th,
mihni flu'ce-way, down the river f,om the Out-let, would be mire «.
pe ijive and difficult.
150
Standifli and FliiUdun ;on th,> S. I, .nd E I Q~\
ham ;on rhc N. E. *nd N. by Raymondtot.. i„ ***** ' -
containing about 700 acrcs of excellent hud, vsdl ' Ij "' ■
affords a pient-iui i'upply offilh, among winch are s ' 1
of the largest size known in this country, " ® ''-Uout
Easterly fjom Sebago, about 6 miles, lies little Srb®
nicating with i>rtat Sebago by a small river. Xort f °T "
Sebago runs Crookc d River, 12 Hiiles in l fn , T( .. 'V ; a
small boats. Northerly from Sebago, two and'a,T\ i' •"
l.cs Brandy Pond, o;'e mile w.d.„, communl-aiini* '
bagoby a river, which .uns through it_ and
nearly the lame coutfe, lies i.ong Pond '
fame nverj louneen miles in k-ujtb and tw 0 i„ ; liCarl} ' 15
ble for {mall boats. From Long Pond North, extends' '
navigable lor small boats, its la.gih not afceruined -M."' f '
eating with small ponds. A little to the Wtliwud ian s ""
river 9 miles in length. N. W. ten milts, runs \ wll : y
navigable. -»ai. lVct
It is supposed that lumber, produce, & c . (fcould the,b 3 »
mentioned canal be ifte6ted) might be brought 10 Sircar - "
Falls (7 miles Irom Portland) 60 or 70 milts from the tuunjr'
The amazing quantities of oak and pine tnn.i r, iuitauie'f„
every necelfary use and exportation would open a buret of
business not easily to be conceived of—Add to this thctranlp «
at ion of Maple-Sugar, the inanulatturt of which is g.cik ta!
creating among us.
Pot and Pearl Ashes, Iron, &c. arc now brought to this market
100 miles distance—a water caniarge would not only make the
tranfpottation eaficr to the Manufa&urcr, but enable him toai
ford his commodities at a cheaper rate.
NEW-HAVEN, August 24 .
ExtraO of a letter from the Rev. Joseph Lathrop )t f
Weft-Springfield, to the Preftdent of Yale-College '
dated July 18, 1791- ' I
AS I am writing, I beg leave to commu
nicate a little incident, which may perhaps give
some light in the natnral hiflory of birds. A
neighbor of mine, having, occasion to go into the
meeting-house, with some others, late in autumn
afrer the cold weather had commenced, observed
one of those beautiful birds called hnmbirds, perch
ed 011 a nail, in an altitude so natural that he at
fivft imagined it to be alive. With caution he
approached, and laid his hand gently upon it,
and found it ftiff and life ess. While lie ail
others were handlingand examining the curiam
little creature, he discovered a fuiail decree of
motion, which induced him to pat it into liis bo
som, where, in a ihort time, it recoverej perfect
animation, and all the agility of a hunibird in
summer. This instance has, in fonie niealure,
confirmed an opinion, which I have long enter
tained, that many of our summer-birds continue
among us through the winter, in a torpid insen
sible Rate. If the bird above mentioned could be
so soon reanimated by the warmth of a human
bod)-, why may not others be capable of revivif.
cence in the beams of the vernal fun ?
" A curiofiry of a different kind, relating to
the human species, 1 will take the liberty to
mention. — A young man in rh is town, fame years
since, was in consequence of bathing in water,
viflted with a peculiar kind of disorder, which
operated by paroxysms. When a fit seized bini,
he would at fir ft fall down ; but in a moment or
two rife, pofielled of an agility far superior to
what was natural. In two or three hours, and
fotnetimes sooner, the fit would pals off and leave
him in his usual (late, and, to appearance, in
health. But what was molt remarkable in liis
cafe, was the state of his mind. While he was
in a fit, he perfectly remembered things which
had occurred in all preceding fits, but nothing
which had happened in the intervals, or in the
time prior to his disorder. In the intervals, ail
his fits and every thing which had palled in them
were totally obliterated ; but he could diftinct'.y
recollect the occurrences of former intervals.
The time of his fits appeared to him in continui
ty, as did also his healthful periods—when one
was present, the other was loll:. It in the time
of a sic, he took up any business, he would drop
it when the fit ceased, without any recollection
of the maiter; and when the fit returned lie
would refunn the business without any idea of
his having difcontinned it. The cafe was the
fame, if lie undertook any tiling in the intervals
of his disorders. In fliort lie seemed to have
two diftiniS minds, which acted by turns inde
pendently of each other. In the (pace 1 think,
of about two y ears, in the ule of a particular
remedy, his fits left him and he was reduced to
a (imp.e consciousness. The remedy, which cu
red him or deprived him of one of his fouls,
have not been able to learn, the family having
K.ft the recipe.
" The above account I received from his u
ther, and from others of the faviily."
feet
34
■'3 >-«
10 1-2
48
4>
7
60
2 S
NASSAU, August J.
A new flag was dilplayed hereon Wednc.f<n>,
it was that of the Creek nation, worn by a vc e
in which General Bowles and the Indian C.ne »
embarked, on their return to the American ca "
UllCllt
A writer in the European Magazine nf • P"
lait, thus concludes an account of the above me ll
tioned persons—" The principal bufiucfs o t
Ambafladors from t he Creek country to England.
was to procure a reiniflionof.fonicof the a.nc f
of the free port act. In this they have bcen.uc
cefsf ul," , jt |.
Tliis, we nnderftnnd, has allusion to u .
wearing the Indian flag, being put on t>ie an
footing in the free ports, v'itli veiiels ot " a
European powers.C H ARLEST O N, (S. C.) August 10.
!Vlr. Bo wen,
However iritereiting ami important your He
rald is reputed for your happy l'election of lite
rary and political communications, 1 have been
lurprifed at the filenceof our citizens on the zeal
of the Intendant and Wardens to erect a man
lion for the orphan—to shelter thehelplefs tram
the gripe of famine, and to rear up, in virtue,
the tern lie, who otherwise unsupported, might
fly t-o the covert of dilhonor for support; while
the youth, thus preserved and educated, may be
expected to fnine in some mechanic art, acquir
ing fubfillence with honor, iuttead of seeking
precarious support by depredations on the public.
To what a torrent of fcrihbling malignity a
gaintt official characters, we have fubmiued lafl:
winter, and jet no pen has been occupied to be
stow jnft praise on the nobjelt extention of the
foul, which the candid have observed with aclini
ration these few weeks pall. We have seen the
head of the corporation, and a number of respec
table members, fuppliauts for charity and advo
cates for the raiment and education of the desti
tute and expo fed. We have heard holy men co
operating wiih their endeavours, and in the lan
guage of their heart, and in the name of the So
vereign of all Mercies, supplicating the wealthy
to defend and succour the needy and the inno
cent. Their prayers were nor in vain ; and for
the honor of human nature, if any heart was cold
or contracted, it animated and expanded by their
divine eloquence. How delicious the scene to
the pathetic petitioner of an hour. The hand
that gave was inftaneoufly rewarded by the
extatic raptures of the foul.—Gracious Benevo
lence, how delicious is thy dranght !— As this fa
t-red function is congenial with tiie foul, 110 won
der the flame (hould be diffufive. This fubjetft
will be resumed to-morrow at the Synagogue,
where, doubtless, we may have an opportunity
to observe a mixed assemblage of men oppofedin
religious tenets, perfectly united in this divine
attribute of God, without which, profellion is
mockery and religion unsubstantial.
BOSTON, August 29.
Extract of a letter from Cape-Francois, daied
August 6, 1791, to the Editors, brought by
Capt. Joseph Hovvlatid, who arrived here on
Friday I ait, in 18 days from the Cape.
" Some of the members of our new j4[femblee
Colonials, have met ac Leogane, near Port-au-
Prince, for the purpose of executing the legilia
rive part of the government of this colony. As
soon as the body is formed, they will fix 011 a
place to bold their feffio.is in future. Whether
they will decide in favor of this place, Port-au-
Prince, Sr. Mark, the Mole or Leogane, is as yet
uncertain.*
" The decree of the National Assembly, re
fpediing the entire freedom of the Mulattoes, is
•very ill received in the colony. The provincial
assembly at this place, have written to the King,
the National Assembly, and the people of France,
in different addredes on the subject.—Other bo
dies, of merchants, officers of the volunteers, &c.
&c. have had meetings likewise ; and have vot
ed and resolved similar to the meetings in New-
England, previous to the commencement of the
last war.
" Tliefe portend future disturbances
here ; and the measures already adopted speak
the troubles at no great diitance. The forts in
and about the town are puttingin order. At the
Pacoiet, a fort which commands the entrance in
to the harbour, commiflaries are appointed to
keep an eye upon the garrison Rationed there.
—At ihe entrance of the town by land, the forts
have been put in order , and others in different
places are not neglected : All tliefe preparations
are making on account of the expetfted arrival
of a considerable fleer, with 5,000 troops from
France, which is looked for daily, and which,
almolt unanimously, the colony are determined
to oppose, (liould they attempt to enforce the de
cree above mentioned ; —and it is certain this is
the errand of the fleet from Bourdeaux, To
prevent their entrance here, a chain is preparing
to put a croft the channel, which will serve at
lealt as a momentary check to their passage, while
the fire from the Pacoiet will do it effectually
1 can fay nothing decifne what else will be done
to prevent the execution of the decrce, which e
■very one is enthufiallically enraged at."
* They have 3<l]"U»hed to Cape-Francois.
- Y O R K, AtijrufV 31
N E W
An opit ion has too much prevailed with wo
men who fiickle iheir children, that indulging
iher.ife'ves in the use of fruits and vegetables
has a tendency to gripe their infants, and gene
ratfc wind in their bowels. It would be a good
rule for ihein, on this occasion, to consider, that
011 the prefervarion of their own general good
health, the health and thriftinefs oftheir infants
will materially depend, and that, if I
l ight,.the free and judicious use of ripe fruits
and vegetables are moll likely to procnte these
happy advantages to both, and the suspicion of
their dif.igi eeii'g •. ith either is founded in error.
Philadelphia, September 7.
Extratt oj a letter from Bqftw, Augujl 25,
" I have-seen the publication figncd a " real friend to public
credit," it is a judicious calculation, and a truly sentimental per
formance, and may be of Teal fervicc to the people in general.
It is extraordinary that your Quaker City should dash beyond the
Yoikers; however this spirit has certainly railed public funds,
and tended to strengthen the general interest and the government ;
the excess will find its own cure. It *s the opinion of some of
our wife men that our funds will 111 a few months be equal to
the British ; that the operation of the bank, the cncreafing emi
grations, sale of lands—growing imports and exports, extending
navigation, &c. See. must *11 greatly contribute to this point.
The navigation of this port has greatly exceeded this year, what
it was the last, it is said nearly forty percent."
Emigrations from England to France, as from tyranny to free
dom, would be a novelty in the hiflory of the world—and yet,
strange as it may appear, the idea is contemplated by some per
sons in England, as an event not the most distant or improbable.
Oi.e good turn deserves another; it is about a century only, since
Great Britain was the asylum of thousands of Frenchmen, who
fld from the despotism of Louis le grand. At present the emigra
tions from France ate a new thing under the fun, they consist of
refugees from a country, now said to be the most free of any in
Europe.
So many dangers attend the perpetuation of any o'+ice whatever,
by hereditary succession, that the people of America ought to
tremble at the idea of feeing a law puffed, to establish even heredi
tary Bailiffs or Conftabhs ; left, in the course of a few years, those
officers should, like Pharaoh's magicians, convert their wands into
ferpems, and claim the privilege of flinging their fellow-citizens
to death, by hereditary right. Amer. Dai. Adv.
MANUFACTURES.
" In every countrv where perfect freedom is allowed to indi
viduals to follow what budnefs they please, every inequality be
tween the employer and the employed, will eventually find its
natural level, without the regulating efforts of anv man, or any
civil authority." This retniik peculiarly applies to manufac
turers in this country —It has been insinuated that the eflablifh
m nt of manufa6hires will tertd to make menials of our citizens,
while'hey arc immured in the fa&ories conftru&ed for carrying
on the works.— But let it be remembered, that we are all under
the proteflion ofjuft and equal laws, that every man is free to
chufe what occupation he plcafes, and that our boundless western
territories will forever afford a retreat from domestic imposition,
as they now do from foreign tyranny.
It is highiy probable that much higher wages can be afforded
to manufacturers and artifb, than are ufuaKy paid to those de
scriptions of persons in Europe, particularly in Great Britain—
lor it is very evident that while the great body of manufacturers
continue poor and dependant, the proprietors amass immense for-
tunes.
The eftablifhmenr of manufa&ures in this country has long been
a v ry defirableevent—This will afford a neW lourcc of employ
ment for the poor, which will be conflantly increasing ; it will
open a new demand for the productions of agri ulture, and en
creafe the consumption of our raw materials, which are now ex
ported, and fold to foreigners almost upon their own terms. -It
will enlarge the consumption of prov'fions in proportion to the
number of hands which might otherwise be employed in Agricul
ture, and thus furnifh a fteadv market for the lurplus of our fields,
when disappointed by the flourifhing crops, or the caprice of
European countries.
SAY* A CORRESPONDENT,
All circumstances seem to concur to raise our national impor
tance ; but the greatest profpefls may be over-rated, and no doubt
our's will be ;—however this has not been the cafe hitherto, for
there have been ten whose calculations have fallen short, to one,
whose anticipations have gone too far. When the whole monied
capital of this country is brought into a£tive circulation, (as it will
be by the establishment of public credit) aided by the bank, mo
ney will be much plenticr with men who have real property ; the
holders of public stock may then put their whole capital into the
funds, and hire money for their neceflary purposes in business—
this will enable them to be munh greater stock holders than other
wise they could be.—Many .will be further induced to do this
from a prevailing opinion that money in the funds at 4 per cent,
is preferable to 6 per cent, on loans made to individuals. There
is a uni-erfal desire to hold stock in the public funds—this is the
fpiritand sentiment of the present times-—these circumftanccs
have conduced to raise the value of stock, arid will continue to
raise it, much more than all the foreign speculations. But fo
reign purchases are not to cease bccaufe the flocks are high.— It is
with men of great capitals in Europe as it is here ; they like to
have property in different funds, and in different countries—they
juftlv suppose it is a greater security against the contingencies
which happen to men and nations. At this period Europe is con
vulsed, revolutions follow revolutions, monarchies are overturned,
property rendered insecure. America, tho young, has a name
for unexampled profpe&s— -her progress in raising her credit is
unpareilclled ; the men of great fortunes therefore in Europe, may
wifely placc part of their property in the funds of these States,
that if their old foundations shake, they may have a supporting
hope from the rising empire in the western world.
From a Correspondent in North-Carolina.
In this State there is not such a flow of national ideas, as there
is in the Northern and middle States ; we are over-run with En
glish and Scotch adventurers, fa&ors, and settlers, who engross
the trade and corrupt the morals of the people by their examples;
while our old citizens are too apt to be servile imitators
of the manners and customs of these Europeans, so much lo that
we can't think for ourselves, nor fpiirn the chains with which they
cramp our trade. There are upwards of ten thousand Scots in
one county only. The government as a State is not upon so ref
peftablc a footing as I think it ought to be ; the Governor's salary
is low, nnd all the appointments in the Slate are on the fame scale.
—We do not fee that form and order in doing public business
which prevails elsewhere, and which is necelfarv to inspire that
decent refpedf for each other which should subsist between rulers
and people. We have no fchools—noprovifion is made by law
for the support and encouragement of learning. The last fefiion,
efforts were made by the eastern members to establish a seminary,
but it could not be done—the house would not grant more than
£50 when 3000 was neceflary. As to business, fincethe eftablifh
mcnt of the new government it is much altered and encreafed—
the goods brought into the country have been to an immense a
mount, to what were heretofore imported—money has grown
scarce—silver nearly as plenty as paper. The bank system mufl
extend the influence of the general government; it is a wife and
politic mcafure.
llow it happens I will not pretend to fay, but so we think tkc
fd£fc is, that some of the Southern members ot Congress have been
more truly republican in their r peechcs, than the Eastern : There
is one idea however in which the people of this State agree with
the North rn States, and that is refpefting being the carriers of
our own produce to market. It is a general opinion that the
(hipping owned by the citizens of the United States is at this time
fufficient to carry off all our exports. The federal interest v ill
and does encreafc here—notwithstanding there is too much of a
disposition to depreciate our national charatter and importance,
owing principally to the ioreign influcncc before mentioned.
151
Some pcrfons have expressed an apprehension that the intereflg
or trade and commerce w&uld fuffer,and confcqnently the public
revenue be diminished by fpcculations in the funds; but there is
no jull foundation oHt'di on this head. The commerce of this
country is keeping pace with our otfcer improvements, and mult
on every principle of calculation continue to encreafe. This con
sideration affords the most pleasing reflections on our profpe£ts—
the increase ot the revenue from the present duties, while it will
enable adminiflration more rapidly to diminish the public debt,
agreeable to the law ena&ed for that purpose,—will also entirely
preclude the nccellity of any additional burthens on the people.
While the funds arc on the rife, the excess of private capitals will
be attracted towards it—but this mult neceffaiily be a tcmoorarv
business—a casual dream diverted from the broad deep channel
of the commerce of our country, " which as it flows, forever wi 11
flow on."
By an arrival at New-York, from Liverpool, English papers
are received to the 15th July ; thev inform that the Avignon ar
my continue to commit great devaftaiion in that country—that
Carpentras is yet besieged—that an earthquake has been felt ac
Rochelle in Fiance—that hostilities have recommenced betweru
the Turks and Auftrians ; that a fire had consumed the Admiralty
building in Amftcrdawi, with naval stores fails cordage, See.
enough for j 3 ships of the line.—That favorable accounts had been
received by the British from India ; that no fleet was to fail for
the Baltic this season ; that Vienna and all Hungary exhibits no
thing but an appearance of war; that the Ruffians made an at
tempt to fur prize Brahilow, but without effect—and that the
Captain Pacha had failed in search of the Ruffian fleet on the Black.
Agreeably to the late ast of Assembly, empowering the Gover
nor to appoint Notaries Public, the following gentlemen
been commissioned as Notaries for the City ot Philadelphia:
Clement Biddle, Lewis Weiss,
Edward Fox, Assheton Humphreys.
Peter Stephen Du Ponceau,
TOASTS drank at the Hotel ofthe Miniflcr* Resident of the Unit
ed States of America, in Lisbon, on the 4th of July, 1791.
1. The DAY, and the remembrance of those who had an agen
cy in making it memorable.
2. The President.
3. The Queen of Portugal and friendly powers of Europe.
4. An extensive, happy, ana durable intercourse between the
fubje&s of her Mod Faithful Majesty and the Citizens of the Unit
ed States of America.
5 May the prejudices of nations give place to universal bene
volence.
6. The Legislature of the United States,
7. The different branches of the Executive of the United States.
8. The Agriculture of the United States.
9. The Commerce of the United States.
10. The Manufa&ures of the United States.
11. The Literature and Arts of the United States.
12. May Americans whe/cfoever dispersed remember their
country, and do credit to it.
13. The fair Daughters of America.
:4. Additional prosperity from the acceflion of States.
15. Happiness to mankind.
* Col. Humphreys.
Died in New-York on Thursday lad, after a short illness,
WILLIAM MALCOLM, Esq. Brigadier-General of the militia,
of that state. A citizen who has left a large family to deplore
the loss of an affe&ionate father.—A citizen who united in his
character, the amiable qualities of an unshrinking patriot, a Heady
and sincere friend, and an honed man.
OUR City Boys are grown so bad,
All admonitions scorning,
That Andrew whips them over night,
And Johnny in the morning.
The pavement cannot reft in peace,
With iron'd tops they peg it—
They squib our women in the ftrects,
And then like heroes leg it.
French, Spaniards, Irish emigrants,
They mal-treat as they're walking;
They stare them out of countenance,
Or mock them whil« they're talking.
What (hall be done to these vile b©ys
To keep them in due order ?
Let them be taught by brokeu bones,
Or any thing, but murder —
Let Carlijle with his myrmidons,
Seize on the raggamuffins;
And pack them off to jail like rogues,
Street robbers, thieves or ruffians.
For such another plaguy gang
I'm sure there's not in Dublin,
Who in the Gazettes, night and morn,
The world itfelf are troubling.
Yc bovs and lads, both great and small,
These dreadful thieat'nings ponder,
Left on your heads great paragraphs*
Should fall like claps of thunder.
<c Ye parents who have children dear,
O think what ills may come;
To have them fafe and found abroad,
They mud be kept at home."
* See American Daily Advertiser of yejlerday.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig James, Roc, Cape-Francois
Ceres, Cheefeman, Bo(lon
Sacra Famiglia, Lando, Havanna
Schooner Fricndfhip, Wclfh, Charleftort
Sloop Fame, 80/ den, Turk's-Iflarid
Swallow,
Ranger.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
«'/ P '■£■
"f\ i 2/5
12/8 12/9
■ • - I.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates 2cjS
Indents 12/6
N. and S. Carolina debts, *4/6.
Bank Subscriptions, 160
LOUISIANA.
ALL thofc persons who have an inclination to fettle on the rich
lands ot the Mifidippi, can have a paflage to New Orleans
about the 20th of Oftobei next. Each Tingle man on his arrival
there, will have a grant of two hundred and forty acres of land,
in fee fitr.ple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, a larger quantity, in proportion to the number of his family.
For further particulars, enquire of MellVs. Stiwaut jtNisjux,
No. iSouth Water-Street.
Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1791
Guandell,
Barrett,
New-York
Bnfton
105 pr. cent.
62 do.
63J do.
IC2J do.
621 do.
165 Dollars,
raj- .t. Secretary of state. No returns bei*g yet received from lh«fe
Free whi.e males Flee white Free white fe- A1 !"' h "
*»f id vears & r.u« male uti- ma»c>i includ- •
DISTRICTS, wards, including da fixiecn ing heads of per uos. *"
headsof families, years. families.
* Vermont
New-Hampfhirc
< Maine
J Mdfiachuretts
Rhode-Island
Conn 6licut
New-Yoi k
New-Jcr 'cy
Pcnnfylvania
Delavs- are
Maryland
( Virginia
( Kentucky
North-Carolina
♦South-Carolina
Georgia
♦South Wcftern Territory
*North Wtftern Territory
A PERIODICAL PUBLICATION,
TO BE ENTITLED,
The Annual Register,
POLITICAL REPOSITORY
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Will fpcedily be commenced by the Subscriber, in the city o.
Philadelphia.
This work will contain a hiftorv of the
PROCEEDINGS and DEBATES of CONGRESS, from the
beginning of the (effion which will commence in O&ober
next.
Secondly —ST ATE PAPERS.
Under this head, will becotnprifed the RepCTtsand Statements
of the executive officers of government, including those which
have already been made, official correspondence with foreign
powers, &.c.
Thirdly—THE STATE OF THE UNION,
This important article will (how out situation with regard to
foreign nation?, by adverting to treaties, whether concluded or
pending, hostilities, and commeicial intercourse. It will alio give
a comprehensive view of the internal system ; to w*t, population,
the national defence, by militia, regular troops, armed velTcls, and
fortifications; national finance, as to loans, debts, revenue, oank,
See. national morals, as to prevailing virtues and vices; number
and quality of crimes and punifbments, bankruptcies, &c. general
progress of the arts and fcienccs; general laws and civil regula
tions, whether ot the federal government or state legislatures; ge
neral manners and customs ; and finally, th complexion of poli
tical fcntinieuts, as it may be seen in public prints, proceedings of
the fcvcral governments, popular tranquility? or difcoutent.
Fourthly— IMPROVEMENTS,
In everv profefTion, art, and Icien^e.
Fifthly— MEDICAL OBSERVATIONS,
On the increase and decrease of riifr-afes, &c.
SixthIy—NATURAL HISTORY,
Particularly that of America.
Seventhly—C HARACTERS.
Eighthly— MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Which may'be thought worthy of being preserved from obli
vion, on philosophical, historical, biogiaphi<al, agricultural, me
chanical, commercial, and other fubiefcls, calculated to amuse the
mind, or adrance the bed interests of foctcly.
Ninthly— POETRY—original and felled.
Tenthly—A REVIEW OF BOOKS,
American only; to which will be added, a lift of new Euro
pean publications, indicating such as may be deemed particularly
valuable in this country.
Eleventhly—A CHRONICLE
Of the mod interesting events of each year, selected from the
various newspapers, and methodically arranged.
To the htftorv of the procced'ngs and debates of Congress,
in the firft, volumeof this work, will be prefixed theConftiluti.ou
of the United S'ates of America, together with a (ketch ol th: pro
ceedings, and the names of the members, of the firft Congress al-
Tembled under the auspices of the conftituti'on.
Each volume of the Annual Register, and Political
Repository of the United States of America, will con
tain at lead 500 pages, o&avo, and be printed on good paper, with
a hand some type, equal to that with which the Editor's ed'tion f
the Laws of the United States is printed. The pricc to fubferibers
will be one dollar and a half.
The plan of this work has been submitted to the consideration
of some of the fir ft chara&ers in America, whose sentiments have
determined the Editor with regard to the undertaking. The firft
volume will be publifhcd in the spring of (he year 179?.
In order to render this work as perftft as poflible, and truly ho
norable to the United States, communications,coinciding with the
plan, as above given, and either handed to the Ediior or tranfmiu
ted to him by post, will be gratefully received. He with confi
dence expetts this afliftance from Artists, Men of Learning, Phi
lofophrrs, and Statcfmcn, as they mtift be lmpreflTd wi'h ade
quate ide.-s of the extreme utility of this arduous undertaking.
Gentlemen who may incline to patronize this publication, are
requeued to forward their names to Mcffrs. Thomas & Andrews,
Boston; John Carter, Esq. Piovidence; MelTrs. Hndfon & Good
win, Hertford; Mr. Thomas (Jreenleat, New-York; Meffrj.
Goddard & Angel), Baltimore ; Augustine Davis, Esq. Rich
mond; Mr. P. Young, Chailefton ; or to
ANDREW BROWN,
Philadelphia, Aug. 30,1791. in the city of Pniladelphia
%"* Sub.fcribers' names (hall be prefixed to the work.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COM M I SS I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfnut-Sneer, next door to th? Bank, No. gj.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Mink Poteen to receive Mflniereft, and for the transfer of the
principal of jr. ; 7 ic dtht. agrctaUe to the Rules ejtMtJhtd in the Trea-
J~ur\ Department : /i!jo Blanks jor übjlrafis of Certificate*, to be foldby
the FJftvr.
1! ■ : JM.'HX.IL of the T.VIRD SESSION tf the SE.VJTE
tftkc UNITED STATES, may be iud of the Ediljr h;retj.
34 g si
? 4>7 4 ®
8 ,289
'5-799
5-!>4°3
78 122
41,416
106,948
12 » 1 43
5«>339
116,135
17.057
77-5° 6
36,086
24-384
95-153
16,019
61,523
83.700
45.'5 l
110,788
n.7 5 3
55 9'5
1 10,936
69.988
1 4»°44
1 3» :0 3
AND
OF THE
630
5.38
5>4 6 3
3>5°7
2,808
4- 6 54
2,762
6 5=7
3,899
8013
12,866
114
70.160
46,870
jg», 582
3 2 > 6 5 2
1 1 7,448
152.320
83.287
206 363
25.384
101,295
215,046
£8,922
140,710
4-9/5
3S B
25,739
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&'cut, at then fefllon in
D. remhei lalf, granted a Lottery for the purpose ol extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channiJ;
and appointed the subscribers manageis, who having given bond
for f he faithful discharge of their trull, present the public with tht
following
1S C I
Prize of
1
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5®
6i
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subject to a dedu&ion of twelve and a halt per cent.
The public utility of extending this whart, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour or New-Haven; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafied, if equalled by any ; br
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriet\, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is net_elTarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in Amcrica,
the whole extent being about 3~4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime intertft of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clafTes of peopl •, for
the fucrefs of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of ticketsthan any yet published in
Ameriea) induce the managers to believe the tickets will meet wit 1
a speedy sal?.
The drawing will pofitivcly commence at the State-Houfo, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publiflied, and the prizes
paid on demand, by ihe managers. Thofc prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the ufc ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James RICE,
Jeremiah At water,
Joseph Dr ake,
Nciv-H vtn, April 14. i7Qi
Public Notice is hereby given,
to al! whom these presents shall come, or in any wife concern .
That JAMES GARDNER, late ot Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceafcd, did make four promiflory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of P'nilad lphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and torty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole 10 two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afiigned by the said Sa
muel Jack (on to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the !atd Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and fortv - seven pounds fifteen {hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficieitt vouchers.
i hete arc therefore to caution all persons from purchaftng said
notes as thev will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT.)
ROBERT SCOTT, (Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington. NnTth-Cn-rfilirtfi. 9 -/A A'f-r., 1701
i*HILADtLfHIA, 20,1 i Jul)', 1791.
THE Commiflioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
Bank ot the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form thi Stockholders of the fa id Bank, th.it an election for tweniy
five Dircftors will he held a: the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Priday the sill day of Oflober next, at to o'clock in the mornin^.
v,ADVI-RT I S E M E N T.
ar Rivals from France, the Editor his rcceivccl from
1 , 10 101 ' >of a Publication which comes cut twice a
week in Pans, entitled. " Cor r, f.spon dan cf. Nationals."—
from Ao. 1 to i\o. 1,.. hare been flipped, but are not yet come to 'Hand.
An, p , jo n Who mas incline to fukjcrwe for this work, which appears t,
he facetious, t-npurtial and fiitriotic, may be {unified with the numbers
as then arrive by **flyiag to the Editor oj this Gazette.
152
c
Members of .2
Total. Congress.
£
85000 2
14 : ®°5 4
3«S ' 5
268,8!, 5 2
*37-946 '
340,120 11
i«4>'39 5
4,74-373 *4
59>°94 :
3"jr" "8 _ 9
20
1 1
6
2
112
948
■2,764
21,324
"<453
3-"37
8.887
103.036
292.627
12,43°
747.610 )
73 677 S
393-75 1
*240,000
82,548
100^572
29,264
*30.000
* 5.000
3,919.023
heme.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
are
2000
1000
s°°
2CO
100
5°
4°
20
10
8
Michael Todd,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph Howel i .
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID Kirt l-N'HOI SE,
SAMUEL HOWELL
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA!
SEPTEMBER 7.—Dollars at jf6.
ANCHORS pr. lb. 7 d 1
Alium, Luj;lilh, pr.cwt. 32 s 6J
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tcd
Ashes, pot, per tor, 37/ioj
Pear), 501
Arrack, pr. gall. icj 12s 6d
Brandy, common, 7-» 6d
Cogrnac 9 f 6d
Brazilctto, pr. ton. 12/16/
Bricks pr. M 23J to 35J
Bread, fhii> pr. cwt. 1 ,5 f
Duio, pilot 27J 6d
Ditto, small water 4°-* 45*
Beer, American, in bot. ]
pr. doz. bot. incl. j
pr. bbl. 35'
co f Oak pr.M feet, 67 s 4/
0 | Merch. pine 100s
<-i Sj P. <|0 - 0 3 '
o I N.£ng. 82J
a LCedar *° os
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard prices add issprM.
Bnmftonc in rolls pr. cwt. 26s
u* ( Irish pr. bbl.
j < Boflon 55'
M ( Country
Butter pr. lb. l i d
in kegs xod
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot 2S2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d
Coal pr. b-ufael is 6d
C.ffee pr. I'd. •3 d
Cinnamon *8* 20s
Cheese, Englilh »•> 4<*
Country 9 d
\ Sper. pr. lb. $s 2d
| Wax 4 J 3 d
3 «( Myrtle Wax 12^
J | Mould,tallow 11 d
5 LDipped 9i d
Cotton 1S
Cui rants 1162/
Cloves 9 s
Copperas pr.cwt. 14 s
Cordage 6oi 6216/
Cocoa 62j6d 6ys6d
Duck, Rulia, pr. piere 80s
Ravens 6ysyis6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 3.5 J 6^
Common, 3' zs
Bur middlings,beft 31.J
——-Middlings 2 4'
—Ship-llutf pr. cwt. ys 8j
Flax pr. lb. 8 ] 2 d
Fustic pr. ton, 135* I5 0i
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8i
Flaxiccd pr. bu(h. 4J
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 65J
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto; ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, V 6 'f l °
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. f
quaitcrcafk, $
Ditto, fine glaud 35s (id
Gin, Holland, pr. g 5 s 9 d
Do. pr. cafe, 30*
I Wheat pr. bush 6s 8d ys
Rye 3' <>d
2 I Oats
< Indian corn 2J yd
z* I Bailey 31
U I Best (helled pr. lb. 3d
(_ Buckwheat 2s 6d
Heinp, for. pi. ton, 45^53''
American, pr. lb. 4 J
Hogthead hoops, pr. M 516/
Herrings, pr. bbl. ißj 20.r
Hides, raw pr. lb. gd 10d
Hops "
Indigo, Frcnch, ioj
Carolina 3s 7s
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 50 s
f Catlings 22J 6d 30s
Z | Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
O J pig 10/
2 | Sheet 65'
21,822
25.3 S 7
8,477
27.393
l 's9°
«9-5A 6
12,879
25-54°
8,514
9. 26 3
1 3-5 2 3
10,842
IC.OOO
s°°5 °° o
4000
4000
4000
2500
2 400
3000
2250
2000
j 830
2000
1400
43» l2 °
8750 c
Nail rods
Junk, pr. cwt,
Lard, hogs
Lead in pigs
in bars
Lead, white 75J Boj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. is \d is6d
Lignum vita; pr. ton 42 s 45J
Logwood 7/ 5J 81
i\l al, Indian, pr. bbl. 17/
Rye 25*
Mackarel,beft none.
Common 251-
Mace pr. lb. 55J
Mustard °s 4 d
Madder, bed 1 fid iSJ
Molafles pr. gall, isylisbd
Marblr. wrought, pr. foot, 14 s
Mast (pars 2s 6d 5*
Mahogany Bt/ 10 J
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67* 6d
Nails, iodi?.d<k 2od—
C Linletd, pr. gall. 3-f 6d
I Train 1J 10d zs
Soermaceti 3s 6d
I Whaie is 6d 2s
— <j Olive 6d
1 Ditto pr. cafe ißj gd
Kefl. fwet tin )
I llafks.pr. box, $
L—ba'kets 12 boUles37.*6</
Oak timber pr. ton 383'
Porter pr. bl. 4OJ
i ondon.pr.doz.t2J 15J
fe P- 3 tn
Pubiiihed, and to be fold by the Editor, price of a D
TWENTY-SIX L ETT £ R
Oa the most impfriant Subjects*
Refpeeing the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written in Hollandin they"' - 178®,
Bi the Vici-PxEsiDtfT of thtlniui Sue ■
PER QUANTITY
Porter, American pr. in. ,oft
pr. bbl. J
Pork Burlington, goj
Lower couiuy
Carolina
P< a;, Albany
pr. lb.
P.mcnto
*'« pr. c„.
Kolm pr. bbl. 20
Ra.fins, be*, pr . fcej foj
Ditto pr. jar
Ditto pr. box ® j
|-Jamaica pr. gall. 61 %
„ I Antigua 6j
3 J l V ": d T ard 51 6 '
a! J B arbl docs 5J w
1 Coumry.N.E.
SsfrS 21 4 d
Salt t' Pr ' ton 60,
«1 ? A P r - Cwt - 4/IOJ d
Sulphur, flour
Shot
j r German pr.cwt. 65170.
uj yEnglifh, bliftcrcd -,rj
h jAmcrican pr. ton 40/60/
f V Crowley'j pr . f a g. Boj
Snake root pr. lb. u6J i s %i
Soap, Common
——Brown cj
—Caft.le "
® la " h 4^2
Snuff u6<f 2J4J 3*s^
Spermaceti,refined, 10 j
Sail Cloth, Engiifh,"]
pr. yard, J li bd2sz4
Boflon, No. I. ajgi
iVo. 11. 2 /
Rufiia ftieeling, pr. p, (\qj
f Lump, pr.lb. ,j 4< /
OJ | Loaf, lingle tifiotd u6J
< Ditto, double do. t,BJ
t | Havannah, white iai
tr. Ditto, brown,
L Mufcovada,ur.cwt 6;jß.>i
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall.
( Allum pr. bulh. jj J
2 j Liverpool 2J ,j
< iCadiz 2 /
"" (Liftion 2/
Ship build. W.O. frames') 90/
p. lon, j 100/
Do. IX). & red C. do. 6/6/5/
Shingles, thort, p. M. 22J U
-long dressed 37/6J
Scantling, heart, 80/100/
■ Sap 50/55/
("Pipe pi. 1200 piecci 60/
2 IW. O. hoglhcad 7/ 15/
> J R. O. do. 51 ,5/
< I Leogan 61
Barrel
Heading
Otter, best pr. piece 30*
5 i
Minks
Fox, grey
red
Martins
•— < Filhcrs
Bears
Racoons
Musk-rats
Beaver, pr. lb.
in hair
Tai 24 gal. p. bbl. 7/6
Carolina, 32 gall. 10/
Turpentine pi. bbl. 12s 6d
r James R. new bed 281
£ 1 inferior 20J2 |/6i
o '
o
uu.
I Rappahannock 18/9 2?Jo
q 1 Colo. Maryland 50J be;
U 1 Dark ißj
Long-leaf 18/
eQ Eaftetn-Ihore 15317)61/
O i Carolina,new 22j6i
L old 22s 6di^
[ Hyson pr. lb. 7J
1 Hyson Ik n, 4; 6j
Souchong, 3s6d~ s
S | Congo, 3* 3 J 9'
L Bohca, 2J 9«
Tallow, refined
3 6/
joj 40*
c f d 10 a
40 J42 s 6J
50s
Tin pr. box,
Vefdigreafe pr. lb. 3*6*4'
Vermillion,
Varnish,
Madeira, pr. pipe
Li (ton t 3 6 '
Teneriffe 2c/iOJ 3-
, Fayal pr. gall. Z Ai .
y 1 Port pr. pipe 3^'43*
Ditto pr. K MI. 6i
? D>. in boitlek. pr.doz.3w
Claret 3°'W
Sherry pr. gall. 61 9'%',
(.Malaga
Wax, Bees pr. lb. '
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2'3
_ short, pr. lb. 1
COURSE OF LXCHASCZ-
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days, "3
Ditto 60 days 7*
Ditto 30 "»)'» H
Amftcidsni, 6oday«i .
pr. guilder, 2s ni 3<
* p day* 3 n
Government bills, drawn all
per 11 guilde"; 33 4
*
4' io/
8/
ij6J 3f
3'
4'&4
3 1
zs6d c,s
1 is 6 d 2
2$ 4 J
9d is id
p6 lOJ
old
12/
2 i 6d