PUBLISHED WEDNESDAY S ANO SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN' SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII.ADEI.PHIA
[No. 45, of Vol. JIL]
FROM THE NORTII-CAROL IN A GAZETTE.
Mr. Martin,
IN your paper of the 20th of August, No. 293, I observed a
very erroneous representation of the tragical affair between Col.
George Mitchell and Major Robert W. Sncad. It has, no donbt,
been niifreprefented to you by some designing per Ton,, lor the
purpose of inj-iring the reputation of Major Snead, who appears
by your paper, privately and intendfdly to have murdered Col.
Mitchell. Nothing is further from the truth. And as I was one
of the jury of inquest that was fummoneW early next morning af
ter that unhappy event, and being no partizan, and altogether di
verted of prejudice and partial itv, I think it nect flary, in order
to do to that injured gentleman the juflice he merits, to relate to
you a r.ircumftantial account of it, as it appeared to the jury,
where a great number of witnefTes gave evidence on oath, but none
of which appeared against Major Snead, but on the contrary, every
circumflance appeared so much in his favor, that several of Col.
Mitchell's best and mod intimate friends declared it as their opin
ion, that Major Snead was by no means blameable, and that they
must themselves in his rase have a£led as he did.
It appeared, that Col. Mitchell and Major Snead were the can
didates for reprcfenting the county of Onflow in the Senate, and
that after the clofc of the poll, on Major Snead's being declared
duly elected, Col. Mitchell appeared very much irritated with
him, and had at times often expressed himfelf, that the one or the
other Ihould soon go out of the world, and had determined to
fight a duel wiih him that night. His friends, to whom he had
communicated his intention, endeavored to dissuade him from so
rafii a step, and if poflible to get him away to go home—that his
intention was altogether unknown to Major Snead or any of his
friends —that shortly after, Col. Mitchell came intocompany where
Major Snead was, who appeared (as he did during the whole
time of elcftion) to be at peace, chearful and in good will with
every one. Some of the company addreflcd themselves to Col.
Mitchell and Major Snead, and requested them to be good friends
in future, and to forget all iormcr ill wills and animosities with
each other. Major Snead declared he was very willing to do so
on his part; that he did not bear Col. Mitchell the lealt ill will,
but wilhed to be on good terms with him, and with every one
clfe. Col. Mitchell replied he would be damned, if he made up
with him, and asked Major Snead to walk, with him, which he'
did—that in a very little time, Major Snead returned to the com
pany, and Colonel Mitchell went to the houfc of a Mr. Farr, about
an hundred yards distant, as appeared to borrow a
pair of pistols of a Capt. John Cooke—that he soon returned with
the pistols, but hid from the company as well as from Major Snead.
Cos. Mitchell then took hold of Major Snead by the arm, and asked
him to walk with him fit then being about half after eight o'clock
at night, the moon being three or four hours high) they walked
about thirty or forty steps from the company, but still in thecourt
vard, in an open place and not near any thicket, as is mentioned
in your paper -th?t Col. Mitchell then produced a pair of pistols
and offered one of them to Major Snead, at the fame time declar
ing that he intended one of them Ihould die that night. Major
Snead told him, that if he was determined on that, they had bet
ter each of them provide a friend to fee fair play between them.
Col. Mitchell replied, " No,'take it rhis instant or I will put you to
death." Major Snead accordingly took it, and flepped back lour
or five steps, while Col. Mitchell did the fame. Col. Muchell
called on Major Snead to site, and repeated it with, " Fire, God
damn you, fiie," and continued advancing up, with his pistol
presented—that Major Snead for his own fafct) was then obliged
to fire, which he did. and Col. Mitchell nearly at the fame time
flaflied his pistol at Major Snead. He then clubbed his pistol,
and advanced up to M;ijor Sncad, and struck him with it on his
head fcveral strokes, ami Major Snead defended himfelf with his
by clubbing it, and returning the blows in the fame manner on
the head of his antagonist, when they closed and Col. Mitchell
Jell ;at that instant fcveral of the company ran up. On examin
ing the combatants it appealed that a pistol ball had paired dt the
lower part of Col. Mitchell's throat, grazing the upper part of
his hreaft bone,through bis throat and windpipe and out between
his {boulders, and a small fear on the head, the (kin only being
broken. Major Snead's head was wounded, apparently from the
blows he received from Col. Mitchell's pistol ; his hair and face
.being all covered with blood.
The testimony that was given to fhtjury was by Col. Mitchell's
iends, as not one of Major Snead's friends had tlie lcaft know
ledge or expectation of any thing of the kind between them till it
was decided. But it seems that several of Col. Mitchell's friends
knew of his intention, particularly the circumstance of his bor
rowing the piltols. Kilby JOnes, Esq. the brother of Col. Mitch
ell, knew more of that unhappy affair than any person whatever,
and it must be acknowledged, greatlv to the honor of that gentle
man, that he gave his testimony in the most candid and impartipl
banner. His tellimony /was the most in favor of Major Snead,
as h< had got to ihe ground where the duel was fought timely to
fee that he was not blarrirable for what had happened,and which
"with the circumstances as before related he declared to the jury.
Your giving this a place in your paper will oblige
A Friend to truth.
Onjlow County, September \JI, 1791
EXTRACT
(From the Cumberland Gazette. J
Q OME little time since 1 fell in company with
a number of gentlemen, who, when 1 joined
tlieni, weie closely enpaged in canvallirig the fe
deral Conftirntion, and more particularly that
part ot it which has reference to the qualifica
tions of Senators and Representatives. A young
man, who appeared to take the lead, and con
versed with much cafe on the fubjedt, gave it as
his opinion, that there ought to have been a
clause making a belief in the Christian Religion
an eflential qualification for a Senator or Repre
sentative — for this is a christian country, and none
Inould have any hand in adminifteriiigthe gene
ra government but Chrjftians. But would you
exclude Jews, replied an elderly man ? — Yes,
certainly, continued the young man ; for they
s, e 'hi Christians. And I, answered theold man,
>i)i"ht upon the ground of your argument, fay
Saturday, September 24, 1791-
that Christians, where there happened to be a
majority of Jews, rhould in their turn have no
hand iii rhe adminillration of" government, and
merely because they were not Jews. This would
be making a man's feci or denomination an essen
tial mark of legislative abilities ; which to me ap
pears improper. But why, said the young man,
Ihould a Jew, whose religion is so different from
chriftianiry, vviftj to meddle with thegovernment
of Christians ?—For two reasons, replied the old
man—First, though it is true that Judaism and
Chrilt'ianity are in feme refpe&s very different,
yet in jhofe refpetfis wherein civil government
can with propriety expert to be benefited by any
religion, they are pretty much the fame. And
secondly, civil government can extend to nothing
but the life, liberty and property of its citizens;
and as to these things, Jews are equally interest
ed as ChriiHans in a good adminiltration of the
government they live under. And, continued
the old man, 1 cannot but look upon the liberali
ty of the federal government, in this particular,
the noblest feature in it. It hereby resembles
the Deity, and declares to the world, that of eve
ry nation he that fears God and worketli righte
ousness, fliall be protected by it, and equally par
take of its benefits—whether they be Jews, Chris
tians, Mahometans, Chinese, Indians, or Hindoos.
DOCTOR PRIESTLEY is arrived in London, not thinking it fafe to
remain in the neighbourhood pJ Birmingham. The following Letter
Jrovi the Dottor appeared in one of the London Morning papers, and
our readers will no doubt be glad to fee it.
To the Inhabit ants of the Town of Birmingham.
My late townsmen and Neighbours,
AFTER living with you eleven years, in which you had uni
form experience of my peaceful behaviour, in my attention
to the quiet studies of my profeflion, and thole of philosophy, I
was far irom expc&ing the mjuiies which I and mv friends have
latelv received from you. But you have been imfled by hearing
the Difienters, and particularly the Unitarian DiflVnters, continu
ally railed at, as enemies to the present Government, in Church
and State. You have been led to consider any injury done to us
as a meritorious thing; and not having been better informed, the
means were not attended to. When the objett was right, you
thought the means could not be wrong. By the discourses of your
teachcrs, and the exclamations of your superiors in general, dt ink
ing confufion and damnation to us, (which is well known to have
been their frequent pra£lice) your bigotry has been excited to the
highest pitch, and nothing having been said to you to moderate
your paflions, but everything to inflame them; hence, without
any consideration on your part, or on theirs, who ought to have
known and taught you better—you were prepared for every fpe
cics of outrage; thinking, that whatever you could d« to spite and
injure was for the support of Government, and elpecially the
Church. In dejlroying us, vou have been led to think you did God
and your country the most substantial service.
Happily, the minds of Erigl'.fhmen have an horror of murder,
and therefore you did not, I hope, think of that; though, by youi
clamorous demanding of me at the Hotel, it is probable that, at
the time, some of you intended me some personal injury. But
what is the value of life, wheh every thing ;s done to make it
wretched. In many cases, there would be greater mercy in dis
patching the inhabitants than burning their houses. However, I
infinitely prefer what I feel from the spoiling of my goods, to thedif
pofition of those who have misled vou.
You have deftioyed the most truly valuable and ufeful appara
tus of philofophtcal instruments that perhaps any individual, in
this or any other country, was ever pofTefted ofjinmyufeof
which I annually spent large sums, with no pecuniary view what
ever, but only in the advancement of science, for the benefit of
my country, and of mankind. You have destroyed a library cor
responding to that apparatus, which no money c an repurchase, ex
cept in a longcourfe of time. But what I feel tar more, you have
destroyed manujcripts t which have been the result of the laborious
study of many years, and which I shall never be able to recom
pofe ; and this has beeu done to one who never did, or imagined,
you any harm.
I know nothing more of the hand-bill which is said to have en
raged you lo much, than anv of yourselves, and I disapprove of it
as much ; though it has been made the ostensible handle of doing
infinitely more mifchief than any thing of that nature could pofli
bly have done. In the celebra;ion of the French Revolution, at
which I did not attend, the company aflembled on the occasion
only exprelled their joy in the emancipation of a neighbouring
nation from tyranny, without intimating a defireof any thing more
than such an improvement of our own constitution, as all sober ci
i tizens, of every persuasion, have long wished for. And though,
in answer to the gross and unproved calumnies of Mr. Madan, and
others, I publicly vindicated my princip'es as a DiUeiiter, it was
only with plain and sober argument, and with perfect good hu
mour. We are better inftrufted in the mild and forbearing fpm
of Christianity, than ever to think of having recourse to violence;
and can you think such condudt as yours any recommendation o
your religious principles, in preference to ours ?
Yon are still more mistaken, if you imaginethat rhiscondufto'
vours has any tendency to serve your caule, or to prejud.ee ours.
It is nothing bm reason and argument that can ever support anv sys
tem of religion. Answer our arguments aad your b.ifmcfs is done.
t*ut vour having recourse to violence is only a proof that vou have
nothing better to producc. Should you destroy myfelf a? well ..a
my house, library and apparatus, ten more persons, of equa. or su
perior spirit and ability, would mftamly rife up. It thoferer
werr destroyed, an hundred would appear; and believe me, that
iheChurJi of England, which you now ihink vou aief. : >rtin
j has received a greater blow by this conduct ot yours, than I ami
all my friends have ever aimed at it.
Betides, to abuse those who have no power of mAmj rehttanre
is equally cowardly and brutal, peculiarly unworthy o: En, th
169
LONDON
[Whole No. 251.]
men, to fay nothing of Christianity, which teaches us to do as we
would be done by. In this bufwefs we arc the (heep, and you the
-wolves. We will prefcrvc our charafier. and hope you will change
yours. At all events, we return you bl 'flings for curses; and pray
that you may soon return to that induliry, and those fiber man
ners, for which the inhabitants of Birmingham were formerly d»f
tinguiflied. I am,
Your iincere well-wisher,
London, July 19,1791.
P. S. The account of the firft Toast at the Revolution Dinner in
The Times of this morning, can be nothing less than a malicious
lie. To prove this, a lift of the Toasts, with an account of all the
proceedings of the day, will soon be pubhfhed. The Hrft of them
was, The King and the Conjlitution y and they were all such as the
friends of liberty, and the tiue principles of the Conftifution,
would approve.
Mr. Keir who a tied as Chairman to the wetting which celebrated the
anniversary of the French revolution in Birmingham, in an address to
the public, refutes the fever al allegations againjl tie Company in the
Jo/lowing words :
I HAVE heard that it is reported that we drank disloyal and se
ditious toasts. Now the very firft to ail that was g!ven was
The King andConflitution. I do not know any words in the Knghfh
language expreflive of greater loyalty. And one of the toasts was
Peace and good will to all mankind, which cannot easily be in
terpreted to excite people to tumult. J shall hereat:er publish a
lift of all the toasts, which were altogether in the fame spirit of
loyalty, peace, and chanty.
A second report is, that Justice Carles was insulted and turned
out of the room. The fa£t is, that Justice Carles never was in the
»oom, and therefore it is noteafy to conceive how he could be
turned out. I will add, that I have not the smallest doubt, that
if that gentleman had come, he would have been received with due
refpett.
A third report was that a seditious hand-bill had been distri
buted by the members of the meeting,on some pieccdingday. A
seditious and truly infamous hand-bill was diftnbuted, it is true,
but by whom written or difhibuted, is not known. It is heartily
tobewifhed that the peifons concerned m»v be discovered and
punished according to law. As soon as the gentlemen of Bir
mingham, who had concerted the Commemoration Meeting, saw
this hand-bill, they perceived that the effect and perhaps the in
tention of it was to inflame ihe mob against them, and they im
mediately publilned in the Thurfd*y's Newspaper, an advertifr
ment declaring t) at disavowal of this hand-bill, and their-own
loyal attachment to the King, Lords and Commons.* They also
sent hand-bi'ls, with copies of this advcrtifement, all over Bir
mingham. It was not poflible for them to do any thing more et
fe&ual to prevent any bad effects fiom this seditious paper, or 10
rescue themlelves from the calumny oi their being the authors
of ir.
The last falfe report that 1 have heard relative to that meeting,
is concerning Dr. Priestley's behavior there.—To this I foppofe it
will be fuflicicnt to aol'wer, that Dr. Priestley was noi present.
* Birmingham, Commemoration of the French Revolution.—Several
hand-bills having been circulated in town, which can only be intended to
create dijlrufl concerning the intention of the meeting, to d:Hurb its hat.
mony and inflame the minds oj the people, the Gentlemen who proposed it,
think it nectjfary to declare their entire disapprobation o/ all fuck hand
bills, and their ignorance of the authors : isenfbU them [elves oj the ad
vantages oj a free government, they rejoice in the extension of liberty to
their neighbors, at the fame time avowing, in the mojl explicit manner
their attachment to the conjlitution of their own country, vcjled in the
Three ejlates of the King, Lords, and Commons : Surely no jree-bom
Englishman can refrain f*om exulting in this addition to the general
Mass of human happinef; it is the cause oj humanity, it is the cause of
the people
«• Birmingham, July 13, 1791."
LONDON, July 24,
IT appears from the Parisian accounts, that the
National Guards have had the utmolt difficulty
in mattering the mob, who infill upon the King's
abdication being declared ; they hadat one lime
near 40,000 of both sexes to contend with ; and
theirdifcharge of inufquetry mult have dellroy
ed more lives than reported. Two unlucky
creatures the inob firft tried to hang, and then
decapitated 011 Saturday ; one was an invalid,
with a vrooden leg, and the other a hair-drefler,
who had got under the planks of the ascent to
the altar of Liberty in the Camp de Mars, ihro
which they had bored holes, either to lee the
legs of the ladies, or whatever else was going
forward. When the mob discerned them, they
infilled that a fntall keg ofwine which they had
with them, was a barrel of gunpowder to blow
up the altar,and they were f'uon facrificed to their
merciless judges
July 2?
Lord Havkefbury has written to Birmingham,
jo aflure the fufFerers by the late riots, that emi
nent cotmfel (hall be sent down under the direc-
tion of clie attorney ami foliciror genera), to af
fill t lie magi (I rates in tlieir enquiiies, &c. and
Mr. Chamberlaine, the loliritor to tbe treasury,
had been recalled from Ham|>ll»«re, and sent to
Birmingham personally to confirm these afi'ur-
ances
Since the riots in Birmingham, there is not a
creature of AdminiAration who has not been or
dered to wear plated buckles and buttons, as an
encouragement to tliofe loyal churchmen.
Our accounts from Birmingham, received tbi*
morning, state, that tranquility was completely
rertored in that town and its vicinity ; that fevc
ral of the rioters arc in enftodr, and search was
»
>
J. PRIESTLEY.Aiaking after a great number who had ablcond
•d ; and that an eminent counficl, the treafury
folicitor, and Juttice Bond, had arrived from Lon
don, to affilt in the enquiries into the origin and
cause of the late disturbances.
The total amount of the several branches of
public revenue, under the heads of Customs, Ex
cise, Stamps and Incidents, for the last week, is
399,7571. js. 11 i-2d. The Excise duty alone,for
the lad week, produced the amazing sum of
302,7681.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 20,
On Saturday last the President of the United
States, and his Lady, arrived in town, from Phi
ladelphia, on their way to Mount Vernon, and
the next morning proceeded on their journey.
NEW-YOR K, Sept. 21
Yesterday morning, about one o'clock, a mod
alarmingfire broke out in Mill-street—the flames
raged with the utmolt violence for fix hours, and
notwithitanding the usual and very spirited ex
ertions of the fire men and citizens in general, a
very great deftrudtion of property, efti mated at
more than twenty thousand pounds, took place.
The fire firft broke out 111 a bake-house.
The following is a lift of lioufes burned down
by the fire yesterday morning.
A house ofthe widow l evy, in Duke-street,
and a back store in Mill-street.
A house of John Miller in Duke-street, and a
back store in Mill-street.
A house of Capt. Hugh Stocker in Duke-street,
and a back store in Mill-street.
A house of Mr. Tinney in Duke-street, and
back dwelling-house in Mill-ftreec.
A house of Mr. Rogers in Duke-street, and a
back store in Mill-street.
A house of R. and J. Suydam 111 Duke-street,
and a back store in Mill-street.
A house of John Henry in Duke-street, and a
back store in Mill-street.
A house of R. Pinto in Duke-street, and aback
store in Mill street.
The house of the Rev. Mr. Seixas ; the honfe
of the widow Miller ; and the coach-house and
stables of Mr. Goelet in Mill-ftreet;—Mr. Goe
let's horses perished in the stables.
The custom-house, which was on fire several
times, was saved only by the greatest exertions
of a number of very active citizens.
The wind being very high, great quantities of
coal and burning shingles, were carried over the
city to a great diltance,occafioning much diftreft
and anxiety, from an apprehenfiou that the town
would take fire in another quarter.
Several houses and (lores adjoining the burnt
buildings are much injured ; and very consider
able lofles have been by this disaster.
Two children were rescued from the flames of
a li.jufe in Duke-street, by means of the pole and
balket :—They were aileep in the third story of
the honfe—and were not awakened till the Hair
cafe was all on fire.
• |C 7* The citizens of New-York will be pleated
to accept dur most grateful acknowledgements,
in behalf of the United States, and ourselves, for
their generous and particular attention and very
great exertions, at the late fire, in preserving
the Custom-House, and the public papers lodged
therein. JO.HN LAMB, Colle«flor.
BENJ. WALKER, Naval-Officer,
JOHN LASHER, Surveyor.
R I C H M O N D, Sept. 14.
Extra<St of a letter from Edward Carrington, Efq,
the supervisor of the diftricft of Virginia, dat
ed Southampton court-house, Sept. 9, 1791.
" In my tour through the Isle of Wight and
Southampton, being at the courts ofboth, where
there were conliderable collections of the people,
I have the pleasure to find a prevailing spirit of
conformity to the excise —In Isle of Wight where
at the preceding court there was fouie riotous
conduct againil the collector of the revenue, it
appears upon ascertaining theperfons concerned
in the riot that they were but few, who are de
cidedly despised and discountenanced by the
great body of the county ; the misrepresentati
ons which had been indnftrioully circulated thro
the county, created a very general disapprobati
on of the law ; many are however now con
vinced, and do now approve, whilst those who
retain the former opinion determine, as good ci
tizens, to yield to the decisions of a majority of
their country in the general legislature, where
every individual has a right to add hisaffiftance,
by way of memorial, when he is confident of be
ing enabled to give new lights to that bodv which
represents the feelings as well as intererts of the
people. As an evidence that this is the temper
of the county, 78 stills have already been enter
ed with the collector. In Southampton, where
much discontent has prevailed, there appears
now to be a pretty general approbation of the
law, and a very uniform determination to comply
■with it. '
PHILADELPHIA, September 24.
Gen. Wilkinfon's Expedition.
Authentic Report of ListiVenant-Golonel-Commandant
Wilkinson, to his Excellency Gov. St. Clair,
containing the Particulars of the late Expedition
againji L,'Anguills, and the Indians on the H abash.
Frankfort, on Kentucky,
SIR, August ?\th, 1791.
HAVING carried into complete effcft the enterpriz.c which
you were pleased to direffc againfl L'Anguille, and having
done the savages every other damage on the Wabafh, to which I
conceived my force adbqu?te r I'embrace the firft; moment's rccels
from a£live duty, to detail to voar Excellency the operations of
the expedition intruded to my conduit.
I left the neighbourhood of Fort-Walhmgton on the firft inft.
at one o'clock, and agreeable to rhv original plan, feinted boldly
at the Miami village?, by the mod dire& course the nature of the
ground, over which I had to march, would permit; I persevered
in this plan until the morning of the 4th inft. and thereby avoided
tiie hunting ground of the enemy', and the paths which lead direct
from White River to the Wabafh, leaving the head waters of the
firft to my left; I then being about 'seventy miles advanced of
Fort-Washington, turned north-weft. I made no discovery until
the sth, about 9 o'clock, A. M. when I crofted three much fre
quented paths within two miles of each other, and all bearing East
of North ; my guides were urgent for me to follow these paths,
which betrayed their ignorance ot the country, andconvinced me
I had to depend on ray own judgment only. In the afternoon of
that day, I was obliged to cross a deep bog, which injured fcyeral
of my horses exceedingly, and a few miles beyond 1 struck a path
hearing Norih by Weft, marked by the recent footfteps of five or
fix savages. Mv guides renewed their application to me to fol
low this path, but I pursued my course which had been N. 60 W.
since 2 o'clock. I had not got clear of my encampment, next
morning, before my advancc reported an impaflable bog in my
front, extending several miles on cither hand, and the guides as
serted that the whole country tothfeWabafti was cut by such bogs,
and that it would be impoilible for me to proceed unless I fol
lowed the Indian paths, which avoided these bogs, or led through
them at places where they wtre least difficult. Although I paid
little regard to this informatnn, as delav was dangerous, and eve
ry thing depended on the preieivation of my horses, I determined
to turn to the right, and fall into the path, I had pa fled the even
ing before, which \ai ied in its course from N. by W. to N. E.
The country had now becomcpondy, in every dire&ion, I there
fore resolved to pursue this _path until noon, in the hope that it
would conduit me to better ground, or to fomc devious trace
which might lead to the object fought.
At 7 o'clock I crofted au East branch of Calumet River, about
40 yards wide, and about noon my advance guard fire d on a fmaM
parly of warriors and took a prisoner, the red run oft to the East
ward. I halted about a mile beyond the spot where this affair
happened, and on examining the prisoner found him to be a De
laware, living near the site of the late M'.ami Village, which he
informed me was about-thirty miles distant; I immediately rc
trogaded four miles, and filed off by the right over some rifmo
ground, which I hadobferved between the East branch of Calumet
River and a Creek four or five miles advance of it, taking my
course N. 60 W. This roeafure fortunately extricated me from
the bogs and ponds, and soon placed me on firm ground ; late in
the afternoon I crofted one path running from N. to S. and short
ly atter fell into another varying from N. W. to N. by W. I pur
sued this about two mile/i, when I encamped—but finding it still
inclined Northward, I determined to abandon it in the morning.
I resumed my march on the 6th at 4 o'clock, the Calumet beino
to the Weftard of me, I was fearful I should strike the Wabafh
too high up, and perhaps fall in with the small Town, which you
men ioned to me, at the mouth of the former River. I therefore
steered a due Weft course, and at 6 o'clock, A. M croflcd a road
much used both by horse r,nd foot bearing due North. I now
knew that I was near a Shawanefe Village, generally supposed to
be on the Waters of White River, but actually on those of the Ca
lumet, and was sensible that every thing depended on the celerity
and silence of my movements, as my veal obje& had become man
ifeft, I therefore my march vigorously, leaving an officer
and 20 men in ambush, to watch the road, in order to intercept
or beat off any party of the enemy which might casually be paf
firig that way, and thereby prevent as long as poflible the disco
very of my real intentions.
At 8 o'clock. I crossed Calumet River, now 80 yards wide, and
running down N. N. W. and" purluing my courfc, I crossed one
path near the western bank of the river, taking the fame course,
and at fix miles distance another bearing to the N. E. I was now
fcnfible from my reckoning compared with my own observations
during the late expedition under Gen. Scott, and the information
received from your Excellency and others, that I could not be
very distant from L'AngJille.—The party ieft at the road, soon
tell ip with four Warriors encamped half a mile from
the right of my line of march, killed one, and drove off the
others to ihc northward.——My fiiuaiion had now become ex
tremely critical, the wnole country to the North being in alarm
which made me greatly anxious to continue my march during the
night, but I had no path to diteft me, and it was impoflible to
keep my course, or for horsemen to march thro' a thick fwanipy
country, in utter darkness. : 1 quilted my camp on the 7th, as
soon as I could fee my way, crossed one path at three miles
distance, bearing N. E. and at seven miles I fell into another very
much used, bearing N. W. by N. which I at once adopted, as the
direfl route to my objett, and pushed forward with the utmoll
dispatch. I halted at 12 o'clock to refrtfh the horses, and exa
mmcthe men's armsand ammunition; marched again at half after
one, and at 15 miuutes before five I struck the Wabalh, at one
and a half leagues above the mouth of Eel River, being the very
spot for which I had aimed from the commencement of my march.
I crossed the river, and following the path a N. by E. courf- at
the distance of two and a half miles my reconnoitring party'an
nounced Eel River in front, and the town on the bdnk
I demounted, ran forward, and examined the fituatton of the
town as far as was practicable, without exposing myfelf, but the
whole face of the country from the Wabalh, to the margin of Eel
River, being a continued thicket of brambles, black jacks weeds
and (lirubs of different kinds, it was imooffible for me to E et a
Utisfaftory view without endangering a di'fcoverv. I immediately
determined to post two companies near the bank of the river on
polite to the town, and above the ground I then occupied to
make a detour will, Major Caldwell, and the second battalion
until I fell i.ito the Miami Trace, and by that route to cross
the river above, and gain the rear of the town, and to leave di
ctions with Major M'Dowell, who commanded the firft bat'a
ion, to he perdue until I commenced the attack, then to daJh
ffiult iV 1 r ' V ; Cr - W f " llh,S Cor P s and thc advanced guard, and
that I \ and " POn the left ' Ir > the moment
was h 8 about to put this arrangement into execution, W o"d
™! fT e 'i thjt , thei!nem >' h:,d taken th e alarm, and were
with al " rdc 'ed a general charge, which was obeyed
Dluntred rh It™" their Wa " °" r obft.e e
plun..ed through the river vith vast intrepidity. h:- ™,'
tT"CrV e andTo k nfur^ fl r^' a,nce - Si * warriors and (m
-S&w ssr-i
170
fttfe #»ptiv* rcleaM—with the'lofi of t,.-i m n ki"
wounded. 1 found this town scattered along I I Vu'* T"
full three miles, on an uneven f rubby oak barren, tirr r 7>-
alternately by bo S sa!moft irnpaflab uid iroprmoiuVk?"' -
plumb, hazle and black jacks—Motwithlbndingthefcditli ' !
if I may credit the report of the prisoners, very few wnoV.'
townefcaped ; evpe£ting a second expedition,their ur "'
generally packed up or buried. Sixu warriors had croli'vTT
Wabalh to watch the paths loading from the Ohm- t ;!
chief, with ail the prisoners, and a number of families' wjr
dig?intr a root which they substitute in the place of the
and about one hour before my arrival, all lit;- warriors '
eight, had mounted their horses and.rode up the i V" r< n , y
a l r -T-t lUi rrcii
itore, to purcnaie ammunition. —1 lr.s ammunition had
from the Miama Village that very clay, arid the fquawg ml,.,'> ' u \
me was stored about two miles from the town, i
Majoi Caldwell in quest of it, but lie failed to make any
very, altho' he fcouied the country for seven or ei lu i - i o „ 0 j
river. I encamped in the town that night, and th_ n P1
ing I cut up the com scarcely in the milk, hur.it the
mounted my young warriors, squaws and children in ;.ie b'<t
manner in my power, and leaving two infirm squaws and ach i
with a short talk (a copy of which I have the honor ;o enc c
you) I commenced my march for the Kickapoo Town in •
Prarie.—l felt my prisoners a vast incumbrance, but I was t
in force to juftify a dctachment, having barely 523 rank and ft e
and being then in the bosom of the Ountianon country, na
dred and eighty miles removed from succour, and not morei 1
one and a half days forced march from the Pattawattamecs s lld
wanefe and Delawares.
Not being able to discover any path in the dire# course to :'ie
Kickapoo Town, I marched by the road leading to Tidd- c. n »
in the hope of finding some diverging trace which might ( nour
my clefign. 1 encamped that eveningabout fix miles from Ken
apacomaqua, the Indian name for the, town I had deftrovcd jnd
marched next morning at four o'clock. Mycourle c iMtni.jed
Weft till nine o'clock, when I turned to the North \V it on a
small hunting path, and at a short distance I launched into the
boundless Prarics of the Weft, with the intention 10 j>uriue that
course, until I could strike a road which leads from ;(ie Pa : .
watamees of Lake Michigan, immediately to the town I sou it.
With this view I ptifhed forward, through bog after to ;he
saddle skirts in mud and water, and aftrr persevering for eight
hours. I found myfcjf environed on all fides with mora lies which
forbad my advancing, and at the fame time rendered it difficult
for me to extricate my little armv. The way by which we had
entered was fomuch beat and foftcned by the horses, that it wjs
almost impoflible to return by that route, and my guides pro
nounced the morass in front impsffable.—A chain of thm groves
extending in thedire&ion to the Wabafh, at this time presented
to my left, it was necefTnry I (hould gain these groves, and for
this purpose I difmountcd, went forward, and leading myborfe
through a bog to the arm-..its in mud and water, with greatdiffi.
cultv and fatigue I accomplifned my object, and changing my
course to S. by W. I regained the Tipecanoe road at five o'clock,
and encamp'd on it at 7 o'clock, after a march of thirty" miles,
which broke down several of my horses.
I am the more minute irj detailing the occurrcnccs of this day,
because thev produced the most unfavourable effe&t. 1 was in
motion at four next morning, and at eight o'clock my advanced
guard made some discoveries, which induced me to believe we
were near an Indian village, I immediately puttied that body
forward in a trot, and followed with Major Caldwell and the 2d
Battallion, leaving Major M'Dowell to take charge ot theprifon
ers. I reached Tipeeanoe at 12 o'clock, whic'i had been occupied
by the enemy, who watched my motions and abandoned ;he
place that morning. After the definition of this town in June,
last, the enemv had returned and cultivated their com and pulse,
which I found in high perfe&ion and in much greater quantity
than at L'Anguill'*. To refrtih my horses and give time to cut
down the corn, I determined to halt until the next morning and
then to resume my march to the Kickapoo Town, in the Prarie*
by the road which leads from Ouiattanon to that place. In the
course of the day I had difr.overcd some murmuring* and discon
tent among the men, which I found on enquiry to procccd from
their reludanee to advance farther into the enemy's country; this
induced me to call for a state of the horses and provisions, when
to my great mortification 270 horses were returned lame and tired,
with barely five days provisions for the men.
Under these circumstances I was compelled to abandon my df
figns upon the Kickapoos of the Prarie ; and with a degree of an
guifti not to be comprehended but by those wi o have experienced
similar difappointmcnts, I marched forward to a town ot the
lame nation, lituate about three leagues weft of Ouiattanon ; —as I
advanced to that town, the enemy made some fhewof fighting me,
but vanifiied at my approach. I destroyed this town, confining
of thirty houses, with a considerable quantity of corn in the milk,
and the fame dav I moved on to Ouiattanon, where I forded the
Wabafh, and proceeded to the site of the villages on the margin
of the Prarie, where I emcamped at 7 o'clock.—At this town and
the villages destroyed by Gen. Scott, in June, we found the corn
had been replanted, and was now in high cultivation, several fields
being well ploughed, all destroyed On the 12th, I
resumed my march, and falling into Gen. Scott's return trace, I
arrived without any material incident, at the Rapids of Ohio, on
the 21 ft inft. after a march by accurate computation, of 451 miles
from Fort Washington.
The Volunteers ot Kentucky have on this occrifion arquitfed
thcmfelves with their ufua' good condu£t, but as no opportunity
offered for individual diftin&ion, it would beunjuft to give one
the plaudits to which all have an equal title. I cannot, however,
in propriety forbear to express my warm approbation of the good
conduct of my Majors M Dowell and Caldwell, and of Col. Rus
sell, who in the chara£ler of a volunteer, without commiflion, led
my advance ; and I feel myielf under obligations to M-tjor Adair
and Capt. Parker, who a£led immediately about my person, for
tbe ferviccs they rendered me, by the moil prompt, a£live and
energetic exertions.
The services which I have been able to render, fall thortof my
wishes, my intention and expectation—but fir, when you reflect
on the canfes which checked my career, and blasted my defigus;
I flatter mytelf you will believe every thing has been done, waich
could be don.- in mv circumstances ; I have destroyed the chief
town of the Omattanon Ration, and made piiloners the Tonsaud
(ifters of the King ; I have burnt a respectable Kickapoo Village,
and cut down at lealt 430 acres of corn, chiefly in the milk, Ih e
Ouiattanons left without houlcs, home or provision, must ccafe to
war, and will find adlive employ to subsist their squaws and chil
dien during the impending winter.
Should these services secure to the country which I immediately
represented, and the corps which I had the honor to command,
the favourable conlideration of government, I {ball infer the ap
probation of my own conduct, which, added to a confcioufnels
of having done my duty, will constitute the licheft reward I can
enjoy. '
Mr. Charles Vancouvre will have the honor to deliver thi* letter
to your Exccllency, who attended me as Quartermaster to the ex
pedition and rendered me important fcrvices. He is able to g
you a fatisfaflory idea of the filiation of the country over whtC'
I pad d, and can ascertain with precision the coui fe and li e
to any point of my route. I recommend him to you as a Gene
man ot worth.
With the wannest and moll pcrfcft rcfpcft, I have the honor
to be your Excell nev's
Obliged, obedient and mod faithP 1 f rvant,
5 JA. WILKINSON.
His Excellency Major General St. Clai r,
Fort Wathington,A TALK,
From Lieutenant-Colonel-Commandant James Wilkinson, to
the Indian Nations living on the River Wabafh, See. 9th
August, 1791 -
To the Ind 1A n Nations living on the River WabUflt, and. its H ateis %
nHHE arms of the United States are again exerted against you,
1 and again your towns are in flames, and your wives and chil
dren made captives ; Again you are cautioned to listen to the voice
of reason, to i'ue for peace, and f'ubmit to the protection of the
United States, who are willing to become your friends and fathers;
but, at the fame time, are determined to puniih you tor every in
jury you may offer to their children. Regard not those evil coun
cilors, who, to secure to themselves the benefits of your trade, ad
vise you to measures which involve von, your women and chil
dren, in trouble and dilbefs.—The Unued States wifli to give you
peacc; because it is good in the eyes of the Great Spirit, that all his
children lliould unite and live like brothers : But if you fooliflily,
prefer war, their warriors are ready to meet yon in battle, and will
not be the firft to lay down the hatchet. You may find your
squaws and your children under the protection ot our great chief
and warrior General St. Clair, at Fort-Wafliington, to him you
will make all applications, for an exchange of pi iloners, or for
peace.
Given under my hand and seal, at Kenapacomaqua, the 9th
day of August, 1791
JAMES WILKINSON, Lieut. Col. Comdt.
BO S T O N, September 14
from the Salem Gazette
From (i Correspondent.
" I remai-k, in the Centinei, the toaftgiven
at the entertainment in this town, on Tuesday
last, in honor of " the Man ivhoje exertions ficured
cw fijhtries" with the addition of the " Vice-
Presi dent of the United States'"—with refped: to
which I suppose the Printer mult have been mif
informed ; as the explanatory clause looks like
an irtfult upon the information of American ci
tizens—for he mu!t be a SLAVE who does not
know the PATRIOT, to whose exertions the
United States are indebted for that source of
wealth and naval strength."
The Editor had his injormation from a gentleman prefentat the
entertainment, end meant to give the toafl literally as he heard it.—
That no explanation zoas nectary to Americans, he acknowledges—but
the world at la rge may not be Jo well injormei.
It is with pleasure we learn, that the building
for the Academy at Hallo-well, in the eastern part
of this Commonwealth, is ereiSed, and finifhing
with rapidity.
Within these few days have arrived from Phila
delphia, the American Artists, who were em
ployed by Mr. Cox, in conftrudling the bridge at
Londonderry, in Ireland.
Mr. Cox, we suppose, is now on hispaffage, via
Liverpool. And it is with pleasure we learn,
that the altercation which took place some time
since, between him and the Corporation of Lon
donderry, is happily accommodated—and that
he lias received from the people of Ireland, re
peated marks of liberality and kindness.
The Rev. Mr. Thayer has in his pofleffion a
well-executed silver Medal of the Pope, Pius VI.
which was presented to him by his Ilolinefs at
Rome. The Pontiff Is a tall, flout man, of an
agreeable nfpetft—and poflerted of much compla
cency of temper. His dress is usually of white
fattin—and his hat of fcarlct.
Lalt week an ingenious experiment in the Ar
chitectural Art, was made at Concord in this
Suite. A new Steeple for the Meeting-house was
built and finifhed on the ground—and was then
raised and elevated, perpendicularly and entire,
to the top of the tower, and fixed in its place by
the afliftance of tackles. The distance it was
raised is 120 feet, and the operaiion was com
pleted in 15 minutes, to the great fatisfaiflion of
a very large concourse of spectators.
HARTFORD, Sept. 19.
On Saturday last. a Powder-Nlill in £ast Hart
ford, belonging to Mr. Eliflia Pitkin, jun. con
taining about a ton of powder, accidentally took
fire and blew up. Three pel sons cf the names
of Evans, Corning and Brown, employed in niak
ing powder, were inltamaneoiifly killed ; Mr.
Jabez Norton was very daiigeroufly burnt—one
man had his arm broken, and several others were
slightly wounded, by this unfortunate explosion.
The mill, and two adjacent buildings, were en
tirely demolished, and property to a large amount
dellroyed.
1 he insurgents, in Hifpaniola, began their ra
vages 2 leagues to the leeward ef the Cape, ami
proceeded in different diteftions, bnrningd well
ing houses and sugar houses, laying waste fields
of cane, and butchering the whites of all ages
and boih sexes, in the most barbarous manner.
The regular troops had been ordered with the
militia, to march and oppose their prcgrefs, but
■were unable to withstand their fury. On the
d'.v this letter was written, the General ordered
ail the troops to repair to the town in order to
f ' ' ' it, in cafe of an attack which was ex-
pe<fted
GEORGE-TOWN, (M.) Sept. 17.
On Thursday last was killed, in the city of
Wartiington, and in the di(lri<fl of Columbia, by
'lie falling of a tree,in opening one of the Itreets,
r-ir. Walter Hanson, jun. a gentleman of
p 1 eat mechanical ingenuity, and unblemished re
putation. Ke was in the employ of Mr. Ellicott,
j ls one of hi? alfiftants.— Me has left a difconfo
te widow,fourfmall children,and many friends
tU ' am ent h;& untimely fate.
Philadelphia, September 24.
In the Honfe ofßeprtffentativeson Wednesday,
after the petitions and reports were gone through,
Mr. Wells (aid, that previously to entering 011 the
older of the day, he would beg leave to solicit
the attention of the House to ah event which mult
interest the feelings of every member present;
the very recital of which was fufßcient to make
the boldest heart to tremble—that it would rea
dily be conceived he alluded to the recent intelli
gence received from the Island of Hilpaniola,
wherewith the most savage turj the Negroes and
Mulattoes were committing an indiscriminate and
horrid carnage. In this trying situation, the
miserable fuiviving inhabitants have sent to the
United States for relief—the Congrels are not
fitting— the President is in Virginia—and the Le
gislature of Pennsylvania is the only Body that
can afford timely succour; Whilst therefore these
savages are carrying the dagger to the breails of
the affrighted inhabitants, it is our duty, said he,
to step forward—he therefore would submit the
following motion :
" This House, taking into consideration the
melancholy accounts received from the Jfl.ind of
Hifpaniola, where a cruel and barbarous maflacre
of the white inhabitants had commenced on the
23d of August, and.continued with unremitting
fury on the 26th, when the veflel which brings
the intelligence left the island—and feeling a
deep sympathy for the diftrefled and dreadful li
tuation of the wretched inhabitants of Cape-Fran
cois, then closely besieged by an enraged and bru
tal multitude of Negroes and Mulattoes—as citi
zens of the world.—as men enjoying the blessings
of peace, and in duty bonr.d to relieve our fellow
creatures in an hour of such terror and misery,
which will not admit of delay until the meeting
of Congress, do enter into the following resolu
tions:
" Resolved, That the legislature will imme
diately draw forth a portion of those resources,
with which the.(late is eminently blefled, to fuc
coiir the unhappy inhabitants of Cape-Francois,
besieged on the 23d of August last, by a murder
ing and desperate host of Negroes and Mulattoes.
" Resolved, That a committee be appointed
to bring in a bill to enable the governor imme
diately t6 charter two veflels, and load them with
provisions, to be sent to the Island of Hifpaniola,
and difpofedof in such manner as may molt ef
fectually contribute to the relief of the diftrefled
inhabitants, and if required, the said veflels shall
receive as many of them on board with their ef
feiSts as can be accommodated, and proceed ei
ther to some of the neighboring lflands, or to
such part of the continent of Anicrica as may be
judged mod expedient."
When the motion was laid on the table, every
member present so fully felt an instantaneous
impreflion of humanity, that it was called up for
a second reading, in order to be carried into im
mediate effe<ft ; but it was thought necessary to
poflefs the house with some more authentic do
cuments than were then in their hands, it was
determined to submit the motion to a committee
of five members, viz. Meflrs. Wells, Boys, Cly
mer, Gallatin and Evans, to make enquiry into
the ground of the intelligence, and report to the
house.
We arc happy to inforni the public, that the
application made on the 2lft instant to the go
vernment of the United States by theminifter of
France, for aid in money and certain ftipplies, to
enable him to furnifli thegovernment of Hifpani
ola with such articles as are lieceflary for its sup
port against the black insurgents, and for the
relief of the inhabitants, was attended with im
mediate compliance, to the full extent of the re
quest made. The powers veiled by Congress in
ihe chief magistrate, have been so arranged by
him, as to admit of the prompt assistance which
the circumstances of the cafe required, which
must afford the highest fatisfatfion to every friend
°f good government in France, and to the ref
pecftability of that of the United States.
In conl'cquence of the above information, a
motion was made in the House of Representatives
on Thursday, tofufpend the resolution which had
been agreed to, for fending two vessels loaded
with provisions to Hifpaniola.—The motion was
laid on the table.
On Thursday the annual Commercement of the University of
Pennsylvania was held. The Profetfors ar.d Students of the insti
tution', having aflembled at the philosophical had, walked thence
in proceflion to the Prefbvtertan Church in Arch-Street, where <be
•wo branches of the I.egiflature, and a polite concourse of citizen*
and foreigners aflembled. The exercifei began at 10 o'clock. A
pr a} e> from the Provott, introduced the Orations, which were de
livered in the following order :
A salutatory Oration on Industry, with its advantages public
and piinte, bv Jejft Mcorc—An Oration on the way to arrive at
Ufrfulnefs and tnnnence, bv Jccob Richards—On (he Improve
ments of a Country bv Roads and inland Navigation, by Thomas
b ddle On the fuhieft of Homer's Iliad, by 1 homas frrgujm—
On the of Civilization, and its Dtftfli that reman yet to
be amended, paiticulatly in the Laws (or Ihe Confinement of
Deoto.s in cubhc Jails, by JoJtph Htryhill- On the Objeftmnj
in<! Mgtives to l)ie Prafkice of Virtue, by John Uo)i- Oo tfcclu
171
ture Profpe&s of America, by Jarr.es Latimer—On the Char?#e»-
of a Man who (Indies to difplcale, by James Miller—On the Im
portance of Literature to America, by John iarfon —On the Ad
vantages of Money, by ConyvghamSem file-—.On. P.cjudice, by James
Wiltbasik—On the Summum Bonum, or Chief Good, by Jciemi&'c
Sturgeon-—On Fame, by William Stokes.
Inftrnmcntal Muficwas introduced in the intervals bet ween the
performances.
The Provost conferred degrees of Bachelor of Arts on the above
named young Gentl men, and on the valedi&ory Orator.
The degree of Matter of Arts was alio conferred on a number
of Gentlemen.
The Valedi&ory Oration was then delivered by John Parker.
A chaigeto the class by the Provost, and a Prayer and Benedic
tion, by the Vice-Proyoft, concluded the whole performance.
It is an observation which experience will juftify, that mankind
in those revolutions which form a conspicuous figure in the hiitory
of the world, have frequently fallen short of their originally pro
posed attainments—and this arises generally from an undue ex
panfion of their ideas in the progress of their exertions. Simple
obje&s concenter their force ; but when they arc multiplied, and
become complicated, the public mind grows bewildered, enfee
bled and divided—this producing confufion in their councils,
brings a crisis which is always favorable to the designs ot del
potifm.
Let the principle of liberty be once infufed into a constitution
of government —if the people are just to themfelvcs, and virtuous
enough to feel for posterity, it will, tho like a grain of mullard
feed, become a tree of such magnitude as to afford a shelter from
the scorching rays of despotism to future generations. But it may
be just ly questioned, whether the Hat of Deitj itfelf, commanding
a nation to be free, will produce the effc6l on an ignorant and vi
cious people.
Oppression, which often makes the people mad, does not al
ways lead to measures calculated to secure their future happincf*
and freedom. One reason is, the public res ntment is too olten
confined to men, when it ought to be extended to measures; ano
ther is, that outrage and paflion always prove hostile 10 the belt
intercits of the people.
The recent accounts from Hifpaniola have occa
sioned a rife in thf price of Weft-India produce :
But when it is co'hfidered that there isthefairelt
profpetft of excellent crops this season, particu
larly in those lflands from whence the United
States are supplied—a little economy in the ex
penditure of sugar and coffee, for a fliort time,
will tend to keep down the market.
English Papers to the id Augiift, received at
New-York, fay that a marriage is concluded on
between the Duke of York and a daughter of the
King of Prussia.
EXTRACTS
The name of Nero is not mentioned without
execration, and yet we find that after his death
(detestable as his life had been) the noble Ro
man people, were in such concern, calling to
mind his plays and feafts, that they were accord
ing to Tacitus, very near going into mourning for
that monster—Nor will this be thought Itrange,
if we consider what the fame people had done at
the death of Julius Ctfar, who abolilhed both
their laws and liberty—after he was killed, the
people who had yet his banquets in their mouths,
and in their minds the memory of his prodigali
ties, to (hew their refpeft and make his funeral
pile, they heaped together all the feats of the
Forum, and then raised for him a pillar of Nu
m'tdian marble, as to the father of his country.
Were all books reduced to their quiiiteflence,
many a bulky author would make his appear
ance in a penny paper ; there would scarcely
be any such thing as a fblio in the world :—the
works of an age would be contained on a few
shelves ; not to mention millions of volumes that
would be annihilated.
Providence has (tamped every possession of
man with this inscription :—
RF. JO ICE WITH TRF. MBMNO.
MR. FENNO,
An O *icer who served, during the late wai, under the
chara&cr whose recent loss has produced the following sympa
thetic effufion, requests you will give »t a place in your next.
ON THE DEATH OF MARCUS C. KNOX,
Son oj Major-Genera/ Knox—9 !
BRIGHT as the Gems, the wealthy Orients boast—
Sweet as the Odours of their spicy Coast;
A pearly Dew-drop, fee some Flow'r ad >rn,
And grace, with all its Pnde, the rising Morn :
But soon the Sun emits a fiery Ray,
And the fair Fabrick rushes to decay ;
Low in the Dust the beauteous Rum lies,
While the pure Vapour fceks its nauve Skies;
A Fate like this, to the sweet Youth was given,
Who sparkled, bloom'd, and was cxhal'd to Heaven.
SHIP NEWS,
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
Copy of a Utter record from the Collector at Salem and Beverley.
" The 'chooner F lhcr, Webb, is now conung into this harbour.
Capt. Webb on his passage fell in with a ve(T< I from London bound
to Philadelphia, in distress. He took, out the Captain and crew,
with as many good; as ihe schooner would contain, after which the
(hip immediately went down. This information is from a boat
which has been along-side the schooner." The (hip prove* to be
the Marquis de la Fayette
Th (hip Birmingham, Capt. Robinson, of New-York* i* put
into Marblehrad difmaflcd. Repoits fay that the Captainand five
men were washed overboard.
JTj** Securities as in our last.
The length of the mteUtgence Jrum General Wilkinfon, has ex
cluded many articles prepared for this day's Gazette.
\rj- Tickets in the NEIV-HAVEN WHARF
LOTTERY, warranted undrawn the 16th injlant,
being the latefl intelligence from thence, to be had et
SAMUEL ANDERSON, next door to the Bank, m
Chcfnut-Jlrett.
AMICUS.FROM THE BEE
conjectuk.es on taxation
(CurlincJfrom So. 40 of this t'.azet!'..)
''IT'AXES upon merchandize and manufactures,
X if moderate, are advanced without scruple,
bccaufe thole who advance them, are sensible
they will be repaid the advance. Taxes of this
description are not obvious to the repayers, be
cause they are confounded with the price ; they
are not obviously oppreflive even to the lower
class of t!:e people, because the repayment is
made in small futns at different times : a person
■who drinks a pint of (trong beer per day, will
repay to the advancer of the duty upon ltrong
beer 114-434 daily ; such a person might perhaps
be unable to pay at once 10s. 6d. psr ami.
The produce of a tax, mult be greater than
the particular purpose for which it isimpofed re
quires, in proportion to the expence of colle<fl
ing it
As taxes upon imports or manufactures,appear
east oppreflive or odious, it may be proper to en
tire which are least burclenfome when ultimatc
y paid. If upon a comparison it /hould be found,
liat the nett produce ofthe revenue arifiug from
be duties of excif'e, is more in proportion rothe
jro'fs than that of the ciiitoms, the fexcife duties
vill be said to be collected at less expence than
hose of the customs. The fees of revenue offi
:ers being equally a tax upon the public with
heir salaries ; if at any time it flionld appear,
hat the fees paid to officers ofthe customs, are
greater than tliofe paid to officers of excise, will
it not further leflen the proportion between the
gross and nett produce of that branch of reve
nue*? The person who advances any part of a
tax, is not only repaid it, but is also paid a pre
mium for the money he hasf'ndvanced.
If a duty amounting to too,oool. is advanced
a year before it is repaid, suppose the premium
101. per cent, such a tax will be to the repayers
110, 0001. i
Taxes on manufacture therefore, will be less
burdenfotne than imports upon materials ; hence
ale is more properly taxed than malt.
For tne fame reason excise duties which are
impofcd 011 manufacture, are more apparently
proper, than the duties of customs, which fall
indifFerently upon material and manufacture.
Perhaps a greater revenue might be raised from
the duty on sugar, without increasing the burden
of the people in general, if the greater proporti
on of it was charged upon the fugar.-baker,from
ail account taken of it after fining-
Smuggling is the conltant attendant on heavy
duties ; and it is a double tax upon the public ;
because, when it obtains, the revenue is directly
dimini/hed, and the failure at the import, mult
be compensated by some new itnpoftsf. Besides,
in such cases, restrictive laws are made, to pre
vent abuses of this kind, the execution of which
requires an additional number of officers : this
subjects the public to an additional expence,
without benefiting the revenue; for we appre
hend, where the temptation to Snuggling is fuf
ficiently powerful, restricting laws have in no one
inftatice had a good effect. To prevent finug
gling therefore, taxes ought so be moderate ;
hence many articles mull: be taxed. There is
another reason for laying moderate taxes on a
variety of commodities : When a commodity
comes to be subjeCted to a tax, whether a home
manufacture or an import, a certain proportion
of the stock employed in carrying on irs manu
facture or importation mull be detached for the
purpofeof advancingthe tax, and such manufac
ture or trade may fuffer by the loss of the stock
thus advanced.
Anothercircumftnnce merits attention: The
fame wants may be supplied by a variety of arti
cles ; among thele there will be a natural coin
petition of price ; an import: on one, will de
stroy in proportion to its heaviness this natural
competition, and may turn the scale in favor of
another, until the rile in its price is compensated
by improvements in its manufacture or other
wise. (To be continued.)
Is not every foe a bribe ? or at lead a mode of payment that
has a tendency to debase the mind, and tor which the dor.or ex
pels more than the mere discharge of duty ?
+ Lord North laid an additional duty on theprice
was falling t as the value ol a taxed commodity falls, the tax rises
advalorem ; and of courfc the temptation to fmuggiing increafcs
the tax on loap is at present about 501. per cent ad valorem ■ and
it may with prohabiliiy be predicted, that the quantitv of fonp
charged wuhduty will tall helow its usual average, in confequenee
or In-Higgling.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHKA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES &c.&c
Of the fiiH quality—by retail, '
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chcfuut and Market Streets.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
V*£- I w y ' l d C - hfs ~ t " c 7.. m ™ce drawing 26th inft. ) Pofi.
MalTachufcus Semiannual, ad ClaCs, ,3.1, OSober. t.vclv
May be had as above.
Forty Dollars Reward.
T AST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at I»or-
I j dentown, and iloien from the fame t lie following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing woinrns' weaiing apparel; 1 frnall
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftarnents; i ditto
containing onr bottle green cloth coat, one Itripcd vest and
breeches, two Ihirts and a small b*s with 36 dollars and 20s. to
301. Jex fey coppers; 1 keg containing a bible, with other
Imall books ; 1 box containing 447 real ollrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
me*!, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel oork, 1 ream paper, and
Ji dozen pafie-'boards.-! Stolen at the fame tune, a laige Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, to that the owners tnay have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; ulfo a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so thafrthey may be brought tojufcice, l»v
VAN EMBURGH.
[eptf]
Bordentown, New- ]erfcy, Sept. i. 1701
TF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of Little York, in Virginia,
X hut originally ol Scarborough, in York (hi re, Great-Britain)
wilJ ma-ke himfelf. known, together with bis present place of ic>
fidence, either to his brother John Franks, who is now in this
Port, or to the fubferiber, he will hear of something greatlvto his
advantage.
Portland, (Diftrift of Maine] Augttji 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the dereafeof Mr. Franks, his legal heir or
heirs are requeftcd to forward their names and places ot abode to
Mr. Ron 1 nson, as above.
IV. M'D OU C ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at h'.s School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years ; hopes the reputation
ot his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a relpe&able Hi are of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, m?v be allured, they will be taught in the mo.ft approved
stile, and that proper attcpttou will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&ifinp for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wcdnefday ; when the
employers, and Arangersoi genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra£bfings >v 111 be attend-ed with no expence.
N. 15. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
LOUISIANA.
ALL those persons who have an inclination to fettle on the rich
iJL lands ol the Mififlippi, can have a passage to New Orleans
about the 20th of Ottober next. Each finglc man on his arrival
there, will have a grant of two hundred and forty acres of land,
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, a larger quantity, in proportion to the numbcrof his family.
For further particulars, enquire of Meffis. Stewart &Nesbitt,
No. 15., South Water-Street.
Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1791
Public Securities,
Boicht and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strcet, next door to th* Bank, No qj
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To ho had atthe fame place,
Georgetown, September q, *791.
THE Sales of the Lots in the Federal Citj will commence on
Monday the i7th day of O&obcr next. The Commillioners
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the public
buildings to any drlirable extent; with a view to draw the fund
into action. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a deposit of 8
per cent, will require I.4th part of the purchale monev to be paid
down, the refidueto be on bonds with fecuritv, payable with i.i
tertft in three equal payments'. The manner of improvement will
be published at the sale.
Thomas Johnson, }
David Stuart, > Commiflioners.
Daniel Carroll,)
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS II
THE MANAGERS of ih- STATE-I.OTTERY afTure the
Public, that the second CUss of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day aopoi'nted
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Oclobtr next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be difpolrd of. As (he Managers have in their several
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour ailigned so
they are determined to be equally as ptin&ual in this '
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
2,5,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars to
be paid m the following Prizes, fubjrft to a dedu£tion of twelve
and an half per cent, for '.he nfc of the Commonwealth.
riiw.ES. _ Dollaks. Dollars.
1 or
2
3
6
10
3°
80
90
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks
25000 Tickets.
''V-r 1 ° r,hc
Of the Commonwealth'!f °W' J T *'""" " ER
Franklin's Head, Court.ftrefi-and at n.| ,T *'i" t B ' ,o k-ftorc,
bvmt a ~ 1 ot " er P la ces. asufual
AUSTIN jun .l
DAVID COBB, J
SAMUEL COOPER. 1 V . VIP
GEORGi: R. MI NOT
/!„/? a, • J OHN KNtE'^AND,
Kejtan, April 14, 179!. ' J
172
THOMAS ROBINSON.
10000 j s
3 00 ° arc
2000
1000
s°°
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
1 o
8
books.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, Nokth-Front-Street
HAVE FOR SALE, '
A large colle&ion of BOOKS-
Among which are the following '
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
T OVELASS on Bills of Ex-
JL-J change.
Clerk's Vade Mccum.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Pifpenfatory. Buchan's Domestic V
Cullen's Firlt Lines of the Prac- latell edition. nC '
lice of Pfiyfic. Claik on Difrafesof Horse.
Ruth's Medical Enquiries. Gentleman's Pockrt Farri-i
Brown's Elements of Medicine.
Ofterwald's ChriflianTheology. Jenyn'? Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion the Chrillian Rcli g i„ n
in the Soul. Beattie's Evidence of Ditto
Neckcr on Religious Opinions. Think Well On't.
Fordyce's Addrctfes to Young Dc»outChrifti 3n 'sVadeM^,, m
Men. Edwards's History of Redcmp-
Sermons to Young tion. 1
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide.
Newton's Dtflertations on the
Prophecies.
Le&ures delivered by Soame
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrance!
Future State Eternal.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons.
Ramfav's American Revolution
History of Amcrica.
Morfc's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Pelew
i (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's I ntroduflion to the mak
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor-
ft. f.)
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
Sele&je e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftorias.
Scott's Lc.fTons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catcchifm of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Tatte.
Klopftock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
ffi'l
IMPORTED ROOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hillory, Andrews's Hiltorv of the Ame
vo's« rican War, 4 vols.
Nlcholfon's Navigation. New Annual Register.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations.
quiries.
Experimental EflTays.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra&s.
Beauties of the Britifti Senate.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Philadelphia, Augujl 6 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all to whom these prcfents shall come, or in any wile concern,
1 hat JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deeeaied, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen shillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to t wo thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthii
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afiigned by the Sa
muel Jack lon to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the !aid Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount ot two thousand and forty- seven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fnbfcribers have fufficient vouchers.
10000
6000
6000
6000
,500 c
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
2 OC-O
60680
Thefearc therefore to caution all persons from purchafingfaicl
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, £ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
W jtmingtnn, Norf/i-Caro/ma, 9 ylh Ma\, 1791 '
1 2^oo©
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
THE Comrrnflioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
Bank ot the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form the Stockholders of the said Bank, that an election for twenty
five Directors will he held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, oa
t riday the 21ft day of O&ober next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID R-ITTEN HOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
PT Wank Powers to receive the Intei eft, and for the transjtr of t>i
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eft abhfled in the _ red-'
fury Department : Also Blanks for abjlrdts of Certificates, toocjw"
the Editor. J j J J
Dallas's Reports.
Kuby's Connefticui Reports
Conductor Centralis.
on the Religious As-
fe&ions.
against Chauneev.
Booth's Apology for the Bapt.fls
Doway Translation of the Vul
gate Bible.
Enfield s Family Prayers.
Merhodift Hymns.
Waits's Hymns and Pfalmr.
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenck,
Smith's Wealth of Nations
Moral Philosophy.
Smellie's Piiilofophv of Natural
History.
Nicholfon's Natural Philofoohy
Junius's Letters. 4
Hale's Aff-flionate Epistles to
his Children.
Beauties of Jolinfon.
• of Stein?,
Percival's Father's Inflru6lions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accompiifned Gentleman.
Ela, or the Dclufions of the
Heart
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chcftei field's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Piefent for an Apprentice.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life of Robinson Crufoe.
Saville's Mifcelianics,
School of Wisdom,
Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Description of 300 Animals.
Boyle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Belifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties ofHiftory.
Allifori's Essay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w&{~3w iaw6t)
(e. p. 3 ««•