PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNC>, No. 6 9 , HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 102, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila—No. 51.
" Patrum interim animos, certamen regni, ac cupido verfibat."
two armies met in Burgundy—but the Piinces, being in-
X ferior, evaded an engagement.
The Queen Mother, in 1570, had too much penetration not to
unravel the manoeuvres of the Marftials de Cofle and Damville.
She informed the King of them, and pcrfuaded him to listen to
pronofitions of accommodation. She perceived that the paflions
and the perfidy of these grandees, might throw the (late into the
greatest dangers, if the war was continued. She was still more de
termined by the news which (he received from Germany, where
the Prince Cafimir began to raise troops in favor of the Hugonots.
The finances were exhausted to such a degree, that they knew not
where to find funds to pay the Swiss and Italian troops, to whom
they owed large arrears. In short, they wished for peace; and
were weary of a war which held all men's minds in perpetual
alarms, which reduced a great part of the people to beggary, and
which cost the date so many men, and so much money. The
King held, with the Queen Mother, the Duke of Anjou, and the
Cardinal of Lorraine, councils, in which they rcfolved to return
to the projett, already so many times formed and abandoned to
grant peace to the Hugonots—to deliver the kingdom from joreign troops,
and finally to employ artifice, and take advantage of favorable conjunc
tures —to take off the chiefs of the party, which they thought would yield
oj itjef infallibly, as soon ai it fhouldfee itfelf deprived of the support
of its leaders. It was thus, that the court would have substituted
craft instead of force, to execute a design, which the obstinacy of
the Hugonots, or the want of fidelity in those who commanded
armies, had always defeated whenrccourfe had been only to arms,
With such dark and horrid views were overtures of peace made,
and conditions concluded. The Princes and Admiral, still diffi
dent and diftruftful, retire to Rochellc. The Kiug
gain their confidence. To this end, he proposes to give his filter
Marguerite in marriage, to the Prince of Navarre, and to make
war in Flanders upon the Spaniards. The marriage is resolved on,
and all the Chiefs ot rhe Hugonots come to Court. The Queen of
Navarre is poifoncd. After her death the marriage is celebrated,
dur : ng the fealts of which, Admiral Coligni is wounded by an af
faflin. The King takes the resolution that, as in extreme cases it is
imprudence to do things by halves, the Hugonots should be exter
minated. The night between the 23d and the 24th of August,
1572, a Sunday called Saint Bartholomew's Day, the Admiral is
maflacred, and almost all the other Calvinifts are cut in picces in
Paris, and in several other cities of the kingdom.
Such, in nations where there is not a fixed and known consti
tution, or where there is a constitution, without an effe&ua! ba
lance, arc the tragical effe&s of emulation, jealousies and rivalries
deftruftion to all the leaders—poverty, beggary and ruin to the
followers. France, after a century of such horrors, found no re
medy against them but in absolute monarchy : noi did anv nation
ever find any remedy against the miseries of such rivalries among
the gentlemen, but in despotism, monarchy, or a balanced consti
tution. It is not necelTary to fay, that every despotism and mo
narchy that ever has existed among men, arose out of such emula
tions among the principal men ; but it may be aflerted with con
fidence, that this cause alone is fufficient to account for the rife
progress and establishment of every despotism and monarchy in
the four quarters of the globe.
It is not intended at this time to pursue any further this inflic
tive though melancholy history, nor to make any comparisons, in
detail, between the state of France in 1791, and the condition it
was in two or three centuries ago. But if there are now differen
ces of opinion in religion, morals, government and philosophy
if there are parties and leaders of parties—if there are emulations
if there are rivalries and rivals—is there any better provision made
by the constitution to balance them now than formerly ? If there
is not, what is the reason ? who is the cause ? All the thunders of
heaven, although a Paratonnere had never been invented, would
not in a thousand vears have destroyed so many lives, nor otca
fionrd so much desolation among mankind, as the majority of a
legislature in one uncontrouled aflembly may produce in a single
Saint Bartholomew's Day. Saint Bartholomew's Davs arc the na
tural, neceflary and unavoidable effect and consequence of diversi
ties in opinion, the spirit of party, unchecked passions, emulation
and rivalry, where there is not a power always ready aud inclined
to throw weights into the lightest scale, to preserve or restore the
equilibrium.
With a view of vindicating republics, commonwealths and free
States, from unmerited reproaches, we have detailed these anec
dotes from the history of France. With equal propriety we
might have resorted to the history of England, which is full of
contefls and diffeniions of the fame fort. There is a morsel of
that history, the life and attions of the prote&or Somerset, so re
markably apposite, that it would be worth while to relate it—for
the prcfent however it mull be waved. It is too faftiionable with
writers to impute such contentions to republican governments, as
if they were peculiar to them ; whereas nothing is further from
reality. Republican writers themselves have been as often guilty
of this mistake, in whom it is an indiscretion, as monarchical
"writers, in whom it may be thought policy ; in both however it
isanerror. W? shall mention only two, Machiavel and deLolme.
In Machiavel's history of Florence, lib. 3, we read " It is given
| from above that in all republics, there should be fatal families,
, are born for the ruin of them ; to the end that in human
affairs nothing should be perpetual or quiet."
indeed this were acknowledged to be the will of heaven, as
chiavel seems to afTert, why should we entertain resentments
against such families ? They are but inflruments, and they cannot
ut answer their end. If they are commiflioned from above to
4l e angels, why should we oppose or resist them ! As to
the end" there are other caufcs enough, which will forever pre
vent perpetuity or tranquility, in any great degree in human af
'airs* Animal life is a chemical process ; and is carried on by
unceasing motion. Our bodies and minds, like the heavens the
p. and the sea, like all animal, vegetable mineral nature;
1 e the elements of earth, air, fire and water, are continually
C an S ,n g- "1 he mutability and mutations of matter, and much
pore of the inteile&ual and moral world, are the consequence o!
Jw-sof nature,not less without our power than beyond our compre
ssion. While we are thus allured that in one sense nothing in
uman affairs will be perpetual or at reft ; we ought to remem
'er at fame time, that the duration of our lives the security ol
our property, the existence of our conveniences, comforts anr
Pea ures,the repofeof private life and (he tranquility of fociet)
a,c paced in very great degrees, in human power. Equal law
, C nrr '" an d executed, great families as well as little ones,
u rc^ And that policy is not lefj pernicious tha'
•' p nlofophy is falfe, which reprcfentj such families as lent
Wednesday, April 20, 1791.
by heaven to be judgments : It is not true in fact. On the con
trary they are rent to be blessings - and they are blessings, until bv
T.T'r u "™ tt ' lgn ° ratlCe and im P r "dence, in refuting to ef
tabliffi such inftituttons as will make them aUays blessings, we
■ urn t hem into cutfes. There are evils it is true which attend them
ts well as all other human blessings, even government, liberty, vir
tue and relig-.on. It is the province of philosophy and policy to
increase the good and lcffcn the evil that attends them as much as
poHiole. But it is not surely the way, either to encreafe the good
or ltiien the evil which accompanies such families, to represent
chem to the people as machines, as rods, as scourges, as blind and
mechanical instruments in the hands of divine vengeance, un
mixed with benevolence. Nor has it any good tendency or el
a to endeavor . to render them unpopular ; to make them ob
jects of hatred, malice, jeaioufy, envy or revenge, to the common
people. The way ol wisdom to happiness is to make mankind
more friendly to each other. The existence of such men or fami
lies is not their fault. They created not themselves. We, the
Plebeians, find them the workmanfliip of God and i.ature like
ourselves. The constitution of nature and the course of provi
dence has produced them as well as us : and they and we must live
ogether; it depends upon ourselves indeed whether it {hall be in
peace, love and friendlhip, or in war and hatred. Nor are they
reasonably the objetts of censure or averfiou. of resentment, envy
or hatred, for the gifts of fortune, any more than for those of na
ture. Conspicuous birth is no more in a man's power to avoid,
than to obtain. Hereditary riches are no more a reproach than
they are a merit. A paternal estate is neither a virtue »ior i fault.
He must nevertheless be a novice in this world who does not know
that these gifts ot fortune, are advantages in society and life, which
confer influence, popularity and power. The diftin&ion that is
made between the gifts of nature and those of fortune appears to
be not well founded. It is fortune which confers beauty and
strength, which aie called qualities of nature as much as birth
and hereditary wealth, which are called accidents of fortune :
and on the other hand it is nature which confers these favors, as
really as stature and agility.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
[Continued from our last.]
IF a man has power over me, and aperfon con
vinces me that he is my adversary, his power
immediately becomes an object of fear : Fear
speedily becomes hatred, and I am incited to de
flroy the power, which so disturbs me. The
power of a good government is naturally an ob
ject of love and admiration. Every man confid
ing in the benevolent disposition of his rulers,
considers their power as his own—and we consi
der our own power with great complacency and
regard. But when a state legillature palles a cen
sure upon Congress, how does it operate upon
men's opinions ? The citizen may fay, this As
sembly has power over my life and property —
it decides on other laws wifely, and without be
ing disobeyed—why fliould it be less competent
to decide on this law, which it has called a bad
one, than upon other occasions : Those who make
bad laws, and attempt to subvert liberty, are cer
tainly very bad men, and very unfit to hold the
reins of authority any longer.
What sentiments will succeed thefeimpreffions ?
Those who nnderftand human nature will fay,
this man will fear and hate the government, and
as soon as he thinks he has malecontents enough
on his fide to support him, he will despise and
disobey it. But what if this appeal to his passions
fliould be made at the moment when a law, in
dispensably neceflary to the union, but highly
obnoxious to the fears and prejudices of the peo
ple, is going into operation ! If the gunpowder
fliould not happen to take fire, we are not to
thank those for our escape who throw firebrands.
What renders this pratfiice of States remon
strating against the laws of the union peculiarly
delicate is, the nature of our confederation—one
government over many governments : What can
keep them from interfering, bnt their mutually
(hunning one another's walks. But if they will
take up in one house the bufinefsof another, and
decide it in opposition to Congress, one of two
things will take place—either the censure will
have no effect, and be disregarded, which by
abating the dignity and refpetftability of the
censuring body, is an injury to the cause of good
government, and brings it into contempt : Or if
it has any effect, it must be to the prejudice of
the body censured—making it appear ignorant
or ill-intentior.ed—deftroying men's confidence
in it, and of course abating the influence of the
laws : This effei-T: is pernicious—but it is infinite
ly worse in violent party times ; for when a state
ranges itfelf on the fide of one party, and fulmi
nates censures against the other, the dignity of a
great body-politic gives the contest the afpecft of
a national quarrel. In this ltate of things, the
address of a few bad men, and the violence of
many weak ones, may push it to the decision of
thefword, which usually arbitrates between an
gry societies. Let the candid and discerning
lovers of peace and good order weigh this ten
dency of our affairs. Every free man has his
weight with our elective government; leave him
821
o
[Whole No. 20 £.1
by remonftrancc to seek redress, lie will not want
advocates : Besides the man of his choice, cham
pions enough will espouse his cause, and make a
merit of their zeal in it ; at lead the enquiry
will be fair, and the decision will be submitted
to the calm unbiafled judgment of the public.
[To be continued
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, Feb. 8.
The BANK BILL under confdtration,
MR. MADISON
OBSERVED, that the present is a question
which ought to be conducted with modera
tion and candor—and therefore there is no oc
casion to have recourse to those tragic represen
tations, which have been adduced— warmth and
passion fliould be excluded from the discussion of
a fubjeft, which ought to depend on the cool dic
tates of reason for its decision.
Adverting to the observation of Mr. Smith,
(S. C.) " that it would be a deplorable thing for
the Senate of the United States to have fallen on
a decision which violates the conflitut ion," he
enquired, What does the reasoning of the gen
tleman tend to ihew but this, that from refpett
tothe Senate, this house ought to fanftion their
decisions ? And from hence it will follow, that
the President of the United States ought, out of
refpecft to both, to fanifiion their joint proceed
ings ; but he could, he said, remind the gentle
man, of his holding different sentiments 011 ano
ther occasion.
Mr. Maaifon then enlarged on the exa<ft bal
lance or equipoise contemplated by the conftitu
tion,to be observed and maintained between the
several branches of government—and shewed,
that except this idea was preserved, the advanta
ges of different independent branches would be
loft, and their separate deliberations and deter
minations were intirely useless.
In describing a corporation he observed, that
the powers proposed to be given, are such, as do
not exist antecedent to the existence of the cor
poration ; these powers are very extensive in
their nature, and to which a principle of perpe
tuity maybe annexed.
He waved a reply to Mr. Vining's observations
on the common law, [in which that gentleman
had been lengthy and minute, in order to inva
lidate Mr. Madison's objection to the power pro
posed to be given to the Bank, toinake rules ancl
regulations, not contrary to law.] Mr. Madil'on
said the question would involve a very lengthy
discussion—and other objects more intimately
connected with the fubject,remained to be confi-
dered
The power of granting Charters, he observed,
is a great and important power, and ought not
to be exercised, without we find ourselves ex
pressly authorised to grant them : Here he dila
ted on the great and extensive influence that in
corporated societies had on public affairs in Eu
rope : They are a powerful machine, which have
always been found competent to effecfi objects on
principles, in a great measure independent of
the people.
He argued against the influence of the prece
dent to be established by the bill—for tho it has
been said that the charter is to be granted only
for a term of years, yet he contended, that grant
ing the powers on any principle, is granting them
in psrpetuum —and afluining this right on the part
of the government involves the afliimption of
every power whatever,
Noticing the arguments in favor of the bill,
he said, it had been observed, that " govern
ment neceflarily pofl'efles every power,"—How
ever true this idea may be in theory, he denied
that it applied to the government of the United
States.
Here he read the reftritfive clause in the Con
stitution—and then observed that he saw 110 pass
over this limit.
The preamble to the Conftiturion, said lie, lias
produced a new mine of power ; but this is thefirft instance he had heard of, in which the pream
ble has b#en adduced tor futlia purpose. In Ins
opinion the preamble only Itates tue objects ol
the confederation, and the fubfequeut clauses de.
.;;.-nate the exprefj powers by which tliofe objects
are'to be obtaine.i and a mean i-> proposed thro
which to acquire t})ofe ihat may be lound Itiil re
quiiuo, more fully to effect the purposes of the
confederation.
It is faiJ, " there is a field of legislation yet
urn :plored," —He had often heard this language
but he confefled lie did not underltand it.—ls
fhcre, laid he, a fmgie blade of grafs—ls there
■any property in exiltence in the United States,
which is not fulijeit to legislation, either of the
particular States, or of the United States ? He
contended that the exercise of this power 011 the
part of the United States, involves, to all intents
and purposes, every power which an individual
Hate may exercise. On this principle he denied
the l ight of Congress to make use of a Bank to
facilitate the collection oi taxes. He did not,
however admit the idea,that the inftitutioii would
conduce to that objec r t : The bank notes are to
be equal to gold and silver, and consequently
will be as diiHcult to obtain as the specie. By
jneans of the objetfis of trade on which gold and
silver are employed, there will be an influx of
those articles—hut paper being fubltituted, will
fill those channels, which would otherwise be oc
cupied by the precious metals—This, experience
lhews is the uniform effedt of such a fubltitution.
The right of Congress to regulate trade, is ad
duced as an argument in favor of this ofcreating
a corporation —but what has this bill to do with
trade ? Would any plain man suppose that this
bill had any thing to do with trade ?
Hp noticed the observation refpecfung the uti
lity of Banks to aid the government with loans
.—He denied the necessity of the institution to aid
the government in this refpecft—Great Britain,
he observed, did not depend on such institutions
—lhe borrows from various sources.
" Banks it is said, are to pay the in
terest of the public debt," —then they ought to
be established in the places where that inteieft
is paid—but can any man fay, that the bank notes
will circulate at par in Georgia. From the ex
example of Scotland we know that they cannot
be made equal to specie, remote from the place,
where ihey can be immediately converted into
coin—they mutt depreciate in cafe of a demand
for specie—ami if there is no moral certainty
that the intei elb can be paid by these bank bills,
■will the government be juflified in depriving it
felf of the power of ettablifliing banks in differ
ent parts of the union ?
We reason (laid he) and often with advantage
xVom Britifti models, but in the present instance
there is a great dissimilarity of circumstances.
The bank notes of Great-Britain do not circulate
■universally ; to make the circumttances parallel,
it ought to have been afl'umedasa fac f t that banks
are elVablifhed in various parts of Great-Britain,
at which the interest of the national debt is paid
—but the faift is, it is only paid in one place.
The clause of the conititution which has been
so often recurred to, and which empowers Con
gress to dispose of its property, he fuppoled re
ferred only to the property lefc at the conclusion
of the war, and has no reference to the monied
property of the United States.
The clause which empowers Congress to pass
all laws necessary, &c. has been brought forward
repeatedly by the advocates of the bill ; he no
ticed the several conllruiTtionsof this clause which
had been offered ; the conclusion which he drew
from the commentary of the gentleman from
Maflachufetts, Mr. Gerry, was that Congress may
do what they please—and recurring to the opin
ion of that gentleman in 1787 ; he said the pow
ers of the constitution were then dark, inexpli
cable and dangerous—but now, perhaps as the
result of experience they are clear and luminous !
The conftructions'of the constitution, he avert
ed, which have been maintained on this occasion
go to the subversion of every power whatever in
the several States—but we are told for our com
fort that the judges will recftify our mistakes ;
how are the judges to determine in the cafe ;
are they to be guided in their deciiions by the
rules of expediency ?
It has been alked that if those minute powers
of the constitution were thought to be neceflary,
is it fuppofable that the great and important pow
er on the table was not intended to be given ?
Mr. Madison interpreted this circumstance in a
quite different way, viz. il" it was thought lie
ceflary to fpecify in rhe constitution, those mi
jiure powers, it would follow that more impor
tant powers would nave been ■ explicitly granted
had they been contemplated.
Tlie Western Territory business he observed,
was a cafe J'ui generis, and therefore cannot be
cited with propriety : Well Point, so often men
tionetl he laid, was purchased by the United
States pursuant to law—and the consent of the
Stare of New York is fuppo'ed, if it has not been
exp efsly gi anted ; but on any occasion does it
follow that one violation of the coujftitution is to
be juftified by another ?
The permanent residence bill, conceived
Was entirely irrelative to the fabjecl ; but lie
conceived it might be jultified on truly conlh
tutional principles. .
The act veiling in the Piefident of the Lnited
States ilie power of removability has been quo
ted ; he recapitulated in a few words his ica
lons for being in favor of that bill.
The bank of North-America, he said, he had
opposed, as he conlidered the institution as a vio
lation of the confederation. The State of Mas
sachusetts he recollected voted with him on that
occasion. The bank of North America was how
ever the child of necelfity—as soon as tlie war
was over, it ceased to operate as to continental
purposes. But, asked he, are precedents in war,
tojultify violations of private and Stare rights,
in a time of peace ? and did the United States
pass laws to punifti the counterfeiting the noles
of that bank ! They did nor, being convinced of
the invalidity of any such law—the bank there
fore took flielter under the authority of the State.
The energetic adniiniltratioii of this govern
ment is said co be connected withthisinlhtution.
Mr. Madison here stated the principles on which
he conceived this government ought to be ad
ministered—and added, other gentlemen may
have had other ideas on the fubjetft, and may
have consented to the ratification of the conflitu
tioh on different principles and expectations—
but he considered the enlightened opinion and
affection of the people, the only solid basis tor
the support of this government.
Mr. Madison then stated his objections to the
several parts of the bill : '( he firft article he ob
jected to, was the duration—A period of twenty
years, he observed, was to this ccuiury as a per
iod of a century in thehiftoryof other countries
—there was no calculating for the events which
might take place : He urged the ill-policy of
granting so long a term, from the experience of
the government in refpecft to some treaties, which
tho found inconvenient, could not now be altered.
The different claffesof the public creditors, he
observed, were not all put on an equal footing
by thii bill ; but in the bill for the disposal of
the Western Territory, this had been thought
eflential : The holders of 6 per cent, securities,
will derive undue advantages—Creditors at adif
tance, and the holders of 3 per cent, securities,
ought to be considered—as the public good is most
elfentially promoted by an equal attention to the
interest of all.
I admit, said he, that the government ought
to consider itfelf as the trustee of the public on
this occasion, and therefore should avail itfelf of
the best disposition of the public property.
In this view of the fubjedi, he objected to the
bill, as the public, he thought, ought to derive
greater advantages from the inftirution than
those proposed. In cafe of a universal circula
tion of the notes of the proposed bank, the pro
fits will be so great that the government ought
to receive a very considerable sum for granting
the charter.
There are other defects in the bill, which ren
der it proper and necell'ary in my opinion, that
it Ihould undergo a revision and amendment be
fore it passes into a law : The power vested by
the bill in the executive to borrow of the bank,
he thought was objecftionable—and the right to
establish subordinate banks, he said, ought not
to be delegated to any fee of men under heaven.
The public opinion has been mentioned : If
the appeal to the public opinion is suggested
with sincerity, we ought to let our constituents
have an opportunity to form an opinion 011 the
fubjedi.
He concluded by faying, he ftiould move for the
previous question.
The previous question, " Shall the main ques
tion now b: put," being determined in the affir-
mauve,
Mr. Gerry rose to reply to Mr. Madison—but
the house discovering an impatience to have the
main question put —after a few remarks, he wa
ved any further observations.
WARSAW, (Poland) February 1.
WE have received accounts that a body of
Ruffians have eroded the Danube, near If
mail, in order to attack the army of the Grand
Vizier at Schunila ; and it is said that Gen. Ri
bas is 011 his way to Warna with his fleet. Re
ports state, that the Ruffian grand fleet at Sebaf
tapole lias failed, in order to meet liini, and that
they wiH proceed to Constantinople.
PARIS, February 14
A Schism, to all intents and purposes, reigns
in this Republic ; the non-juring clergy are
countenanced by the minority, and the ("wearing
prietlsare Supported by the ruling party ; — both
equally contemning the niiniltei s of the oppolite
creed.
I lie Pope has written a circular letter of con
dolance to tlie difpoilefled Bifliops of France —
lie invites them into the papal dominions, and
makes them a tender of his belt offices.
Ail infurre«ftion is ready to break out at Gejie
va ; there are two parties : Cue willies to fee eoua
822
lity reign amongall the citizens as 111 France ; the
other would have the republic under the French
government. The latter, it is thought, will
prevail. M. de Mirabeau, ihevounger, hadrni
fed a company of volunteers at Yverdun, in Swit
zerland, which, in attempting to enter Neufcha
tel, was cut to pieces by the inhabitants of the
town ; he narrowly escaped with his life.
LONDON, February 8
ACCORDING to letters from Amsterdam. by
the ]alt mails, a stop has been put there,' by
authority, to the loan which was negotiating
commillion for a Northern Power.
We learn from Breli. that they have for tlicfe
fix weeks part, had very blowing weather, which
fometimcs might be called a hurricane ; thatthe
lightning had fallen four times upon the (hips in
the road, but happily no damage was done to
any of them, molt of the eiedtric matter having
been carried off by the conductors.
Feb. 17, Though the Impeachment against
Mr. Mailings is carried in the Houl'e of Com
mons, and the fame Committee as before ap
pointed to conduct the trial, it still rests with the
House of Lords, "Whether they think a difio
lution of Parliament abates the Impeachment or
not f" If they (hould agree in the affirmative, the
trial drops of course, for then it will be the opi
nion of the Court.
We hear that the French Ambaffadur, agree
able to his inftrucftions from the King of France,
has applied to the Court of London, to relealc
Lord G. Gordon from the pains and penalriej
of his sentence in Newgate, for his publication
in 1786, reflecting 011 the then arbitrary govern
ment of Fiance, the Baflile, and Letters de Ca
chet. The result of the Ambafl'ador's applica
tion he has communicated to Lord George in
his diplomatique quality ; and we are very forty
to add, that the joint and direlt request of the
K'-ig of France himfelf and the National Affeni
bly, the Representatives of a free people, in their
great character of restorers of liberty, has been
refufed at St. James's ! !
The settlement of she Canada business will not
wait for the arrival of Lord Dorchester, who
is not expedted home so soon as has been gene
rally ftatecl ; all the documents relative to that
business have been already received, with his
Lordftiip's opinion thereon.
The arrival of the Swallow packet from Ma
dras, is looked for in the course of three weeks,
with dispatches from Gen. Meadows, of the ut
1110ft importance; between whom and Tippoo
Saib a decisive atftion was immediately expeded
when the Houghton Eaft-Indiamen failed for
England on the i qth of last Sept. Tippoo was
at that period comingdown with his whole force
from the Mysore couutry to attack the Britifli
army,
M. Brouillet, a member of the National Af
fenibly of France, has proposed a scheme for the
abolition of the barbarous cuiVom of duelling—
He proposes that the Aflerobly fliould ifl'ue a
solemn declaration : I. That honor, as well as
virtue, being personal, no citizen can be de
prived of it but by his own act, and that it can
in no cafe depend on the caprice of another.—<
2. That every citizen, convicted of having giv
en an affront to another, by words, gestures, or
threats, will be profecured and puuifhed as a
disturber of the public peace.—3. That every
person who Jliall flrike another (hall be declared
infamous.— 4. That the laws againit duelling
(hall continue in force, and be executed withtlie
utmost Rigour.— 5. That those arc to be con
sidered as disgraced, who, in contempt of the
law, dare to give a challenge.—And, 6. That
it cannot be dilhonorable to refufe a challenge,
as true honor consists in submission to the laws.
An ingenious gentleman who owed a friend
some money, invited him to dine with him, and
plied him so briskly with good wine, that the
creditor generously forgave the debt. The other
calls this a new method of i.i<iuiD-ating a
Motion of Mr. Burke in the Hoafe of Commons, Feb-
ruary 14.
" That in consideration of the long period of
time elapsed in the trial of Warren Hastings,
Esq. it is now neceflary for the obtaining of
speedy judgment, to carry up 110 further charges
except l'uch as relate to bribes, pensions, and pre
sents."
Mr. Fox seconded the motion.
Several amendments being moved and ne S 3 '
tived, Mr. Burke's motion was put and carries
without a division.
After Mr. Burke's original motion was putaiia
carried, the following were also carried :
Resolved, That a Meflage befent to the Lords,
to acquaint their Lordlhips that this House i*
ready to proceed upon the impeachment of War
ren Hastings, Esq. late Governor Gen. of Bengal»
now depending before the Lords in parliament
and to requelt that their Lordships will appoint
a convenient day for the further hearing of the
fame. ~
Kefolved, That Mr. Burke do carry the W*
Me flags.HOUSE OF LORDS, Feb. 16
Yesterday Mr. Burke, attended by Mr. Pitt,
Jklr. Fox, and a great number of Members, pre
sented at the bar the following mellage.
" My Lords,
" I am ordered by the Commons to acquaint
vonr Lordfliips, that the House of Commons is
ready to proceed upon the impeachment of War
ren Mailings, Esq. late Governer General of
Bengal, now depending before your Lordfliips,
whenever your Lordfliips will appoint a conve
nient day for hearing of the fame."
Lord Grenville some (iiort time after rose, and
having observed, the very great importance of
the meflage which had been brought from the
commons, atul which in his opinion required
their Lordfliips moll serious consideration : 111
order that the House might profit by the experi
ence and wisdom of their ancestors, Lord Gren
ville moved,
" That a committee be appointed to fearcli for
Precedents relative to the Hate of the Impeach
ment of Warren Haltings, Esq. brought up by
the Commons, and proceeded upon in the ]ast
Seflion of Parliament, and to report their opin
ion to the House."
The fame was, upon the question put, agreed
to, several Lords present were named, and all
the Lords who have been present this Session
were ordered to be upon the said Committee.
There was a wicked time, in the history of
this country, when a inan might lose his heart
in the crofting of a street. The good-natured dif
fidence of the preferit day relieves him from that
danger, unless he can fix his eyes to a pair of
legs, or fall in love with a curtain. As to eyes,
teeth, and other ingredients of beauty, he has no
more to apprehend from them, than if we were
a nation of Spaniards ; anditisfaid, " what the
eye don't fee, the heart will seldom feel."
The mode of attack, both in war and in love
is fubjetft to alterations and improvements. The
ladies who formerly conquered by the eyes, now
hide them behind a curtain, and present their
irrefiftable beauty of short petticoats and neat an
cles. This tranlition from one extreme to ano
ther, we cannot approve—Medio tutiffimus !
The damages occasioned by the fire at the Al
bion mills are estimated at 200,0001. independ
ently of any delay in business, &c. The infu
rancesmade at the several offices are dated as not
exceeding half that amount !
FRANKFORT, Feb. i>-
A few of the Turkifti provinces in the poflef
fion oftheßulfian troops, will furnifli them with
the means of adding conquest to conquest, till the
Empress, like a female Colofl'us, letting one foot
on Asia, and the other in Europe, and grasping
the isles in her hand, will aflame the daring pre
rogative of giving law to the world.
These things ought not to be.
NEW-LONDON, April i.
Extraß of a letter from a foreign corrsfpondent, to
the Editors of this paper, dated Jan. 21, 1791.
[Concluded from our lalt.]
" The good crops in the United States, and
in Europe, will make provisions so cheap, that
many of your farmers, I prefunie, will feel the
neceflity of cultivating a greater quantity of flax
and hemp this year. Providence seems to call
■upon you, with a loud voice, to encourage and
promote manufactures. And perhaps this voice
will be even louder a few years hence than it is
at present. The political revolution in France
will probably bring on a revolution in the agri
tulture of that country. The dnke of Orleans
has begun the English mode of farming, on one
of his own eflates, with English farmers. The
abolition of the Corvee, and of every other part
of the feudal system, will remove that load of
disgrace which has hung so heavily on the French
fanners, and will inspire them with new life
and vigor. They will plant a much greater
quantity of land, and improve their land like
the English, and probably supply themselves en
tirely with wheat ; except when their crops may
fail, as in England, through unfavorable seasons.
Where then will your planters find markets for
their wheat, unless they can find them at home,
111 your manufatfluring and trading towns ? I
wi(h to fee the farmer well rewarded for his in
dustry and ingenuity. Nothing will effect this
10 much as a great increase in the population,
confiding of these who are not employed 111 agri
culture. The manufadtut es of your own coun
try will require a great quantity of raw materi
als, iuch as wool, flax, hemp, silk, cotton, hops
and barley for breweries, hides and bark to tan
them ; iron, lead, copper, &c. Thus the farmer
will have opportunity to vary his crops, and to
ra 'ii thrive best 011 his foil, aud what
Wl << ra t ® le g reate st profit.
Manufactures more than double and treble
1 e v aJue of raw materials. Some of thein aug
f'lj' t '? e ' r va ' ue 20, some 50, and some an 100
" rt. So much do the goods you manufacture
8 to the wealth of your country. Moreover,
1 e wea hh will not only be great, but general,
without making many individuals too rich and
luxurious ; and therefore is the molt valuable
kind of wealth. Besides, they who carry on ma
nufactures run little or no l illv of being ruined,
except by their own imprudence. Whereas,
merchants mult venture much more, and some
of them may be ruined in spite of all their pru
dence and attention, while others are known to
acquire great wealth, and thereby promote lu
xury and dissipation, thebaneof morals, and the
ruin of empires.
I am pleased with the rapid increase of ma
nufactures in the United States, from moral as
well as political considerations , they afford relief
to a number of poor industrious people, who
ought not to fuffer for want, while they are wil
ling to work;—they train up children in the habit
of industry, and thereby Secure them from the
vices ot idleness ;—and they have a tendency
toi reclaim lome who have contracted an idle ha
bit, and yielded to the temptations of vice, and
will leave them without excuse if they continue
therein, or run to extremes. In this connection
1 may obfeive the folitaiy confinement of cri
minals, and the hard labour to which they are
kept, by the new method lately adopted, will at
once promote manufactures, and thereby make
them ufeful members of society while they are
confined, and bring them into the habit of in
dultry, and give them time lor serious reflection,
and at the fame time put it out of the pjwer of
all to corrupt, or be corrupted by one another."
ELIZABETH-TOWN, (M.) April 6
The PRESIDENT of the United States has been
pleased to appoint MOSES RAWLINGS, Esquire,
to command the battalion of levies to be railed
in this State.
BOSTON, April 6.
On Monday lafl agreeably to the Constitution, the citizens of
this Commonwealth, met in their respective towns, lor the choice
o [ Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, and Senators, for
the year ensuing. The votes in this town for Governor, were, for
His Excellency ]OHN HANCOCK, Esq. 543
The Hon. FRANCIS DANA, Esq. 81
Lieutenant-Governor.
His Honor SAMUEL ADAMS, Esq. 540
The Hon. THOMAS RUSSEI L, Esq. 57
The Hon. SAMUEL PHILLIPS, Esq. 26
We have received information tromfeveral towns; in all which
the present Chief and Second Magillrates have been unanimously
or generally voted for.
In Worcester county, the Hon. Mr. Grout, has many votes
for Senator.
Major Franki is appointed Infpeftor of the federal troops, to
be railed in the Eallern States.
From New-York, via Providence, April 2, 1791.
I am informed trom good authority, that late orders have arri
ved from Holland to the Agents in Philadelphia, and this city, to
purchase all the ttnek they can lay their hands on—and from fomr
manoeuvres amongst the Stockjobbers, I am convinced of the
truth of it; but I hope our countrymen will have wildom lutfi
cient to retufe felling the price of our country's indeoendence for
a song ; and thereby prevent our becoming in fact tributary to
foreigners.
almanack for the year 1791.
The following lines, comprifingtwelve words,
will prove out the day of the week of any day of
the nionrh of the year 1791, by observing that
the firll letter tells the day of the firft of each
month.
Sad Toilsome Troubles Follow Subjcfts Wrong,
Foul Murders Threat'ning Savage Tumults Throng.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET, V
" O AY, what is Life ?" the sons of sorrow cry—
O "Isit to breathe a lingering of woe
" In vegetative being here below ?
" To eat, to drink, to lleep, and then—to die ?"
u Is it in Pleasure's airy rounds to fly ?
" To laugh, to dance ?"—the fouls of Joy would know—
" To plunge in lewdnefs, and no care bestow
" On what may greatly fit us for the sky ?"
No.—Tis the Twilight of a heavenly Day,
Whose radiant glories opening on th Soul>
Shall raise, and bear it, from ufclf away,
Far o'er the bounds of this terrestrial pole,
Wak'd to new rapture by the living lay,
Where GOD informs the immeasurable whole.
ELLA
Philadelphia, April 20.
On the 13th inft. the President of the United States d:ned at an
elegant entertainment, prepaied by the citizens of Richmond,
Virginia. On the day of his arrival every mark of refpeft and at
tention was paid, and every demonstration ot public joy exhibited;
in the evening there was a general illumination —previous to which
the corporation prefentcd a refpe&fu) address, which was answer
ed in the usual It Ile of d'gnitv, condescension and benevolencf.
A letter from Fore St. Tammany, Georgia, fays
the treaty with the Creeks, although in fonie
particulars difagreeeble to the Georgians, has gi
ven a new couiitenance to the inhabitants in this
quarter and will tend greatly to facilitate the
iettlement of this charming river.
A writer in a late paper, imputes the loss of so
many ihips which founder at sea, to the modern
mode of conftruc'ting their sterns, which are low
hanging and llightly built—and recommends t he
Dutch method of building with pink sterns, which
will always feud before a turbulent sea with
fafety
The superior price that Yellow In pi an Corn
commands, is mentioned, as a hint to Farmers, to
give that kind the preference in planting the
present season.
823
A late writer judicionfly observes, that he had
rather be guided in his opinions by one exper
ienced man of bufmefs, than by an hundred theo
ritts, who are veiled only in books.
A celebrated Law Profellbr in one of the States,
once laid, that it would be bell to raise all public
revenue entirely by a land tax, because all taxes
come ultimately out of the land. The old financiers
of all countries, who know mankind, would laugli
at such an opinion, tho advanced by an able law
character. Some of the bell argunienis in Con
gress, on the funding system, 011 excise, and the
bank, appear to be built on the fame sandy basis,
jallacious theory—otherwise it is impollible to ac
count for the refpecftable oppolition made to the
1110 ft necedary measures of government*
A gentleman in this city has drawn three thoufjnd dollars in the
Maifachule ts Scmi-Annual Lottery.
Died in this city, on Saturday morning last, Nicholas Eve
l ei gh, Esq. Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States.
Sunday last arrived here the ship Atlantic, Capt.
Swaine, from Liverpool ; this ihip had the ex
traordinary run of 2086 miles in ten running
days, and was only 22 days from Cape Clear, to
the Capes of the Delaware.
Accounts received by this vessel are to sth
March, and state, that on the Bth January the
people of Conltantinople were in such a ferment,
as to excite apprehensions of a revolt ; that the
republic of Venice is to furnilh the Porte with
three Ihips of war ; that the city of Geneva was
all in arms ; 6000 men alio in arms in the de
partment of Gard and Ardecht, in France, the re
port of which did not appear to alarm the Na
tional Aflenibly—that Monf. deNoailles is Presi
dent ; that affairs in the North wear a more pa
cific appearance, Catharine being more difpolecl
tor peace—and that great military preparations
are making in France.
We hear that a very interesting discovery has
lately been made at Naples. It is said that the
inoit violent hemorrhages are immediately flop
ped by the volatile fluor alkali. Repeated ex
periments made in the hospital of tha.t city have
had the compleatefl success. The moll Angular
is the last, which was made on a man who had
his leg cut off ; cotton dipt in volatile fluor al
kali was applied on the part cut, which imme
diately flopped the blood, and cicatrized the
wound.
The nabob of Arcot has filed a bill in the court
of Chancery agair.fl the East-India Company,
calling them to account for seizing his country
and plundering his revenues for 10 years past :
how many years does a suit in Chancery lequii e ?
The number of conviifts to be sent to Botany
Bay thisyear amounts to 1200 ; 2-Sths of which are
females ; a fruitful source of emigration ! But
what colonists ?
The hereditary general of the ports of the Em
pire and the Netherlands, has forbid all persona
employed in these pofts,to admit the circulation
of a number of the French Gazettes.
Leave has been given to the British House of
Commons to bring in a bill for dividing Canada
into two provinces, agreeable to the King's mes
sage.
The directors of the bank of England are ta
king spirited measures to prevent the minister
from taking pofl'eflion of the unclaimed dividends.
By the above arrival from Europe we learn,
that a peace is concluded between Austria and
the Porte—every thing to remain as before the
breaking out of the war in 1788. The Turks,
so far from being disheartened at the loss of lf
mael, are determined to prosecute the war againlfc
Ruifia, with vigor—the Sultan has accordingly
ordered an immediate augmentation of his army
by a reinforcement of 40000 men—and all the
Baflas or Governors of Provinces, are ordered to
enlilt every man from 1J to 60 years of age.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude the favors he
has received from his poetical correspondents Ella and Bi rtha;
their produttions would do honor to any miscellany whatever.
The readers of the Gazette have doubtless been pleased, and the
pleasure will be heightened to surprise, when they are informed
tharELLA is but a youth of 17. The authors arc unknown t#
each other.
But, truth and genius boajl a fov'reign loot,
Which minds congenial to each other draw ;
While one bright objett, centers every aim—
Their mufe,on Virtue, builds a deathless fane.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
»7f- P t -£
9 r-
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16f. 8o
Indents 9 f 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, *2_/2 1 $f. do.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA
Brig Ann, Smith, Norfolk, 8 days.
Schooner Polly* Jacobs, Savannah,
Do. PoMy, Coffin, Halifax, 16,
Sloop Betsy, Brooks, New-York. 6.
Do. Harriot, Kerby, Charlelton, 12.
Ship Delaware, Art. Charleston, 9.
Do. Atlantic, Swaine, Liverpool, 22.
Sloop Polly, Valentine, N. Carolina, 12.
Do. Nancy, Stolett, Virginia. 6.
The (hip St. James, from New-York for Londonderry, is aihrre
Lo idoudcrry river. '
85 P r. -est
45
44 do "CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT for making Compensations to the Com
missioners of Loans for extraordinary Ex-
pences.
BE it enafled by the Senate and House of Rcprefentatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflembled, That the
commiOionersof Loans in the several States shall be allowed in
the settlement of their accounts, such sums as shall appear to have
been ncccflarily expended by them in the purchase of stationary
for the use oftheir several offices, from the commencement of the
fame to the fiifl day of October next.
And be it furlhe'r enaßed, That the commissioners of loans in
the several States, shall be allowed in the settlement of their several
accounts, such sums as they shall have neceflarily expended for
hire of clerks to aflift in executing the duties of their several offi
ces, fiom the commencement of the fame to the firft day of Oc
tober next.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfc of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, March thi rd, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President oftheUnited States'
D:poftfed among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State-
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State-
WHEREAS Congress did, by a resolution of the twenty-third
day of September,one thousand seven hundred and eighty
nine, recommend to the several States to pass laws making it ex
prefrly the duty of the keepers of their jails to receive and fafe
keep therein all prisoners committed under the authority of the
United States : In order therefore to ensure the administration of
justice,
Resolved, by the Senate andHoufe of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That in cafe any
State (hall not have complied with the said recommendation, the
marihal in such State, under the direction of the judge of the dif
tritt, be authorized to hire a convenient place to serve as a tem
porary jail, and to make the necessary provision for the fafe-keep
ing of prisoners committed under the authority of the United
States, until permanent provision shall be made by law for that
purpose ; and the said marflial shall be allowed his reasonable ex
pences incurred for the above purposes, to be paid out of the
Treasury of the United States.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker oj the Houfc oj Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
TITLES of the ACTS pafled at the third Session
of the CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES,
with the Number of this Gazette in which each
is inserted.
No.
AN ast supplementary to the ast intituled, " An ast mak
ing further provision for the payment of the debts of the
United States," 71
An ast to provide for the unlading of (hips or veflels, in
cases of obftruftion by ice,
An ast to continue an ast, intituled, " An ast declaring the
assent of Congress to certain acts of the states of Maryland,
Georgia, and Rhode-Island and Piovidence Plantations," so
far as the fame refpefts the states of Georgia, and Rhode-
Island and Providence Plantations, ibid.
An ast declaring the con Cent of Congress, that a new state
be formed within the jurifdiftion of the commonwealth of
Virginia, and admitted into this Union by the name of the
state of Kentucky, 82
An ast declaring the consent of Congress to a certain ast of
the state of Maryland, 84
An ast making appropriations for the support of govern
ment during the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
one, and for other purposes, 85
An ast for the admiflion of the state of Vermont into this
nion, 87
. ri • _. .i_ _ _ . i•. • r ■
Union,
A rcfolve dircfting in what manner new editions of the
Jaws, resolutions and treaties of the United States, shall be
authenticated, ibid.
An ast to continue in force, for a limited time, an ast patted
at the firft feflion of Congress, intituled, " An ast to regulate
procelTes in the courts of the United States," ibid.
An ast regulating the number of Representatives to be
chosen by the states of Kentucky and Vermont, 88
An ast to incorporate the fubferibers to the bank of the
United States, ibid.
An ast supplementary to the ast, intituled, " An ast to in
corporate the fubferibers to the bank of the United States," go
An ast to explain and amend an ast, intituled, " An ast
making further provision for the payment of the debts of the
United States," ibid.
An ast fixing the time for the next annual meeting of Con
gress, . ibid.
An ast relative to the rix dollar of Denmark, g t
An ast giving effect to the laws of the United States,
within the state of Vermont, ibid.
A resolve expressive of the sensibility of Congress for the
tribute paid to the memory of Dr. Franklin, by the National
Aflembly of France,
An ast repealing, after the lafl day of June next, the duties
heretofore laid upon distilled spirits imported from abroad,
and laying others in their stead; and alfoupon spirits distilled
within the United States, and for appropriating the fame, 92
All ast making an appropriation for ihe purpose therein
mentioned, jfrjj
An ast to amend " An Ast for eftablilhing the temporary
and permanent feat of the government of the United States," ibid.
An ast providing compensations for the officers of the ju
dicial courts of the United States, and for jurors and witnes
ses, and for other purpoles, c ,
a a c :r. 1 1 _ ■ . , ... "^
An ast for railing and adding another regiment to the mili
litary eftablilhmentof the United States, and for making far
ther provision lor the protection of the frontiers, 06
Ami A ♦ S~\ /*nAhff\ll« in fn. - 12 —- It. J _ rt 1
An ast to continue in force, for a limited time, an ast, in- I t
titled, "An ast for the temporary establishment of the post- I r
office,' 97 I c
An «& making farther provision for the collcflion of the
duties by law imposed on teas, and to prolong the time for
the payment of the duties on wines, 97
An ast in addition to an »&, intituled, " An att for <•(-
tablifhing the salaries of the executive officers ot government,
with their alliftants and clerks,"
An ast for granting lands to the inhabitants and lettlers at
Vincennes and the Illinois country, in the territory north-welt
of the Ohio, and for confirming them in their polieliions, 99
An ast fupplcmental to the ast, "eftablilhing the trealury
department," and for a farther compenfallon to certain
officers, 100
An ast supplementary to the ast making provilion tor the
reduction of the public debt, .
An ast to continue in force the ast therein mentioned, and
to make further provision for the payment of pensions to in
valids, and for the support of light-houses, beacons, buoys
and public piers, * 01
A resolve eftablilhing a mint, did.
A resolve requesting the President tocaufe an estimate to
be made ot the lands not claimed nor granted within the cel
fion of North-Carolina, and the territory north-weft of the
Ohio, t # did.
A resolve authorizing the marshals of diftrifts to provde
temporary jails when neceflary, 102
An ast for making compensations to the commiflioners of
loans for extaordinary expences, did.
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
800
In the Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French, and Italian
Languages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demofthenss, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Casfar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, See.
Ottavo & infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinu , Theo
phraftus, Epi&etus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
Ifocrates, Polyaenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetas minorea Latini, Callip<edia, Stiada, L.
Valla, See.
A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejfrs Rice and Co.
Market-Street, wherefurther particulars may be learned.
Gallaudet andEwiNG,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady Walterjlorfo from London, Man
chejler and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. gdH On hand for
sale, a few hogsheads of OLD JAMES's RIVER TOBACCO.
Philadelphia, April 9,1791. 100 epim
Matthew IM'Connell,
In Ches nut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 17,
Third Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
|C 7» A few New-York LOTTERY TICKETS
come to hand, for sale.
NOTIFICATION
A 1 1 1 V/ i 1 A A V/ J. 1 «
Colonel Thomas Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being necessarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Gover nor hath thought proper to authorise
mc to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return :
NOTICE is therefore giver., to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia,the Northern Liberties of said
City, the Townships of Moyamenfing and Pass) unk, that they are
to meet and exercise under their refpeftive Officers on the fol
lowing Days, viz.
First Battalion on the 2d Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on the 6th of do.
Sixth Battalion on the 9th of do.
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Lientenanr,
pro tern, of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on ihe public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between go and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colleaion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit ttees, in lull bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in vciy good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, Jan. 1791
LOST,
BETWEEN this cily and New-York, on the pod road, two
bundles containing the Gazette ot the United States—No
82— destined for New-York and Bollon. As they can be of no
use, but as w?ftc paper, exceptto the Subscribers, many of whom
keep tiles of that publication, any perlon who can give informs
tion to the Editor, so that the whole or any part of them may be
recovered, (hall receive z gcoerou* reward. The two bandies
contained 300 papers.
824
K S,
(96 tf)
All persons concerned will be pleafcd to take notice that th«
following advertisement has been varied from that publifhcd ia
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
\TOTICE is hereby given, that Propohls will be received at the
1\ office of the Secretary of the Tre<»fui v, until the firft Monday
in September next inclulive, for the fuppl v of all rations, which
may be required for the use of the United St ates, from the fir 11 day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1 792, both days in.
clufive, at the places, and within the diftrt&s herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Pcnn
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anyplace or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh,
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
ihe River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cavoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto*
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any placc or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the month
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincehnrs
at Post St. Vincennes, and thence tip the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of ihe river Ohio.
At any place or places, on theeaftfideof the river MiiTifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllmois river.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sancfttflcv,
and atSandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cavoga rivci.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Reuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwtxt Le Beuf and Prefq'lflc, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla;e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, bv the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, totheri-er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confilt of the following article!,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, branny or whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts'of vinegar, \
Two pounds of soap, ( P er " 100 rat,ons '
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fii ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles ai
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbcck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main foulh branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of ihefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the slate ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot th«
United States.
And tor rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
fliall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to bcfupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be undei stood in each cafe, that all lofles sustained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depohtions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the or
cumftances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contrails for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to contrail will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
may make their propositions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above polls to
gether, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in Georgia;
and they must fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pay*
(£3* The Printers who have publijhed the above advertijement, are
requcjled to reprint it with the alterations.
8© 3m
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Streef, between Second and Third-Strecti»
BUYS and SE L L S
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slates, or of
March 2?, 1791
particular State.