PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BV 7OHK ri:N\7n *.• r lm , ; —
FtNhO, No. 6g, Hll-H-SIREET, BETWEEN SUOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 64, of Vol. lII.]
LETTERS,
BY THE
EARL OF DU .V D 0 N A I D,
ON MAKING BREAD FROM POTATOES.
LETT £ R 3.
ENOUGH lias been (aid in die two foregoing
letters, to convince individuals of the bene
fit to a rife to them, by applying the potatoe and
its farina, to the uses there mentioned. 1 lha!l
jiovv proceed to give a statement of the produce
and value of :.n acre of potatoes, manufactured
as recommended : Likewise, a statement of the
produce and value of an acre of wheat.—The da
ta for the fore Paid calculation, proceed upon the
quantity I had, this feafan, oil an acre of ground
planted in drills, and cultivated by the plough.
Nor will it appear, that the produce is greater
than is generally had from an acre of ground,
cultivated in the fame manner ; and, which is
always lei's productive than ground cultivated
for potatoes by the spade ; either in the hill, or
as it is pradtifed in Ireland, in the lazy-bed iu,iy ;
where, from the frequent coverings and earth
ings up by the spade, an instrument fitter for
that purpose thai, the plough, a much larger
produce in potatoes ma)' be had : and those po
toes drier, and more meally, from the ground be
ing better drained, and more free from moiituie.
1 mult not be supposed, by the comparative
statement which follows, to recommend it* to
farmers and oLhers to give up, or to prefer, be
yond the bounds of prudence, the cultivation of
potatoes to wheat: Nor, indeed, can such a con
clusion be warranted from my former letters ;
■wherein it is stated, that a proportion of wheac
ilour, or the meal of other grain, must be mixed
with the potatoe-flour, to allow its forjrning a
pafle, or dough, and being made into bread.
According to good hufbaiidry, especially when
potatoes are dug up in proper time, wlieat should
follow the potatoes ; and fowi> gtafs, such as
clover and rye-graft, fhouid follow the wheat :
—and, by far the best method'of preparing and
retruiting the ground after two fucli severe crops,
as those of potatoes and wheat, is by pasturing,
and top dressing with dung. Potatoes and wheat
are very exhaujiing crops \ yet, fortunately, they
act on the ground in different manners. Wheat
confol.idates & hdrdens the furface of the ground ;
while the frequent ltirrings and earthings given
to potatoes, open, and allow the action of the
air and the wearlier to mellow it, and rendering
it friable ; forming an excellent preparation for
the 'subsequent crop of wheat, to which a drefl
ing with lime will be particularly serviceable.—
By laying the dung upon the gtafs, the bad ef
fects of it in rendering potatoes watery, as well
as late io their growth, will be avoided.
The, ground, when broke up for potatoes,will,
with tlie subsequent culture given to it, be in
high order for wheat : For which the lime may
be applied with peculiar advantage, as lias al
ready been observed.
After the ftateinem proniifed lias been given,
proceeding upon the quantity of farina got from
a given quantity of potatoes, the attention of tlie
proprietors of the foil in Britain and Ireland,
will, then, be called to the expediency, nav, juf
tici, of their leafing out final] portions of ground,
to cottagers, tradefintv., and!ewcr c/afjes of thepupls,
on Jeafes of three I'tvs or pxty years. Thele peo
ple do all, and pay for, alinuil, all ; yet have no
permanent intere'ft in thi foil, and in tks pmfperity
cf the country "which they inhabit.
STATEMENT
A boll of potatoes confifls of sixteen pecks ;
slid is, in this part of the country, the Linlith
gow bailey measure, heaped. The peck, on an
average, weighs 241b. averdupo;fe. From a
peck of good potatoes were got 6 lb. 2 1-2 oz. of
flour, and 2oz of bran. Say, however, of flour
6 lb. ; every boll of potatoes will, therefore,
yield 96 lb. of flour. Fo< iv bolls of potatoes will
give 3840 lb. equal to 120 br.fliels of ;2 lb. each.
The flour is rated atone half-penny per lb. un
der the average pi ice of u heat-flour, for some
years pafl ; viz. at one penny half-penny per lb.
equal to four/hillings per bufiiei ; being, like
wise, the average price of oat-menl in the moil
populous parts of Scotland for several years.
£. s. d.
By i2obu(bels potatoe fionr, at 4s 24 : o : o
By 10 bolls, equal ro 40 Win
chefler bolls of wheat, at ss. 6d. 11 : o : o
Balance in favor of potatoe floor, 13 :o : o
(Concluded.)
Wednesday, December 7, 179 1.
Nothing is charged above for manufacturing
or preparing the potatoes into flour, as it is sup
posed to be done by the cottager or manufactuc
turer's wife, or louie one of his family. The
liquor got in the process if given to a milk cow,
(and each cottager, irc. fljotild undoubtedly'be allow
ed or enabled on account of his children to keep one)
will, from the additional quantity of milk, to be
had thereby in the winter time, be - fufficient to
defray the charges, or to pay the person employ
ed in preparing the flour. The dung made by
the cottager's of tradeftnan's cow, will enable
him to keep his little spot of ground alway in
good heart, especially if he applies the dung in
the manner that has been recommended.
It is a fortunate circuniftance to a country like
Britain, wliere the breed of black cattle and hors
es are so fa ft driving out the breed of men, that a
greater produce in potatoes may be had by the
spade than by the plough. The author is afraid
that the predilection to four-footed beasts will con
tinue, until the cottager shall, by a higher rent,
bribe the landlord to prefer him to the tillage
farmer or monopolizer of ground ; at least to the
extent of ns much, as will enable the cottager to
keep a cow, and to produce food for his family.
It is fortunate too, from the advantages attending
the cultivation of potatoes, that the cottager can
afford to bribe the landlord by an addition of jo
per cent, of rent ; and ft ill to live much more com
fortably, and better than he does at present.
The benefits arising from the culture of potatoes,
will not be confined to the cottager and other
growers of that root. All ranks of people will
feel the benefit that must ensue, by keeping at a
moderate rate, wheat-flour, which has been so
very high for fonie years part. For as wheat-flour
will bear a proportion ill price to potatoe flour,
the grower of potatoes, or the cottager will have,
to a certain degree, the fixing of the price for the
farmer's wheat, who must either content himfelf
with less profits, or have a dedutftion of rent al
lowed him, by his landlord : which the landlord
can afford to give, in as much as he receives ad
ditional rent from the cottagers for the ground
occupied by them. So that even at that rate nei
ther landlord nor tillage-fariner will be loser ;
and the great body of the people will befupplied
with food at a moderately Iqw and regular price.
I caunot\but anticipate with peculiar pleasure,
the increased population of Great-Britain and
Ireland, in consequence of the lower claiies of'
people being better fed, and enabled to do all
things at a cheaper rati. This andthe two former
letters have been made as concise as could con
fidently be done with cbnveying to the public
my ideas on the great and important fubjetls
they contain. A plentiful supply of flour to be
got from under the furjace of the earth, protiihd
from the feafdns is a great and pleasing idea.
By the more general cultivation, of potatoes, and
by adopting what has been recommended in these
letrers, the inhabitants of northern countries
where grain seldom comes to full maturity, will
have ii in their power to provide themselves with
food at a season of the year-ijtfacn potatoes in their
raw and unprepared fVate cinnot be prevented from
ger;nl/iatiug. A final! supply of flour or meal im
ported, or oat-meal of their own produce reserv
ed until the summer months, will enable thein
to be plentifully supplied with food at a time
when they ofien experience the greatest want.
May God hlel's these and other attempts to al
leviate the distress and wants of others, and in
extending to the poor, comforts they are at pre
sent (hangers to.
Culrofs dbbey, Feb. I 79 T
FROM THE MAIL.
PATRIOTIC PRINTS,
AMONG the objects. deemed worthy the attention of a po
lilhed people, painting lias ever held a diftinguilhed rank.
The Greeks made this delightful art the handmaid of religion :
the Romans did the fame. The Moderns, whose taste ft.ll reraim
a tineeof Gothic and Chiva'rous colouring, have maae it the lllul
tration of their own pillions; and an.exhibition of the pageantry of
a court, of the imagery of superstition, or the atch'.cvemcnts nl ;
wicked ambition in martial scenery, has generally been the objett
of the modern painter. America has produced an artist formed
bv profeflion as a patriot foldicr. and amply gifted by attainments
to take a new road to fame—to a fame that is to alfociatc the ideas
of pollerity with the progress of freedom in this land —with the
fcencs of a virtuous and gallant foldicrlliip, displayed in patriotic
trials ol danger. The paintings of our Trumbull exhibii, amid .I
the perfections of his art, the solid glories of bin country—Thev
area scries of historical events visibly pourtrayed, that lead the
mind's eve from the firft to the lait flage of the American revolu
tion. This feri(« of patriotic paintings ought to be dear to Ame-
253
[Whole No. 272.}
ricans : the men seen in the copy now, some of them, live If
these inestimable works leave this country without recal, we ne
ver more can have others of equal merit. The original will foon>
be no more ; and where could we find an artilf, who, as a soldier,
" lived through the icene, and was what we behold" in his works,
a firft rate painter. Prims may multiply copies fufficient to sup
ply every man in America who has a reiilh for the fine arts, with
these works. An enlightened public ought to wish for such a
work if none existed : it ought to cherish it as it does exist.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, November 22, I 79 r.
Sketch oj the Debate on the Report of the Committee
of Eleilions on the Elettion of j. F. Mercer, Mem?
ber from Maryland.
THE law of the State of Maryland regulating
elections being called for, was produced
and read—by which it appeared that the Gover
nor and Council of that State were authorized
to fill up vacancies in the representation of that
State in Congress.
Some objections having been offered Sgainft
accepting the report,
Mr. Seney observed that the cafe appeared to
him to be so plain, that he was surprized to find
gentlemen objecting to an acceptation of the re
port of the committee. He then slated the whole
process of the business in the resignation of Mr.
Pinckney, and the election of Mr, Mercer—in
which the law of the Stare had been flriftly ad
hered to. He concluded by faying that two cases
in point had already occurred in the State of
Connecticut, and no difficulty refpeiSing ihtm
had taken place in the house.
Mr. Giles said that he was a member of the
feleA committee which had made the report—
and from an accurate attention to all thecircum
ftances of the cafe, he was led to think the re
port a very improper one. From recurring ro
the Constitution, he was of opinion a re
signation did not conftitutea vacancy. The Con
stitution speaks only of vacancies in general, and
does not contemplate one as resulting from a re
signation. Adverting to the British House of
Commons, he observed that in that body there
could be no reiignation. This is an established
principle.
The people having once chosen their repre
feniatives, their power ceases, and confeijuently
the body to which the resignation ought to be
made no longer exists. From the experience of
the Britifli government in this refpeift, he argued
against a deviation from this rule. ' '
He fliewed from the Conflitution that the exe
cutives of the States who are empowered to fill
vacancies, are not at all authorised to declarethe
existence of such vacancies—for if they are to
judge in the cafe, the whole power is inverted in
rhetn of determining the whole business of va
cancies—an idea that materially and essentially
aflfe&s the privileges of the members of the house.
Ke remarked that even by the law of Mary
land, the requifire fleps had not been pursued by
the executive of that State. He concluded by
faying that if the principles he had advanced
were just, he hoped the report would not be ac
cepted.
Mr. Smith (,S.C.) said he had had hisdoubts on
the report, but on more mature consideration he
was convinced that on accobnt of the inconveni
ence which would result from rejeifting it, and
from other considerations, it was proper to adopt
it, hut not without a full difculTion.
He then flared forne particulars to ihew that
the vacancy which hail occured on this occafiou
could not properly be called a reftgnation—
Mr. Pinckney had never taken his feat, nor the
requisite oath.
He said that there was no analogy between the
parliament of Great-Britain and this house—the
mode of iiTuing the writs originally, and of fill
ing up vacancies, is eflentially different.
No parts of the Constitution prohibits a mem
ber from refiwning, and for convenience it ought
to be concluded that he may resign. The publie interest may fufFer extremely in cases of ficV
jiefs or einbarraduients, which may prevent a
member from attending.
This argument from the body's not exifling to
whom the resignation ought to be made, will ap
ply to the President of the United States, whnie
resignation is exprefsiy mentioned in the Consti
tution. The objection urged from the executives
of the States judging of vacancies, he conceived
had 110 great force, for Congress would finally
judge in every cafe of election.
It is uncertain how the pratftice of the British
Parliament originated. Blackftone fays nothing
of resignations. When a member wants to re
sign in that legislature, he gets appointed to Come
fictitious office which difqualifies him from fitting
in the house.—He thought it best to eftablilh some
precedent, rather than oblige members who may
■wi(h to resign, to have recourse to some similar
method, by accepting of some appointment in
the State which is incompatible with a feat.
Mr. Murray said he was in favor of accepting
the report, both on account of propriety and con
veniency—Vacancies may happen froin various
causes—by resignation, by death, or by expulsion
•—the executive of the State is the proper judge
in the firft cafe. He stated certain differences
between a resignation after a person has taken
his feat, and a resignation before that event-—in
the former cafe, Congress will of course give no
tice to the executive of the State—in the latter,
the executive alone can take cognizance of the
resignation. He stated the extreme inconveni
ency which would result from the ideas of the
gentleman from Virginia, as it would refpecSt the
State of Georgia. He then (tated several parti
culars to shew that Mr. Pinckney was not ainem
ber of the house agreeable to the Constitution,
and therefore the house cannot proceed with him
as one.
He said that we ought to be willing to derive
information from the experience of every conn
try—but he conceived that 110 precedents could
be drawn that would apply in the present cafe
from a country which had none, to one which
had a constitution that so clearly defined and
guarded the rights of the citizens.
The cuftoni which had been mentioned as ob
taining in that country, arose from a wi(h to pre
vent a frequency of elections.
From what bad been offered by the gentleman
from South-Carolina, and the ideas he had fug
geffed, he hoped the committee would be induced
to Accept the report.
Mr. Williamfon fald it appeared to him that
the Constitution contemplates that a member may
resign. He read the clause, which fays that no
member of the legislature (hall accept of an office
made during the time for which he was chosen—'
from hence he inferred that resignations were
clearly contemplated.
Mr- Gerry said that he had heard nothing to
fiiew that Mr. Pinckney had ever accepted of his
appointment, and therefore it ought to have been
expressed that he had declined—but granting he
had resigned after accepting his appointment, he
aflerted that nothing had been offered to prove
that resignations might not take place in one
ho.use, as well as in the other—and the Conftiru
tion plainly exprefl'es that a Senator may resign.
The House of Commons originated with the
Kings, who formed that body to controul the
Lords ; and hence arose the prohibition againlt
resignations, as they would weaken the body,
an.3 the expence of a new election would fall on
the King. With refpe«sl to the executive declar
ing improper vacancies,he observed thatCongrefs
inveftgd with full power to controul ibe exe
cutives of the States in refpe<fl to such declarations.
Mr. Seney observed upon a dittimftion made
by Mr. Giles, between a resignation on the pare
of,a Senatpr and a member of the House he sup
posed a resignation on either part would equally
vacate a feat, and that no difference did really
exist. ' J
Mr. Sedgwick observed that if* ppwer of ad
judication was veiled in the executives of the
States to determine, on a vacancy in cases of re
signation, it would involve this conference that
a power of judging of vacancies in all poilible
cases would be the .necessary result ; he thoiurht
the propofnion involved the inoft serious effects
with refped. to the privileges and independency'
of this House. '
This fubjeft was further difcufTed the next
"ay, ajid ended in an acceptation of the report of
the committee, which was in favor of Mr. Mer
cer's election.
{■RIDAY, December 2
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the Appropriation Bill for the ] ear 1792.
Mr. Parker observed that the sum contemplat
ed to be granted by the bill before the committee,
w-as nearly double the amount of that granted
ior a former year. He conceived it was the duty
ot the committee who reported this bill to have
examined into the expenditure of the former ap
propriations, and called 011 them for informati
on 011 this head.
Mr. Lawrance said that it was not the duty of
the committee to collect the information called
for. Public officers hail their accounts fettled
according to law, and those settlements were o
pen to the infpeiflion of the members. It was
only the duty of the committee to examine the
eftimares contained in the report of the Secreta
ry of the Treasury, and to report a bill, provid
ing for the expences of government and the dis
charge of claims due in 1792. The committee
ofthe whole would also examine thofeeftiinates.
—The amount of salaries depended upon thepo
fitive laws of the le»iflature, and the eftiinates
from the different offices Itated to what purpose
the money called for by each was intended to be
applied. If from the documents in the poffelfion
of the committee it was found that money was
wanted, money would be granted, he supposed ;
—If money was not found wanting grants would
not be made. When the former Congress made
grants of money for particular purposes, they
neceflarily relied on the honor of their officers,
that it would be expended agreeably to appro
priation.
Mr. Parker said he did not doubt bin that the
committee had done what they thought their du
ty, but his wifti in rising was to provoke an en
quiry into the expenditure of money heretofore
appropriated. He had no doubt of the integrity
of the officers into whose hands the money was
entrusted, yet he thought it the duty of the re
presentatives of the people to enquire in what
manner the money of their constituents was ex
pended. The funis intended for the war depart
ment he considered as very considerable, and for
the treasury department funis were called for. to
pay a number of clerks, who perhaps were not
all employed. He concluded by declaring that
hecouid not vote in favor of the bill until he had
obtained the information he called for.
Mr. Firzfiiuons remarked that the allowance
of the different clerks of the treasury would not
be paid, if it was not ffiewn to the proper officer
that they had been employed and had done their
duty.
Mr. Baldwin said the committee, of which he
was a member,had not been appointed to enquire
into the expenditure of former appropriated mo
ney) but to bring in a bill agreeably to the re
port ; yet as an individual member'he had called
at the register's office, and had been induced to
look over the accounts. In that of the secretary
of the Senate, 3000 dollars had been appropriat
ed last year for contingent expences. He did
not fee that that sum had fallen fliort, though
that officer now called for 4Joo dollars as an ap
propriation for the expences of 1792. The rea.
son for granting this increased sum, was stated
that some articles had risen in price.
Mr. Dayton observed, that the objections which
Mr. Parker made to the bill, were indefinite.
He wished he would joint out those parts on
which his dislike to it was grounded. They ap
peared to amount t* this, that he would not vote
for an appropriation bill.
Mr. Smith,(N.H.) said the bill was intended to
make provision for the expences of government,
and he could fee no neceflary connection between
the objeA of it and an examination into the ex-
penditure of money already appropriated. He
saw no reason, he said, for suspending his deter
mination on this, rill he had received fatisfatffory
information on the other head : For if the offi
cers were not able to account for one farthing of
the money appropriated, yet it would be neceila
ry to provide for future expences. He agreed
that the information called for was neceilary,
but contended it need not interfere with the bu
siness now before the committee, or interrupt its
progress.
Mr. Clark thought the enquiry not only tie
cefFary, but well-timed. There was no doubt
that the money appropriated had been expend
ed ; but he wilhed to know whether it had been
properly expended. It was neceilary to know
how it was expended, before any more was ap
propriated. 1 his information fliould form the
ground of future appropriations.
Mr. Parker declared he had no intention of
unneceflarily impeding the progress of the bill
before the committee ; but he saw no neceifuy
for hurrying the business—to give two or three
days for enquiries would be no injury to it. He
said he did not know that any money had been
applied by any of the officers of government im
properly ; but he conceived it his duty to en
quire. As soon as the enquiry was made, and the
information he called for obtained, he was rea
dy, he said, to grant every requisite supply ; be
cause he was confident that these enquiries once
made, would never be neglerted, and a habit
would follow to look into the expenditure of all
puolic appropriations. He again adverted to the
gieat inereaie of expence, by comparing the ap
planation of the 2 d feflion of Congress and the
one proposed by the bill before the committee.
1 he fiut was about 600,000 dollars, and this un
waras of r,000,000. Perhaps there was a necef
fuy fortius mcreafe, and all money heretofore
granted had been properly expended, b it this
he wiflied might be made to appear
254
Mr. Lawrance said, he wifi ie *l every part of
the bill thoroughly examined, a.id every member
fatisfied that the sums called for were nereffarr
before they were appropriated. The gentleman
from Virginia who firff übjerted to the bill he
oblerved, only took a comparative view of' t!-e
sum total of former appropriations and of that
contemplated by the bill. Hewifoed theK n || e .
man would turn to the particulars, and view the
variety and nature of the calls on the Treafurv
tor 1792. He noticed the mention that had been
made of the increased sums called for, for th
contingent expencCs of the Senate, and raid, that
if the vrh«lc of this was not expended, the iC
inainder would lay in the treafury,and such pans
as were expended inuft be accounted for by the
proper officer, to the proper office where it was
open to infpedlion,
Mr. Smith (S. C.) wilhed that the gentlenia-i
from Virginia, to latisfy his doubts refpectin-r
the expenditure of former appropriations, woula
take the trouble of examining the accounts of
the Treasurer, which had already been layin r
011 the table for three weeks. He mentioned sonic
of the objects that occurred at the present fetfion,
and which called for an encreafe of the l'urn t<»
be appropriated. Among these he enumerated
the encreafe of our army in consequence of the
attacks on our frontiers—the expence incurred
in taking the census—the additional claims on
government—and the expence of the government
of the South Wel'tern Territory. HeTwifhed the
gentleman to state the particular parts of the bill
he objedted to. If he did this, the attention of the
committee would be turned to one point, and
progrefc might be made in the bufinels.
Mr. Steele thought the obje&ions-made by the
gentlman from Virginia (Mr. Parker) proper ;
and fully agreed in the propriety of checking
the progreis of the bill until the information
called for by that gentleman could be obtained.
The intention, he conceived in appointing a
felert committee was that they fliould examine
the estimates on which the appropriation bill was
to be founded. He wished to know how it hap
pened that the Secretary of the Senate for con
tingent expences of that body Ihould call for
4500 dollars, when the clerk of the House of
Representatives only called for 5500 dollars,
though the last mentioned body is so much more
numerous than the firft. He was of opinion that
the annual contingent expences of the auditor's
and comptroller's offices must now be well known
from experience, and that supposition was no
longer proper in estimating the sums necefiary to
be appropriated for those objedls. He conceived
that the last years expences being enquired into
would give tne sum neceflary for the next. He
wiftied to depend on the feledt committee for
every information of this kind, and if they were
not able to give it, he conceived they had not
done their duty.
Mr. Lawrance supposed, it was the duty of
Members to inrorm themselves on every subject
that came before the House. In this inflance
want of time could not be pleaded in excuse for
a negleifl of this duly. The eflimate of the Se
cretary of the Treasury had early in the feflion
been handed in, was printed for the use of the
House, and a copy put into the hands of each
member ; so that they had a full opportunity of
examining it. The bill now before the commit
tee had been rep . ted two weeks since ; so that
fiom the time of the bill's being reported, the
business had not been precipitated. Gentlemen
knew the fubjetft was before them, and if thev
had examined into the fubjetft, their minds would
be made up, because there were materials on
which their opinions could be formed. Relative
to the two particulars adverted to, fit ft the en
creafed elliinate of the Secretary of the Senate,
he observed, that it was iinpoi.jbfe for any mem
ber of the committee pofuively to declare that
the additional funi of 1500 dollars to the former
allowance was too much. With refpedl to the
efiimate of the clerk of the house, it was parti
cular, it was easily examined, and the committee
of the whole were competent to determine whe
ther any items of it appeared unreasonable. The
contingencies in -the war department, in the
comptroller's office, &c. if they were higher than
heretofore, it fliould be considered that rents are
raised, and wood higher, and an allowancefhould
therefore be made. He was sorry to hear itfaid
that the committee had not done their duty. The
information called for, he repeated, was 011 the
table. It was Impossible for the committee to fay
the exact quantity of wood, paper, &c. neceflkry
for the houses—something mult be left to the ho
nor and integrity of the persons entrusted with
making the purchase of these articles.
Mr. Gerry said, that the committee were di
rected to report a bill pursuant to the eflimate
made, and their duty had no relation to the ex
amination of the lalt year's expenditure. Yet
'ie conceived it the duty of the huufe to make
some such enquiry, and he hoped the committee
would r:fe to give time to colled} this informa
tion He wi.'bed the house would make it a rule
hat eve'y executive (hould, at every session lay
besot e the house an account of the expenditure0 f all the money passing through their hands.
The people depended on their Representatives
for a scrutiny into the expenditure of the public
nioncv. He wifried at preieut that a committee
fuould he appointed to examine into the expen
diture of all former appropriations, and that a
rule should be eftablifned to apply for the future
and procure regular accounts from every branch
of the executive department.
The effect of this in the end would be, to en
creafe the confidence of the people in those offi
C ers, by bringing the rectitude of their official
conduct to foil' evidence, and would be the belt
Ijuard againlt embezzlement of public money,
(hould we be less fortunate in future, in the ehoice
of executive officers. If some fucli plan as this
he proposed was not adopted, the Repreleiua
tives would have no more idea of the money ex
pended than the people themselves, and the peo
ple no more than if their officers were in the
moon. He moved that the committee rife.
Mr. Bo'/dinot hoped the committee would not
rife until some more notice had been taken of
the objections of the gentleman from Virginia.
His charges were to the bill in general, and wete
founded upon the difference between the sum to
tal of the appropriation contemplated in the bill,
and that of former appropriations, a difference
of about 400,000 dollars. To account for this
difference he wished the gentleman would turn
his attention to the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury ; in which he would find a number
of extraordinary calls for considerable appropri
ations. A considerable sum to the King of France
a large sum, the balance of an old accouutdue
Oliver Pollock—l2o,ooo dollars, a deficiency in
]ast year's appropriation —considerable expences
jn consequence of an encreafe of our army, for
the defence of the Pennsylvania and Virginia
frontiers. — He mentioned that if the funis called
for to provide for these objects and a few more
he enumerated, were added together, they would
be found to make up nearly the difference com
plained of. This explanation he considered as
necefliiry, left it should be imagined that our re
gular annual expences had increased ill the sum
of 400,000 dollars. These extraordinary expen
ces were peculiar to the en filing year, and could
not be reckoned as an encreafe to the annual ex
pences of the government of the United States.
Mr. Sreele wished the members of the feleit
committee would declare whether they had exa
mined the items of the particular estimates laid
before them. He was willing to rely on their
opinion of them to make up his own mind.
Mr. Baldwin said, the committee were only
appointed to bring in a bill in conformity to the
eifimares laid before the House. He conceived
that as every member had a right to examine the
documents on which those eftiinates were found
ed, that they would take the necessary iteps to
acquire information. For his own part he had
been induced for this purpose to call at the re
gister's office. He had procured from the Regis
ter such papers (making himfelf perfbnally re
fponlible for their fafety) as threw fufficient light
upon it to fatisfv his mind ; — those papers were
011 the table and open to the inflection of every
member
Ctobscontihusd.)
MONDAY, December 5
Mr. Bourne presented a memorial from the dis
tillers of the town of Newport, praying certain
modifications of the excise law. Referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Speaker laid before the lioufe an account,
furnifhed by Mr. Beckley,the clerk of thehoufe,
of the diiburfements of the money appropriated
for the contingent expences <5f the House of Re
presentatives during three feffions—from which
it appears that ther* is a balance due to him.
Mr. Benfon laid on the table a resolution for
the appointment of a committee to join a com
mittee of the Senate, to consider and report the
most eligible manner of carrying into effec't a
former resolution of Congrels refpecfting the erec
tion of an equeflrian ftai.ue, in honor of General
Wafliington.
The ho life then, pursuant to the order of the
day, resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole,
and resumed the consideration of the appropria
tion bill—Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
In proceeding through the bill, the several
items were feparateiy considered, agreed to.
Seme occasional remarks were made ; but 110 ma
terial debate took place. One amendment was
proposed, by which the bill is made to express
the several purpol'es for which the monies are
appropriated, inliead of appropriating funis in
gross, with a reference to the Secretary's e(ti
mate, for particulars.
The committee having reported the bill and
the amendment, rhe house adopted the fame, and
recommitted the bill to the felec!t committee, who
had originally framed it, with instructions to
new-model it pursuant to the sense of the houte.
The Speaker laid before the honfe<a letter from
the Treafmer of the United Stares, accompanied
with a (latement of his fpccie accounts of receipts
and dilburfemenrs, from July i to September 30,
which was ordered to lie on the tabic;—andnlfo
a letter from the Secretary of the Tie,miry, ac
companied with a report on thcfubjeOt of manu
factures, which was ordered to be printed.
Mr. Gerry presented a resolution in lieu of one
which he laid oil the table on Friday lair, mak
ing it the doty of the* Secretary of the Treasury
to i eporr to the hotife, on the third Monday of
every felfion, an account of the receipts and ex
pendirures of the public money appropriated du
ring the preceding fefiion, so far as he ihall then
have it in his power to ft&te particulars—and if
he be unable to give an accurate ftatenienc of the
whole, at the time appointed, he is to complete
ic as foou afterwards as may be. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, December 6.
A petition of John Wilson, praying the renewal of a loft certi
ficate, was presented by Mr. Hartley—read and referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
Sundry petitions from invalid officers were read, and referred
to the Secretary of War.
The motion of Mr. Benfon laid on the table yesterday, for ap
pointing a committee of the House to confer with a committee of
the Senate, refpe&ing the carrying into eftcdl a rcfolution of Con
gress under the Confederation, for eretting an equestrian statue of
General Washington—was taken into consideration, and adopted
and MefTrs. Benfon, Gerry, and Smith (S.C.) appointed the
committee on the part of the House.
The resolution offered yesterday by Mr. Gerry, for dire&ing
the Secretary of the Treasury to report to the House on the third
Monday of every annual leffion of Congress, an accurate ftate
mcnt of the receipts and expenditures of public monies, See. was
taken into consideration, and after some debate was, with two
other resolutions, moved by Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. Barnwell
refpe&ively, on the fame fubjett, referred to a fele£l committee,
consisting of MefiYs. Gerry, Dayton and Barnwell.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for eftabliftiing the
po(l-®ffice and post-roads in the United States.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) in the chair.
The bill was read in paragraphs*
A motion made by Mr, Niles, to extend the post-road in Ver
mont to Windsor and Rutland, was fuperccded by a motion made
by Mr. Sedgwick, to ftrikc out the clause which designates all the
particular roads in the United States, in order to insert a clause
vesting the power of designating them in the supreme executive.
This motion occasioned a debate, in which its constitutionality,
and the reverse idea, were alternately advanced and denied—the
committee rose without coming to a decision, and then the Houfc
adjourned.
S A L EM, November 22
A gentleman from Cape-Francois, where he
has resided for some time part, in intimacy with
some of the rnoft refpedlable characters there,
considers their situation hazardous, &the pickets,
and fortifications, with the fniall number of
troops within, as a defence very unequal to any
forcible attack from without : the inhabitants
were however, lulled into an imaginary feenrity,
by the long continuance of the infurretftion.
Lait Friday about 12 ton HOPS were brought
into this town far exportation to the southern
breweries.
N E W-Y O R K, December 5,
BRITISH MAIL PACKETS.
Admiral Hughes, Naval-Commander on the
Halifax station, has ordered,that the Britifli arm
ed Schooners shall fail from thenceto New-York,
monthly, during the winter, to carry the Mails
to and from those places. The firft was made
up at Halifax, the 31ft ult.
Extract ej a letter jrom a gentleman in Jamaica, to
his friend in New-York, dated Nov. 20.
" The Countei's of Eftingham died on board
the Diana Frigate within three days fail of New-
York ; the Frigate has returnad with her corpse
to this Island. The alTembly of which have or
dered thefum of four thousand five hundred dol
lars to be paid towards defraying the expences
of her funeral, which is to take piace the firft of
next Month."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
" As Sol's blejl beams make Vinegar more four" —
MR. FENNO,
I HAVE read with attention the Reflotrftnt in your last Gazette,
and would recommend to him a difpaflionate re-perusal of the
paragraph of the 2d November, which has so much excited his
indignation—this will convince him, if he poflefle.-. any candor,
that the Meffings derived to the people from the new Conflitutim of Go
vernment, which if the favor of Heaven is now ejlabhjhea ; (lad the fuc
ccfsfut and highly pleajtng and popular adminijiration thereof -so far
from producing in the minds of some men a generous acknow
ledgment of past errors and mifcalcuiations, appear to stir up such
remains of gall and chagrin, as it was hardly thought poflible
could be latent in the human mind. C.
Philadelphia, December 7.
THE eligibility of this Gazette asamedium for Adver
tisements will appear, when it is considered thai it is twice a
week lent to One Hundred and Twenty Postmasters and Printers
in the United States—and to One Thousand Subscribers ia dif-
ferent parts of the Union,
The Legislature of this Commonwealth afiembled at the State-
House of this city yesterday.
The Convention of the State of Delaware, now in feffioii at
Dover, has clcfted John Dickenson, Esq. thjir Prafident.
Among the various specimens of art and ingenuity exhibited by
the mechanics and. artiils of this city, a correspondent observes
that ft rangers and others are peculiarly pleased with the painted
Wafs in the windows of fcveral (hopkeepers. This mode of
painting is original, the effect is fine—and the execut;on such an
happy imitation of nature, that it is not possible to avow] a tem
poiarv deception. The ingefiiout artist who executed the above,
is on his palfage lor London, where, in this line only, he will pro
bably be highly fuccefslul, as it it fatd nothing fimibr has yet ap
pcared there.
255
Of all animals, man is the most improved by being tJitight. The
just mfeience is, that raoft pains should I*<* befrowed where the
b lllruits will be produced by it ; we are delighted to Ice dogs
and bears dance, to hear parrors chatter, and how a hog can fpcJl.
We throng, caih in hand, to fee lions, wild cats, and all ilrange
fights. It would be very little honorable to human nature, it'
there was any great town, in our enlightened country, where l
shows of the for: alluded to, are gainful, where rope dancing colts
thousands yearly, and not a single free school is provided lor the
child rcn oi the poor. If our duty cost as much as our folly, there
would be a better excuse tor our not dilcharging it. But the
truth is, we are taxed ten times more by our love of wondei and
of vice than would be fufficient to hire wisdom and virtue to keep
school for our children.
Nothing is cheaper, in proportion to its value, than-cducatiou
—and yet it is the charge that frightens us. The chlidrcn, if
well taught, will make ample retribution to the society for what
their teaching has cost. It is fcarely poifibleto calculate by what
means, or in how many ways, this will be done. Men, well
taught, will earn more than ignorant men ; skill will be a* gainful
as hard work. Such men too will be more enterprizing. The
mind, expanded by knowledge, will trust more to its own powers :
though at firft, it cannot creeD. it will learn to fly ; the higher it
mounts, the wider its profpeih ; till, at last, the world, and all
its means of happiness, are brought within its reach. Politically
speaking, the lallen ftatc of man is ignorance. The world is yet
to l,e regained by him. Of all the countries on earth, America
is in the belt condition to regenerate man by education : We have
the most to do with, and the lcaft yet to do.
" If a consolidation of the states into one government be an
event justly to be avoided, it is not less to be desired that a coo To.
lidation Ihould prevail in their interests and affedtions; and this
too, as it fortunately happens, for the very reasons, among others,
wh:ch lie against a governmental consolidation. For, in the firft
place, in proportion as uniformity is found to prevail in the inte
rests and fentimentsof the several states, will be the pra&icability
of accommodeting Lcgiflativc regulations to them, and thereby of
withholding new and dangerous prerogatives from the executive.
Ag.iin, the greater the mutual confidence and affection of all parts
of the Union, the more likely they will be to concur amicably, or
to differ with moderation, in the ele£live designation of the chief
magiftratc; and by such examples, to guard and adorn the vital
principle of our republican conftitiition. Lastly, the less the sup
posed difference of interests, and the greater the concord and con
fidence throughout tbr great bod)' of the people, the more readily
must they sympathize with each other, the more fcafonably can
they interpose a common manifeftation of their sentiments, the
more certainly will they take the alarm at usurpation or opprcllion,
and the more effectually will they confolidatc their dcfencc ot the
public liberty.
" Here then is a proper object prcfented, both to those who are
moll jealously attached to the separate authority refcrved to the
states, and to those who may be more inclined to contemplate the
people of America in the light of one nation. Let the former con
tinue to watch against every encroachment, which might lead to a
gradual consolidation of the states into one government. Let the
latter employ their utmost zeal, by eradicating local prejudices
and mistaken to consolidate the affairs of the states into
one harmonious interest ; and let it be the patriotic study of all,
to maintaia the vaiious authoritieseftabliftied by our complicated,
system, each in its rcfpe&ive conftituiional sphere ; and to erect
over the whole, one paramount Empire of reason, benevolence and
brotheily affe&ion." Nat. Gaz.
Yesterday aftcrnodti a fire broke out in a barn in Pear-llrect,
which consumed the fame—by the timely and spirited exertions
of the fire companies and other citizens, the flames were prevent
ed from extending fuither.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS tt the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Swallow, Snowden, Boftoa
Monton, Parker, Antigut
Joseph, Prance, Havre-de-Grace
Sloop Lark, Burrows, St. Martins
Rebecca, Tingle, Maryland
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20/4 lOif do.
Indents 12f 5 60
Bank Subscriptions, 141 Dollars.
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Bank of the United States
will be opened on Monday the sth instant.
Transfers of the fubferiptions to the stock of said Bank may
then be made.
On Monday the 12th instant, deposits will be received, and oa
Tuelday the 20th instant, discounts maybe made.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
All Bills or Notes offered for Discount shall be delivered into
the Bank on Mondays or Wcdnefdays, the Discount (hall be fet
tled on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and (hall be made known the
next fuccceding days.
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS of the
BANK of the UNITED STATES,,
December 5, 1791,
RESOLVED,
THAT the payment of the portion of the Capital Stock, of the
Bank of the United Slates, confiding of Specie which will be
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made at the refpe&ive Banksof Majfachufetts and Ncio~York.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, shall, on or before the firft Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Cashier of the Bank of the United States, a Certifi
cate signed by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
(hall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
established to the contrary notwithstanding
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KE A X, Cajfiier.
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An extensive AfTo'tment, of very superior texture, suitable foe
every branch of the business, just imported from Aroflerdam,
and for Sale by
DANIEL TYSON,
No. 114, South Front-Str ekt ;
Where Millers and others may always be fupolied with the befl
Cloths, and large allowance made to those who purphafe in quan
tities to fell again.
Also for Sale, a Quantity of Particular
MADEIRA WINE,
Of (he firft Quality, fit for immediate ofe, in Pipes.
PhUidt/phia, Uccew.btT 6, 1791. r lawiml
pr. £ . in pr. ccnt.
64 do.
66 dq*
22fi
12/10PHILADELPHIA
Intelligence ojDifturlanca among the Creek Indian's.
THE public have been informed, by numerous naragraohsex
tracted from the London paptts, that a Mr. BowWs arrr cd
in England from America, in ibtfcourte of the year 1790 with
several Indians belonging to fomc of the fouthem tribes —That
the said Bowies, and Indian*, had received countenance and sup
port, to a certain degree, and that they failed from England, dttr
lug the course of ihe last Summer, enriched with preieuis f loi
the Bahama Islands.
It now appears, that the said Bowles, after arriving at the Ba
hamas failed for Indian river, so called, lying on Eaft-Plorida,
and thtnee proceeded 10 that part of the .Creek country inhaoiicd
by the Seminolics, where he arrived in the mouth of September
Jalt.
That at the time of his arrival, the Creeks were preparing to
execute the treaty, made between them and the United States, at
New-York in August i 790. They had ihofen the Chiefs to at
tend at the Rock-Landing on the firfl of Otlober, the time fta ed
for running the boundary lines mentioned in the treaty —1 he
white bird king of the Cufitahs being of this commission.
Bowles's appearance howew r at that crisis—the presents he
brought with him, and h:s bold assertions, taufed great agitations
and hesitations among the ignorant part, and ofcourfe among the
mafsof the Creeks.
Although it appears that a conftdcrable portion of the upper
Creeks, and indeed all the respectable Chiefs were f r runiiin t e
line, notwithftandrng the delyfions of Bowles ; for it is pr«r'u ntd
that he is an smpoftor—But, he pretends, " be has povvefs iroin
the Britifb government to conclude treaty with the Crbekj—
The basis of'which (hall be a revocation, on part, oh the treaty
•with the Uhitcd States, and a guarantee o! all the binds."
He bas spread reports, that hf has three (hips loaded with
arms and ammunition, and cannon ; that if the Creeks will per
mit him, he will establish a fort, and trading houses, at which
the Creek* (ball bc'fupplied with goods ot all forts, upon better
terms than ever they ha ve been, and that he had fix thousand men
in the islands, ready to support him
That he would write to Georgia, and prevent the lines being
run, and he accordingly has written to the Commiflioners, who
were waiting at the Rock-Lending, the Creek chiefs,
which letter is dated at 11 Ufachecs, Oftobei 26, 1791," and sign
ed, 4t General Wm. A. Bowles, direflor of affairs Cteek nation."
In this letter, and in his general deela>ations, he a(T r*s. that Alex
ander M'Giilivray has deceived the Indians in the trea'.y made at
New-York ; but, that he is willing to form a tre?tv with the Uni
ted States in behalf of the Creek natiou, and declares that the for
mer treaty (hall not be executeo
The Indians, diftrafted by his arts, have entreated the United
Hates to wait until the before the boundary shall be mark
ed, and if Bowles, whom they style the " lying captain", (hall
then turn out animpcflor, they will then attend and run the boun
dary lines without further difficulty.
It appears that Mr. M'Gillivray has faithfully adhered to t! e
interests of the United States, warmly recommencing that the
line should be run at the time appointed, and that Bowles's falfc
hoods Qiould be entirely difregarded—lndeed, his importance,
and life, probably depend on Bowles being driven out of the nr.
tion.
A considerable dctachment of the troops of the United States,
and Mr. Ellicott the surveyor, and three refpe&able Cotnmiflion
ers from the State of Georgia, were ailombled punctually at the
Rock-Landing on the Oeonfe, the tirft of O&aber, and they
availed for the Creek chiefs until the beginning of November,
"when they difpaired of the business being effe&ed this featon.
BOSTON, November 23.
- THE Subscribers having a grateful sense of the kindness of the
people of Nantafket, and of the benefit which they have received
from the house ereftcd bv the Humane Society on Nantafket-
Beach, feel thetnfclves obliged publicly to relate the following
:
That the schooner Dove, belonging to Halloweli ; and bound
from thence to, Boston, on Friday, ißch Nov. inft. struck the
ground, at about half a mile's diftanc;, from Nantafket Beach :
She was commanded by captain Jame Carr, and the hjjnds con
sisted of David Jackson, Benjamin Siickney, Nathan Burges, and
Ebenezer Thayer, all of Hallowcll, except Thayer, who is in in
habitant of this town. —When the veflel struck and fiiled, we all
took to the water, and swam fafely ashore except Jackson, who
being in poor health, was unable to gain the beach, and was un
fortunately drowned ; Capr. Loring and some other peifons ot
Nantafket had seen theveJTcl ftiike, and came to our afliftancef
they had kindled a fire in one of the Society's houses, and afliftcd
us, exhausted with fatigue,and drenched in the water to get thither:
Captain Loring and those with him waded into the water to save
poor Jackson, and brought his body on Ihore ; but he was too
far gone to be recovered ; they shewed us every poflible kindness,
and furnifhed us with clothes, vi&uals and drink, and aflifted us
in saving some part of our cargo. We are fully oonvinced that
had it not been for the house on the beach, and the kind afliftance
of the people of Nantafket, we niuft every one have perilhed ;
and we publish this account to manifrft our gratitude to divine
Providence, and to those who were inftrumrmtal in saving us.
}AMES CARR,
FBENEZBR THAYER,
NATHAN BURGES.
American Lead Manufa&ory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, tCo.
HAY E just now opened their Lead-Wa rehouse, '.wo doors
louthof Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory —
where they have now made, and i?ndy for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
numbero. experienced English woikmen, they wa>rant ir to be
equal in quality t«* any manufactured in Europe, ana at a reduced
price trom the prime eoft of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in \:r g inu. Ail orders addrcOVd to either of the
above Fafloncs, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
ihortelt notice.
N. B. anted, induflrinuSj sober, labouring Men, a; the said
1 lines, where conflant employ, good wages, and other encourage
?o:fc,To"fcc%rr s>ofconveyance bm,g p,ouidtd ' a - d
at AU " 1 " & C °-
Philadelphia, December 3, iygi.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, LL D ProfclTn, r
in the College an(l A c a de„, y o'f Phiiadeloh" onofe"
u C ..ver, next Wmrer, two Coutfes of I.,a„ r „/ One n
Sm " «* "ir™ «; s
WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Fxuliy.
Philadelphia, Odober is, , 7gi
Bank of the United States.
Philadllphia, November 22, 1791.
r T" I HE Stockholders ol the Bank of ihc United State?
X are hereby informed, that according to the iiatute ot incor
poration, a gcneralirle&io n foi iweiuy-fivc Directors will be
rr-ld at the Bank or the United States, i'rf the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock 111 the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fe&ion of the Bye-Laws, the
S'ockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to affeinble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day of
January next, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajhier.
Secondfundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
11 Not more thin three-fourths of the Dire&ois 111 orhce, exclu
sive of the President, (Kail be eligible for the next year.
But the Director who be President at the time of an election,
may always be re-ele&ed."[ e e l 0
JOHN Pintard,
SWORN BROKERk AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,on Commijjioti,
at the following rates:
0\ T the specie amount of all falcs at auction, one eighth pet
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-half percent.
Ou remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per ccnt. on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers ac ditto, feventy-five cents per transfer.
(£3T Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their order.*, may rely on their .being executed with punZluality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and tjct.enfive dealings
in the public stocks, together with a well established correspon
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit ro his employers.
0 Sober 1,5, 1791
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
T E A S,
■REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, bet ween Chefnut and Market Streets
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, od COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnnt-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place. ,
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Unions bought, fold, or
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on CommiJJion } and a[l other
Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&cd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office next door to the Cuftom-Hcufe,
'State-Street, BOSTON. 2 m
TO BE SOLD,
BYJOHN C A R E Y,
No. 26. Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOK S,
Which may be seen every, day, until five o'clock, ?. m.
Among them, arc the follouiitij :
Folic. TTOMER, Xenophon, Piato. Plutarch, Eufehius, Sozo
-11 men, Tb'eodorer, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Patcr
culus, Plinv. Concordanria Lit. Concoidantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biliiia Junii and Tremeilii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps
Scapulas Phavorini—Marrtinii— H<*ffmani Lexica, Voffii Etvmo
logicon, Ant,quit.-Erclef. Britannic*, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropasdia, lent ley's Horace, Terence and
Phitdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Csfar Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii Ars Gram. Cluve
rn Geography, Juflmian Code,&c.
oa™ eLinfra. Homer, Anacreon, AriHophanes, Long.nus,
Theophraltus, Heltod, Poet* minores Gr. Iterates, Phalaris, is
nous edition, of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
ius, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus. Aul'omus, Buchanan,
Sa.luft, Curtius, Florus, Jiiftin, Val. Maximum, A. Gellius Hill
August. Scriptores, English and French Transitions of some o' the
Claffifcs, a great finely of Greek and I alio Grammars, &c &r
pj Catalogues may be had of McOVs. Rice & Co. Booksellers
Markft-ftfeet, or of JOHN CAREY. '
October 91. ( f)
The First and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF*NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—who mav receive their
Books on application to HAZARD& ADDOMS, at the
' Corner of Chefnut and Thi'd Streets.
(FT The above two volumes contain the political hiflorv of the
f,? TT fc \ tl x cment to ,he adaptiorf of the pitfeui C 0,,.
" " V ' c ,hird ' c P nta ' n 'ng a geograph,-
inthepX''" '' C fetches of its natural history.V. , s
the,6 ' ft tW ° VQlumes,or W'-P'ice2o/
u I JVu~ e , fs ' and f P«d.ly will be publiflied,
c n- TP L COLLECTION'S-
Confining of State Pai-ers, and other authentic Documents
tending to the Hi'stor v of Ame,u ca and
P»!*W»'lv«f the United States.
v ty.ZBi.KE.ZER HAZARD, AM
for each Volume! S" ft 3
and feeond Xu.r.hcrs, or Volumes to fit j ", Z -,.* he l,rft
delivery. " d Cad 'f**"*°ne'(e*ce,,t the ,att>Z tUcuZ of
\s~ Subfcnptions wili be rpfcfupi • ,v- • «
Dobson, and Haiard & Ann 1 r , Cltv ' Thomas
work, and ,n olhet
t htlaaclpkia, November 5, 1791.
ffplß)
256
JOHN pintard;
New-York, No. 57, King-Street,
George Meade
which be w,u d,,poft °< » *• pftfi:
London market Madeira WINE, .5 2nd 6 yean old
q u^cMk: > W,NE ' he fi ' ft b * lh < »°^ad
Three and 4 years old Ltfbon WIVE, of t> superior
what :s generally imported, by the pip,, quarur ca(k 9 J'*
quanu'.y. ' J <H£er
quan t u" oldC ' omaCßßANDY ' by ' he P ' PP ' * ifrCr - ° r la'gfr
A lew quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA
He hasjuft received by. he Pig. u, Loxlev, matter,'from London
» few quarter calks ol old Madeira WINE —And
"By inr bri ? Mercuty, Capt. Stevem, from Dublin, a few b„v
of Into LINENS, low priced and well-lToAed; a feLlu
rco and white FLANNELS, and Tome GLUh.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft aualitv an[ .
Burlington PORK of prime ' ' *
STAVES aif ° '° d ' fP ° re ° f ' 3 ' JUa " t!ty of drefrcd Whi «" O.k
He means to keep a constant supply of Firtt Qualitv Mado,,
and Ltfbon WINES, and whoever is pleased i 0 f OT>)r " (, Ull w,i
their custom, may be atf-ircd of well (Vrvcd. 1 '
He will, through the Winter and Spi ing, buy unci rf(T- JHU'n
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAXJ
will give the highest pricc for them. ' '
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER «nH
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be difpoled of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
W. M'D 0 UC A L L'S
DANCING SCHOOL..
Is now opened at his School.Room
No. 28, Carter s Alley.
TTE.returns hi. fincrre thanks for the great encouragement 1 1
X X has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the „Du.,«i„„
ol ins Ichool tor decorum and good order, as well as 1 he perform
ance of nis fcnolars, will still ensure him a refpcftable
public favor. Ulc
A number of new Cotillions and Country Danccs will be tau»ht
during the (eafon. »
Thok-who please to honor hi-m with the tuition of their chi'
dren, may be affurcd, they will be taught in the mo'ft approved
' and that P r °P" ""enuoti will be paid to their and
manners. °
A general pvatliiing for the improvement of thefcholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wedrielday ; when the
employers, and ftram;cisot gentrtl deportment, will he admitted
These pr#fiifines will l.caiterided with no expcnce
X B. An EVENIXG SCHOOL w.ll he- opened for grow.
fficietit nuinber offer.
Phil?di it>h 13, September 1 _j. 1
TO BE SOLD,
And polTeflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
TT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
X. and a halt trom the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof.
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. ATo a yonn. orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the who!, under
good fence. There are on the preinifes a two (lory stone house
ana kitchen, with an elegant, piazza, the whole paiued and
■ iniined Al.o, a fmoke-hnufe, work-shop, granary, waggon
houfe; barrack cow-houfcs. two (lories high and 90 feet long, and
a good b«.: 11, with Fiom the buildings there arecharm
ingiiewsoi Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth'
hills. Any per.on inclining to purchafc, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the piemifes.orto Isaac Snowdek,
Ivtf. 141, South Second-ftiect, Philadelphia.
Princeton, O&ober 10, 17Q1
1 hirty Dollars Reward.
"D'UN AWAY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
..... named Abraham, lale the property of Nathaniel
Vun.ijf, deceased about forty-five years of age, about five feet
cij it or nine inches h-gh, piety well set, with a large woolfc head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains t«i his Feetand ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone mason and
piafterer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of ! :ch business. He is a great diflembler, and no doubt pretends
lie is j freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his pref ut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as heo'tten mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirtv Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchelor, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(iawgw{
October 12,1 7Qi
i orty Dollars Reward.
T AS T night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor-
X-i dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one ftripfd vest and
breeches, two (hirttand a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. J cifey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real ollrich feathers, some of
t.icm large and elegant, and of diffeient colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 do/cn pafte-boaids. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollajs will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
tiators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
n , ' JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Hnn.rntown, Yew-Jerfev, Sept. 1. 1791.[ e el 0P l 0
/A oun n Gentleman, ot American birth and education (being
a. A. a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
1 tit or in a fa mil v, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latsn and English Languages. He has had some experience in
teaching, and trulls he can exhibit fatisfaftory recommendations.
A n V letters upon tliis fubjeft, post paid, addreflrd to A— S—,
end the care of the Editor hereof, prior to the 25th December, will
be pun&ually attended to.
o~lobcr 22. j 791
' Rlank Powers to receive Ihe Interest, and for the transfer ojthe
>rincipaj of public deht, a&reeablt to the Rules ejlablijked in the Trea
'try Department: Also Blanks for abjlrafts of Certificates, tobefoldb
he Editor-.
The price of this Paper is 3 Dollar s per tint!,
feD 6w.)
(». f.)
ISAAC SNOWDEN , Junior,
• fep2mj
[taw]