PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS UY JOHN FE.NNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 3, of Vol. lII.]
true and genuine Discovery of ANFMAL ELEC
TRICITY and MAGNETISM: calculated to dc
ttel and overthrow alt counterfeit defcriptiovs oj
the fame.
IT is generally admitted, that there is a ple
num, or universal fluid, which occupies all
joace, and that all bodies moving therein, abound
with pores or points of introduction, and imer
ftices to receive and return it ; that this fluid
coiififts of fire, light, air, or f"pirit, which flowing
through one body by the currents which iflue
therefrom to another, as in a magnet, produces
that phosiioinenon we call Animal Magnetism.
Now as it is the nature of all fluids to tend to an
equilibrium, therefore the efforts which bodies
make towards each other produce Animal Elec
tricity. Animal Electricity is no more than the
effect produced between two bodies, one of which
has more motion than the other; aphaenonrenon
proving that the body which has moll motion
communicates it tothe other, until an equilibri
um of motion be eftablilhed between them ; with
inequajity of motion there is Animal Electricity :
with<equality and reciprocity of motion there is
Animal Magnetism. It is the purpose of nature
that Animal Eledtricity should exist only to pro
duce Animal Magnetifin ; the former ends where
the latter begins. The human body may be
therefore compared to an electrical machine, the
arms the conductors, the fingers the pointers.
Hold the fingers of both hands for foine time to
wards the invalid's pericardium, and you will
soon perceive all the effetfls of eletftricity on the
patient : continue the motion till hq is filled with
the eleiftrical fluid, which will flow with great
velocity from your fingers, in proportion as your
mental faculties are engaged ; this yon will soon
kijow by the commoto or crisis he will be put in
to, if his disorder requires either the one or the
other. But if the treatment does not produce
either of these, depend upon it his restoration
will be very fan* bmught about without ihem.
This fcitnce, has-been kept hid and concealed
from the multitude, and great fuuis have been giv
en fomhe knowledge of it : but I can allure the
public,that it is as fairly laid open in the following
little treatise as it possibly can be in a few words.
I have had the happiness of beinginftrutfted in
this wonderful fyflem by a gentleman of the firlt
abilities, and who has treated, many days, more
than an hundred a day, and with great success
in many instances. And I was not taught it un
der any reftriition, and therefore can with free
dom and pleasure communicate to others what I
have received; and 1 doubt not, bnt any person
of even a common capacity, by attending closely
to the rules here laid down, may become as tife
ful an operator as tliofe that have paid large funis
ft>r their knowledge. But let not those be dis
couraged who are but beginners, but let them
persevere and exert themselves in the practice of
it, and they will fee, in many instances, such suc
cess as will doubtless give them spirits to go on,
and encourage them to persist.
If you would w:(h to treat patients with success
observe the following rules or direttions,
Firjf. Be as much cbftraffed as poflible ; put
every other thought and idea out of your mind,
and seek to enter in, and for a time take pofief
fion of the fubjcift, whom you are about to treat.
Secondly. Let your mind be filled with affcfl'ton
and bcnevalonce towards the subject that you are
treating. Let all the energy of your foul be fix
ed on the relief of your patient, and generally
success will follow.
Thirdly. Let there be a constant intention within
you ; keep tip an idea of the complaint that you
wish to remove ; be earneltly desirous to give all
the assistance in your power towards the relief
ofthe fubjecfh Kindness, pity, constant inten
tion, and companion, are great promoters of suc
cess in this matter. Strange as this may seem,
ynu will find it true, and tliofe who have consi
dered the amazing; powers of fvmpathy and anti
pathy will eafilyfee it reasonable.
Fourthly. Exert the strong internal faculty of
volition, or your will, towards thefubje< r t that you
are called to treat ; determine to do good to the
diseased ; and you will find oftentimes a strange
connection with those whom you are treating.—
This is produced by the incorporation of the at
niofpheres, and as cach body lias an atmosphere
around it, they have a strange power over each
other, asthe principles of this science, are
in themfclves very powerful, the more they are
combined and exerted, the greater will be their
Saturday, May 7, 1791.
force, and the more conspicuous the effects of the
treatment will be.
If the power of the mental faculties in men
were known, they would be surprized at them
. selves ; but these powers lie hid till they are
proved Ivy sensible operations really to exist. It
has been frequently observed, that when persons
are spoken of they are near, and soon come into
fight, and when you think on absent persons, it is
of ten found they are at the fame time as carneft
ly engaged in thinking on you. Many inftan
eesof the amazing power offympathy mult have
been manifefted to all attentive observers. Con
sider this, and apply it with all your might to the
present fubjeiil, accoi ding to the above directions.
(To be cor,eluded in out next )
EXTRACT.
AS beauteous Phosphor, in his flaming robe,
Looks thro' night's curtain round the spacious globe,
Sees the pale Moon in weflern skies decline,
And bids the motn in blulhing radiance shins ;
Soon as Aurora breaks the (hades of night,
Sinks down, embofom'd in his native light ;
Thus Franklin (hone; and round life's fields afar,
Pour'd forth the effulgence of the morning star.
He walk'd with nature thro' her mazy road,
And eyed the beauties of the forming God ;
Taught us why lightning its red wings unfurl'd,
And why the thunder rock'd the aitonifh'd world;
Search'd the deep system of ele&ric fire,
And fliew'd it dreaming on the conscious wire;
Till Heaven, admiring, calj'd the sage away,
And mix'd his radiance with celeflial day.
But while, in tears, we mourn the long adieu,
Lo, Adams rises t» the enraptur'd view.
As some fair fountain, in the vernal plain,
Breaks thro' the ground and pours its streams amain ;
Thro' all the vale in foft meander spreads,
Clears the choak'd foil, and wakes the verdant meads ;
So from his feat the exalted patriot stands,
And gives new ardor to reviving lands;
O'er every clime his voice, in thunder hurl'd,
Sounds sacred terror to the admiring world.
Britannia, fearful, hears her funeral song,
And the dire death-watch founding from his tongue.
See, fee Columbus ! from the tottering throne,
A George defccndrng to embrace thy son;
From realm to realm the immortal ftatefraan flies,
And Independence rushes down the ikies.
His pen, his voice his country still (hall guard,
By Heaven inspired, end for the talk prepar'd.
And thou, great WASHINGTON ! immortal sage!
Pride of the world ! thou Phoebus of thine age !
Whose awful name the tyrant dreads to hear,
And startled envy drops the bloody spear ;
Say, can the Mufc confefs the rapt'rous fire,
Nor found thy praises on the tuneful lyre?
Thrice grateful talk! thy God-like deeds to sing !
What flowing numbers fhou'd adorn the firing !
When firft, from Britain's shore, involv'd in blood,
Black war rufii'd vengeful o'er the billowy flood !
When death, behind, difplay'd his horrid head,
And the grim Furies left their iron bed ;
Round these fair climes, where peace, unknown to arms,
And freedom, sacred freedom spread her charms;
Hurl'd their black fhafts, fiom hell's unbounded ftoie,
And desolation crimfon'd all the shore;
The WASHINGTON arose, to grasp the shield,
And flew like lightning to the.gloomy field.
The rnurd'rous crew, aghast, cOnfefs'd the alarm,
Nor dared the vengeance of his wafting arm.
Round every plain unerring fate he fends,
And death turns traitor to pursue his friends.
Peace reigns again : And fee, from smiling skies,
Returning freedom to Columbia flies.
Science comes down to wake her native fires,
And WASHINGTON to Vernon's shades retires.
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
On the fubje£t of rhe
CODAND WHALE FISHERIES,
[continued.]
THE plan of the English government, fmce the peace, has been
to prohibit all foreign filh in their markets, and they have
given from eighteen to fifty pounds (lerling, on every fifhirig ves
sel complying with certain conditions.- This policy ii said to
have been so far fuccefstul as to have raised the number of lea
men employed in that business in 1786, to fourteen thousand, and
the quantity of fifh taken, to seven hundred and thirty-two thou
sand kentals. The table No. 1, hereto annexed, will present to
the eye, this history more in detail.
The fifheiics of the United States, annihilated during the war ;
their veffcls, utensils, and filherincn tleftroyed ; their markets in
the Mediterranean and Biitifb-America loft, and their produce
dutied in those of France, their competitors enabled by bounties
to meet and under fell them at the few markets remaining open
without any public aid, and indeed, plying aids to the public :
Such werethc hopeless auspices, underwhich this important busi
ness was to be resumed. Yet it was resumed, and. aided by the
mere forcc of natural advantages, they employed, during the years
1786, —7, —8, — g, on an average, five hundred thirtv-nine vessels,
of nineteen thousand one hundred eighty-five tons, three thousand
two hundred cighty-feven seamen, and took two hundred fifty
thousand fix hundred fifty kentals of fifb : (fee No. 2,) and an of
ficial paper, (No. 3) (hews that, in the last of those years, our ex
portation amounted to three hundred feventy-five thousand and
twenty kentals, and thirty thousand four hundred sixty-one bar
rels, dcdu&ion made of three thousand seven hundred one ken
tals, and fix thousand three hundred forty-three barrels of foreign
fifb received and re-exported. (See No. 4.) Still, however, the
ralculatioDi in (No. 5) which accompany the representation, shew,
9
t#t&o
[Whole No. 211.]
that the profits of the sales in the years 1707,-8, were too (mall to
afford □ living to the fifherman, and on those of 1789, ihere was
such a loss as to withdraw thirty-thiee vessels, of the town of
Marblehead alone, from the further pursuit of this business : And
the apprehension is, that, without some public aid, those flill re
maining will continue to withdraw t and this whole commerce be
engrofled by a firtgle nation.
This rapid view of the cod-fifhery, enables us to discern under
what policy it has flourifhed or declined in the hands of other na
tions, and to mark the fa&,*that it is too poor a business to be left
to it itfelf, even with the nation the most advantageously fttuated.
It will now be proper to count the advantages which aid, and
the disadvantages which oppose us in this contest.
Our advantages are—
1. The neighbourhood of the great fifheries, which permits our
fifhermen to bring home their fifh to be salted by their wives and
Jix'dd ren.
f/1. The shore so near at hand as to enable the vefTels
/so run into port in a storm, and so lefTcn the risk, for which dis
tant nations must pay insurance.
3. The winter fifheries, which, like houftiold manufa&ures,
employ portions of time which would otherwise be useless.
4. The fmallnefs of the vefTels, which the fhoitnefs of the voyage
enables us to employ, and which, consequently, require but a {mail
capital.
5. The cheapness of our vefTels, which do not cost above the
half of the Baltic fir vefTels, computing price and duration.
6. Their excellence as sea boats, which decreases the rifle, and
quickens the returns.
7. Thefuperiority of our mariners in (kill, a&ivity, entcrprize,
fobrietv and order.
8. The cheapness of provisions.
9. The cheapness of casks, which, of itfelf, is said to be equal
to an extra profit of fifteen per cent
These advantages are of such force, that, while experience has
proved that no other nation can make a mercantile profit on the
Newfoundland fifhery, nor can support it without national aid,
we can make a living profit, if vent for our filh can be procured.
Of the diladvantages opposed to us, those which depend on our-
I selves, are, —
Tonnage, and naval duties on the vefTels employed in the fifhery.
Impost duties on fait, on tea, rum, sugar, mo-1 TTf j • t
lafles, hooks, lines and leads, duck, cordage and C fifh'ci 11C
cables, iron, hemp, and twine. ) C 1
Coarse woollens worn by the fifhermen ; and the poll-tax levied
by the State on their persons. The statement, No. 6, shews the
amount ofthefe, exclusive of the State tax. and drawback on the
fifh exported, to be 5.25 dollars per man, or 57.75 dollars per ves
sel of fifty-five tons. When a business is so nearly in equilibrio,
that one can hardly discern whether the profit be fuflicient to con
tinue it, or not, finaller sums than these fuffice to turn the scale
against it. To these disadvantages, add ineffe&ual duties on the
importation of foreign fifh. In juftification of these last, it is ur
ged that the foreign fifh received, is in exchange for the produce
of agriculture. To which it may be anfwercd, that the thing gi
ven, is more merchantable than that received in exchange, and
that agriculture h«s too many markets to be allowed to take away
thofeof the {liberies. It will reft, therefore, with the wisdom of
the legislature, to decide, whether prohibition should not be op
-1 posed to prohibition, and high duty to high duty, on the fifh of
other nations : Whether any, and which of the naval and other
duties, may be remitted, or an equivalent given to the fifherman
in the form of a drawback or bounty; and whether the loss of
markets abroad may not, in some degree, be compensated by
creating markets at home ; to which might contribute the consti
tuting fifh a part of the military ration, in flations, not too distant
from navigation, a part of the necessary sea stores of vefTels, and
the encouraging private individuals to let the fifherman share with
the cultivator, in furnifiiing the fuppliesof the table. A habit in
troduced fiom motives of patriotism, would soon be followed,
j from motives of taste : And who will undertake to fix limits to
I this demand, if it can be once excited, with a nation whichdoubles,
and will long continue to double at very short periods ?
To be continued.
LONDON.
BEETHAM's New Portable WASHING MILL
is now so improved, that all denominations
of afl'ociated communities, private families and
individuals, may derive the mod unbounded ad
vantages from adopting it to walh silk, linen,
cotton, woolen, &c. &c.
PECULIAR (QUALITIES.
1 Simple confirmation.
2 Facility of operation.
3 Saves great expences.
4 Preserves the linen.
5 Beautifies the linen.
6 Thickens the linen.
7 One person works it.
8 Not liable to injury.
9 Wants no repairs.
jo Works by preflure only.
11 Saves soap.
t 2 Saves coals.
I 3 Saves manual labour.
14 Saves boiling of linen.
1 j Soon clears the price.
16 Turns the linen inceflantly.
1 7 Washes as much as ten women.
18 Vibrates in half a second.
19 Waihes cleaner than common.
20 Easy to manage.
21 Waflies 24 shirts at one time.
22 Saves 15s in one guinea.
23 Firsts and seconds at onetime.
proportionate prices.
A mill large enough to wafli 8 fbirts, 41. 4s —
14 ditto, 4I 14s 6d—lß ditto, jl 55—24 ditto 61
6s—and one to firft and second, 81 Bs—Wringer
1). is.TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE TO HENRY.
WHAT bliss the voice of Music gives,
While transport in the bolora live*,
While virtue, borne on every found,
Spreads love and happiness around !
The Soul in purer vision fees
The ills of human Jife retire ;
And Adoration loads the breeze,
With praises that to Heaven aspi r e.
flow few the happy power possess
Thefympathizing heart to blcfs
With pictures of ideal joy,
Which strengthen virtue, not destroy !
7hey are the Muse's favorite Care ;
Perfeaion thro' their fouls she breathes
And crowns them, faireft of the fair,
With Glory's never-fading wreaths.
And He whose song their voice infpirea
With holy Pleasure's warm defiies ;
With power thetrembling lyre to move
lo accents of immortal love ;
Shall, robed in modest merit, shine
H's country's wonder, and its praise ;
While, bending at her moral shrine,
To Truth he consecrates his lays.
Him shall the love of nations hail,
Bom o'er Oppreflion to prevail ;
Virtue's own hand (hall round his tomb
Twine circlets of immortal bloom ;
The Loves eternal incense burn ;
The Muses there the Lyie shall place ;
And Gloiy shall the simple urn
With Henry's name, in transport, grace.
From the LITCHFIELD MONITOR,
Who (hall go about
To cozen fortune and be honorable
Without the stamp of merit ? Let none prcfcime
To wear an undeserved dignity. Shakespeare
RULES FOR YOUNG LAWYERS.
THIRST, to discard all modesty and diffidence
J- of his own abilities, and inltead thereof as
sume a competent stock of impudence—for an
overbearing confidence and superlative arrogance
are molt excellent weapons in this warfare."
When he enters court let his hat comply with
apparent reluctance, and just uncovered, thrust
himfelf into the molt advantageous, conspicuous,
and dignified feat, to the exclulion of older prac
titioneis foi, to bystanders it will give him an
appearance of genuine superiority.
When he happens to be retained in a cause.
let him make as many motions to the court as
possible, no matter how impertinent, frivolous,
orjndecent; for although rhey may be fruitlefs
and unimportant, and consequently despised by
the decerning few, yet the majority of numbers
among the ordinary audience, will impute his
loquacity and zeal to a redundancy of profound
knowledge and talents, capable of miraculous
improvement.
If tie should be engaged in the fame cause with
an old aud experienced counsellor, let him rife
magnanimously, upon all interlocutory and occa
sional queltions, and without servile consultation
offer and obtrude his sentiments upon the Court
in a harjh, sonorous, authoritative tone of voice, as
if conscious of his innate superiority this will
infallibly magnify or stretch him in the eves and
opinion of the multitude.
It will be a happy circumstance, if he can com
pose his in ufcles to a fixed gravity when addreflina
the Bench, and in a dictatorial ffyle perempro
rily declare that he Jhall proceed until he is flopped.
This manoeuvre has produced wonderful effects
on the court and attendants ; for where is the
Judge, Advocate, or Juryman, who can withstand
l'uch knock me down arguments ?
He ought likewise to treat his predecessors in
practice, and superiors in knowledge and expe
rience at the bar, with supercilious indifference,
if not sovereign contempt. If they peaceably
fuffer hnn to pass without applicable animadver
sions, his clients may consider it a tacit acknow
ledgement of his diftinguirtied abilities.
When managing a cause in court, by all means
let him browbeat, blackguard, and abuse the oppo
site party and his witnefles as much as possible—
for this will insure the confidence of his employer
and loosen the pnrfeftrings, whilst ten to one'
some other candidate for litigation will set him
down as an undaunted adversary, and more re
fined and poli/hed characters, (as well as abori
ginals) have sometimes worfbipped evil fpiritsto
keep on good terms with them.
If a fuic is likely to be commenced, or foine
contro»erfy in a family or neighbourhood begun
he must be careful to visit one of the contending
parties, and m character of a friend, officioufly
point out what neceflary measures are to betaken,
-after this it would be ungrateful not to employ
him in the cause.
After all this he mnft frequent the flirine 0 f
Bacchus with such as may probably introduce bu-
Ixnefs ; from which fainiliar correspondence, great
advantages may be often obtained—this,'how-
ever, depends on circumstances and contingen
cies ; so that it must be left to the management
•f aifcretion.
Only four years attentive pratftice upon these
principles, hath fuccefsfully condudled a thrifty
Jlripling of my acquaintance to a comparatively
high degree of elevation, in his own opinion—
But pray be contented to expetft more strictures
on the fuhjeA by and by, as occasion may require.
LITTLETON.
March 2J, -1791
//
'A Writer in the American Mercury, utidtr thiTitlc
of " The Patriot," concludes his fccotid num
ber with the following Proportion —which is rcpub
lifhed as a hint worthy general attention.
LET there be a society instituted for promo
ting arts and sciences, husbandry and manu
factures (the Governor always to be the,Prefi
dent, and the Lieut. Governor the Vice-Presi
dent of the said fociety)-j-Let the government
appropriate, annually, a certairi sum of money,
to defray the expence of publishing such short
treatises on those several heads, as may be best
calculated to promote a general knowlege a
mongst the farmers ; to be distributed to every
town in this State—Let there be a further sum
annually appropriated to be distributed, by said
society, as premiums for the best samples of hemp
or flax raised in this State—reference being had
to the gveatell quantity raised by one person—
as well as to the greatest quantity from any par
ticular quantity of land ; in every cafe the per
son who claims the bounty to furnifhthe society,
for publication, with an accurate description of
the land on which the crops were raised ; as it
refpecfts the natural foil—the mode of preparing
the land to receive the feed—the method of
treating the crops whilst 011 theground, and ga
thering them in ; and the subsequent treatment
of the products in preparing them for use in our
manufactures.
ELLA.
A premium for the greatest and best lots of
wool, taken from any given ntfmber of flieep,
and fold ro any manufactory vvithi n this State.
Say the greatest and finefl: lot of wool, taken
the fame fcafon, from 20, from 40, from 60,
from So, and from 100 flieep, &c. the premium
to be increased in proportion to the number of
the flieep. It would not requre a large sum to
give (in this way) a spring to this business ; and
when once well eftabliftied, it would require no
more nurfnig. f
MR. Penftoner Burke, in his " Reflections,"
thus endeavors to abuse the philanthropic
Price for his Sermon delivered before theßevolu
tion Society—"Atfirft," fays he, " I was at alofs
to account for this fit of unguarded transport, t
knew, indeed, that the fufferings of Monarchs
make a delicious repast to some fort of palates.
There were reflexions which might serve to keep
this appetite within some bounds of temperance.
But when I took one circumstance into my con
sideration, I was obliged to confefs, that much
allowance ought to be made for the Society, and
that the temptation was too strong for common
discretion ; I mean the circumstance of the Io
Paean of the triumph, the animating cry which
callettf" for all the BISHOPS to be hanged on
thelatnp posts," might well have brought forth
a burst of enthusiasm 011 the forefeen consequen
ces of this happy day. I allow to so much enthu
siasm some little deviation from prudence. I al-
Ijw this prophet to break forth into hymns of
jay and thanksgiving on an event which appears
like tije precursor of the Millenium, and the pro
jected fifth monarchy, in the deftrudtion of all
church establishments. There was, however, (as
in all human affairs there is) in the midfl of this
joy fotnething to exercise the patience of these
worthy gentlemen, and to try the fuffering of
their faith. The adtual murder of the King' and
Queen and their child, was wanting to the other
auspicious circumstances of this " beautiful day
The atftual murder of the Bifliops, though called
for by so many holy ejaculations, was also want
ing. A groupe of regicide and facrilegions (laugh
ter, was indeed boldly Iketched, but it was only
Iketched. It unhappily was left unfinished, in
this great history-piece of the maflacre of inno
cents. What hardy pencil of a great master,
from the school of the rights of men, will finifh
it, is to be seen hereafter. *(,[/, \
The charge against Mr. Burke, of being pen
sioned to vilify the French Revolution, has been
made by the celebrated-PrieJHy and, notwirh
ftandjng the raillery of a few facilities of the
former, the charge has not yet been refuted.
A writer in an Engliftpaper, gives the follow
ing elegant description of France.—That it was
the favoured country of nature, blefled with -t
happy diveriity of climates; enriched with the
choicest and moit delicate productions of a lux
uriant foil, embracing the Atlantic and Mediter
ranean seas ; formed for empire, for dominion
and for fupenomy among the European king
10
B O S T O N, April 23.
THE BEAUTIFUL AND SUBLIME
OF BLACKGUARDISM.
doms ; and uniting in lierfelf, every natural i
vantage which industry can bestow, or couim J "'
can procure. Jercc
A SUNDAY SCHOOL, eftabliflied by,
prietors of the DUCK -MANUFACTORY
intended for the education of the femaleclii'l/'"'
employed therein, was opened yesterday
night, under the direction of Mr. Oliver\v
Lane. The attention to the morals and inft
tion of those who are prevented from
the benefit of inftrudiion on any other day
this, does the gentlemen who instituted ir
finite honour. Its being confined to ihe v'
daughters of industry, employed in the
will enable the Supeiintendanc to do the fulfil
justice to the children commuted to his care
We are informed that Mr. Lemuel ft.,',,
and Dr. 4ur>,n Dexter, of this town, have be '
elected members of the Loudon Medical :
The English ministerial politicians, notwM.
standing all they fee and hear, ftilj j n j mitati '
of their Prime Leader, Mr. Burke, declare "th
the Utopian conftiturion which 1200 defpo't, h"
attempted to establish in France, totters on '
feeble basis, and will be blown away by the brpJ,K
of civil discord." Who they intend lo dictwehs
this, we know not—it may brthemfdvts—{ m^t
world is too enlightened to be thus imposed on
Dublin. D<t « ,
SUNDAY, the Univrrfity of Duhlin, in full convocation uL,
imoufly conferred [he honcraiy Decree of Doctor of J ', w
the Ri ? ht Honorable Edmund Burke, as the powerful dvo'
of Lhe Confliiution, the friend of public order, virtue, jndilic t
pinefs of mankind, and in teflimony of the high refp.tt cntcrt' JP ~
ed by the Univcrfity, (which had the honor of his education l
the various endowments of his capacious mind, and tor h's ('*
perior talents and abilities." [lI OUI mankind dijfc, infcn'nmai n
PROVIDENCE, April 23
The Prehdent of the United States has bteti
pleased to appoint Col. William Barton, and Ma
jor Daniel Lyman, Inspecting Officers for the
Ports within the diilridt of Rhode-Island and
Providence Plantations.
PITTSBURGH, April 25.
By Mr. Stewart Wilkins who arrived here the
20th instant, up the Ohio, from the Kenhawa
we have the intelligence, that, just before his
leaving that place, a man had come in alraoft
with fatigue and hunger, who was one of
that were coming up the river in a
loaded with provisions for the French fet
flement at Galliapolis ; and that 20ofthefewhofe
turn it was to walk on shore and hunt, were fired
upon by a partty of about 30 Indians concealed
in a thick bushy place, and nioft: probably all cut
off but himfelf. The boat, probably, with the
reft on board, had returned down the river. This
happened on the 27th of March, nearly oppofue,
the mouth of the Sciota, 011 the Virginia fide of
the river.
By an express which arrived from Venango
last week, we are given to understand, that the
settlers at Cofewago, were leaving it, and com
ing down to the garrison at Fort Franklin ; that
from every appearance a stroke was intended on
that settlement, as several parties of unfriendly
Indians had been discovered by scouts that were
out : that the Cornplanter and Halftown had
upwards of 100 warriors in and about the garri
son, and have runners continually out to bring
intelligence, they being determined to proteift
the garrison at all events, f: om any insult.
BENNINGTON, April 2;.
We hear from Salem (Washington county,
State of New-York) that on the xft inft. as a foa
of Mr. William Matthews, of that town, a pro
mifiirg youth, about 18 years of age, was driving
a cart, the oxen, being unruly, ran the cart agaiuft
a tree—the yonng man was fitting in the cart,
with a young boy about fix or seven years old,
and perceiving the danger to which they were
exposed, he threw the young lad out, and saved
his life; but unfortunately before he could ex
tricate himfelf, the cart overturned, by which he
was so much bruised, that he expired on the fol
lowing Sabbath.
SPRINGFIELD, April 27.
We are happy to inform the public of the ar
rival of Capt. John Hills in this place—who is
employed by the Secretary at War, to make such
observations, as may lead to the acconipliihment
of the objeCt mentioned iu the following certifi
cate :—
THIS is to certify that the bearer, Captain John
Hills, has been employ ed by me for the purpose of ■*-
ploring the country from Springfield to Charles' ri
ver, and making accurate -furoeys thereof, with
view to ascertain whether an inland navigation would
be practicable.
As this objellis of the h'tghe ft public utility, all good
people are requested to give him such information and
advice, as the nature ol the cafe may require.
C IVE Nat Philadelphia, this ninth day if
April, one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-one. H. KNOX.
To whom it may concern
N E W-Y O R K, May 3-
Yesterday failed from this city for India and
China, the flii|) President Waftiington, Cajitai"
Jacob Sarly, allowed by good judges to be oneo*he completed merchantmen ever built in Ame
'• a She has undergone an entire refit since
W arrival here in diSrefs 011 the Bth ulc. and
such alterations made in rhe itowage of her car
ao (which is chiefly iron) as, it is expected, will
prevent a similar casualty in the future couri'e of
her voyage.
BALTIMORE, May 3.
„ eaTHS Mr. David Sterett, of this town, Merchant—
Vireima, the Hon. Benjamin Harrison, Esq. formerly a rr
r-ffl.hte Delegate toCongrefa from, and Co i-mor of, thai Stale
st Richmond, in the laine State, John Dixon, Esq. State
Printer.
Cs , fiZSS ntsrv-,w»a -.rf*k.-J >r
V Philadelphia, May 7
It has been said th . (Yip; e-iie independent pow
er in the hands of either the cm, the few, or the
many, has in all ages and countries degenerated
into tvranny—This observation is founded on
universal experience : i l;e revolntionifts in the
time of Charles Ift. annihilated the House of
Peers and the Hierarchy—but did tlvev eltablilh
a free government ? They did not : Mr. Paine
applauds the National Ailembly of France—they
have not yet gone so far as Cromwell and his
party did*—perhaps they never may—as the
French nation have a predilection for Kings,
at prefent —Should the time however arrive when
they are fully enlightened—they will then, to use
a borrowed phrase, fee the nonsense of " this,
that and to'ther, and Kings will be thought as lit
tle of by the French nation, as they are by Mr.
Paine till then the French Revolution, accord
ing to him, is essentially defective : Ac this time
however the approbation of the King to the
nieafures of the National Aflembly is mentioned
by the friends to the Revolution as a molt impor
tant circumltance in its favor.
A correfpondenr observes that there are some
persons in the world of so peculiar acaftof mind
that nothing meets with their approbation which
has not received their particular fiat as an es
sential requisite to its exiltence. The system
of the bank of the United States is however
almost an exception to the above observation ;
natives and foreigners have awarded it their
approbation—the former on account of its im
mediate and obvious advantage*, and for the
wisdom andforefiglu discovered in its organiza
tion— wifely confideriiig that Should a foreign
direction obtain, and acquire a preponerating
influence, the time may arrive, when the def
trudtionof the bank of this country, and a total
derangement of its finances might be compcnfa
ted by the douceurs of a foreign power. Fo
reigners among other reasons, because it reserves
to the citizens of this government the exclusive
direction ; for while the capital is tinder the con
troulof persons the molt fully competent to judge
of characters, they maybe more fully allured that
nothing will be done to counteract the general
interest of the concerned.
The Bank of the United States mayjuflly
be considered as a propofuion made to the mo
nied interest, foreign and domeltic and in
faift, appears to both in a very favourable
point of light—the latrer, from every informa
tion, are making great pi eparations to fubferibe,
and the terms are so advantageous»that no equal
object of Speculation is perhaps presented in
any quarter of the globe to the former.
A late writer fays, that the only folk! founda
tion for Liberty, is Virtue: When virtue is gone,
liberty loon follows ; but this mult refer to pub
lic virtue, for it is notorious, that some of the
molt renow ned modern champions of liberty, are
ilrangers to personal virtue—ls thefentiment then
without foundation ? I trow not—for tho no de
pendence can be rationally placed on the patri
otic profeffions of a vicious character, yet their
being obliged to aflame thefeinblanceof honesty
to carry their points, is an indirect confirmation
of the principle.
" The foundation of all social virtue is a belief
of the exigence and government ot a Deity—a
regard to the Deity cannot be maintained with
out foine public exercises of religion.—Social
worship is thereforeneceflary to thehappinefs of
society, and to the easy adminiltration of govern
ment—and in this view worthy the attention of
every legislature, while in a higher view it de
serves the regard of every individual."
Patriotil'm, like Pieligion, often enjoins duties
which are paramount to every other considera
tion— and tho the felfifh part of mankind dero
gate from the merit of every action performed
by their contemporaries, by imputiug tlie mo
tives to inferior confederations—yet a confcions
J iteirriry will furnilh a reward for every public
fpiiited exertion, of which envy and cetiftire
cannot deprive the votaries of virtue and bene
volence.
e learn that upwards of one hundred troops
w hicli have been raised in New-Jersey lor the
service of the frontiers, will march from 1 rtiuon
't Fort-Pitt this day, under the comu'.i.nd ot
(-apt. Zebulon Pike.
Ridicule titles, honors and diftiudtions among
mankind, and you will always be in the majority.
Embrace the firft favorable opportunity to tra
duce the government under whicliyoulive—the
more free it is, the more you may abuse it with
impunity and success.
Always reserve your opinion till you know
which is the strongest fide.
By observing tlie foregoing, some have ac
quired popularity, honors and riches, without
potfeHing any principles of morality or honelty.
Extrall of a litter from Baftsw, April 16.
Several arrivals from England, bring us the
ttateof politics and war in Europe, by which it
appears they continue to act over and over the
fame mad scenes which for many ages have dis
graced human nature ; When we refletft how in
competent they are to govern themselves, how
fliould our hearts expand with gratitude to hea
ven for feperating us from them.
Some citizens of the United States when con-
templating the errors or supposed mifcitings of
our o"wn government are apt to depreciate its
value ; let such persons turn their thoughts now
and then to Britain, and other nations of Europe,
and observe the fliocking facrifices of blood and
treasure and faith and honor and religion, and
every thing that is. called good—and they will
prize independence. Mr. G , who came home
in the last ship that arrived—informs me, that
the British and other nations appear now to be
fully sensible of the growing greatness of the
United States : I trust they will have cause to rife
in their ideas of us.
The tour of the Prefidentof the United States
to the southward at this time is a good plan.—
We have heard frequently of unealinefs and op.
positions in respect to some of the revenue laws,
if any thing of the kind really exists among our
fonthern brethren, feeing him in their country
will have a very conciliating effedt, and do more
athoufand arguments from even an Ames
or a Gerry.
Extract of a fetter from a gentleman in London, t
.... » . . i • . / . t •
A
his friend in this litj, by the Pigou
" I rejoice to fee by the papers, that the Uni
ted States of America are in such a flourifhing
condition, and that trade, commerce, husban
dry, arts, Sciences, manufactures, &c. begin to
prosper on your fide of the Atlantic. May the
blessing of GOD continue to fend peace, unity
and prosperity to your vast weltern empire. In
London you have rtiany hearty friends, and from
the best information, throughout all England.
There isgrear joy among the friends of America
here, when things go well in your land, and I
can assure you, from personal observation, that
your friends daily increase, and that the credit
of the American States is perpetually rising, all
owing to your well-established and efficient go
vernment. May heaven long preserve your well
beloved George, and continue him to be the
friend, the supporter and guardian of your dear
native country !—America wasthefirft who ftept
forth to light up the expiring lamp of freedom
in the world, France has followed her example,
and I trust that in time, the whole globe will be
illuminated with the fame pure flame.
I fend you with this " a true and genuine ac->
count of animal eleiSricity and magnetifm,#"
which has been publi/hed here to put an end to
the pra<stice of teaching it for money : as vast
sums have been given for the knowlege ot it in
England, and perhaps the fame may be the cafe
in America. Though I am well persuaded, from
some acquaintance with both the countries, that
the common people in America have much more
general and ufeful knowlege, than they have in
any part of Great-Britain, and consequently are
not so violently led away and inflamed with no
velty and curiolity. You can hardly have an
idea, what crouds will colled: together in Lon
don, to behold the most trifling as well as com
mon incident. Their curiosity is alive to every
novelty, and hence many hundreds of people
in this city have given, aftonilhing to tell, fioml
5 to more than 100 guineas, to acqure the inforJ
mation communicated in that little pamphlet ! I
* See page l, of this day's paper.
On Friday morning the 29th ult. the (hip Termagant, belonging
to the house of Messrs Claggett, lying in the stream oppo.itc
Georgetown, Patowmac, was discovered on fire, which soon com
municated itfclf to the powder on boa.d ; the explofum was so
fevcre as to shake most of the houses in the town.
Thelofs, occasioned by this alarming event, must be great,
as the (hip was large and nearly new ; besides, there were goods
to a considerable amount, and a large sum of money on board—all
which (except part of the money, which has finte been found) was
deflroyed. Wc are informect that this accident proceeded from
the (lewar'd's falling to fle< p and leaving a candle burning in the
cabin, which, by some means or other, set fire to the fails that
w ere flowed there. No lives .loft.
The people are the only legitimate foiirceof power ; power de
rived from' the people is coniVquently legitimate : From whence
have defpotifrr.s original ed ? lu idolatry ; Who arc the idolators ?
Thofc who set up and worship an idol : Are there any idol? now
inthewoild? Let experience answer. If there are idols, there
must of neceffitybe worshippers ; but can any man point out the
country in which they arc to be found ? Arc there any in Ame
rica, in France, in England ?—What fays rhepoet,
Xatjrc hath left the tinflure in our blood,
All men would be tyrants if they cpu'd.
and as ail men iron Id be tyrants, it follows that the univcrfal ohje. .
it to acquire the pofli'blc lharc of influence ; and he that
11
obtains the highest round in the ladder approaches nearest to that
point from which all despotisms have commenced their career;
for the man whose opiuio.u is paramount to law and the constitu
tion in the mind of tliq people, is luperior to both.
The meeting of the Delegates from the State Societies of the
Cinci nn ati, adjourned on die, The next uien
niel meeting will he in May, *793-
Extrath fiom the utifwer to Mr. Bu rke, by Mr. Paine.
" Government, fays Mr. Burke, is a contrivance of human wisdom
Admitting that, government is a contrivance of human wijlom, it
must.necessarily follow, that hereditary fucceflion, ;iixl hereditary
rights (as they are called) can make no part of it, because it is im
poflible to make wisdom hereditary; and on the other hand, that
cannot be a wife contrivance, which in itsdperation may commit
the government of a nation to the wisdom of an idi t. The
ground which Mr. Burke now takes'is lata! to every part of his
cause. The argument changes from hered-itary rights to heredi
tary wisdom , and the question is, Who is the wisest man? He
must now (hew that every one in the line of hereditary fucceflion
was a Solomon, or his title is not good to be a king.—What a
stroke has Mr. Burke now made ! To use a sailor's phrase, he has
swabbed the deck, and scarcely left a name legible in the lift of kiti^s;
and he has mowed down and thinned the HouGe of Peers, with a
scythe as formidable as Death and Time. \_Alas y the poor house of
Peers /]
" The opinions of men with respect to government, are chang
ing fact: in all countries. Tiierevolutions of America and France
have thrown a beam of light over the world, which reaches into
man. The enormous expences of governments, have provoked,
people to think, by making them feel : and when once the veil
begins to rend, it admits not of repair. Ignorance of a peculiar
nature, once dispelled, and it is impoflible to re-establish it. It
is not originally a thing of itfelf, but is only the absence of know
ledge ; and tho man may be kept ignorant, he cannot be made ig.
norant. The mind, in discovering truth, a&s in the fame man
ner as it a6U through the eye in discovering obje&s ; when once
any object has been seen, it is impoflible to put the mind back to
the fame condition it was in before it saw it. Those who talk'of
a counter revolution in France, (hew how little thev understand
of man. There does not cxift in the compass of language, an
arrangement of words to express so much as the means of affedf
inga counter revolution. The means must be an obliteration of
knowledge ; and it has never ye» been discovered how to make
man utiknow his knowledge, or unthink his thoughts.
The following paragraph more than hints that Mr. Burke is pensioned.
Mr. Burke is laboring in vain to Hop the progress ot know
ledge ; and if comes with the worfr grace from him, as there is
a certain tranfaftion known in the city, which him fuf
pe&ed of being a pensioner in a fictitious name. This may ac
count for some ft range doftiines he has advanced in his book,
which, tho he points it at the Revolution Society, is elTcttually
dirc£led againil the whole nat:on.
(£f" A lift of the Prizes in the MalTachufctts Semi-annual Lot
tery, publilhed by the Managers, may be tceo at the house ot the
Editor.
prin confequenceof the recent difficulties and reappointments
attending the conveyance of the Gazette of the United States, se
veral of the fubferibers have declined taking it any lon/, r : The
Editor requests that the letters which convey him this information
may be sent free of charge : He has paid a considerable lum lor
poftago within a few days, on letters ihat contained only the above
intelli;
[ence.
From PKLOSI's MARINE LIST
Arrivals jime OU4 fajh
SIooj: Charlotte, Camming, S<. Kuftatia.
Polly, Midget, North-Carolina.
Hazard, Folgier, Do.
Rainbow. Portland and Falmouth
Hope, Bentley, Chailefton.
Schooner Polly, Mann, North-Carolina.
IfabeHa, Henderfon, St. Eultatia.
Bonefine, Rosa, Oporta.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
17/1. 17/2 pr. £
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cci.ts 9/1 9/2.
Defered 6 pr. Cents o/i.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl.and other Certificates 16
Indents 9 fx.
N. and S. Carolina debts, *2/4 15/.
A CARD.
Joseph Wheaton
his compliments to his old Military Friends, th<
L Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wifUcs they may
>e informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
>f the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
'fey the Pi cou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening r!
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE. No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or irtai!
on so low terms as mull make it an objed to cujlomets. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with pun&uality and dilpatch.
and the time of pa) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Philadelphia, May 3.
WE, the Commiflionc-s, appointed to receive fubfenptioni
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give public
notice,that the Books will be opened by us for that purpote a
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th day of June next
THOMAS Willing,
Be a i e Bord l e y,
David Rittenhouse,
Ml the Printers in the United States ate requejled to publifli the above.
To be difpoftd of,
BY P R I V'A T F. SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In various Lancuages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following
FOI.IO. Euripides, Homer, Demofthcnes, X-n-phon, Plate
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, ? epho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus Seneca, Pliny, ic'.e
Quarto. Pndar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, C*far, Suctoniu.
Juvenal, Manilius,
Otfavo & infra. Scptuagint, Ariftopbanes, Longinu?, Ther
phraftus, Epifletus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalari
liberates, Polyanus,. Lucretiun, Catullus, Tibullus, Propettiu
P.iterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gelltus. Aufonius, Vida, Bi
chanan, Boethius, Poeue m:nore» Latini, Callipjedia, Stiada, I
Valb, &e.
(53" Catilo-'ues may be had, and farther particulars learned, at t)
fuck-Store of Messrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catulofues a
as flitched up : the AMERICAS' MUSEUM, for April.
. 86 pr, cent,
46 ao.
45 d °-
80
45 tlo
-
Samuel How el l,
Lambert Cadwaladir
K S,This day is publijhed, for the Proprietors,
By WILLIAM YOUNG, Bookseller,
Mo. 52, Second-Street, the cor ner oj Chef nut-Street.
The Universal Aiylum,
for APRIL, 1791
CONTAINING.
BESIDES the usual variety of interesting and enertaining
matter, original thoughts on common fewfe, by Dr. Rush ; and
a number of txtra&s from Mr. Paint's celebrated tnfwtr /d Mr.
Burke, arranged under the following heads, viz. —Revolatioii-
prmciples defended—on religious toleration—on the connexion
of a church establishment with the civil power—sundry causes
which produced in Fiance, sentiments favorable to liberty—on
the abfurdiry of an hereditary fucceflion — thoughts on the various
forms of government, the downfal of hereditary power, and the
progress of Tcvolution-principles.
This number also contains the whole of the Excise-Bill, and a
continuation of the hijlorical Jketch of the proceedings oj Congress,
which was begun in the Asylum f®r March.
Philadelphia. May 2,
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt ot the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and inland Bills oj Exchange, negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts Bought and Sold on CommiJ/ion, and all
other Bufincfs in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to the Cujlum-Houfe, State-Street, BOSTON.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private falc, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all Tales or purchases at au£fcion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interelt at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(Jdf* Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pltafed to favor the subscribers with their order.*, may rely on
their being executed with pun duality^fidelity and dijpatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connections in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condnft their operations with peculiar
advantages. PIN TAR D & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS ot the STATE-LOTTERY afiure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of Oflobei next, or /ooncr, if the Tickets
shall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
S C H E M E.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
85.000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjett to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. v Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 are 6000
q 2000 6000
*5
6
10
30
80
9°
100
120
161
200
■58s
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks
25000 Tickets,
GdT TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the fevcral
Managers,!nkouiill pay the prizes on demand-, of the Tr £ asu r er
of the Commonwealth; oi James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-(lreet—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun."!
DAVID COBB, |
•SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, April 14, 1791.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who fcrved a regular apprenticeship to the
bufmefs of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. Gsorge
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient Houle, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com
mands. JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Vtrgima, April 21, 1791. (1 ep jw)
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OF
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already pub/iflicd,
Written by Mathew Carey.
CONDITIONS.
I. Work shall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
J. fined writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to fubferibers two thirds oja dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work shall be put to the press as Coon as 250 copies
are fubferibed for.
IV. The subscribers names (hall be prefixed
83"SUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewawt,
and Co. and all the other Booksellers in Philadelphia ; also, by (Sie
different gentlemen throughout the United States, who suppLy sub
scribers with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Ftb. 23, 1791.
CLASS II
1000 6000
s°° 5000
200 6000
100 Boco
5° 4500
40 4000
3° 3600
20 3220 1
10 2000
8 60680 i
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
TJUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
lJ THE UNION; lias frequently occasion io NEGOCIATE
INI.AND BILLS OF EXCHANGE —and will receivc Orders
f<,r making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of die UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia. March 30, 1791
Gallaudet and Ewing,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady Walterjlorf, from London, Man
chejler and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. On hand for
sale, a few hogsheads of OLD JAMES'S RIVER TOBACCO.
Philadelphia, April 9, 1791. 100 cv \ m
For ere&ing BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Passat ack
Rivers, between Powlas-Hook and Newark, in the State of
New- Jersey.
THE Commiflioners appointed by an adl of the legislature of
the state of New-Jerfcv, to erect bridges over the Hackinfack
and PafTaiack rivers, having obtained the neceflary surveys, are
no<v ready to rtceive proposals for performing the fame ; and
offer the following conditions for the consideration of luch as may
be inclined to contra£l :
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
atone of the following stations, as fliall be hereafter determined
most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is eftablilhed, where
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore 19 feet 10 inches.
Do, western shore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaiack river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as shall be hereafter determin
ed moll eligible.
lft. At the place where the present feiry is eftabliflied, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern (bore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western (bore 9 6
Greatest depth 17
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore. 11 feet,
Do. western shore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4
3d. At a place still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern fliore 4 fee! 5 inches,
Do. western ftiore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11
The bridges are to be conftrutted on the principlesof those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free paflage for vessels with fix
ed standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in that part of the bridges as (hall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid vefTels in pafling through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges aieto be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as (hall render them perfectly substantial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a fufficient
height to protett them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inchcs each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept in constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be Surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commiflioners are au
thorised to offer to contraflors :
125300
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
accurate an estimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
actual receipts of the ferrie® for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will consequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per arm. This may fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conne&ed
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and thecontrafls for eie£ling them are executed,
the roads and causeways will be immediately uridcrtaken.
Such persons therefore as may be inclined to contra# on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Max w ell,
Esq. in N T ew-York, fpecifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to erect the said bridges, together with
proper security for performing the fame.
ROBERT KEMBLE, Commiflioners.
WILLIAM MAXWELL, I
JOHN PINTARD, J
Newark, State of Nav- Jersey, April 22, 1791.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is al(o apper
taining to the said farm about jg acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient
well built and in vety good repair. *
Enquire Printer, for funher particulars,
New-York, Jan. 1791
12
CONTRACT,
SAMUEL TUTHILL, 1
JOHN NEILSON, |
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADtLPBIA.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 6±d
Allum, Englilh, pr. cwt. 33c
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d
Ashes, pot, per ton, 40/ 42/
Pearl, ,52/ 53/
Arrack pr. gall. icj i2i6</
Brandy, common, 8j
Cogniac 9f
Braziletto, pr. ton. 16/
Bricks pr. M 'jss
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. xys 18s6
Ditto, pilot 35J
Ditto, (mail water 40J 45s
Beer, American, in bot. / fIZ
pr. do,. P O /"
pr. bbL 37 s
c/ 3 f Oak pr.M feet, 4/tOJ 4/1
® | Merch. pine 5/
4 Sap, do. 3/
O I N. Eng. 2/ioj
23 I. Cedar 5/
The above arc the Shallop prices •
Jor the Yard prices add 1 $s pr M.
Brim stone in rolls pr. cwt. 2js
C Irish pr. bbl.
S < Bolton 55 x
oa ( Country 455
Butter pr. lb. 14d
in kegs 9d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot is2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12</
Coal pr. bulhel is 6d
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d
Cinnamon ißj 20/
XalTia
Cheese, English is $d
Countrv 6d 7£d
£ f Sper. pr. lb. 3s 3d 3s6d
J I Wax 3 s
Q Myrtle Wax 12d
| Mould,tallow 10±d
O LDipped 9id
Cotton 1» 9d
Currants 15621
Cloves 10/
Copperas pr.cwt. 14J
Cordage 60J 6256 d
Cocoa 6zi6d 6js6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 6js.j2s 6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 401
Common, 37J 6d
Bur middlings, be ft 35J
Middlings 2 6f
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 12s
Flax pr. lb. 9 d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 1 gos
Feathers pr. lb. 2s :cd
Flaxfeed pr. bush. $s
Glue, pr.cwt. yliosSl
Ginger, whiterace 52 s 6d
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, 2s 2d
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, £
(96 to
Ditto, fine glazed 3ss 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 33s
f Wheat pr. bufli 7s gd
r S ye , &
Oats \sZd2s6d
< Indian corn 2siod
Barley 4s 9d
Best shelled pr. lb. 3d
Buckwheat 2 s6
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/ 56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 22s 6d
Hides, raw pr. lb, 9d 10d
Hops ?s
Indigo, French, ioj
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
(" Callings 28s
& I Bar pr. ton, v 29/ 30/
9 10^
_ | Sheet 65/
I Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 30s 40J
l ard, hogs <yrl 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42s 6d
;n bars 54s
Lead, white Boj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. u2d is
Lignum vitae pr. ton 42 s 45/
Logwood 7/ 5J *8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rye 25X
Mackarel,befl 63/
Common 30 s 58.1 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70s
Mustard 2s 4d
Madder, bell itjd 18d
MolafTes pr. gall,
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 14$-
Mast spars 2.( 6d 6s
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7
Nails, iodi2dSc 20d— 8d B\dgd
p Linseed, pr. gall. 3 s 9 d
I Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 31 yd
j I Whaie u 10d 2s
r Olive 6s 6d
| Ditto pr. cafe 28J 30J
I Beftfweetin ) c
flaiks.pr.box.JS^eoj
I—baflcets 12 bottles
Oak timber pr. ton 4OJ
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London,pr.doz. 12s 6d 15J
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Strce:, between Sccond and Third-Streets*
BUYS and SELLS,
Continental & State Certificates,
Pcnnfylvania and Jerfev Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, orot«y
8o 3m
PER QUANTITY.
MAY 6.—Dollars at jfG
Porter, American pr. do*.
Pitch, p r . bbl.
Pork, Burlington,
-Lover county ''
Carolina
Peas, Albany „
Pepper, pr. lb.
Pimento
R'CC pr. cwt.
R ° r 'n pr. bbl. * f
RaiGnj, bed, pr. ke*
Ohio pr. jar S 5, ' U
Ditto pr. box
f > ma,< a P r - g»u. rfu
Antigua
§<1 Kdo« 4 ' 4^"
Sulphur, flour 4
Shot
J f German pr. cwt. 6y- 5 !
W )En g li(h, bliftercd
f- /American pr. ton 401'.,(
« (Crowley's pr. fag. B>,6i
root pr. lb. ,j 6i 2 ,8 i
ooap, Common
Brown ° r,
Castile Jf,
Starch
i" uii nSdi Si d 3 ,64
.Spermaceti, refined, ,
Sail Cloth, English, > "
pr. vard, $u6J V tf
Bolton, No. I. 2
—tr ° .
- WO, 11. 2J B^j
Ruflia (hccting, pr. p. g OJ
f Lump, pr. lb.
Si [ Loaf, (ingle refined urU
< Ditto, double do.
P Havamiab, white isU
« Ditto, brown, 8^
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt. 6oj;B<'
SpmisTurpentin'c pr. gall. 4J
j_, f Allum pr. bush. 2 ,
j J Liverpool SJ w
< jCadiz ~'j
<S> /. n 'UOd
2J 2 j
Ship build. W.O. frames) go*
P- 10,, I { 1001
-O. &redc. do. 6161jt.
o les, (Kort, p. M. lytos
long drelied gosiaot
itling, heart, gojijoj
Do.
Shin.
Scanl
71 P 501 55'
r l ipe pr. 1300 pieccs 12/
£:w. o. hogfhcad 7 / j;
> ,) R. O. do. 5/ a
< Leogan 6/
« Barrel 4/ 10 ,
L Heading 8/10/
Otter, best pr. piece 3c;
Minks is6d yt
Fox, grey 2S6J y
-red 4/ Bjß
Martins 3*
~ < Fibers 2s6dtjs
Bears I2s6dz^s
Racoons 2s 4/
r Mufk-rals yd is6d
Braver, pr. lb. ,5 s 104
L I>eer f in hair
Tar,N.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. m J&
Carolina, 32 gall. 9; %d
Turpentine i?.s6diss
. James R. new bed 301
p ~ inferior 23s 25/
g old 35; 38;
Rappahannock 22s 6d
O J Colo. Maryland 405601
y Dark ?.c;
Long-leaf 20;
W Eastern-shore 15J 16*
3 s 7 *
5 0s
P I Carolina, new
. old 22J 6d 2§S
Hyson pr. lb. ysft'qd
Hyson fk<n, 414*6;/
Souchong, 3 f 6^7
CO
<
3
H ! Congo,
Bohea,
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box, iooj
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 6d
Vermillion, 12 s
Varnish, 2s 6J
" Madeira, pr. pipe
Lisbon 37^
Teneriffe 20/10J 30/
w Fayal pr. gall. 3'
2; I Port pr. pipe 30/43'
~ Ditto pr. gall. 7*
>" Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30;
Claret 3 0J 45-'
Sherry pr. gall. 9*
_ Malaga 6j6</
Wax, Bees pr. lb.
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2syd
. short, pr. lb. lS
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 69
Ditto 60 days 7°
Ditto 30 days 7 2
Amsterdam, 60 days>
pr. guilder, 2s lid 3*
3© days & t
France, 60 diys.pr.s Hv. 6s U
30 days 6.f <w
particular Stare.
a 2 / 6 d
3>9*
2S 7d
B\d