oflS
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH.STREF.T, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 60, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, November 25, ijyi.
PHILADELPHIA, November 23,
ORDINANCE and BYE-LAWS,
for the REGULATION of tkf.
BANK OF the UNITED STATES.
At a general meeting of the Stockholdkrs of the Bank of the
United States, held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on Mon
day evening, OElober 31, 1791, agreeably to adjournment—
MR. BINGHAM, from the Committee appointed at the last
meeting to report such Bye-Laws, Ordinances and Regula
tions, as (hall seem neceflary and convenient for the government
of the Corporation, made report—and the fame being taken into
oonfideiation, after debate, the Stockholders agreed to the follow-
ing Ordinance
SECTION I.
THE Charter of Incorporation granted to the Barik of the
United States, amongst other rights, privileges and abilities therein
conveyed, having impowered the Stockholders, at general meet
ings, legally convrned,to make, ordain, establish and put in exe
oution, such Bye-Laws,'Ordinances and Regulations, 2s (ball seem
neceflary and convenient for the government of the said Corpora
tion Re it ordained, by the Prefidenr, Dire&ors and Com
pany of the Bank of the United States,
SECTION IT,
That the Bank shall be opened for the tranfa&ion of bufmefs
every day in the year (Sundays, Christmas-day, and the fourth of
July, excepted) during such hours as the Board oI Dirtdors shall
deem advisable.
SECTION 111.
That the books and accounts of the Bank shall be kept in Dol
lars and Cents, and shall be regularly balanced on the firft Mon
days in January and July in each year, when the half-yearly divi
dends shall be declared, and published in at leafl four of the pub-
lie newfpapcrs.
SECTION IV.
That the Eank shall take charge of the cash of all those who
chufe to place it there (free of expencc) and shall keep it fubjeft to
their order, payable at fight—and shall receive deposits of ingots
flfgold, bars of silver, wrought plate, or other valuable articles of
small bulk, in the fame manner, and return them on demand of
the depositor.
SECTION V.
That the Bank shall rcceive and pay all specie coins, according
to the rates and value that have been, or shall hereafter be eftab
lifhcd by Congress.
SECTION VI
That until offices of discount and deposit shall be established,
there (hall be at least two difeount days in every week, when meet
ings of the Board of Directors shall be asT tnbled. Discounts shall
be made at a rate not exceeding fix per cent, per annum, on notes
or bills of exchange that have not more than sixty days to run, and
with at least two responsible names, and under such modifications
as the Board of Dsrettois, in their discretion, shall deem fatisfac-
fory and expedient
SECTION VII
That the President shall have power to convene the Dire&ors on
special occasions, and with the approbation of the Board of Direc
tors, to affix the seal of the Corporation to all conveyances or other
instruments, and sign the fame in behalf of the Corporation—The
ftid seal shall always remain in thecuftody and fafe keeping of the
President.
SECTION VIII
That a Committee of the Board, consisting of at least three mem
bers, to be elc&ed monthly by ballot, shall visit the vaults in which
the cafli and other effects (hall be depofitcd, at least once in every
month, and make an inventory of the fame, to be comp . - d with
the books, in order to ascertain whether they perfectly ag« ce there
with.
SECTION IX.
Thar no notes of the Bank (hall be struck or signed, or Bank
paper made, but by the dirc&ion of the Board,
SECTION X.
That in cafe the Board ot Dirc&ors fha!l at any time make a di
vidcnd exceeding the profits of the Bank, and thereby diminish
the capital (lock, the members affentmg thereto (hall be liable in
their fcveral individual capacities for the amount of the surplus so
divided.
SECTION XI
That the Board of Directors (hall, previous to the mil day of
December in every year, call a general meeting of the Stockhold
ers to be assembled within three days after each annual elc£Hon.
SECTION XII
That the Board of Dire&ors are hereby empowered to demand
2nd receive from the Commiflioners appointed to superintend the
'uofciiption to the capital stock of the Bank, all monies which
i.uvc been paid to the said Commiflioners on account ot the firft
paj mem, together with the origin j1 book of fubfeription.
*£r- ■
SECTION XIII,
That the Board of Dire&ors arc hereby authorized to ascertain
and determine in what manner the lemaining portions of the ca
pital Ilock, due on the ihares fubferibed, confiding of specie and
public debt, shall be paid and received. And they are hereby
further authorized and empowered to receive into their pofTdliori,
the certificates of said public debt, and demand and receive by
their President, or in such other manner as they (hall think pro
per, the interest that shall accrue and become due upon the fame,
and to give receipts therefor io behalf of the said Corporation.
SECTION XIV.
That the Board of Directors are hereby authorised and em-
powered to fix and establish requisite fafe and convenient forms
for transferring Bank Stock, for receiving half yearly dividends,
for conveying a right to proxies to represent Stockholders at any
general meeting after the second Monday of January next, for the
certificates of capital Stock of the B2nk, for the circulating and
post notes of the Bank, and for the oath or affirmation of the of
ficers of the Bank previous to their entering on the execution of
their refoe&ive duties.
SECTION XV.
That the Board of Dirc&ors are hereby authorised and em
powered to establish a common seal with suitable devices—to as-
certain and mark out the various duties and employments of the
officers, clerks and servants of the Bank, and to dire£l them ac-
cord ingly—-as well as to determine the amount of securities they
(hall refpe&ively give for the faithful dilcharge of their duties—
to aflign to the President such additional functions as are not al
ready designated by law —and to re-issue or renew at their difcre-
tion the notes in circulation,
SECTION XVI
That the Dire&ors (hall have power to make loans to the go-
the United States, or of any State, to such extent and
on such terms as they (hall deem expedienr, not contrary to law,
provided that a Board confiding of not less than a majority of the
whole number of Dii eftors, (hall be necessary to decide in all
such cases.
SECTION XVII,
That the Brtard of Dire&orsare'hdfeby authorised to lease or
hire, for a term not exceeding two years such fuitablc buildings
as the adminiftiation of the affairs of the Bank may require.
SECTION XVIII.
That in cafe it (hall happen that an election of Dire&ovs shall
not be made at a meeting of the Stockholders for that purpose on
the fnft Monday of January nexr, and on laid day in each suc
ceeding year, it shall be lawful for the Stockholders to adjourn
said meeting to any future day within five days from said firft
Monday of January, and at said adjournment to make complete
and finifh laid election.
SECTION XIX.
That the Board ot Directors are hereby impowered to form
and establish all other rules and regulations that they may deem
neceiTary for the interior management of the Bank,
On motion, Resolved, That it is the opinion of the Stock_
holders of the Bank of the United States that the President and
Directors (hould turn their immediate attention to the eftablifli
rnent of offices of discount and deposit at such places in the Uni
ted States as the intercft and fafety of the institution will admit.
On motion, Resolved, That Mr. Edward Fox be requested to
ast as Secretary to the Stockholders meeting, and that he procure
a book, and record therein the acts and proceedings of the Stock
>) olders and keep the fame in his poflcflion until their next meet-
inj. Adjourned, fine die.
Attest, THOMAS WILLING, Chairman.
EDWARD FOX, Secretary to the meeting of Stockholders.
Mr. Fen no will oblige font' of his Jerfeyfriends and cuflomers, if he
publifties, as fion as he finds it convenient, the following hand bi// }
printed at Brunfwick a few days ago.
Copy of a Utter from a gentleman in New- Jersey, to his friend in the
Legijlatuie of that State, now fitting at Trenton.
Middlesex County, Nov. 10, 1791.
S I R,
I RECEIVED your letter dateo the 4th infant, and am to ac
knowledge the favor you did me in vour candid relation of the
demands of the gentlemen who mean to establish manufa&orics
in this State, and as I know vou wish to he informed of the sen
t ments of some of your condiments, I think it a duty I owe to
my fellow-citizcns, to give von my opinion on these matters, re
c red by them to our Legflature, and I will endeavor to give it
in the bell manner my time and fmalJ abilities will admit, being
confeious they are far from to the fuhjeft which I
trufl will be clearly and honrftiy d.fcufled by the superior genius
of the gentlemen of our Legiflai " r e.
Charters are generally reft rifted in England and in this coun
try, binding the incorporate bodies to certain fpecified articles—
but if theie gentlemeo have it in their ootion, generally to profe
cu e any mechanical business they think proper, they will bear
down by their large fcapital, all the mechanical branches of the
fame species in the United States ; this in time will have a very fa
tal effefl on the revenues of the public ; as the mechanics arc at
present a very valuable and large part of the community, and
raise large sums in the imp#ftand government taxes, which, when
237
[Whole No. 268.]
they are crushed, mud fall on the landed interest : But Ift u? turn
our eyes 10 the kingdom of France, and we will fee the mod en
lightened philosopHers, statesmen and patriots, perhaps that ever
g»aced the universe, who are truly the guardians of the rights of
-man : That by their united study for more than two years, have,
by their conflitution, utterly and forever ab'oli(bed all incorporate
bodies wbatfoever, as being injurious to the public -weal.
Lottery, is a fpecics of gaining that wife men have written a
gainst and hi;ve laid it down, as having a fatal tendency on the
morals ol the community, and that they fhoula not be granted,
but on the greatest emergencies to the public at large. It locks up
for a time the circulating cash, stagnates trade, prevents just debt«
being paid, and is hurtful to the families of the poor adventurers.
That cutting Canals, to facilitate navigation, is a most noble
invention and ought to be prosecuted wherever there is a profpe£fc
of its answering the end of cheapening tranfpoi tation ; but if any
such matter is contemplated, why should it not be the property ot
the United States, or of the State of New-Jersey ? to which those
gentlemen apply for unbounded right to cut canals where they
plcafe. Suppose they were empowered to cut a canal from Sand
pink to the head of South river or to the Millstone, and open aw
inland navigation irom Philadelphia to New-York, which is
thought pra£ticable ; would not this destroy hundreds of acres or
good meadow on the Sandpink?by cutting a canal of twenty
feet wide for miles together, would it not ruin many ot our
worthy fellow-citizens without proper compensation ? Itscourfe
might necelfarily go irom therethrough leveral good farms,orch
ards, gardens, &c. ai/d all this to be under the fanftion of a law,
made for the purpose of individuals, who want to aggrandize their
posterity by a perpetual 1011, and after this State had granted them a
lottery to raise thirty ttklufand pounds on the public. Thu iv
queft really appears to m: laughable, as they tnuft fiippote our
Legislative body to be extremely goodnatured.
Suppose their (lock to be a million and a half of dollar-:, which
I have been informed, by the rapid and large subscriptions it is
likely to amount to, which by their requeil may be uf-d in any
lucrative branch of manufactory if they are not restriCted : This
sum is perhaps greater tlian the united capital At all the mechanics
in America, which, by being divided into many thoutands 'of
small funis, in the hands of honcft, industrious men, for ihe -
fifience of their families, enables them so pay their taxes cheerfully
and consume great quantities of dutiable articles ; but thrfe gen
tlemen come forward with their abrogate itock and mode Illy ask.
an exemption from all taxes. O heaven ! can the human mind
be so blinded and callous through avarice !
Many of the mechanics fuffered great loflfes in the late war, paid
heavy taxes and served faithfully in the militia, and have been
obliged, through, neceflity, to fell their hard earned certificates for
half a crown in the pound, to some of the very men who now
come forward with them at mote than twenty shillings. Among
these I would include the brave continental soldier, who is now
returned to his tiade for a scanty subsistence. I would ask why
they fuffered every species of misery to eftabiifh the present go
vernment, but to eujoy an equal fhsre of its privileges and immu
nities with their fellow citizens, which they will not do, if at any
time a part of the community are exempted from taxes, in the
fame branches of manufactory they follow and they are taxed.
If such a law should be made in any S:ate, I think it would have
a tendency to shake the pillar thereof to its centre.
I wish not Sir, to be understood that I am against reasonable
encouragement being given to the company : I think under pro
per restraint they may be very ufeful to the community in general
and ought to be encouraged, as iar as reason and good policy
may admit. _______________ CLIT US.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. I'EKNO,
Obferv'tng in your paper «f Nov. 2, a fpcculatiott
signed Respondent, pertnit a fubferibtr also to as
sume a logical ftgnature ; and iudttlge him in in•'
prting the following observations of an Opponent.
I DO not mean from time to time, to oppose the
Respondent, or perhaps ever again to take
notice of his remarks ; but at. this time, am forci
bly imprefled with the impropriety of his infer
ences. The Respondent takes notice of a para
graph publiflied in your Gazettee of the 2d inft,
wherein the general happiness difFufed over the
face of the country, is ascribed to the goodnefi
of our constitution, and the laws of the United
States ; and supposes that the happiness alluded
to, is the pleating appearance which the face of
the country a Humes. He then aflerts, that " du
ring the lad summer the face of the country,
through a considerable part of it,did wear a molt
dismal, diftrefling, and doleful countenance
and then draws this conclufiog, that the consti
tution or laws inuft have fume difinal defe<ft, up
on a fuppolition that his major is true.—His ma
jor I grant is trfle, (/. f.) that " those plea/ing
appearances" constitute parr of the happiness re
fnlting from our emiftitution and laws—As to his
minor, if by a considerable portion of the coun
try, he means the greatest part, it is falfe ; but
if he means but a finall part, which indeed would
be considerable, it may be true ; but let him
mean which he will, his conclusion is falfc.—
I have been led thus far to take notice ofhis re
marks fyllogiftirally, both from their form and
his signature as well as my own.—lt mult recur
imn-ediatelj to every person in the lealt ac
quainted with rhe hiflorical, as well as political
and agricultural (late of different nations, that
the happiness of the people, theflourifhingftate,
the pleasing appearance and the fruitful produc
tions of the country, abundantly depend upon
the liberty of the inhabitants and the wholefome
nefs of the laws—How many countries are there
--- • *under despotic governments, whose foil in irfelf
is the most fertile imaginable, that scarcely pro
duce subsistence for the inhabitants, and jntirely
owing to the badness of the governments —Where
there is no security for property, none are am
bitious of acqoiring it ; the accumulation there
of, is but an inducement to their tyrants to de
prive them even of their lives, in order to pofl'efs
their property —Under ihefe circumstances men
are desirous of procuring only so much as ftiall
be barely fufficient for their sustenance—The
consequence is plain, the agricultural interelt
fuffers, the ground not half tilled, and the coun
try wearing a miserable appearance—On the con
trary, where the citizen enjoys liberty and secu
rity for his property, he is desirous of increasing
it, and makes the belt use of his lands ; the coun
try puts on " a gay, pleasant and prosperous ap
pearance," and that in gradation from a tyran
nical government to a free one, in pr oportion to
the goodness of the constitution. These effeds
of our excellent constitution are visible to every
obftTvtr, and acknowledged by every friend to
the government —All who acknowledge a divine
Providence, inuft own to be the prime source
of both profperltyand adverlity ; and sometimes,
for wife purposes, it is exercised in adverse dis
pensations ; thus we fee partial evil in the midst
of general good, without destroying the univer
sal influence of second causes—Such may have
been the cafe during the lall fuinmer—ln the
course of Providence a drought prevailed infome
places, yet notwithstanding, there was a general
appearance of fertility in the country —though
graft failed in lome places, yet was there a plen
tiful harvest ; nor did that partial evil militate
againfi the benign influence of our government,
in its happy effeds upon the country at large,
nor lead to a conclusion that the government is
defective. lam at the fame riine sorry to find
our Refpondcnt casting reflecftions upon a state,
which however amiflaken policy may for a while,
have made backward in fubferibing to theconlti
tution, yet now is a sister in union with us.
New- Jersey, November 10, 1791
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, November 14,1791.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
Debate on the Ratio oj Reprefentntivn.
TVT 1 *- UNDLEY declared himfelf to be in fa
vor of one representative for every 30,000
persons,
The opinion of the people, he said, should be
the guide of the committee : that opinion, he
conceived to be in favor of the ratio he had men
tioned.
The representation ought as nearly as possible
to ex pre Is not only the will, but to participate
111 the Tvifhes and interests of the people—A large
representation embraces these interests more ful
ly, and is more competent to gi v "ing and receiv
ing information. The objects of legiflatioii are
fach as come home to the doors, to the feelings
ol every man ; the government ought therefore
to secure the confidence of the people by a larcre
representation. The expence he considered "s
trifling compared to the benefits—and the people
expec't and are willing to pay for being well go
veined, and having their liberties secured. An
encreafed representation, he considered as an
additional security against corruption. As to
delays occasioned by a numerous body—he ob
served. that the representatives were chosen to
deliberate, and to mature every fubjeiTt before
oecilion He inllauced the advantages derived
trom the numerous representations in France and
in Ireland The former had fraoied aconftituti
on in two years for twenty-fix millions of citi
zens, and provided for securing the liberties of
Jvp nui ;y—and the latter had proved a fuc
ce s, u L.airier against the encroachments of the
arbKrary power of England. He concluded, by
a ertnig that the voice of the people was in fa
vor of the amendment proposed to the conftitu
-10.., Viiich would give une representative to eve-
T y 3°>ooo persons.
Mr. Giles -This fubjeft, said he, has struck
me in two points of view—Whether Congress
are not preceded from exercising any discretion
on the fubjeA • and whether, if they are not. it
is expedient for them to exercise this discretion
at this time. The ratio of representation is a
conltitutxonal, and not a legifiaiive adt. He re-
A°n l u* C ° ,,(V " mion ' in Nvllich is said that
L/l n °r re P re, " entat ive to every state,
and secondly, that until the enumeration, the
AN OPPONENT
nnmber flionld be as therein appointed to each
(late—after the enumeration the numbqr is men
tioned, below which it (hall not be placed—but
there is a negative power to increase the ratio—
and from this negative power, a positive discreti
onary power is inferred. But, he observed, than
"Congref* had precluded itfelf from a right to
exercise this discretionary power, by fending out
to the several date legislatures, an amendment
on this very fubjecl—this amendment lie consi
dered in a ferions point of view ; and had this
idea been attended 10 at the commencement of
the discussion, he conceived that it would have
prevented the opinioYi from being brought for
ward, whether it was expedient that any change
in the ratio of the representation (hould take
place—The idea of one to 30,000, he tonfidered
as fully fetijed in the minds of the people ; and
a change 011 the part of the government, would
indicate a changeable disposition, and a 111 utabiii
ty of counsels, which is but another name for
weakness.
The sense of the people have been retorted to
by gentlemen on both fides ofthequeftion—this,
if it can be ascertained, is undoubtedly the belt
guide ; and he thought thole in favor of one to
30,000 had with great propriety referred to the
conventions, and to the adls of Congress itfelf.
But the amendments are said to have been a
matter of compromise, and were insincerely ac
ceded to by the majority—but even 011 this ground
he conceived, that the sense of the people was
equally at well declared.—He however differed
from gentlemen in refpeift to the motives wlych
produced ihofe amendments—in the ftate'he came
from, both federalifts and anti-federalifts were
fully of opinion that.further fecurhy as to the
representation, wasrequifite.
The numerous representations of the states,
whatever inconveniences may attend them, plain
ly shew the sense of the people on the fubjeA.
He then took a view of the objccls of Icgifla
tion to the state afterablies, and of those of the
general government —in the former, he said, a
bove ioooperfons are employed, though their
attention is confined to their internal police—
Those of the general government on the other
band, are on the great objects of the whole fi
nance of the Union, a sum of more than eighty
millions of dollars, &c. &c.
It is said that we shall want abilities—but, said
he, I fhonld be sorry if a reprefenration of ten
times the present number of this House, fliould
comprize the abilities of a single state.
He afligned different causes from numbers, for
the corruption in*tlie British House of" Commons
—among these wtfre the frequent mortgages of
the funds, and the iiijmenie appropriations at
the difftofal of the executive—the mode of their
elections, &c. A large number, he observed, is
not so easily corrupted as a small body.
An inequality of circumstances, he then observ
ed, produces revolutions in government, from
democracy to aristocracy and monarchy. Great
wealth produces a desire ofdiftintftions, rank and
titles—The revolutions in property in this coun
try, have created a prodigious inequality of cir
cuniftances—Government has contributed to this
inequality—the Bank of the United States is a
most important machine in promoting the objects
of this monied imereft—this bank will be the
most powerful engine to corrupt this House—
some of the members are direiftors of this inflitu
tion—and it will only be by increafingthe repre
sentation that an adequate barrier can be oppos
ed to this monied interert. He next adverted to
certain ideas -Which he said had been difl'eminated
through the United States ; and here he took
occasion to observe, that the legislature ought to
express some public disapprobation of these opi
nions—The strong executive ef this government
ought to be balanced by a full reprefentatioH in
this House. He hoped the motion to strike out
30,00# would not obtain.
Mr. Boudin»t closed the debate of this day, by
a few remarks, reinforcing his former obfervaci
ons in favor of an increased ratio.
TUESDAY, November 15
Mr. Page.—l can 110 longer refrain from ex
pressing my sentiments refpecling the queltion
before the committee ; not only because \ wifhif
paifibie to remove the error which I think seve
ral members, tor whom I have the highest respect,
have fallen into, but because I feel Inyfelf more
interested in the question than 1 ever was in any
one I have had to decide on.
Sir, it gave me pain to find those worthy mem
bers calculating and coldly applying the rules of
arithmetic to a lubjedt beyond the power of num
bers to express the degree of its importance to
their fellow-citizens. I was distressed, fir, to find
that in their honelt zeal for securing order, dis
patch of btifinefs, and dignity in refpetftability of
members in the general legislature, they ufed'ar
guments which have been applied in other coun
tries to the eftablifoment of insolent aristocracies
—in some, tyrannical despotisms- and in others,
Kings ; thole countries which were :noll on their
guard with the semblance of a free government
238
Sir,the errors I wifli to correct are these ■T !
think that because it is propoftd, by a 1
mendmenc to the Constitution, to authorise th
to interfere in the business of afcertainine
fixing the ratio of reprefesmation to the po PU |' ■
tion of the States, that Congress ought, with o '
any hefuation, to enter on that bufnief»_butl
humbly conceive, that Coogreft, as this is a deli
cate quellion in which their own weight and
portane'e must nnire wjth the weight aiid fab'u"'
£ ial intereil or their coulhtucnts, ought to
to the suggestions of delicacy, and feave its jjf
cuffion to a difintereffed convention of the States"
I fay it appears to me no firrall error to q jip tl ,®*
plain path of legislation, marked out for us bv
the Coiiil itution, needlessly io wander into the
field of political '(peculation, its
poled defects. 3 *
Let nie therefore advise to leave the reftrk<ii on
of the numbers of members of tbn house to the
people, or to some future Cou'grefs, which carr
fee more plainly than can now be descried the
evils of a too numerous reprefenration.''
to doing, we (hall avoid, if not an inipropermea-
Cure, ar lead a rafli step—at least we (hall Hand
clear of a charge of indelicacy, and deprive our
enemies of the triumph they expected in the com
pletion of their predictions, thatCongrefs would
never propose any amendments to the Constitu
tion but such as would be subservient to their own
views and aggrandizement. Let us not give the
enemies of our new government cause to exult
and its friends to sigh and mourn. Let us not
give our friends occasion to repeat what many
have said, that so many of our citizens have been
led away by theoretical writers on government
as to render it problematical whether the Ame
rican States are not at this time as much indebted
to the Na'tionnl Aflembly for its remains of re
publican principles, as France was to Cotigrefsin
t 776, for their firfl. ideas of that liberty which
they now enjoy. Let us not, in this moment of
general exultation of the friends to the rights of
man, take a step which may damp their joy, and
lead them to fear that Americans who were fore
molt in the glorious career of liberty, have Hoo
ped (hort.
But, fir, granting that ws were now fitting in
full toDventiou, convened for the sole pii'rpofe of
.altering that article of theConlhtation which re :
fpeefts die number of representatives, woulditi.oc
become us :o consider rather what was the sense
of the members who framed that Conflitution,
and what was and is the sense of their constituents
and our own respecting ir, than what may be the
r'efult of our enquiries concerning the speculative
opinions of writers on the fubjedt of government,
or even the real consequences of the mot' piauli
ble theories reduced to pradtice in other eoutries
Hut not to take up the precious time of this
house with relations of faifts to' show what was
and is the opinion of our fellow-citizens 011 this
interelting fubjecft, 1 will only state a few
arguments which have weight with me as be
ing in themfeives evident truths, viz. Our
Conftiturion being framed by the people, and
introduced to us in their name, and Congress
being the creatures of their will, fpoker. into ex
igence by the word of theirpower for Congress,
to lefl'en their weight, to diminilh their import
ance, and to exclude them from as full a/hareiu
their own government, as can be confident with
the nature of it, and indeed from that fliare which
they claim, inujt be impolitic and dangerous.
But granting that the people wished not a
greater fliare in the general government than is
proposed by the amendment, as it is impolfible,
a country like the United States, tliar one mail
can be fufficiently informed of the opinions,
wishes and'real interests of thirty-five thoufandof
his fellow-citizens, and therefore laws might be
enaifted contrary to the opinions, wishes and in
terests of the people, in which they might never
theless acquiesce, facrincing their interests for
the fake of peace and quiet, to the wills of their
reprefjntatives, one thirty-five thousandth part
of their own number—What friend to his coun
try would wish to fee such a dangerous influence
on the one hand, and such a blind fubmiflion on
the otlier ? How long could an enlightened peo
ple remain in such a state of infenfibifity and
torpor ! and what might not be the consequence
of their awaking from their lethargy ? If not an
expensive revolution, an expensive repeal of laws.
And here I will remark, that the fm3lleft number
of legiflators,and they too, well feleJted for their
wisdom and respectability, if unacquainted with
their conftittients, might pass well framed laws,
founded on the wifdow»f other countries, and
yet find them disagreeable to their constituents,
and be under a necessity of repealing them —but
this could not be the cafe if the people had in
that legislature a fufficient number of represen
tatives, on whose fidelity, attachment and difiii
tereftednefs, they could rely. This, fir, is a truth
worthy of our attention—an ignorance of which
or inattention thereto, 1 fufpeit has been the oc
cafion of much political evil in the world. Hap
pily for France, the people had such a number ot
repi efentatives in the National A Hem bly, as couldtheir feeling, inform their judgment, as-
Jfcfrtheir interest, and eftablilh their confidence
'their fidelity and difiiuereftednefs—had that
Moniber been much smaller, it is probable Frairce
would never have been delivered from opprelfion
bv their exertions.
I believe the National Aflembly have judged
bout 7)0 members fufficient to represent their
pje which on a supposition that they amount
even to 26 millions, will be 1 representative for
every 34,0c0 ; a larger representation than is
posed by the amendment before us ; but, fir, it
is not and cannot be the interest or wifli of the
pepnle at large to have a fin all representation in
Cimgrefs under the prtfent' government. We
are told however that to avoid expence the peo
ule wifli it and that to avoid confufion in this
house we should comply with that wilh. With
refpecl to the article of expence, I think we may
with propriety make use of arithmetical calcula
tions and to (ind how much at 6 dollars per day
paid to 1 representative ic would colt the 30,000
divide 600 cents by 30,000, the number of citi
zclis__and we have r-50 of a cent per diem, the
expense of each citizen, if to be equally divided,
amoiiffft them—that is 1 cent for every 50 citi
zens pr. diem, or which must be the fame thing
r cent must be paid by each citizen for every 50
days Session of their representative in Congreis ;
Sir 1 have the consolation to find that if our con
ftit'ution had I representative for every IJ, in
stead of 50,000 they could well afford to pay
thein, and that ifit were even more expenllve as
to the payment of members, yet the people would
nioft certainly be better Satisfied with the laws
whicb they would then have so great a (hare in
framing. The people fee that if their interests
are not well guarded by a fufficient n umber of
tbeir fellow-citizens, who have a fellow-feeling,
a common interest, they may be Sacrificed to the
ambition of Some, or the vanity of others ; 1 trull
fir, that they know too well the high'price they
have paid for the purchase of their liberties, to
be unwilling to pay a few farthings for the only
poflible means of preserving them. They fee
rioTjv that the monarchical and ariltocratical part
of government is to be restrained—the former
from absolute tyranny, and the latter from an
• jnfufferable insolence, by a very numerous body
of the representatives of the people alone. 'Ame
ricans know, fir, that monarchical governments
were neceflary for the protecftion of weak ig
noraflt people, againll the encroachments of am-'
Mtipus and ferocjgns .andl for the
preservation of order amongftgt life m Serves.: tljat
an ariltocratical became convenient tcrspro
tet'i them against tlie fpvittg-
of monarchy"-—that this form was
adapted to a Small progress if) the Science of go
vernment, and that theSe two forms properly
checked and rontrouled by the democrmical
form, is Hill better Suited to a general know
ledge of that Science ; that a representative go
yernmejit Such as their own is, every part of
which is more or less pervaded by the Spirit of
representation, cannot by any other means be so
perfedHy fectned, as by their having at least as
full a share as they have claimed in the demo
cratiaal branch of their government.
1 know. Sir, that many friends of ourconftitu
tion, thought that the Convention did not pay a
fufficient attention to the imereils of their con
iiituents, when they retrained them from hav
ing more than one representative for every 50,000
citizens.—l know that there is a report that the
people are indebted to their President, even for
this (hare in their government ; and 1 believe,
Sir, if this report be true, that whatever has been
fojuftly Said of him, as compared to Fabius, to
Hannibal, to Alexander, may be forgotten, when
this instance of his wisdom, difintereftetlnefs,and
attachment to'the interests of his fellow citizens,
will be more and inoreknown and applauded,and
befo reverengraved on the hearts of thejrpoftei ity
—Shall we then, Mr. Chairman, the direct repre
sentatives of the people, be less attentive to their
interest, and that too refpec'ting their (hare in
the deliberations of their own of Repre
sentatives, tha-n the President of their Conventi
on was ? I trust nor.
I
1 will not pretend to fay, however, whether
in an afiembly where attempts are frequently
wade, to carry into effect the projects of monar
chical or aristocrat icnl juntos, the virtuous ftrug
gies of patriotic members, may not producemob
like disorders ; but in an afiembly like Congress,
Where 1 fhotild fuppufe no such queltion can be
agitated ; none which may not be difcuflcd with
temper and decency, such disorder need not be
a pprehended. 1 ihould fuppufe there would be
'els danger of aniinolhies and difordeily debates
,n Congress, amongst 1200 members, thaji in the
Britifli Parliament, if it consisted but of 100. —
V/ here we have all but one and the fame g:eat
in view, the bappinefs of our country,
(not the interests of a particular body of men,
"orn with privileges infuhing the feelings and
tMe rights of fieemen, nor the whims of an indi
10ua 1, horn to trample on his fallow creatures)
* e can have 110 cause to be diflatisficd with one
another.
Suiely, Sir, uulefs these gentlemen fuppofethe
members of Corigrefs void of sense, or of every
idea or.decency and propriety, they cannot f'ap
pofe thateven joo members would not be easily
reltrained within the bounds of order.
Upon the whole, Sir, I conclude that neither
an apprehension of expence, nor of' disorderly
debates, ought to induce this committee to run
the rilk ot being charged witb indelicacy, if not,
of facrifieingthe interelts of their conlHtuents.
I hope, therefore, that the worthy and ingenious
members who, by supporting the amendment,
have produced a full difcuilion of the' question,
will now join with me, afid' majority, in
voting against it.
(To be continued\)
MONDAY, November 21
I he address from the General Afiembly of St. Domingo, to th]
Congrcfs of the United States, was lead.
Mr. Williamfon prefentcd an affidavit refpettjng the loss or del
ftru&ion of sundry certificates, the property of a citizen of North-
Carolina, which 4>eing read, it was moved that it rtionld be refer
red to the Secretary ot theTreafury. The motion being obje&ed
to, as informal, the affidavit not being accompanied with a petition,
was negatived.
Mr. Wad (worth, of the committee appointed'for that purpose,]
reported a hill more effe&ually to provide for thenational defence,'
by eftablifliing a uniform militia throughout the United States—
read the fit ft and second time, and referred to a committee of the
whole house, and made the order ot the day for Monday next —|
to be printed in'the interim.
The report of the committee on the petition of James Jackson,
was referred -to the committee of the whole, and made the order
of the day for Thursday next—Report to be printed,in the interimJ
report of the committee on the of John Francis]
Mr. Giles observed that the cafe involved two principles, which
lie conceived to'-be of some importance,to be fully difctrfTed and
- decided, previous to an unqualified acceptance of the report—the
firft was, whether a member had a right to vacate his own feat—
and the other was, how far it is in the power of the executive of a
particular State, to fill the vacancies which may take place in this
house. These confidcrations, he thought, had essential reference
' to the privileges of members.
Mr. Scncy observed, that he conceived the report was ftri&ly
conformable to the rules and precedents of the house, in similar
cases—several of which had occurred. With refpe£t io the right
of a member to resign, he thought the reverse idea involved an at
tack on the privileges of the citizens of the United States. >
-fhr in liii 'I' ll forne debate,
of the
v> hole house ,
Mr. Smith (N. H.) presented the petition of Jason Watte—read(
and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Boudinot moved that the peti ion of James Weeks (hauldj
he referred to the Secretary of War. The petition was again read—j
the motion for a particular reference to the Secretary of wait
ol jr£led to.
Mr. W r illiamfon fa id the motion ought to be for a general re
rence. This motion being put, was negatived ; and a motion]
to reject the petition was put and carried. A
The petition of j. E. Moore, rcfpe&wlg a number of certificates!
of public debt, winch were dcllroyed, praying they may be re
newed, was read—and with some others of a similar nature, refer
i» d to the Secretary of the Treasury. *'
The resolution for extending the time limitted for fettling the
accounts between the United States and idividual States, was agreed
to; and a committee, consisting of MefTrs. Dayton, Griffin and
Hartley, appointed to report a bill accordingly.
The order of the day—on the bill apportioning the reprefenta
tiori of the inhabitants of the United States, according to the firl
enumeration—Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The bill was re-ad by the Clerk.
Mr. Macon moved that the fir ft fe£iion be amended, by infert-1
ing the word five after thf* word ihoufand.
This motion, after some debate, was negatived—as were alfof
motions to inft rt four and three.
Mr. Bcnfon then moved to itrikc out the whole of the firft fee A
tion, in order to substitute another which he had prepared.
This motion refpccted a different modification of the feftion.
still retaining the ratio of one representative to thirty thousand.
Further debate ensued, an,d the committee rose and leported pro
gress. The house then adjourned.
TUESDAY, November 22,
A letter from the Secretary of State, enclosing a report on the
petition of J'cob Isaacs, of Newport, (R.t.) who had prayed for
a reward from government, for discovering the art of converting
fait water into frefh, by an cafy process—This report stated an ac
count of certain processes made by the petitioner in presence of
the Secretary of State, to ascertain his pretentions -the- icl'ult was/
that simple distillation, without Mr. Isaacs' difcovrred mixture]
produced as great a quantity of fiefh w.ater, as with it. j
Mr. Sylveffer presented the petitiop of Reuben Murray arici
Daniel Schermehorn—read, and refcrrtd to the Secretary of the
Treasury-
Stindry other petitions were read and referred.
Mr. Ftndley presented a petition of certain inhabitants of the
counties of Washington, Allegany, and Wcflmoreland, refpe6fing
the excifc law—read, and referred to the Secretary of the Tica
fufv. r j
Mr. Lawrance reported a bill making appropriations for the]
support of government for the year 1792 —read the firft and feconcj
tune, and icferred to a committe of the whole house, to be
the order of the day on Wcdncday next.
Mr. williamfon presented the rcmonßrance and petition of a
yearly meeting of the people called Quakers in the State of North-
Carolina, againfl the duties and penalties of the militia law—read
and referred to the committee of the whole House to whom the
militia law was referred
Mr. Lee presented the petition of John Crane, pra)inj th
renewal ot a loft certificate, read and referred to the Secrcury o
the Treafurv. . . _ , r _ :
The petition of fundty surgeons of the late army praying a fai
and equitable feltlcmem of their accounts, was read.
In committee of the whole, on the repot t of the feJe£l commit-l
tee on the election of John Francil Mcrctr.
It was moved that tne report foould be accepted—Mr. Giles]
ot ,;,a t d 1., the motion, and in a speech of confideraMe length,
It-Med ihe rufous of his dissent liom it—He w« replied to by Mr.
Smi'h (SC.) Mr. Murray, Mr. Gerry, and Mr. Scney. Mr.
Se.Wickfuggefted some difficulties in the eafe-The question
being cali. d tor, Mr, Lee moved that the committee (hould rite/
and report progrefs-this motion obtained, and the commute*
role, and alked leave to fit again. V
In committee of the whole on the bill apportioning the repie
f. nu 1011 ol the inhabitant, ol the United State,.
The committee agreed 10 sundry amendment to the bill
then rose, and the ltoufc adjourDcd. .
239
Philadelphia, November 25.
Some accounts from England, recently pub
lished, inform that Mr. Burke is becofiie so un
popular, that both his friends and die world are
deserting him—and even the Ministers treat him
with coldness.
I,ate accounts from France fay, that af;er the
firit day of October, 179T, no American ihips la
den with Tobacco were to be admitted to entry
in the .French ports, except condition, of
coming direcftly from America with clearances
for France. See the letter in the last page of
this paper.
A subscription is to be opened in this city on
the firft clay of next month, for railing a fftni of
money for the purpose of opening a Canal he
tween the waters of Schuylkill and Sufquehapna,
to extend from theQuitapahilla toTulpuhocken.
The Aristocrats in Paris, it is said, were con
founded ar the King's acceptation of the Consti
tution—and it is now added, that this event has
thrown a universal damp on the fpiritsof the ex
iles from that kingdom. The latest European
intelligence contains very little information on
the subject of a counter-revolution. The prof
pecfts of the anti-revoludonifls grow fainter and
fainter, as the people grow more and more ha
bituated to the walks or freedom.
The account of the arrival of the Counteft of
Effingham at New-York*, is premature.
A proposal has appeared in the Boston papers for publifhi'ng ia
that town a new weekly paper, to be entitled, the American
Apol lo : some further account of which, (hall, by rcquejl, appear
in our next.
The Hon. George Plat er is ele£led Governor of Maryland.
Thursday last a fire broke out in the house of Mr. Robert
Hodge, bookseller, in New-York—which, notwithstanding the
great exertions of the citizens, was nearly consumed. Mr. Hodge's
loss is said to be great. «
Two instances of alarms by fire have occurred in this city since
our last—a small framed house and a {table were destroyed, but
the vigilance of the citizens prevented the flames from fprcuding
any further.
We have the pleasure of announcing to the public, the arrival
of Crigadier-Gcneial Harmar, his lady and family.
A citizen adds—" It must give peculiar pleasure to every real
friend to the army to be informed, that this worthy officer (whole
services, during the late war as Colonel of a regiment, and since
the peace as Commander in Chief in the Western Territory, can
never be forgotten while gratitude is considered of any worth
amonglt us) has again returned to his native place in good health
and fptrits, where he intends to remain the rnfuing winter. And
although the (hafts of malice have been thrown at him, touching
his condu£t on a late Indian expedition, yet they have wholly
miffed their aim—as the General, after many and repeated solici
tations for a court-martial, at length obtained a trial, and now
(lands acquitted of any and every charge allcdged against him,
with the highefl honor to himfelf and enure fatisfa£tiou to hu
countrv."
When Congress adopted the State debts, and put them on the
fame footing the Continental Debts, because they were incurred
for similar obje&s, peculiar difficulties induced the necdlity of
confining the assumption within certain limits, which were then
known to be fliort of the a&ual ft ?\e of those debts. The oppo
nents to the measure felt theii opposition diininilhcd, because they
saw the utmost extent of the engagement — its friends acquiesced,
because they knew that the eflablifhment of the principle mull
fina'ly lead to a general assumption. The measure having gene
rally met with a favorable reception from the public, and having
evidently been attcndedVith good effetb, there is no leafon to
anticipate much oppofiiion to the completion' of so bcneficial a
system, inasmuch as the exifling revenues will probably supply an
ample lund for the purpose. The furpluffes of these dcbtj> mail
be very inconsiderable, and it would be inconfiflcnt with that en
lightened policy which has hitherto marked the proceedings of
the national l.cgifhture, to cripple a system which has been so
universally applauded, and by a narrow-minded conduct to in
volve in perpetual confufion the national finances.
Married, last Thursday evening, Mr. Benjamin Franklin
Bache, to Miss Margaret H. Markoe—both of this city.
Died at New-York, the 1 B.h inft. Dr. Charles M'knight,
one of the mod eminent Surgeons of that city—perhaps of the
United States.
The communication from a friend at Trenton, is very re
lu&antly, tho' necefforily poftponcd till Saturday.
The poetic effufion tc To War" is too incorr ft for publication,
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
2a/
12/4 12/6
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defercd 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates igj 95 do.
Indents it/6 do.
Bank Subscriptions, 140 to» 148 Dollars.
Bank of the United States.
Phi ladelphia, November 22,1791.
THE Stockholder* of the Bank of the United States
are hereby informed, that according to the llatute of incor
poration, a general election foi twenty-five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock 111 the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh feftion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to aflcmble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day ot
Jauuary next, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajhier.
Secondfundamental Article oj Statute of Incorporation.
** Not more than three-fourths ot the Director* in office, exclu
sive of the Picfident, (ball be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Director who (hall be Frcfcdent at the lime of an election,
may always be rc-elett-d." £eptfl
P r - L
110 pr. cent.
62 J do.
65 do.FREDERICKSBURG, November 10.
ExtraCt of a Inter from Mefrs. McCarthy and Bro
ther i, to a merchant in this town, dated Bourdeaux,
Septtmbrf- I, I 79 1 *
" In our last we mentioned to you the difficul
ty fonie American vefl'els met with here, bccaule
the) were not considered as coming direct from
America; we have now the pleasure to acquaint
you, that the committee of the National Aflem
bly which we petitioned on the fubjecl, has gi
ven' directions thai our tobaccoes should be ad
mitted to entry, for home consumption ; and that
all American vefl'els in the fame predicament as
those we interested ourselves for, that have touch
ed at an out-port for orders, without breaking
bulk, or entering there, fhouM likewise be ad
mitted to declare their tobaccoes in the fame
manner, as far as the Ift of next month ; alter
which ueriod, the committee intimates that the
conditions of coining direct from America, with
cjeaiances for France, must be rigidly adhered
to. The conimiflioners of the revenue have re
ceived and given their fpecific and official orders
in consequence ; so that we think it would not
be prudent to form a speculation upon the sup
position of its getting a greater extent, umil we
fee more clearly into the matter, though laid li
mits be Hot peremptory."
BANK OK THE UNITED STATES.
Resolved, That the form of the power for vot
ing by proxy at any election, be:
Know all Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby appoint to be
substitute and pftxy for and in name
and bihalf, to vote at any eletfion of a Direfior or
DireClors of the Bank of the United States, as fully
as might or could were personally present.
In -totmfs whereof, have hereunto set hand
and seal, thit day of in the year
Scaled and delivered )
in the prcfence of { *
That the form of the power for voting by proxy
refpe&ing the enabling, repealing or amending
Bye-Laws, Ordinances and Regulations, be:
Know all Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby appoint fuljlitute
tr proxy, to represent at all meetings of the
Stockholders tf the Bank of the United States, and
in name and behalf, to vote refpefiing the en-
aflitig, repealing or amending such Bye-Laws, Or
dinances or Regulations, as may be deemed neces
sary and convenient for the government of the J, aid
Bank.
In ivitnefs whereof, have hereunto set hand
and seal, this day of in the year
Sealed and delivered )
in the pretence of J
That the form of the power for felling, alfign
ing and transferring Bank Stock, be:
Know all Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby conjUtute and appoint
*$ true and lawful attorney, for and in
name and behalf\ to fell, ajpgn and transfer unto
any person or persons, the -whole or any part of
Jhare unto belonging in the capital or
joint flock of the President, Directors and Company
of the Bank of the United States, and for that j>ur
pofe to make and execute allneceffary ails of ajjigu
ments and transfer, and furthermore one or more
persons under to fibjlitute with like full power.
In -witnefs-whereof, have hereunto Jet hand
and seal, this day of in the y car
Scaled «nd delivered )
in the prefcnce of j
That the form of the power to receive Divi
dcnds be:
Know all Men by these
of do hereby conflitute and appoint
lawful attorneyjor and in name and behalf,
to receive and give receipts for all dividends now
due, or which may grow due on Jhare
to belonging, in the capital or joint flock nf the
Frefident, Directors and Coj/ipany of the Bank oj
the United States.
In witness whereof, have hereunto ft
and seal, this day of in the year
Scaled and delivered )
In the p r cfcnce of £
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
TV/TR- THOMAS, of Worcester, Matfjchufetts, mod refpe£-
"i/ inlorms the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Teftamems of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finifh
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Papers, he begs will
return them to him at TVorcefter, or to him and Company at Mow,
by the lad day of November next, and as much fooriei as thev con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its correanefs, and iis cheapuets compared with English
co P'es of the fame size and quality.
Aj.this verv laborious and exceedingly expenGve undertaking,
carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who with to possess a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fuhfeription.
H , crceJler,S:pt. 29, iygt
George Mea d e
Has for SALE, at hit Stores on Wa l nut-Street Wh ar f,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hothead or
quarter calk.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the fiilt quality, by the hogshead or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 years old LifbonWlNE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter calk, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality My/on TEA.
He has just received bvihePigou, Loxlev, maftcr, from London,
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WIN E— And
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irilh LINENS, low priced and well aflnrted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and fotre GLUh.
A few boxes of Spcrmacfti CANDLES cf the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantity of drcfted White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their cuftoin, may be afTured of'being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undrrHVd HAND
SPIKES. He is purcbafing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give lire highefl price for them.
N. B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, juil received, and 10 be difpoled 0!.
Which may be fern every day, until five o'clock, p. m.
Among then arc the following :
Folio. T TOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, EuCebius, Soz»-
£1 men, Theodoiet, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lai. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
'eeronis. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulae— Phavoriui—Martinii —Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Anliquir. Ecclef. Britannicse. &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phicdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om, Caesar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffli Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, Sec.
Ottavo tHmfra. Homenwjft.nwM«n, Aristophanes, Lenginus,
. Theophraftus, Heftod, BtetSminOTWGr. liberates, Ph»Uri*t- M
riot/s editions of Horace, Virgil, Ovid, Tibulhis, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Cliudian, Val. Fhccus. Aufonius, Bochanan,
Salluft, Curtius,Florus, Juftin, Val. Max'iinus, A. Gellius, Hill.
Augult. Scriptoresv Evgfijk and French Tranjlotions of some of the
ClalTics, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. Set.
83T Catalogue? may be had of Meifrs. Rice & Co. BonkfelWs,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
Ofloher 31. (cp tf-)
Funds of the United States.
A LL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
xjL changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negociated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commission, and all other
Business in the line of a BroKer, tranfafted by
hand
ISAIAH THOMAS.
Philadelphia, Novt mber 16, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Piar.Street,
A COLLECTION Of
and Valuable
Scarce
B O O K S,
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office next dour to the Cuftom-Honfe,
State-Street, B OST(J N. 2 m
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To he had at the fame place.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER& AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,on Commijfion,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at auction, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private falcor purchase, one-halj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving inrereft at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, fevevty-five cents per transfer,
Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with
fidelity and difputch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well established correfpon.
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
October 15, 1791
W. M'D OU CALL'S'
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his fmcerc thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the oerform
ance of his scholars, will llill ensure him a refpe&abie (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taughi
during the season.
Those who please to nonet him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the most approved
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carnage and
manners.
A general pra&ifing for the improvement of thefcholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and Grangers crt genteel deportment, will he admitted.
Thcfe praftifirigs will be a'tended wiih 110 cxpence.
N. B. An EVEN INO SCHOOL will be opened for crown
Gentlemen, as soon as a lufficicnt number offer °
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apply wha
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
240
(cp 6w.)
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHE*
teas,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.& c .
Of the firit quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefrint and MarketStreeti.
TO BE SOLD,
And poffeflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubfoibtr now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to BrunfwiVk, about a m ;i e
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acies, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of ioo apple trees, betides a variet*
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two (lory (tone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ied and
finithed. Also, a smoke-house, work-thop, granary, waggon,
house; barrack cow-houses, two (lories high and go feet long,and
a good barn, with (tabling. From the buildings there arecharmi
■ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any pel son inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Sno wdin
No. 141, South Second-tlieet, Philadelphia. , *
Princeton, Oflober 10, 1791
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
M AN, named Arraham, late the property of Nathaniel
Wickltjfy deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pre:ty well set, with a large wooll) head
land large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone mason and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a house- waiter, and is fond
of such bufinefi. He is a great dissembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no defenption of
his prcfeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the subscriber may get htm
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will begiven if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John K1 nche lor, by
O&ober 12, 179*
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and itolen from the fame the followingariiclcs, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftamcnts; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one ftriptd veil and
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jcrfcy coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, forpe of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlav; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper,and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of Twentv Dollars will be given for the fecarityof
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion tor part thereof ; also a further reward of Twmty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or pcn>e
trators, so that they may be brought tojuftice, by
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. [cptfj
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
( To \ which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subscribers—who mav receive their
Bookson application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Streets.
(f3T The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from its firft settlement to the adoption of the present Con
futation of the United States; —the third, containing a geographi
cal defenption of the State, sketches of its natural history, &c. is
in the press.
*** A few copies of the firft two volumes for sale—price 2c>f.
Noveviber 5, 1791.
In the Press, and fpeedilv will be published,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Co'afifting of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, aud
particularly of the United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
%* The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, v z. the firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each subsequent one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
Subscriptions will be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
DoßSON,and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookfrllers
there. Philadelphia, November g, 1791.
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L.L. D. Profeffox of Laws
in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Le&ures. One Course t*
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of'
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board ot Faculty.
Philadelphia, 12, 1791. (eptD)
A Young Gentleman, of American birth and education (being
I~\. a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and English Languages. He has had some experience in
teaching, and trusts he can exhibit fatisfaflory recommendations.
Anv letters upon this fubje£l, post paid, addreffrd to A— S—,
and the care of the Editor hereof, prior to the 25th December, will
be punctually attended to,
Ofiobcr 22, i 791
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY,
Class Second.
THIS Class will pofuivcly commence drawing on Thuriday
the 24th of November nexr, at 4 o'clock, P. M. which
be completed with ail expedition. The Managers pledge them
felvcs that no conlideration whatever (hall induce them to pollpo° f
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
Boston, October 15, 1791.
ft. f.)
(£3H Blank Powers to receive thelntereft, and'for thetransfer oj t
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules efoblifned in tht r( . a .
fury \ Department: Also Blanks for abflrafts of Certifcate to be
the Editor.
ISAAC SXOWDEN, Junior.
• | [ep2mj
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(lavvgvvj
The First and Second Volumes of the
[law]