PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 14, of Vol. lII.]
R E
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
» ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD and WHALE FISHERIES.
[con T I N UF.D.]
No. XI.
AN ACT of the King's Council of State, for the
encouragement of the commerce of France
with the United States of America.
December 29th, 1787.
Lxtraß frem the Records of the Council oj State.
rpHE King desirous of encouraging the commerce of his sub-
JL jests, with the United States of Americj, and of facilitating
between the two nations connexions reciprocally ufeful : Having
heard the report of the Sreur Lambert, Counsellor of State, and
of the Royal Council of Finance, and Commerce, Comptroller
General of Finance, his Majesty being in his Council, has ordain
ed and does ordain as follows :
ARTICLE I.
Whale oils and fpermacasti, the produce of the fifhe r ie* of the
citirens and inhabitants of the United States of America, which
shall be brought into France dire&ly in French vefTels, or in those
of the United Slates, shall continue to be fubjetted to a duty on
ly of seven lvres ten sols the barrel of five hundred and twenty
pounds weight, and whale-fins shall be fubjeft to a duty of only
fix livres thirteen sols four deniers the kental, with the ten sols
per livre on each of the fa id duties ; which ten sols per litre shall
cease on the last day of December one thousand seven hundred
and ninety ; his majesty reserving to himfelf to grant further fa
vots to the produce of the whale fifheries carried on by the fifh
ermen of the United States of America, which shall be brought
into France in French vessels, or in thole of the United States, if,
on the information which his Majesty cause to be taken there
on, he shall judge it expedient for the mtereft of the two nations.
11. The other fifh oils, and dry or salted filh, the produce in
like manner of the fifhenes of the citizens and inhabitants of
Untied States, and brought also dire&lv into France, in their,
or in French vessel-, fhal not pay any other nor greater duties
than those to which the os and fifh of the fame kind, the produce
of the filheries of the Hanfeatic Towns, or of other the moll fa
vored nations, are or shall be fuhj in the fame cafe.
111. The manufacture of candles and tapers of fpermacasti,
shall be pcimitted in France, as that of other candles and tapers.
IV. Corn, wheat, rye, rice, peas, beans, lentils, flaxfeed and
other feeds, flour, trees and shrubs, pot-ash and pearl-ash, {kins
and fur of beaver, raw hides, furs .and peltry, and timber brought
from the United Stales direflly into France in French vefTels or
in those of the United States, (hall not be fubjc£t but to a duty of
one eighth per cent, on their value.
V. VefTels built in the United States and fold in France, or pur
chased by Frenchmen, shall be exempt trom all duties, on proof
that they were built in the United States.
VI. Turpentine, tar and pitch, the produce of the United
States of America, and brought directly into France in Frerith
vefTels or in those of the United States, shall pay only a duty of two
and a half per cent, on their value ; and as well the duties men
tioned in this as in the fourth article, shall be exempt from all
addition ot sous per livre.
VII. The exportation of arms of all forts, and of gunpowder,
for the United States of America, shall be always permitted in
.French vessels, or in those ot the United States, paying for the
arms a duty of one-eighth per cent, on their value ; and gunpow
der in that cafe shall be exempt from all duty, on giving a cau
tionary bond.
VIII. Papers of all forts ; even paper hangings and coloured
papers, paste-board and books, shall be exempt from duties on
their embarkation for the United States of America, in French
vessels or in thofc of the United States, and (hall be entitled in
that cafe to a rcftitution of the fabrication duties on paper and
paftc-board.
JX. The admiralty duties on the veflels of the United States
entering into, or going out of the ports of Fiance, (hall not be le
vied but conformably with thcedi6l of the month of June Jaft,
in the cases therein provided for, and with the letters-patent ot
the tenth of January, one thousand seven hundred and seventy,
lor the objetts foi which no provision shall have been made bv
the said edict : his majesty refcrving to himfelf moreover to make
known his intentions as to the manner in which the said duties
shall be levied, whether in proportion to the tonnage of the ves
sels or otherwise ; as alio to fimplify the said duties of the ad
miralty, and to regulate them as far as (hall be possible, 6n the
principal ot reciprocity, as soon as the orders shall be completed
which were given by his Majesty aceoraing to the twenty-fixih
article of the said edi£t of the month ot June last.
X. The entrepot (or flonng) ot all .the produdtions and mer
chandize of the United States, shall be permitted for fix months,
in all the ports of France, open to the eommcrce of her colonies ;
and the said entrepot shall be fubje£l only to a duty of one-eighth
per cent.
XI. To favor the exportation of arms, hardware, jewellery,
bonnetery* of wool and of cotton, coarse woolens, small dra
peries and ftuffs of cotton of all forts, and other merchandizes of
French fabric,* which lhall be sent to the United Slates of Ame
rica in French vcflfels, or in those of the United States, his Ma
jesty reserves to himfelf to grant encouragements which shall be
immediately regulated in his council, according to the nature of
cach of the said merchandizes.
XII. As to the other merchaudizcs not mentioned in this ast,
brought dir diy into Fiance from the United States, in their or
in French vefTtls, orcarricd fiom France to the said United States
in French veflels, or in those of the United States, and with ref
peft to all cominerc al conventions whatsoever, his Majesty wills
and ordains that the citizens of the United States enjoy io France
the fame rights, privileges and exemptions with tne fubje&s of
h:s Majesty : saving the execution oi what is provided in the
ninth article hereof.
XIII. His Majesty grants to the citizens and inhabitants of the
United States, all the advantages which are enjoyed, or which may
be hereafter enjoyed by the mod favored nations in his colonies of
America ; and moreover his Majesty aflares to the said citizens and
inhabitants of the United States, all the privileges and advantages
which his own fubjedtsof France enjoy, or shall enjoy, in Asia and
* Th-s te r m :rc f udes bcnnets, Jocks, under tcaiftcoati
4;2uers, £ 'll\s and m ,'tcns, as fold by the bonneiiers.
POR T
Wednesday, June 15, 1791-
in the seas leading thereto : Provided always that their vefTel $
shall have been fitted out arid dil'patched in ioine port of the Uni
ted States.
His Majesty commands and orders M. le due de I'enthievre,
Admiral of France, the Intcndants and Commissaries de parti in
the provinces, the Commissaries oe parti for the obfrrvauon ot
the ordinances in the admiralties, the Officers of the admiialtics,
Matters of the ports, Judges des twites, and all others to whom
it shall belong, to be aiding in tfieexecution of the present regu
lation, which shall be regifteied in the offices of the laid admiral
ties, read, published and polled wherever (hall be necessary.
Done in the King's Council of State, his Majesty present,
tieid at Verfalllcs the twenty-ninth ot December,
one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven.
(Signed) ' Le Ct. De La LUZERNE.
[ To be continued.)
Edenton, (N.C.) May 27.
To the President of the United States oj America.
The Address of the Merchants, Traders and prin
cipal Inhabitants oj the tow/i oj Fayetteville.
S 1 K„
\LTHOUGH our voice can acid little to the
general acclamation which attends you,
nid to your Excellency must be of finall moment,
/et a mid It the warm congratulations on the ap
pearance in this state of their beloved Chief Ma
gistrate, our silence would indicate a want of re
fpeft ; a silence which would be the more repre
hensible in a community so largely interested in
trade and navigation, more peculiarly under the
directing hand of that government in which
you prelide.
Could any incident encreafe the veneration
we feel for your illuitrious charadter, heretofore
so fully ellablilhed as the soldier, the Itatefman
and the patriot, it is your present expedition, in
undertaking at an advanced period of life, a
long and laborious journey for the purpose of
advising yourfelf, by personal observations and
enquiry, of the true interests of the several Jlatcs
which compose our confederation. From this
tour we pref'age the happy consequence, that
those who are not yet iatisfied with the renden
cy, operation and effects of the present constitu
tion of the union, will be convinced of its superior
excellency to ail former systems of government.
Throughout your journey we wifli you as
much fatisfadtion as can attend it, and if in its
progress we are to be honoured by your visitati
on, the citizens of Fayetteville will be happy in
every attention which may contribute to your
pleasure and convenience.
Under the impression of the importance of a
life so valuable to our country we commit it to
God, with our moll fervent prayer, that it may
long be preserved as full of liappinefs as it hatli
been already full of glory. '
D one at the general meeting of the Citizens of
Fayetteville, at the State-house, on Friday, the
I Jth of jjpril, I 791.
JOHN HAY, Chairman.
The above address was to have been presented to
the Frefdent at Wilmington, but he had Ljt that
place before the paper arrived, it was delivered to
him in Brunfwick county, on the ibth alt. To which
he returned the jollowing anfwtr :
To th/ Citizen.< oj Fa yett e v 11, le.
Gentlemen,
IT is due to your goodness and to my own feel
ings, that 1 fliould express ihe sensibility ex
cited by your address, and that I should acknow
ledge the grateful pleasure with which I receive it.
My best services are more than compensated by
the affectionate partiality of my fellow citizens,
and my most anxious willies are gratified ill ob
fervingtht happinef, which pervadesour country.
The very favourable change already nianifeft
ed in our political fyftein, juftifies the prediction
that the future operations of the general govern
ment will be alike conducive to individual pros
perity and national honor.
Should it consist with the necefl'ary arrange
ments of my journey, 1 fball be happy in a per
sonal opportunity in confeliing my obligations
to the regard of the citizens of Fayerteville. In
any event 1 entreat them to be persuaded of my
lincere willies for their welfare.
The Apdr ess oj /he Inhabitants of the Town oj
Wilmington. North-Carolina,
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
Sir,
WE wait 011 you to offer the tribute of vefpec r t,
gratitude and esteem, so jufllv due toyour
exalted flation, your eminent public services, and
the extraordinary virtues that adorn your cha
racter.
53
0 :0. WASHINGTON.
[Whole No. 222.]
We thank you for the high honor conferred
on us by your vilit to this place in your tour
through the fotuhern Hates, and you with
the most cordial welcome to the chief feaporc
town of the extenhve Itate of North-Carolina.
It may be proper to oblerve, Sir, that if the
progrefsof agricultural and commercial improve
ment, in the llate of which we are a part, bore
any proportion to the great natural resources it
contains, this town would probably have fur
inounted some of the obvious disadvantages of
its situation, and become more worthy ot the
honor it now enjoys by your presence.
Truly sensible that a system of government, at
once benignant and efficient, is the Aire source
of fafety and prosperity to every country where
it obtains, we anticipate, with great pleasure,
the effectual operation of the new coniftitutiofi,
persuading ourselves that the fame wisdom, libe
rality, and genuine patriotism, of which there i«
so illiiUrions an example in the conduct of our
Chief Magiltrate, ai;d have hitherto influenced,
will continue to temper the councils of the na
tion ; we aidently hope that admirable political
fabric, reared upon the basis of public virtue, may
prove a strong pillar of support to the union of
the dates—improved and ftrengthed by revolv
ing years, may it be as durable asyour fame, and
extend the blessings of civil liberty to the latest
ages.
Accept, Sir, our humble testimony, in addition
to the innumerable instances you have experi
enced, in proof that the fame sentiment pervades
the bieafts of the citizens of the United Stales
universally, that to you, principally (under Pro
vidence) our common country is indebted for li
berty and independence, that those invaluable
acquisitions are become the means of permanent
happiness, is equally an occasion of gratitude to
you.
May you long continue on earth your coun
try's glory and human nature's great ornament,
and finally, in an immortal lhite receive from the
Great Protector of the Universe, the rich reward
that awaits the diltinguifhed benefaiSors of man
kind.
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER
To the Inhabitants of the town ofW ilmincton.
G F. N T I. F. M E N ,
Appreciating with due value the fenrj
ments you are pleased to express for my Ra
tion and charaJler, 1 lhould fail in candor and
refpetl: not to avow the grateful sensations excit
ed by your address, for which I thank you with
unfeigned sincerity.
Reasoning from the rapid progress of improve
ment throughout the United States, and advert
ing to the facility which every undertakinginuft
derive from a fettled system of government, the
obviation of those disadvantages, inipofed byfitu
ation on your town, may, 1 think, be calculated
upon within no very distant period.
The fanclion which experience has already
given to the salutary influence of the genera] go
vernment on the affairs of the United States, au
thorises a well-founded expectation that every
aid which a wife and virtuous legislation can ren
der to individual industry, will be afforded, and
creates a pleasing hope, that the happinefsof her
citizens will be commensurate with the growing
dignity and importance of our country.
1 express a heartfelt sentiment in wishing to
your town and its inhabitants a full proportion
of general and particular felicity.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
{IMPROMPTU.) M. MIRABEAU.
WHENE'ER he spoke, the world aftonifh'd heard;
For, more than everTuLLY was, appear'd—
Pajl, prefcnty and to come, were all combin'd,
And foim'd one simple idea on the mind.
As lightning quick, and as a fun-beam clear,
He flafh'd convi&ion, or he trill'd with fear.
But ah, the fad reverse, when pleasure fmil'd,
This Giant politician—was a child.
A Lift of arrived at the Port of Philadelphia,
jrom January the Ift to June jft, 1791.
27 Ships, "]
76 Brigs,
4 Snows,
27 Schooners,
44 Sloops,
509 Coaiteis.
G. WASHINGTON.
}• From Foreign Ports.
JFOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAT
O D F, to WAP.
LORD of the fcythril car 1 whose chics dcligh*,
'Tis to ra'fe the foul to fight ;
Come mighty God ! and fill my ftratn
With thy lury-fLfhing heat ;
Which like a roaring torrent founds,
As o*er the horrid rock :r bnurd* t
Or like the ocan's thundering h^a',
When by the howling on high s
Its waves arc lifted to the £ky.
'Tis by thy aid alone,
The tribe who pant to swell the fi^hr,
And fee the cannon's slashing light;
While awful thunders fill the air,
Can view the tumult void of fea r .
And feel the scene their fouls delight.—
O ! now mv views thy tra'n,
In dreadful splendor pass the plain !
Thv fifier anger marches firft,
With light'ning darting from her eyes ;
Jler-heart doth beat,
With furious heat,
As though each moment it would burfl ;
While with UD-lifted arm ftie threats th.cfk.ies,
And curling oft her birth,
Doth (lamp with mad'ningfury 'cMinft the earth.
Next comes Revenge an awful form '
Who kindles all the rage of storm ;
His eyes a beamy horrordart,
That (hakes with fear the tim'rous heart ;
His breast a steeled plate enfolds,
A brazen helmet guards his head,
While in his hand a spear he holds,
And all a dazling terror (bed.
Next Jealousy the god of fplcen,
Of doubting heart, but piercing mein,
With trembling step, comes slowly ou,
And casts his fearful eyes around ;
To heaven now. and now to earth,
And now he laughs with inward joy,
But terror soon displaces mirth,
And like a bafhful maiden coy,
He starts at ev'ry found,
And pauses now, and now in hafle he flies along the ground,
Then marchrs on a martial band,
With arms and music in their hand :
Now boldly founds the shrilly fife,
And wakes the sleeping foul to life ;
The doubling drum improves the found,
While from the hills the notes rebound :
Hark 1 the sonorous trumpet blows,
But louder plays the sweetly winding horn,
While ev'ry breast with valour glows,
And ev'ry foul with rage is borne
On rapid wings, to join in war,
The infuiting foe, whose ftillv founds are faintly heard from far.
I.aft in the train comes Liberty,
A GOD- LIKE BEI NG of the fkv.
Bright ft reams of light around his head,
Dazling silver-glory spread :
is golden-hair amidst the blaze,
In curling lines of beauty plays ;
His snowy robe of fpotlcfs hue,
Wafti'd in heaven's etherial dew,
Wide floats upon the buoyant gale,
While all around his presence hail !
His left hand holds a founding harp,
While with his right he fweepsthe silver wires,
And piercing music, fierce and sharp,
Inflames each breast with his own fires—
The armed band with quickcn'd pace,
In equal measures beat the ground ;
And brighter beams in ev'ry face,
The "heavenly glow at ev'ry found.
But now he sweeps with bolder hand,
The golden chords of deeper tone,
And soul-subduing music floats,
That melts to tearsthe warrior band,
Who mute and liftcning fland ;
Quite ravifh'd with the thrilling notes,
They gaze and gaze on him alone.—
Now all awake the liftcning fojul,
He ceas'd awhile the tuneful found ;
And brightest tears of rapture roll,
While thus he hail'd the troop around
<: Ye glorious band ! together wove,
By mutual intercft and by love ;
Be forever dill the fame.
Still be rous'd by virtue's flame,
When'er thehagged servile train,
Shall dare your liberty restrain.
Thou Anger (hew thy awful eye,
Whence consuming light'nings dart;
And thou Revenge of thundering air,
Lift on high, thv beamy spear,
i hat fhnkes with fear the coward's hearr.
And JealonJy thou changeful god !
Who affeft'fts the doubting nod,
Still extend thy piercing fight,
And drag enslaving schemes to light :
For by your aid combin'd alone,
Shall I prefcrvc my (ky-built throne.
And last ye glorious martial band!
Who firmly tread this favor'd land,
Whene'er I strike my founding harp,
And rouse the accents fierce and sharp;
J ed by the aidor of your Gods,
frrafp in rage your gleaming arms,
And pour from gaping wounds, the purple floods
Of thofc who madly dare to rouse your dread alarms."
Again he fweepsthe golden firings,
-Loud echo with the music rings;
The lofty mountains all around,
With thundering (bouts of praise resound.
Now higher, bolder swells the note,
And now the modulating found,
Upon the trembling wind doth float,
Then murmuring dies away along the ground
The band inspired, now again,
In quicken'd meafurc beat the plain;
Now in a glorious blaze of light,
They vanish from my fancy's fight,
|r_?" REMARK
THE friends of Virtue and Religion in the United States,
receive a fine addmoti to the opinibm and principles of the
Wisest and best men of the prcfent and past age, in the work of
M. \ECKER, jull re-published in this city by Carey,Stewart Co
Nope-fonof femimem who can fparethefmall sum nffix fhiUivg,,
wil! deny himfelf the pleafurc and advantage of that ineft.mable
perlormancc.
LISLE, March 31.
r T"MIE department of tlie North,which, after the
1 lnte unfortunate Maflacres at Douay, retired
ro this town, proceeded, on Sunday lalt, to elect
a new Bifiiop : the poll Jafted, at St. Petei s
Church, till Wednesday afternoon, when the
majority of electors appeared to be in favour of
M. Primat, Curate of St. Jacques, Douay, a wor
thy pried ; and the faffle, who, when the mob
were dragging their mangled vidtinis along the
(lieers, interceded on his knees with theruffians,
to pive up the bodies for interment. This adt
of humanity has been the principal means of his
elevation to the Episcopal Chair.
There is a fill of 77 per cent, in the Rnflian
ruble. By the lalt mail we learn it was as low
as twenty-seven pence halfpenny, which is a fall
from forty-eight pence, the price it stood at be
fore the war.
The National -Assembly has decreed, that the
new edifice of Genevieve {hall be appropriated
tj receive the allies of great men ; that M. de
Mirabeau's allies (hall be deposited there ; and
that over the door (hall be engraved, " Ar/x
grandj homines, la patrie reconnaiflante."
If any mail had said, in the lad century, that
the Turkish empire was to be saved by Chrilti
ans, his predi<fiion would have been consi
dered as the very eMence of folly ; and yet that
crisis approaches fait
Last week aperfontiamed Archibald Cameron,
if Inch Keith, a final] island on the North Weft
.oast of the Highlands of Scotland, died without
pain, groan, or previous sickness, in the 122< 1
year of his age. This poft-diltivian Patriarch
haft served seven Lords of theiflein the employ
ment ofdomefyic piper, during the course of
ninety-four years, but hjs fingers failing, he liv
ed on a i'mal 1 pension allowed by the family.
On Friday last at noon, ten millions of Affig
nats were burnt at Paris, making, with those
burnt before, fifty-two millions of livres, or
2,T66,6061.
The coronation of the Emperor at Prague, as
King of Bohemia, will give occasion to the revi
val of an amnfement, that of the tournament.
There is to be one in that city in September,
with lance and sword, similar to that given in
1616. Prince Adam, of Hugfberg, is to be the
JVlarfha! ; and the mountain ofZilka, the scene
of the contention.
M. Lanibro Cazioni lvas arrived at Trieste.
rake upon himfelf the command of the Ruffian
flotilla, in the Mediterranean.
If the late Mr. Wray aJlually conceived at tlie
time of his inferring within his last: teftaii'ent, a
beqneft: of five hundred pounds towards a fund
for the discharge of the national debt, that such
nn event was likely to take place, a ground for
setting aside the will, tinder a suspicion of the
insanity of the donor, appears at least as firm
and tenable as that upon which the Parliament
voted that Colonel Strangsways inuft have been
out of his senses, when he left behind him a le
gacy of thirty thousand pounds for a fimilarpnr
pofe. A cafe at leafl as strange as either of ihefe
in queflion is that of Colonel Norton, who, dy
ing at Southwick, liis residence near Porfmouth,
in December, 1732, bequeathed a real estate of
fix thousand pounds a year, and sixty thousand
pounds in money, to the poor, the hungry, and
thethirfty ; to the naked, to itrangers, the sick,
the wounded, and prisoners, until the end of the
world. He left his pictures and other valuable
effects to the King ; appointing the Parliament
of Great Britain his executors ; and directed that
if they refufed the trust, it should devolve upon
the Bench of Bilhops. Trustees were immedi
ately appointed, under proper authority, to take
care of this extraordinary legacy ; but rhe will
bore such striking marks of insanity, that it was
soon afterwards set aside ; and, if we mistake
not, the estate is now enjoyed, with more pro
priety and justice, by (one of his relatioas) Mr.
Thiftlethwayte.
Died on Sunday, at BufTelfleigh, near Oxford,
where he had gone for change of air, in his 6i(t
year, Dr. John Berkenliout, long distinguished
in the literary world for his productions in va
•rious sciences.
April j2.
. Yesterday Lord Porchefter moved the follow
ing resolutions in the house of Peers—which
were negatived.
i ft. I hat a war of Conquest is repugnant to
the honor or policy of the British nation.
2ct. That the war entered into with Tippo
Sultan, and Uie treaty for the partition of his
dominions, is highly difgraceful to the British
name.
U L L I N.
3d. That the Board of Contronl and Court of
Directors, be directed to.transmit such orders to
tlteir ferv'ants abroad, as are mod likelv to re
e the general tranquility of that country.
1 he National Aflembly of France has at length
e o vec to put a period to its own existence •
so. it has fipcreed thru a New-Afiembly fhali be
calief] and meet in July next.
54
LONDON, April 9
110 USE OF CO MM O NS,
Amu. ij.
Mr. Sherulan presented a petition from Glaf
gow, signed by eighteen thousand persons a
gainst the Corn Bill. Ordered to be referred to
the Committee on the Bill.
DUBLIN, March y
The Roman Catholics of the British Empire
have reason to glory in this age of pUilof op h v
A few years will put them on that equality with
their fellow fubje<fts, which we find in the wife
and noble policy of the United Stares.
The Americans improved on the British Con
flitution ; they are now the happielt people in
the world—riling from despotism hi to opulence
and refpeciability. All dalles are united and
happy. How powerful will the revolution of a
century render them under such a government !
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) May 28
We are credibly informed that, fliould the
lower counties in the diflriift of Maine, succeed
in their endeavors to have that diftrift set off as
a fepnrare State, the inhabitants of the county
of York will nfe their united exertions to be an
nexed to this Sfate.
The proximity of the above county to this
State, the habits of intimacy between the inha
bitants, and their relative situation both in an
agricultural and commercial view, mull render
such a connexion not only politic as a local, but
highly judicious as a national meafnre.
The Turks have 101 l since the beginning of
the War with Ruflia, nearly 220 large (hips, car
rying more than two ilioufand .guns of different
calibres. *
Accounts from Madrid fay—" The Kino; has
jtlft given orders to M. Cavellero, the late Mi
nifterof the war department, to quit Madrid,but
for what reason is unknown."
The Circuit Court of the United States, hav
ing finifiied the bufitiefs brought before it, in
this town, was on Thursday afternoon lad ad
journed without day. And yesterday their Ho
nors Chief Justice Jay and Judge Ci ski nc, set
out for their rcfpective homes.
NEW-HAVE N, June 8
Lafl week the corner (lone of flie firft abut
ment nf East-river brid<rp, was laid, under the
direction nf the Mayor of this city,- attended by
the Rev. Dortor Stiles, and o:her gentlemen of
the Clergy—the Aldermen and other officers of
the corporation, the civil wiagiltrates of the town,
and a number "f gentlemen and ladies ; the ce
remony was closed wiili three huzza's. The
preceding day having been wet, rendered it tin.
fafe for the company to partake of a cold colla
tion in the field, and they repaired to rite house
of Alderman Daggit, (one of the contractors for
the bridge) and were enrertained with elegance
and hofpi'ality ; on the Hone was the following
inscription:
ERECTED,
May
A. D. ai,dcc,xci.
AMER IC A N INDEPENDENCE.
HON. ROGER SHERMAN,
NEWARK, June 9
Married, at Philadelphia,on Monday evening,
the ''orh ulc. bv the Rev. Dr. Nefbit, President
of Dickinfon College, the Rev. Dr. John Wi
therfpoon, President of Princeton College in this
(late, to Mrs. Ann Dill, widow of Dr. Dill, of
\ ork county, in that state, a ladv ofgrcat heait
ty and merit.—On VVednefday, after the l'rcfi
dent's return to Princeton with his amiable lady,
a deputation of the Students waited upon him,
to congratulate hiin upon the joyful occasion,
and he politely gave them two days holiday. In
the evening, in regard to their worthy President,
and to teftify their joy upon his happy marriage,
the (Indents illuminated the college, which af
forded a mnft grand and beautiful fight to the
numerous fpet r tarois who had collected upon the
occasion. '1 here were fix hundred candles in
the front of the college, which were lighted nl
moft instantly on a signal given bv the diCtharge
of a cannon, and on the like signal they were all
immediately extinguished.
During the illumination, which lasted about
an hour, a number of students in the belfry, en
tertained the great concourse of people who at
tended, with a most agreeable and delightful
concert of mtific from different kinds of inflru
ments. The whole was conduced with elegance
and taste.
— u Joy sparkled in every eye,
and every heart was glad."
LAN SIN BURG, June ?
By tlie lad Bennington p.iper we are inform
ed, that the party at the Briiifh port lately ho'ld
eu in that ilate, has recently been recalled.
X V
May orBOSTON, June 4.
By an arrival from France, the editor has re
ceived French Gazettes, published at Paris, /(s
late as April 12. The firft article of importance
they contain, is an account of the sudden death
of M. (late Count) Mirabeau—whofe talents as
a ftatelman and a scholar—whose zeal in the
cause of liberty—have made his loss very sensi
bly felt throughout all France. He died the
2d of April—an eulogium on him was spoken in
iha National Aflembly.
The National Aflembly proceed with {leadinefs
and harmony in the great work of reorganizing
the nation—The great objects of the Conflit uti
on have been effected—Some fnbordinate regula
tions were before the Aflembly at the dare of
our papers ; and they appeared to contemplate
with pleasure the speedy arrival of the period
which fiiall close their labours, and give to the
French nation a legitimate legislature.
We fee nothing in the papers of those riots,
plots and (Iratagems which have so frequently
been detailed in the London papers. Almoftall
the Clergy have taken the oath of allegiance, as
have the Ainballadors, &c. to foreign courts.—
Three of the latter have refufed, and their Na
tions have been filled by other persons.
The Right Rev. Bifliop Carrol,of the Roman
Catholick Church, arrived in town a few days
since—and has confirmed the bapiifms of a num
ber of Catholicks. This gentleman, justly es
teemed for his piety, learning and benevolence,
Will preach to-morrow at the Roman Catholick
Church.
If, as Mr. Burke laments, " the age of chival
ry is gone the circumitance of beholding eve
ry denomination in the full exercise of their re
ligious privileges, proves that we have in ex
change, an age of Toleration, Liberty and Light.
Yesterday arrived here a Brig from St. Ma
loes, in France, under the French National Flag,
the firit ever difplaved in this port. She had 55
clays palTige, but brings nothing new—The re
port of the opening of the ports, &c. is founded
in error. She brought some dispatches for the
Consul.
Capr. Mercalfe, in his late letters, fays, lie is
fitting out a vefl'el, at Canton, upwards of 1100
tons, for New-York ; to be freighted with the
moil: valuable commodities of that country.
Capt. Prince, of the Mad'achufetts Indiaman,
lias arrived in town from Canton. The Mafla
cliuferts was fold to the lloyal India Company of
Denmark.
Extract oj a letter from n gentleman in London, to
his friend in this town, March 2.
" THE Albion Mill, ac the Surry end of Black
friar's Bridge—the pride, the triumph of mecha
nical ingenuity—a work in which artificial force
had been applied, perhaps, to a greater extent,
p.nd with more energy, precision and utility of
eft'eft, than in any oth'er ftriiefture of the kind
that has been produced in the known world,
# rhis morning fell a facrifice, I fear, to private
malignity, being totally con I limed by fire, in a
bout three hours. This magnificent ftru<fture
cofr 75,000 pounds sterling. I am jult come
from viewing the tremendous fpeclacle—with
what sensations I cannot def'cribe. I have al
ready met with people, whose minds are little
enough to palliate, and even attempt to juftify,
rhis horrid fart ; stigmatizing the Albion Mill
as a monopoly :—To fucli, one can only afFord
to sport * jocular answer—"that in the utmost
fl;i"ena;th of the objection, it was only beiug im
' posed upon, by one set of rogues, instead of a
thousand." But I have a much better (and a
much better founded) opinion of this great un
dertaking ; and of the general equity of that
government which has never discountenanced it.
* This prodigious machine was put in motion by the force of
fleam.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS,
HOUSE Of REPRESENT ATI VES, JUNE I.
Ordered, That Mr. Mason, Mr. Saunders, and
Mr. Henfbaw be a committee to examine wliat
forwardnefs the Accounts of this Commonwealth
again ft the United States are in, and report.
June 2.
The committee appointed to consider the ex
pediency of difcontinning the Excil'e Laws, &c.
reported,—that it would be expedient to pass a
Law repealing all the Excise Laws now exiltino-.
NEW-LONDON, June 9.
A letter from A. O. to T. Allen, received by
the Newport mail tliis evening, fays, " Two Ame
rican veliels arrived at Wampoo, near Canton, in
October Hfl-, viz. Brig Elenora, capt. Metcalfe
and schooner Polly, capt. Douglafs, from the
northwefl coast of America. 1 hey have made
very fuccefsfnl voyages. A final] schooner fitted
out by Metcalfe and commanded by his foil,
had likr«ife made a good voyage, but were af
terwards cut off at one of the Sandwich Islands,
and every foul murdered. The fiiip Genera)
\\ afliington, in which 1 am a paflenger, had fliort
of four months pafliige from China to St. Euita
lia, and it is btit ten days iince we left Statia.
S A L E M, June 7.
Capt. r.lofeley, who left l'Orient the 2Jth of
April, and arrived here yesterday, informs, that
perfect order and tranquility appeared to reign
in France—that the people were full of ideas of
liberty, and happy under their present govern
ment.— The account of the death of the celebrat
ed M. Mirabeau spread a general gloom over the
inhabitants of I'Orienr, who wore mourning on
the occasion.
Nii'w-Yoßic, June 10,
DEATH OF t)R. PRICE.
DIED, on Tuesday morning, 18th April, 9
at hishoufe at Newington Green, near ;j
London, the Rev. Dr. PRICE, celebrated as a H
Divine, a Philosopher, and a Politician. The |
friends of civil liberty, and the people of 1
these United Stares in particular, have jufljj
cause to deplore the loss of this truly great p
and good man, who has so often and so ably £
employed his pen in their cause.
Philadelphia, June 1-5.
Mr. Hadfield, who lately killed Mr. Sterretr, of
Baltimore, in a duel, is arrived at Niagara, and
claimed protection from his pursuers, from the
Britilli government.
The importation of blubber, oil, whale-fins and
fpermacEeti, into Gi eat-Brirain, from the United
Statei, is prohibited in either Britifli or Ameri
can veflels. .
'"Tlie Ship Four Friends* Capr. Volans, from
adiz, arrived here oil Satuday lafr.
[ In this (hip came paflengeis, His Excellency
Don Joseph Jaudenes, Commiflioner from liis
Catholic Majeity to the United States of Ameri
ca,jDen Joseph Santayana, Mr. James Leamy,
"Sntl Mr. Joseph Wifenian
It appears by the proceedings of the conven-
tion of the Protestant Episcopal Church at New
ark, New-Jersey, on the 4th inrtant, that a Copy
Right in the Book of Common Prayer, as altered
by the late general Episcopal Convention, had
'oeen claimed by William Hall, as proprietor
under the art of Congvefs. The convention have
remonstrated against this claim, and declare it is
not well founded—that such afl'umed exclusive
privilege is in its operation an imposition 011 the
members of that church: and they accordingly
prcpofe, that the several llate conventions of the
Episcopal Clergy should take rneafures to have
the said book printed reasonably, and expediti
otilly, that a general ftippJ-y of them may be ob
tained.
In a hail floral in Montgomery county, Penn
sylvania, the 24th ulr. very great injury was fof
tained—the crops of grain, and in short every
green thing within its reach were destroyed—
cattle, sheep, hogs and poultry were killed hy the
hail flo nes, some of which were found to weigh
three ounces—many persons es>pofed were very
much wounded ; and it was ohferved that the hor
ses had large fwel lings on their heads and bodies,
occasioned by strokes from the hail.
A writer in Mr. Dunlap's paper, noticing the'
account of the Caterpillars in Elizabeth-Town,
Maryland, fays—" That the finellof gunpowder
will entirely destroy these infects. Make a rnn
of powder near or round the spot, or place at
some diltance fniall heaps of powder, wlien the
dew lays upon the plant, burn it and the fmoak
will kill them. If they should be in cabbage or
other vegetables, fire a gun between the rows ;
it will have the fame effect. This method is fuc
cefsfully pracftifed in Holland, and has always,
answered the purpose."
By the latest European arrival, the reasons of
the Empress of Ruflia for declining the mediato
rial offices of the allied powers are received in a
memorial sent by the Danish Ambafl'ador to the
Courts of London, Berlin, and the Hague.
After faying that Denmark had fulfilled its en
gagements in attempting to bring about a peace,
the memorial states the reasons afligned by the
Empress, the substance of which is, " That her
Imperial Majetty will neither dispute upon terms
nor abltratt ideas, but (he appeals to the hearts
of those Sovereigns of whole friendiliip she isde
firons, whether there can exilt a more equitable
jlatu quo than that which she proposes, of restor
ing a number of entire provinces, only to retain
one single place, and an uncultivated dirtrict, for
the sole purpose of procuring to herfelf a more
secure frontier ; and if ever a power, constantly
victorious, had given such strong and decided
proofs of perfect moderation. She has yet very
important considerations to infill on : she wiflies
not to be confounded with those ambitious Sove-
reigns, whole threatning progress ought to be
flopped: she is desirous of retaining but one part,
which is only tifeful to her, as tending to her fe
cntity, and which is but an imperceptible point,
when compared with her Empire or that of the
Turks : she does not threaten the Turks with de-
Itruftion : she restores to them almost every thing
fhe restores to them what they are neither able
to defend, nor to preserve."
55
Her Imperial Majesty lastly fays, " That she
is persuaded that fhefhall find those Courts whom
she considers as her friends, as much disposed to
moderation as (he is herfelf. That it is the only
rivalfhip to which her heart will open ; it will
be inaccessible to that of force and power."
By the latest British accounts it appears thar.
the profpetfl of war with'Ruffia was almolt at an
end. Mr. Pitt and the King of Prussia it is laid
are willing to accede to the propositions of the
Eniprefs, communicated by the Daniih Anibaf
fador.
Recent accounts from the French Weft; Indies
info rm, that peace and tranquility are return
ing, and the profped: of a good crop is very flat
tering.
By a late London paper we learn, that the
Whig Club of England has exprefled its disappro
bation of a war with Russia, in the molt pointed
terms, as a bodv.
Accounts from France, several days subsequent
to the death of M. Mirabeau, inform, that the Na"
tional Aflenibly were drawing near to a cf&fe of
their labours in compleating theconftitution.—
The aftonifliing abilities of M. Mirabeau had been
exerted to great effed:. The Eriglifh paragraph
ifts represent him as the main prop of the revo
lution ; but it may justly be queried, whether
an extensive confidence was placed in him either
by the aflenibly or the nation, when it was well
known, and the event has shewn it, that if the
existence and establishment of the revolution had
depended on his abilities, they would have been
risked on the consequences of a debauch.
A terrible fever was raging in the county of
Wexford, Ireland, the beginning of April last—
and from some circumstances attending the rife
and progress of the disorder, it was greatly fear
ed to be the plague. Four and five persons were
laying dead at one time in a house. The next
arrival from that kingdom, will probably bring
further particulars.
By the latest arrivals from Europe, it appears
that the foreign markets for wheat and flour are
extremely dull, and will very probably continue
so. An extra duty is laid on the exportation of
foreign flour from Spain to their Weft-India
islands—and there is a corn-bill before the British
House of Commons, which has an unfavorable
afped\ This bill has been carried in committee,
by which the average price of wheat for regu
lating the importation, is to be 525. per quarter,
instead of 48s. as usual—and what is worse, any
wheat arriving in any port of Great-Britain when
the ports are shut, is not to be landed at all.
LIBERALITY
At the annual Artillery Election dinner in Bos
ton, the 6th inft.—the Blefling was asked by the
Rev. Dr. P .rkhr, an Episcopalian, and Thanks
returned by the Right Rev. Bilhop Carroll, a
Roman Catholick.
APPOINTMENTS.
William Bradford, jun. Esq. having re
signed the commiflion which he held under the
authority of the late Supreme Executive Council,
the Governor has re-appointed hiin Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth.
Edward Burd, Esq. has, in like manner, been
ie-appointed Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
If Pennsylvania.
ARRIVALS at the PoRT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Conception, Stephens, Bilbos,
Brig Columbus, Silrnan, Malaga,
Mary, Moll, Barbadoes,
Minerva, Morgan, Jamaica via Port-au-Prince,
Securities as in our lajl,
ADVERTISEMENT.
$3T SUBSCRIBERS in the city are this day furnifhed with*
TITLE PAGE arid INDEX to the Second Volume of this GAZETTE,
which began April i 4, i 7po , and ended Aprils, 1791 .—The firflfix
month's papers were published in New-York—the lajl in this city. Sub
u \ T * commenced in November or December, and have preserved
c ina y !""* yolume compleated, by applying to the Editor.
Subscribers at a difiance who propose binding their papers, will be fup
phed with the Index by the persons of whom they receive the Gazette.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings>
By CAREY, STEWART, ir Co.
No. 22, North Front-Street,
treatise
ON THE IMPORTANCE OF
RELIGIOUS opinions:
BY M. NECKER.
Extra&s from the Monthly Review, vol. 78, 598.
L)r /'importance des opinions rcligicufcs. By M. Nec'kf.r.
TTHE offering here made at the fhrme of religion, by a man of
X business, a man of true political wisdom, and a man of the
world, in the city of Paris, is a curious phenomenon. —It is alio a
noble one—and gives M. Necker, who has been Jong eftcemcd for
his great capacity, literary merit, and eminent virtues, a new and
djiingwjhed title to the veneration of the public. It has been this vir
tuous man's destiny to arrive at eminence in every line that he ha*
purlued, from the counting house to the thmfhold of the cabinet,
And it is impoflible, if we lead the woik before us with candour
and attention, not to fee that both his head and his heart make a
djltrtguijhed and aftfling appearance in the cause of religion.
Vol. 80, page 370.
We rejoice to fee this excellent work naturalized here—and in
ought to be tranflatcd into every European language." (4ijA CARD
Joseph Wheaton
T)RESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
X Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public —wifticsthey may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the best chosen
SPRING- GOODS,
By the Picou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORK, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose ot (at wholcfale or retail)
on To low terms as mull make it an objett to cujlomcrs. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with pun6luality and dispatch,
and the time of payment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
» Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 17Q1-
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, onc-halj per cent. ; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving intereil at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United Stares, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with pvn&uality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extenfivc
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD &c BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
ADVERTISEMENT
r I "'HE Subscriber, who fcrved a regular apprenticcfhip to the
X bufincfs of VENDUE-M ASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, (ituated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all thofc that may be pleased to favor him with their com-
mands.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
r "I~ 1 HE Legislature of the State of Connecticut, at their session in
X December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the subscribers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trull, present the public with the
following
S C ]
i Prize of
1
i
2
4
5
13
3®
45
50
61
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks^
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subject to a dedu&ion of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident K> re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
but by realpn of the flats, this wharf is neccfTarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when compleat
e.J, will be the mod extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3~4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all classes of people, for
the success of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publiftied in
Amcriea) induce the managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy laic. ,
The drawing will positively commcnce at the State-Honfe, in
New-Haver, 011 the 13th ot September next, or sooner, if the
tickcts arc fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers •, ill be publithed, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
Dine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the use ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rice, MichauTodb,
Jeremiah Atwatir, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howell.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791.
gTT TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Messrs. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner ol
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets uur
cliafed of them in said Lottery,
Tickets in the Mafiachuictts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
g3T Blmk Powers to receive the Interest, tnd for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflablijhei in the Trea-
Jury Department: Also Blanks for abflraOs of Certificates, to le hid by
the Editor. J J
JOHN H. HALI.
(» C P 7 W )
H E M E.
io,o<?o Dollars, is
gooo 5000
4000 • 4000
2GOO are 4000
4000
2500
2400
3000
2250
2000
1830
2000
1000
5 00
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Strest, Nc. 66,
BUYS and SKI.LS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DER I OF
THEUNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIA'IE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
(or making SUBSCRIPTION'S to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.'
Phihdelfhia, March 30, 1791
TO THK PUBLIC.
ON T the fourteenth of January last the subscriber presented a
memorial to Congress, bating his intention to publish a
complete and correct octavo edition of the Laws, Resolutions, and
Treaties of the United States, and praying that such measures
might be adopted as would give authenticity to fa id edition.
The memorial was read in tile House of Representatives, and re
ferred to the Secretary of State. On the seventh of February that
officer, after mapuredcliberation made the following report : —
" The Secreiary of State, to whom was referred the memorial
of Andrew Brown, printer, of Philadelphia, has had the fame un
der his confidcration, and thereupon makes the following
Retort,
The Memorialist states that he has in contemplation to publilh
a corredl edition of the Laws, Treaties, and Resolutions of the
United States, and prays, that such mealures may be adopted for
giving a public authentication to his woik, as may ensure its re
ception throughout the United Stales.
The Secretary of State observes, that there exists, at present, but
a single edition of the laws of the United States, to wit, the one
printed by Childs and Swaine; that this edition is authentic, the
proof-lhee'ts thereof having been carefully collated by fwovn
clerks, with the original rolls in his office, and rendered literally
conformable therewith. That the firft volume of this edition ran
now rarely be found, the copies originally printed being mofHy
disposed of.
That it is desirable that copies of the laws fhou'.d be so multi
plied throughout the states, and in such cheap forms, as that every
oiti/en of the United States may be able to procure them. That
it is important also, that such publications be rendered authentic,
by a collation of the proof-fhrets with the original rolls, by sworn
clerks, when they are printed at the feat of government, or in its
neighbourhood, and by a collation of the whole work when print
ed a* a distance, and a certified correction of its typogrophical er
rors annexed to each volume.
septs)
That this, however, if done at the public expense, would occa
sion an inconvenient augmentation of the number of clerks, as the
ast of collation requires the presence of three clerks, one'to hold
theVoll, a second a printed copy [already authenticated, and the
third the proof sheet.
That it would be more reasonable that persons of confidence
fliould be employed, at the expence of the Editor, to be named
and sworn as clerks, for the special occasion.
That, in this way. he is 01 opinion that it will be advantageous
to the public 10 permitthat the Laws, to be printed by the Memo
rialist, be collated with, and corre&ed by, the original rolls, and
that a certificate thereof, by the Secretary of State, be annexed to
the Edition.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
February 5, 1789."
In confcquencc of this report, Congress have adopted the fol
lowing resolve—
" RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Represent a-
TiVESofthe United States of America in Congress alfembled,
That Andrew Brown, or any other printer, be permuted, under
the dire£Hon of the Secretary of State, to collate with, and corrett
by, the original rolls, the Law., Resolutions and Treaties of the
United States, to be by him punted. And that a certificate of
their having been so collated and corrcfted be annexed to the said
Edition. Provided, That such collation and correction be at the
expense of the said Andrew Brown, or such other printer, and
that the person or persons to be by him or them employed in that
service, be approved by the Secretary of State.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfeof Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prrfident of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, February the eighteenth, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
Dcpofited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of
State
10.000
As this Edition of the statutes of the united states is
to be printed at the feat of government, and with the approbation
of Congress, and as the proof-fheets shall be collated with the
original rolls and records, by sworn cleiks, in the office of the
Secretary of State, there can be no doubt but it will meet with a
candid and universal reception.
1400
43> 12 °
Confiding particularly in the patronage of the citizens of the
United States, whose interests are mod materially connected with
a due execution of this work, the editor submits to their confider
alion the following
87500
TERMS of SUBSCRIPTION
id. The -work shall be printed with a newtypeon good paper.
2d. The acts of the different feflions of each Congress (the du
ration of which is limitted, by the Constitution, to theterm of
two years) shall be comprised in one volume,oftavo,and delivered
to the fubfciibers in boards.
3d. The volume, from the commencement of the firft, to the
conclusion of the present feflion, shall be printed with the utmofl
expedition ; and every other volume shall be ready to be deliver
ed at Philadelphia in a few days alter the close of the last session
of eveiv future Congress or the work (hall be delivered in num
bers at the close of each feflion (at the option of the fubferibers)
the acts of each session making a number.
4th. The firft volume shall contain such a£ts of the Congress,
under the Confederation, as may be thought mod important to
be generally known in the admmiftration of the present govern
ment, together with the acts of the firft, second, and third sessions
of the present Congress, and the treaties which have been entered
into with foreign nations, and with the Indian tribes.
The firft volume, it is supposed., will contain five hundred and
fifty pages ; in this cafe the price will be one dollar and two
thirds : should the number of pages be more or less, the price will
be lncreafed or diminished in proportion.
sth. A Complete index shall be annexed to eachvolume
I hose who may incline to patronize this highly neceflary, and
very laborious, as well as cxpenfive undertaking, are requeftcd to
forward their names to any of the following gentlemen, viz.
Mr. Thomas B. Waite, Portland, Massachusetts ; Tames Harn
cr Esq. Portsmouth, N. H. Messrs. Thomas and Andrews,
Boston John Carter, Esq. Providence, Jacob Richardson
Efq Newport, R. I. Messrs. Hudson and Goodwin, liart
ford ; Mr. Isaac Beers, New-Haven; David Russell Efn
Bennington, Vermont ; Mr. Robett Hodge, New-York ■
Mr. Isaac Collins Trenton ; Meff.s. Craigand Co. Wilming
ton, Delaware ; Messrs. Goddard and Anjell, Baltimore-
Auguftme Davis, Efq, Richmond ; L. Standing, Esq. Eden
!?"' N -p- Mr. w - p - Young, Charleston, S. C. Alexander
Watt, Esq. Savannah ; Messrs. Alexander and James Parker
merchants, Lexington, Kentucky, Or to '
ANDREW BROWN
the publilhei-, in the city of Philadelphia. '
Philad. 22d Feb. 1791. e
56
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State."
PRICE CURRLXT. PHILADELPHIA.
ANCHORS pr. lb. ojc/
Allum, Enqlifti, pr. cwt. 33 s
Ditto, Roch pr. lb
Afhcs, pot, per ton,
— reari, tj'
Arrack pr. gall. ICJ 12s 6d
Brandy, common, 8i
( 9 6 tf)
Cogniac
Braziletto, pr. ton.
Bricks pr. M
Bread, (hip pr. cwt,
Ditto, pilot
Ditto, small water 4os 455
Beer, American, in hot. / e>r
pr. AO7. J 8/4
pr. bbl. 3 0s
cn f Oak pr.M feet, 4/ 4/5J
0 | Merch. pine 95*
Sap, do. 2t f
| N.£ng. ft/ioj
0 i.Cedar 55 i6 5S
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard, pi ices add 15/ pr M.
Brimstone iti rolls pr. cwt. 27/
u* flrifh pr. bbl.
gj < Boston 55 1
C 5 ( Country 45s
Butter pr. lb. 14A
in kegs gd
Cedar,redtimber pr.foot 2s2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb.
pr. bushel
pr. Ib.
Coal
Coffee
Cinnamon
CaflTia
Cheese, Englifli 1J 3d
Country 6d 7£d
f Sper. pr. lb. 3*&/
3 I Wax ss
Myrtle Wax 12d
j Mould,tallow io£d
CJ lD'PP e< * 92^
Cotton
Currants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt,
Cordage
Cocoa
Duck, Rulia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 67*72 i 6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 38J
Common, 3,5 s"
Bur middlings,beft: 32J 6d
Middlings 251
Ship-ltuft pr. cwt. 9s6d 11 s
Flax pr. lb. 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135* 150/
Feathers pr. lb. 3s
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 5J 6d
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ joj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 52 s 6d
Ditto, common
Ditto, ground pr. lb.
Ginseng,
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter caik, $ 3 os
Ditto, fine glazed 35J 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafc, 33J
f Wheat pr. bufli yj gd
I R y e 5 s
I Oats is^dzs6d
<( Indian corn zs\od
I Barley 4s gd
| Best shelled pr. lb. 3d
(_Buckwheat 2 s
Hemp, pr.ton, #jo/ 56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr.bb). ißj 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. 10^
Hops ?s
Indigo, French,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f Castings 28s
£ | Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
2 p, s io/
| Sheet 65/
| Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. ioj 40
Lard, hogs c,d 101
Lead in pigs 40 s 42s 6d
in bars 54J
Lead, white 755 Boj
-red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. u is6d
Lignum vitas pr. ton 42s 45J
Logwood 7/ 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. iys
Rye a 5 s
Mackarel,beft 63J
Common 30s 58.1 6d
Mace pr. lb. -jos
Mustard 2j
Madder, heft i <ji ißi
Molasses pr. gall,
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 14*
Ma ft spars 2.1 61i
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7^ r
Nails, 1 odizdSc 20d— Sd S'^dyd
"Linfeec!, pr. gall.
Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 3,1 -jd
j Whale is 10d <?.s
g <j Olive 6j 6d
I Ditto pr. cafe 36^
I Bettfweetin >
I flalks.pr. box, \ 6os
l_—balkets J2 bottles 281
Oak timber pr. ton 401
Porter pr. bl. 45 s
London, pr.doz.i2j6i Iss
WHEREAS by the death of John G ebb i e, the Partnership
of GEBBIE and ELLIS is dissolved. The subscriber,
surviving co-partner and admtniftrator of said deceased, requests
all persons who have anv demands against their late firm, to.fend
forward their accounts for settlement as soon as convenient; and
all those who are indebted to said firm, by bond, note, or book
account, are eameftly requested to difciiarge the fame without
de,a y- . CHARLES ELLIS.
Burlington, June 7, 1791. (ep 2w)
r£ R QUANTITY
JUNE 15. —Dollars at 7/6.
Porter, American pr. c )■/. 1 -
Pitch, p r . bb!. 2 5/
Pork, Burlington, 77>6J.
Lower county
Carolina 6 Cf
Pt*a«, Albany "j6/
Pepper, pr. lb. ? s 6<l
Pimento lf d
Rice pr. cwt. 22j(>
Rosin pr. bbl. .20^
Raisins, best, pr. keg SKt'd
Ditto pr. jar , VJJ
Ditto pr. box
f Jamaica pr. gall. g f
_ I Antigua ssCd
g j Windward c . [
<! Barbadocs 4 , bi
j Country, N.E. 3^
c „V affia «6i
Sa.lifras pr. ton 45 j 60.
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 4 /, of
Sulphur, flour 4cr 4l!
Sllot 5V
j ( German pr.cwt. 65570/
~j ;Englifh, bliftcrcd Boj
t_ American pr. ton 40/45*
« Crowley's pr. fag. 82ihi
Snake root pr. lb. u6i 2sBJ
Soap, Common cj
• • Brown ' 6 j
Castile ICl jl
Starch 6 j
10 d
35'
16/
25J to 28s
i6r
32 s6
25
1 j 2 d
Snuff ,s(>i ssGd
Spermaceti, refiner), ~
Sail Cloth, Englilh, > ~
pr. yard,
Boston, No. I. 2s 3,/
• No. 11. Mi'/d
Ruflia Sheeting. pr. p. gos
f -Lump, pr. lb. 3
oi ■ Loaf, single refined u6i
<r * Ditto, double do. lsiofyl
k, 1 Havannah, white nrf
00 J Ditto, brown, c\i
L Mufc6vada,pr.cwt. 75/901
Spirits Turpentine pr. gal).
f Allum pr. buih. 2s 2d
_3 25 td
) Cadiz is iod
(i ifhon 2S 2d
Ship build. W.O. frames ) 7os
p. ton, $ Boj
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/51
Shingles, ftiort, p. M. 22s 6d
ißj 20s
1 s 9 d
I*6 2S
lAS
60s Y)2s6d
6256 d 6-js6d
-long drefled 30s
Scantling, heart, 90J150J
— Sjp 6 o S 55 J
r P:pe pr. 1200 picccs 12/
£3 SW- O. hoglhcad 7/ 5;
> J R. O. do. 6/ ioj
< | Lcogan 61
J Barrel 4/ ioj
Heading
9 d
2s 2d
Otter, bed pr. piece gor
Minks u6a
Fox, grey nc
~" d V&iJ
►7 Martins 34?} •»
r; <1 Fifhcrs zs6d &
£ Bears 12s 6d 25s
Racoons 2J 4*
Mu(k-rats u 8/
! Beaver, pr. lb. 7J6 11J3
Deer, in hair is6d?syi
1 ar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 'jfS
■ Carolina, 32 gall. 9 s 3d
Turpentine i?.s6d isf
. James R. new belt 28*
interior 231
o —old 37J
Rappahannock 22s 6d
Q J Colo. Maryland 40s 60s
y Dark p.os
< Long-leaf zcs
w Eaftcrn-fhore 15J i6j
£ ' Carolina, new 22s 6d
L old 22s Gd 25J
( Hyson pr. lb. jsßigd
in 1 Hyson fk.in, 4s 4s 6d
< Souchong, iS'Sdjs
H I Congo, 3J oj 9,/
LBohea, gj
Tallow, refincS
Tin pr. box, icoj
Veidigreafe pr. lb. 3s 6d 41
Vermillion, icx
Varnish, 2 s 6d
* Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon 37/
Teneriffe 20/10J 301
w Fayal pr. gall. 31
J Port pr. pipe 36/43/
£ Ditto pr. gall. 7*
K * Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 305
Claret a^s
! Sherry pr. gall. 6sgd qs
Malaga 55 6s6d
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2s
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2.13 d
(hort, pr. lb.
3' 7s
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 69 70
Ditto 60 days 71 71J
Ditto 30 days
Axnftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 11 d &
30 days 3-f
France, 60 days,pr. ( 5 liv. 6s
30 days 6s id
ADVERTISEMENT
f