nftS
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FFNNO. *•-. 69, HL,H STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 89, of Vol. ll.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FRIDAY, Feb. 4.
I'he BANK BILL under conjideration.
MR. SEDGWICK said lie would cndeavournot
to fatigue the patience of the house 111 the
observations he fliould make on the important
fubjeJt now under consideration. Without en
tering into the difcuflion on a scale so extensive
as had been indulged by some gentlemen—he
•would dwell only on a few important principles,
and fucb confeqtiences as were conclufiytly de
ducible from thein, which had made a ltrongiin
preilion on his own mind. The opposition to the
bill had called in queltion theconftituLional pow
ers of Congress, to eitablifh the proposed corpor
ation, and the utility of Banks, neither of which
till within a few days, did hefuppofe was doubt
ed by any intelligent man in America ; and had
charged the present system with holding out un
equal terms against the government tothofewho
should subscribe to the proposed flock.
With regard to the question of constitutionali
ty much had been said, which in his opinion, had
not an intimate relation to the fubjetft nosv before
the house. "We have with great earnestness
been warned of the dai ger of grasping power,
by conftruc f tion and implication ; and this warn
ing has been given, in very animated language,
by the gentleman from Virginia, (Mr. M.) Ido
not wilh to deprive that member of the honor of
consistency ; but I well remeinber_the-time. when
the energy of his reaC.nnrg. imprefied 011 the
miirds of a majority of this house, a cpnvitftion,
that the power of removal from offices, liolden
at will, was by conftrutfiion and implication, veil
ed, by the .constitution, in the President—so
there could be no pretence that it was expressly
granted to him."
He said he would only observe in answer to
every thing which had been said of the danger
of extending conftrudUon and implication, That
the whole business of legislation, was a practical
conftruc r tion of the powers ofthe legislature ; and
that probably no instrument, for the delegation
of power, could be drawn with such p. ecilion and
accuracy, as to leave nothing to neccjfary implica
tion. That all the different legiflacures in the
United States had, and this in his opinion indis
pensably mult, conltrue the powers which had
been granted to them, and they mult aflume such
auxiliary powers, as are neceflarily implied in
those which are expressly granted. In doing
which,it was 110 doubt their duty, to be careful
not to exceed those limits within which it was in
tended they should be reftridied. By any other
limitation, said he, the government would be f>;
{hackled, that it would be incapable of operating
any ofthe effects which were intended by itsin
ftiturion,
He übferved, that on almost all the great and
important measures which come under the deli
beration of Cotigrefs, there were immense dilTi
cnlties to be surmounted. "If we attempt,"
said he, " to proceed in one direction, our ears
are allailed v\iih the exclamation of the confiitution
is in danger ; if we attempt to attain our objects,
by pursuing a different course, we are told the
pals is guarded by the /tern spirit of democracy.—
Did I concur with gentlemen in opinion on this
subjeCt, Ifnould think it my duty to go home to
my constituents, and honestly declare to them,
that by their jealouly of power, they had so res
trained the operations of ihe government, that
we have not the means of effecting any of the
great purposes for which the onftitution was de
ftgned—without attempting, what perhaps would
be found impracticable, to fix by general rules,
the nice point within which Congress would be
authorised to assume powers by con ft ru eft ion and
implication, and beyond which they may be justly
considered as usurpers."
He wished gentlemen to reflecfi, what effect a
lingle principle, universally acknowledged, would
have, in determining tlie question now under
consideration. It is universally agreed, That
■whtrs'jer a power is delegated, for express purposes,
Saturday. March 5, 1791.
ill the known and ttfua mjaus for the attainment oj
he obj.-lls exprcjfcd, are conceded also. 1 hat to de
-ide what influence (bis acknowledged principle
would have, on the fukjetfl before the house, it
would be neceilary to i eflect on tile powers with
which Cotigrefs are 'tprsfsly invelted. Pie then
epeited that Coiigrefs was authorised, to lay and
collect taxes, to borrow money on the credit of
lie United Stares, to raif? ■ and support armies,
provide and maintain navies, to regulate foreign
and domestic trade, and to make all laws neceilary
:nd proper to carry these and the other cnume
ated powers into effect ; they were, in fine, en
t: ufted with the exercise of all those powers,
>vhich the people of America thought neceilary,
.o secure their fame and happiness, against the
attacks of internal violence, and external inva
lion, and in the exercise of those powers the le
j;i/lature was authorised, agreeably to the princi
ple which he had mentioned, to employ all the
ki/ovj/i and usual means, nectjfary and preptr> toes
fectuatethe ends which are exprefled. I: might
be of life to determine with arecifion, what was
the meaning of the words nectary and proper : —
They do not reftrid: the powrrofthe legislature,
to enacting such laws only, as are indifpenfible :
Such a confirmation would bf infinitely too nar
row and limned—and to apply the meaning ftritfl
ly, it would prove, perhaps that all the laws,
which had been palled, wer? unconltirurional ;
for few, if any of them, could be proved indif
penfible to the exirtenceof tJiegovermnent. The
conduct of Congress had a con It ruction on those
words more rational, and consistent with common
sense, and the purposes for which the government
was instituted ; which he conceived to be, that
the laws should be eftablifherl on such principles
and such an agency, in the known and usual
means, employed in the execution of them, as to
effecft the ends expreflediti the confHtution, with
the great eft poflible degree of public utility. If
Banßs were among the known and usual means,
to efFec'luare or facilitate the-»«<4»-Thictr had been
uiemiomnl—to enable the government with the
greatest ease, and least burden to the people, to
collect taxes, borrow money, regulate commerce,
raise and fu]>port armies, provide and maintain
fleets, he thought the argument irref agable and
conclusive to prove the conllitution lity of the
bill. Pursuing farther the fame idea, he alked,
for what purposes were Banksindituted and pa
tronized by governments, which were unreitri&-
ed by conltitutional limitations ? Were they not
employed as the means, and the mod ufeful en
gines to facilitate the collection of taxes, borrow
ing money, anAthe other enumerated powers ?
Besides, he was to be observed, that the
con dilution expressly declared the ends of
legislation ; but in almolt eveiy inttance had left
ihe means to the honest and lober discretion of
the legislature. From the nature of things this
must everbe the cafe ; for otherwise, the conlti
rution mult contain, not only all the necefl'ary
laws under the exiltingcircumftatices of the com
munity, but also a code so extensive, as to adapt
itfelf to all future pofli'ule contingencies. By our
conllitution, Congress has power to lay and coiled
taxes, but every thing subordinate to that end,
such as the objei'ts, the means, the instruments,
and the purposes are left to the honest and sober
Jifcretion of the legislature. The power of bor
rowing money was expressly granted ; hut all
he known andufual means totharend were lefi
in silence. The fame observations might with
truth be made refpecfiing the other delegated
powers. The great ends to be obtained, as means
ro effectuate the ultimate end—the public good,
and general welfare, are capable, under general
erms, of conltitutional fpecification ; but the
subordinate means are so numerous, and capable
of such infinite variation, as to render an enume
ration impracticable, and innft t here fore be left to
c nflrufiicn, and ncc Jjary implication. He said 01
.his ground he was willing to Jeave the general
argument —it was simple—intelligible, and he
hoped would be thought conclusive.
He said the conftirutionalitv hud been attack
ed from another quarter. It was said we could
not give commercial advantages to one port above
another. Theconftitutional provision which had
been quoted, was undoubtedly intended to pre
vent a partial regulation of commerce ; if ex
tended to the cafe under confederation, it would
much more ftro:i«ly prove, that Congrefi ough
not to reside in any commercial ciiy ; sot he verily
believed, that the commercial advantages of Phi
ladelphia were incomparably greater, from the
769-
ttft&o
[Whole No. 195.]
i-efidence, than they could befuppofed from the
initiation of a National Bank. Indeed, it was
his opinion, that considering that this city had a
Bank, the capital of which was adequate to all
her commercial exigencies, that Ihe could enlarge
that capital as her necetfity Ihould require, and
that her Bank will, if this bill Ihall be rejeifted,
receive the benefit of national operations, that
the measure will not advance her individual in-
tereft
With regard to the utility of Banks, he obser
ved, that he would not attempt todifplaya know
ledge of the fubjeft, by repeating all lie had read
and heard in relation to it, nor fatigue the house
by a detail of his own reflections and reasoning
upon it ; the causes were unnCcedary to be ex
plained— the effetfis had been such, in all coun
tries where Banks had been instituted, as to pro
duce an unanimous opinion, that ihey were alike
ufeful for all the great purposes of government,
and to promote the general liappinelS ofihe peo*
pie. Nor was our own experience wanting to the
fame purpose. .At a time when our public re
sources were almost annihilated, our credit pros
trate, our government imbecile, and its patron
age inconsiderable, a Bank, of small capital, was
among the most operative causes, which produ
ced that firft dawn that ultimately terminated in
meridian splendor, by the ellabliftiment of peace,
independence and freedom. There were two
ciicumftances which he would take theliberty to
mention, which would render Banks of more
importance in this country, than in any where
they are at prefent'in use. The firft, the com
mercial enterprise of our merchants compared
with the (niallnefs of their capitals, which, as we
had no large manufacturing capitals, 1 whereby
the precious metals would be retained in circu
lation, would ft equently, by their exportation,
greatly dillrefs the people; the other originated
from a measure of the government—Congress,
from a laudable intention of accommodating
their condiments, instituted treafories in all the
Stares : In some ofthefe there would be, in the
ordinary course of events, a deficiency, and in
others a redundency. To keep them in equiii
brio by the transportation of the pi ecious metals,
or by the purchase of bills in the market, would
be not only inconvenient andexpenfive, but would
keep out of circulation a confiuerable part of the
medium of the country.
Gentlemen, he said, had been pleased to consi
der the proposed terms as giving an undue ad
vantage to the Hock-holders. He would leave this
part of the fubjecft to gentlemen who better un
derltood it—only observing, that as government
tnuftrely principally on merchants to obtain the
proposed stock, ir would be neceflary to afford to
thein fufficient motives to withdraw from their
commercial put suits, a part of their capitals.
He said he would attempt an answer to some
of those desultory objections which had been
made—and in doing this, he would omit to ans
wer such as had been in his opinion already refu
ted. He observed, that it had been said, that
granting charters of incorporation was a high,
pterogative ofgovernment. He supposed it was
not intended that it was, in the nature of things,
too tranfeendant a power to beexercifed by a na
tional government ; but that the exercile of it
(hould only be in consequence of express delegal
- Let this objection be compared with the
conduc't of Congress on another fubjetft, in all
i efpetfts at lead as important. There is not by
the constitution any power expressly delegated
to mortgage our revenues, and yet without any
qi eftion being made on the constitutionality of
the measure, we have mortgaged them to an im
mense amount—From whence he asked, do we
acquire the authority to exercise this power ?—
Not from express grants, but being empowered
to borrow money on the credit of the United
Mates. We have very properly considered the ,
pledging funds as among the known and vfual
means, nectary and piopcr to be em ployed for the
attainment of the end expressly delegated.
It had been said, that the bill auhorifed the
(lock-holders to purcliafe real estate. He consi
dered the provision in the bill in that regard,,
not a grant, but a limitation of power. Any man
or body of men, might, by theexifling laws, pur
diafe, in their private capacities, real eltaie to
nny amount. Tiiis 1 ight was limited asitief
pected the proposed corporation.
It is said there are banks already, and therefore
the proposed ii.corporation is unneceflary. To
this he anfwercd, that if the government fliouldagree to receive all its demands in the paper of
the existing banks, it would give to them every
advantage, which in the opinion of gentlemen,
renders the present fyltein objectionable, without
itipulai ing for any equivalent to t he gov e nun en t.
But are, he alked, gentlemen serious in theleob
fervations ! Do thby believe the capitals of the
present banks adequate to the exigencies of the
nation ? Do they believe that those banks pofiefs
any powers by which they can give a projeiftile
force to their paper, so as to extend its circulation
throughout the United States ? Or do they real
ly wish to have the government repose itfelf on
infiitutions, with which they have no intimate
connection, and over which they have no control ?
. Mr. Sedgwick concluded by observing, he was
■very confident a majority of that house could ne
ver be induced to believe that it was the inten
tion of the constitution to deprive the legislature
of one oftheinoft important and necefl'ary means
of executing the posveis expressly delegated.
WEDNESDA Y, March 2
A tneflage from the Senate, b_v Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the houfe,'that they have resolv
ed to postpone, to the next feflion of Congress,
the consideration of the land-office bill *; and,
that they had pafled, with amendments, the bill
relative to the rix dollar of Denmark.
The house having taken the said amendments
into confidpration, concurred therein.
Pafled the bill for niakingcompenfaiibn to the
widows and orphan-children of certain officers,
who were killed, or who died in the service of
tjae Uniceil States, during the late war, and for
rae relief of certain invalids, and other persons
therein mentioned. '
Mr. Floyd, from the committee on enrolled
bills, presented, and the Speaker signed, an art
supplemental to the a<ft establishing the Treasury
Department, and for a further compensation to
certain officers ; and an aiftto amend the adt for
establishing the temporary and permanent feat
of the government of the United States.
Mr. Burl<e, reported a bill, for the relief of
David Cooke, which was read a firft time.
In committee of the whole (Mr. Livermore in
the chair) on the bill fupplen\gntal to the ad:
establishing the salaries of the executive officers
of government, with their afiiftants and clerks ;
the fame was reported without amendment, and
ordered to be engrofled for a third reading. Be
ing brought in engrofled, it was read a third
tin\e, and pafled.
In committee of the whole (Mr. Boudinot in
the chair) on the till making further provision
for the collection of the duties by law imposed
on teas-, the fame was reported without amend
ment. The bill being then taken up in the house,
was amended by theaddition of a clause refpetft
ing the duties on wines. It was then, recommit
ted to a committtee of the whole house. The
committee having further amended the bill, and
the amendments being adopted by the house, it
was ordered to be engrofled for a third reading.
A message was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear,
informing the lioufe, that the President of the
United States had this day approved and signed.
An a(ft giving effevfl to the laws of the United
States, within the state of Vermont.
An a<ft to explain the adl making further pro
vision for the payment of the debts of the United
States :—
An adlfupplementary to the a<st,incorporating the
fublcribeis to the Bank of the United States ; —and
An ad: fixing the time of the nexc annual meet
ing of Congress
In committee of the whole [Mr. Boudinot in
he chair] on the bill concerning consuls and vice
confuls ; the bill was reported with sundry amend
ment. The. house having agreed to the report
of the committee, and further amended the bill,
.it was read a third time and pafled.
Sundry reports from the Secretary of theTrea
fury, on petitions referred to him, were read,
«nd laid on the table.
The house then proceeded to consider the a
mendnients of the committee, to the bill for grant
ing lands to the inhabitants and settlers at Vin
• cennes, in the Illinois country, ill the territory
N. W. of the Ohio ; and having adopted the
fame, the bill was palled.
A mefTage being received from Senate,
which required secrecy, the gallery was ordered
to be cleared.
The amendments, proposed to the bill concern
ing consuls and vice-consuls, having been com
municared to the Senate, and by tliem disagreed
, to,*the house, (after the opening of the doors)
took the fame again into cojrflderation ; and the
question for receding bei»J| put and loft, it was
[on motion of Nr. | refoJved, that the
house do insist on their amendments.
An engrofled bill, to grant Gibfon
the sum of one thousand services ren
dered to the United States, was read a third
time, and passed.
An engrossed bill, making furrier provision for
tlie collection of the duties by law iropofed on
* Erroneously stated in a few of our last number to have palled
the Senate with amendments..
teas, and for extending the term of the payment
of the duties on wines, was read a third time and
pafled. . , |
On motion of Mr. Bouilinot, refoiveci, t.iat
Gif Ford Dally be, and he is hereby authorized to
take care of the rooms appropriated for the uie
of the House of Representatives, until the next
meeting of Congress, and also toniake tlie neces
sary provision oi firewood, for tllvnext fefiion.
Adjourned.
THURSDi Y, March 3
Mr. Floyd of the committee of enrolment, reported a bill, ma
king ccrtdin appropriations for the purposes therein mentioned
and a bill relative to the rix (foliar of LKnmaikvasdulyenroiled .
to which the speaker affixed his Ggnaiure.
The petition of Thomas Claxton, assistant door keeper ; was
read the second time —and on motion of Mr. Madifon,the follow
ing resolution was adopted — That certain cxpenccs incurred by the
petitioner in the difchargeot his dnty, not to exceed one hundred
dollars, be included in the Clerk's account of contingent expences
of the present feflion.
The committee on the petition of John Tucker, Clerk of the Su
preme Court, reported, that said petition be deterred to the next
feflion. Report agreed to.
A resolution, received from the Senate, was concurred in, That
the President of the United States be requeftcd to cause to be laid
before Congress, at their next feflion, an estimate of the quantity
and fituatiou of those lands, not claimed by Indians, nor occupied
bv citizens of the United States, in the territory ceded in North-
Carolina, N. W. of the Ohio.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed the
house, that they adhere to their disagreement to the amendments
proposed by the house to the Consul Bill.
A resolution was received from the Senate at fame time, for the
eftabliihment of a Mint, pursuant to law, and authorizing the Pre-
I fident to cause such principal Artists and Apparatus to be engaged,
as rnav be necessary to carry said resolution into effe£l.
The house irjijlcd on their amendmentsto the bill; and concur
red in the above resolution with amendments.
Another message receiver) from the Senate, informed the house
that they have palled the bill making compensation to the Gom
miflionersof Loans for extra services, with an amendment.—
The house after lome debate, non-concurred the amendment.
Another message inforned that the Senate adhere to their
amendment—On which a notion was made in the house to recede,
which was carried in the atirmative.
The bill making further provision for a collection of the duties
on teas, and for prolonging lie term of payment of the duties on
wines; and the bill, with in addition to the ast efta
blifhtng the salaries of the executive officers, their afliftants and
clerks, having patted the Serate, were sent to the house, which
concurred in the amendment.
A message from the President of the United States, by Mr.
Secretary Lear, informed the house that the following acts had
received his approbation and signature, viz.—
An ast repealing, after the last day of June next, the duties
heretolore laid on diflilled spirits imported from abroad, and
laying others in their flead—ind also upon spirits diflilled within
the United States, and for appropriating the fame.—An ast sup
plemental to the ast establishing the Treasury Department—and
an ast re la ive to the rix dollar of Denmark.
Sundry messages from the Senate, informed that they have pas
sed with amendments, the temporary Poft-Office bill—the bill
granting lands to the inhabitants of Vincennes—the bill making
compensations to the officers of the judicial courts, jurors and wit
nesses— the bill fuppleiwentary to the ast making provision for the
reduction of the public debt : also the Sc n*;tc roncm
in fheamendmoits the'refoiution for the establishment of a mm'.
The house concurred" Tn ttre amendment, to the Poll-Office bill
—and to those in the lupplementary bill, for the reduction of the
public debt; to some of the other amendments they disagreed.
A message from the Senate infoimed the house that they have
poflponed till the next feflion of Congiefs ; the bill making com
penlations to the widows and orphan children of certain officers See
and the bill to compensate George Gibfon.
A resolution proposed by Mr. Smith (S; C.) was agreed to—
authorising the marlhals of such diftri&s, as are unprovided with
goals for the detention of prisoners, under the authority of the
United Stales, to provide convenient houses to serve as temporary
goals, till permanent provision is made by law.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, it was voted, that the proposed
amendment to the constitution offered by Mr. Benfon, to be con
lidercd by the next Congre s be ptinted.
A melTage from the Senate, informed the house that they recede
fiomfuchof their amendments to the bill compensations
to the officers of the Federal Courts, See. disagreed to by
the house.
A bill was then originated and passed the usual forms to the
third reading, for carrying into effect the confijar convention
between his most Chriftiari Majefly, and the United States of
America.
Sundry enrolled bills, and the resolutions refpefting a Mint
and unappropriated Lands, were signed by the Speaker.
The house then adjourned till 6 o'clock. P. M.
THURSDAY EVENING,
Passed — the bill tor carrying into efFect the Consular Convention,
A bill to continue the ad: therein mentioned, and to make fur
ther provision for invalid penfi >ners, and for the support of Light-
Houses, See. was read the firft, second, and third time, and passed.
Sundry enrolled bills were signed by the Speaker.
A bill for the relief of David Cook was read the second and third
time, and passed.
A message from the Senate, informed the house, that they concur
in the resolution for the iatekecping of prisoners &c. also that they
ha* r e considered the bill tor carrying into effect the consular con
vention; and the bill for the relief ol David Cook, and resolved
that said bills do not pass to a second reading.
Seven enrolled bills and resolutions were signed by the speaker.
A meffagefrom the Prefidentof the United States, by Mr, Secre
tary Lear, informed the house, that the following acts have re
ceived his approbation and signature viz : An ast makingcompen
!ations to the commiffioniirs o_f loans, fortheir extra services : an
ast in addition to an ast, eftab'lifhing the salaries of the officers of
iheTrcJfury Department, their afiftants md clerks.
An ast to provide compenfationr for the officers of the Judicial
Courts, and for Jurors and Witnefles, and for other purposes.
An ast making further provision for the collection of the duties
on teas, and to prolong the time for the collection of those on
Wines. •
An ast to continue in force an ast, for the temporary cftablilh
mentof the Poft-Office.
An ast, supplementary to the ast, making further provision for
the public debt ; and a rcfolutirjn for the fate-keeping of Prilon
ers, confined under the authority of the United States.
A mclTage from the Senate informed the house, That the Presi
dent had signed the following acts, which originated in the Senate.
/in ,)ft to continue in torce the ast therein mentioned, and to
make further provision for invalid pensioners, and for ihe support
of light houses, &c
An ast, for graining lands to the settlers at Vincennes , in the
Illinois country.
The Secretary then informed the house, that the Senate havine
finilhed the legifiaiive bufincfs before them, arc ready to adC
journ.
770
On motion of Mr. Vxnixc, the following was unaniraoufly
agreed to. ,
Resolved, That the thanks of the House of Representatives of the
United Stares be prefenied to Frederick Augustus Muhlen
berg, in testimony of their approbat'on oi his conduct in the
Chair, and in the execution of the difficult and important trui> #
reposed in him as Speaker ot the said house.
To which, the Speaker made the following reply.
Gentlemen of the House oj Rcprefentativcs,
THIS unexpe&ed mark of your approbation of my conduct
has made so deep an impreflion on my mind, that I cannot find
words to express the high sense of gratitude I entertain on this oc
casion.
I have not vanity fufficient to suppose, that my feeble, tho well
meant endeavors merit so great a reward.; for it wa* your kind
indulgence and support alone, which enabled me to go through
the duties of the station which you were pleased io aflign me ; but
I shall ever conGder this diftinguiihed and honorable testimony as
the most plcaiing circumstance of my life.
Gentlemen, I most fmcerely thank you. May every poflible
happiness attend you, and every individual of this body ; and
may your zealous endeavors to promote the welfare of our beloved
country, which I have so long, and so often been a witness to, be
crowncd with unbounded success.
On motion of Mr. Jackson, the following resolution was una
nimously agreed to That the Speaker communicate to the
Mayor and corporation of the city, and the Commiflioners of the
county of Philadelphia, the thanks of this house for the elegant
and convenient accommodations furniftied by them for theufeof
Congress.
The house then adjourned fine die.
PARIS, Dec. 7.
AMONGST the strongest instances of the fluc
tuation of popular opinion, may be reckon-
Ed the change of sentiment which has taken
place with refpedt to M. de la Fayette. At i
one time the idol of the people, he is now the I
objeift of suspicion with many ; and suspicion iiv
certain situations is nearly equivalent to hatred Jj
Of this the Marquis has experienced a recent
fiance.
He was attacked 011Tuefday 1 jft by 8 men arm
ed when accompanied by only 2 of his guards de 'i
corps.—The latter were fortunately
pistols, by the discharge of which two of the af< '•
failants were wounded. After a short contest,
these, with two others, were taken ; the reftfav
ed themselves by flight.
Aristocratic Finesse Defeated.
The late overflowing of the river* having in
many places in France, retarded the arrival of
the post', the Aridocratic Horde (as they are now
politely called) enjoyed the triumph ofamoment,
by giving out that the National Aflembly was dis
solved ; that Paris was given up to be plunder- ,
ed to the king's troops, and that all the patriots
who refufedlaying down their arms, were butch
ered 011 the spot. The people believed the re
port, -trot yielding to despair, or any
other unbecoming weakriefs, ihcy
repeated their civic oath, " to defend the conlti
tution until death !" In many places in Langue
doc the national cavalry were ready to fly to the
assistance of the capital ; their hangers were
whetted in the presence of the preachers of sla
very, who were given to underltand that, on the
fir ft signal of a counter-revolution, they should
be the vidtiins of national indignation.
The Municipality of Paris went on Thursday
to L'ifle des Cygnees, to fee a mill put in motion
by a fire pump ; it contains twelve mill-stones,
which in twenty-four hours, grind seven hundred
feptiers of corn ; [a feptier is twelve bulhels]
this curious piece of mechanism, will be found
wonderfully ufeful forfaris, as the Seine is fro
zen over every winter.
A new military body is established here, under
the appellation of the federal club ; the protec
tion afforded to it by M. de la Fayette, the service
the soldiers are employed in, beingat the Louvre,
give much food for conversation, and last week '
the whole was denounced at the Jacobins, as
nant with mifchief.
Virtue, modesty, and experience, will now oc
cupy in the French Church, the dignified places,
hitherto, too often usurped by ambition, intrigue,
pride and ignorance ; where the people have a
bishop to name, their choice is worthy of the pri
mitive church. A parilh pried, of Sedan has
been lately eletfled to fill the episcopal chair of
that city ; his elevation is the reward of benefi-
cence, toleration, patriotism, in short every virtue.
National dfiembly, Sunday December §.
PUBLIC TREASURY
M. Pinteville Cernon's statement of the public
trealury afforded the greateil joy to the assembly.
Impoitsare therein represented as much acceler
ated, and indeed fettled. The public coffers full
of bills and specie—last month there was only
three millions, now there are twenty-fix ; and
the value of specie considerably lower.
Monday, Dec. 6,
M. de la Rochefoucault presented his statement
of the fnpplies for the year 1791, and with the
most lively fatisfailion, the allenibly learned that
the anterior contributions exceed now, by a but 1 *
dred and sixty millions, the amount exacfted by
the expences of that year, lince their eftiniate
was only 560 millions. When the reporter,how
ever, stated, thai 300 millions of this were to come
from the landed property, long and loud murinuis
proceeded from a great part of the members.LONDON, Dec. 6.
Westminster Hall, Court of Exchequer
The KING versus TIMSON.
A cafe of considerable importance to merchants
and importers was t on Friday last. The ques
tion [in the words ot the lord chief baron] -'lay
wichir. a nutshell." viz. Whether after a fliip
arrives in port,and has reported her at the
custom houle, the separate articles of goods may
be considered to be legally imported, and whether
until they are landed upon the leg.il quays, the
consignee is liable to pay the cultoms on the
whole.—
Mr. Timfon, in March lad, imported in the
Isabella, from Bourdeaux, a large quantity of
brandy. Jheguagers on board the /hip took an
tffit. Mr. Lorriiner, and Mr. Hallet the
* c lS£?' wore a'particular calk of bran
dy? \|vhawf>utinto the lighter in order to be land- A
tjogsDt£ined 120 gallons—Mr. Taylor, theland- c
proved that at the time of landing,
calk at thequays, it contained on
[«K gallons of brandy, with intent to fettle the
Rous, for the defendant, called two wit-
who proved that the calk was injured in
and had actually loft the quantity of
by leakage. He contended, with great
that goods and merchandize were notle
imported until the adlual landing on the
chief baron divided the question into a
of law. The fact, he observed, was plain,
law he apprehended, 11111 ft be determined
tisbanother jurifdiiftion.
Hjß'lie Jury retired for two ho\irs, and having
SwiKen the fa«sl and the law under their serious
MPonfideration, came into court with a verdict for
Huhe defendant.
Wf Extrafl of a letter from Flanders, Dec. 3.
W " The troubles which have for some timepaft
afflicted these unfortunate provinces are at an
. end. The refpeiftive states have at last returned
tq their allegiance, and fubmifted to the emperor
The province of Namur was the fir ft
detached itfelf from the Union, and furren-
Memd that itrong fortrefs to the Austrian forces,
iMMbr the command of Gen. Bender. The Belgic
£gMly, upon this, retired from the posts they had
upon the banks of the Meufe, in two
towards Bruflelsand Mons. The Con
|Ke(s, finding it in vain to refill any longer, with-
Bw, and the States gave up the city ofßrufl'els,
BBi: n being fuinmoned byMarfhil Bender. The
Belgic army, consisting of about
Ht>o or 9000 men, arrived at Ghent on the 2d, in
confulion, and ihe States of Ghent lubmit
ted yesterday. The counter revolution
has been effeited with tlie%t of but very few
men on either fide. /II left of the
Brabant army, have been dilbantH|t >l an.d paid one
month's pay.—Thus all is now the Neth
erlands, and nothing is heard but to nMjIY tiHE
Emperor LEOPOLD.
■dffignats—The counterfeiters of FrarJWtfepm
\ to have intended an immediate harveft/^fcta:
*ven currency had made men suspicious
Thirty-fix people have been at oncd^Hjj
prehended.
According to the new constitution in France,
tlie hi (hops and higher dignitaries have been b
stripped, without mercy,of their over grown liv
ings ; but the incomes of the inferior and offici
ating clergy have been raised. The former mea
sure, without the latter, would have brought a
load of odium on the aflembly ; but by the latter
they have secured an innnenie majority of the
•clergy ou their fide.
Saturday at eleven o'clock, Mr. Shaw, one of
the travelling meleugers, arrived polt at the
Duke of Leed's office, White-hall, from Madrid,
with the exchanged ratification of the convention
with Spain : he was only eleven days on his jour-
Bey.
It may be ufeful tomanyof our readers toknow
that one of the moll simple and efficacious reme
dies for a fore throat, is a gargle made with a
ftronjr decocftion of carrots, which very soon re
moves all inflammation and soreness.
NEW-YORK, March 2
The following letter of the Senators from this
State in the Congress of the United States,
was read in the legislature.
I'hiladtlphia, Feb. 23, 1791-
Genti.f.men,
" We have each had the honor to receive from
you a letter, covering a copy of the resolutions
of the Senate and Adembly of the fifth instant.
Having for fojne time thought that it would be
expedient that the legislative debates of the Se
nate fliould be public, it affords 11s much fatisfac
tion that our fentimenrs 011 the fubje<?t concur
with those entertained by the Senate and Aflein
hly of the state we have the honor to represent.
With great refpecfl, we are gentlemen your very
obedient servants, Philip Schuyler,
Hon. Isaac Roosevelt, President
Hon. John Watts, Speaker.
Rufus KING
GEORGE-TOWN, Feb. 23
I3y accounts from Frederick-Town, Ave learn,
that in the night of the 19th inft. the house of
George Scott, Esq. of that eonnty, accidental
ly catched lire. The wind blowing hard, enra
ged the flames so furioully, that in less than half
an hour the whole property of Mr. Scott, with
two of his Sons, one of eleven, the other of nine
years of age, fell vidtims to this dreadful and
truly calamitous accidei^fk
Mr. Ellicot, we learn, finilhed the firft line
of his l'urvey of the Federal Territory, in Vir
ginia, yesterday, and crofied below the Little-
Falls, the River Patowmack, on the second line.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
As you were once so obliging as to tolerate the effufions of my rujlic
Muse, and invite the continuation of them, enclofng the copy of a little
Ode to you, needs no apology.
A LYRIC O D E.—Feb. 28.
FROM dreams I wake to real woe,
While winds from every quarter blow.
And urge the beating rain ;
111 leave my pillow, deep'd in tears,
And try to difiipate my cares
With my sweet lyre again.
Ah ! where is fancy's magic power,
That us'd to charm each dreary hour.
And gild the darked dorm ?
Ev'n in the howling of the wind,
Soft plaintive murmurs she could find,
Breath'd by some airy form !
Oft has (he borne me on her wing,
To climes that know eternal spring,
To sweet Arcadian vales ;
To where the vi'lets fragrant breath,
Perfumes unseen the defart heath,
With aromatic gales.
To groves whofedark embrowning (hades,
Skirted with evcr-verdant meads,
And woodbine mantled round ;
With dreams, whose velvet margins bear,
The blushing rose, and lilly fair,
Spontaneous on the ground,
Bat now no more her presence chears ;
Her wand no foft enchantment rears,
To sooth my heart-telt pain
How loud the tempests horrid loar,
I fee the wrecks on every ihore,
And hear the dying drain !
My mind congenial with the gloom,
That hides fair nature's brighted bloom,
Welcomes contending dorms;
Sad emblem of the griefs that prey,
And wade my widowed heart away,
In retrofpe&ive forms.
Philadelphia, March 5..
The third irift. closed the political career of the ftrfl Congrefsofl
the United States, under the new Constitution : As the Ikilfui pi-'
lor, after he has condutted the veflel, committed to his charge,
through straits, abounding With rocks, ijuickfaiids, and shoals, and
has given her a fairoffing to the port of her destination, experien
ces indescribable sensations of pleafure,fo our political fathers may
congratulate themselves on the success of their endeavors in con
ducing our political affairs through paths before untried. From
ibts tufpicious period, may they behold the labours of their hands
a happy state of perft&ion ! It is a pleasing reflettion,
that their administration has been so far to public acceptance, as
to secure the re-ele£tion to office of a great majority of their num
ber : In several instances, a re-appointment has been voluntarily
declined—and those tvho have 101 l their re-ele£lion, are not with
out reflections to counter-ballance the difappointrm nt. y/
■jjWI of a letter from North-Carolina, to a member of Congress, dated
16th February, 1791.
the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the together with the copy of a resolution
fcf the comn^irAHfg^nkloufe of Reprefentativcs of the United
Jtatcs, a canal between the waters of Vir
ginia and North-Carolina. I have to inform you, that the fame
vas laid before the General Assembly of this State, at their last
eflion -..and an a£ accordingly was pa(Tid by them, for cutting a
lavigible canal from the waters of Pafquotank River, in this State,
o the waters of Elizabeth River, in the State of Virginia. A copy
U which duly authenticated, has been transmitted to his Ex
cellency the Governor of Virginia.
1 " I beg leave to congratulate you on this event, prcenant, I flat
/er myfelf, with great commercial advantage to the fifler States of
Virginia and North-Carolina."
According to the proclamation of his Excellen-I
cy Governor Tllkair—the Hon. Abraham
Baldwin, Anthony Wayne andl-'RANCis Wn.-
j.is Efqi s. are elecfted members of the second
house of Representatives, of the United States
for the state of Georgia.—
Yeftertlay, pursuant to notification from the
'resident of the United States, the Senate as
sembled in their Chamber of Congress, for the
dispatch of bnfinefs in their executive capacity.
The Hon. William S. Johrifon, Senator of the
United States from the Mate of Connetfticut, has
religned his feat ill the Senate.
appointments
Pursuant to tlie powers vested in the President
of the United States by the art, entitled an a ft,
repealing, after the laftday of June next, the du
ties heretofore laid on dxftilled'fpirits, imported
from abroad, &c. he has thought proper to di
vide the United States into Fourteen Districts,
and to nominate the following SUPERVISORS
to each refpetftively :
For the difttici } Joshua Wentworth.
of* Ncw-Hftnipiliirc, j |
Do. Maflachufctts, Nathaniel Gorham.
Do. R. I. and P. P. John S. Dexter.
Do. Connecticut, Jo,hn Chester.
Do. Vermont, Noam Smith.
Do. New York, W. S. Smith.
771
Do. New-Jersey, Aahon Dunham.
Do. Peiuilylvanifl, G.orge Cly.mer.
Do. Delaware, Henry Latimer.
Do. Maryland, Geo .ge Gale.
Do. Virginia, Edward Carrington.
Do. North-Carolina, William Polk.
Do. South Carolina, Daniel Stevens
Do. Georgia, John Matthews.
The President of the United States liatli also been
pleased to make the following appointments.
Nathaniel Chipman, Judge of the dirtriifc
of Vermont
Stephen Jacqbs, United States' Attorney for
Vermont,
Lewis R. Morris, Marlhall for do.
Stephen Keyes, Collector for the port of All
burgh, in the state of Vermont.
To all of which nominations theSetiateof tVie
United States did advil'e and consent.
We may estimate the value of the national go
vernment by the lofles we hare fuifered for the
want of it. For want of a government, many
years of back interest are added to our debt, iu
cludiug the interest on the state debis, more than
20 millions of dollars—Perhaps 30 have been in
arrears for interest only. Some will fay, perhaps,
that if we have paid no interest, we have paid no
taxes—and that we have laved by one way what
we have loft in another : So far from it, the coun
try bore a heavier burden before any hiHicienn
provision was made for its debts, than it has done
under the general government —the taxes for
merly were higher, and yet the creditors were
fufferers. But it would be wrong to conlider the
taxes that we did not pay as so much laved.—
When the war ended, luxury came in upon us
like a torrent : Duties on imported goods would
have been rather a saving, than a loss : f roni
1783 to 1789 we might, if the new constitution
had been in operation duringthat time, have col
lected more than 20 millions of dollars by Impclfc
and Excise. That sum has been eat and drank, (
and as it regards the nation, may be conlidered
as mere loss. It is indeed worse than loft. For
duties not only encourage frugal habits, but they
encourage our own manufactures. Every dollar
of duty 011 foreign articles is a bounty to our
own. This bounty causes a great deal more
work to be done—and work is money. If the
national government had been in full force at
the end of the war, instead of the year 1759,
our country would have Caved all these great
funis. If any are remaining among us who hate
the government, they will not fufter it to be sub
verted, if they love their money. Five years of
1 disorder would cost us more, than,2o years of hard
L work would pay for. It will take many years to
[wipe off the debt that the fix yeats of no govern
kment after the peace, have thrown upon the 11a
ltion. Experience ought to warn us againftanai
jchy, and those measures which are calculated to
restore it.
I The legislature of North Carolina has parted
pn avft, to carry into efFeifl the resolution of Con-
iefpeding the fafe-keeping pi ifoners of the
United States in the goals of that State.
fcf Difcourfeson Davila One of the People' EfTay on
Agriculture Tablet Somut, No. I. and other favors, nc
ceffarilv postponed.
(£3* In the Yeas and N T ays on the motion for opening the doers oj
the Senate—as publijhed in our lajl ; Mr. Schuv h* Jhtuld have
been injerted among the Yeas.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA,
Franci'ca, Tobm RufTia.
Delaware, Art, Charleston, 8 days,
Brig Phccbe, Williams, Lisbon, 30
Schooner Induftrv, Brewftei, Vitginia,
Brothers, Rofs, ditto.
William, Scott, ditto.
Ship
Sloop
Samuel,
(PRICE CURRENT.
PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 16/10 17/ pr.£
3 pr. Cents Qf. g/i
Defered 6 pr. Cents q/i.
UNFUNDED' DEBT.
Final Settl.and othei Certificates 15/9 16/ 80 do.
Indents 9/ 9 A 45 do -
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12J6 13/, do.
Manuel Noah,
broker,
No. 01, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates',
Pennsylvania and Jeifey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
Philadelphia, Frb. 1790.
The seat ok the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
fituateabout a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and ico acres o'
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about iq acres of fait meadow. Partici.Sjr
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there >1 nn
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicelt
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convc;.:,
well built and in very good repair
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars
Ncto-York, Jan. j-91.
ditto.
Builer,
X A * w
85 pr. cent.
4.5 <1 °- '
45 do "
/• /■ ft. J —
particular State,
IO BE SOLO,
3 3 .;!■Report ol the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
fubjeift of a Mint.
(CON TI N U ED.]
O.NSIDERIXG , tin icfoie, the uncn taint v of the fucccfs *
ihe expedient, and the inconveniences, which Seem incider
to it, it would appear preferable to submit to those of a free cain
age. It is obfervablc, that additional expence, which is one Oi
the principal of these, is also applicable to the proposed remedy
It is now proper to resume and finifh the answer to the fiift
queflion ; in order to which the ihree fuccceding ones have ne
cdTarily been anticipated. The conclusion to be drawn from the
observations, which have been made on the fubje£fc, is this
That the unit in the coins of the Unitecl States, ought to corres
pond with 24 grains and 3-4 of a grain of pure gold, and with
37 1 grains and 1-4 of a grain of pure silver, each answering to a
dollar in the money of account. The former is exa&ly agreea
able to the present value of gold, and the latter is within a small
ira&ion of the mean of the two last emiflions of dollars; the only
ones which are now found in common circulation, and of which
the newest is in the greatell abundance. The alloy i/i each cafe
to be 1-12 th of the total weight, which will make the unit 27
grains of jtandard gold, and 405 grains of standard-silver.
Each of these, it has been remarked, will answer to a dollar in
the money of account. It is conceived thatnoihing better can be
done in relation to this, than to pursue the track marked out by
the resolution of the Bih of August, 1786. This has been ap
proved abroad, as well as at home, and it is certain, that nothing
can be more Simple or convenient, than the decimal subdivisions.
rhere is every rcafon to expc£l that the method will fpcedily grow
into general use, when it shall be seconded by corresponding
coins. On this plan, the unit in the money of account, will con
tinue to be, as established by that resolution, a dollar; and its
multiples, dimes, ccnts and milles ; or tenths, hundredths, and
thousandths.
Vls ich regard to the number of different pieccs which shall com
pose the coins of the United States,two things are to beconfulted :
convenience of circulation, and cheapness of the coinage. The
fiift ought not to be Sacrificed to the last ; but as tar as they can
be reconciled to each other, it is desirable to do it. Numerous
and small not too minute) fubd'vifi >ns aflifl circulation ; but
the multiplication of the smaller kinds expence; the
lame process being nect flary to a small as to a large piece.
As it is easy to add, it will be moil advifeable to begin with a
small number, till experience shall decide wh'e her any othei
k'nds are necefTary. The following, it is conceivcd, will be
Sufficient in the commeno njeni.
1 Goid pi tec, equal in weight and vaiqe to 10 units or dollars.
1 Gold piece, equal to a tenth part of former, and which
mall be a unit or a dollar.
1 Silver piece, which shall also be a unit or dollar.
1 Silver piece, which shall be in weight and value a tenth part
of the Silver unit or dollar.
1 Copper piccc, which shall be of the value of a hundredth part
of a dollar.
J Othercopper piece, which shall be half the value of the form r.
It is not propof d that the lightcft-of the two gold coins should
be numerous, as in large paymtnts, the larger the pieces, the shor
ter the proccfs of counting, the less the risk of mistake, and conse
quently the greater the fafery and the convenience ; and in small
payments, it is not pcrceived, that any inconvcnience can accrue,
irom an entire dependence on the silver and copper coins. The
chief inducement to the establishment of the small gold piece, js
to have a sensible object in that metal, as well as in silver, to ex
press the unit. Fifty thousand at a time in circulation, may fuf
fice tor this purpose.
The tenth part of a dollar is but a small piece, and with the aid
of the copper coins, will probably fuffifce for all the more minute
uses of circulation. It is less than the least of the silver coins now
in general currency in England.
I he largest copper piece will nearly answer to the half-penny
sterling, and the frnallefl of course to the farthing. Pieces of very
small value are a great accommodation, and the means of a bene
ficial economy to the poor ; by enabling them to purchase, in small
portions, and at a more reasonable rate, the neceH ries of which
they ftarid in need. If they are only cents, the lowijt price for
any portion of a vendible commodity, however inconlkierable in
quantity, will be a cent ; if there are half cents, it will be a half
cent ; and in a great number of cafe exa&ly the fame things will
be fold for a half ct nt, which if there were none would cost a cent.
lsut a half cent is low enough for the minimum of price. Exccl
five minuteness would defeat its object. To enable the poorer
cliflVs to pocuie neceffarics cheap, is to enable them with more
comfort to themfelvej, to labor for less ; the ad\antagcs of which
need no comment.
The denominations of the silver coir.s contained in the resolu
tion of the 8: h of Atiguft, 1786, are concciv d to be fignificant
and proper. The dollar is recommended by its correfpondenc)
"with the present coin ot thi;t name, for which it is designed to be
a substitute; which will facilitate its ready adoption as luch in the
minds of the citizens. The dime or tenth,the cent or hundredth,
the mille or thoulandih are proper, because they exprels the pro
portions which they are intended to designate. It is only to be
regret ed, that the meaning of these terms will not be familiar to
those v, ho are not acquainted with the language from which they
are bonowed. It woe to be wished, that the length, and in some
degree the clumsiness of some of the corresponding terms in Eng
lish, did not difcouiage Irom pr ferring them. It is ufetul to ha\e
names which fignify the things to which they belong; and, mre
fpccl to ohjefts of general use, in a manner intelligible to all. Per
haps it might be an improvement to let the dollar have the -
lation either of dollar or unit (which last will be the mofl fignifi-*'
cant) and to substitute " tenth" for dime. In time, the unit maj|
succeed to the dollar. The word cent being in tile fn various iraft
aflions and inftiuments, will, without much d fficulty, be under
stood as the hundredth; and the half cent of couifc as the two
hundredth part.
The eagle, is not a very expreflive or apt appellation for the
Jargt ft gold piece, but nothing b< tter Occurs. The fmallcft of the
gold coins may be called the dollar or unit, in common with the
silver piece, with which it coincides.
The volume or file of each piecc is a matter of more confe
rence than its denomination. It is evident, that the more {yc
perficies or furfaee, the more the piece will be liable to be
by frt&ion ; or, in other words, the faftcr it will wear. For this
reason, it is deferable to render the thickness in proportion to the
breadth, as great as may consist wi h neatnef* and good appear
ance. Hence the form of the double guinea, or double louis d'or,
is preferable to that of the half johannes, for the large gold piece.
The finall one cannot well be of any other size than the Portuguele
piece of eight, of the fame metal.
As it is of confluence to fortify the idea of the identity of the
dollar, it may be best to let the form and size of the new one, as
far as the quantity of matter (the alloy being less) permits, agree
■with the form and size of the present. The diameter may be the
feme.
The tenth may be in a mean between the Spanish 1-8 and 1-16
of a dollar.
The copper coins may be formed merely with a view to good
appearance, as any difference in the wearing, that can result from
difference of form, can be of little confrquenc'e in reference to that
metal. (To be concluded in our next.)
(tST A slated mating of the HIBERNIAN SOCIETY, for the
relief of Emigrants from Ireland, will be held at Mr. Patrirk Byrne's
tavrrv, or Monday next, the Ith injl. at 6 o'clock in the evening.
March 2,1,91. MATHEW CAREY, Sec'rv.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS,
INTENDED H MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
TN this rollc&ion will be contained the Cha rte rs of the
X leveialftates which now compose the Union ;—the Records
of the United Colonies of New-England ;—Royal Induc
tions to Colonial Governors ; —Extracts from Public
Records ; —and other authentic Documents tending to elucidate
our History.
1 he design of this compilation was intimated to Congress, and
honored with their approbation.— On the 20th July, 1778, their
committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it as
iheir <J Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
deserves the public patronage and encouragement, as being pro
du6live of public utility;" Whereupon they Rcfoived, Tha«
it be recommended to the Governors, Presidents, and Executive
Powers of the fcveral states in the union, to Mr.
give facility to his labors ; and that for this purpose he be admit
ted to an infpeftion of public records, and be furnifhed without
expenee with copies of such papt rs as he may judge will conduce
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He was, of confequenee, ad mitted to the infpe&ion and use both
of public records, and the collc&ions made by individuals, from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met with
on the fubjeft, and, he flitters himfelf, the largest ever made in
America) was formed. It has finer met the approbation of many
eminent charafters,and even in its manuscript »state, has facilitated
the fettlemcnt of some important controversies.
The compiler cannot suppress the following letter from the honor
able the Secretary of State, to whose infprftion part of the com
pila'ion was submitted, as it contains /o flattering and refpefta
blc a teitimony in favor of the importance of the work.
" Philadelphia, February 18, *791.
S I /?, *
I return you the two volumes of Records, with thanks for the opportu
nity of looking into (item :—they are curions Monuments of the Infancy
or our country. Ileum with great [itijfaflion that you are about com
muting to the Press the valuable Hiftsrical and State Paprs you have
been so long collecting. Time and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals depofted in our public offices : the late war has done the
work oj centuries in this bufin fs : the lojl cannot be recovered; but let
usfave what remains ; not by vaults and locki, which fence them from
the public eye and use in conftgning them to the wafle 0) time, but byCuch
a multiplication of copies as shall place them biyond the reMk 0/ aedtknt ;
this being t ;e tendency of your undertaking, beajfured thejs is no ory who
wiflies it a more complete success than S1 R,
Your mojl obedient and most humble Servant,
Mr. Hazard,
CONDITIONS
I. The Work to be published in numbers, cach containing
160 pages, large quarto A number to be delivered every three
months.
11. On delivery of the firfl Number, payment to be made for
the nrll and second, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(cxcept the last) so that the price of one Number will beconftant
ly in advance. The very great expence attending so large a work,
at the fame time that it renders this condition absolutely ne«eflci
ry, will be a fufficient apology to the candid tor its insertion.
11 Iv The price toSubfcn &>«•*•• will he for cach num
ber. It is supposed that the Work will probably be comprised in
eight Numbeis, forming two handsome Volumes, in large quarto,
printed on a neat Type and good p»per.
IV. To those who choose to fubferibe for the Work in Vo
lumes, the pricc will be Four Dollar s and a Quarter of a Dollop for
each Volume, in boards. %
V. The coll eft ion will be put to tVffc Press as foonT? there,*
shall be a fufficient number of fubferiptions to juftify an hope that
the expencrs will be defrayed.
§3~Thofe who receive Subjcripticus will please trunfmit accounts of
the numberi obtained to Thomas Dobfon, A'o. 41, Second-flreet Phila
delphia, by the fitjl of M<i v text. '
Subsc dipt ions will be received in Pnrtfmouth, (N. H) by-
Jeremiah Libbr v ; Solton, Thomas & Andrews; Woictfter,
Isaiah Thomas; Hartfo'H, Thomas Hildrup ; NeW-H • en, lf,ac'
Beers; New-L >n on, Timothy Green (R. I.) Jacob
Richa-'ifon ; Pmvidence, fihn Carter -York He Al
len & Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. "nfing ; Philadelphia,
Thomas D obfon, and Hazard & Addoins; Wilmington, (Dela
ware) Fll dericlf Craig; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexandria, JO
- Merriman ; Norfolk. Mr. Linafey ; Frederickfburg.h, Cal
lender and Hid.Con; Peterfburgh, John Grammer ; Rich
mond, Auguftin- Divra ; Newbern, (N. C.) F. X. Martin; WiU
mington, John Bradley ; Charleston, (S. C.) William P. Young
A NEGRO MAN ELOPED.
RAN away (lorn his owner about the 25'h Jan. lift',' CJESAft,
a negro man, countiv born, noted as ? p eachcr anions ihe
blanks, 30 yrarsof a_;e, abour 5 teet 7 in hes hi ;h—thick, °wei:
fct ; had on a brown cloth coat, light cloth jacket, leather breeches,
and t oarfe wilton fto<. k'ngs.—He also had a tow linen frock with
him ; and wore a fm»M round hat. He is fuppofect to be gen-- to
Vnginia, as his father lives on Dr. Vandeveer's plantation, in tha;
State. Whoever will take tip said negro, and secure ' ir in the
gaol of Philadelphia, or of Trenton, and give noticc thereof to the
fubferiber living in Bound-Brook, New-Jersey, (ball receivc
Twelve Dollars reward, and all necefijry charges.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Somerset County, IF.
BY virtue of a writ of fieri facias to me dire&ed, against the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements ol Christopher
Beekman, I have levied on, and seized that valuable house and
lot of land, filuate on the north fide of the Main S:iect, in Princc
on, now in polTeffion of Adam Shaw, and known by sign of the
College ;itis an excellent stand for a public house, and^has been
occupied in that way for many vears. A 1 the above mentioned
>remises will be exposed to falc, on Thursday the tenth day n'
larch next, between the hoursof twelve and five in the afternoon
said day, of which all persons concerned will please take no-
WILLIAM WALLACE, Sheriff.
Wcjlern Prtcirtd, 18th February, 1791
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
January 25, 1791. J
THE Public Creditors arc reminded that, in order in the pro
per d'fpofiuons for paving the Intertft in the fcvrral States,
it is nccelT.iry that the ammint to be paid in eaeh (hould be prc
vlonfly known at the Treafurv. And as the expiration of the fir ft
quarter is not far distant, it is wiftied that those who have not v t
done it, may be expeditious in M iking and lignifving their elcc'.
;ion, pursuant to the ast making proyifion for the debt of the
United States.
772
Philadelphia, February 24th, 1791
AMERICA.
THOMAS JEFFERSON."
HUGH ROWAN.
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
FROM an expectation that a mutual advantage would be deri
ved by the dealeis in public securities, and a person who
Should undertake to tranlatt such bufmefj on commission oniv, has
concluded to offer himlclf for that purpose. Being of opinion,
that every requisite to convince them and otfcrsof his difuirerefi
cdnefs ought to be attended to on his part, he has duly made oath
before the Hon. the Chief Justice of the State of Pennfylvatiia, :h«it
he will faithfully execute the trusts which may be reposed in'him.
" I Henry Kuhl, of the city of Philadelphia, Jock broker, do Jaear
that I will not be concerned either direSlly or indireSly, on m\ otcn ac
count,™ any purchases or sales of the evidences of the debt of the Unitet
Stales or tj particular States, but wUtttfy-nd jaithfully exteute fuck
Purchases andJalts on commiffitm anty'far' theje who way en phi me ■
that is to fay, until I shall announce ii me **, *»re of the neaibapert
printed at the fat of the 'States, my deter
mutation to the contrary. ' " HENRY KUHL*
Sworn at Philadelphia, February before
THOMAS M'KEAN."
1 he commissions he will charge for the prelent, are
On the fpecle amount of .ill funis below SCOO nominal dollars
one half per cent, on do. from 5000 to 10,000 do. one fourth pej
cent, on do. from ie,ooo and upwards do. oneeighih percent.
Accounts slated, and certificates funded at the Treafuiy 0r
Loan-Office of the United State s, on moderate terms.
N. /!. AH orders for purchases or J'a'es to be in writing.
Philadelphia, February 19, 1791. f f )
Virginia, Cutpeper County, 25th Jan. 1791.
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The plantation, where
on he resides, laying oiuMnh fides ttifCarolina road, in the great
rork or Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town of Dumfries,
33 f r°i a Frederickfburg, and a 8 from Falmouth; in a most
healthy part of the country Confiding of 2,000 acrcs—half clear
ed, and ingood fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil IS good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
ureams ot water, so dispersed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality, perhaps more tlun 300
acrcs —°f which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, for that pur
pole, palling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach (roes, and a variety of molk
other kinds of fruit, natural 10 the climate. A good dwelling
house, the fituatton whereof is remarkably beautiful and plealant •
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds. "
° nC ot^er P' antat ion about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
lilting of about 1500 acres, 011 which is good merchant, grift, and
law nulls, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired t»
rendcrthcm complete; a large constant stream, on which ther
d, affords them water in great abundance ; convenient thereto
is a kiln end houf-, for drying com, a bake house, a dwelling
hou.e and several other improvements mostly new ; about 30*
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodm quality ; the othef
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an incxhauftaUl*
source for the saw-mill.
Aifo several detached traflsWithin said county, of about 2.JL,
and 400 acres each,and though not offo fen ilea foil, their vicinity £ '
the towns render them valuable, 011 some of them there aie fm<f
improvements, and the lands so fuuated, that they can easily Mt'
made convenient little farms. ,
or an y P of the vrfjp
be dnpofed of, on very reafon.ible terms—a
ieady money, for the balance, the paymer.ts will be made entirjH
to accommodate the convemency of the purchasers, who may DM
applied on the fame terms, with all kind, of flock, work hoiSJ
>,oxrn,& f . fa. &c. by JOHN STRODE, ft. f.j**
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
nrHK Man.,grrs allb*orATE LOTTERY, prcfent the Pnbie
X wuh ihe First C,'?ffs of (lie Maflachufctts ft mi-annual State Lot
- J „ dl W1 " comnil< *ncc drawing] n the Rcprefcntativcs' Chamber
in Bolton, on the Seventeenth of March next, or fooncr, if the
Tickets lHa.ll be disposed of. '
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
' 2 5.°°° Dollars, to be paid in thefoilowing Piizes, fubicftto a
deduttion oi twelve and an half percent, for the ufc of the Com.
mon wealth.
Prizes.
1
3
6
19
30
80
9°
100
123
16l
soo
-7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000,
f IC K.ETS may be had of the several Managers, who will
)ay the Priz.es on demand— of the TREASURER of theCommon
w"a 11 h ol JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin' i-Hcai y
tiKtrt-Street, and at other places asufual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.J
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER, W Managers*
GEORGE R. MI NOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Bcfton. July 28. 8790.
'' Pickets in the above, Lottery are to be [old by Stephen Aullia,
corner oj front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.
PLEASE TO NOTICE.
ICj™ FOR the accommodation of those who wor/lif
■ wijh to become Adventurers in the First Class of the
Massach us i: ttsS ■: mi-annual St at r Lottery,
letters t pod paid, directed to Samuel Cooper, at
.his Office, North fide State-House, B of}on, encloftng
Philadelphia, New-Tork or Boston Bank-Bilh, *r
other good Bills, will be particularly attended to, and
Tickets forwarded immediately upon the receipt of
such litters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790.
fpT The Managers of the STATE LOTTERY afTure the
rniblic, that the firft CJafs of the Semi-anuual Lottery will pofitive
v commence drawing on the day appointed, viz, the 17'h of
A[arch next. As the Managers have in their feverai Monthly Lot
teries commenced drawing at the hour alfigned, so they are deter
mined to be equally as punctual in this. Jan. ,52.
COPY OP THE OATH
Dollars.
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
209
100
5°
4®
3®
29
ia
»
Dollars 9
20009
600 a
6009
6oo»
5000
600®
Booe
45°®
400®
3600
322*
2000
6u6&»
125001%'