PUBLISHED W EDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 71, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
rjj 'HIS day closes another annual measure of
J. time ; ancl happy would be the consequen
ces, if mankind were more disposed to avail them
felvcs of such periods, for the indulgence of re
flection, and a retrofpeitive view of the various
events of life, which, at a diiiance, and diverted
of the falfe colourings that prejudice may have
given them at the time of their occurrence, will
often present a ufeful leltou for future conduct,
and subserve valuable purpofesin society—moral
and political.
The critical observer of human affairs, who has
viewed the progress of thole evils to which men
are conltantly exposed by the treachery of the
heart, and the errors of judgment, will be ready
to acknowledge the advantages to be derived —
from a review of former scenes, analyzing the
secret springs to acftion 011 the great drama of
the world—with the several causes of success or
disappointment.
If in the course of events we have fetn the
throne of a Despot consuming on the sacred altar
of Liberty—let Kings, by this, be taught to ve
nerate the rights of men—and to know that the
affeiftions of a free and generous people are the
only fatisfacSory and durable basis of all autho
rity.— If we have observed a Minister facrificed
to the just resentment of his country —let tliofe
in similar ficuations be careful to lhun the causes
which led to his disgrace, and to cherish ihofe
virtues which will alone ensure them the eftcem
and tonfidence of their fellow-citizens.
If, by the rays of mental light, the wiles of
prieftcrafc have been exposed to view, and we
have seen the pampered sons of luxury deprived
of the wealth they procured by the worst of all
abuses—Priests are hereby taught that ftich pur
suits will not in future avail them, as men will
be no longer led the blind votaries of fuperllitiun
and bigotry
Have vie heard that millions of our fellow men
inagnanimoufly aliening the rights of human
nature) have dared to break the chains which
bound them for ages, and determined to be free—
we will indulge the generous emotions of joy,
be stimulated to future exertions in the cause of
liberty, and nourish fair science in our land, as
the source of all social happiness.
If we, on the other hand, have been informed
that thousands have fallen vitfiims to the pride of
royalty—while, with just indignation, we con
template the fad effects which the lust of domina
tion is ever found to produce, let us guard with
cautious eye among ourselves theafpiring efforts
of ambition, and cultivate those sentiments of
philanthropy, which teach men to know and feel
that they are the brethren ofone common family.
Have the bounties of Nature been heaped upon
us with a liberal hand—may gratitude infpii e our
devotions, and our future condudl evidence our
sense of the obligation
If, in the pursuits of private life, fortune has
ieigned to afford us her finiles—let us, by the
cxercife of genuine benevolence, endeavor to
merit her future favors.
Have we been deprived of fomc of our inoft
valuable friends—let us study to copy rliofe vir
tues which procured them elteern, as the best tri
bute due to their memory. MENTOR.
(to ue continued.)
Official accounts being received of the death
of Major-General Butler, Major Kergufon, Major
Heart, Capt. Smith, Capt. Bradford, Capt. New
man, Capt. Phelon, and Lieutenant Spear, mem
bers of the society of the Cincinnati, who fell
in the late ai r tion with tlie Indians, the members
of the New-York State Society of the Cincinnai i,
are requested to wear the ulual mourning for
three months, as a particular mark of rel'peA
for the memoryof their brave deceased brethren.
By order of the President, \V. S. SMITH
THE Subscribers to the American Apollo
are informed, that the fir ft number will, agreea
bly to the proposal, be publilhed on the firlt Fri
day 111 January next. —Those gentlemen who hold
fubferiptions, are requelted to return them, as
soon as poflible, to Belknap&Young, in State-
Street— who request their brethren of the Tjpe, in
this and the other States, to affitt them with their
usual communications, and publish this ndvertife
ment in their papers.
New-York, December 26
Boston, Dec. 17, 1791
Saturday, December 31, 1791.
PHILADELPHIA,
TUESDAY last being the anniversary of St. John the Evange
liil, an elegant Oration was delivered at the Lodge-Room,
the comer of Arch and Fifth-ftreet, by the Rev. Brother Smith,
and the following pci sons were inllalled Grand Officers for the
enfuipg ve<ir :
R. W. Jonathan B. Smith, Esq. Grand Master.
Jofcph Few, Deputv Grand Maftx
Thomas Proctor, Sen. Grand Warden.
Gavin Hamilton, jun. Junior Grand Warden.
P. le B. Duplefiis, Grand Secretary.
Mr. Benjamin Ivlafon, Grand Trealurer.
After which the feaft of St. John was celebrated at Mr. Oeller's
Hotel, and a liberal colle&ion of charity for the poor of the insti
tution was made, and the following toasts were given
1. The widow's son.
2. All the Mason's round globe.
3. May thz.circle oi happineis be coinmenfurate with the square
oi existence.
4« Our illustrious brother Washington,
huzzas.]
5. May the constitution of France, which ha« ruflied in a right
line from tyranny, ever be guided by the fqutre, and everlasting
role in ihe circle of happiness.
6. May the torch of masonry be centered in the western fky,and
illumine with its brilliant rays United America.
7. May heaven give double bleflings in rcfurre&ion to those
masons, who have ialien in defence of their country in the wejicrn
territory.
SONG,
Composed and sung on Tuesday last,
AT THE FESTIVAL OF
ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST.
BY A BROTHER.
YE gracious powers of choral song,
Attend ; inspire your felhve throng;
l.et harmless mirth, and frolic glee,
Dance fportiveat our Jubilee.
We ask no found of spear or ftiield,
No trophes of th' ensanguined field ;
l.et hope, let faith and charity,
Begin and end our Jubilee.
No lavage warrior's scarlet name,
Shall e'er defile our roll of fame ;
Hut peace, with white rob'd train we fee,
Piefiding at our Jubilee.
The heart that feels for widow'd woe.
The tears, for orphans pangs, that flow,
The voicc which bids diflrefs to flee,
Shall celebrate in Jubilee.
Merry, with pearly melting eye,
Stem Jufhcr with her sword on high,
Shall both attendant angels be,
To guide, to guard our Jubilee.
Each Brothei's foul (hall rapturous swell,
Nor furrow toll her lad'ning knell ;
The voice, the hands, the heart bf three,
Shail thrice repeat our Jubilee.
Then call from East to Weft the World,
The mvftic banners are unfurl'd !
And O! departed ancients, fee
From Heaven, and bless oui Jubilee !
Lo ! from his or little (lore,
Each broiher flies his mite to pour,
That men may ft ill rejoice to fee,
A Mason's lodge a Jubilee.
Then (round the circle) let the glass
(Yet in the square) convivial pass ;
And when the fun winds o'er the lea,
Each lafsJhall have her Jubilee.
Be this the general, cordial toast,
(A wish that never should be loft)
That all the world mav Masons be,
And live and love in Jubilee.
Sketches of BOSTON akd itslnhabitants.
[The following iscxtra&ed from a feiiesof letters, publilhed in
a late Nov--Scotia paper.]
" habits of the people here are very fa-
JL vorable to oratory. Declamation is taught
in every school in the country. It isacuftom to
call on some citizen to make a public oration on
the anniversary of independence, anil other in
tereding occahons
" On the death of a citizen of uncommon me
rit, if his virtues have been of" the private and
domestic kind, liis memory receives the tribute
of approbation from the pulpit : But if in the
more splendid walk of public life he has deserv
ed applaule, a citizen is called upon to make his
eulogium. 1 have iince 1 came here heard a ve
ry sensible one pronounced by Judge Lowell,
on the late Mr. iJowcox n, who died 1a ft summer.
Governor Hancock, Mr. Adams, and every dis
tinguished character in the place were there, a
number of refpec'table ladies, &c. 1 have picked
up a few orations, which 1 fend you herewith.—
Some are very lean, others will deserve your
reading. The conffitutions of the diltrich, as 1
have (hewn you, mult, by their nature, give rife
and encouragement to eloquence ; —there is but
one assembly in the whole range of the federal
281
[3 times 3, and 3
SKETCHES, See.
[Whole No. 279.]
union, in which it is deemed unneceflary, and,
I believe, even absurd and obtrusive. To wit,
the senate, or upper howfe of Congref9 !—They
are merely a deliberative meeting, in which eve
ry man delivers his concise opinion, one leg over
the oilier, as they did in the firft Congrefs,where
an harangue was a great rarity*.
" The private hospitality of Biflon 5s equal
even to that of Ireland, and the pratfife of it ra
ther better understood.
" In travelling through Massachusetts you are
furpriled that men, in whom the pratftice of the
moral duties is so habitual, that they obfervethe
laws of God and man without seeming coufcious
of obedience, fliould overcharge you in every
payment you make, either for lodging, goods,
or labour, and should seem to have no other (land
ard of price, than the consent of the buyers
whatever his ignorance or extravagance will
yield, is received without scruple. But then if
you have left your watch in the temple of Cloa
cina at the inn, it is in perfeA fafety; if you
have dropped your handkerchief in the street,
or on the road, the firft man that finds it will
call you back ; you may carry money loose in
your furtout pockets, and remain for hours in
the midst of the fame extortioners ; and if there
are no foreigners or Europeans in the croud,your
cash is secure and untouched. •
" A Bririlh officer lodged in a'houfe which
rook fire at night ; in the confufion of exertions,
every thing was carried away, and the officer
had many things of value, diamonds, rings,trin
kets, &c. In the morning they were delivered
or sent to him by different men, who might have
justly resented the furpiife he Ihewed at receiv
ing them.
" How is this diflioneftyin pecuniary exchang
es, in a people so exemplary in all other cases,
to be accounted for ? 1 answer, that daring the
war, and some time after, the value of the only
money they had in circulation was very variable,
and therefore an indecision and irregularity in
prices and payment took place ; but this is now
wearing ofF, and whenitfhall entirely cease, and
commercial exavftnefs take place, I really do not
know what we of Europe will do for some impu
tation against those folks, to counterbalance the
advantages and diminiih the moral pre-eminence
they will assume over us."
* This wants confirmation.
Description of the curious Bridge at Nifmes, in the
South of France.
THIS bridge to all appearance was conftrudled
b_v t lie Romans. The inortar and Hone with
which it is built, after being.exposed for many
hundred years, have become one cement as hard
as marble. This superb inoilttment of the Ro
mans is composed of three diflindt bridges, .one
above the other : It joins two mountains, tlie
river Gardon palling under it—the upper bridge
serving as an acqueduift for the paflage of the
little river A'iran. This acquedutft by its wind
ing amongst mountains and rocks is 27 miles
long.
The firft bridge is supported by 6 arches, the
river palling rhrough the sth which is 78 feet
wide. This bridge is 498 feet wide, and 62
high. The second bridge is supported by eleven
arches, being ay feet high and 800 long. The
third bridge is only 24 feet high and 819 long,
being supported by 35 arches.
It is indeed a very curious circumflance to ob
serve two l ivers interfering each other—the one
being 151 feet above the other. Indeed by all
the vestiges of the works of the Romans, it seems
their minds and hearts were on a much larger
scale than those of us modern pigmies, who are
afraid to encounter what old Romans would havtf
thought little of. Toall appearance succeeding
ages of Americans, will insensibly regain the
dignified character of Romans. The genius of
our government, and the happy situation of our
country will inevitably lead to this event.
PROVIDENCE, December 17.
Sunday evening last Capt. Brown arrived in
the River from Cape-Francois, which he left the
22d ult. He informs that a party of French
horse had been attacked by the revolted Negroes,
and about 40 of the former killed, which had
given spirits to the blacks ; that the whites
had abandoned Coracole and Jaqnize, and that
ilie former was in flame; Mlien he failed.PARI S, October 9.
WHEN the king underltooU t hat the nfual ce
remonial of lalutation between the Nati
onal Allemhly and htmfelf was to be changed at
his meeting them, lie (eemed very much aifcrted
■—" 1 Ihould have thought ({"aid he) ;hat aliho'
they have deprived me of ail honor, as an indi
vidual, they would have lnaniteUcd lbme regard
for the dignity of their firlt in.igiltrate, the he
reditary reprefciuative of the nation."—Thisef
fufion Jpread. like wildfire ; and to Inch a height
were the populace railed, that when the great
chair of (late was brought into the aflembly's
hall, they seemed to worftiip the very cliair.
Such an excefsof enthufiaf'tic applause was repro
bated by one of the orftors—but his voice was
drowned in the murmurs of the people.—This
gave great umbrage to M. Goupilleau, one of the
members of the second legislature, who cried out
t hat the majejiy of the peiple was facrtficed to ths
majefly cf the king.—" If you dare to express your
felf again in that manner (('aid one of theofficers
of the national guard) I will cut you to pieces—
jgou are a traitor—and, take notice, that we have
bayonets " Yes ! (replied the national guard)
—we will cut him to pieces should lie infringe
the conliitution—we are also ready to cut that
man to pieces, who offejs him the moil trifling
infutt, while he is doing his duty !" M.
Goopilleau then exclaimed aloud, The temple
of the country is become the ft age ej bullies and gla
diators. The national guard we ars a menacing afptCl
they tell us that the word majelly belongs to the king
only—that the people are nothing, and the king every
thing. The officer was then called to the bar, and
delired to explain. Three hours were spent in
debating on this insult, and examining witnefles.
The officer at length interpreted his exprellions
into another meaning; and the afl'embly palled
on to the order of the day.
The Directors of the Social-Circle Printing
Press in this city, anxious to contribute all in
their power to the more general dissemination of
that immortal effort of human reason, the New
Conliitution of France, have lately put to press
a polyglott or general translation thereof into
all the languages of Europe. The typographi
cal part is to be executed with the niott scrupu
lous attention, that it may not in that refpert
flifgrace the translations which will be made un
der .the inspeCtion of a man of acknowledged
learning and merit, and entrusted by him into
the hands of such persons as he (hall judge pro
perly qualified in the several languages into
which it is to be transferred. Each translation
will be fold separately. The English will ap
pear this week, and the others successively once
a fortnight. These translations when bound up
into one volume will, it is hoped, become a cJaf
lie for the study of different languages.
The following animated fintimruts are taken from
the Bijhop oj Paris's circular letter,oj the 25th ult.
The finvple and majeflic edifice of our new
government is now firmly established upon the
ruins of the feudal tyranny, odious chicanery
despotic sway, and every other species of unre
ttramed power that have in all ages crufl.ed the
genius of the French nation. The whole of this
constitution displays to the view of man all that
can be wiihed for to render him.happy i„ a (late
ot focety, by an equal mixture of morals, poli-
Let /' S cheri(h ' the », under
the two fold relation of christians and citizens,
thij Prions conliitution, which the
gospel nfelf transferred, for the happiness of
France, to the code of her civil government.
tor a long time we were governed bv the
Romans ; then conquered by the Franks who o
bliged us to become christians, afterwards ruled
by ambitious usurpers of the throne—enjoying; a
%rt interval of happiness under Cliarlemaonf •
crushed under the fall of this Prince's family'
and bowed down under the weight of the feudal
to flv i $ n "\ e "" dcr Lol,is tlle IXth.only
I? fa '' '^' e / " ,1 1 1 his fuccelfors, and endure
the lhackler ot defpot.fm or a. iftocracy, which
ha VPened to prevail — France, before the
memoraWe era of the present revolution, p„f.
felled a government void of form and order a
barbarous mode of legifhtion. and, in fart
conliitution at all. ' ' ' 0
the , la,, " rs " fthe National Affbmbly,
forth from the bosom of chaos
Our political dimes are now f u plainly p, escribed
people\Te°the n L™e a , y ei " ;I .' " *' ee ! , the
Mn g while obeys ,hS' "w^L"
?° ,r Superior ,1,0 |,„ ,
the king only reigns by the law, and it is onlC
ence frnmTh he ca " exa « "bedi
ence f.om the people. This law is ,„ a d e by the
SsTf'?! i r]e re s"- ariVeS ° f " le nati °"' tIe P o(1 -
LONDON, October 2 f.
have t e akerof a H e Fi e » cl > Government
has iimrnv,. f • - e fertleineiu of Senega]
I,n P r oved „ , nto one of the nloft advaiiu * c |
oils Colonies in their pofleffion. A very exten
sive trade is now carried on with the Moors and
Negroes at each fide of tiie river, and polls efta
bfifhed at proper diltances, for the protection of
tliofe concerned therein.
i lie garrison is numerous and healthy, and
from the great care taken to supply the Hospital
and the people with proper medicines, the place
does not experience that fatal mortality which
it formerly did. The late Lord Sackville was
fa fenltble of the extraordinary advantages which
might be delived from this fcttlement, when in
the hands of the English, that he took great
pains to accommodate it as the French now do,
but he could not prevail upon the Treasury to
adopt his plan, however laudable, and the place
was io(t, more from inattention than from the
power of the enemy.
A letter from Prague, has this luxurious pas
sage—" Three hundred kids are daily served up
for the Court—fourteen thousand pheasants.and
twenty thousand partridges, and every thing
else in proportion.
When tlie celebrated Montesquieu returned
from visiting every part of Europe, and i eliding
two years in England, he observed that Germa
ny was fit only to travel in, Italy to reside in
England to think in, and France' to live in.
If the good Baron could now take a peep inro the
latter, he would, we believe, be of a different
opinion.
Dodd's second address in Acres on Saturday
was well calculated to ridicule the corps. His
falling collar—his breeches almost up to his chin,
and his short stick, set the house in a roar. The
corps looked rather awkward on this occasion.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, December 16,1791.
In committee of the whole, on the Pojl-Office Bill.
[Continuation of arguments againil the motion for Itrikins; oul
the hetion which gives the Members ol Coi.grels the privilege of
jrar.klng letters.] fa
\A/HEN the bill under consideration is once
palled into a law, it is prefutnable, that no
gentleman will ever alk a member to frank for
him, as he cannot grant the reqtieft confidently
with his honor:—the apprehenfion*entertained
of the exillence of abuses, and of their encreaf
mg with the encreafe of numbers, would be an
argument equally valid againtt every law; for
110 law can be so framed, as that people will not
find means to evade it: but still the legislature
will have the power of correrting the abuses, as
loon as discovered, by passing new laws to check
them. Ihe committee, who drafted the bill
had before them all the acfts of the Britifli legis
lature, refpetfting the poft-office : they law The
abuses and how they had been remedied ; and
with such light to guide their steps, they had pro
ceeded 111 the execution of their talk. The pri
vilege of franking they had introduced into the
bill upon mature consideration—to take it awav
would be levelling a deadly llroke at the liberty
oftheprefs : t he information conveyed by franks
may be considered as the vital jaices, and the
•channels of rtie poll-office, as the veins; 'and if
these are (topped, the body mull be dellroyed •
n is treading on dangerous ground, to take any
measures that may ll op the chancels of public in
formation, efpeeially of that which relates to
matters in which the people are interelled : _ to
check the circulation even of foreign intelligence
may be dangerous ; but it is highly so, to dfprive
the people of information refpetfing the mea
ures of the general government nor ought
he members to complain of being obliged to re-,d
jo many letters and petitions as come to their
hands i n consequence of the exemption f l om po(l .
age. I, any gentleman thought this a heavy
talk, he ought to remember that it was only ],js
f uty, and a talk which every member had under
taken when he accepted a feat in the House
I ne privilege of franking was granted to the
members, not as a personal advantage (for in fact
it P'oved ratner a burden) but as a benefit to their
conftiKients, who, by means of it, derive infor
mat ion from those who are bell qualified to e iv e "
t, as they are the persons chosen to adininiller
crivfufefu ?nf ernM " t ' " lembeis
uletul information through the fame ~i,„
»el. When the impoll law aifd the excise
rrv* 1
»•«,»„ the house f " d '
282
measures, ought always to be explained 'o infi ,
ential characters in the different p ; . lr:s of ~l ey
nion. Such conduct will produce the molt H
tary effects, in reconciling the people to'the
lures of government, « hen the principles up ,
winch every law is framed, are i' u
them, as well by the correi'noiuience ' ,iie
hers, as by their debates, publilhed 111 ih e h.-V l '-
papers. " *
It it the duty of the members to disperse the
newspapers among those people who cannot per
haps otherwise obtain them, than under the pro
tection of franks :—even along the polt-road,
the common packets of newspapers are not fa' •
from depredation : but when once they e et into
the interior parts of the country there is hardly
any chance of their escaping whereas under
cover of a frank, they are sure to reach their def
oliation in fafety.
II the privilege were confined, during the ses
sion, to letters lent from and received at the feat
of government,and the members limited to their
own letters, and obliged to write the whole fupei -
fcription. the encreafe of the apprehended abuses
would be prevented : if it were further reftriift
ed, by limiting it to tliofe letters only that are
lent to or come from the Hate to which the mem
ber belongs, this would convince the peonle, that
the privilege was intended for the benefit not of
the members but of their conflittients.
Further it was observed, that every argument
which might be adduced in favorof withdrawing
the privilege from the members of Con<rrefs
might be used with equal force in t he cases of the
President, Vice-Pi «fident, and every other public
officer, mentioned in the fame feftior.. It the al
lowance of fix dollars per day was a reason for
fubji-<sting the members to the payment of poll,
age, every public officer ought also, on the fame
principle, to pay for his letters, as they were all
compenfared with equal liberality. Ifabufes were
apprehended from the members, others were as
likely to introduce them as they : if an encreafe
of revenue was contemplated, the postage of all
letters to and from the Prelident, the Vice-Prefi
denr, the Secretaries of State, of the Trcafury, of
the Department of War, &c. would contributeto
that encreale : — bur 011 the other hand, those geu
tlemen mult have theircompenfations encretffed,
if their letters were to be taxed 1 ; for they could
not be expected to pay for theni at their own ex
pense. if the privilege can be guarded againlt
abuse. with refpetf to thole officers, it can also be
guarded in rhe cafe of members of Congress.
The eftablifhinent of the poll-office is agreed
to be for no other purpose than the conveyance
of information into every parr of the Union j and
a gteater portion of that had been conveyed into
many of the interior parts of the country, by the
newspapers lent by the members of the house,
than could be conveyed by other means, excepting
on the main roads on which flages go: — that in"
foimation had proved highly serviceable to the
prefeut government: ; for wherever the newspa
pers had extended, or even the correspondence
of the members, 110 opposition has been made to
the laws, whereas the contrary was experienced
in those parts to which the information had not
penetrated ; and even there, the opposition
ceased, as soon as the principles on which the
laws had been palled, were made known to the
people.
As as the privilege can be thus used for
thejfctneral advantage of the citizens, it ought
nop to be relinquillied by the members merely
thiongh fear of its being thought a j;erfonal pri
vilege : it inight be confined to members actually
attending the f'ellion ; they might be obliged to
wine the whole fuperfciiprion, and even to add
tie vate. 111 short, the wildoin of the house, it
was hoped, would prevent all the evils appre
hended from it, and retain the advantages.
I he question being taken on the motion (for
withdrawing the privilege from the members)
palled in the negative—yeas 2r, nays 35.
WEDNESDAY, December 28.
•jr. Livermore presented a memorial from the
eg 1 flat ore of the State of New-Hampfliire, rt
monn rating against the inequality in the afl'amp
tion of the State debts ; referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
A inefJage, from the Senate, was delivered by
Secretary Otis, informing that they bad
pa ed a bill ((ent to them from the house) for
eai tying into effec r t the contract between the
nited States, and the State of Pennsylvania.
Mi. Secretary Lear delivered a meflage from
tie refideiu of the United States, accompanied
with the copy of a letter from the Attorney-Ge
"eral, stating certain difficulties in the execution
of his office.
1 lie houf'c resumed rlie consideration of the
amendments, pivipofed bv the committee of the
whole, to the port office bill.
; he 20th lection, with the amendments, was
ajjieed to, and the privilege of franking continu
ed to the members of both lionfes, and conferred
<>n the Secretary of the Senate, the clerk of the
Honfe of Representatives, and some other offi
ceis.The amendment to the 23d lection was also
agreed to, fubjetfting newspapers conveyed in
the mail, to a postage of one cent for 100 miles,
and a cent and a half for any greater diltance.
Seiftion 25, as amended and agreed to, author
ises the psrt-mafters of Portsmouth, N. H. Borton,
Providence, New-York, Philadelphia, Baltimore,
Annapolis, and Charleston, S. C. to fend the let
ters to the houses of the persons, to wljom ad
dre(ied,and to charge, for such convejance, one
cent on each letter, in addition to the portage.
Having proceeded through all the amend
ments, the house adjourned.
THURSDAY, December 29
The letterof t lie Attorney-Generel of the Unit
ed States, lent from the President yesterday, was
referred to the committee who have before them
the report on the judiciary system.
The petition of James Rumfey, refpedting his
invention of a (team-boat, was referred to tlie
committee on ufeful arts, &c
Two petitions, of William Langley and Adam
iiffart, praying compeniation for Cervices, were
•ead and referred to the Secretary of War.
The House resumed the consideration of the
Pod-Office bill. Many of the amendments were
attain amended—the time was taken up in dif
cuiling the various proportions offered from all
parts of the House—the franking section was re
ltriifted in several particulars—A motion to re
duce the portage of newspapers to an half cent
eac h and another providing for the transporta
tion of periodical pamphlets by the mail—both
failed. The several feiftions being gone through
w ; t h a motion to recommit the bill and amend
ments occasioned further debate, which conti
nued to the time of adjournment.
Mr. Hartley obtained leave of absence for 8
days.
Mr. Hillhoufe obtained leave of absence for
20 days—and then the House adjourned.
FRIDAY, December 30,
A number of petitions were laid on the clerk's
table by several members—these were taken up
in order, read, and referred—thofe for pensions
and compensations for services and disabilities,
to the Secretary of War
A memorial of John Churchman was read, re
newing his application for the patronage of Go
vernment, to enable him to undertake and pro
lecute a voyage of discovery towards the North
Pole—laid on the table.
Mr. Bourne of the committee of enrolment,
reported the bill for carrying into effeift a con
tract between the United States and the state of
Pennsylvania, as duly enrolled—the Speaker then
affixed his signature to the lame.
A mefl'age was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear—com
municating a copy ot the ratification by the state
of Virginia, ofthe amendments proposed by Con
gress to the Constitution of the United States.
A petition from a number of the inhabitants
of Northumberland county,Pennfylvania, against
that part of the revenue law, which lays a duty
oil spirits distilled from the produce ofthe coun
try,and praying for a repeal of the law—was
read and fcaid on the table.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to ex
tend the time for fettling the accounts of the
United States with the individual States—Mr.
Muhlenberg in the chair.
The bill being read, Mr. Clark proposed an
additional fedUnn, providing for enhancing the
salary of the firft clerk in the Commiflioner's of
fice to the funi received by the principal clerk in
the Auditor's office— which was agreed to.
The committee then role and reported accord
ingly—the house acceptcd the report, and or
dered the bill to be engrofled for a third reading.
The report of a select commiifee, refpe(fting
the Secretary of the Treasury's exhibiting annu
al accounts of the receipts and expenditures of
public monies, was taken into confideration —
This report consisted of two resolutions —one
requiring the account, the other that a commit
tee Ihould be appointed to examine and report
thereon.
After considerable debate, the firft resolution
was adopted—the other disagreed to.
Adjourned till Monday.
FROM A LONDON PAPER.
VOLTAIRE
AS Voltaire is quoted as the great Oracle of re
publicnnifm (as his ashes are looked upjn
as the embers from which the democracy of France
has been lighted up into its present flame) let us
f-r contra, give, in his own words, what that no
torious atheillical hypocrite has (aid of kings: —
In his celebrated address to the members of the
Academy of Paris, in the year I 746, will be found
these words :
In speaking of Louis the XI Vth. he fays, "Do
you think, gentlemen, that the honors resound
ed by f 0 many voices to the memory of Louis the
XlVih. did not open to tlieinfeves a way 10 the
heart of his fiiccefTor?—lt will one day be said,
that both journeyed to immortality ; lometitnes
by the fame road, sometimes by different routes.
Posterity must fay, that this was the true pursuit
of glory ; that the monarchy of France displayed
a greatness of foul in the happiness of its people !
i hat land and lea gave telfimony of its magnifi
cence—and the smallest objects, as soon as they
began to have any relation to it, a flu in eel a new
character, and received the it a nip of Sterling
grandeur!"
At the conclusion of this memorable harangue,
we find Voltaire again either a strong royalill, or
the mod profound hypocrite. His words are, in
descanting on the character of the late king of
trance, " We are happy, we have known his
virtues ever since he began to reign. We have
always thought of him, as all ages, and all na
tions will think. Never was there a love more
sincere, or better exprelled : By all hearts it is
felt, and by your eloquent tongue it is declared.
Medals worthy of the most polite times of Greece
eternize his triumphs and our happiness. O !
that I could fee in our public places, fiatues of
that humane monarch carved by the hands of our
Praxiteles's, environed with all the symbols of
public felicity : O ! that 1 cottld read at the foot
of each flattie, these words, which are engraved
upon all our hearts, "To the father of his
country."
After this, what mult the public think of the
admirers of Voltaire ?
FROM THE LONDON CHRONICLE.
THOMSON
One of the most elegant compliments ever paid to this charming
Poet was by a person of his own name, who sent him the fol
lowing Verses :
To Mr. James Thomson, on his Seasons.
HAIL Nature's Poet, whom she taught alone
To sing her works, in numbers like her own,
Sweet as the ihrufh that warbles in the dale,
And foft as Philomela's tender tale;
She lent her pencil too of wond'rous pow'r,
To catch the rainbow, and to form the flow'r,
Of many mingling hues—and smiling said,
(But fir ft with lauiel crown'd her Favourite's head)
" These beauteous Children, tho' so fair they shine,
" Fade in my Scafons; let them live in thine."
And live they (hall, the charm of every eye,
Till Nature ficken,and the Seasons die.
Philadelphia, December 51.
All accounts of the late a<ftion with the Indi
ans refletft honor 011 the condud: of Genera) St.
Clair and his gallant troops. It is true the army
was defeated, but it is highly probable they were
overpowered by superior numbers.—The annals
of the late war do not exhibit a more lengthy and
severe conflidl; and although the iflue of it was
unfortunate, thereputation of the American arms
remains unimpeached.
Whatever may be the consequences of the In
dian war, the United States are not responsible
for them.—The predatory incurlions of the Wa
ba(h and Miami Indians, began in the early part
of the late war, and have continued without in
termission to the present time.
These Indians have constantly refufed the in
vitations of the United States to treat .of peace,
although the neighbouring tribes did, at several
periods since the late war, conclude treaties with
us. Some people have supposed that this war
has been lighted up by the encroachments of the
whites.—This does not appear to be the cafe.—
The VVabafh Indians have not any claim to the
lands within the boundaries by several
treaties with the Western Indians ; —nor have
they urged any such claim : they appear to have
been incited to a continuance of their depreda
tions, by a thirst for blood and plunder, with both
of which they have been but too abundantlj gra
tified.
When the insolence and criu-liies of these ban
ditti (hall be fully explained to the public, toge
ther with the means used to bring them to a just
f'enfe of their situation, without having recouiTe
to the last extremity, the humanity of the United
States will be abundantly apparent, and their con
duct receive, as it merits, the approbation of the
enlightened part of mankind.
Six Cherokee Chiefs, with a woman and boy
of that nation, accompanied by Mr. Carey, inter
preter, arrived in town on Thursday last, ; bout
twelve o'clock. They were attended by Colonel
Proper, of this city.
The following are the names of the fix Chero
kee Chiefs :
Iniunetua, or Bloody fellow : a General.
Chadlaw, or King-Fisher : a Colonel.
Nattawego, or the North Nation : a General
Kuthaguila, or The Prince : the Old Warrior,
Teyeftifkey, or The ttifturber : a Captain.
Shucvvegee, or Captain George.
The Squaw, Jean Dougherty
Chriftiaii Fcbiger, Esq. is unanimously i e-elecft
ed Treafurcr of this Commonwealth, by the Lc
giflaiurc.
283
William Thomson,
_ A veflel arrived at Boftoti brings a corjfmna
ioy erf the deftruiftion of Port-au-Prince.
Port-au Prince was a large and populous city,
containing more than 20,000 inhabitants—lt is
now an heap of rubbifii and its citizens reduced
to indeferibable distress.
We can inform our readers from the best au
thority, thai in the late aiftion of the 4th of No
vember, under Major-General St. Clair, the fol
lowii'g gallant conduct of Major Butlei , brother
to the late General Butler who commanded one
of the battalions of levies from this state, took
place—the Major having received the wound
which broke his leg, he retired to be drefled, and
the moment it was over, got himfelf put upon a
horse, and returned to his battalion, and conti
nued with it until it was ordered to retire.
7 he Subscription-Book for opening the Canal
and Lock Navigation between the l ivers Schuyl
kill and Snfquehanna, by the waters of Tulpe
hocken, Quitapahilia, and Swatara, in the coun
ties of Berks and Dauphin, having been kept
open for fifteen days, agreeable to law, were
doled on Saturday last, when it appeared that
there were 40,000 shares fubferibed, being 39,000
shares more than the law requires, the whole
number is to be reduced down to one thousand
shares, by lottery.
The committee of the House of Representatives
appointed to conflder and report 011 the a<ft :e
---fpecfting dramatic exhibitions, have reported in
fubltance, That as the public sentiment will for.
ever prescribe the language, and ltamp the ch«-
raifier of public exhibitions, it becomes unnecef
(ary for the Legislature to place the Theatre un
der the trammels of censors.
Late letters from Jamaica to a gentleman in this city, mention
that the Ipirit of revolt among the negroes had at length reached
the ifljnd —that the white inhabitants were fincerel/ alarmed for
their falety, had proclaimed martial law, and were taking every
precaution in their power to prevent a general infur*6tiou. The
flame is spreading, and threatens the Weft-India islands with ruin
and devastation.
Wednesday lad the Senate of this Commonwealth, voted that
the choice of a Federal Senator fliould be by a concurrent vote
11, to 6.
The amnesty, allowed in France to the fugitive princes, and
others who have opposed the revolution, is very honoiable, as-well
as wife and politic. Men overturn a tyranny, because they fear
it ; and what they fear they hate. The druggie for liberty in
flames both passions, fear and hatred. The moment of triumph
is a dangerous trial of the heart; for it finds the latter palfion
thii sting for the deftru£tion of the obje&s and persons, which it
lately feared and continues to hale. The amnesty evinces the
magnanimous confidence of the National AlTembly in the liabili
ty of their own work ; no longrr fearing their foes, they have the
nobleness of foul, as well as wisdom, to forgive them. It is to
the honor of the age that opinions are no longer punilhed as
crimes. Go on, enlightened Frenchmen, your mildness (a nation
al virtue now resumed) in the use of your privileges, will make
liberty appear amiable in the eyes of other nations.
Hitherto a free people have been considered as a kind of fcc
taries ; it bas been a diftin&ion in the world, and a proud one
too of more worth than all its titles. But the time is coming,
and the French, il they are wife and prudent enough to make
their work strong as they do it, will hasten the period, when the
major vote of the world will be given in favor of liberty—when
the want, or the loss of it, will be considered as a stain, a mark of
ignominy and degradation, which slaves, the most uled to it, will
not have the patience to carry.
The example of a free people is important to the world. The
common objection against free governments, is, that they run into
licentiousness. Afi ce people, therefore, by refuting obedience
to the laws, do an injury not only to themselves, but to mankind.
It is not kings only who are terrified by feeing the effects of this
disobedience— it seems, in their view of the matter, a duty with
men of sense and virtue, living in countries whose governments
need reforming, to oppose the work of reformation, and to pre
serve the public trjoquility, even at the piiceol delaying, perhaps
of finally losing the opportunity of changing things for the belter.
How would itaifcourage the European lovers of liberty and good
order, for they are the fame fort of men, to find that we in Ame
rica have made a new form of government, as free as the air, and
one that has been found as good to dispute about as ever was
made ; but the people will not obey it. Surely then no Ameri
can who is h;ilf as proud of his country and his liberty as he has
caufeto be, will give occasion for his own and his country's dis
honor, by opposing or countera&ing the excise laws. There is no
liberty without government —and surely there is no government
where men govern the laws* Men may love liberty in their hearts
who join in the cry against the excise—but if they are wild e
nough to oopofe it foicibly, they are the worst enemies of liberty.
• excise has a bad name—but never was more pains bellow
ed to ma.ke the a£l deserve a good one. Will not the men who
think it a dangerous law, give those who would explain it an hear
ing ? Will they not fee the effects of the law before they pro
nounce it oppreflive ? It is to be feared that great misrepresenta
tions have taken place. But the truth, though flow, will arrive at
last, and thousands will be surprised to find how grossly they have
been imposed upon, in relation to this obnoxious law.
With so much good sense as our countrymen arc known to
possess ; and after so much as they have done and fuffered to esta
blish an equal government, by laws and not by men, it is lmpof
fible to conccive that an\ men, uniefs in a fit of mad paflion, can
be found so wickcd and foolilh as to fly in the face of authority,
and to oppose those very laws which they, by their representatives,
have had pait in framing.
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT,
23 f
•a/ 6 ra
13/8
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates
Indents
Bank Subscriptions,
THE annual eje&ion of Officers of the American Phi
losophical Society, will be held at their Hall between
the hours of 2 and 5, p. m. on Friday the 6ih ot January
next
December 31
pr. £ . 115 pr. ccnt.
do.
do,
20/"6
102& do.
63i
>2/9
Dollars.
JONATHAN WILLIAMS, Sec'rypi
ADDRESS
TO THE CITIZENS OF
WESTMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
REVENUE LAW
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector op the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania
AS far as any discretionary power of visiting is given to any
officcr acting under that law, it is confined to buildincs,
which are enter ed by the parties, as places in which they ear
ly on the business of di&tilling. No other house or build
iug they may have can be visited. If there arc even particular
apartments in a house in which the bufincfs is carricd on,
these only, if designated properly, can be viiited by the officer.
He would have no right to meddle with any other apartment in
the house.
Thus careful have Congiefs been to secure and protest the ci
tizen from any improper intrusion or learch.
But even this very qualified power of visiting is confined to Dis
tilleries from Foreign Materials, and to distilleries from domeltic
materials in Cities, Towns and Villages only. It does not at al!
apply to any cafe, in which the duty is charged upon the Still it
felf, whether the party chooses to pay the sixty cents per gallon
of the capacity of the still, or the nine cents per gallon on the spi
rits aftualJy distilled by him. In which ever way he may make
his cle&ion, he is free from the visitation of the officer; this, it is
believed, has escaped your notice, as it appeart to my mind to ob
viate many of the prevalent obje&ions.
The power of visiting the still to take its dimensions, once for
all, will hardly be deemed an exception to what is here a tier ted.
This would be nothing more than if Affeflbrs were to come upon
a man's farm to view the size, the kinds and quality of the land.
Neither can the provision which authorises inagiftrates in cer
tain cases to grant search warrants be deemed an exception, Hcie
the discretion is not in the officer of the revenue, but in the Ma
giftratr, and even he cannot grant such a warrant, but in conse
quence of reasonable cause of suspicion made out to his fatisfac
tion upon oath, nor can the warrant granted be executed bur in
the prefeuce of a conilable or other pcace officcr.
This power of searching so much complained of, is however
not peculiar to excise laws. Ships, which are certainly much
more the dwellings of the master and the crew, than are the great
est numbers ol distilleries, are liable to constant search, and as
far as search warrants are concerned, a similar power is to be
found in the law regulating the collection of the duties on im
ported articles, which is not only a neceifai y provision, but one
which has never exeited the least murmur among the merchants,
or others whose houses or (lore houses might be atfefted by ir.
By the laws of Pcnnfylvania too, all bakehouses may be enter
ed and examined by certain public officers at their discretion;
and they are almost uniformly a part of the dwellings of trie per
lons who condutt them ; whereas distilleries in molt cases form
no part of the dwellings of their owners, any more than a saw
mill or a smith shop. This regulation has always been ftiiflly
executed in the city of Philadelphia, bciug confidcicd as one of
the most important in its police.
No one of these things has been deemed an invasion of domeft c
pcace or private propeity. As well might it be said that the en
try of an aflcfror to levy, or of a tax gatherei to demand and en
force the payment of a tax is such an invasion. Ideas of this fort
are certainly overstrained, and are incompatible with the neces
sary operations of the mildest of governments.
Third objection. " The oaths which are required of the par
ties tend to injure morals and multiply temptations to peijury."
Anfwcr. It is ccitainly always to be wished that a multiplica
tion of oaths could be avoided, but the requiring them is not an
objection to excise laws in particular. It applies to fcveral other
kind of revenue laws, and it is much easier to wish they could be
avoided, than to discern how it can be done with due fccurity to
the public.
No article fubjefl to a duty on importation can be brought into
the country, but the master of the veflel mull, in the firft pla;e
report it on oath ; and before it can be landed the owner or con
signee mull also enter it upon oath, producing an invoice of the
article, its cost, See. Similar regulations are pra6ticed in foreign
countries, and were prafliced under all the State governments ;
nor has there ever been any reasonable fubftitutc proposed. If
neither the iufpeflion of officers, nor the oaths of parties arc to
be tolerated, there is no alternative, but that all taxes must be laid
upon land, oraflTefled according to the arbitrary guesses of cciuin
officers. The former would ruin the farmer and disappoint the
revenue : the latter truly involves the word kind of tyranny, arid
is equally unprodu&ivc to the treasury.
<4 Foorth objection. The penalties and forfeitures in the law
? rC high as not only to puniffi, but ruin delinquents, who
bear in their fufferings the delinquency ot otheis.",
Answer. Tlie penalties and lorfeiturrsare not higher nor more
Severe, than those which secure the collection of dunes on import
ed articles and the regulations of the coasting trade, and are not
greater than are usual in revenue laws generally. Pecuniary pen
allies in forne cases extend from one to five hundred dollars and
forfeiture ol the article itfclf, in refpeft to which attempts'have
been made to defraud the public, are the only pur.ilhmeia to be
found in the excise law, except for falfe oaths and extortion or
oppreffian on the part of the officers. False oaths involve the
pains of perjury ; the extortion or oppression ot officers brines
with it fines imprisonments, forfeiture ol office, and an incapacity
to nolo offices in future. r '
Proyifion has been made for the mitigation and rcmiffion of
"*W l'fTj° f k C j ' but thofc of w i LFU L negligence or fraud
Wilful d.lobedience to the laws, fraud and corruption, periu.
r>, extortion and oppression are the only things which are treat
cd with fcvcrny ; is a wi lfu l disoseoi ence to the constu
In A.?" j\ LAWS ° f t , hccou,ltr y a light offence ? Are attempts
' tS S° vcrnm "". 'he means of
paying I S debts and providing for the common defcnce and gC
nn r u C * , 1S ,ranf ? rtls i" ns ? Arc pecuniary penalties from
one to five hundred dollars, with a forfeiture of the art wch
-»,°';V raud ' T c ' nve p" ,,i ! hme n.
False oatl C j* lh^r e (nbftantial diftm&ion between one
<0 iner' .le t n h-Vefneft J° r ' ?' ki " g » r Mi-Bio., tend
Zsr was it zstsrzst
Fn an oX"' f °J ' T"' f ° rlci, , u,c ° f ■""» '""pacfty to fer«
„„„,„ r ti ,;[•« ;J
•fcUb'Sfw iftkll,™'' - «ol M.
(TO BE CONTINUED.J
ON THE
(CONTI NU ED.)
At No. 263, South Front-Strict,
Next WedtiLfdjy evening, John Macphkr&on will Lefturc on
MECHANICS,
and begin precisely at Eight o'Clock.
Tickets are fold by Mr. Pou/fon, at the Library ; Mr. Pclojiy at
the Merchant's Coffeehoufe; and by fdid A ai owe half
a dollar each.
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An cxtenfive Affoiment, of very superior texture, suitable for
every branch of the bufinefa, just imported from Amsterdam,
DANIEL
No. 114, South Front-Street;
Where Millers and others may always be fupphed with the bed
Cloths, and large allowance made to ihofe who purchafc in ijuan
titles to fell again.
Also tor Sale, a Quantity of Particular
MADEIRA WINE,
Of the firft Quality, fit for immediate use, in Pipes,
Philadelphia, December 6, 1791
George MEADE
Has for SALE,at his Stores on Walnut-Street Whar f,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old billsof exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, iioglhcad or
quarter calk.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firft quality, by the hoglhead or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter calk, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He has just received by the Pigou, Loxley, mailer, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well alTorted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantitv of drcffed White OA
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be allured of being well ierved.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undreflVd HAND
SPIKES. He is purchaling FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highcit pricc for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER, and
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be disposed of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, &Co.
HAVE jult now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
fouih of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and leady for sale, a general allot
ment ofSHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifii workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a redueed
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufafturc all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefitd to either of the
above Factories, will be thanktully received, and executed on the
Ihorttft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, I.aborning Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houfts for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their taclory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pbar-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, p. »i.
Among them arc the following :
folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutaich, Eiifebius, Sozc
1. X men, Theodorer, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Pliny, Concordantia Lai. Concordamia Gr. Thcfauiuj Ci
ceronis. Biblia J*unii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulae—Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Ltvino-
Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannics, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bemiey's Horace, Tcrence and
Pha:drus, Ovid, Juvenal, Maniiius, Ciccronis op. om. Ca:far, Su
ctouiu;, Julius Pollux, Hcdcrici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Giam. Cluve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, See.
Oclavo ct infra. Homer, Auacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Heliod, Poetx minorcs Gr. Il'ocrarcs, Phalai is, va
rious tdilionsof Horace, Viigil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau.
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. FUccus, Aulonius, Buchanan,
oalluu, Curtius, Floaus, Jultin, Val. Maximum, A. Gcllius, Hill
Augutt. Scnptores, F.ngtifh and French Tranjlutions of some o! the
Clalhcs, a great variety o't Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
(f3* Catalogue! may be had of Mellrs. Rice & Co. Bonkfcllcrs
A'i L CCt ' 0r of JOHN CAREY.
Oftnber 31. ( f )
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SEI.LS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcriprioii,oiiCswOT^o«,
at the following rates:
Ca cent rpecicamou " tof all fjl£s at auflion, one eighth pci
On ditto at private sale or purehafe, one-halt per cent
Un remittances, ditto
Receiving intcreft at the Loan-Officc, one pcrcent. on the
amount of the intcieft.
For makingtransfers at ditto, feverJy-five cents per transfer
.k • j pcrfons as may incline to favor the fubferiber wilh
UU,°' rd " 5 ? ™V rel yo i > t hei r being executed with puntlua/ity,
in , a " d J'fi aUh - Hls lo "g experience extenfwe d«l,n£
in the public stocks, together with a well eltablidied correfpon.
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar beuefit to his employers.
JCIHN PINTARD,
iYfw-1 oik, No. 57, King-Street.
OSobsr 15, 1791
284
and for Sal e by
TY S O
Bank of the United States.
December 22, 1791
Resolved, That the Discounts in future l»e in«uic u.,,.,
Tuefdty and Friday, and that the Notes or Bills otF<-r<rd iur
DiLouut, be piefentcd at the liank. 011 Monday and Tharldjy
f A ,] TOHV KFAN, (ap,/,
Bank of the United States.
December 3. 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Bdiik or me Uniud States
will be opened on Monday the s'ij uillont.
Transfers of the fubfci ipuons to uie Hock of fa id Bank in,.y
then be made.
On Monday the 12th iuftant, deposits will be received, and ou
Tueiday th? 20th inltanr, discounts may be made.
By order of ihe President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Ca/hier.
All Bills or Notes f>(7ered for Difmum fhali be delivered into
the Bank, on Mondays or Wednesdays, ine Discount fftaii be fet
tled on Tuefoays and Thurldays, and fhali be nuade known :he
next fucceedtng days.
[iawim]
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS of the
BANK ok the UNITED STATES,
D"»«u 5, 1791.
RESOLVED,
THAT ihe payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of the United States, confiding of Specie which will
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next
may be made at the refpe&ive Banksof Majfuchufetts and New-York.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, (hall, on or before the fir ft Monday in January next,
exhibit 10 the Cashier of the Bank of the United Stales, a Certifi
cate signed by the Calhier of the Bank into which such payment
shall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
eftabliftied to the contrary notwithstanding
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, November 22,1791.
THE Stockholders ol the Bank of the United States
are hereby informed, that accoiding to the statute ofincor*
poration, a general election toi twenty-five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the fccond day of January next, at ten o'cloek in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fedlion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to alterable in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuelday the thud day of
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Dire&ors,
JOHN KE A N, Cashier.,
Second fundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
(ep 6w.)
" Not more than three-fourths of the Direflors in office, exclu
sive of the Piefident, iTiall be eligible for the next fuccecding year.
But the Director who fliall be Prcfidcnt at.the time of an election,
mav always be rc-ele&ed." fentf"!
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Ol the fir ft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and MarketStrcets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and last Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
Public Securities,
Bought and Soli>, on COMMISSIO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street. next door to the Bank. No. qy.
TO BE SOLD,
On the Waters of Tye River, a Branch of James River, in
lhe County ol Am herd, and State of Virginia,
About 7,000 acres of rich Land,
Well adapted to producc every kind of grain and grass a fanner
can wiih to cultivate, chftant from navigation twenty miles.
For terms apply to JAMES ROSE, reliding on the Land.
Am her ft County, Virginia, Dec. 10, 1791. (41)
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the tow n of Alexandria, whereon the sub
scriber now refidfs ; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvement*, which are a neat and commodious two ilory house,
compleatly finiflicd from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all finiflicd
in the bed manner, together with several other neccflary outhouse*,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a (killful gardner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with" a
poll and rail fence ; a well, and springs of excellent water —the
profpeft is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America —
its contiguity to Alexandria, the federal Town, and Gcorgr-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mud render it in
a few years of gri at value, being in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer befoic the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indisputable title, clear of ail incumbrances, will be made
bv the (übfcnbei. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles dilfant, which will suit well to lup
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 1791
HISTORY Of NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
( To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Kev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are rendy for Delivery to Subfcribers-r-who may reccive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnui and Thiid Streets.
(£3" The above two volumes contain the political history of the
Slate, from its fir ft settlement to the adoption of the .prefcnl Con
futation of the United States; —the third, containing a geographi
cal defcriptioa of the State, {ketches of its natural history, &c. is
in the piefs.
* # * A lew copies of the firft two volumes for sale—price 20f.
November 5, 1791. _
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
/l United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in Dollars end
Cents, ft«m One to a Thousand Penny weights—according to the
A6l of Co'V7»efs, afecrtainint? the Standaid and Value of Gold.
The price of this Paper is 2 Dollars per ann
One half to be paid at Subfcrilin *
By order of the Piefident and Dire&ors,
TOHN KF. AN. Cashier.
The Fii (I and Second Volumes of the
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
BALDWIN DADE.