0f m uipp
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7OH.V FENNO No fir. Hiru stoc-lt ~Z ~ " ~~—
' b9, HiG H-STREIT, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6of Vol. lII.]
)R THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
EDUCATION
| '"pHE Englifti papers represent the riotevs atßir-
I -*• mingham as an ignorant rabble. Andthatit
isoffuch that mobs are always tompofed. Wlie
ther a man is much of a pliilofopher or not, he
cannot well avoid reflecting on the mifchiefs
"done, and lofles of property fnfrered, as well as
the terror, diflurbance and disgrace, refultin"-
from these violent disorders. A mail will then
fee that, as the niofl: ignorant of men are the ac
tors in these scenes, ignorance is the true canfe
of all the mifchief. In (lead of hanging men,
though doubtless tHey deserved the gallows, let
the government of England look to the root of
the evil. The loss of property is said to have
amounted to fouie hundred thousand pounds
sterling. Had the interell of the sum been ap
plied for the support of schools, and the rioters,
in their youth, been taught in them, it is proba
ble that they would not have been concerned.—
From whence it may be inferred, that the negle<fl
of education costs more than the provision for it.
For it is certainly right, in keeping the accouut
between ignorance and knowledge, to charge the
former with the mifchief it does. A fchool-honfe
■will turn out in the end a better security of the
public peace, than a regiment of the hoi fe guards, j
We fee the latter not arriye in time to pro
tect the fufferers at Birmingham. It
cheaper and wiler, as well as more lnny£ne.
prevent evil, than to remedy orrotiUh iit
is done. How few persons, b)-(M tcjje-
rably well educated, have b&en lit-be i s oPthe*
public peace. The gallows WcAild aCTtt the truth
of this remark, if the of its'oMctye and
almost unpitied victims could now be told. Very
few, efyecially of the natives of America, have
fuffered, whose fate could not justly be afci jbed
to neglect of their youth—Shall we then go
on fmootbly as they do in England, hanging one
half the people to keep the quiet in
their beds !—or will our men of humanity, and
our politicians, bestir themselves at last, and by
establishing schools, get at the fountain head of
the evil, and endeavor to diminish crimes and
banishing ignorance ?
All other public cares are worse than loft, for
*hile they®f>anifh offenders with more and more
fruitlefs severity, they divert our attention from
v£he true nature and proper remedy of the evil.
PARIS, September 6.
THE Bourdeaux chamber of commerce has im
portunately demanded the recall of the de
crec > granting liberty and equal privileges with
the whites to the mulattoes in St. Domingo. This
is diretftly contrary to the opinion of ihe citizens
of Bourdeaux, who in their petition on this fub
jetft, voluntarily offered to embark in quality of
soldiers, to compell the coloniits to comply with
the decree of May iytli. The municipality and
friends of the conllitutioti wiihed to prevent the
fetiing out of the meflenger that had been en
gaged to carry the address of the chamber of
commerce to the National Afi'enibly ; but the
mercantile and naval bodies urged his departure,
considering, no doubt, that the commercial ill
terefts had at lead as good a right to petition, as
the club conftitutionilts.
Sept. 26. It is currently reported here, and
very confidently believed, that the King, since
his acceptance of the conllitution, lefufed to re
ceive a packet addrefled to him by his brothers,
or to hear any verbal explanation of the contents
from the bearer; to whom he said, that he could
hold nocorrefpondence with the Princes till their
return to Paris.
■everything is as peaceable and quiet here as
if nothiug hud happened ; trade is taking its
Saturday, December io, 1791.
usual couiTe, and we have not the lead suspicion
®f any of the powers of Europe attempting to
disturb our domestic tranquility. We (hall, how
ever, be prepared for defending ourselves, but
we (hall treat any attacks as those of an aflaflin,
who endeavors to disturb individual repose.
The choice of a new Marine Minister was not
declared or known yesterday.
Conformable to the decree of the NationalAf
fembly, two preachers yesterday informed the
Municipality of Paris, that they had formed con
tracts to enter into wedlock immediately.
M. de Segur, who was lately appointed ambas
sador to Rome, will, it is said, proceed to Eng
land to replace M. de la Luzerne, deceased.
DUBLIN, September 17,
Yesterday wheat fell in proportion of last week, four {hil
lings a barrel. If flour gets anything of a tolerable fall, the
aflize of bread being struck from the average of both, we may ex
pert an addition of half a pound to the twelve-penny loaf. Po
tatoes now fell in Francis-ftrcet at soar-pence a ft one, and cheap
er by the hundred. The fine weather we have happily experi
enced for some timepaft, has occafDned this redu&ion of the late
qxtravagant rates of two such essential necelfaries of life.
Whatever may be the opinions cf the people ot Ireland on po
litical fubjefts, we hope the Frencl king's acceptation of the con
stitution will giveuneere and general pleasure—as preventing the
efFufion of hurnan blood—putting ; ftopto the madness of ambi
tious OFtapricious wars, and exaltkig 25,000,000 of people to the
rank of freemen.
L O N D O N-D E R R Y
We have received from Philadelphia letters and papers down
to the 3d of August. All account*agree in a favorable repoit of
the mcreafing prosperity Sf the United States—their flocks are now
above par, as money is coming into them from all the countries
of Europe—the fubfenptions to the federal or national bank, were
filled up in a few minutes, and their crops this season, are rich
,and'plentiful. The Indian war has taken a fortunate turn : On
ifhe lft of June, Br>g, Go"* Ocot* lv "' < 4)| in* ftvagw oil
the bsihk.s of the'Wabafti ; army was soon after
jofned by 500 Indians, and nations have sued for peace.
The tfnw fifteen llatcs (by of Vermont and
weie lancet in Congrcfs the beginning of October.
-'.f ♦
« LON«D CV NT September 30.
farriage was celebrated yeftcrday at Ber
would have deferred it for some months
and address of a lover fount
;ged M. Bouille in the command of th
and the Mofclle.
troops
N STATI OF POLITICS. fM
The Emper the King of Prussia, are said to have met a
boutfometh' 'it 110 one can clearly tell what; they may or
may not have .rfed concerning Fran«e, but whatever they
may intend, it is to be trusted little mifchief to the caule of liberty
in an age present, can ensue against the energy of an una
nimous peopTSfVhich as advocates tor a different form of govern
ment from that which they lately experienced, the French nation
certainly are—for if absolute monarchs be permitted to suggest by
what form a neighbouring kingdom (hall be governed, little in fa
vor of the people can be expe&ed. Imperfedl as the new consti
tution at fjrefent may be, the people of France have now fufficient
materials with which to work out their own happiness, without
the interference of surrounding nations ; and we will hope there
is too much virtue in Europe, to fuffer such an officious afliftauce.
Has involved itfelf in a war with Morocco, at a time when all
its vigilance requires to be exercised at home, to prevent an uni
versal fpiri: of discontent from breaking out into action in its own
provinces. The late edicts directed against the French inhabitants
of Spain, have, and little else could be anticipated, set the natives
to enquire what this liberty is which provokes such a spirit of
persecution ; but the advocates for freedom in Spain have a ilub
bani foe to contend with in the clergy, who are a much more
powerful body than ever they were in France—moreover, ths
French being expelled the kingdom, they have no philosophical
leaders to urge them on ; theSpanifh people of weight and con
sequence being at present by no means remarkable lor thai liberal
mode of thinking which has long diftinguilhed their Gallic neigh
bors.
THE PAPAL STATES OF ITALY
Have lately discovered strong fyraptoma of discontent ; and
the mifchief of it is, his Holiness has no power to oppose against
any advances that may be made upon his ancient prerogatives, but
the artillery of anathema, which of late years has been discovered
to be very harmless in its effefls.
Has yet met with no interruption in its happy revolution ; the
new wheels which have been inferied in the machinery of its con
ltitution, have been put into motion, and found to work well and
harmouioufly with the whole. Neighbouring delpotifm effects
to frown, but its frowns aie despised ; though much remains at
fonie future time to be done for the Poles. The people at large
are certainly happier circumftanccd thin they were, and the no
bility not lels so. Comparative liberty has been given, without
licenlioufnefs hating been encouraged.
Has begun to fulfil her terms with :hc Porte, and the peace, at
length eftabhthed between thWe violent foes, promiles to be one
of some continuation.
Having temporarily disengaged itfc ll from iu unfuccefsfnl con
flict in Europe, finds its Asiatic pofTcffions m a great :
but having now leisure to attend to them, it is not fuppoled Irom
the fanpuinary mode in which the Court of Constantinople pro
ceeds in cases of rebellion, that any lofsof territory on that quar
ter will be theconfequcnce.
257
SPAIN
POLAND
RUSSIA
TURKEY
, o
[Whole No. 273.]
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, December 2.
(CON C LUDF.D.)
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE,
On the Appropriation Bill for the year I 792.
A/TR- GILES was of opinion that the commit
tee had done their duty, and had acted in
conformity to the resolution of the House. Me
mentioned his being one of" a final I minority a
gainst that resolution, when it was under confe
deration. At that time, he said, he was of opi
nion, that some previous examination was neces
sary.
He adverted to the eflimate from the Secreta
ry ot the Senate. That officer called for 4JOO
dollars, for contingent expences, though it did
not appear that there was a deficiency in thefum
of 3 000 dollars granted last year. Theonlyrea
fon that was given for an increase of jo percent,
was, the increased price ef the articles to be pur
chased. He was against allowing an unneceflary
latitude in appropriations. It would generally
l->e found, tie hi<i < [hat the expenditures would
come up very near i„ fhe fu m appropriated ; and
if 3000 dollars were (ast year, it remain
ed to be determined whether the increased price
of articles warranted an increase of 50 per cent,
in the funis to be appropriated now. Jf an in
crease in the appropriations for the department
of war, from good reasons, was neceflary, this
was no reason why the contingent expences of
the Senate should increase. He hoped the paflage
ot the bill would not be precipitated,, and was
of opinion that information fliould be previously
Obtained.
He approved of th« idea suggested by Mr. Ger
ry, to call on executive officers at ltated times
for th eir accounts. It had been said that mem
bers could seek for information at their offices ;
he thought it more proper that the officers should
be called upon to bring their accounts to the
House. He did not like the mode pointed out ;
and, indeed even supposing the members had ne
gletfted a duty, yet he hoped further time would
not be refufed. He was for the committee's ris
ing.
Mr. Barnwell was of opinion, that the report
of the Treasurer, containing a full account of
the receipt a..4 expenditure of all the public mo
ney, was the fullelt information that need be re
ceived, neither the members of the House, or a
committee of it, could poilibly examine into the
minutia* and items of every public account—The
Comptroller, Treasurer and Register were the
proper officers to do this. If any member of the
House was diflaiisiied with any particular charge
received at the treasury, he could either as an
individual call and examine into its propriety,or
on the floor of the House call for the informati
on he wanted to latisfy his mind.
Mr. Fitzfiinons was againit the committee's
rising. Many of the items in the appropriation
bill were right without doubt, and papers were
on the table to explain the propriety of others.
Salaries would not be disputed. If clerks were
unemployed at the ofaces,they would not be paid.
The contemplated appropriations for contingent
and incidental expences depended on estimates
which were before the committee ; and if any
are thought too coniitlerable, motions may be
made to reduce them ; but to rife now wouid be
mere waste of time. He enumerated fomeof the
objefis of expence which called for a larger ap
propriation this year to remove the general ob
jections of the gentleman from Virginia.
Mr. Madifou considered the present a good op
portunity to determine how far the House could
go into an examination of the accounts of public
officers. It was true that the representatives of
the people were the guardians of the public mo
ney. and consequently it was their duty to fatisfy
ihemfelves as far as possible of the sources fromwhich money flowed j nto thetreafnry—how that
money was applied—under what antbority, and
to enquire at different times what balance actual
ly remained in the treasury. This he conceived
could be(t be done by appointing a committee
periodically to examine the books of the Trea
su rer, fee what balance appeared on the facc of
them, and enquire whether that balance was re
ajly in the treafurj'
He mentioned the practice of the former Con
gtefs to appoint four committees to infpeift the
operations of the four departments under them.
These departments, he observed, however, now
belonged more to the executive ; but Hill as the
i eprelcntatives were by the conffitution, made
the guardians of the public money, they had a
right and it was their dnty to infpcdt the opera
tions of the treasury department. This light
could not be conveniently exercised, in liis opi
nion, by the whole body, but fhouldby a detach
ment from it who would report the neceflary in
formation. This mode of proceeding wasufual,
—he inflanced the practice of the Britifii Honfe
of Commons, and of several Hate legislatures.
Even if these enquiries procured no more infor
mation than was obtained by means of reports
from the different officers ofgovernment, yet be
ing made by the immediate representatives of
the people they would give more fatisfaiftion.
So far as it was tifeful to afcertaiu the real ba
lance in the treasury, so far these periodical com
mittees would be of the firft utility. A queftiou
aro<e, whether the progress of the bill before the
committee fiiould be flopped t'l make those en
quiries, or whether it should be fuftered to goon,
on the supposition that all was right. He wiih
ed the proper regulations on this fubjeifl fettled,
as Handing regulations, and to be adopted before
any idea of their necelfity should arise from sus
picious circumftnnces.
Mr. Lawrance wilhed to proceed in the bill as
far as the information already in the pofleffion
of the House would carry them.
,Mr\ Gerry made some observations to (how that
acc&mits i'rom the trea(Wy could never give the
information wanted—they generally stated Turns
of,money paid to individuals, without mention
of particular,objetfVs to which they were meant
to be applied. This was a favorable opportuni
ty. he-ohferyed, to eftabiiih some fuc'i regulati
ons as were contemplated by me' ioe " s ~ O-uv nflS.
cers have and deserve the ci'lidence of the peo
ple ;—it would be too l<> ce t0 attempt to make
those regulations when there were reafotis for
suspicions, the influence of fufpec r ted officers
■would be exerted to oppose therrr,
Some further remarks were made by . MeUVs.
Baldwin, Giles, and Fitzfimons, after which the
question was put, and the committee rose to fit
again.
TUESDAY, December 6
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the Pojl-Office Bill.
Mr. Sedgwick moved to strike ont all that
clause which delignated the roads and toinfert,
instead thereof, rhefe words, " by such route, as
the President of the United States Jhall, frotn time to
time, cause It be eflablijhed."
It had appeared, he said, co be the fenfeof the
House, when this fubjeot was formerly under
coniiderdtion, that the demarcation of the par
ticular roads should be entrusted to the execu
tive :—the only difference had been with refpecft
to the mode of expression ; but the effeift was
ffill to have been the fame ; fotne gentlemen
thinking it bell to leave the details of this bu
siness entirely to the fupreirie executive, orhers
wifiling to name the poftmafte'ii-general. The
members ot the house, he observed", could not be
ftippofed to possess every information, that might
be requilite, on this fubjeJi ; and their opinions
were liable to be bialled by local interefls : he
had ever considered it as highly incumbent on the
house to give the people every poflible informa
tion on public concerns :—but in this, as in eve
ry other fubjec'i, he thought it fufficientthat the
house should eftabliih the principle, and then
leave it to the executive to carry it into effect.
Mr. Livermore \cbferved, that the legislative
body being empowered by the conftiru;ion << to
establish poll-offices and-p'oft. roads" it is as clear
ly their dnty to designate the roads, as to efta
blifli the offices ; and he .did not think they
could with proptietjydelegaie that power, which
they were themselves/ appointed to exercile : —
some gentlemen, h<f knew, were of opinion,
that the biifinefs of the United States conld be
better tranfafied by a single person, than by ma
ny ; but this was not the intention of the Con
ftitutton but that, it was provided, thatthe
government Ihould be adminillered by represen
tatives, of the people's choice ; Co that every
man, who has the right of voting, (hall be in
lonie meafnre concerned in making every law
for the United States—The eftablillimet.tof pofl
roads heconfidered as a very important objetfl ;
but he did not wish to fee them so diffufed, as to
become a heavy charge where the advantage re
fairing from them would be bnt fmn!l ; nor on
the other hand, for the lake of bringing a reve
nue into the treasury, consent to straiten them
foas to check the progress of information.
If the pott-office were to be regulated by the
will of a single person, the dissemination of in
telligence might be aad the people
kept entirely in the dark with refped: to the
tranfadions of government , —orthe post matter,
if veiled with the whole power, might branch
out the office to i'uch a degree, as to make them
prt>ve a heavy burden ta the United States.—in
many instances, the exptnfe is productive of a
benefit fufficient to counterbalance it : in others,
no public benefit ante? ; . but some individuals
reap a private advantage from the institution,
whilst it is injurious to others.—The most mate
rial point in his opinion, was to determine the
road itfelf if the house gave up that, they
might as well leave all thereit of the business to
the discretion of the pott-matter, and permit him
to fettle the rates of pottage, and every other
particular relative to the pott-office, by faying at
once " there shall be a pod-matter general, who
(hall have the whole government of the pott-of
fice, under fnch regulations, as he, from time to
time, shall be pleased to enai't.
Mr. Sedgwick felt liimfelf by 110 means dispo
sed to resign all the bofmefs of the House to the
President, or to any one else ; but he thought
that the executive part of the bufmels ouglit to
be left to executive officers :—he did not, for
his part, know the particular circuinftances of
population, geography, ire. which had been ta.
ken into the calculation by the feiecl committee,
when they pointed nut the roads delineated in
the bill ; but he would ask, whether they under
stood the fubje»si so tho'oughiy, as the executive
officer would, who beitg refponlib'e to the peo
ple for the proper difciarge ot the trult reposed
in him, mil ft tile his utnoft diligence in order to
a fatisfartory execution of the delegated power?
—As to the conftitutioaality of this delegation,
it was admitted by the Committee themselves,
who brought in the bill :—for if the power was
altogether indelegable, no part of it could be
delegated ; and if a pare of it could, he law no
rea/on why the whole could not :—the second
'feiflion vvas as unconstitutional asthefirfi: ; for
it is there laid, that " it shall be lawful for the
post-matter-general to eflablilh l'uch other roads
«is poil-roads. « to lym seem rieceilaty."
Congrels, he otfeffrved, are authoiifed not on
ly to ettablifli poft-offic«rand polt-roads, but also
to borrow money :—But is it nnderiiood thai
Congress are to go in a body, to borrow ever*'
Turn ihat may be recpiifite ? is it not ratner j|l#ir.
office to determine the principle on wltic* the
buflnefs is to be conducted; and del.gate
the power of carrying their, refoH."ei*into execu
tion ? They are also cmpcwcmsJ tf coiff money;
and if no part of their he
did not know but they to turn
coiners, and work in the mint :—nay
they nuift even act the part of eJHkfipfcners, in
punching .piracies committed on seas.—
In the delegation of power, the wh«le purpose,
in his opinion, is answered, when me rules, by
which the business is to be point
ed out by law :—nor could hedifcover anything
in the constitution, to restrict the house froui
adopting this mode of conducting bufinels.
Mr. Hartley.—l cannot agree with the gentle
man from Mafiachufetts, that as often as thisbu
finefs had been agitated, there had been a majo
rity in the house in favor of leaving it to the ex
ecutive to designate the post-roads—Nay, so far
as my recolleiftion (which is perhaps not so good
as that gentleman's) serves me, we uniformly
have had a majority for Congress to point out
the post-roads.
The Constitution seems to have intended that
we {hotild exercile all the powers respecting the
'eftabli/hing post-roads we are capable of, but
the gentleman fays we are not competent to this
;duty—that it must be entrusted to the executive.
Sir, In many questions, concerning the pro
perty or geography of the United States, we had
full information on this floor from every quarter.
The people's interests and circumstances have
been known, however diltinJtly or differently
situated.
On tile fubjedl of the poft-officc there has been
much discussion—almost the whole of the roads
here stated, have appeared in bills before, and
though the gentleman (who made the motion for
(Inking out) may not perfectly nnderftaird all
the roads, yet ifhe will be so good as to attend
to the gentlemen who represent the different parts
of the Union, he ought to be fatisfied.
Unless they are prejudiced they can certainly
give the best information.
If it was leu to the President or Poft-MafVer-
General, neither is acquainted with all the roads
contemplated, they niult depend in a gr#at de
gree upon the inforiv.ation others.
We reprelent the people, we are conflitution
ally vested with the power of determining upon
the eflrablifhmenj; of pail-roads, and as I under
stand at pre lent, ought not to delegate the pow
er to any other person.
258
A general podr-officc is intended to be establish
ed by the bill, and the collection of tlie reverse
is put under the fuperintendance of a Poll-Mas
ter-General, the minutiae is submitted to hir.i
I (hould imagine there ought to be a limitation
of the law in point of time, fay three, four or
five years—when we come to the proper place a
motion to thatpurpofe may be made.
No one in the United States has a orearer ref
peei for the President than myfelf, and I hold
that the several departments are filled with ~er>
tleiufn of the firlt abilities and fitnefs, but we
are not to confine ourselves to a view of the mo
ment—this bill has the complexion of a perpetual
law ; we mini have some regard to consequences.
If the amendment takes place the office as
we'll as revenue will be thrown into [he power
ofthe executive, who may iucreafe the roads and
offices as far as the revenues go. The revenue
of the pod office is at present not great, but if
proper feeds are now sown ic may hereafter be
productive.
In Great Britain much has been obtained from
the po!l-o(Iice, and inoitofthe European nations
count upon it as a considerable branch of reve-
mie
Will ic be prudent for us to grant this power
to the executive in the latitude conrended.for—
we mil ft not suppose that this country will always
remain incorrupt, we fliall lhare the fateofothe-r
nations.
Through the medium of the poft-ofiice a weighty
influence may be obtained by the executive this
is guarded against in England by prohibiting of
ficers in the poll-office department from inter
fering at elections. There is no such guard or
caution in the present bill.
By the amendment we are unnecefiarily part
ing with our revenues, and throwing an impro
per balance into the executive scale, and which
our confticucnts do nor expetfl from us.
The Senate heretofore have disagreed with us,
but if they will take the fame pains w'e have,
the means of information is within their reach —
upon a review they may probably change their
l'cntiments.
This is a law of experiment, let us try it'a'
few years—if upon experience we find mirfelves
incompetent to the duty, we mud (if the condi
tmion will admir_) grant the power to the exe
cutive, or if the conflitution will not allow
fubinit the article for amendment
hi a constitutional way. lam against the amend
-IOTIU.
'■Mr. if. Bourne was 111 favor of the amend
ment, wßich hg thought both expedient and con
liituticuial.—i» freaking of pofl-officts andpojt
roads, thl;. conftltution, he observed, fpenks in
general terms, as it-does of a mint, excises, &c.
i-c.—Jo palling the excise law, the house, not
thinking themlelves pofleffed of fufflcient infor
ination, empowered the President to mark out
the diUriels and surveys : and if they had aright
to delegate such power to the executive, the fur
ther delegation of the power of marking out the
roads for the conveyance of the mail, could
hardly be thought dangerous : the constitution
meant no more than that Congress should poftefs
the exclusive right of doing that, by themselves,
or by any other person, which amounts to the
fame thing : the business he thought much more
likely to.be well executed by the President, or
the Poft-Mafter-GeneraJ, than by Congress. Ke
had himfelf been of the committee who framed
the bill ; but eould not tell whether the roads,
marked outinir, were better than ex
cept so far as relates to the State repre
sents ; and he imagined the other of
the committee were in a similar predicament :
The President, l;e observed, having opportuni
ties of obtaining information from the different
members of the house, from the Post-Master-Ge
neral, and from others, will be more competent
to determine the proper road : it will be occa
sionally neceflary to change the route, and lay
out new roads : and he could fee no inconveni
ence from entrufiing either the President or the
Pofl-Malter-General with the neceflary powers
for these purpofer, :—at all events, the house
could guard againlV any apprehended danger,
by the insertion of such a claufeas had been pro
posed [by Mr. Hartley] limiting the operation of
the bill to three, four or five years : at the expi
ration of that term the power would revert to
Congress, and they might then retain the exer
cise of it in their own hands, if they found that
any improper use had been made of it.
Mr. White made several observations on the
the expediency and constitutionality of the mea
sure. No individual, he said, could poflefs an
equal f,lare of information with that House on
the fubjecft of thegeography of the United States.
He disapproved of the amendment for many
other reaf'ons, and particularly its approximat
ing to the cuflom of England. Such advances
towards monarchy, if not checked in season, he
was apprehensive would tend to unhinge the pre
sent government. If this government retains its
present republican form, it will be owing to the
members of this House. It is easy to fee whathand could be made of the poft-oJKces, if ever
t l, e y are under the direction of an improper
nerfon- At the time of a general election, for
fnftance, liow easy would it be for this man to
dictate to,particular towns and villages, " If you
do not fend such a man to Congrcfs, you ihall
have no poll-office ; bur if you eiec't my friend,
ton shall have a poft-office, and the roads ihall
be run agreeably to your wiflies." Another im
proper use may be made of this power by the
interception of letters, and checking the regular
channel of information throughout the country.
Upon the whole, he w;is clearly for rejecting
the motion for striking out ihe words in the bill.
Ivlr. Lawrance obfeived that the revenues ari
finjr from the poft-office would not, perhaps, pro
duce a fufficient sum to defray the expences of
the eftablifliment : if this should be the tact, he
would prefer the amendment, but if the revenue
should increase from time to time; he should have
no objection to the addition of pods and roads
in proportion to Fuciiincreafe. Ihe consequence
of establishing so exten.five a system all at once,
as was contemplated in the bill, might be, than
the revenue would fall short, and then addition-
al taxes malt be laid to pay off the deficiency :
however, upon the whole, if he could be fatis
ficd that the revenues of the department would
be fufliclent to defray the expences of it, he
would be againlt striking out the clause in the
bill.
Mr. Page.—lf the motion before the comtnittee
succeeds, I (hall, said he, make one which will save
a deal of time & money, by making a'fhort feflion
of u ; for if this house can with propriety leave
t;. business of the poft-office to the President,
ii, ni l;, ieave 10 him any other business of legifta
jion ; and-i may move to adjourn and leave all
the iH-'Ui of legifiation to his sole eonllderation
.-uwl i : : But how the President fliould be
inted with the proper places for poit
. .t roaiis than the representatives of
11 >I cannot conceive : In Virginia, for
ii hi ,\ c'amut the 10 representatives fay with
us.. iin; what pod-roads would be proper
jn i' • Slate than any one man ! I look upon
the motion as unconßitutional, and if it were
jipt 10, as having a niifchievous tendency, which
1 am willing to believe the member who made it
is not aware of.
In reply to Mr. Sedgwick, he said, he heard
but two arguments on which any ftreis vvr.s laid,
viz. that the Prefidcrit's greater responsibility
pointed him out as the proper person to ba en
trusted with the important business of eftabliih
ing pod offices and post roads, and that his lu
perior knowledge of this business ought to in
duce the committee to leave it to him alone '
tut as -to the responsibility, how that can be !
greater than the responsibility of the memfceis
of this h'onfe, when he is appointed by electors
for it; lcnger term than they are—and they elect
ed by the people themselves, and accountable to
them every two years, is to me inconceivable ; and
as to his fuperi'or knowledge, granting ti'.at he
> J>o(!e(Ted it, which I cannot grant —can there be a
greater paradox than the alfertion that the Pre
lident's knowledge r.lone, is greater than that
very knowledge aided by the informa
tion of both Houses of Congress, coliecled and
presented to him in the bill Sir, if the clauie
■which it is said we should strike out, faiflead oj
communicating the sense of this house to the
President, took away his right of approving or
rejeiiling it—there might be some weight in the
is argument drawn from the supposition of his fii
perior knowledge— but as this is not, and can
riot be the caie, and so far from it, that the
' clause submits the business to the pioft mature
fc deliberation of the President and Senate ; it
inuft be paradoxical to fay that we lose the ad
vantage of fut erior wisdom and knowledge of
the business, if we do not leave it to the Pi eiioent
alone—but we are told that the motion is not
Uliconftittitional :—I think ,it is;—but who is
there that denies it is contrary to the interest
and spirit of a free government ? The people,
however, may think with the member who
made the motion, that the President (that is,
the man who is now their President) underihmds
this business, and can do it better than their Ke
prefentatives ; and they may think the whole bu
siness of government might be fafely entrusted
to him but they are too wife to make the expe
riment, and understand the nature of their go
vernment so well as to complain that Congress
too often commits to heads of departments what
the conftinuion requires at their hands. The
Present bimfelf. if I mistake not, views the fub
jedt before us in the light 1 do, or he would not
so repeatedly have called on us to make it a pe
culiar object of our deliberation.
[debate torecontinued.)
WEDNESDAY, December 7.
A bill making appropriations for the support of government,
for the year 1792, was twice read and ordered to be engrofled tor
a third reading.
The Houfethen resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole
(Mr. Smith in the chair) and rcfumed the consideration of the
44 bill to eftablifti the post office and post roads within the united
States."
Question before the committee,
Mr. Sedgwick's motion for ftrikkigout from the firft feflion of
the bill; the whole detail of the pofr towns and roads fromWifcaf
fct to Savannah, and to make it (with the amendment, inserted in
italic) to read as follows :
Be it ena&ed, &c. that, from and after the pa fling of this ast,
the following roads be cltablifhed as post roads, namely, from
WiTcafTet in the diftri£V of Maine, to Savannah in Georgia, by
such route, as the l J rc[ident of the United States Jhallfrom, time to time,
cause to be ejlablijhed. Provided that the route, by which the
mails are at'prelent conveyed, (ball in no cafe be altered, till the
contracts already made by the poftmaftcr general, shall be deter
mined.
After some debate, the qucflion was taken on the motion, and
pasTed in the negative.
The Committee t ( hen proceeded to the confederation of the dif
ferent roads, as detailed in the bill ; —fundry amendments were
pro poled ; —various difficulties were flatted ; —the committee
rose, reported progress, and the House adjourned.
THURSDAY, December 8,
An engroifed bill, making appropriations for the support of
government, for the year 1792, was read a third lime, palled, and
■lent to the Senate for their concurrence.
Nine memorials were presented, from as many societies for the
abolition of slavery, in the States of Rhode-Island, Conne£licut,
iNew-York, Pennsylvania, Maryland and.Virginia. Referred to
a felett committee, consisting of Mcflrs. Benfon, Baldwin, Dayton,
W. Smith, and Learned.
The house having refplved ilfelf into a committee of the whole,
proceeded to the further confiderationof the poft-office bifl; and,
after some time spent therein, agreed to eflablifh the main poft
road as follows :
Wilcaifet, Portland, Portsmouth, Exeter, Newbury-Port, Ips
wich, Salem, Boston, Worcelter, Springfield, Hartford, Middle
town, New-Haven. Stratford, Fnivfield, Norwalk, Stamford, New-
York, Newark, Elizabeth-Town, Brunfwick, Princeton, Trenton,
Brifto', Philadelphia, Chester, Wilmington, Elkton, Charleftown,
Havre-de-Grace, Hartford, Balliinoie,Bladeniburg,George-Town,
Alexandria,Colchefter, Dumfries,Frederickfburg,Bowling-Green,
Hanover Court-House, Richmond, Pcterfburg, Halifax, Tarbo
rough, Smithfield, Fayetteville, New Bridge over Drozoning-Creek,
Cherazv Coui't-Houfe, Camden, StJtcfborough, Columbia, Cambridge,
Augulta, Savannah.
The committee then proceeded to consider the cross posts,
pointed out in the bill; agreed to foine—altered others—intro
duced Tome additional ones—rofc, reported progress, and asked
fit again. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, December g.
The Speaker communicated to the house a report from the Se-I
crelary of State, on the petition of Samuel Breck, and others, pro
prietors of the Boftori Duck Manufactory, requeuing an exclusive
- right to affix a particular mark to their manufa&ure. The report
proposes that the fubjeft* fliould be provided for by a general regu
■ lation. Read and laid on the table.
A meflage was received from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis,
with the bill apportioning the Representatives of the people of
:he United States according to the firft enumeration—pa (Ted with
amendments, in which they request the concurrence ot the house.
The principal amendment is to encrcafe the ratio of reprefenu-i
tlon from thirty to thirty-three thousand.
In committee of the whole on the pod-office bill : Mr.
Muhlenberg in the'Chatr. The fubjett was further iifcuffed, se
veral motions for additional routs of the post wrre made, lengthy
debates ensued ; some of the motions were reje&ed, and others
agreed to. The committee rose and reported progress—and
then the House adjourned till Monday. /
PROVIDENCE, November 26.
From an undoubted channcl of information we are authorise.d
to mention, that the Secretary of theTreaiury, whofc wisdom and
patriotism are conspicuous on all occasions, has diretted the col
le&ors of thecuftoms in this state to deposit all monies received
Iby them in the bank, of Providence, and to receive the notes of
said bank in payment for duties -the bank in this as in all o
ther cases of acpofit, being fubjeft to the payment of drafts on
fight. This arrangement of rtie Secretary, while it aids the ope
ration of mercantile and other bulioefs, mull give the notes a ge-
i ncral circulation,
ARTICLE FROM A CORRESPONDENT,
The general alTembly of the state of Vermont, at their feflion in
O&ober last, palled an ast to found a University within that state.
It is to be (ituated in the town of Burlington, on the fouthtrn
bank, of the Onion river, and will command a prafpeft of Lake
Cham plain, snd'a moll romantically beautiful view of the fettle
merits and highlands in the (late of New-York, weft ef said Lake.
One of thfe fundamental principle® of the inftitutinn is, " that in
the laws and rigulations thereof, preference shall not be given to
any fe£t 6r denomination of men whatever."
NEW-YORK, December 6.
The death of his Excellency the Marquis De La Luzerne, late
Minister Plenipotentiary from the court of Versailles to ihe Unit
ed States of America, being confirmed, the Members olthe New-
York State-Society of Cincinnati are requested to honor the me
mory of their deccafed brother by wearing the usual mourning
for 21 days. By order of the Prefidcnt,
FROM THE ROYAL VANISH AMERICAN GAZETTE.
(St. Croix) Nov. 2.
ACCOUNT OF THE HURRICANE OF THE 25th ULT.
Accounts received from the Well-End and North-Side Quar
ters, arc calamitous beyond imagination, unless to those who have
been on the different Plantations in those parts of the Island ; more
particularly at the North-Side, where the devastation has been
most deplorable : all the forward canes, being totally destroyed,
and thole which were not so far advanced in growth, twisted and
torn to pieces. Some few estates which were more forward than
others, iiave lf'ft everv piece ofcaAe, nearly the whole turned out
bv the roots, many .of which are blown in whole stools out of the
pieces, and where there was the mnft flattering profpett of a great
crop, not a hogshead of Gigar will be made the ensuing year, as
the pieces are so destroyed, thatthfe whole must be turned out and
new holed and planted, before there can be the lcaft expectation
of a crop
u ix America, the European mode of clafling the several ranks
ot a nation is unknown—Tbey a|ow neither of great men amongst
them, nor men of genius, nor - fiftocrais, " or populace and this
is what is to be undcrftood by a PuRE REPUBLIC."
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES,
EBT.
pr. £ .
<3/
■3/4
U N
Final Settl. and other Certificates 10/4
Indents 12/
Bank Subfcriptioos, >3®
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents l -jio
Defered 6 pr. Cents i
259
W. S. SMITH.
EXTRACT.
FUNDtD
* n A
ji i J pr. ceiv
65 do.
66J do.
Philadelphia, December 10.
The substance of the following truly melancholy intelligence,
there is reason, from various concurring accounts, to believe is too
I rue.
Extratt of a letter jtolll Skippenjburg December 5, 1/9 1
" I herewith write you the aifagreeable news of our army br
ing totally defeated the 4th November, about 15 miles from the
Miami Village, and 30 from Fort Jeflerlon.
K ILL £ D.
General Builer Colonel Oldham.
Majors—Brown, fieavt, Clark, Fergnfon,
Captains—Brad ford,Tipton, Smith, Newman, Phelon, Kirkwooo,
Price, Sweri/igcn, Cubbs, Gait her.
Lieutenants—Warren, Spear, Luckins, M'MicM'MaJ:.
Hopper, Reed, Kelfo, and two others.
lEnfigns—Bentley, Cobb, Balch, J3.r«oa&if, Chaie, iruman, Purdy,
and two cfthers,
Quartermasters —WatcL, ileynolds, Semple.
wo u N D E J) -
Colonel Gibfbn [mortaliyj Colonel Dark.
Major Butler [mortally.J
Captains—Ford, Doyle, Buchanan, Madison, Hpugji,
V* .. f -f 1' * 1 -
Debuts, Price, Greaton, Crawford, M'Crca, and two others,
About 600 privates killed, and God only knows how many
wounded. There were few, if any, officers of difKn&ion efcap
»ed, except Gen. St. Clair.
Seven pieces of cannon, and all the tents, fell into the enemies
.hands.
Mr. Elliott, the Contra&or, wrote this account to Mrs. EHiotC,
-in Hagerftown, therefore the truth of it need not be doubted."
Accounts from Pittsburgh add, that the attack on our encamp
ment began about day-break, and continued with resistless furv
: for four hours—that Gen. St. Clair, after sustaining so great a lof>,
withdrew with the remaining troops to Fort-Jefferfon, and there
fuffered £0 extremely for want of provisions, as to be obliged to
kill his liorfes for the immediate subsistence of his army.
Richmond, December 2.
FROM THE LEXINGTON (KEN.) GAZETTE.
Copy of a circular letter from Brigadier-General Scott, to the different
County Lieutenants in Kentuckey.
Lexington, November n, 1791.
"si R,
" We have now received certain intelligence that the army have
been defeated. -The very great. The garrison at foij-
Tefferfon is intercepted, and many, many brave wounded 'gallant
men are now left on the road unable to travel, and without any
provision but the flefh of the pack-horles. This cafe requires im
mediate exertions. I have appointed a rendezvous of volunteers
at Craig's Mill, the 15th inft. completely equipped, with arms,
! ammunition, and 20 davs provision. I trust that no exertion on
your part will be wanting, when the fafety of our country, and
the lives of brave men are in danger. The circumdance requires
the greatest difoatch, and no friend to his country can now be idle.
Believe me with refpeft, your's.
* * The volunteers who are not ready by the 15th inft. are to
foHow as soon as poflible."
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Mercer County, to a member cj
the General Ajjembly, dated, November 13, 1791.
" The defeat of General St. Clair, 011 the 4th inlt. engrofles all
iour though's; we had 600 men killed and wounded, all the ilorcs
;loft, and 7 pieces of artillery. This Engagement happened about
15 miies from the Miami Village, 30 from Fort-Jefferfon, and 98
;from Fort-Washington.
, " General St. Clair expe&ed an action; the men were drawn
(up in order of battle, and (food in their ranks all night, the army
'were formed into a hoilow square, the artillery and baggage in
jthe centre—the enemy made their attack at the dawn of day on all
;the lin'es, particularly on the rear, which was compofcd of mttitia ;
"they were overpowered and gave way, the Indians rulhed on and
Ifoon were possessed of the artillery, which was retaken in a few
moments by a company of regulars with fixed bayonets, but mod
of the matrofles being killed, no use was made of it; the adtion
continued obstinately till 9 o'clock, when our men gave way.,--
General St. Clair rallied them, and brought off the greater part of
the wounded to Fort-Jefferfon, being pursued about 5 miles,where
the remains of the army and wounded are cooped, almost llarved,
living on poor pack-horses.
" The people of the diftritt are preparing to the relief of
Fort-Jefferfon, and I hope by the 20th, 1000 or 1500 effe&ive
men will be at Fort-Walhington, on their way. Upon this occa
sion, a number of your acquaintances will turn out, in Lincoln,
Logan, Shelby, and Ewing, and Mercer, Col.M'Dowell, and my
felf, with a number of young fellows; we (hall carry provisions
to the garrison, and bring off the wounded."
How various is the scene of human exigence ! —this has been
said a thousand times; still the course of nature, or which is the
fame, the dispositions of Providence continue from year to year,l
and from age to age, to enforce the solemn remark, that all sublu
nary things are vain.
How often are our fondeft expectations blafled, our brightest
profpe6U overcast with (hades!—and true it is that the best ar
rangements, and the calculations of the wisest among men, are
susceptible of the moil grievous disappointments. _
The Aflumption of the State Debts, (fays a New-York paper of
the 2d inft.) was amongst the wisest measures of the late Congress;
even those who formerly thought it an exceptionable a£f, now ap
prove of it, because they have ft en the good consequences flowing
from it, and they now k join with its former advocates in lament
ing that the opposition made to it was the cause of its being left
incomplete. Had the sum been allumed which was originally
reported by the Secretary of the Treasury, as the amount of the
dehts of tht several states, nothing more than justice would have
been done, and some time would have been saved to the prefenc
Congress, who will undoubtedly be disposed to follow the liberal
and just example of their predeceflors, and compleat that which
peculiar circumstances left unfinifhed on a former occasion.
Wednesday the House of Representatives proceeded to the
choice of a Speaker, and upon counting the votes, it appeared that
the honorable William Bingham, Esq. was unanimously
ele&cd.—On Thursday the house proceeded to the choice of their
other officers.
The honorable Ri cha rd Peters, Esq. continues Speaker of
the Senate.
From PELOSFs MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS Mt the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Planter, Poole, St. Croix
Dolphin, Feaux, Hifpaniola
Schooner Isabella, Anderfon, Wilmington
William,
Sloop Abigail,
Bctfcy,
Dr. Wi i.jon's firft Leßure, of his firft Course, will be
delivered at the College, next Monday, at fix o'clock in the
evening; and the firft Letture of his second Course, will be de
livered at the fame place, ai fix o'clock on Tuesday evrning.
ioiJ do.
60
Dollars,
LEGISLATURE OF PENNSYLVANIA,
Wood,
Norton,
Lewis.
St. Petersburg
Boston
Aux CaynBANK OF THE UNITED STATES,
Resolved, That the form of the power for vot
ing by proxy at any elecftion, be:
Know all Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby appoint to be
fubjiitute and proxy for and in name
and behalf, to vote at any election of a DireClor or
Directors of the Bank of the United States, as fully
as might or could were personally present.
In witness whereof, have hereunto set hand
and seal, thii day of in the year
Sealed and delivered £
in the prefeuce of )
That the form of the power for voting by proxy
refpe<fling the enadlinr/, repealing or amending
Bye-Laws, OrcUnanc„s"and Regulations, be:
Know all Mb'n by these" Presents, That
of r!o hereby appoint fubjiitute
or proxy, to represent at all meetings of the
Stockholders, of the Bank of the United States, and
in ncr me a ,id behalf, to vote refpetting the en
a cling, 'repealing or amending such Bye-Laws, Or
dinartces or Regulations, as may be deemed necef
far.*y and convenient for the government of the said
F.ank.
I/i witness whereof, have hereunto set hand
and seal, this day of in the year
Scaled and delivered )
in the presence of £
That the form of the power for felling, assign
ing and transferring Bank Stock, be:
Know all Men by these Presents, That
of do hereby constitute and appoint
of true and lawful attorney, for and in
name and behalf) to fell, assign and transfer unto
any person orperfons, the whole or any part of
J"bare unto belonging in the capital or
joint flock of the President, Direßors and Company
of the Bank of the United States, and for that pur
pose to make and execute all necessary ails of align
ments and transfer, and furthermore one or more
persons under to fubjlitute with like full power.
In witness whereof, have hereunto set hand
andfeal, this day of in the year
Sealed and delivered )
in the presence of {
That the form of the power to receive Divi
dends be:
Know all Men by these Prfsents, 7'hat
of do hereby constitute and appoint
lawful attorney jor and in name an d behalf,
to receive and give receipts for all dividends now
due, or which may grow due on share
to belonging, in the capital or joint flock of the
President, DireElors and Company of the Bank of
the United States.
hi witness whereof, have hereunto fit hand
and fcal, this day oj in the year
Sealed and delivered )
In the prefcnce of {
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T IN, & Co.
HAVE just now Opened their Lead-Wa rehouse, two doors
fouih of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifti workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the prime cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
• fhortcft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire ofMeffrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their fa£iory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his Stoics on '.Valnut-Street Wharf,
A ° f 3 and 4 ye3rs old bills of exchange Madeira
IN , E > whlch he Wll ' dispose of by ihe pipe, hogthead or
quarter calk. 0
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
WINE ° f tJUality ' b y the or
Three and 4 yeari old Lilbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter call;, or larecr
quantity. o
quantity! OIdC ° aiaCBRANDY ' by ' he P'P C ' tier «. ° r '"S"
A few quarter cliefts of firft quality Hyson TEA
He hasjuft received by the Pigoo, Loxley, mailer,'from London,
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE—And
KNsT 7 ' Ca P t ' Stev J cns ' from Dublin, a few boxes
Of Inlh LINENS, low prtccd and well assorted : a few bales of
.reo and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
STAVES. a ' fot ° aifpofe ° f ' 3 C l uanlit y of White Oak
an"Lw * fupp 'y ° f First Q»ality Madeira
and Liibon \\ INKS, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be assured of being well ferveri
SPIKES 'H ro ." gl ' th< ; Winter and Sp. ,ng, buy undrefled HAND
iRSSSg«if«» - ««•««, ..d
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORtpo . j
T TZ A^ E '^ ,ccnvcd ' * n
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791.
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE i*hereby given that the Bank of the United States
will he opened on Monday the sth indent.
Transfers of the (übfcriptioot to the itock of said Bank may
then be made.
On Monday the 12th indent, deposits will be received, and on
Tuesday the 20th instant, difcouiits maybe made.
By order of the President and Dire&ois,
JOHN KF.AN, Cafnicr.
All Bills or Notes ©ffered for Discount shall be delivered into
the Bank on M<*idayi or Wednesdays, the Discount (hall be fet
tled on Tucfdays and Thursdays, and (hall be made known the
next succeeding days.
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS of the
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES,
RESOLVED,
THAT the payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of the United States, confiding of Specie whicfli will b<?
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made at the refpe&ive Banks of MaJJachn setts and New-Yoi k.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, (hall, on or before the firft Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Caftiicr of the Bank of the United States, a Certifi
cate signed by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
(hall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
eftablilhed to the contrary notwiihflandirig
Bank of the United States.
Phi lad el phi a, November 22,1791.
THE Stockholders of the Bank, of the United States
are hereby informed, that according to the statute ot incor
poration, a general election for twenty-five Directors will be
held at the Batik of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh feftion of the Bye-Laws, jthe
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to afifemble in
genera! meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day ot
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
f Secondfundamental Articlc of Statute of Incorporation.
" Not more than three-fourths of the Directors in office, exclu
' five of the President, shall be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Director who {hall be Piefidcnt at the time of an election,
may always be re-ele6ted." r^pttj
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BGHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the fiift quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets
Public Securities,
Bought and So ld, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
fchcfnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex.
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commission, and all other
Buftncfs in the line of a BroKer, tranfaftcd by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At tht Office next door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2m
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERBc AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of everydefcription,onCo»zOTjj{7o»,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all falcs at auction, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private sale or porchafe, one-kalj per cent.
Ou remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at &\Uo,fevinty-Jivc cents per transfer.
0-3T Such persons as may incline to tavor the fubferiber with
their orders, may rely on their being executed with punauatity,
fidelity and difyatck. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the public stocks, together with a well eftablilhed correfpon.
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to coudufl his
operations with peculiar beuefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
OBobcr 15, 1791
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
TTE returns his finccre thanks for the great encouragement he
ru- ru c *P erlence< i ,hc f e eighteen years; hopes the reputat ion
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
public favor W h ' m 3 ref P caable Ihare of the
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season. b
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be assured, they will be taught in the most approved
and that P'°P cr a 'tention w>ll be paid to the.r carriage and
be held at the M I improvement of the scholars, will
be held at'he New Rooms, every other Wednefriay ; when th-
These orlftT llran ,f ™ ot K ent «l deportment, will be admitted.
n P \ /'f w,!l bc a,t ™<icd with no exper.ee
NB. An EVENING SCHOOL w ill be opened for ? row„
Gentlemen, as loon as a fuffictem number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 179,
Wanted, a good COOK,
cannot be well recommended. Enqui, cos the Prints.
(ep 6w.)
260
By order of the Piefidcnt and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
W. M'D OU GALL'S
December 5, 1791
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subfctibers—who may receive their
Books 011 application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Comer of Chefnut and Thiid Street?.
The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from its firft fcttlement to the adoption of the present Ccin
ftitwtion of the United States;—the third, containing a geographi
cal defcrtption of the State, fetches of its natural history, &c. it
in the ptefs.
*»* A few copies of the fitft two volumes for sale—price acf.
November 5,1791.
In the Fiefs, and speedily will be publidir-d,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the Hi story of Amer ic a, and
particularly of the United States.
By EBEN EZER HAZARD, A.M.
* . P r 'ce to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages ; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
tor each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the firft ; and each subsequent one (except the last) at the time of
delivery.
Subscriptions will be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Dob son, and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookfdlers
re - Philadelphia, November g, 1791.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
"Q UN AWAY, some rime in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
, MAN", named Abkakam, late the property of Nathtmcl
deceased—about torty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pretty welt set, with a large Wooll) head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his fretand ancles—by tradea bricklayer, stone mason and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a houle-waiter, and is fond
o! filch business. He is a great dissembler, and no doubt pretends
h.*° is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went t®
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will se
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
-jiiiin; and l'eafonabjc. charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
!) be piven if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John KiNCH£LOR,by
ft. f.)
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pea r -St r cet,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, vnttl five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Soio
-11 men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horacc, Livy, Tacitus, Paterl
cuius, Pliny, Concordantia Lai. Concordantia Gr. Thefaui'ui Ci~
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible dc Martin,Wells's Mips"
Scapulae— Phavorini —Martinii—Hofl'mani Lexica, Voilit iuyinol
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannicae, &c.
Qtiarto. Pindar, Cyropsdia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phsdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciiccronis op. om. Csefar Sn
ctonius, Julius Pollux, Hedcrici Lexicon, Voliii Ais Grain, Cluvtl
rii Jufltnian Code,&c.
Octavo ct infra. Homer, Anacrcon, Ariftnphanes, I.onginus
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetae minorcs Gr. Ifocratcs, Phalaris Va
rioui editions tf Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau.
lus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan
Sailuft, CurtiuSjFlorus, [uftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius Hill*
Aiigutt. Scriptores, Engiifh and French Tranjlations of sonic of the
Claflics, a great variety or Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice & Co. Bonkfellers.
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 31. (ep tf.)
Lectures on Government & Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L. L. D. Profeffoi of Lswi
in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courfcs of Leflures. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
Deccmbef. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, OOober is, 1791. (eptD)
TO BE SOLD,
Arid polTeflion immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road trom Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the whoie under
good fence. There are on the premises a two (lory (lone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-Hiop, granary, waggon
houfe; harnck cow-houses, two ftorieshigh and go feet long, aud
a good barn, with stabling. From the buildings there arecharm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any peifon inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Snows in,
No. 141, South Second-lli eet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
Princeton, Otfcober to, x 793. [cpgrnj
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the subscriber, at Bor.
dentown, and flolen from the fame the followingarticles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womcns' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftamenti; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped veil and
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. i»
30s. Jet fey coppers; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
small books; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlav; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper,and
1 dozen paile-boatds. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward of 1 wentv Dollars will be given for the fecurityof
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, by
_ , JOHN VAN EMBURCH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. i, lygi. [ep'fj
The First and Second Volumes of the
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
Oftobcr i 2