PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, JgGHSTREET, BETWEEN SECONJ) AND THIRD SIJCEkIS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 96, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila No. 28
(Concluded.)
THE death of the Duke of Guise was followed
by a general peace—and the Royal Army re
takes Havre de Grace from the Englilh. The
King arrives at his fourteenth year, and is de
clared of age. The Queen's inventive genius
imagines various means of appealing the discon
tented Princes; and to accomplish her designs,
travels with the King through all the provinces
of the kingdom. 111 Dauphiny, they contrived
an interview with the Duke of Savoy ; ac Avig
non, with the Ministers of the Pope ; and on the
frontiers of Guienne with the King and Queen
of Spain. To rliefe Princes they might commu
jiicate their secret designs, without apprehenlion
of their coming to the knowledge of the Hugo
riots, which would have been almost inevitable,
if they had employed Ambalfadors. The Queen,
■with her usual diflimulation, endeavored to pre
vent the public from suspecting her genuine de
lign, and secret views. She pretended that it was
a limple desire in the King to fee his kingdom,
and (how himfelf to his people. The Queen pre
tended to consent to it only to dil'play before the
eyes of the people the magnificence of her court,
and to fee her daughter theQueenofSpain. Un
der the veil of these appearances, so different
from the truth, nothing was seen but magnificent
preparations and sumptuous liveries—nothing
was talked of but huntings, balls, comedies and
leads. The interviews and intrigues in the course
of their journey with the Dukes of Lorrain, of
Wirtemberg, and other Chiefs of the Proteflants
or Catholics in Germany ; the Count Palatine,
the Duke of Deux Ponts, the Duke of Saxony,
and Marquis of Baden, the Duke of Savoy, and
the Miniftersof the Pope,we pass over. In 156;,
at Bayonne, they met the Queen of Spain, accom
panied with the Duke of Alva and the Count de
Benevent: While they pretended to be there
wholly employed in feafts and pleafnres, they
held secret councils in concert, to abolish the i
diversity of religion. The Duke of Alva, amai/
of a violent character, whose very name, as well
as that of the Cardinal de Lorrain, is aflociated
in every mind with bloody bigotry and anti
chriftian intolerance, said boldly, that to cut
the root of all novelties in matters of religion,
it was neceflary to " cutoff the heads of the pop
pies"—" To angle for the large fifh—not amuse
themselves with the frogs"—" When the winds
ihall cease to blow, the waves of the populace
will soon be calmed." These are the miserable
maxims of tyranny, whether it be exercised by a
single man or a multitude. "There is no dif
ference," according to Aristotle, and liiftory and
experience, " between a people governing by a
majority in a single afl'embly, and a Monarch in
a tyranny; for their manners are the fame, and
they both hold a despotic power over better per
sons than themselves. Their decrees are like
the other's edirts—their demagogues like the
other's flatterers."—Arijlotle'sJolitics.Ulb.4. cli.4.
Old Tarquin would not utter these maxims in
words to the meflenger of his son from Gabii,
but walked out into his garden and (truck off the
heads of the tailed poppies with his daff. With
110 better authority than these trite aphorisms of
despotism did the Duke of Alva support his dog
in at iim , that a Sovereign could do nothing more
fhameful or contrary to his interelts, than to grant
to his fabjects liberty of conscience, and his ad
vice to employ (ire and sword, to exterminate the
Chiefs of the Hugonots.
Origin of the Bank of England, tin d iti Utility to
the Slate.
THE derivation of the name is from Banca,
the Italian word for the Bench, on which
money changers anciently fat in the public
markets.
The fii ft bank for the fecnrity of private pro
perty, was that of Venice, formed in the 12th
century ; and all the forms of transfer, accord
ing to the present pratftice were then regulated.
she bank of England was projetfed in the
reign of William and Mary, by Mr. William
Patterfon, a merchant, who submitted hisfcheme
to the Privy Council. It was, after considerable
deliberation, eltabli/hed by ad: of Parliament,
executed on the 27th July, in the year 1694 ; and
the stature enaifted, that their Majesties might
Jake particular subscriptions for t,200,0061. of
any pei sons, foreigners of natives, whom their
Wednesday, March 50, 1791.
Majesties were empowered to incorporate, with
a yearly allowance of ioo,oool. viz. 96,0001. or
eight per cent, for" interest, till redeemed, and
40001. to be allowed the bank for the expence of
management. The title of " Governor and
Com pany of the Bank of England," was confer
red ; and their fund abovementioned to be re
deemable upon a year's notice, after the ift of
August, 170s, and payment ot the principal, and
then the corporation to cease. Its eftablifliment
from the day of institution has never been (liaken ;
they were originally prohibited from borrowing
more than 1,200,0001. except on Parliament
funds; but 011 the 3d February 1708 —9, their
capital was enlarged ; and on the 20th of Au
gust, 17r5, the royal aflent was given for its be
ing farther extended, in order to raise a sum of
910,000!. for the service of the public.
In the year 171 7, the bank lent government
two millions and a half, at 5 per cent.
In July 1742, the further fuin of i,600,0001.
was advanced for a renewal of their charter:
and, chough iu 1746 they were enabled to lend
government i,000,0001. more, tliey were so preii
ed the preceding year during the rebellion, that
on the 20th September they began making pay
ments in a further loan of 1,400,000!. at three
per cent,
In the year 1749 —jo, the bank and South Sea
<iirecftors agreed to the reduction of the inrereft
of the national debt, upon a proposition of Par
liament ; and in two days the sum subscribed was
upwards of 40 millions.
Their notes in 1696 bore 20 per cent, discount,
and were under par in 174J, when the merchants
of London aflbciated, and agreed to take them
as specie. Under the adminiitration of the firll
William Pitt they acquired credit on the conti
nent, and after the peace of 1763 were univer
sally current through Europe. Small notes of
101. and ijl. each, were not ifl'ued till the year
WJ9-
JROM A LUNDON MAGAZINE.
the following lujlances of the medical Ejfeft oj Mag
netism, were communicated in a Letter to Doc
tor Simmons, F. R. S. by Mr. Thomas Hen
ry, F. R. S. Apothecary, at Manchelter, and
inserted in the London Medical Journal.
" A Young gentleman had been for some
days troubled with a very severe tooth-ach, for
which he had tried all the usual remedies with
out faccefs, and was on the point of submitting
to the extraction of the tooth, when a friend in
forming him that the application of a magnet
had been known to effetft a cure, he immediate
ly purchased a small artificial one, fnch as those
fold in the (hops for tobacco (toppers, and, with
little expetftation of success, applied it to his
tooth : to his great surprise, in a few minutes
the pain entirely ceased, nor had he an« return
of it afterwards.
" Being myfelf afflicfted last winter with se
vere pain in a decayed tooth, which was too rot
ten to beeafily extracted, and having tried vari
ous remedies in vain, I recolle<fted the above
cafe, and, having a magnet in the house, ap
plied it to the tooth: instant relief succeeded,
my pain left me ; and though it afterwards re
turned several times in the course of a few days,
it was condantly removed by the magnet, which
I carried for that purpose in my pocket, and I
have since remained quite free from it.
" About fix weeks since a tinnitus aurium was
very troublesome every night. At frrfb I only
perceived it when I lay upon my right fide, on
which was the afflicted ear; but it loon increas
ed so as to dillnrb me on which ever fide I recli
ned. One night, being much disturbed at it,
and having nothing near that seemed likely to
relieve me except the magnet, I determined to
apply it, and introducing it into my ear, and
holding it there for fonie few minutes, when 1
again lay down, 1 was free from the noise, nor
did it return for several nights. A flight attack
which happened in the courf'e of t+iat week, was
rriftaiwly removed by the fame means, since which
time 1 have been perfectly relieved from my
complaint." .
Boston, March 10.
Extratl of a letter from Pujfamaquada, to a penile
.t • . i . i r> ) _ .
man in this tow/i, dated February 24.
" I take the earliest opportunity to acquaim
you, his Excellency Governor Carletonhas been
pleased to permit (by proclamation) lumber into
our fettlemerit."
797
r *
Whole No. 200.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SATURDAY, Feb. 5.
The BAN K BILL under confideraiion.
(Conclusion of Mr. Stone's Speech.)
TH E preceding remarks (heobferved) (hew
ed how dangerous is the doctrine of im
plication, and upon what small data ingenuity
can raise the most dangerous fuperftru<fture. He
said he fliould now take a view of those prece
dents in the former and piefent Congress which
are relied on to juftify the prcfent meafm e.
ill. The Bank of North America : Here he
stated the diitrefsful and critical situation of Ame
rica at that period ; he remarked that ic was at
the declension of the continental money. He
(hewed that there were no powers in the confede
ration to which (even according to the reason
ing of the other fide) this power could be inci
dentalbut what required thevoreof 9 States ; that
the ordinance palled by a vote of seven Sta es,
which fliowed that neceflity alone gave birth to
that measure. He (howed the dillimularity of
the iituations of the 1 former and this Congress,
and the difference in their powe s and conle
quently in the dangers to be appiehended from
the encroachment of either.
ad. The redemption of our prisoners ac Al
giers : This comes within the power ro regulate
trade. If, faicl he, we are not capable of re
deeming by the bell means in our power our ci
tizens—our trade may be entirely ruined ; and
lieuce the law which shall be marie for re
demption would be neceffiiry and proper. But
by the constitution the executive may make trea
ties ; these ntay be general or for a particular ob
jetft and the legislature may effeiftuare thesn by
grants of money.
3<J. We have bought certificates, and not deC*
troyed them : This they fay is implied from the
power of paying the debts.
He asked, if before the purchnfe the certificates
were debts due from the United States ? And
demanded, if by the purchase they were diverted
of that quality ? Now (said he) in my judgment
when a debt is fairly cancelled it is as much like
3 payment as need be.
4th. We had no right except by implication
to give a salary to the Vice-Prefident. He (aid
he had voted againlt the salary and had been for
a psr dism allowance, because he thought the
Vice-Trefident was viewed by the conltitution
only as Prelident of the Senate. But thisexam
ple fails mod palpably, as Congress in the com
pensations are not confined by the conltitution
either to a particular sum 01" mode of payment.
sth. Congress have made corporations and ex
ercised compleat legislation in the Western Ter
ritory. He said to answer this cafe nothing more
was neceflary than to read the clause in the con
itiiution which give to Congress expressly the
power to make all rules and regulation for them.
It seemed to him as if gentlemen were invert
ing the order of things ; by making powers where
there were none—and attempting to prove exr
press grants to be implications.
6ih. Our regulations refpecling freighters and
owners—and between captains and Teamen : He
had not those regulations correctly in his memo
ry but he believed them proper and necellary re
gulations of commerce.
7th. It has been said we have exclusive jurif
didtion in places belonging to Congress, and
within the lo miles fquarc. We could erect a
Bank in any of those places ; its influence would
extend over the continent—the principle upon
whjch we founded this power could not be con
fined to a particular time or a spot of land. Gen
jremeu ridicule the idea that the exercise of a
pervading influence and a general principle
(hould be limited by any particular number of
years or be confined within a fort. He said the
power of exclusive legislation in those places was
expressly granted, and under its influence the
Congress might exercise compleat and exclusive'
legislation within those limits ; that the power
was confined to the places. But if the generapower* of this conftirntiiin at e to be governed
by tlie fame rule-, of co'.itlrutlion a;s;l \yc a' e to
li.ive no levari! to place—it follows that Coiigi tl»
can cxertifc exclusive lef*»fiuiion over tins conti
nent. lie was alioiwitied wi this doctrine It
would be equally rcafot.able to lay that trance
bec&tife within the lining <>i her own domfpions
unci over her own pro]■ ity (he exercised exciu
iivc legillation, that hence Ihe had a light to Je
gillate for the woi Id.
Sill. a The power oi removal of officers by the
Prelnlciit alone. lie (aid it was known he had
oppolcd that doctrine. He 1 etc it to be defend
ed by thole who had voted tor it : But he hoped
Mr' Smith, S. C.) and some other gentlemen
vho had opjjvfcd it would review the arguments
thev had used upon tli.it occaftoti.
He observed after taking a view of tliel'e pre
cedents on the danger ot laying down improper
principles in legislation. How eagerly men
grai'ped a-t the flightelt pretexts for the exerciie
of power. He fliuddered to think what a broad
and commanding position this Bank will form
for farther encroachments
A gentleman frotn Mafiachufetts (Mr.Sedgwick)
has7iid iliac whenever a )>ower is granted, all the
known and usual means of execution ate always
implied ; the idea (he fakl) had been properly
examined by (Mr. Giles)'but he would ait if in
corporating the fublcribers to a bank was the
known and usual means of borrowing money—
especially when thefubferibers were not obliged
to loan—or of collecting taxes when no taxes were
levied on the bank >
But gentlemen tell us that if we tie up the
constitution too tight it will break ; if we hamp
er it we cannot stir ; if we do not admit the doc
trine we cannot legifluteat all. And with a kind
of triumph they fay that implication is recog
nized by the conllitution itlclf in the clause
wherein we have power to make all laws, to car
ry, &c. He laid he was ready to meet the gen
tlemen upon this ground. This clause he laid
was intended to defeat those loose and proud
principles of legislation which had been contend
ed for. It was meant to reduce legislation to
some rule. In fine, it confined the legislature to
those means that were neceU'ny and proper.
He said it would not be pretended that it was
necefiary and proper for the collection of taxes.
Indeed one gentleman (Mr. Ames) had attempt
ed to ihosv that the payments in specie could not
be made, if by chance a great quantity of debt
suddenly accumulated in a particular place. But
it might be remembered that this necessity, if it
arrived, was created by the legislature—and that
would be strange realoning which broke a good
roilftjMiii/vn te\ infllfl 1 Wmd ISW. i.\ O t3XCB HTC
colleiSed by this bill
It would not be necefl'ary and proper as a mean
of borrowing money, becaule, fir if, we do 110 c
want to boriow money—and it'we did, this iaw,
tliougliit may be the probable, is not the neceila
ry mean—for if it was the interelt of the Itock
holders, they might, and he believed would, re
fufe to loan. He said that the inltitution might
be defended upon more planlible grounds if
the ban.lt had been taxed, or if a condition to
Joan money to the public had been made part of
the plan. Upon what ground then do gentlemen
stand ?—they can only fay, that they have implied
a great and substantive power in Congi cfs, which
gives to government or to individuals the influ
ence ofi 5,000,000 dollars,irrevocable fbr2o years,
with a power of making bye-laws, &c.—because
there is a probability lhat this inllitution may
be convenient and agreeable in theoperationsof
; government. He aiked, upon parallel principles,
what might Congress not da? He laid that the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Madison) pursu
ing the do&rine into a-11 the forms in which it
might appear, had struck upon several cases which
were very pointed—An incorporation of manu
facturers with exclusive privileges—merchants
with the fame—a national religion. This, a gen
tleman (Mr. Ames) has said was unfair and ex
travagant reasoning—and yet, in fivfc minutes,
the gentleman's own reasoning led him to aik,
with warmth, if Congress could not join stocks
with a company to trade to Nootka! and he
condefceiuled to doubt if the privileges given to
I'uch a company might not be exclusive. He law
clearly himfelf that his theory led to the latt«r
conclufion —for if expediency—if convenience—
facility—if fears of war—if preparations for
events which might never happen, can juflify
an incorporation upon the present plan, the fame
suggestions, the fame logic, will legalize incor
porations with exclusive privileges. The deduc
tions of the gentlemen from Virginia are found
and right, and cannot be fairly controverted.
Congress may then do any thing. Nay, if the
principles now advocated are right, it is the du
ty of the legislature of the union to make all
laws—not only Jhofe that are neceflary and pro
per to carry the powers of the government into
effect, but all laws which are convenient, expe
dient, and beneficial to the United States.—Then
where is your coiiftituiion ! —Are we not now fit
ting in our sober discretion—a general govern
ment, without the feniblance of reltraint ? Yes,
(aid he, we have ftilU constitution— but where j
is ic to be found? I it written >—No is it
among the archives ?—No. Where is it. i
tjund in the l'ober ditreuon of thelegiilatine
it is regiitered in the irains of the majority.
He proceeded : I fa} there is no necelhty, there
is no occaiion for this bank ; ,the States wi in
lfituie banks which wil answer every purpoie.
bur a dillruU oft he Sr.tes is (hewn in every move
ment of Congress ; will not this implant d.ftru .s
alio in the States ? Wil yon gain by this conceit .
This fcheine may give, and 1 am convincec wi
give partial advantages to the States. In the tali
administration of our government 110 partia a
vantages can be given ; but by this bill a ew
flock-holders may institute banks in particulai
states to their aggrandizement and the opprejuoii
of others:—it will swallow up the hate banks
it will raise in this country a monied ' nt e relt at
the devotion of government— it may bribe both
llates and individuals. He said gentlemen alked,
who would be offended or hurt by this plan < —
Have we heard any complaints against it—have
! the newspapers reprobated it? These questions
had no influence 011 his mind—he said it was one
of thofefly andfubtle movements which marched
silently to its objetft: the vices of it wer« at hrft
not palpable or obvious; but when the people
saw a diftinftion of banks created—when they
viewed with aftonifhraent the train ot wealth
which followed individuals, whose sudden exal
tation surprized even the pofleflors—they would
enquire how all this came about ; they will then
examine into the powers by which thele pheno
mena have arisen, and they will find—they will
reprobate the falfehood of the theories of the
present day. ,
He said that gentlemen had told us ot the sud
den irruptions ot enemies : When thole neceih
ties arrive, it is time enough to make ule ot them
to break your constitution. But gentlemen fay,
upon emergencies, the bank will loan money.
We differ in opinion. I think when we want it
mod, the bank will be most unable and unwilling
to lend. If we are in prosperity, we can bor
row money almost any where ; but in advernty
ltockholders will avoid us with as much caution
as any other capitalists.
But a gentleman (Mr. Ames) tells us not to be
alarmed—the bank will not eat up liberty—he
said he was not afraid. He w>as not under any
apprehensions that all the little influence that
■Congress poflefled would destroy the great spirit
of American liberty. The body of the people
would laugh at and ridicule any attempt to en
slave them ; but a condu<ft which had that ten
dency might rouse alarming paflions. He said
there exiued at this moment ill-blood 111 the
United States, which to quiet, he would readily
agree to enter into a foreign war. America with
us, we might dtffy the world. There was, he
said, but one people he was afraid of offending:
This was America. He was not afraid of fo
reign enemies—but the refentmenc of our
own country is always a fubjecft of serious appre
hensions. He observed that there were other
parts of this important and diffufive fubjecft,
which he might have touched, but he had fa
tigued liimfelf and the house.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) said, as he had been greatly
mifuuderftood by the.gentleman last up, he wiflied
to explain tlie poficion he had laid down. He
had never been so absurd as to contend, as the
gentleman had Hated, that whatever the legisla
ture thought expedient was therefore constitu
tional; but he had only argued that, in cases
where the question was, whether a law was ne
ceflary and proper to carry a given power in o
effect, the members of the legillature had no
other guide but their own judgments, from which
alone they were to determine whether the mea
sure proposed was necellary and proper to carry
the powers vested in Congrefe into full effe<ft.
If in such cases it appeared to them, on folenin
deliberation, that the measure was not prohibit
ed by any part of the constitution, was not a vio
lation of the rights of any state or individual,
and was peculiarly necefl'ary and proper to carry
into operation certain eflential powers of the go
vernment —it was then not only juftifiableon the
part of Congrel's, but it was even their duty to
adopt such measure: that neverthelefsit was still
within the province of the judiciary to annul the
law, if it fliould be by them deemed not to rel'ult
by fair conftruiTtion from the powers vested by
the constitution.
January 20.
THE following is the translation of a letter
from the Eniprefs of Russia, to tlie King of
Sweden
" Monsieur, 111011 Frere & Coufine,
" The happy conclusion of the peace at Ware
la,- having afforded us an opportunity of acquir
ing the zeal and good intentions of our respec
tive Plenipotentiaries, exerted in the re-efta
blifliment of mutual harmony, we thought pro
per to confer the orderof St. Andrew 011 the two
Barons, to whom, on our own pare, the accoiu
798
plifhment of this desirable business has been en
trulted. Your Alajelty will do us the justice t0
acknowledge to ail Europe, the proofs we have
given of the value which we fee on your friend-
/hip. . r ■
" As a proof ot our fincenty, Gen. Van der
Palilen has orders to produce to you, the infig.
nia of the order of St. Andrew, which we intend
for your Great Chamberlain, the Baron d'Arm
feldt, and which we iutreat that you will gj vc
him leave to accept
" 111 the mean time, your majelty will be per
ftiaded, that it is our constant desire to merit
your dHtinguiflied efteeni and friendfhip. These
are the sentiments of, Monlieur, inori Irereand
" Mon Couline, your Majeily's
" bonne Soeur, Confine & Voifine,
(Signed) CATHARINE."
January 24.
The affairs of Europe are upon the eve of a
crisis, and the Einprefs has now molt docidedly
to contend, if ilie has temerity enough, with a
quintuple alliance, from whom she vrill be com
petent to obtain a peace 011 the terms of the Rei
chenbach treaty only.
The Dutch, it appears by the last mails, are in
defatigable in their preparations to co-operate
with England in every measure that will be found
necefi'ary, in the spring, to adopt.
Extratt of a letter from the camp at Coimbatorc,
within r.{o mil: i of Tippoo Sultan's capital, Serin
gapatam, dated the 30ih of Jug uft, I 790.
" The war with Tippoo has been commenced
these three months past, although nothing of
consequence has yet been done, except the cap
ture of this part of his country, of which we made
ourselves matters with little opposition; Tippoo
having retired with his army through the moun
tains, into the interior part of his kingdom,
where it is supposed he will make a stand. We
remain encamped here on account of the rains;
when they are over, we lhall march for his capi
tal, Seringapatam, which, it is laid, is strongly
fortified, It is only ijo miles from this capital,
bat between us and it there is a large chain of
mountains, through which our army must march
by one narrow pass, which, if well defended,
may give us much trouble. There is here en
camped the fineft army that ever any European
power employed in India. It confilts of four
King's regiments, and one regiment of the com
pany's Europeans, twelve battalions of Srfapoys,
ionr regiments of native cavalry, and the 19th
regiment of light dragoons, three battalions of
European artillery, with 70 field-pieces, beside*
a battering train. Our camp is upwards of two
miles in length, and is a noble fight. Thetroops
are in high health and great spirits."
January 27.
Monf. de Mirabeau, we understand, doe> not
intend, as he has not the leisure, to answer Mr.
Burke's pamphlet on the new government of
France. He will content himfelf, according to
our letters from Paris, with moving in the Na
tional Afl'embly, that their Ambafl'ador at the
Court of London should be inftrudted to fiom
plain to the Briti/h Ministry, of the insult offer
ed by that publication to the reprefentativej of
the French nation.
Mr. Shsridan is writing a pamphlet to prov»
that France is rifiug to prosperity, and prepar
ing a speech to prove that Great-Britain is verg
ing to ruin. DocSor Price may, indeed, prajr
molt devoutly for his fuccels in those contradic
tory attempts, but we have reason to believe that
even Lord Stanhope laughs in secret, at all the
Quixotism of his friend. »
Some time ago the King of Spain's watch-ma-1
ker, a native of Ireland, discovered that the dry
spongy stalks of the great branched Alphodelex
ceeded all other things that he was acquainted'
with for giving the last polish and brightest bar
nifh to steel. As the experiment may be made
with ease and without expense, it is recommend
ed to artificers in the diversity of our steel mano
fadturies.—The asphodel, though but little cul- |
tivated here, except by the curious in botony,
will succeed in this climate.—lt grows fponta
neoully in all parts of Spain, and abounds in the
environs of Madrid. In Castile the leaves of tins
plant are gathered, dried to feed dogs, and are
an excellent nutriment for those animals. /
Admiralty Office, Dec. 3. This day in_ pursu
ance of the King's pleasure, his Royal Highne s
William Henry Duke of Clarence, Captainn*
his Majesty's Navy, was promoted to the r ?
Rear Admiral of the Blue Squadron of his Ma
jefty's fleet.
Portsmouth Dec. 6. The few ships that have al
ready been paid off here, have jet loose ort t e
public a number of mifchievpus and villainou
people. c
Saturday morning about three o'clock a ma"
the name of Joseph Woodfall, was molt in '
manly murdered at the Back of the Point,
was found 011 the Sallee Port Beach early in
morning, and on being examined, was o"
bruised in a Shocking manner ; his skull enn l '
beat in, and many violent blows appeaiehis face, his hands were found tied in his pock
ets. The Coroner's lnquefl was held on the body,
and found a verdict of wilful murder, by persons
unknown. Diligent search is making, and hopes
are entertained that the perpetrators of this hor
rid act will be taken.
Same day a person, late Boatswain's Mate of
the Valianr, was beset by a number of sailors,
who cut off his ears, and put them in his pocket,
that no one might afterwards accuse them of
theft
Lemberg, Nov. 24. On the ;otli inft. a terrible
fire broke out in the town of Brody, which con
sumed upwards of 500 houses and other build-
mgs
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
January io.
AN addrels was read from the ecclefiaflics,
who took the civic oath yesterday in the church
of St. Sulpicius, at Paris. They applaud the
National Assembly for having brought back Chrif
tisnity to its original purity, acknowledging that
the clergy are created for the people, and are
consequently submitted to the civil laws. This
addrels does honor both to the patriotism and ta
lents of'M. Soulavie, who was the interpreter of
his brethren's sentiments.
The Aflemblv ordered the printing the oath
and address of M. Defpaumier, redlor of Fonte
nay, wherein he pays grateful thanks to heaven
for having given the National Aflembly to reli
gion and to France.
January ii.
Kvery day encreafes the hope that the major
and better part of the ecclesiastics will take the
civic oath. An address was read from a number,
who, having acceded to it, acknowledge the
power of the nation over the clergy.
The discussion was resumed concerning the
matter of oral or written depositions before ju
ries.
Me(T.- Dumetz and Thouret outvied each otlier
in maintaining the advantage of verbal deposi
tions, which is likewise the opinion of the two
committees of constitution and jurisprudence
The former was of opinion that written deposi
tions would absolutely defeat the purpose of ju
ries. The latter said no injury could support
the length of explanations which would ensue
from writing. He rather endeavoured to over
throw M. Trouchet's opinion than to bring for
ward any thing new, but the weakness of his
voice prevented him from being heard.
M. Trouchet, however, moved that his fpeecli
might be printed and distributed, before the as
sembly decided on so important a matter, in
which, on all fides real information and the belt
means to Le adopted were so sincerely fought
after.
January 13.
M. le Chapelier made his report in the name
of the committee of confbitution on the dramatic
authors' petition, and twelve articles were pas
sed refpeifiing the lame. By these articles it was
decreed :
That every perfun is at liberty to erecft a pub
lic theatre on firfl: declaring their intention so to
do to the municipality of the place.
That the works of all authors who have been
dead five years are public property.
That those of living ones can be no where aifi
ed without their express and written consent, on
pain of confifcation of all the profits arising from
them, and that an external guard only ihould be
placed at any theatres, excepting in the cafe of
any. of the municipal officers interfering.
January 14.
M. Denis gave notice that the plan of the civil
constitution of the clergy had been drawn up by
M. Mirabeau, and communicated to the ecclefiai
tical committee, who had adopted it.
M. Mirabeau then mounted the tribune, and
read there this work, worthy of the hand from
which it comes ; some expreflions were, however,
repugnant to less philosophical ears. The read
ing of this eloquent work, of which it is impofli
ble to make an epitome, having taken up an un
usual length of time, and being interrupted by
repeated acclamations, the Aflembly rofeatalate
hour without its being concluded.
January 16
The fa>Sion having now no arms left, but libels
and invec r tives, a cloud of them appears every
morning, which they have found means of circu
lating in the provinces, by affixing to them the
signature of the National Assembly, an abuse de
nounced by M. Gouttes, and which proper means
were taken to put a Hop to.
A variety of addrefles signed by Tarious of the
clergy were read, and much approved. This fit
ting was a long time taken up by the discussion
of ieveraj articles refperting the National Gens
d'Armerie, presented by M.Alexander deLameth,
and afterwards adopted.
By a letter from M. du Portuiel, advice was
received i hat Avignon is at present fuffering from
a new infurrc&ioii, of which M. de la Tour Mau
bourg, the colonel of the SoiiTjnois regiment,
gives the following account :
On the 9th of January a troop of ferlitious Avig
nonoisi, endeavoured to mifleid the foldiersby
promil'es and wine, and to inc'uce them to go and
attack Carpentras, and notwithstanding the mea
sures taken by the officers to prevent them, at
the time of their being called over, feventy-fonr
were miffing.
M. Maubourg, to prevent greater evils, requests
that his reginientmay be withdrawn from thence,
and M. de NoviJles made the fame request for
the Pentliievre dragoons expofeil to the fame si-
Uiation.
M. Bouche was of opinion, that the officers
were to blame in the affair, but it ".vas however
decreed agreeably to the above proposal, and it
was beside decreed, that the committee for the
Avignon affair should make its report concern
ing this new fermentation, and prepare adecree
on the fubjeCl as soon as poflible.
i January 17.
/ The National Aflembly thi9 day broke for once
'through the decree, by which they had declared
[they would accept of no more dedicaiions, by re
ceiving the one which was made to them of a
hievv and magnificent edition of tbe gospel.
ALBANY, March 17
With pleasure we inform that, the ice, which
has so long impeded our navigation, is entirely
removed. It is worthy notice that less damage
has been done by it than usual, and is the only
one among many seasons, which does not furnifh
us with an instance of the loss of life. There
has been no account of any accident of this kind
from the mouth to the source, since the closing
of the river !
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STAETS.
IT is remarkable that the law for establishing the Bank of the U
nited States, has not been found fault with in any other part of
the union except in Pennsylvania, the state that is expe&ed to
derive the greatest benefit from the inftiiution* The oppofers,
howevei are not numerous ; an*l it is believed that all the publi
cations against it, art the produflions of an individual, who was sup
posed, until lately, to entertain more enlarged andjuft ideas on
national fubje&s.
The opposition arises chiefly from an attachment to the bank, of
this state; a want of confidence in the resources of our country ;
and to a part of the stock which is to compose the funds of the
Bank of the United States. But it has frequently and very justly
been observed, that two millions of dollars will be a large sum
for an a£livc capital : and that the certificate part of the stock can
certainly do no injury, even it it should not rile to par.
The rcafons why the bank of this State was not made the bank
of the United States are fully exhibited in the report of the Secre
tary ot the Treaiury, and were no doubt fatisfa&ory to Congress,
as they adopted his plan and paiTed the law by a lajge majority
in both houses. 7
There is no doubt however, but the fubferiptions to the Bank
of the United States will fill rapidly, and the people of Pennfvl
vania may lament at a future day their having so little influence
and fofmall a share in the administration of an institution founded
in national policy, and productive oflalling benefit both to the uni
on at large, and the individual stockholders.
That any of the public creditors (hould be even lukewarm in re
fpett to the Bank of the United States is really a paradox.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
SONNET
THE incense-breathing Lily rears her head,
On the fair bosom of the dark green vale ;
While youthful zephyr borne along the gale,
Steals her perfume and wantons on her bed.
The new-born Rose, all dripping with the dew,
With magic spell attracts the Poet's eye ;
Amidst the lucid tears, its blooming hue
Looks lovlier, and aflumes a deeper dye.
'Twas thus of late I saw a lovely Maid,
Pure as the silver lily of the vahfc;
But Syren pleaju.re blew her sullying gale,
And o'er her bosom cast a sombre shade.
Now like this blushing Rose, the Fair appears,
Her vernal cheeks fuffus'd infilv'ry tears.
Philadelphia, March 50.
#75"he House of Representatives of this State
m'ave appointed a committe to bring in a bill to
appropriate a I'utn of money for the purpose of
/building a house for the President of the Un I
[ted States, a Federal Hall for both Houses of
Congress, and offices for the different depart
ments under the general government.
A correspondent observes that the design of the
Legislature, if carried into execution, will not
interfere with the general arrangements already
made refpeifting the permanent feat of govern
ment of the United States—nor will the expence
be ill-applied, as it refpedts this conrnronwealth »
for it may reasonably be supposed, that tlie in
creasing importance and dignity of th is State,
will, at the expiration of a period of Ten Years,
require public buildings asejegantand commodi
ous as those which may now be ereifted for the
accommodation of Congrel's—Meantime, every
dicftate of found policy isin favor of making such
provision as may impress the minds offoreigners
with proper sentiments of relpeCt towards us,
and evidence the veneration of the people tor
their own covernment.
O
799
BIRTHA.
On the 22d Dec. tl-.e Ruffians carried the For
t' ess of If 111 hi 1 by if orm—The garrison which it is
said confiffed or move than 12000 men, were all
put to the (word, except about 400. The Ruffian
army was cominauded by Gen. Suwarrow.
By the lad accounts from Cape Francois, we are
informed that 80 of the Mulattoes, who were ac
tive in the late disturbances at St. Domingo, have
been executed.
A vote has pafl'ed both houses of the Legisla
ture of the State of New-York, bv which tlie
Treasurer of that State is auchorifed to fuhferibe
SEVENTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLWJti to tI)C Bank
of the United States : Ihe Certificates of Na
tional debt held by that State, it has been d ire di
ed fnould be fubferibed to the Loan propol'ed by
Congress ill their Act of 4th August 1 790.
The next Convention of the Proteftint Episco
pal Church is to be held in the city of Richmond;
Virginia, onthefirft Tuesday of May next.
Oil Saturday the 12th inft. the Legislature of
Mafl'achufetts was prorogued to the day next
preceding the last Wednesday in May next —
then to meet in that town.
The administration of Mr. Pitt, Prime Mini£
ter of Great-Britain, has been the fubjeci of En
logi urn to the firft characters in Europe : His
commercial Treaty, which was a bone for Oppo
sition to pick fora confiderabletime, appears now
in a favorable point of view—and will probably
by its effects serve to eradicate national prejudi
ces—and ere long Ihew the truth of thefentiment
advanced by the author of " Common Sense"
that man is not the natural enemy of man. The
abominable opinions which have resulted from
an ideal incompatibility of interelis, have in
times past made the world a theatre of rapine
and blood. Reason and philosophy are rapidly
inftru<fting mankind to interpret the sentiment
of the poet —that " All Nature's difference keeps
all Nature's peace."
The average price of Flour at Bristol the 18th
December last
Fine, fiom 4if. to 44f. per Sack,
Second quality, 40/". do.
"I hird, do. do.
Extraß from the Tour in Holland, jujl publijhcd.
" Supped with Monf. Luzac the famous lawyer, to whom I
had Setters—l was charmed with his converfatio«, and found
him readv to answer me any question in any language; but as I
am confined to two, we conversed in them indifferently.
44 This gentleman is celebrated throughout Europe for h\s un
common talents, and extensive knowledge ; and more particularly
tor his patriotism, and being the editor of the Leyden Gazette,
which is universally believed the beit in circulation."
Abjlratt of translations from the Leyden Gazette, as publijked by
Mr. Bache in the General Advertiser.
It is conje&ured that the Biitifh armaments were not altoge
ther intended against Spain ; but to support secret designs inimi
cal to Ruflia. The reserve of the Britilh prime minister ha©
strengthened these conje&ures ; and the declaration to the court
of Petersburg which has been sent to every court of Europe gives
r orce to the report ; which is, that England intends to fend in
r he spring, a fleet of 24 fail to the Baltic, and of 10 fail to the
Mediterranean, should Ruflia not then have begun a plan of paci
fication with the Porte upon equitable terms.
A lettci from Paris of the 2&ih Dec. analyzes the various re
ports of a counter revolution in France ; and from various calcu,.
lations and deductions pretty plainly proves that."^ f a IC
rious or important ~as freen >n contemplation by the mal
content* —It observes, u That those who are improperly called
Aristocrats*, firft give weight to these reports—they declare open
ly and seriously, t hat the new order of things cannoi last long."
The letter-writer then (hews the insuperable obstacles in the way
of a counter revolution, the fmallnefs of the number of the difaf
fe£ted, their scattered situation, the badness of their information,
and efpeciallv their want of the necefiary means—and then asks
how is it poflible to conceive that a party thus situated, scattered
among 25 millions of people, 300,000 of which have been armed
these 18 months past, and exercifcd in military difciphne, could
reasonably hope, by open force, (the expedient they now talk of)
to effect their purposes ? It is hardly poflible to Relieve that such
ideas could creep into the brains of persons not entirely deprived
; of reason.
* The Editor here makes ajujl dijlinftion. The Arijlofratf, proper,
lyfpeaking, cannot wijli a reparation of despotism or fnnple monarchy.
The Senate of Rome was a Jovereign arijiocracy—and greater enemies
10 Kings never exijied.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Sloop Defiance, McCann, New Providence,
Ship Casfar, Thompson, Lisbon,
Brig Hope, Lee, Jamaica,
Pilgrirrt, Smith, Cadiz,
Asive, Owens, Cape Francois,
Hetty, Diinker, Charleston,
Schooner La*k, Stratton, Barnagat,
Sloop Sally, Candor, Jamaica,
George, fltanem, Norfolk,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents iff.
3 pr. Cents qf.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/io gf.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates
I ndents
N. and S. Carolina debts,
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-St miT, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK ol the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia 5 March 30, 17gi
>7/i
pr. L
85 pr. cent,
45 do
-45 do
78} do.
45 d °-
do.
J 4/9
9 f
-12.J6
(96 if)CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
o» December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AM ACT for raising and adding another Regi
ment to the Military Establishment of the Uni
ted States, and for "making farther Provision
for the Protection of the Frontiers
BE it enacted by the Senate and Ho .fe of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress affeinbled, That
ihere (hall be raised an additional regiment of infantry, which,
excluiivc of the commifTioned officers, {Kali consist of nine hun
dred and twelve non-commiflioned officers, privates and mufi
eians. . ,
And be it further enafled, That the said regiment lhall be or
ganized in the fame manner as the regiment of infantry d«fcnbed
in the afi, intituled, " An a a regulating the military establish
ment of the United States."
And be it further enacted, That the troops aforefaid by this
aB to be raised, inclodingthc officers, (hall receive the fame pay
snd allowances, be fubjett to the fame rules and regulations, and
be engaged for the like term, and upon the fame conditions, in
all refpe£ls, excepting the bwunty herein-after mentioned, as are
stipulated for the troops of the United States, in the before-men
tioned act.
And be it further enafled, That each non-commilTioried offi
cer, private and musician, who has inlifted or who ffiall mlift pur
suant to the ast aforefaid, or who (ball inlift pursuant to this ast,
(hall be intitled to receive fix dollars as a boun'.y.
And be it further enacted, That in cafe the President of the
United States should deem the employment of a major-general,
brigadier-general, a quarter-master and chaplain, or either of them/
cffential to the public interest, that he be, and he hereby is em
powered, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to
appoint the fame accordingly. And a major-general so appointed
may chufe his aid de camp, and a bpgadier-geneTal, his brigade
major, from the captainsol subalterns of the line. Provided al
ways, That the major-general and brigadier-general so to be ap
pointed, (hall refpcftively, continue in pay during fnch term only,
as the Prtfident of the United States in his dilcrciion shall deem
it requisite for the public service.
And be it lurther'enaded, That in cafe a major-general, briga
dier-general, quarter-master, aid de camp, brigade-major and
chaplain should be appointed, their pay and allowances (hall be,
refpeftively as herein mentioned : The major-general shall be in
tituled to one hundred and twenty-five dollars, monthly pay,
twenty dollars allowance tor forage monthly, and lor daily sub
sistence fifteen rations, or money in lieu thereof at the contraft
price. The brigadier-general shall be intitled to ninety four dol
lars, monthly pay, with sixteen dollars allowance for forage
monthly, and for daily fubliftence twelve rations, or money in lieu
thereof at the contra£t-price. That the quarter-master shall be in
titled to the fame pay, rations and forage, ar the lieutenant-colo
nel commandant of a regiment. That the aid decamp he intitled,
including all allowances, to the fame pa) , rations and forage as a
major of a regiment. That the brigade major be intitled, in
cluding all allowances to the fame pay, rations and forage, as a
ijiajor of a regiment. That the chaplain be intitled to fifty dol
lars per month including pay, rations and forage.
And be it further enatled, That if, in the opinion of the Pre
sident it will be conducive to the good of the service, to engage a
body of militia to serve as cavalry, they turnifhing their own
horses, armsandprovifions.it shall be lawful for him to offer
such allowances to encourage their engaging in the service, for
such time and on such terms, as he shall deem it expedient to pre-
fcri'be.
And be it further enabled, That if the President ffiould be of
opinion, that it will be conducive to the public service, to em
ploy troops enlisted under the denomination of levies, in addition
to, or m prai t r»ilitia. which in virtue of the powers veiled
in him by law, he is authorised to calMnto £*rvice Q f t hc Uni
ted States, it (hall be lawful for him to raise, for a term noi ex
ceeding si* months (to bedifcharged sooner if the public service
will permit] a corps, not exceeding two thousand non-commiflion
ed officers, privates and musicians, with a suitable number of com
miflioncd officers. And in cafe it shall appear probable to the
Prrfident, that the regiment directed to be raised by the afore
iaid ast and by this ast, will not be completed in timfc to pro
secute such military operations as exigencies may require, it (hall
be lawful for the President to make a lubftitute lor the deficiency,
by railing such farther number of levies, or by calling iota the ser
vice of the United States such a body of militia as shall be equal
thereto.
And be it further enaftcd, That the President bt, and he here
by is empowered to organize the said levies, and alone to appoint
the commiflioncd officers thereof, in the manner he may judge
proper.
And be it further enacted, That the commiflioned and non
commidioned officers, privates and musicians of the militia or said
corps of levies, (hall during the time of their service, be fubjeft to
the rules and articles of war ; and they ftrall be intitled to the
fame pay, rations and forage, and, in cafe of wounds or disability
in the line of their duty, to the fame compensation as the troops
of the United States.
And be it further enacted, That the non-commiflioned officers,
privates and musicians of the said corps of levies, shall be intitled
to receive such proportional quantity of clothing, as their time of
service shall bear to the annual allowance of clothing to the troops
of the United States, fubjeft, however, to a proportional deduc
tion from their pay.
And be it further enaftcd. That cach of the non-commiflion
ed officers, privates and musicians of the said levies, Ihall be en
titled to receive three dollars as a bounty.
And be it further enacted. That in cafe the nature of the ser
vice, upon which the troops of the United States may be employ
ed, should require a greater number of surgeon's mates than are
provided for in the before-mentioned ast, the President of the
United States may engage, from time to time, such additional
number of surgeon's mates, as he (hall judge necessary.
And be it further enacted. That the commiflioned officers,
who shall be employed to recruit men lor the said regiments,
shall beintitled to receive for every recruit who shall be duly in
lifted and mustered, the sum of two dollars.
And be it further enacted. That for defraying the expence, for
one year, of the additional regiment to be raised by virtue of
this ast; for defraying the expense, for a like term, of the offi
cers mentioned in the seventh feftion of this ast; for defraying
the expense of the said militia-horse, militia-foot, and levies,
■which may be called into, or engaged for the ferviceof the Unit
ed Slates, pursuant to this ast ; for defraying the expense of such
surgeon's mates as may be appointed pursuant to the fifteenth sec
tion of this ast; for defraying the expense of recruiting the said
two regiments ; und so defraying th„- expciife of any_™ ll "'
poll, which the r,efidc ß (hall judge expedient and proper to
lablith, there beaud li rd>y is appropriated a turn, •
three hundred .lid twelve th mlaucl fix hundred an •> >
dollars and twenty cent?, to be paid out 01 the monies ,
prior to the ft,ll day ol I.uuary next, lhall a-tlefrom toe: dou»
uupofed upon fpirils distilled within the Lulled S.aies,W
ft,lis, by the J, intituled, An ast repeal,ng alter the ft day
of June next, the duties neretolore laid upon distilled fp
ported from abroad, and 1ay,,., others in their (lead; and afo
upon fpirils distilled within the United Stales, an ,or approp
un« the fame;" together with the excels ol duties which may
arifc from the duties impoft-d by the said act on impoiu pins,
be yond those which Would have arilen by the act, inn.ulcc , n
act nidkiug fartiiei piovilion iorthe pay meat ot the ae ts o ic |
United Slates." t • i j c nr
And to the end that the public fcrvicc may not be impeded tor
want of neceifary means ; r ,
Be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for th- President
to take on loan the whole sum by this a£t appropriated, .or o
much thereof as he may judge reqnifite, at an intereil not excte -
ing fix per centuin per annum ; and the fund ellablitned tort e
above-mentioned appropriation, is iiereby pledged tor t e re
payment of the principal and interest of any loan to be obtaine
in manner aforefaid : and in cafe of any deficiency in ihe laid
fund, the faith of the United States is hereby also pledged to make
good such deficiency. _
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Hovfe cj Reprefentatwis.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejident of the United States
and Pr'Jidcnt of the Senate.
Approved, March thi rd, 1*791 •
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ojthe United States.
Deposited among the Rolls iri the Office of the Secretary of Stare.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of Mate-
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
ELIAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
On TUESDAY the sth of April next, at 10 o'clock, A. M,
will commencc the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengai, Madras, and Isle of FrAnce
Consisting of a large and valuable assortment ot
INDIA GOODS.
As follows—viz.
BAFTAS, 1 "white Cloths, proper for
Carta?' a " S Shirtln S' or Shettl »g-
Dureas—or striped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted ftriptd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagrenant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchief.'. J
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, fu it able for fliirting. "
Madras Patches, beautifully figured.
Camboys, or blue and white striped Cottons.
Moreas, or plain white Cloths.
Madras Cambricks. , *2
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
Book Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs* a great variety.
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Surat Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the Isle of France, of a superior quality.
An alTortment of fine Wincsof the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfrrs, for Sailors' wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety of other Goods, which are
not enumerated. d/fo,
ioo Casks Raisins, }
75 Chens Bohea Tea,/ f the bcft M j
30 Ditto Hyion, C 1
30 ditto Souchong, j
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to the sale.
W. P BARTLETT artd CO. Auctioneers.
Feb. 21* 179 1
A CO-PARTNERSHIP having commenced between Joseph
Anthony, and his Son, Thomas P. Anthony, under the
firm of
Joseph Anthony and Son,
They have for Sale, at their Stop
and Anthony,) Northfic
NEW-ENGLAND Rum,
MolaflVs,
Muscovado Sugars,
Jamaica & Martinique Coffee,
Pimento,
Caflia,
Old Batavia Arrack,
Spermaceti & Wax Candles,
Spermaceti, Right Whale,
and Tanner's Oil,
Best pick'd Mackarel,
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliftied a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Oo"d Carriages. Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.——
Passengers pay ihree Pence per Mile, and are allowed i 4 pound
Baggage«ch. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hours for darting from the refpettive Stage
Houses is absolutely neceffary—from which there can be 110 devia.
tion.
The Stage tor the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturday,
For the Weft ward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BR O W N. 6q—iw_qm
ADVERTISEMENT
A PAMPHLET,containing some remarks on the firft volume of
1 X. the '« Defenceof the AmericanConftiiutious," written by the
V lce-Prefident of the United States, has been circulated in France
as a production of the late Gov e r nor Livingston. Any pcr
lon who will furaifh the Editor hereof with a copy of said pam
phlet, lhall be paid a double price for the fame.
-800
Bengal.
;s, (lately improved by Hewes
le Chefout-Street Wharf,
Souchong TE AS, of the firft
& iiohca ) al "y'
Boston Sail Duck,
2, 3, 4, and 7,
6 by 8 Window Glais,
Boston Prime Beef,
A quantity of choice Carrot
Tobacco.
N. England Tow Linen.
Phi lade I. March 18. j^e.p^w.*]
Norwich.
Dec. 1
PROPOSALS
tot PRINTING EY SUBS CK I PT! OS,
A WORK, Entitled
The Art of Writing,
REDUCED TO
A PLAIN AND EASY SYSTEM,
On a Plan entirely new.
IN SEVEN BOOKS.
By JOHN JEN KINS, IVritmg.UaJicK
HPHE firft book contains a very plain, easy and familiar intro.
X duttioa to this art, 2nd leads the learner to a riglu undcr
ftandiiig of the principles of the work. The small letteis arc dif.
fe&ed—the principal ftrokesare placed by themfelve&.and accora
p micd with particulai explanations. A table, or scheme, is a<j
aed, which exhibits at oi»c view the coirp »nent parts of eacti let
ter, Doih small and greui, placed in diflerentclaffes, that the learner
may at once perce*ve, by infpe&ion, the relation and dependence
wlnch one letter has upon another. To which is annexed, a Di*.
lojue, calculatcd to fix the attention ot children, and imprcfstheir
minds with right ideas of the letters. This work is defined for
the benefit of ichools, and may be uled with advantage by all wU
would acquire a knowledge ot penmanlhip.
Five of the remaining fix are proper Writing Books, with Cop
perplate Copies, and are designed as an fxecuuon of
plan, each book proceeding by regular steps, from the firft princi
ples to Joining-hand Copies, and gradually proceeding trom a
large Round-hand, to an easy Running-hand; all which are pre
paratory to the seventh and last book, which is a collection of
Writing Pieces, Promiilbry Notes, Orders, Receipts, Bills ot £x
change, &c. ____
CONDITIONS OF THE FIRST BOOK,
I. It will be printed On fine writing paper, and contain about
twenty-eight pages, quarto, with eight copperplate engravings.
11. The price will be Three Fifths of a Dollar, ftnche.d in blue,
111. As the author rilks the publication, he tequefhthat each
fubferiber would advance One Quarter ot a Dollar.
N. B. As the engravings are not yet completed, the price of the
remaining fix cannot at present be afceitained.
Gentlemen who have these fubfeription papers in their
hands, are requested to return them to Isaiah Thoma», Esq. «£
Worcester, or Thomas and Andrews, Boston, by the firftof June
next.
The plan of the above work has been submitted to, and
approved of by the Governors of several of the States, several
members ot Congress—the Presidents of Cambridge, Rhode-
Island, Yale, Columbia, the President and Vice- President ot New-
Jersey, and several of the Profeffors of Pennsylvania Colleges—
Also, by many of the Clergy, and several eminent Writing-Mag.
tcrs and Inftru&ors of Youth. PhiladLtlphia, March 7, 1791.
Cu/peper County, 25th Jan. 1791
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
THE PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides the Carolina road, in the great
fork, of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town ot Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a moil
healthy part of the country : —Confiding of 2.000 acres—half clear
ed, andingood fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
streams of water, so dispersed as to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the Br ft quality,perhapsmore than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, palling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many peach trees, and a variety of rrtoft
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and plsafant;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
fiding of about 1500 acres,on which is good merchant, gris, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully conspired to
render them complete; a large constant stream, on which they
stand, affords them water in great abundance ; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying corn, a bake house, a dwelling
house and several other improvements mostly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very goodiu quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhauftable
source for the saw-mill.
Also several detached tracts within said county, of about 2, 3,
and 400 acres each,and though not offo fertilea foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on fbme of them there aie foiali
improvements, and the lands so fuuated, that they can easily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned pofltfflions will
be disposed of, on very reasonable terms—a fynall proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency or the purchafeis, who may be
supplied on the fame terms, with all kinds of flock, work hor
ses, oxen, &c. See. See. by JOHN STRODE, [t. f.]
TO BE SOLD,
The seat ok the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road ">
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and tco acres or
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, See. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in veiy good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
Nezv-Yorh, Jan. 1791.
In the City of New-Brtuifwicl,
A Commodious TWO STORY HO USE, alraoft
new, pleafanrly situated on the banks of the Rantan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
fqyare has four rooms on each floor, with entries between thefaniCi
and a good stone cellar under the whole. _
Any petfon inclining to purchase may have poffeflion the fir
dav of May next, and know the price and terms ot payment wnic
w1! be made eafv by applying to Lewis For man ,infa id city> ol
the fubferiber in Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not fold, to be rented from ill day of May next.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. 91, Race-Street, between Sccond and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificate?,
Pennsylvania and Jetfey P?per Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of lie United Sut«, or o! 3' y
|C 7» The prta oj tk'u Faperis 3 ar "'
FOR SALE,
narticnlar Sta'e.
80 3m