PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND TUIR D STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 44, ci Vol. lII.] Wednesday, September 28, 1791-
FROM THE [PROVIDENCE) UNITED STATES CHRONICLE.
7 r CHARGE,
ADelivered by the Hon. David Howe:, l, Esq. to Uj Cradutfh en
/ Commencement /"y
Young Gentlemen,
•*- HHHE occasion which has devolved on me the duty of addreflin®
X you. cannot fail to impress your minds with an uncommon
degree of ferionfnefs.
Your bf loved Prcfideor, from whofc lips you have been accus
tomed to rcccive leflonsof Wisdom, is not here to give you his last
bened : .sion—He is gone to the World of Spirits—and, as we hope
and trust, to receive the rewards of his labours of Love and o!
Virtue. v
The Pjtrons of the College could not, however, permit you to
bid ad«eu to this InlHtution without authorising one of their num
ber to address you.
Alth ■> I have not a personal acquaintance with all of you, and
cannor, therefore, be supposed to entertain such an atfeftionate so
licitude for your welfare as vnur immediate Inftru&ors : yet, the
part I have taken 33 an Overseer of ) our progress in learning, and
the former relation I luftained (o this College, for many years, as
a Teacher, awaken in me, on this felemn occasion, the mud len
der and fince-e concern for your future welfare in life.
The pittance of time allotted 10 a collegiate education, can only
fufficc to lay the foundation of learning : the fuperftru£ture mud
be reared bv the adiduous attention of after years.
This day enlarges you into the world. Extensive fields open
to your view. You have to explore the fccnes, and to make an
election of the chara&er ihat bed pleases you on the greet Theatre
" Seekefl thou great thingi to thyf:!J ? Seek them not" said the an
cient p'nohft to Baru k his scholar and icribe. An overweening
fondnefs for our own abilities leads us, in the ardour of youth, to
pourtra> in our imagination future greatness : Time and experi
ence only can corr. 61 the error, and rcduce us to think of ourselves
foberlv, and ?s we ought. Human life is full of difappointmems.
A readmefs to liftcn to council is the furcft mark of wisdom in
youth— u in the nuhilude of council there is fafctV." When therefore
you are about to take any important step in- life, omit not to con
fuit voup friends; and let your deciGon be the result of deep re
flexion, and the mod careful circumfpe&ion.
If y'ou wish for prosperity in your worldly affairs, rife early in
the mornmg, and attend 10 vour own business with diligence,
pun&uality and order—pay a sacred regard to truth and justice—
live temperately, and moderate your pafTions by listening to the
voice of reason. Take not the lead in falhions—nor fuffer your
selves to be noted for Angularity. Discover your knowledge on
proper occasions, but avoid an affe&ed and pedantic difpl-ty of it
Let the Rights of man ever he h n !d sacred—a moment's reflec
tion will convince vou that others' rights are as inviolable as your
own ; and a small degree of virtue will lead you to refpcfl them.
Hethatferves mankind mod fuccefsfully, and with ihe best prot
einics, serves his Creator mod acceptably. Be cautious of bandy
ing into parties—they regard neither the abilities nor virtues of
men, but only the-'r subserviency to present purposes—they are a
snare to virtue, and a mifchief to society —With this caution on
your mind, you will never revile or speak evil of whole fe£ls,
clatfes or societies of men.
In the choice of friends and companions, rather aspire to those
above vou in life, than fink to those below ; the former line, of
conduct will mark a generous ambition, the latter indicates bafc
nefs and exility of thought ; from the former vou are to ad
vantages. from the latter an incumb r ance. To obtain tins objitt
will require the extension ot your abilities and the growth of your
virtues.
Never aim to rife in life by deprcfling others—it is more manly
to rely on the of one's own abilities and merit. Avoid
wplifhing or even liflrning to scandal. To mention with plea
lurc the virtues even of a rival, denotes a great mind.
Trifle pot with yourselves, nor fuffer yourselves to be trifled
with by others. If you rightly estimate your own merit, the
Vorld will not long difF.*r from you. Avoid contradictions, or
foften them. Aim to irvftruft and entertain your company ra'her
than to divert them with the affe£lation of wit and scurrility of a
droll.
Render to your superiors dtie refpes. Order is Heaven's firft
law. Nature teaches fubordinaiiou—focieiy demands it, The
bef\ soldiers make the heft officers, and the bed citizens the best
rulers.—Yet carefully difttnguifh the honors paid to rank and of
from those paid to pcrfonal merit ; and let the latter be the
principal object of vour ambition.
Forget not this precious motto — 1 Nihil humanum a in* puto alie
itvm. Consider everv one in h man shape as vour brother—»nd
ht Chart t\ in goldrn links of love connefl you wit!. ihe Brotherhood of
AW—l et your benevolence be broad as the ocean—your candor
brilliant as the fun, and your compaflion and humanity cxtcnfive
as,the human race.
The brevity and and uncertainty of life fbould us n°-
T er to orocraAinate the duties of the present time. Of all t mgs
•ur salvation is of the greaieft moment. Man is falltn into a
ftateoffinaud depravity and needi a renovation of na
tiire-—the implantation and cultivation ot the sublime virtue* of
Cnnftianiiy, to rcftore him to his true dignity—to qualify him
or h?ppincfs.—The very natures of GOD and his creatures give
"h to fixed and immutable relations between them. Thrfe
•re the foundations of virtue, and as sol d as those of the everlaft-
In * m °ontains. It is not poiTibl for man to become happy other
vl e than by conforming to the L iwsof his Nature.—by becoming
de d trU UC ' l 3S man ou 10 be, thought, word and
it b 3Cre d fcripturrs are to be the study of your lives; —nor let
I f ''' a n employment beneath a gentleman, Newton,
nr ,f> , and the mod emincn: Pnilofojy** ftudi"d and wrote com
rnrn es on j, j s a mar £ o ( van j tv to lightly of r
ation—-not {.» idmi-r thoTe ncient and fnblime bonks (Hews a
J** ,a 'te in fi»f wi as well 35 of real judgment in
And here let me caution you never to ndiciflc what
•cr may be held sacred by anv devout an<l judicious man —If you
* nn "' IQ ' n w '»h him, at lesft do not diihfrb him by your ure-
Ver ence.
coi °K c P^ ernrn i it '* your good fortune to en'er r>ti life in a
b" 'ft..a' Pf 7" ;rlv favored hy the bounteous hand ot Nature and
ri'it'n? t' l^C Government in the woild. Your education
r( i iei you arnr >n; your fellows—the eyes of many arc fix
flatt X ° 'u pareiws ?nd fnends have, no doubt, the moll
The " e °? cs of vour future eminence ;do not dtfaponint them.
w P a *ronsof thi» College also fcei a peculiar iniercft in your
p*ofperity, let me intreat you, therefore, as you eft eetrt.your friend.-
—as you rcfpeO ihe place of your education, rcfolve to a£t your
parts in life well may Heaven llrengthen you with grace so
10 do
JZ, Thed y is at hand when all of us, whether young or old now,
must appear and give an account of our coudu£l before the Creatoi
*nd Governor of ihe world—" that is the day of days % the impoi
iant day"—as the Poet fays— <l Jor which all other days were made"
Time, with all its concerns and enjoyments will then vanish from
our eager grasp—Eternity willl then commence—and a solemn
Commencement will that be—your worthy President has gone
before you—lf you loved him, or it you even love yourfclves, let
me in the moll carnefl and solemn manner, Tall on you to recollect,
and imprint on vour memory, his pious care over you—his laithful
Admonitions, and his amiable example, and to prepare to follow
In behalf of the Corporation,
Young Gentlemen,
I bid you FAREWELL
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET.
RF.E as the lightsome spirit of the wind
That da«ces o'er the rosy vales in Spring,
And bears the heavenly odours on its wing,
Were all the pleasures of my youthful mind ;
'"Till Anna's beauty caught my wandering foul:
Her eye the folt betrayer ot her heart,
Her touching grace form'd by no rules of art,
Transfix my mind and all its powers controul. .
When by my lampamidfl the gloom of night,
I strive to hold a converse with the dead ;
Lo, Anna darLing from a flood of light!
Before me Hands, and banishes each lhade.
Where'er I go her spirit haunts me dill,
Oi in the vale, or on the craggy hill.
BERLIN, July 10.
ON the 4th, the Prince Henry gave an enter
"tainmenr, and erected the monumentrin ho
nour of the Prince of Pruflia, his brother, the fa
ther ofjour Monarch. The concourse of people
aflefiibVed on the occasion was imrornl'e. As
was infufficient to contain all the peo
ple aflembled, it became necefl'ary for
thenj to S»perfe themselves in the neighboring
villages. The Prince invited to the entertain
mertt all the" subalterns and soldiers of our gar
rison who had served in the war of seven years,
and defrayed their expences.
July 16. A marriage between the PrincefsFrede
rica.hsldeft daughter of the King, with the Duke
of York, is concluded upon, and to-morrow the
betrothing will take place at Potfdain, in
the'#»Tence of all the Royal Family. Uponthis
occawon there will be great rejoicings as well in
this capital as at Poifdam. The marriage, it is
(thought, will take place in autumn, at the fame
time as that of the Princess Wilhelmina with the
Hereditary Prince of Orange.
CHERBOURG, July 12.
This wonderful harbour, winch has puzzled
and defied half t he engineers in Europe, now pre
sents. a proud proof that France was right in her
fpectllations. It forms a capacious and secure
afvluni for the largest fleet that can be wanted ;
and what is lingular, during all the diilurbances
and commotions of France, t he work has proceed
ed uniformly, and the workmen regularly been
paid.
COPENHAGEN, July 24.
Our Monarch, not content with having fer a
laudable example, by laboring paternally to me
liorate the firuation of his fubjeifts, has lately ad
drefled an exhortation to all landholders, and
persons fuhjeCt to ftarute-work of all kinds, ro
adopt amicable compofuions wi t,h refpe<fl to ty t lies,
the repair of highways, &c. It is to be hoped tha:
this wife exhortation will not be thrown away,
aiid that rlie example of the Prince will give ad
ditional energy to the reasons which he has em
ployed.T
PARIS, July rB.
The Decree concerning the inviolability of the
King's per-foh, having orcafioned uncommon fer
mental ion among 'he citizens of this capital, a
tumult was accordingly evpe<fted.
On Sarnrday the Jacobins ami other societies,
drew op a petition to tlie Aflembly, praying them
to call a new Legiflatnre, on purpose thar the
crimes of Lonis XVI. might be judged and de
termined by Representatives who (hoi.ld express
the wilhcs "of the- people. This was circulated
among the citizens f>r fubferiptiotts. as was
an address, entreating them to prefe; e theirre
fpe<ft for the laws; and endeavor to procure the
late Decree to be rcfciuded cjiitlitaticna.
means alone.
173
C H A M O N T.
unso
[Whole No. 2 52.]
Yesterday morning an immense croud repaired
to the Champ de Mars, to sign the petition allud
ed to. On their arrival having disco two
persons concealed below the Altar, dedicated to
Gallic Freedom, the people unfortunately fuf
petfed them of an intention of blowing it up by
means of gun-powder, and atftualjy, in violation
of every idea of Jaw and of jultice, executed
them on the spot.
On notice of this, the Municipal officers imme
diately repaired to the Champ de Mars, aCeoi#-
panied with detachments of horse -anA-footaand'
Afto several pieces of artillery. ' ' '
theri-Mroclaiined Martial after
having firedL,Hßa or three rounds
only, the Nisjgifal Guards were at
ed to have rettiUiTe to ball, as they llill esgeri
enced refiftanc*. Several of the 1110b,'were ImJed,
and many wounded, on the spot. •
It is but jufticetoadd, that this guilty and fran
tic multitude do not appear to have attempted
any thing against the National Allembly.
July 21. M. Duveyrier, the comniiffioner dis
patched Come time since to the royal fugitives at
Worms, has given an account of the events of his
million. On the 17th 1 e set off from Paris with
M***, his cousin and old friend, one of the king's
Guards- On the 21 ft, at nine o'clock in the even
ing, he arrived at Worms, and intimated hismif
fion to M.Conde. The next day he followed him
to Coblentz. The Eletflor of Treves, and M.
d'Artois, and de Conde had a after
which they dispatched M. Duveyrier to Aude
mack. They told him that his miffioildilpleafed
M. Conde, and still more the French officers,
which the latter fufficiently niatked by injurious
treatment. He in vain waited foran anftver si om
M. de Conde. Intelligence arrived of the King's
(light. M. d' Artois went to Aix-la-Chapelle, and
M. de Conde to Worms. M. Duveyrier took the
road for France, and passing through Lnxem
bourgh, in which city M. Bouille and his fnit then
were, he was jrrefted and detained twenty-two
days, w'ithour permission to write. He was in
fuhed by French officers in prison ; and at last,
conduced by a parry of hulans, w ho left him on
the frontiers, ne3r Longevia.
The Jacobineg' Club is no longer frequented
by thole who value their reputation ; fiuce the
schism, formed by the fece llion of all the Mem
bers of the National Afiembly, only Bankrupts in
honour and in fortune, continue to herd together
in that den of anarchy and inifchief. We at all
limes afTerted that the Jacobines were a national
nuisance, and would finally, if not obflrutflcd,
cause the ruin of France ; the conduit of the ma
jority of that Club, with refpeft to the decree iff
lued in favor of monarchy, evinces that we pre
dicted right ; it was through them that the riot
on Saturday and Sunday arose; they dictated all
the evils which have long diftrat r ted France ; they
aimed at overturning the new fyftein by abolish
ing monarchy, and by encouraging licentious
ness and conhtfion it mud cease then to be a
wonder that the Reprefentaiives of the
have withdrawn thenifelves si om the Jacobines'
meeting place ; they are now in the vicinity of
their own lioufe, the Feuillans, where they
mean to carry on their primitive design ; they
have addrefled all the aflociated club» in the
kingdom to engage them tocontinue their litera
ry intercourse with them, being, as they llyle
themselves—" The Friends of the CwiltiuMioii"
—the cloven foot, however, appears in the ad
dress ; in it we read the following—" The club
was deltined to prepare the decrees of tile Na
tional Afl'embly.—The fa<fl is, that the Setftioix
of Manconfcil, under the immediate 01 der of the
vilest mob, commanded iheCortTeliers' club. The
Cordeliers gave law* to the Jacobine9, and to the
National AUembly—f<» that the blackguards of
Maucnnfeil, the St. Giles' of Paris, have hither
to governed France and Fienchnien ; sb much
for innovation* and the rights of men !— A new
=ra is now arifitig—may rcafon, and not meta
physics guide this deluded people.
In one fir.gle clafsof manufacturers in this coun
try. viz. those who used to fabricate livery clothe*
a-id lace there are at lead 20,000 workmen reduc
ed to absolute beggary. What then niuil become
of all the manufacturers of the kingdoM
July 24. The National Aflembly have ratten
ftens '0 feqneftvare the poflrflions of the Prince
of Conde.— This nteafnre, at the prefen: moment,
nrecipitate and ill-timed.July 2J. Yesterday morning M. de la Fayette
reviewed the citizen-soldiers of the department
of Paris, destined for the defence of the fron
tiers. InthcChamp Elifes. They are a fine body
of troops, being composed entirely of youngmen,
and amount to exactly 2000 in number. To
morrow they are to march to Grenelle, where
they will be joined by a detachment ofthetroops
of the line.
A prodigious number of people have been ar
retted, on account of the late disturbances.
All our pamphlets, journals, and even hand
bills, now openly plead the cause of republican
ism.
A new periodical paper, to which the noted
Paine contributes, has taken the title of the Re
publican, declares the King a useless being, and
a grievous burden, from which the robe ought
now to be exonerated ; and whether Louis XVI,
is a weak man, or a hypocrite, a fool, or aknave,
he ought to fall into the common class of citizens,
and to be no more spoken of,but under the name
of Monf. Louis Bourbon.
IVlonf. Cazules and Monf. Montloifier, two- of
the molt loyal royalifts,as well as honett citizens,
have resigned their feats, coucluding with Cato,
that
When yice prevails, and impious men bear fwav,
The pofl of honour is a private ftaiion.
On the whole, the majority of the Aflembly
fee the neceflity of lenient and conciliating mea
sures, but are afraid to adopt them.
Our republican clubs are inafters over the
people, and the people are the tyrants over the
Aflembly.
LONDON, July 22
The fpiiic of violence is now so strong against
the King in Paris, that a memorial has been pre-
fented to the National Allembly by a body ot the
people, cjeclaring, " that they will never ac
knowledge Louis XVI. nor any other king, un
less the majority of the nation exprefles a wish to
that efFetfh" In almost every street of Paris,
some one or other was harranguing the mob a
gainst the decree of the Aflembly on the King's
inviolability, when themeflenger came away.
Moderate people, however, th ink that the Na-
tional Afletnbly's granting inviolability to the
King was one of the molt prudent steps they
\ could take to save their coilntry from the hor
>'/ rors of a foreign war. It was next to an impof-
that the Emperor, or the King of Spain,
'conld be quiet fpeiftators of a contrary conduit,
and yet from the intefline divisions of the feve
ral clubs in Paris, their late determination seems
Jto threaten a ( civil war, unless some temporary
L«j®edient be hie upon.
; ."Conflagration and plunder being now held as
" proofs of loyalty, we (hall not wonder at hearing
the deftruiftion of the Dutch dock-yards was oc
casioned by the zeal of some loyal citizens.
No circumstance could be more propitious to
the accomplilhrnent of the French revolution,
than the schism which has revolted so many of
the (liAj des Jacobins. To this society were
united all the lower clubs in the nation embrac
ing republican notions ; its difmembermen!,and
the institution of a new one by the difafFecfted
members, will give a death blow to such ella
blifhinents, and the people will repose, when
tbefe nurseries of faction are destroyed, their
implicit confidence in their immortal National
Aflembly.
Whatever there may be to admire in the plan
of the new constitution of France, its effecfts are
unknown, nor can we prediift by the experience
©f former times, for here is a something the
world never saw nor heard of before. Its ad
mirers boast that it is perfeift in all parts, but we
have already found that it is not permanent in
any part ; many of these laws or regulations,
which were intended to be unalterable, have al
ready been altered or expunged ; and though the
whole system is built on a set of abltratft ideas,
and of philosophical speculations, they have al
ready experienced, that they mult, like all other
legislators, yield to cii cumftances, and to the spi
rit of the times. On these accounts, and from
the additional consideration that France is at
present under a system of martial law, its 'con
stitution obliged to be guarded by an immense
standing army, and the people fettered by the
law of pallports, species of flaverv this country
never knew, it was our opinion, that the time
for celebrating an anniversary is not yet come.
If according to their accounts, their constitution
is built, we are certain it is not habitable, and
is destitute of many conveniences, which a build
ing, that they may think more mean, is actually
poileffed of.
From the late meeting in London, danger was
apprehended,and very properly guarded againlt.
In our opinion, the alarm however, was greater
than neceff'arv ; and we could have wished, that
instead of exasperating paragraphs, this meeting
had been treated with silent contempt, or with
ridicule only. But though London escaped the
danger on Thursday, we are very sorry to learn
that other places have not been so fortunate.
Birmingham has been a scene of savage riot. Se
veral houses have been destroyed, anci much va
luable property, For a mob like this, no exctife
can be offered ; nor can we conceive how this
mob were allowed to become formidable without
that earlv and firm oppofijion, which at once de
stroys such combinations. The mifchiei that has
happened, will, no doubt, be ascribed to the Mi
nistry. " It will be said, the ministerial writ
ers," as they are called, incited the mob to de
stroy the houses and chapels of the Dilfeutcrs.
Calumnies like those might be easily refuted, if
a serious refutation were not a compliment to the
calumniators. All that we (hall observe on the
fubjecft, is, that the republican parry may now
fee, thatthe spirit of the people is againlt them :
they will therefore a(ft wifely in forbearing t heir
public rejoicings and anniversaries hereafter,
and reflect (it is an old do&rine) that no good
man or good cifizeii will do that, though he
may be free todo it, which will tend to dilturb
the public peace, and create tumult and confu
fion.
On the 3d June, the managers of the Houfc of
Commons, not conceiving it necelfary to rejoin
to Mr. liaftings' defence, their lordships at half
past two o'clock adjourned to their own houfc.
Thus, barring the final decision of the lords,
closes a trial every way a wonder—Prosecuted
upwards of four years by the commons, and de
fended in the brief span of two hours.
The suspended sentence will naturally be ex
pected with awe—it will be considered as the fiat
of the greatest tribunal upon earth.
The Empress of Russia is by no means of the
Marquis of Lanfdovvne's opinion, that Great-Bri
tain will bring her grey hairs with sorrow to the
grave ; at least, (lie continues tothrovv from her
all appearance of entertaining such apprehenli
011s.
Te Deuni was lately sung in the Polish Church
at Rome, by way of thinks for the advantages
which the new constitution of Poland secures to
the Catholic religion. The Pope assisted at this
ceremony, and (hewed great favor to all who
contributed to the grand event which it was
meant to celebrate.
Dr. Bennet, the Bifliop of Cork, on a late vi
sitation of the Dipcefe, found a number of induf
trions poor using their endeavours to support
large families by the grain and potatoes of small
parcels of land which were charged with tithes ;
this good prelate, in the true spirit of Chrillian
benevolence, not only remitted his (hare of the
tenth of their produce, but ordered the entire a
mount of his tithe to be dillributed among the
deserving poor,'amounting toafuinnot less than
7001. It may be recommended to each of his
dignified brethren,in the language of Holy Writ,
—" Go ! and do thou like wife !"
The Court of Diretftors of the Bank of Ireland
have determined to add 240.0001. to the capital
(lock of their Bank ; and for that purpose to call
upon the proprietors of Bank Stock at the rate
of 40 per cent, on their refpe<fli*e (hares, til be
paid into the Bank by the following inftahnents,
viz. 10 per cent, on the 20th of September,—lo
per cent, on the 20th of December, —10 percent,
on the 20th of March, 1792, —xo per cent, on the
20th of June, 1792.
The naval force of Spain confills of 68 fltips of
the line, amongst which are 12 of li2guns each,
besides 4 of 58 and 1 54 guns.
The Vienna Gazette presents a circumstance
the more noticeable, as it is the only state paper
iri Europe which has as yet given a decisive opi
nion on the French Revolution ! —When that pa
per mentions the chapge in the latter kingdom
as a rebellion, and the National Aflembly as a felf
created body, there cannot remain a doubt either
of the sentiments or designs of the Emperor.
The terrible fire which confnmed the arsenal
at Ainfterdam, the Dutch are convinced was not
the effect of accident. Each party accuses the
other. The friends of the Stadtholder declare
that the patriots did it to prevent a fleet beina
sent to aid the French King's cause ; the mob
have therefore infnlted many of them, and never
were cockades sb frequent as now in Amllei dam
since all who appear without them are maltreated.
Extract of a letter from Paris,
" Madame Bailli told a female friend, a few
days ago, that were it not for her patriotifm,and
the seventy two thonfand livres which the na
tion, through gratitude, pour into her coffers,
(he would make her hulband resign the trouble
foine poll of mayor of Paris.—What a fine thino
patriotifm is !
" A moll desperate engagement took place at
Montpellier between the national guards and
the aristocratic party—many were killed on both
fides.
M. de Botiille's hnufe, in the environs of
Paris, wnslaft week ftript of every moveable that
was thought worth taking away."
July 23. A lerter from Gibraltar, dated the
2tl of June, mentions, that the Brother of the
Emperor of Morrocco had excited an infnrrec
non in the Province of Suz, and having afl'em
bled an army of 100000 men, had
to be proclaimed Emperor.
174
July 25.The King of Spain is doing „ erv
thing poiiible to conciliate his army, after"
creating their pay, he is proceeding to r-view
the several corps. At that of the Carabineer,
lately, he appealed in h IS uniform as Colonel „r
the Guards, and the whole family under a f
perb tent.
Letters from Toulon mention, that the
ines are become worse than ever ; they p v P „
regard to the colors of any nation, except to tlie
Englilh, whole flag they never molelt.
On Saturday came on in the Couit of Chr.nc«
ry, the further hearing of the cafe of the Nn'iiob
of Arcot against the India Company, when the
Company's plea, that in quality of Sovereign,
they were not amenable, was disallowed. °
July 28. A deputation of Diflenters yesterday
waited 011 Mr. Pirt, to solicit the interp'odtion of
government in difcoveving the inltirators and
punishing rhe perpetrators, of the Birmingham
riots. A promifeof every proper exertion to that
effe<it was of conrfe made.
In the space of twelve months, from July i jy o
to July I 791, the quantity of Porter brewed iti
London amounted to forty-nine millions one hun
dred and twelve thousand, fix hundred and fixiy
gallons.
July 30. Yesterday two proclamations were is
sued at the Secretary of State's office, the one of
fering a reward of one hundred pounds for dif.
covering and apprehending the late rioters at
Birmingham; and the other offering the fame
reward for dift'overing the author, primer, or
ptiblifher of the inflammatory hand-bill, begin
ning with—" The fectfnd year of Gallic Liberty
is nearly expired."
In the Aultrian Netherlands, the Emperor,ac
cording to an account laid before the National
Aflemblv, has forty-five thousand troops ready
to a el; but, according to other accounts, they
amount to very little short of an hundred thou
sand, all ready trained and inured to war.
011 Thursday lalt a meflenger was difparclied
with the final approbation of his Mnjefiy in Coun
cil, of the Duke of York's marriage toaPrinceli
of Pruflia.
We hear from Birmingham, rhar every exer
tion has been made for apprehending the dis
turbers of public tranquility at that place; and
that peace is now perfectly reflored.
The lad accounts from Major Houghton, who
was sent to explore the interior parts of Afiica,
mention, that he was then about to depart be
yond the reach of any European intercourse;
and that it would be about two years before he
wns likely to be again heard of. The Major na
vels '-retty much after the manner of Monsieur
Vaillant;.
sht%. i. Mr. Hammond's appointment to the
American States is said to lie for special purpo
ses. The general opinion is, tiiat he is to form
a commercial connection, and to promote such
an alliance as may prevent the new Slates from
making a similar Treaty with the Spaniards.
Aug. 2. His Royal Highness Prince Eihvaid,
has left Gibraltar,for America ; his retinue when
failed, was rather domestic than princely ; a
French Female, his own man, and Swift valet,
composed his whole fuire.
The princess royal of PrufHa to w!iom,the duke
of York is fhortlv ro be united, is beautiful, ac
complished, and not more than 24 years old.
The marriage of a certain royal duke, is'confi
dered by some as an omen of the confirmed celi
bacy of his princely brother; nt lead that lie
positively means to decline all alliances with io
reign beauty
The report of the coniniifHonevs for Hqnidat
ng the national debt, lately made to the chan
cellor of the exchequer, far the last quarter, be
ing the 20th, dates, that there have been pur
chased in the funds, 7,568,8751. stock ; and that
the caih paid for the fame, amounts to the sum
of 5,760,8961. 15s Bd.
B I RMIN GH A M, July 2f
On Wednesday three troops of the nth regi
ment of light dragoons, and on Friday three
troops of the id regiment of dragoon guards,
inarched into the town. Col. DeLanceyarrived
with an aid-du-camp, on Tuesday, froiti the king,
to take command of the military ; and such was
his majesty's anxiety to provide for the fecuriiv
of this neighbourhood, that he had given orders
for four thousand troops to march to onr re.iei
from different quarters. Tranquility, however,
being restored, the progress of the greater part
of them will be flopped.
Several of the rioters are taken, and more a'
known ; and this day his majesty's justices v»s
fit at the Swan Inn, to receive information
(peeking the riots.
The rioters who were taken at Mr. ' a " s n
Belle-Vue, are now confined at Kales-Owc n >
waiting their trials. ,
It is trusted that enquiry will bring out 11-
origin of the late disturbances.
LIVERPOOL, July 3°-
Among the articles confunied at Mr. Ry :,n^, r '
nt Birmingham, was the body of rhe
Balkerville, who by will ordered he fl loUburjecl in his own lioufc,and lie was accordingly
interred there. A ftoneclofet was erected i:> ii
where he was deposited in a {landing polhne.
The hotife afterwards fold, with this express
condition that it (liould remain there.
According to letters from Truro in Cornwall,
a meeting of the principal proprietors of the tin
mines was held in that town on Saturday fe'n
night> when it was agreed to advance the price
of that article to 31. 12s. per hundred, a higher
price than it has been for many years ; and the
East-India Company have agreed to take half
the tin produced from the County at the above
price.
We are sorry to fay, that the spirit of turbu
lence and disorder has broken out at Sheffield,
where, in the course of last week, the lower class
of people discovered an inclination to riot, in
consequence of the enclosure of the commons of
Stannington and Hallain ; but by the timely in
terference of 1 lie military, which were sent for
from York and Nottingham, the rioters were dis
persed and a period put to the disturbances.
The rioters had previously set (ire tofeveral ricks
of hay, four of which were consumed, and gut
ted the houses of the Rev. Mr. Wilkinfon, the
Vicar, and Mr. Eyre, and done other damage
By the last accounts all is quiet.
DUBLIN, July 25.
Yederday evening a great nntnber of people
afl'embled in a tumultuous manner, near the Par
liament House, in consequence of some seditious
hand-bills which were didributed the preceding
day. • A bom eight o'clock at night, they pro
ceeded to Fleer-lane, where they totally dedroy
ed fifteen houses, committing at the lame time
many acts of ontrage. The police at length ap
peared, and a defpei ate bat,tle ensued, when the
police were cjmpletely vvorfted. Some lives
were lod on both fides. Elated with their vic
tory, the mob marched down Fleet-street, com
mitting great excefles. At ten o'clock this morn
ing. a large body of the rioters were employed
in levelling with the ground the honfes they had
destroyed the preceding evening, when a party
of the 80th regiment arrived, and put an end to
their amusement. The military, having, com
pletely dispersed the insurgents, returned to the
barracks.
GEORGETOWN, (S.C.) August 27
In America men live and die free and inde
pendent, for nothing obliges thetn to throw off
that liberty which is the mod lovely ornauien;
and mod valuable-prerogative of human nature
—the country abounds with all the neceflaries of
life and (tie inhabitants are both numerous and
rich—valiant and indudrious—the edablilhuient
of arts, trades, and manufactures, has madetheni
entirely independent of other countries for any
of the neceflaries or even the luxuries of life,
and every citizen is his own politician and eligi
ble to any public office, what ever may be his re
ligion.
B O S T O N, Sept. 17
Nathaniel Barrett, Esq. who arrived in town
yesterday, via Cape Ann, from France, which he
left the ill of August, informs us, that the nioft
perfect tranquility pervaded the whole of that
kingdom, united with a determined resolution
to defend the principles of the revolution against
all attempts against tliem, internal or external.
That the flight of the King did not excite an agi
tation of 48 hours continuance : That on the
promulgation of the decree, exonerating the
King from all culpability, and declaring hisper
fon inviolable, a few rioters aflenibled at the
Champ de Mars, to swear not to have a king,and
that two persons fell vitftinis to their rage,—but
that the Marquis de la Fayette, at the desire of
the municipality, immediately marched a body
of national guards (who to a man are true to the
constitution) and, after some opposition from the
mob, about a dozen of whom were killed and
wounded, difperfecl them ; and that since the
nioft pertedt order has been preserved.
N E W-H A V E N, Sept. 21
On Wednesday the 14th inft. the anniversary
Commencement of Yale College was celebrated
in this City ; after the exercifesof the day were
concluded—the degree of Bachelor in Arts was
conferred on twenty-fix,and that of Master ofArts
on 17 Candidates.
The honorary degree of Master of Arts was
conferred on John Allen, Eft], of Litchfield,
and Mr. Francis Chiles of the city of New-
York.
The degree of Doiftor of Divinity was confer
red on the Rev. Jo hn McKnight, of the city
of New-York, the Rev. James Muir, of Alexan
dria, j n Virginia, the Piev, Samuel MaccmjJ
t°ck, of Greenland, in New-Hanipfhire.and the
ev -Josfph Lathrop, of Weft-Springfield, in
Mallachufetts.
1 he degree of Docflor of Laws was conferred
*>P«n the Rev. and Hon. Joseth Willard,D.D.
resident of the University of Cambridge.
Philadelphia, September 2
The Ichooncr Peggy, Capt. Wnite, arrived at New-York on
Saturday iaft, in lgdays from st. Maiks, Hilpaniola. He con
firms the accounts we had before received from that Island. The
diilreiled lituation of the white people almoil exceids description.
1 he negroes having desolated and deflroyed all the open country,
proceeded to attack the Cape (Francois.) They were deleated
with great slaughter in three deiperateattempts on that town. In
one defeat 2000 of thern were killed and 1500 taken prisoners, of
whom eveiy tenth man was beheaded. Many of the white peo
ple were alio killed in these conflicts—-one regiment alone left fif
ty me n killed in one engagement. The muiattoes had not joined
the negroes ; they were in arms tor their own defence, and had
informed the white people, that, if they would conform to the
decrecsotthe National Aflembly, they would afliit them to fup
prefsthe infurn dtion, We do not learn whether any or what an
swer has been given to this message.
Upwards of sixty fail of American vefTels are detained at the
Cape.
L'Anguille, on the Wabafh,the Indian Town deflroyed by Ge
neral Wilkirifon, has remarkably dittinguilhcd ltielf as a neii of
robbers and murderers, and is the only place upon the Wabafh
where our pritoners have constantly been put to the moil horrible
tortures
The two fuccefsful expeditions against the hostile Indians, can
not fail of making the moil serious imprdfions upon them, and
produce a solid peace, which is theXole object of the United States.
Indeed, since General Scott's expedition in June, a number 01
French inhabitants, who were fettled at feverai ot the Indian vil
lages on the Wabalh, had repaired to Poll Vincennes; and about
tnree hundred Ouittanon or YVea men, women and children, In
dians who have hitherto been hostile, bad followed their example,
and have fettled themfelvea within about eight leagues of Poll Vin
cennes, and declared themielves at peace, and under the protection
of the United States.
An alarming and treasonable riot lately took place in the coun
ty of Mifflin, in this State, occasioned, as it appears, by the enmi
>y of two men againflSamuel Bryfon, Esq. lately appointed Judge
of the Couit of Common Pleas ; thrfe men were ambitious of be
ing Colonels of militia, and against the commiflioning of whom,
as unfit persons, Mr. Bryfon as County-L'eutenant, had made re
presentations. Enraged at the promotion of Judge Bryfon—one
Wilson, brother to the Sheriff of that County, and one David
Walker levied a considerable force, and marched at the head of
about forty armed men with a fife playing, to Lewis-Town, with
an avowed determination to seize the person of Judge Bryfon,
whilst on the Bench, drag him from thence, oblige him to resign
his commiflion, and to accompany these persons to the rugged
narrows of Juniatta Rivers.
The mob was however fruftrated in their plan, thro'the spi
rited behavior of the Judges and the officers of the Court ; Judge
Bryfon escaped from their hands—and has repaired to the feat of
government. A body of the militia appeared the next day after
he riot tofupport and protest the Court—the rioters had previ
ously retired—and the Court was opened by the other Judges.
Col. McFarland who commanded the militia assembled 011 this
.ccafion, presented an address to the Judges on behalf of himfelf,
and the militia,declaring their abhorrence of the proceedings which
lad taken place—and offering at the hazard of their lives to pro
eft the Court—to which the Judges returned an answer expressive
of their sense of. the laudable zeal discovered by the ftip
port the laws and government of Pennsylvania,
The degree of Doctor in Divinity, at the late Commencement in
this city was conferred on the Rev. Mr. Afhbell Green ot Phila
delphia ; and on the Rev. Mr. Isaac Keith, of Charleflon, South-
Carolina.
The Provost of the University in his charge to the graduates, ob
served, that the wounds and fears which science felt from the un
natural hand of despotism, when her spirit was whetted against
this unoffending country, soon experienced the healing afliftance
of legifla ive authority, to the remotell corners of our confederacy,
liven amidst the ravages of war, and the attention neccffary to re
pel the invasion of a proud and disappointed nation, the State of
P nnfvlvania, ever attentive to the things which constitute her
ft ensrth and among the confederated States, erected
the University of Pennjyfvania at the public expence, without a fin
rle privati donation, or any application from public spirited in
vidualsfor legislative countenance and aid. The institution is
their own, and owes its origin to the wisdom, po'icy and fore
thought of her Representatives eleven years ago, in that dark and
cloudy day, when the scale of battle yet huug doubtful, although
' opcfully verging towards the fide of liberty and independence.
They have seen, I trust, said he, with secret plcafure, the fruits
of their early attention to the interests of literature, in the gradu
ation of upwards of 260 students, besides those that have been gra
duated this day, in the short space of eleven years; the blollbms
of manv of whom begin to unfold, and to promise us the rich
f ru-.ts of a splendid addition to that stock of knowledge in philo
sophy and physic, in law and divinity, which enriches a nation,
and makes them more excellent than their neighbors. And this
day we are happy in exhibiting to their view, and in ushering in
to life, under their auspices, in thecourfeof the present year, as
numerous and refpe&able a class of students in philosophy and me
icine, as were ever graduated in the State of Pcnnfylvania.—And
if any thing be yet necefTary to complete their original plan of
enlarging the human mind, and ex3hing the genius of our citi
zens, as feemsto be the cafe in the general idea, and wish of the
♦riends of literature in the State, we doubt not, but the wisdom
and magnanimity of one of the largest States 111 the Union, will
vie with the most forward of the confederacy, in piacing their
University upon as refpeSable a footing as any other in America,
and in making it as extenfivcly ufeful to the interests of science,
religion and government.
In full confidence of the liberality and wisdom of the Legisla
ture, the Trustees have erected an elegant and spacious anatomical
theatre and chemical elaboratory, for the accommodation of the
medical students, which will be ready for their reception on the
firft of November next, when the medical lettures will commence;
being fully sensible, that it would be impoflible for them to an
swer the designs of their conftiturnts, or support the encreafing re
putation of the medical institution, without such a ftru£lure.
Every fiiend to virtue, science, and the bed intercfts of society
and the rising generation, must he delightrd on reading i he ingeni
ous, pathetic and truly elegant Address of the Hon. Mr. How eli,
inferte'd in this day's Gazette—it can scarcely.be peruftd withou
pleasure and advantage by persons of every age ; but to young
minds in particular, it conveys the moil important lessons of life.
SAYS A CORRtIPONDZNT,
Good Government is to be considered as an ordinance of Hea
ven, principally on account of its the medium thro which
we receive all the bleflings of society. Withou*. government there
can be no society, and 110 civil freedom ; all the advantages de
pendant on property arise from government ; and here we mav
di(tin«ui(h the difference between tyranny and government; under
the former, there is nothing but she name of property—for what
we cannot call our own, we cannot be (aid to pojfe/s. That is not
government, but despotism, whether in the hands of one, a few
or many, which does not pay a sacred regard to the rights of pro
perty, as well as to the rights of man ; indeed they cannot be fe
paratcd, for when the former are invaded, the springs of industry,
and a laudable ambition, which are eflennally conne&ed with the
equal rights of man, are attacked and undermined.
175
If is With Government as with Religion, the world abounds
with different systems of each, and the fV6ts which adhere to them
refpeftively pretend in a greater or lefler decree to infallibility—
hence the intemperate heats and animosities which interrupt, and
often destroy the peace of society.
It is now generally considered as indicative of narrowness and
bigotry of mind, to deny 10 otheis the right every one is fond e
nough of assuming to h rnfeli, ol judging in a tides of faith. Why
(nould not equal liberty be allowed in chufing our political creed ?
" To err is human"—and mankind are perhaps more liable to er
ror in what concerns their political intereil, than they are in what
relates to modes of religious belief.
It has often been confidently affcrted that religious zeal and
bigotry have deflroyed more of the human race than any other
cause of diflVntiou ; yet the contrary will appear when it 1? conti
dered that mankind have been perpetually at war about civil and
political rights, and their temporal poll ilions—whereas religious
wars have raged only at particular periods,and tliofe remote from.
The late accounts from the Weft-India I (lands present the mod
gloomy fpi'ftacle that perhaps has ever been exhibited on the thea
tre of the globe. To reflect on an handful of people (compara
tively speaking) being absolutely in the power of an immense mul
titude of blacks, untaught and uncivilized, whose fenle of injuries
has been constantly receiving an additional keenncft to its edge for
ages, must harrow up every feeling of humanity ; and tho there is
something in our natures which revolts from slavery, and every ge
nerous American must ardently wish to fee the period arrive
When Afric's sons [had freely range their groves,
Pluck their own fruits, and woo their fable loves.
Yet as the new system of tne world is gradually ameliorating the
condition of our species, it is rather to be feared, that the period,
when universal freedom shall be enjoyed, must be retarded, rather
than accelerated by such horrible attempts. On the principle
therefore of universal benevolence and philanthropy, if impelled
by no other motives, the Government of the United States is bound
to afford the most prompt and etteftual succour and relief to their
allies.
According to the late accounts from Cape-Francois, the following
seems to have been dictated by the spirit of prophecy—
An Address from the Tozun and Commerce of Nantes, to the National
Ajjembly dated May 20, 1791
Gektlemen,
YOUR decree of the 15th May, sublime in the eyes of philofo
phy,and dictated by the\love of humanii y,will not prevent (per nut
this freedom to our patriotism) its being the mod inhumah, if us
execution was not iniprafticable in thr Colonies. More terrible
than thr hurricanes which ravage these rich countries, ?t would
carry with it ail the evils re-united, it goes forth to rc-kindlc upon
these shores already the fpeftacles of horror, the firebrand of dif-'
cord and civil war ; rivers of blood is going to be shed — under
this burning the paflions are extreme, hatred ai d ven
geance will display in their true colours their fanguinaiy tffefts.
Ah do not flatter yourselves that these dreadful misfortunes are
iranfient : No, gentlemen, as long as your fatal decree ihall ex: ft,
the whites and coloured pedple cannot live together ; one party or
tl e other inuft be exterminated : there is no alternative ; and the
conquering party enfeebled by its victory will fall a facrifice to the
(laves, too crafty to let flip the favorable moment of breaking their
chains. Then will those terrible words be realized which have
already made your walls resound, May the Colonics per ijli— this bar
barous wifli is granted, they are no more —our commerce ruined,
our marine annihilated, agriculture languishing, our manufafturcs
abandoned, ten millions of Frenchmen reduced to the deepefl mi
sery, without the means of fubfiftcnce, wanting bread ; these are
the unhappy consequences, the effect of the loss of the colonics :
bankrupts innumerable, and a general distrust among individuals
will give a fatal itab to public credit ; our fpeeie will flow with
rapidity into the dominions of foreigneis, a general mourning will
cover all France, and more than a third of the inhabitants will be
forced to leave their country, to carry among strangers those ta
lents and that industry which their native foil can no more em
plov.
However gloomy this representation may be, it Is the exa£h ft
truth, and it will make you tremble. It the love of humanity and.
the desire of rendering all the fubje£U ot the empire happy, ani
mated you when you palfed the decree of the 15th May-—in the
name of the colonies, so precious a part of the French monarchy—•
in the name of those whose happiness you wish, while you expose
them to almost inevitable deftruftion—in the sacred name of hu
manity—in the name of ten millions of our brothers who will fall
victims to the most wretched misery—repeal this crucl decree;
confccrate and adopt in a solemn manner that of the Bth March
179° • g rant to the colonies that privilege you promiled them;
themselves alone can re-eftabli(h and maintain good order and
tranquility. This privilege is their palladium, without which our
Colonies cannot exist.
The accounts from Cape-Francois as published in a Boston pa
per, fay That the Negro Insurgents amounted to 70,000, that
they had killed all the Whites, men, women and children, and
burnt all the plantations for 60 miles round—the light of the fire
was so great, that they could fee to read on board the packet
which brought the news to New-London, the night after she failed.
The Beacon, lately ere&ca by the Marine Society of Salem, on
the north end of Baker's island, is 22 feet base, and 55 feet high.
On approaching said island, the following dire&ions, from accu
rate fuiveys lately taken, may be observed
From eastern point C. Ann, to said beacon, S. 74
deg. W. distant
From Gale's Ledge, S. 51 deg. W. distant
From south breakers of r aid island, N. deg.
W. dtftanr
From Half-Way Rock, N. 3 deg. W. distant
From Harding's Rock (the body) S. 81 deg. E.
distant n-20ths of a mile.
From Tennappoo, or Bowditch's Ledge, S. 68
deg. E. distant mile.
SHIP NEIVS.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Sloop Kx.periment, Crawford, St. Thoma*,
Schooner Trimmer, Stanton, Antigua,
Bug Fanny, Stevenson, Cadiz,
Ship William Pcnn, , London,
Pallai, Collins, Amlterd^m,
Birm ngham Packet, S'mons, B ftol.
Brig Maria, Atwood, B »fton f
Molly, Rafer, Havre-de-Grace.
CaDt. Atwood saw two large ships standing into B>flon Bay,
under jury malts.
Capt. Rafer left Havre-de-Grace the firft of Augufl, at which
time all was quiet in France.
The French Packct Le Suffrein, is arrived at New-York from
L'Orient.
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FPNDED DEBT.
tcf6 20fy pr. £ .
>'/? ,
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cent*
Dcfeied 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett 1. and other Certificate* 19/ 19/6
Indents nj6
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15/
Bank Subscriptions, jso 135
Miles. 10 tfiSm
7
1 8
1 5
3 3
10 3 i P r - ccnt "
A7i do
bo do.
97j
574 do.
Dollars.FROM THE BEE.
CONJECTURES ON TAXATION
(concluded.)
LET us now consider, what circumstances
(hould determine us in the choice offubjects
of taxation.
Commodities whose manufacture or import are
in the hands of a few, being more easily taken
an account of than those in the hands of many ;
jin ports oil them may be more cheaply collected.
Among manufactured commodities, duties 011
glass and cotton are collected at the lead expence.
A duty upon delfc, stone-ware, bricks, tyles, and
flower-pots, might be levied at a small expence,
th£ charge to be made at the kiln.
That Hage of manufacture which takes up the
largelt time, is the moll proper for taking ac
count of it and charging the duty: Thus, tho
the duty is iinpofed upon drying malr, yet the
account of it is taken when in the cistern, couch,
or 011 the floor, not when it comes from the kiln.
Commodities, therefore, whose manufactures
are more tedious, are preferable to such as are
less so, as fubjeds of taxation. Bleaching being
one of the inoft tedious procefTes we are acquaint
ed with, a duty upou whitened linen or cotton
cloth might be charged at the bleadiing-field
with the greatest certainty.
The advance of duties will be shorter upon
commodities that are not meliorated by keeping,
than Upon such as are improved by age.
Commodities that are fit for use, when they
have pafled through the hands of the manufac
turer, arc preferable as fubje(Ss of taxation, to
those that must be kept for any length of time ;
the "bottle is not the better for the keeping, but
the wine is. Hence, during whatever stage of
its manufaflure, the duty upon acommodity may
be charged, it fliould not be exadied till near the
time the commodity is fit for use : thus the duty
upon glafsmay be sooner exacted, than that up
on wine. The credit given in paying the malt
duty is proper ; for though it does not improve
by keeping, yet the greatest part of it is ,made
many months before it is confuined.
The time of paying the leather duty is fixed
with great propriety.
A moderate impolt upon commodities of gene
ral use or csnfumption produces a greater reve
nue than heavy taxes on such as are consumed
by the few. The annual amount of the duty on
strong beer is about 1,500,000!. The produce of
an impost of 21. per ton on wine was in I 780 ef
timated at 30,c001, per annuv:*.
Commodities of general life are preferable fub
jecfts of taxation, to those that are lei's universally
consumed or iifed.
The great coulumption of whale oil, even in
lighting the Ibeets, renders it probable that an
impost qn it wculd be considerably productive.
Candles are taxed. A duty upon whale oil might
be charged at the boiling-house.
A duty on tin-plates charged at the mill would
be productive : As would oc a duty on gun-pow
der.
Merchants and manufacturers complain when
their particular branches of trade are taxed. It
will, however, be found, that those brandies of
trade and manufacture that have been moderately
taxed for a century pall, have succeeded, as well
as those that have not, or even as such as have
been foftered by bounties.
Moderate impotts on manufactures tend per
haps to halten their improvement, both as a fti
xnulus to ingenuity, and as tending to throw ma
nufactures into the hands of persons poflefled of
flock.
The revenue arising from licences is consider
able ; but it seems to be a very unequal mode of
taxation. As licences are paid at once, if not
exceedingly moderate, they maj, in inany'cafes,
be oppretfive.
Confectioners, perfumers, and hair-dreflers,
might be subjected to the payment of a licence
with as much propriety as the retailers of finall
beer.
The coach-duty may be reckoned a licence
tax; being charged per tale, it is not liable to
the objection of inequality.
A small duty, charged per ton on all (hips and
veflels, might be levied at little expence,and with
great certainty.
"Stamp-duties have, of late, become common ;
all perhaps, that can be said in their favour, is,
that they are cheaply collected. They point out
no particular improvement by which they can
be compensated. They are, in the firft instance,
unequal, and cannot be retailed like imports on
inerchandize or manufacture. In their payment
nothing is seen but the tax.
" There arc two slates in Europe, (C*y3 Mon
tesquieu) where there are heavy imports on li
quor ; in the one, (England) the brewer alone
pays the tax ; in the other, (Holland) it is in
discriminately levied upon all the containers.
In the firft, nobody feels the rigour of the im-
* The ate duty might be rendered ftlil more productive, by
"nakutg » reasonable aod equitable alteration in<he brewery laws.
port ; in the fccond, it is looked upon as a griev-
ance."
Stamp-duties will always be obnoxious, and
every effort will be made to evade chem. .There
is no reason to''apprehend, that before the re
ceipt tax can be made efficient, fucb encourage
ment mult be given to informers, as may prove
prejudicial to morals.
In spite of Mr. Sheridan's aflertion, taxes of
this kind are perhaps, of all others, the Jealt
proper for a free people.
iC7* Tickets in the NEW-HAVEN WHARF
LOTTERY, warranted undrawn the 20th injiant,
being the latefi intelligence jrom thence, to be had oj
SAMUEL ANDERSON, next door to the Bank, in
Chefnut-jireet.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night w..s broke open the Store o.f the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 finali
box, containing four clocks and oue dozen tcftanicnts; i ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one ftriptd veil and
breeches, two shirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jersey coppcrs; 1 keg contain'ng a bible, with other
Jntall books; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen pafte-boards.——Stoleu at the fame time, a large Satteau,
with black fides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecuritv o
the above property, To that the owners may have the articles again,
nr in proportion for part thereof ; alto a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will bo giver* for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to jirftice, by
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. [ e P l Q
IV. M'D DUG ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his ftneere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school f or dccorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a rcfpe&able thare ot the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who pltafe to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the most approved
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general praftifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
he heid at the New Rooms, every other Wediiefday; when the
employers, and ill angers ot genteel deportment, will he admitted.
These praftifings will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Che (nut and Market Streets.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jerky, 2d Class—to commencc drawing 26th inft. ) Pofi.
Mafiachufetts Semi-annual, 2d Class, 13t.11 O&ober. tivcly
May be had as above.
LOUISIANA.
ALL those persons who have an inclinaiion to fettle on the rich
lands ol the MififlTippi, can have a passage to New Orleans
about the 20th of O&ober next. Each Gngle man on his arrival
there, will have a grant of two hundred and forty aens of land,
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, quantity, in proportion to the numberof his family.
For further particulars, enquire of Messrs. Stewart &Nesbitt,
No. 15, South Water-Street.
Philadelphia, .Sept. 7, 1791.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMM ISSIO N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 07.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To he had at the fame place
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private Tale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all Tales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cert.
On duto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Offtce, one per cent. '
For making transfers ac ditto, one dollar cach transfer.
gdT Such persons throughout the United Stares, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their order?:, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to con dud their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD Sc BLEECKF.R,
New-York, No. 57, Kivg-Sireet.
(07 law 6m)
March 15, 1791
blank Powers to receive the InterclK and for the transfer o/jh
principal of public debt, air,table to the Rules ejlMijhed in the Trra
fury Department : Alfa blanks far abflratts of Certificates, to be foldby
the Editor. J
r JOURNAL of the TMiRD SESSION of the SENATE
of the IA IT ED STATES, may be hid of the Editor hereof*
176
TF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of LUtTc York, in Vtrrioi,
1 (but originally of Scarborough, in Yoikfhirc, Gteal-BtimM
win make himfclf known, toother with his present place of rc .
fidence, either to his brother John Fhakks, who i> now iutliis
Port, or to the fubferiber, he will hear of f.imethinj greatly 10hit
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diftrift of Mains) Aawfl 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the decease of Mr. Franks, his heir or
hrirs are requeftcd to forward their names and placcs of abode t»
M r . Ron i s son .as above.
Georgetown, September g, j791.
THE Sales of the l ots in the Federal Cil) will commence on
Monday the 17th day ot October next. The Cnnimiflionns
finding they may en<*a£e materials and workmen for the public
buildings to any drfirable extent; with a view to draw the fund
into attion. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a def>ofit ol 8
per cent, will require 1-4'h part of the purchaie money to be p3id
down, the reftdue to be on bonds with security, pa/able with i.u
tereft in three equal payments. The manner of improvement will
be published at the sale.
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
THE Commifljoners appointed to rcceive SubK riptions to the
Bank of the United States, do hereby, apiceablcto law, in
form the Stockholder of the said Bank, that an eleft'ionfortwnuv
five Dire&ors will be held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, o»
Friday the 21ft day ot October next, at 10 o'clock in the mormn«
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID KITTEN HOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWfcLL.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY,
THK MANAGERS of th- STATE-LOTTERY allure the
Public, thai the fccond Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will pofnivtly commence drawing on the day aupointrd,
viz. On Thursday jhe 13th of Oi/obei next, orJootjcr, if theTickfts
lhall be difpofcd of. As the Managers have in their fcvcral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligncd, so
they ate determined to be equally as punctual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
25,000 Ti ckets, at Five Dollars each, are Dollars, to
be paid in the foilowtng Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twelve
and an half per cent, for the tffe of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000
2 3000
3 2 000
6
10
30
80
90
ico
1 ?.o
161
200
7585
8388 Prize?.
* 1661 a Rlanks.
ft. f.)
Ticket?,
(£3" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the fcveral
Manager s ,viho will pay the prizes on devn%nd\ of theT re asu rer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Br>ok-ftore,
Franklin's Head, Court-llreet—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.*]
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER. )>Manacers.
'GEORGE R. MI NOT, |
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, April 14, 1 791.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all to whom thcfc presents shall come, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promiffbry notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one ior seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and thrce-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen fhiU
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchanng said
notes as they will not be taken up.
ffitl
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, [ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington 1, North-Carolina, 27th May, 1791. ( e P-3 m *
Have now in the Press, and in a few davs will publifli
In a handsome Volume OCTAVO,
[PRICE ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
THE
LAWS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corre&cd by, the original Rolls ;n the office
of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Cong»ci>»
pa fled the iß;h February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE INDEX.
This volume will comprise the Federal Constitution, the Acts
of.the three Seflions of the First Congress, and the Treaties : —
a'fo, the Declation of Independence, and sundry Resolves an
Ordinances of C-ongrefs under the Confederation.
New-York, Augv.fi 3.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has received Jro
No. 10 to 31, both inclusive, oj a Publication which comes out
week in Pa ris, en titled. " Correspondance Nat to tTa le.
From No. 1 to No. 10, have been fhipi?cd, but are not yet cove to ldT ' l '
Any person who may incline to fubjeribe for this work, which ap, t* ri
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, rray be furnifhed with the num e
us thev arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
|C 7* The [trie; tf this Paper is 3 Dollars per ann.
Thomas Johnson, ) "
David Stuart, > Commifiionrrs.
Daniel Carroll.)
CLASS II
1000
s°°
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
CHILDS AND SVVAINE
OF THE
10000
6000
6000
600®
5000
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
20CO
60680
12£009
is
arc