PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS LY 7OHM HSVKn v c =
J UHN TENAO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD. STREETS, PHII. A DELPHI A
[No. 49, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE QUEBEC HERALD.
AGRICULTURE,
Experiment todetermine whether itisbrfl to plant Urge or fmatl cuttings
of Potatoes ; in a letter from the Rev. Mr. Cochran to the Secret n \
of the Agriculture Society Jor the County of Hants, dated Wind/or
(Nova-Scotia) February 12, 1791.
6 I R,
TN the Nova-Scotia Magazine, J for Dec. 178 c), there appear-
X ed some extiu&s from an EfiTay on Potatoes, publilhed anions
the papers of the Bath Agricultural Society, tor 1788. In thefc
a prodigious difference is noticed, between the produce from large
ciii rings and that from small, in favor of large ones, as nine to one.
That a considerable difference of produce might elcape the ob
servation of mere practical farmers, who seldom make compara
tive experiments, is readily to be supposed, and that, therefore,
it might still be a disputed point amongst them, whether large or
i'mall cuttings are most profitable, as the author who relates those
experiments asserts it is, and as we know it to be here : But we
can hardly suppose that any farmer, who should fee one acre in
his neighborhood's field produce as much as nine in his own,
would continue inattentive to the advantage of using larger feed.
In the extracts, where this amazing disproportion of produce
is mentioned, it is not stated what proportion the cuttings, uled
in the one and in the other cale, bore to each other. Probably
1 here was a greater difference than between those which are com
monly used here. However if the lofsby planting Imall cuttings
ihoulc! only be one half, or even one fourth part of that mention
ed above, still it would be an objtft highly deferviug the atten
tion of farmers. I thought therefore, it might be a u!eful experi
ment, to try two or three different sizes of cuttings, near to those
nfually planted in this neighboihood, and to mark the difference
of produce, if anv. /
For ihts purpose, in the second week June last, I took an equal'
number of cuttings, of three different fr/.es ; the largest (No. i.);
"were somewhat larger than thole ulually planted here. The fe
rond size, which I (ball call No. 2, was lets than one half of No.
The third size (No. 3.) was about one thud of No. 2.*
I planted 100 hills with each size, four cuttings in each hill.
The land, manure, and cultivation as nearly alike as 1 could
make them.
From the firft appearance of 1 lie* plants a striking difference,
in favor of the largest size, was obfcrvable. Many of the hills from
No. 1. had ten, twelve, or fourteen (talks, ilrong and healthy.
Those from No. 2. much fewer and weaker. Those from No. 3,
in many instances had not more than four stalks, and those I mall
and feeble. The difference, though still veiy perceptible, was
not so great towards the end of the fuinmer, as at the beginning.
In the beginning of November they wac all taken up and ihc
pioduce weighed
No. 1. produced 2 8o!bs.
No. 2. 2/ioi
No. 3. 168
The medium weight of a bulhcl, upon fcyeral trials, was found
obe 611 b. Therefore the produceof No. : was something above
our hulhels and a half; and xhe difference between No. i. and
No. 3. nearly two bushel. This is very considerable. If an acre,
planted with cut'.iugs such as No. 1. would produce 200 bushels
by planting such as No. 3. the farmer will lose 80 bushels. In
iour acies the loss will be 320 bushels; in eight acres, which ma
ny farmers plant in a season, it will be 650 bushels !
I ain informed, that some farmers in the province plant only
ibe eyes of their potatoes, and give the reft lo iheir cattle or hogs.
AVith tbefe the loss tnuft be Oill greater.
I defigri to pursue the fiibitfct farther, and may hereafter com
municate the result to vhe Society. Meanwhile, ■with the greatcft
icfpe£t for you and them
1 remain, Sir, your most obedient,
And moil humble Itrvant,
WILLIAM COCHRAN
+ {' ol - t">gc 454-
* The cuttings oj each size mere weighed, and the weight voted at
the time of planting, but the memorandum has been mislaid. However,
01 though I cannot recollett the absolute zveight } lam tertuin the propor
tion to each other was, very nearly, as above.
A PUN
IT is said that one charatfteiiilic of a pun is,
that it cannot be iranfliAted. —The following is an
inffauce of a pun, which, i£ not u anflated, is no
uun.
Harry Erlkine, the Selwyn of Edinburgh, puz
zled the little wits of his acquaintance, by in
icribiug on a t(a-chej}, the woids
TV D O C E S !
It was some time before they found out that
ii>e wit of this lies in the literal translation—
Til O U TKAC HE S T !
Another, something different, is to be seen on
an old fun •dial, in a village 111 Kent.
T lie iufciiptioji is, " we shall !"—On en
quiring ofa rustic wit in the neighbourhood, hr
informed us that the sentence is to be completed
lllUS: WE EHAI.L PI-ALL!
EXTRACT
MEN ate qualified for civil liberty, iti exatft
proportion to their difpofirion to put moral
chains upon their own appetites ; in proportion
as their lose to jullice a.e above their rapacity ;
in proportion as ihcir foundiiels and lobi ietv of
under Handing is above their vanity and prefum
tioti ; in proportion as liiev are more disposed
to lii'len to the connfels of the wife and good,
in preference to the flattery of knaves. Society
cannot exist, unless a controuliug power upon
will and appetite he placed somewhere ; and
'lie less of it there is within, the more there mull
be witluut. It is ordained in the eternal con
uitutioit of things, that men of intemperate
minds cannot be iVec. Their pallions forge
their letters.
Saturday, October 15, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A RURAL SCENE,
IN ESSEX COUNTY, NEW-JERSEY
Written May 1789.
HERE Natuie's beauiiescaptivate the fight,
And fill the bolom with refin'd delight—
Extenfivc landscapes, dreik in vivid green,
And trees and bloifoms beau ifv tht* scene—
While fragrance wantons in t!. • (welling gales,
And woodland music echoes thro the vales—
And crystal rills meandering purl along,
Heightening the concert of the woodland song.
Enamelled meadi, with growing verdure bright,
And lawns, and toreftsopen on the light—
Where ileeds, and herds, and flocks commixing rove,
Or graze the plain, or browfe.ihe leafy grove.
Here hills and vallies, clothed with verdant grain,
In waving grandeur imitate the' main.
Fur Newark there ereds her loiry pnide—
Where science, art, and industry rcfide.
Hail, feat of friendlhip, focia' joy, and health,
Refinement, virtut, competence and wealth —
Whose growing ilru&ures opening to the day,
Genius and taiVe, and elegance dilplay.
Here bending orchards, and the fertile field,
A copious increaie to the fanner yield—
For smiling pleniy triumphs o'er the foil,
And amply pays the cultivator'j^toil.
The mild PaJJaic winding by thy fide,
I.ures social commerce np its glalTy tide-*--
" No watery gleams thro' happier vallies shine,
" Nor drinks the sea a lovelier wave than thine.*''
A lofty mountain rising on the right,
Unfolds fublimer profne£ts to ihe fight—
From whole majcftic summit; veil'd in blue,
>Ws folendid turrets dimly rife to view,
FROM THE NLty-YORH DAILY ADVERTISER.
ADVICE TO COUNTRY TAVERN KEEPERS.
AS a great deal of custom is neceflaay to make good markets
and good inns, and as there is but little travelling, except on
public roads, the question is, how shall travellers on private roads,
where there i{. but little travelling, make provision; for entertain
ing gentlemen well, without futtering great losses. 1 i'peak not
of provision for Country people, tor these are willing to take ci
der and pot-luck, or ihecommon faie of the taverner's own fa
mily { but 1 speak of provision for people who have been accuf
torried to a city life and betjer cpok errand liquors. It appeajs tome
that provision fdTihe Tatter may be made, wfth on f~n ee dl et y~-w ast e.
You cannot, for example, buy a pipe of Madeira wine of the
firft qualit)—but you can keep a gallon or two for many months,
and when gentlemen find aglafsof good wine in the country, they
are willing to give a good price tor it. But I would recommend
it to you to be more careful in the choice of }our wine. Few ot
you are judges of wine ; and wh-n you purcliafe, the wine fellers
turn you oft with any adulterated mixture they please. After a
great number of experiments, I can fafely declare, that nine times
out of ten, the wine 1 have called foi in Country Taverns has been
a mixture of Cider, Molasses. and a little real wine; or brandy
and wine, and not unfrequently with a strong tincture of Sugar of
lead. Such mixtures pass, in the country, tor Malaga, or other
sweet wine. To avoid impositions in purchasing wine, get some
gentleman who has always been used to wine to choose it for you,
and keep a little of the bejl quality lor such passengers as are v illing
to nav for it.
With refpe& to spirits, the fame advice is necessary ; but of the
quality of fpiiits you are better judges, and therefore lets liable to
imposition. Keep alio a little of the best kind of teas, as Hyfou,
Gunpowder, or Souchong; and good loaf Sugar. A small quan
tity of each will serve you for perhaps five or fix months. Moll
paffaigirs will not want these articles; they will not be able or
willing to Day for them, but a few will wish for them, because
they have always been accustomed to them : and you must make
a difference of piice between a breakfaft or supper of Bohea tea
and fryed pork, and one of hyson tea and loaf sugar.
With refpeft to meat, there is no difficulty, if you will have a
little forefight, You cannot indeed hive frefh meat every day,
and gentlemen do not like boiled pork and cabbage, cooked and
diflicd together. But if you will every winter provide a number
of good hams and bctj's tongues, vou may, in the warmest weaihei,
fpiead a table that no gentleman will find fault with.
In cooking take a word of advice. Use the Gridiron inflead
of ihe Frying pan. Do not road or broil meat until it is as dry
and tough as foal-leather. Meat slightly done, is both more pa
latable and more healthy. Do not boil meat and vegetables to
gether, unless you pur the vegetables in a bag. Do not bring
upon table different kinds of meat in the fame dilh ; nor meat
and vegetables in the fame di(h. Lrteach be brought on in a fe
paratedilh. Do not kill a fowl and put it warm over the fire.
A fowl is tough and good for nothing, unless it has been killed
24, or at lealt 12 hours. When vou bring on liquors, endeavor
to give every one a separate glass. If you have not enough in
the lioufe, you will be excused ; but gentlemen do like not that
all the company fhotild drink out ol the fame glass.
Endeavor to accommodate different companies with different
rooms. Nothing is more disagreeable than to croud a number of
strangers into the fame room ; or to oblige travellers to fit down
with grog drinkers in ihebar room ; furnifh yourselves if possible
with beds enough to give every lodger one to hiinlclf. It is a
monflrous indecent, as well as -infate prattice for perlons, per
haps total strangers, to deep 111 the fame bed. It is an affront to
a man to request it. And a word to you about keeping your beds
clean : Gi\e every decent man a decent bed. Every one ought
to have clean frefli (beets—it is an imposition to ask a man to lay
on (beets, that have before been slept in by you know not who ;
you fav, it is a great trouble ; very well, then make your lodgers
pay for the trouble. Thofewho expert clean beds are willing to
pavforthem. In the hot months, talte special care that the beds
are not infefled with bugs. This is an article of advice verv 11c
refiarv for many of you. It is a filthy infamous negligence which
fufftrs these animals to trouble your lodgers. Nothing is more
ortcnfive to travelers, and nothing docs more toward injuring the
reputation of a tavern.
I trufl you will take these hints in good part ; for they are
meant for your benefit, as well as for those who travel.
I am, your ftiend
193
C .
P. Q.
&Hso
[Whole No. 257.]
ALGIER S, July 15
BABA Mahomet, Dey of Algiers, died the 12th
iiiftant, in consequence of a dy fernery, ac
the age of 80 years, and 111 the 25th of his reigiii
Cid Hnfiiui, his prime ininifter, a man about 50,
was immediately proclaimed by the militia, and
the election was made withouc tuviult. The
three firft officers of the Regency had each pre
tentions to the sovereignty, but they very wil
lingly refigtied them, and were permitted to pay
their reipeifts to the new Dey. One of the thrde,
the onlyaga of the Spahis, was arretted and tak
en into cuitody the moment they were gonig to
enter the palace. His rival ordered, him to be
banilhed to a fort twelve miles from the capital,
and confifcated his estates.
The reign of Baba Mahomet was remarkable
for its brilliancy, utility, and tranquility. It is
to be hoped that that of Cid Hafl'an, who appears
to be favorably disposed towards France, will not
be less glorious. He fee ins eager 10 ratify the
capitulations.
RAT I 4 S JB ON, Augufl 9.
The majority of v&tes at the Di?c was decided
ly for force hying* eiVployed againlt France j but
as in this majority tht'r.e are some states which
cannot properly be reckoned in the number of
the powers, there can be uo doubt that the
will be lent to yienna by the principal.Commit
fioner, the-Prince de la our et Taxis, withpro
pol'aJs to open the negociations in form.
LISBON, August 2
The like apprehensions which have long been
entertained by the Court of Spain, of a revolu
tion in that country, at present pervade the
breads of ourMiniltry : several decrees, intend
ed for the fuppreflion of public meetings of al
molt every description, have been lately ifl'ucd,
but ihey are cil ' ued to ferment, rather than
suppress any willi in the Portuguese to effedt a
revolution.
PARIS, August 17
The exiled Princes, feeing the impossibility of
proceeding by means of force, have had recourse
to ncgociatiou ; bur tiie dull proceedings of an
Imperial Diet, will but ill accord with the mercu
rial disposition of this country.
The laws begin to operate with dispatch and
uniformity. The Provisional Tribunal of the
High Court of Orleans liusjuft di (charged the
famous Arillocratic Tl'ouard, commonly called
Riolle, for want of evidence of his criminality.
The Club of the Jacobins has received l'ome
very conliderable additions in point of numbers
ami refpetftabiliiy of late.—Many more of the
Deputies to the AfTeinbly have joined it. Among
the number are M. d'Orleans and his son.
The people in Paris are now inofl seriously a
larined, and begin to exclaim againfl the Minis
ters for not having the frontiers in a ftateof de
fence. Notwitliltanding all the boalling in the
National Allembly, a foreign army may mardi
into the kingdom almolt un-oppofed. An im
mense body of men have arms in their hands,but
few of them know how to use thein.
At Neuilly, clofeto Paris, a noifturnal Aflem
bly is held, of Chevaliers ofSt. Louis, refractory
Officers, and other friends to the King. These
cabals and preparations, mull certainly lead to
something serious, and before the present month
is at an end, what that is will appear.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
August 16.
M. Deleflart, in the name of the Minister of
the Marine, informed the Allembly of the death
of the Dey of Algiers, and of the amicable dis
position of his fucceflbr towards France, as he had
requelted that the ambaflador who was to an
nounce his inauguration to the Porte, mighc be
cotulutled by a frigate of their nation.
The Afl'embly authorised the Minister ot the
Marine to withdraw one of their frigates station
ed at Corsica, and to employ it on this fcrvice.
/}:< guff 30. A report was read from one of the
coininilfioners sent into the departments of the
Upper and Lower Rhine, dating that that part
of the frontiers was in a very relpetftable state of
defence, and that the reports of war, which had
been so industriously circulated throughout the
kingdom, arc not to be credited.LONDON, Atiguft li.
ExtraCl of a littsr from Vicuna, July 27.
" A deputation of the States oi Bohemia,head
ed by Count Ruttenhani, is jult arrived here ;
their business is to invite the Eai.peror to his co
ronation at Prague
" M. Noailles did not appear in the circle on
iunday the 24th. lie had been invited ior that
day to an entertainment at Count Hatzreld s, the
Minister of State, with foine other perl'ons of the
Corps Diplomatique. Count Hatzteld hearing
of what had palled between Prince Kaunitz and
the Marquis de Noailles, that the latter could
not be acknowledged as amballador of the King
of France till his Moll Chriftiau Majelty was re
established in the full exercise of all his privi
leges, the Count wrote him a note, excufinghitn
fel f from the pleasure of receiving him. But
this regarded only his character of Anibafiador,
as he is personally much eiteemed among the
Nobility.
" The Chancellor of war has entered into con
radts with a number of bakers, which proves
;hat there is some other military enterprize in
agitation ; and it is openly said, that within a
ihort time 12 battalions will , receive orders to
march into the Netherlands.
" The Emperor is very seriously displeased
with the new Constitution of France.
" A meeting which called itfelf a Club of Li
berty, and was held here a la Franoife, has been
broken up, and its members impiifoned. Among
them is a certain Abbe, who had before received
an intimation to quit Vienna."
It is not Oczakow, but the chain of mountains
called Barkan, which forms the defence of COll
- Oczakow is but a solitary fortrefs,
situated in the midst of an uncultivated country,
on the borders of the Black Sea.
Died, at Edinburgh, 'after a short illness, the
Rev. Dr. Thomas Blacklock, a name well known
in the learned world, and which will long fur
tive him. He was an extraordinary person. Tbo
totally deprived of fight from his early infancy,
and unafiifted by the advantages of fortune, /his
genius, notwithstanding these unfavorable cir
cutnftances, Ihoue outin various productions both
in verse and prose. He was an excellent clallical
scholar, and well versed in moil of the other
branches of literature. As a poet, a pbilofopher,
and a divine, a great share of merit will not be
denied him by those who are acquainted with
his writings. His poetical wor&s are marked
with such an elegance and forceMf diction, such
a glow and propriety of description, and such an
ardour of sentiment, as affed the feelings of e
very reader of taste, and ha*e accordingly been
admired by the bed judges in Great-Britain.
His muse was.ever the frisnd of virtue, for he
himfelf was the friend of human kind. The
whole of his private life was an amiable example
of unaffected piety towards God, nnd undifltfin
bled good will to men.! His conversation was
animated, entertaining, and inftm<ftive. His
wit, of which he poffefled no small share; often
gave pleasure, but never pain. " Mult'u ille fle
■bilii occidit /" Such was the mildness of his tem
per, the benevolence of his heart, and the ele
gance of his mind, that it was impotfibie to know
hiin and not to love him ; and it may truly be
said, that he never loft a friend, nor made a foe.
<s Him Nature wiih no common care delign'd : —
" O! with what ardour did his piercing view,
" Through every maze of Nature Tiuth pursue ;
,s Sacred to Virtue and the Muff, his breast,
" With Heaven's own loveliest image was imprest :
li Like Heaven's eternal goodness, unconfin'd,
M His sou! with one fond with, etnbrae'd mankind."
August 24,
_ At the York Assizes, John Bennett, a Sheffield
rioter, having been proved upon the cleared evi
dence, to have set fire to the house of Mr. Wil
kinfon, the Magistrate, was capitally conviified.
A warrant has just been signed by his Majesty
for 1,250k to Meflrs. Duval ar.d Co. for a pi eft u re,
as a present to the Spanish Plenipotentiary who
signed the late Convention.
Mr. Trotter, Secretary to the Treasurer of the
Navy, proceeds this clay to Portfinouih with
ioo,oool. under a strong guard, to aHi ft in the
discharge of the feainen belonging to tliofe /hips
that are ordered to be paid off.—Adequate funis
have also been ordered for Plymouth, Chatham,
Sheernefs, &c. for the fame puipofe.
We believe we may fafely announce to the
public, that the Courts of Spain, Aultria, and
•Prussia, do not mean to take immediate lioftile
measures againlt the French.
On the 25th of this month is the feaft of St.
Louis, when it is usual to present a bouquet to
the king. Ir is thought, however, that this cus
tom will be dispensed with, and that in place of
the bouquet, he will be prefeirted with the con
ftituiional art for his approval.
The Turkifli army is entirely dispersed, and
in the utmost confulion, InnnediateJv after the
battle of Maczin, the Arnauts fell upon the Janif
fa.ies, and, from the intelligence we have re
ceived, the latte; have fufFered a greater loss in
this attack than in the battle.
The whole kingdom of Spain resembles one
entire Inquiiition. The natives are not fuffered
to leave their country, or mention one i'yliable
relating to politics. We /bill hope that all think
alike and that their patriotifni will fucldenly
burlt forth, to the dellruiiiion of despotism, and
the ruin of fuperflition.
Mr. Wilberforce is furnifhing hinifelf with ad
ditional evidence in favor of his (lave abolition
bill, which he means to bring forward a second
time early next leflion of Parliament.
A court of directors of the Ealt-India Compa
ny was held on Wednesday in Leadenhall-ilreet,
when it was resolved, that from the id of Sep
tember next, salt-petrk lliould be ifiued to the
purchasers at thirty-one (hillings per hundred
weight.
Since the King of France has been suspended
from his royal fuiidlions, the Spaniih, Swedilh,
Imperial and Sardinian Ministers at Paris, have
refuted 10 hold any fort of correspondence with
the present Ministry of France. They very pro
perly fay, that they were deputed from their So
vereigns to confer with the Minilfers of the
King, and not with thole appointed by a nation
al convention.
The Governors General of the Low Countries
havejuft publilhed a proclamation from the Em
peror, granting an indemnity and free pardon to
all thole engaged in the Belgic infurretftion.
The Counsels de la Motte, who lately jumped
our of a two pair of stairs window to avoid the
bailiff*, died on Tuesday night at her lodgings
near Altley's riding school
By the accoHiits of some prints, we might be
ieve that the intended duchess of iYork was to
!>e sent out of her own country in a (late of na
ture. —One has made the Queen present her with
jewels, and the other has kindly given her a pair
of Ihoes, and a third has made the Prince of
Wales fee that cloaths ar provided for her!—
Tliefe good* gentlemen probably will not flop
in their charitable donations to her royal liigh
nefs, until the last (hi ft is made for her.
The National Aflembly lias eftabliflied, in eve
ry maritime town in France, profeflors for teach
ing navigation, and the working of (hips, in or
der to make their common sailors the molt expert
in the world.
At eleven o'clock last night Mr. Lindfay, Mi
nister of Legation, arrived from Peterfburgh
with the treaty of peace between this Court and
the Imperial Catharine.;
The following letter was received this morn
ing by Mr. Taylor, maiter of Lloyd's CofFee-
House.
W H ITEHALL, i 4rtl~ ATTG VST, 1791.
S I R,
A letter has this day been written by Lord
Grenville, to the Governor of the Rulfia compa
ny to inform him, that from the accounts brought
by Mr. Lindfay, who arrived this morning, of
the result of the negotiations at Peterlburgh—
His Majesty's servants are of opinion, that there
no longer exilts any reason, why the Ruffian
merchants fhatild'noc proceed in the usual course
of their commerce, without any apprehension of
interruption.
I ain,,Sir, you very obedient Servant,
(Signed)
The Parliament which was prorogued to Tues
day, the 16th day of this inft. (August) is fur
ther prorogued to Thursday the 3d day of No
vember next.
The following quota of men, to be furniflied
by the Confederated Princes to the French Aris
tocrats/was lately publiflied in a paper atVienna
The Emperor 160,000
The King of Prussia
The King of Sweden
The King of Sardinia
The King of Spain
The Stadtholder
In all
Among the new General Officers appointed in
consequence of a decree of the National Aflem
bly, are to be found the names of d'Orleans, de
la Fayette, and du Portail, as Lieutenant Gene
rals.
France appears to be galloping as fad back to
monarchy, as (he trotted from it for these two
years pall. There seems now to be very little
doubt but the King wilj be re-seated on his throne.
FROM THE LQMDON GAZETTE.
WHITEHALL, AUGUST 23
On Saturday last one of his Majelty's ineflen
gers arrived at the office of the right honorable
Lord Grenville, his Majesty's principal secretary
of State for foreign affairs, with dilpatches from
the right honorable Sir Robert Murray Keith,
K. B. his Majesty's envoy extraordinary and mi
nister plenipotentiary to the Court of Vienna,
and plenipotentiary at the Congress ofSittovia'
containing an account that a definitive treaty of
peace was signed on the fourth inltant, between
the Emperor and the Ottoman Porte, under the
joint mediation of his Majesty, the King of Pruf
194
J. B. BURGES.
80,000
30,000
40,000
60,000
12,000
380,000
fin, and the States General of the United Pro
vinces ; and that a separate convention bet ween
her Imperial Mujefty and the Ottoman Porte
for fettling the'limits between the two Empires'
was afterwards ligned 011 the fame day.
THE PRELIMINARIES.
Agreed iipbn between the Allied Courts and
lluflia, as the basis for negociating the peace
between the Turks and liiiiijans.
On the 22d of July, the ministers of the allied
powers delivered a third memorial, which was
followed by an anfuter of the Ruiiian Court, da
ted the 27th of July, in which the Empress a
jrreed with the lninilters of the laid courts, ref
pecfting the conditions which are to fervc fortlie
basis of the pacification between Ruilia and the
Porte. These conditions conftlL in the following
points :
I. That the city of Oczakow, all its fortifica
tions, and its whole diftridt, (hall remain in the
pofleffion of her Ruffian Majelty.
11. That all the country situated between the
rivers Bog and Dneiller, Ihall for the future be
long to Russia, in a full fovcreignty.
111. That the river Dnielter (hall for the fu
ture determine the frontiers of both kingdoms.
IV. That the two powers ftiall have a perferfi
and equal liberty to eredt on the ihores of the
[aid river, which (hores lhall serve for frontiers
of the refpec r tive empires, as many fortrelles as
they ihall think proper.
V. That her Ruffian Majesty grants a free na
vigation on the river Dnieper ; and,
VI. That the Courts of London and Berlin
will engage to propose the said conditions to ih&
Porte, and agree to declare to the Divan, that
they could obtain no other conditions, from her
Imperial Majesty ; and that the allied courts ex
pert the Porte will make no difficulty in accept
ing them ; as, should the terms be rejected, they
(the allied courts) will much regret being un
der the necelfity to abandon the 1 urks to the
fate of war
These preliminaries having been signed by the
English and Prussian Miniflers, were immediate
ly Tent by couriers to' the refpetftive Courts to be
ratified.
Her Majesty the Empress has also fetit couriers
to the principal European Courts, in order to
make them acquainted with this event.
PORTSMOUTH, July ir.
This morning came into our harbor f rom
vrt-de-Grace, the sloop Trotters, Richard White,
niafter, having on board three cases, containing
an elegant model of the late French Prison, the
Baftile: It is cut out of one stone, and must have
been made at a great expencc ; a large ftancl,
exhibiting the Glacis and out-works which fiir
rounded that famous edifice, in ,the middle of
which it is intended the model of: the prison is
to stand, and then it will be a complete minia
ture representation of that emblem of defpotifin,
which the enlightened Frenchmen, to their greac
honor, have utterly demoliftied.
The third cafe contains a stone taken from the
ruins of the Baftile, iu which is inlaid a drawing
representing the fcite of that building, and in
scribed with the following words :
" Envoye a Mr. Stanhope, Prcjident de laSociet:
des amis de la Confiitution de Londres, dedis a la Si
ciete, li 14th Juli/t, 1791 . Van Troifieme de la Li
berie Francoife par P alley, Patriate Citoyen de
Paris."
These cases were immediately sent to London
PROVIDENCE, October 6
The business of the fubfcriprion to the Bank
of this State being finiflied, the Stock-holders
proceeded to the choice of Directors ; and the
following gentlemen were accordingly appoint
ed : —
John Brown,
John I. Clarke,
[Jabez Boiveh,
Moses Brown,
Welcome Arnold.
Tuesday the Directors had a meeting, when
John Brown, Esq. was unanimously chosen
V'refident, and Mr. Olnf.y Winsor,
for the Year ensuing. As the firft payment ot
specie was compleated yesterday, it is expected
that the Bank will be ready to receive proposals
for discount on Monday next.
BALTIMORE, October n
On Saturday last a melancholy casualty took
place in the precincfts of this town. Mailer
William Travel s (only son of Mr. John 1 ravers,
of this place) a highly proniifing lad, in the 14th
year of his age, went out toihoot partridges, ac
companied by a negro boy, who, in crofljng a
run of water, gave a spring, by which incident
the contents of the gun, which he held on l" s
arm, were fatally discharged, and entered the
head of the amiable youth, who was advancing
jult behind him.—He died in three hours.
Nicholas Brown,
Samuel Butler,
Jr.drew Dexter,
Thomas L. Halfey.WINCHESTER, (V.) OA. i.
From a Correspondent
' The latter cud of Julylalt, the Cherokess kill
ed two men on the Tenefl'ee, who were going to
the Chickafaws.
It is reported that the three towns of Creek In
dians, that flood out and would not accede to
the New-York treaty, have, through the great
exertions of M'Gillivray, ratified the fame—and,
it is generally expected that they will remain at
peace, if the Cumberland people will overlook
the depredations committed oil that settlement
during the lart summer.
The proprietors of the Muscle Shoals, on the
Teneflee, are determined to effetft a settlement
there, at the risk of every thing, and are making
all the preparations in their power for a number
of emigrants to let out early in November next.
The Creeks and Cherokees are very much a
larmed at this, and are determined to facrifice
both nations, sooner than fnffer that country to
be fettled ; for, should it take place, the Chero
kees mult leave the Teneflee.
The southern Indians were never more inclin
ed for peace than they are at present.
WORC'EST E R, (Mober 6
On Friday last the dwelling house of' Mr. Hen
ry Reidel, of Douglas, and bis store of dry goods
adjoining, was consumed by fire, together with
the greatest part of his household furniture, and
a considerable quantity of grain, flax feed, &c.
This disastrous event was occasioned by a young
man's accidentally turning water into a kettle
of boiling oil, which taking fire, the house was
almost inltantly involved in flames.
MIDDLETOWN, October 8
On the 4th instant arrived in this town from
Springfield, a detachment of Federal Tl oops, un
der the command of Capt. T. Codling, who are
this day to embark for New-Brunfwick.
NEW-YORK, Oftobern.
Last evening arrived the ship America, in 7 weeks from Lon
don. The following ladies and gentlemen came passengers :
Mrs. De Peyfter and daughter, Mil's Walton, Mil's Collet, David
Ryden, Samuel Broome, Walker, C. G. Champlin, J. B.
Cutting, Joseph M. Quarenton, and F. C. Goodale, Esquires
THEATRICAL POSTS.
Major-General W-gn-ll has resigned his ftaff, which he
bore with futh honour for so many years, under the Gene
rals H-11-m and H-n-y. The caufc oF this reflation is vari
ously talked of: Some attribute it to the success he has had in a
ccrtain speculating medium ; others (who seem to speak with more
confidence] give out that he was disgusted at his not being admit
ted to some prerogatives that were exclusively invested in the Ge
nerals and others, that it is only a feint in expe&ation of promo
tion.
A certain Ladyof great tafticai abilities, who is well known
for herattachnicnt to the General —and Colonel M , hei cara
fpofa, complete the triumvirate'.
Philadelphia, October 15.
The present situation of affairs in the Eastern Hemisphere exhi
bits a very motly appearance.
The fame papers which inform us of peace between Russia and
the Turks, give the details of battles, vittory and carnage. There
are strong rumors of attempts to effett a counterrevolution in
France. °The Banks of Venice, Genoa, See. it is said, have made
loans to the male-contents and exiled princes—these on the other
hand are dependant on the Emperor's bounty for support—the
Prince of Conde has lately mortgaged his jewels. One account
fays the King of Sweden is inveterate against the National Aflem
bly; another fays he is very temperate and moderate in his refent
tnents; and even among the injured petty German Princes, there
appears to be a great fohifm in opinion. Some of the paragraphias
fay the frontiers of France are in a detencelefs state; but the re
ports made to the National Aflembly fay the fortifications are in
good repair. The English have made great preparations to com
pel the Empress of Rullia to make peace ; but Catharine, after re
peatedly beating the Turks, appears to have made a peace agreea
ble to herfelf. The National' Assembly have declared the person
of the King to be inviolable, but,ftill keep him in custody. The
King is however to have his liberty at Fontainbleau to accept of
the Constitution—but if he does not accept, he is to be no longer
King. There appears to be no doubt of his accepting it.
The English papers contain a letter from the King ot Sweden,
*0 hi& Ambassador at Paris—lll which he dirc&s that he (hould
keep from all intercourfc with the Revolutionists. Its authenti
city is donbted.
Infurre&ions have broke out in Switzerland —the motto on the
buttons of the people is, " Live free, or die."
The Britilh Government has received favorable accounts from
India. Lord Cornwallis was before Bangalore with an army of
#5,000 men; and General Abercrombic within 40 miles of Se
ringapatam, with a large force. Tippoo has been uniformly
beaten, and the British armies were in high spirits.
Extra ft of a Utter from Bojlon.
ct Our harbour is now full ot Ihipping ; among which is a large
lumber of Englifti veflels—thcfc are loading with lumber; this
article is high and scarce ; wood is now \6f. and riling; butter B£d
sugars very dear; flour 33 f. fine. Several veflels are fitting out
for the N. W. coaft —Magee is going for four years; he has as
Rood a fiiip of 160 tons as can be built, and well fitted for the bu
siness.
u Mr. , who lately arrived from France, informed me that
the impositions on our oil, See. in that kingdom, are occalioned
merely on account of there being no d'.fcrimination made between
our allies, and those not in alliance with us. 1 hey fay—Why
foould we admit your commodities free of duty, when you make
us pay the fame as the English do ?
" II Congress was to put 10 per cent, on all foreigners not in
alliance, and appropriate the proceeds of such a duty as a bounty
for the encouragement of the whale fifhery, it might prevent our
best whalers going to France and England, to carry on and learn
them the buhnefs. Uolefs the general government some
thing to encourage the business, you may depend that this great
article of commerce will in a few years be loft to the United States.
14 Mr. Jefferfon's report will, I hope, operate to produce fomc
tlrng that may anfwerto counteract France and England, so far
their duties embarrass the tiflieries."
Capt. Miller, of the brig Minerva, on .his paffaee from Tamaica
to this port, on the t 2 th alt. spoke two Bricifh frigates, an-1 three
Sloops of war, sent bv the Governor of Jamaica to theafliflanceof
the A (Terribly of Hifpamola. There were on board this f.nall
ilcct, jO,OOO stand of arms, &c.
Members of Congress in Town.
tnators. Hon. R. Izard and P. But ler, of South-Carolina.
R.Morris, Penrifvlvania.
Rcprcfcntativcs.—Hon. D. Huger, W. Smith andT. T.Tucker,
of South-Carolina.
John Brown, Virginia.
T. Fitzsimons, and
F. A. Muhlenberg, Pennsylvania.
A mod extraordinary account is given in a letter from Bour
deaux, dated 2qth July lalt, of the conduct of Mr. Fenwick, the
American Consul at that place.
An American veflel. with 2?.q hhds. of tobacco, from Virginia,
was officially informed against by the Consul as not coming dire£l
from America. It seems (he had touched at an outport for orders.
He thought her cargo fhou!d not therefore be admitted to enter
for home ronfnmption—in consequence the dire&or of the custom
house rcfufed to accept the inward duties theteon, and the con
signees entered the cargo for exportation. The queflion is, whe
ther a vessel from the United States, that touches at an out-port
tor advice or orders, without breaking bulk, is to be considered
as coming dirett from America ? The new French law faying that
" American tobacco can only be imported in French or American
bottoms coming dircft from America The consignees, Mcffrs.
M'Carthv and Brothers, fay that veffcls in the above predicament
are doubtless within the pale of the law—the American Consul
differs from them, and favs he acts by orders from Mr jpfferfon.
There are other vessels similarly situated. Time will elucidate
this business.
The late accounts from Bilboa, of an intended iun&ion between
Spam and England to artnck France, according to thr last accounts
mud be entirelv void of foundation. The Englifli fleet is disarm
ed and paid off.
Three per Cents and Deferred Stork, in the funds of the United
States, the property of this State,are advertised for sale. Proposals
received by the State Comptroller and Regffterto the 20th inft.
Extrafl of a I iter to a refbeflatie honfe in this city,received by the Grange
j.a.J i: L.-I A..„
dated Liverpool, Aug. 29.
" Information is this dav received, that s>n order of the King,
in Council is iflued, by which our ports wjll be fHat against wheat
and flour, the 2d of next month."
Tuesday the central Election was held throughout this
Commonwealth, when (he following gentlemen were chofcn Re
prefentativefs for the city of Philadelphia—
William Rinoham,
Richard Wells,
Myers Fiflier,
For Philadelphia County.
Flias Bov.«, ]ohn Lardner,
Blair M'Clenachan, Thomas Britton.
Robert Hare,
Sheriff.
William Will.
Representatives in Congress, so far as the votes have been count
ed, viz.—
For the City of Philadelphia.
Thomas Fitzfimonc.
For the Counties of Philadelphia and Bucks.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg.
Representative in Congress for the diftrift composed of Chester
and Montgomery Counties.
Ifrae! Jacobs.
Assembly
Richard • Samuel Evans*
Caleb Tam*es, % James Boyd.
"* —■
Montgomery.
Cadwallader Evans, James Vaux,
Joseph Tyfon, '' 'lfaiah Davis.
Return from Nfwlown, Bucks County.
Congrtfs.
F. A. Muhlenberg, 707
Dr. Gregg, 825
Ajjembb
Mr. Bryan,
Dr. Chapman,
11. Siover,
Sheriff.
Chapman, 931
County Commijionir.
Joftiua Vanfaut.
Extrafls of a letter, dated Wajhington, in Kentucky,
Sept ember 3, 1791.
" Onfe of the Indian captives lately died- at
this place—his Excellency Governor St. Clair gave
liberty to the reft to bury the corpse according to
the custom of their nation : the mode is, that the
body be wrapped in a shroud, over which they
put a blanket, a pair of moggafins 011 th<; feet,
and seven day's rations by the fide of the head,
with other necefl'aries. The march from Fort-
Washington was very folenm ; on their arrival at
the grave, the corpse was let down, and the rela
tives immediately retired—an aged matron then
descended into the grave, and placed the blanket
according to rule, and fixed the pro*ifion in l'uch
manner as fhethought wouid be mod handy and
convenient to her departed friend—calling her
eyes about to fee if all was right, Hie found the
deceased was barefoot, and enquired why they
had omitted the moggafins ? The white person
who superintended the whole business, informed
her that there were 110 good moggafins in the
(lore, but that by way of amends they had put
a liifficiency of leather in the knapsack to make
two pair at the fame time shewing her the lea
ther. With this Ihe appeared fatisfied, faying
that her friend was well acquainted with making
them
" Since I liave been here, I have been inform
ed that the Indians have fenc in a piifoner to
Dunlap's Station, with a letter, importing that
they wilh to come in, and treat of peace. In
consequence of which 1 have been told that Gov.
St. Clair has iflued a proclamation, forbidding
any of the citizens killing or annoying thein, i;
they approach with a flag—but what nation it is
that offers to treat, I have not heard. Altho* 1
do not third for the blood of these poor unculti
vated beings, I am of opinion it would be bad po
licy to make apeace befare the arms of the Union
195
Tacob Hiltzheimer,
B. R. Morgan.
Chejler County.
Dr. Jones. 210
G. Wynkoop,
W. Rodman.
have made a proper impression on the minds of
the Indian Nations in general, agreeable to the
trite observation—a thing well done, is twice done.
If a peace is patched up now, government will
soon have to begin the business dc novo; or the
poor Icattered citizens in these parts will once
more have to wade through a sea of blood.
" A few particulars refpeifting this country
may not be uninteresting loyou :
" Washington is thecounry town for iliecoun
ty of Mason, and is the second in point of popu
lation in Kentucky.
" The county of Hamilton lies between the
two Miami Rivers. J nit below the mouth of the
Little Miami is a garrison called Fort Miami—
Ac a small diflauce below this garrison is the town
ot Columbia—About lix miles from Columbia, is
the town of Cincinnati, which is the county town
of the county of Hamilton—and here is erected
Fort-Wajhington, the Head Quarters of the Fede
ral Army. This fort is plealantly fltuated on the
banks of the Ohio, oppoiite the mouth of Lick
ing River. Seven miles below this is a fettle
mem of 18 or 20 families, called South Bend—
about seven miles from this, also on the Ohio, is
the city of Miami, founded by the Hon. John.
Cleves Synimes—l2 miles up the Great Miami is
the settlement called Dunlap's Station—and 12
miles up the Little Miami is a settlement called
Cavault's Station. The numbers of militia in
these places, according to the best accounts I have
received, are, at Columbia, 200 —Cincinnati, I JO
—South Bend, 20 —city of Miami, 80—Dunlap's,
15 —and at Cavault's, 20-
"We have now had three expeditions from
Cenrucky against the Indians— the firft and latt
ippear to have been happily executed on every
account—and notwithitanding the men were all
mounted, they did not fuflain any loss of confe
quencc, even in horses. The Generals in both
these expeditions appear to have been much
pleased with their men, and the men with their
commanders. The second expedition turned out
entirely unproductive, it was against a town,
which had been abandoned many months before
the arrival of the troops —and not being strong
enough to pufli forward to St. Duflcy; they re
turned."
DIED—At Haverhill, (Massachusetts) the Hon. Nathaniel
Pease ly Sergeant, lifq. Chief-luitice of the Supreme Judi
cial Court of that State.
At Newark, the 7th inft. Dr. William Burnet, late
firft Judge ot the Court of Common Pleas, for the County of J£f
fex, in the 61ft year h\s a<je.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Pigou, Loxley, London,
Grange, Manlovc, Liverpool,
Brig Harmony, Rogers, l'ort-au-Prince,
—-— Pere dc Famille, Lambert, Marfeillcs,
Mary, Cor win, Oporto,
Minerva, Morgan, Jamaica,
—— George, Hubble, Bilboa,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT..
6 pr. Cents 20[6 20/8 pr. /
3 pr. Cents 11/3 n/4
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents 12J6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16/8 ryj 85 do.
Indents do.
Bank Subscriptions, 140 Dollars.
Average price of Scrips in New-York this week, from 140 to 144
dollars, cafk —Six per Cents, 20/10—-Three per Cents, 11J10 —De-
ferreds, 12/io.
*** A continuation of the French Conflitution in our next.
Er rat u m—For Surgeon-General ojthe State »f New-York, in the
firjl column of our lajl, read " Surveyor-General."
TO BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubfctiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a twoftory stone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-shop, granary, waggou
houfe; barrack cow-houses, two (lories high and 90 feet long, and
a good barn, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applying to the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Sno wd en,
No. 141, South Second-fttcet, Philadelphia.
Princeton, October 10, 1791
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Massachusetts, mod refpeft
fully informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarco Eduion of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finifh
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Paters, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejlcr % or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the la A day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has" met
with their highest approbation; both os to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its cheapnets compared with English
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carricd on solely at his own cost, he it led to hope that all those
who wifn to poflefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
V. r crceJler,Scpt. 29, 1791
ceat.
57 d °-
62J do.
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[ep2tnj
ISAIAH THOMAS.Peter Pi.noar lias been often admired for his vein of fauricai
humour; but in the followingeffuGon ot his niufc, he appeals
Ib much the cheerful moraliit, that we doubt not our readeis
will receive it with pleafurc, and perhaps piofii by bis original
and plcafuut philoiophy
AN 0D £.
may be happy, it he will
JLVI I've fa:d it often, and I think lo still
Doctrine to make the million Hare !
Know then, each mortal is an actual Jove;
Can bievv what weather he thall molt
Or wind, or calm, or foul, or fair.
But here's the mifchief-—Man's an als I fay ;
Too fond of thunder, lightning, Uorm and lain;
He hides the charming, chcerful lav,
That spreads a smile o'er hill and pl«iin !
I/zik, he mufl court the fculi, and Ipade, and ftirowd—
The millrefs of his foul muff be a Cloud!
Who told him that he mull be curs'd on earth ?—
The Gon of Nature ?—N T o such thing !
Heav'n whifper'd him, the moment of his b'rth,
*• Don't cry, my lad, but dance and ling ;
44 Don't be too wife, and be an ape;—
44 In colours let thy foul be diels'd, uot crape ;
•* Roses fliall finooth Life's journey, and adorn ;
44 Yet, mind me—if, through want of grace,
41 Thou meari'li to fling the blcfling in my face,
ki Thou hall full leave to tread upon a thorn."
Yet some there arc, of men I think, the worst,
Poor imps ! unhappy, if they can't be cuis'd—
for ever brooding over Mis'ry's ?g£s,
As though, Life's pleasures were a deadly fin ;
Mousing for ever for a gin
To catch their bappinefTes by the leg!.
Ev'n at a dinner, some will be trnblef&'d,
However good the viands, and well drefs'd ;
They always come to table, with a feowl,
Squint with a face of verjuice o'er each dilli,
Fault the poor fie lb, and quarrel with the fifh,
Curse cook and wife, and, loathing, cat and growl.
A cart-load, so, their stomachs steal,
Yet swear they cannot make a meal.
I like not the blue-devil-hunting crew !
I hate to drop the difcontcnted jaw !
O let me Nature's fjrnple smile purlue,
And pick ev'n plcainrc from a ttraw ?
L O N. D O N, July 20
RIOT KING'S BENCH.
MONDAY night, there was an alarming in
furredfHon in the King's Bcnch p'rifon, an
attempt being made by the greater part of the
prisoners to escape ; much inifchief was done to
the inner part of the prison, and the outer gate
would have been forced, had not a body of horse
and foot arrived to restore order, which they
liappily effected without any bloodflied, before
eleven o'clock.
The following are fonie of the particulars of
the riot : The prisoners having dined together
as a weekly Club, were a little elevated by li
quor, and aflembling in the yard, began to mur
mur at the delay of Mr. Grey's bill refpetlitig
debtors. Some of them even threatened to ef
fect their enlargement immediately, and tliey
deputed Major Pitcairn to wait on the Mar/fral,
and request that Colonel Harrington, who has
been eight months closely confined for having at
tempted to elcape, might be as much at liberty
as thenifeives ; but instead of their desire being
complied with, Major Pitcairn was 'detained in
custody.
This circumstance added to their discontent,
and they became more clamorous and desperate ;
when the Marlhal with some afiiltants went a
niong them, and seized two or three of the ring
leaders, but was so roughly handled thac he was
obliged to retreat. The violence of the prison
ers encreafing, the Marshal and all his officers
armed, and going into the area between the two
gates, they fired two guns into the air with a de.
Jlgn of terrifying the mal-contents, who endea
voured to provoke them, and threw a ftiower of
brickbats over the wall, by which they fractured
one man's JI.-ull very dangerously, wounded feve
xal others, and obliged the whole to retire to the
top of the Keeper's house, where they could fee
Awhat was doing, without rifting their pcrfonal
fafety.
.Mr, Bowes went among the crowd and liar
rangued iheni, but as lie advised peace and good
order, lie was so ill received that he found it
prudent to defifl ; and the Marlhal feeing the
danger thicken, and tliat a general aH'ault at 11-ie
gates might probably be made, he Cent a nieflen
ger to Jjiltice Hyde, who communicated tile in
telligence to Lord Ar.iherft ; two troops of horl'e
Avere dispatched, and in about an hour afterwards
they were followed by a party of the foot guards,
who went within the walls, and drew up before
the prison, when every renionltrance and periua
lion being used to pacify the rioters, at length
the majority of the prisoners retreated to their
rooms, and the riot was fortunately quelled. A
guard of twelve foot fbldiers within, aiul about
tsvenry horse without the prison, were left liow
ver all night, and it is supposed a party of mili
tary will hcnceforwaid always be stationed there.
Ycfterday fix of the ring-leaders iu the riot
were brought into the Marihal's house, and exa
mined before Justice Hyde, when several facfis
being proved againlt them, they were committed
to tlie new gaol in the Uorounh.
•3 O
Funds of the United States.
A LL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, ibid, or ex
/jL changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negotiated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on iornmij/idii, and allothtr
Bufiuefk to the line of a Broker, i ran faded by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At tht Office next door to the Cultom-Koufe,
State-Street, BOST ON.
Lectures on Government Lav/.
Honorable JAMES WILSON, L.L. D. Protcilbi of Laws
X in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of LeAurcs. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuesday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board ot Faculty.
Philadelphia, October 12, 1791. ( e P l^)
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and MarkctStrects.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jersey, 2d Class—to commence drawing 26th inft. ) Pofi.
Ma'lachufetts Semi-annual, 2d Class, 13th O&ober. £ tivcly
Mav be had ax abovr.
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE removed their Office 10 the corner of Chefnut and Third
Streets—where they purchase and fell CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, See. &c.
Bufmcfs of all kinds, in their line, tranfa&ed oh Commifiion.
They have for sale, TICKETS in the Second C 1«»fs of the Mas
sachusetts Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing of which will com
mence on the 13th inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Class of the
Charleftown Lottery, at the Managers prices.
To be let, on moderate Ground Rent, forevei,
A Lor of Ground, eligibly situated, in Kcnfmpton,
fronting on thiee streets. Tuere are improvements on this lot,
which, added to its situation, make it worthy of particular atten
tion. Phildd'lplia. Oct. 1, 1791.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
CheTnut-Sircet, next door to the Bank, No qy
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, Tome time in Augifft 1789, a yellow NEGRO
. MAN, named Abraham, late the property of Nathaniel
Wicklijf\ dectafed—about forty-five years of age, about five feci
eight or nine inches high, pretty well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone mason and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of such business. He is a great dilFembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is fiippofed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will fe
curefaid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be g;iv en if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchllor, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(r awqw)
O&ober 12, 1701
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS 11,
THE MANAGERS of th* STATE-LOTTERY a(Ture the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of October next, 01 Jooncr, if the Tickets
fliall be difpoicd of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligncd, so
they arc determined to be equally as pun&ual in tins.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft a dedu&ron of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars
bf ioooo is
3000 aie
2000
1000
50 0
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
1 o
8
1
2
3
6
to
'4°
8o
9°
100
I?.©
161
J; CO
75»5
Prizes.
1661?. Blanks,
95000 Tickets,
I ICKEI S in the above C l ass may be had of the fevcral
Ma nagek s, who will pay the prizes on demand \ of the Tr easu r er
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-florc,
Fiankhn s Head, Court-flreet—and at other places, as usual
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.l
DAVID COBB. I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT, |
JOHN KNiiljL AND,
Rollout April 14, 1791.
TF THOMAS I"RANKS, lately ol Little York, in Virginia*
X (but originally of Scarboiough, in Yoikfhire, Gieat-Bntain.)
w'll make himfelf known, together with his present place of ret
fidence, either to his brother John Franks, who is now in this
I 011, or to the fubferiber, lie will hear of fomct'ning greatly to his
auvantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diflna of Maine) August 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the decease of Mr. Franks, his legal heir-os
leirs arc requerted to forward their names and r.laccs oi abode to
A.r. Roeinson, as above.
196
T!IE arrearages of Suhfcriptions for this Gjutte j,„ N
at this time to upwards of Two Thousand Dollars.—The Edito* fat.
ters himfef t/iat no apology can he tho't necejjary foi earvejlly requc/h ■>»
a compliance with the terms of fubfriptnn, in a speedy dfcharge of tie
sums due. Thnfe gentlemen of whom the papers are immediately re
ceived, are authorised to receipt for any payments that may te offered
Wanted, a good COOK,
To whom genteel wages will be allowd. None need apply v ,-h*
cannot be well recommended. Enquiieof the Printer.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Managers of NEW-HAVEN WHARF LOTTERY
have unexpectedly received information from abroad., of a cod!
fiderable number of Tic kets yet unfold. Tins rcndeis it necefjuty
for them (in order to answer the design of the Lottery) tr> adjourn
the diawing to Monday the 17th of O&ober next, at which time
the drawing will pojitively re-commence, and continue without in
terruption until tiniihcd.
New-Haven > Sept. 28, 1791
N. 15. The numbers already both prizes and blank*
will be published immediately, in hand-hills, and in the ConneQi
cut Journal, for the information of tiiofe who wiflt to puicliafe
Tickets now undrawn.
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened *t his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement Fie
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school <"or decorum and good order, as weli as the perform
ance of his fchoiars, will ihll en fore hun a rcfpcCUble ftiare ot ihc
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Danccs will be taught
during the fcafon.
Thole who pkafe to honor him with the rui'ion of their chil
dren, inav be allured, they will be taught \n the most approved
stile, and that pioper attention will be paid to their carnage and
manners.
A general for the improvement of the fchoiars, will
be held at the New Rooms, evet v other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and ill angers of genteel deportment, will be admired.
These will be attended with 110 cxpence.
N. B. An EVENI N'G SCHOOL will be opened for grow®
Gentlemen, as loon as a fufflcient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private fdle, on the
following terms :
ON the fpecicamount ot all Tales or purchases at au&ion, wic
eighth per cent.
On ditto ot all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, onc-halj per cent. ; aud on ail fuins
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at dnto, one dollar each transfer.
(pT* Such per Tons throughout the United Stiles, as may be
pleased to favor the fubfcriocrs with their orders, may rely ou
their being executed with puncluality y fidehty and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public itocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, en-Lie them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PIXTARD & BLEECK.ER,
New-York, No. 57, Kivg-Stvect.
(97 law 6ro)
March 15, 1 791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the lubfcribcr, at Bor
denlowrt, and stolen from the lame the follo wing articles, viz.
One hair trunk., containing womcns' wearing apparel; : small
box, containing lour clocks and one dozen teftamcnts; j ditto
containing our* bottle green cloth coat, one ftrjped velt and
breeches, two Hiirts and a small bag with 36 dollars and 2qs. to
30s. lei fey coppeis; 1 ke» containing a large bibie, with other
linall books ; 1 box containing 447 real oflrich leathers, lome of
them large and elegant, and ol diifeient colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlav; i barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen pafte-boai ds. Stolen at the lame tune, a large Batieau,
with black iides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles agajn,
or in proportion foi part thereof; also a further reward ot Twenty
Dollais will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be biought to justice, by
10000
6oco
6000
Gooo:
s OOc'
6000
80C0.
JOHN VAN EMBURGH,
Bordentown, N^w-lei fev. Sent. t. 17Q1. | eptfj
Geok c etow n, September 9,1791.
THE Sales of the I.ols in the Federal Cit) will cofuinrnce oq
Monday the 17th day of O&obtr next. The Commiflioners
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the public
buildings to any ddirable extent; with a vivw to draw the fund
into action, so as to facilitate the work, iivltead of a dcpofit of 8
per cent, will require 1-4111 part of the pUrchale money to be paid
down, the residue to be on bonds wiih security, pa/able .with i.i
tercfl in three equal payments. The manner of improvements ill
be pubiilhcd ai the fal'c.
4500
4000
3600
322©
2 oca
60G80
12,5000
Philadelphia, 20ih July, 1 791.
/ Commiflioners appointed to rcceive Subscriptions to the
X Bank ot the yuiied States, do hereby, agfceable to Jaw, in
form the Stockholder of the said Bank, that an elcftionfor twenty
five Dire6tors will be held at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of O&obei next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WIJ LING,
DAVID RITTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWU L.
University of Pennsylvania
October 7, 179 1 -
The MEDICAL LECTURES will begin on
the firfl Mud ay in November next.
(p0" Blank Powers to receive Mflntereft, and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules efiabhftied in the rea '
fury Department: Also Blanks for abjlrdtts of Certificates, to be fold bi
the Editor.
fCT The JOURNAL of the Tlllßli SESSION of the SES.ITI
of the UNITED STATES, may be hud nf the Editor hereof.
NOTIFICATION.
W. M'D GUG ALL'S
Thomas Johnson,
David stl'art, > Commiflioncrs.
Da nikl Carroll, ) _
(t. f.)