c:
1' :; . I S'I 1, WI.UVKSDAYS AND SATURDAYS B , ~J,W FEMNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SZ«W/> AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. of Vol. lII.]
From tht (Hartford) AMERICAN MERCURY.
The patriot
TtyT Y concluded with reciting the induce
nients proper to be held out to h.-ad trades
men, concerned in certain manufadares, to en
able them to take the children of such poor fa
milies, as apprentices, as were unable to furnifh
their children in the manner now practifexl.
1 hisfpeculation fliall be devoted to the conside
ration of such further inducements to letting up
and prosecuting the manufactures of linen, cot
ton, and woollen, as may be neceflary for fully
inrvoducing andeffeifluaily efla'olifliingthofe ina
nu.aiures. f lax is amongit the productions of
almoil every farm ; yet we have it not in faflici
eiit plenty n;;c! perfection for the purpose of
carrying 011 extensive manufactures. It is how
ever reasonably to be expected, that every year
will add to the quantity brought to market—and
that the quality will be proportionably improved.
Nothing will expedite this defireable end so
much as the establishment of a linen and cotton
manufacture. Fine bearled flax is not neceflary
e ".' ler / or ri ggi"g or duck—neither will the
price given for flax in those manufactures enable
the farmers to prepare their flax properly for
market. When ever there is a demand for flax
to make fine cloth, then the farmers will raise
better flax, and dress it in another manner.
The more certain and constant the demand for
any articles, and the higher the price, the more
will there be of that article at market. Let
Congress compel the owners of every ship orvef
fel to make the firft Tuit of fails of American
duck—and let thisftate in the mean time give a
moderate bounty on every piece of duck manu
factured in the Hate—This would effectually an
swer the purpose. Let them give a premium or
bounty of two Ihillings on every piece of linen,
or linen and cotton cloth, not less than 24 yards
a "d i yards wide, of the value of is. 6d.
per yard —For every piece of furh cloth not less
than 24 yards long and ayard wide, of the value
of two ihillings per yard, a bounty of 2S. 6d.—
tor every such piece of the value of 2*. 6d. per
yard, a bounty of 4s —And for every such piece
of the value of 3s. per yard, a bounty of 6s.—
In every cafe the cloth for which the bounty is
claimed, must have previouily deen fold to fbme
merchant residing in the Itate, at the above pri
ces, or higher.
Similar and indeed greater bounties should be
given on all woollen goods manufactured in this
ltace, and fold by the piece to the merchants for
retailing—The reason is obvious—The price of
flax and cotton in this country is as low, or even
lower than in Europe ; But their manufactories
have the advantage of machinery to expedite
labor which we lack. But as to wool, the cafc
is materially different ; that article is at least
doable the price here that it is in England—and
their workmen have the fame advantage over
ouvs in refpeft of machinery, as in the other
branches—and also in refpetft of dye fluffs. It
is abfoiutely neceflary that we overcome all these
abltacles. Patience, patriotifin and perseverance,
with the aid of government, will soon effedt
what we wish. Let the monied man assist the
artisan—Let the wealthy farmer gi'e the manu
facturer p. reai'onable credit for his wool, that
the manufacturer, in turn, may give a reasona
ble credit to the merchant on his cloths—Let our
legislators, our judges, our councellors our at
tornies, and clergy (who should set a good ex
ample in this as in every other refpecft) be cloth
ed in the manufactures of the ltate—we need
not fear that others will follow so laudable an
example —we then {hall fee our villages well in
habited, and growing to the size of our largest
towns—our towns into cities, instead of their
dwindling into solitary places, and deserted vil
lages
1 am well aware that Biitifh merchants, Bri
tish agents, and all these Anglofied Americans
wno tui ii up their noses at every thing which is
not Bfiiifli, will effedt to turn my proje<Jts into
ridicule, and :reat the Patriot as a lunatic, or
at bed, jis a well meaning, but weak, visionary
projector. Yet setting aside their interested
views—why fliould they treat my projects with
contempt? No doubt the fitft attempts to esta
blish ilie woollen manufa<Aure in England was
as much decried. Their attempt to establish the
Cotton and Silk manufactures was more objedi
onable than an attempt of the fame kind would
Saturday, May 21, 1791.
be in this country, They have surmounted all
the obstacles that oppof'ed or impeded those
eftablifliments in that country ; and I have no
doubt we ihall finally surmount every obltacle
here. The more public or private encourage
ment is given our artisans and manufactures,
the sooner this great national object will be ef
fected. Maflachufetts has set us a good exam
pie in this refpecft—they have given a bounty of
Bs. for every piece of duck manufactured in the
state—this has induced monied men to become
concerned in that business, and there is thebeft
grounds for believing the business will succeed ;
and be continued after the bounty shall cease.
They lw-ve lately made a very large donation to
the owners of the cotton manufactory, which
will probably induce them to pursue the under
taking with vigor. As our manufactures in
crease, heavy imports will doubtless be laid by
the general government on the importation of
foreign manufactures, which will operate as a
bounty on our own ; and will accelerate their
final eltablifhixenr, and bri-'g them to that state
of perfection as fiiall render all importations
needless.
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE
TO B I R TH A.
A
-LjIND (iocs disease thy bosom grieve ?
O had I known it at an earlier hour,
I would have strove thy sorrows to relieve,
Have torn thee from the tyrant Sickness' power,
And bade thy aching breast delight receive.
I would have fat the lingering, painful, eve,
With various talk the lonely moments cheer'd ;
Have, with unwearied hand, thy head fuftain'd
Whole nights; and soothed thee as thou had'ft complain'd ;
And heal'd thee with affe&ion long ciidear'd.
for I have known the hand of hard disease;
Have felt opprefTive fickncfs at my foul ;
Seen dcaih-]:ke paleness o'er my features spread ;
And mark'd the life-fupporting current freeze,
t rorn hollow eyes, oi blue defps<r, the big tears roU •
And j ;in'd. in anguifh'd fancy, with the dead.
Yet then, even then, I cast a lingering look
On all the business of beloved mankind ;
While each adieu, each fond farewd, I took,
Still left a wish, for one more view, behind.
*Twas then new pleasures burst upon my mind,
New w)Qies agitated all my bteaft;
And hope, and paflion, and affettion, joio'd,
With life-reviving health again my bosom blefs'd.
Such are the joys I offer to thy view.
For what a greater iranfport can afford
Than to behold affe£tion, virtue new,
And lovely goodness, o'er creation pourd ?
To fee refinement new-born raptures ihew ?
And happiness, by you, to earth restored ?
To fee the enchanting lmile
Of sweet benevolence expand,
And o'er the human face diffufe new light;
What hath such power affli&ion to beguile,
And foofche the woe-worn heart with comfort bland ?
What greater pleasure can the foul delight ?
To let imagination stray,
And wanton in celestial day;
To fee Creation's second birth,
And Heavefi, descending, blcfs the Earth ;
To view new beauty clothe the plain,
And rapture hail M«fliah's reign ;
To mark death, anguish, and ciifeafe,
And vice, no more pollute the breeze;
To fee perfc&ion's glorious heirs,
Triumphant o'er life's little cares,
To new attainments daily grow ;
With nobler virtue hourly glow ;
And, bofom'd in immortal peace,
In God's felicity incieafe;
To love with frefher truth inclined ;
And gaining on the eternal Mind :
What nobler transports can the foul possess ?
What richer joy the sympathetic bosom bless ?
REPORT
OF THE
SECRETARY OF STATE,
On the fubjc£t of rhe
CODAND WHALE FISHERIES,
[CONTI NUED.]
ENGLAND is the market for the greater part of our spermaceti
oil. They impose on allour oils, a duty of eighteen pounds
five shillings sterling the ton, which, as to the common kind, is a
prohibition, as has been before observed, ard as tothat of the sper
maceti, gives a preference of theirs over outs to that amount, so
as to leave in the end, but a scanty benefit to the fifherman ; and
not long since, by a change of conftru£tion, without any change
of the law, it was made to exclude our oils from their ports, when
carried in our own'vcflels. On some change of circumstance, it
was construed back again to the reception of our oils ; on paying
always, however, the fame duty of eighteen pounds five shillings.
This fervesto (hew that the tenure by which we hold the admis
sion of this commodity in their markets, is as precarious as it is
hard. Nor can it be announced that there is any disposition on
25
ELLA,
[Whole No. 215.]
'heir part, to arrange this, or any other commercial matter, to mu
tual convenience. The exparte regulations which they have he
gun for mounting their navigation on the ruins of ours, nan only
_>e opposed by counter regulations on our part. And the loss of
seamen, the natural confequcnce of loft and obftruCled markets (or
our fifh and oil, calls in the firft place, for serious and timely at
tention. It will be too late when the seaman (hall have changed
his vocation, or gone over to another interest. If we cannot re
cover and secure for him these important branches of employ
ment, it behoves us to replace them by others equivalent. We
have three nurseries for forming seamen
1. Our coasting trade, already on a fafe footing.
2. Our fifheries, which in spite of natural advantages, give just
cause of anxiety. J
3. Our carrying trade, the only refonrce of indemnification for
what we lose in the other. The produce of the United States,
which is carried to foreign markets, is extremely bulky. That
part of it now in the hands of foreigners, and which we may re
sume into our own, without touching the rights of those nations
who have met us in fair arrangements by treaty, or the interests
of those, who, by their voluntary regulations, have paid so just and.
liberal a refpeft to our interests, as being measured back to them
again, places both parties on as good ground, perhaps, as treaties
could place them : the proportion, I fay, of our carrying trade,
which may be resumed without affecting either of these defcrip
tionsof nations, will find constant employment for ten thousand
Icamcn, be worth two millions of dollars annually, will go on
augmenting with the population of the United States, secure to us
a lull indemnification for the seamen we lose, and be taken wholly
from those who force us to this ast of felf-proteflion, in navigation.
Hence too would follow that their Newfoundland (hips, not re
ceiving provisions from us in their bottoms, nor permitted (by a
law of their own) to receive in ours, mail draw their fubfiltence
from Europe, which would increase that part of their expences
in the proportion of four to seven, and so far operate as a duty
towards rcftoring the level between them and us. The tables No.
2 and 12, will (hew the quantity of tonnage, and consequently
the mass of seamen whose interests are in distress ; and No. 17,
the materials for indemnification.
If regulations, exattly the counterpart of those established a
gainst us, would be ineffe&ual from a difference of circumftaices,
other regulations equivalent can give no reasonable ground of
complaint toany nation. Admitting their right of keeping their
markets to themselves, ours cannot be denied of keeping our
carrying trade to ourselves. And if there be any unfriend
ly in this, it was in the firft example.
Thelofs of seamen unnoticed, would be followed by othei los
ses in a long train. If we have no seamen, our ships will be use
less, consequently our (hip timber, iron and hemp ; our (hip-build
ing will be at an end, (hip-carpenters go over to other nations,
our young men have no call to the sea, our produce carried in fo
reign bottoms, be fadiled with warfreight and insurance in times
of war; and the history of the last one hundred years, shews that
the nation which is our carrier has three years of war for every
four years of peace. (No. 18) We lose, during the fame periods,
the carriage for belligerent powers, which the neutrality of our
flag would render an incalculable source of profit; we lose at this
moment the carriage of our own produce to the annual amount
of two millions of dollars, which in the poflible progress of the
encroachment, may extend to five or fix millions, the worth of
the whole, with an increase in the proportion of the increase of
our numbers. It is easier as well as better, to stop this train at its
entrance, than when it (hall have ruined or banilhed whole clafies
ofufeful and industrious citizens.
It will doubtless be thought expedient that the resumption fug
geftcd should take effett so gradually as not to endanger the loss of
produce for the want of transportation ; but that, in order to cre
ate transportation, the whole plan (hould be developed, and made
known at once, that the individuals who may be disposed to lay
themselves out for the carrying business may make their calcula
tions on a full view of all circumltances.
On the whole, the historical view we have taken of these fifti
enes provts they arc so poor in themselves as to come to nothing
with distant nations, who do not support them from their trca
furies. We have seen that the advantages of our pcfition place our
fifheries on a ground lomewhat higher, such as to relieve our trea
sury from the neceflity of giving them support, but not to permit
it to draw support from them, nor to dispense the government
from the obligation of effectuating free markets for them, that for
the great proportion ofour salted fifh, for our common oil, and a
part ot our fpermacani oil, markets may perhaps, be prefeived by
friendly arrangememstowards those nations whose arrangements
are friendly to us, and the rcfidue be compeni'ated by giving to
the seamen thrown out of business the certainty of employment in
another branch of which we have the sole disposal.
February lft, 17Q
NEW-YORK, April 30,
The present Empress of Rulfia, born in the year
1729, was a German Princefc, daughter of Chril
tian Augustus, Prince of Anbalt Zereft, and in
174J, married Peter the Illd. a Sovereign diitin
gui(hed for his folly and vices, who after his
ascending the throne was weak enough to wear
the Prussian Uniform, profefs himfelf a soldier
of Frederick (the public enemy of his country)
attempted to cut the beards of his Clergy, and
was the avowed foe of literary improvement.
After a turbulent reign of about fix months, he
was deposed by the united concurrence of hit
fubje<fts—who, in July, 1762, bellowed the Dia
dem upon liis wife, the present Empress, who
then changed her name of Sophia Augnfta for
that of Catharine Alegriewna the second. She
is, undoubtedly, very ambitious; but excepting
the great Leopold, is the firft Legislator of the
present age; the protestor of her people, iu re
lieving the miseries of her pealants; and has by
a series of mod brilliant achievements and afto-
nifhing fuccefles, raifod the Ruffian Empire to a
height of glory, which now threatens to overturn
the balance of Europe.
THOMAS JEFFERSON,
Secretary of State.
(To be continued.)tROKI THE NORWICH PACKET.
Mr. Trumbull,
T'HE Prompter, is an entire stranger to me ;
I know not who he is, nor where he lives,
but 1 would willingly travel twenty miles to fee,
and fbake hands with him-: —He wrote excellent
ly on the fubjeift of borrowing :—His observations
■were well calculated to work a reformation in
the uglycuftonis of the people; bur, 1 lament it,
iny neighbors are no more moved by his writings,
than the wicked men ofSodoin were by the hearty
expoltu'atioris of righteous Lot. Ido not recol
lect that Mr. Piompter faidany thingabout lend
>»g ; but you know, that in weighing any article
or commodity in the scales, if one end of the
beam goes down the other end niuft of course go
: So, where there is one borrower, there cer
tainly is one lender.—The fcale-beani has but two
ends, and one end is always actuated by one end :
But there may be ten borrowers, and but one lend
er ; in that cafe it is hard, sure enough, on the
fide of the lender. Suppose here is four, five or
fix families, who think it best and cheapelt for
them to borrow ; and here is one who is well fur
nifhed with a compleat set of tools, agreeable to
my friend Prompter's advice ; will not the pa
tience and all the tools of this one, soon be worn
out ! mull he pace up and down all the morn
ing to get his tools and hand them out to his
neighbors, and be disturbed again at night to
receive them in ? Stop ! no—he is not much
troubled about receiving thein in at night ; his
neighbor keeps the tool till the next day, and
the next day ; and on the 4th or sth day, the
obliging lender is under a neceflity of using his
lhovel ; where is it Tom ? " J done know Sir fee-,71
tome fame body hollow um tudderday." Tom is sent
a hunting round the neighbourhood—the thing
is found—the handle is broke—well Tom, this
is the way we get rich ; go, you must carry it to
the wood-worker, and get a new handle made to
it Tom. t( Tefe ?uajfa, dis no berry good wa to get
rich tho ; me hope maff~a nebber lend um Jkubble gin,
cujfen nabel plage Tom sole out, aliua bollow Jhubble
en ho, en ax, en rake and dibble do no what all."
Tom Tom iyou mull not swear so, if they do
plague your foul out.
Now I fay Mr. Trumbull, I wiJh you would be
so obliging as to convey my compliments to Mr.
Prompter, and tell him I wifli he would write
once more on the fubjetft, hotter than ever, and
oblige yours, TOM's MASTER.
G E O R G E T O W N, (S. C.) April 5 0.
This morning the President of the United
States and his suite arrived here, 011 his tour
through the Southern States—He was rowed over
the river by seven Captains of veflels, drefled in
round hats trimmed with gold late, blue coats,
■white jackets, See. in an elegant painted boat.—
On his arriving opposite the market he was sa
luted by the artillery, with fifteen guns, from
the foot of Broad-street :—and on his landing
lie was received by the light infantry company
with presented arms who immediately after he
pafled, fired thirteen rounds ; after which the
committee appointed to receive and address him,
conduced him to an elegant house prepared by
the inhabitants for his reception. At two o'clock
he received the congratulatory address of the in
inhabitants, and immediately after that of his
Masonic brethren—at four, he honored the citi
zens with his company at a public dinner, at
which the following were the principal toasts :
1. The United States of America.
2. The Grand Council of the Union.
3. TheKingof Franceour great and good ally.
4. The National Afl'embly of France.
5. The memory of Major General Greene.
6. The memory of M. G. Baron de Kalb.
7. The other brave officers and soldiers who
fell in the war.
8. The Vice-President of the United States,
may the esteem and gratitude of his country he
equal to those important services which he has,
and continues to render her.
9. Our ministers in foreign countries.
10. The Federal Government.
11. The State of South-Carolina.
12. The Marquis de la Fayette
13. May the nations of the earth enjoy an equal
happiness with us in having rulers equally sedu
lous to make themselves acquainted with the true
interests and situations of the people.
14. The Governors and Legislatures of the
refpetftive States.
The President then retired, and the following
toast was given.
Our Illustrious President, may calmneft,
peace and felicity, bless the evening of his life,
as his youth and middle age have been glorious
by the most exalted atchieveuients of military
renown.
The evening closed with a tea party and ball,
which the President honored with his company,
and the next morning fat off for Charleston.
CHARLESTON, May 3
Yesterday the President of the United States ar
rived in this city, accompanied by major Jackson.
At Georgetown he was met by major general
Moultrie and Col. Washington, and at Haddril's
Poinr by Brigadier General Pinckney, Major
Edward Rutledge, and the Recorder of this city;
from whence he was rowed across the river in
an elegant barge by thirteen in afters of Ameri
can veflels, viz. Captains Cochran, Cross, Moore,
Milligan, Kean, Rea, Laurence, Drinker, Swain,
Conyers, Dickinfon, Crowly and Connolly, who
were uniformly and neatly drefled in light blue
silk jackets, and round black hats decorated with
blue ribbons on which were imprefled the arms
of this State. During the paflage vocal and in
ftruniental music were performed on the water
by the Amateur Society, aflifted by a voluntarv
aflociation of lingers ; and upwards of forty
boats attended with anxious fpecftators, which
formed a molt beautiful appearance.
Stairs were erecfted at Prioleau's wharf, where
thePrefident was received and congratulated by
the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of this
State, the int endant and wardens of this city, and
an uncommonly large concourse of citzens, who
teftified their happiness on the arrival of our
chief magistrate by reiterated ihouts of joy and
fatisfaction—the Charlcfton battalion of artillery
saluted him with discharges from their field pie
ces, the bells of St. Michael's church were rung,
and the fliipping in the harbour difplaygd their
colors during the day.
He was coududed to the exchange, preceded
by the officers of the corporation, and followed
by a procefiiou, consisting of the militia officers,
members of the Cincinnati, and other citizens,
where he received the honors of the proceflion,
to whom he politely and gracefully bowed as
they pafled in review before him. The order
was then reverfeci, and the President escorted to
the house in Church-street, prepared for his ac
commodation.
Yesterday the society of the Cincinnati esta
blished in this state, gave a very sumptuous din
ner to their illoftrious President General, in
M'Crady's long room, which was handsomely
decorated with laurel and flowers. The Govern
or, Lieutenant-Governor, and civil Officers of
this state, the Intendant and wardens of the ci
ty, the members of Congress, the Consuls of
foreign powers, gentlemen strangers, the offi
cers of the artillery, and a number of the nioft
distinguished characters of this state, were pre
sent. After dinner, the following toasts v ere
drank, followed by a discharge from the field
pieces of the Charleston battalion of artillery :
i. The United States.
2. The fourth of July, 1776,
3. Louis the XVIIII, king of the French
4. The National Aifembly of France.
5. All nations in amity with the United States.
■6. Count D'Eftaing and officers of the French
navy, who served in America.
8. The Vice-President of the United States
9. The Secretary of State.
10. The Secretary of theTreafury.
11. The Secretary of the War Department,
12. The army of the United States.
13. Agriculture and Commerce
14. (By the President.) The memory of Gene
ral Greene, and all those Officers who fell in de
fence of America.
ui nuici ltd.
ij. The Patriotic Fair of America.
A choir of fingers entertained the company
withfeveral pieces of vocal music, and the day
was spent in social feftivjry.
In the evening a splendid ball was given by
the city corporation, which the President of the
United States honored with his presence. There
was a numerous and brilliant aflemblage of ladies
and a great number of gentlemen prefeni. The
ladies were all superbly drefled, and nan ft of them
wore ribbons with different inferiptions, expres
sive of their refpetft and efteera for the President,
such as " long live the President," &c. &c. Joy,
fatisfaiftion and gratitude illumined every coun
tenance and revelled in each heart, whilst the
demonstrations of grateful refpetft /hewn him
seemed to give him the most heartfelt fatisfatlion,
which visibly displayed itfelf in his countenance.
The beautiful arch of lamps in front of the
exchange was illuminated ; and over the en
trance there was a superb transparency, in the
centre " Dtliciis Patria," and at the top, G. W.
The fufileer company wax drawn up before
the exchange to maintain order, and exhibited a
very pleafingappearance. In ftiort every circum
stance of the evening's entertainment was truly
pi(Surefque of the moftlplendid elegance.
The thirteen American Captains who rowed
the barge in which the President came, from
Haddrill's Point, dined upon an elegant enter
tainment at M'Crady's, on Monday; to which a
number of Matters of veflels were invited. The
following toalls were given.
Our illustrious President.
United States of America.
The Governor and State of South-Carolina.
The federal government; may it be equal-to
time.
26
May s
May 6
The memory of the Fallen heroes i„ A," .
of America. " a ''in;«
Lewis XVlth. and the National Affetnl.lv
The fufFerers m the cause of Freedom ''
The Marqu,, de la Fayette, Übertr', V icer<)v
John Paul Jones. * Vl «r©y,
Captain Barry.
The memories of Biddle and Pickerir.cr
Protection to oar commerce.
The family of mankind.
On the President's arrival, the Chaileft™ i.
talion of artillery made him an offer of tl.dr of
fic.al attendance during his flay i„ this ci, Y £
regularly to mount guard for the purpofc k
he politely declined their friendly offer
that he considered himfelf perfectly fj e
affetflion and amicable attachment of
a circum(lance whereof he had already receiij
too many proofs to doubt of its fmcerity
Yesterday the President of the United St.,«
visited Sullivan's Island, accompanied by General
Moultrie and several other gentlemen of E , e «
refpe<sability, where he had the ple a s ure
viewing the remains of Fort Moultrie, f 0 c e l!.
a° r ,tS £j l,ant defence against a powerful
rsritifh neet and army, in the year i 776. On hi*
way to Sullivan's Island he flopped at Fort-[ohn
rton, on James-Mind. At both places he wa»
fliewn the greatest politeness and attention ; and
at two o'clock, he returned from this pleafanr
water excursion.
At four o'clock, a public entertainment w M
given by his Excellency the Governor, at his
house in Meeting-street, to the President of the
United States, and the principal gentlemen of
the civil, clerical and military profeffioin. The
following toasts were drank :
United Stares.
Congress of the United States.
4th of July, 1 776.
Louis XVI.
National Aflembly of France.
Friendly powers of Europe.
Fair of America.
Memory of General Green.
Agriculture and Commerce.
Arts and Sciences.
Friends of Freedom in every quarter of th?
globe.
Marquis de la Fayette.
Memory of those who have fallen in the de
fence of the rights of mankind.
After the President retired the following
drank—" The Prelident of the United States."
And in the evening there was a concert in the
city-hall, which on this occasion had received
considerable alterations, and was decorated with
various ornaments—the pillars weie ingeniously
entwined with laurel, and rhe following devices
inscribed in different parrs of the hall •
" With grateful praifrs of the hero's fame,
" We'll teach oir infants' tongues to lisp his name."
' " Hominis iura, dc! ndit et cm a"—" Magnus in hello"—
" vilam impmdere bono"—" Diogene aujourd'hui caffcrgit fa
lantcrne."
The company was enlivened and dignified by
the presence of the great hend ofour nation, and
a large number ofrefpetfrrble ladies and gentle
men, forming a most brilliant circle. An excel
lent band of nuific played in the orchestra, and
were accompanied in the vocal itrain by the choir
of St. Philip's church.
TO A BAD POET.
" READ the commandments, friend, and write no further,
" For there 'tis written, thou Jkalt do no murthtr
WINCHESTER, May 7.
On Wednesday last, Captain Swearingens com
pany of Levies, lately raised in the county of
Rerkeley, marched into this town from Martin
burg—on Thursday they were equipped in their
uniforms, and made a very refpetflable and sol
dier like appearance.
We hear this is to be the place of rendezvous
for the eompanies raising in this State—and that
another company is shortly expeded from Alex
andria, to join those already here.
Captain Brock's company, for which the fir ft
man was enrolled last Tuesday fortnight, is now
upwards of fifty strong.
The Frefident of the United States has been
pleased to appoint Col. William Darke to the
command of the battalion of Levies now raising
in this State.
A French emigrant of note, who arrived m
this town on Friday last, in eight days from Gal
liapolis, on the Miami, contradicts the report of
Capt. Guion being murdered, as mentioned in.
fonie of the papers. Said emigrant informs,
rhnt his companions have not as yet been molelt
ed l»y the Savages, but were under ftrongappre
henfions of a visit from them ere long.
ALBANY, May 9.
Nearly two centuries have revolved since tne
fir ft foundation of this city.—The pursuits of it®
inhabitants have heretofore been partial ami o
ral Had the firft settlers implanted with tliem
selves tliofe feeds of ente "prize and accomm" 1
tion to all nations and fec'ts that diftingii'' e
the founders of Philadelphia in 1681, we 'I* oll 'at this time doubtless rank in the firft class of ci
ties in America. In the course of the present
futnmer, we ihould fee the while length of Mar-
Jcet-rtreet completely pared—with fide walks—a
commodious market house—a spacious prison ;
and if we are rightly informed, the docks raised,
with a fair prot'pecft of the introduction of fo
reign commerce. Private convenience begins to
give way to public good, and a fpiric of im
provement has taken root beyond all former ex
amples. We presume we are principally indebt
ed to the independent exertions of an enlighten
ed corporation, as well as the decisive character
of our present chief magistrate for these benefits.
BENNINGTON, May 9.
The number of the Indians on the continent,
like the extensive circuit of a comet, leads the
attentive mind to conceive almost an immeasur
able scope of country poflefied by them. The
belt informed persons suppose, that there are
more than three aboriginals, in America, to one
white man.
This liypothefis has been disputed by some,
who argue, that from the scattered Hate in wlii ch
they live, the country could not contain them :
but when we consider that it is but a few years
lince the Spaniards firft invaded South-America,
at which period, Montezuma was said to have
30 Kings at his beck, each of whom could turn
out 100,000 fighting men—and take into view
the trifling extent of their territory, compared
■with the alinoft unlimited western wilds, the mind
is swallowed up in wonder, and loft in uncer
tain coaje&ure
No part of the world, it is said, has been dis
covered to be fertile and advantageous for the
residence of man, but man has been found to in
habit it. If this be true, the idea, perhaps, will
not be deemed altogether chimerical, that the
more western parts of this continent, are at pre
sent pofleiied by nations,
Where other Montezuma's hold their reign,
And peaceful millions till the fertile plain:
Where arts, perhaps, to Europe's lons unknown,
Present their charms—and wisdom, all their own,
Guide them along, secure from foreign jars-
Internal discord, or deftruftive wars.
SALEM, May 10.
Cape, Stone, on his pafl'age lately from Port
au-Prince to Portland, fell in with a Spaniih fnovv,
on board which was a Capt. Bofwell and his crew,
who belonged to R. Island, and had been taken
from a brig which had been wrecked in a severe
gale of wind : She was on the point of linking,
when the Spaniard came to their relief.—Capt.
Bofwell and his men were received on board
Capt. Stone's velfel, and brought to Portland.
The Spaniih Captain, at parting, supplied them
amply with provifionsand water —Generous man !
" Thou fhalt hear of this again, hereafter."
WORCESTER, May 12
A return of the number of inhabitants within
the diftritft of Connecticut, taken the firft Mon
day of August, 1790, by the Marlhal.
Free white males, sixteen years old and
upwards,
Free white males under sixteen years
of age,
Free white females,
All other free perlbns,
Slaves,
HARTFORD, May 16.
A Correspondent has sent us the following account of the pro
ceedings at the late Ele&ion.
On Wednesday in the afternoon, Major Caldwell's company of
horse, well mounted and equipped, met his Excellency the Go
vernor at Wethersfield, and escorted him to this town, preceeded
bv the Sheriffs of the fcveral counties on horseback
On Thursday, the day of the Election, the guards under the
command of Capt. Hopkins, paraded at the usual hour, and con
duced the Governor and Council to the State-House, from
■which the proceflion was to move. Here the Guards were }oined
by the Horse. Jufl before n o'clock, the proceflion moved ftfom
the State-House to the North-Church, headed by the Sheriffs,
■with their deputies and the constables of the town with their
staves of office. Next followed the Governor, the Lieut. Go
vernor and Council, the Reprefentativcs and Clergy. The pro
ceflion was uncommonly large, which, with the order, discipline,
and martial appearance of the guards added splendor to the ex
hibition.
Every part of divine service was performed to good accept
ance, but the sermon delivered by the Rev. Dr. Dwight, of
Greenfield, deserves particular commendation. Piety of thought,
clothed with elegance of style, and expressed with energy and
precision, compol'ed the foul of this discourse ; and the listening
multitudes which crowded the church, which were called toge
ther by the reputation of the preacher, declared their utmost ex
pectations gratified. The service was closed with an anthem, set
by the Do&oi hiinfelf to the g2d psalm.
After service, the proceflion moved back to the State Houfc, at
tended by a more numerous collection of people than has been seen
on the like occasion for many years.
The day was very pleasant, and the citizens of Hartford, throw
ing open thedoors of hospitality, and spreading well drefied tables
for the entertainment of their brethren, contributed to enliven the
enjoyment of this anniversary.
In the evening, a fplcndid ball was given ; attended by a nu
merous collcttion of ladies and gentlemen, both strangers and ci-.
tizens.
In the afternoon, an Oration was delivered by Zephaniah
Swift, Esq. before the Society instituted for the purpole of abo
-1 idling slavery, and relieving luch Africans as may need protec
tion and afliftance. On this occasion, a numerous concourf" o'
people attended, who were agreeably entertained ar.d inftruficd
by a difcriptive history of slavery, and the miseries it has entaiied
upon a part of the human race from the ear licit ages to this time.
60,52
54,40?
11 7,448
2,808
2,760
Total,
237,942
BOSTON, May 12.
The Hon. Levi Lincoln and HarrisonGrav Otis, Efqrs.
were y filter day admitted to be pra&ifing Attorhies in the Circuit
Court of the United States for this Diftrift.
The Hon Robert Morris,Efq. Col. Ogden. of Philadel
phia, and Col. Wadsworth, of Hartford, arrived in this town
on Tuesday last.
The diftrift of Maine is found by the ccnfus just taken to con
tain 96,500 inhabitants.
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
To the Memory of FRANCIS HOPKINSON, Esq.
S WEET Spring advance and deck with flow'rets gay,
The tomb where Hopkinson's remains aic laid,
Ye muses there your constant vigils pay,
And guard from ills the confecmed shade.
Ye city trees protett your patron's grave,
He once from ruin fav'd your leafy charms, j?
Then to his honor, bid your green tops wave,
And fold his urn in your embracing arms.
Around the sod may roses ever bloom,
And lilies pour their aromatic tide,
There oft the lyre th' elegiac task afTume,
And notes like his be ofFer'd at his fide.
Notes such as once he pour'd at Bremner's urn,
Lays such as those he offer'd at his shrine,
But ah, what muse can make a just return,
For lays so mournful, or a note so fine!
Loft to his country is that sprightly vein,
That attic wit that grae'd his claflic pen,
He now aflumes a more exalted strain,
And quits for angels the pursuits of men.
In those bright realms where patriot shades repofo,
He joins his Franklin, gone not long before;
There nature all her mystic wonders fliews,
There opens all her variegated flore.
From those high orbs he fees with rapture rife,
The Roof he labor'd when on earth t' crett,
And as its turrets reach their deftin'd flues,
His guardian genius (hall the frame protest.
Adieu, sweet bard, long may thy mem'ry live,
Thy country, grateful, long thy rr.Orits own,
This artless verse is all a friend can give,
'Tis for that country to ere&lhe (tone.
[TO the above Poem it v may not be amifsto add, for the infor
mation of those residing at a distance who may fee it, and be unac
quainted with the fubje£l of it, the late ingenious ]udge Hopki n
son, that at one time the many beautiful and verdant trees, orna
menting Philadelphia, were threatened with deftruttion by a le«
giflative ast, to prevent, as it was. (aid, danger from fire, and a ftag
nationofair: It was then the vivacious Mr. Hopki n con gave
new life to the trees, by exploding the ridiculous obje&ioas made 1
to them, in a speech of a Pillar in the House of Affembty to the
Legislature of the State, which was so luecefsful as to pufl a total
stop to a measure, that would have been deemed a profatation of
the rights of many of the Sylvan Deities under the Heathen My
thology, and which, had it succeeded, would have deprived Phi
ladelphia of many an agreeable and (hady walk, and of much of
its present ftatelinefs and beauty. Mr. Bremner a Musi
cian of great eminence, and a gentleman of much social merit, for
merly residing in Philadelphia, to whose memory Mr. Hdpkin
son composed a very pathetic and foft Dirge, to the tune of %< The
Lassos Peatie's Mill: Thishefet to music, and performed with
admirable taftc and force of exprefiion on the Harpfichorcl: Mr.
Hopki n son, now claims, alas \ but claims in vain v a tributfe from
the Muses, of equal elegance : It is not often that a genius like
Bremner's, finds an eulogist like Hopkinson ! The New
Roof, hislaft celebrated performance, was in defence of our pte
fent excellent frame of government, which he had vervjuftlv com
pared to a great Cupola or Dome, supported by the Staies, as by
so many Pillars, and yielding to all an equal and efficient protec
tion. It is only necessary to add, that Mr. Hopki nson was
the intimate friend, and one of the teflamentary executors of the
Great Frank li n —with whom he had often indulged those phi
iofophical researches and enquiries into the operations Of nature,
which now, it is probable, in a Superior State, are fully gratified
and elucidated, as a jufland proper retribution for their industry
and zeal in the pursuit of ufeful discoveries, while bounds a by the
veil of our present mortal infirmities and imperfections. 1
Philadelphia, May 21*
A French ship of 74 guns, with 1500 men on board, it is said
is arrived at Newport.
His Excellcncy Samuel Huntington, and the Hon. Oliver Wol
cot, are re-elettcd Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State
of Connecticut, for the ensuing year.
Chailcs Jarvis, Samuel Breck, Jonathan Mason, Jonathan Ma
son juri. William Euftis, John Coffin and William Tudot,
Esquires, are chosen Representatives for the town of Eofton the
ensuing year.
Arthur Fenner, Esq. is eledled Governor of the State of
Rhode Island, tor the ensuing year. Tnat state is found to
contain, by the late centus, 68,451 inhabitants.
The refpc£lful and affettionate attention to our beloved Chief
Magistrate, exhibited by the citizens of thefouthern States,evinces
how greatly gratified they are by tnevifit he has made them —and
forcibly linprelTas the mind with a sense of their cordial attachment
to the government over which he presides—and the polwy and ur
banity of the arduous tour he has undertaken. —The animated
and patriotic addrelTes, presented by the cities, towns and corpor
ations, {hall appear in course in the Gazette of the United State*.
A Constitution, framed by the People, is always ti - palladi
um of their liberty, and if at any period it becomes useless, or
worse than useless, or appears so to the People, the People,
have a right to modify it—to annihilate it, if they plea • :—Why
then talk of certain fixed principles in a Constitution —there is
but one fixed principle. A Constitution (houJd always be the
work of the People, and framed for the advantage of the go
verned ; every other principle is subordinate and may be changed
or modified when and as often as a majority of that People
think fit. Gen. Advertrfer.
The above gave rife to the following paragraphs
from a correspondent :—The idea of fixed prin
ciples in morals is almost obfolerein the opinion,
and agreeable to the practice of many moderns ;
but this only indicates the low ebb of virtue—the
tide will rife again—for truth, which forms the
basis of morals, is immutable.
Man has certain unalienable rights—fay tliefe
depend on the opinion of the majority, and you
arm despotism with the moll deflrudtive powers—
lor it has never yet been determined with uiiiver
fal, or even£v>/t;r<7/confent, what are prescriptive,
or imprefcriptive rights : The fccurity of the li
berties of tliefe States depends on a sacred regard
to that Constitution which defines their rights :
27
The eligibility of our situation arises from this
idea alone, that the people have agreed on certain
fixed principles \n government—but, if there are
no fixed principles, and we mud be perpetually
afloat, this world may do for those that love to filh
in troubled waters —but as to peace or permanen
cy in existence, or government—or security to
freedom, person or property, they are all entire
ly out of the question.
It would be ufefulto determine, with fomede
gree of precision, what is meant by the majority's
having a right to modify, or annihilate their con
stitution, whenever they think fit: Itfeemsto
convey this idea, That one million and one citi
zens, fhallpoflefs the power whenever they think
fit to exercise it, to annihilate the rights of oa«
million fellow-citizens.
America foughtfor herprefentgloriousConfti
tution—and those who conducted her Councils
andherarms, inthedaysofdoubtful expectation
are among the warmett friends to this Constitu
tion—" The die long spun doubtful," whether
anarchy and disgrace; or government and honor
were to crown our labors : Having secured the
latter, the idea, that we have agreed on no fixed
principles, must make us pause in anguiflj.
Extrafl of a letter from Boflon, May 10.
Capt. Davis, from London to Boston, with a
cargo of £.1 y,OOO sterling, is loft ; Capt. Scott is
"miffing, and the ship Mercury is totally loft.
Accounts from Pittsburgh to ift inft. inform'
of some recent depredations of the Indians ; the
guard at the block house at Yellow Creek was
attacked and two men killed—at the fame time
a guard of fix men on Crooked Creek was at
tacked and one man killed—These Indians appear
to be ranging parties, having no objed* but rob
bery and murder; they are few in number—and
although several scouts were sent out, they were
not fortunate enough to come up with any ofj
them.
Advices by the Roebuck Capt. Bliss, in 40 days'
from Bristol inform—
That great discontents and riots prevail in Con
stantinople, which are encreafedby the measures
taken to prevent them.
Monf. tie Broglio on the 2d March informed
the National Ailembly that from accounts of
what ispaffing on the Frontiers of Alsace it ap
pears that a serious counte- revolution is con
templated ; great preparations were in conse
quence ordered and made to counteract it. The
antient State prison of Vincennes being ordered
to be repaired, a great mob arose and began to
demolish the fame—the military were .called up
on and sixty-sour persons taken into cuftofty ;
disorders in the tinea" time of ?. '.rsrc a!sr:..l;.g
nature took place at the Thuilleries, which me
naced the life of the King—in consequence all
the gates of the Thuilleries are now shut and no
llranger on any account is fuffered to enter—all
was peace and tranquility again.
In a violent storm on the 31 ft Dec. a number/
of French and Spanish veflels were wrecked onft
the breakers of Tunis and 1250 African paffeni
gers, who were on tlieir return frrm a pilgrimJi
age to Mecca, with almost all the crews perithj'
ed. The Ruffians have passed tjie Danube m
the neighborhood of Brailow^—and defeated the
Turkish detachments, in every rencounter. Peace
between Ruflia and the Porte is talked of ; ilie
Empress cannot etfedt a loan which she expected
to negociate in Ainlterdam, Hamburgh and other
places. Afymptoiri of peace between Russia and
Great-Britain is that the merchants trading to
Pererfburgh have received orders to forward
tlieir veflels as usual. A bilj i» brought forward
■ in Parliament to appropriate 500,000!. of the un
clarmed dividends in the bank to the use of go
vernment. A great r^P c happened in Dublin on
the firft of March—the police attended at the an
nual masquerade in the new rooms in Rutland*
square—armed with fire arms as usual, to keeps
the peace—a dispute arising between them and(
the populace which assembled to gratify their
curioiity, a battle ensued which lasted five hours
and terminated in a vLftory on the part of th«
populace, numbers of the guard being killed, r
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
THE investigation of Truth, independent of names, party, or
prejudice, fliould be the gre t objefl of every Editor of a periodical
publication ; On this principle, the Editor of the Gazette of tho
United States, has never refufed to insert any animadversions or
observations on the sentiments conveyed through this medium to
the public, which have been offered. Speculations, pertinent and
decent, {ball always meet a ready infertiop ; but personalities,
cither refpefling himfelf, or others, he means caiefully to avoid—
the friendly wishes therefore of a correspondent, cannot be com
plied with, as his remarks would be conllrued into cgotifm. ■
When Truth'i bright beamsJhallclear the visual ray,
And fools and knaves in their ownJhapes dijplay,
The bubble built on deep deceit ana lies,
Shrinks Jrom the light, and like a vapor dies.
Ode to Henry. Elegy. Sonnet on RefleAion ; and other ta»
vors neceflarily postponed.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett).and other Certificates 16
Indents 9/1.
N. aod S. Carolina dtbtj, iij\ 15/.
FUNDED DEBT.
17/1. 17/2 pr./
9/1 9/2.
9/1 •
. 86 pr. cent.
46 co.
45 do
-80
45 d °'
Co.D
iO"" dyoung man, who has had a large Jhare
of experience in the direction of periodical publications,
ts defrous of procuring employ as Superintendant oj
a Printing-Office— Applications, it is requejled, may
be made to the Editor of the Gazette of tht United
States, who will reply to all requ'tfitt enquiries.
A CARD
Joseph "VVheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wifhesthey may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
of the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pigou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on so low terms as must make it an objett to cujlomcrs. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dilpatch,
and the lime of pa) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66.
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSSRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinclsofPublic Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negocialed ;
Merchandize nf all forts Bought and Sold on Commifion, and ah
other Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door tothe Cujlom-Houfe, State-Street, BOSTON.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following termj :
ON the specie amonnt of all Tales or purchases at auction, me
eighth per cent.
On«litto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, ene-feurth per cent.
For receiving-interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, medullar each transfer.
(JdT Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
plea fed to favo the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punßuality,JideUtv and difaatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY,
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY allure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day aopointed,
•viz. On Thursday the 13th of Olloter next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
inall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries coramenccd drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
*5,00© Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twelve
*nd an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
lO
3°
8o
9°
too
3 20
161
200
7585
8,388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000 Tickets.
TICKETS in the above Class may be bad of the several
Maihcers,ji/i( will pay the prizes ondemavd\ of thcTniAsuiim
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin s Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.T
DAVID COBB,
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Rojlon, April 14, 1791.
W - Philadelphia,
E, the Com mifli oners, appointed to receive subscriptions
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give public
notice, that the Books will be opened by us for that purpose at
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th d«y of July next.
Thomas Willing, Samuel Howell.,
Beale Bordley, Lambert Cadwalader,
David Rittenhouse,
All the Printers in the United States ate rcquejied. to publift the above.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeship to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
jolk, Virginia, in a good and convenient Houfi®, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com.
ro \ n r ds ;H rr. • • J OHN H - HALL.
N&rjolk, V irgima, April 21, 179*.. ep 7vv j
CLASS 11.
Dollars,
l. i, K 5.
10000 is ioooo
3000 arc 6000
2000 6000
6000
5000
6000
8000
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
1000
s°°
200
100
5®
4°
3°
20
3 O
*
» /
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, fold at the Office of SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street.
May 18, 17QI. (tf)
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
In various Languages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following :
Euripides, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
%1 Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufehius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Ceefar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
0:1avo & infra. Ariflophanes, Longinu.% Theo
phrallus, Epitletus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
Ifocrates, Pnlyxnus. Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, L'-'-can, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Bofthius, Poetse mworej Latmi, Callipjcdia, Stiada. L
Valla, &c.
(£3"" Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
Book-Store oj MeJJrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
aljojlitched up with the AMF.RICAXMUSEUM, for Ap'il.
CON T R A C T,
For erefling BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Passaicak
Rivers, between Powlas-Hook and Newark, in the State of
New-Jersey.
THE Commiflioners appointed by an a£t of the legislature of
the state of New-Jersey, to ere£l bridges over the Hackinfack
and Paffaiack rivers, having obtained the neccffary surveys, are
now ready to receive proposals for performing the fame ; and
offer the following conditions for theconfiderationof such as may
be inclined to contrast :
(96 tf)
The situation of the bridge across the Hackinfack river, will be
at one of the following stations, as shall be hereafter determined
most eligible.
lft. At the place where the present ferry is established, where
the width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern fliore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western shore, 8 11
Greatest depth, 25 4
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, where
the width of the river is 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 19 feet 10 inchcs.
Do. western shore 12
Greatest depth 35 8
The situation of the bridge across the PafTaiack river, will be at
one of the three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
ed moil eligible.
lft. At the place where the orefent feiry is established, where
the width of the river is 676 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 8 feet 6 inches,
Do. western shore g 6
Greatest depth j 7
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
breadth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the carteln shore 11 feet,
Do. western shore 4 s inches,
Greatest depth ig 4
3d. At a place (till more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where the width of the riv«r is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore 4 teet 5 inches,
Do. western shore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 n
The bridges are to be conftrutted on the principles of those erect
ed over Charles, Myftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free passage for vessels with fix
ed standing masts, not less than twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the river, with piles or blocks on
each fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
to aid vessels in parting through. Also, one lamp on each fide of
the draw, to be lighted every night from sunset to sunrise, during
the continuance of the lease.
The bridget ate to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as {hall render them perfectly fubftanlial and secure in
the opinion of the commiflioners, and are to be of a fufficient
height to protest them against the tides, which rife at ordinary
tides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 10 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Dollars
Allowance tor cairiagc way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 feet each, 8 feet,
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrades,
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept »n constant repair, and at
the expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
agreeably to the atl.
The following are the terms which the commiflioners are au
thorised to offer to contrattors :
A lease of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the prc
fent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an eflimate as could poflibly be obtained, the
actual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
amount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will confcquently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This mav fairly be
estimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the western fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must neceflarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiflioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads connected
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places shall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and the cpntratts for etetting them are oxccuted,
the roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as maybe inclined to contrast on the
above principles, will be pleased to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to William Maxwell,
Esq. in New-York, fpccifying the shortest period of lease for
which they will undertake to ere& the laid bridges, together with
proper security for performing the fame.
125000
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBLE,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
Nezoarh, State of New-Jersey, April 22, 1791.
f'tink Powers to receive the I mcrclt, ana Jor the fan iter of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlabliJJied in the Trea-
Jury Deiwrtmtvt: Also Blinks for abpaßs of Certificates to be fold by
he Editor.
28
To be dilpoled 01,
B O O I<
SAMUEL TUTHILL, T
K S,
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
PB* QUANTITY.
MAY 21.—Dollars at 2/6.
ANCHORS tor. lb. old Pnrter Am- '
Allum, Englilh, pr. cwt. 33, Pitch,' pr hb"" d ° T ' **»
D.uo, Roch pi. lb. ,oJ Pork, Burlmg'on *3' '5*
Arties, pot, per ton, 40/42/ I.ower county 7 "' M
-Pearl, s »/ 53/ Carol,73>
Arrack pr. gall. Pea., Albany 6 "
Brandy, common, 81 Pepper, p , lb
Cogmac 9 , Pimento ' ss W
Braziletto, pr. ton. 16/ Rice pr C w. "i*
Bricks pr. M 3V R„f m • 12 6
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 161 1616 Raisins, best m l' '
Dltl °. 35* D"to pr. jar S
Ditto, small water 40J 45 f Ditto p, box 3■'
■°J e firi"
—r, 37' j W.nriwinJ /'
g f Oak pr.M feet, 4 /ioj 4 /ißx -{ Barbadocs 4 ' 4 5 '
§ J " erc! ;- P" ,e 5' ! Country, JJ E 3 '» 4'
do. 3/ l™.
0 N.Eng. s /ioj SafTa f ril ,
"-Cedar 5/ Saltpetre, pr . cwt *»' *>'
Ihe above are the Shallop prices ; Sulphur, flour * * '
Jor the Yard prices add M. Shot 4 0i 4t.*
Bnmftone in rolls pr. cwt. 2 ls j (German p r cw .
"UoL pr - bbK — s 651
< Boston y American pr t on W t
ca (Country 4ji « (Crowley's or ful 4 o 45^
Butter pr. lb. i 4 d Snake root pr lb' ,rj M
—in keg. 9 d Soap, C ommon ' ' V«
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2j2j6d Brown 5
Chocolate pr. lb. i 2 </ Castile 6i
Coal pr. buthel 11 6d Starch ,o^i
Coffee pr. lb. is id Snuff ~RJ. j
Cinnamon ißi acj Spermaceti, refined
Cassia 5' Sail Cloth, Englilh') 3 '
Cheese, English u5 d pr. yard, ' \ tite 2nd
—Country 6d 1 y Bolton. K„ I
y fSper. pr.lb. 3, 3 d 3 ,6 i n'.
a J u"i ™, 3 i Ru(r ' a pr. P m
a Myrtle Wax 1 2 d fLump, pr lb
< j Mould tallow 10Y tf Loaf, single refined uc£
U IDipped 9ld < Ditto, double do. „,$J
,ton »»> C | Hava nnah, white £
Cmrants 1.62, « Ditto, brown, gH
£ ,ov " . AMufco.ada.pr.cwt.6oZ
Copperas pr.cwt. . 4 j Spmts Turpentine pr. gall 7,
Cordage 6oi 6w6</ R t Allum pr. bush ' £
coa j 9( j
Duck, RuHia, pr. piece Boj < jCadiz
Ravens W (iJfbon
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 39/ Ship build. W.O.framet) QOl
Common, 3 6j p. ton, f *
Bur middlings,bed 33 i Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/ct
Middlings 26/ Shingles, (hort, p. M. 17(2 0r
-—Ship-ftuffpr. cwt. 9 j6</ in long dressed qcj was
? h * P r ' lb - 9 d Scantling, heart, 90J
fuiiic pr. ton, 135J 15OJ San
Feathers pr. lb. $s
Flaxfeed pr. bu(h. 4s tod
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ tos 8/
Ginger, white race 52 s6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, 2* 2 d
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, ) 3 0J
Ditto, fine glazed 36d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 33/
Wheat pr. bush 7/ yd
Ry e 4 s 6d
_ Oats is Sd 2f 6d
< Indian corn 2s\od
f Barley 4,9,/
Best shelled pr. lb. 3^
Buckwheat 2 s6
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 22j 6d
Hides, raw pr. lb. yd 10d
Hops
Indigo, French, ioj
Carolina 3s 7s
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 50s
[ Callings 28j
I Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
2 ■( P'S 10/
5 I Sheet 651
Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 30/ 40/
Lard, hogs yd lod
Lead in pigs 40J 42J 6d
in bars 5^
Lead, white 75J Boj
red 5 o s
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1s 2d
Lignum vir<e pr. ton 42s 45s
Logwood 7/ 5 s 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. lys
Rye e s s
Mackarel,beft 631
Common 30s 58J 6d
Mace pr. lb. 70s
Mustard ps qd
Madder, best 1 1 8d
Molasses pr.gall,
Marble, wrought, pr. foor, 14;
Mast spars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7ss
Nails, iodi?.d&. 2od—
' Linseed, pr. gall.
Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 3 s 7d
j Whaie u 10d 2s
r Olive 6s 6d
1 Ditto pr. cafe 28J 30/
, Best sweet in ) Z, r
I fla{ks,pr.box,s 5^60,
t—baflcets 12 bottles 28*
Oak timber pr. ton 40J
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2.r
London,pr.doz.i2j6i 15J
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Racc-Street, between Second and Third-Streets*
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds-os SECURITIES of the United States, #roi»ny
particular State.
, P P . s°' si<
' r I ipc pr. J 200 picccj 12/
' W!W- O. hogfhcad 7/ c,
><JR.O. do.
' 2 I Lt °gang;
s uo Barrel
d L Heading
Otter, best pr„piece 30/
J Minks uddtf
Fox, grey u
r rr\ red 4' &4
Martins 3;
' " Fifliers 5 ,6 dji
(Si Bears I2s6dvtjs
Racoons 2s 4/
Musk-rats gd üßi
! Beaver, pr. lb. cs ios
( l_Deei, in hair is6d9ssd
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 7/6
* Carolina, 32 gall. 9/ yd
. Turpentine 12JW151
. j' James R. new bell 28;
/ '-S j inferior 2 3 s
Tun
o old 37 S
j Rappahannock 2256 d
O J Colo. Maryland 40160/
£>ark 20s
< Long-leaf 2os
Eaftern-fhorc 153 16$
' P ! Carolina, new 22s 6d
L old 22s 6d 25s
4/ 4 s 6i
316 d p
( Hyson pr. lb
co | Hyson skin
Souchong,
3 J 3 J 9' l
2 j id
Sid
I Congo,
(_ Bohea,
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box, 100s
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 316^4/
Vermillion, i2f
Varnifli, 2s 6d
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon 37/
Teneriffe 20/IOJ 30/
w Fayal pr. gall. 3*
£ J Port pr. pipe 36/43/
IT Ditto pr, gall. p
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret 30s 45/
Sherry pr. gall. 6j yd 9 f
$f6s6d
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2J
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2ssd
(hort, pr. lb.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days,
Ditto 60 days 7 2 i
Ditto 30 aays 73
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2/ ltd 3*
30 days 3-f
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 6s 8J
30 days 6i 84
4/10/
8/ioj