PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SICOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 31, of Vol. lII.]
PHILADELPHIA, AUGUST 13,
[ The very interejling Ciife which V'Ji determined on the 3d injlavt, in th
Supreme Court of the Urntect States, held in this city, having engager
the public attention, we presume it agreeable to our readers U
Jee an accurate Jl at em ent oj the proceedings in that cafe, which we are
authorised to fay is authentic.J
SUPREME COURT OF the UNITED STATES
Tuesday. Augutl 2, 179 1 "
West, Ptif. in error, HI 7ILLIAM BRADFORD, Esq. of
t i. > VV council lor the plaintiff in error,
Barnes,*? fl/wj Dejt. ) prefentcd to theCouri a paper purporting
to be a Writ of Eiror, from thfc Citcuit Court of Rhode-Island.
issued in the name of tl e President of the United Stales, and tellcd
by the Chief Justice of this Couit, dire&ed to the Judges of the
Circuit Court of Rhodc-Ifland, and signed by the clerk of the
lame : it was accompanied with a copy of the proceedings had iu
the laid Circuit Court, and with an alignment of general errors.
On motion of Mr. Bradford, ordered by the Couit, that the
■writ, with the errors affigm d, be read by the clerk. Oil this Mr.
Bradford moved the Court that the defendants in t rior be dire&-
ed to rejoin.
David L. Barnes, Esq. of Massachusetts, on? of the defendants
in error, and a counfe'llor of the Court, role and dated to the Court
that the proceedings in the above cause could not be properly be
fore the Court : that the Writ presented as <> Writ of Error, could
not in law be regarded as a good Writ of Error, being deficietH
in those particulars which gve a Wiit of effect that it
was not properly a Writ from the Supreme Court of the United
States, as it was not signed by the cle:k, nor fealcd with the seal
of the fame ; but was more properly a Writ from the Circuit Cqui t
Rhode-Island, directed to it felt, although issued in the name of
the President of the United States, and tested by the Chief Justice
of this Court, still that all the process of the Court of the United
States was in the fame style—and that to possess these
cannot make a writ good unless accompanied by the ngnature ol
the clerk and the seal of this Court—that he conceived there was
an absurdity in a Court ifluing a writ ducfted to iifelf, to cause its
own proceedings to be removed to a higher Court for rcvifion ; he
therefore prayed the opinion of the Court, whether he should re
join to the errors afligned, or not; considering the proceedings as
by no means regularly before the Court.
Mr. Bradford, in reply, after admitting that the Court could not
sustain the motion unless the proceedings wrre regularly before
them, observed, that a Writ of Error, by the principles of the com
mon law, and of the tft of Congress, was a Writ of Right, and
that it issued of course upon the application of the party. That
it was merely the form by which a suitor expressed his desire to
avail him of the benefit of the appellate jurifaiftion provided for
in the constitution, and to which he was entitled. That in all
cases of appeal, the ast of the party, without any writ whatsoever,
was fufficient to brftig the caofe before the superior tribunal; and j
though in cases of error a writ was necefliry, yet the laws of the
United States had neither prefenbed the form, directed by whom
it was to be authenticated, nor declared from what Couit it was
toiffue. All the fubfar.tial provisions of the ad had been com
plied with. The party had fucd it out—had given fecuritv to pro
fecure it toeffeft; and the proper Judge had thereupon ilfued the
citation to the defendants in errot, which was tantamount to a re
gular allocatur. The writ was in the name of the President of
the United States, was tested in the name of the Chief Justice;
and whether it was signed by the Clerk of the Supreme or of the
Circuit Court, was only matter of form, and wholly immaterial,
wh re that form was not pofitivtly piefcribed. The plaintiff hud
availed himfclf of such a form as the neceflity of his cafe fuggeil
ed, and he ought not to be injured by it unless he was clearly
wrong.
He said that in turning this question in his mind, he found him
fclf depiived of his ufuai guides. There was no express Legifla
tivc dire&iow, no Judicial decision, nor even any Rules oi the
Courts eftabbfred, from which he could argue. But he appre
hended the meaning of Congrtfs might be inferred fiom other
provisions in the ast ; and it was fair to argue al> inconveniently
wheie the position contended for did not contravene the express
intention of. the Legifhture.
He remarked that a Writ of Error was a fuperfedreas to an Exe
cution, and that, if it were not so, a party might be ruined by an
erroneous judgment before It could be rcverkd. But the ast, io
§ 14, had directed that it should be a fuperfcdcas and flay Execu
tion onlv when a copy of the Writ of Error is lodged for the ad
vert party in the Clerks office, where the record remains,
" within ter, days (Sundays exclusive) after the rendering the judgment
complained of." He said that the benefit of a fuperfedeas was an
important one, and wss intended for all the citizens of the Union ;
"but on the conftruftion of the defendants in error, it could be en
joyed by those only who relided near the feat of the National Go
vernment. It would be mockery to tell a suitor in Georgia or
Kentucky, that he should enjoy this benefit, " provided he would go
to Philadelphia and return in ten days." In those DiftricU the
powers of magic would be necefTary to obtain the benefits of the
ast ; and unless the days of chivalry were to return, when a man
could mount on the back of a Griffin and post through the air, the
extreme parts of the Union could never enjoy them. The Lcgif
lature therefore must have intended, that the writ should issue in
such manner as to ferure the party the benefit of a supers deas, and
consequently in the di drift where the judgment was rendered.
A contrary conftruftion imputed folly 01 partiality 10 the act.
That tb«* citation which accompanied the W T rit of Error, and
formed it as it were, a part of its constitution, was directed to be
issued by a Judge of the Circuit Court : and ic was rcafonable to
infer th.rt a Writ'of Error mighi be authenticated under the seal
of the fame Couit.
That there was nothing in the nature of a Writ of Error which
required it to be ifiued by the Court to which it was to be re
turned • arid thatthe v.'oid return-used in the ast, did not in legal
underftandmg. import a fen d*ng back, or thai a from the
Court into which the proceedings arc to be tranfmittcd. That in
England it iflucd out of Chancery, whether it was to be returned
into the King's Bench, Exchequer Chamber, or Parliament. That
its true definition was, " A Commission to a Superior Court to
examine the judgment of a Subordinate Court of record and
that the will of the p?rty cxprefled in fiich a writ .as the prcfent,
was a fufficient Covimiflion, in a cafe where the light of appeal
was clcar, and no particujaf form ellabiifhed.
Here Mr. Bradford wtnftß:cd by the Court how on thefc prin
ciples, they were to proceed in cafe a Circuit Court should retufe
to obey the writ ? He answered, that a rule to return the writ and
proceedings, might be obtained in th : s Couit, and obedience to
it enforced in the fame manner as if upon an appeal, the inferior
Court ftiould rcfafe to fend up 4hc decree that was complained of.
Saturday, August 15, 1 791.
TP?-
A< to the rf turn which had been r.hjrfted to, he said it was fuf
fic. ntly rcgulai. It was.under the seal of the Court and hgnature
->t i heir CI rk, and must b<- conlidered as the return of the Court.
—There was no need of the signature of the Judges; and confli
cted as the Circuit Court was, it could not be expefled. One ol
its judges was indeed a certain person and reiident'n ihe diftrift ;
but where fliould the Clerk look for thole Judges of the Supreme
Court who happened to be oil that Circuit they might be veiy
liftant from the diftridt when the return was required. But he
would not dwell on that point, and concluded by repeating his
mrti n that the defendant mightiejoin.
Mr.Barnes laid, he had nothing to adci to wnst he had before of
fercd to the Court, but lubniiltid the matter to their determina
tion,
riic Co U !t then informed the parties, that they would consider
e queition —and adjourned unt 1 the next day at ten o'clock.
Court being opened, the Chief Justice meruioned that the Court
were about to deliver their opinion on the cjutftvon fubmiited to
them yesterday.
Judge IREDELL.
THERE arc two quellions before the Court,
tit Whether the tranfeript of the record be returned here, ir
GOLifequence ol a Writ of Ir Io tissued agreeable to law ?
2d. I! it be so, whether the return of it be regular ?
As to the ft.ft quedion, it is obje&ed that the WfH can only is
sue out of the Supreme Court, witch isto.correft the error com
plained of, if there be any : Whereas the present Writ has ifTued
out of the Couit which is alledged to have committed the Error.
1 am of opinion, that the objt ftion is a good one, and iHa 11 give
mvrcafons as clearly as I am able.
The A£i of Congress, which contains all that conccrns Writs
of Error, is silent on this point,—l hough it gives other di.c£lions,
it does not fay out of what Court the Writ is to. ilTue.
Wc are therefore under the necefiity of determining either by
former principles ot law (if such apply) or by analogy and Ycajon.
As to the former, so far as precedent is concerned, we have no
certain guide. The practice in England is, for this Writ to issue
out of the Chancery, the general depository of all original Writs :
No luch practice in America has obtained generally. In New-
York indeed, I believe, Writs do issue out of the Chancery, by an
express Ast of Affemhly. There may possibly be one or (woo
ther inttanccs, though Ido not know that there are. But it is cer
tain the general prattice in America has been othei wile.
We muff confcquently decide in this cafe, by the rcafon of the
thing, and having reference as nearly as we can to general princi
pies of law.
The 14 Seaion of the Judicial A3 cnafts, " That all the be
" fore m< ntioned Courts of the United States, fball have power
" to issue Writs of Scire facias, Habeas Corpus, and all other Writs
11 not specially provided Jor by Statute which may be necessary for
" the exert:ite ot their refpeftive jurifdiftions, and agreeable to
" the principles and usages of law."
There are only three ways in which the Writ inqueflion can issue.
id. Out of the Supreme Court.
2d. Out of the Circuit Court.
3d. Or out ot either, optionally.
The last method would crcate such confufion and irregularly,
it is presumed nobody would contend for it. Nothing could ap
peal more ridiculous than a Record in which upon one parje should
he contained proceedings removed by a Writ of Error, issued outof
one Court, and, upon the next, proceedingsexa&ly firailai, though
between different parties, removed by a Wi it ot Error issued out of
another Couit.
That it (hou!d iffueoutof the Supreme Court, is natural and j
obvious, becaul'e it is their duty to administer the remedy wanted, j
Inconveniences only could have fuggellcd the reversed mode, of
applying for a remedy to the very Court which had occahoned
the grievance.
A Writ trom a Court to itfelf seems absurd. Could any thing
be more monstrous than that a Court, upon being informed that
a party wanted a Writ of Error, should direst their clerk to make
out a Writ directed to themselves ? If a thin-; is right to be done,
and the fame Court is to do it, it would fecm proper that it should
be done on motion. But furtly the law would be very unwise,
in trusting the only remedy for Error with a Court that had com
mitted the Error. It does not a& so weakl) as to tuppofe that
even Courts of Juflice will always do whatthey ought to do. And
though afterwards this Court might compel them to do what was
right, yet the law will not fuffcr an incongruous proceeding in
the fiift instance, for the fake of a complete remedy in the ferond.
But ev< n in this inflance, it might not be complete, for the ten
days after judgment, within which a copy of the W T rit muff be
lodged in the Office, or Execution cannot be stayed, would al
most in every cafe elapse beforethe final u mcdycouU be obtained.
This indeed is the great obje&ion, and the only plausible one,
to. the Writ llTuing out of the Supreme Court. And it has been
urged, and pressed with much lorce and ingenuity by the Coun
! fel for the Plaintiff iit Error, that the right of obtaining a Writ of
Error, might, upon this conftiu&ion be rendered nugatory in al
most every instance.
This inconvenience does indeed ex-ft. Il is a very weighty
one, and I heartily wish, it was in the power of the Court, by a
conftiuttion that could be juflified, to remove it : bu'. I think it
>a not.
An argument grounded on inconveniences is,to be sure, in ma
ny instances, adnv.flible, and in some even neccffarv. But I ap
prehend that it is to be used with great caution, left a Court, un
der color of a conftru6lion of an a£t of the Lcgiflature, should, in
fact, encroach on the legislative authority, a thing of the utmoA
moment ro be avoided.
The argumentum ab inconvenient;, I think, applie's in no other in
stance but this—where two conllru&ions stand, as it were, in equi
libria* or nearly so ; in such a cafe undoubtedly a Court would
fuffer the scale to preponderate on that fide where the inconveni
ences, upon tl\p whole were feweft—becaufe by such means it is
mod probable they would retain the true sense of the i-egiflature.
TWy are-compelled to make a choice; and the preference is not
only juft'ifiable, but in some measure unavoidable.
But certainly there is no room for the application of that orin
ciple to the present cafe, where the two conltru&ions oppofeJ to
each other can bear no manner of comparison.
It has been argued, that it could*notbe prefumcd the Legisla
ture intended to make tf provision almost entirely nugatory* and
that therefore a conftiuftion which supposes such an intention
niuft be erroneous.
This is grounded upon a supposition, that when the Leg-.flaturc
palled the law m question, they knew how the principles of law
on this fubjeft stood before, and were of course awaie of all the
conTequenccs.
121
Wednesday, Au/fuft 3H
[Whole No. 259.]
In confiruing Legislative a£U, a method of arguing like this
has fomctimes been adopted, arid poifiblv in lome instances,
where the previous law was probably generally known, it may
be very proper. But surely an argument grounded on a suppo
sition that notoriously is not true, cannot be a good one. No
Legilldture that exists on earth doth in ta£t poflels extensive and
critical legal knowledge. It would be very extraoi d inajy if any
did. It is not neceflary that every Member fhouid be a Lawyer.
It is not neccUary that an,y fliould, The proportion of Members
who are Lawyers, to those who are not such is in general Imall.
They in no instance, I presume, form a majority. It is there
fore not only probable, but natural and scarcely avoidable, that
a Legislature in framing a new law, on an intricate legal fulje£t,
are not aware of all the conlequences resulting from it. Lven
the gieateft Lawyers, in the complex bufmefs of Legislation, may
not immediately fee all the confequencesincidcntto a new {yftcm
introduced. Accordingly, it has been oltcn remarked, that
scarcely any alteration of the common law, however minute, has
at any time been made, but it required one or more, frequently
many, subsequent amendments. The difficulty mn'ft of course
be much increaied, when an entire new lyftem was to be created,
and a vast variety of obje&s was to be embraced at once. But
the argument as to intention, is not complete, without iuopofmg,
not merely that the Legislature dfd not intend that the "Writ of
Error fhouid ilTue out of the Supreme Court liable to the dis
advantages mentioned, but that it did intend it fhouid itfjs out
of the Circuit Court, not withstanding the obje&ions that io ob
vionfly lie tb that method. And this, 1 think, no man will iup
pofe.
It has been further contended, that all that was abfolutcly es
sential in refpett to obtaining a Writ of Error was that the party
should fignify his wish to obtain it: and that the manner of
granting it was merely form, which should not be rigorously in
lifted upon, at theexpenceof real justice.
But this surely is much too loose ; the common law is simple
and energetic ; it delights in certainty ; its methods of proceeding
are all accurate, and not depending on irregularity or caprice.
There is scarcely any instance in which the forms it requires are
not a proper guard for substantial justice ; and therefore, when it
chalks out a method of redress, it infiftsthat that method fh&ii
be ftri&ly purfucd, in order that all its proceedings may be uni
form and perspicuous, and serve as a plain precedent to future
times.
It has been also urged, that by the cooftruttion given by the
council for the defendant in Error, the plaintiff would be de
feated of a remt dy to which he was entitled by the Constitution
and Laws of the United States.
The part of the Constitution affecting the fubjeft (art. 3, part of
feft. 2) runs thus :
" In all cases affe&ing other public ministers and
" consuls, and thofa in which a state {hall be a partv, th Supreme
" Court shall haveonginal jurifdiftion : in all the other cases be
" fore mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurifdidinn
both as to /aw ar.d fad. with such exceptions and under fuck reguld
" tions as the Congrejs [hall make"
Tlie whole fubje&, therefore, is refened to Congress ; and
though they undoubtedly did intend to g' v e a compleat remedy,
yet, if it appears, upon a neccfTary conftruftion of their ast, that
tney have not in fact done so, it is not in the power of this Cuurt
to supply the defect.
There is only one instance which I have been able to find (if
that be one) wherein a Writ has ever iffuvd out cf a Court direfcU
ed to itfsif : but there the circumstances arc peculiar; and will
not apply to the present cafe.
The instance I allude to, is in a cafe where a judgment isg ven
in the petty bag in the chancery in England (v hose proceedings
are in such caf< s at common law) upon which uis fa:d a writ ot
Error lies returnable into the K hg's Beach ; the jurildiftioni n this
cafe is fotnething doubtful ; Coke and Blackjlone both assert it :
(4 Inf. 80. 3 Blackft. Com. 49) Bui Sir Francis Norths who was
I »rd keeper in the time of Charles II denied it ; lor upon his
being applied to for liberty to lake out such a writ, he refuf.d his
j confenr, and laid he would enjoin all such Writs of Error. (1 Veru. 131).
In what manner it ifTu s I have not been able to discover ; it is
fai_d none have issued since the time of Queen Elizabeth (3 Bjackft.
Com. 49.) But Writs of this nature, though they llfac < ur of the
Chancery, do not issue by order from the chancellor or keeper,
n r do I conceive he hns authority to Hop them in casts where
they are due of common right. There are various officers for va
rious purposes in the Cuui tof Chancery It is the particular du
ty of some of thofc officers to issue Writs, and I apprehend they
are bound to issue them at their peril. It isevident the content ot
the lord keeper in the above instance was not nrcefiary, lor tho
out of defertnee he was applied to for his consent, he did not
nerely refufe to give it, but said he uouldevjoin such a 11 rit of Ei
ror. That could not have been the cafe, ij his consent had been pre-•
vioufly nccejjary to obtain it.
But the clerk of a Chcuit Court has certainly no independent
authority to issue a Writ ; but can issue such only as the Law ex
pressly permits, or the Cour s order him.
I am exiremcly furry to be under the of voting for a
decision which may be attended with tl/e great inconveniences
po.ntcd out : but in my opinion, the Legislature only can reme
dy them— It is of infinite moment that Courts of Justice should
keep with M) their proper bounds and conflrue, not amend, a£ts of
Legislation. Ii England, where accurate ideas of law have long
obtained (at least in general) inconveniences have frequently been
experienced upon trial which weie not forcfeen. The Courts of
Justice in ihai country,formerly countenanced Fictions to get clear
of them ; and many such are now tolerated, in confeqaence of a
very long acqu efcence. But according to the improved idcasof
constitutional liberty at the present day, no court would dare to
introduce, or countenance new ones ; they would leave the re-,
dress to the proper authority, the Legislature. I trust in Ame
rica this plain and honest path will constantly be pursued. lu
no particular arethe liberties of the people more deeply intcr< fled
My opinion being, for the reasons I have given, that these pro
ceedingv are not brought before the Coui t by a legal Writ ol Er
ror ; it is unntceflaiy, and would therefore he improper, that I
should give any opinion upon thd 'second question, the dilcufiion
of which was only material if the firft bad been determined in the
affirmative.
[The\bove is the substance of Iredell's argument. As
he spoke chiefly from (hort notes, it cannot be expelled that the
very words (houl i be retained, though it is apprehended they
are nearly the fame, with the addition only of one or two obfej
vDti >ns, which were inadvertently omitted in the delivery, but
which do not materially change the general ground of the ar
gument.]
(The remainder in our next.)
*TOR THE G.IZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
[The following was sent to the press prio r to the ac
counts which have been receive J of the recent fall
of Smpt—but it is judged expedient to pursue the
publication, as it may furni/h better data jor ju
ture calculation than have hitherto governed.^
THE extraordinary and still increasing rife of
public {tock, including that of the bank of
the United States, is such as can Hot fail to im
press on lober minds an apprehension for the
consequences. There is room to fear that it will
be so wrought up, as to prove a bubble, ruinous
to tlie fortunes of many individuals, and, (or a
time, hurtful to public credit. Tocheck, if pos
sible, this rage, and indicate the point at which
the value of the different kinds of public ftovk is
likely to become ftaiionary, is an attempt, re
commended both by teivdernefs to individuals
and regard to public good. It is ti be feared in
deed that already the matter has proceeded so
far, that the propagation of morejult ideas, may
tend to the injury of not a few ; but it is better
to<iiazard this consequence, than to forbear a
difculiion which may contribute to prevent the
further progress of a spirit which may be pro
ductive of general calamity.
Nothing can be more erroneous than the foun
dation upon which are built the hopes of those
who coniider the present prices of llock, as itill
lliort of what they will attain at a period not far
dillant, and who make vast speculations on that
idea. It is common to hear it said that British
four per cents are above par—Why then ftiould
not American fix per cents be worth thirty fliil
lings in the pound ?
They cannot be To, for the most obvious rea
sons.—The market rate of interest of money in
England is four per cent —in the United States
it is not less than fix, excluding the operation of
those causes, which at present raise it beyoncl
that point. A citizen of Great-Britain will not
purchase flocks in this country which yield liini
only four per cent, when he can purchase those
of his own at the fame rate. Distance will be an
objection to it—He cannot turn his property here
as quickly as if it were in his own country, ei
ther to apply it to any beneficial undertaking, or
to secure himfelf, on the profpetft of any disas
trous event in public affair 9— Ke cannot receive
the dividends as expeditioufly in one cafe as in
the other —He inufl pay a co;mniflion to agents,
who receive and remit, and is fubjeft tolois from
the slate of exchange. All these differences can
not bin be efliinated as equivalenr to I per cent.
Hence American 6 percents. considered as a per
petuity, could not be worth more than 24/. in
the pound. Considered as a fund redeemable in
certain proportions, they are worth <*t>nliderably
lels.
Turn to Holland—The tifual rate of imereft
given there by foreign powers, and hitherto by
the United States, computing the charges, is not
]ess than 5! per cent. Snppofe, as is not impro
bable, the United States fliould be able to borrow
there in time to come at 4! per cent, including
charges—suppose even four, which is remote and
improbable—as allowance must be made for the
fame circumstances which have been mentioned
in refpeft to England, the conclnfion must be the
fame in relation to Dutch as to Englifli piitchaf
ers. It is not probable that the Dutch capitalist
will be disposed to speculate in the funds here,
when they yield less than 5 per cent.
It ought to be remembered that the United
States have still considerable loans to make in
Holland to pay the arrears to France ; and that
they vv:ll continue to have from year to year, for
several years to come, loans to make to r eim bin fe
the inllallmenr.s of the foreign debt, which will
be yearly falling due. This employment for
Dutch capi r al in new loans to the government of
the United States, will necefl'arily impede Specu
lations in the exilting debt, when they no lon
ger affurd a considerable profit.
Let it also be recollected, that both Englifia and
Dutch capitaliils are di(covering, that lands, ca
nals, and a variety of other objects, nfford scope
for Speculation more profitable shan the funds—
and that when 110 longer allured by considerable
profit, they will divert their Speculations from
the latter to the former. This has in faiTt al
ready begun.
I hat foreign {peculations in our funds have
of late abated, may be inferred from the present
fcarciry of bills on Europe, and the sudden life
in the rate of exchange.
How then are ihefe high prices which some
people dream of to be fupuorted ? Is our own ca
pital equal to it ?—When the funds (hall no longer
yield even five per cent, and foreign purchases
are at an end, who will be found to deal in the
funds, while iinmenle trads of waste land, as
well as commerce and .manufactures, invite to a
far more profitable employment of money ?
of so many being now embarked, is
Prices from foreign
purvljPcs j but when it is discovered that this
expectation lias been too sanguine, it may be
counted upon that a large part of the domestic
capital now engaged in the game will be with
drawn.
With regard to bank flock, it is more difljcult
to reason with precilion. The imagination has
here too much scope. Dividends from twelve to
fifteen per cent, are talked of; but it is not/
difficult to shew that these are impoffiblc; and
on cool examination it will appearthateven eight
per cenr. which seems to he the loweit supposi
tion, is a point not too much to be calculated
upon.
Stating j of the whole capital as drawing an
intercft from the government of 6 percent. — this
will only be 45 upon the entire capital. Suppose
the rate of dif'rount to be 5 per cenr. as it is the
general opinion it ought to be; and suppose em
ployment found for the whole capital, inasmuch
as the bailk cannot lend beyond its capital, it
cannot make more by its discounts and loans than
y per cent. Hence the whole income of the in
llitution, on the molt favorable supposition, can
never exceed 9- per cent, from which is to be
deducted the expence of management.
The current calculations ori this fubjetf include
the deposits as a source of additional profit; but
they will be no otherwise so than as they will
enable the bank to operate beyond its specie ca
pital. They cannot enable it to have a greater
Aim at imereft at any one time than 10,000,000
dollars; for though the debts of the bank may
exceed its capital, to the extent of the drpofits,
yet as the credits given for the depufits will car
ry no intered*, the sum of 10,000,000 will always
remain thf* utmost limit of the loans and discounts
of the bank, and will alone produce interelh
But the above producft of 9J per cent, includ
ing charges of management, ought not to be
counted upon. It ought to be remembered, that
it is in the difcretiou of the Directors to have
branches or not ; and the propriety of having
them, is a queltion at least of delicacy. If there
are none, it is far from certain that employment
will be found for the entire capital of the bank,
in the sense in which it is expeited. I fay in
the sense in which it is expected—for that part,
which consists of stock, is, by its very conltitu
tion, in employment—but the calculation is upon
a double employment.
It ought also to be kept in view, that a part of
the (lock drawing interelt from the public, will
be redeemable at pleasure—and that the residue
is redeemable in certain proportions. What
ever part from time to time may be paid ofF, can
not be replaced in loans to the government, at
-he fame rate of intereft—lince it is evident in
every view,'that the government will not be dif
pnfed to give more than J percent. These con
siderations go in diminution of the expected pro
fits of the bank.
Upon the whole, if bank stock fiiall yield a
nett profit of 7J per cent, ic ought to fatisfy eve
ry reasonable expectation. It is to be hoped that
while the directors are guided by a liberal tem
per, they will nor be disposed to run ralhly into
forced and critical operations.
It were not an extravagant supposition that the
stock of the bank o1 the United States may fettle
down at fifty per cent, above par, and fix per
cents at about 10 per cent, above par, ancj other
stock in the like proportion. — But this is already
ihort of the standard which governs the present
corn fe of speculations, and far short of that to
which they feeni to be prog; efSng. let prudent
men beware !
It ought not to be overlooked that our govern
ment is yet in its infancy, and that though from
its ftructute, it merits all poflible confidence,
there may nevertheless be accidents which for
a time would give a shock to public opinion very
pernicious to those who outrun the limit of pru
dence.
A general Indian war, of which it must be
confeiled, there is no present appearance, but
which tliTe are canfes enough to produce ; a war
with any foreign power, which though not like
ly, is in the ordinary conrfe of human events ; a
strong appearance of oppofirion in any quarter
to any of the laws of revenue ; the death of the
President, and a variety of other cafnalties, the
poflibility-of which otight not to be 1 oft fight of.
would very sensibly affect the state of the funds
in this country — whet e long habit and experience
have not yet served to confirm the ltamina of
public confidence.
These remarks are designed as cautions against
theexcefsofa spirit which has hitherto done
good, but which carried to a certain extreme
will do much harm. It is probable however they
will be little attended to. For tl)e history of the
public funds in every country affords examples
of the fame malady which appear to have seized
many among us, and for which the only cure has
been found to be—the difcipl'tne of the fufferings
which have attended it.
Advice, it solid, may however prevent the
disease becoming altogether epidemic.
A real Frievd to Public Credit.
122
PETERSBURG, May 6 =
HHHIS day our court has publidied a particulJ
X . of expedition of L i e '/
nam General Prince Galhtzin againltthe k'j "
Turks that was polled in the fort of Maczin {
the fortifications of Ibrailow. His one '
which met with such complete success were
ned on from the 4 th to the t2th of Apiil j
colt the enemy 4 doo men and 25 pieces of cannon
an immenie quatiSty of amuniiion, and fcveril
vefl'els, either funk or deltroyed. The en( j f
the expedition having been attained, and tl e
body of troops commanded by Prince Gallitzi
too finall to stand without support beyond the
Danube, was employed during the night of t | )e
I2th of April, in levelling the fortifications and
then retired without accident to Galacz. ' ,
WARSAW, May 18
The king has named the ministers who are t|
compote his council, all agreeably to the re-»ul a
tions ertablifhed by the new conltitntion. 3
In the fittings of the Diet of the 1 jth and 16th
of this month, the examination of the project
presented by the committee of the Constitution
for the organization of future Diets,was finilhed.
This plan though very voluminous, and com
peted of 24 articles, was adopted unaniinouflv
and without a woi\d of debate. Every thing pro
mises that the conltitution will be compleared in
the month July next, and thenthe states may be
difiniil'ed.
We every day receive from all parts of the
kingdom, tlie oaths by which citizens, tribunals,
civil and military officers of the Palatinats aild
the different bodies of croups bear testimony of
their acqoiefcenee in the new order of things.
In the fiiting of the 17th, a very interelling
scene rook place on the ledture of a note which
the Compre de Goltz delivered relative to the
new conftiiution. In it the King of PrufTia re
news the assurances of his friendship for the King
and the Republic. After the lecture of this note
M. Kurkololki spoke again ft the new constitution,
and concluded with faying, " that it was not
surprizing that the king of Pruifia, Jhould ap
prove a conflitution the plan of which he had afiftti
in framing." This bold assertion struck the As
sembly with nftonifliment. A general expreflioq
of indignation was ready to burst on the
of it ; when, the king, to fliew the falfity of itj
Paid that M. Dried nzycki Secretary of the com
mittee of foreign affairs, held in his hand a note
of the Compte de Goltz, written the evening of
the day on which the revolution took place, in;
which he unequivocally exprefies his surprise that
the court of Poland had kept the plan a secret
from his mailer, their ally.—After these .few
words were uttered M. Kurkololki, was covered/
with confufion. ./
COPENHAGEN, May 21
Three hundred veflels of different nations have
palled the Sound since the 17th inft. Some En
{rlifh vell'els among the reft, bound for Peterf
buifr
The city of Dangberg, in the Bifhoprick of
tVybourg, has been alinoft totally tleftroyed by
fire.
Government has jufl laid an additional tax up
on Brown Sugars, imported into Denmark and
Norway for confuiliption there. Sugars import
ed to supply foreign countries, are not fubjeiftto
this new duty.
VIENNA, May 25.
The Emperor has given orders that arms should
neither be given nor fold to French refugees in
any part of his dominions.
The EleAor of Saxony has not yet been able
to give a positive answer concerning the Crowri
of Poland, which is offered him by the New Con
(Htutiou of that kingdom, lie is to call a meet
ing of the States of Saxony, and consult their o
pinion. Hitherto the crown of Poland has pro* -
ed a fatal present to the Electorate ; but times
are changed ; and Saxony having had time to
repair the effects of its former misfortunes, is
now able to defend its new good fortune.
Fortunately, Prnffia at this time is desirous
from motivos of felf interest, to fee this political
marriage take place between Poland and the
Electorate.
June f. It is now too evident, any longer to
doubt, that the efforts of Aultria are all tli 1 eccec
to lay aiide the declarations of Reichenbach in
the present negociations. Those former a
rations were merely calculated to conceal
close alliance with Russia ; which alliance > a s
been kept in full energy, by the adlivity an
good faith of the two parties. All our poits m
the Adriatic sea are open to Russia : I heie t ey
fit out their fleets, they there fi*ek rciuge v, ieu
prefied, and there they repair their velle 3.
this very moment their flotilla under the con
mand of Col. Lajnbro Cazzoni, is in oui P O, l s '
The Count Elgin, Envoy Extraordinary tro
he Court of London, met his Imperial »
at Mantua, had a long conference there, anmediately after it dispatched a courier to Lon
don. The Count is soon expetfted here to reside.
It appears that the Ruffians have discontinued
their offenftve operations against the fortrefs of
Btailow, and even have given up the execution
of tlieir projects against Bulgaria. It is probable
that the importance of the forces under Jnlliif
Pacha is believed, and that Prince Repnin thinks
it prudent to remain on the defenfive.
The last dispatches from Hererfburg contain
letters written in the Empress's own hand writ
ing. They were immediately sent by express to
the Emperor in Italy. Baron de Buhler, who
was the bearer of them, returned immediately to
his court.
AMSTERDAM, May 30
By a letter received from ihe Helder, dated
on Saturday latt, we are informed, that Vice Ad
miral Kingfbergen, who has for two years com
manded the fleet of observation, had (truck his
flag, and that the whole fleet was going to he
laid up in ordinary
The Directors of the East-India Company have
come to the resolution of recalling M.deGraaft,
Governor of t he Cape of Good Hope, and of fend
ing a deputation to regulate the contested af
fairs, and repress thedivilions inthefaid colony.
BASLE (Switzerland) June I
We hear from Berne, chat the French emi
grants are very numerous in that city : Molt of
them have been absent from France since the be
ginning of tire Revolution ; some from Italy ;
others return from Germany. They boaftof their
intentions to effect a counter-revolution ; but
the only step they appear to have taken towards
this, is, wearing white cockades.
PARIS, May 26
Yeflerday, for the fii ft time since the baiba
rous, impolitic, and ever to be execrated revoca
tion of the ediiit of Nanrz, a congregation of
Proteflants were seen in Paris, under the
of the law, publicly worshipping the Eternal, ac
cording to their rights !—-M. Maron officiated as
Minister, and it is but justice to fay, that we ne
ver saw a Clergyman pe: form the service with
more fervency, order and propriety,—his text
■was " la nuit et paflee ; le jour eft leve," " the
night is far spent, the day is at hand ; let us
therefore cast off the works of dai knefs, and put
011 tiie armour of light." Romans, chap. xiii. v.
xii. xiii. He dwelt long on the goodness of the
Divinity, that, in his wisdom, fuffei ed man ro be
persecuted to try his faith. He expatiated wide
ly on the sage and philanthropic decrees of the
National Afieinbly ; and earnestly exhorted his
auditory to prove their gratitude by a strict, for
mal, and an uninterrupted obedience to the law,
the nation, and the king. There were above
2GOO p efent 011 the occasion, all the Englifli in
Pans a.lifted—the attraction was irrefiftable.
We learn from Nantz, that the society of the
friends of ihe conllitut ion there, not only wen
into mourning for Dr. Price, as the J ten bins hei e
did, but have resolved 10 place his bust in theii
hail, belicle the Declaration of the rights of Men
—to name one of the quarters of the town, con
sisting mostly of new buildings, Le Quarter de
Richard Price, and annually, on the 4th of
November, w'hen they celebrate the Englilh re
volution, to read his funeral oration.
The g'eaiell preparation is making in the
plain of the confederation for the celebration of
the ensuing birth-day of liberty, the 14th of Ju
ly. Lall week there were not less than ten thou
sand persons employed ; the number, however,
is now reduced to about eight thousand.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, May 23.
M. le Grand, member of the ecclesiastical Com
mittee, propufed, that the eighty-fix convents in
French Inlanders fliould be reduced to nineteen,
which was agreed to by the Afl'erahly, though
opposed by M. l'Abbe Brevrart, who pronounced
an eulogium on the monastic life, Motwithiland
ing they were invited to quit it.
M. de Montefquiou prefenied a flare of the
daily reports, whereby it appeared, that the de
ficiency for the month of April alone amounted
to upwards of 24,262,000 livres. —He proposed
that on the 14th of each month, the fnperinten
dant of the public treasury fliould deliver in an
account of the receipts of the preceding month ;
that as the expence> of each month may amount
to 48,558,523 livres, the ex:raordinary bank
fliould pay into the public treasury whatever
part of that fi'm should be deficient ; and that to
defray the deficiency of the month of April, the
f.iid bank ftiall immediately pay the sum of
24,262,505 livres. The proposal was adopted
without oppofirion
May 25■ M. Bouche fnggefted an amendment
o the resolution of paying four millions as a
dower, p anted by 'he National Aflembly to the
Queen, on condition of her surviving the King.
Ke proposed that the four millions ol" livres
Ihonld be paid to the only on condition
of her continuing ;o elide in France. The As
sembly, however, did not adopt his proposal.
A decree was afterwards pafled, confirming the
King in the pofleffion of the domains and country
feats of which his Majesty a year iigo exprelled
his intention to retain the pofleifion.
LONDON, June 6.
According to a fpeechof the Attorney General
in tlie Roul'e of Commons on the fubjeift of li
bels, it appears that in the last thirty years, the
number of prosecutions on that account, amount
ed to feventy—aniongft them some were against
the scriptures, others against the king, against
the revolution, the government and other ob
jects, and fonie were obfeene.— Fifty of these had
been convicted—of the other twenty, some had
ablconded, and allowed judgment to pass by
default, and a few had been pilloried.—Five he
believed was the number feiueuced to the pillory,
two of whom for publilhing obfeene baoks—one
of them was however pardoned it having been
proved that he was not accefl'ary to the publica
tion, being ill at the time—two were for libels
against his Majesty, and two lor libels on the
Ruilian Ambadador, &c. these were all that in
the course of thirty years had been sentenced to
that punilhment
According to the account given of M. de Mira
>eau's illness, by M. Chabinis, his friend and
>hyfician, he said not long before he died, of our
Vlr. Pitt, " This Pitt is the vuinitter of preparation;
le governs by what he threatens rather than what
:ie does. If I haJ lived, 1 (ho-jld have given him
[ believe some mortifications." M. Mirabeau
:onceived, fays M. Chabinis, that liberty acquir
ed by itifurrec'tion, fliould be maintained by re-
I'pect for the laws—and that the laws could not
be executed but by an atftive power ; and that
the alliance of a good demo, racy and of monar
chy was the natural form of government ; and
that no other form could equally unire the vigi
lance of constant regulation to the inviolable se
curity of national freedom.
HOUSE
ROMAN CATHOi-IC BILL
In a committee, Lord Cat-heart in the chair,
the bill was read clause by daufe, and a number
of amendments were propufed, some of which
were accep.ed, particularly the alteration of the
oarh enacted in the year TJJS, as a qualification
for the Irifb Catholics.
The Biihop of London moved, " That Catho
lic Schoolinalters should be retrained from let
ting up Schools in ilie t wo*Univei fities, and from
educating the children of Protestant Parents."
After a debate, the amendment was agreed to.
H O E OK COMMONS.
I.IBEI f,.
Upon the motion for the third reading of the
bill for confirming the Rights of Juries in cases
of Libels.
Mr. Fox, in order, he said, that as few quib
bles might be furniftied by this bill as poflible,
would move to leave out certain words which
admitted of different conftru<ftions, and w hereby
juries had been limited in their jurifdnition, but
which this bill fought to extend. The words he
moved, were, after matter at iflue before them;
it having hitherto been thepratSice of the Courts
only to fuffer the jury to find the defendant guil
ty of publilhing; then the criminality of that
publication, if leditious or defamatory, was con
firmed, and the defendant found guilty, w iihout
leaving to the Jury to decide, with what disposi
tion and spirit he published the paper containing
the Libel.
The motion being seconded, the amendment
was adopted—whereby the whole of the matter
at iflue is left to the determination of a Jury.
LONDONDERRY, May 24
On Saturday last, Mr. Cox finifhed his contract
for erecting the Bridge over the river Foyle.—
When we consider the immensity of the under
taking, and the shortness of the time in which it
has been compleated, we cannot too much ad
mire and applaud the genius and execution of
this molt able artist. He began and completed
the whole work in little more than twelve months;
and if a fufliciency of timber had been always at
hand, it would have been finifhed much sooner.
Philadelphia, August 15.
Extract of a letter from Loudon, Jo a house in this
city, received by the Lark, arrived at New-York,
dated "June 7th.
'' The dispute with Ruflia is yet unsettled, but
I think it will be adjusted in an amicable manner
this funnner, and a general peace take place
throughout Europe. 1 would advise you, there
fore, to 111 'ke no (peculations that are not found
ed on pacific principles ; and with regard to the
prices of your product, you will be guided by the
advices you may receive from different quarters.
The crops of grain in Europe have, from all ac
counts, the molt luxuriant appearance, but par
ticularly so throughout this island, where everv
kind of grain is 1 eally abundant and proinifing."
123
June 12.
OF LORDS
OnTcefdayafternoon,!' 1 moth y Pickering,
Esq. arrived in this city from the Indian country,
whither lie had been sent by the President of the
United States, to negotiate a treaty with certain
Indian tribes. We have every reason to infer,
when we reflect on this gentleman's acknow
ledged abilities, fteadinel'sjand moderation, that
he hasifatisfacflorily compleated tiie very impor
tant objeifts of his million.
A Diiiriilt Court of the United States, for the
Diftricft of Pennsylvania, was held last Tuesday
at the New Court House in this city, where a
grand jury was impannelied, and an excellent
charge delivered by the Judge, William Lewis,
Efqnire.
Several bills were laid before the grand jury,
after which the Court adjourned until Wed
nesday, ten o'clock. N
The French Sloopof War, LaFavourite, Monf.
Riviere, Commander, is the fir ft French fliip we
have seen in the Delaware with the National Co-
lours
During t he late war bet ween Great-Britain and
the United Srates, M. de Ternant, now Ambatik
dor from the Court of France, served as a Lieu
tenant-Colonel in the American Army.
Arrived at New-York on Sunday last, the Ship
Ann and Snfan, Capt. Duplex, in 62 days from
Londonderry, with five hundred pallengers ; eve
ry one of whom paid their passage befofe they
left Ireland.
APPOIN 1 MENTS.
Th omas Jo h k son, Esq. of Maryland, Afloci
ate Judge,'in the room of J. RuTLEDp E,Efq. who
lias resigned
Matthew Clarkson, Esq. of New-York,
vlarfhal of that Diflriift, in the room of W. 5.
Smith, Esq. appointed Supervisor.
SCRIP
NOW fixtyytars have roll'd about,
Since grandame Britain saw,
The famous foutb-fea-bubblc-rout,
Rais'd by that fcheemer La w.
Of golden mountains—in the moon,
What pittures did they draw !
And di'monds dimning sol at noon,
Form'd by that conj'rer Law.
But foonthey found the bubble burst—
The balloon had a flaw ;
And thousands found themselves accurst,
That built their hopes on Law
This fatal fa£t one would have tho't,
Should fill mankind with awe !
But 4* by ruin still untaught,
have diitanc'd Law.
(f3T Tfoxeiitinttaiiiri of the ' Political Sketch,' aid other ctttickl,
are unavoidably pqflponed. till next publication.
From PELOSI's MSRINJS LIST".
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Brothers,
Beatrix,
Brig Bctfcy,
Molly,
Sloop Sally,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 2u/6 pr. £ .
3 pr. Ce nts 13/2
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/4
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and othei Certificates 20^6
Indents 13\Jz
N. and S. Carolina debts, 181/6.
Bank Subscriptions,
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
No. 10 to 31, both inch, Jive, of a Publication which comet out twice a
week in Paris, entitled, " Cor respon dXnc e National!."—
From No. I to No. 10, have been flipped, but are not yet come to hand.
Any person who may incline to fuhjcribt for this work, which appears to
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnifhed with the numbers
as they come to hand, by applying to the Editor oj this Gazette.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
(BY ORDER OF THE MANAGERS.)
New-Haven, July 20, 1791.
THE Public arc informed, that the Tickets in the New-Haven
WharJ Lottery have riiet with a rapid Sale; —more than two
thirds are already disposed of. The DRAWING will positively
commence on the 13th September next. Those Persons who have
1 cceivcd Tickets to fell, are requested, without fail, to return to the
Managers what lhall remain unfold 011 the toih September. Those
who intend to become Adventurers in this Lottery, will do well to
secure TICKETS immediately, left, by delay,,they loose the
CHANCE of making their FORTUNES ; as the Managers have no
d'JU't the Tickets will all be SOLD before the 10th September.
A f> w of the above TICKETS may be had (if applied for
foou) of MelTrs. STEPHEN AUS'J IN Sc Co. corner of Pine and
Front-ftrects—who are authorised to pay the PRIZES.
Philadelphia, August 13, 1791.
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefuut and Market Streets.
SC- LOTTERY TICKETS,
Charlcftown (Maffachufitts) to commcnce drawing ift Sept.
New-Haven Wharf, 13th do.
Maflachufetts Semi-Annual, 2d Class, 131 h Oft.
may be liad as above.
Hall,
Agio,
Clark,
Paul,
Preston,
Lisbon,
St. Andero,
Cape-Francois,
St. Croix,
Virginia.
11? J pr. cent.
66 do.
66j do.
do.
66 do.
150 to 160 Dollars,BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
Xu. 22, Nn» TH-Fkont-STH£T,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bill* of Ex- Ddllas's Reports.
c h an g C . Kirby's Connecticut Reports.
Cork's Vade Mecum. Conduflor Gcneralis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines the Pr»c-
lice of Hhyfic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries
Brown's Elements of Medicinc.
Ofterwald'sChriftianTheologv. JenynV Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progrefi of Religion the Christian Religion.
in the Soul. Beanie's Evidence ot Ditto.
Neckrr on Religious Opinion*. Think Well On't.
Fordyce's Addresses to Young De vout Christian's VadeMecum
Men. lid wards's History of Redemp-
Sermons to Young tion,
omen.
Poor Man's Help and Young fedlions.
Man's Guide. " againfl Chaunccv.
Jewton's DiHertalions on the Booth's Apology for the Bapnfts
Prophecies. Doway Tranfijuon of the Vul
,e£lures delivered by Soame gate Bible.
Jenvns. Enfield's Family Prayers.
The Christian Remembrancer. Methodist Hymns.
future State Eternal. Watts's Hymns and Pfalmj.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons. Price's Sermons.
Ram fay's American Revolution
History of America.
Morfc's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Pclew
J (lands.
Pikc's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdufliontothe mak-
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii N.ifonis Metamor-
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
St leftae e Vcttri Tcftamento
Hiftoria*.
Scott's LefTons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's McfTiah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennel's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred History, Andrews's History of the Amc
-6 vols, rican War, 4 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation. New Annual Register.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations.
quiries.
- Experimental Eflays.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra&s.
Beauties of the British Senate.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Meatona.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Philadelphia, Augvfl 6, 17Q1
War Department,
MAY 30, i 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, w ll be paid on the said day by the Commiflionersof the
Loans within the States refpettively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every apolication lor payment mull be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
ill. The certificate given b) the (late, fpecifying that the person
pofTefling the fame is in la6l an invalid, and ascertaining the fuin
to which as such Ije is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B came before me. one of the JuJiices of the connty of in
tne jtate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original ccrtifcate in his pojjefjion was given, the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited ) That he served (re
giment, corps or vejjel) at the time he was djabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has refded there for the lafi
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
laid attorney, btfides the certificate and oath before recited, mud
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably tothefollowingfoim:
I } A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby confiitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension Jor fix mo ths, as an invalid of the United States, from the
Jourth day of March, one thoufund seven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the Jout th day of September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealed
in the presence of
Witnejfes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and alio of the
time-the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of IVar.
Buchan's Domcflic Medicine,
latest edition.
Clark on Difeafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket farrier.
on ihc Religious As-
Life of Baron Trenck,
Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Paley's Moral Philosophy.
Smellie's Philosophy of Natural
History.
Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Junius's Letters.
Hale's Ass ftionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson,
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftru&ions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accomplilhed Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart,
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefterficld's Principles of Po-
litenefs.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present tor an Apprentice,
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life of Robinson Crufoe.
Saville's Miscellanies.
School of Wisdom
•Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Description of 300 Animals.
Boyle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrvpha.
Marmontel's Belifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of History.
Allifm's Essay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w&fqw iaw6t)
CHILDS AND SWAINE
Have now id the Prrfs, and in a few days will publidi
In a handsome Volume OCTAVO,
rpRICt ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
THE
LAWS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated wilh, and corrcflcd by, the original Rolls in the effice
of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Congrds,
patted the 18th February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE INDEX.
This volume will comprifethe Federal Constitution, the A£ls
of the three Seflions of the First Congreis, and the Treaties .
also, the Declation of Independence, and sundry Refoives and
Ordinances of Congreis under the Confederation.
New-York, Augujl 3.
Charleftown (MafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of kid Lottery present to the Public
ihe following
s
CHE M E
Of the Twintv-S econd Class,
Confuting of 7000 Tickets, at Thrie Dollars cacb, 21,000
» Prize of
1
»5
20
20
20
40
60
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
(t3" This Class will commence drawing on or belore the iflol
S:ptember.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Cliarleftown,
and at the usual places in Bolton.
THOMAS HARRIS,
MATTHEW BRIDGE, £ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleston, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets in the above, and in the MaflachufettsSecond
&emi.annual lottery, for Sale.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS II
THE MANAGERS of ihe STATE-LOTTERY allure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence dra-wing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of October next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their several
monthl;'Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour alfigned, so
they arc determined to be equally as punflual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
2 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 are 6000
2 2000 6000
5 6000
10 s ooc
6000
80 8000
90 45°°
100 4000
3600
3220
2000
60680
120
i6i
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
9-gooo Tickets.
(£3P TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Manage r will pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.~|
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
Boflon, April 14, 1791-
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make lour promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in (he
whole to two thouland five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and foity-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferihers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from puichafing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, [ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, zythMay, 1791. (e p. 3 m.
(Jdr Blank Powers to receive the Interest, and for the transfer of th e
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlabliflied in the Trea
sury Department: Afo Blanks for abflrafts of Certificates, to be fold by
the Editor.
124
Dollars.
35°°
JOOO
1500
ICOO
800
600
810
600
560
480
8031
17872
Deduction, 3-28
2500 Dolls, is
1000
100 are
5°
40
3"
20
jo
8
6
4
1000
500
too
100
5°
40
39
20
1 ©
4
A YOUNG Gentleman, who was bred to bufmrf,, an d can be
favorably recommended, intendingtovifiuhr ManuSftonrt
in the South of Fiance, the ensuing Winter, will accent of O de
for Goods, and execute them on a moderate Commiflinn "
N. B. He will continue therr, if encouraged. Applications
direded to A. Z. and left at the Piiutcrs, will be punctually at
tended to.
Philad. August 6, 1791
[ft3TAll persons concerned will be pleased 10 take notice Ihstthe
following aiivertifemciit ha?h.cn varied from that publifbcd io
our paper of the 2 3d ot March. J
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Treasury, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the fuppiy of all rations,
may be required for the u(e of the United St ateg, from the firft dav
of January to the thirty-firll day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diftiid* herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the (late of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Foil Put and Fort M'lnioOi
on the River Ohio, and ar Foit M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of
ihe River Muflungutn, and at the mouth of tlie River Muflungum.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufr.arowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouih.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the (aid River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio».o River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetownj and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river ot the fame name whicnemptie* into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapid* of the Ohio, to the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vinccnnes,
• t Poll St. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the tnouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois river.
At any t>Uce or places, lrom the moulh ot the Miami river to
ihe Miami Village,
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandulky,
rid atSandufky, and from Sandutkv tothe mouth ofCayoga river.
At anv placeor places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Bcuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lflc, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lflc and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any pla:e or places.cn
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
wavof Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the Miffifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclufuely.
At any placc or places, from the laid river Margot, to the ri*'cr
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river 1 enefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any lations be required at any places, or within other
cliftrifts, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confillof the followingarticles.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whiflcy,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar/ JOO ra[ions _
Two pounds or loap, f
One pound of candles, /
ALSO, That ProDofals will be received at the said office until
the fit ft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the fupplv of all
rations which may be required tor the use of the United States,
from the fir ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Maflachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplyofall
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftrifls herein
after mentioned.
12500©
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on she Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, ror "
the said mouth up to the fourcc of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future poltr.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the I pace o at
least two months in advance, in good and wnolefome provmons.
The rations to befupplied are to consist ot articles, as
are abovementioned. . ,
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofles fuftamed v t e
depredations of the enemy, orby means of the troops of the
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articlescaptured or c -
troved, on the depohtions of two or more creditable c aia trs »
and the certificate of a commiftioned officer, ascertaining t e cir
cumftances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for w ic
conipenfation is claimed. . . f
The contrasts for the above supplies will bcmadc f.ticr or
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Perions ipo
to contract will therefore confine their offers to one >" r ' or
may make their propositions so as to admit an election o
term of two years. n e tn
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the 3 fnwrt
<*ether, or separately for Springfield, tor Weft-Point, or 01 *
and the seventeen places following it, and for the po sin *
and they must fpecify the lowest price per ration, for pro p
ment. -
C - The JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSION of theSEXAI~ s
of the UNITED STATES, may be hai of the £Jitor herecj.
(epti;