PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 701 LV FFNNO No fio m■„ crp.7' ~
_ ' No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS. PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 51, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A SAMPLE ORATION,
Very suitable to be -worn in the pocket, and delivered
at Quarter Races, County Meetings, or volunteer
Stats Conventions, as occafmn may require.
Men, Brethren, & Countrymen !
IT is the purs unbiased flame of liberty, which,
while ir consumes, (fill inspires ine thisday to
address you. As to property, I have none ; thank
heaven, I diverted myfelf of all yellow dirt, all
filthy lucre, in those blest days when I was a Com
mittee-man, and watched night and day, in pub
lic houses, for the public good,—Property, gen
tlemen, is like " the accursed thing," touch it
but lightly, and let it pass. It is the mother of
aristocracy—that lusty yonng (trumpet on whom
the wicked well-born are determined to beget
not even a moderate sized, a limitted brat, but a
thumping great absolute Monarchy.
The virtuous Romans had agrarian laws ; bur
our feltifh peafant-foul'd farmeis will not divide
their farms; nay, nor will they even divide the
annual produce of them, with those patriotic
preachers and apojtles, who take no heed for to
morrow. A N innarian law would be a rich blef
fmg—Oh how it would gladden the hearts, and
gild wi:li pleasure the faces, of the true disciples.
to serve once more on Committees, whose bufi
jiefs it ihould be, at leafl once in three years, to
inspect the chests and coffers of the overgrown
parse-proud man, or the paltry muckworm, who
toiled with the dirty view of " laying up pelf
against a rainy day," and divide their ungodly
spoil amongtt the pure lovers of liberty.
A Numaria'n Jaw is not nil object to be despair
ed of. in order to gain the landholders, it is on
ly neceilary to convince them, that it is their in
tcreft to pare commerce ro the quick—to keep,
as it were, " its nose close to the grindstone"—
That the landed interest is one thing, and the
nionied is another, is very plain—You cannot,
gentlemen, carry land enough in the largest port
manteau, to pay yotir travelling expences;—a
nionied man will do precisely the reverse—he
will carry caflt enougli in a linall pair of faddle
l>ags to buy a large farm, and thus lord it over
us. Was there ever a patriotic land-holder that
(peculated anil grew rich, by land jobbing, by
loans of money, or loans of cattle, at an high in
terelt ?—You all fay no, with a truth most incon
trovertible.
I have heard it reported that there is one Stare
Ji) the Union of no mem size, that would not fuf
fer land to be touched by that harpy the law. If
this is true, it is a glorious example, a noble po
licy. A new-made landed man laughs his mo
Jiied dupe creditor in the face, with virtuous
scorn. There is one evil that has been little a -
tended to. There is a kind of natural at iltocraey
anfing from the powers of the mind—Nature has
given to some men enormous wealth in this way,
and when (lie adds to it that fpzciotis kind of in
tegrity which will not facrifice petty private
claims; or property for the public good, this arif
tocracy then comes to be of a very dangerous
It is a government of influence that does
not even require money—View the American
Court, and tremble. The head of the fyitem,
and a.ll rhe coadjutors, ought ipeedily to be oftra
cilVd and baniflied. I would not fpareeven their
appendage, the specious Court Printer, whose
ariftocradcal Gazette is pervading and poisoning
tlie /.b eams and sources of information through
out this country, it is (aid. I believe we need
not go far for an independent, plain-mouthed,
Printer to succeed him.
nature,
I would riot go too far at once, nor shock with
an instant total change—l would however weed
this rank garden, with a liberal hand. For a be
ginning, I would remove the Secretary of the
Treasury, and appoint some young Broker in his
place—the Secretary of State (hould befucceeded
a Watch-maker turned Silver-smith—l would
nuike some clean handed Quarter-Mafler, or Coil
t:nental Loan-Officer, Treasurer—the Affbciate
Judges /hould be felecled f -oni a very patriotic
little Eastern State—the Chief Juflice /hould be
great La-jj Reformer, in the Diftriift of Maine,
who is the glory of Mafiacbufetts Bay—For Se
crcrarj- of War, 1 would chufe their worthy re
inflated fellow-citizen—Daniel Shays, Esq.
VENTOSO,
Saturday, October 22, 1791.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
T
X lIO' blooms no more the rose upon my cheek,
Tho' loft the hazel lustre of mine eye,
Yet does that eye my foft affection speak,
And gaze on thee, as 011 a cloudfeft iky;
For pure thou art, and full ot harmony ;
Bright as in heaven flhines the morning star,
So beams thy beauteous foul upon thy face,
And (hews no malice, or-no mental war
Moves in thy mind, to break thy blifsful peace.
But oh my Anna, with thy wonted grace,
Continue still my pensive foul to chear,
Watch o'er my spirit with thy tender care,
So (hail thy power bid the rose appear,
And light mine eye, and charrn away despair.
CONSTITUTION OF FRANCE.
(Continued from our loft.)
IV. r I "'HE legislative body has the right of determining the
JL p4ace of its fittings, of continuing them as long as it shall
think neceflary, and of adjourning : at the commencement of
each reign, if it is not fitting, it (hall be bound to meet without
delay :
It has the right of police in the place of its fitting, and to such
extent around it as shall be determined :
It has the right of discipline over its members ; but it can pro
nounce no heavier punishment than censure, arrest for eight days,
or imprisonment for three :
It has the right of disposing, for its fafety and the refpeft that
is due to it, of the forces, which (hall be eftablilhment by its con
sent, in the city where it (hall hold its fittings.
V. The executive power cannot march, or quarter, or station,
any troops of the line, within thirty thousand toifes of the legis
lative body, except on the requisition, or by the authority of that
body.
SECTION 11.
Holdhg of the Sittings, and, form of Deliberating.
I. The deliberations ot the Legislative Body (hall be public,
and the minutes of the fittings (hall be printed.
11. The Legislative body may, however, on any occasion, foim
itfelf into a General Committee.
Fifty members (hall have a rigfit to demand it :
During the continuance of the General Committee, the aflift
ants fhal 1 retire, the Chair of the President shall be vacant, order
(hall be maintained by the Vice-President :
The Dccrees cannot be palled, except in a Public Sitting.
111. No Legislative Ast can be debated and decrced, except in
the following form :
IV. The plan of a Decree (hall be read thrice at three inter
vals, the shortest of which cannot be less than eight days.
V. Thedifcuflion (hall be open after every reading ; neverthe
less after the firft or second reading, the Legislative Body may de
clare that there is reason for adjournment, or that there is no room
for deliberation— in this last cafe, the plan of the Decree may be
in'roduced again in the fame feflion :
VI. After the third reading, the President shall be bound to
propose to their deliberation, and the Legi&itivc Body (hall de
cide, whether they are qualified to pass a definitive Decree, or
would rather chufe to postpone their decision, in order to gather
more ample information on the fubjett :
VII. The Legislative body cannot deliberate, if the fitting do
not consist of at least 200 Members ; and no Decree (hall be made,
except by the absolute majority of votes :
VIII. No plan of a law which, after having been submitted
to discussion, shall have been rejettcd after the third reading, can
again be introduced the fame feflion :
IX. The preamble of every Definitive Decree, (hall announce,
ift-, The dates of those three fittings, at which the plan of the de
cree was read ; 2d, The Decree by which it (hall have been ap
pointed after the third reading to decide definitively ;
X. The King (hall refufe his fanttion to the Dccrees, whose
preamble (hall not attcft the observance of the above forms ; if
any of those Dccrees be fan&ioned, the Ministers (hall neither put
to it the seal, nor promulgate it, and their responsibility in this
refpfft (hall continue fix years:
XI. Excepting f r om these regulations, Decrees recognized,
and declared urgent by a previous deliberation of the Legislative
Body ; but they may be modified orj revoked, in the course of
the fame feflion.
SECTION II r
OF THE ROYAL SANCTION.
I. The Decrees of the Legiflacive Body are presented to the
King, who may refufc them his aflent.
11. In the cafe of a refnfalof the Royal A (Tent, that refufal is only
suspensive. When the two following Legislatures lhall fuccefiiue
ly present the fame Decree in the fame terms in which it was ori
ginally conceived, the King (hall be deemed to have given his
fanftion.
111. The assent of the King is exprefTed to each Decree, by the
following formula, signed by the King : " The King consents,
and will cause it to be executed
The suspensive refufal is thus expressed ; The King will ex
amine,
IV. The King is bound to cxprefs his aflent or refufal to rach
Decree within two months;after that period, his ftlence is deem
ed a refufal.
V. No dccree to which the King has refuffd his assent, can be
presented to him by the fame Legiflatnre.
VI. The Legislative Body cannot insert in Decrees illative to
the eftablifhmcnt or continuance of impofls, any foreign
to that fubjcfl, nor prcfent, at the lame time, for fanaion, other
Decrces as infepatable.
VII. The decrees fanftioned by the Kin?. and those which have
been presented to him by three fucccflive legiflaturcs alone,
have the force, and bear the name and title of laws.
VIII. F.xcepting however from fanfiinn, those afls of the legis
lative body, which relate to i'.s conftitotion, as a deliberating
assembly ;
Its interior police ;
The verification ol the powers of the members ptefent ;
The injun&ions to the abfertt members ;
The convocation of the primary afTimblics in cafe of delay ;
201
SONNET.
C H A M O N T.
[Whole No. 255).]
The exercrfe of constitutional independence over the aaminiftra
tors ;
Queftion.sof eligibility on the validity of elections ;
Exempting likewise from fan&ion, a&s relative to the refponfibi-
Jity of ministers; and all decrees importing that there is ground
of accufaiion.
SECTION IV.
Connexion of the Legislative Body zuith the King.
I. When the Legislative Body is definitively conllituted, it (hall
fend a deputation to inform the King. The King may every vear
open the Session, andj propose the objects, which, during its con
tinuance, he thinks ought to be taken into confiderar.on ; this
form, however, is not to be considered as neccffary to the a&ivity
of the Legislative Body.
11. When the Legislative Body wiflies to adjourn longer than
fifteen days, it is bound to inform the King, by a Deputation, at
least eight days previous to the adjournment.
111. Eight days, at lcaft, before the end of each Seflion, the
Legislative Budy shall fend a Deputation to the King, to announce
to h,m the day on which it proposes to terminate its fittings ; the
King may come in order to cloie the Sellion.
IV. II the King find it of importance to the welfare of the State,
that the Seflion be contiuued, or that the adjournment be put off,
or take place only for a shorter time, he may fend a ineffage to
thisefFtft, on which the Legislative Body is bound to deliberate.
V. The King (hall convoke the Legislative Body during the in
terval of its Seflion, as often as the interrft of the State shall ap
pear to him to require it, as well as in those cases which the Le
gislative Body have forefeen and determined previous to their
adjournment.
VI. Whenever the King (ball visit the place of meeting of the
Legislative Body, he (hall be received, and conduced back by a
deputation ; he cannot be accompanied into the inner part of the
Hall by any except Ministers.
VII. The President can in no cafe form part of a Deputation.
VIII. The Legislative Body (hall cease to be a Deliberating
Body whilst the King shall be preferit.
IX. The a£ts of correspondence of the King with the Legiflj
tive Body, (hall be always connterfigned by a Minifler.
X. The Ministers of the King shall have admiflion into the
Legislative National Aflembly, they (hall have a particular place ;
they shall be heard on all the fubje&s on which they demand a
hearing, and as often as they (half be called upon to give expla
nations.
CHAPTER IV.
Of the Exercises of the Executive power.
I. The Supreme Executive power resides exclusively in the
hands of the King :
The King is the Supreme Head of the general adminiftrarion of
the kingdom ; the carcof watching over the maintenance oi pub
lic order and tranquility is entrusted to him :
The King is the Supreme Head of all the land and fca forces
To the King is delegated all the care of watching over the exte
rior security of the kingdom, and of maintaining its rights and
pofleflions.
11. The King names AmbaflTadors and the other agents of po
litical negociations ; He bestows the command of armies and
fleets, and the ranks of Mar(hal of France and Admirals ;
He names two-thirds of the Rear-Admirals, one half of the
Lieutenant-Generals, Camp-Marflials, Captains of (hips, and Co
lonels of the National Gendarmerie ;
He names a third of the Colonels and Lieutenant-Colonels, and
a sixth of the Lieutenants of ships ;
The whole in conformity to the laws with refpeft to promotion.
Heappoints in the Civil Administration of the Marine, the Di
rectors, the Comptrollers, the Treasurers of the Arsenals, the Mas
ters of the Works, the Under-Mafters of Civil Buildings, half of
the Matters of Administration, and of the Under-Mafters of Con
ftru6lion ;
He appaints the Commi(Taries of the tribunals ;
He appoints the Commiflioners of the National treafuiy, and
:heSuperintendants in Chief ofthe management of Contributions
indirect;
He superintends the coinage of money, and appoints the Officers
entrusted with this fuperintcndance in the General Comm.flion
and the Mints ;
The effigy of the King is struck on all the coinage of the king
dom.
111. The King orders Letters Patent, B.evets, and commil
fions to be delivered to all the public Officers that ought to re
ceive them.
IV. The King orders a lift of pensions and gratifications to be
made out for the purpose of being prcfented to the Legislative Body
each Seflion. ,
SECTION I.
OJ the Promulgation of Laws.
I. The executive power is entrusted with ordering the fcal of
State to be put to laws, and causing them to be promulgated.
11. Twocopiesof each law (ball be made, both signed by the
King, countcrfigned by the Minister of Jufticc, and sealed with
the leal of the State ;
The one (hall be deposited in the archives of the fcal, and the
other (kail be sent lo the archives of the legislative body.
111. The promulgation of laws lhall be in these terms :
" N. (the King's name) by the Graec of God, and the confti
tutiona! law of the State, King of the French, to all prt-fent and
to come, greeting. The National AfTembly has decreed, and we
will and ordain as follows :
[Here a literal copy oj the decree Jhall U infer ted without any va
riation.^
i* We command and ordain to all administrative bodies and
courts ofjuftice, to cause these presents to be tranferibed on th<-ir
regiftrrs, read, publifhcd, and polled up in their departments,
and refprftivc places of resort, and executed as a law of the realm';
in witness of which, we have signed these presents, to which we
have cn 11 I d ihe seal of the State to be put."
IV. If the King is a minor, laws, proclamations, and other
afls proceeding from the royal anthority during the regency, (hall
be conceived in these terms :
" N. (the name of the regent) regent of ihe kingdom, in the
name of N\ (the King'sname) by thegrace of God, ar.d the con
flitutional law of the State, King of the French," &c.
V. The executive power is bound to fend the laws to th« ad
miniftraiive bodies and courts of justice, to fee that they arc so
sent, and to answer for it to the legislative body.
VI. The executive power cannot make any law, not even pro
visional, but merely proclamations, conformable to the laws, !•
ordain or enforcc the execution.
(To ic continued.)PHILADELPHIA, OCTOBER 22
Monday lafl the Grantham Packet, Captain Bull,
arrived at hew-Torfl from Falmouth, with the Sep
tember Mail, ajter a parage of 3J days. By thil
vejfel are received London Papers to the Bth of Septem
ber, ext rafts from which are as Jollo'ju.
LONDON, Augult 24.
A PROPOSAL was made in the Natiiyial As
sembly of France, on Tuel'day lad, that the
Primary AHemblies lhould meet in two years to
declare their aflent to, or diflent from, the New
Constitution. Upon motion of M. d'Andre, this
was rejected, and the following decree palled.:
" The nation has the imprelcriptible right of
reviewing the Conltitution when it pleases ; but
the National AHembly declares, that its interelt
dire(Ss the exercise of thi» right to be suspended
during thirty years "
The alleiublies of revision are not included in
this decree.
In the lalt ministerial note which pafled be
tween the Ruffian minilter and the ministers of
the allied courts at Peterfburgh, it was agreed
that a period of four months should be given the
Turks for concluding the definitive arrangement
of peace ; it was further agreed that an immedi
ate armiltice should take place, as soon as the
Porte had given its consent to the basis of the pa
cification.
The Minister of the Eledtor of Hanover has
published a notification, the fubltance of which
is, that the King, his master, will co-operate in
the important business now agitating, and con
form to every thing which the welfare of the
Constitution, the dignity of the Germanic body,
and the duties of a ltate of the Empire may be
construed to require. The notification, however,
dictates more difcuflion and deliberation than has
hitherto been entered into on a business of so
much importance.
Sept. 6. The new duties and regulations for
•warehousing corn take place on the 1 Jth of No
vember next.
Mariners trading to and from the ports of Wa
terford, Rofs, &c. are informed, that a new lan
thorn has been eredied on the Tower of Hook,
■which is to belighted with oil lamps, reflectors &
lenses, inltead of coals. This important impreve
ment is to commence the 29th of September, and
so to continue thereafter from sun-set to fun-rife
throughout the year. The light will be steady,
appearing the fame in a florin as in a calm, and
not liable to disappear like that of the coals when
stirred, or affetfied by the "wind.
The new buildings to be ere<fted by govern
ment for the accommodation of the Secretaries
of State, are eltimated at i 60,0001.
Declaration of the Emperor, in conjunction ivith the
Courts of Berlin, London, Madrid, Turin, Na
ples, and Peter/burgh.
" The undersigned are ordered by their ref
petlive Sovereigns to make known the follow
ing :
" That notwithstanding the glaring force
and violence which both preceded and succeeded
the a<sls ofconfent drawn from the King of France
to the decrees of the National Aflembly, yet they
had withheld their opinions as to the free will
of his Christian Majesty in the consent above
mentioned, but that the attempt made by that
Monarch to obtain his freedom was an undoubt
ed proof that both his religion, and his will, had
been violently forced, and that the formal ar
resting of the King, Queen, Dauphin, and Ma
dame Elizabeth, occasions grounded anxiety as
to the further views of the opposing party.
" That the before-named Sovereigns can no
longer forbear exprefling their feelings, and
declaring the resolutions which they have been
induced to take in the present fuuation of af
fairs, and which the honor of their Crowns, the
ties of friendfhip, and the earnest wilh for the
good orderand peaee of Europe, require ofthem,
and they have charged the undersigned Minilters
to declare in their names,
" lit. That they look upon the canfe of the
King of France as their own ; that they require
that that Prince and his family be immediately
set at liberty, and free to go where they please,
and to restore to his Majesty that sacred honor
and fubmiflion due from a people to their Sove
reign by all the laws of nature and civil Society.
" 2dly, That the Sovereigns will unite to op
pose and revenge any further attempts against
the security of the persons, or the honor of the
Kin g» Queen, and any of the Royal Family.
" sdly, That they will not acknowledge any
Other conftituiior. as legal in France but what
has the unequivocal approbation of the King
given when he is at full liberty to ad; as he
pleases.
" And that if no such legal constitution is fet
tled, they will jointly use every means to put an
end to that spirit of anarchy and confnfion so
contrary to the regularity and good order which
it is the duty of all governments to cherilh and
support."
[Signed by the different Miniilers.
Sept. 7. The number of troops Jn Luxemburg
does not exceed 4,000. lu proportion as order
and tranquility appeared to be restored in.the
interior parts of France, the Aultrian troops,
partly to prevent desertion, and partly for less
expensive accommodation, have been withdrawn
from the French frontiers.
An attempt to effect a counter revolution, by
foreign force, mult now be the dreain of another
fu miner.
Cardinal de Lomenis, or, to speak more pro
perly, the Bifliop of Sens, is chosen one of the
members of the new French Legiflatore.
Thefufpicion that the King of Sweden intends
some hostility towards France, increases every
day in Paris, by the addition of some new cir
cumstances. He lately lent M. Ferfen, one of his
otKcers, to meet the Emperor at Vienna, and is
reported to have promised joining the German
Princes with 16,000 Swedes.
Sept. 8. The French National Aflembly has at
length fiuiftied its labours ill forming a Constitu
tion, and the Aflembly is about to dilfolve, with
out having taken notice of the exiled Princes, or
of the governor to the Dauphin. 11l refpeft to
the former fubjedl, they have shewn evident fear
of doing any thing which may tend to widen the
breach.
We have the belt authority to believe that the
French King will not attempt to alter one tittle
of the new constitution about to be presented to
him.
The University of Paris have fenta requisition
to the Universities of Oxford and Cainbrdige,for
the purpose of obtaining a copy of the statutes
and regulations upon which those learned fenii
naries are founded and conduced.
EAST INDIA HOUSE
Yesterday there was a court of dired:orsat the
East Innia House, for the purpose of breaking o
pen the dispatches brought home by the Hawke
from Madras.
The dispatches, containing a minute account
of the siege and taking of Bangalore, with a lift
of the killed and wounded, which were sent of
ficially i 111 mediately after thac viiftory by Lord
Cornwallis to Madras,fell into the enemies hands.
The accounts therefore brought to the India
House are made up from private letters fentfome
days after to Madras.
India stock yesterday rose to 192 per cent, for
ready money.
In consequence of the late favorable intelli
gence, India Stock, whi?h on Saturday was at
186 1-4, rofeyefterday to 189 1-2 a 191 1-2. At
half pall one o'clock the price was 191.
VIENNA, August 24.
Last Sunday a courier arrived at the house of
Prince Gallitzin, the Ruffian Ambaflador, from
Prince Repnin, with news, that on the nth inft.
the preliminary articles of peace between Russia
and the Porte wereligned at Galatz by him and
the Grand Vizier.
WARSAW, August 17.
An answer has been received here fronj the
Court of Dresden, to the note remitted to it on
the fubjedt of the Succelfion by the Cabinet of
Warsaw ; but the inclination of the Eleiftor to
accept the Crown of Poland, is not exprefled with
the warmth that was expetfted.
BERLIN, August 23.
The interview of Pilnitz is fixed for the 25th
of August, and his Majesty, to be there, will quit
the camp of Schilcke 011 the second day, and pro
ceed to Dresden by way of Upper Luface. Con
jectures are very numerous concerning the ob
jetfts which will be treated on in the conferences
between three of the greatell Princes in Europe,
and the arrangements of which they will endea
vor to fix the baiis, as w ell as the reciprocal a
greements or condescensions which they will
make, &c.
PARIS, September 2
In thefeffion of the 31 It ult. the National As
sembly decreed, that,
ift. When three fucceflive legislatures shall ex
press an uniform desire to revise i'ome of the con
ltitutional articles, a revision fliall take place.
2d. The fourth legislature shall be charged to
examine the articles which the three former le
gislatures wifti to be revised.
3d. The members of the third legislature can
not be chosen for the next.
, * A , Montjolard, Member of the Nation
al Afl*mbly, threw himfelf our, yesterday, f roin
a third (lory in the rueNeuve St. Marc, and was
killed on the spot. His having taken the Civic
Oath so affected him, that he could not be per
suaded but it was the most damnable action of
which a man could be guilty.
r 9" ulc - tl,e Procureur Syndic General
of Pans iflued out his writ to the Electors of the
department to alfemble on the 26th, for the pur-
P. 0 of P'-nceeding to the election of deputief for
the new Legislature.
202
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE.
Deer:e of the 14 tb of June,
respecting mechanics
I. The abolition of every species ofincorpora
tion of citizens of the fame eflate and profeffion
being one of the fundamental bafesof the French
Conrtitution, their re-eftabliftmienr, underwhat
foeyer pretext, and in what form soever, is pro
hibited. '
11. Citizens of the fame estate or profeffion
undertakers, those who keep shops, workmen'
journeymen of whatsoever trade, cannot, whilst
they are together, aflume the titles of president
secretary, or syndic, nor keep regilters, pass de
liberations, or form regulations refpeCling their
pretended common inteiells.
111. All adiiiiniftrative and municipal bodies
are forbid to receive any address or petition un
der the denomination of a profeliloi) ; or to re
turn any answer to it. They are likewise en
joined to declare null and void all deliberations
formed in such manner, and attentively to watch
left thev be carried into execution.
IV. If, contrary to the principles of liberty
and of the constitution, any number of citizens,
of the fame profeffion, art, or trade, shall form
deliberations, and enter into a mutual compatft,
to refufe in concert or to afford only at a certain
regulated price, the aftiftance of their industry
or their labor—such deliberations and compacts,
whether accompanied by an oath, or not, are de
clared to be unconstitutional, encroaching on li
berty, and the declaration of the rights of man,
and are null and void : and the administrative
and municipal bodies are bqund to declare them
so.— The authors, chiefs and instigators, wljo
have given rife to them, drawn them up, or pre.
(ided 011 the occasion, fliall be summoned before
the tribunal of the police, at the inftatice of the
attorney of the commons, —condemned to a fine
of 500 livres each, and suspended for one year
from the exercise of the rights of ac r tive citizens,
and from entering the assemblies.
August 2J
The question on the admiflibility of the princes
ofthe blood royal to the political rights of citi
zens, was taken into consideration. Meflrs. Gu
illaume, Voydel, and Roberfpierre, contended
that these rights should be obtained for the prin
ces, and that no difference fliould exist between
them and the multitude. Others affirmed, with
M. de Sillery, thac to deprive the princes ofthefe
rights would be to degrade them.
M. Goupil was ofa different opinion, and said,
that this exclusion would not prevent them from
being ufeful to the (late ; it would not, for ex
ample, deprive M. d'Orleans of the advantage of
again appearing at the head of our fleets. At
ihefe words an alarming noise took place, toge
ther with loud applauses, which formed a lingu
lar contrafl to the silence of M. d'Orleans and his
friends
Messrs. Barnave and Muguet endeavoured to
shew the absurdity of putting on a level with o
ther citizens, those men whom the nation had
pensioned to enable them to give a brilliancy to
their rank. The discussion being closed, it was
decreed, 1 hat the princes should enjoy the rights
of atftive citizens.
With refpedt td their eligibility to places to
which the people have a right to appoint, divifi
-011 \V3S demanded, which, upon being had re
course to, gave a majority of 267 to 180, thatthe
Princes fliould be ineligible to places conferred
by the people.
August 26.
A decree was palled, (tating that tit • vases and
utensils of bronze or of copper, belonging to the
fupprefled churches, should be employed, like
the metal of bells, in the coinage of finall mo
ney.
On a report made by a member of the commit
tee of alienation, the aflembly transferred to the
King's Comiuiffioner, adminiltrator of the extra
ordinary bank, the direction of the sale of nati
onal effects.
It was decreed, That the members ofthe King's
family fliould hereafter be called only by their
Chriflian names, followed by the title, as Princs
Francoifi, &c.
September i,
M. Duport moved, that the Constitutional Ai r t,
after being once again read over, fliould* be pre
sented to the King, and that no power on earth
fliould be capable of making any change in it.
After a warm debate it was decreed, on the
motion of M. Camus, that the Constitutional A&
lhall not be presented to the King till after being
read over, and a declaration by the Aflembly that
there is nothing more to add to it.
Notice was given, that two of the departments
had already nominated their deputies to the ap
proaching Legislature. A Member proposed that
every Legislator, on his arrival at Paris, should
his name to be inscribed in the archives ol
the National Ad'embly, " that when we fliould
have finifhed our labours," said he, " we may
know if our fucceflors have aflembled in fuflicien'
number to occupy our places."
This proposal was adopted.£ D"E N T O N, October 7 .
From the Newborn Paper of the Ift i>tft
This town was on Wednesday 1 ast viiirecl by
an unhappy conflagration, which has destroyed
its molt flonrilhin? part. The fire broke out at
noon, in the lioufe of Philip Roche, a tavern
keeper, on the county wharf. The loft of that
lioufe being filled with fodder, the flames fudden
]y made their appearance through its roof, and
aimoft instantly reached the contiguous houses—
the wind blew from the north ealt. The (tores
of Mellis. Kennedy, Gerock, and Lawrence were
alinoft at once in a bl.ize, and had they been
blown up, all further damage would have been
prevented.
The fire soon reached across Craven and Front
ltreeis, to the old coffee lioufe, Mr. Donnells and
Mr. Thomlinfon's ft ores. Nine hoi.fes on the
eail fide ot Craven sh eet, and seven on the water
fide of Front ft r eet, were reduced to allies. The
jiorth-weft corner of Craven and Front Itreet,
commonly called Ogden's corner, was next at
tacked, and every hotife in both directions was
burnt down as far as the corner of middle itreet
011 one fide, and Mellis. Manning and Byrne's
ffore on the other were deitroyed. The two lalt
buildings were blown up.
Sixty-three houses were destroyed, as well as
an immense quantity of goods. Thelofs sustain
ed 011 the occasion amounts to upwards of one
hundred thousand pounds.
Philip Roche and his wife were last evening
committed to gaol ; many refiJetfableinhabitants
having evinced their appreheniions that tliefe
people (wbqfe house it isfuppofed was intention
ally set on fire) would again attempt to burn the
town.
PITTSBURGH, Odober 8.
Extrali of a letter from an officer in the federal ar
my dated Fort Wajhington, Sept. 18, 1 791, to his
brother in this plact.
" We arrived here the Bth instant, after a
long, though very pleasant paflage. We were
dogged by Indians, but never got fight of more
than two of them. We rescued a boat of a Mr.
M'Maken from the clutches of a party of 12, who,
but for pur interposition would undoubtedly
have taken her.
" My regiment is, together with the whole of
the troops, except one company which is doing
garrison duty here, encamped 20 miles from
hence, where they are erecting fortifications :
we wait for a body of 1000 militia from Ken
tucky. I presume our force will be fuflicient to
confront any body of savages that can poliibly
exilt together.
" I am a member of a court of enquiry on our
friend Brig. Gen. Harmar; we have been fitting
■five days, and have not got through hall' the tel
timony s'-every thing that has yet transpired
places Harniar's conduct in the molt respectable
point of view, and entitles him to the thanks of
his country ; his line of March, his encamp
ment, and order of battle, may be equalled but
not furpafled by any general, either ancient or
modern. His exertions were great, andthelofs
hefuftained could not have been avoided, situa
ted as he was. 1 mention these things to you
tiecaufe I know you will rejoice to hear the ma
lice of his calumniators'* defeated, and that this
inuch injured man will have his character pla
ced in its true light."
BOSTON, Otftober 12
Six per Cents, in the Funds of the United Stares
were at the falling of Capt. Rogers from Lon
don, at 21f, 011 the pound.
On the 23d of August the Einperor of Germa
ny, with his eldell (on, and the King of Prullia,
with hiseldeft foil, arrived at the palace of the
Elector of Saxony, ac Dresden ; and 011 the 25th,
Mr. Fawkener, the Englilh Envoy, arrived also
at Dresden from Fetei Iburgh and War law.
On the fame day arrived also at Dresden, the
Count d'Artois, the Marquis de Bonille with his
son, Monsieur de Calonne, and the Prince of Nas
sau.
Mr. J. Nebon, who was a pafTenger on board
the French Packet, LeSuffrein, which arrived at
New-York, on the 24th of Sept. 1 all, informs, that
on the 19th of (aid month, in lat. 39. 47. long.
?• 50. they spoke the Brig Sukejr, Capt. Robert
Steven foil, from Newbury-Port, for Gaudaloupe.
"I lie Captain and Paflbngers of the Packet, wiili
to inform, that they being very lliort of water
efired a relief from Capt. Stevenson, who, with
15 "onted generosity, supplied them with a
'"gfliead, inllead of a smaller cjuantity, which
1 fv lie fired ; not only so, but infilled 011 their
,a "S fuel) frefh provisions, as would make them
Ct, nifi)nable and all without receiving any re
cnnpence, except those acknowledg
ments, which were unavoidable from persons re
eied from distress.
'Ifd at Portfmomh, universally lamented,
J° H *• Parker, Esq. late Marshal for New
ampfhi e Diftrici and Sheriff' for the county
Rockingham.
Philadelphia, O&ober 22.
Members of Congress an ived in lown fincc Wcdncfday
Senators Hon. Paine Wingate, Ncui-Hamp/hirc.
Georce Cabot, >~ _ '
CAI.ES ST rong, }
Rocer Sherman, Conncdicut.
Theodore Foster. ) ,
Joseph Stanton, \ R^ir-}jland.
Benj am i n Hawkins, North-Carolina.
R'pTffcn- Hon, Benj. Goodhue, }
tatives. Fisher. Ames, , > MaJJachuJetts,
Artemas Ward, )
Samuel Livermqre,^
Nicholas Oilman, > New-Hampjhire.
Jeremiah Smith, )
Jeremiah Wadsworth,*|
Jonathan Trumbull, |
Jonathan Sturces, Connecticut.
L a r n e r>, |
James Hillhouse, J
Benj am in Bourne, Rhode-Island.
El ias Boudinot, New-lei fey.
W.B.Giles, ) r ,.
James Madison, \ V
Hugh Williamson, North-Carolina.
There is the greatefl probability that a quorum of both Houses
of Congrels will be in town on Monday.
GENERAL ELECTION.
Return of Northumberland County.
Congrels Andrew Gregg.
Afiembly Samuel Maclay, John White.
Sherifls Flavel Roan, Thomas Giant.
Return of Northampton County.
Congress Daniel Heifter.
Aflfembly Jacob Everly, Thomas Mahorter,Thomas Hartman
Peter Burkhalter.
Return of Lancajler County.
AfTembly Joseph Woik, Abraham Carpenter, Abraham
Whitraer, John Breckbill, James Morrifon, and James Old.
Sheriff John Miller.
Alexander Scott is ele&cd a Senator in the Legislature of Penn
fylvania, in the room of Alexander Lowry, resigned.
In consequence of the fuccdlcs of Lord Cornwallis, Tippoo
Sultan has made overtures lor treating of peace.
The authenticity of the declaration laid to be made by the
crowned heads of Europe iefpetting France, is much doubted.
The late decrees ifTued by the King ot Spain, refpefting foreign
ers refidcnt in that kingdom, appear to have been produ&ive of
much perplexity; one explanatory cditt after another has been
publilhed ; but it is very much expe&ed that the effett of these re
gulations will prove dire&ly the reverse of what was intended.
Two British merchants refiaing at Alicant, Me firs-. Keith and
M'Donald, for declining to conform to the new ordinance, were
imprisoned; but on a representation to the Englifii Ambaflador,
were immediatelv released.
By the Paris intelligence received by the Packet, we find tha
the French Conllitution had not been presented to the King 01
the second of September.
According to the new Constitution of France, the number o!
Rcprelentatives is to be 745; which, according to a calculation,
is about one Representative to thirty-five thousand inhabitants.
The English is one to 16,128, and the Irish, one to 13-339.
The National Assembly ok France have ordered rewards of
2C0,0G0 livrcs to the per Tons concerned in arresting the flight ot the
King— Drouer the Postmaster receives 30,000, and Saug the Pro
cureurtothe Community ol Varennes, '20,000
Exlratl of a letter io a koufe in this city, dated London the 7th Set
J ' 1, . L .
received by the Packet,
" Mr. Hammond goes out immediately as Envoy from our
Court to the United States of America.—Mr. Edward Thornton
is appointed his Secretary.
" The crops of wheat, &c. are plentiful beyond description in
every part of the kingdom."
In the Grantham Packet came pnflengers, the Hon Mr. Ham
mond, Consul General from the Court of Great Britain to the
United States, with his Secretary; and several Ladies and Gentle
men.
The Governor of Maflaehufetls has appointed Thursday the 17th
of November, to be observed as a day of thanksgiving and praifc
throughout that Commonwealth.
The following, when the riot at Birmingham is remembered,
appeals to be the effect of an extra impulse :
Directions where to be found, left by a gentleman of London, before he
went to the Revolution Dinner.
With Freedom's sons, a band divine,
The good, the gen'rous and the wife,
I at the Crown and Anchor dine.
And (up perhaps in Paradise.
Revolutions in government arc always attended with hazard,
and should never be attempted without a mauiteft pro f peft of
making that good, which was bad before—but the miferv of the
business is, that the remonstrances of the people are frldom attend
ed to by rulers, till their patience being cxhauftcd, there appears
to be no other alternative left but that of obeying the impulses of
resentment and pafiion, which too often overpower the voice of
leafon and judgment.
In thecaufeof Liberty, it has been fa id, it is impious to becalm;
but is there any fubjeft that demands the sober, cool deliberation
of man, more than this ?
A just estimation of the precious bleflings of freedom is the re
sult of difpaflionate reasoning. How to fccure ctte&ually the in
valuable pofftflion, has employed the wit, wisdom and study of
the wifefl and belt men in all ages—and yet, alas, how many dif
ferent ideas diftraft the world!-It will be found, when all the
subtleties of logic and metaphysics areexhaufted,
11 * l is from experience that we reason best."
A correspondent fays he trembles for the liber
ties of Frenchmen, on account of the combina
tion of crowned heads against France ; but at the
faint- time observes, that if the people are united
among themselves, and confide in the National
Aflembly, thev will prove invincible. The free
men of France will be more than a match for all
the slaves of Kurope.
'1 lie fame correlpondent observes, that the
friends of philosophy and liberty, wherever r.fi
dent, must regret the inseparable loss which those
interests have fu Gained in the deltrnrtion of Dr.
Priestley's Manufci ipts-The fatal effeds ot a
blind zeal in a partial cause, directed by the 1111-
pulse of fanaticifm and prejudice.
cih the ,r !oi ious hour is on lite v i .
will) every joy that peace can brin s ;
AVI.' n Kn cdnm-s h'-tcd la« «"» tl,c whole >
Without uiic lil-iu Indu» 10 the pole.
203
The annual reviews of the militia (that bul
wark of freedom) in Connecticut, Maflachitfetts,
and New-Hampi.iire, have recently taken place.
A correspondent observes, that it is of the ut
inolt importance to the influence and refpedtabi
lity of every particular State in the Union, that
its militia ihould be well disciplined, as well as
duly equipped. On the general perfualion of the
truth of this Suggeltion, and its consequent im
provement, will in a great measure depend that
equipoifeof Strength i'o neceilary to the tranquil
lity of the Union.
All enlightened people Will ever be attentive
to those nieafures on which the preservation of a
free government depends. Perhaps the interpo
sition of the general go/ernment is not more ne
ceilary in any business rtian in that of eltabliSbing
a uniform plan for the regulation of the militia—
lor without this interference, it is very evident
that the disparity in the relative power of the Se
veral States, already very apparent, will conti
nue to encreafe. This disparity may in time pro
duce jealousies, and injustice.
efterday, pursuant to notification, the Stockholders of the
Bank of the United States, aflembled at the City Hall, of this city,
tor the purpose of chufing 25 Dire&ors according to law—when
the following getlemen were elected :
George Cabot
Fiflier Ames
Jonathan Mason, jun.
Jofcph Barrell
Jeremiah Wadfworth
Philip Livingfton
John Watts
John Lawrance
Rufus King
James Watson
Nicholas Low
Joseph Anthony
Jofcph Ball
Yesterday the President of the United States, and
his Lady, returned to the Seat of Government, from their late
tour to Mount-Vernon, in perfedt Health.
The following; is copy of a return made by Capt. O'Brien, at.
Algiers, to the Ruffian Consul at Gibraltar :
AMERICANS AT ALGIERS, THE 15 th OF MARCH, 1791.
Crew of the ship Dolphin, Captured 30 th of July, 1785.
Zcquins
Capt. Richard O'Brien, ransom demanded 2000
Mate Andrew Montgomery 1500
Jacob Serfainer, French Passenger 2000
William Patterfon keeps tavern 1500
Philip Sloan I
Peleg Loring v Seamen 725
J. Kobertfon 1 725
James Hall J 725
Crew of the Jchooner Mary t taken ihc 25th of July, 1785.
Capt. IfaacSteveus ' 2COO
Mate, Ale xandcr Forfyth 1500
James Cathcart, keeps tavern, yoo
Seotge Smith, in the Dcy's houfcf 0 72s
fohn Gregory > Seamen
* " ) 725
James Harmet
Algcrinc Zcquins,
Duty payable on the above Cam at 10 per cent.
Sundry gratifications to officers of the Dev's houf
hold and regency, equal to 17 1-6 Zequins, each
pcrfon
34792 Mexican dollars arc
Married, Nathan Blodget, Esq. to Mrs Bland, widow
o( the Hon. Theodorick Bland, late ot Cawfon, Virginia.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Eliazabeth, Stonehoufe,
Van Staphoril, Porter,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 21f 21f6 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents \ij
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett), and other Certificates 16J8 i-jJ 85 do.
Indents do.
Rank Suhfcriptions, 140 Dollars.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every description, onCommifion,
at the following rates
ON the specie amount of all sales at au&ion, one eighth p«r
cent.
On ditto at private faleor purchase, one-haj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, seventy-Jive cents per transfer,
pF" Such persons as inay incline to favor the subscriber with
their order.*, may rely on their being executed with punflua/ity,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extenfivc dealings
in the public Rocks, together with a well eftabhfhed correspon
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
0 Sober 15, 1791
A Young Gentleman, of American birth and education (being
a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Academy, to teach the
Latin and English Languages. He has had some experience in
leaching, and trusts he can exhibit fatisfa&ory recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjedf, post paid, addrcflrd to A— S—,
and the care of the Editor heieof, prior to the 25th December, will
be punctually attended to.
Oflober 22, ) 791
WANTED, A NUMBER OF
journeymen Corchvainers,
Who will find conibnt employment and generous waged, by ap
piyinp to the Matter Cordwainers of the City of Philadelphia.
Otlobcr 22,1:91. [eptf]
William Bingham
James Cole Fisher
Herman Le Roy
John M. Nefbitt
Robert Smith
Thomas Willing
Archibald M'Call
Charles Petit
Charles Carroll, M.
Dr. James M'Ciur<*, V,
Samuel Johnfton. N. C.
William Smith, S. C.
•16475
1647 j
20 44
Zeq. 18,362 £-6
Liverpool
Amflerdam
lo 7h P r - cent.
60 do.
65 do.
New-York, No. 57, Kivg-Street.
[taw]FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
The following paraphrase originally appeared in a much more hmitlea
form—bi tuMifhme it with the additions, you will oblige
J The Althok.
CHARITY
13th Chap. \JI Corinthian!, verjijud.
THO' I enraptured wake the unrivall'd lyre,
Warm'd with the Muse's or a seraph's fire,
In various tongues fublimeft wonders tell,
Describe the joys of heaven, the woes of he»l—
Tho' I the lofty heights of faience gain,
And ait's and nature's myftcrics explain—
Tho' fkill'd profoundly in prophetic lore,
With piercing ken futurity explore—
Tho' I have faith fufticient to ft flam
And hurl the ponderous mountains to the mam-
Devoid of Charity, 1 shall be found,
Vain as a fliadow, empty as a found.
Were I poffettVd of affluent India's store,
And unreferv'd dispense it to ths poor
Tho' I resign my body to the flame,
To gain a martyr's or a hero's name—
WhUe felfilh motives aftuatemy foul,
And every nobler sentiment controul,
Void of benevolence, I Hill remain
As nothing empty, as a shadow vain.
Celestial Charity, fuprcmely kind,
Illumes, expands, and animates the mind,
To noble and difintcrefted deeds,
Allures to holincfs, to glory leads,
Disdains each felfifh and contraded plan,
And feeksthe general happinels of man—
Unenvied views the splendors of the great,
And honors merit in the humbleli state—
On human frailties cafls a pitying eye,
And heaves with woe the fympatnetic sigh
Weighs variant tenents with an equal scale—■
Exulting, fees, o'er error, truth pievail —
With pristine beauty reinftamps the foul,
I'eivades each paflion, and fublimcs the whole ;
Dispels each vile afFesiou from the breast,
And opes the regions of eternal reft
To efvery nation, and to every feft
Who fear Jehovah, and his name refpett.
Calm lefignation on her votaries waits,
To smooth the rugged paths of adverse fates ;
And patience mild, dispensing as fhc goes,
Her lenient balm, amid a world of woes;
And brilliant faith, each dreary scene that cheers,
And opes the feats of heaven's perennial years ;
Hence {"uffcring merit lifts a hopeful eye,
And views those happier scenes beyond the sky,
Where equity, enthroned, forever reigns;
Where endless pleasures triumph o'er the plains ;
Where friendlhip, love, and joy united meet,
And injured virtue finds a blest retreat.
Hail peerless virtue, lovelieftof the train—
Fair Charity!— extend thy mild domain
O'er everv land, till war and discord cease,
And every nation join in leagues of peace—
Till fin and error irom their (eats are hurl'd,
And pure religion luminates the world.
When art, when science, and prophetic lore—
When various languages are known no more—
When final ruin o'er the world extends—
W T hen faith in vision. hope in glory ends—
This godlike virtue Charity divine,
Thro' vast eternity shall brighter fiiine—
Awake to praises the celestial choirs,
Aitune their lays, and animate their lyres.
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worceder, MafTachufetts, mod refpeft
fully informs the public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quario Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will be fin idl
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will adrair.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Papers, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejlcr, or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the lad day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highcil approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its corre&nefs, and its cheapness compared with Englifti
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cod, he is led to hope that all those
who wish to poflefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, 2s to add their names
to the fubf«ription.
ll'6rceJlcr,Sept. 29, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
And pofleflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more may be
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, bcfides a variety
of peach and chcrry trees, and a Urge garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two (lory (lone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finiflicd. Also, a fmoke-h.iufe, work-!hoo, granary, waggon,
house; barrack cow-houses, two (lories high'and no feet lon*-, and
a good barn, with (tabling. From the buildings there arecharm
lng vews of Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any person inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
applyingto the fubferiber on the r remifa6,or to Isaac Sno wo en
No. 141, South Second-Hi eet, Philadelphia. '
Princeton, O&ober io, 1791
Lectures on Government& Law.
»T<HE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L L.D. Profeffo. of Laws
J. in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Leflures. One Course to
begin nil the Sccond Monday, the other on the Second Tusfday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, Oftobcr 12, 1791
C
ISAIAH THOMAS.
ISAAC SNOYVDEN, Junior.
[cp2inj
(cotD)
IMPERIAL nYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOIIEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Ot the firtt quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Che (nut and Market Streets
Hazard and Addoms,
BROKERS,
HAVE removed their Office to the corner of Chcfnut and Third
Streets—where they purchalc and fell CERTIFICATES,
BANK STOCK, &c. &c.
Bufintfs of all kinds, in their line, tranfafted on Commission.
They have for fa!c, TICKETS in the Second of the Mas
sachusetts Semi-annual Lottery (the drawing of which will com
mence on the 13th inft.) and in the Twenty-Second Class of the
Chai leftown Lottery, at the Managers prices.
To be let, on moderate Ground Rent, forever,
A Lot of Ground, eligibly situated, in Kensington,
fronting on thice streets. There are improvements on this iof,
which, added to its fuuation, make it worthy of particular atten
tion. Philadelphia, Ocl. 1,1791.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negociated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on LommiJJion, and all other
Business in the line of a BroKer, tianfatted by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office nzxt door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2m
IV. M'D OUG /ILL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his (incere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his scholars, will still ensure him a refpettable (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be atTured, they will be taught in the mo ft approved
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&ifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednefdav ; when the
employers, and strangers of genteel deportment, will be admitted.
These pra£tifmgs will be attended with no expence.
N. B. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Managers of NEW-HAVEN WHARF LOTTERY,
have unexpectedly received information froin abroad, of a con
siderable number of Tickets yet unfold. This renders it vecejjary
for them (in order to answer the design of the Lottery) to adjourn
the drawing to Monday the 17th of October next, at which time
the drawing will positively re-commencej and continue without in
terruption until finilhed.
New-Haven, Sept. 28, 1791
N. B. The numbers alreadv drawn, both prizes and blanks,
will be published immediately, in hand-bills, and in the Connecti
cut Journal, f°r the information of thofc who wish to puichafe
Tickets now undrawn.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and llolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; i ("mail
box, containing four clocks and one dozen tcftaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped veil and
breeches, two shirts and a small with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jei fey coppers; i Aeg containing a large bible, with other
lmall books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork. 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A reward ol Twenty Dollars will be given for the fecurify of
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again.
01 in proportion for part thereof; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, lo that they may be brought to justice, by
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. 1, 1791. [ c P l G
Wanted, a good COOK,
Tp whom genteel wages will be allowed. None need apDly who
cannot be well recommended. Enquire of the Printer.
University of Pennsylvania,
O&ober 7, 1 7qi.
|C?» The MEDICAL LECTURES -mil begin on
thefirfl Mnday in November next.
ADVERTISE M E N T.
f£3T -ft} late arrivals from France, tile Editor has received from
No. 10 to 31, both inclujive, of a Publication which comes out twite a
week in Paris, entitled, " Correspondance Natlo na l e
F'om No. 1 to No. 10, have been flipped, but are not yet come to hand.
Any pcrfon who may incline to fubjeribe for this work, which appears to
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnifhed with the numbers
as they arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
Bank Powers to receive the Imcreft, and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules illablifhed in the tret
th?'Editor tmn ' B ''"' ks J' orai P a &> »/ Certificates, to be fold h
/ °f "" ™tRD SESSION of the SENATE
of the LAI TED S r.-HES, mas i-c had oj the Editor hcrecj.
204
PLAN' OF THE
Gazette of the United States.
I.EiARI.Y and authentic tccoumsof xke Proceedings t>J Cetirrtfs
communicated so as to form an history of the tranla&ions oi the
National Government.
11. Laws, Sec. of the United States.
111. Impartial Sketches ojthe Debates of Congress.
IV. Ejjays on the great fubj-tb of Government; also upon tlie
local and national rights of the American citizens, as founded 111
nature, or on the national or state Constitutions; and on other fub
ji&s suitable for newspaper dif".uflion.
V. A [cries of Paragraphs, calculated to catch the " living man
ners as they rife," and to point the public attention to ol»j that
have an important reference to domestic, social and public hjp.
pinefs.
VI. The Intcrefls of the United States, as connoted with their
literary Institutions; religious and moral objects; improvements
in Science, Arts, Education and Humanity; their foiei n
treaties, alliances, connexions, &c.
VII. Intelligence which ma v affe& the commercial, agricultural
manufacturing, or political interests of the American nation.
VIII. A chain of Domejlic Occurrence
IX. A series of foreign articles of Intelligence.
X. The Jlate of the Funds; Courses of Exchange; Prices Current.
Published every Wednesday and Saturday.
The price to fubferibers, Three Dollars per annum.
The firft semi-annual payment to be made at the time of sub
scribing: The lecond at the end ol the year.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Willbe received in alt the capital tdwn s upon the Continen t; a'.fo at No. 69,
High-Street, between Secend and Third Philadelphia.
AT this important cri(is,the ideas that fill the mind, are preg
nant with events of the greatest magnitude—to strengthen and
complete the union of the States—to extend and pro eft their
commerce —to explore and arrange the national funis —to reftoreand
establish the public credit—will require i\\c energies of the patriots
and sages of our country—Hence the propriety of encreafivg the m
diums of knowledge and information.
AMERICA, fiorn this period begins her national existence—
" the world is all before he r"—the wifd.om and ;01l v—
the mifrry and profpentv of the empires,Jlates y and kingdoms, which
have had.their day Upon the great theatre of time, and arc now no
more, fugged the mod important mementos —these, with the rapid
series of events, in which our country lias been involv d, have
taught the enlightened citizens of the United States, that freedom
and government, liberty and laws, are inseparable.
This convi&ion led to the adoption of the new constitution;
for however various the sentiments, refpe£hng the merits of this
system, all good men are agreed in the necefli y of an efficientfe
deral government.
A paper, therefore, established upon national, independent, and
impartial principles—which shall take up the premif;d ai tides, upon
a competent plan, it is prefurAed, will be highly intereftmg,
and meet with public approbation and patronage.
Tiie Editor of this publication is determined to leave no avenue
of information unexplored :— He solicits the afliftance of pcrfons
of leifureand abilities—which, united with his own assiduity, he
flatters himfelf will render the Gazette of the United States not un
worthy general encouragement and is, with due refped, the
public's humble servant,
April 15, 1789,
(t. f.)
THE plan and execution of the Gazette of the United
States, have received the approbation of a tribunal, from which
there is no appeal.
The fubfenptions, which are encreafing, have long finee exceed
ed the expectations of the publisher—a punctual compliance with
the terms would compensate his labours, and animate his future
exertions.
The Government that an enlightened and free people adopt, is
a sacred consideration—it knows no party —and its prolperity is
founded 011 the public good.
While the people are just r .o themselves, the administration of
their affairs wiil be committed to men of integrity and competent
abilities ; and it will be the duty of patriotism to impress the pub
lic mind with favorable sentiments of the meaiuies ol govern-
ment,
Our country continuing enlightened and free, the period can
not be anticipated when a publication on the plan of this Gazette
fball involve a dereli£tion of those principles with which the li
berties and happiness of the United States are conne&ed.
With refpeft to the circulation of this paper, the Editor regrets
the recent difcppointments which have unavoidably taken placc—
he has always been fully inipreffed with the importance ot punc
tuality. and cannot charge himfelf with a fiigle initance ot ic
miffnefs.
It is very generally supposed that Congress, at the ensuing
feflion, will take measures to ensure the circulation of news-
PAPERSin the United States; and particularly their tranfnr.'lion
from the Scat ol Government to all parts of the Union. Juilice,
policy and patriotism, plead irrefiftably in favor of some ciiettual
provifiera's being made. The following pertinent and judicious
obfervatiows on this fubjeft, lately appeared in an address to the
public from the Editor of the Gazette of Maine. They
are substituted in preference to any thing which the editor of this
paper might further suggest, more particularly as coming from a
remote quarter of the Union.
Perhaps there is no country, in any part of the world, the in
habitants of which are, for may be) supplied with public News
papers at a cheaper rate than those of America. The Farmer 2nd
the Merchant, the Laborer and the Mechanic, may, by the means
of a public Paper, when he retires from the business and fatigues
of the day, take a view of the situation, the circumitances and the
various revolutions of the several countries of the civilized world —
And it mud be a pleasing.circumstance, that this is the privilege*
emphatically the privilege of an American.
44 Let it tnerefore be remembered, that by virtue of this privi
lrge, the body of the people constantly obtain and prefeive such a
degree of knowledge as (Tiall be competent to the prevention of
any attempt that may be made by cunn:ng and defigmng men to
,sap the foundation of our mod iuvaluable conflitution. But, let
the circulation of these Vehicles of Public Information becircurrf
fcribed, and the people will at once become uninformed of public
tranfa&ions, and the more enlightened Jew will engross the privi
leges, immunities and prerogatives, which in the nature and fi'.nels
of things, are the indefeafible right of the whole body ot the
people.
u It is piefumed no American will need a ftimnlus of this na
ture to furnifh himfelf with public information. The cheap rate
at which it is offered, the love and glory of our country, will at
all times promote such a mode of conduct, as shall forever bar tie
attempts of tyranny, ignorance and fuperilition."
<p- Several of t!:e f.rjl vJume ef this Gazette are wantei-c'fi,
and the eriginal coJi t wi Übe iidid for them by the Editor.
CONDITIONS
ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE EDITOR.
POSTSCRIPT.