PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII.A DELPHI \
[No. 41, of Vol. lII.] Saturday, September 17, 1791.
LONDON.
TO put the public in pofleffion of every fact
relative to the late riots at Birmingham, we
find ourselves under the necelfity of giving Them
that inflammatory and treasonable hand-bill
which vvas circulated by the Preibyterian party
011 Wednesday last, in tiie following words:
' My Cnuntrymtn
' The second year of Gallic Liberty is nearly
expired ; at the commencement of the third, on
the 14th of this month, it is devoutly to be wifli
ed that every enemy to civil and religious des
potism, would give his fantftion to the majestic
common cause, by public celebration of the an-
niverfary
' Remember, that on the 14th of July, the Baf
tile, that high altar and callle of despotism fell !
' Remember the cnthufiafin, peculiar to the
cause of liberry, with which it was attacked!
' Remember that generous humanity that
taught the opprefled groaning under the weight
of intuited rights, to save the lives of the op
prellors !
' Extinguish the mean prejudices of nations !
and let your numbers be collei r (ed, and Cent as a
free-will offering to the National Aflembly.
' But, is it polfible to forget that your parlia
ment is venal-, your ininifter hypocritical; your
clergy legal oppreflors ; the reigning family ex
travagant ; the crown of a great peilbriage 100
weighty for the head that wears it; too weighty
for the people who gave it; vour taxes partial
and opprelfive ; your representatives a venal junto
upon the sacred rights of property, religion and
freedom.
' But on tlic 14th of this month prove to the
fycoph.mts of the day, that you reverence the
Olive Branch ; that you will facrifice to public
tranquillity till the majority ill ai I exclaim—
' The pcace of /hue rj is worse than the War cj
Freidom!—of the clay let Tyrants beware!'
Can any man of honest principles—can any
loyal fubjecft—can even the boldelt of our anti
ministerial senators read this without fiiudderinji
at the dreadful scene it was meant to realize : —
Rebellion is featured on its countenance—and
Republicanism centered in its bosom. Hewho
withes to defend his property —he who loved the
Conllituiion under which that property flourifli
ed—muft no doubt have taken the aiarm at so
darinj; a libel against all that was dear to Eng
lifhinen.
The public however was determined before
they proceeded to violence, to have fomefurther
proof of the intention of (hole Conimeinoratioii
ftlen. This hand-bill might be a forgery—or
might be an infidiou* scheme to raise a mob far
the purpose of plunder ; —they therefore waited
till they heard what was said at table—how the
political complexion of the company would ma
liifett itfelf—and whether any thing more than
a mere scene of commemoration conviviality was
intended.
They had indeed their suspicions, and these
fulpicions, after the fir ft course, were realised, by
the following toall being drank :
" DESTRUCTION TO THE PRESENT GO
VERNMENT—AND THE KING's HEAD UPON
A CHARGER."
The inhabitants, and they were almost to a
man refpe«siable house-keepers and manufatfiur
ers, who waited outiide the Hotel to watch the
motions of the revolutionists within, no sooner
■was this treasonable toast made known to tlieni,
than Loyalty fwift as lightning fliot through
their minds, and a kind of eledrical patrjotifm
animated them to instant vengeance. They rulh
ed into this conventicle of treason, and befoie
the second course was well laid upon the table,
broke the windows and glafles, pelted and ini'uli
ed these modern reformers, and obliged tliem to
seek for fafety in an immediate flight.
By eight o'clock, upwards of two thoufancl
persons were collected ; their fir ft a<ft was to
break all the windows of the hotel—they then
proceeded to Dr. Priestley's new meeting house,
which they Siortly con fumed—ihe old meeting
houfc became next the objecft of their fury, and
shared the fame fate. Irritated by one another
against the Dilienters,tbey determined (una voce)
todeftroy Dr. Priestley's dwelling-houle at Pair
hill, one mile from Birmingham. It according
ly was beset about midnight, and before ten
o'clock, the following morning, was entirely de
July 19
inoliilietl. We lament to hear his library and
elaboratory, with ail Ills phiiofophical aparatus,
were confunied, as well as every other article in
the house. The Dr. was apprised of their in
rentions in time to escape with his family to a
house in the neighborhood. Oil Friday morn
ing nine persons were found dead in the ftieers,
and several others have been dangeronlly wound
ed, by the falling of lioufes, &c. &c.
At York, Manchester, Derby, Bristol, and some
other places where the Revolutioniits aflembled
on the 14th in It. the populace {hewed ttrong in
clination to rile, but were prevented by the pre
cautions taken by the magistrates.
RIOTS A-T BIRMINGHAM.
Friday Evening, "July 15.
This Jay, afrer the 1110b had completed the
deltrucftion of Dr. Priestley's house and
tory, by fire, and also his garden, the Eail of
Aylesford, and fume oilier gentlemen, led a great
part of the rioters from Sparkbrook 10 Birming
ham, in hopes of difperling them, but without
effect
A great number, about one o'clock, afTembled
round the eleganr man lion of Mr. John Ryland
(formerly the residence of Mr. Baikerville, the
celebrated printer) which had lately been en
larged and beautified at great expence. The
most foorhing means were adopted to make them
desist—money was even offered them to induce
them to retire, but to 110 purpose ; for, firft ex
haufling the contents of the cellar, they then set
fire to the house ar.d furniture. The conflagra
tion was dreadful !
About half past three, the inhabitants were
summoned by the bell-man to afTemble in the New
Church yard ; two Magistrates attended in an
adjacent room, and swore in several hundred
constables, composed of every description of in
habitants, wl)o marched away to disperse the
rioters, who were employed in the deltriic-'tion
of Mr. Ryland's house.
On entering the \va\ls which surrounded the
house, then all in a blaze, a most dreadful con
flict took place, in which it is iiupoffible to after
tain the number of the wounded. The conita
bles were attacked with such a fhow'erof stones
and brick bats as it was iiupollible to refill. The
iiote:s then poilefling themselves of some of the
bludgeons, the constables were entirely defeated,
many of them being much wounded ; one per
son was killed, but of which party it is not yet
known.
The rnob being now victorious, and heated
with liquor, every thing was to be dreaded, they
began and soon effected the deflrutSion of Mr.
Hutton's house, in the Higli-ltreet, plundering
it of all its property.
From thence they proceeded to the feat of
John Taylor, Esq. banker. There, five hun
dred poundi were offered them to desist, but to
no purpose, for they immediately set fire to that
beautiful mansion, which, together with its su
perb furniture, stables, offices, green lioufe, hot
honfe, &c. are reduced to a heap of ruins.
This day the following hand bill was circula
ted among the people :
Birmingham, July 16, 1791
Friends and Fell'jiv Countrymen !
It is earneltly requested, that every truefriend
to the Church of England, and to the Laws ef
his Country, will refleJt how much a continu
ance of the present proceedings moil; injure that
church and that king they are intended to sup
port ; and how highly unlawful it is to destroy
the rights and properties of any of our neigh
bors. And all true friends to the town and trade
of Birmingham in particular, are entreated to
forbear immediately from all riotous and violent
proceedings, dispersing and returning peaceably
to their trades and callings, as the only way to
do credit to themselves anil their cause, and to
promote the peace, happiness, and prosperity of
this great and flourifhing to\vn.
God SAVK THE KING !
J. Charles
E. Finch R, Spencer
Robert Lawley H. Gefwold I.ewis
Robert Lawley, jun. Charles Curtis
R. Moland Spencer Madan
Edward Carver W. Villets.
John Brooke
Twelve o'clock at r.oon.
The hand-bill has not produced the salutary
effeifts which were wished.
161
HHS O
[Whole No. 249.]
This moment Mr. Button's country-house, a
bout two miles from Birmingham, is 011 fire.'
Eight o'clock in the Evtniug.
The rioters are now demolishing the bearitiful
house of Mr. George Humphrey's, and that of
William liutfel, Elq. a Utile further on in the
Oxford road. Ihe Ihops are still kept fliut up,
and 110 military are yet arrived—dreadful de
predations are expected in the course of This
night ! The remains of several poor wretche*
who had got drunk, and were burnt to death in-
Mr. Ryland's cellar, have been dug out ; one
so much burnt, that he was recognized only by
the buckle in one of his shoes ; what could be
collecfted of his remains have been jull taken a
way in a basket. Another has been brought frdni
the ruins of Dr. PrielHey's house, who is fuppol
ed to have been killed by a fall of some of tba
buildings.
The people who demoiifhed Mr. Humphrey's
house, laboured in as cool and orderly a manner
as if they had been employed by the owner at so
much per day.
Sunday, eleven o'clock In the mortiing.
No military vet arrived. Last night the peo
ple of Birmingham were trembling fpetftators of
the tremendous conflagration of Mofley Hall,the
property of John i aylor, Esq. but in the occupa
tion of Lady Carhampton.
About two this morning a most aweful scene
presented itfelf J four dreadful fires within a
mile of each other ! Ic is certain that the house
of William Rufiell, Esq. and that of Mr. Hawks,
of Mofley, have shared the fate of Mofley Hall.
The gaols have been broke open, and all the
prisoners liberated.
Another express arrived in London lad night,
states, that between Sunday night and Monday
morning, a parry of the military had arrived ;
that notwithrtanding their exertions to Hop the
diftnrbances, the rioters had made a very formi
dable opposition, and killed many; that num
bers having been soldiers, and in the pofleflion
of fire-arms, the troops had fnffered a repulse ;
but that having received a considerable reinforce
ment, they were about to rally and to renew their
attacks against the mal-conter.ts, who w#re actu
ated by the greatest fury.
July 20.
By the Coach of La ft Night.
It gives us particular plenfure to announce to
the public, that peace isreftored to Birmingham,
the tumult having ftibfidecl on .\unday night in
that town, from which the mob had gone in a
large body towards Worcestershire early in the
morning. It was beiieved that a party of them
was gone in pursuit of Dr. Prieltly.
By a private letter from Birmingham, received
yesterday morning, we are informed, that Dr.
Priestly only Caved himfelf from the fury of th«
mob by half an hour's notice. That his plate
had been previously sent off to a friend's house,
and that this and a pi ivate box of manufcripis are
all he has saved of his property.
The Insurgents of Birmingham had made a
gridiron of i mmenfefize, which they brought to
Dr. Prieftley'shoufe, where they said they meant
to broil an Anti-constitutional Philosopher by the
blaze of his own wri.ings, and light the fire with
the Rights ot Man.—Mr. Paine's next pamphlet
is to be called the Wrongs of Man—it is to be an
inflammatory composition on the ruin of his
friend Priestley.
The French nobility in this country are in
high spirits on the return of affairs in France,
which they deem favorable to the Royal cause,
and they every where uxprefs the mod certain
hopes, that the counter-revolution will be fuc
cefsful.
Jiight hundred French officers have offered to
etilift as volunteers in the counter-revolution ar
my.
The large ptircliafe of liorfes fop the counter
revolutionilts has railed the price of that animal
to an excessive degree.
A jew of the name of Caulln, ha* contracted
to furnifh uniforms for ij,ooo men, includin"
3000 huflars.
The King of Spain's letter to the National As
sembly, or rather to the people of France, mean#
in nch more than " meet* the ear." It it mo de
rate indeed in its feletftion of word* ; but it is
a moderation with an If!It is the charadteriftic of the new system intro
duced in Fiance, lo have a molt sovereign eon
tempt for every nation in the world, an P aitl
cularly (thouirti that is nothing new) for the in
nlifli. in the latter opinion'they are ainp y en
couraged by molt of the democratic pamphleteers
of this country. ,
At Dole an infcripiion has been placed on Hie
statue of the King—" Louis XVI. the Firlt and
the Lait King of the French."
The States of Bohemia are himmoned to meet
at Prague on the 3d of September, three days be
fore the coronation of the Emperor, as Kl "§-
His Imperial Majelty is expected there 011 the
3l Mr° f p?o U wden ha. very liberally stepped for
ward in behalf of his brethren the Roman Catho
lics, to express the gratitude of that oc y
late kindnefsof the Legislature ; and at the fame
time has fliewn himfelf a zealous friend to good
Government, by a learned and temperate, yet
manly attack upon thole seditious principles and
that levelling contagion which certain dilcon
tented spirits are so actively labouring to propa
gate in this country.
Lette.s from Stockholm adv.fe, that Baron
d'Armfeldt was lately conducted in a coach to
the fortrefs of Melmoe, where he is intended to
be kept for life.
In one account of the National Commemorati
on at Paris, on Thursday last, it is observed that
Colonel Tarleton, in his American uniform rode
in tlie triumphal car with M. de latayette
M. de Montefquiou made the following extra
ordinary declaration of his religious and pohti
cal creed, in the National Aflembly of trance 011
the 1 3th inftanl. .
<c At this critical moment, no fuperinnons at
tendon is to be paid to the diftindtion of powers :
the body constituent is ,the only providence 111
■which the people can trust."
The following is a very remarkable inltince
of quick failing : The {hip Bridget, Capt. Piatt,
made her paHTage from Africa to the iflautl or Do
minica, in 21 days. In the lad fix days (he fail
ed, by her log-book, 1,322 miles, which 011 an
average is 220 miles a day.
A new light-house 011 the long Slips, near the
Land's End, is begun to be built, Under the di
rection of Lieut. Smith, of the navy, who has the
consent of the Trinity-house for that pnrpole.
This light-house, when finiflied, it is thought,
will be of much service, particularly to coatte.s
palling from one channel to the oilier, through
the dangerous rocks about the Land s End, which
have proved fatal to many.
The Manifefto of the Prince de Conde, againtt
the French Revolution, was published on the 18th
nit. at Worms, but no copies ot it had reached
Paris when the latt accounts came aw y.
Mrs. Gregory, daughter ot Mrs. Macaulay Gra
ham,inherits 6001. per ann. by her mother's death.
A corrclpondent delires us to lay, •'Seveial
people have lately been cured ot the rhetimatifm
by rubbing flour of mnltard, and wearing flannel
oLver the place affected.
A letter from Rome fays, that at an AfiembU,
composed of the Cardinals, it was agreed by all
except one, that Mr. Outre, the fii ft Gentleman
to the French Ambailador, should retract the oath
he had taken to the National Aflembly, or quit
that place in 40 days, and that he had according
ly chosen the former.
The following is a literal trunflation of a French let
ter, addrejfed by /V/'*. Thoi/uis Paine, to Abbe Sey
es, and inserted on the nth of this month, in the
Patriate Francoife. Parts, Bth July, 179*-
" AT the moment of my departure for En
gland, I read in the Moniteur of Tuesday lall,
your letter, in which you give the challenge, 011
the fubjedt of government, and offer to defend
what is called the monarchical opinion againit the
republican system.
I accept of your challenge with pleasure ;
and 1 place such a confidence in the superiority
of the republican system over that nullity of sys
tem, called monarchy, that I engage not to exceed
the extent of fifty pages, and to leave you the
liberty of caking as much latitude as you may
think proper.
" The refpedt which I bear your moral and
literary reputation, will be your security for my
candor in the courfc of this difculiion ; but, not
withltanding that 1 lhall treat tlie fubjetft seri
ously and sincerely, let me premise, that I consi
der myfelf at liberty to ridicule as they deserve,
rnonnfchical absurdities, whensoever the occasion
fliall present itfelf.
" By repubiicanifin, I do not understand what
the name ilgnifies ill Holland, and in lome parts
of Italy. I understand simply a government by
representation—a government founded upon the
principles of the declaration of rights ; princi
plas to which several parts of the French Consti
tution arise in contradiction. The declaration
of the rights of France and America are but one
and the fame thing in principles, and ahnofl in
expreflions ; and this is the republicanHm which
I undertake to defend agaiaft what is called mo
narchy and arijiocrac}-.
« I fee with pleasure, that in refpetft to one
noint we are already agreed ; and that u the «c
---of a Civil Lift *f thirty rnillloK. 1
can dilcover no reason why one of the parts of
the government should he supported withftex
travapanr a profuiion, whilst the other Icarcely
receives what is fufticient for its common wants.
- This dangerous and diflionorable d.fpropoi
tion, at once ftpplie. the one with the means of
corrupting, and throws the other into the pie
is but little difference with regard to this point
between the and the executive part ot
onr government ; but, the fi.lt, is much better
attended to than in France. t u_
" In whatsoever manner, bir, I may treat the
fubjetft of which you have proposed the nivelti
pration, I hope that you will not doubt my enter
taining for you tbe highest eiteem. I must also
add, that 1 ain nit the perftnal enemy of kings .
Quite the contrary : No man more heartily
wilhes than myfelf to <ee then, all in the happy
and honourable state of private individuals ; but
I am the avowed, open, and intrepid enemy ot
what is called monarchy i and I am such by prin
ciples which nothing can either alter or corrupt
—by my attachment to humanity ; by the anxi
ety which 1 feel within for the dignity and the
honor of ihe human race ,by the disgust which
I experience when I observe men directed by
children ' overned by brutes ;by the horror
which all -he evils that monarchy has spread o
ver the eat , excite within my brealt; and by
those sentiments which make me shudder at the
calamities, the exactions, the wars, and the mal
facres with which monarchy has cruflied man
kind : In fliort, it is againlV all the hell ot mo
narchy thai | have declared war.
J (Signed) THOMAS PAINE.
It appears, tliat under pretence of forming an
encampment, Mommedy, where the King ot the
French hoped to find an asylum against the per
fections of his own been filled with
an aftonifhiug number of tents.
The people there had been, for some time he
fore the escape of the King, baking bread day
and ni<»ht. A large quantity of oxen had been
bought. The town was, in (hort, full of ail kinds
of pT-ovifions and warlike ammunition.
Montmedy is situated 011 a mouutain, which
commands the roads which lead to Mctz, to SuO
nay, and to Sedan. It is exceedingly (trong,
both by nature and art.
In the reign of Louis XIV. it sustained during
forty days with open trenches, a vigorous siege,
at which the King was prelent, though the gar-
rifon confiftecl of only 3 00 men.
The town is bounded on the north by meadows,
through which glides the River Chier. These
meadows are of great extent, and are surround
ed with hills which reach the Aultrian territories
at about two leagues diltance.
This would have been a charming situation for
M. de Bonille's Camp. Here he would have
trenched himfelf under she A/tillery of the for
trefs; while he could have ealily maintained a
correspondence with the Auftrians, and secured
a fafe paflage to the French emigrants.
MANNER OF THE ESCAPE OF
MONSIEUR and MADAME.
" Monsieur and Madame arrived at Mons in 27 hours from Pa
ris accompanied only by the Count d* A •, and an English ser
vant belonging 10 that Nobleman. It was through the ftratagein
and afliftance of this man,that they effected their escape. He dis
guised the Prince in a plain black suit of clothes, blackened his
eyes with a oencil, and drefTed.him in one ©f those wigs used in
England, which never require dressing ; in thort, he equipped him
as an homespun English Gentlemen. Thus accoutred, and speak
ing bad Fiench, interlarded with Englilh, making life of a forged
palTport, which the ingenuity of the fame fellow had provided,
Monsieur and his contort cleared the Frontiers of France, though
not without some danger of being discovered from an unfortunate
accident that happened to them from their carriage being over
turned in the cross-roads in order to avoid palling through the
town of Maubeuge.
The Dukes Montmorency and Laval, with the Count de Bri
enne and some other French Noblemen, were waiting at Mons
for Monsieur's arrival. The latter after flaying there a few hours,
proceeded by Namur to meet the King and Queen in the Province
of Luxembourg. He arrived at marche en Famine, in the evening
of the 23d, where he lodged at the house of a private gentleman
who had been previoully informed of his coming. The Prince
bein" still upon the borders of France,thought it prudent to keep
| himfelf incog. He is now fafe at Namur.
ANECDOTE OF M. DE BOUrilE
This nobleman, whose late conduift in France |
has surprised nlany, is poflefTed of every amiable
qualification—brave as Csfar, he is as humane as
he is brave—When Commandant-General of the
French Weft India islands, during the late war,
a fliip was cast away on one of them, which had
on board several hundred Englfthmen—Thefe,
in a deplorable situation, fu-pplicated the Marquis
to receive them, and to be made prisoners of war.
" No," returned the Geuera'l, " The King, my
inalter, does not make war with the elements—
had you been taken in battle, you (hould remain
his prisoners; but your cafe il otherwise—l have
ordered you cloathing and refrefhment —and
have directed a ship to be got ready to transport
you to the dominions of your King."—Which
was done.
162
montmedy
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
July 10.
The following note from M. de Florida Blanca
to the Spanilh Ambaflador at Paris, written in
the name of his Catholic Majesty, was official
ly comii'iniicatetl to the Aflembly.
" THE retreat of his Molt Christian Majesty
from Paris, his intentions, his complaints eoulj
not originate from any ether cause than the
hopes of freeing liimfelf and the royal family
from the outrages of the people.
" It may ealily be proved that the present As
sembly, and the municipality had not the power
to stop, or to puriifh them tor endeavouring to
repair to a place of fecuriry, where the Monarch
might form deliberations with the true and law
ful" Reprefenratives of the Nation, acfting in full
freedom. Of this privilege it is too evident that
his Majesty has hitherto been deprived.
" On these accounts, his Molt Catholic Majes
ty, as the firm ally of France, as a near relative
and friend of his Christian Majesty, and as pof.
feffing a kingdom contiguous to his dominions,
takes the deepest interest in the happiness and
tranquility of the French Nation. He is so far
from wishing to disturb them, that he conjures
and exhorts the French to reflect on the insults
which their Sovereign has experienced, and
which were the causes of the steps which he
found himfelf obliged to take. He warns them
to refpeit the high dignity of his sacred person,
and to maintain and defend the prerogatives of
their Sovereign and the immunities of the Royal
Family.
" The French Nation may reft allured, that so
long as they fulfil these duties (and his majeftjr
hopes they will always fulfil them) they will
find the King always ready to manlfeft towards
them, the fame fentinients of friendlhip and re
gard which he has ever (hewn them and which
are much better suited with their situation than
any other measures."
The Aflembly was resolved to obfervethemoft
profound silence, after the reading of this pa
per ; and the only notice which they resolved
to take of it was to order the military commit
tee to take proper precautions that the frontiers
may be in a (Vate of defence.
At length M. de St. Etienne observed, that at
the intention of the Spanish minister was that
this paper should be communicated to the As.
fembly, it was highly proper to return ananfwer,
and that this answer should be given in a molt
solemn manner, asfollows.—" That a* the French
nation does not intend to meddle with the affairs
of foreign powers,(o foreign powers have no buG
nefs to meddle with the affairs of the French na-
This opinion was highly applauded and adopted.
July 20.
Declarations of two hundred and ninety deputies on the decren
which suspended the exercise of the royal authority, and which
infringe the inviolability of the sacred person of the king-
Observations at the fitting of the morning of the sth5 th ot J U T'
M. de Foucault, one of our number, demanded to be he>rd "
order to announce this declaration to the aflembly, an ope
follows :
" Gentlemen, . ,
" A great number of my colleagues, amounting to nearly three
hundred in number, whole opin,on I have the honor to pamci
pate, think, that in our present critical c.rcumftances, it ui »m
bent upon them loudly to declare their principles, and I to> appoint
me as their organ to you. In consequence, I 'avc
present to you a declaration expreflive of our ■ en "™ e °'' ,
(ball be the rule of our conduct. It is dictated by our fide, m>
the King, by our unalterable attachment to the P r ' n «P le! ° f ™
narchv, and 10 the true interell ol the people, fromj
separable. I demand permiflion to read it and lay p
Scarcely had M. de Foucault, after having P^™''J IOn ;
began to speak, when the order of the day w " dc ™" de y jn
number of voices. The president put this m " t,on ( j ecic< - c j )
the middle of the tumult which it had excited. . ~f h j.
without M. de Foucault having been able to make h
and soon after the fitting adjourned.
DECLARATION.
" Three months have scarcely elapsed since we, ep
derfigned, made known to our constituents our pro ' <j of
decree, which attacked the sacred principles o i
the King's person. The zeal with which many- of»dk
on the 21ft of March, the conv.ftion which we ente
it was impoflVole to violate with impunity this princ _
tial to all monarchy, and too well juftifieo y ine c w hich w e
sing under our eyes, and by the afflicting fpeftacle
have the misfortune to be witness. l v au _
« The king and royal family conducedl as
thority of the decrees of the national a n" 1 commands
guarded in his palace by soldiers, not u j c thr kins has no
the royal family entrusted to a guard, over wo rc f ump tive
authority ; the right of d.reftmg the education o P ndfat her
heir of the throne taken from him, who, o. » .ij^nontodi
had the most undoubted right, and the ,on 5 c * declared
reft it ; in fine, the monarch, whose inviolabili ty Merci f e
even bv the constitution, suspended by a c^ ree , v Kich wc»
of his authority ; such is the afflicting P c ac . : ouS and 100
good Frenchmen, lament, and such are t"e °? [ >c red and
fatal consequences of the firft violation offered to thi.
fundamental principle. , n moelled to Te ' c „ f
" And we ought to declare it, since we J ani against
to the decree iifclf against which we hax c P s which *»
which we still protest, there is none of thofc m
not befoie prefenbed by the constitution, in t
they are taken. The sacred person ot '" e k "» wb , chi co ntrarV
violable, one only cafe was provided > f u ppofcd l 1 "1
all the principles effrntial to the monarclly QCCU rred;
that inviolability might ceafc. This ca c own ca «.
neverthelefj, the king is dragged as a crim def ol l e d o his
tal, and made a pnfoner in his ™ D fr f n '°d !he inviolability of*
1 prerogative. 7 hus, after having i £ dellroy it*
king by decrees, they annul them in order to deltroy" Amidst these outrages offered to the monarch, to his august
family, and in their pcrfons to the whole nation, what has become
of the monarchy ? The decrees of the national assembly have cen
tered in themselves all the royal power ; the seal of the state has
been deposited on their table ; their decrees are rendered execu
tory without requiring fan&ion ; they give direfl orders to all
the agents of the executive power; they iinpofe, in their own
name, oaths, in which Frenchmen do uot even find the name of
their king ; commiflioners, who have received their million from
them alone, traverse the provinces, in order to receive oaths which
they exatt, and give dire&ions to the army ; thus at the moment
at which the inviolability of the king was annulled, monarchy
wasdeftroyed; the appearance of royalty no longer exists : a re
publican interim.
" Far from all those, who are acquainted with the rules of our
conduct [and, we believe, there are very few Frenchmen who do
not rightly appreciate them] be the idea that we could concur
in such decrees. They are not less unpleasant to our feelings than
repugnant to our principles.—Neverhavc we more fevcrely felt
the rigor of our duty ; never have we more lamented the fatal
consequences resulting from the miflion with which we were
charged, than when forced to remain witnesses of acts, which we
regarded as culpable attempts, while those who are mod frequent
ly our organ, become timid, for the firft time condemned them
selves to silence, that they might not involve the faered cauffe in
that unpopularity which hasfo ingeniously been contrived to be
thrown upon our party. Without doubt, if we were guided by
common rules ; if we yielded to the horror with which we were
inspired by the idea of being thought to approve, by our presence,
decrees to which we were so averse, we would fly without delay ;
we would without hesitation separate from an assembly, who have
been able to break through principles which they had been forced
to preserve. But in circumstances so similar, we can neither as
sume common rules, nor our own sentiments as the bias of our own
condutt. When our principles, our honor, may perhaps in the
opinion of a great number, command us to fly, motives more im
perious still exa£b of us a painful facrifice, that of remaining, in a
situation where we preserve the hope of preventing greater evils.
" Before the calamitous epoch at which we are arrived, we
could at least grasp the shadow of monarchy : we fought upon the
wreck ; the hope of preserving it juftified our conduct. Now,
the last blow has been given to monarchy ; but in addition to that
great motive, we were bound by other duties. The monarch ex
ists, he is captive ; it is for the King's fake that we ought to rally
our strength ; it is for him, it is for his family, it is for the preci
ous blood of the Bourbons, that we ought to remain at the post,
where we can watch over a deposit so valuable.
" We will discharge then this sacred duty, which alone ought
be our excufe,and we will prove, that in our hearts the monarch
and the monarchy can never be separate.
" But whilst we comply with this urgent duty, let not our con
stituents expect to hear us come forward on other fubjc£ts. While
one interest only can force us tb fit with those who have raised a
mis-shapen republic upon the ruins of monarchy, it is to that in
terest alone that we are wholly devoted. From this moment, the
mod profound silence, on whatever (hall not relate to this fubjedt,
(hall express our deep regret, and at the fame time invariable op
poiiticn to every decree that niay be passed.
" In fine, let our constituents turn their attention to the cir
cumstances in which we arc placed ; if, in the present moment we
have not gloried in marching toremoft in the path of honor, our
situation now imposes both with regard to them and to ourselves,
duties which do not go beyond ourselves alone. For us, honor
lies no 1 onger in the common track ; our sole obje£l is ihe triumph
of thefacred cause with which we are entrusted : But let them be
beforehand assured, ihat whatever may happen, to whatever ex
tremities we may be reduced, nothing wiil efface from our hearts
the unalterable oath which irrevocably binds us to the monarch
and to monarchy.
" After these confutations, which appear to us founded upon
the true interest of the nation, and the eternal advantage of the
people, essentially dependent on monarchy, wc declarc to all
Frenchmen :
" That alter having constantly opposed all the decrees, which
in attacking Royalty, either in its eiTence or in its privileges, have
prepared the people to receive without indignation, as without ex
amination, the anti-monarchical principles to which thefc days of
anarchy have given birth :
" That after having defended till the last moment, monarchy,
undermined in its foundations :
lt That afjer hiving seen its ruin completed by the deliberations
of the National AfTembly; for to attack, the person of the monarch,
is to annul monarchy ; to suspend monarchy, is in fine to destroy
it :
" Nothing can authorise us any longer to take part in delibe
rations, which become in our eyes guilty of a crime which we do
not wifhto participate.
" But that monarchy existing in the person of the monarch,
from whom it is inseparable; that his misfortunes and those of
his augtift family impofmg upon us a stronger obligation always
to surround his august pet fori and defend it from the application
of principles which we condemn ; we place our sole honor, our
most sacred duty in defending with all our might, with all our
zeal for the blood of the Bout bons, with all our attachment to the
principles which our constituents have transmitted to us, the in
terest of the king, and the royal family, and their indefeafible
rights.
" That in consequence, we (hall continue, from the sole motive
ef not abandoning the intcrelts of the person of the king, and the
royal family, to alfift at the deliberations of the National AfTem
bly; but being neither able to avow their principles, or recognize
the legality of their decrees, we will henceforth take no part in de
liberations which have not for rheir objedt the only intercft which
it now remains lor us to defend."
Paris, June 29, 1791.
All to God, and all to the King.
Signed by nearly 300 members.
ALBANY, September 5,
We have the pleasure of now being able to inform the public
that from the survey lately made by the Surveyor General of the
intended jun&ion oi the waters of Lake-Champlain and the North
River, it appears that that object will be much more easily ac
compliftied than could be expe&ed. The whole distance from
Fort-Edward to the Wood-Creek not exceeding 6 miles, nearly
one half of which being up the creek that empties into the Hud
son at Fort-Edward, and can be made navigable with a little ex
pence, the remainder of the dillance being nearly on a perfe6t le
vel, without a single spot of intervening high-ground, and having
every circumstance in its favor to facilitate the opening of a canal.
The advantages which will arise from opening this avenue of
trade, from the northern parts of the state, mud strike every one
in so obvious a point of view, that we trnft our leg'.flature will, at
their next meeting, embrace those favorable opportunities which
nature has pre fen led, and make provision for putting it into exc-
cution.
N E W-Y O R K, September is.
A correspondent who has just arrived in town from Philadel
phia, in justice to the hoyt of that city and ils liberties, declares—
that tho' he traversed the Itreets by night and by day, thoroughly
and universally, generally and paiticularly, on foot and on horse
back, in fair weather and in foul, he did not meet with any of
those formidable battalions of the " Rising generation," which
arc spoken of with so many alarming circumftsnces of terror and
affright in some length) paragraphs o! one of their late papers j
and that excepting a small cut in the face, from the carelessness
of a barber's boy, near Pewter-platter alley (w'no was /having him
by candle light) he received no injury whatever either in his flefli
or bones, his goods or his chattels, from those far famed combina
tions of puerile light infantry. He was well informed that the
few instances of outrage that have been committed, have chiefly
arisen frorp the want of a little common resolution on the pait of
such gentlemen as have been attacked ; and, upon the whole, he
is convinced from his own as well as from the experience of ma
ny pet (ons of his acquaintance, that there is no city in the United
States where a man may conduct his frail tabernacle thro' the
flreets in greater fafety, than in the celebrated metropolis known
by the name of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, September 17.
FURTHER EUROPEAN ACCOUNTS,
By the Hope, arrived at New-York.
THE Anniversary of the French Revolution was Celebrated in
many parts of England and Ireland. At the Crown and Anchor
Tavern, London, nearly a thousand persons were alTemblcd and
dined together on this occasion. A number of patriotic toasts
were given—An Ode, written by Mr. Merry, was recited, and
the following Stanzas, accompanied by a band of music, sung in
the gallery by Mr. Sedgwick : —
FILL high the animating glass,
And let the elettric ruby pass
From hand to hand, from foul to foul;
Who shall the energv controul,
Exalted, pure, reftn'd,
The Health of Human lyind.
Not now a venal tribe shall raise
The song of prostituted praise,
To fov'reigns who have feiz'd their power ;
But at this gay, this iib'ral hour.
We blcfs what Heaven defign'd,
The Health of Human kind.
We turn indignant from each cause
Of man's difmay—from partial laws—
From Kings who vainly seek by flight
To shun the blaze of moral light;
We bless what Heaven defign'd,
The Health of Human kind.
CHORUS.
Assert the hallow'd Rights which Nature gave,
And let your last best vow be, Freedom or the Grave.
The ensuing Toajis were :
The Sovereignty of the People, a&ing by a free representation
in every nation.
The increased, increasing and sacred flame of LIBERTY.
Perfe£l Freedom, instead of Toleiation, in matters of Religion.
The Liberty of the Press.
The Trial by Jury, and may the Rights of Jurymen to protest
the innocent, for ever remain inviolate.
The Literary chara&ers who have vindicated the Rights of
Man, and may genius ever be employed in the cause of Freedom.
THANKS TO MR. BURKE FOR THE DISCUSSION HE HAS
PROVOKED.
An address was thert delivered to the company by a French
gentleman of diftin£lion : After which, the company separated
and retired home. In the evening some boys went about calling
for lights, which were however soon extinguished by orders from
the Magistrates.
At Belfaft, in Ireland, the day was celebrated by the Volunteers
and inhabitants at large, and by the Northern Whig Club —and
the day palled in great conviviality and tranquility. The inhabi
tants walked in proceflion through the town. After dinner a
great number of toasts and fcntiments were given—and a declara
tion highly approbating the Revolution of France unanimously
agreed to, and voted to be sent to the National Aflembly. In the
toasts drank at the patriotic meetings in England and Ireland, the
United States, and those eminent chara&ers who have borne a
conspicuous part in effecting the Independence of our country, are
never forgot—but are always mentioned with peculiar refpeft.—
The anniversary of the grand Confederation was celebrated with
eclat in Paris, and the city splendidly illuminated.
There are accounts in the London papers received via France,
that the British army in India has defeated Tippoo Saib. The
Britifn army consists of 23,000 fighting men—the followers ex
ceed 200,000. The ground it covers in its march in general ex
tends Bor 9 miles. The Empress of Ruflia is said to be danger
ously sick. The negociations for peace between the Empiefs, the
Empetor, and the Grand Seignior, having been broken off, hosti
lities have again commenced. v The last Englifii meflenger from
Peterfburgh brought no definitive intelligence. The Englifti naval
armament is still continued.
The English papers also contain a memorial from the Prince of
Conde to the National Assembly, in answer to the Decree of nth
June. In which he fays, " France (hall never again behold me,
so long as reason and justice are banished from her, and so long as
she is the prey of the faflious who mislead her."—Also a letter
from the officers of M. Bouille's army at Luxemburg; in which
they fay, " We swear upon our honor (the only thing that re
mains to us) that we will die for the deliverance of our King."—
£These articles in our next.J
The ceremony of translating the body of Voltaire to the French
Pantheon, was attended with great pomp and solemnity, on the
11th July.
The last advices from Germany (under the London head of
July 19) seem to confirm the idea of peace being soon established.
With mobs and infurreftions we generally aflociate the idea of
Tyranny and Oppression on the part of the Government—but
when riots and outrages are committed on those who arc advo T
catcs for a reform in the abuses of government, we may well ex
claim—" The woild's turn'd upside down."
There is one idea however connected whh this business that may
be of use, and that is, that mobs may be excited without any, as well
as by a just cause.
As the several accounts received of the late riots in Birming
ham bear one and the fame complexion, and are accompanied
with no extenuating circumstances, it may justly be expeftcd that
the whole truth is not yet told
In Birmingham the great mass of the inhabitants are manufac
turers and artisans—hundreds, perhaps thoufarjds ol them, are de
pendant for their daily employment on a few individuals—the
apprehensions probably excited in their minds, that the preva
lence of French revolution principles would in their operation un
hinge the present regulations ot government, and throw them out
ol immediate employ, and confequcntly deprive them of subsist
ence, gave rife to their opposition to the celebration of the anni
versary of French Freedom.
To fay that the agency of government was employed on this
occasion, amounts to the fame as faying that either the people are
mobbifhly attached to the government, or that the government
pofleffcd in this instance an influence or power equal to controuU
mg the popular opinion.
It may be perhaps fafely aflerted, that no judgment can be
formed of the predominant fcntiments of the people of England,
from the Birmihghain fample—-for it is probable that, had the
mobility in other places been excited to rife, a very different dc
fcription of chara&ers would have been fufrerers.
163
The following beautiful ODE was fang at Liverpool at the celebratlcrt
of the Anniverfdry of 14th July.
O'ER the vine-cover'd hills and gay regions of France,
See the Day-dar of Libeity rife ;
Thro' the clouds of dejra&ion, unwearied, advance,
And hold its new courfc thro' the skies.
An effulgence so mild, with a lustre so bright,
All Europe, with wonder, surveys ;
And from defarts of darkness, and dungeons of night,
Contends for a share of the blaze.
Let Burke, like a bat, from its splendor retire,
A splendor—too strong for his eyes ;
Let pedants, and fools, his effufions admire,
Intrapt in his cobwebs, like flies :
Shall frenzy, and fophiflry, hope to prevail
Where reason opposes her weight;
When the welfare of millions is hung in the scale,
And the balance yet trembles with fate ?
Ah who 'midst the horrors of night would abide,
That can taste the pure breezes of morn ;
Or who, that has drank of the crystalline tide,
To the feculent flood wou'd return ?
When the bosom of beauty the throbbing heart meets,
Ah who can the transport decline ?
Or who that has tasted of Liberty's Sweets,
The prize, but with life, wou'd resign ?
—But 'tis o'er—high Heav'n the decision approves—
Oppreflion has struggled in vain ;
To the Hell she has form'd, Superstition removes,
And Tyranny bites his own chain.
In the records of Time a new iEra unfolds, —
All Nature exults in its birth—
His Creation, benign, the Creator beholds,
And gives a New Charter to Earth.
O catch its high import, ye winds, as ye blow!
O bear it, ye waves, as ye roll!
From regions that feel the fun's vertical glow,
To the fartheft extremes of the pole.
Equal Rights, equal Laws to the nations around,
Peace and Friendship its precepts impart—
And wherever the footileps of Man shall be found,
May he bind the Decree on his heart.
ExttaElof a letterfrom Danville.Kentucky, via Richmond, dated Aug. 22.
" An express from Gen. Wilkinfon has this moment reached
this place, informing of his success. He has destroyed a large In
dian town situated on the Wabafh; also a Kickapoo town, con
taining about 30 houses, and killed and taken 42 of the enemy.
His loss, 2 men killed and one wounded, I have not as yet heard
where the express left him, but expect he has re-pa fled the Ohio
before this time."
When it is coniidered that there are in France three millions of
citizen-foldicrs, all armed in defence of the Constitution, the hopes
of success in attempts to effect a counter-revolution must be built
on a very slender foundation.
Thursday afternoon, the President of the United States, his
Lady and Suite, left this City on a tour to Mount Vernon.
The Anniversary Commencement of Dartmouth College, in
Hanover, N. H. was held the 24th ult. when the Degree of Ba
chelor in Arts was conferred on forty young gentlemen.
A GENERAL ELECTION is to be held for the City and
County of Philadelphia, on Tuesday the iithday of October
next, at the State-house. The Ele&ion to be opened between the
hours of ten in the morning and one in the afternoon : The Elec
tors of the City and County are to ehoofe—
One Representative for the City and County^
of Delaware, ( t pr
One Representative for the Counties ot Phila-f °
delphia and Bucks, J
r ive persons for Reprefentativcs for the City, /In the General
five persons for the County, ) Assembly.
Two persons for Sheriffs, and
One Commiflioner for the County.
Died at Portland, Diftri£lof Maine, Mt.Samuel Dyer Deer
ing, aged 22. A young gentleman who bid fair to be a ufeful
and ornamental member of society.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Delaware, Waters, Charleilon.
Elizabeth, Peacbck, Liverpool.
Brig Eliza, M'Kav, Jamaica.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
ao/6 pr. I
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates 2oj
Indents 12f
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15J
Bank Subscriptions,
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
LOTTERY TICKETS.
New-Jersey, ed Class—to commence drawing 26th inft. > Pofi-
MafTachufetts Semi-annual, 2d Class, 13th O&ober. £ tively
May be had as above.
IF THOMAS FRANKS, lately of Little York, in Virginia,
(but originally of Scarborough, in Yorkshire, Great-Britain)
will make himfelf known, together with his present placc of rc
fidence, either to his brother John Franks, who is now in this
Port, or to the subscriber, he will hear of something greatly to his
advantage. THOMAS ROBINSON.
Portland, (Diftrifl of Maine) Augufl 29, 1791.
P. S. In cafe of the dcceafe of Mr. Franks, his legal heir or
heirs are requeftcd to forward their names and placcs ot abode to
Mr. Rob 1 nson, as above.
Georgetown, September 9,1791.
THE Sales of the Lots in the Federal City will commence on
Monday the 17th day of October next. The Commiflioncrs
finding they may engage materials and workmen for the public
buildings to any deferable extent; with a view to draw the fund
into a&ion. so as to facilitate the work, instead of a deposit of 8
per cent, will require I.4th part of the purchase money to be paid
down, the residue to be on bonds with security, pa/able with i.i
tereft in three equal payments. The manner of improvement will
be publiflicd at tbe falc.
io2jpr. cent.
60 do.
do.
par
60 do.
12/6
138 Dollars,
Thomas Johnson, f
David Stuart, > Commiflianeri.
DaniilCakoil,)NEW CONSTITUTION
OK THE
GOVERNMENT Oi' POLAND, See. &c,
ARTICLE VII
Ths King, or Exccutivs sower.
r T~*nE inoft perfect government cannot exill or
X lalt without an effectual executive power.
The happiness of the nation depends 011 jult laws,
but the good clients of laws flow only from their
execution. Experience has taught us, that the
neglecting this eflential part of government has
overwhelmed Poland with difaticrs.
Having, therefore, secured to the Polish nation
the right of enacting laws for themselves, tiie
fuprcine infpeetion over the executive power,and
the choice of their niagiitrates, we entrujt it, the
King and his Council, the highejl psiver cj executing
the Ijwj.
This Council (hall be called Straz, or the Coun
cil of InfpetKion.
The duty of such execuiive power shall be to
watch over the laws, and to fee them ltrittly ex
ecuteJ according to their import, even by the
means of public force, fhouJd it be necellary.
All departments and magistracies are bound,
to obey its directions. To this power we leave
the right of controling such as are refractory, or
of puni/hing such as are negligent in'the executi
oii of their refpettive offices.
This executive power pannot alluine the light
of making laws, or of their interpretation. It is
expressly forbidden to contract public debts ; to'
alter the repai tition of the national income as fix
ed by the Diet ; to declale war ; to conclude
definitively any tieaty, or any diplomatic act ; it
is only allowed to carry on negociaiions with fo
reign Courts, and facilitate temporary occurren
ces ; always with reference to the Diet.
The Crown of Poland w? declare to be elec
tive in regard to families, and it is fettled lb for
ever.
Having experienced the fatal cffetfls of inter
regna, periodically subverting government, and
being desirous of preventing forever all foreign
influence, as well as of insuring to every citizen
a perfect tranquility, we have, from prudent mo
tives, resolved 16 adoi>t, hereditary fuccedion to
our Throne, therefore we enact and declare,that,
after the expiration of ojir life, according to the
jjracious will of the Almighty, the prelent Elec
tor of Saxony lhall reign over Poland.
The dynasty of the future Kings of Poland
lhall begin in the person of Frederick Angultus,
Elector of Saxony, with the right of inheritance
to the Crowrt to his male defceiidants. Tiie el
dest son of the reigning King is to fucreed his
father ; and in cafe the present Elec'tor of Saxony
lias no male ilT'ue, a htifband choleu by him
the'eonfent and approbation of the Republic) for
his daughter,fhall begin the laid dynalty. Hence
we declare thac'the Priricels Mary-Augufla Ne
pom upena, only daughter of the Elector of Saxo
ny, to be infanta of Poland.
We reserve to the nation, however, the right
of electing to the throne, any other houfo or fa
mily, after the extinclion of the firft.
Every King, on his acceilion to the throne,(hall
take a solemn oath to God and the nation, tol'up
port the prefenc Conllitution, to fulfil the patta
conventa, which will be fettled with the present
Eleflor of Saxony, as appointed to the crown,
and which shall bind him in the fame manner as
former ones.
The King's person is sacred and inviolable ; as
no a (ft can proceed immediately from, him, he
cannot be in any manner refp.jnfible'to the nati
on ; he is not an absolute monarch, but the fa
ther, and the head of the people ; his revenues
as fixed by thepatta couvtnta, shall be sacredly
preserved. All public arts) the ads of inagillra
eies, and the coin of the kingdom, lhall bear his
name.
who ought to poflefs every power
of doing good, shall have the right of pardoning
thole that are condemned to death, except the
crimes be gainst the Stare.
lii tiiue of war he (hall have the supreme com
mand of the national forces—he may appoint the
commanders of the army, however, by the will
°f the States. It shall de his province to paten
tee officers in the army, and other dignitaries,
coiifjnant to the regulations hereafter to be ex
preHed, to appoint Bishops, Senators and Minis
ters, as members of the executive power.
{ To be continued.)
C-3 B lank Powers to receive the Intrreft, andforthe trailer, nf t!„
principal of public deht, agreeable to the R„/ (S eflaHifiled in the Trec
>h?EJrn' tm "" •' J ¥° r - Unks J orab of Certificates, to be fold by
advertisement.
a'^^l! a> l2tt/ rom / ra pu- tke - Edi,or *" reC{ i v( d from
*>eek h pVris " Pub " c ° ,! °» co.a out due a
r \t '*» " R R KSl'Onbance NATIONALE ''
' om h °- Ito -V have been fhipwd, but are not ut come to hand
>r ,„r U „e toMjcribe for this ZT.tVanl'o
' patriotic, may be funified with
* tkv um< " h o' « the Editor oj tins CazeUe.
(COKTI KC Z o.)_
IV. M'D 0 U C A L L'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School.Room,
No. 2S, Carter's Alley.
T TE returns l.is.Jinctrc tijanks for the gieat encouragement he
Jti hat cxpei ieuccd tbtfe eighteen years ; hopes the reputation
of Ills folio <i 101 decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his u iiolars, will still enfurc him a refpedtablc share ot the
public favor.
A number of n-.w Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those v. no plcafe to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be assured, they will bf taught in the moil apptovi d
(tile, and that prop.: attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general pra&ifing for ihe improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wcdm fda* ; when the
employers, and 'iti'an»i<«of gehtccl deportment,will be admitted.
Thefc praCuiii.es will be attended WMh no expence.
N. R. An EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gen'lemsn; zi soon as a fufficicnt number offer.
Kiiladtlphia, September 14, 1791
LOUIS I A N A.
ALL thofc persons who have an inclination to fettle on the rich
lands ol the Mifififippi, can have a passage to New Orleans
about the eoth of OOober next. Each Tingle man on his arrival
there, will have a grsnt of two hundred and forty acres of land,
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, a larger quantity, in proportion to the numberof his family.
For further particulars, enquire of Meflrs. Stewart & Nss b;tt,
No. 15, South Water-Street.
Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1791
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, North-Fkont-Strect,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A collection of BOOKS:
O J
sliTiong which are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
T OVELASS on Bills of Ex- Dallas's Reports.
change. Kiiby's Coonefticut Reports.
Clerk's Vadc Mecum. Conductor Gcncraiis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh
Cullen's Fir ft Lines of the Prac-
tice of Phytic.
Rulh's Medical Enouiries.
Crown's Elements of Medicine,
Ofterwald's ChriftiartTheology. Jcnyn'j Internal Evidence o'
Rife and Progref* of Religion the'Chriftian Religion.
in the Soul. Beattte's Evidence of Ditto.
Necker on Religious Opinions. Think Well Oii't.
Fordyce's AddrtllVs to Young Devout Chrifiianfs VadeMecum
Edwards's FT ift or of Redeinp
Sermons to Young tion.
Men,
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide.
Newton's Dillertat-ions on the
I\ ophtcies.
Lc&ures delivered by Soamc
Jenvnc.
The Christian Remembrance!.
Future State Eternal.
Ruflfel's Seven Sermons.
Ramsay's American Revolution Life of Baron Trenck
Hiftoiy of America. Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Morfc's Geography. Paley's Moral Philofophv.
Siege of Gibraltar. SimMlie's Philolophy of Natural
Shaw's Abridgement of Brace's Hiilory.
Travels. Nicholfon's Natural Philofoohy
Keate's Account of the Pelew Jiinius's Letteis.
I (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gout's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&iontothe mak
ing of Latin.
Dbe!{ley's Fables.
P. Ovidii N <foll is Metamor
phofeon, I. X.
Phi ladelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's AfTiflant.
Sel.fta; e Vcttri Teftamento
Hiftorise.
Scott's L.floris on Elocution.
Sergeant's Short Hand.
Wrttenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Cateclnfm of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thornton's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopltock's MclTiah.
Lavater's Aphoiilms»
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennel's Roman Antiquities.
Trimmer's Sacred Hiftury,
6 vols.
NicholTon's Navigation.
Alcxii!ide»'s Experimental En-
school Dialogues.
Andrews's H'llorv of the Amc
> ican War, 4 vols.
Vcw Annual Kcgifter.
/atiel's Law of Nations.
. , talker's Academic Speaker,
Experimental Essays. Lite of RoSiufon Crufoe
Juxham on Fevers. Savill c ' s Mifcelb„i es .
Virmes and Efficacy of a Crust School of Wisdom.
o Bread Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
fcd.nburßb Pharmaeop.a. Defcnptior. of 300 Animals
Trta. P CS and Poiitical Boyle's Voyages.
Beaut,:; of ,he Britilh Senate. Th cr yp b a."' J 0 """*'
Davtes s Dramatic Mifcellaniej. Marroontel's Belifarius.
o. U " ay S " ent . orla - Journey through Sweden
Stuart s View ot Socety. J Dup3ty \ T r.v?l. '
Man of'^th^loS'r'oT''" 6 *7"" ° f Hift ", ty -
D 'p™aUbr C "j ne, and Principled ofTa h fte NatUrC
Augujl 6 1?9 ,. I<iw6l)
qu'irics,
./ ,am
164
Buchan's Domestic Medicine,
lateil edition.
Clark on Dift afesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
on the Religious As-
feflions.
" against Chauncev.
Booth's A polony for the Bapiifts
Dowas'Tranflauon of the VuL
gate Bible.
Enfield's Family Players.
Method!ft Hymns.
Waits's Hymns and Psalms,
Price's Sermons.
Hale's AfF ftionatc Epistles to
his Ciind r en.
Beauties of Joimfon.
ofSteine.
Percival's Father's Inftru&ions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accompli died Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delunons of the
Heart,
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Aiphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conqucit of Canaan.
Chefterfteld'a Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Di amas.
Prelent lor an Apprentice.
A periodical PUBLICATT <W
TO HE ENTITLID, '
The Annual Register,
POLITICAL REPOSITORY
UNITED STATES OF A M E R I r »
Will fpcedily be cominr.icpri by the Subfcnbcr, 10 ih,
Philadelphia. c »ty
This work will contain a hlftorv of ih,.
PROCEEDINGS and DEBATES of CONGRFW t.
bc S i.. nl „g of the IcDiou wlii L h will comm: llcc o °^ hc
next,
Stcondh—STATE PAPFRS
Under this head wi 11 becomprifed the Rcp.-u S an,l Siv,„
of the executive officer. of government, mclud,,,., ,1*
have already been made, official correfpondu)cc\i4,'( ICh
powers, &c. *Oicj
Thirdly—THE STATK OF THE UNION
This important article will (W« ourfuuaiinn with r
foreign nations, by adverting to trrat.es, whether cnnclSj "
pending, hofhhties, and conimei cial iniercouife. It w i]| -•?
a comprehensive view of the internal fyftein ;to w ; t do'V*' 1 "
the national defence, by militia, regular troop's, armed veff-l! ! '°°;
fortifications j national finance, as to loans, c*bts, revenue' b I
&c. national morals, as to prevailing viitues and vices- n ' £
and quality of crimes and punifinments, bankruptcies ,
progrefsof, the arts and sciences; general laws and'civil L?
tions, whether of the federal government or (late lejri(latum
neral manners and customs ; and finally, the complexion of doT"
ttca! sentiments, as it may be feui in public print), proceeding f
the several governments, popular tranquility, or diTcoatcn;
FourthIy—IMPROVEMENTS,
In every profcfifioo, art, and Icience.
Fifthly—MEDICAL OBSER V ATI o!\IS,
On the increase and decrrafe of difeafej & c -
NATURAL HISTORY,' '
Particularly that of America.
Seventhly— CHARACTERS.
EighthIy—MISCELLAN EOUS ESSAYS,
Which may be thought worthy of being preserved from oMi.
vion, on philosophical, hiflorical, biographical, agricultural mt
chanica!, commercial, and other fabjefu, calculated to amuis lhi
mind, or advance the bell intcrcfts of society. '
Ninthh— POETRY— original and felrfted.
Tenthh — A REVIEW OF BOOKS,
American only; to which will be added, a lift 0 r new Euro,
pean publications, indicating fuc!) as may bedtemcj particularly
valuable in this country.
it. f.)
f6t]
Eleventhly—A CHRONICLE
Of the raoß iiHereftiug events of each year, felefted from tlia
various newspapers, and methodically arranged.
gSr To the hiftorv of the proceedings and'dehatesofConntfi
in 1 he firll volume of Hi 1 s work, will be prefixed the Conflituticm
of t fie United Siales of America, together with 1 sketch of the w.
codings, and «h< names of the members, of the full Con 'idiii!
fembled under the auspices of the conltitution.
Each volume of the Akkoil Register, and Political
Repository of the United States of America, will con.
Uin at least 500 pages, octavo, and be printed on good paper. wnli
■1 handsome type, equal tu that with which the Editor's ed'tionof
thr Laws of the United States is printed. Tils price 10 fubfciiberi
will be one dollar and a half.
The plan of this work has been submitted to the confidcraiion
of some of the firff chara&e\£ in America, whose ftntimenu have
determined nie Editor with regard to the undertaking. The firil
volume will he publilhed in the spring of the year 1799.
In order to render this work as perfoctas polTtble, and trulvho.
norable to the United Statts, communications,coincidingvriththt
•jlail, as above given, and either handed to the Editor or tranlmi'-
ied to him by post, will be gratefully received. He with conS.
dence expects this alTtftance from. Artists, Men of Learning, Phi.
lolopliris, and Statefmcn, as they must be imprc.Tcd witli ade
quate ideas of the extreme uiility of this arduous undertaking.
Gentlemen who may incline to patronize this publication, are
requeued to foi ward their names to Mtffis. Thomas & Andrews,
Boston ; John Carter, Esq. Providence; Melfrs. Hudson & Good,
win, Hartford; Mr. Thomas Greenleaf, New-York; Meffrj.
Goddard & Angell, Baltimore ; Angultine Davis, Esq. Rich
mond ; Mr. P. Young, Charleilou; or to
Philadelphia, Aug. 30, 1791
Subfcnbers' names faall be prefixed to the work,
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
LOTTERY TIC KETS,
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all to whom thefc pre Cent s shall comc, or in any wife concern,
J hut JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
decreed, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
J ACKSON, of Philadtlphia, Merchant, all hearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in iix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
:n nine months—one lor fevenhundred andforty pounds,intwelve
months—and one for leven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thouland stye hundred and ninety-eight poundsfhir
teen (billings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackioii to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the lxfP-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of tw r o thoul'and and forty-feven pounds (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof ot which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
Thcfe are therefore to caution all pcrfons from purchafijiglaid
notes 3s they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
KOBERT SCOTT, > Hxccutots.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, l*]th Muy, 1791. ( e P- 3
Philadelphia, 20th My, ,
THE Commiflioners appointed to rcccive Subscriptions lot *
Bank, of the United States, do hereby, agiceable to liw,
form the Stockholders oi the fjid Bank, that aneleftionforiwn"V"
five Dire&ors will he held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia,o»
Friday the 2ill day of October next, at 10 o'clock in themoro
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RirrENHOUSE,
|C7*^f ew copies of the CONSTITUTION *>j
United States, printed with Notss, &.«} b:h*ii<>]
Editor.
AND
<>F Tll£
ANDREW BROtVW,
in the city of Philadelphia.
and NEW-HAVEN
To be had at the fame place.
SAMUEL HOWELL.
'i