PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 59, of Vol. lII.]
AMERICAN MANUFACTURES
The following plan for eflabJipiing and promoting Manufactures upon
an extensive and competent scale, has received the approbation 0) many
of the citizens of the United States, as well as several refpeftable jo
reigneis. Subscriptions to a very confderable amount, as mentioned
in a former paper, have already been made--Preparations of various
kinds are in hand to carry the design into effett, so that there is every
? eafon to indulge the tncfl pleasing expiations from, a spirited pro
secution of the undertaking.
THE clldblifhment of ManufaClures iri the United States, when
maturely considered, will be found to be of the highest im
portance to their prosperity. It fecms an aim oft fell-evident pro
portion, that comuiunities which can most completely i'upply
their own wants, are in a Hate of the highest political perfection.
And both Theory and Experience conspire to prove that a nation
(unlcfs from a very peculiar coincidence of circumstances) cannot
pofTefs much aflive wealth but as the result of extenlive manu
la&ures.—
While also it is manifeft, that the interest of the community is
deeply concerned in the piogrefs of this species of industry, there
is as little room to doubt that the interest of individuals may e
qually be promoted by the pursuit of it. What is there to hin
der the profitable prosecution of roanufa&ures in this countVy -
when it is notorious, that independent of impoficions for the be
nefit of the revenue and for the encouragement o( domestic en
terprise—the natur.il commercial charges of the greatest part
of those which are brought from Europe, amount to from fifteen
tothirtyper cent.—arid when it is equally notorious that provili
ons and various kinds of raw materials are even cheaper here
than in the Country from which our principal supplies come {
The dearnefs of labour, and the want of Capital, are the two
great objections to thefuccefs of manufa&ures in the United States.
The full objection ceases to be formidable, when it is re.ol
lefted how prodigiously the proportion of manual labor in a va
riety of manufactures has been decreased by the late improve
ments in the conftru&ion and application of machines—and when
it is alfoconlidcred to what an extent women, and even children in
the populous parts of the country may be rendered auxiliary to
undertakings of this nature. It is also to be taken into calculati
on, that emigrants may be engaged on reafunable terms in coun
tries where labor is cheap, and brought over to the United States.
The last objeftios dilappears in the eye of those who aie a
ware how much may be done by a proper application of the pub
lic Debt.—Here is the resource which has been hitherto wanted.
And while a direction of it to this object may be made a mean of
public prosperity, and an inftruuient of profit to adventurets in
the enterprise, it, at the fame time affords a profpeil of an en
hancement of the value of the debt, by giving it a new and ad
ditional employment and utility.
It is evident that various fabrics,.under every supposed difad
vantaire are in a vcrv promising train. And that the success has
not uecn KTrrEio!c/co.ifide.«bk ciiy bcMacai to very -ofcvwtus
causes.
Scarcely any has been undertaken npon a scale fufßciently ex
tenfivc, or with a due degree of system. To ensure success—it is
desirable to be able to enter into competition with foreign fabrics
in three particulars—quality, price, term of errdit. To ihe firft,
workmen of equal (kill is an efTential ingredient. The means
employed have not generally been adequate to the pur pole of pro-
Curing them from abroad, and those who have been procurable at
home, have for the molt part been of an inferior class. Tocheap
oefs of price, a capital equal to the puipofe of making all necelfa-
IV advances, and procuring materials on the belt terms, is an in
dispensable requisite—and to the giving of credit, a capital capa
ble of affording a surplus beyond what is required for carrying
on the business is not less iudifpenfable. But mod undertakings
hitherto have been bottomed on very fhnder refourccs.
To remedy this defctt, an afTociation of the capitals of a num
ber of individuals is an obvious expedent—and the species of
capital which, confilts of the public Stock is susceptible of disposi
tions which will render it adequate to the end. There is good
rcafou to expe£t that as far as (hall be found neceflary money on
reasonable terms may be procured abroad upon an hypothecation
of the stock. It is prefurnable that public Banks would not le
fufe their aid in the fame way to a solid institution of so great
public utility. The pecuniary aid even of government, though
not to be counted upon ought not wholly to be defpaircd of.
And when the Stock (hall have attained its due value so that no
loss will attend the sale, all such aids may be dispensed with.
The Stock may then be turned into specie without disadvantage
whenever specie is called lor.
But it is tafy to fee that upon a good Capita) in Stock, an ef
fective credit may be raised in various ways which will answer
every purpose of specie; independent ot the dirett expedient
of borrowing.
To cflfett the desired afTociation, an incorporation of the Adven
turers nluft be contemplated as a mean necclTary to their security.
This can doubtless be obtained. There is scarcely a State which
could be insensible to the advantage of being the scene of such an
undertaking. But there are rcafons which strongly recommend
the State of New-jersey fbr the purpose. It is thickly populated
—provisions are there abundant and cheap. The State having
Icarcely any external commerce, and no waste lands to be peo
pled, can feel the impulse of no fuppojed interefl hostile to the ad
vancement of manufa&urcs. Its situation seems to insure a con
stant friendly disposition.
The £reat and preliminary desideratum, then, is to form a fuf
ficient Capital. This, it is conceived, ought not to be less than
five hundred thousand dollars.—Towards forming this Capital,
fubferiptions ought immediately to be set on foot, upon this con
dition that no lubfcriber shall be bound to pay until an a£l of In
corporation {hall have been obtained—for which, application
may be made as soon as the sums fubfenbed shall amount to one
hundred thousand dollars.
As soon as it is evident that a proper Capital can be formed,
means ought to be taken to procure from Europe fkilful work
men, and such machines and implements as cannot be had hero
infufficient pcrfc&ion. To (his the'exifting crisis of the affairs of
certain parts of Europe appears to be particularly favorable. It
will not be necefTary that all the requisite workmen should be
brought from thence.—One in the nature of a Joreman tor each
branch may in some branches futtice. In others it may be requi
fife to go further, and have one for each fubdivilion But num
bers of workmen of secondary merit may be found in the United
States ; and others may be quicklv formed.
It is conceived that there would be a moral certaiiity of success
in mannfa&orics of the following articles ;
jft. Paper and Pasteboard.
Saturday, September 10, 1791.
2d. Paper Hangings.
3d. Sail Cloth, and other coarfc .ine'n Cloths, such as Sheet-
ings, Shirtings, Diaper, Ozt lburghs, &c.
4th. The priming of Cottons an 1 Linens ; and as incident to
tnis, but on a fmalier feale, <he manufacturing of the arti
cle to be printed.
sth. Womens Shoes of all kinds.
6th. Thread, Cotton and Worftcd Stockings.
7th. Pottery and Earthen Ware.
Bth.» Chip Hats.
9th. Ribbands and Tapes.
10th. Carpets
uth. Blankets. /
12th. Bial'sand Iron Wire.
13th Tiirtad and Fringes.
It will be unnecessary to enter ii; > the details of the execution
further than to observe, that tie etvjjploy ir.ent of the labor-saving
mills and machines is particularly Contemplated.
In addition to the foregoing, a pAewery, for the supply of the
manufacturers as a primal y objeCt, -nay be thought of.
When application (hall be raadtfefor an A6l of Incorporation,
it ought to include a request that pi tvifion may be made for incor
porating the Inhabitants of the dill ift within a certain defined
limit, which (hall be chosen by the company, as the principal feat
of their fa&ories ; and a furth< r r. jueft that the Company may
have permiffton to institute a.Lottery or Lotteries in each year,
fortheterm of five ytars, ford fun or sums, not exceeding in
one year 100,000 dollars. The Staie of New-Jersey, if duly An
fible of its interest in the measure, will not refufe encouragements
of this nature.
An incoiporation of this fort, will be of great importance to
the police of the establishment. It mav also be found eligible to
vest a part of ttye of the Company in the purchase of ground
on which to erett necessary buildings &c. A part of thisground
divided into town lois, may be as erwards a source of profit to
the Company.
The Lottery will answer two purposes. It will give a tempo
rary command of money, and the profit arising from it, will go
towards indemnifying for firft unp oduthve efforts.
The following scheme tor the i-rganifation of the Company,
will probably be an eligible one.-* •
1. The capital of the Company, as before remarked, to consist
0f500,000 dollars, to be divided into 5000 shares, each (hare be
ing 100 dollars.
2. Any person, co-partner(hip or body politic, may fubferibe
for as many (hares as he, the, or tf ey may think fit. The sums
fubferibed to be payable, one half in the fund d fix per cent, (lock,
or in three percent, stock, at two .lollars for one, and the other
half in deferred (lock. The payments to be in four equal parts.
The firft at the time of incorporation, the second in fix months af
ter, the third in fix months after t ■: second, and the fourth in fix
months after the third. Those w prefer paying in specie, to be
permuu-d to'do ft, ci \ ■ -i-g'-V - <"• Sxpei c. • um r.t rzr,
and the deferred according to its present value at the time of pay
ment, discounting the interest thereupon during the suspension of
the payment, at the rate of fix per centum per annum.
3- The affairs of the Company to be under the management of
thirteen Directors, (o be chosen annually on the fird Monday of
O&ober in each year, by a plurality of fuffrages of the Stockhold
ers. The Dire&ors by plurality of voices, to choose from among
themfelvesa Governor and Deputy Governor.
4. The number of votes to which each Stockholder (hall be en
titled, (Kail be in proportion to the number of (hares he (hall
hold, that is to fay, one vote for each share. But neither the
United States, nor any State which may become a fubferiber
fliall be entitled to more than one hundred votes. The United
States, or any State, nevertheless, which may fubferibe for not less
than one hundred (hares, may appoint a Commiflioner, who
(hall have a right at all times to infpe£t the proceedings of the
Company, and the date of its affairs, but without any authority
to controul. Every fubferiber inay vote by attorney duly con
dituted.
5. There shall be a dated meeting ""of the Directors on every
full Monday of January, April, July and October, at the place
which is the principal feat of tbe Manufa&ory. But the Go
vernor for the time being, or any three Dire&ors may by writing
under his or their hancs, directed to the oth'er Directors, and left
at their refpe£live places of abode, at lead fourteen days prior to
the day for meeting, or by advertisement in one public Gazette
printed in the State where the Corporation shall be cdablifhed,
and in another public Gazette, printed in the city ot Philadelphia,
and in another public Gazette, printed into the city of New-York,
for the fpacc of thirty days prior to the time of meeting, convene
a special meeting of the Due£lors for the purpose of tranfa&ing
business of the Company.
6. No Dire&or (hall receive any emolument, unlefsthe fame
shall have been allowed by the Stockholders, at ? general meet
ing. But the Dire&ors may appoint such officers, and with such
compensations as they shall think fit.
7. Not less than seven Directors, if the Governor or D ?puty Go
vernor be not one, shall constitute a board for the tranfa&ion ot
business. But if the Governor or Deputy Governor be one, five
shall fuffice. In cafe it should at time happen that there are
two separate meetings of Five or more Directors each, but both
less than a majority of the whole, one having the Governor, and
the other the Deputy Governor, that at which the Governor (hall
be present, shall be the legal one.
8. The Dire&ors to have power to make all bye-laws, rules
and regulations requisite for concluding the affairs of the Com
pany.
9. At every annual meeting of the Stockholders for the purpose
of choosing Directors, the Dtre&ors hall lay before them a gene
ral state of the affairs of the Company, exhibiting the amount of
its Stock, Debts, and Credits, the different kinds of Manufactures
carried 011, the number of persons employed in each, and thci»
refpettive compensations, together with an accouut of profit and
loss.
10. The persons, not exceeding five in number, who at any ge
neral meeting (hall have, next after the Directors chosen, the high
est number of votes for Dire&ors, fliall by force thereof be a
Committee of Infpe&ion, and fliall have a right of ac ess to all
the books of the Company, and of examination into all its affairs,
and shall at each succeeding meeting report all such authentic
fa£h as (hall come to knowledge to the Stockholders, for
then information. The Stockholders may also, if they think fit,
at any general meeting appoint by plurality of fuffrages, any fiv<*
of their number for the purpose of making such enquiries and in
vestigations asthey may think necessary.
11. The Stockholders at a general meeting may annul or alter
153
[Whole No. 247.]
any of the regulations established by the Directors, and make such
others .is they may think neccfTary.
12. Any Board of Dire&ors, or either of the Committees above
mentioned, may ot any time ca) 1 a generel meeting of the Stock
holders. giving thirty days previous notice thereof inthrecGazctus,
one pubiifhed in the State in which the Fa£lory shall be eilablifh
ed, another in the city of Philadelphia, and another in the city of
New-York.
13. Every Cashier or Treasurer of the Corporation, shall be
fore he enters on the duties ot his office, give bond with one or
more sureties, to the fatiafa&iou of the Directors, tor the faithful
execution of his duty, in a sum not less than twenty thousand
dollars.
14. So much of the capital flock of the Company as may consist
of Public Debts, (hall be placed on the books of the Treasury of
the United States in the name of the Corporation ; and every
Stockholder shall be entitled to a licenfc under the seal of the Cor
poration to infpeCl the account of the said stock at his plcafure, as
lar as may comport with the rules of the Treasury. Tins however
(hall not prevent the investment of the laid debt in stock of the
Bank of the United States, referring to each Stockholder the lrke
right of infpe&ion in relation to the stock of the Company to be
inveftcd.
15. There (hall be a yeaily dividend of the profits of the Com
pany for the firft five years, and after that period a half yearly di
vidend.
16. The stock of the Corporation shall be aflignable and trans
ferable according to such rules as shall be instituted 111 that behalf,
by its laws and ordinances.
17. The Corpoiation (hall be at liberty to make and vend all
such articles as (hall not be prohibited bylaw : Provided that it
(hall only trade in such articles as itfelf shall manufacture, in whole
or in part, or in iuch as (hall be received in payment or exchange
therefor.
18. It shall be understood, that a majority of the Stockholders
may at any time dissolve the Corporation ; but this shall be only
done at a General Meeting which (hall have been specially (um
moncd for the purposes with public notice of the intent. And up
on such diiiolution, the directors for the time being, (hall be lpfo
faCto, trustees for fettling all the affairs of the Corporation, dispo
sing of its effcCta, paying its debts, and dividing the surplus among
the Stockholders, in proportion to their respeCtive interests in the
ftoek ; unless other perfous as tiuftees (hall have been previously
appointed by the Stockholders at a general meeting.
19. The stock and other property of the Corporation, to be ex
empt from taxes.
THE management of the affairs of this Company, will require
that an agent (hould be appointed to superintend all the different
works, and thedifpofnion of the articles manufaCturd, in con
formity to the general regulations of the Due&ors. This Agcnr
ought to have such a compensation as will command the services
of a man every way competent and iruft wor'hy. Such a r
iiiaj oc iouiid.— It is not 11 ccil'ai . that he fhuald : ?
technical man in any ef the branches of manufacture ; but a in;n
of information, thoroughly a man of business, of prob»ty and di
ligence, and energy.
WE THE SUBSCRIBERS, for ourftlves refpeflively, and not
one for the other, and for our refpe&ive heirs, executors and od
miniflrators, do federally covenant, promise and agree to and with
each other, and with the heirs, executors and adminillrators of
each other, That we will refpeftively contribute and pay in the
manner, and at the times fpecifted in the plan hereunto annexed,
the refpe&ive sums againd our refpe&ive names hereunder set, for
the purpose of edablithing a Company for carrying on the business
of Manufa&urcs, in one ot the Stales of New-Yoik, New-Jerfcy,
and Pennfylvdnia (giving a preference to New-Jerfcy, if an incor
poration can be obtained from the said State on advantageous
terms) according to the general principles'of the plan aforefaid,
but fubjeft to such alterations as (hall be agreed upon at any time
previous to the obtaining an A6l of Incorporation, either in the
princi pies or details by the major pai t of 'us, whose names
are hereunto fubferibed, or in the details thereof only, as (hall be
thought fit by the major part of the persons hereinafter named.
And we do hereby jointly and severally conditute and appoint
EJias .Boudinot, Nicholas Low, William Constable, William
Duer, Philip Livingdon, BlairM'Cleuachan, Matthew M'Connell,
and Herman Le Roy, our and each of our Attornies ; who, 01 the
major part of them, or the major part of the survivors of them,
are hereby empowered, as soon as the sum of one liundied thou
(and dollars shall be funfciibed hereto, to make application on our
behali to either of the States aforefaid (giving such preference as
aforefaid to the State of New-Jerfcy) for an Ast or Acfs of Incor
poration, according to the principles of the plan aforefaid, with
such alterations in the details thereof as (hail appear to them eligi
ble, or wiih such alterations whatsoever, as (hall be pievioufly
agreed upon by us : Ai.d further, to take luch mcafures at our
joint expence, as (hall appear to them necessary and prop r for en
gaging workmen in the several branches of manufacture mentioned
in the said plan.
In Test i mo ny whereof, Wc have hereunto fubfcribcd
and fetour hands and 1 als,the day of
in the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-one.
EXTRACTS,
From a Publication in the State Gazette of
North-Carolina.
Meflrs. Hodge ir Wills.
AMONGST the great number of crimes which
sivilized and trading nations have made pe
nal and puni/hed with death, there is no one they
have attacked with a more irremitting vengeance
than FORGtRY; regardless of which,
would be induced to think it a genteel accoui
plilhment ; and no wonder he fliould do To, as
the young men of the pen in North-Carolina, take
a delight in manifefting their genius in the exe
cution of this dangerous practice, committing it
publicly with greater dexterity and adroitness
than in any other country whatever. It is a fact,
and much to be lamented, that on your going in.to the stores of the merchants of this state, into
the public offices, and even in-the houies of the
legislature amonglf the clerks, on every piece or
blotted paper, you may observe an imitation or
the hands and fignacures of -ill the gentlemen
entrulted with public buGtiels, of every gentle
man of eminence, of [he public officers, and 11101 e
especially, of the signers of the paper money, o
ther paper securities, and certificates.
" 1 am an old man, and no Tit/ion, and who in the
round of his life, am known to take as much plea
sure in the advancement of youth as any pei lon,
do declare. I often tremble in observing poor
boys very Ikilful in the use of the pen, without
any expectations from parents, friends or pio
perty. deeply engaged in this baneful science,
making without any intention or knowledge,
huge jlrides to the gallows or the Devil. I will add
the observation of an experienced and sensible
merchant, who gave it to me whilst wi iting—
" That it is as neceflary in credit, that the hand
writings of men should be as different as their
faces, and t hat a man, who can write every man s
hand, was as dangerous in society, as he who
could put 011 every man's face; that luch a per
son perchance might be honelt, but never could
betrufted : And that if a young man in a count
ing-house in Europe, should he be caught trying
his hand in such business, he would be difinifled,
as soon as for the commission of any offence ; as
no merchant would conceive himfelf fate with
such an adept in the tranfaiftions of business,
where his honor or credit depended." It would
give me great fatisfatflion if any person of more
leisure than I can spare, and greater abilities than
I poflefs, would enlarge on this fubjetf, and be
the happy means of deterring our idle youth, who
generally have no great flock of religion or mo
rality, from this very useless, dangerous and Ican
dalous practice." HERACLI 1 US.
L O N D O N, July 5
THE Queen of France is certainly by this
time closely immured in a convent :—(he
wept abundantly when she was told by the nati
onal commissioners, that it was their painful du
ty to separate her from the King and dauphin.
The flight of the French king has had this
good efFedt upon the patriots, that it has united
those who had before fonie little differences.
When M. de la Fayette wasjirlt fufpe&ed of be
ing concerned in the escape, M. Barnave, his op
ponent in the afl'embly, rose and said, that he
would answer for the integrity of M. de la Fay-
ette
■ dauphin of France, who on the 27th of
arch last attained his sixth year, is a boy of the
noft promising abilities. His manners and dis
position are of so conciliating a nature, as to ren
der him universally beloved.
Monsieur and the Compte d'Artois, will imme
diately be attainted.
The Queen is to be brought to trial for high
treason, and all the world trembles for her def
titiy, which appears inevitable.
two of the guards had their throats cut, pre
vious to the French king's escape.
The late agitations in France will necefl'arily
occasion a change in the French affairs, all over
Europe. There will be no knowing how to es
timate their form of government, or acknow
ledge the miniftersfent to other countries by it.
The king and queen are separately confined
and guarded—they met in the chapel royal on
Sunday, when the queen fainted at the fight of
her children.
Monsieur, the king's brother, and Madame,
are arrived at Bruflels, where a congress, it is
said, will be held to fettle a regency for France.
Bouille has escaped to Luxembourgh.
The royal flight has flopped the general elec
tion in France, which will not now take place
till order is somewhat restored, and some per
manent form of government adopted.
From paflengers arrived in Dublin from Bour
deaux, there is intelligence, that the wheat har
vest, from the seasonable rains that fell lalt
month in the southern provinces of France, is
uncommonly abundant ; and the vines, now all
in bloU'om, promise an excellent and abundant
•vintage : they fay also, that the Weft-India trade
at Bourdeaux, was entirely revived from the in
atfive state which it had been for some thrown
into by the commotions that prevailed in the
French islands.
It is said the Prince of Wales won upwards of
50,0001. on Tuefclay's race at Ascot. The bets
depending were more considerable than ever
were known at any race—a million of money
having, it is said, been sported on this occasion.
Jens Gron, a Norwegian by birth, captain of
a veil el named the Emanuel, discovered, on the
31ft of May lad, a flioal, between the Me of Un
bolt and Valbourg, in Sweden. As this flioal is
not laid down in the chart of the Categat, pub
liflied last year by Profefl'or Lons, the Danith
Admiralty have difparched two yachts, with ex
perienced officers, to examine it minutely, for
the future fafety of navigators.
154
The irruption lately made into France, by tlie
Spaniards, was not as has been (uggefted, the
consequence of any dispute among the border
ers: but the result of a premeditated plan ior
invading that kingdom, on all fides, as soon as
the Monarch ftiould have effected his escape.
The re-capture of his Majesty, having rendered
the whole design abortive, the Spaniih troops
are again retired, and the war suspended till an
other time. . ,
A certain Republican Writer (Mr. Paine)
when he fays that hereditary governments are
now verging to their is contradicted in
one inflance at this moment. Poland, from the
fad experience of an elective monarchy, by
which it has been so long a prey to own in
ternal feuds, has ac this time determined, the
crown (hall descend in hereditary fucceilion ; a
change that will in great probability raise that
country to its natural degree of elevation and
importance among the furronnding states ; by
whose meddling interference lhe had declined
to the lowest degree of political infignificance.
That a country offuch extent and fertility (liould
have been reduced so Jong to submit to the in
triguing management of ambitious neighbours,
mull be owing to fomt defecft in the conllitution
of its government,by v hich the powers of an ha
bit naturally robust, ciiuld not make those exer
tions for which it wastln poffeflion of very fuffi
cient resources, could I'hey have been brought
nto a<ftion
The Rev. Dr. Coke, the principal fiicceflor to
the late Mr. John Wefley, has arrived in the
William Penn, from Pennsylvania, and immedi
ately enters into functions appointed by his
predeceflor.
A member of one of the democratic clubs in
Paris proposed—" That the King of the French
Ihould be deprived of all wine for a month, as
the greatest punifliment he could experience."
According to letters from Brufl'els, a discovery
is said to have been made of a conspiracy to seize
the Prince of Conde, and carry him a prisoner
to the National AfTembly at Paris.
The King of Sweden is a personal fufferer by
the French Revolution. The National Aflembly
grant no subsidies to Monarchs, becanfe they do
not want their assistance in making conquests,
and to the defence of France the inhabitants are
very competent themselves.
The magnanimity displayed by the Queen of
France, in her late trying Jituation, has been
spoken of even in with much refpeel—
Knowing, as every child may now a days know,
how easy the tranfitiouis from one extreme to
another, we {hould-^fttfi.'wonder if her Majesty
were to become popular.
The revolution of Poland is to be annually ce
lebrated in a church which is to be ere<fied here
after, and consecrated to Divine Providence, on
the 3d of May.
The King, the Nobles, and the Members of the
Diet of Poland, ascribe their revolution solely
to the interposition of Providence; and the firft
of their resolves is to build a temple to the Al
mighty, in which they may annually commemo
rate this glorious event.
The French Legislature ascribe their revolu
tion to a word which they themselves donotfeem
to understand (Philosophy) and {hut up or pull
down the temples which the piety of their an
cestors had built.
The French revolution is a loss to the P«*pe of
about two millions of livres per annum, by the
suppression of firft fruits to the holy fee.
The removal of the remains of Voltaire was
attended by all the sorters and carriers of the
general and penny poft-office; in short, all the
men of letters in Paris attended.
Number "of the principal Public and State Officers. in
the course of the present reign.
8 Lord Chamberlains
ji Lords of the Bed chamber
8 .Mailers of the Horse
9 Lord Chancellors
10 Lord President >
17 Lord Privy Seals
11 Chief Justices in Eyre
14 Attornies General
16 Solicitors General
10 First Lords of the Treasury
11 Chancellors of the Exchequer
31 Secretaries of State
12 Paymasters of the Forces
18 Postmasters General
9 Secretaries at War
13 First Lords of the Admiralty
9 Treasurers of the Navy
7 Masters of Ordnance
17 Lord Lieutenants of Ireland
9 Chief and Puisne Judges of the King's
Bench
11 Chief and Puisnes of the Common Pleas
11 Barons of the Exchequer
11J Ambafladors and Plenipo's to foreign
parts
6 Archbishops, and
92 Biihops.
Notwithstanding tlie lov: Utter, sentf ent bv .
American Congress to the National Aflimbl
England seems to poflTefs their best afFe<fli olls I'
their constantly addressing their comucrctal ct> M.
and ships to their ports. ' "
It seems to announce notmerely treachery h
falfehood, bur absolute incapacity on the part f
Louis XVI. to imagine that such miserable re»
sons as appear in his Declaration, would either
be admitted by an enlightened AHembl>, or ere
dited by the People. Retire, and dwell' in the
secure fortrefs of Montmedy, in order to be read
to head his troops againfl: the rebel
Surely this is the drivel of idiotry. Did he not
know, that the very diltance forfeited his Crown!
By the paucity of expreflion in the
tion of the Queen, (he seems to have disdained
the talk (he Wag compelled to perform. All her
care seems to be, to exonerate her dooieflics from
the danger of being privy to the design, and thus
her magnanimity is uniform, and herpraife com
plete.
Czarlko Zelo, where the Em press ofßuffia late
ly received Mr. Fawkener, is a favorite pleafurt
house, and though a private retreat, is often de
voted to plenipotentiary business.
Prince Potemkin, on the 4th of June, gave a
grand entertainment to the English Ministers
and families of diftindiion, resident at Peterf
burgh.in honor of the birth day of his Britannic
Majesty.
Not long since Lady Auckland was delivered
of a son at the Hague ; and, what is not a little
singular, her Ladyship can now produce fix chil
dren,- born in as many different kingdoms.
Notwithstanding the rejection of Mr. Fox'«
Bill declaratory of the powers of a jury with ref
petft to a verditft in cases of Libel, yet we think,
hereafter no Judge' will venture to press the un
conflitutional docftrine which has for a number
of years obtained, that Juries are not competent
to decide on the point of Latu as well as Fa£l\
nor is it likely any Jury will consent to be bul
lied into a verdi<£t in which a fellow citizen is
found guilty of publishing a falfe and maliems
Libel, unless the fatfls stated in the indictment are
clearly and fatisfadiorily proved, after the found
and legal opinion delivered by Earl Camden in
the Houfeof Lords on Wednesday, whodeclared,
that " as the law now stood if tvienty-four Juljiti
were to give a decided opinion, and charge, up
on any point of law in ifiue before a Jury, that
Jury had a right, if they thought proper, to hmp
in a vtrdiCl d't-edly contrary to the opinion,s of tltft
Judges, and that vcrd'tfl would flandgood againfl at'
pc-jisr that could bs 'jrzugkt againfl it,' for Tuchver
diift would be founded on the La w of the Land."
In illustration of the above, we have inserted
the following : The firft action for a Libel,fince
the introduction ot Mr. Fox's explanatory Bill,
was tried on Wednesday before Lord Loughbo
rough, in the Court of Common Pleas, wherein
a tea dealer was plaintiff, and an Agent of a
Revenue Officer defendant; the damages were
laid at 2,0001. The learned Judge, in fumniing
up, stated, " that it was his duty to point out
the circuniftances of the cafe, but now it was their
Privilege to determine upon the whole of the
evidence, as their understanding might diretft
theui, withont being influenced in the smallest
degree by him." The defendant juftified ; but
failing in complete proof of his allegations, the
Jury, after retiring a few minutes, returned
with a verdicft for the plaintiff, with *01. dama
ges. Thus under the direiftion of a Chief Jus
tice, we have the instance of the rights of a Jury
to exercise their opinion of the Law as well as
the Fad.
Died oh the 4th of July, at his house iti Hart
ftreet, Bloomfbury-fquare, in his 82d year, the
Hon. W. Bull, a native of South-Carolina, and
many years his Majesty's Lieutenant-Governor
and Commander in Chief of the said province,
which he left with theßritifti troops ini7B2,a n£ *
has lince resided in Great-Britain.
At a ball and supper lately given at Berlin J
Madame Reitz, an old favorite of the King s, t if
Turkish Ambafiador was present ; the Lady hav
ing prefled this disciple of Mahomet to dun 3
glass of Champaign wih her, he at length coii
fented, but not until he had a napkin thrown over
his face to conceal this trespass on his reiig'"' 1 '
tenets. This, he observed, would prevent t
Prophet from being a witness of his fins.
The napkin of the T urkilh Ambafladoratt
Pruflian feaft, on being obliged to taste the o
rid Bacchanalian beverage, was merely t e
cond edition of Dignum's exclamation in
Sultan—" Mahomet, {hut your eyes !'
BERLIN, Jane 14-
The evening before yesterday, a .^ our '^,* 6 f
rived here from Peterfbnrgh with difpatc
a pacific nature ; in consequence of wluc
fengers were sent to- Pomerania and Hr_ u r .
order fonie of the regiments'to enter their m
ters again.
ANECDOTEPARIS, June 30
The National A flembly of France have decreed
as follows : Every person condemned to die (hall
be beheaded.—Those condemned to the puniih
ment of the chain shall be employed at hard la
bour, for the benefit of the date, either in the
inlide of the prison, in the ports and arsenals, or
m drying up the marflies. Those condemned
to the punishment of the chain, (liall carry at one
of their feet a ball fixed to a chain. The punifli
nient of the chain /hall not be perpetual.
NEWBERN (N. C.) Auguit 20,
Died, on Friday the 12th instant, Col. George
Mitchell, of Onilow county. The particulars
of the tragical manner in which this gentleman
came to his untimely end, have been related to
us in the following manner.
Col. Mitchell and Robert W.Snead, Esq. were
competitors for the honor of representing the
county of Onflow, in the Senate of this ltate—
The exertions of the candidates and of their
friends had been productive of much ill will and
aniinofity, before the close of the poll, when Mr.
Snead was declared duly elected.
After the eleiftion was closed, Mr. Snead was
observed to call Col. Mitchell from amongst the
people alfembled at the Court-house, and to go
with him into a thicket just by. Shortly after, the
report of a pistol reached the ears of thole who
v/ere at the Court-houfe,and attra<fled them to the
lpot from whence it ifl'ued ; where, in the pre
sence of Mr. Snead only, lay Col.Mitchell a corpse.
Two frefh wounds were discovered on liim ; one
from a pistol Ihot, passing through from hisfhoul
der out below his ribs; the other on the skull,
apparently from a heavy blow with the butt of
the pistol. Mr. Snead was thereupon apprehend
ed, but has been since admitted to bail.
Col. Mitchell bore an unblemiflied character—
was very aiftive during the war, and had for ma
ny years the honor of representing his county in
the General Aflembly. He has left a widow and
eight children.
PITTSBURGH, August 27.
On Tuesday last, the rear division of troops at
this place, amounting to two hundred and sixty
men, embarked under the command of Captain
Phelon, and immediately proceeded down the ri
ver for Head-Quarters —the fleet composed of 12
boats, and rowed with two setts of oars, moved
with celerity, and piefervirig equal given distan
ces, made a handsome appearance.
General Butler and Col. Hodgdoo, the Quar-
.:r-Ma(\er-Gen«fal, follow the troons this day.
The guards in this town are now mourned from
a detachment of militia lying on the opposite
Allegheny shore.
We hear that a company of the second U.S.
regiment, under the command of Capt. Newman,
is expected in town to-morrow.
We are informed by a person immediately from
Fort Walhington, that the party of men from
Kentucky, under the command of Col. Harrifon,
had returned from their expedition against the
Indians living on the Scioto; the particulars of
which he is not informed of, but understood they
had been fuccefsful.
We are further informed, that another party
started on the return of Col. Harrifon.
STOCKBRIDGE, August 30
It is with the mod painful sensations that we
announce to the public'the unfortunate death of
Brigadier-General Moses Ashley,of this town,
who was drowned at the Dam of his forge in
Lee on Thursday last.
N E W - Y O R K, September 3
Ex/rail of a letter from Niagara, dated the 2d of
Auguji, to a gentleman on the Mohawk river.
" We have some reason to hope that Col. Sim
coe, our propoted Governor, may come to this
country by the way of your sea-ports, authorised
to fettle with Congress the doubtful line of divi
sion—which mutt be a uleaianl thing to both
countries. Capt. Joseph Brant, after having at
tended for some time the councils of the Weitern
Indians at the Miami river, set off a few days ago
for Quebec, attended with leveral of the Chiefs
from" hat quarter ; as they avowedly go to ask
Lord Dorchester's advice, and as we well know
his and government's strong desire for peace, we
would gladly hope that it may be the means of
bringing on an accommodation — much will de
pend 011 the moderation of your fide—you have
flrength and power, 1 doubt not, to drive them
to the latt extremities—but when you consider,
that moll a flu redly their next resource will be to
acce t the (hong offers and preiling instances of
the Spaniards, to fettle on their fide, and that the
only motive for thefc offers is to form a barrier
between you and them,which by reftrainingyour
frontier Settlement, will keep you at a dillance
from them, of which they are so jealous. When
you consider the present animosity of the Indians,
aggravated by the loss of their lands, and every
thing dear to them, policy and humanity will
ncrhaps dictate an accommodation on reasonable
terms, as preferable to the greatefl fnccefs which
may probably entail a cruel predatory war on
the dcfencelefs settlers of your western bounda
ries for many years,"
Friday la ft was executed at Albany, pursuant
to his sentence at the late Supreme Court, Whit
ing Sweeting, in the prefenceof a valt concourse
of people.
MIDDLETOWN (Con.) September 3
We are informed that his Excellency the Go
vernor of this State has appointed the 2d Tues
day of September inft. for the Freemen to meet
and choose a Representative to Congreft, in the
room of the Hon. Rogek Sherman, Esq. ap
pointed a Senator.
Philadelphia, September 10.
We are well afl'ured that the Letter signed by
Mr. M'Gillivray, and addrefled to the " Hon.
General Knox," which has recently appeared in
several of the newspapers, was never received by
that officer.
Bills have parted the House of)!leprefentatives
of this Commonwealth repealing Its excise laws,
and ratifying the firft article of the amendments
proposed by Congress to the ctwillitution of the
United States. »
Carpenter's Hall, in Chefnut-Street, is engaged for the
Bank of the United States.
Further accounts from Europe by the lajl arrivals.
A placard or advertisement, advising theabolition of monarchy,
having been circulated in Paris, occasioned a motion in the Na
tional Assembly on the firft of July, by M. Malouet, that the At
t'orncy-Ge.icral should commence a prosecution against the au
thors. This motion occasioned some debate; the motion was at
length over-ruled (as involving an abridgement of the liberty of
the press) by calling for the order of the day.
Jfuly a. The President announced the reception of a packet con
tiiuing 87 letters, feizfd in the boats coming from the Iflaod of
J-'fey; they were consigned to the infpeGion of the committee of
research.
Various bodies of citizens renewed thei: oaths to support the
constitution this day ; among others a deputation from the Hotel
des Invalids, also 800 (ludents from the university of Paris with
their preceptors at their head ; they were complimented by the
President.
July 3. Mr. C. Lameth was chosen President. An account was
received of the irruption of several bodies of Spanilh troops into
the frontiers of the kingdom ; inflant preparation was made to re
pel the invaders—but they very soon retired ; it was said by some
to be occasioned solely by a contention between the Basques and
Spaniards relative to the exportation of some timber; other ac
counts fay that they retreated in consequence of hearing that the
King had been arrested in his flight. M. Bouilles' letter which
had been considered as a fabrication, turns out to be genuine ; the
Aflembly were informed that it was printed by his order and cir
culating in the departments.
m. la fayette's ad :>ress.
the Pifctjuent announced, iat ihe Commandant-General had
a wi(h to communicate some matter to the Aflfembly.
M. La Fayette —" I have leceiYed from Luxembourg, under
cover, from M. de Bouille, two printed copies of his letter to
the National Assembly. If the 'projefls he therein announces
(houM be realized, it will assuredly better become me to combat
himfelf than to reply to his personalities. It is not therefore for
the fake of Bouille, who calumniates my conduct, nor for your
fake, Sirs, who honor me by your confidence, but for the fake of
such as his afTertions may deceive, that I am eager to disprove his
(landers. He denounces me herein an enemy to the form of Go
vernment you have established : Mellieurs, I do not renew the
oath I have taken, but I am ready to shed my blood to maintain
it."
The delivery of thefefentimentswasattended by much applause.
English papers fay, that the Comptc de Merai has pubhclv de
clared at Liege that " the Emperor would never give the least as
sistance to the King and Queen, so long as they remained in Paris,
or even in France." Doubtless all the other sovereigns will regu
late their conduct by that of the Emperor.
Peace was concluded between the Municipalities, of Avignon
and Carpentras the 14th June; through the mediation of the
King's Commiflioners.
With refpeft to the negociajions between Great-Britain and
RufTta, nothing decisive appeafs in the accounts to the gth July.
The messengers accotding to (he paragraphias, are driving from
Court to Court with the fame celerity as they were in January last.
EXTRACTS.
The diftinguifliing charatleriflics of men of
great talents, have ever been rather great beau
ties than an exemption from faults ; the works
of Sliakefpeare abound with defecfts that writers
of a mediocrity of talents never could have been
guilty of.
The man who has never attempted to reduce
his asm ideas to writing, fatls or
circumllances with that degree of that
is neceflary for utility. ~ «
One great advantage derived from the multi
plied periodical publications now ejctant, is, that
a deviation from the laws of liberality on disputed
fubjeJls is very generally reprobated ; in those
countries where such periodical performances
are rare, the fame illiberality and rudeness is
found to prevail which formerly disgraced lite
rary controversies.
Alexander the Great, when he conquered Alia,
imposed only the fame tribute which they had
before paid to Darius.— It being observed to him
that he might draw a much larger revenue from
that country, he replied, that " he did not ap
prove of that gardener who, after gathering the
fruit, cuts down the treei themselves to fell
them." This answer is founded on common
sense—and jet there are many instances to be
found in history of princes and rulers, who have
rather chose to follow the example of the gar
dener, and stupidly dry up the sources of their
incomes by their oppreflion.
155
Extract of a letter from Cape-Francois, August 16.
Our lately formed colonial Atlembly has ad
journed, to meet in this place the 25th inltant.
ft f'eems by your late accounts that the King and
Queen of F ranee have been detected in an attempt
to escape out of the Kingdom. 1 fear that this
event will produce much future confuflon ; tho
the philanthropic cannot but view with delight
every attempt to raise the fair fabric of freedom
on the ruins of despotic sway, I think he must be
at a lofsto decide whether the conllitution ofthe
new French government will lead to that valua
ble end.
Thursday morning died, to the inexprefHble grief of his pa
rents, Marcus C. Knox, in the 9th year of his age—the second
son of Hon. General Knox, Secretary at War—and yesterday his
funeral proceeded from his Father's house, in Chefnut-ftreet, to
St. Peter's Church, attended by the Profeffors and Preceptors of
the College and Academy of this city, a long proceflion of the
Youth of that seminary, and a numerous train of mourning friends.
THE PARENT'S CONSOLATION,
[_An ExtraEl from the Majfachujetts Magazine J\
MY heart beats sympathy, and melts with
tears of condolance.—Can the agony of grief be
soothed by the meltings of friendfhip ?—Can the
torture of an afflitfted mind be afiuaged by th»
sympathetic fob ?—I answer, yes-—such is the con
stitution of the human affections.
Your grief is pungent.—Sadden transition !—
from blooming health to violent difeafe.—Qbick
and unexpected was its attack, and furprizingly
rapid its progress.—To-day a lovely blooming
boy— to-morrow a cold corpse, encloJed in its
(hroud.
Your fond imagination might indulge the
pleasing thought of feeing the tender bosom ex
pand and ripen to manhood, a blefling to society,
and comfort to its friends.—Pleafing delusion I—
Death hath nipped it in its bud, and made it to
wither and die. But why dwell on the affecting
scene .' Behold its gentle spirit disengaged from
the encumbrance of flefh, wafted by congenial
spirits to the paradise of God ; hear it welcomed
to feats of everlasting bliss and joy.
Call the consolations of religion to your aid—
those can mitigate the poignancy of yourforrow,
and teach you to submit to a difpenfatioii so griev
ous—they will calm the ruffled emotions of your
breast, produce resignation tothe divine will, and
lead you to view every event, however adverse,
as directed byconfununate wisdom, and designed
for our moral improvement and advantage.
Animated by these reflections, the gloom of
grief will diflipate, and your mind bereftored to
serenity.
1 j his a Hom A S ivl tFF LI A, Ejo mre t Governor of
Pennsylvania.
SIR,
IT is with much pleasure I inform your Excellency, that the
wheat of the late harvcft is allowed generally to be of good qualitv ;
from which I flatter myfelf we shall be enabled to continue the re
putation of our flour, so as to retain the preference it has usually
met in foreign markets which lam sure, Sir, would be pleasing
to you, and to which, no efforts ps mine shall be wanting.
With very great refpcft,
I have the honor to be,
Sir,
Your obedient and humble servant,
Stalimenl of ti
he monthly Jhipments of flour at tht port of Philadelphia,
■am January 1 to June 30, 1791, iticlufive .<
B. offj.
11281
6703
25838
3 2 793
30210
22245
B m.
107
15
714
216
1520
221
tan.
Feb.
March
April
May
June
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Sally, Weeks, Litbon
Polly, French, Hull
Betfcy, , Killabcgs
Oporio
Madeira
Bay of Honduras
Marseilles
Snow Harmony, Pell,
Brig St. Anna & St. Kocco, Smith,
Polly,
Virginia,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DKBT.
ao/6 21/ pr. I
i if
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defcred 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Scttl. and other
Indents
N. and S. Carolina debts, isf
Bank Subscriptions,
t
At the above pricea for deferred and three per ctnts, we are in
formed that the Secretary of the Trealurv has recently made pur
chases to a considerable amount of thofc species of public debt.
According to the funding law, the books for receiving Subscrip
tions to the Loan of the United State« are to be continued opcr
till the lad of this present month of September.
BY ORDER OF THE MANAGERS.
The MANAGERS of the
New-Haven Wharf Lottery,
HAVING fold what Tickets remained on hand, pledge thtm
feloe s to the public, that the Drawing said Lottery will con.
mcnce, in the Reprefentativea' Chamber, in the State-Houlc in
New.Haven, on Menjt ly the lath of. September next, ai te«
o'clock, A. M.
New-Haven, Augujl 16, 1791.
JAMES REED.
43822 b. fl. 896 b. m.
85248 1957
129070 b. fl. 2853 b. m.
ES REED, Irifpe£tor of Flour.
JAM
Bruce,
105 pr. ccnt
60 do.
do.
par
60 do.
>2 fS
140 Dollars,NEW CONSTITUTION
GOVERNMENT OF POLAND, kc. &c
In the name of God, one in the h'.'j T. init)
St AnislausAdG oSTtrs, bv the grace of God, ana
the will of the Nation, King of Poland, Grand
Duke of Lithuania, Russia, Pruflia, Mufcovia,
Saniogitia, &c. &c. &c. together with the Con
federated States aflembled in double number
to represent the Polish nation.
PERSUADED that our common fate depends
entirely upon eftablilhing and rendering per
fect a national conititution , convinced by a long
train of experience of many defecfts in our Go
vernment, and willing to profit by the present
circumltances of Europe, and by tne favorable
moment which has restored us to ourselves ; tree
from the difgracefnl ihack'.es of foreign influ
ence ; prizing more than life, and every personal
confideraiion, the political exiltence, external in
dependence, and internal liberty of the nation,
whose care is eiitrulted to us; desirous, more
over, todefervethe blessing and gratitude, not
only' of our cotemporaiies, but also of future
generations ; for the fake of the public good, for
i'ecuring our liberty, and maintaining our king
dom and our pofleffions ; in order to exert our
natural rights with zeal and firmnefs, we do so
lemnly ejlahijh the present Constitution, which we
declare wholly inviolable in every part, till such
period as lhall be prescribed by law; when the
nation, if it should think fit, and deem it necefla
ry, may alter, by its express will, fiich articles
therein as shall be found inadequate. And this
present Constitution fliall be the (landard of all
laws and itatutes for the future Diets.
ARTICLE I.
Th: dominant National Religion.
The Holy Roman Catholic Faith, with all its
privileges and immunities, {hall be the dominant
national religion. The changing of it for any
other persuasion is forbidden under the penalties
of apoftacy ; but as the fame holy religion com
mands us to love our neighbours, we therefore
owe to all people, of whatever persuasion, peace
in matters of faith, and the protection of govern
ment; consequently we a(Ture,to all persuasions
and religions, freedom and liberty according to
the laws of the country, and in all dominions of
the republic.
ARTICLE 11.
Nobility, or the Eqmftrian 0-dcr.
Revering the memory of our ancestors with
gratitude, as the firft founders of our liberties, it
is but just to acknowledge, in a molt solemn man
ner, that all the pre-eminence and prerogatives
of liberty, both in public and private life,fhould
be insured to this order ; especially laws, (latutes,
and privileges, granted to this order by Cafi-.nir
the Great, Lewis of Hungary, Ladiflaus Jagellon
and his brother Wittoldus, Grand Duke of Li
thuania ; alio by Ladiflaus and Cafimirus, both
Jagellons; by John Albertus, Alexander, Sigif
mundus the First, and Sigifmundus Augustus (the
J alt of the Jagellonic race) are by the pi elent act
renewed, confirmed, and declared to be inviola
ble. We acknowledge the rank of the noble
Equestrian order in Poland, to be equal to all de
grees of Nobility—all persons of that order to
be equal among themselves, not only in the eli
gibility to all ports of honor, trull, or emolu
ment, but in the enjoyment of all privileges and
prerogatives appertaining to the said order : and
in particular, we preserve and guarantee to eve
ry individual ihereof personal liberty and Secu
rity of territorial and moveable property as they
were formerly enjoyed ; nor Hi all we even fuffer
the lead encroachment on either by the supreme
national power (on which the present form of go
vernment is established) under any pretext what
soever, contrary to private rights, either in part,
or in the whole ; consequently we regard the
preservation of perfonai iecqritv and property,
as by law ascertained, to be a tie of society, and
the very efl'ence of civil liberty, which ought to
be considered and respected for ever. It is in
this order that we repose the defence of our li
berties and the present Constitution : It is to their
virtue, valour, honor, and patriotism, we recom
mend its dignity to venerate, and its (lability to
defend, as the only bulwark of our liberty and
existence.
ARTICLE 111
Towns and Citizens,
The law made by the present Diet, entitled,
Cur royal free towns -within the dominions of the Re
public, we mean to consider as a part of the pre
sent constitution, and promise to maintain it as a
new, additional, true, and effectual support, of
our common liberties, and our mutual defence.
ARTICLE IV
Peasants and Villagers.
This agricultural class of people, the most nu
merous in the nation, consequently forming the
most considerable part of its force, from whole
OF THE
156
hands flows the source of our riches, we receive
under the protection of national law and Govern
ment, from the motives of justice humanity,
chrittianitv.and our own interest well understood,
enacting, 'that whatever liberties, grants, and
conventions, .bet ween the proprietors and villa
gers, either individually or collectively may be
allowed in future, and entered authentically into ,
/uch agreements, according to their true mean
ing fhtll import mutual and reciprocal obliga
tions, binding not only the. present contracting
parties, but even their fucceflors by inheritance
or acquisition—so far, that it (hall not be in the
power of either party to alter at pleasure such
contracts importing grants on one iide, and vo
luntary promise of duties, labour, or payments,
rfn the other, according to the manner and con
ditions therein exprefied, whether they are to lalt
perpetually, or for a fixed period. Thus having
insured to the proprietors every advantage they
have a ri«rbt to from their villagers, and willing
to encourage most effectually the population oi
our country, we fvblijh and proclaim a perjtfl ana
entire liberty to all people, either who may be new
ly coming to fettle, or those who, having emi
grared, would return to their native country ;
and we declare most solemnly, that any person
coming into Poland from whatever part of the
world,"or returning from abroad, as soon as he
sets his foot on the territory of the Republic, be
comes free and at liberty toexercife his indnftry,
wherever, and in whatever manner he pleases
to fettle either in towns or villages, to farm and
rent lands and houses, on tenures and contracts,
for as long a term as may be agreed 011 ; with li
berty to remain, or to remove, after having ful
filled the obligations he may have voluntarily en
tered into. 0 be continued.)
LOUISIANA.
A LL those persons who have an inclination to fettle on the rich
lands ol the MitUlipoi, can have a passage to New Orlean
about the 20th of Oftouer next. Each Tingle man on his arrival
t'. ere will have a grant of two hundred and forty acrrs of land,
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each married
man, a larger quantity, in propomon to the number of his family
For further paiticulars, enquire of Meffis. Stewart &Nzsbitt,
No. 15. South Water-Street.
Phi. delphia, Sept. 7, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Lcgifljture of the State ol Conoe&icut, at their session in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpofc of extend
in" Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channtl;
and appointed the subscribers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with tr.e
following /
s c J
Prize of.
1
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5 3
61
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, »t Five-Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subjefito a deduction of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident 10 re
quire any comment, to tho.fe who are acquain'ed with the town
od harbour of New-Haven; tothofe who are uot, fuffice it to fay,
hat its beautiful situation is not furpaffcd, if equalled by any ; bc
ng in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
hut by realon of the flats, this wharf is neceffar.ly extended 10 the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all claflcs of people, for
the success of this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publitlied in
Ameriea)inducethe managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will pfctively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the »«jtli of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the use ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
James Rick, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howeli,
New-Haven, April 14* 1*791-
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISS I'O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,'
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
QCf" Blank Powers to reteive the Interell, and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eftahlifhed in the Trea
sury Department: Also Blanks for abflr acts of Certificates, to be fold by
the Editor.
II $ Mi £.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
are
2COO
1000
50°
2CO
100
50
4°
3»
20
i*
8
Managers
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 42, PtOITH-FfcOKT-ST P ||t
HAVE fOR SALE, '
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which ere thfiJlm inr
AMERICAN EDITIONS. r
LOVELASSon Bills of Ex- Dallas's Report*.
change. Kirby's Conncaicut Rrport,.
Clerk's Vade Meeum. Coudutlor Gtneralis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
Mew Edinburgh D'.fpenfatnry.
Cullen's First Lines of the Prac-
tice of Phvfic.
Rulh's Medical Enquiries.
Brown's Elements of Mcdicine,
o.lerwald'sChriflUnTheoiogy. Jcnyn's Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion the Chriflian Religion.
in the Soul. Beattie's Evidence of Ditto.
Necker on Religious Opinions. Think Well Oa't.
Fordyce's Addreffcs to Young De»ou; ChnlW, VadeMecum
Men. Edwards's JliOory of Redcmp.
- Sermons to Young tion. r
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Guide. Chauncev.
Newton's Diflertations on the Booth's Apology for the Bapufts
Prophecies. Doway Tranflauon of the VuU
Le&ures delivered by Soame gate Bible.
fenyus. Enfield's Family Prayers.
The Chriilian Remembrancer. Methodist Hymns.
Future State Eternal. Watts's Hymns and Psalm?.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons. Price's S.rrnons.
Ramfav's American Revolution Life of Baron Trenck.
History of America. Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Morfc's Geography. Paley's Moral Philofophv.
S'ege of Gibraltar. Smellie's Philolophyof Natural
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's History.
Travels. Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Keate's Account of the Pelew Junius'* Letters.
1 (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clrk'slntrodu&iontothe mak
ing of Latin.
Dod (ley's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Pniladelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments..
Schoolmaster's Afiiftam.
Sele&ae e Vetcri Teftamento
f6t]
Hiftoria?.
Scott's Lcffont on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand. .
Wettenhali's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Nieht Thoughts.
Tnomfon's Sea fans.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IC.OCO
S°GC
4000
4000
4000
2500
240 c
3000
2250
2000
1830
20C0
1400
43, 120
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hillary, Andrews's Htftorv of the A me*
6 vols. "can War, 4 vols.
N'cholfon's Navigation. New Annual Rejifter.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations,
quiries. ' Walker's Academic Speaker.
Experimental EfTays. Life of Robiofoo Crufoe.
Huxham on Fevers. Saville's Milceilanies,
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust School of Wifdoni.
of Bread . Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Edinburgh Pharmaccp\a. Dcfcnpt on of 300 Animals,
Burke's Speeches and Political Boyle's Voyages
Tra&s. ' Sterne's Sentimental journey.
Beauties of the British Senate. The Apocrypha.
Davies's Dramatic M.frellanics. Marmontel's Belifartus.
Miss Murray's Mentoria. Journey through Sweden.
Stuart's View of Society. Dupaty's Travels. •
Richard Steele'sCorrcfpondence Stretch's Beauties Hi op.
Man of the Kloon, 2 vols. Allifon's Eilay on the »
Dramatic Pieces. and Principles of Taste.
Philadelphia, Augujl 6 1791. (w&fgw iav>
#75°°
Public Notice is hereby given
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in an\ W! e^ onC ,~
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-tar
deceased, did make four promissory notes payable to -
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date tft y
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and feventy-onepoun »
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and .orty t*op
in nine months—one lor seven hundred ana forty P oun S; . .uj,
months—aad one for seven hundred and fort) : n _, ot ii
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, ai ? OU J s thii
whole to two tltcufand fivehundied and nincty-c'g •'• P
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in pro a said Si
mington :—Which laid notes have been afiigne >••
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and o. a e |ifr-tiir>
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, »n 1
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted lor an "
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feveo TF
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, an
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient VOUl " , r D _kj
These are therefore to caution all perions from p
notes as thev will not be taken up. rl _.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT. [ E* ccutort
M. R. WILLKIXGS,)
Wi'nine ton, North-Carolina. i7 QI -
Ph.ladelfh.A 2 oih>!y,.>T9'- oi(
THE Commiflioners appointed to receive sod. t n
Bank of the United Slates, do hereby, agi „f or twent:
lorm the Stockholders of the laid Bjnk, 'hat c
five Directors will be held at ihe CityHa •• •
Fr.day the 2 ill day of October next IIX ,SG
DAVID RIITENHObSE,
SAMUEL
£3- The JOURNAL of tkt THl*f
»/ the US IT ED ST : -. ie h*doftvtMo___
Ti, S fricc ojtk,r?^TD^f :r
Buchan's Domestic Mf«; lc i nt
latest edit-on.
Clark on pifcafesof Horfei.
Geotleman's Pocket Farrier.
on the Religious As-
fe&ions.
Hale's AfF fliooate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftruflionf.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accoropiifhed Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delations of the
Heart.
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of aad
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Pa-
litcnefs.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau'f Poems.
Mack.enz.Vs L&uoger.'
Mo re's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Apprentice.