PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS { JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 52, of Vol. lII.] WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 17, 179 1 '
PHILADELPHIA, August 17,
SUPREME COURT OF the UNITED STATES
"Wednesday, August 3d
(concluded.)
JUDGE BLAIR said, that although it was true that the Writ
ot Error was a Writ of Right, upon which account Mr. Brad
lord had contended that its use was only to express the will of
the plaintiff in error, to have the judgment re-examined, and
that, therefore, it was not so material from what office it had is
sued, especially as the Judiciary Bill was silent as to that, yet
the writ was an indifpenfible requisite ; but a writ not issued in
the legal mode ftiould be considered as no writ. The question
then was, whether having ilfued from the Clerk's Office of the
Circuit Court, where the judgment fought to be redrefled was
rendered, it could be supported as valid ? He admitted, that the
dire6tion that it fhouli be returnable to the Supreme Court did not,
vi termini, necessarily imply that it ought to illuc ftom the
Clerk's Office of that Court; bccaufe whatever may be the popular
sense of the word * returnable,' writs which in England iirued
from the Chancery, were, in a legal sense, said to be returnable
into the King's Bench, or that Court where they were to be made
use of. But that there being no such general and fepara'.e repo
sitory of writs in America, he took it to be the general pra&ice
to issue writs from the fame Courts to which, in a ftritt sense,
they were to be returned, and never to issue them, as in the pre
ient iriHance, from the Clerk's Office of the fame Court whose
judgment was fought to be corre6ted. He admitted, that as the
law now stands, it would be attended, in some initances, with
great inconvenience and hardship, to make it necclfary for the
plaintiff in en or to apply for the writ at the feat of government
of the United States, from which the Circuit Court, where the
record remains, may be too remote, to permit him to lodge a
copy of the writ there within ten days from the time of render
ing the judgment ; because, if not so lodged, it will not operare
as a fuperfedeas to the judgment, and the recoverer may take out
execution. It is true, that the plaintiff in error, without so lodg
ing a copy, may go on with the Writ of Error, and if he ffiould
finally prevail, will be entitled to rtftftution ; but still, to be ex
posed in the mean time to an execution, would at any time be a
serious evil ; and, in the now exifttng combination of circumstan
ces in our country, peculiarly such. He thought, however, that
this evil, whatever might be its magnitude, required legislative
corre&ion, rather than that the Court ffiould, tor the fake of
avoiding it, eftablilh an unusual, and very irregular pia&ice. A
futut c -hi w may remove e very hardship, by allowing, instead of
ten days, luch a length of time, for depofiung a copy ot the Writ
of Error 111 the Clerk's Office, as may be pioportioned to its dis
tance from the feat of government. For these reasons he was
against the motion, for a rule to be made upon the defendants in
error, to rejoin.
JUDGE WILSON.
The determination of the gueftion in will be of im
poitance-not ouJy ro the parties immftfiaiciy i uterc Itcd,'"But aJf 0
to others : for it will piobably have an influence upon the de
termination of future cases of the fame or of a (imilar nature.
It is thciefore proper that, while I give my opinion, I (hould
aflign the reasons on which it is founded.
There are two modes of removing a decision from an inferior
to a superior jur ifdiftion. One is by appeal, which is merely
the art of ike party. But it is not contended that the proceedings
in th- present cause, are or can be removed by an appeal. It
they are before us at all, they mud have come before us by a Wnt
of Error This is admitted by the counsel for the plaintiff; and
on this supposition we are applied to for the exercise of juiildic
tion, by giving a rule on the defendant to plead to the alignment
ot errors. We are therefore led to the queftion —Is this such a
V/rii as willjuitify and authorise the court in exercising a revifion
ar} jurifdi&ion over the decision and proceedings of the Circuit
Court of the Diftri& of Rhode-Island ?
AWr t is deicribed, and very properly, to be a mandatory * lit
ter. A Wiit of errpi, as well as other Writs, must partake of this
mandatory quality. But how can a Court diieft a mandatory let
ter to itfelf ?
It was observed by the learned counsel for the plaintiff, that a
■writ of Error is a commiflion to revise proceedings. True. But
it is defcnbed as a commiflion directed to a fupeiior junfdi£tion.+
Bcfides, in considering this commiflion, we must view n«t only
the junfdi&ion to which it is directed, but likewifethe authority
from which it flows. Shall it flow trom an inferior to a superior
Court ? This courfc would be unnstural : it would be the stream
of authority inverted.
It was also mentioned by the learned counftl for the plaintiff
in error, that, in the ast of Congvels, it is not fpccijicd from
■what Com t the Writ of Erroi must issue. This is very ti ue. But
since it is not fpecified, we must form our opinion on general
principles and usages. Thele, as we havejuft now feel), will lead
us to the superior rather than to the injerior jurifdittion.
The 14th fc£tion of the ast of Congress, however, seems to put
the solution of the prefrnt beyond the poflibility of a doubt. By
that ft&ion the Courts of the United Stales t{ have power to issue
'• all Writs not specially provided for by statute, which may be
44 neceflary for the exercise of their refpe£tive jurifdi&ions, and
agreeable to the principles and usages of law." Now, this is
the Court which is to exercise jurifdiftlon—this is the Court to
ivhich application is made by the plaintiff himfelf, for the exer
cise of its jurifdittion in the present caufc. This, therefore, is
she Court, which, in the teims of the a£\, shall il have the power
11 to issue the Writ neceflary for the exercise of that jurifdiftion."
The Court from which the Writ of Error is to iffwe, is not fpe
cialiv pointed out by ftatnte. That Writ must therefore issue
44 agreeably to the principles and usages of l»w." Ofthofe prin
ciples and usages, we have already fecn the dire&ion and the
force. From ihele prcmifes, the inference seems to be conclu
de that the Writ of Error must issue from this Court.
An inconvenience was luggelltd and prell'ed with much strength
ar.d ingenuity by thccounfel tor the plaintiff ; that at a great dif
lance from the feat of government—in Georgia, for instance, or
Kentucky -it would be impoilible, afterthe judgment complain
ed of, to comply, in the limited time of ten days, with the con
ditions required by the ast for rendering the Writ of Error a fu
perfedeas to an execution. If this inconvenience (hould fuhfift
in all the force which has been fUted ; it nral be removed by
tnothei power. We ast in the judicial, not in the Itgijlative de
partment.
The inconvenience may perhaps be mitigated by a method
which 1 (hall suggest ; not, however, as a part of my opinion iri
the determination of the point before us. A Writ of Error may
kcar icftc and may be obtained before the " giving of the judg
nnt" in the Court below. This, in England, is the uiual course
i< preventing and fupcrfeding execution.}: Indeed this mode
Cms to be intimated by a claufc in the Writ itfelf. tc Wecom
'nand you, that, if judgment be given, then you fend the record
4 Snd procefs,"J| See.
tis true that the expence of a Writ of Error obtained in this
miner will be fupeifluous, if the party who apprehend a judg
nnt against him, fhail obtain one in his favor. This lupernous
e>ence, however, can be the occasion of no very great hardship.
I ate the expedient as calculated to mitigate the inconvenience
coplained of t but not as forming a ground ot my opinion in
th caufe.^
ly opinion i«, that the proceedings of the Circuit Court for
th diftriftof Rhode-Island are not jndicially before us; and that,
fothis reason, the motion of tht counfcl tor the plaintiff cannot
beuftained.
3 Bl - 2 73'
2 Bac. 187.
2 Bac. 199. March 140.
|3 81. app, 21. j l 11
—Would not the inconvenience here fitted ie removed wholly,
by ti Clerks of the fever al Circuit and Dijlritl Courts, J up flying em '
jelm with blank Wt its of Error, properly fettled and signed by the C lerk
of t). Supreme Court, and b\ having them ready for suitors, whevevei
wand. In P ennflvania, the Prothonotory ej the Supreme Court diflrt
bute.blank writs of certiorari and habeas corpus, through thefcvcal
couries of the slate, which are always at hand on the fhortefl notice,
whe\reauihte for the removal of a cause : so that if oppression or injus
tice t attempted by hurryiny on a cause in the lower Courts, a removal
by th oppojite party afords an opportunity of obtaining more complete
and)erfefl jufiice.
JUDGE LUSHING.
Tie writ offered to'the Court at present, by the counsel for the
*>laitiff, does not appear to me to be such a writ as will bring
the rocecdings of ibe Circuit Court of Rhnde-Ifland, properly
befoe this Court. By the ast of Congress, it is true, that • Wnt
of Eror m» iflue either from the Circuit Court, or trom this.
But ly necefTary implication, it feemi, that when it is for the pur
poferf removing a cause from a Circuit, to this Court, the autiori
ty ftould be derived immediately from this court. I cannot be
lievethat Congress designed, a Circuit Court (hould have power
to renove its own proceedings to this Court; but that the authori
ty foi this end, (hould flow from the Court that was to exercise the
contiouling and reviflng power. If such, then, be the meaning of
the National Legislature, it is not our province to alter or amend
their acts, but to ground our opinions upon them. If inconveni
ences (hould arise, in carrying their laws into effett, with them
lies the power of correcting the inconveniences, and not with us.
As the writ before us, therefore, is not from this, but from the
Circuit Court of Rhode-Island, I cannot think, that upon its au
thority, we can proceed to rtvife the judgment of that Court.
aU£E=jr*TTrw r—-
amgned, are fully explanatory of my
opinion, it were needless to repeat thera. I need only, there,
fore, suggest my concurrence with my brethren
" The Court, therefore, refufe to grant the rule moved for yes
«« terday in this cause, being itnanimoujly cj opinion, that Witts oj
14 Error, to remove cause* to this Courtfrota inj'erior§nnet* t can rcgu
il larly ijjue only f rom the Clerk's Office oj this Court."
EXTRACTS.—On EDUCATION,
ONE of the fir ft laws of Maflaclmfetts provid
ed, That the SeleiSmen shall have a vigi
lant eye over parents, that they lhall duly endea
vor, liy thetnl'elves, or others, to iiiltru<fl their
children in learning; and that if, after warning
given by the Selectmen, any parent shall be neg
ligent, he shall be fined." Some think this Jaw
to have been rather arbitvary, but the reason the
law-makers thcmfelves aiTign will be f'atisfaJtory.
They r ay, " left the children should grow bar
barous, rude and stubborn, and lb prove pests,
ttijleadof biejpngj to their country."
The learned and patriotic Dr. Price, in a late
difcoufe, fays, " Our firft concern as lovers of
our cointry, must be to enlighten it. Why are
the tiaions of the world so patient under defpot
il'm ?b it not bpcaufe they are kept in darkness
and w:nt of knowledge ?—enlighten them, and
you wil elevate them."
Shoild the feniinaries of learning be neglect
ed by lie Commonwealth, there can be no way
to fupprt them, but by enhancing the price ot
educaton. The rich men will then give their
childra an education, « hile the people in the
middlevvalk of life, and the poor, will be denied
the priilege of learning. The people will then
be oblied to hold learning in contempt, to ex
clude . from their public afiemblies; or, the
powersif government, and the offices will be held
by the ich in exclusion of the others. The firll
alternate leads toaflate of barbarism, the other
leads to riltocracy and despotism.
Tlieres in men a natural pride, and a natural
envy, lie wealthy are apt to hold the poor in
contemp and the poor are apt to envy the opu
lence ofne great. These tempers, however re
prehenfile they are, have their use in iociety ;
the firlt lads the wealthy to support govern
ment, th<latter induces a spirit of equality,which
prevcntshat government from rising to a itate
of defpofni.
The hairs and education of the rich lead to
ariftocrar, and if they can have a monopoly of
the learing of tVie country, there will be an end
of dcmo'acy ; the equality which is uow the
125
Hks°
[Whole No. 240.]
glory of our country, will never more be seen,
and rlie calamity of America will blast the hopes
of the patriotic pare of the European world.
Paiems are led by their fondnefs for their pos
terity, to try to give ihem an education: hue
they have but little imerell in the business in
comparison with what society has—Parents are
soon removed from their tender connexion with
their children, but society remains forever, and
mull be happy or miserable, in proportion as
knowledge and information are poll'efled by it.
Reasons for ejiablijbing public Schools, reported by
the School Committee oj the Tozu/t of
Augujli, 1789.
" jit. T TaEFUL knowledge generally diffiifr-T
among the people, is the furti'i
of fecuung the rights of man, of proim
public prol'peiity, and perpetuating aie i
of a countiy.
" ad. As civil community is a kind or
tenancy, in respeCt to the gifts and audi
individual members thereof, it leems noi s .
per, that the dilburfement* necefiaiy to tj
those individuals for ufefulnefs, should be i;.
from common funds.
" 3<l- Our lives and properties,in a free ftatc,
are so much in the power of our feliow-citiznis,
and the reciprocal advantages of' daily iiuet
courfe are so much dependant on the inl'ofiliati
on and integrity of our neighbours, that no wile
man can feel himfelf indiffei ent to the progrefi
of ufeful learning, civilization, ami the preler
vation of morals, in the community wheiehere-
fides
" 4th. The raoft reasonable objedt of getting
wealth after our own wants are l'upplieri, i» to
benefit thole who need it ; and it may with great
propriety be demanded, in what way «au iliofe
whole wealth is redundant, benefit their neigh
bours more certainly and permanently, than by
furnilhing to their children the means of quali
fying them to become good and ufeful citizens,
and of acquiring an honefl livelihood ?
" sth. In Schools established by public autho
rity, and whole teachers are paid by the public,
there will l>e reason to hope for a more faithful
and impartial discharge of the duties of inftrue
tion, as well as of dicipline among the scholars,
than can be expected when the matters are de
pendant on individuals for their fupporr.
PETERSBURG H, March 29
ON the 20th inft. we enjoyed a superb fpetfa
cle here ; the regiment of horse guards de
filed along the Imperial Castle, bearing to the
fortrefs the trophies of Ifmail, composed ofnear
ly 500 horsetails, commanders (laffs, maces, stan
dards and colours.—lt is said, that the better to
perpetuate the remembrance of this important
conquest, nnd the other advantages gained by
Prince Potemkin over the enemies of the Chril
lians ; and in opposition to the Alcoran and
Sword of Mahomet, our august Sovereign intends
to present Prince Potemkin with a bible richly
bound, and set with brilliants, together with a
sabre of inimenfe value.
PARIS, June j6.
Abjlratt of the late], f Proceedings of the National
A§cmbly t June jt/>.
The Aflembly referred to the committee of
enquiry a letter, by which the directory of Gi
ronde, gives notice of the fermentation excited
at Bordeaux, by the establishment of a monarchi
cal club, and of the manoeuvres of the agents of
the club, which obliged the directory to put a
stop to their meeting.
June 8. Decreed—That persons in the public
service fliall enjoy the rights of atfiive citizens,
in the places where their duty calls them, iho
they may not have resided there the year requir
ed in common cases.
Articles decreed to secure the independence of th•
Legislative Authokitt.
I. Tliofe concerned in attempts to preventthtf
re-\mion, or effect the diflblution of a primary
or electing aflembly, fliall fuffer death.
2. If troops of the line surround the place of
fitting of the aforefaid aflemblies. or procure ad
mittance into the aflembly, without being au
thorised or required by the afleinbly, the minis
ter or commander who ihall liav# figncd the or-der for the purpose, the officer or soldier who
shall have executed it, fliall fufler confinement in
I c years. . .
3 Those concerned (either by giving or exe
cuting orders) in attempts to prevent the re-uni
on effert the diflblution, or interrupt the delibe
rat'ions of the legislative Wy, or in attempts
tending to dellroy the independence oi any in
dividual member of it, (liall luffer death.
4 If troops of the line come within 20,000
nUi, [120,000 feet] of the place ... which the
legislature is fitting, without being authouted,
<>r°required by the aflbmbly, the Minilter who
has given or countersigned the order, the com
mander in chief, or the principal commander of
rath bodv of the aforefaid troops, who has par
ticipated in the execution, shall fuffer to \eais
imprisonment. ..
f. Those who attempt to surround the legiila
tive body, with armed men, or to procure admit
tance into the place where they fit, without be
in" by them authorised, shall luffer death.
The Minister or commander, who has signed
the order, the officers or soldiers who attempt to
execute it shall fuffer the fame puniffiment.
6 For all attempts to derange the order of
fnccelfion to the throne eltabliilied by ihe confti
tntion—Death.
7. 1 f any act. is publiffied as a law. without
having been decreed by the legislature, whaie
ver be the form of that art, the Minilter who
countersigns it (hall fuffer death.
If said art does not appear in the form pre
scribed by the decree of the 7th of October 1 7 V 9>
every civil or military officer publiffiing or exe
cuting it shall fuffer 10 year's imprifonment.^
This article is not tobe understood toinfringe
on the rights of the executive to publish procla
mations and iflue such orders as are put within
its power by the constitution.
8. In cafe of the publication of a falfified law,
the Minister by whom it is countersigned, it con
victed of having altered, or caused to be altered,
the decree of the legislative body wittingly, shall
fuffer 1J year's imprisonment.
9. If any art laying a tax or direrting a loan
to be made is published without the said tax or
loan passing through the forms established by the
constitution, the Minilter courirerfigning said art,
or ifluing orders to collert said tax. or to receive
monies 011 account of said loan, fliall fuffer 20
year's confinement, x
All agents of the executive power, executing
said orders, eilher by collecting said tax, or re
ceiving the monies of said loan, (hall luffer death.
June 9. M. Thouret of the eccleftaftic and
conrtitutional comm ittee,offered the followi»g<le
crees to the consideration of the aflembly.
1. No brief, decree, or bull of the court of Rome
can be printed, publiftied, distributed or execut
ed, without being firft prefeiued to the legisla
ture, read, approved, and famftioncd by theni,
that sanction approved of by the King, and pro
mulgated in form directed by law.
The following decree, proposed by M. Duport,
was adopted. _
Municipal, administrative, judiciary functions,
and the duties of commander in chief of the
National Guard, are incompatible with those of
a legislator, and persons who fill such offices (hall
Dot exercise the duties of them, during theii ap
pointment to a {eat in the legislature i but may
resume them after the time of their ele&ion is
expired
Permit a Holland Patriot to blame the uncau
tious fecuriiy of the French nation, who negledi
the means of discovering the secret manoeuvres
and complicated political schemes of sOl eign
courts. It is by their means ttiat fears and
fions take place in the new departments of that
glorious regenerated kingdom. It is that daik
fyltem of politics, which, by means of mercena
ry writers and seditious tools, misleads opinions,
and occasions internal commotions. All these
enemies will not acft from the exterior upon
France ; but internally they are much more to
be feared. What are the intentions of those
cries of expected invasions but seditious rumors,
railed and kept up by the agents I have men
tioned ?
To disquiet the French, and divide, if poilible,
the kingdom, is the plan of a few powers which
appear to me to be busy in confuhing measures
as a central committee in the cabinet at Hague.
Fiance has nothing to fear but from a civil war,
which l'oine of her neighbours would wilh to
fend them either by the means of Ambafladors,
or by persons in an inferior capacity ; —the latter
are more to be feared. What are, it may be
said, these intrigues and intriguing persons, when
compared to the great principles of an Afiembly
working the regeneration of a powerful king
dom ? True ; —but still may not France, for want
of more circumfpeftion, pay with the effufion of
more blood tor the revolution which does them
honor, and for the happiness which awaits them ?
Let them not forget the device, which the foun
ders of the Batavian Republic adopted : Concor
dia res paw# cr~efcunt, difcordia maxim# dilabuntur.
HAGU E.
\
LONDON, June 4.
By the new constitution of Poland, tlie Kit,
is inverted with high prerogatives, nearly equl
to rhofe of Great Britain. He is to have the n
min at ion of Bifliops, Senators, and all civil ai
military officers ; and to appoint Miniiteis .1
Prime Agents of the executive power, but
fliall always be responsible and liable to be <1-
miiied. The person of the King Avail be faci'l
and inviolable, and entirely free from refpoti
bility, which is equal to the Engliffl maxim, tXt
the King can do 110 wrong. In lime of war,ie
(hall command and direct all military operatios.
His title shall be " Stanislaus Augustus, by ie
grace of God, and the wishes of the nation,Kig
of Poland."
It will never be forgot in Poland, that 011 ie
memorable 3d of May, the patriotic King Staif
laus Augustus discharged his guards. In ne
procession from the Senate house to the churh,
and from the latter place to his own palace, ie
absolutely refnfed to have a single man of lis
usual guard with him, but mixed with the Sea
tors and citizens at large, and frequently «s
engaged in the crowd. " Well," said he,at
the close of the evening, " thank God not a in
gle drop of blood has been filed. Perhaps lie
of the greatest misfortunes that has happenecto
day, has lighted upon myfelf, for 1 have loftny
hat in the crowd."
All arguments from our former policy refp<ft
ing Rnffia, are inapplicable to our prelent filia
tion. We introduced her (it is said) in 177 in
to the Mediterranean. We declined oppcing
her taking the Crimea in 1 782. But let it bi re
membered, that at both those periods Francethe
ancient ally of Turkey, the natural protecltr of
her independence, was in full vigor. It c uld
not be the policy of England to strengthen the
ally of her rival, nor could lhe have any reaon
able alarms for the independence of a pcwer
proiei-'led by the House of Bourbon. But cinum
ftances are changed.—The imbecility of Fnnc£'
has now thrown Turkey into the arms of the
Triple Alliances. If they abandon her, (henuft
perish, and with her one of the great bulwarks
of the fectirity of Europe against the toweing
ambition of Catherine 11.
Since the Porte has, by the debility of France,
been compelled to form a closer connexion with
England, (lie has recalled many preferences to
French produce, which had been prescribed by
the French alliance, awd which had ruined our
Levant trade, once one of the mod flouriihing
branches of our commerce. Our Levant trade
has accordingly, within these three la It years,
doubled, and piomifes, in due time, to rife to its
former level—No niean conmn-'.-i r i— r jje:
rescue of Turkey.
Letters from Vienna oßferve, that the Marquis
de Noailles, proceeded (for the last time) in his
flaie carriage, witli the full family liveries, and
the arms blazoned, to the house of the Chancel
lor, Prince de Kaunitz, and put, with great form,
into his hands, the memorial wherein Louis the
sixteenth declares himfelf the " chief of the re
volution of France." The real anfvver given to
the Ambaflador has not yet transpired ; but a
courier has, on this occasion, been dispatched to
the Emperor, who is now at Parma. Monsieur
Noailles who, previously to the revolution (tiled
himfelf Marquis, no longer presents him elf in
any other character than that of the Ambaflador
of France ; and this without even joining to the
appellation his family name ; yet, his two sons
continue to be addrefled, in all compaiies, as
the Connesde Noailles.
Louis the sixteenth appears to make t rapid
progress in his emancipation from the P'.pal su
premacy :—The Nuncio has been ordered to quit
Paris
The Turkish army in Bulgarid coififts of
t 10,000 effective men. The Ruflian frees in
Moldavia and Beil'arabia amount to 120,00.
The Nabob of Oude, has at length fiuihed his
new palace, at Lucklow—it is four miles in cir
cumference, but is built so contrary to al order,
that every apartment seems to belong ti differ
ent persons—the last room that has ben fitted
up, is the most magnificent thing thntcan be
imagined; it is entirely of ivory and flvr. The
Nabob is particularly partial to hunting and he
is the only one of the Asiatic despots the hunts
in the true eastern (tile of magnificece ; his
train in general, confilts of 750 elephans, j,ooo
horse, and 40,000 foot—half a dozen t}£ers of a
morning are to him a breakfaft, and a rhinoce
ros, with two or three panthers, a lunceon, be
fore dinner.
On Sunday the 15th of May, the wist of Mr.
Richard Smith, a day-labourer, of Le-Brock
hurts, in Shropshire, was fafely del'ered of
three daughters, and all of them are s well as
can be expected ; but they are so ctremely
small and delicate, as to admit a wornns' ring
of an ordinary size, to be put over the 'oot, an
cle, and almoil up to the knee.
Rumour dates, that it has been lonjtlie ear
ned wilh of a Great Personage* to pals he resi
due of his life in as much serenity as t'e nature
of his painful situation will permit, ant that to
126
the complete repose of his mind, nothing wntfld
with fomuch certainty contribute, as the feeing
a flrong and efficient adniiniftration in the coun
try. Report alio obfer*es, that Mr. Kox waj
mentioned upon this topic, and that no objecti
on was made ; and further, that arrangements
would be entered upon, in which that Staiefoiau
would be included.
* George 111
ALBANY, Augult j. (i
On Thnrfday last arrived in this city from \
London, via New-York, and the fame evenino
set off for Canada, Mr. STEWART, the noted
pedestrian—who, we are told, has travelled over
the greater part of Europe, Alia and Africa oh
foot ; and lias come to this country, for the pur
pose of completing his travels, by making the
tour of the, American world. Mr. Stewart is a I
middle aged man, about fix feet high—and what I
is particularly remarkable, he is [aidto sat no ani- I
mat food, and but one meal a-day. /
ELIZABETH-TOWN, Aug. i
A letter from Maryland, dated George Town,
Augtifl: t, mentions, that Mr. Ellicot, the Sur
veyor-General, is busily employed in the federal
city, in opening flreers, laying off squares, lots,
&c. and that it is expedted the public buildings
will be begun next spring, which will give em
ploy to 3000 workmen. It also mentions, that a
dryer fuminer than the present was never expe
rienced, having had but little rain since April
1 ast ; —that the corn crops will be trifling ; and,
as for tobacco, scarce any.
Philadelphia, August 17.
European intelligence is received to the 18th June,
A motion in tlie National Assembly June 10,
by M. Roberfpierre, to disband the army, occa
sioned a warm and lengthy debate ; the next
day the opinion of the committee of the confti
tut ion 011 this fuhjecl was received, read, and
adopted—the substance of which was, to fimpK
fy and more perfectly regulate the ltahdiug for
ces, and provide more effectually for the fidelity
of the commiflioned officers, &c.
This report contained a request that tiie King
would give notice to M. Condc that his refidente
near the frontiers gives uneafinels to the inhab
itants, and requiring him to return into the
kingdom, or to remove from the frontiers with
in 15 days—if lie does not conform to the de
crees of .tlig. Ailembly he is to be declared a rebel.
~*Juue 14. Eight articles were decreed intended
to prevent combinations of journeymen to raise
wagei-r-or of employers to lower the price of
labor.
A curious letter from the Abbe Raynal (now
in decrepitude and dotage) was received by the
National Aflembly, the firft of June : This let
ter contains all the common place dodtrine of
the aristocratic failion, about deitroying the
power of the crown and the noblefle ; M. Ma
louetit is said has the honor of drawing the Abbe
to this miserable contraditlion of the former
doifhines of his life ; this letter was read with
out interruption and very little notice taken of it.
Two letters were received, one from the Ame
rican Congress, and one from the Aflembly of
Fennfylvania, thanking tlie Aflembly for tlie
tribute they had paid to the memory of Dr.
Franklin, and expressing the high regard which
America entertained for the acfts and fentinients
of the National Aflembly of France. These let
ters were ordered to be printed.
A special feifion of the Circuit Court of the
United States, in and for Pennsylvania Difti'iit
of the middle circuit, was on Monday held in this
city
The Judges, Wilson and iredill, present.
Judge Wilson delivered an excellent charge,
ind the jury having withdrawn, returned with a
Ji 11, charging Eleanor M'Donald with having
committed a larceny, in having taken tlie goods
of Henry Williams on the high seas ; whereupon
the said Eleanor pleaded not guilty—her trial was
to come on vefterday. Having been alked whether
(lie had engaged a couilfel, she replied in the ne
gative ; whereupon the Court informed hei Hiat
they would appoint a gentleman of the bar to a(
vocate her cause.
By accounts received from St. Croix, so l ate a '
the 2cl inft. we are informed, that the P rlce °,
flour there was about five dollars per barrel . an.
it could also be bought at St. Euftatia for the am
P nce '
Col. Humphreys, Resident of the
States at the Court of Lisbon, has been iecei
in that character
The State of Rhode-Island has lately u a) ' .
heavy loss, by the death of that diftn'S" 1 "
>atriot, Prelident Manning—an event t ia ,
jflFedi the friends of virtue, science, an P
otifm, through the union.POLITICAL SKETCH.
[continued.]
IT is witliin the recollection of every person,
how generally the conduift of the Itate of Rhode-
Island was reprobated for the inveterate opposi
tion which (he made to the five per cent, inipolt
proposed by the Congress under the old confede
ration. Similar principles induced that state to
recede for a time from an adoption of the new
conftitntion. The imperfection of human wil
dom and forefiglu was perhaps nevermore ftrik
i„gly exemplified than on this occasion—what
was denominated obstinacy, in refped: to tliefive
per cent, proved, perhaps, the salvation of our
liberties.
Had the Congress of the old confederation been
invested with general powers to raise a revenue,
the people of the United States, and their polfe
rity after them, would have been under the go
vernment of an uncontrouled elective aridocracy
„ a (ingle allembly, without any check but the
remote, discordant voices of thirteen diftind, in
dependent sovereignties. Inlteud of which, thio
the favor of Providence, we are now blefled with
a free, just, and equal government, founded 011
a conftitntion that will stand the ted of ages
a constitution poflefting in itfelf a progielhng
principle of perfection, wifely providing for such
amendments as a more refined state of society,
and the greater security of civil liberty fliall die
rate to be necefl'ary. Jealousy, which is always
laudable when controuled by realon, prevented
the people of Rhode-lfland from feeling the force
of argument in favor of the new constitution for
a time—but difficulties of various descriptions
rapidly increased upon that people in an alien
state tliefe, in conjunction with the indefatiga
ble exertions to difFufe federal principle? and in
formation 011 the part of the friends to their peace
and credit, at length effected a revolution of sen
timent—The ratification of the constitution fol
lowed—on that joyous event party became ex
tintft—public affairs aflunied a new face—and
every impending cloud began to diflipate. she
state appears now to be tranquil and happy—
their trade eiicreafing, and a spirit of enterprize
in various branches is displayed.
Some recent tranfadions in regard to education
indicate a just sense of the importance of learn
ing to the securing and perpetuating freedom;
while, at the fame time, the djitinguifhed bene
volence of the more wealthy part of the citizens,
in patronizing inffi'utions, that w ill prove a per
petual tax upon their eftaies, merits the highest
eulogium. May knowledge and freedom ever
be the charaderiflics of this small, but spirited
and independent member of ttie union. 1 liede
cided and prompt sentiments of attachment to
the general government, which dillinguilh
the political publications of this flute from time
to time, mull: have been recognized by, and given
pleaftire to every friend to our country.
Among the numerous advantages consequent
on the re-union of these confederated states iin
. der the new constitution, we may justly reckon
the almost total extinction of local prejudices,
and contracted (late-policy—for although fotne
persons are yet haunted with the frightful idea
of such an inveterate incompatibility of' interests,
as will eventually disturb, if not diflolve the
Union,.yet adverting to facts, we find that there
is no reason to fuppoie that a spirit of illiberal
jealousy will ever disgrace our councils, or dis
turb the peace of our country.
' The state of Vermont had for several years
been an independent republic, -previous to the
late recognition of the fad: 011 the part of the ge
neral government. Several propositions had from
time to time been submitted to the old Congress,
refpecling her being acknowledged as an inte
gral branch of the Union—but all these applica-
tions proved ineffectual—there were so many
private views to contravene the vviibes of the
Verrhontc/e, that it was very problematical whe
ther they would have been ever cordially con
ceded ro under the old confederation. But their
profpec'ts became bright at the moment of ratify
ing the n.ew conftitmion ; and a fair difcuflion
of the merits of ihe fnbjetfl, aided by the univer
sal reprobation of local policy, caused every ob
stacle to vatiifh. Vermont is now a constituent
member of the confederacy—and there can be no
doubt of her proving a valuable link in the fe
deral chain. Since that happy event, the most
cursory obferveis mult have I'een the plea/ing ctf
fecis resulting from her new situation—her vieiCsy
are expanded—various objeiTts, of great
tance to her interest, arrelt the attention of/her
citizens—her agriculture, arts and manufactures,
liave imbibed an invigorating principle—-and the
great business of education is duly appreciated
by the people. These subjects appear to be dif
canred on with new spirit by the writers in their
weekly Gazette—a paper that difieniinates re
publican, federal sentiments. Vermont is, and
will be, chiefly inhabited by a hardy race of free
men, and independent owners and tillers of the
foil—among which flie has her proportion of men
of genius, science, and profellional abilities.
(To be. continued.)
Extract from the Tear? of Humanity
A P 0 E M.
Publifhedin the Massachusetts Magazine.
YE glorious guardians of Britannia's fame !
Warm'd with the brightcftray from Vi> tue's flame,
To You torn flav'ry's rending eyeballs roll,
For You ascends his eloquence of foul !
Thou Son of Chatham*, whose all pow'rful hand,
Guides the deep councils of thy native land,
To whom protected millions bend the knee,
While all thy godlike father beams in thee,
Ah ! yet thy heaven-inftrufted voice extend
To Him, whom ancry fate denies a friend.
Thou too, Great Pat r iot+, whose resistless art
Plays round the purple eddies of the heart,
And, like the sacred light'ning's liquid ray,
Fills the whole breast and melts the foui away,
Or, darting thro' the breast's mysterious rounds,
Spreads light, where " Darkness visible" abounds,
Again that thund'ring eloquence dispense,
Pierce the hard head and thrill the torpid sense,
Confirm the holy vows, by virtue made,
Destroy of blood the price—of man the trade,
Illufttious Bur ke, on whose enchanting tongue,
Applauding Senates wrapt in paffton hung§,
Whose ardent foul burns o'er oppreflion's deeds,
Whose feeling heart at every sorrow bleeds,
Whose boundless pen through wide creation flows,
Here mourns the monarch's wrong's, the people's woes,
And here, to philofophick truths a guide,
Celestial Virtue, smiling at thy fide,
Claims a!l thy powers, and bends her view to thee,
Patron of tiu.th ! light of humanity !
Still all ihe charmer in thy voice display.
Tho' the deaf adder turns his away.
"Britannia's Patriots ! Guardians of her laws \
Unite in Mercy's, Honor's, Vi rtu e's, cause !
Ah ! yet the ju(t benignant ast renew,
Which the good Barclay's great disciples drew,
For whom from broken hearts, and delug'd eyes,
Shall many a grateful pray'r like incense, rife.
Unite, ye patriot bands, redeem the Slave,
On you he calls, and claims your power to save ;
As round the pole th' ele&rick fluid (preads,
And gives a twilight to the.funlcfs meads,
So glimmering hope o'er wilder'd bondage flows,
And sheds rfiild radiance thro' a night of woes ;
Then, still auspicious, waft the refluent strain,
Nor pour the heav'n descended ray in vain ;
Soon shall the lingering Orb of Justice rife,
Warm the cold waste, and light tie cheerless skies,
Bid the fell despot's dark oppreflion cease,
Give the chain'd vi&im LIBERTY and PEACE.
80/lon, July 24M, 1791
* Right Hon. William Pitt, Chancellor of the Exchequer.
+ The Right Hon. Charles James Fox.
J See hi* lajlfpeech in favour of the abolition of this infamous traffick,
§ See his pathetick speech on the diflrefjes. in India.
II Mr. Wilberforce, oj the society of Friends.
The mod: approved debates of the National
Alfembly are tnken 111 Paris ip a new and lingu
lar manner. Six persons are engaged in the per
formance. They fit round a circular table, and
each, as a lenience is uttered, in his turn, writes
one. word out ot fix, giving a jog with the knee
while occupied in writing the word which falls
to his fliai e ; then counts the words that follow,
one, two, three, four, five, fix, and at thefeventli
the operation returns to him to be repeated.
The result of their labour, collected in proper
order, forms the complete speech 111 a more per
fect manner, we are informed, than Ihort-hand
on any other contrivance, hitherto thought of,
can elFet r t it. Gen. Adv.
We are informed that a plan to promote Ame
rican Manufactures is now on foot, which .vill
embrace this important obje<sl upon a scale hi
therto unattempted in thi?country. We are as
sured that upwards of one hundred and twenty
three thousand dollars have already been sub
scribed towards carrying the plan into execution.
\ A situation in the Jerlies, we are also inform
ed, is contemplated as the most eligible for the
prosecution of the business.
There are characters in the United States who
are indefatigable in their labours for the public
good—favored by the author of nature with com
prelienfive powers of inveiligation, and having
their minds strongly inipiefied with patriotic
views, the force of their genius is constantly ex
erted to devise such plans as may encreafe the
objects of profit and employment", (trengthen our
public credit, and reduce the public debt.—May
their labors be crowned with success—their ex
ertions, at all events, inuft receive the approba
tion of their country.
The President of the United States has ap
pointed Timothy Pickiring, Esq. Poll-Waiter-
Genera].
jneraj.
' Tlie p.tuation of tlie United States is with re;
on and jiittice said to be difliniilar to that of a.
ither countries—We commence our political ca
eer at the highest point of improvement in thi
jldeft and moil experienced governments—so
us the natirfns of the world display the extenfivi
volume of pafl: events—for us the wars of avarice
ambition and domination are recorded tor u
the arts and manoeuvres of the cunning politiciat
are developed, and the secret springs and fold
ir.gs of the human heart are exposed to full view
—for us the means by which liberty has been
undermined, and the chains of tyrants fixed oil
the people, with all the cabals of parties, and
tie rage of facftions, are pourtrayed by the pen
of hilt ory : Wifely considering that human nature
is the fame in all ages, and thac like causes will
127
PHILE N I A.
forever produce like efFeds > we have, as far a*
poflible, in our general and Hate governments,
taken reason anil experience for our guide—we
have set bounds to the ambition of man, by tem
pering the ardor of youth with the deliberate
gravity of age and experience—and by eltablilh
ing it as the corner (lone of our political fabrics,
that all power originates in the people—we have
created a monitor that continually reminds the
highest in office, that the Public (SdoD is the
supreme law of these free States.
" Knowledge by time advances flow arid wife,
<l Tarns every wheie its deep difceijnng eyes;
" Sees what befel, and what does yet bctal,
" Concludes from both, and best provides for all."
Or, as one of our own writers fays—" Blest by-
Heaven with a concurrence of favorable circu'm
ftanres, the citizens of these States have beeh en
abled to seize on and profit by the wisdom ajid
experience of ages ; and upon an equal and solid
base, to erec r t a splendid and magixificent dome,
in which wisdom, strength and beauty are ele
gantly and ufefully blended. It is the aggregate
of the"a<siive virtues of individuals, cemented by
morality : and it is denominated Public Good."
Flatterers-'are confined to'-, no age or country,
and their motives are the fame in all situations—
they are equally dangerous and detellable under
all governments —for those who flatter the peo
ple for sinister purposes in free slates, would adu
late a tyrant in a defpotifni ; and for the fame
reason, because they are refpetftively the source
of power and preferment.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
The late fpeculaiions in Scrip appear to hare
had no better foundation than •, it is well
if the result is not fometliing real.' The old bal
lad does not seem to have been duly attended to—
Learn to be wife by other's harm,
And you shall do full well.
The check which the Scrip balloon received in
its ascension, will doubtless prove the salvation
of many ; for the fame fancy which railed it to
300, would very soon have puffed it 100 higher—
and in proportion to the elevation, would have
been the cralh occasioned by its descent.
Captain Hills, the gentleman who has been for some time pad
furvevin# the country between the Conncfticut and Charles Ri
vers (Mall.) in order to open a canal communication betwen them,
has completed the bufinels. We understand that he thinks a canal
pra&icable.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Londonderry.
Oporto.
Cape-Francois.
St. Kitts.
New-York.
Ship Washington, Forte,
Brig Sally, Cochran,
Keziah, Brown,
Sloop Sally, Eve,
Philadelphia Packet, Holden,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 20f V r -£'
3 pr. Cents 1 2/6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 2of
par.
Indents do,
N. and S. Carolina debts, *5/6.
Bank Subscriptions, 140 to 150 Dollars,
Various calculations of the value of Bank Stock appear in the
papers—but they are very uncertain—a just estimate mull be the
result of an accurate statement of the dividends; the dividends
\>;ill depend in some measure on contingencies, but taking for
data those which have been made by the existing State Banks, it
may be fairly presumed, that those of the bank of the United
States will greatly exceed the percent, which some have publish-
?s probable that others have over-rated it.
»
Gray's Gardens.
A CONCERT of VOCAL and INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
will begin To-morrow, the 18th of August, at 4 o'clock in
the afternoon, and conclude at 9 at night, (hould the day be fair.
Tickets delivered at one Quarter of a Dollar at the Bar. 9
The Illumination will be very extensive and fplcndid.
Gray's Ferry, August 17. G. & R. GRAY.
Her Most Faithful Majesty's Consul-General to the United States,
publishes the following EXTRACT from the Inftru&ions sent
him by the Royal Board of Trade at Lisbon, lor the informa
tion of those whom it may concern :—
ALL Mercantile Contracts, Policies of Insurance, Protests, or
other Documents, which are to be given in evidence in
Courts of Justice, or out thereof, shall be authenticated by the
Consuls, and sealed with the royal arms ot the refpc&ive Consu
late, which her Majesty has been pleased to grant the Consuls to
affix to papers relating to their office ; without which no crcdit
shall be given thereunto in Courts of Justice, or otlferwife.
Philadelphia, August 12.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
(BY ORDER OF THE MANAGERS.)
New-Haven, July 20, 1791.
THE Public are informed, that the Tickets in the New-Haven
WharJ Lottery have met with a rapid Sale; —more than two
thirds are already disposed of. The DRAWING will positively
commence on the 13th September next. Those Persons who have'
received Tickets to fell, are reauefted, without fail, to return to the
Managers what (hall remain uvfold on the 10th September. Those
who intend ro become Adventurers in this Lottery, will do well to
secure TICKETS immediately, left, by delay, they loose the
CHANCE of making their FORTUNES ; as the Managers have no
doubt the Tickets will all be SOLD before the ioth September.
$3" A few of the above TICKETS may be had (tj applied for
foouj ci Messrs. STEPHEN AUSTIN Sc Co. corner of Pine and
Front-ftrects—who are authorised to pay the PRIZES.
Philadelphia, August 13, 1791,
par.
pr. cent.
62J do.IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHON6, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firrt quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
Icr LOTTERY TICKETS,
Charleftown (Maffachufuu) to commence drawing lft Sept
New-Haven Wharf, 1 3 t^1
MalTachufetti Semi-Annual, 2d Cbfi, 13^
may be had as above.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all k ndt of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private falc, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on alt sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, onc-h&lj per cent.; and on all (urns
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Officc, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(£T Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punttuality, fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public ftucks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with peculiar
advantages. PIN TARD Sc BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 iaw 6m)
March 1,5, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chcfnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
AND NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place,
CHiLDS AND SWAINE
Have now in the Press, and in a few days will publish
In a handsome Volume OCTAV.O,
[PRICE ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
THE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corrected by, the original Rolls in the otfice
of the Secretary of State, agreeably to a resolve of Congress,
paired the lSih February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE INDEX.
This volume will comprifc the Federal Constitution, the A£ts
of the three Stflions of the First Congress, and the Treaties : —
also, the Declation of Independence, and fundiy Resolves and
Ordinances of Congress under the Confederation.
New-York, Augufl 3.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&icut, at their leflion in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channeJ ;
and appointed the fubferibrrs managers, who having given bond
forthe faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with the
following
" *» T-» *« T"*
; H E M E.
jOjOOO Dollars, is
s°°°
4000
2000 art
S C
Prize of
1
1
X
2
4
5
12
3°
45
£0
6i
too
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Ticket*, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subje&to a deduflion of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
cjuire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is necessarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the moll extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3>4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all c lades of people, for
the success of this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this fchcme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhed in
America) induce the managers to believe th« tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
101 the ule ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James Rick, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
JosE pH Drake, Joseph How el l.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791.
£3* TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compi.ng-houfeof Meffr,. Stefhen Austin, and Co. corner ot
fropt and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Ticket, pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the Massachusetts Lottery that have drawn prizes
wili be received ln payment lor the above tickets. P '
2UOO
1000
goo
200
100
5°
40
30
20
10
S
ADVERTISEMENT.
C~y~ by Idle an ha/s from franee, the Editor has received from
No. 10 to 31, both inclujive, of a Publication which comes out twice a
week in Parts, entitled. " Cor R espon dance Nationals.
F>cm No. t to No. 10, have been J lipped, but are not yet come to hand.
Any person who may incline to fuijenbe for this work, which appears to
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnijhed with t"c numbers
as they arrive bv applying to the Editor oj this Gazette.
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bills of Ex
change.
Clerk's Vade Mecum.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines«f the Prac
tice of Physic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries.
Brown's Elements of Medicine,
Ofterwald's ChriftianTheology. Jenyn's Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion the Christian Religion.
in the Soul. Beattie's Evidence of Ditto.
Neckcr on Religious Opinions. Think Well On't.
Fordyce's Addrefles to Young Devout Christian's VadeMecum
Men. Edwards's Pliftory of Redemp-
Sermons to Young tion.
Women.
Poor Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide. against Chauncev
Newton's Diflertations on the Booth's Apology for the Baptists
Prophecies. Dowav Tranflaiion of the Vul-
Le&ures delivered by Soame gate Bible
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrancci
Future State Eternal.
Ruflel's Seven Sermons.
Ramsay's American Revolution Life of Baron Trenclc,
History of America. Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Morse's Geography. Paley's Moral Philosophy.
Siege of Gibraltar. Srnellie's Philosophy of Natural
Shaw's Abridgement of Brace's History.
Travels. Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Keate's Account of the Pelew Junius'* Letters.
Idands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Inrroduftiontothe mak
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Afliftant.
Sele&ac e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftoriie.
Scott's Leflons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion. '
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
10.000
50QC
4000
400®
4000
2 5 °0
2400
3000
2250
2000
J 830
2000
1400
43.>20
IMPO R T E
Keonet's Roman Antiquities.
Trimmer's Sacred History,
6 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation.
Alexander's Experimental En-
queries.
Experimental Eflays.
Huxharn on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread .
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Trad*.
Beauties of the British Senate.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
8750 c
Philadelphia, Augujl 6, ljqi
A YOUNG Gentleman, who waj ored 10 business, and can be
favorably recommended, intending to visit the Manufa&oi ies
in the South of France, the ensuing Winter, will accept of Otders
for Goods, and execute them on a moderate Commiflion.
N. B. He will continue then*, if encouraged. Applications
dire£led to A. Z. and left at the Printers, will be pun&ually at
tended to.
Philad. August 6, 1791
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types,
together with the right of publishing a PAPER, in good repute,
the fubfenbers to which are continually increafing-The present
number of its patrons is between seven and eight hundred. The
types confifl of Burciois, Pica, and a fufficient quantity of lar
ger letter to display advertisements to advantage. The situation
is the interior part of Massachusetts, in the centre of a
populous and thriving community, and within 17 miles of an ex
cellent Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on short notice. Perhaps no country paper on the
continent has a larger share of Advertisements than the one offered
nT 1 c onfiderabl<i profit also accrues from the faleof
Blanks of all kinds, which are much used in the place—from the
publication of Hand-Bill*, &c. &c. It is a good situation, also,
for a fmalll Book-Store—and it is supposed the bu-
Unefs might be carried on in the fame place to advantage
V. si u er u P c rt ' CU, T''' nC!uircof I° HN Fl »»o, at his Office,
NO 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets, Phil
ladclphia. , „ \
r (law 8w)
128
No. 22, North-Front-Strict,
Dallas's Reports.
Kirby's Connecticut Reports.
Conductor Generalis.
Buchan's Domeflic Medicine,
latest edition.
Clark on Difeafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
fe£tions.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodist Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalm.*.
Price's Sermons.
Hale's Ass £lionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftru&ions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accomplished Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart,
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Prelent for an Apprentice.
D BOOKS.
School Dialogues.
Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ame
rican War, 4 vols.
New Annual Register.
Vattel's Law of Nations.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life of Robinson Crufoe.
Saville's Miscellanies,
School of Wisdom,
Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Description of 300 Animals.
Bovle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Bclifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of History.
Allifon's Essay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
Turn r L L,M! *° th J"<T. i"o-
HE Comm.flionerj appo.ntcd to receive Subfcnoiio,v
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agrceabFe uni -
form the Stockholders o? the said Bank,that an clrftionfor,
five Directors will be held at the Citv-Hall in
Iriday the siltday of Oftobcr next, at 10 o'clock in the m ° H
THOMAS WILLING 0 ' 0 " 15 '
DAVID RITTENHOUSE
SAMUEL HOWEI.L.
Charleftown (iVIafT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII. * *
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the PuM
the following
Of the Twenty-Second Class,
Consisting of 7°°° Tickets, at Thkee Doll ARs'cach »a.
Dollars. ' *
2500 Doll*, is tsoß
I°°° ,q o#
I^OO
100#
Bo#
6o#
800
6o»
56®
48®
8035
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
03" This Class will commence drawing on or belore the ill of
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown
and at the usual places in Bnflon. '
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, C Managers
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleston, May 15, 1791.
on the Religious As-
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets in the ahove, and in the MadachufettsSeeonJ
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, fnr S.i|p.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY,
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY alTure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day aopointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of OSoher next, or Jooner, if ihcTickrti
shall be difpofcd of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, so
they are determined to be equally as punAual in this.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, ar« 125,000 Dollars, te
be paid ill the following Prizes, fubje£t to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the ufc of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars^
1 of 10000 rs 1 oooa
2 3000 aie 6oo»
3 2000 6000
6 1000 600®
10 500 5300
30 200 6000
8009
4500
4000
3600
3220
2000
6o68»
TICKETS in t lie above Class mav be had of the several
Managers, mho will pay the prize 1 on demand; of the Treasurer.
ot the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun."")
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
Boflon, April 14, 1791.
May 30, i 79* •
INFORMATION is hereby gfy/en to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th dav of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpe&ively,under the usual regulations,vi/.
Every application lor payment must. be accompanied by the fol
low ing vouchers.
(w&fow iaw6t)
lft. The certificate given by the slate, fpecifyiog that the perfoi
poflefTing the fame is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as Inch he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B, came bejore me, one of the JuJlices of the connty of
the fate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to uihom the
original certificate in his pofjeffion was given, of which the following is*
cop\ (the certificate given by the slate to be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or vessel) at the time he was disabled, and that he now re~
fides in the and county of and has resided there for the lajl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apoly for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mufc
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of slate of do hereby conflitute
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf ef
my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, one thou find seven hundred and ninety-met
ending the fourth day of September of thefame year.
Signed and s ealed
in the presence of
(eptf)
Applications of executors and administrators mull be ae«owp»r
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidrnt of the United State?:,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War. _
sO" The JOURNAL of the TIURD Sf.SStON rj lie SlNJJi
of ih<UNH fkD STATES, max be hzief the Editor hcretj.
CH E M
1 Prize of
1
'5
20
20
20
4°
6o
7°
8o
2008
*335
4665 Blanks,
Hazard and Addoms,
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
SO
90
100
I 20
161
200
7585
100
. 5°
4 a
3°
20
1©
8
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
25000 Tickets.
War Department,
Witnefcs.
Acknowledged before me #
2 00 arc
.5°
4*
3°
2»
IO
5
6
4
17872
Dcduftion, 3.28
12500*