PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN Ft'.NNO, No. 69, HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 10, of Vol. lII.]
The ADDRESS of the Merchants o/Chariest on
To the Pre fide tit of the United States.
SIR,
THE merchants of Chailefton, entertaining a just sense of the
high honor conferred on th s city by your presence, take the
earliefl opportunity of congratulating you on your arrival.
The obligations which arc due to you from every member of
the republic, are acknowledged by all ;—to enter into a detail of
them, would be to produce the history of your life, and to repeat
■what is re-echoed horn one end of the continent to the other.
Were it poflible, Sir, tor your fellow-citizens to omit doing juf
ice to your merits, the teilimouy of other nations would evince
their neglect or ingratitude—the whole world concurring in the
fame opiniou of you.
Convinced as we are of your constant solicitude for the genera
welfare, it must afford vou particular fatisfa&ion to find the pro
greflive effetts of the fedei al government in this State ; and that
the inhabitants are fact emerging from the heavy calamities to
which they were fubjf&ed by the late war.
Sensible of the numerous bleflings our country has derived from
your wife and judicious adrwiniftration—we feel animated with
the most lively sentiments of gratitude towards you : Suffer us,
then, on the present occasion, to represent to yea the affe&ionate
icnfibility with which we are im pre fled, by alluring you that we
■yield to none in fine ere refpeft and attachment to your person ;
and we earncftly implore the Almighty Father of the universe,
long to prefeive a Life so valuable and dear to the people over
■whom you preside.
In behalf of the merchants oj Char left on.
May 3, 1791. E. DARRELL, Chairman.
To which the Pre fide nt returned the following answer :
To the Merchants of Charleston.
GENTLEMEN,
YOUR congratulations on my arrival in South-Carolina, en
hanced by the affe&ionate mannei in which they arc offered,
are received with the most grateful sensibility.
Flattered by the favorable sentiments you express of my en
deavors to be ufeful to our countiy, I desire to aifure you of my
constant solicitude for its welfare, and of my particular Satisfac
tion in observing the advantages which accrue to the highly-de
serving citizens of this State, from the operations ot the general
government.
I am not less indebted to your expreflions of personal attach
ment and refpeft—they receive mv best thanks, and induce my
most sincere wishes for your profeflional prosperity, and your
individual happiness. GEORGE WASHINGTON.
The ADDRESS of the Gr a nd-M a st e r of the Fra
ternity o/Ancient York Ma son s, ofC harles-
TON,
To th: President of the United States.
S I R,
INDUCED by refpeft for your public and private chara&er,
as well as the. relation in which you (land wilh the brethren of
this society, we, the Grand-Lodge of the State of South-Caro
lina Ancient York Masons, beg leave to offer our sincere congra
tulations on your arrival in this State.
We felicitate you upon the establishment and exercise of per
manent government, whose foundation was laid, under your aus
pices, by military atchievement.% upon which have been progref
lively reared the pillars of the free republic over which you pre
side, fupporied by wisdom, llrcngth, and beauty, unrivalled a
mongst the nations ot the world.
The fabric, thus laifrd and committed to your superintendence,
we earncftly wifb may continue to produce ordei and harmony,
to fucceedmg ages, and be the asylum of virtue to the oppressed
of all parts o! the universe.
When we contemplate the diflrefles of war—the in fiances of
humanity, displayed by the Craft, afford some relief to the leel
ing mind ; and it give*. us the moil pleasing sensations to recolle£l,
that, amidst the difficulties attendant on your late military stations,
you It ill associated with, and patronised, the Ancient Fraternity.
D'flinguifhrd always by your virtues, more than the exalted
stations in which you have moved, we exult in the opportunity
you now give us of hailing you brother of our Order, and trull,
from yotii knowlc dge of our institution, to merit your counte
nance and support.
With fervent zeal for your happiness, we pray that a life so dear
to the bosom of this lociety, and to mankind in general, may
be long, very long, prefcrved ; and, when you leave the tempo
ral Ivmbolic lodges of this world, you may be received into the
ccleftial of light and perlctl on, where the Grand-Master,
Architect of the Univetfe, prefidrs.
Done in behalj of the grand- lodge,
Charlejion, 2 d May, 1791.
To which the President returned this An fiver :
To the Grand Lodge o/South-Carolina An-
ctent York Masons
GENTLE ME N,
I AM much obliged by the refpeft which you are so good as
to declaie for my public and private churafter. I recognize
with pleasure my relation to the brethren of your society ; and I
accept, with gratitude, your congtatulaiions on my ariival in
South-Carolina.
Your sentiments on tlje cftablifhment and exercise of our equal
government, aie worthy of an allocation whose principles lead
lo purity ol morals, and beneficence oi a£hon.
The fall ic of our freedom is placed on the enduring basis of
public viituc, and will, I fondly hopr, long continue to protect
the profpeiityof the archite&s who raised it.
I shall be happy, on every occasion, to rvince my regard for
the fraternity, tor \our piolpciity individually, I offer my best
wishes. G. WASHINGTON'.
1 lie Grand-Master then introduced his deputy, who had the
honor of prtfenting the other attending brethren to the President.
Charleston, May 10,1791.
ON Saturday she 17th instant, a furaptuoos
entertainment was given by the MfK
chants < f this city, to the President of the Uni
ted State*, in the Exchange ; at which were
present '0; invitation his Excellency the Govern
or, the Senators and Repreferitatives of this
State in Congress ; his honor the Intendant, the
Wardens with the Federal, State, and city Offi
cers ; all the Members of both Houses of Allerny
bly for Charleflon diftridt, who were in town';
the Clergy of every denomination, and many
respeCtable strangers.— 1 hey aflembled to the
number of upwards of three hundred, in the
City Hall. On the President's arrival, the {hip
America, of this place, (being moored off the ex
change,) fired a federal salute : About half part
four, the companyfat down at an elegant dinner,
which was furni(hed with every delicacy which
ihe country and season could afford. The wines
were excellent and in great variety ; after din
ner the following toails were drank.
The United States of America—may they long
enjoy freedom in peace.
The federal conilitution, ip friends and sup
porters,
The Vice-President and mk'tribers of the fenat.
(By the Prejident,) The commercial interest of
Chailefton.
The late members of both houses of Congress
—may their fucceilors iuherct their wifdoin anc*
patriotifni.
Louis XVlth,and National Aflembly of France,
a Ipeedy and fuccefsfuJ teruination of their la
bours.
Agriculiure and commerce—may their depen
dence 011 each other be properly underflood.
The navigation of the United States—piotecl
ed by the ltrong arms of thefederal government,
may it encreafe and flouri/h.
The ufeful arts of peace.
May the merchants of the United States eon
tinue to merit the flattering compliment paid
them by the President, at the opening of the last
session of Congress.
The national bank—a general diffufion of its
happy effects throughout the United States.
The defenders of the rights and liberties of
the people throughout the world.
The fair daughters of America.
The secretary of ftate—iniy the important ler
vices he has rendered to theiroininercial interests
of his country, endear him to every merchant.
The secretary of the trealWy—may his fame
increase with the rising credit of his country.
May the mantle of peace and friendfhip cover
the world.
The illustrious Prefideut of the United States,
long may he live to enjoy the praif'es of a grate
ful people. !
The Lady of the Prefideivt.
At each of which the America fired thirteen
guns. s
At eight o'clock the President retired to the
City Hall, from whence be liad a view of the
fireworks displayed on board the ship, which
was illuminated with lanthorns ; aniidft thein
the letters V. W. (Vivac Waihington) were
strikingly conspicuous.
The walls of the Exchange were beautifully
decorated with flowers, lhrubs; wreaths of laurel
encircling the arches : over the Prelident's feat
was exhibited an emblematical painting, repre
senting commerce distributing plenty over the
globe. Opposite, under the center arch,was sus
pended a lhip in miniature, handsomely decorat
ed, and furnilhed with lamps to the number of
one hundred and thirty-fix, which, in the even
ing, were lighted up ; this at once discovered a
beautiful emblematical figure, and formed a
irioft happy fubltitute for a brilliant chandelier ;
on her fterti was painted " Commerce of
Charleston," and the repeated acclamations
of the company teftified their wiflies for her suc
cess.
M. GIST, G. M
The harmony and hilarity which prevailed
throughout, were strongly demonftrativc of the
general gratitude and joy ; and it mult have af
forded the high eft gratification to every true pa
triot, to have observed the mail whom we mod
venerate venerated by all.
On Sunday the Preiident of the Uniied States
attended divine fervjee at St. Philip's,in the fore
noon ; dined, in a private manner with General
Moultrie, and went to St. Michael's in the after
noon : and yefterdsy morning, at 6 o'clock, set
out on the con inuance of his tour to Savannah,
cfcorted out of town by a number of the Cincin
nati and other gentlemen.
Wednesday, June i, 1791.
And -when the President retired.
37
[Whole No. 2 i B.]
// Savannah, (Georgia) May 19.
JjITAVING announced in our 1a ft patier the ex
* A pecfted arrival of the Prefidenc of the Unit
ed States, we /hall now lay before the public ail
account of liis reception in this city.
On Thursday morning the President arrived at
Puryfburgh, wheie he was received by the Com
mittee who had been deputed by a number of
pie citizens of Savannah and its vicinity for thac
jpurpofe, and to conducft him to the city in a
which had been equipped and neatly ornament-,
ed for the occasion. The President, with the
Committee, his Secretary Major Jackson, Major
Butler, Gen. Wayne, and Mr. Baillie, embarked
at Purylburgbetween 10 and it o'clock, and was
rowed down the river by nine American Cap
tains, viz. Capts. Putnam, Courter, Rice, b'iflier,
Huntingdon, Kerfhaw, Swaine, M'lntire, and
Morrifon, who Were drefled in light blue ii!k
jackets, black fattin breeches, white silk (lock
ings, and round hats with black ribbons having
the words " LONG LIVE THE PRESIDENT"
in lettersof gold. Within ten miles of the city
they were met by a nninber of gentlemen in fc
veral boats, and as the President pafled by them,
a band ofinufic played the celebrated song, " He
comes, the Hero comes," accompanied with leveral
voices. On his approach to the city, the con
course on the Bluff, and the crowds which had
prefled into the vellels, evinced the general jov
which had been inspired by the visit of this molt
beloved of men, and the ardent desire of all ranks
and conditions of people to be gratified by his
presence. Upon arriving at the upper part of
the harbor he was fainted from the wharves and
by the shipping, and particularly by the ihipTlio
tnas Wilson, Capt. Whire, which was beautifully
decorated with the colours of various nations.
At the foot of the flairs where the President land
ed he was received by Col. Gunn and Gen. Jack
son, who introduced to him the Mayor and rtldei"
menof the city. The Artillery company saluted
him with 26 discharges from their field pieces, and
he was then conducted to a house prepared by"
the Corporation for his accommodation, in St.
James's Square, in the following order of pro
cellion : Light Infantry Company. Field Offi
cers and other Officers of the Militia. Marshal
of the City. Treasurer and Cleric. Recorder.
Aldermen. Mayor. Prefidenc and Suite. Com
mittee of citizens. Members of the Cincinnati.
Citizens two and two. Artillery Company.
The President and Suite were conducted to
Brown's CofFee-houfe by the Mayor of the city and
President of the Cincinnati, and dined with ihe
Corporation at fix o'clock the fame day. The
following gentlemen were invited to partake of
the entertainment prepared : The Judges of the
Superior Courts of the state and Inferior Courts
of this county, Clergy, Members of the Legisla
ture, Members of the Cincinnati, Field Officers of
the Miltia, President of the Union Society, the
Recorder and Treasurer of city ; when the fol
lowing toalts were drank, each succeeded by dif
cliarges from the field pieces of the Artillery Com
pany : j. The United States. 2. The State of*
Georgia ; may flie increase in population and
wealth, [By the President.] 3. The happy Oc
casion. 4. The Governor of the Hate. 5. The
Vice Prehdent. 6. Louis XVlth. 7. The Na
tional Aiieinbly. 8. The Congress of the United
States, 9. Agriculture and Commerce. 10. Arts
and Sciences. 11. The fair Daughters of Ame
rica. 12. The Sons of Freedom in every pai t
of the globe. 13. The Marquis de la Fayette.
14. The Memory of Gen. Greene. 15. The Me
mory of rhofe btave Men who fell in defence of
American Liberty. The President then retired,
and a 16th toatt was given, viz. The President
ofthe United States. ]n the eveningthe city
was beautifully illuminated, and the ihip Thomas
Wilson, with a great number ot lantliorns with
lights made a fine appearance.
(Account to ie continued.J
ANECDOTE.
WHEN King John was shewn where a noble
man, that had rebellioufly borne arms
against hiin, lay very honorably entombed, and
was ndvifed to defacc the monumcnr, he said—
" No, no ; but I would all the reft of mine cne
i.iies were as honorably baried."from the DUBLIN CHRONICLK, oj the sth Aran,.
l\lr. Burke's speech on the Minister's proportion to
encrcafe the naval armament.
MR. Burke rose, as he f<iid, to make a few ob
servations upon what he considered the molt
extraordinary event that had palled in that Houle
(ince he had the honor to fit in it. He oblei ved,
that he could not account for the measure when
he considered the talents of the right hon.
gentlemen, which for one he had been ready
often to acknowledge. In tlie part he fliould
take, or in the opposition he fliould give to this
uncommon itep of Minilters, he difclaimcd all
party confederations whatever. If any acrimony
ugaiiiit anyone person ar anytime found its way
into him, he declared that whenever he difcuf
led anv public or constitutional question it was
neutralized and even dulcified. This was exactly
the cafe at present; he said that he had never heard
of such moderation as the right hon. gentleman
had set up ■, it was in his opinion a cruelty—it
was telling the Ruffians that they might have
continued the war, and though aggrefled, and of«
course entitled to revenge themselves 011 the
aggrefl'ors, yet that they mult relinquilh tlie con
quells they fliould make, and be content to be put
on their former footing. Thus the uti poffidetis
was to be held before them.—But the uncommon
part in what he beheld of Minillers, was the in
cluding Tu key in the balance of Europe. It
had been coafidered an Asiatic country, and
ought so to be held without in any degree strik
ing the eye in its attention to the European ba
lance of power. Had it any Ambaflador at our
Court, at Berlin, or at Copenhagen, &c. ? Did
it pay any regard to us, or consider us ill any
other light than as heretics ? Was not our Am
baflador there treated like a dog ' " For my part
((ays Mr. Burke) my way of reasoning may be
considered as upon the old principle ; but 1 very
much dislike this a?iti-crufade. I am not for fa
voringfuch barbarians, and oppressing Chriflians,
to the detriment of civilization and hindrance
of human refinement."—" Why (said he) are
we to be alarmed at the Ruffians' capture of a
town ?—the empire of Turkey is not difmember
cd by that. We are in podeifion of Gibraltar
and yet Spain is not difniembered " — In refpe<!t
to confidence, it was not capable of definition—
much of it must be left to discretion. He was
ready to allow that " a Minister without any
confidence would be no better than a (lave ; and
if too much confidence were implicitly reposed
5n him," said he " we fliould be slaves ourselves."
He could not fee the fmallelt reason for our
alarms at the aggrandisement of Russia, or fears
for the depression of Turkey. The right hon.
gentleman might call this by the name of Mode
ration : but would it be deemed so by the world ?
Was it not an iufult to every other power ? Was
it neceflary, in order to pi eferve the balance, that
every State or Power fliould continue exactly in
the fame state ? or could that balance be afFeOted
by the loss of Oczakow to the Turks ? It was fine
talking of what we are to do wiih Russia by a
naval armament. "We were to conquer Ame
rica," said Mr. Burke, " and I gave my opinion
what would be the fruits of the attempt." Mr.
Burke concluded a inofl: eloquent speech, by ob
fei ving, that if these interferences are to take
place at any time by the haughty and atTuning
Minillers of any Srate, they ought to be in fa
vor of freedom and the cultivation of Chrijlian
fellowfliip, and not in efpotifing the cause of
Barbarians who have not the fmallelt regard for
lis in return.
Sir Jnmes Murray said a few words after Mr.
Burk upon the fame fide, when the question was
loudly called for, and the gallery ordered to be
cleared. The House now divided—
For the Amendment
AgaintV it
Majotity
From the GENERAL ADVERTISER,
Mr. BaChe,
THE influence of the prcfentconftitution of the United States
extends not only to the situation, but also to the language of
America. The republican principles of the government, instilled
into the majority of the citizens, have given rife to the employ
ment of the word federal, as a recommendatory epithet. We
have federal beer, federal cakes, federal manufactories, and along
lift of federal etcetera. Pafling through a certain part of th's me
tropolis, I was fttuck with a new application of the word : On a
Schoolmaster's flgn was written, " Readiug, Writing, Arithmetic,
&c. taught upon a federal fvftem." I >vas at firft diverted with
this idea of honest Quit; '>ut began afterwards to consider that
there was more reaf 11 in his use ot the word federal than I was
aware of. Our modern Schools ate called places of education : —
We are, it is true, inftt u&ed there in languages and sciences ; but
whence do we get our other knowledge ? Not in Universities. —
Our religious sentiments are inherited from our parents; our mo
rals are acquired from our companions ; our ideas of government
are the consequences ot early prejudices in favor of the constitution
of our native land,raiher than rational principles adopted by rea
son from a knowledge and of the government of
other countries. But, were thefc made part of the instruction of
our youth in public Seminaries ;* were young persons taught to
* [The ingenious and philanthropic Noah Webster, anticipat
ing the idea of the above writer, some time ago publijhed a Federal Ca
techism for the use oj Schools. J
think for themftlvcs; w»re they rationally mftruaed in the g -
tious principles of equalUblrtr, were they impressed with an ear
ly sense of their religious and social duties, we [hould not then
have much reason to complain of the degeneracy of mankind ; we
(hould have better and more enlightened members of foc.ety-men
fit to be CUIUS of a republic. Such an education would inreality
be upon a FEDERAL SYSTEM.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ITTEN ON LEAVING TH K PLACE OF MY NATIVITY.
HIGH up thr heaven* the Sun in radiance moves,
Gilding thy varied beauties, happy Tlactr,
Whofi charms, by birth and time endear'd, my fpint loves,
And mourning leaves, a distant way to trace.
Now let me check the rising sigh
To mark, with melancholy eye,
Thy feenes which, lingering, from my view retire :
Thy domes, flow-moving from the fight;
Thy Lake, which gleams a fainting light;
Thy dim-difcovcred spire.
Dear scenes of youthful joy—farewel !
Farewel the Street which evening hail'd her own,
Charm'd with the scattered moonlight o'er it thrown,
Listening, with sweet attention, while the
Rung o'er the echoing fields, of Summer's early bell.
Farew?l the Street, where winter, robed in snow,
Roar'd with wild tempest in the ear of night ;
Where Fritndfhpip, powerful, could his might o'erthrow,
And win Affection's house of calm delight.
Farewel thou venerable Dome,
Where the mild Sabbath call'd ray constant feet.
Still let me think how frequent on thy feat,
Decp-mufing tho't hath found a heavenly home.
For there the souk when bigot rage was raised,
And fiery zeal threw criinfon o'er the face,
Or when the vengeance of the Lord was praised*
And torture (hook the tenements of grace ;
Or priestly wdrmth upraised the rod ;
Or Dullness nodded o'er the word of God ;
Could look with mild complaeenc.y around ;
And aye where inborn worth was found,
Or goodness glow'd upon the face of youth,
Or native innocerty shone,
Or beauty foften'd on the lip of truth,
Or dove-like Purtnef&fix'd her throne ;
Could gaze with fond delight,
Grow better atthe fight,
Grateful would fvell for what was given,
And rife, in glowing rapture, up to heaven.
To the still-winding River's moonlight banks ;
The slowly-rising //;//, which leads along
To where the Grove t rich scene of Quips and Cranks
And side-supporting laughter, becks the jocund throng ;
One pensive, last farewell, now loads my sorrowing song.
Farewel dear Inmates of my foul!
Now let no grief your minds controul ;
Now heave no silent, secret, sigh ;
Or hang in tears th mournful rye ;
Or lift the hands, in angaifh wrung ;
Or wake to speech the flattering tongue.
Is't not enough in pain to part ?
Spare, spare, the agpuizing heart.
Science hails mc to 4 Ker feat ;
Bright Ambition urges on ;
Fame to Glory tempts my feet.
* Seize on knowledge ere 'tis gone.
' Learning opes her varied stores ;
* Age his ft ream o f treasure pours;
* Meek-eyed Piety requires;
« Mild Humanity desires ;
« Pity points, thy gain, the flues ;
1 Come !' the Voice of Nature cries.
Father of Heaven ! I bow with foul refign'd.
My former joys (hall aid my better part;
All meaner cares be banifn'd from my mind
My toils my Country claims, and God my heart.
From the GENERAL ADVERTISER.
A concise abftraft of the Ne-w Conflitution »f France,
accepted by the King, and ratified by the People,
July 14, 1790.
CONSTITUTIONAL ARTICLES.
THE Government of France lhall be tnonar
chical.
The Peifon of the Kingfhall be inviolable and
facrerl.
The Crown shall be indivisible and hereditary
from male to male.
The National Assembly shall be permanenta!
and conipofed of one house
228
93
Every Legiflarure fliall fit two years, and al
the members lliall be re-eligible.
The King ihall have a suspensory negative up
on the laws proposed by the National Afiembly;
which negative shall have effeVt until the meet
ing of the third Legiflattire after that by which
the laid laws lhall have been proposed.
The King may invite the National Afl'emb'y to
take an objei't into consideration ; but the right
of proposing laws {hall be vested exclusively in
the Representatives of the nation.
The Supreme Executive power fliall be veiled
exclusively in the King ; he may from time to
time enforce the laws by proclamation.
Every ordinance of the King fliall be signed
by his and attelled by a Secretary of
State.
1 he Judiciary 'power {hall be entirely diftinifi
from the two others ; but jultice fliall be admi
nirtered in the name of the King.
The import fliall be granted but for the time
which will expire at the day of the following
feflion.
The King's approbation of a law shall be ex
pressed in the following words, " The Kingcoti
feuts and will execute." The King's negative
shall be thus, The King will examine."
38
ODE,
The Legislature may present its decrees to the
King, either separately or collectively at the cud
of each session.
The kingdom fliall be divided into thirty-three
departments, each department intodiftiicts, and
each district into cantons of about four I'quare
leagues
The election to the National Afleinbly (hall be
made by the eledlors chosen in the departments.
Each department shall have an adminillrative
afleinbly.
Each cky, to»n, borough or community fliall
have a municipality.
The Representatives to the National Aflenibly,
(hall be considered as Representatives of ihe Na.
tion, and not of any particular department.
Therefore they Ih.ill not be liable to be recalled
in any c;<fe whatsoever. The fame rule (hall be
observed with refped: to the members of depart
ment or diftridt ailemblies.
All active citizens fliall have a right to aflera-,
ble in primary meeting by cantons. Tobecon
fideied as an aiftive citizen the following qualifi
cations are required, ift. to be a Frenchman, ei
ther by birth or naturalization; 2d. to be twen
ty-five years old ; 3d. to be an inhabitant of the
Canton ; 4th. to pay a contribution of the valae
of three days labor ; 5 th. not to be a ferrant at
wages.
With these qualifications non-Catbolics and
Jews fliall be entitled to the rights of atftive ci-
izens,
The canton aflembliei shall annually make a
lift of all the citizens above 21 years of age, who
shall take the civic oath, without which they
shall have no right to eledt or to be elected.
Bankrupts and insolvent debtors, or sons wljo
negletft to pay their share of the debts of their
fathers, shall be excluded from all elections.
In the country, 900 inhabitants shall form two
primary afl'emblies ; but in cities, 4000 inhabi
tants fhall-have only one primary aflembly.
The primary afiemblies shall appoint one elec
tor for each number of too aclive citizens. None
(hall be Appointed an elector nnlefs he pays a con
tribution of the value of 10 days labor.
The electors chosen by all the primary aflem
blies ofa department, (hall elect the members to
the National Afleinbly according to the plurality
of votes. 11l cafe of an equality of votes, the
oldest of the candidates shall be prefered.
The number of rbe Representatives to the Na
rional Aflenibly. (hall be equal to the number of
lepartinents multiplied by nine. This repre
fenration (hall beeftimared accordingto the com
pound ratio of territory, population and contri
butions, that every department may have in the
National Legillature, that influence, to which it
is entitled by its territory, population and
wealh. Mi consequence of this di[tin<2ion, some
departments will have only five or fix represen
tatives, and others twelve or thirteen.
To be eligible to the National Aflenibly, it
liall be required to pay a direct contribution of
the value of a mark of silver, and to be in pos
session of landed property
The electors shall appoint Soppleans or fnp
(lemenrary members, equal to the third of the
number of the numbers of the National Allcni
bly.
Elections (hall be the only title of the func
tions of representatives, to the National Afletn
bly.—The liberty of their votes shall not be im
peded by any particular mandate or inftrucflions.
The fame eledlors shall appoint the members
of the department aflemblies, whose number
{hall consist of thirty-fix for each department.
The ele<ff ors of the fame distrust shall appoint
the members of the diftritft aflemblies, whose
number shall be 12 for each diftrift.
ELLA
To be eligible to these ademblies, it shall be
required to pay 3 contribution of 10 days labor.
These aflemblies shall be permanent, and half
of their members shall be renewed every two
years.
Each administration of a department or dip
tridl, shall be divided into a council and directo
ry. The council to be aflembled.once in a year ;
and the directory to be always in activity. The
dire<flory of departments to beconipofed of eight
members, that of diftritfts of a less numoer.
The councils of departments shall not fit lon
ger than one month, and those of districts no
longer than two weeks.
The administration of departments /hall, un
der the infpedlion of the legislative body, and in
conformity to the national decrees, be intruftea
with the following powers: ill. To aflefs in the
diftiiCts the contributions imposed upon each
department, and the diftri<!ts, to make a i e-pai -
titioti of the fame amongst the municipalitiesi;
2d, to cause the rolls of aflefiinent to be made
amongst the taxable inhabitants of each munici
pility; 3d. to superintend the regular payment
of contributions ; 4th. to ordain the expences
afligned upon those contributions.
They shall moreover, under the infpedtion of
'he King as the fuprenie head of the ration, su
perintend, ift. the police of the poor md vaga
bonds ; 2d. the hofpiials, ptifons andboufes otcorrecftion ; 3d. the public education j 4th, 'the
funds for the encouragement of agriculture and
industry; sth. the preservation of public pro
perty ; 6th. the forefts, rivers, canals, roads,
&c. 7th. the building of churches, prelbyteries,
&c. Bth. the execution of the laws relative to
public security and lalubrity ; 91!), the fei vice
and the employment of the militia.
No resolution of a dilli iift or department (hall
be carried Into execution, without theconfent
of the King, excepting current business.
The adniiniltrative al'emblies (hall have no
right to levy an impolt, or to open a loan with
out the consent of the National Afl'embly.
In the primary aflenibltes, the votes of those
■who cannot write, shall be written by three of
the oldelt citizens, who shall have taken an oath
to this purpose, and who shall during the meet
ing remain at the fame place. The electors shall
not write their votes any where ell'e than at. the
place of meeting.
None lhall be elecfted or eligible, without ha
ving taken the civic oath.
The head of every municipal bodyfhall be cal
led the Mayor, All active citizens may concur
in the formation of municipalities. 4000 inha
bitants shall form one allembiy, 8000, two, &c.
Two near relations (hall not be at the fame
time members of a municipality.
The lr.ayois fliall be elected by the plurality
of votes, and the other members by ballots of
double lifts.
The number of the members (hall be in propor
tion to the population of 'he dilhi<fts.
Each municipal body (hall be divided into a
council and a board. The council to meet once
a ninuth. The board to be permanent.
The mayor may be re-elected after two years,
but ftiall not serve more than four years.
The elections (hall take place in the whole
kingdom on the Sunday after Saint Martin's
day.
The functions of the municipalities (hall be
two fold, lit, under the authority of the depart
ments, to fnperii'tend the revenue of public pro
perty, to dil'cliai ge local expences, to lurvey pub
lic works, audio maintain a good police. 2d,
tinder the authority of the King, to make a re
partition of direc't contributions, to superintend
the collection of the fame, and their payment ;
to direcft and survey public establishments ; to
build and kdep in repair chinches, prelbyteries,
prisons, lfofpitals and other public buildings.
The municipalities may request the aflillance
of the national guards.
WORCESTER, May 21
Tuefdny last liis Excellency the Vice-Prefidenr
of the United Stares, his Lady and Family, palled
through this town on their way to his feat iiy
Braintree. /
BOSTON, May 23
Thursday last arrived at his feat in Braintree,
the Vice-Prelident of the United States of Ame
rica. (
The Legiflnture of $onnt£licut, following the
example o<"our Gallic Allies, have abolifiied Ti
tles.— Formerly their Legiflatu: e contained three
or four score Geneials, Colonels, Majors, Cap
tains, llonorables, and El'q lires, —Now none are
more than simple iVlaJlers.
Faneuil-Hall is now new painting and repair
ing in a bandfoire llyle—We cannot therefore
forbear expreflinp- our hope, that the arches which
are left for picui es, may be filled up with the
productions of our artists. The portrait of lii 3
Excellency the Governor, ihnuld decorate the
arch on the right —whiltt that of ihe liberal do
nor of the edifice, would fill up hit on the left.
To complete the groupe, lei a full length of the
" MAN WHO UNITES ALL 11 .All IS"— fill
the window which fonnerly iiad 111 it a portait
of Georc £ 11.
The dillritft of Maine contains 96,500 inhabi
tams—The males exceeded tne females 2,101.
The piincipal towns in the lowei parts of
Maine, at- for a reparation—and have in gene
tal chofcn Representatives. At Portland, the
votes were, for a separation 39 —againfl it 38.
To- morrow, about noon, will be launched from
Mr. Derby's wharf, in Salem, a fliip, of between
J and 6co tons—supposed the largelt ever built
in that county.
Such immense quantities of corn have arrived
at Martinique, from the United Stares, that Capt.
Campbell, of Wifcallet, made a (peculation of
i {00 bnfliels,at 2S. 6d. with which he has arrived
at Wifcallet.
The Revenue Cutter of this Didritfr is to be
called ihe Matfachufetts.
GEORGE-TOWN, May 2 J
The Diftricft Court at Dum fries ended on Mon
day tlie2)d inft. without a finale indictment be
ing brotglit in by tiie Grand Jury ! !
We learn 1 hat a gentleman trom Holland, late
ly arrived, with an intention to purchase all tl'.c
\acant fiares in the I'atowmack Company.
Philadelphia, June i.
Tt is said that an elderly gentleman in the neighborhood of
Princeton, New- Jerfev. is about to institute a regular series of ex
periments in Animal Magrictijm ; a fubjeft which has been lately
explained in this paper.—From this gentleman's character for ac
curacy in invefti^atfoh, 'quickness of apprehenfton, and precision
of thought, it raav be expe£led that he will throw much light up
on this sublime science ; and the public mind will doubtlels re
ceive singular gratification from a communication of the oL
his experiments in due season. v
Abjlratt of Frcrch intelligence fromthe Dublin Chronicle, to
April 5.
The health of his Majesty the King of Frenchmen was so far re
cruited the 16th March, that Te Deum was ordered to be cele
brated on the occasion ; the Queen receives the felicitations of
the AfTembly and the people with uncommon delight.
The Abbe Seves has been ele&ed to four Bishoprics at one and
the fame time —he has not yet made his ele&ion.
The rights of primogeniture are abolished by the National Af
femblv.
Poor de la Tude who fuffered thirty years imprifonmdnt in
the Baftile, is about to publish an history of his life.
M. de Montefqiiiou has succeeded M. de Noailles as Prefidcnt
of the National Aflembly.
An address from the Germanick Diet, dated Feb. 2, breathes
universal resistance of all the States of Germany against France—
among other expreflTions is the following : " The King is a pri
soner—the National Aflembly never received the power it has af
fu ned, injurious to the rights of the Germanic body, and the faith
lue to treaties."
The ex-Prince of Conde and his two sons were received at Mentz
with the greatest diftin&ion. The beautiful castle of Worms is
afligned for their residence. This Prince loses 600,000 livres pr.
annnm by a late decree of the National AfTembly.
The period for a general ele&ion is now approaching—there
remain only a few ftitutional articles to be decreed—and it is
probable the present aflembly will not set longe r than April—and
the next will meet the latter end of May.
Tt Deums without end are throughout France for the
King's narrow escape on the 28th February.
1400 Hotels to be let in !
The time for the Clergy's taking the oath is prolonged
M. Dupont, informed the AfTembly that the prisons of the ca
pital are so crouded, that tho* the Judges dispatch from 40 to 50
trials in a week, they would not be able to try all the prisoners
in less than four or five years. He moved that two more tribu
nals (hould be eretted, seven Judge! to preside in each.
Mr. Freteau moved that fix more tribunals be added to those
lately erefted,confiding of forty-two additional Judges; this mo
tion was decreed.
Mr. Dupont informed the AfTembly that there are at this mo
ment, between thirty and forty thousand people in Paris who live
entirely on plunder !
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Live Oak,
Ship Favorite,
Brie Hope,
Ship Hannibal,
Snow
Ship Henrietta,
Schooner Charlotte,
Brig Mary,
TO CORRESPONDENTS,
(j Birtha's inejlimable favor, and fever a! other communica
tion* /halt appear as j tfl as pojjible. Evelina will fee by this day's
Gazette that she mijlaket.
XX WAR DEPARTMENT,!
/ MAY 30, 1 791 • J
INFORMATION is hereby giten to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sims to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual penfon, from the 4th day of Mareh,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpe£lively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment must be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
iff. The certtficafe given by the llate, fpecifving that the person
poflefling the fame is in fa ft an invalid, and afccrtaining the sum
to which as such he is annually enditled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B came before me. one of tht JuJlices of the connty of in
the fiate of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pofjefjion was given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the Jlate tt be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or vejfe!) at the time he was disabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of aid has resided there for the lajl
years, previous to which he refded in
T n cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
fiid attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, mud
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the folio w ing form:
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
nt\ pevfton Jor fx months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, one thoufandfeven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the Jouith day of September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealed J
in the presence of /'f/t Is
j- Witness. '
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators mail be accompa
nicd with legal evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whole pension they may claim.
By command of the of the United Stares,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpedive States are requejied to publijh the.
above in their new/papers, for the /pace oj two months.
FOR
TWO THOUSAND ACRES of LAND, in Jefferfon County,
state of Kentucky, situate 25 miles from Louisville, in a thick
fettled neighbourhood. This is supposed bv good judges
who are acquainted wfth its fituaion Sind quality, o be the most
valuable in that part ot thecounciy, as its connection by waier
with Louisville, the principal town in all Kentucky, mullincreafe
ts value—it was some of the firft land taken up in that neighbour
hood, so that the title is indisputable. Lands in the neighbourhood
of Louisville, not superior 111 quality or fuuation, have fold cur
n ly at one guinea per acre.
The Proprietor of this tract wilbes to dispose of it for Cacti, in
order to improve other tra£ls in that neighbourhood, and therefore
will fell cheap.
Any gcntl man desirous to bargain for the Came, may, by appli
cation so the Printer, be informed of the price.
N. B. The above tract ol land is well known to a number of
gentlemen in the state of Virginia, who will if required, certify
its value.
39
Jamaica,
Irvin,
Reed,
Lee,
Cunningham,
London,
Jamaica,
Cadiz,
Jamaica,
Bayne,
Wicks,
Havre de Grace,
St. Lucia,
Miller,
Curvin,
St. Croix,
S A L h,
TO THK PUBLIC.
OX" the frtUrtcehth of January last the fubferiber presented a
memorial to Congress, dating his intention to publish a
complete and correct octavo edition of the Law% Resolutions, and
Treaties of tke United States, and praying that Curb mcafurc&
might be adopted as would give authenticity to i - id edition.
The memorial was read in the House of Reprefen: stives, and re
ferred to the Secretary of State, On the ieventh of February that
officer, after matwre deliberation made the FoP.owiag report : —
" The Secretary of State, to whom was referred the memorial
of Andrew Brown, printer, of Philadelphia, has had the lame un
der his consideration, and thereupon makes the following
Report,
The Mcmorialift states that he has in contemplation to publiffi
a corrcft edition of the Laws, Treaties, and Refactions of the
United States, and prays, that such meahires may be adopted for
giving a public authentication to his woi k, as may euTurtf its re
ception throughout the United States-
The Secretary of State observes, that there exists, at prcfent, but
a Tingle edition of the laws of the Cnitcd Stares, to wit, the one
printed by Childs and Swaine; that this edition is authentic,, the
proof-Pneets thereof having been carefully collated by sworn
clerks, with the original rolls in his office, and rendered literally
conformable therewith. That the firft volume ol this edition can
now rarely be found, the copies originally printed being inoftly
disposed of.
That it is desirable that copies of the laws fliould be so multi
plied throughout the states, and in such cheap forms, as that every
citizen of the United States may be able to procure them. That
It is important also, that such publications be rendered authentic,
by a collation df the proof-fheets with the original rolls, by sworn
clerks, when they are printed at the feat of government, or in its
neighbourhood, and by a collation of the whole work when print
ed at a distance, and a certified correttion of its typogrophical er
rors annexed to each volume.
That this, however, if done at the public expense, would occa
sion an inconvenient augmentation of the number of clerks, as the
ast of collation requires the presence of three clerk?, one to hold
the roll, a fecortd a printed copy jalready authenticated, and the
third the proof sheet.
That it would be more reasonable that persons of confidence
should be employed, at the expence of the Editor, to be named
and sworn as clerks, for the Tpecial occasion.
That, in this way, he is of opinion that it will be advantageous
to the public to.permit that the Laws, to be printed by the Memo
rialist, be collated with, and corredled by, the original rolls, and
that a certificate thereof, by the Secietary of State, be annexed to
the Edition.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secietary of State.
February 5, 1789."
Iq consequence of this report, Congress have adopted the fol
lowing resolve—
" RESOLVED by the Senate and Hous f. of Represent a
ti ves of the United States of America in Congress aflembled,
That Andrew Brown, or any other printer, be permitted, under
the dire&ion of the Secretary of State, to collate with, and correct
by, the original rolls, the Laws, Resolutions and Treaties of the
United States, to be by him printed. And that a certificate of
their having been so collated and corretted be annexed to the fa?d
Edition. Provided, That such collation and corre£tion beat the
expense of the said Andrew Brown, or such other printer, and
that the person or per Tons to be by him or them employed in that
service, be approved by the Secretary of State.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfeof Reprcfentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefidcnt of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, Februarv the eighteenth, j79J.*:.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of
State
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.**
As this Edition of the statutes of the united states is
to. be printed at the feat of gov rnment, and with the approbation
of Congress, and as the proof-(heets shall be collated with the
original rolls and records, by ("worn clerks, in the office of the
Secretary of State, there caii be no doubt but it will meet with a
candid and universal reception.
Confiding particularly in the patronage of the citizens of the
United States, whose interests are itioft materially conncflcd with
a due execution of this work, th« editor submits to their consider
ation the following
TERMS of SUBSCRIPTION
1 ft. The work (hall be printed with a new type on good paper.
2d. The a&s of the different feflions of each Congre's (the du
rationof which is limitted, by the Constitution, to the term of
two years) shall be comprised in one volume,o&avo,and delivered
to the fubferibers in boards.
3d. The volume, from the commencement of the firft, to the
conclusion of the present feflion, shall be printed with the utmoil
expedition ; and every other volume shall b' ready to be deliver
ed at Philadelphia in a few days alter the close of the last feflion
of eveiy future Congress ; —or the work (hall be delivered in num
bers at the close of each feflion (at the option of the fubferibers)
the acts of each feflion making a number.
4th. The firft volume (hall contain such a6ts of the Congress,
under the Confederation, as may be thought molt important to
be generally known in the administration of the present govern
ment, together with the a&s of the firft, fccond, and third feflion#
of the present Congress, and the treaties which have been entered
into with foreign nations, and with the Indian tribes.
The firft volume, it is supposed, will contain five hundred and
pages ; in this cafe the price will be one dollar and two
thirds : (hould the number of pages be more or less, the pricc will
be incrcafed or diminilhed in proportion.
A Complete index (hall be annexed to each volume.
Those who may incline to patronize this highly ntfceflarv, and
very laborious, as well asexpenfive undertaking, are requeued to
forward their names to any of the following gentlemen, viai.
Mr. Thomas B. Waite, Portlarid, Maffaehufetts ; Jam s Harp
er, Esq. Portsmouth, N. H. Meffis. Thomas and Andrews,
Jf Boston ; John Esq. Providence, Jacob Richardson,
Newport, R. I. Messrs. Hudson and Goodwin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Isaac Beers, New-Haven; David Russell, Esq.
• Bennington, Vermont; Mr. Roben Hodg", New-York;
Mr. Isaac Collins, Trenton ; Messrs. Craig and Co. Wilming
ton, Delaware; Messrs. Goddard and Angell, Baltimore;
Augustine Davis, Esq. Richmond ; L. Standing, Esq. Eden
ton, N. C. Mr. W. P. Young, Ch rlefton, S. C. Alexander
Watt, Esq. Savannah ; Meffts.Alexander and James Parker g
merchants, Lexington, Kentucky. Or to
ANDREW BROWN,
the publisher, in the city of Philadelphia.
Philad. 22d Feb. 1791.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES*
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. CcnH 17/2 pr-Z
3 pr. Cents 9/3 9/4
Defercd 6 pr. CrnU
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Srnl.and other Certificate* 16<f 2
Indenu 9/3 974
N. and S. Carolina debt], T2_/6 'sf.
. 86 pr. cent.
47 i "<>•
45 do
-8o
47f do-REPORT OF THE SEC RETARY OK S T A T E,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD AN'D WHALE FISHERIES,
[continued.]
No. 111.
Abftraft of the Produce of the FISHERIES, exported f
France,
French Weft-Indies,
Amount of fiiftclafs,
Spain,
Spanish Weft-Indies&Florida,
Great-Britain,
Uritifh Weft-Indies,
Nova-Scotia,
Holland, -
Dutch Weft-Indies,
Portugal,
Portugucfe Islands,
Germany,
Danish Weft-Indies,
African Ifl. and coast ot Africa,
Mediterranean,
Sweden,
East-Indies,
Amouut of fccond class,
Amount of both claflfes,
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Hank, No. 97,
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Oafs Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791-
A CARD.
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—wishes they may
be informed that he has received a very handforne Assortment
of the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pi cou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose ot (at wholesale or retail)
on so low terms as mult make it an object to cujlomets. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dispatch,
and the time of payment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesn ut-St k eet, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THEUNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No.gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slates, or of any
particular State.
Philadelphia, May 3.
WE, the Commiflione's, appointed to receive subscriptions
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give public
notice, that the Books will be opened by us for that purpose at
the Bank of North-America, on Monday the 4th day of July next.
Thomas Willing, Samuel Howell,
Be a i e Bordley,
David Rittek house,
All the Printers tn the United States ate requejled to fullijli the above.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Subscriber, who fei ved a regular apprenticeship to the
business of VENDUE-MASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes ot giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com
mands. . . . JOHN H. HALL.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21. 1791. (1 rp7w)
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
In various Languages—beinjj part of a private Library;
Am org which are the following ;
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demdfthenes* Xenophon, Plato,
Lu'ci&'n, PiUtarch, Paufarnas, Procopius, Eufebius, N'lccpho
rus, Ctcrro, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Teience, Ovid, C«efar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manihus, &c.
Octavo & infra. Sep'uagint, Ariilophanrs, Longinu«, Thco.
p!i .-.ftus, t-picu-ius, Hcliod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
liberates, Polyznus, Lucretius, Caiiillus, Tibullus,
Pfterculus, I'.orus, Luran, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, ]3u
crjnan, Boethius, Poeia minorcs Latim, Callipzdia, Stiada, L.
V j}' , See.
< Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
lnoh -ue of MeJJn. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues arc
atjn Ji itched up with the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April
'7Q'- ' 'fc2w;
da-A few copies of the CONSTITUTION of the
Untied States, fruited with Notes, may be had of the
Editor. J
Filb pickled.
Quantity. Value,
Fifli dried.
Quantity. Value.
Rentals. Dollars.
543 icß6
551116 518288
Barrels. Dollars
25>659
5 ! 9374
194457
72300
824
978
10
4114
.5
1970
"3822
18594
543 2
48631
41306
11307
1180
613
2 3'4
8
2386
>3 2 4
4628
16
t27o6a|
3°9'57
828531
3787"
(eptf)
(*96 tf)
Lambert Cadwalader,
from the United States, from about August aotli, 1789, to September
Oil whale.
Quantity. Value.
Barrels. Dollars.
9914 73767
1756 • .3685
90818
29294
11670
90838
29306
B'38 '3
886
3 07 5
40
280
300
795
>3
>5
4778
6 9
29'2
803
>47
6
45
>34°4
242
801
2421
564
36
7498
22327
>5765 124908
H3 i6 5
36804
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&icut, at their session in
December lafl, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubfcribeit managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of taeir trull, present the public with the
following
i
t
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5°
6 i
too
140
539 J
S C ]
Prize of
584? Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not twoßlanks to a Prize
Subjefl to a deduction of twelve and a halt per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those wl.o are acquainted with the town
nnd harbour of New-Haven; tr> those who are not, fufftcc it to fay,
'hat its beautiful situation is no: furpaflcd, if equalled by any; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by realon of the flats, this vharf is neccffarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the moll extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about £-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile intereil of New-Ha»en and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime intereftof all the States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all daffcs of people, for
the success of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publiQied in
America) induce the managers to believe the tickets wiJl meet with
a fpcedy falc.
The drawing will positively commence at the Stnte-Koufe, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A 1 ift of the fortunate numbers will be publilhed, and the prizes
paid 011 demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the ufc ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
James Rice., Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howell.
Who wilj pay jhc prizes wl.ich may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in {"aid Lottery.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791
(£3* TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
of Messrs. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
Tickets in the Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment tor the above tickets.
[03* All perlons concci ned will be plcafcd to take notice that the
following advertifemeut has hern varied from that publilhed in
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propolals will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Trc.furv, until the fir ft Monday
in September next inclusive, for the supply of all rations, which
may be required for the use o' the United States, from the Jirft day
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within tlie diftri£ls herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofti.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort and the mouth of
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mu(kin»um.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tuf. arowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down tne said
Ktver to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf- ■
k.ngum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of !
the laid River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioio River, and ,1
ther mouth ot the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami {
and from thence lo the Rapids, on the F,]b of the Ohio, c »d « the }
iaic Kap'.ds.
40
Oil fpermacasti
Quantity. Value.
Barrels. Dollars.
>4°3
80
>483
8745'-
384°
100
8
4 1 74
593
.5
1738
'5
1
807
'79
4
>39
47°
3
6
>35
38
21048
124
10
5 68 3
>3'7
60
> 2 43
2990
27
4 2
700
3948
3745®
4°95
543'
HEM
io,o©o Dollars, is
5 000
4000
2000 arc
1000
s°°
200
100
5°
4 o
3®
20
10
8
Managers
Whale-bone.
Quantity. Value,
founds. Dollars.
108807
>7.5*3
1029
>8552
108807
>°75
60000
870
120
5 220
6150
29
60990
12474
121281
7954 2
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river oi the fame name which empties into
Lake Eric.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
ot the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vincenoes,
at Poll St. Vinoennes, and thence up the said river Wabalh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
E.
IC.OOO
5 00 °
4000
: 4000
4000
2,500
2400
3000
2250
2000
1830
2000
1400
43> 120
At any place or places, on the eaflfide of the river Miffifippi,
from the mnuth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thel'.linois rivfr.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami iiver 10
the Miami Village,
At anyplace or places, from the Miami Village to Sandulky,
end at Sandulky, and from Sandulky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango ajid Lc and zt
Lc Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lile, at Prefq'llle, and be
twixt Prefq'ldeand the mouth of Cayoga river
At the moil 1 h of Tavoga river, and at any plare or places, nn
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creck.
At any place or places, on the east Ode of the Miffifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margor, totherr-cr
Yazous inclulively.
87500
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tcnefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river incluhvelv.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or within other
diftridls, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereatter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contvaftor.
The rations to be supplied are to confiit of the following articles.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half aji 11 of rum, brand yor whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, i
1 , c ° ' > per. too rations.
Iwo pounds or loap, ( 1
One pound of candies, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the f3id ofFice until
the firfl Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive. at Springfield, in the Rate of Massachu
setts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, un'il
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required lor the use of the United States,
,from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftridts herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main fou.h branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupicd as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future polls,
The rations are 10 be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
(ball at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaoeofat
lead two months in advance, in good and whnlefome provisions.
The rations to be supplied arc to consist of the fame articles, cs
are abovcmcntioned.
It is to be undei flood in each cafe, that all loflcs fuftaincd by the
depredations of ;he enemy, orby means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the priceskof the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depohtions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumflances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed.
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either r or,c
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons difpoletl
to coutradl will therefore confine their offers to one year, or ihey
may make their prepofttions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
I The piopofals may be made for the whole of the above posts to
gether, or fcpat atelv for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktowo,
| and the seventeen places following it, and for the pofls inGeorgia;
ij and they mull fpecify the lowest price per ration, lor prfinpt pa\-
| mint. —
! The Printers who have ft i.h lifted tie above advert''fcr.en', are
■ rcjnrjled to reprint it with the alt ire! ions.
Candles fper.
Quantity. Value.
Pounds. Dollars.
1200 480
38754 14884
17917
i 5 3 64
1 79'7
39954
2896
1685
2»5
i°s°
756
23162
148
16,5
238
1230
5
1285
12360
25°°
3°4 2 5
27724
7°39°
20417
loth, 1790.
Total value.
Dollars,
( 749497
749497
1?,56
674
353
203276
8 98i9
[ 794t>4
9274
58
66
"5°
5 2 9
£ 55 1 37
4220
4834
1996
55' Q
l 6
529
44479°
i 194287