PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN ; ,AA,'. No. 69, IUGH.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 12, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
For the GAZETTE vj the UNITED STATES.
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOEJ'IUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
(luntinuedjr'um A'o. 8 vf this Gazette.)
T? U 1 if, by accident, there fliould be born at
-A—' this day a nation wholly new, not acctiltom
ed to Fubjeciion, nor habituated to the delicacies
tit liberty, and it they were ignorant of both,
and scarcely knew their nanu s : if you present
ed to them the offer, eitlier to be lubjcCt, or to
live in liberty,to Which would they devote tliein
lelves ? We ought not to make any difficulty, in
believing that they would love better to obey
leafon only, than to serve any man : at ieatt e
very people would make this choice, except the
Israelites, who without constraint, and without
any neceliiry made themselves a tyrant : of
which people I never read the history, without
ieeling such a resentment as to become almost
inhuman, and rejoice in all the calamities that
befel them. But certainly all men, who have
in them any thing of the leal character of men,
before they fuffer themselves to be fubje«sied,
they must be either confirained or deceived :
conllrained by the arms of it rangers, as Sparta
and Athens, by the forces of Alexander ; or by
tactions, as tlie domination of Athens had once
before come into the hands of Pilillratus. By
fraud they frequently lose their libertv : and in
this, they are not so often seduced by another
as iliey arc deceived by themselves. Thus the
people of Syracuse, the matter city ol" Sicily,
which is called at this day Saragofia, beingprefl
ed by wars, inconsiderately adopting no order,
but againit danger elevated Dionyfius the firit,
and gave him the charge and command of the
army .- and took no precautions, till they had
made him so great, that this brave fellow, re
turning victorious, as if he had not conquered
his enemies, but his fellow citizens, made him
lell of a captain a king, and of a king a tyrant.
It is not credible, how the people as f'oon as they
are InbjeOted, fall suddenly into so profound an
oblivion of t heir franchifes, that it is not poliible
they should awake to reoain them : Serving so
frankly and lb voluntarily, that one would fay,
at the figlu of them, that they had loft not their
liberty, but their servitude. It is true, that in
the beginning they serve by conftraint,and over
come by force : but those who come after, hav
ing never teen liberty, and knowing not what
it is, serve without regret, and perform with a
good will what their predecefiors did by con
itraint. It is thus, that men born under the
yoke, and afterwards houi iflied and elevated in
servitude; without looking forward, contenting
themlelvesto live as they are born, and not
Thinking that they have other rights, nor other
property, than such as they have found, they
mittake for their nature, the Itate of their birth.
\et there is no heir so prodigal and careless, as
not to edit his eye sometimes upon his parch
ments, to fee whether he enjoys all the rights of
his lucceilion, or whether any one has trel'pafled
or intruded on him or his predecellor. Certain
ly custom, which has in all things a great power
over us, lias in nothing so great a virtue as in
this, to teach us to serve : and, (as they fay of
Mithridates, who familiarized himfelf to drink
ing poison) to teach us to swallow and not to
find bitter the venom of servitude. It cannot be
denied, that nature has a great power over us
to draw us as (he will, ahd to make us properly
be called well or ill born : but we mult confefs
that fiie has less power over us than cullom :
becaute the natural disposition, however good it
is, is loll,if it is not cultivated : and nurture and
education makes us always what it will, in
fpigbt of bature. 1 lie feeds of good, which na
ture has planted in us, are so slender and deli
cate that they enduie not the smallest injury
from a contrary education. They grow not with
more east ih their natural fliapes than they
are bastardized, transformed and brought to no
thing, like the fruit frets, which have all some
natural contexture, which they preserve well, if
you lutler them to grow : but they yield them
selves with equal ease, to bear a foreign fruit
and not their own, as soon as you graft or ino
culate them. The herbs have every one their
peculiar properties, their natural Angularity :
bur the frott, the season, the foil, or the hand
of the gardiner, can either add or diminish much
of their virtues. The plant which we have
leen in one plare, we are fcarcelv able to know
in another.
Wednesday, June 8, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ELEGY 11.
WHAT unknown Beauty so majestic moves !
Soft—let rne pais her, on her charms to gaze ;
The look of lovelinels my heart improves,
Dear to my foul is female virtue's face.
Heavens! tis the woman of my hopeless love !
Tis (he ! tis (he ! the sovereign of my foul !
Time's unrelenting trials cannot prove
Of force energic paffton to ccntroul.
Bled be this hour of new-creating joy—
Haftr—let me follow where her beauty leads ;
Despair no more (hall happiness destroy—
Delightful extacv my grief succeeds.—
—Where will my trembling transports bear me on !
Realcn thy power is baniih'd from my breast.—
Delusion's momentary reign is gone,
Known but to break with agony my reft.—
Such is the fortune of my wayward days,
With Irantic woe, convulsive sorrow, fraught;
With peace that, flattering, to despair betrays ;
And all the keener pangs of torturing tho't.
O I have strove, with carefulnefs, and pain,
This hapless pailion from my foul io rend ;
Have bent to study, sleepless toil'd for gain,
And hail'd wild difiipation for my friend.—
Rich inourfelvcs, with mutual fondnefs blefs'd,
We could have lived, the envy of the age ;
With equal love, carcflitig and carefs'd,
Have smiled tegardlefsof affliction's rage,
For wealth to me isjoylefs and despised,
I ask not riches, as I love no; care;
By me the smile ol competence is prized,
It gives contentment if it cnarms my Fair.
On us. what greater joy could gold bestow
But that it gave us liberty and ease ;
The power to heal the broken heart of woe,
And human pleasure, human weal increase ?
Then, while the look of cheertulnefj, and praise,
The prayer of giatitude, thy footftjps blefs'd ;
To fold thy beauties in a last embrace,
And, life resigning, fink upon thy breast j
Would be my earnest, and my only, prayer.
But now remembrance, exquisite in grief,
Fills all my anguifh'd besom with despair,
And wrests from Mercy'i hand all kind relief.
l 7S°'
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
THE PROMPTER.
When a man is going down hill, every one gives liim a kick.
THIS, it is laid, is very natural ; that is, it is
very common. There are two reasons for
this—Firit, it is lnucheafier to kick a mail tlo-mn
hill, than to push him up bill—Second, men love
to fee every body at the bottom of the hill but
then.selves.
Different men have different ways of climbing
into ranks and office. Some bold fellows take a
run and mount at two or three flrides. Others
of less vigor use more art—they creep slyly along
upon their bellies, catching hold of the cliffs anc!
twigs to pull thenifelves up—fonietiines they
ineer a high rock arid are obliged to crawl round
it—at other times they tatch hold of a promi
nent cliff or a little twig, tvliith gives way and
back they tumble, scratching their clothes and
fonietiines their Ikin. However it is, very few
will lift their neighbors—uiilels to get a lift
themselves. Yet fonietiines one of these Crawl
ers will lend a hand to their neighbouring Crawl
ers—affetft to pull hard to raise them all a little,
then getting upon their fliohlders, give a leap
to an eminence, and leave them all in the lurch,
or kick them over, 'i he moment one begins t >
tumble, every one who is near hits him a kick.
But 110 people get so many kicks as poor debt
ors in failing circumltances. While a man is do
ing very well, that is, while his credit is food,
every one helps him—the moment lie is pj efled
for money, however honest and able he maV be,
he gets kicks from all quartets. His frier.ds and
his reputation desert him with the less of his
p'urfe, and he soon tumbles to the bottom of the
hill.
Tvjo minutes advice to some of bur read;rt
Summer is the worst time for gorma/idizing.
The jtomach is relaxed, and left capablc of per
forming its neceflary functions.
In this season the body is liable to ffveri from
the natural warnnh, aiid is perparerf to receive
the noxioiis infection which occafiiins fever by
its being relaxed through heat.
Every man to go to bed sober, and with as lit
tle Cupper as poflible.
This advice to be ftiick up in every tavern in
I town—JJ the Landlord wif/ permit it.
45
C A R R y L.
[Wnole No. 220."]
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE,
Mr. Brown,
T HEREWITH transmit you a very important
A Decree of the National Aflembly of France mi
the fiibjeci of Tobacco—it has a tendency to pro
hibit the carriage of that article in American
bottoms to France, and is therefore of serious
consequence to our navigation and commerce
our rulers will do well to have an eye on the ope
rations of the European governments, which
one after another seem to aim at clipping the
wings of our rising trade in proportion as they
endeavor to protect their own—the corifequences
of these ineafures cannot but be felt in this coun
try by and by, if not.timely noticed and prevented.
Holland is about preventingthe importation of
teas but by their own tart-India Company, in
consequence of, it is thought, importations of
that article from the United States to Amfter
dnin—Spnin excludes our ships and people from
all her colonies and lays heavy duties on our flour
exported to them—France will {hut up her colo
nies to us the moment her liarveit fhal 1 be copi
ous enough to enable her again to supply them
In Portugal our flour is prohibited and even our
grain fold under many diladvantages and reftric-
V° l,s — t ' le Mediterranean the Barbary cor
sairs allow us no acctfs, and our flag is scarce
seen in that sea—Should a pacification happejt
between the Ruffians and Turks, the demand fpr
our supplies of grain must be considerably re
duced by abundant, and cheap supplies from .the
Baltic.—But now for the Decree abovementioned,
of which follows an accurate translation
DECREE on the importation and exportation of
1 obacco, and out lie duties on the importation
thereof.
Article i. Th» importation of manufactured
tobacco is prohibited throughout the kingdom,
nor (hall it be imported in the leaf but in hag
fheads through the ports and in the lhips here
after mentioned.
2. Leaf tobacco shall be only imported by sea
from the United States of America, the Spanilh
colonies, Russia and the Levant—tliefe tobaccos
mud be imported divert, that is, those fro in the
United States in ships of the said States, or in
French ships—those from the Spanilh colonies in
Spanilh or French ships—those from the Ukraine
in Ruffian or French (hips—those from the Levant
in French ships only,—all importation ®f the
said tobaccos in other bottoms is prohibited.
3. The importation of tobacco from the Uni
ted States, the Spanish colonies, the Ukraine and
the l evant, shall only take place at the ports
following, to wit : Bayonne, Botiideaux,Roche
fort, La Rochelle, Nantes, L'Orient, Moilaix,
St. Maioes, Grandville, Honfleur, Cherburg,
Rouen, Havre-de-Grace, Dieppe, St. Valery on
the Somme, Boulogne, Calais, Dunkiik, Mar
seilles, Toulon, Cette, Point-au de mer.
4. It is further permitted tin import foreign to
bacco in the leaf and in good order whatever be
the growth of it—through the custom houses oF
Stralbourg, Valenciennes and Lille, paying du
ties thereon of 25 livres per quintal.
5. The fame duty of 2J livres per quintal shall
be paid on all tobaccos' imported in the ships of
the United States, Spain or Russia.
6. A duty of only 18 livres 15 sols Jjer quintal
shall be paid on tobaccos imported an French
ships direcft from the United States, the Spanish
colonies, Ruflia or the Levant.
The Aflembly suspends the consideration of the
importation of tobaccos from the colonies of
France—by the above regulation a hogshead of
tobacco imported in an American bottom into
France pays about 12 dollars more duty than the
fame hogshead would do in a French (hip the
motion had a good deal of opposition in the As
sembly, and some friends of America warmly in
terposed, which occasioned one member wittily
to observe—" thefegentlemen are so much Ame
ricans that they forget they are Frenchmen"—
the Decree was carried by a considerable ma
jority.
revolutional anecdote.
THE PATRIOTIC BISHOP.
A BISHOP 111 France, immediately on the
publication of the decree which fupprefled titles
of nobility, placdd a charity box in the nioft con
fpiciious part of his hall, and obliged every one
who called hitnlelf My Lord, to put a half crown
in it.!*"
*
L O N D O N, March 28.
'T'HE Empress's navy abounds with Engl.fli,
1 officers, who preferred lier service, from the
improbability . hat ever flie would be invohedl ma
,var with England ; if a war IhooW actually be
ileclared, of those ofhce.s would be
rendered very unplesTant.
Those who have not forgot how near « wrre
toatftual hoftilitiesaga.nft the Spamardsla t>ear,
will think it neceflary to carry oui prelentp
paraiions much farther, belore they give impli
cit faith to a war with Rulfia.-Nothing, in ou.
-b-i.unyhcrutn of
the Turks 5 and therefore the overthrow of the
balance of power in Europe. 1 Ins is
But something more alarming to us, dele, vc to
be mentioned; and that is, her for
rendering herself the first Maritime
Power in Europe, by spreading her a
v 1 f.s over NOT on. y the Baltic, but th.
Black sea!!! And in th.s project (he w.ll
fallibly succeed, if her career be not speedily
lt0 The d European officers, who have been for some
time refortiiiß on the Turkifi. lines, now form a
considerably body, and have communicated some
new confidence to the army of the Grand Vis.
There also the Asiatic troops began to return
and some new levies, of which the arrival was
doubtful, have lately appeared.
« Grim vifaged War" Teems ft ill to go on.
The press has at length nearly reached the c. -
pital.' It is not, indeed, i'een stalking 111 ou
ureets, nor has it yet invaded those dwe lings
nbout Wapping and the hermitage, which are
generally the rendezvous of the brave and hardy
jailor. But the river has been fairly swept rrom
Deptford to the Nore. The merchant-ships are
all stripped of their hands, and our outward
bound fliips detained by it.
The Trinity house have provided pilots toi
the Baltic. I' is not a little remarkable, that fe
deral Captains in the Ruffian and Swedifli trade
have actually refufed their services on this occa-
fi °Ruffia still continues to menace the Turks with
another campaign, far more bloody than the
former, .
The preparations in Germany keep pace with
those in Ruflia, and there is every appearance ot
some great and important event on the part of the
Emperor. „ ~ ,
A Deputation from the Rulfta Merchants wait
ed yefte day on he Duke of Leeds, for in forma
tion refpeeling the fafety and propriety of mer
chant-fiiips failing for the Baltic. The answer
was, " 1 hat in the present situation of affairs,
nothino- could be determined relative to the ex
pediency of the departure of the ships for the se
veral ports in the Ruffian Empire: 1 hat as soon
as his Majeity's Ministers should be able to give
any information on the fubjetf, the Duke of
Leeds would fend notice to the Governor ; bur
ir was uncertain when that notice might be ex
pected
ISM A E L
An account of the capture of this fortrefs has
teen published by authority at Peterfburgh, and
in this it is Itated, as a jnftification of tlie {laugh
ter which took place, that, previous to the as
sault, Aiilos Mechmet, the commander, wasfum
moned to surrender, and informed that, upon
resistance, 110 quarter would be given.
The Tuvkinlh garrison confilTed of forty two
thousand men, of whom thirty thousand, eight
hundred and sixty were slain oil the spot, and
nine thousand taken prisoners. The latter num
ber was diminished 011 the enfuirig day by two
thousand men who died of their wounds.
The loss of the Ruffians is ftatedat only eigh
teen hundred and fifteen men kiiled, with two
thousand, four hundred and fifty wounded.
Two hundred and fixty-five cannon were found
in the place, and four hundred and fixiy-fourin
the Turkish veflels upon the Danube, burnt by
General Ribas,
A defcripiion of the adtion we have before
given, when the intelligence was new ; he ni<-
niettical particulars of the /laughter are now ad
ded, becatife, as they are printed by order of the
Empress, the value of the conquest may proba
bly depend upon thein !
Extraordinary Will, made by a Miser, in Ireland.
These words are :—" I give and bequeath to
in) filter in law, Sarah Dennis, four old worsted
110. kings, which she will find underneath my
beii ;'o my nephew, Charles Macartney, two
other pair of {lockings lying in the box where I
keep my linen ; to Lieutenant Johnfm, of his
Majesty's sth regiment of foot, my only pair of
■white cotton itockings, and my old scarlet great
coat i and to Hannah Bourke, my house-keeper,
in return for her long and faithful services, my
crackt earthen pitcher." Hannah, in angei,
told the other legatees, that flie resigned to them
her valuable (hare of the property ; and retired.
April 8
1,, eoua l rare, Charles kicked down the P Utl, * r ,'
oar the floo'r. 0 This
,ncd wi h money.
KINGSTON, (Jamaica) March 19.
The circumstances which lead to the death of
the gallant and unfortunate Col. Mauduitt, ra
K: liiifrep't'ftmeil. it ft<®.
troops lately from Old France, were no foonei
landed at Port-au-Prince, than they revoked
joined the party which are contend.ns ™
independent legislature, and officersto
lefiance Seduced by the example, Col. Maodu
itt's regiment likewise deferred their colours,
and iofned the reft. In this f.tuat.on, they
thought proper to call to mind a disturbance that
had formerly happened among the people, am.
which the Colonel had employed them to .quel ,
and formed a determination to compel him to
lifavow his fidelity to the National Aflemblj, or
!ep> ive him of life. In this frame of mind, the
, fficer was led to the scene of the former action,
11 id there prefled to a compliance with their de
mands, which he peremptorily refuted. i hey
. ged and threatened in vain. Firm 111 his opi
ions, the Colonel, si. ft raking the cross of St.
nuis from his bosom, and giving it to a soldier,
, n d then breaking his sword in two, told his men
that his honor was in his own keeping, his lite
was in their hands; and, baring his breast, he
added that his d ""termination was fixed, and they
,„ieht nfe their pleasure. At this moment a mul
litude exclaimed, COUPE! and in an instant a
soldier fevered his head with a sabre, while ano
he- pierced his body through with a bayonet.
Thus fell an officer of tried bravery and good
condncl, and who, bur a few weeks bef re, had
been crowned with a laurel, as the true friend
and defender of the colony.
BOSTON, May 30
After the anniverfaiy Eleiftion Sermon - on
Wednesday lad,
His Excellency the Governor,
in his carriage,
His Honor the Lieuten int-Governor,
The Honorable Council,
The President and Sf.natf.,
The Speaker, and fevral Members of the House
of ReprpTentatives,
Foreign Confnls,
Strangers of diftindtion,
Several Officers of his most Christian Majesty s
Troops,
The President of the University,
Clergy,
Private Citizens,
Town Officers,
Officers of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery
—Caftle—and Militia,
proceeded to Faneuil-Hall, efeorted by the Inde
pendent Fufileers, under Capt. Laughton, where
they partook of a sumptuous entertainment. —
After dinner, the following toasts were given—
1. Happiness to all mankind.
2. The President of the United States.
3. The States united, and the States separate.
4. The King of the French.
5. The King of Great-Britain.
6. The United Netherlands.
7. The Commonwealth of MafTachufetts.
8. The Town of Boston.
9. May the Ministers of Religion and Morali
ty, be amply encouraged and prospered.
10. The National Aflembly of France.
xi. The Marquis la Fayette.
12. May wifdoni and found be
the (lability of the free governments of America.
13. Long Life, long Health, long Pleasure.
14. The Officers and gentlemen of the Inde
pendent Company of Fufileers—may their obe
• lience, alacrity and attention, be an example
tor others.
The whole number of votes this year for Go
vernor were I 7,0"2 —of which his Excellency
Join) Hancock, Esq. had 15,996.
Whole number for Lieutenant-Governor,were
14,99? —His Honor Samuel Adams had 13,032.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
The committee appointed to count the votes
for Governor and Lievu. Governor reported,that
His Excellency John Hancock, Esq. was cholen
Governor, and His Honor Samuel Adams, Esq.
Lieutenant Governor of this Commonwealth.
At half pall 12 o'clock His Excellency the Go
vernor appeared in the House (where the Senate
had convened) and in a short and pertinent ad
dress, informed the two branches of the General
Court, That he had been politely informed by
their committee of his having been re-eleifted to
the office of Fitft Magistrate of the Common
wealth , that he was fully sensible of the honour
done him by this fYefli instance of the confidence
46
rcpofed in him by the citizens thereof ; that he
expeiienced the highell famf.uftion in contem
plating that the welfare and happiness of the
Commonwealth had ever been the chief objects
of his concern, and that he (hould nor fail 0 f
paying that attention to its interests which this
repeated instance of confidence demanded. The
Pi efident of the Senate then administered the
oaths to his Excellency. Before the President of
the Senate administered the oaths to his Honor
Samuel Adams Efq.he addrefled the two branches
as follows
Mr. President.
BY the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
powers fufficient for the preservation of the
rights and liberties of the people and the well
ordering of civil fuciety. are annually delegated
to such persons as the free citizens think fit to
confide in. Those original righrs of men,which
are deemed to be by the laws of God and Nature
unalienable, are secluded from the controul of
civil government ; and are lefc to be exercised
by eaHi individual, at his own discretion with
out injury to others. It is a Constitution, not
obtruded by any one man, or any number of
men who might combine to gratify their own
feelings to the exclusion of all others, but con
templated, deliberated, approved and adopted
by the people themselves.
You are very sensible, Sir, there are advan
tages in frequently recurring to fir it principles.
It is the express language of this excellent
Constitution, and I conceive it to be the clear
voice of Nature and Ileafon, that "all power
originally resides in the people ; and being de
rived from them, the several Magistrates and
Officers of government, whether Legislative,
Executive orjudicial, are their substitutes and
agents,antl are at all times accountable to them."
That " the people alone have the inconteftible,
unalienable and indefeafible right to institute
governments, and to reform, alter or totally
change the fame, when they find their own fate
ry, protection and welfare require it." That.
" the idea of a man born a Magistrate, Legislator
°r Judge, is absurd and unnatural."
May it not hence be inferred, that claims to
hereditary right, to shares in sovereignty, or in
the adminilb ation of government, tranfmiflible
to children, or relations by blood are ufurpations
of the natural rights of men, as well as totally
repugnant to the firft principles of our free Con
stitution. It is further declared, that " thr
people have a right, at certain periods, to cause
their public officers to return to private life, and.
to fill up vacant places by regular elections and
appointments." And, " that all elections ought
to be free."
Upon thele, and other like principles, the
people of this territory did solemnly and mutu
ally igree with each other, to form thcmfclvcJ in
to a free, sovereign and independent body poli
tic or flare.
When the year expired, in which I was called
to officiate in the office of Lieutenant Governor
of this Commonwealth, I freely and voluntarily
complied with a rule of the Constitution, wifely
calculated, and I conceive intended, to secure
and perpetuate annual elections, and returned
to my own native private ftatiou in the commu
nity,
A joint committee of the two branches of the
General Court, have by their order informed
me, that my fellow citizens have thought it pro
per again to elet r t me to the fame office. lam
highly honored by this repeated mark of their
confidence. I accept the trust : And am ready,
before this venerable and freely elected Legifla
iure now convened for the purpose, ro take and
fubferibe, the several oaths and declarations
which the Constitution of this Commonwealth
have made pre-requifite to my at r ting in the of
fice. Havingdone this I ffiall ufemy utnioft en
deavor, to perform the duties required, diligent
ly and faithfully, according to the belt of my
ability and understanding.
A petition from Mr. Winflow Warren was
read. It stated the circumstances of his commit
ment for debt under the authority of the United
States, and the peculiar hardlhips with which it
\ras attended—and prayed that relief might be
granted him by an a<'t or resolve being paned
explaining the law of the Commonwealth which
granted the privilege of iinprifontnent the
gaols, to the Unired States, so as that the prison
ers of the United States may not be precluded
from the liberty of the yard, in such cases asaie
allowed by the laws of this State.
Referred to a committee who reported a b.U
agreeable thereto.
Died at Concord, the 16th in ft. Col. John But-
TERtcic, in the 6oth year of liis age.—A widow
and ten children deeply mourn the loss of a ten
der husband and kind father—and the town and
Church sincerely regret the death of a very va
luable member. His remains were interred un
der arms ; and other marks of affection and ref
peJt accompanied his interment. The corpl'a*as carried into the nieetlng-houfe, where an
ingenious and well-adapted oration wnsdelivered,
to a numerous allembiy, by John Merrick, Efq!
His fellow-citizens were excited to such expref
fionsof friendship and honor io his remains and
iipemory, by a grateful sense of his patriotic and
Leroic conduct in the late American revolution
and particularly by the recolleJlion of his bra
vely and fii muelSj 011 the memorable 19th of
April, 1775, being one of the two who, at Con
cowl bridge, led 011 the American militia to face
and repulle the Bririfh troops. A number of
fingers preceded the corpse, and as the procession
approached the bridge, on the very spot where
the deceaft-d, in 1775, gave orders to return the
Briufh fire, they sung a well chosen hymn, and
moved on singing tothe place of interment.
Let nfing iu; s catch lteedom's fire,
And nobly imitate their fire.
Died ar Roxbury, on the 27th inftaiit, of a gra
dual decay, William Erving, Esq. a Member
of the American Academy of Arts, &c. formerly
an Officer in the army of his Britannic IVjajefty ;
whose service he quitted 011 the commencement
of Ihe troubles between Great Britain and Ame
ri cn.
We hear tisat, oefides other charitiei, the Jate
William Erving, Efq, has bequeathed 10001. to
the University—the interest of which he has ap
propriated by his will, to the Profellor of Clie
miftry for the time being.
PROVIDENCE, May 28
Yesterday, at or.e o'clock, P. M. David Com
ftock, convicted at the Superior Court in March
Jaft of t lie murder of Ephraun Bacon, was taken
f*om gioi in a coach, to the place of execution.
He was alii (ted in his devotions by flie Rev. Mr.
Snow, and apoeared tranquil and resigned to his
fare. He fuffered about three o'clock, and after
hanging 25 minutes, l|is body was taken down,
and )»!ive fd to his fri<Sfcds. A detachment of
irihtia ended, and a prodigious concourse of
ipet; aro: s were afleinMed 011 the occasion.
Yefte.day was alio aligned for the execution
of Thomas 'Viount, in the county of Walhington,
for burglniy. & '
Sunday lift the ship Tristram. Capt John War
ner, an ived here in eight weeks from Dublin.
He has brought a number of experienced manu
factuieis, for the cotton manufactory established
111 i his town.
Dr. Carroll, Catholic B'diop of Maryland, ai
med h:*>e on Monday evening" Jalh on his way
to lioilon. & J
E A S T O N, May 31.
Mr. Cowan,
A~cor> efp"ondent fends you the following extrafl of
I n,i _l
a litter jro#, Dnb.in,. JjU'd friar t*k ri2, 1 79 f
EVERY rhipg wears here a fiugulaf afpedi
We had yesterday a meeiing of the citizens,
pursuant to summons from the high flienff, ii<
order to censure that part of the address of the
house of lords, moved by the Duke of Lei lfter,
which infinnated, that thepeo ; leofl'eland weie
a mifgnided set of men. This was agreed to with
only four diffenring voices.
It was unanimously refjlved, that we never
will, as inagift rates or jurors, give operation to,
or allow the force of, any English acft of parlia
ment ; and that an imme Hare committee of cor-
Tefpoudence be appointed to hold council with
the reit of the aflbciations of Ireland.
I he fecrerary came in about four, arid in a
speech of a long duration endeavored to explain
to the house the purport and tendency of a bill
for regulating ihe intercourse and commerce be
tween G eat-Britain and In and—after having
urged a great variety of arguments to prove ihe
propi ety of proceeding by bill in preference to
any other method, concluded with leave to brino
it in.
. ' Mr.Connolly opnofedthc motion in the fuft
inltance, declaring that the bill, if fuffered io
be brought in, would totally take away their con
ltitution, and leave them no commerce at all
Mr. Fetter objected, and pledged his ho
no,r(t"Blve ,c eve, T opposition in his power.
Mr. Grartan, in one of the ableit and mod
eloquent speeches perhaps ever delivered in this
house of parliament, opposed the bill as a door
ro vafialage and slavery, since it proffered com
merce as a barter for constitution.—His speech
>vas full of points—it-was interesting, attractive
and sublime—The whole audience grew silent
as he fpnke, and, having caught the enthusiasm
were loft in admiration.
" James, you know the little fellow, he was
upon his poor little legs for two hours and a half.
" T he iuftant he fat down, Mr. Montgomery,
member for your county, arose—He appeared'
vo be pel tectly familiar with the fubjetft, and as
ulual proved his claim to patriorifm, reputation,
and a man ol talents. The debate continued for
some time with uncommon vehemcnce ; all the
great speakers, and the diftinguiflied country
gentlemen, took part in the business, and mem
bers from every part of the kingdom declared
themselves against such a system.
" Parliament is now (thank fortune) pro
togued until September.— We have had aveiy
long and a very interesting feflion, endeavoring
to procure by threats what I fear will Coon be
lhei el ult of blows. —If I guess in this pa r
licular, 1 desire you may'give no credit to any of
my future prognoflicationS."
lfland Creek.
ALBANY, May 30.
On Thursday lafl this city was honored with
the presence of Mr. Jefferfon, Secretary of State,
accompanied by the Charles Fox of America, the
celebrated Madison. We.are informed they in
rend going North, as far as Lake Champlain, and
from thence across the fifteenth Conflellation, Ealt
to Connecticut River.
Yesterday, between three and four o'clock, the
thermometer flood at 94 degrees in the (hade;
the hoteft day last summer, it flood at 91.
NORFOLK, May 28
Extratf of a letter from a'refpeßable House in Bar
badoes, to a merchant in this town, dated April 29.
" The flour you shipped from Norfolk in
"vTarch lad, turned out r*marfcably well ; and is
thought to be equal if not faperior to what is
imported from Philadelphia or Baltimore."
On the Reception of the PRESIDENT at the
several Towns and Villages, &c. in his Tour
to the South.
AN IMITATION.
All tongues speak of him—aged fights
Are peftacled to fee him : The pratling nurse
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
While fbe views him The rustic lasses pin
Their richeff geeraround their fun-burnt necks
Clambering the walls to eye him : flails, trees, windows
An-fmother'd up ; house-tops and ridges fill'd
With various ranks of men ; all agreeing
In earnestness to frt him old Senators
Do press among the popular throng, and puff
To win a vulgar flation : beauteous dames
Commit thi' war of white and damask in
Their nicely gauded cheeks, to the wanton spoil
Of Phcebus' burning kisses. Such joyful (horns
As if the VERY DEITY WHO GUIDES HIM
Were slyly crept into his human powers
To give him grace and honor !
FOR THE CAZETTF. OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET to JOY.
H\IL ! heaven-de<cended Queen ! to thee I breathe
. 1 his fervent song, the incense of my foul !
Too long has f-'rrow' dripping cypress wreathe
O er-rcach'd the source, whcnce liquid pearls would roll,
Thv fou!-reviving form ! I now behold
In radiant beauty burst upon my fight,
Thv clear blue eye,.beams with a pure deligftt,
• Adown thv Holders wave thy Jock»aX.gal<l_
O'er all thy (i»ure glows a nameless grace,
A btaiitv that no mortal can behold,
When the foft smile illumes, thy blooming face ;
And not d< clare thee of celeitial mould.
O ! dwell with me thou angel from the flcy,
And bid the Maid tear-loving sorrow fly.
* " And wave thyJhadowy loch ojgold."
Dr. Dar vin's address to May,
Philadelphia, June 8.
We are informed that the President of the United States
may be expelled to ari ive at the Seat of Government, from his
Southern tour, about ihe 2,5:h instant.
Friday morning, for tin si.st time, arrived in this city, the wag.
s°" w,c , henceforwa.d is to supply Philadelphia with Fish.
The following gentlemen were chosen, at the late elefti-.n.to re
prelc.it the city and county of New-Yo.k :—John Waits, William
S. L.vingfton, John Wvlley, j. O. Hoffman, Will,am P. Smith,
Henry Will, and Melanfton Smith, Efq'rs.
F.xtrafl of a letter from Bojion, dated May 18.
An action was tried here a few days fx.ice before a Juflice of
the Peace, in which black Peter, a negro, was counsel for the Plain
s iTltj ' a Law y er of feve "l )«rs Handing, counsel
for the Defendant. The latter complained at being pitted with
such an antagonist, and observed that it was unjust, and a rnanifeft
dereliction of every principle of propriety—a discouragement to
every effort to acquire a competent knowledge of the profeflion
of the law, to obuin which much study was requisite, and great
expence nccelTar.ly in. urred. The Juflice observed in replv, tha
oy the laws of*he Aate, the plaintiff had a right to employ whom
he rJr: and i* ~n e ad any th,ni; to fav f ° r his c|icm >
he might go on—lt is fa.d that Peter and the Squire beat the
Lawyer hollow; who loft ins c ause, and was verymurh chagrined."
The Enjrlifh papers state, that intelligence is
received from 'ndia to the ad December, but no
thing decisive had then taken place between
I ippoo and the British ariny.
In cafe of Hoflilities be ween England and
ivuma, Sweden is determined to preserve a per
fect neutrality. r
Ihe Dutch, by the last accounts, are fitting out
a large fleet. °
Li.glifh Stocks were npagain on the 12th April,
occasioned by a report that the preliminaries of
peace were figncd between Raffia and the Por te
It k very problematical what will be the iHue
of the recent armaments in Great-Britain. If
the Empress is firm, war appears inevitable.
Papers from N'ew-York received by yefterdny's
mail, contain an account under the Paris head
o- April 4, of the fmeral preparations for the
interment of ,\l. de Mirabeati the elder The di
lcL'torycf Paris has resolved to wear mourning
47
BIRTfiA.
eight days ; and the municipality, that twelve
of their body, with the mayor at their head
fliould attend his remains, and that they Jhould
wear mourning for tliree days.
All the places of public auuifement were fiint.
His remains were to be conveyed to the Pariffi
Church of St. Euitache, to be there deposited till
a sepulchre is prepared for them.
His death is a great loss to the cause of liberty •
M. deMirabeau had been long conlidered as one
of the great pillars of the new conttitutiou.
Whatever "partiality our good Allies" ninv
discover towards us in the Decree respeCting our
Oils, a correspondent would be obliged to any
one who would point out the advantages con
ferred upon us by the Decree regulating the im
portation of Tobacco. .
The remarks which precede the Decree pub
lished in the Federal Gazette, are founded 011 facts,
and merit attention. The true interest of the
United States consists in being as detached as pos
sible from European connections, views and po"-
litics. '
Abetter from Amsterdam, dated the firft of
April, an extract of which is published in the
Patowmack Packet, faj's the credit of the United
States is firmly established in that country, and
that it is expe&ed their securities will soon be
above par.
It is the opinion of many eminent Physicians,
that canine madness is principally owing to dogs
not having ready -access, in hot weather, to frefh
water, in the streets of large cities and other
places.
A free press is not only a fafeguard to freedom, but is also an
honor to the country or (late in which it is ellablilhed For a 9
thro'prejudice, error, pride, folly, and a natural independence
of spirit, mankind will imbibe and maintain various and opposing
opinions, it is only from a fail statement of the arguments on
both fides of every fubjeft, that just and solid principles can be
deduced.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
I do not think with the paragraphs in your last, that age alone
uggefts a fufficient reason for the rejection of any customs, forms
or ceremonies, which have heretofore obtained among mankind;
hut I do conceive, that as the rays of knowledge and common
r enfe extend thei* influences thro' the civilized world, thfc barbae
rous ideas which have kept our species in the lowest degree of de
gradation, will be exploded, and man become more
the friend and alTociate of man—which never can be the cafe, so
long as riches, titles, honort and iijlincltons, draw such a line of
eparation between them. c
The credit of the United States, through the benign influ
ence of the general government, and those financial arrangements
which have been formed under its auspices, has emerged from the
mod deprelTcd and abject situation. Theftocks have risen beyond
all experience and all parallel. If the expectation only of punc
tuality on the part of the government has been equako producing
such furprifmg effects, what may not reasonably be anticipated
from that great aßive capital which will be crcated by the Bank,
fvftem, to aid and facilitate the payments of individuals to the go
vernment, and of the government to its creditors ?
There can be little ooubt of the fix per cenis being very fhort
'v above par. The holders of public paper would do well there
fore to deliberate leisurely before they part with their flock.
The interest of the general government, is the intcreft of the
States, individually—they (land or fall together—this idea pro
ved paramount to that local jealousy, which, while it produced
a wretched schism, would have kept us forever weak and de
graded.
The clause in the law for establishing the bank, of the United
States by which any particular State is precluded from a larger
credit than 50,000 dollars, so far from (hiking at the fuvereigntv
of the individual States—is, fays a correspondent, calculated to
produce dire&ly the reve.fe effect ; it puis every State upon an
equal footing, thus precluding jealousy; and consequently no par,
ticular State can avail ufelf ol superior fun Is to enhance its credit
with theTreafury of the United States,and to encreafe its influence
in the Union to the injury of its neighbors—neither is there an un
due ftimulous held out to a powerful State to aid in measures.
which might be injurious to the others. The disinterestedness of
the provision is equally conspicuous with the justice and found
policy of It—for the general government thereby precludes itfelf
from offering a douceur to a particular State, for any fmifter pur
pose whatever. ' "
Extracts from a Pamphlet jufl publi/hed, againfl the BANK of the
UNITED STATES. J
* VIEW rt"' p.;tof the bank flock which consists in funded
to , be m " ch w ° rfc tha " nothing: I had rather have the cafU
drht W fh MhJ V lfthc interest on the public
I k be reduced, or should not bt ttnaually paid (both of
which are very poflible) the bank would (hake to its centre—the
dividend, mujl cease, or be rediued, bank-flock would instantly/,//,
and a" public Applies from the bank mufl be flopped."— p,
not wondcr lf the bank should be an
ninilate the state governments." p. g.
" If the immense flock of the new bank should be thrown into
operation the aggregate sums would vaflly exceed what the trado
and business of the country could either require or support."— p. g,
Married, on Saturday evening last by the fiirht
Bishop White, Mr. James Poster', Merchant g g o
Duffield, daughter of Mr. John Dufßeld, of thi. city.
Died, on Saturday last, in the 53 d year of his ««, Mr lo.ebh
Carson, Merchant, o! this city. • JOSEBH
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Sloop Three Sifter,, Johnson,
7~ ™ e n r Au S uftus > Robinson,
Br.g Molly, p au ,
„ * . Plnto ' Oporto
v" y',!r' C Majcfty's Packet Grantham, Capt. Bull, arrived
Hahfax Urdaylaft ' in 56 dl >™ from and
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES^
FUNDED DEBT.
3 pr-c'm,' l7 ff P r - ccnt -
Defcred 6 pr. Cent, lt f\
UNFUNDED DEBT.
. inal Scttl.ani other Certificates 16/4 16/6 82A
Indents -,/• „/ »
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12/6 14/. 47 °
Providence
St. Euftatia
St. CroixView of tlic \Vhale-Fisheries of Holland, England, and the United State
liiflorical
-o
1 1
2
11 4
7
202
138
148
1 o
12
M
16
18
20
2 2
22
21
2
1
! G6
67
55
'578
1612
1615
ijs'o
>663
1669
1670
1678
168 j
*686
1688
3692
1702
2713
1715
j 721
Balquct,
Hamburgh, about 350
English bounty, 6s.
242
189
214
3 2
224
93
260
226
218
202
182
184
168
164
176
184
1 9 1
196
94
18.
186
iBo
Americans begin.
Hamburgh, 79
Basques, 20
172,6
1726
1727
1728
1729
>78°
Bafqties, 27 I
Bafqucs, 33
America, i3oo,oiuheir )
own coast. )
>;s>
>732
>733
Basques, 15 to 20, Eng. )
bounty, 20s. $
1736
>737
Basques, 10 to 12
Englifii bounty, 30s.
Basques, 5 or 6
>744
1748
>755
English bounty, 40s.
>756
>757
New-Haven VVhai'f Lottery.
r ~|-' , HE Legiflafure of the State ol Conne&icut, at their feflion in
A December last, granted a Lotterv for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour ot New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, Who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their 114 ft, prelent the public with the
following
s c
X
1
i
2
4
5
1 &
. 3°
45
50
6t
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
Prize of
11658 Blaiiks.
17500 Tickcts, at Five Dollars each, is
NOT TWO Blanks TO A PRIZE
Subje&to a dedu&ion of twelve and a halt per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to thofc who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the iound
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necetfarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the mo ft extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3~4ths ot a mile; and not only the
mercantile interefk of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general with that prevails in the minds ot all clalFes of people, for
the fpccefs ot this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being; more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
Amcriea) induce the manager? to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will ppfitivcly commence at State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, it the
tickets are sols.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pubiifhed, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcaJled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the ufc ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
James RICE,
Jeremiah Atwater,
Joseph Drake,
New-Haven, April 14, 1791-
(£3T* TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compt'ing-houfe of Melfis. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner ot
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who wiH pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the Maffachuletts Lottery that ha.ve drawn prizes,
will be received in payment ior the above tickets.
This day publifhed> Price 6d.
And to be fold by the Editor, and the Booksellers of this City,
AN ADDRESS
To the STOCKHOLDERS ok the
BANK OF NORTH-AMERICA,
On the Subject of tlie old and new BANK.
R E P 0
OF THE
CRETARY of
S K
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
COD and WHALE FISHERIES.
[CONTI N HID.]
No. VII.
rj
c
(6
"o
■59
>55
>54
161
165
•75 8
•7.59
1 *60
1761
1762
<763
1764
*7^5
1766
1767
1768
1 ;6g
>77°
1771
1772
1773
■774
'775
1776
>777
: 77 a
1779
Tons,
1780
1781
1782
>783
1784
>785
1786
1787
1788
1789
H E M E.
10,000 Dollars, is
5000
4000
2000 arc
1090
5°P
aoo
100
5°
4<=
go
so
10
8
Managers
Michael Todd,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph How e l i.
-O
n
*c!o
c
W
5 2
34
40
3 1
28
3°
3 2
33
35
39
4>
44
5°
5°
48
55
65
96
9>
77
7'
59
52
34
38
47
16l
16 5;
167
16.51
160
AMERICA, ljo.
lUmud Stints
South
North
-83
177
91 3 1
9 1 3>
9' 3 l
15°
>5°
>3'
>34
13°
129
i?. 3
116
j i I
>°5
82
.5,5
62
65
67
67
6 9
93
Mo r til
"54
'53
217
220.
>78
Son'h
18
38
54
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public —wishes thev may
be informed that he has received a very handfoine Assortment
of the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
Bv the Pi gou, and other late arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
on so low terms as mull make it an objetl to cujlomeis. Orders
from his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dispatch,
and the time of payment made convenient.
10.000
5000
4000
4000
4000
2500
2400
3000
2250
2000
1830
20C0
1400
43' 12 °
Philad. May 2, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
Chcfiiur-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 2 r ß, 1791-
87500
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprenticeship to the
bufmefs of VENDUE-M ASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Nor
folk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com-
JOHN H. HALL,
(t e P 7w)
niands.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21, 1791
TWO THOUSAND ACRES of LAND, in Jrffcrfon County,
state of Kentucky, fttuate 25 miles from Louisville, in a thick
fettled neighbourhood. This tract is supposed by good judges
who are acquainted w?ih its situation and quality, to be the moil
valuable in that part of the country, as its connedtion by water
with Louisville, the principal town in all Kentucky, muftincreafe
its value —it was some of the firll land taken up in thu neighbour
hood, so that the title is indisputable. Lands in the neighbourhood
of Louisville, not superior in quality or situation, have fold cur
rently at one guinea per acre.
The Proprietor of this tra& wishes to dispose of it for Cash, in
order to improve other trafls in that neighbourhood, and therefore
will fell cheap.
Any gentleman desirous to bargain for the fame, may, by appli.
cation to the Printer, be informed of the price.
N. B. The above tract of land is well known to a number of
gentlemen in the state of Virginia, who will if required, certify
its value. (taw gw)
By THOMAS LANG, No. 21, Church-Alley, and fold by all
the Booksellers, (Pn»e 3-8 of a Dollar)
The Catechism of Nature;
For the UPe of CHILDREN.
By DOCTOR MAR T I N E T,
Profeffor of Philosophy at Zutphen.
TRANSLATED FROM THE DUTCH.
Read Mature—Nature is a friends to t r u th."
(f3r Blank Powers to receive the Interest, and for the tramjtr of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablijhed in the Trea
sury Department : Aifo Blanks for abJl'rtiSs ofCerhfiates, to bt fold by
the Editor.
48
R T
STATE,
iTons. Tons,
viz. 13.820 north, 14,020 louin
4059 men.
Englifti bounty, 500!. 4°°l. 3 00 ''
2COI. 100 I.
Dutch bounty, 30 fl. • man.
Engliflt bounty, 30s.
Englilh bounty, 401,
France, 4 ships.
Englifo bounty, 30s.
viz. 5,820 tons north, 4,390 tons
louth, —1,611 men.
France, 3 (hips.
France, 17 ships.
Hamburgh, 32.
A CARD.
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
ADVERTISEMENT
SALE,
FOR
This day is publifned,
Matthew M'Connell,
In Ch esn ut-St k e kt. No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DERT OF
THE UNION ; has »rc<]urmly occasion lo NEGOCIAII
INLAND BILLS Ot EXCHANGE—and will receive Ordos
for cricking SUBSCRIPT. lONS to the BANK ot the UNITt'D
STATES.
March 30, 1791
ON the fourteenth of January last the lubfcriber presented a
memorial to Congress, stating his intention to publish ,1
complete and corred ottavo edition of the Laws, Refutations, and
Treaties o£ the United States, and praying that such meafur<-«
might be adopted as would give authenticity to said edition
The memorial was read in the House of Representatives, and re
ferred to the Secretary of State. On the seventh of February that
officer, after mature deliberation made the following report :
<4 The Secretary of State, to whom was referred th? memorial
of Andrew Brown, printer, of Philadelphia, has had the fame un
der his confidcraiion, and thereupon make* the follow ing
Report,
The Memorialist Hate? that lie has in concernnlation to puMiflt
a correct edition of the Laws. Treaties, and Refutations of the
United States, and prays, that such measures may be adopted for
giving a public authentication to his woik, as may cufura its re
ception throughout the United States.
The Secretary of Si ate observes, that there exists, at prefenr. but
a (ingle edition of the laws of the United States, to wit, the one
printed by Childs and Swaiiie; that this edition is authentic, the
proof-fheets thereof having been carefully collated by sworn
clerks, with the original rolls in his office, and rendered literally
conformable therewith. That the fit ft volume of this edition can
now rarely be found, the copies originally priottd being mostly
disposed ot.
That it is desirable that copies of the laws should be so multi
plied throughout the states, and in such chcap forms, as that every
citizen of the United States may be able to procure thein. That
it is important also, that such publications be rendered authentic,
by a collation of the with the original rolls, by fworr»
clerks, when thev are print -o at the feat of government, or in its
neighbourhood, and by a collation of the whole work when print
ed at a distance, and a certified correction of its typographical er
rors annexed to fach volume.
That this, however, if done at the public expense, would occa
sion an inconvenient augmentation of the number of clerks, as the
ast of collation requires the presence of three clerks, one'to hold
the roll, a second a printed copy Jafteady authenticated, and the
third the proof sheet.
That it would be more reasonable that persons of confidence
should be emploved, at the expence of the Editor, to be named
and sworn as clerks, for the fpeclal occasion.
That, in this way, he is of opinion that it will be advantageous
to the public 10 perinitthat the Laws, to be printed by the Memo,
rialift, be collated with, and corre&ed by, the original rolls, and
that a certificate thereof, by the Secretary ol State, be annexed to
the Edition.
February 5, 1789."
In confequ?nce of this report, Congress have adopted the fol
lowing resolve—
" RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Repn ese n*ta-
TiVESofthe United States of America in Congress aflfembled,
That Andrew Brown, or any other printer, be permitted, under
the direction of the Secretary of State, to collate with, and correct
bv,the original rolls, the Laws, Resolutions and Treaties of the
United S'ates, to be by hrm piinted. And that a certificate of
their having been so collated and corre6led be annexed to the f id
Edition. Provided, That such collation and corrr&ion be at the
expense of the said Andrew Brown, or such other printer, and
that the person or persons to he by hvm or them employed in that
fervicc, be approved bv the Secretary of Srate.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Honfeof Repre'fentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the Unirrd Sratey,
and President of the Senate.
Approved, February the eighteenth, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
Depotited among the RoUs in the Office of the Secrctarv of
Stale
As this Edition of the statutes of the united states is
to be printed at the feat of government, and with the ftppi obatios
of Congress, and as the proof-flieets shall be collated with tlVc
original rolls and records, by sworn cle»ks, in the office of the
Secretary of State, there can be 110 doubt but it will meet with a
candid and univctfal reception.
(eptf)
Confiding particularly in the patronage of the citizens of ilte
United States, whose interests are molt materially connected with
a due execution of this work, the editor submits to their confid'er
ation the following
TERMS ok SUBSCRIPTION
1 ft. The work shall he printed with a new tyre on good paper.
2d. The a&s of the different fefiions of each Congrcfs (the du
ration of which is limitted, by the Constitution, 10 the term of
two years) shall be comprised in one volume,oftavo,and delivered
to the fublcribers in boards.
3d. The volume, from the commencement of the firft, to the
conclnfion of the present feflion, (hall be printed with the mmoft
expedition ; and every other volume shall be readv to be deliver
ed at Philadelphia in a few days alter she close of the last fefljion
of eveiy future Congress ; —or the work (hall be delivered in num
bers ?t t'ne close of each fefTion (at the option of the subscribers)
the acts of each fefTion making a number.
4th. The firft volume (hall contain such a£ls of the Congress,
under the Confederation, as may be thought mof? important to
be generally known in the admmift ration of the present govern
ment, together with the acls of the firft, second, and third fefTion*
of the present Congress, and the treaties which have been entered
into with foreign nations, and with the Indian tribes.
The firft. volume, it isluppoied, will contain five hundred and
fifty pages ; in this cafc the price will be one dollar and two
thirds : should the number of pages be more or less, the pricfc will
be increased or diminished in proportion.
sth. A Complete index fliall be annexed to each volume.
Those who may incline to patronize this highly neceflarv, and
very laborious, as well asexpenfive undertaking, are requeued to
forward their names to any of the following gentlemen, viz.
Mr. Thomas B. Waite, Portland, MafTachufetts ; Harp
er, Esq. Portftnouth, N. H. MefTrs. Thomas and Andrews,
; JohnCaiter, Esq. Providence, Jacob Richardson,
Esq. Newport, R, I. Meflrs. Hudson and Goodwin, Hart
ford ; Mr. Ifrac Beers, New-Haven; David RulTell, Esq.
Bennington, Vermont; Mr. Robeit Hodge, New-York;
Mr. Isaac Collins, Trenton ; Mellrs. Craig and Co. Wilming
ton, Delaware; MefTrs. Goddard and Angell, Baltimore;
Davis, Esq. Richmond ; L. Standing, Esq. Eaen
ton, N'. C. Mr. W. P. Young, Charleston, S. C. Alexander
Watt, Esq. Savannah ; MefTrs.Alexander and James Parkcr s
merchants, Lexington, Kentucky. Or to
tlie publisher, in the city of Philadelphia.
Piuldd. 22d Feb. 1791.
TO THK PUBLIC
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secietary of State."
ANDREW BROWN,
(96 if)