PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN fENHO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOA'O AND THIRD ST I'EFTS, PHILADELPHIA
[.No. 56, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, August 51, 1791-
PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
ON THE FLIGHT OF THE
KING AND ROYAL FAMILY.
(COA'TINU ED.)
Friday Morning, June 24.
A Deputation from the diftrift of Clermont dated frcfli parti
culars relating to the capture of the King.
M. Damas undertook by order of M. Bouille, to protrft his
flight; but, abandoned by his dragoons, he was himfelf obliged
to fly.
The King had a passport, of which this is a copy :
44 On the part of the King.
" To all officers, civil and military, charged with the fuper
intendance and maintenance of public order in the diff rent de
partments of the kingdom :
" We enjoin you to fufFef to pass, without interruption, the
Baroness de Kortz, going to Frankfort* with two children, a wo
man, a valet-de-chambre, and three domestics, without giving or
fuffering her to reeeive an) hindrance.
" This pafTport to continue in force for one month only.
" Given at Paris, June 5, 1791
(Signed)
" By the King,
(Signed)
M. Montmorin was ordered to the bar, to (late by whom and
how this passport was granted. He endeavored to exculpate him
felf, by faying, he had been futprifed.
Friday Night.
The fitting was opened by the report of the Commiflioncrs
charged to examine the condufl of M. Montmorin with refpe&io
the King's passport.
The Commidioncrs stated, that having examined the rcgifters,
they had found that the passport had been obtained at the request
of M. Simolin, the Ruflian Ambalfadoi in France.
A deputation of the Municipality of Paris prefentcd to the Af
the two citizens who Hopped the King.
then gave the following recital :
RffwFn the Postmaster of Sainte Menehoud, formerly a dra
the regiment of Conde. My comrade, William, wa&
■H|v a dragoon of the Queen's regiment.
|HW5n the 8i ft of June, at half past ieven o'clock in the evening,
two carriages and eleven horses baited at my house I thought 1
recognized the Queen; and perceiving a man at the back part of
the carriage, on the left, I was struck with the resemblance of his
countenance to the King's .effigy on an aflignat of 50 ,
" These carriages were conduced by a detachment of dragoons,
which succeeded a detachment of hussars, under pretence of pro
te&inga treasure. This escort confirmed me in my suspicions;
particularly when I saw the commander of ihe detachment fpea&
with great animation to one ot the couriers. However, fearing
to exciteJalfe alarms, being alone and having no opportunity of
consulting any one, I fuffcred the carriages to depart.
" But feeing immediately the dragoons making
to follow them, and observing that, after having alk<d horles for"!
Verdun, the carriages took the road to Varennes, I went a cross
joad, in order to rejoin them
" I arrived be fore them at Varennes. It was eleven o'clock at
light, very dark, and ev.ery one gone to bed. The carnages were
Hopped in a street, by a difputc which h,d taken place between
the poflillions and the poft-rnaller of the place. The pott-maltcr
was desirous that they should (lop and rctneth their horses accord
ing to custom. The King, on the conti arts,* was desirous to hasten
his departure. t
•' I then said to my comrade, " Are you a staunch patriot!"
44 Don't doubt it," replied he. " Well (said I) the King is at
Varenues. He muff be flopped.'' We then alighted, and re
fle&ed, that in order to secure success to oar plan, it was necessary
to barricade the street artd the bridge by which the King was to
pals.
" My companiQn and I then went to the bridge of Varenncs;
fortunately there was a carriage there loaded with furniture—we
overturned it, so as to render the road impassable ; we then ian to
feck, the Procureur de la Commune, the mayor, the commandant
of the national guard, and in a few minutes our number increafcd
to eight men, who were all hearty in the cause.
" The commander of the national guard, accompanied by the
procureur, approached the carriage, asked the travellers who they
were, and where thev were going ? The Queen answered that they
were in a hurry. A fight 01 the passport was then demanded.
She at length gave her passport to two guards of honour, who
alighted and came to the inn.
" When the passport was read, some said it was fufficient—we
combated this opinion, bccaufe it was not signed by the President
of the National Affcmbly, as it should have been. If you are a
foreigner, said we to the Queen, how came you to have fufficient
influence to have a detachment lo follow you ? How come you,
when you passed through Clermont, to have fulHcicnt influence to
be followed by a firft detachment ?
*' In consequence of these reflections, and our perseverance, it
was determined that the travellersJhould not proceed till the follow
ing day. Thev alighted at the house of the procurcur.
" Then the king said to us, ' I am the King ! Thcfe are my
wife and children ! We conjure you to treat us with that refpeft
■which the French have ever (hewn their Kings!
4t The national guards immediately came in crowds, and at the
fame time the huilars arrived sword in hand—they endeavored to
approach the houfc where the King was, but we let them know,
that if they persisted in taking him away, they (hould not tear him
from us alive.
41 The commander of the national guard* had the precaution to
bring up two (mall field-pieces, which he planted at the upper
end of the fticei, and two others at the lower end, so that the huf
fdrs were between two fires. They were fummoricd to dismount.
M. Jouglas refufed ; he said, that he and his troop would guard
the Km# ; he was answered, that the national guards would guard
him without his. affiftjnee. He persisted in his resolution ; upon
which the commander of the national guards gave orders to the
gurineis to form their ranks, and to fiie. They tdok the matchcs
in tfieir hands—but the cannons were not then loaded.
41 In a word, the commander of the national guaids, and the
national guards, acted so judiciously, that they contrived to dis
arm thehuflars. The King was then made a prifoncr f
" Having thus fulfilled our duty, we returned home, amidst the
applause of oi.r fellow-citizens ; and we are comc to lay before
the National Aflcmbly ;he homage of our Cervices/*
FRANCE
MONTMO R I N."
The President congratulate :hcfe brave citizens on the eininen;
fi-rvice they had rendered to iheir vountry.
The meeting was then suspended.
Satur day, Jure 25,
The Aflrmhly paSTe-d the toilowing decrees :
1. The K-ng, on hts return to the Chateau des Thuilleries, (hall
have provifionaily, a guard l'ubjedl to the dirc3 order of the com
mandant general, who (ball be responsible for its condu£t.
2. There (hall be likewise given to the preemptive heir, a
guard, under the order ol the commandant general, and a gover
nor, who (hall be nominated by the National AHembly.
3. That all those who accompanied the Royal Family (hall be
am-(ted and examined, and that the King and Queen (hal! be
neard in their vindication, that such mealures (hall be adopted in
consequence as mav be judged proper.
4. That a guaid (hall likcwife be appointed previously for the
King.
5. That, till it (hall be othei wife ordained, the mimfterof jus
tice (hall be authorised, as he has alreacy done since the flight of
the King, to a;rx the seal of the (late to the a£ls of the legislative
body.
6 The minifleis, and the commiflioners of the King, are autho
rised to cxcrcife, being relptmlible, the fun&tons of the executive
:>ower.
MONDAYy J une 2 7*
M. Tronchet gave, in the name of the three Commiflioncrs ap
points d to receive the declarations of the King and Queen, the
f 'Mowing account of the manner in which they had executed their
coninnflion :
LOUIS
" For the purpose of executing your decree of yesterday, M.
Dandre, M. Duport, and I, met ; und, about nine in the evening,
proceeded to the Thuiilerus. We were introduced into the
King's apartment, where we found him alone. After having read
to him your decree, I judged it receffary to remark, that the de
claration of his Majesty (hould re er according to the intent and
meaning of the decree, as well to all the tranfa&ions of the 21 It
of June, as to the occurrences coinetted with them, whether of
an interior or posterior dare. king answered, that he did
not undciftand submitting to interrogatories ; but that he would
deliver in a declaration conformably to the requ:fition which had
been made to him by the National Assembly. We then took his
declaration, to every page of which he had fel his fignalure. We
went afterwards to the apat tments of the Queen, whom we found,
w itn Madame Elizabeth, preparing to fit down to table ; but,
the latter informing us that her Majesty could not then receive us,
because she was going to the bath, we dcfircd her to appoint ano
ther hour; and she fixed upon eleven this morning. Ot course,
wc retired ; but, re urntng at the time prefci ibed, were intro
duced into the bed-chamber, where the Queen was without any
one attendant whatever. Wc then read to her the decree of the
National Assembly, subjoining to it the fame obfeivation which
wc had made to the Kii.g. She dittated to us her declaration,
and, having afterwards heard it read over, put her signature to
every page of it."
DECLARATION OF THE KING.
* 11 1 obfervc, Gentlemen, by your commiflion, that nothing
jjike an interrogatory is meant ; but I am dcfirous of complying
1 with the wifties of the National Aflemblv, and I shall never de
i the motives of myconduft. The motives for my
journey were the outrages and the threats offered to my family
and to myfclf on the 18th of last April ! fubfequentto that period,
I and k»y family have frequently been infultcd and menaccd in se
veral writings ; and the authors of ihefe have remained unpun
ished. I conceived that the fafety of my family, and of my own
pcrfon, forbade me to continue any longer in Paris. I wished
to leave it ; and it was for the purpose of departing with less in
terruption, that I preferred the night-time. My intentions never
were to quit the kingdom. I had not concerted any measures
whatsoever, either with foreign powers, or with the French emi
grants beyond the kingdom. The circumstance of apartments
having been prepared for my reception at Montmedy, may be
adduced as a proof that I had no design to pass beyond the fron
tiers. I chose this place, because, as it was fortified, my family
might have remained there in security ; and because, being thus
near the frontiers, I (hould have been more at hand to resist every
attempt to invade France. Here, in the cafe of an invalion, I
could immediately have prefentcd myfelf in the poll of danger,
"n short, I chose Montmedy even in the moment when I might
havechofen any other retreat. One of my principal motives was
to re-cftabliih the vigor of the g vernment, and to render my'ell
fftfure. Had I felt an inclination to depart from the kingdom, I
(hould not upon the very fame day, have sent my declaration to
the National Assembly, but I should have waited for the moment
of my having palled beyond the frontiers. I always adhered to
ihe desire of returning to Paris. It is in this sense that the last ex
preflions of my memorial (hould be undcrftood :—Frenchmen, and
above all, citizens oj Paris, what pfeafuie Jhall I feel to be among you !
I had not, in the cariiage, more than the sum of 13,200 livrcs in
gold, and 560,000 livres in aflignats ; and these were incloicd
within the port-folio which has been returned to me by the de
partment.
" I did not communicate my intentions to Monsieur until
within a ftiort time previous to my departure ; and he only pro
ceeded into a foreign State with the intention of returning to
Montmedy, but without taking the fame road. Several days be
fore I had cfdered the three persons who attended me, to provide
themselves the dreftes of couriers, in which they might bear my
difpatrhes. It was not until the preceding evening that I told
them they were to accompany me. I only took a paflport for
going out of the kingdom, becauie none is granted at the Office
for Foreign Affairs for the inter ior parts of the kingdom : neiihei
was the road marked out even at all pursued. I never made an\
other protections than those which I addrefTed to the aflembl
on the day of my departure ; and these do not bear so much up
on the ground work of the principles of the constitution as upon
i he torm of fanthons, upon the deficiency of that freedom which
I ought to enjoy and upon the point, that as the constitutional de
crees were not presented to me in one mass, I could not poflibly
Judge of them in a collected view, and altogether. The princi
pal part of this memorial rcits upon the defeat of the administra
tive and executive mcafures. I was sensible, during my journey,
that the public opinion was decidedly in favor of the conltiiution.
I did not conceive that I could fully have ascertained the nature
of this public opmion at Paris; but upon the road, and in con
fcquence of all the elucidations, which, as the result of my en
quiries, flafliea upon my mind, I became convinced, as I now
am, how indifpenfibly neceflary it is even for the constitution to
give power to those officers of the fiatc who are appointed for tie
maintenance of public order. As soon as I could afceitain the
141
[Whole No. 244.]
nature of the public opinion, I did not Ik lit ate to facriiicc my
peilonal inteveft.s to the welfare ol my people, this being the
great object ol all m/wi.Qiesand desires.
tf I shall willingly forget all the unpleasant circumstances that
I have experienced, to fecucc the peace aud the happiness of the
nation."
[The King, after reading this declaration, observed, " That he
had omitted to add, that his Son's Governess, and the Ladies in
his suite, were apprized of his departure but a short time only
before it took place ; and the King signed it with us.]]
(Signed) LOUIS,
Tkonchet, Dukort, Dandre,"
D ECLAT lON OF THE QUEEN.
tc I declare, that the King being dcfirous of quitting Paris with
his children, nothing in nature could have dissuaded me from
following him ; for, that I never will consent to quit him, my
whole conduct for these two years past, has given fufficient proof#.
I was confirmed in my determination to follow him, from the
confidence and persuasion which I had, that he would never quit
the kingdom. Had he been lo inclined, all my influence would
have been exerted to prevent I im. The Govemefs of my daugh
ter, who "jhad been indisposed for five weeks did not receive or
ders for departure till the evening preceding She had not even
taken any clothes with her—l was obliged to lend her some—■
She was absolutely ignorant of our destination. The three cou
riers neither knew the destination nor the object of the journey—
they were fupplicd, from time to time, with money upon ihe road,
and received our orders as we proceeded. The two Jemmes de
chambre did not receive orders till the moment of our departure—-
One of them, whofc husband was in the Palace, had not an op
portunityof feeing him. Monsieur and Madame separated from
us, and took the road to Mons, onlv to avoid embarrassment,
and to prevent delay from the want of horses upon the road—Thev
weie to rejoin us in France. We went out of the Palace by pac
ing through the apartment of M. Villequier ; and that we might
not be perceived, we went separately, and at some distance of
time from each other."
[After reading over this declaration to the Queen, (he acknow
ledged it to be such a declaration as Jhe intended to make, and
signed it with u .] (Signed).
The Declaration being read, M. Tronchet said, 44 The King
is dHiromto have a duplicate of these declarations; without doubt,
the assembly will authorifc us to deliver thein."
The assembly complied with the r quest, and ordered the de
clarations to the committee which shall be appointed to make a
icport on this affair.
THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
TO THE FRENCH.
A PROCLAMATION.
Decreed in the fitting of "Juris 22, r 79 r -
" A GRAND offence hasjuft been committed.
The National Aflembly was near the conclusion
of its long labours ! the constitution was ahnoft
completed : the tumults of the Revolution were
about to ceafc ; and the enemies of the public
welfare were eager, by a single crime, to facri
fice the whole nation to their vengeance. The
King and the Royal Family were carried off on
the 21ft inilant.
" Buc your Regrcfentatives will triumph over
all tliis obstacle. eftiriiate calmly the ex
tent of the duties imposed upon them. The pub
lic liberty shall be maintained ; con fpi rat org and
slaves (hall understand the intrepidity ps the
French Nation, and we make, in the name of the
Nation, a solemn engagement to revenge the law,
or die !
" France would be Free, arid she (hall be so.
It is intended to make the Revolution recede,
but it recedes not. —Such, Frenchmen, is your
will—it (hall be accomplilhed. It is neceflary to
accommodate the law to theftateof the kingdom.
The King, in the Constitution, exercise* the pow
er of the Royal fancftion over the Decrees of Lc
giflative Body , He is the Head of the Executive
Power, and, in that capacity causes the laws to
be executed by responsible ministers.
" If the firft officer of the public deserts lil>
pofl, or is carried off against his will, the Repre
sentatives of the Nation have the right to supply
his place.—The National Aflembly has, inconfe
qnence, decreed, That the Seal of State, and the
signature of the Minister of JutHce, (ball be ad
ded to all its decrees, to give them the character
of laws. As no order of the King would have
been executed, without being countersigned by
the responsible Mim'lter, nothing was neceflary
but a simple delegation by the Aflembly ro au
thorise him to sign the orders, and those only
i(l'ned by them. In this circumstance they have
been directed by the conlHtntional law relative
to a Regency, which authorises them to perform
the functions of the Executive Power until the
nomination of a Regent
" By thcfc mcnfiircs your Representatives
have infurecl order in the interior part of the
kingdom, and to repulse any attack from with
out. they add to the army a reinforcement of
three hundred thousand National Guards.
" The citizens then have, on all fides, the
means of security. Let them not be overcome
MARIE ANTONIETTE,
Tronchet, Duport. Dandrb."by their surprize ; the Constituent A (Tent My is
upon its duty ; the constituted powtrs are in ac
tivity; the Citizens of Paris,the National Guards,
whole patriotism and fidelity are above all praile,
watch round your Representatives ; the atftive
citizens throughout the kingdom are in arms,anci
trance may wait Jor ill enemies.
" Are they to fear the consequences of a writ
ing, forced before his departure, from afeduced
King : It is difficult to conceive the ignorance
and blindnesS that have dicftated this writing,
whicfi may deserve to be further discussed heie
after ; at present, your Representatives content
themselves with examining some particular sen
timents.
" The National Afiembly has made a solemn
proclamation of political truths, and ot rights,
the acknowledgment of which will one day pro
duce the happiness of the human race ; to en
gage them to renounce this declaration of rights,
the theory of slavery itfelf has been presented to
them
Frenchmen ! we have no fear in recalling
to v.onr memories the famous day, the 23d ot
July, 1789 —that day, 011 which the Chief of the
Executive Power, the fit ft public functionary of
the nation, dared to dilate his abfoiute will to
your Representatives, charged by your orders to
form a Con(lit»tion. The National Aftembly la
mented the difordeis committed on the sth of
Ortober, and ordered the prosecution of the per
sons guilty of them ; but, because it was difficult
to discover fotne rioters amongst such a multitude
of people, they are said to have approved all
their crimes.—The nation is, however, more jnfl.
It has not reproached Louis XVI. with the vio
lences that have occurred under his Reign, and
tkofe of his ancestors- I
" They are not afraid to call to your recol
lection the Federation of July. What are the
statements of the persons who have dictated the
letter of the King, with respect to this auguftact ?
that the fit It public functionary was obliged to
put himfelf at the head of the Representatives of
the Nation, in the midst of the Deputies of all
the kingdom. He took a solemn oath to main
tain the Constitution. If the King does not here
after declare, that his good faith has been sur
prised by seditious per lons, he lias, of courfe,an
nounced his own perjuty to the whole world ! Is
it necefl'ary to go through the fatigue of answer
ing the other reproaches of this letter ?
" The King is (aid to have experienced some
inconveniencies in his residence at Paris, and not
to have found the fame pleasures as formerly ;
by which it is implied, no doubt, that a nation
ougljt to regenerate itfelfwithout any agitation,
without disturbing for an instant, the pleasures
and thS* indigencies bf courts. As to the ad
drefl.es of congratulation and adherence to your
decrees, these fay they, are the work of the fac
tious.—Yes—no doubt—of twenty-six milli
ons of the ftiffions.
•' It was necessary to re-conrtitute all powers
because all the powers were corrupted, and be
cause the alarming debts accumulated by the
despotism and the disorders of government, would
have overwhelmed the nation. But does not Roy
alty :xij.l for the people ? And if a great Nation o
ilig'es itfelf to maintain it, ij it not solely becatrfe it
is believed to be ufeful ? The Constitution has left
to the King this glorious preroga 1 ive, and has
confirmed to him the only authority which he
flioulddefire to exercise. Would not your repre
sentation have been culpable, if they had facri
ficed twenty-fix millions to the interest of one
man ?
" The labonr of citizens supports the powers
of the Stare ; but the maxim of absolute power
is, to consider the public contributions as a debt
paid to despotism. The National Aflembly has
regulated its expences with the ftrivfteft justice :
they thought themselves bound, when acting in
the name of the Nation, to a(st munificently ;
and when they were to determine what part'of
the public contributions jhotild be allowed to the
firft functionary, tliirry millions were allotted
for him and the Royal Family ; but this is re
presented ae a trifling sum !
" The Decrees upon the fubjedl of peace and
■war, have taken from the King and his Minis
ters the power of facrificing the people to the
caprices of courts -, and the definitive ratificati
on of Treaties is reserved to the Representatives
of the Nation. The loss o( a prerogative is com
plained of. What prerogative ? That of not be
ing obliged to consult the National will, when
the blood and the fortunes of citizens were to be
facrificed. Who can know the wish and interests
of the Nation better than the Legislative Body >
It is wished to make was with impunity.
But have we not had, under the ancient Go
vernment, fufficient experience of the terrible
effects produced by the ambition of Ministers >
We are acciifed of having def'poiled the King
ill forming the judicial power, as if.the King of
a great Nation ought to appear in the adntini
ftration of justice, for any other purpose than
that of canfing the law to he observed, and its
judgments executed. It is wiflied thnt heflmnid
have the right of granting pardons, and chang
142
ing punishments •, but does not all the world
know, how such a right"Would be exercised, and
upon whom the benefit of it would fall ? The
King could not have exercised it by himfelf; and
having prohibited Royal despotism, it was natu
ral to prohibit that of the Ministers.
(( The necetlity of circumstances has sometimes
obliged the National Aflembly to meddle, contra
ry to its inclination, in the affairs of adininillra
tion. It ought not to act, when the government
remained in blame3ble inertness ? It is, theie
fore, necessary to fay, that neither the King nor
the Ministers have the confidence of the nation !
'• The Societies of Friends of the Constitution
have fuppot'ted the Revolution ; they are moie
neceflary than ever, and iome perlons presume
to fay that they govern the administrative bodies,
and the empire, as if they were the deliberating
bodies !
" Frenchmen ! all the powers are organized ;
all the public funftionaties are at their pods ; the
National Allembly watches over the fafety of the
State ? may yon be firm and tranquil ! One dai'
ger alone threatens ns.—You have to guard a
gainst the suspension of your labours—against
delay in the payment of dnties—againft any in
flammatory measures, which commence in anar
chies, and end in civil war. It is to these dan
gers that the National Affenibly calls the attenti
on of the citizen,. In this crisis, all private ani
mosities and private interests should disappear.
" Those who would preserve their liberty,
should show that tranquil firmnefs which appals
tyrants. May the factions, who hope to fee eve
ry thing overturned, find order maintained, and
the Constitution confirmed, and rendered more
dear to Frenchmen, by the attacks made upon it !
The Capital may be ap example to the reft of
France. The departure of the King excited no
disorders there ; but to the confufion of the ma
levolent, the utmost tranquility prevails in it.
" To reduce the territory ofthisempire to the
yoke, it will be necessary to destroy the whole
nation! Despotism if it pleases, may make such
an attempt —It mill either fail, or at the conclusion
of its triumphs, will find tnly ruins J"
This Address was unanimously approved by the
Affenibly, and ordered to be sent to all the De
partments.
LISLE, June 7.
THE National Guard in the village of Lefquin
flopped an ecclesiastic, who had a conficler
able quantity of louis-d'ors, aifti one bag of Gi
ver, in his carriage, the whole weighing 1691b.
besides this, a quantity of aflignats, and foine
rouleaux of Louis, were found upon his person.
1 his money is said to have been the firlt payment
of a million to be furnifhed by the late Abbot of
St. Benin to the Cardinal de Rohan, to hasten
the pafiage of the Rhine. Thus the counter-re
volution has received another pull-back.
PARIS
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, June 27.
The Conquerors of the Baftile again came to
renew their oath.
M. Troncher, who had jnft received a note
from the King, said that his Majeily desired to
fee the Commiifioners at eleven o'clock ; but, he
added that the Commiifioners did not think it
proper to comply with this desire without the or
ders of the Afiembly. The Assembly ordered
them to wait on the King.
In halfan hour the fame deputy returned, and
said that the Commissioners had found the King
in his bed-chamber, who told them that he had
sent for them to add that he had forgotten, in
his declaration to mention his having given or
ders to M Bouille to protect him on his journey
to Motitmedi.
The Commissioners having told the King that
the Assembly was informed of this circumstance,
his Majesty replied, " I knew not that these or
ders were known. I have nothing more to add ;
my only in'ention was to inform you that 1 had
given those orders."
M. Defmutiiers then made his report, in the
name of the Committee of Constitution, on the
forms to be observed in the choice of a Governor
to the presumptive heir of the crown. One ar
ticle alone was productive of debates. < This was
" whether the Members of the Legislature should
be eligible to this office."
It was at length determined in the negative.
Art I. Previously to the nomination of a Go
vernor to the preemptive Heir of the Crown, a
lift of the citizens qualified for that office, (hall
be drawn up.
Art. 2. The members of the National Aflembly,
divided into Bureaux, lhall make the neceflary
fcruriny. Two Secretaries fiiall add together the
fcrntinies of all the Bureaux. The lift of those
who are qualified fliall be reported to the Aflem
bly, and (hall be primed.
Art. 3. The Election shall be by a plurality of
votes. The votes may be not only for any of
those on the lift, but for any one citizen. No
Members of the National A (lembly fliall be elected.
Art. 4. The Governor appointed shall, before
the Aflembly, take an oath to watch over the
life, and to promote the health of the prefumi
tive heir, and to be refponftble for his perl'oll '
Art. f. All persons in the service of the n
fumptive heir fliall be under the orders of t
Governor.
rfrt. 6. The National Aflembly wiH ; mm .j
ately apply thewfelves to the formation of apl a '~
of education for the prefumpcive heir, in p u ,f u "
ance of a former decree.
At the opening of the evening fitting, a letter
from Dunkirk was read, giving information tint
the officers of the regiment Colonel-General ha 1
run away to Fnrus, and had taken with theili the
colours, and the whole baggage. They had all
attempted, but in vain, to corrupt the soldiers
and to entice them to desert.
A Monk was to be their treasurer. His apart
ments have been searched, and in them were
found 50,000 livres in silver; 200 000 litres go
ing beyond the frontiers, were also intercepted.
The trunks of the fugiiive officers have heeii
seized, and therefore it is supposed they will soon
be fhirtlefs.
LONDON, Juue 30.
A Spcrial Meflenger arrived at the Imperial
Ambaflador's on Saturday last, who is one of the
Emperor's body-guards ; he was only (even hours
on his paflage from-Oftend. A long conference
took place between Mr. Pitt and his Excellency
on Monday, in conference of the dispatches he
brought over. The report is, tha: they contsin
ed information that the Emperor has been pre
vailed 011 again to join his forces with those of
Ruflia against the Porre—that the Danes have de
termined to join Ruflia 111 difpiuing the pafi'age
of the Englilh fleet up the Balti&; and that Swe
den has determined, in cafe of a rupture between
Ruflia and this country, to re-commence hoitili
ties against the former.
The French Eatl-India company, not with (land
ing the general deprelfion of their country, main
tain their credit in the 1110 ft exemplary manner;,
to one house alone, a few days back, they remit
ted in one bill, no less a sum than 40,000!.
Jr y 7.
Baron Horix, Referen.lary of the Chancer 1
the Empire at Vienna, has j 11ft published a^
which ismuch spoken of. Its objecfi is to
that every citizen of Germany, who wai
free, has, by virtue of such freedom, a ri
aspire to any public employment or charge
ever;—and that the exclusive right ■ which is
claimed by the Nobility, has no other foundati
on, than barbarous prejudice' Taniflioiied by igno-
ranee
We feetn to have at length reached the happy
tera, when all the Gothic governments through
out Europe, are to vanish and make room for
governments founded on justice and reason, and
conformable to tlie grand objects, for which so
cieties were originally instituted. Despotism and
Feudality are now at their la (I gasp. Mankind
are determined to be 110 longer led like a herd
of brutes. In lieu of an unnatural inllincft, they
have substituted the light of reason, which now
brings forth to view those rights, that have been
too long concealed frqm the eyes of the people,
and of those w ho govern ihein.
A certain and infallible method of preserving
French beans, potatoes, and other tender vege
tables from being injured by the fpringand funv
mer fro ft s :—Before the fun lifes, wash off all
the white froft from the plants with a watering
pot of common pond or spring water. The a -
hove has been tried this summer and had the de
sired effect.
A gentleman aged upwards of 60, was, and
had been for some years, violently afflicted with
the stone and gravel in the bladder and kidnies ;
he was advised to eat raw onions, and drink the
juice of the fourefl: crab apples, particularly in
the mornings, and to use as mncli of both as his
stomach and constitution would bear at all times
in the day ; by continuing the use ofthefe things
about a year, he was perfectly cured, and re
mains so to this day without any return of the
complaint, and can now attend his bufinefs,which
before he could nor, from the extremity of the
pain. For those constitutions that cannot so well
bear the strong acid of the crab apple, may be
substituted in its room a jam or conserve made of
the blackberry in its unripe state, while it is of
a red colour ; let the juice or pulp be palled
through a Iteve after the berries have been boil
ed in a covered jar set in a kettle of water for
five or fix horn s over the fire ; to every quart 01
the pulp or juice, thus boiled, add two pound*
of lump sugar, boil and skim it, and so keep so'
use.—Dose, a tea spoon full at night, or ofiener,
if the constitution will bear it.
Extrafl of a letter jrom Paris, June 2<?-_
" When the Royal raptives entered Pans, it
is not a little remarkable, that of the immene
multitude afl'embled from Neuille to the Thn'
leries, no one pulled offhishnt to the King. e
soldiers too did not appear under recovered arms,
bnt, on the contrary, with their muJkets fli° u
dered, thus /hewing that they were not
do honor to, but to ascertain the surety °b
Iloyal Family." The triumphal car, covered with laurels,
contained M. M. Drouer, Mangin, and Guillau
:ne, who arretted the fugitives.
" The J£n;g appeared tranquil ; this is (aid
to be oe«»fioiied by the confideraiion, that he had
not faiirtioned the decree precluding him to re-
more than 20 leagues from the National
the 17th June latt, at her house in
was \vas the daughter
ington. Her 4$ yeai s;
and so long has a fine butt of her, by Kent, been
• I 1. I I 1 S» 1 I 1 . A /V
placed on the tomb of her deceased lord, at Afli
by de la Zouch, co. Leiceder, where, by her
■will, she has directed her own remains (dreiled
in the suit of white (ilk which (lie wore at the
opening of a chapel in Goodman's fields) to be
deposited in as plain a manner as possible ; the
coffin to be covered with black, and the ofticiat
ing clergyman to receive iol. for his trouble.
Her very great religious concerns, as head of a
■very numerous feci in Great-Britain and Ireland
are left by will in the hands of committees for
managing them in both kingdoms. Her religi
ous pi inci pies have been long since known, and
lier unbounded benevolence bore the best tefti-
niony of the puritv of her intentions, having in
s com fe of her life, expended above one hun
dred tboufand pounds in public and |>rivate atfts
of charity. She has left 40001. to be difp >fed of
in charitable gifts, at the discretion of the Earl
of Dartmouth, Sir Richard Hill, the Hon. Tho
mas Eifkine, and her chaplain, Mr. Havves, and
a great part of her Lady (hi p"s fortune for t lie
fapport of 64 chapels, which Ihe had ellabliflied
throughout the kingdoms.
June 23. At Binfield, Berks, after a long'and
painful illness, Mrs. Cat h a k 1 n E M , c rt-u 1 y ok a -
ham. She vras the daughter of John
Sawbridge, Esq. oPwllnntigh, Kent, and filter of
J 1 hii S. Esq. alderman of London. June 13,
T7<£o, Ihe married George Macauly, M/D. Mrs.
M. re-married, Dec. 1 7. 1778, the younger b:o
---«the celebrated Dr, with whom
cd to a cottage in Lekeiterfhire. She
er lite: ay career wi li ihe " Hi'lory of
|, from J "ii es I. to the Bi nll fwie k line
volume of whit h wis pubhjfhed i ■. :
the second ; he thi'd. 17'7; f.be
1 769 ; the fifth, 1 77 > ; the sixth and seventh,
17 t ; and the eightu, I7?3~ 'I ho ghtsww>
tue Causes of ■he p efent i'-o re .s, 1 7 *o.'!
( \ mod eft Plea for ill. P* ■■ ■;»?uy of C opy-uglit."
Hnt-o'y oi England. ( > . . ii><? lU-vdlii i,iii to the
present Time ; i.i a ici r.-s »f letters to a friend,
the Rev. Dr. VVilfon, Hit eodavy of WeUiniii
ller, 1778," 4 0. — 011 wh- it C. t.effi, Eft]. pub
lii!«ed Paneg'dsic .1 " Übfe \ i; ons" the fame > ear.
. . c ?* '•
A treanle on The Imuiu'taliK v of Moral 1 ruth,
1733," Bvo. " /\n add ess ;o lie people of En
gland, Scotland, and li eland, 011 the prefenr
important Crisis of Affairs, 1 7-J," Bvo. Uei lall
publication was, " Letters 011 Education, 1790."
Bvo.— The enthufiailic devotion paid to her, as a
favorer of liberty, by the late Dr. Wilson, pi e
bendary of Weltminfter, by feiting up a ftatut
of her, in the character of the Goddess of Liber
ty, in her lile tii.ie, in tlip chancel of his church
in Walbrook, which 011 his death was lemowd,
is well known. " I looked to 110 pni pose," fsvs
Mr. Pennant, in his ' Hiliot yof London,' p. t,°2,
" for the statue eteifled Diva? Macavlt?, by her
doatingadmirer, a former rector \v!ii h a I'.ic-
cefl'or of his has molt profanely pulled down."
PROVIDENC E, Aug.nH 20.
Tuesday Jail the (hip Lark, Capt. Bilhop, ar
rived here from London.
On Capt. Bishop's arrival in the Downs, Mr.
Thomas Lang, his firlV mate, and two (eamen,
pi'tfied, and carried on board the Buffalo
man of war. The mate is an Englishman, bin
lias been an inhabitant of this town 1201-14
years, and has a family here.
ALBANY, Augtift iS.
Extratt of a letter from Sir Jof ph Banks, barf. Pre-
f dent of the Royal Society of London, to Sawne,
L. Mitchell, ess. Secretary of the heiv-Yrok
cultural Society, dated So'ho-fquare, April 6, 1791
" Sir,
" I should not liave so long omitted to thank
you for your obliging letter of tail autumn, and
communications cf the Hessian-Flies, in their tor
pid (hue, had I not found sony difficulty In pro
curing an Italian bonk, which oves an account of the
various ivf els dij!rt/clivc to.th'e corn in th- f;uth ol
Europe, of which 1 ihou ;ht it r.eceflaty to beq
your acceptance, in order to enable you to fee
wherlier the deltruilive animal in qu|llion, is a
native of Europe.— It Englanf it dt s not f'rifl ;
and no enquiry 1 have be.n abl: to make has hitherto
given mt reason to bxlifve its exigence in any fart of
German}.
" By a fight of Vn?" fly irfelf, f (hall diretftly
fcetn to know among what fort of infects it is ar-
ranged; and fhotild any analogy lead me to be
able to fugged any thing likely to be of life in
preventing its iricreafe, you may rely 011 myfpar
ing no pains, 011 a fubjeot that may lead to so de
sirable a purpose.
" I have a copy of-ihe Italian work which you
will by rhe Swan, &c. &c."
/SADD R a S S,
/ f From the Nallt>ll>l~~Aije77'iblJ- of Fj-ance,
f- 1 l _ TO TH E
Aeprefentat'ives of the People of Pennlyivariia,
In answer to one jro?n the House of Reprefentativ/s
I of the Pennsylvania General sflfembly, voted the
lafl fejfion of the Legislature.
Gentlemen,
7
NEXT to the favorable fuffrages of the peo
ple of France, from whom the National As
sembly derive their powers, there could be no
incentive better calculated to encourage them to
proceed, until they have finally completed their
labours, than the approbation of the Represen
tatives of Pennsylvania.
11l the mid-ft of the perplexing silence of those
fiirrouncling nations, who are blinded by preju
dice or awed by despotism, it was grateful tothe
National /Ulembly, and affords a happy presage,
to hear, lefounding from afar, prompted by fra
ternal affeiftion, the congratulatory voice of Ame-
Rica
We too are eftablilhing (under the constituti
onal authority of a king) that liberty which you
have been able to fecute under governments of a
republican form :—
Liberty, not derived from chartered g ants or
privileges, which ftibverts by the introduction
of het editary distinCtions, that equality of rank,
which in the social state is the unalienable birth-
right of mail : and which, encroaching on the
sacred sovereignty of the people, by pretentions
founded on birth or adventitious rights, ltill ex
hibits, on the bold and resolute features of a re
generated nation, the fears of its ancient Slavery.
A country, fit to receive and nourish the feeds
of this precious liberty, was only to be fought
for in the trans atlantick world :—'Tvvas there,
amongst an infant people, pure, and uncorrupt,
that tbe higher virtues were to be found, fuita
ble to carry into effect, those speculative truths;
against which ignorance and li a bit ual error have
waged continual warfare ; —t ruths, which from
the pride and arrogance of the feudal system,
have been difdaitifully inserted in the lift of Uto
pian opinions, fit only for the dreams of the phi
lanthropist, and not for the practical purposes
of government.—After the fuccefsful experience
of America, it was dill difficult to copy the ex
ample and introduce dniong the degenerated nati
ons of Europe, this invaluable discovery of the
new world ; it required the enlightened energy
and unremitting efforts of a numerous people,
to support a doclrine which was combated by
such powerful enemies, and opposed by such in
veterate prejudices. But at length the revoluti
on is effected, and already do the rights of man,
engravenfon the mofl durable mateiials, adorn
e temples of I iberty in the two hemispheres
/» \ i n Li _ r . 1 i_ c r.
■ t I
France is fully sensible of the benefits {he has
'lerivtd from the influence of your example :
i!ie gratefully remembers that it was in the bo
som of l'ennlylvania, diftinguilhed for her wif
(loin, i hat the legi/lators of America firft announc
• e l to the world, the true principles of the social
fyft em
May the citizens of that glorious and happy
country, discover in the Decree of the National
Atfembly*, the sentiments by which the firlt
f' iends of their independence continue to b '
animated :— May thisacft of the people of France,
moi e closely uniting the two nations by the kin
dred tie of congenial principles, encreaffe their
mutual relaiionfhip, cement their interests, and
perpet nally recall to their recollection, that they
a e reciprocally indebted to each other for the
recovery of their freedom. J
Bv order of the
National Aflembly of France,
J. V. Bureaux tufy, President,
Paris, Jnne 6, 1791. i
* For the Decrec fee our last Gazette,
Philadelphia, Augufl 51.
J-aft sundav evening a ftablr in Laurel Court, n~ar Spruce-street
was bu< nt. The exertions of th ■ citizens, the weather being calm,
prevented the,flames from spreading. It has been fuggefled that
this aectd Tit was occasioned by fpaiks from a fegar, with which
it has brcrti ■, verV faftiionable for negroes, lads, and even chit
d'en, t., illuminate their mouths after dark—The ill policy ol
e fi'n ■ •»••>...' .111 tidings in the heait ol a populous city, is con.
»tinuali\ nalT.irgfiithe public mind.
F in- thottfjud emigrants have embarked at Londonderry this
season, for the United States ' j
A bill has p ({fed the Houfeof R-prcfentatives, gran'ing 15CCI.
ffrr the relief of D:tk ( ollfge. -A motion to add these
words. " and of the Truftces "t the College, charitablc School,
and Academy of Philadelphia," was negatived.
The l.mpire of Stiffta. accmrfinT to the lad and bed jjcootTT
pl.ical Charts, conta.r.s 3.30,506 'auatr leagues, of which
are in a temperate cl:m.ue, and 67,157 in a cold climatr_(o that
the Ruffian en itorici conipnle one 28.h part of the globe.
143
By tlie latir Georgia Gazettes, it appears that
General Jackson is canvatfing the election of Ge
neral Wayne. Mr. Jackson lias publilhed a num
ber of affidavits, to iliew that bribery and falfe
returns were among the expedients adopted to
carry the e!et':ion againll him. In the present
ment of the Grand Jury of Chatham, this elec
tion forms the moll conspicuous article in the lift
of grievances. We may therefore expect there
will be business for the committee of elections in
the next Congress.
Some lare paragraphias in the EngPifh papers
have compared M. La Fayette to Cromwell—biu
wit h what justice, time will elucidate. Two years
experience have however afforded no traits in his
character and coridutft to juftify fucli a compari
son, except his bravery and firninefs. Among
the numerous inltanees of patriotic intrepidity
and'confiltency, which the late crisis produced,
this great character (lands unrivalled—his pi omp
titnde and decision on this emergency, in taking
such measures as the founded wisdom, and molt
consummate prudence could didtate, evince that
t he vigor of his mind, and his political resources,
are adequate both to the high station he fills, and
the most trying exigencies that can occur.
An eminent and experienced phyfttjian of New-'
York, whose observations appeal in the Daily
Advertiser of that city of the 26th inlt. speaking
of the effetfls of ripe fruits in their season upon
the human frame, convinced of their fafety and
real utility, fays, that he has never failed to re
commend them even in those cases 'wherein they
have been supposed 10 do harm.
They arc easy of digestion, friendly to the ft<?
marh and bowels, and ranked among the inol]
delicious cordials.
from their aperient and Faponaceotis quality,
they temperate the bile, and any acrid humour
in the fiift paflages, and gently evacuate them ;
and by these means become the be?t preser
vatives against dysenteries, which! from
an erroneous opinion they have been charged
with being the canfe of.
From a full perfiinfion of their good efFccfts, I
have always, fays he, permitted their life in,.this
Complaint, and in putrid fevers, wLh success;
<Mi<l once obtained the most speedy relief to an
•fclerly man at Newark, in the laftr ttage of an
aWttte and putrid Dysentery, by a free indulgence.
Mr ripe peaches.
v " It is for the inrereft of those persons who
now possess the public (lock, to turn their atten
tion to commerce, and to give a helping hand to
that branch on which their whole property de
pends : It is bad policy for them to retire on
their 6 per cents, and to thuJc-tliat their interest
will support them. For if the monied nte'll re
tire from trade, who is to carry it 011 ? Or who
is to pay the reckoning ?— If they are all to live
on the revenue, who is to furnifli the means ? —
If they are all to receive and none to pay, si om
whence is the money to arise !—lf they are all
flock jobbers, and none merchants, who is to fet
tle with the Colleilors ?—lf nobody calls on him,
and his office isdeferted, it is needless to look to
the treasury, or deposit notes in the loan-office.
A few needy individuals in trade, are not equal
to discharge the burden, and if the monied men
defifl from lending a helping hand, and heave
the bnfineft on the shoulders of others, it is pro
bable the revenue will fall vattly fhorr of an
swering their quarterly demands. Bofl.lnd.Chron.
The funis, stated to be 'he amounts of the balances of accounts
against the United States, in tefpfft to this state and that of South-
Carolina, are the whole advances of those states during the war,
dedu&ing certain sums in paper-monev, received by them from
the Continental Treasury. These balances and fupns received by
the fta»e«, will form the aggregate expence of ibe purchase of free
dom and independence.
Died a' Brest, on the torh June la ft, the celebrated M. de la
Motte Piquet—a great loss to the F ench navy.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Industry,
■ Fame, Swainc,
L —Ceres, Ives,
A&ive, Egar,
I Schooner Industry. Sibs,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DF.B.T.
6 pr. Cents 21f 21 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents 12/4 12/5
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/8 i9fg
UNFUNDKD DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates ?oj6
Indents iif6
N. and S. Carolina debts, 1 5/5*
Bank Subfcriptioris,
BY ORDLR Oh THh MANAGLRS.
The MA SOGERS of the
New-Haven Wharf Lottery,
HAVING fold What Tickets remained on hand, pledge them
selves 10 the public, that the Drawing (aid Lottery will com
nvnee, in the Rep-efentativefc' Chamber, in the State House in
\ew-Haveti, on Monday the i2'.h of September next, at ten
o'clock, A. M.
New-Haven, Augvjf 16, 1791
03"* A few Tickets in the above Lottery find tlie on'v ones
Lr.ow unfold) may be had of the Subfcribe»s. if f' on ar>plird for.
STF.PHF.fr A'JSTIK & to.
Corner of Trout aml Pine-streets.
'Philadelphia, August 27, 1791.
Brufter,
Savannah
Honduras
Londonderry.
Bavonne
CaOe-Francois
ic6J pr. cent.
62 do.
63J do.
. ioo£ do.
62J do.
' 18,5 Dollar*,: Charleftown (MasT) Lottery.
CLASS. XXII.
Sot' laid Lot.-l.iv prcfcntto the Public
'piiE manage:
t L the following
« SCHEME
• Of the Twenty-Second Class,
i of yoou Tickets, at Three Dol laks cacb, 21,QC5>
\ Dollars.
1 Prize o.'
1
'J f
ao
20
20
40
6 j
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, siooo
This Class will commence drawing on or belorc the ill oi
September.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the usual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
/MATTHEW BRIDGE, [ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charlcfton, May 25, 179 1.
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Market-Street,
HAVE Tickets <n the above, and in the Maflachufetts Second
k SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
f Philadelphia, 20th July, 1791.
'HE CommifTioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
fa Bank of the United State, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
prm the Stockholders of the fj id Bank, that an election for t wenty
ive Dire&ors will be held at the City-Hall in Philadelphia, on
r riday the 21ft day of October next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RI TTENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Srreet. next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame placc
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whprn these prefen-s fHal 1 comc, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promillory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Phi lad- Iphia, Mer. hant, all bearing date the 19th
. July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
m nine months—one lor seven liund red and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen shillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
"whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
leen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington,:—Which laid notes have beon afligned bv the said Sa
muel Jaddon to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and TAMES
HOOD, merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and fortv-feven pounds fifteen fhil.
lings and fix-pencc, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proot of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These ai e therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERI SCOTT, s Executors
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, lythMav. i7qi
War Department,
MAY 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United. States, that the sums to which they arc entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due 011 the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said dav by the Commiffionersof the
Loans within the Starts refpe£lively, under the usual 1 emulations,viz.
Every application lor payment mult be accompanied by the foil
Jawing vouchers.
certificate & iven b > the Specifying that the person
pWklling the fame is in fa& an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as inch he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. S_ came before me, one of the fvjlices of the county of in
thejiate of and made oath that he is the fame A. 0. to whom the
original certificate in his possession waigiven, of which the following is a
,copy (the co tificategiven by thejiate to he recited) That heje, ved f re
giment, corps or vcj/clj at the time he was dijabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has reftded there for the la/l
years, previous to which he refidedin
In cafe an invalid (hould apply for payment by an attorney, the
attorney, bi fides the certificate and oath before recited, mull
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably lo the following foi m :
k, ,'r" n r c ° un, V "t fate of do hereby conflitute and
appointC. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an inv ,/id of the United States, from the
four 1,1 diy of Mirch, one thtnfant seven hundred and -ninety.one, and
ending the Jo:,ith day of Scpter.iler of the fame year.
Signed and s caled
jn the presence of
Witnrjjts.
Acknowledged before .me,
Applications of executors and administrators tntift he accompa
nied with legal evidence of their .efpeftive offices, and alfu of The
time the 'nvahos died, whose pension they may claim
By command of the President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Sscr Hary oj JVar.
ADVERTI S E M E N T
C3T HY/ateanivalsfrom-Franc, the Uilor has received from
A„ 10/03,, both inch,five, of a Publication which come, out twice a
ueek in Paris, entitled. Cork esponbasce Nationa l e."_j
From A,i. i H ij. to, have been ftiipbei, but are not ut com: to hand
Mr/on tuhmavtnclmj tofubjeribefor this work. which appears io
be ingenious, , partial and p,trior. -, nay be furniflied with the numbers'
s they arrive oy aff,y;ng to the Editor of this Gazelle.
2500 Dolls. is
1000
2500
1000
1500
00 arc
1000
800
600
B>o
6->o
5°
40
3"
10
8
6
4
560
480
803'.
17872
Didu&ion, 3:28
(e p. 3 m
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY.
MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY aflure the
X Public, thai the fccond Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LO x -
TtRY will politively commence arawiugon ihc,day appointed,
viz. Oa Thurfiay ihc'ij'h of Otlobcr next, or Jooner, if tne Tickets
shall be disposed of. As the Managers have in thcir^fc veral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour so
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
- S C.Li E M. E.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE. 1
25,000 Tickets, at Fivg Dollars each, arc I*2^sJlT*Do 11 ars,-t\
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a dcduftion of twelve\
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of
2
3
6
lO
30
80
90
100
1 !>©
16l
200
758.5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000 Tickets,
(£3" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Manager s , mho will pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-ilrcet—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MI NOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
Bcjlon, April 14, 1791.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&icut, at their session in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the subscribers managejs, who having given bond
fpr the faithful discharge of their trull, present the public with the
following
s c
i Prize of
1
1
2
i
5
1 2.
3°
45
5°
6i
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
i7s°o Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is^
Not two Blanks to a Pr i zt ,
Subjefl to a deduction of twelve and a hall per cent.
1 he public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quir any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour ot New-Haven; to those who are not,fuffice it to fay
that its beautiful fuuatton is not surpassed, if equalled by anv • b<-
ing in the heart of a country, which mav, with propriety, be'faid
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is neccffarily extended to th,
channel where (hips can load and unload ; and when compet
ed, will be the most cxtenliveand commodious wharf in America
the whole extent b. ing about 3 - 4 ths of a mile; and not onlv the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent but the
maritime interest o( all the States will be benefited by it The
gene, al wish that prevails in the minds of all classes of people for
theluccefsof this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being mor<
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhcd in
Amenea),naucethe manage™ to believe the tickets will meet with
a Ipcedy <ai?.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House in
K:::i ,r the 131,1 of Scptcmbcr ncx: > ° r f —> *
A lift ofthefortunate numbers will be publilhed, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those pnzes not called lor in
:.e months alter drawing, will be deemed as generously eiven
or the use ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Manage RS :
Jambs Rice, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah At water, Elijah Aoitu,
» *7 J° SEPH Drake, Joseph lloweli.
\ A ew-Haven, April 14, 1791.
' (PT TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Cimpung-houfeofMeffrs. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner ol
rrfrnr and rine-Streets.
YX° y'! l pav "j" prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur-
of them in laid Lottery. '
win Vv" 1" '^ e . Mairachufe '" s Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will Deceived in payment lor the above tickets.
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER
FOR sale,
A Printing Press and Types,
together wtth the right of publifoinga PAPER, in good repute
.he subscribers to winch are Continually increaling - The prefeni
uumoerot its patrons is between seven and eight hundred Tl.e
types consist of Burceojs, P.ca, and a fufficicnto.»,,ii. v oflar
«r letter to display advertisements to advantage. ' The situation
s 111 the interior part ot Massachusetts, in the ccnuc of a
C!en,°P 3 * I,rlv!n S community,and with.,, , 7 mile. o( an ex.
el Paper-Mill, where paper of every quality and size may
always be had on ihort notice. Perhaps no conntrv paper on the
for file has a larger mareoi Advert,foments than the one offered
Blank!"of k:„ y /, m h"u biC Pr ° rU a,f ° occru " fr ° m lhe
T" i ( ; d ,n !he 'he
fori fmal] R™l- > "'.f' ,s a good situation, also,
raefs mi!L r r a U ,S J U PP°W Book-Bindi«.o I, U -
FnrT K rne , li ° n thc fj,1 ' c P la « to advantage. °
K.WJ ?'' n,l,ir(of^B " " hl - OflSrt,
Sdelohia. ° ' betWCen Secoud and Ti.ird-Strer,,, Phi
(ia\v 8w)
144
CLASS 11.
10000 is
2boo arc
2COO
• 1000
500
200
100
, 5°
40
3°
20
10
8
1
HEME.
10,000 Dollars, is
are
5000
4000
2000
1000
500
200
100
5®
40
3°
20
10
8
[83-il! Pi,f.>n,concerned w ,il oc plcaf.d toukt not i C e
following aavcrtiferaent has been varied from 'hit. k.r" (
our paper of the 23d of March,] " :a
Treasury Department.
Treasury Department.
"\TOTICE is hereby given, that Propollt»wiMbciccA'e ,
IN office of the Secret ary of the Tre.fur v, ami) the i„ ft m ' '
mi September next inclnfivc, f..r the supply ot ail ratl „', """T"'
may be required lor the use of the United States, from ,he
of January to the thirty-firft day of Dccemhcr, 1 7 r /
qlufive, at the places, and within the diftri&s
Atany place orplaces, betwixt Yorkttm, „
fylvariia and Fort Pitt,ano C ° r '
At any place or placcs, fPWuand Fort M'l„v
-on the River Ohio, and at*F6rt M'lJjtolh. ' ''
At any placeor placcs, betwixt Fort M-Intofh andthemoutho'
the River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the Rivrr Mnii... '
\ i 11 *HuiKingQni
At any placcor placcs. betwixt the mouth of the River M r
kingum, and up thefaid River to the Tufcarowas, and attheTuf"
carowas, and thencc over to the Cayoga River, and down the ("in
River to its mouth.
At any place or placcs, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
ki-ngum, and the mouth of the Scioio Rive r, and at the mouth -
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio v .o River and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
md from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio,and at ihe
laid Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
ip the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thencc over to the*
Vliami Villjge, on the river ot the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
»t the'Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vinccnn<s
>t Poll: St. Vmccnnes, and thence up the said river Wabaih, to the
Vliami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabalh river [<y$
he mouth of the river Ohio.
Atany placeor places, on the ea ft fide of the river Miffifippi,
'rem the mouth of thtOhio river,to the mouth of thelllinoU river.
At anv place or places, from the mouth of. the Miami iivtr to
he Mi ami Village.
At any place or placcs, from the Miami Village to Sanduflr
nd at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Gayogarivei.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Bcuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prelq'lfle, and be
twixt Prcfq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river,
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla;.e or places, oa
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
vayof Big Beaver creek..
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miffifippi, bctweca
he mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclufivcly. i.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the river'
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tjpfi to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at any places, or
diftri&s, not fpecified in tbefe proposals, the price of t
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt tfie public and the contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd are to confiftof the following articles.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, branc.y or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar,( _ •
1 . , r > per. too rations.
lwo pounds ot loap, . r
One pound of candles, }
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
he fir ft Monday in September next, inclusive, tor the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
'"torn ibe si- ft day ot January to the thirty.firft day
t 792, both davs inclusive. ar Springfield, in the stale of Maflachu
fetts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
lOOOC
6000
6000
6000
500 c
6000
8000
4500
4 000
3600
3220
20C0
60680
125000
IC.OOO
,5000
4000
4000
4000
2,5° C
2400
3000
225"
2000
1830
P.OOC
1 4OC
43>* 2C
87501=
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the ill Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the 1 ft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri£U herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the pod on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the Dost on the river Oconce, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconer,
up to the mouth of the main fouih branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the fourqe of the fa id main south branch, aud
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any or her place or places within the state of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent polls by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future polls.
1 he rat ions are to he furnifhed in such quantities as that there
at all times, during the said term, be fuflicient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the fa id pods, for the fpaceof at
lea It tv/o months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
—..niia i ii aavance, in gooci ami wnv/n r --
rhe rations to befupplied arc to consist of the fame articles,
re abovementioned.
It is to beunderftood in each cafe, that all lofles sustained bv tiic
epredationsof*Lheenem>.orbymeansofthctroopsofthe Ie
tates, (hall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or ae -
roved, on the depositions of two or more creditable characters
nd the certificate of a commi flioned officer, ascertaining t^e l^ ,r "
am fiances of the loss, an d the amount of the articles
ompenfation is claimed.
The conti afcls for the above supplies will be made either orone
/ear. or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons di po c
o contra# will therefore confine their offers to one year, or tw-}
may make their proportions so as to admit an election c
terin of two years. «
The ptopofals may be made for the whole of theabove po..
get her, or separately for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for i *> r ' '
and the seventeen places following it, and for the polls in C()r S '
"id they must fpecify the lowcft pricc per ration, for prompt p
tncnl.
(pf* Blink Powers to receive the I nterc ft, and for the transfer __
P' inc i pal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflabbfhed t" t> e
fury Department : A/Jo Blanks for abJlraCti of Certificates) to Cj°
the b.ditor.
f::V' The JOURNAL of the TIJtRD SESSIONoj tit S^* 1 -
of the UNITED STATES, nay be haiofthc Editor heraf. ,
%'dT"A fevj coptss of the CONST 17UT10
Unilal States, printed with Notss, may * c
Editor.