- 7
/ 7 </ st.
[No. 54, of Vol. lII.]
ANSWER of M. SYEYES,
To Dh. Paine s Letter 9 and to several other publi
cations of a fitnilar nature.
IT appears that the question depends entirely upon the manner
of crownmg the government. What the monarches would do
by individual umtv, the lepublicans would do by a colleflivt
body. Ido not accuse the lad of failing to perceive ihc neref.
fity of unity in aftiou, and I do not deny that it may be possible
to e(hbli!h this unity in a senate or superior council ot execution.
But I believe, that it would be ill-constituted under a multitude
el repoits of committees; and that, in order to prefervi all the
advantages of which the unity of adion is capable, it fnould not
be leparated from ir.dividnal unity.
Thus, i.i our tyftrro, the government is composed of a fit ft mo
narch, the elefierand irresponsible, in whose name aa fix mo
narch!, named by him and rcfponfible. After thel'e are the di
iettories of the departments.
In the other, a senate or council, named by the departments,
or by the legifl.Uive assembly, would be in the fiift degree of ex
ecution ; then the administration of the departments.
Those who aim at iriveftigating an image with abft'raft notions,
may figure a monarchical government as ending in a point, and
a republican government in a platform ; but tile advantages which
we attribute to one form rather than the other, are so important,
that they cannot be conveyed by a simple image. I do not give
the cxpofition of them ; this is not the place ; but I am not un
willing to repeat, that in the two points here mentioned, consist
the aiftmftive charaQers of the two fyltcms ; that is to fay, the
difference which there is between an individual responsible de
cifton, withheld by an irresponsible eleding will, and a decision
bya majority discharged of all legal responsibility. The confe
rences will be deduced elfewheie * j
The republicans and we, may, moreover, differ upon many
great queltions, referring to social regulation, though there mat be
no reatoii to acknowledge any difference between republicani fn.
and monarchifm. For example, several combinations .niy be
"nagined in the election of the council or senate of execution,
with the delign of extending them more or less to the deliberating
admimftrative bodies. So may we alfoada.it, that there may be
more than one method proper to regulate what is called the fu<-
eeliion to the throne : for there is a latitude of opinion .o be ei
er ' re P u blican or a monavcliift, according to several varieties.
J" 13 fnc s u ' re£ '' and * h av e no doubt that the enquiry will be
made, what is my opinion with refpeft to the hereditary right of
the monarch elcfior—l answer without hesitation, that, in good
theory, a hereditary tranfmiflion of an office, whatever it is, can
never accord with the laws of a true representation. Hercditary
• up, in i his KTife, is as inueh an attaint upon principle, as an out
rage iion iocicty. But let us refer to the history of all elective
monarchies or principalities. Is there one in which the elcttive
m »;k S ° 0t wor s e ■han the hereditary fucceffson ?
What more than they have done could have been performed in
the two years palt by men, at bottom, like others ; that is to fay,
who can judge only by that whioh they know, and who, for the
molt part, know that only to be possible which has been already
cone . And if they had thought themselves able to enter into the
examination of this question, wouhi it have been for them to ba
lance against an absurd, but peaceable hereditary (hip, the equally
a. ur cultom of ekflion, which is alio oftentimes accompanied
wit a civil war p At present, indeed, we are habituated to an
elective mode, and have fufficiently refl fled to believe, that there
ni ~, tx a S rcat variety of combinations in that refpeft.
Incte is certainly one very applicable to the firtt public fnnc
lion. It appears to mc to unite all the advantages attributed to
Hereditary without any of its inconveuiences ; and the advanta-
T t ek^' on >. wiltlout '«» dangeis. Nevertheless, lam far from
thinking that cirtumftjnc.es are favorable for producing a change
in 111s refpetl of the decreed Constitution, and lam very glad to
deliver my opinion strongly upon this fubjeft. The obilacks, I
admit, are no longer the fame ; but have they therefore all dis
appeared and have not foinenew ones arisen ? Would an interior
aivihon bean indifferent tranfaftion, at the yra in which we are
P acc . 1 lie National Assembly is f( cure of the union of all parts
0 prance for the Constitution, as already known.
n universal wilh appears for the completion and the confirm
ation of it throughout with uniformity, and with a force capable
° g ,v,n g empire to the law. Would it bereafonable to take this
roomeni tor throwing an apple of discord in the midst of the de
partments, and hazarding incongruities in the decrees, to which
"might be hereafter so difficult to place limits? If the nation will
ex P^ a ' n "frlf by a Constituent Aflembly as to the place of
e t onarch, whether it (hall become elective, or remain here
"ai y» may not, on that account, lose monarchy, since there
xl' i) 3 wa ) s rcma ' n what is its eflcnce, an individual decision, as
1 C f^° n r t 3rt a^'n g Monarchs, as the Monarch elector.
n ort, I hope, that as the public opinion is fimplifyjng more
n more in political matters, the triangle monarchy will be ge
era y perceived to be more suitable than the republicanism plat
°7" l ° that division of powers which is the Hue bulwark ot
P u ic iberty. [To 6e concluded in our next.]
EXTRACT of an ADDRESS to farmers.
[From the All/any Gazette.
y"OU wil] probably arrive at the dignity of re
prefentative —this is your field of battle,
eath or glory here await you—money mult not
now be f 0 much your objedt, or at least it must
"or appear to be, as fame—though there are
roes frequently to be made worth hazarding a
ittle character for—let the rights of the people
ant of vour constituents in particular be continu
a In y° u r mouth—no matter what the fubjec r t
o i e is, never consider it worth a moment's
lought, speak to it or from it with earnestness
and volubility ; dafli, like Wilkin lon, through
1 J' ou have attained your great
Hp f i ° which will be either to be confi
fli Pe d R oVer "J"ent as a troublesome man, and
. (" c s' *' th an office, in which you may fit down
yOl life—or be placed in the chair of state,
(CONTI NUED.)
t..y>
Wednesday, November 3, 1791.
by those whose right:-, and liberties you have so
nobly contended for. Should the latter ofthefe
events take place, and I lee nothing to hinder
you will have arrived to the zenith—and your
only care now ought t > be to preserve yourfelf
there-fill the country with judges, justices and
officers of every delcri; : ion—no matter for cha
racter or abilities, it ;< their votes and interest
only which yon are to look to—but it is needless
to give you further ad-ice—when you are once
in the chair, if you have a little sense and a great
rteal of cunning, it wiil be impoflible to get you
out - TIMON.
t'K.-JNCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, AUGUST 29.
Monday evening an extraordinary fitting
Vv was held on the intsreftinglituation ofthe M
and of St. Domingo, which lalted to the unusual
hour of n, and in which some warm personalties
were employed, that vill probably have fatal
consequences. A coalition seems to be formed
in the Colonial Committee, at the head of which
is M. Barnave, who iii.YTts upon the revocation of
the decree of the ijth of May.
M. De Tracy, Broftaret, Perifle da Luc, and
Rochefoucault, gave notice, that they should re
sign their places in the committee ; and in align
ing theirreafons for their resignation, these gen
tlemen successively displayed such a fceue of des
potism exercised in the committee, as to render
it impossible for any members ou: of the party
to be heard.'
August jr.
The order of the day was, the further consi
deration of the belt mode of fixing a national
convention for altering any part of" the present
conllitution.
The principal speech on this occasion, and up
on which the principalipart of the ensuing decree
was founded, was matfe by M. Frocheau, the
friend of the celebrate,4 Mirabeau.
After having demonttrated the principles of
the national sovereignty and the neceflity of not
departing from those on which representative go
vernments are founded ; he concluded, with pro
posing, that two forts of aflemblies lhould be ap
pointed, one of which, under the title of a na
tional convention, ftiouldjbe authorised to revise
retouch, and modify any parts of the conflitu
tion ; and the other, under the denomination of
the condiment aflembly, should be charged with
the funtftion of new modelling the conditution
entirely, if neceflary. The legislative body
should have the sole right of convoking one or
other of these aflemblies ; to have an authorita
tive efFe<ft ; three successive legislatures mud ex
press their desire with regard to the calling of
these aflemblies ; and in order to prevent cabal,
the fame members nuid not be eligible to the le
gislatures succeeding that which has began to
express its desire foi this change.
Many fpokeon this intereding fubjecft, among
the mod didinguifhed of whom was M. Barnave,
who with his usual precision, observed, that the
end of all government, is tranquility and liberty
conjoined ; but these two great advantages the
people themselves are modliableto destroy with
their own hands, from being led to a£l by ge
neral ideas, under the guidance of artful and
eloquent demagogues, who have their own pri
vate views at bottom. The people are no doubt
the only legal sovereign ; when they have ef
tablifhed a representative government, the pub
lie power resides in those representatives ; the
people can only exercise the sovereignty by elec
tions.
The decree with which the debate ended, is
couched in the following terms :
" Whenever three following legislatures fliall
express a uniform wilh to reform a part of the
conflitution, a revision may take place.
" The fourth legislature shall be charged with
examining the articles on which the three pre
cedinglegiflatures fliall have demanded a revision.
" The members of the third legislature cannot
be named to the fourth."
M. de !a Fayette proposed, that the mode
adopted by the American States fliould be adopt
ed, accordinp to which the nominal appeal is re
sorted to in the three legislative aflemblies, and
the names ef those voting fora reform are print
ed. This proposal was referred to the commit
tee of constitution.
After this business was concluded, a numberof
curious and interesting papers were read rela
tive to the Isle of St. Domingo.
s/'l"'
fZ-f X*? -f ■* v f y .
* CO'. A s
213
sip
T PARIS, September s.
£ -P r 1 ncl Con ft' cu tio"al Chart is at length
hmflied.and was on Saturday lall prefenteci to
• , : w ho received it with a countenance
m winch much outward fatisfartioti was depicted
J he members met in the Hall of the Alibmbly
thx o clock in the evening ; but i: was half
e lf every thing was readv.
hJi!" y ern . iei > the Prefitl ent, then intimated,thae
a waited on the King, and announced their
intentions ; and that bis Majesty was ready to
receive them. J
On this the deputation moved on towards the
Palace of the Thuilleries, between a double row
of National Guards, flambeaux preceding, sol-
Jowin| and accompanying them, and martial
procession ° P ' continuin S during the
Having arrived at the Palace, the Deputation
was immediately ufliered into the Grand Council
Chamber, and introduced to the King, who wag
Jeated on a throne, furrouiided by his Ministers,
an »j a^i. eat nun:^er other people of dift indtion.
JM-houret then advanced, and spoke as sol-
i he Representatives of the Nation who pre
ient to your Majelty the Conrtitutional a<ft, which
conlecrates the imprescriptible- Rights of the
trench Nation ; which gives to the throne its
true dignity, and which organizes the Govern
ment of the Empire."
j he King inltantly replied :
" 1 now receive the Conllitution presented to
me by the National Aflembly. I shall inform
them of my resolution, after the shortest possible
delay which the examination of such an important
object demands.
" 1 am resolved to remain in Paris ; I (hall
give the neceflary orders to die Commandant-Ge
neral of the national Parisian troops refpe&ing
my guards." °
Ihe Deputation having received this answer,
and M. Thouret havingalked and obtained a co
py of it m writing, for the fatisfatfion of the Af
lembly, they inftanily returned with the fame
ceremony that they had set our.
Yesterday the Thuilleries were opened, all the
centinels potted to prevent the entrance of stran
gers, being removed.
A prodigious crowd of citizens having gone to
the chapel during the morning service, on the
entrance of the King and Queen to hear Mass, a
number of voices exclaimed, Vive la Nation !
Vive la Conditution !
His Majesty, who was taken unawares, being
unable to hide liis emotion at this circumstance,
burit into tears. On this the audience cried out,
Vive ie Roi ! Vive la Liberte ! One person in
particular pronounced with a loud and didincft
voice, Vive le Premier Roi conflitutioual des
Francois !
VIENNA, August 17.
Accounts are received here, that after the last
rencontre between the van of the Turkilh army
the Ruffians,the Grand Vizier afl'embled all his and
army, the flower of which confided of Bo,oco
men, and the red he divided into two divisions,
consisting of 30,000 men each ; he then aflembled
all his officers, and gave them such orders as he
thought proper, and in a ipeech of great energy
told them, that lie had no doubt of obtaining a
victory over the enemy if they and the men un->
der their command would do theirduty. lmiile
diately after this they attacked the Ruffians, be
tween Galacz and Maczyn, and a bloody contest
ensued, the certain iflue of which is not known ;
some fay the Ruffians had the advantage, whilst
others aflert that the Muscovites were beat and
had 12,000 men killed upon the spot.
LONDON, September 9,
How strangely are the French altered ! It was
lately represented as a degradation in the As
sembly to exclude a member of the Royal Family
from the rights of a citizen. How infinite for
merly was the diftinc r tion between Prince and Ci-
tizen !
The French Elections do not seem to meet with
so many difficulties in general as in Paris At
Chaitres, the Electoral Aflembly chose nine De
puties to the new Legislature in one day.
An authentic lift has been publiflied, contain
ing the names of no less than eighty-nine per.
foiis, proposed as candidates for the officc of Go
vernor to the Dauphin.
fstopo
[Whole No. 363.1SAVANNAH, October 6
The Auguita Chronicle of the 24U1 ult. menti
ons, that Ins excellency the governor has been
pleased to appoint the lion, Brownlon,
,h.lq. and gt-nt 1 als 1 wigs and Clarke, comniilhon
ers to attend the running of tiie temporary line
between this ltute and ttie Creek nation.
Mr. Ellicot (lately arrived from the Northward)
and the commiilioncrs, wc are informed, have
gone from Auguita to perform the above menti
oned bulinefs.
GEORGETOWN, Oft. 8
We are informed, that the Hon. liaac Holmes,
Esq. lieut. governor of this state, has been ap
pjinted collector of the culloms for the diil riift
of South-Carolina, in the room of George Abbot
Hall, Kfq. deceased.
NEWBEfiN, Otflober Ij.
Last week a Sloop was call away on the coafl:
of this State, between Occacock y.nd Beaufort.
There were on board of her but one man, < who
fays his name is Nathan Round, and a lad named
Maxwell. The Cargo confiited of twenty-three
hoglheads of l'ugar, about twenty cases of gin,
a chest of tea, and a quantity of ca<h. The inha
bitants were very alert in saving the cargo, which
is now in the care of the custom-house officers at
Beaufort.
The condudt of Round has given canfe of sus
picion that he had nor a(fteil honeltly (his story
and that of the lad difagrceing in many relpeifts)
and as he had left the veflel, fails, rigging, &c.
and hired horl'es under pretence of coming to
this town, the infpeiftor of Beaufort came last
night in pursuit of him. He was this morning
apprehended and carried beforejudge Sitgreaves,
who, after examining him thought proper to com
mit him to gaol. Among his baggage were found
twelve hundred dollars and forne cloathes, which
he laid belonged to the captain.
He fays the schooner is called the Polly, be
longs to Brown, Francis, & Co. and was command
ed by Capt. Richard Low ; that they failed to
the Well-Indies, loaded with horses, mules, beef,
fifti, nankeens and thirty-two chests of tea —that
while they were lying in Euftatia road, he sup
poses the cablc was cut by a Spanifli drogger who
was near him, the captain being then alhore ;
that lie sent the boy and all the hands, but this
lad, alhore for the captain ; but the wind begin
ning to blow frefh he was not able to keep the
veflel near that island, or making any of the
neighbouring ones, and that he then fleered for
the continent and came to anchor near where
the veflel was afterwards loft.
On his way from Beaufort, it is said, he inquir
ed the way to the Ohio, and when he was in this
town wanted to get to Norfolk. There was no
log-book or other paper found on board the ves
sel.
The money is lodged at the cuftoni-lioufe in
Newbern, and the veflel is ordered to be fold for
the benefit of the owners.
PROVIDENCE, Oc r t. 22.
Ac the Supreme Judicial Court of the Com
monwealth of Maflachufetts, holden at Taunton,
was tried last Thursday the Cause, William Gor
don, of New-Bedford, against Caleb Gardner and
John Stanton, of Newport.—This was a popular
aiflion, grounded on the law of that Common
wealth, for preventing the Slave-Trade. The
plaintiff in his writ demanded 50C0I. forfeited
for the exportation of 100 Afi icaiis to the Weft
Indies as slaves, and 2001. forfeited for the velfel
employed in the voyage. The former demand,
in pursuance of the advice of the Abolition Soci
ety in this town, was relinquished, and on the
latter a verdiift was obtained by the plaintiff.
This mild and humane procedure 011 the part of
the Society mnll evince, that their objeiii was
more to give fandiion and efficacy to the law,than
to mul«fi the violators thereof.—The charges from
the court to the jury i.i this cause deserve to have
been written in letters of gold. Such Judges are
a terror to evil-doers, and a glory to a Coirnnon-
wealth
BOSTON, October 24,
The limited number of ihares in the Boston
Tontine, (amounting to 100,000) having been
fubferibed, the fubfeription books were closed on
Friday.
Friday arrived from France, Burril Carnes,
Esq. Consul ot the United States, for the port of
Nantz. This gentleman left Nantz the 16th of
September, at which time the King had not as
sented to the Constitution.
Extract of a letter from Cape-Francois, of Sept. \~jth,
r;Ci'!v:J by a lat: arrival in this town
" The profpetft of pence amonglt us does not
yet make its appearance. A long time, perhaps
some months, will elapse before this happy event
will be accom plifhed : and years will roll over
before the colony will be restored to the hap
py and prosperous state in which it wns five weeks
ago. Delirucftion has gone through the greatest
part of this quarter of the colony, and threatens
daily to complete the iuin ot the whole, ihe
efforts of the government to Hop the ravages ot
the negroes have not been effectual, and they
every night commit foni.e depredations and mur
ders upon thole plantations which are not yet
destroyed."
POUGHKEEPSI £, October 20.
Died at Fifhki'll, about the 2d instant, Frede
rick Harpel, a German, who feryed in the capa
city of a dragoon at the coinmenceuient of Queen
Ann's war ; and was, from the calculations he
made, about 120 years of age when he departed
this life—through the whole conrfe of which, he
enjoyed a perfect state of health, and was remark
able for his frugality and industry, till a few
months before his death.
CONGRESS.
PHILADE L P H I A.
SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, October 31, 1 79 1 •
THIS day, at 12 o'clock, the Senate proceeded from their
Chamber of Cougrefs to the Houle ot the President ot the
United States, where the following Address, in answer to his
Speech to both Houses of Congref»> was delivered by the Vicc-
President:—
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Sir,
THE Senate of the United States have received with the highest
faiisfa6lion, the aflurancesof public prosperity contained in your
lpeech to both houles : the multiplied blcflings of Providence have
not escaped our notice, or failed to excite our gratitude.
The benefits which flow from the restoration of public and pri
vate confidence are conspicuous and important, and the pleasure
with which we contemplate them, is heightened by youralTurance
of thufe further communications which ihall confirm their exig
ence, and indicate their source.
Whilil we rejoice in the fuccefe of those military operations
which have been dire&ed against the hoilile Indians, we lament
with you the necellity that has produced them, and we participate
the hope that the present profpeft of a general peace, on terms of
moderation and justice, may be wrought into complete and pei
mancnt effect, and that the meafur:s of government may equally
embrace the ftcunty of our frontiers, and the general interefh ot
humanity; oilr f.jlicitude to obtain, willenlure our zealous atten
tion, to an obj cl to. warmly efpouftd by the principles of benevo
lence, and so highly imerefting to, the honor and weJUrc of the
natiun,
Tne fcvcral fubje&s which you have particularly recommended,
and those which remain of former.feflious, will engage our early
tonftderation ; we are encouraged to prosecute them with alacrity
and steadiness, by the belief, that they will interest no paflion, but
that tor the general welfare, by the afiurance of concert, and by a
view of thole aiduous and important arrangements which have
been already accompiithed.
Weoblcrve, Sir, the'conltancy and a£livity of your zeal tor the
public good. The example will animate our efforts to promote
the happiness ot our country.
JOklN ADAMS, Vice-President of the Uivited States,
and Prcfidentof the Senate*
To which the President made the following Reply
Gentlemen',
THIS manifeftation of your zeal for the honour and the happi
nefi of our country, derms its full value from the (hare which
your deliberations have already had in promoting both.
I thank you tor the favorable sentiments with which you view
the part I have borne in the arduous ti uft committed to the govern
ment'ol the United States; and defirc you to be allured that ali my
will continue to second tliofe further rffoits for the public
good, which aic ensured by the spirit in which you are entering on
the present fcflini. G. WASHINGTON.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Mr. Smith and Mr. Niles, Members from Ver
mont, Mr. Barnewell, from South-Carolina. Mr.
Groves, from North Carolina, and Mr. Shere
dine, from Maryland, totfk their feats this day.
Sundry petitions from persons praying com
penCations, pen (lons, &c. for Cervices and disabi
lities, were prcCented by Ceveral members—read
and referred to the Secretary of War.
A memorial of JoCeph Seraki, a Roman artill,
was read, praying the patronage of Congress in
a design for executing a monument commemora
tive ot the American Revolution—this memorial
was accompanied by a description of the proposed
monument—laid on the table.
The petition of Richard Blacklege, piefented
by Mr. Willianifon, on motion of that gentle
man, was referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
ORDER OF THE DAY
In committee of the whole, on the schedule of
the whole number of persons in the United States.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the Chair.
Mr. Lawrance observed, that there were two
objects which piefented for the attention of the
committee 011 this occasion ; thefiril, the apporti
onment of the ratio of reprefemation—the other,
t he situation of the census as it refpecfls the State
of South Carolina—both of tlieni important.
,lr. Lawrance proposed arefolution in regard to
ihe fir It—l hat till the time of the next enume
ration, the number of Representatives fliall be one
to every thirty thonfand inhabitants. He further
obierved, that the census of South-Carolina not
214
being compleated, and returns made within the
time limited by law, it remains that some provj.
lion on that fubjeift fliould be made but as he
supposed the gentlemen from that State would
make a propoiition to the house, he fliould wave
any further remarks for the present. He con
cluded by repeating his motion, that the ratio of
l cprefcntation ihouid be one for every thirty
thousand.
Mr. Li verm ore Paid he was npprehcnfive the
motion would be premature, till the fate of an
amendment to the conitirution proposed to iit
people, was known ; th;it amendment fays that
the ratio of repi elentation (hall be one to every
30,000 persons, till the number of- lleprefenta
tives amounts to 100 —after which the ratio is to
be one to 40,000 —If this amendment is agreed to
the resolution on the table will contravene its
operation ; if that amendment: is not adopted
(and said he, 1 heartily wish it never may be)
we (hould 011 the proposition now moved, have a
larger houl'e than that amendment contemplated ;
he was opposed to lb large a number of repre
sentatives as would be confcquent on the plan
proposed, and concluded by enquiring whether
the above amendment had been adopted by the
requisite number of the Legillatures.
On examination it did not appear that a fuf
ficietn number of tlie States had made return*
refpe<fting the amendments to determine thr
question.
Mr. Sedgwick said the Constitution bad pro
vided that the number of Representatives /hould
not exceed one for every 30,000, but Congress may
encreafe the number of constituents of each mem
ber ; he read the l-efult of a calculation of the
number of Representatives which would be re
turned on a supposition of there being one to
3°> 33> 34 al] d 4° thousand persons—according
to the prel'ent ceiifus, fuppofiug South-Carolina
to contain 240,000 perfons—3o thoul'and would
give 110 —33, 104, 34, 100, and 40 thousand, 82
members.
Judging from the sense of the peoj)le, so far
as it could be collected from whac had been done
refpedting the proposed amendment on this fub
jecft, he was of opinion that the ratio which
would meet the general approbation was that
which would give about 100 members in the
House of Representatives.
Mr. Livermore was in favor of a ratio which
would give the smallest number that was men
tioned by the gentleman last fpcaking;
Mr. White said, that the general sentiment of
the people was perhaps more fully known on the
lubjetfc before the committee, than on any other
thac can come before thein. Among the objec
tions to the Conltitution, the finallnefs of thcre
prefentation was very generally objected to. An
eucrcafe of the number of this iioufe isexpet r ced—
it has been said by the enemies of the Constitu
tion that Congress will never consent that there
lhall be a Representative for every 30,000 per.
sons. The time is now come when the que/tion
is to be determined—and I hope, said Mr.White,
that Congress will a<ft with the utmost liberality
on the occalion—and that they will not diminifli
the number of Representatives.
Mr. Dayton Caul he considered the fubjedl in a
different light from the gentleman laftfpeaking.
He supposed the sense of the people at the pre
sent day was opposed to a great increase of the
number of Reprei'encaiives—he thought that one
to 40,000 pei Coiis would give the most eligible
number, but was willing to meet the gentleman
half way, and moved to insert the word fivt be
tween " thirty and thousand,"in the resolution.
Mr. White explained himfelf as referring par
ticularly to the time when the Constitution was
adopted
Mr. Seney observed, that the ful>je<ft was too
important, in It is opinion, to come to a fucklen
decision npon, especially as many of the mem
bers of the lioufe had not arrived.
He moved therefore that the committee fliould
rife, report, and ;iik leave to lit again. The com*
inittee accordingly role.
Mr. Smith, (SC.) laid on the table a refolutiom
for extending the time allowed for making a re
turn of the census of South-Carolina.
JVlr. Sedgwick's motion refpeiftingpe'rfons who
flee from jultice, &e. laid on the table laftfri
day, was comin itted to Mcllis. Sedgwick, Bourne
(M.) and White.
riielfVs. Ames, Dayton, Brown, Fitzfimonsand
Tucker, were appointed a committee to report a
regular and uniform mode of proceeding in ca
ses of comelted electionsof membersof the house.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, a committee, con
fiding of Messrs. Wadfworth, Smith (S. C.) and
Svlvefter, was appointed to report a bill for the
relief of widows and orphans ill certain cases.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, November i.
Mr. Wayne, member from Georgia, and Mr. Parker, troro
Virginia, took their feats this day. .
A meifage wa; received iiorn the President ol the United Mates
by Mr. Secretary I,ear, communicating the arrangement ma em
rcfpc£t to the division of the United States into an ur
vc\s, appointnnni of infpeftors, and compensations to o
puiluant to the law, laying duties on distilled spirits, &c. ' 110copy of the presentment of'the grand jury of the federal court for
the diflrift of South-Carolina, in which the caufcs are stated which
preveuied the completion of the census of that State within the
lime limited by law.
These papers being read, the motion of Mr. Smith (S. C.) for
allowing further time to compleat the enumeration of the inhabi
tants of South-Carolina, was taken into consideration, and agreed
to—and Meflrs. Smith, Boudinot and Venable, appointed a com
mittee to prepare a bill accordingly.
Sundry petitions for compensations, pensions, See. were read,
and referred to the Secretary of war.
Mr. Muhlenberg of the Committee appointed to report such
{landing rules and orders as may be proper to beobferved by the
bouse; brought in a repoi t, which was read, and laid on the table.
Mr. Bourne (R. I.) moved the following resolution, That the
Secretary of the Treasury be dirc&cd to lay before the Kouic,
the amount of the fubferiptions to the public loan, made purluant
to the ast making provision for the public debt—as well in the
evidences of the domestic debt of the United States as those of the
debts of the refpettive States—the amount i hat remains unlub
fcribed ; alfofuch mcafures as he may think expedient to be adopt
ed to compleat theobje&of the Law ; this rel'olution was agreed
to.
The House then proceeded to the order of the on the Pre
sidents' Speech. The Speech being read by the Clerk, the fol
lowing articles recommended to the attention of the House,
©n motion of fcveral members were rJoc&tvely referred to com
mittees, who were diiefled to report a bill or bills making pro
vision in the fevrral cases, viz.
Thai which relates to trade and intercourse with the Indian
Tribes, was referred to MciTi s. White, Lawrance and Key.
That part of the Speech refpetting the Militia, Magazines and
Arsenals, was committed to McllYs. Wadfworth, Dayton, Giles,
Ward, Gordon, Wayne and Steele.
The paragraph refpe£ling the operation of the Law laying du
ties on distilled spirits gave rifeto a motion that a committee should
be appointed to report the inconveniences attending the execu
tion of that law, &c. this motion occasioned some debate and
was eventually withdrawn—and a motion that the S -cretary of
theTrealury be dire&cd to lay before the House any information
he may have received of difficulties which have occurred in the
execution of that law was adopted.
The motion for a reference to a committee was renewed by Mr.
Vining, and after fomc difcuflion was loft.
The article refpe&ing the fate of the vacant lands of the United
States was committed to Mr. Williamfon, Mr,. Boudi.iot and Mr.
White.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) reported a bill flowing further time for com.
pleating the enumeration of the inhabitants of the S ate of South-
CaroHrn—this was read the firft and second time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house to-morrow. Adjourned.
The following address was delivered by the Speaker to the House,
on his takmg the chair : —
Gentlemen,
I FIND myfclf unable to express to you the full fenfc I have of
the distinguished honor you have done me in the choice of your
Spenker.
The diffidence I feel in my abilitirs to difchaTge, with propri
ety, the duties of the chair, is alrnoft infuprrable in my own mind.
But encouraged by the known candor of this honourable body,
and depending, as I think I may confidently do, on the kind af
fiftanceof each individual in it, I (hall enter on its cjuties,"with full
aflurances to you, gentlemen, that I (ball endeavour to conducl
myfelfwith that impartiality, integrity and afliduity, which be
come the conspicuous Ration in which you have been pleased to
place me.
Philadelphia, November 2.
Monday a person was brought before the Mayor of this city, on
suspicion of having been concerned in the late attempts to burn
Philadelphia—he was, after examination, committed to jail.
The brig Hetty, Capt. Clouler, anived here on Monday, from
Cape-Francois. Caprain Cloufer left the Cape the 6th instant, and
coniradi&s the extract of a letter from New-York, published in
feveial papers.
When Capt. Cloufer failed, the Negroes continued obstinate—
they refufed all terms of accommodation, but that of equal liberty—
and the several attempts made to defeat them had proved fruitlcfs.
His Excellency William Patterson, Esq. is unanimously
re-elcfted Governor of the State of New-Jersey.
The Governor has been pleafcd to appoint Benjamin Chew,
Esq. one of the Judges, and President of the High Court ot Errors
and Appeals, of this Commonwealth.
Accounts from Port-au-Prince fay,that upwards
of 20,000 Negroes have risen and are encamped
in that quarter. The price of flour is limited ro
8 dollars. Provisions plenty.
Last Saturday arrived in the (hip Delaware,
Art, from Charleston, Maj. Gen. Wayne, Mr.
Governeur, Mr. Pelletie, and two other pas
sengers.
The Governor of this Commonwealth has is
sued a Proclamation, offering a reward of 500
dollars for apprehending any of the persons con
cerned in lately setting fire to sundry (tables in
this city. In addition to the above, a few private
citizens have offered a reward of 500 dollars for
the fame purpose.
NATIONAL BANK
Saturday last the Directors of the Bank of the
United States proceeded to the choice of a Cashier,
and on counting the ballots, a large majority was
found in favor of John Kean, Esq. of South-Ca
rolina— whereupon he was declared duly eletfted
Cashier of the said Bank.
The popularity of this cement of the Union—
the liberal principles 011 which it is bottomed —
and the respectability of the gentlemen who are
appointed to offices in it, mufi render the institu
tion highly beneficial to the people, and govern
ment of the United States; and will command
'he confidence of capitalists in Europe—whose
property cinnot be as fafe in the confufion Which
perpetually reigns there, as in this tranquil
•ountry.
SCIOTO
A gentleman just arrived from Gallipolis, the
new French settlement on the Scioto, communi
cates the following information from that quar
ter. Ihe original number of the settlers has
greatly decreased : Owin gto various difappoint
"xnt« feme have returned. These had chiefly
carried with them a numerous train of depend
ants ; who fool) found that in a new country,
where indultry is the belt recommendation, they
could live independent and as well as their mai
lers,, and consequently left them almollto a man,
to leek their fortune in tlrst extenlive country.
1 litre the colony fulFered a considerable diminu
tion, and this desertion on the other hand, was
one of the causes that drove the wealthy part of
the fcttlers to France again. The number now
remaining, about 320, appear well pleased with
ilieii situation and determined to persevere.
! hey have not in a (ingle inltance been niolelted
by the Indians, who are often seen ci offing from
their tide of the river to commit depredations on
the American /ettlement immediately oppofiteto
them.
l he country there abounds with the greatest
quantity and variety of game imaginable, and
the liver is well stored with fifli°of different
kinds. The foil isfurprifiiyrly fertile ; lefsthan
half an acre has been kuovrb to produce 67 bufti
els of Indian corn.
These new settlers have cleared about 590 acres
of land, and are every day makingimprovements.
A few years proinife to l ender it a settlement of
the firft importance. Its particular situation 011
the Ohio, yearly favours an iiicreafe, and we
may in a fbort time expect to fee it a second Ken
tucky.
The settlers now there ari» chiefly men of in
dustry, and many persons of talents and educati
on. Perhaps more insight into the Botany Mi
neralogy, :jnd Antiquities of our country may be
expeifted from their labors, than from any source
whatever. They have among them an excellent
botanist, an eminent mineralogist and natural
philosopher ; who, however, have wifely resolv
ed in the infancy of their colony to handle the
ax and guide the plough, and to be at firft rather
attentive to improving the furface than searching
into the bowels, and less anxious todifcover new
and curious plants than to introduce ufeful ones.
Indeed their exertions in this way have alreadv
produced gardens abounding with all kinds of
vegetables in the highefl. perfection. From the
month of May they already begin to furnifh' a
plentiful supply for their tables. Steps are talk
ing to introduce fruit trees, to the growth of
which the climate and foil is very favourable.
General Advtrtifer.
COMMUNICATIONS
A correspondent present appear
ances in the National Legislature, presage an
harmonious session. The general happiness dif
fufed over the face of our country, is traced by
every man to its proper source.—the Constitution
and Laws of the United Stales. The administra
tion of the general government has been peculi
arly fubfervienc to the belt ititerefts of our coun
try —Such republican principles form thediftin
gnifhed features of every public addrefsand com
munication troin our civil fathers—that posterity
will quote them as the oracles of freedom. On
the Aire bafisof public faith,credit and confidence,
is raised such a system of industry, energy and
enterprize among the people, as will in its effects
aftonilh mankind. The present feflion of Con
gress therefore will, in all probability, proceed
with that promptitude and decision in compleat
ing what remains to be finiflied, and in develop
ing and applying the principles of the Constitu
tion to the public exigencies, which is inspired
by the unparellelled success with which the mea
sures of their predecessors have been crowned.
A correspondent observes, that among the va
rious and very important objects recommended
to the attention of Congress by the President of
the United States, the lineaments of* diflinguifh
ed patriotism are moil forcibly pourtrayed on
the article refpe&ing the difTem inating of know
ledge and information among the people.
Government is made for the people—it is
therefore ellential to its support and preserva
tion, in connection with any degree of Freedom,
that they should know and approve of the reasons
and principles on which its ineafures are found
ed.— It is apparent from all the ordinances of the
old Congress refpetXing the Poft-Office, that let
ters otily are contemplated in all the arrangemens
that have heretofore been made—but fays our cor
respondent it is invaio to consult the inteieftsof
any particular class of men, without a proper at
tention to the means of enlightening and fatis
fying the great body of our citizens—the securi
ty of property, the prosperity of trade and com
merce, and the enjoyment of all our civil rights,
and of every blessing of society, depend 011 the
tranquil and efficient operation of the general go
vernment —this again depends on public opinion
that opinion, enlightened and unprejudiced by
inifiuformation, and misrepresentation, will eter
nally be in favor of a wife and jnft adminiftra
lion. How worthy then of that wisdom, which
the world hath celebrated, to take the moll ef
fectual ineafures to enfurc this great and impor
tant object
215
As experience is our best teacher, it would bean ufefulemploy
ment to compare the fituatiorr of the State Governments, at this
moment, with the appiehendons entertained by their friends be
fore the adoption of the national Conftnution. Inllead of bsing
crushed and rendered infignificant, as it was pretended they would
be, t here is not a Government that has not been a gainei by.the
new plan of Government, in point of wealth and power. The
treasuries of New-York and Pennsylvania are full, and indeed
ovetflowing into the nioft ufeful channels. The contrast of the
years 1787 and 1791, forms the eulogium of the pr< lent Govern
ment of the United States. After considering fails, we may in
dulge conje£lures—What more fatal blow could be given to the
refpe&ive State Governments, especially to the small States, than
weakening the government and union of the whole body politic.
It becomes us to judge, thercfoie, whether a zeal for the State Go
vernments is properly direfled, when it is made use of either to
narrow the bounds and to impair rhe force of the general autho
rity, or to make encroachments on Congress to the enlargement of
the iurifdi&ion of the State Government.
We are one—by pretending to be more, we lhall be in danger
of becoming nothing.
It ;s called puffing to remark in the papers upon the prosperity
of our country. But truth is not puffing. Did any country ever
prolper more ? Did our o«vn ever prosper so fact as of late ? The
sense of that prosperity makes us all happy. And when we fee
by the papers that the feutiment is universal, and is felt at the fame
moment by our we indulge a double fatisfadlion,
and we indulge it without restraint. There is not one social sen
timent that is not worth nursing. When men are brought to live
and think together, they will become better and happier. What
sentiment affords more pleasure than the love of our country — it ij
a-i enlarged felf love that embraces firft our country, and next the
world.
Ignorance is the enemy of mankind. Why is not mankind the
enemy of ignorance ? Why is no: all the virtue and wisdom in the
world employed against the common enemy ? Perhaps it is: butt
the iufferers loath their physic, and are jealous of their physicians.
The men of worth and talents arc called Aristocrats, and are point
ed out as the enemies of the country. Yet such men are found
the foremoft in every attempt to confer knowledge, or power,
which isthe fame thing, on the body of the people. Divines talk
about the millennium—it will never come till ignorance is gone.
Knowledge, the knowledge of the body of the people, is worth
more than it would cost, and more than it is valued at. Learning
has not yet had credit for half the good it has done, and still less
for what it is capable of doing. It is time to provide for it.
It is agreed fnat men are what education makes them. Why
then do we neglect to provide for it ? Why do we not enjoin it by
law upon cities anddiftrifts of country to support free lchools, as
it is pra£lifed in New-England ? It is doing more than Sparta
did to make the youth the children of the public. The uses of
this provision cannot be numbered—still !efs can they be cftimated.
It is probable, that during 20 ages, time will continue to disclose
new advantages, resulting from proper establishments for inftruft
ing the great body of the people. Who can fay how many vices
will be eradicated, how many social habits will be formed. The
rich can buy learning—it is a luxury. But to the poor it is a ne
reflfary, and to them, O Amei icans, it is denied. Let this reproach
be wiped off. We are proud of our cities, of their wealth and
extent, their public works, and edifices—we make a parade of our
luxury—and shall we not blush at the degraded state of great
numbers of the laboring poor ! What the town of Boston has done
to remove this stigma, deserves to be read.
An Albany paper, received by yesterdays' poll, gives an ac
count of the murder of Co rnei.ius Hog e :ioom, Esq. Sheriff of
Columbia County—by a party of 50 men, disguised as savages,
who started up from an ambush and fired a volly, by which ,the
above gentleman was killed on the spot. Particulars of tins affair
in our next.
Died, in Charleston (S. C.) Do£torßuoD, for many years aa
eminent PhyGcian of that place.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Delaware, Carle, Chailefton
Birmingham, Parker, Vigo
1 hctis, Bird, Liverpool
Brig Maria, Howes, Boston
Hamilton, Vanburg, Tobago
Sally, Barnes, Bristol
Swallow, Snowdcn, Boston
Newton,
Hetty, Cloufer,
Schooner Alexandria, Town,
Betsey, Crawford,
Diligence, Drummond,
Sloop Maria, Burrows,
William, Lint,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
a 1/6 p r.£
12 /3
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cent*
1 3j3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and othei Certificates iyJS 88J do.
11/ 55 do.
Bank Subscriptions, Dollars.
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 112, I'mon-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
BOOK S,
Which may be seen every day, until 5 o'clock p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
-1 i. men, Thcodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitm, Pater
culus, Pliny. Concord antia Lat. Concord antia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceroni s. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Mans
Scapulae— Phavoriiii— Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, VoOii Etymo
logicon, Ant-quit. Ecclef. Britannicae,See.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropardia, Bcntlcy'j Horace, Terence and
Phiedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. C*far, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Arj Gram c'luve
rn Geographia, Justinian Code, See.
OSavo el injra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariflophanes. Lon»inut
Thcophraftus, Hcfiod, Poetac minorej Gr. Ifocratea, Phalarii, va
rious editroai of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau.
tus Lucan, Martial; Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Sallult, Curtius, Florus, Juftin, Val. Maximui, A. Gellius, Hist.
Augull. Scriptorei, Engljh and French Tranjlations of fume of the
Cla flics, a great variety ol Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. See.
(p* Catalogue? may be had of MelTrs. Rice & Co. Bookfelleri
Marker-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
October ji. (tawff.)
Hawkins,
St. Croix.
Cape-Francois
Port-au-Prince
Ditto
St. Thomas
Ditto
Ncwbury-Port
307J pr. ceat.
6i^do.
6do.MOO N-L I G H T
\_From l A/tthologia, or a ColUQion of Flower t, in Blank vcrfc, by the
Rev. Philip Braicbridgc Homer.~\
HERE on this bank, while fmne the stars so clear,
Come, Lucy, let us fit. How tranquil fcems
Ali naime ! With what mildness from above
Yon regent of the night, looks clown on earth
And gives toev'ry hf ib, tree, plant, and field,
A fofier green ! Mark now her virgin front.
How calm flie looks, how open, and how pure ;
Nor, Lucy, on thy paler beauty dwells
Less fwe.et ft renity. As pure art thou,
As frank, and as benignant as the light
Of that lair planet, when no vapour thin,
Flitting o'er ether, tarnilhcs her face
With momentary dimness. She, bright Queen
Of all those llarry gems which deck this vault
Magnificently built, her filvcr born
Monthly replenishes. From that strong blaze
Ol uncxhaufted glory, whose quick heat
Invigorates ihe world, (he Hill relumes
Her darken'd countenance. But, Lucy, thou,
When time shall Ileal ihofe youthful charms away,
From what full fountain of immortal grace,
W hat fun of beauty, (halt thou then repair
Thy form's diminifli'd elegance ? A'as !
That female lultre, laircr than all stars,
And dearer than the light which rules the day,
Should know no fccond rifmg : that once fct,
Nor months, nor years, nor ages can recall it.
But turn now, Lucy, and survey that cloud
Which comes in gloomiefl majefly along
Tofhrowd the imperial moon. Its envious shade
Now creeps upon her argent disk, and now
Blots it quite out from heaven, With such Health
Malice her thick and baleful darkness draws
O'er lucid virtue, and beneath that veil
Would hide it ever. But as now that cloud
Sails on, and back reftorcs the radiant moon
To man's defiringeyes, so pass the mists
With which fell Envy labors 10 conceal
The merit (he abhois. 1 hus tianfient too
Was that dread storm which, sweeping by the throne
Of England, (hook this kingdom with dismay ;
Till riling from the black portentous night
Which hung upon his beams, our leading (W
Once more diffus'd upon these joyous realms
The fweetrft influence of hisfnher flame.
PRINTS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
HHHE fubfcribcrs to the Prints of the Rattle of Bunker's Hill,
X and the attack of Quebec, are informed, that Etchings of
those Prims are to be seen at Mr. Anthony's, Jeweller, in Mar
ket-ftreet—(where may also be seen an Etching ol Mr. Copley's
celebrated Print of the Death of Lord Chatham.)
1 he fubfeription for this work (which has hitherto been confin
ed to Amcrica) will be opened on the id of January next, in the
principal citits of Europe : Those Gentlemen therefore who may
wish to poiTcfs early, and of course valuable impreflions, are re
quested to avail themfclves of this interval, in which a preference
is ft ill given to America.
Subscriptions are received by Mr. Trumbull, and by Mr.
Anthony, Jeweller, Philadelphia; Mr. Daniel Penfield,
Water-street, New-York ; Mr. William Ya yn e, Boston ; and
Mr. R. Hazlehurst, Cbarlefton, South-Carolina.
(£3" The price to fubferibers is Three Guineas for each Prints
one half to be paid at the time of fubferibing, the remainder when
the Prints shall be delivered.
Philadelphia, Odober 24, 1791
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY,
. Class Second.
r I IS Class will positively commence drawing on Thursday
X ihe 24th of November next, at 4 o'clock, p! M. which will
be completed with all expedition.- - The Managers pledge them
selves that no confidcration whatever fhrdl induce them to poll pone
the drawing a moment beyond that time.
Boston, O&ober 15, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of thc Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed ; foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange ncgociated;
Merchandize ol all lorts bought and fold on (ommiffion, and all other
Business in the line of a BroKcr, nanfa&ed bv
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Offici n-.xt door to the Custom-House,
State-Street, BOSTON. 2 m
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of tbe firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chclnut and Market Streets
Lectures on Government & Law.
■"pHE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L.L. D. Profcffo. of Laws
A in the College and Academy of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, next Winter, two Courses of Lectures. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuefdav of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, October 12, i 7 gi. fepiD)'
TV. MID OU C ALL'S ~
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School.Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
TTE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
'-"P-ienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
ol his Ichool for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of his (cholars, will ft,ll ensure him a refpeclable lhare of the
public lavor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taueht
during the leafon. °
Thole who pleale to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught in the most approved
t ' a " a ihat P r °P" a'tenliou will be paid to thc.r carriage and
manners. 6
A general praftifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednefiiav ; when the
employers and llranqcrs of genteel deportment, will he admitted
Hide practmn?s will he attended with no expenec
N B. An EVENING SCHOOL will he opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficient number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 1791
Wanted, a good C O~O~K~
To whom genteel wages will he allowed. Koncneed apply who
cuinot be well recommended. Enquire of ihc Printer.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERS: AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASE* jnd SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every dcfcription,on Commiflion,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all Tales at au£lion, one eighth per
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-ha/J per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the intereit.
For making transfers at ditto, fcventy-]ve cents per transfer.
(£3" Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and cxtentive dealings
in the public ilocks, together with a well established correspon
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
Ottober 15, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
LOTTERY TICKETS,
And pofleflion given immediately,
That pleasantly situated Farm
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Also a young orchard of 200 apple trees, besides a variety
of peach and cherry trees, and a large garden; the whole under
good fence. There are on the premises a two ftary ilone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-Oiop, granary, waggon
houfe; barrack, cow-houses, two (lories high and 90 feet long, and
a good bain, with stabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views ot Princeton, the neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
lulls. Any per Con inclining to purchase, may know the terms by
npplyingto the fubferiber on the premises, or to Isaac Skowden,
No. 141, South Sccond-ftictt, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOVVDEX, Junior.
Princeton, O&ober 10, 1791. [ep2mj
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at fior
ds ntown, and stolen from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen testaments; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one striped vest and
breeches, two fhiits and a small bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jersey coppers; 1 keg containing a L-rge bible, with other
small books ; 1 box containing 447 real odrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of diiferent colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paltc-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black (ides.
A reward ot Twenty Dollars will be given for the security of
ihe above property,fo that the owners may have thearticlcs again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a furthei reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to justice, bv
JOHN VAN EMBURGH.
Bordentown, New-Jersey, Sept. i, 1791. [eptfj
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, sometime in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, lare the property of Nathaniel
Wicklijf., deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pre ty well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, (lone niafon and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of such business. He is a great dilfembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no delcription of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any pei son that will fe
curefaid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reafonablc charges will be paid—or Thirty°Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia
to Mr. John Ki nche lor, by '
October 12, 17pi
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Massachusetts, mod refpeft
lnl°'ms 'he public, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Teliaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE, The Apocrypha and Index, & c . will be fin idl
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he begs will
return them to him at Worceflcr, or to him and Company at Ito/lon
by the last day of November next, and as much foonei as they con
vemcntly can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work lias been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, us correftnefs, and us cheapness compared with Enolilh
copies of the fame size and quality. ®
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
,s earned on fo.cly at his own cost, he is led to hope that all tliofe
who w,(h to possess a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
.and,- «le undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to trw fuoicription.
WorctJ}er,Scpt. 29. 1791
WANTED, A NUMBER OF
Journeymen Cordwainers,
W ', h " W ' !l employment and generous wages, bv ap
nn A° * fr Cordwai " ers of 'he City of Philadelphia
Odatrr 2g . lqi . V
L'.vivtKsiTY ot Pen Ns , lvama,
tJTnn' * lEDIC * L on
the fir ft [Monday in November next.
(t. f.l
I 1 "** to receive the lmerclt, and for the (rani fir of the
principal „/p athu Hruulle u th R u eji'iUiflied in the Trra
216
and NEW-HAVEN
To he had at the fame place,
TO BE SOLD,
CHARLES WICKI.IFF, Administrator.
[tawgwj
ISAIAH THOMAS.
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
PER QUANTITY
NOVEMBER i.-Dot LA«'. at j/6.
ANCHORS pr.lb. yj p °rter, Amerigo m •
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 301 Pitch, pr. bb 1 oz 10 /6
Ditto, Roch pr. Ib. ,0J Pork, Burlington J?" 5 '
Alhcs, pot, pet tor., 37/ioj Lower county '
-Pear!, jo/ Carolina
Arrack pr. gall. ioji2j6i< Pras, Albany
Brandy, common, 8j 4d Pepper, p r . ]b
Cogniac tor Pimento' " 1
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/15/ Rice pr.cwt " W
Bucks pr. M 3 oj to 375 6d Rosin pr bbl U
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 151 Raisins, bill, p r. i c ", '>'
Ditto, pilot 27J6J Ditto pr. jar '
Ditto, Imall water 40J 45/ Ditto pr. box J "
Beer, American, in bot 1 - f Jamaica nr. „ti ,
pr. doz. bot. incl.J w Antigua 5 J -
pr. bbl. 35 x r: Windward /
t» f Oak pr.M feet, 67J 41 £ ■<{ Barbados J" ,
" | Merch. pine loor ! Country, X F
<<ISap, do. 3/ I Tad,a , <'
O I N. Eng. 8« SalTafr,., pr . t0 „ "W
05 LCedar iooj Saltpetre, pr.cwt f /
The above are the Shallop prices ; Sulphur, flour 1 lCj^
Jor the Yardpiicesadd 15spr M. Shot <5 0x
Brimttone in rolls pV. cwt. 26j u (German pr C \vt f. s<ii
l-Clnm pr. bbl. W Vnglifl,, bli'ftered
w .Boilon 601 h ) American pr.,„„
M (Country 52* 6J « ( Crowley's pr. fag. *
Butter pr. lb. :6i Snake root pr. lb 1 u ,
in kegs tod Soap, Common jj'f.
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot 2s2s6d Brown . ,
Chocolate pr. ib. 13J Castile
Coal pr. bushel is6d Starch jA
Coffee pr. lb. i 4 <* Snuff v6i 1 U
Cinnamon io.f 20s Spermaceti,refined o -j
Cheese, Englifti VS d a 'l Cloth, Englifh'*|
Country gd pr. yard, ' I is^d2szd
3 fSper. pr. ib. 3s 2d Boftou, No. I.
| Wax 4 J * T Ti
3 Myrtle Wax i2i'
j Mould,tallow 12c
) I Dipped 92'
Cotton 4
1
Cuirants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 14 s
Cordage 60J 6256J
Cocoa 80 s
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Bo.f
Ravens 67172.) 6*/
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37J6d
Common, 35 J
Bur middlings,bell 33;
Middlings 24J
Ship-itutf pr. cwt. 7*6 el 10s
Flax pr. lb. 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 150 5
Feathers pr. lb- 31
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 55 6d
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 65s
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gd
Ginseng, 1/6 1/1 5
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. {
quarter cask, ) J
Ditto, fine glazed 30*
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 32 s 6d
' Wheat pr. bulh 7s 9 J
Rye 3 J 9d
£* Oats \*6d
< Indian corn 3J 6d
Barley 4s 8d
Belt Ihclled pr. lu. 3d
Buckwheat 2s 6d
Hemp, for. pr. ton, 4 5/53/
American, pr. lb. 4d
Hogftiead hoops, pr. M 5*6/
Herrings, pr. bbl.
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9d 10d
Hups is
Indigo, Frcnch, ioj
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt
f Callings 22J 30J
2 | liar pr. ton, 2g/ 32/
O Pig 101
2 I Sheet 65/
Nail rods 3b/
Jank, pr. cwt. ioj 4OJ
Lard, hogs 9 d 10d
Lead in pigs 40 s 42 s 6d
in bars 50 s
Lead, white 753 80 j
red SOJ
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1 s 1 s6d
Lignum vita; pr. ton 4 2s 45J
Logwood 7/ 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 19J
Rye 20 s
Mackare!,belt
6oj 67J 6d
•Common
pr. lb,
Macc
Mullard 2s 4d
Madder, befl Isd 18d
MolaiFes pr. gall. 3J2d %s $d
Marble, wrought, pr. toot, 14s
Mast (pars 2J 6d 51
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails, \od\id&c 20d— 8d
'Linseed, pr. gall. 3J gd
Tram is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 3J
Whale is 6d 2s
— Olive 6s 6d
1 Ditto pr. cafe" ißjg</
J Best fwect in )
I fldfks,pr. box, £ '5 s
—baflcets 12 bottles37J6af
Oak timber pr. ton 38*
Porter pr. bl. 40/
London,pr. d0z.12.f6J 15J
.VJV£RTI S i M E N T.
{Pr BY late arrivals from France. the Editor his rtc """j"
No. 10 to 31, both inclusive, of a Publication which conies ou. ~ u
loeek in Paris, entitled, " Corrf.spondance Nat iOnAL
From No. 1 to No. 10, have been [hipped, but are r.ot )et co * i ,° Ts [t
Any p erf on who may incline to fubjeribe for this work, w ?.j uin fafs
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may befurnifhed with * n
at thev arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
|C?* The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per
~~ iNO. 11. 2J2^
-Russia (heeling, pr. p.
fLump, pr. Ib. ,/j
Bi Loaf, finglc refined iW
2 Ditto, double do. jjy
w Havannah, white
Ditto, brown,
LMufcovada.pr.cwt. io«
pr. eall. •><
f Allum pr. bulb. 2j ,/
■i 2J
~ ..
jLlvc,
< J Cadiz
° (Lilbon 2
Ship build. W.O.frames*l 9 c
P- lon . J 100,
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/tj
Shingles, ftort, p. M. 22J
- long dreffcd
Scantling, heart,
.5^55'
r i ipe pr. iaoo pieces 6o«f
2 ; W. O. hoglhcad 7/ 2; 6d
£> J R. O. do. •ji 6s
H I keogan 6/
c/ 3
Cfl
y,
<
C/ 2
Tar,
Tur
£ J
o
o
8<
u
<
CQ
0
H
(
C/ 1 I
-1
H I
Barrel
Heading
Otter, best pr. piece 33*
Minks 1/6*l3*
Fox, V fy y
41 8/4
Marlins 2sjs6d
Fi flier? 2 s6dss
Bears 12s 6d 25s
Racoons 2s 5s
Musk-rats gd is Hi
I Beaver, pr. lb. 7*6 101
t Deri, iu hair is6d
,N.Jer{ey,24gal.p. bbl. 7/6
-Carolina, 32 gall. 10#
pentine pi. t)bl. 12J 15/
f James R. new best 28*
• inferior 20J2 J6d
oid 3,5*
Rappahannock 18/9 22J6
Colo. Maryland 50J 6w
Dark igs6d
3 s I s
5° s
Long-leaf iys6d
Eaftcrn-fhore 15J 17 s6d
Carolina, new 2256 i
L old 22 S6d 25;
( Hyson pr. lb. 7.1 Bjgi
j Hyson ikn, 43 6s 6d
[ Souchong, 3J6d"]i
| Congo, 3 j 4^3 j 9*
[Bohca, 2J 9 u '
Tallow, refined 84^
Tin pr. box, 100/
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 3; 61/4*
Vermillion, i2f
Varnifli, 2i 61
w
2 <
£
Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon 3«
Teneiiffe 20/10J
Fayal pr. gall.
Port pr. pipe 36/
Ditto pr. gall. 6/
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 3c*
I
I
< •
Sherry pr. gaiJ. big' 9'
6sM
Wax, Bees pr. lb. iS '
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2J3*
— (hort, pr. lb. 11
Claret
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
7 't
Ditto 60 days "4
Ditto 30 aay» 732
90 davs,
Amsterdam, 60 days,
nr. guilder, 2silt 3 1
30 days 3W
Government bills, drawn at i*
days per 11 guilders, 33* 1
IS 10 i
37*64
Boj io(*
afw
8?
3««'