PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69. HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STRF.FTS, PHTI Aim PHI
[No. 40, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, September 14, 1791.
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
Reflections relative to the Stock of the Bank of the
United States, and to the National Funds.
ALTHOUGH the debt of the United States has been among the
circumstances, which have inclined the mindsof individuals
to tne continuan-e of (he union, yet it fecms difficult to demon
ftraie, that a public debt is so far a public blefling as to render i\ ■
existence of such a demand upon a nation lucrative and defirab e
in a pecuniary sense. It is however certain, that it is actually pr< -
friable to a people to evinre a real ability and a sincere difpofitic 1
to d'feharge such debts as they may have been obliged to .
The advantages which a trader (or a nation) gains by a pertettcr -
dit, re sting upon his hone ft y and foliJitv, need not be dwelt upon*
It is happy for this country, that all its citizens perceive the ad
vantages of the recent restoration of public and private credit,
arising from covjlitutions and laws enforcingjuftice, banishing paper
tenders and other violations of the rights of property, and inveit
ing the general government with powers better adapted to the at
tainment of national fafety, order and prosperity. The impulses
to industry and economy, resulting from a convi£lion that the pay
ment of honest debts is no longer to be procrastinated, and from
J the acquisition of a government able and desirous to preserve to
every man the fruits of his labour, have operated to produccunpre
cedented exports. These abundant productions (hipped to fo
reign markets, procure copious supplies of necessaries, and upon
terms, generally speaking, much more favorable to the consumer
than heretofore. The concurrence of these circumstances has ren
dered our country and its business and public funds, more invit
ing to judicious and monied foreigners. One species of property
after another has, and will continue to feel the spring given by
their cash, and the rich and cautious part of our citizens, who had
nnder the lot mer constitutions and laws too frequent occasions to
complain, have been tempted to bring their money once more in
to the business of the country. These are the precious cffe&s at
home of hontfl policy. Abroad they are no less fatisfadlory and
undeniable. Among the most wary people of Europe, loans have
been negociated upon terms as favorable as those which have been
made for the mod punctual, wealthy, and best accredited nations
of the old world.
In this date of things it would have been extraordinary if, the
funds of the United States, and of the institutions conneded with
their affairs and colnmerce,*had not risen to their natural and in
trinsic value.
Hence the rife of the price at -which our public debt has been
fold in the market, hence too the demand which has appeared for
the stock of the bank of the United States. If these (and particu
larly the latter) have been suddenly and strangely operated upon,
it is partly owing to the quickness of action which sudden transi
tions from distress and disorder to great profpcritv generally pro
duce in nations and individuals. It is believed however, that the
liifagreeable fiu6tif9f*?>ns which have taken plac in a small degree
in regard to the d*bt, and so strikingly in rhe c_f of the Bank
Script, have been occafioncd at leafl in part, by the want of the
[wceflarv knowledge among a very large number of the public
creditors and stockholders. The intention of this paper is not
to set a going any too lively movements on thcfc fubjetts, fluctu
ations in which,are to be regretted on public and private confide -
rations, but to contribute towards the prevention of them in fu
ture, by recalling or communicating relative fadt?, which are for
gotten or unknown.
With refpeft to the Bank Script, it is remembered, that compa
risons of the U. S. bank flock with that of the bank of England,
have been made in detail and in figures, which piaccd Script at
315 dollars. Prudent men made large deductions from that
price, because it was known, that money is yet more valuable in
America than in Europe; because the certificate part of the bank
Itock is liable to be paid off in inftallments,and because our bank
is not like that of England, a monopoly. These confederations,
however, ought not to have reduced it down to the prices, which
were lalked of, which will be fatisfa£lorily manifefted by advert
ing to the nature of the stock of the bank of England. The funds
of that institution are wholly made up cf the three per cent, debt
of Great Britain, and areas follows :
Purchased of the South Sea Company,
On their original fund reduced in the year 1743, 3*200,000
For cancelling exchequer bills, 3d year Geo. lit.
Annuities of the year 1714,
Do. 1719*
Do. i74^»
Sterling, £. 11.686,800
which includes the capital, being £*.10,780,000 fterlmg, and afurplus
undivided, 0f£*.906,800 sterling. On the credit of this mafsof
public paper, all of which is at only three per cent, tho lawful in
t< reft is at 5 per cent, do they deprnd in their operations ; that is,
aII their Jlock is two percent, worje than money. On the other
hand, all the Jlock of the bank of the United States is 111 money, or in
public stock better than money, because the interest is paid quar
terly, and '.he pricc in the market is actually above par. What the
t-xcefs beyond par for fix percent, (lock ought to be, will not be
considered here. It is not. to be forgotten, that the bank of the
United States may take fix per cent, interest on its loans, and that
the bank of England can only take Jive percent. The stock of the
American bank,as far as fix-tenths, is in public debt yielding twice
the rare of interest drawn on the public debt belonging to the
JEnglith bank; so that five millions of the certificates of the bank
of the United States (or half'ns stock) will produce to it as great a
proportionate inteicft as if its whole funds were on an interest
«4)uhl to the English certificates, and the interest of one million of
fix per ccnts. and the use of lour millions of fpccie, are left as the
Juperior advantage to our ivjlitutitw. This fulid and undeniable
vantage has not been taken into any eftimatc that has been exhi
bited ; and (hough it is not infilled that it ought to run script up
to 315 dollars, yet it proves it to be more valuable than nas been
generally supposed.
It is very interfiling to fettle the opinion of the value of the
Jjocks, or debt of the United Slates. Our loans abroad, which
yield the foreign lender precifcly Jive percent, prove that they
might as well purchase at in the pound, were it not for the
commissions and distance. fiut the European interrft.is only
paid annually, and in America it is difchargcd quarterly. Again
—«the conilwution and laws have given perfect tecurity to private
loans by citizens and foreigners—the fubferiptions to every bank
in the United States are now filled, and other cireumftances pro
nsife the reduction of the euftomary interest. A reduction of an
unit p?r cent, would add to the value of the fix per cents,
were tVjsy irredeemable. The intercit of money on private con
tract is paid less min&uallv and with trouble, and cannot be dr
manded but once per annum—the dividends of the banks arc paid
ha/J yearly, but the public funds give their owncis the convenience
ju.d profit of quarterly payments. Four per cent. funds in Eu
rope are worth about 1001. in their markets, which mult by
comparison raise our fix per cent, flocks in the eltnnation of fo
reigners. It is a very encourag ng new cir_umflance too, tha
»iy placing our debt onthe public books, the injurious and alarm
ng consequences of counterfeits are done away, further—if the
fix per cent, stocks are compared with ground rents, formerly
fold at 20 years purchase, though they were difficult to collect an
nually, and if we remember that in some parts of America money
could not be easily placed in punClual hands at fix per cent, and
that, in one or two States, more than five per cent, could not
have been obtained with good lecunty and quarterly intercit, wi
(h II perceive thji the fix per cent, llock is an inviting- objeCt,
- ven to our own citizens, and will not Suffer on comparing it
with the productivenessof matured real estate. The quality of
eajy convertibility into cajk, at any moment, must recommend it
to 1 he attention of the vigilant and cnterprifing capitalilt.
It is really not desired to renew by these observations the too
lively feelings of the holders of the public debt or bank script.
The objeCts in view are to give relative faCts, on which, in com
bination with other proper confederations, sober-minded men
may ground fafe and fail calculations, and to prove to
whose feelings may have been pained at the appearances of Sport
ing in thefunds and bank flock, that there are faCts and circum
stances in extenuation and explanation of the events, many 01
some of which may have been forgotten or unknown. The pub
lic Satisfaction, and the reputation and ctedit of the country in
Europe may be promoted perhaps by explanations and remarks
as candid and true as these are intended to be. By a perfect un
derstanding «f the SubjeCt, it is believed, that a greater degree ol
(lability may be given tothe several species of the national paper.
To fix the debt at a steady value, is perhaps the mod desirable
point in finance we have now to accomplish ; bccaufe an imme
diate and certain consequence will be, the frequent application of
the funds in purchases, which will relieve the incumbered own
ers of real estate and benefit all others. In the mean tyrce, it must
vield them the greatest Satisfaction that the public credit has been
regained, and Supported without the imposition of the smallest
buiden on their property. The rife of the funds has already oc
casioned money to be so plenty as to fill the several banks in Bos
ton, New-York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. This will pre
vent the further application of the private monies of foreigners
and citizens in that way, which must now be applied to build
houses, improve farms, purchase lands in the fettled and unfet
ib d counties, or will be employed in loans to individuals. A
good mortgage law, and thefubjr fling of real cjluteto execution for debt,
in any State, wherein it is Jo liable, will make money plenty,
and easily attainable on private Security.
It is not difficult to create great accommodations to trade by
means of the public debt. The new bank is a proof of if. A
very copious stock has been created by it. The experiment is not
new, having been fuccefsfully tried in England and Ireland. The
old bank of North America has virtually adopted the measure,
by laying out one fifth ot its capital in purchasing the public
debt. An insurance company might easily be eftabbfhed upon
it, and they might extend their operations to very convenient
loans on bottomry and refpondentia. We pay heavy sums for
insurance, and various kinds of mercantile credit to foreigners,
who consider it often as a favor. It is plain, that the more we
can trade on our own funds and institutions, the more freely we
can operate and enterprize, and the better terms can we com
mand in the credits we may afterwards incline to take abroad.
We also perceive, that the debt and the money made by it can
and will be applied to promote manufactures. The want of
capital has, more than any thing else, hitherto impeded this
branch of trade. A considerable fund is already fubfciibed — the
most precious European machineiy is now made, or making by
means of that fund—artifans of very considerable talents from a
broad are engaged, and a foundation is laid tor a fuccefsful ex
emplification of the powers and capacity of this country in the
economizing and lucrative bufiuefs of manufactures.
Let then the candid and serious take a careful "iew of the us -
ful purposes to which the public funds of the United States may
be applied—let those who think that too much profit has anfen
to the purchasers, remember, that the public pays not a dollar
more on that and that the country is profiting of its cre
dit at home and abioad—and above all, let serious mouied men
refle6>, that during thetime when pnees were the most fluctuating
the ability of the United States, the produCtiveness of theafligned
rr venues, and the prosperity of the country were as preat as a?
any moment before, and consequently the intrivfic value of
the public debt and bank Jlock was as fixed and solid, as ij no fluctua
tions had occurred.
£. 4,000,000
500, 0c0
1,250.000
1,750,000
986,800
A Friend to Sobtr Dialing and Public Credit
HAVING accidentally heard that Dr. Parry, an ingenious
phyfictan at Bath, had d'feovered a method of suspending
madness for a fhnrt time, we determined to mention it in ou
journal ; but wishing, as far as in our power not to convey any in
telligence to the public, but what is authentic, we wrote to Dr.
Parry on the fubj?£t, and have received the following anfvrer :
TO THE EDITOR OF THE ANALYTICAL REVIEW.
S I R,
IT is now a year and an half, fmcc, from circumflances, o'
analogy, I dif overed a method of suspending, in many indanres,
mania, head aeh, vertigo, convulsions and hyflerical complaints
by a mechanical operation. The method I allude to is (lopping,
by means of the fingers or thumbs, one 01 both of the common
trunks of the carotcd * arteries. Where the paroxvfm is recent,
this method generally succeeds almost mftantanroufly like magic ,
and the symptoms dtfappear as long as the prefTure is continued,
but, for the raoft part, immediately return as soon as it is removed
I cat,not now relate to you all the confcquences of its operation :
but I may obfei ve, in g neral, that it has led me to a pra&ice in
the disorders which I have mentioned, particularly those called
nervous, which is totally oppofuc to that commonly employed,
and infinitely more fuccefsful.
It is my intention to enlarge something more on this fubjrft in
a paper which I mean to prepare, either for one of the m<dica:
societies in London,or for one which some of my si ienhave larci\
inlfituted in Glouceftcrfhire. But it would 'ake avo ume to relate
all the facts which this difenvery seems to explain, and the ron
fequences to which it leads. C. H. PARRY.
Bath, May 16, 1788.
* Arteries, on each fide of the r.e:k) which Jtrve t§ convey the
from the heart to the brain.
157
FROM THE ANALYTICAL RWIEW.
ttit&o
[Whole No. 248.]
FROM TIIE LEE.
CONJECTURES ON TAXATION.;
FAXES may be considered as a compofntah in
lieu of per(bnal service, paid to the ft ate'fur
the support and equipment of those who are don
flantly employed in the service of the public, or
furniih the means for its protection.
It has been alleged,thai certain imposts are paid
by particular orders of the people, without af
fecting the other clafies of the community. '
Wheji we tefieft however, on the dependence
the different ranks of the people have upon each (
other, we can hardly conceive how one class can'
be affedled, without affecting all the other clades.
We ought 110 c to confound the advance, with
the ultimate payment of the taxes; the one is ob
vious, the other may elude our obl'ervation. /
When the circumstances of a nation are p.V»f
perons, it is probable, that everj' additional tax
is ulriinately paid, by :tn increased produce of
the labour of the inductions class of citizens.
If an additional tax is imposed, in confequencs
of an additinn made to the number of the servants
of the public, f.ich addition may diminish Ihe
number of productive labourers ; but the dimi
tiifhed number of labourers may be able to pro
duce as much as the undimini.'hed did. O if an
additional tax be imposed, in consequence of a
more ample provision made for the servants of
the Hate, the productive labourers may be able
to increase the produce of the labour, as much as
the increased provision made to tlie servants of
the state amounts to.
Such increase in the produce of labour, is not
neceflarily the rcfult of an increased exeriion in
industry. As the different branches of industry
are improved, the fame actual exertion produce*
mine than before such improvement took place.
During the progressive itare of a narion there
fore, taxes may be sometimes increased, without
much affecting the great body of the people.
Hence taxes with regard to the,nation in gene
ral, when they are imposed ir. consequence of in
creasing the servants of the (late, may in a cer
tain degree be nominal only ; for if such addi
tion is made from the idle diflipated, fuclj
of tliefe as have 110 fund, from which to defray
their expences, are perhaps no g<eater tax upon
the public when serving the itaie, than they were
before.
Taxes being advanced in money, if the value
of money diminiflies, additional taxes mult be
imposed ; and if such additional taxes are only
equivalent to the fall in the value of money, such
additional taxes will be no more than nominal.
When the circumstances of a (late are itaiion
ary, as production and consumption, or expendi
ture, are equal, every additional rax niuft bedif
charwed, by a diminution of consumption or ex
penditure
11l the declining state of a nation, when pro
duce is less than expendituie, additional t ixes
mud be paid by the exportation of (lock ; in this
cafe they will be doubly felt by the body of the
people.
Induflrry by the exportation of (lock will lose
a valuable inltrument, ami fufter by losing the
demand, which the (lock, while remaining at
home, made upon it.
Taxes then being ultimately paid, either by an
increase of the produce of labour, a diminution
of consumption or expenditure, or by exporting
(lock, it does not appear, will be less fell by the
body of the people, when advanced to the state
by an import on wine, than by a duty upon cau
dles.
Certain individuals will at all times have it in
their power to fiee themselves from the burden
of taxes, by throwing their /hare of it upon the
flioulders of others. This depends not Co murh
on their rank and fit uation, as on the demand for
their labour, or for the use of their property.
The exempt ion therefore, that individuals may
enjoy, from raxes, does not so much depend up
on the mode by which it ft advanced, as upon the
circumlVanccs above mentioned.
Taxes being advanced in money, and in consi
derable funis, the lower clafles of the people not
being poHefled of money, cannot be fubjeified to
• lie advance of taxes.
Hence poll taxes have been found oppreflive;
and such taxes are obnoxious, because they are
100 visible. Taxes of this fpecieswill generality
be paid with reluctance, and in many cases with
difficulty ; of this kind may be reckoned the win
dow and lioufe taxes. (T$ be continued.)
X*
-
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
/
JACK and the DEACON.
An Anecdote in the Style of Peter Pindar
TWO sons of Neptune, Jack and Will,
One Sunday'* morn were walking,
On various fubjetts, this and that,
With much fang froid were talking.
Per chance as near a house of prayer
They fearlefs urg'd their careless way,
The deacon of the church they met; -
In robes bedizen'd for the day.
He bow'd, and thus the tars addrefs'd,
44 Good firs, why pass ye thus the time;
Surely you'd better walk with me ;
Sport on this day is no small crime .
With all my heart, each tar reply'd,
And boldly with the man they venfur'd ;
Who kindly led thrm to the house:
When on his course the parson enter'd.
With prayer the solemn work begins,
A foag'of Zion next succeeds;
And here the deacon, rising flow,
Gravely proclaims the psalm and reans
" With Hyfop purge thy servant Lord
Then tun'd aloud his vocal nose;
But luckless man, behold ! a tune,
That fuiied ill his verse, he chose:
Thrice he eflay'd to found the line ;
And thrice he hem'd to change his tone;-
But vain, aljs ! prov'd each attempt;
The man now wifh'a himfelf alone.
Jack, mov'd to pity, law his friend's distress,
Nor could he long his fummon'd feelings curb,
But rising from hts feat he loudly cry'd,
L Deacon ! for G—d's fake try some other herb.
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
A MISTAKE CORRECTED,
Meflrs. Thomas & Andrews.
IN your last magazine, a lady under the dena
ture o£ 1 hilenia bas favored the public with a
beautiful and pathetic poein, on the loss of the
question for the abolition of the blavc Trade, in
the British Parliament. The concluding address
to those dillinguifhed characters who ftipporrec.
the motion is particularly animated and (hiking:
but I must beg leave to correct a final! millake
■which Philenia has incurred in supposing Mr.
Wilberforce, the leading advocate in this de
bate, to be a member of the society of jricnds.
This may probably have arifeu from the early,
general, and indefatigable exertions of that so
ciety in this cause of humanity, both in Europe
and America. Mr. Wilberforce is a profefled
member of the efhiblifhed church, having re
ceived his education at St. Joint's college, in the
university of Cambridge. This truly philan
thropic Senator has been Representative in the
British Parliament for the coiiury of York, since
the year 1784; and though poflclTed of a deli
cate and sickly constitution, has devoted the most
ardent and persevering attention for several
years to this common cause of judice and bene
volence, the advocates for which, we hope, not
vithftanding their late defeat, will finally be
crowned with success.
Be/lon, Jugnfl 20, 179 1
THE OPINIONS OF STANISLAUS,
KL\'G OF i OL AND.
WE ought to be more offended at excessive
praiies, than at invectives : Many would
tie more esteemed, with a less profufenels of their
merit : It should be laid out by measure, and
only when wanted.
There is a dignity, which however exalted of
itfelf, gives no rank; that resulting fiom the
character of a good man.
Shall we give over being virtuous to avoid the
sneers and machinations of envy ? Where would
the world be, (hould the fan withdraw his beams,
that, they might not dazzle weak eyes ?
In moll kinds of governments, man is made
to conceive himfelf free, and really to be (hack
led.
Esteem is more pleating than friend/hip, and
even than affe<ftion ; it captivates the heart ef
fectually, and never makes the objects ungrateful.
Most parsimonious people are very good na
turcd, continually amaiTing wealth for thofewho
wifli them in the grave.
Some authors labour and polilh their com po
rtions to such a degree, that all they public is
ntere filings.
There is in the world a tribunal more to be
feared, than thole of civil authority. This is in
■vifible, has neither officers, forms, nor ensigns ;
it is likexvife universal and every where alike,
and every one has a right to vote in it. In this
com t, tire Have lits in judgment on his inalter,
and the subject palles sentence 011 his sovereign.
It is coinpoied of all good persons, and they alone
respect it ; as, an the other hand, it is only the
moil hardened profligates, who make light ot
its decrees.
Natural manners silence the laws ; anil it is
they by which Empires are railed or overthrown.
The greatefl: pleasure that can he done to a
vain man, is not lo much to praise hiih, as quiet
ly to hear him p;aiie liimfelt".
An englishman
158
EXTRACTS.
tt a VERY sensible and good tnan, and an
exemplary divine, once told in c i_ 'h a!:
when he fettled in the ministry, his parilhioners
would all with one accord, have il that he was
an angel ; a few years, he said, convinced tuein
of their error ; and then, lays lie, they as utu
verfally agreed that 1 must be a devil. Ihe truth
was that this man was neither devil nor angel ;
but if viewed with an impartial eye, and his
perfections and imperfe<ftions both considered,
would have been found to be a very woi thy
man. Men in high Nations in life are too often
treated in this way. Sometimes they have too
much merit ascribed to them, but ottner too lit
tle : Envy is ever officious on these occasions ;
people are apt to imagine when they fee one ril
ing in the world, that he is rising from their ru
ins ; the applause given to a riling chat after,
seems to echo reproaches to them ; they immedi
ately let themselves to work to retain their sup
posed merited importance ; and as is always the
cafe, with weak minds, they begin at the wrong
end ; instead of corrediingtheir own faults, their
whole time is devoted to hunting for foibles in
he man of eminence, the objetfl of their envy ;
and if, in him, they can discover blemishes, they
are spread abroad as veils for their own."
" Friendship is a sacred word, a h jly thing ;
it never subsists but between good men, nor com
mences but by a mutual esteem : It is kept up,
not so much by a benefit received or conferred,
as by a virtuous life. Tliat which makes one
friend aflured of another, is the knowledge he
has of his integrity. The sureties he has for
him, are his good disposition, his truth andcon-
Itancy, No friendlliip can subsist where thei;e
is cruelty, treachery, and injustice. When the
wicked meet together, it is a conspiracy, not a
society of friends. They cannot mutually aid,
'out are afraid of one another. They are not
friends, but confederates in guilt."
" Virtue to crown her Jav' rites lavei to try
Some new, unbeaten pajfage to the Jky;
Where God a feat among the juji Jkall give,
To those who diejor meriting to live!"—
Virtue and eminent abilities are so far from being a defence
against the fhafts of malice avd envy, that they seem peculiarly cx
pofed to their attacks —the shadow is not a more constant attend
ant on the fubflance, than the ill wishes of the worjl characters on
the bejl.—But every good man knows that this is a tax which he
Tiuft puy for that sublime pleasure which results from conscious
• e&itudc.
The malignant bosom is conflantly feeling a return of those cor
roding sensations which harrow up its tortured imagination—its
envenomed attacks recoil with redoubled force on iifelf—for, like
Svfiphus, it is condemned to perpetual and unprodu&ive exe»-
ions.
Hapnv is it for mankind that their natures are too versatile for
the constant and universal exercise of this balefu) The
envious often find themfclves solitary beings—for in the revolu
tions of human affairs it constantly happens, that the public opi
nion does justice to innate probity and real abilities—
" And tho' a Lite, a fare rewardJuLucds."
fOR THE CURE OF WOUNDS FROM RUS
* T? KAII.S, &C.
TAKE Turpentine and Soft Soap, equal quan
tities of each j mix them well together, and
apply them on the wound, as a plaifter, and they
will extratft the poison common thereto,and cure
the wound, without any dangerous consequences.
For contracted Joi/its', in cases -where the Legs or
Arms have been kept many -weeks in a bent poption,
and by that means the jinews, tendons, &c. have
become contrasted.
TAKE the yolk of an egg, beat up with a,
tea-fpoonful of clear water, and anoint the pan
three times a day ; and in a week begin to ex
tend the limb gradually. Four or five weeks
will produce a great effetil in fupling the joint,
and restore the loft vigor. !\luf. urn.
LONDON, July 6
THE fir ft king of Franc* was Pharamond,who
at the head of a colony of Franks, attempt
ed the conquelt of that country,then called Gaul ;
and his ceremony of inauguration was that of
being carried round his camp on a buckler.—
This was in the year 4-20 ; and in 2g years after
wards, Merovious, who was the fuccellbr of Clo
dio, the son of Pharamond, made himfelf mafler
of Paris.
In 493, the Chtiftian religion began to flourifn
there,3 and Clovis, who married the King of
daughter, was publickly anointed
in Pans, by several Bifliops who came from
llheims. The ltreets were hung with tapellry,
and the oil poured on the King with a phial,
which was announced to nave been brought from
Heaven by an angel in the shape of a dove.
Some thouf.inds of the people were baptized-at
; he fame time.
It is thought the defence of the King and
Oueen of France wiil foften matters much in
t heir favor : it is even conjectured that it was
drawn up for them by connivance of the Nation
al Afl'embly, who are disposed to acflas favorably
as circumstances will ndmit, wifely confidcring
the danger of committing any atft of violence a
gainst them.
KINGSTON, (Jam.) July 16
; There are half-joes in circulation which will
eceivc the nicett "bfervation, unless put into i
:ale, when their weight will be found not J
xceec! eight penny weights.
We find the following anicle in an Enjrlift \
japer " From making a proper analysis 0 f
t e counterfeit guineas impreflbd with the
i 81, and which have been made to circulate i n
tl e country, it is found that they are compound
e. of platina and gold, and it is from the former
tl at they have received a palish call, and the
n cety of weight, without eiureafing the bulk
as platina is rather heavier than gold,
r< fradtory in the hotted fire, that it refills all f u .
si m, except when melted with other metals
( 'his phenomenon of the mineral kingdom ii
si und in Mexico and Peru, and considerablesa W .
p es have been brought from the island of Jania!
i< J.) The public ftiould therefore be extremely"
c (itious in the examination of gold, as weight
,a one cannot admit of any pofiibility of detec-j
,t on." /
PROVIDENCE, Sept. 3.
f A number of public spirited gentlemen have
determined to open a subscription for a Bank
to be eftabliihed here, of 150,000 dollars, in 500
fhaies, of 300 dollars each, payable one half in
silver or gold, and one half in the 6 per cent,
and 3 per cent, funded debt of the United States'
in equal parts —one quarter part of both fperie
and paper to be paid on the rft Monday ofOfto
ber next, and the other three quarters to he paid
quarterly, viz. on the Ift Monday of Janua/y
April and July next. The particular plan of
the subscription will be publilhed in the next pa
per, and will be as similar to the National Bank
as may be. All therefore whi wilh to partake
of similar advantages and of the amazing profits
on Bank Scripts, have this public notice, that
they may prepare themselves to attend at the
Court House in Providence, at ten o'clork, in the
forenoon of said Ift Monday of October next,
when a Chairman will be appointed, to receive
the number of fhnres each person may vtifli to
subscribe, in order, f.iould the fubfctiptions ex
ceed the proposed ;co shares, that each claim
may be proportionally reduced. 37■ dollars,
being the firft quarter, most be paid in specie,
and the fame fom in the above securities, to each
share, into the hands of the Directors, which are
then to be chosen, and the Bank to be put into
I immediate operation, to facilitate the fall bufi
| ness.;
BOSTON, Sept. 3
Extract of aI; iter from an officer in the Teitrtl
Army, to the editor, dated Fort-Fitt dug. 9, 1791.
" On Sunday last I arrived at this pod wirli
about 200 men, after a disagreeable march of
700 miles. I found that all the troops had gone
down the river, except 300 levies. Next week
we embark for Fort Washington. The whole
army will be about 4000, exclusive ofthe militia.
Heaven grant us success.
" About 12 miles from this place, I encamped
lad Saturday. I was curious to behold the place
where Gen. Braddock was defeated in 1755'.
With my two officers, and a man of this country
acquainted wirh the ground, I marched about 4
miles to it, and we made such observations as
gave us fatisfatftion. The man who conduced
us, led us to a tree which had a number of balls
in it, and which had been felled about 25 years.
— Mr. C. my Ensign, fonnd a grape fliot in one
part of it, about 2 J feet from the butt, which he
cut out—and which, together with two pieces of
skull Bones which I picked up on the field, I
fend you, by the bearer, Lieut. Sherman. You
will observe how the wood and iron are concret
ed. We reconnoitred the place at which he pafl
ed the river—it is called the Monongehala, nine
miles from this place, that and the Alleghany
river make the head of the Ohio. I give you
this information and fend the balls and bones, m
I think it may ain life you and my friends. I wish
I had time to have been more particular,butyoti
may rely 011 the fact—lt was not made in a Print
ing or a Lawyer's office, nov in a barber s shop,
but it was made on the spot, known by the name
of Braddock's Fields. God bless you and all
friends."
Extract of a letter from London, to the Editoi ofth•
Argus, dated July 6, t 791 -
" There is a letter received from Mr.
tie (author of a famous piece again ft Km Ke) <a
ed at Paris, the 24th of June, which has 111s
niarkable paflage : " The contest will -
between the Royalists and Republicans ~ « 1
ever conquer the form of government wi e
cided by. Spain is revolting- That nation
not yet'had an example from a peop e \ j,ey
they did not deem heretics in religion- .
are now determined to follow Catholic P.j
and nor be deemed heretics in the caule 0
liberty."N E W-H A V E N, Sept. 7,
France has bad a mod tremendous revolution.
Heads cut off and elevated on poles were as
plenty there, a; one time, as fiiow birds 111 De
cember. Marquifles, Counts, Bilhops, Cardinals
and Curates were levelled with a jerk.— Kngland
saw such filings with fear and trembling, and
her chief engineer .charged himfelf deeply, in
tending to fink the whole nation at a (hot.—He
-vent off with little execution,as Paine and I'rieft
ly cell us, who have examined his ammunition,
and find that it was wet and unfit tor ufe,though
it is expected, his laudable attempt will entitle
him to a lordjhip. The French king and family,
at an early (tage of this contest, were made pri
soners, and continued thus till a few days ago,
when, fired with rage, he summoned all his for
titude, and with great presence of mind, jumpt
into a coach with his dear little wife and run avicty,
and doubtless had been running yet, but a couple
«f yeomen arreded his Majesty and carried him
back to Paris —No injury has happened, except
ing that her majesty lojl a feather out of her cap,
and two china jars ot damsons were brake all to
pieces.
\V I N D H A M, {Con.) Sept.
The Cotnmiffioners appointed to run a boun
dary line between the States of Maflachufctts and
Rhode Island, we are informed have completed
that important business.
Philadelphia, September 14.
By an arrival at New-York, Englilh papers are receiver! lo the
20th Jul\. -They inform that all negotiations for peace between
Auftna, Rnffia ami thf Porte, were broken oft.—That the Ruffian
army had crollVd the Danube under General Kutufnw, a-tacked
arid defeated a body of 23,000 Turks.—That the exchange between
London and Paris is at 27 per ccut.—That the French refugees ap
pear to bee'atid with the present posture of affairs in France.—
That the anniversary of the Fiench Revolution was celebrated bv
the Revolution Society at the Crown and Anchor. Lord Stanhope
declining the chair, it w?s filled by Mr. Rous. A mobairem
bled, inlillmg on the liberation of Lord Ccorge Go: don to join in
the celebration, 1 ut on the appearance of the military they dis
persed. A report, which was credited, was in cumula
tion, that a great riot had taken place in Dublin on the 14th of
Julv--and that nearly the whole of one street was burnt.
That a number ot persons having alTeinhlcd a- Birmingham to ce
lebrate the above anniversary, the mob had assembled before the
Hotel where the meeting was held, and being exasperated by ac
counts of the company's proceedings, thai thev Had drank, De
Jlruttion to the present Government- •and the King's Head in a rharget,
Be. broke into the House, dellioycd the windows, glalT &c.
pelted the individuals and oblijed th m to seek faicty 111 flight.
This was fucceededed by a dreadful Riot, in which the houses ot
Dr. Priestly, Mr. John Ryland, John Taylor, Esq. Mr. Hutton,
Mr. George Humphreys William RlllTt.ll, Esq. Mofley Hall,
and Mr. H.iwk«, some dilfenting me; ting houses, and fev -ral hou
ses of dissenters, were d ftioyed by fire. This riot con
tinued from the 14th to the 17th July—and was it poffihle more
alarming thin that cxpcrienctd in London in 1780. Great num
bers of the rioters lofi their lives by being in ihe cellars of houses,
the walls of which fell in upon them. Dr. Priestly narrowly e<-
caped with his life. By the intervention of the military tran
quility was restored, but not until many bves were loft on both
fides. [Further particulars of this distressing event shall appeal
in our next.]
A great lermentation appears to cxift in France—the King and
Queen continue confined. The King of Spain hns written to the
National Assembly, refpsfling the King, advising conciliatnrv
measures—The Affcmbly voted this answer, " That as the French
ration does not intend to meddle with ihc affairs oftoreign pow.
ers, so fore' gn powers have no bufmefs to meddle with the affairs
of the French nation." Therefultof the-report of the Com
mittee of enquiry rrfpe&ing the French King's flight, was, " That
there ii no crime committed agairjl the (onjlitution by the King ; nnd if
therewas,Jiill the King's inviolability would not permit him to be tried."
M. Bouille and his accomplices are impeached.
Kxtrafl of a letter from a citizen oj the United States, at Madeira, to a
j.< J rr i -
gentleman in this city dated July 19.
" The anniversary of our political binh day was celebrated
here at the house of the Consul, John M. Ptntard, Esq. with due
refpeft ; at sunrise an elegant (ilk flag of the United States was
difplaved in front of the house ; at three o'clock the masters ot all
the American vessels in port, nine in number partook of an en
tertainment provided by the Consul—a band of mufick played
during the time ot dining, and fifteen toasts daptcd to the occa
lion were drank, attendeel by thedifcharge of cannon ; at sunset
the company moved to the green in front of the house, when the
colours were ftiuck under a difchargc of fifteen guns.
» The Consuls' House is fituatcd on an eminence in full view of
the whole town—the celebration was therefore a very confpicu
ousobjed*—the natives of the island in general are very well dtf
pofed towards the people of the United States- -and I ain firmly
persuaded that if our country continues to support her character
and credit (he will have the worthy of all countries, for friends;
as to the envious and contra&ed of a.iy nation, their friendfhip
cannot be considered as an arqtufition. Our Coitful here pofleflcs
the genuine spirit of an American ; the events, that led to
empire and independence such as the brilliant stroke at Tren
ton, the capture of Burgoync, Cornwallis, &c. are always no
ticed by him ; and whenever any of our countrymcn arc in port,
they are always invited to unite with him in the joy of the day—
if none happen to be here--he hoists hi.- flag and celebiates with
bis own family—in short his countrymen are always wflcomc
at his house, and he never appears so happy as when he has the
pleasure of their company. M. Pintard is now eflablifhed m bu
fmefs at this island, tinder his firm ; this circumftancr I wa<
hoc acquainted with previous to my leaving the States, or I should
Inve applied to him ; vou mav be allured that the command* o'
votirfelf. or any of your friends at this island cntruftcd to him,
will be executed with fidelity ability and dilpatch.'
A letter from a gentleman in Montreal, dated
Auiruft t9, fays : " Lord Dorcheiter failed so
London yeflerdav, and Prince Edward, thcKing s
l'on arrived 1 nlt week at Oucbec. '
Mr. Annnftus Christian George Elholm, la'ely
arrived here froin the Natclies, on the Milfifippi,
relates ihe following lamentable incident
brig Galgo, (lloyal Packci) command
ed by J< fej»h Rodriga Cabfera, bound to the Ha
■A
vannah, with paflemgers, and partly loaded witli
lumber, failed from New-Orleans the 21 it of
June last, and overset the 23d at 5 o'clock in t.ie
morning, 40 leagues S. of Penlacola, wherein 8
nerfons instantaneously perished ; in which num
ber were a Spanilh lady (Mrs. Palao, distinguish
ed bv a fuccefsful parental care of a respectable
railed family of both sexes) and her grand daugh
ter, about 6 years of age,—who were, with seve
ral others, in the cabin at the time of the cataf
trosphe ! From whence lient. Martini Palao (foil
of [he deceased lady) and himfelf (the said Mr.
Elholm) saved themselves with great difficulty,
by Retting out through the water at the door,
and with the aflifVanceof the rigging, joined the
fuwivors on the fide of the veflel.
" When the party, for about the space of four
hours, concejving every moment the last, had
sustained the violence of the waves, in a boifte
rotis storm, rain, and thunder, amidll the dread
ful scene of floating deceased friends ; (for the
partition between the cabin and the main deck,
was at this time destroyed by tltc irrefiftable
force of the sea, and consequently every thing
waflied out) the malls at once gave way at the
deck, and cleared the wreck by the agitation of
the sea, which gave liberty to the hull to right
it so as to admit the crew to enter the highest
fide of the quarter-deck ; in which situation, fill
ed with water, and loaded with green lumber,
(lie at belt floated very deep, and in consequence
of her pitching, but seldom above water.
" In aho ut 5J hours after this disastrous event
the wind and waves fortunately abated, which
afforded an opportunity to kindle a fire with a
flint and sI eel , which a peculiar circumltance had
preserved. Night now coining on, the people
fatigued and exhaulled by the want of frefli wa
te-.'&c. found means to tie themselves on the
highest places on tlie hull, to indulge in some
decree a requifire repose, fecuredly froni the
dangerous walliing of the ocean ; firlt eftablifh
in« a watch by turns to keep up the light, in
hones to draw attention, if any veflel fliould, by
the will of Providence, be directed that way,
which had tiiewifhed for effort—for the friendly
and humane Capt. Dolhonde. commanding the
Amiable Maria, from New-Orleans, the ensuing
night perceiving the fire which was kept up,and
governed bv a humane disposition, which on the
occasion acquired the praises of all good men,
altered his conrfe to enquire whether a light not
commonly seen on veflels that dillance from land,
might not be a signal of a people in dittrefs ;
and thus came to their relief about two o'clock
in the mornirg, and fevenry hours after their
(hip wreck.
44 He had plenty of provisions neceflary for
their recovery, which he imparted with no lcfs
attention than as noted liberality ; and the 6th
of July landed them (19 m number) on the ii
land of Cuba, £ miles to windward ofthe Havan
nah, from whence they proceeded to the town.
A Senator to complete the representation of
this State, in the Senate of the United States,
tho long since wanted, lias not been chosen, be
ranfe the two Houses of our Legislature, could
not agree upon the mode wliich was to be sol
lowed in making the appointment. Ihe Senate
wifii the appointment made by a concurrent vote
of both houses ; and ihs other Branch contend,
that it ought to be by the jtinf vote of ihe mem
bers of both Houses, in one body met. Jn en
deavoring to determine this important queltion,
much lime has been unnecefl'ai ily spent, in con
sidering the expediency of each mode ; unnecef
farilv, because the mode is pointed out by the
Constitution of (he United States : There would
be rooin for doubt and debate, if the provifiom
of the constitution were not pofuive in t par
ticular, and if the mode coukl be deduced only
by construction from the words of the Constitu
tion ; but this is not the cafe. The letter ol the
Conilitiition speaks thus: " The Senate of the
'• United States {hall be coropofed of two Sena
" tots from each State, chojen by the Lecisla
<e TURK thereof, &c." Now our State Constitu
tion as expt efsly fays, that the legislative fewer
this Commonwealth, Jhall be vejlcd in two Houses,
a Senate, and Hottfe of Representatives : So that
it appears clearly, by the Constitution of the Uni
ted States, that the appointment of a Senator,
must be a Legifiative a<st of the State, and the Le
gislature of t his State, by its constitution, con
lifts of two houses ; without dispute, tho ever (o
inexpedient, the Senator must bold his appoint
mem by a concurrent Vote. A queltion he:e ari
ses, whether this vote ntuft not be qualified by
the approbation of the Governor, as an article of
lie Stare Constitution expiefsly declares, " that
everyorder, refoltition, or vote, to which the
concurrence of both houses may be neceftary
(except on a qneftion of adjournment) (hall be
presented to the Governor, or, being disapproved,
See." The question, indeed, is answered by the
words of the constitution, the letter of which
speaks also positively here—it must be solved,
without hesitation, in the affirmative..
Daily Adv.
159
rm
at
At the prcfcnt moment there is a truly laudable fpirii of'onirr.
prize and improvement txtant among the* citizens of the United
States. The improvement of our inland navigation is a fubj cl
that engroflVs the attention of public bodies, and individuals in
various parts of the union. Nature has performed her part moil
amply in furnilhing our country with natural, cxhauftltfs res r
voirs, and rivers that interfett the country in innumerable direc-
tions. What remains then but that Art fliould complcat her ge
nerous intentions ?
Almost infinitely less labor and expence than has been employed
on a (ingle canal in Great-Britain, would in Come of these states
unite rivers, that would open an interior intercourse, the advan
tages of which cannot be eftimatcd.
The plan said to be now prosecuting in North-Carolina for u
niting that state with Virginia, by an interior water communica
tion, is a noble undertaking. The provision made by this Com
monwealth for improvements in the roads, and clearing obftruc-
tions in its numerous rivers, evinces a spirit of enterprize and pa
triotism highly honorary to the Government. In other parts of
the Union a similar dilpofition is apparent ; and it may not be too
sanguine to fuppofc, that the period will arrive when those im
mense bodies of water which form the internal seas of the United
States, and which from their elevated situations appeal calculated
for the purpose, may by art and labour be made locks or fourcc s of
canals, that shall waft the produce of our country from the Lake
of the Woods to the Atlantic.
There are several proje£ts now on foot in the state of MafTac.hu
fetts for improving their navigation. The account recently pub
lilhcd of a survey in the diftrift of Maine, (hews that our country
is susceptible of improvements which have hitherto escaped obser
vation, but which the present happy period seems defi ned to bring
to view, attended with circumstances that slash conviction of their
feafibilitv on the mind of the tnoft cursory enquirer. We are in
formed that the result of the survey lately undertaken and executed
at thr inftanceof the Secretary at War, respeCting the practicabi
lity of opening an internal water communication from ConncCti
cut river, with some of the rivers in the neighbourhood of Bjfton,
pref nts no obftaclcs that may not be furmownted by an expence,
which would be abundantly re-imburfed by the advantages which
would accrue to the public from compleating the business.
The design of fixing the Manufactories, about to be established,
in the state of New- ]ci ley, mud meet the approbation of all who
are friends to the Union, peace and good under (landing of the ci
tus of Philadelphia and N-w-Yoik—The inhabitants of these
places will be intereftcd in this patriotic undertaking—bheir mu
tual convenience and accommodation ought therefore to be ronfi
dered. The state of New-Jcrfey will derive very essential local
advantages from the circumltance—fhe w ill fhorfly fee a large ma.
nwfa&uiing town rising up in the midlt of the which, while
it serves to cement these two great citics, will ideally diminisH
their diltancc from tach other.
MR. FEN NO,
THE general rcftettions contained in the extra&s from the North-
Carolina Gazette, published in your last paper, like all other ind'.f
ciminate charges on colle&ive bodies, or aggregate deu riptions
of persons, cannot be founded in truth. That a pra&ice so hostile
to the commercial or moral chara6ler of the people as that ot a'-
temp &at counterfeiting '.he hano writing of others, should l»e al
most nniverfallv prevalent among the youth o{ North-Carolina, is
a monstrous and absurd supposition, and carries a refutation on its
very furface.
I doubt not this malignant charge will be properly notirrd—
and should not be at all surprized to find that it oiiginated with
some disappointed fpcculator, who has flittered by purchafidg
counterfeit paper. A. B.
ON PUBLIC PRAISE.
O brcatji of Public Praifr,
" Short-liv'd and vain ! oft gain'd without deferf,
" As often loft unmerited : —thou firft begin'ft with lore
" Enthufiaftie, madness of affettion : then
" (Bounding o'er moderation and o*er reason)
" Thou turn'ft to hate as causeless and as fierce."
Died on the fiift iuft. at Lanlingburgh, in (tie lbtr of NVw.
York, Mr. Huch Boyle, late of this city, merchant, in the 34th
year of his age.
Benevolence formed the mod eonfpicuons trait in the character
of Mr. Boyle. He was emphatically the friend of man. His vir
tues and abilities will cause his death to be long regretted by a nu
merous and highly refpc&able acquaintance. His journey to the
North-River was for the purpose of purchasing a house and farm,
as a retreat for h*s aged parents, who are fhortlv expe&cd to arrive
in this country from Ireland. Having accomplished his
he was taken with an inflamatory fever, which carried him »si ir»
a lew days. ————
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Union, Refida,
Sally, King, Hull
' Fair Ameiican, Lee, Amfierdam
Barque Harmond, Thomas,
Brig Mar«, Longford,
Scipio, Brook-la-bank,
Adventure, Brice,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 20/6 21/ pr. / .
3 pr. Cent* 12\f
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/6
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20J
Indents 12
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15/
Bank Subscriptions,
W. M'DOUG ALL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns his sincere thanks for the great encouragement he
his experienced these eighteen years ; hopes the reputation
of his school 'or decorum and good order, as well as the perform,
ance of his scholars, will dill ensure him a refpeflable (hare of the
public favor.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Danccs will be taupht
during the season.
Those who plrafe to honor him with the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, thtv will be taught in the mojl approved
ft'le, and that proper attention will be paid to their carnage and
manners.
A general praftifing for the improvement of the Icholars, wilt
be he'd at the New Rooms, every other Wednefd?y ; wherfthe
employers, and flrangcrso! genteel deportsren;, will he admitted.
Ti"fe will be ailrnded wkh no expence.
\. r.. An tVtNING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Cen'lemc!!, as soon as a fuffic-<~nt number offer.
Philadelphia, September 14, 179 1
t
Jamaica
Oporto
div.o
Grenada
JOS pr. c^nt.
60 do.
do*
pr^r
60 do.
140 Dollars,
f.)NEW CONSTITUTION
OK THE
GOVERNMENT OK POLAND, &c. &c,
(cunt 1 N U ED.)
ARTICLE V.
Form of. Government, oj the Definition of Public
Powers.
ALL power iii civil society shall be derived
from the will of" the people, its end ami ob
ject being the preservation and integriiy of the
llate, tlie civil libei ty and the good older ot io
ciery, on an equal fca'e, and on a laltiugfounda
tion. Three dillindt powers ihall coinpole the
government of the Polilh nation, according to
tlie ptelent conltituiion, viz.
jit. Lcgijlativi power in the States aflembled.
2<l. Executive power in the King and the Coun
cil of Ini'pediion.
3d- Judicial power in juiifuictions existing, or
to be eltablMhsJ.
ARTICLE VI
The Diet, or the Lcgijlutivt Foiuer.
The-Diet, or the Aflenibly of States, lhall be
divided into two Houfts, %iz. the House of Jjun
cios, or Deputies, and the House of Senate, where
the King is to preside. The former being the
reprefent-ative and central point of supreme na
tional authority, (hall pollel's the pre eminence
in the legislature ; therefore all bills are to be
decided firll in this House.
lit. Alt general law, via® 1 " constitutional, civil,
crimin?l, and perpetual taxes ; concerning which
matters, the Kiiijr is lo ill'ue his proportions b}
the circular letters sent before the Dietines to
every palatinate and to every diltriift for delibe
ration, which coming before the House with the
-Opinion expreiied in the inllruiftions given to
Ijteir representatives, /hall be taken the fir ft for
decision.
a!. Particular Lavis, viz. teniporal taxes ; re
gulations of the mint ; contracting public debts ;
creating nobles, and other casual recompences ;
reparation of public expences, both ordinary and
extraordinary ; concerning war ; peace ; ratifi
cation of treaties, both political and commercial ;
all diplomatic atfts and conventions relative to the
Jaws of nations ; examining and acquitting dif
ferent executive departments,and (imilar fubje(fts
arising from ihe accidental exigencies and cir
cumllances of the state, in which the propositi
ons, coining dire tit 1 y from the 1 hrone into tlie
Iloole of Nuncios, are to have preference in dif
culiion before the private bills.
In regard to the House of Senate, it is to con
fid of Bi/hops, Palatines,Caltellans and Minillers,
under the Presidency of the King, who fliall have
but one vote, and the calling voice in cafe of pa
rity, which he may give either per Tonally, or by
a meflage to the House. Its power and duty (hall
ke,
id. Every general luiv that pafles formally thro
the House of Nuncios, is to be sent immediately
to this, which is either accepted, or fufpt-iuied
till farther national deliberation, by a majority
of votes, as prescribed by law. If accepted, it
becomes a law in all its force; if suspended, it
ill 111 be refunied at the next Diet : and if it is
then agreed to again by the House of Nuncios,
the Senate mull submit to if.
2(1. Evsry particular law or statute of the Diet
in matters above Tpecified, as Toon'as it has been
determined by the Houle of Nuncios, and sent
tip to the Senate, the voies of both Houles /hall
be jointly computed, and the majority,as describ
ed by law, (hall be conlidered as a decree and the
will of the nation.
Thufc Senators and Ministers who, from their
share in executive power, are accountable to the
Republic, caunot have an acitive voice in iheDiet,
bus may be prefenr in order to give necefliiry ex
planations to the States.
Thele ordinary Legislative Diets /hall have
their uninterrupted existence, be always rea
dy to meet ; renewable every two years. Th<r
length of Tedious /hall be determined by the law
concerning Diets. It convened out of ordinary
fefiion upon Tome urgent occafiori, they fliallonly
deliberate on the TulijeCi whieh occasioned Tuch
a call, or on circunutances which may arise out
of it.
No law or statute cnatled by such ordinary Di
et, can be altered or annulled by the fame.
The complement of the Diet (hall be compos
ed of the number of perfous ill both to
be determined hereafter.
The law concerning the Dietines, or primary
elections, as eftabiiUied by the prefentDiet. shall
be regarded as a moil eflential foundation of ci
vil liberty.
The majority of votes fiisl! decide every thing,
ami cverv where ; therefore we aboliih, and tit-'
icily annihilate, lihurum veto.nU forts of confede
racies and confederate Dieis, as contrary to
the spirit of the prefenc conrtitution, as under
mining the government, and as being ruinous to
society.
Willing to prevent, on one hand, violent and
frequent changes in the national constitution,
yet considering, on the other, the necefl.ry ot
perfecting it, after experiencing its effcCts on
public prosperity, we determine the period of e
very t 2S years for an Extraordinary Conilitutiona
Diet! to be lieid purposely for the revision and
such alteraiions of the conftitorion as may be
found requisite ; which Diet (hall be ciicuni
fcribed by a separate law hereafter.
f To be continued.)
A PERIODICAL PUBLICATION,
TO Bt ENTITLED,
The Annual Register,
POLITICAL REPOSITORY
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Will fpcedily be commenced by the Subfcribcr, in the city of
Phi lade lphia.
This work will contain a hiftorv of the
PROCEEDINGS and DEBATES of CONGRESS, from the
beginning of the Icfilon which will commence in October
ncxr,
Secondly—STATE PAPERS.
Under this head, will becomprifed the Reports and Statements
of the executive officers of government, including thole which
have already been made, official correspondence with foreign
powers, See.
Thirdly—THE STATE OF THE UNION,
This important article will show ourfituation with regard to
foreign nations, by adverting to treaties, whether concluded or
pending, hostilities, and commeicial intercourse. It will also give
a comprehenfivc view of the internal system ; to w:t, population,
the national defence, by militia, regular troops, armed vcflTcls, and
fortifications; national finance, as to loan.s, debts, revenue, bank,
Sec. narional morals, as to prevailing virtues and vices; number
and quality of crimes and punilhments, bankruptcies, See. general
progress of the arts and sciences; general laws and civil regula
tions, whether of the federal government or state legifluures ; ge
neral manners and customs ; and finally, the complexion of poli
tical sentiments, as it may be seen in public prints, proceedings of
the several governments, popular tranquility, or difcoiitent.
FourthIy—IMPROVEMENTS,
In every profeflion. art, and science.
Fifthly— MEDICAL OBSERVATIONS,
On the increase and decreafc of diseases, See.
Sixthly-NATURAL HISTORY,
Particularly that of America.
Seventhly—C, HARACTERS.
EighthIy—MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Which may be thought worthy of being preserved from obli
vion, on philosophical, historical, biographical, agricultural, me
chanical, commercial, and other fubje£ls, calculated to amui'e the
mind, or advance the heft interests of society.
Ninthly— POETRY—original and fele£tcd.
Tevthly—A REVIEW OF BOOKS,
American only; to which will be added, a lift of new Euro
pean publications, indicating fiuch as may be deemed particularly
valuable in this country.
Eleventhly—A CHRONICLE
Of the mod interesting events of each year, fele&ed from the
various newspapers, and methodically arranged.
To the history of the proceedings and debates of Congress,
in the firft volumeof this work, will be prefixed theConftitution
of the United States of America, together with a {ketch of the pro
ceedings, and the names of the members, of the firft Congress al
fembled under the auspices of the constitution.
Each volume of the Annual Register, and Political
Repositori of the United States of America, will con
tain at lead 500 pages, oflavo, and be printed on good paper, wiili
a handsome type, equal to that with which the Editor's edition f
the Laws of theUniied States is primed. The price to fubferibers
will be one dollar and a half.
The plan of this work has been Cubmitted to the confideratiori
of some of the firft characters in Americj, whose fentimems have
drtcrmined the Editor with regard to the undertaking. The firft
volume will be publidicd in the spring of the yeai 1792.
Ir, order to render this woik as perftfl as poflihle, and truly ho
norable to the United States, communications, coinciding with ttic
plan, as above given, and either handed to the Editor or tranfmii
ted to him by post, will be gratefully received. He with confi
dence expe£ts this afliftance from Artists, Men of Learning, Plii
lofophtrs, and Statcfmen, as they mull be impresT d with ade
quate ideas of the extreme utility of this arduous undertaking.
Gentlemen who may incline to patronise this publication, are
r'-quefted to forward their names to MeflYs. Thomas & Andrews,
Boston f John Carter, Esq. Providence; MeflYs. Hudfn n & Good
win, Hartford; Mr. Thomas Sreenleaf, New-York; MeflYs.
Goddaid & Angell, Baltimore ; Augustine Davis, Esq. Rich
mond ; Mr. P. Young, Charlcllou ; or to
Philadelphia, Aug. 30,1791
*** Subscribers' names shall be prefixed to the work.
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms:
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at auction, me
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, onc-hal] per cent. ; and on all funis
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dul/ar'each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
oleafed to favor the fubfrribers with their orders, may rely on
'heir being executed with punduality, fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable expcriencc in the public (locks, together with extenfivc
connections in the city of New-Yoik and different parts of the
continent, enable them to rondufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & ISLEECKER,
New-\oik, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 taw 6m)
March 15, 1791
advertisement.
(pj BY lute arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
o. 10 ~ 31 , both tncluftve, of a Publication which comes on! twiie a
u : Nk '" Par "> entitled. « Cor r f.spond anc Nat ,ona 1.."_
1 '° No - 10 < have been (hipped, but arc not \et come to hand
'InV prjon who ma, incline to fubjcnte for this K ork. which aM,a, ,to
be mtmms, impartial and Patriotic, ma, br furn,/he:', ivitk the numbers
as the, arrive h applying l 0 the Editor of this Gazette.
>-3 blank Powers to receive the Imerefl, and for the transfer of t!'
principal of p„„l,c d-ht, arrtrabte to the Rules eflMfhcd in the T,,a.
tkt Ed'itor tm:n ' &Unks S'" rab P a& i<>J Certificates, to h fold h
160
AND
OF THE
ANDREW BROWN,
in the city of Philadelphia
L O U I S I A'N A.
ALL those perfoni who have an inclination to fettle on the
lands ot the Mififlippi, can have a paffjge to New O 1
about the 20th of O&ober next. Each single man on his j',""!
there, will have a grant of two hundred and forty acrrs ol 'u'j
in fee simple, gratis, without rents or taxes; and each m Jr ' r ! j
man, a larger quantity, in proportion to the numberot hi, f ami '|
For further particulars, enquire of MelTis. Siiwaut JcX E „ V '
No. 15, South Water-Street. TT '
Philadelphia, Sept. 7, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
AND NEW-HAVEN '
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
CLASS 11.
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY alfure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT.
TERY will politively commence drawiug on the day appointed
viz. On Thursday the 13th of October next, or Jooner, if the Tickets
shall be difpolcd of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at til? hour afligntd, [0
they are determined to be equally as punctual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125.000 Dollars t*
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjcft to a dedu&ion of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
PR I2ES
1
2
3
6
1G
3®
8o
9°
100
12©
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
"5000 Tickets.
$3" TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the fevcral
Manage r s>mho will pay the prizes on demand; of theTR easu r*r
of the Commonwealth; oI James White, at his Book-tlore,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun. "I
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MINOT, j
JOHN KNEELAND,
Bojlonj April 14, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all to whom thefc presents flial 1 come, or in any w>fe concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
decealed, did make four promidory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadv 1 phiaMerchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1 785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in tix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds,in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen fhiUings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninqty-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which said notes have be<in afligned by the said Sa
muel Jacklon to THOMAS MACK IE and Co. and JAM.ES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have fmce, in the lite-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty- seven pounds fifteen Ihil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
111 proot ot which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be laken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, £ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS, j
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27M 'ua\, 1791
CHILDS AND SWAINE
Have now in the Press, and in a few days will publifa
In a handsome Volume OCTAVO,
[PRICE ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
T H E
L A
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and corre£tcd by, the original Rolls in the office
of the Bccret3ry of Slate, agreeably to a resolve of Congress,
paired the 18 h February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE INDEX.
This volume will comprifethe Federal Constitution, the Aft*
of the three St (lions of the Firfl Congress, and the 1 reatics: -
also, the Declation of Inoependence, and fundiy Rcfolvcs
Ordinances of Congrefc under the Confederation.
New-York, Augujl 3.
Her Moll Faithful Majesty's Conful-Gencral to the United Stat",
P'jblilhes the following EXTRACT from the Inftruckions lent
liim by the Royal Board of Trade at Lisbon, tor the informa
tion of those whom it may concern : —
A LL Mercantile Contrails, Policies of Insurance, Protrits, or
l\. other Documents, which are to be given in evidence
Courts ot Justice, or out thereof, shall be authenticated 'V n
Consuls, and sealed with the royal arms ot the refpcfti ve C° n 0
lare, which her Majesty has been pleased to grant the Con us
affix to papers relating to th*ir office; without which no ere
(hall be given thereunto in Courts ot Justice, or othcrwifr.
Philadelphia, Auguil 12. t —
Philadelphia, 20th July, 1 79 1,
THE CommifTioners appointed to receive Subscriptions to
Bank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to aw, 11
' rm the Stockholders oft he fai d Bank, that an election 'irtw-ci
Hv D»r< £lors will be held at the CitV-Hall «n Pnilade p1 1
Friday the 21ft day of O&ober next, at to o'clock in t enior 0
THOMAS WII LING,
DAVID RinfcNHObSti
SAMUEL HOW£LL.
DOL LARS.
10000 is
3000 arc
2000
1000
s°°
20#
100
.5°
4®.
3°
20
10
a
(e p. 3 m <
w s
t
f
Dollars.
10009
6009
6oo*
6ood
5000
6000
8000
45°°
4000
3600
3220
2000
60689
125000