PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, IIIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND -AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 6' 9, of Vol. lII.]
PHILADELPHIA.
PHILOSOPHICAI.-HALL, December 16.
The following Aidrefs was presented in a full Meeting, 1791.
To David Rittenhouse, Esquire, L. L. D. President of the
American Philosophical Society, held at Philadelphia, for p.o
moting ufeful Knowledge.
THE^ American Philosophical Society embrace the present oc
cafionpf a meeting for stated annual bulmcls, to acknow
ledse the receipt of your letter, dated Nov. 15, addrclled to their
treasurer • in wnich you are pleafcd to inform htm, that " You
have raid'the debt of 3081. due to the late Judge Hopkinfon, and
will lay the bond and moitgage before the society," expreiling
.■our hope- that this benefaction, on your part, may " encourage
the society to exert themfelvcs to get nd of some other heavy debts
and incumbrances." j . 1 r 1
This renewed instance of your liberality, joined to the conlule
ration of the illustrious part which you have taken in then labors
for many vears palt, hath made such an impression npon them, that
(hev are at a loss in what manner they can best cxprefs their grati
tude, or their refpeft and veneration lor your name
At any time, and in any country, such a " brilliant present'
would indicate a mind that can feel the inseparable connexion be
tween learning and human felicity. But in the present state of our
finance- it is a moll important benefaflion ; and a noble Ipecimeu
of literary patronage in a young empire, where many other im
provements mnft Ibare with the arts and sciences, in the public
attention and bounty- .
We are sensible of the neceffitv of extingm(hing the other heavy
debts of the Society, with all possible speed ; and have appointed
a proper committee to devise ways and means for that purpose.
Sioned in behalf and by order of the Society, at a meeting
° held this 16th day of December, 1791.
The Yrefiient of the Society was f leafed to return this Answer
Gentlemen,
THE 'atisfaflion I feci in contributing fometliing towards pro
motine science, the intercfts whereof are, I am perluaded, mlepa
l,le from thole of humanity, is greatly mcreaied by your very po
lite approbation. «• ,
Tsty fmcccft wishes sre, tfcrt-tirs tnltevm .ver-owf.-
public encouragemtnt, aud enjoy the patronage of the generous
and the good.
an ordinance,
FoKfccuiing the punctual Payment of the Monies due on the
Subfcriplions to the
" SOCIETY FOR USEFUL MANUFACTORIES."
T)E it ordained, " by the Governor and D irc ® ors
]5 for < tVabl.fh.ng ufcful Mauufattones, and .1 ' reb y °
darned bv authority o. the (an,.,. That then , lubft:nb.d u
the said Society ft,.11 be paid e,lh.. to the Calhie ofthe Bank o
New-York, or to the Cathier of the Bank of the Um ed States, a
Philadelphia or to John Bayard or John Neilfon, h q.
at New-Jersey, wh'o (hail,
thev receive tuch monies, pay the lame to t e a
~f Kew-York. r.ovidcd always, That tn all cases wlhere the tub
fcriber m-v prefer to pay hi,or It.r fubfcr ' pt '° n „ tia „(
the funded hock ol the United State,, stock lhaU betran
terred on the books of the Tre.ft.ry 'he Un'tcd M tcs, oremth
books ot the Loan-Officer at Philadelphia, liret
York, in the name of the " Society for eftabl.Chmg ufefu.
''Si. And be it further ordained by the
That the Hi ft payment ot the laid lubfcr.pi:ions fh.U be made,
the manner aforcfa.d, on or before the thirteenth U» ui
next; and that the Iha.cor (haicsot all and every pe.fon ope.
tons who shall neglect to make such payments, °»
day, (hall he forfeited, and vetted in the Dircdor. for the commo,
benefit of the Society. , , ■ a f n rpf.»id
Sec. 111. And be it further ordained by tneau h y
That if any fubferiber, or his alTigns, shall neglefit
omd,third or fourth payment ot his, her °r p ofth
f.-ripnons, for the space ot three days after the c
time limitted bv the law ot the incorporation for 'he a, ° P V
men,,, that is to"fay, the second payment on the.htrtce. th d.c
July, ; 792 , the third payment on the ..hrrteenth day «i^ Janue ,ry
1793- »"<* the fourth and last C and e ve,y (hare o
.July, ,793, that then, and in,th.t ■ [0 make 'fuch pay
fharcs oHuch person or persons. ion. D 0 n -j <u a )
menu os aforcfaid, and tbe monies by them Pg*. *
be forfeited and forever thereafter veiled ,n th ft id Doctor
and their fucceflors for the common hent to . .-■ V af o rel"aid
Sec. IV. And be it fu,.he, ordained by the authoi.ty^foreUtd
That the Gove.nor, when he gives lfv the pro
tinned, of the periods of said payments, a a substitute so
portional sums which may he received ,n specie •. fubttume
the deterred stock, according ,0 the principles expressed in
•* KTftu «««-;<»-? "S^sSi
That the Governor direst the form, of certtficat s_ g
the payment 0, any tubtcripuon - such
original holders, or their afligns, lelpe ■« however to
parts of shares a, may be Specified therein: fubjeft, however, to
ihe regulations contained in this ordinance. ,f n refaid
Sec. VI. And be 1, further ordained by the ty o efa,d
That the Governor, for the purpose of notifying; the ".«,»«
payment, cause the foregoing ordinance to e p _
the public newspapers in the cure, of Philadelphia New
York, and of the fate of New-Jersey, tw, my da 2 p
.he period of the firtl payment, and fix week, p.eviou, to the
period of the fubfcquent lefpefttve payments.
WITLIAM DUER, Ceverncr.
(Counterligncd)
Elisiia Eoud 1 kot, pro Umfcre.
TAMES HUTCHINSON,
ROBERT PATTERSON,
IONATHAN WILLIAMS,
SAMUEL MAGAW,
]OHN EWING,
WILLIAM SMITH,
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
Saturday, December 24, 1791-
BE in known , That the proportion of specie which may b ■
paid on the rcfpe&ivc installments of every original share, by fueh
fubferibers as prefer paving a moiety of their fubfetiptions in spe
cie in lieu ot deferred debt, is as follows
On the 13th of Jan. 1793,
On the 13th ol July, 1792,
On the 13th nf Jan. 1793,
On the 13th of July, 1793,
FROM A VRENcfI PAPEP.
THE beSt method to restore those persons to
their fer.fes who are kdniirers of tides, and
all the nonsense of qualityand nobility, would
be to recapitulate the quajrels of Princes with
their legal defcendams ; ihe disputes of these
with the Dukes, and of tfee Dukes, again with
the pen try. In all t hefei'ontelis, the truth al
ways came out, that the ((eptred and titled men
were the meaneil of men not f° from liatm e,
but from education and h*Ws which had left lit
tle or nothing to their owti exertions ; for true
frreatnefs is slvvitvs and imbibed i*i the
lev ere school of neceflirv. In the most supersti
tious nations of the earth,kittle men [in reality
f»ch"| were always fond if being thought gods,
and therefore afFecfted a veil of obfeurity to con
ceal their littleness vulgar. The mo
mem they quarrelled, th|Skil was withdrawn,
i and with it their divinity.
Let us pass from of birth to thole
of decorations, ribbons, ani orders : and here we
are at once ficke.ied with )fie filly apparatus —
What possible idea of horor could be affixed to
the order of the Holy Gbu*, or of the Staff, when
a Madame D<prie create'! 58 Chevaliers and 7
Marshals of France in on/--day ?—Who can for
bear laupbter when, in riding hiftorv, they lee
men, "totally ignorant ci"4af, purchanng titular
dignities, with the motto us BelLc*ytrtutts pra
m Him, when Underneath Ihotild in justice have
been written, Rifum tentatis, Jmct thele
abuses and follies are wearing ont with time ; men
have been for ages in a comparative state of child
hood, and the day is at hand when they will be
universally aflwmed of the toys and baubles be
fitting the childish age, as ihe science of govern
ment becomes better under flood.
PARIS, October I
FIRST NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
(that -which jorme d the Con/1 itutiou) Sep. 30111.
Aflembly received the valedictory ad
-1 drefles of sundry bodies ; and decreed re
wards to such as had rendered their country el
fential Cervices. ~11
At four the King, who had already been re
peatedly announced, arrived. The former and
the new deputies, together without difhnJl.on,
did not leuve the leal* vacancy in the house.
The King had scarcely alcended to the place
afliffned him, and turned towards the Af.embiy,
when the house rung 011 all fides with expiei.wn.
OI but pleasing emotion, was depicted in
his Maierty's countenance ; he appeared happy
Land'the impression of his being so, d.fFufed joy
to all around. . , .
i Two or three times while delivering . •
j coui fe, his voice faultered ; but all deep y
'' Add/ess, and the circumflances that ac
i.,
tl.er in the exercise of your unlimited autho,ry,
von find any thing to be compared to the f.nfa
tions which flow from these thoughts,fentiments
and emotions.
<' cENTI. EME N f
« Having finilhcd the Conftitntion, you have
- i£
ihoaldhavc been somewhat lengthened, that
011 miaht have had an opportunity ot rying
you ight have » frllit s of your la
hoursTch a, you have not had time to bring to
bouts, locn <•» j . . tliree veais ex
perfection, an a fted t0 enlightened
. s;;s.r, ,f r Missus
i
273
Dolls. Cls.
7 42
7 6 3
7 86
8 9
31 o
WILLIAM DUER
EX TRACT
[Whole No. 277.]
the end of the labours of the constituting afleni
bly, in order to mark with more precision, the
difference which exilts between the powers of
the couftituting, and the legislative bodies.
" Having accepted the constitution, which you
have formed for the kingdom, 1 will use all my
conliiuitional authority, to secure to the lawsdue
refpe<ft and obedience.
" I have given notice to the Foreign Powers
of my acceptation of that conrtitution [great ap
plaule—long live the King] and 1 fludy,and shall
constantly ltudy every method that can secure
the external fafety and tranquility of the king
dom.—l (hall not use lels vigilance and activity
in JKtving the constitution executed within, and
in preventing its being violated. [Applanfe.]
" As for you, gentlemen, having in a long and
difficult undertaking, (hewn indefatigable zea:
and industry,—one duty remains to fulfill, wliei:
)ufhall be dispersed throughout this empire
is to enlighten your fellow citizens concern
ng the true spirit of the laws that you have mad*
or them, to call back to their duty such as ne
gleift the path they direct, to purify and unit<
opinions by the example you will give by youi
love of order and fubmiflion to the laws, [yes
yes, unbounded applause.]
" When you return to your homes, gentlemen
I expert you will explain the uprightness of 1113
views and sentiments to your fellow-citizens.-,
[yes, ves, great applause.]
" Tell them all, and repeat it to thein, thai
the king will always be their bell friend. [Lonj
live the king.]
Mr. Treilhard—
ry the IVth."
The King. " That he has need of their love
[long live the king] that he can only be happj
with them and for them, [reiterated applause
The hope of afiifting in making them happy lhali
give me courage in my endeavours ; and the fa
tisfaction of having succeeded (hall- be my best
reward." [Long live the king, loud and reite
rated applause.]
THE PRESIDENT'S ANSWER.
■" Sentiments worthy of Hen-
Sire,
The National A (Terribly come to a conclufioil
of their labours, now reap the firll fruits ol them.
Convinced that the government which belt iuits
France is that which conciliates the relpectabie
prerogatives of the throne to the inalienable
rights of the people, they have given to the em
pire a constitution which equally fecuresroyalty
and national liberty. The fate of France is con
nected with the speedy and proper execution of
this constitution, and all the means to promote
that execution feeni united at preienr.
Soon Sire the civic wilh tl)at your majelij
just exprefled will be gratified j-foon returning
,o our homes, we (ball shew an example oi obe
dience to the laws, after having made them, and
teach that there can be no liberty, without re
fneift for conftiiuted authority.
Our fuccefl'ors, veiled with the powers on the
exereife of which the profpenty of the empire
depends, will neither mistake the object of their
important million, nor the confhtuuona) bounds
of it, nor the means of well difcharg.ng their
• rust. They are worthy, Sire,— they will always
(hew them (elves worthy of the confidence which
places in their hands the fate of the nation :
And ycu, Sire, have already altnofl fixed that
13 Your majefly has put an end to the revolution,
by your fair and open acceptation of the condi
tion. You have disheartened our external e
nemies, yon have strengthened internal confi
dence, restored the nerve of government to its
vigor, and secured the ufeful exertions of an ac
tive administration. _ ,
Yoor heart, Sire, has already formfeed 3on a
recompense. Your majesty has enjoyed the ~,
terefting fpedtacle of public joy. tour fcnfibili
ty has been gratified by the marks of gratitude
and love exhibited by the people.
The sensations neceflary to form the happ.nef.
of good kings are due you ; Sire, they will ever
exist in you, and their energy will .ncreafemore
and more as .he nation (hall benefit by con
stant elforts to secure the publichappine y
supporting the constitution. [Long live ihe
K "tJ minutes of the meeting read and
the president declared it to be the Jail or the
Conftit uling Aflembly.LONDON, October 23
A letter from the Hague, of 14,
" Refyedti ng the late Isa-engageui c;it bet wee.
the Kufiians and the Turks, we learn that they
met in stormy weather ; that the Turki.li com
mando having hat) notice of thefigning of llie
preliininaries,reiii ed ; but being followed by the
Rulijai.s, and lev e. ul Turkifli Hups being damaged
by the llorm, they tied to Coiiltantiii»]>le, and
uccafioned gi eat alarm in t!ia( capii al ; but no
fliij'sfell into the hands of the Ruffians.
" We learn from the rendezvous of the French
Princes and their party, on the frontiers of Ger
many, that the news of rlie King's having tor
riia]i y accepted the French Conilitution, has
cnufed great sensations among the.n, insomuch
that they hardly know what to resolve upon :
nay, it ii even laid to have thrown such a damp
upon their intended plans, as to make it djubt
ful :f they wiil put them in execution, and its
e(Ft«sis in the different courts of Europe, mull oc
casion some alteration in the proceedings of the
ai iftoeratic party."
1 he liberal and handsome conduct of Lord
Petre, on a lare occasion, and the general beha
viour of the whole bod)' of Roman Catholics,
mufl fpecdily root out every prejudice that has
been entertained againit them. The JVlinifters
of il.eir profeilion (hew no ill-will to the Miuif
ters of the Ellablilhed Church, but appear to ue,
as vre think they really ai e, zealous to promote
unity in the nation, and to forward every thing
that may tend to morality and good order
FiomGlafgow we understand, that trade has
been very brilk there the last tS months. The
exports of mullins, and other Scots and English
es, of late to America, has been very
so that wages, in all branches, have been
rising. About ten cotton-mills have been eredted,
or begun to be erected, in the neighbourhood of
Glasgow ; and above a dozen of blaft-fiirnaces
have been creeled in the well of Scotland. Nei
ther is the improvements in lnanufacftures con
fined to the weft of Scotland ; for, at Aberdeen.
Dundee, &c. in the north, they have lately e
icdted several cotton and lint-mills to go by wa
ter. In fljort, never was Scotland in fopiofpe
lous a Hate ; yet, from the great advance of
' ems, the turning many small farms into large
ones, the emigration to A merica has been greater
this year thsti at any period since the year 1774
EDICT pu~blifted by the Supreme Council of CafU
on the lot/, 0] September, again/} ,he Circulation
% ' ,tin £ s which have a Tendency to propagate
*he 1 rmciplc> oj die French Conjlitution.
" Hie King, informed of the distribution of
■ceitain writings, full of falfehood and dangerous
maxims, capable of diftnrbing the tranquility
and of endangering the fidelity of his fubjetftj
,e;it c "rcular letters, the sth of January
J79°, to prohibit tbe entry of tliefe libels, to en
courage informers, and to give the utmost lati
tude, ooth in difcoverjrig and punishing such ac
trocuies. Thtfe precautions have produced the
e - Majesty's Council had
" Ihe King is again »!Tured, .tiiat attempts
ate making to introduce a.id difFufe throughout
ns dominions fim.lar writings from France, con
taining seditious principles, contrary to the si.
;„V ty r Ue t0 , hIS r ° ve,ei g» power, to public
anqu.hty, alu ] t j le profperily of his faithful
uLjeJs; .i,s majesty has resource a second time
•to tUe lame precautions, which were before luf'
went to prevent the evil . he .has renewed the
prohibition of those writings in his States, and
ordered that every per son who ihall find or seize
in the hands of any person such productions, ei
ther printed or written, fhal] be obliged to erne
them up to the tribunals, rendering an account
of the motives which excited them, if t-heyknow
?,v V 1? u aim€d WUh then, ' on failui e which
U L ',P r 'T Cded aS wdl « ot ber
delinquents for the crime of disobedience ■ th u
the tribunals (ball be obliged to tranfmic to the
have been° Un r the , W,!tin g s wllicl » may
.. .• , f 1" efented or denounced to them, or
Th" f h3Ve ; and to Proceed in
«?,,reKr t th, h . aU ,hE Vi e i!ailCC 3 » d
1 such important cases.
to of ,!lC mA is "commended
... p- fiord 1 and monorchia! zeal of the Mod
fecullr "liops, Bin,ops, Prelates, as well
Spain. ' ' egll!ar > throughout the kingdom of
FOR THE GAZF.TTE CF THE UNITED STATES.
TO THE RESPONDENT
OMr«dn.Ryoar piece. I take it that a man
ho ,s llot ot your opinion, is an ariftocrar I
!hnr/ n h OP V I,On tof> ~ ,nay 1 be f cail
those who deny Ir, aristocrats, In this afF,i r I
taxe Dean Sw,ft for an aiiihoritv—Oirhodox v is
niy D*xy, Hecprmloxy is another ,nan's Doxy—
theretore yon and I aie in the rijrht ; we Inte
an ltocrats _ ye vvon](l fai . and fe S he; l-.e
,4keof POLITICAL TOLERATION.'
fays,
rIIILAD E L P H I A
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, December 13, 1791.
Dcb.lt! on the amendments prcpofeil by the Senate to
the Repref.ntation Bill.
SOME debate havng taken place, refpefting
the regularity of a resolution moved by Mr.
Benfon, for apportioning among the different
slates (according to their refpeJtive numbers)
the whole number of Representatives, produced
by (lie gross amount of the aggregate populati
on of the United Scans ;—
Mr. Sedgwick moved, to amend the Senate's
amendment, by infering two members for the
(late of Delaware, instead of on:.
In favor of this motion it was observed, that
the injury, arising from unrepresented fratfiions
of population, is morefeverely felt by the small
er, than by the larger flares, as in the cafe oft be
ftateof Delaware, to vhich the bill allowed but
one reprefencative f0r59,000 inhabitants, whilll
the larger states wouU! be much better represent
ed, as their fractions vould be divided among a
greater number of representatives—By the a
mendment proposed to the Constitution, a lati
tude, it was said, was given to Congress in this
particular, allowing tieni either to apply the ra
tio to the aggregate amount of the general popu
lation, and then to apportion the representation
to the different states, as nearly as they could ap
proach Hie ratio once eilablifhed—or to apply
the ratio to the population of each Hate ; and if
in cafe of applying the ratio to the aggregate
number of the inhabitants of the United Slates,
the number of reprefetjtatives was found to be
exaiftly one hundred, it appeared doubtful whe
ther Congress could wtll avoid adopting the for
mer mode : otherwifeit would be impossible to
apportion the representation to the population
with exac r t pi ecifion ; Hen it the United States
were to be divided into diftridts of thirty thou
sand inhabitants each, there would still remain
a fraction, and inequality f<yne where or other
mud be ilie consequence : '
In the bill, it was said, a manifeft inequality
appeared, as it nllowedVirginiato eleifi twenty,
one representatives, whereas, according to the
proportion which her population bears to that
of the United States in general, fl lc j s entitled
only to nineteen : the constitution has said, that
" representatives and diretl taxes shall be ap
portioned among the several states, according te
their respeCtive numbers but iftaxation were
to be apportioned in the fame manner as the re
presentation is by the bill, the inequality would
be finking, and such as never would be submit
ted to lUiode-Ifland, for iuftauce, being re
presented by two members, would have to pay
60,000 dollars, whilst Delaware, having but a
single reprelentative, would pay only 30,000 al
though the difference of population is so small
between those two ftatei—R,hode Island having
only about 68,000 inhabitants, whilst 50,000 are
found in the slate of Delaware —the time may
come, when the fafety and good order of govern
metu will require the imposition of direct taxes •
ij.it how can any such taxes be laid, without a
Eew census, and a just apportionment of the re
prcfentation ? before these steps could betaken
the measure might be too late ; and it would be
1111 wtie in the present Congress to pass any law
that may at a future day, deprive the House of
Oivc-O.i jts conliitutional powers, the power of
laying direct taxes—lt was further observed that
the Confbt.mon itfelf did not seem to exaift so
rigul an observance of die ratio, as to require
that any state should be deprived of a reprefem
ative merely on account of a trifling deficiency
«n the number of inhabitants ; it appeared vifi- I
Vf° contemplate such deficiency, and that there
might be states whose entire population would
not amount to the ratio that might betfxed on :
ihll it had provided that such states should not
reman, u„ represented ; but that, however small
the population may be, << each state shall have at
least one reprefentat.v e :"_the convention them
ehes who framed the Constitution, were not
such fcrnpulous observers of trifling fractional
differences, when they apportioned the repre
fenta.ion ; for altho, by the estimate of popula
,hre g ;° Und uf " r ' ,e a PPortioninent,
the itate of New-Jersey, was, ftriciiy fpeakin-/
entitled only to three members ; _yc t
a large traction remaining, she was allowed four
In oppofinon to the proposed amendment it
was said, that the constitution never contemplat
ed a minute attention to fractions; that the weight
° 10 lhe in the r«„ le l
274
CONGRESS.
ccnecffion, (o compensate for anvJr.- i
they might be fubjert to in the W h?k ythat
the ieg.flaiare j that the oouftitu.i o '„ of
the apportionment according to ,l le : r P i r out
numbers of the feverai Hates"- thar t Vi P e
P r f Tentative to be chosen bj a "re
thirty thousand, would be an open Zhri "■
the express words of tl.e constitution • „
were not uncoiiftitutional, ye; it nev' er ! sicf ic
a permanent rule, answer the purpofc 7 d '
n was intended. The fame difficulty wouTl tU
recur on other occasions ; for if it wer J •'"S a,n
as a rule, that an additional member 7"
allowed only for a fraction above so Der 1(1 be
ui.ght happen, that there would bcflL"'"' K
state a fraction of ij.ooi inhabitants and" ° nC
ther the precise number of i c 000 '« ano "
state of Delaware to be in the latter predic
she would have a representation of
ber for j.rty-five thousand inhabitant S™'
noiher (late, whose fraction were i/oor « m
be represented in the ratio of one , . 1(1
less than thirty thousand ' " le '" b " f or
The constitution direrts, that taxation fl, in
apportioned among the individuals in ' /
ral states, whereas representation is to be
tioned to clafles of thirty thousand in each
and this according to a census firft actually ta] '
hence as the one apportionment was '
operate upon st ates , and the other upon i„ di vi v
ual Citizens, any difference in the aun ( ,r.' '
ment could never curtail the authority Tf theT'
vernment with rtffpcct to taxation. As to the
equality, laid to arise from one large state
ing as many representatives as fix smaller It- *
pi e.onatives) whereas the large state havin
only two members, can pollefs but i-i 4 th part of
red-f X1 | fIUC ' Ke : r l '" circ »™fl"i>« ope
rates to the disadvantage of the largefl state i ,d
■n favor of the smaller ones, whicf have the/e
fore no leafon to complain of an inequality tha
exifts but in idea ; or if it does exill at all bears
lieavier on the larger state, to which a f,„all at )
vantage: the House of Representatives can hard
y e deemed a lullicient compensation for the
loss it in nil neceflanly fuffer in the Senate the
piopofed amendment would but encreafe that in
S'l'"S a greater portion of influence
to the smaller states, which already pollefs mo.e
tape fni'mth" 6 C 0! ir ' a " <! ( ' ei ' ve thisadvan
, y yey y circumstance which is com
plained of as productive of inequality in the
House of Repi clentatives. On a former occasion
piopofition had been made to correct that fup
po ed inequality, by allowing the state of Dela
ware two members in the house ; it was made at
a tune when no local lnterells could be supposed
to influence the decision ; and it was then de
ciaiedtobe unconstitutional. nnlefs that state
fliould be found to contain sixty thousand in ha
bit ants.
The qneftior. being taken on Mr. Sedgwick's
amendment, was loft.
The question was then put, on agreeing to the
senate s amendment, and parted also in the ne
gatne : after which, the committee rose and res
ported accordingly.
WEDNESDAY, December 21
, ~ 6 c ° m,n ' !:le e of enrollment, presented t»
the Speaker an enrolled bill, " making appro
priations lor the support of government for the
yeai 1792. The Speaker signed the fame, and
it was prelented to the Prelident of the United
States, for his approbation.
A report from afelect committee, to whom was
referred the report of the Secretary ofthe Trea
sury , on the petition of Comfort Sands and o
thers, was read, and made the order of the day
for Friday next.
The committee appointed, reported a biJl for
carrying into efß;<st the contract for the purchase
of a ti act of laod bordering on Lake £rie ; which
was read a fir ft time.
T ne rloufe resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole (Mr. W. Smith in the chair) and re
sumed the consideration of the port-office bill.
After haying proceeded through all the re
mainder of- the bill, except the Bth, the 22d,
and twenty-third feciions (refpetfting the carri
age of i.ewipapers) which were poltponed for
future consideration, the committee rose and re
ported progrefi. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, December 22
A bill for carrying into effert a contract be
tween the United States and the State of Penn
sylvania, was read a second time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house, to-morrow.
Mr. Goodhue presented the petition of Law
rence h urlong, praying compensation for Cervices
as a pilot in the navy of the United States during
the late war, which was read and referred tothe
Secretary of the Trcafury.A petition of the merchants, traders, and other
inhabitants of the town of Newport, in the State
of Rhode-Island, praying that a roue for the port
inay be eltablifhed from that place to Bolton,
through the towns of Bristol, Warren, and Taun.
ton, presented by Mr. Bourne, was read and re
ferred to the committee of the whole house on
the bill to eflabliih the port-office and poll-roads
within the United States.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented a memorial and pe
tition from the society of the people called (Qua
kers, in Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Vir
ginia, deploring thelofsof so many of our brave
citizens in the late acflion with the Indians ; and
praying that such measures may be adopted as
niay be the means of restoring peace and harmo
ny between this country aud the Indian tribes ;
■which was read, and laid on the table.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
on the petition of George Webb, late receiver of
continental taxes in the State of Virginia, pray
ing com penfation for services, and indemnifica
tion for public money, of which he was robbed,
was read. Mr. Giles then proposed the follow
ing resolution—That a committee be appointed
to bring in a bill, allowing to such of the receiv
ers cf continental taxes as continued in office af
ter April 1752, a certain rate per cent, for their
services, &c. which was laid on the table.
Mr. Sedgwick afited leave of absence for three
weeks, which was granted.
Mr. Gerry, of the committee to vrhoni was re
ferred certain propositions relative to the annual
receipts and expenditures of public monies, &c.
brought in a report, which was read and laid on
the table.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Smith (S. C.)
in the chair—the bill sent from the Senate, rela
tive to the election of a President and Vicc Pre
lident of the United States, and declaring in cafe
of vacancies, in the office of President and Vice-
President, what officer flrtll a< r t as President of
the United Srares, was taken into consideration.
Several amendments were proposed, some of
■which were agreed to, and others negatived. A
motion to amend the ninth fedtion, by (h iking
out the words which designate the President of
the Senate pro tcntpore, or the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, to till the vacancy of
President, occasioned some debate.
The committee rose without coming to a deci
sion on the question, and reported progress.
Mr. Dayton asked leave of absence for one
week, which was granted. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, December 23
A meflage from the President of the United
States, by his Secretary Mr. Lear, informed the
House thai he had this day approved and signed
the adt making appropriations for the support of
government for the year 1792.
_ The House took into consideration the rcfolu
tion laid on the table yesterday, by Mr. Giles,
pursuant to the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the petition of George Webb, re
ceiver of Continental taxes—This resolution was,
after debate, agreed to, and a committee, con
fiding of Meflrs. Livermore, Giles, Clark, Fitzfi
luons, & Bourne (R. 1.) appointed to report a bill.
On motion of Mr. Benfon, the House took in
to consideration the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury, 011 the petition of Comfort Sands
and others—also the report of a committee to
which said report had been referred the last ses
sion.—Proceeding on this report being objeifted
to, as informal—the Secretary's report was again
referred to a feleift committee, confining of
Aleflis. Benfon, Gregg, and Venable.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) presented a memorial and
petition of sundry merchants of South-Carolina,
who were in bnfinefs in that State before the
revolution—rtating the hardships imposed on
them, in conftquence of being obliged to receive
during the war, paper money for debts, &c. and
now being called on to pay their foreign cre
ditors in specie, purfnant 10 the treaty of peace,
aud pray that Congress would grant such relief
as they may fee meet—read and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for car
rying into eftecft a contra<st between the United
States and the State of Pennsylvania—Mr. Smith
(S. C.) in the Chair. The committee made no
alteration 111 the bill, they reported it accord
ingly to'the House ; it was then ordered to be
sngrofled for a third reading.
_In committee of the whole on the Port-Office
kill— Mr. Smith, (S.C.) in the chair.
The committee took into consideration those
fcftion's of the bill which had been poltponed—
On motion of Mr. Fitzfitnons, the Bth feuion,
which regulated the rates of portage, was ex
punged, and a clause proposed by liini, fubftitut
fd, in which the rates are reduced below both
theprefent regulation, and that which was ori
ginally proposed in the bill.—The fec r tion which
made it death for robbing the mail, by persons
employed in the port office department, was a
nientled, by fubrtituting imprij'onwent J(,r iije > or
jor such turn as the jndgr 1 may determine.
The committee rose without finishing the bill
—Siid the Iloufe adjourned till Monday.
Philadelphia, Dcccrabcr 24.
Last Wednesday evening Lieutenant Denny,
A 1 ci-de-Camp to Majo.-General St. Clair, arrived
with di (patches for the Secretary lor the depart
ment of War, dated Fort-Walhington, ilie ilth
November.
i iie garrifan at Fort-JefFerfon was intended to
be continued, and was not conceived to be in any
danger: It was well f'upplied with provifious
pi ovided with artillery, and commanded by Cant
Shayler of the 2 d regiment. Mod of the wound
ed had arrived at Forc-Wafhington from Fort-
Jeffer fun.
Piamingo, the Chickafaw Chief, had returned
fafe wuh his warriors, and Captain Sparks, of
Clark s battalion, bringing with them fivefcalps.
7he Kentuckv militia, under Generals Scot
and Wilkinion, all mounted and furnilhed with
20 days provision, would probably arrive at Fort-
Washington about the middle of November.
It was expetfted that the dispersed 'ituation of
the Indians would afford a good opportunity for
the 111 ilira to make an important stroke yet this
winter.
The brave Major Clark (who covered the re
treat will] fomtr soldiers) supposed to be killed,
had arrived fafe at Fort-Washington.
The levies were generally discharged, except
ing those who had inlilted into the regular ser
vice.
Non commissioned Officers and Privates—Kil
led and Miffing, 593 —Wounded, 214.
N. B. Of the Ift United Stales Regiment, a
final! detachment only was in action, the Regi
ment being on-command.
Late accounts from Rotterdam mention, that
Gin has risen in pi ice from 71. ss. roi4l. per calk,
ot 30 v elts or 60 gallons. This is occasioned by
the unparallelled demand in France for that ar
ticle, owing to the scarcity of Brandy in that
kingdom.
It is laid that the denomination of people cal
led Methodists, ol the late Mr. Weltley'sperfua
fion, has greatly encreafed in France of late.
J he citizens of Petersburg and Richmond, Vir
ginia, are taking measures for the eltablifhmenc
of a State Bank in that Commonwealth.
We hear from Brunfwick, New-Jersey, that on
the 15th inft. the valuable mills upon Millltone
river, belonging to Archibald Mercer, Esq. De
puty Governor of the Manufacturing Company
of New-Jersey, took fii c and were totally con
sumed,, with property therein to the value of
about five thousand pounds in flour, wheat, and
other species of grain. The fire is said to have
been communicated from an iron sire-stove which
was used in fevcre weather to prevent the ice
from clogging the wheels.
Some of the Astern papers have publiftied the
following article, s\?.
" We learn from Philadelphia, that there is no
hope of any commercial treaty between Great-
Britain and the United Stales on terms of reci-
procity, but that the language of Mr. Hammond
indicares an adherence on the part of Britain to
her old system."
It is very frequently the cafe, that persons se
veral hundred miles from the scene of action, ap
pear to know more of a particular business rhan
those on the spot. It is fairly to be presumed
that the above is a fabrication, without the least
foundation to support it. Nothing that wears
the semblance of authority has ever appeared to
fantftion the suggestions.
The articles sketching the outlines of colonial
government, as proposed to the Aflembly by M.
Barnave, on the 24111 September, have been de
creed, only with the followingauiendment in the
third article : " The laws relative to slaves, and
the political situation of mulattoes and free ne
groes, as well as the regulations relative to the
execution of such laws, ihall be made by the co
lonial aflemblies ; and, with the approbation of
the several governors of the colonies, shall be
executed proviftonatly, during one year, for the
American colonies, and two yeais for the colo
nies in Asia; immediately after their passing in
the colonies they are to be sent home, for the
fantftion of the King, their execution in the mean
time not to be impeded, or the power granted to
the alietnblies, infringed, bj any prior decree
whatever. French Paper.
If the amount of free letters by the mail is at
the present time equal to the amount of those
wl)i(l) are not free, what will their amount be
when the number of the members of theHouie
(hall be double to what it now is ?
Will it not very much reduce the revenue of
the Poft-office ?
Will 110 c the diminution of the revenue of the
Polt-office necefl'arily tend to obftrutft the chan
nels of information, fmcc the Poftmalter-Gene
ral's arrangements arc confined to the amount of
the revenue ?
275
Wmle tliecotift.mtion of the United States was on its nafTaae
by the people, the men of wisdom and vi,t,ievery generally paid
a ctofc attention to polities; and never did any country profit
more by the united cares and exertions of its molt eftimablc c,t -
sens. Ihe constitution was gamed by the temperate zeal a, d
perluafive arguments of us advocate, ; „ .thing then escaped the.r
wh'iehTh" ' e m Wal r? ' or , ,bc ldf '' ,VHf • P'»» of government
which they justly considered as involving iheir own, and their
country-, fafety. 1 heir affeflion tor lo excellent a plan was na
turally great, but tins was greatly increased by the sense of the
hazaid while on its paifage, and even during the H. ft operations
under it But the federal zeal has abated, parties have, veiy
much to the.r honor, (hook hands : But ihe.e i, lo,ne r.tk it, s
hink it nn°l 6 V T ROV ' ri ' mCnt l ' c,n S P™<P"™>, its ft iends
think ,t no longer stands u. need of their cares-having ,a.„ed
strength and consistency, they tear nothing for it. They are
such i n" V '" Ve , much to fear f r « n They are open to
tn m r pr , efllons ' and c the men and 'he occasions are not wanting
<■0 make, hem The State governments are frequently called the
most popular, the molt friendly to republican liberty and then
confohdat'en is held up as a dreadful tendency of our political
tate Tho the constitution of the nation is acopvofthe bell of
,»i' a 'n C ? n ; t , Ut r ons ' P' rrha P san improvement upon them all,
yet this style of suspicion and accusation may grow into a hat,,,
very much to the prejudice of thofc sentiments of brotherhood
Which ought to prevail in every American bosom. The roncl .
lion from these obfervat.ons, is, that the government of the Uni
ted States having been Called into being and supported thus far
by the enlightened zeal and virtue of our bed and wisest citizens,
the neceflity still subsists for those men to aid it, to watch for it
and to guard it against those encroachments which maybeattempt
ed upon its authority. Jealousy against government is often re
commended ; let it still be wakeful : But jealousy for govern
ment is alio a virtue—as our present condition proves. We (hould
to this day have remained a divided people, if the friend, of
union had not guarded with a wife jeoloufy against the further
prottranon of all government; it was in effect liberty that they
watched for.—And (uch men will never be falfe to it. It is hoped
that they will never cease to pay attention to the conduftof go
vernment, as the weight of their virtuous influence will he fuffi
cient to iupport a good one, and to reform a bad one. There is
appearance that they are become more inattentive and cold
towards It than they once were. Being in part a government over
governments, questions of jurifdiftion will anfe. Very good
men it is well known incline to extend the jurifdiaion which
they exercise ; difputesßetween the State and national govern
ments will anfe—candor will allow that it is probable the latter
will be in the right half the times : But there are reasons
which will operale to make error and encroachment aopear
less excusable on the part of Congress than of a State legiflj
ture. In every fray, we naturally enough take part against the
strongest. A State, a small one especially, is not the object of fear
to the union—and under this ltnprcflion it is overlooked that an
encroachment made by one State eftablilhes a new and more am
ple line of authority to every other. In this way the power of
Congrrfs may be pared away, and the lrisnds ot union may not'
take any alarm.
On the other hand, the authority of the union being exercised
in one place, being very conspicuously placed, excites the feais of
manv, even when it keeps within its proper bounds—but if it
(hould pais them, the whole people would fee and check them.
Thus, Congress will feel the llrongefl rellraints against any undue
exercise of its power.
Very sanguine hopes were entertained at the time of the
blifhment ol the Bank of the United States, of its eminent utilit/ vt
to trade. We have seen its firft operations. Though the transac
tions of a Bank are not expoted to view, yet enough is conje&ur
fd, and on very fatisfaftory grounds, relating to the great e\tent
of its deposits and discounts, to juftify the conclusion that our firft
hopes will not be disappointed—Certainly the affairs of a trad
ing country cannot be well managed, where a Bank of extenlive
circulation is not in being. The utility of a Bank is little (hort
of that of a Canal—it opens a trade where obstacles not less flub,
born than those of nature's make, would have prevented any with
out it.
The late Fires which have diftreflcd a part of the public, were
solely kindled by the hand of a malevolent boy, who, after an
examination before the Mayor, uniformly perseveres in his de
claration, that he alone was the actual incendiary, and that no
other person was in any degree concerned in his villainy. The
panic therefore excited on that occasion, mult subside ; and age,
sickness and debility may taketheir usual repose. It nigft how
ever be confefTed, that the conduct of this boy has been artful
and attrocious, and can scarcely be paralleled. *"
On Tuesday evening next, the 27th inft. being the
of St. John the Evangelist, will be performed at the Theatre in
the Northern Liberties, the Tragedy of Venice Preserved,
&c. &c. The proceeds of the sale of Tickets to be applied to
the immediate relief of diftrefled Masons, Widows and Orphans.
Died, at Galacz, Prince Charles Frederick Henry of Wurtem
berg Scutgard, brother to the Grand Duchcfsof Russia, aged 21.
On his journey to Italy, Lord Craven. In London, Lieutenant-
General John M'Kenzie, aged 80. In Scotland, by his horse
rearing and falling upon him, Lord Haddo, only son of the Earl
of Aberdeen.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Atlantic, Hutchinfon, Liverpool
Brig Nancy, Hathaway, Port-au-Prince
Schooner Friendship, Foster, Charlcfton
Franklin, Eves, Aux-Cayes
Sloop Polly 8c Sally, M'Neeran, Maryland
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
22/6 pr. £
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents 13/
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates 2
Indents 12/6
Bank Subscriptions, 146
Bank of the United States.
December. 22, 1791.
RESOLVED, That the Discounts in future be made upon
Tuesday and Friday, and that the Notes or Bills offered for
Discount, be presented at the Bank on Monday and Thursday.
(41) JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
TO BE SOLD,
On the Waters of Tye River, a Branch of James River, in
the County of Amherft, and State of Virginia,
About 7,000 acres of rich Land,
Well adapted to produce every kind of grain and grass a farmer
can wi(h to cultivate, distant from navigation twenty miles.
For terms apply to JAMES ROSE, residing on the Land.
Amherft County, Virginia, Dec. 10, 1791. (4t)
CHARITY,
in| pr. cent.
65 do.
do.
20/6
102J do.
64
Dollars,ADDRESS
TO THE CITIZENS OF
WE3TMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
REVENUE LA W.
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania
CONGRESS began with dutus on goods imported from a
broad. Thefirlk fcflion they paired a law layingfuch dune's,
to an ixtcnt that was then supposed to be as high'as was proper.
In a second fcflion, they added to those duties conlidcrabty, and
in the very adt of which you complain, they made a furthei and
a material addition to the duty oodiftilLcd Ipiriu brought fiom
abroad.
But as it appeared that the proceeds of all these duties would
fall ihorr, fcveral hundred thousand dollars, of the sum necessary
for the payment of nnereft on the public debt and the support "i
government, it became rieceflary to provide some additional
fund.
The committee in the four western counties of this State, in
timate the policy of an increafcof the duties on imported articles.
But the two houses of Congress, s'nd the great body of the mer
chant in ail the States, are of a different opinion. Who have the
best means of judging ? Who are most likely to be in the right ?
What rrafons are given to shew the policy ol such an increase ?
Long and multiplied experience has proved, that, if duties on
importation are carried beyond their proper limit, they do not
produce revenue, but Smuggling, fraud and perjury in abundance.
Would it be wife in government to force the growth ol such de/-
tru£live weeds, or to hazard the ruin of trade by opprcflive du
ties J Is it the interest of any part of the community that trade
fliou'd be ruined ; How will the merchant be able to purcbafe
and rxport the produce ot the farmer, if he is prevented from
arrying on his business with reasonable advantage.
Should duties on the importation of goods be carried to an im
propcr cvi' nr, trie farmer would not the pcr!<;n ]. v ; iuim'-n
ay it. Among the evil co/ifrqucnew to him. a failure of revenue,
from the prevalency of i 1 ug, would oblige the govermcnt
to lay upon houses ard lands wh it, by attempting too much in
one way, it had failed to get from the other source.
Is it even certain, if the thing were in itfelf pra£ticable and
proper, that it would be the intcreft of those who live at a dis
tance from the fca, to prefer an increase of the duty on imported
articles, to a duty on spirits diftillecl among themselves : would
they not be obliged to pay more in the enhanced price of the fo
reign manufa£)ures, which they necefTarily consume, by the ad
vance whicn 1 lie several claflVs or dealers fucceflively charge on
the duty, than they/would have to pay 011 the spirits diftiilcd by
and among themselves ?
If Congrcfs had not had good ground to think, that the duties
on imported articles were fufnciently high in the main, they
would naturally have been led to increase them, ratherthan h <ve
ecourfe to an internal dut v, which J icy could not but • • ...
Would meet with more objcdilion. Wi cn :!iis is duly c-n
ed, when it is also considered, t.;at the pcrfons who have liar'
opportunities of information on the fubjeft, view it in
-J light, cud, ) ovc all, v hen the 11igh r->tcs f ihr* cxiUw ;
»s are carefully examined, I perfuadc tnyfclf that you -/.■••] ; c
>• opinion, that the additional revenue, which was ncceflary,
-OUiu not wifely have been attempted to be raised by an increase
;>i the duties on imported articles.
But the committee suggest another rcfource for supplying the
deficiency. This is a reduction of the fabrics and c.mnpenfations
of trie officers and members of the government. It is not my
province, to enter into a difcuflion, how far those falarirs are or
are not extravagant. I fliall only observe, that no redu&ion of
them, which the moil economical could desire, would afford a
laving that would bear any proportion to the turn required. The
whole amount of the falarics and competitions of the Prcfiden't,
Vic.-Prefident, the two houses of Congress, the judicial and Ex
ecutive Departments, Officers of the government of the Western
temtory, Board of Commiflioncrs for setting of accounts, foreign
Minifltrs, and all other officers borne on the civil lift, exceeds
but little, 300,000 dollais. The whole of 1 his would be a very
inadequate lubftitute for a deficiency of 600,000 dollars. The
amount of any reduction which could be made, would be infig
nihcant in the comparison. It is, therefore, a plain cafe, that
t is expedient would not tupcrcede the ne;elTity of a further tax
ot lome Kind or other.
A tax on the certificates themselves is proposed. This would
vCtr.e lame as if, between individuals, a debtor being stronger
t.an the creditor, and there being no superior judge to controul
Him, ihould force him to accept fifteen (hillings for twenty
w ich he owed : judge of the honesty of this expedient. The
committee have not noticed, what is a fact, that the public crc
'n S cner al have already voluntarily agreed to accept four in
-0 fix per cent* for ten years on the,whole amount of their
principa., for the accommodation of the government. Would
u c ju. k 10 mulct them in,the bargain ?As consumers and pro
priety s ihey pay their full share of the general taxes. Remem- I
oer.ihat a Urge propo.tion of the public creditors are ftiil thof.
,i'dJn C ce and rUppl '" comribulcd to give you liberty and
Ime ml. r, that 011 full examination a discrimination was
ountl impracticable and inadmifliblc. As Pennfvlvanians we
Inrcly cannot complain of this, for we had but latelv funded our
lull proportion of the debt higher than Congreis have done,
t ou rl ec isiATu re made no discrimination ; and they'
ve met deemed it p.opcr 10 add to therate of inured allowed
y ongrc s ? tbeieby preserving that hodv from the charge of ex
-1 ° n , P art °f their citizens. In giving this addition
.l benefit to the public credits, thev made no disc
'i 1 know ' l to y n "> ,r >v fellow-citizens, that a con
siderable mppr.;y of the State R. prefemativ s. of t'nefe western
cenfure S for not d°f °' Pe * nf y ,v »» i »- Will not
offcr-d hv so r r "v!' n j U,lg a j nd for cxtrav »g Jnce "n 'he terms
derfn.h/ Cfs ' he deemed very inconsistent from h nee un
it wo M C ' rCUm But lf a t ' s *" cr >minatioti had been made,
of ravW °f a , n> ' Uir ' sri ' lci P lc > ha « lightened the burthen
"iven ° r W f w ». taken Irom the prefeot holder, must he
v,ould h a ,r h ß ' na ! 7 1 f ' adeed - had U bcen ma ' lc !h "c
ivhic'thishe "" <C ro ° m an accomm °dation, like that
which has been given to the public.
me.,t n bx m , b V'," lat Un j er 'l r nfwl y P U S hled faith "f the govern
debthavc he n i c d '-' llb "ate afl, the evidences of the
P it,?" by ,h 'P ref ™ t hoMcr, beyond their
Shall ( r m °^ Ctha , n lwcnt >' idlings in the pound.
:s,iK5 re " sion and mo " llty '
(to be continued.)
A TART IT f TO PE - - OLD BY THE ed 'TOR,
United St.?,."''T'"* and P " vin " Gnld at thc of the
Crms from nn ?' ' e Value ° f Gold in Dollars 3nrf
AfiofCon f C £ a Thoi'fand Pennyweights— according to thc
Att of Cong, eh, afccrtgming the Standatd and Value of Gold.
ON THE
(continued.)
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An extensive Allotment, of very superior texture, suitable for
every branch ot the bulinefs, jull imported fioin Arnllcidatn,
and tor Sale by
DANIEL
No. 114, South Front-Street;
Where Millers and others may always be supplied with the bed
Cloths, and large allowance made to those who purchafc in quan
tities 10 fell again.
Also for Sale, a Quantity of Particular
M ADEIRA
Of ihe firll Quality, fit for immediate life, in Pipes.
Philadelphia, December 6, 1791- [iawim]
George MEADE
Has for SALE, a: his Stoies on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which lie will dilpofe of by the pipe, hogshead or
quarter calk.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the Hi ft quality, by the hoglhcad ®r
quarier calk.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, ticrce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He has jull received by the Pigou, Loxley, mailer, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
By the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well allotted ; a lew bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaccii CANDLES cf the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantity of drefled White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him with
their custom, may be allured of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undrefled HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price tor them.
N.B. A few hampers of rxccllent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be diipoled of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, &Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
fouih of Walnut-ftrcet Wharf, adjoining their New Fa£tory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
ment ofSHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifti workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa£lured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addreftVd to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
(horteft notice.
N. li. W T antcd, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pfc a r.St re et,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be fcen every day, uvtil five o'clock, p. m.
Among them arc the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xetiophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
-1 J- men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Patci
cuius, Pliny, Concordamia Lat. Concordamia Gr. Thcfaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Juiui and Tremellii, Bfblc de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulie—Phavorini—Martini)—HofFmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Sritannicae,&c.
Quarto. Pindarj Cyropasdia, Bentiey's Horace, Terence and
Ph;edrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Ca;far, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lcxicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Jultinian Code, See.
Oflavo et infra. Homer, Aoacreon, Ariffophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Ileliod, Poetas minores Gr. Ifocratcs, Philaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aulonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Flows, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gcllius, Hill!
August. Scriptorcs, English and French Truncations of sonic of the
ClaHics, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, See. Sec.
(PT Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice & Co. Bookfelli rs,
Market-ffreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
O&ober 31. (ep tf.)
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. gy.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES ana SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,on CommiJJioti,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all Tales at auction, one eighth pel
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchafc, one-half per ccnt.
On remittances, ditto.
interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, seventy-jive cents per transfer.
(Ms Such persons as may incline to favor the fubfenber with
1 e,r or der*. mav relv on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and dif patch. His long experience and cxtenfive dealings
in the public ttocks, together with a well caabliihed correfpon.
dence throughout lhe Unned States, enable him to condud his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
03ob:r 15, 1791
276
Y S O N,
WINE,
(ep 6w.)
JOHN PINTARD.
New-York, No. King-Str;ct.
Bank of the United States.
December 3, l -q 1
"VTOTlCEuhtreby given that the B.ult <,F t | le United Suit.
1 > will be opened on Monday the s'h inlUnt.
Transfers of the fubfcnptions to me stock of said Bank mav
then be made. '
On Monday the i2ih inlhnt, depofirs will bereseived, and oa
Tueiday the 20th initant, discounts may be made.
By order of ike Piefuicnt and Dirc&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Caflutr.
All Bills or Notes offered for Discount (ball be delivered into
the Bank on Mondays or Wednesdays, the Dtfcount (hall be (
ted on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and fliall be raade known he
next succeeding days.
AT A MEETING OK the DIRECTORS OF i IiE
BANK OF the UNITED STATES,
December 1791.
RFSOLVED,
THAT ihc payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of the United States, confiding ot Specie which will be
due on the f; vrral Shares on the firft Monday of Jmuary next
may be made at the refpeclive Banksof Majfuchvjilts and Ncw-Ymk
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of furii
payment, ihall, on or before the full Monday in Januaivnext
exhibit to the Calliicr of the Bank of the United States, a Cettifil
catt* signed by the Cashier of ihc Bank into which such payment
Ihall have been made— any thing in the regulations heretofore
established to the contrary notwiihftanding
By order of the Piefident and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Ca/hitr.
of the United States.
Bank
Phi ladflphia, November 22,1791.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the Unit ed States
are hereby informed, that according to the statute of incor
poration, a general election for twenty-five Di rectors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fettion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby riotified to aflemble in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day of
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prefideni and Directors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajkier.
Secondfundamental Article of Statute of Incorporation.
Not more than three-fourths of the Dire&orsin office, exclu.
five of the President, fin a 11 -be eligible for the next fuccceding year.
But the Di reft or who fh-.1l be President at the time of an eledion,
may always be re-ele£ted." [fp'O
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOIIEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,ic.&c.
Ol the lii lt quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and 1a ft Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY
The First and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State)
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery 10 Subscribers—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Corner of Chefnut and Thiid Streets.
(£3" The above two volumes contain the politica! hiflory of the
Slate, from its firft fcttlement to the adoption of the present Con
futation of thejUnitcti States;—the third, containing a geographi
cal description of the Slate, sketches of its natural hiitury, See. is
in the p»efs.
*** A few copies of the fnft two volumes lor sale—price 2of.
November 5, 1791.
In the Prcfs, and speedily will be publi(h<d,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confiding of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the United States.
By Eli ENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
*** The price to Subscribers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages ; 01 Four Dollars and a Quarter
for each Volume in Boards ; to be paid as follows, viz. the firft
and second Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
tbe firft ; and each subsequent one (except the laflj at the time of
delivery.
Subscriptions will be reccfvcd, in this city, by Thomas
Dobson, and Haza rd & Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work) and in other places by the principal Bookfcllers
'here. Philadelphia, November 1791.
Holy Bible.—-Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worccfter, Malfachufetts, rood refpeft
fuHy informs the public, ihat he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quario .Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will be finifh
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he beps will
return them to him at IVorceJler, or to him and Company at Bojlon,
by the last day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has ruet
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
printing, its correftnefs, and its cheapness compared with Englifk
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expenfrve undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that all those
who wilh to po fiefs a Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubfeription.
IVorcei
(lev, Sept. 29, 1791
ADVERTIS.EMEN T.
BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has received fron
A T o. 10 to 31, both inclusive, of a Publication which comes out twice &
week in Paris, entitled, "Correspondance Nationale. '
Fiom No. 1 to No. 10, have been /hipped, but are not yet come to hand.
Any person who may incline to fubjeribefor tins work, which appears i»
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic, may bejumijhed with the number*
as thev arrive b\ applying to the Editor of this Gazette. _
Blank Powers to receive the I nterefi. and for thetransjer oj the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablifhed in the tea "
furv Department: Also Blanks for abjlrafts of Certificates, to be fold bl
the Editor.
gC7* The price of this Paper is % Dollars per *nn
One half to it paid at Subscribing.
ISAIAH THOMAS.