V- '
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND l HJRD SfREhTS, PIIILADr.I.PHIA
[No. 92, of Vol. ll.]
Discourses on Davila—No. 26.
THESE reasons of the Queen, urged and re
peated with energy, would have staggered
the King of Navarre,, and perhaps the Constable,
if the Duke of Guise would have listened to them.
But he wilhed for war—by the favor of which he
flattered himfelf, he Ihould recover and even in
treafe his ancient power. Moreover, in quality
of Chief, and Protecftor of the Catholic party, he
wished to annul, by any means whatever, all
that had been done againlt his inclination, to
the prejudice of the Church—and to arrogate to
hiinfelfall the glory of such a revolution. He
conibatted therefore, with vivacity, all the rea
sons of the Queen, and remonstrated to his con
federates, that they would infallibly lose all
their credit and reputation, by fuffering them
selves to be so easily amused by a woman, who
had no other design than to throw herfelf into
the arms of the opposite party as soon as they,
from a blind confidence in her words, should de
part from Court. Nothing" added the Duke,
4 will be more prejudicial to cur cause, nor more
4 infamous for us, than to avow that it is neither
' the public good, lior the maintenance of the
' Royal Authority, but private paflions and per
' fonal interests, which have put us in motion.
4 It will be believed, that the remorse of ourcon
* sciences, has obftrudted us, in the pursuit ofour
' enterprise. The artificial discourses of the
4 Queen, ought not to prevail with us, to abandon
« a resolution, maturely weighed, and taken by
* concert, nor to interrupt the execution of a pro
' jeet, ditlated by reason, prescribed by honor,
4 and commanded by that attachment, which we
4 have profefl'ed to religion, whose preservation
< and interest, have chiefly determined us to this
4 measure. It is 110 longer the season to delay,
4 and to waste time in disputes. Already the
4 1 rince of Cond<= is advancing in arms—the for
< ces of the Hugonots are alfcmbled—they are
' ready to fciznw the person oj the King, if *<us do
4 not hajten to place him in a situation of fafety—and
4 since we caunot terminate this affair by perfnafion,
4 let us not be intimidated from employing force : Let
' us take away the King, and leave the Queen to
4 take the part which Jheihall judge moll conven
-4 ient. The resolutions of this Princess are of
4 little moment to us, as soon as we (hall be fup
< ported by t he prefenee of our lawful Sovereign,
4 aided by ihe authority of the firit Prince of the
' blood, to whom, by right of birth belongs the
' government of the kingdom.'
The Prince of Condi, united with theColignis
and other Lords of |iis party, approached the
Court. TheConftable, and tlieKiugof Navarre,
persuaded by the Duke ofGuife, gave the Queen
to understand, that it was neceilary 10 take her
resolution, without loss of time ; that for them
selves, they hadrefolved to conduct to Paris, the
King, and his brothers, for fear they should fall
into the hands of the Hugonots, who, according
to intelligence, were not far diltant. That they
would not abandon their mailer ro the mercy of
I>ereticks, who intended to take him away, in or
der to make an ill use of his name, and under
mine the foundations of the monarchy. That
there was no time to be 1011, or trifled away.—
That they Jhould couduil the King to Paris, as their
own honor, and the good of the ft ate required : That
as to herfelf, they pretended not to constrain her
in any thing ; but fliould leave her, with all the
refpetft that was due to her, at libertyto dispose
of her person, as (he should think (it. The Queen
was not afloniflied at this declaration, bold and
sudden as it was. She had forefeen it, and de
termined, beforehand, on her plan, in such a si
tuation. Forced to declare lierlelf, altho flie tore
jaw that the two parties would soon come to
blows, flie would not abandon the Catholic pany :
She pretended that her honor, and her reason,
attached her to it : She imagined flie saw her
fafety, and that of her children in it. Taking
therefore in an inltant her resolution, ihe anfvver
ed,with her usual presence of mind, that no per
son was more attached than herfelf to the Catholic
religion, nor more zealous for the good of the
State—That flie would, upon this occasion, give
way to their sentiments—and since they were all
for quitting Fontainbleau, flie would concur with
them.
With the utmost promptitude (lie gave orders
for their departure ; but at the fame time she
wrote to the Prince of Cond= a letter, in which
she lamented, that flic could not commit herfelf,
Wednesday, March 16, 1791-
and the person of the King, into the hands of his
partizans, according to the promise ihe had made
him : That the Catholics had prevented them,
by conducting them by force to Paiis: That,
provided he did not lose his courage, ftie exhort
ed him not to fuffer his enemies to take pofleflion
of tiie whole authority of government. She then
commenced her journey, with the King and her
other children, surrounded by the Triumvirate,
and the other Catholic Lords, who to console her,
treated her with great refped: and honor. She
arrived that evening at Melun, the next day at
Vincennes, and in the morning ofthe third day
at Paris. Many persons observed the young
King in tears, thinking the Catholic Lords had
deprived him of his liberty. The Queen, irri
tated by the ill-success of her artifices, and fore
feeing the calamities of an inevitable war, disco
vered, during the whole journey, a mournful and
mortified air and countenance. The Dnke of
Guise was so little afFedted with this, that he said
freely and openly, that the public good was a pub
; lie good, whether it was obtained byconfent or by force.
The Prince of Conde was informed, upon his
march, of the departure of the King, and per
ceiving himfelf either prevented by the Catho
lics, or deceived by the Queen, made a halt, and
remained sometime undecided, what course he
(lioukl rake. The terrible picture of those dan
gers which threatened him, presented itfelf in
lively colours before his ejes ; but the Admiral,
who had remained •» little in the rear, arriving,
they conferred together a few minutes, and the
Prince, with a profound sigh cried out, " The
Die is call, we are too far advanced to retreat."
He took immediately another road, aud march
ed with rapidity towards Orleans, of which, he
had for sometime resolved to take pofleflion.
This city, one of the principal of the Kingdom,
about thitty leagues from ParL, is vast, well
built, and very populous ; it is situated in the
province ofßeauce, alinoll in the middle of France
upon the banks of the Loire, a Jarge navigable
river, which after having watered leverals pro
vinces, falls into the ocean in Britany. Orleans,
by its navigation, the fertility of its territory, its
reputation, and its facility of communication
with several other provinces, appeared to the
| Prince very proper for a place of arms and the
I center of his party, and to be opposed in foine
j fort, to Paris
For several months, that he had meditated to
nake hinifelf matter ot this city, he had enter
ained a secret intelligence with some of the in
labitants, inclined to the do>ftrines of Calvin,
.vhoin he employed to engage a great part of the
roung men, who were reftlei's, fediiious and gree
dy of novelties. As it is not intended to relate
in detail, the whole of this hiltory, it is fuffi
cient to fay that he got pofleflion ofOrleans, that
the two parties published manifeftos, and that
chicanery, negociations, battles, sieges, confla
grations and aflaffinations, succeeded in all their
usual train of horrors in civil wars.
NEW REVENUE LAW.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT repealing, after the last day of June
next, the duties heretofore laid upon Distilled
Spirits imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead ; and also upon Spirits
Distilled within the United States, and for ap
propriating the fame.
BE it cna£ted by the Senate and House of Rrprcfcnt3tivc» of the
United States of America in Congrcfs assembled, That after
the lafl day of June next, tlie duties laid upon distilled spirits by
the ast, intituled, " An a£l making further provision for the pay
ment of the debts of the United States," (hall cease ; and that up.
on all distilled spirits which (ball be imported into the United
States after that day, from any foreign port or place, there shall
be paid for tbeir ufc the duties following ; that is to fayj—For
every gallon of those spirits more than ten per cent bcjpw proof,
accoidingto Dicas's hydrometer, twenty cents. For ever) gallon
of those spirits under five, and not more than ten per cent below
proof, according to the fame hydrometer, twenty-one cents. Foi
• very gallon of thole spirits of proof, and not mare than five per
cent below proof, according to the farr.e hydrometer, twent)-two
cents. For every gallon of those spirits above proof, but nr t ex
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the fame hydrometer, twen
ty five cents. For every gallon of those spirits more than twenty,
and not more than forty per cent above proof, according to the
fame hydrometer, thirty cents. For every gallon of those spirits
more than forty per cent above proof, according to the lame hy
drometer, forty cents.
And be it further enaftcd, That the said duties (hall be collected
in the fame manner, by the lame peifons, under the fame rcgula
781
[Whole No. 196'.]
tions, and fubjeft to the fame forfeitures and other penalties, as
thofc heretofore laid ; the ast concernlrg which {"hall be deemed
to be in full force for the collection of the duties herein before
imposed, excrpt as to the alterations contained in this act.
And be it further enacted, That the said duties, when the
amount thereof shall not exceed fifty dollais. fhnll be immediately
; but when the fa>d amount shall exceed fifty, and shall not
amount to more than five hundred dollars, may, at the option of the
proprietor,importer or confignee,be either immediately paid,or se
cured by bond, with condition for the payment thereof in four
months; and if the amount of the (pid duties {hall exceed five
hundred dollars, the fame may be immediately paid or secured
by bond, with condition for the payment thereof in fix months ;
which bond in either cafe, at the like option of the proprietor,
importer or consignee,(hall either include one ormorefureties to the
fatisiaftion of the collector, or person acting as such, or shall be
accompanied with a deposit in thecuftody of the said collector,
or person acting as such, of so much of the said spirits as shall in
rsjudgment be a fufficient fccurity for the amount of the duties
or which the said bond shall have been given, and the charges of
the fafe keeping and sale of the spirits so deposited ; which depo
iit shall and may be accepted in lien of the said surety or sureties,
and shall be kept by the said collector, or person acting as such,
with due and reasonable care, at the cxpence and risk or the party
or parties on whose account the fame shall have been made ; and
it at the expiration of the time mentioned iti the bond for the pay
ment of the duties thereby intended to be secured, the fame shall
not be paid, then the said depofitcd spirits shall be fold at public
sale, and the proceeds thereof, after deducting the charges of
keeping and sale, shall be applied to the payment of the \Vh6l<£
sum of the duties for which such deposit shall have been made,
rendering the overplus of the said proceeds, and the rcfidue of the
said spirits, if any there be, to the person or persons by whom
such deposit shall have been made, Qr to his, her or their repre
fentatires.
In order to a due collection of the duties imposed by this ast,
Be it fuither enabled, That the United States shall be divided into
fourteen diftrifts, each consisting of one State, but fubjeft to alter
ations by the President of the United States, from time to time, by
adding to the smaller such portions ol the greater as shall in his
judgment boft tend to secure and facilitate the colloftion of the
revenue ; which diflrifts it shall be lawful tor the President of
the United States to subdivide into furyeys of infpeftion, and jihe
fame to alter at his difcrelion. That the President be authorized
to appoint, with the advice and conlent of the Senate, a fupprvifor
to each diftrift, and as many infpeftors to each tuvvev therein aS.
he shall judge necessary, placing the latter under the dneftion of
the former. Provided always, That it shall and may be lawful
for the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, ::i
his discretion to appoint, fuel) and lo many of the officers of the
cufloms to be infpeftors in anv furvcy of infpeftion as lie fhail
deem advifeable to employ in the execution of this ast : Provided
also, That where, in the judgment of the President, a fupertifor
can discharge the duties of that office, and also that of inipeftor,
he may direct fame : And provided further, That if the ap
pointment of the infpeftors of surveys, or any part of them, shall
not be made during the present feflicn of Congress, the President
may, and he is hereby empowered to make such appointments
during the rcccfs of the Senate, by granting commiflions which
(hall expire at the end of their next I'eflion.
And beitfurther enabled, That the supervisors. infpeftors and
officers to be appoinied by virtue of this ast, and who (hall be
charged to take bonds for securing the payment of the duties up
on spirits distilled within the United States, and with the receipt
of monies in discharge of such duties, (hall keep fair and true ac
counts and records of their tranfaftious i.i their relpeftive offices,
in such manner and form as may be diiefted by the proper de
partment or officer having the fuperintendance ot the collection
of the revenue, and shall at all times submit their books, papers
and accounts to the infpeftion of such peifons as are or may be
appointed for thai purpose, and (hall at all time* pay to the order
of the officer, who is or shall be authorized to direst the payment
thereof, the whole of the monies which they may refpeftively re
ceireby virtueof this ast, and shall also once in every three months,
or oftener if they shall be required, transmit their accounts lor
settlement to the officer or officers whose duty it is, or fliali be to
make such settlement.
And be it further enabled, That all officers and pcrfons to be
appointed pursuant to this ast, before they enter on the duties ot
their refpeftive offices, (Vial 1 take an oath or affirmation diligently
and faithfully to execute the duties of their said offices refpeftive
-Iy, and to use their best endeavors to prevent and dcteft frauds, in
relation to the duties on spirits imposed by this ast, which oath or
affirmation may be taken before any magistrate authorized toad
inimfter oaths within the diftrift or survey to which he belongs,
and being certified under the band and seal of the magistrate by
whom the fame shall have been administered, shall within three
months thereafter be tranfniitted to the comptroller of the trea*
fury, in default of taking which oath or affirmation, the party fail
ing shall forfeit and pay two hundred dollars, for the use of the
United States, to be recovered with coftsof suit.
And be it further enacted, That the supervisor of the revenue
for eaeh diftrift, shall establish one or more offices within the
fame, as may be neceflary ; and in order that the said offices may
be publicly known, there shall be painted or written, in large le
gible characters, upon some conspicuous part outside and in front
of each house, building or place in which any such office shall be
kept, these words, " office of inspection and if any pei -
son ffiall paint or write, or cause to be painted or written, the foid
words, upon any other than such house or building, he or flic shall
forfeit and pay for so doing, one hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That within forty-eight hours after
any ship or veflel, having on board any distilled spirits brought:
in such ship or veflel from any foreign port or place, shall arrive
within any port of the United States, whether the fame be the
fir ft port of arrival of such ship or veflel, or not, the m after or -
fjn having the command or charge thereof, shall report to one of
t ie infpeftors of the port at which (he shall so arrive, the place
from which she last failed, with her name and burthen, and the
quantity and kinds of the said spirits on board of her, and the
casks, veflels or cases containing them, with their marks and num
bers, on pain of forfeiting the sum of five hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the collector or other officer,
or person acting as collector, with whom entry shall have been
made of any of the said spirits, pursuant to the ast, entuuled f
" An ast to provide more efFectually for the collection of t.>e du
ties imposed by law on goods, waresand merchandizes imported
nto the United States, and on the tonnage of ships or vdi-ls,
shall forthwith after such entry certify aid tranfinit the lame, as
particularly as it shall have been made with h;m f to the properofficer of infpeflion, of the port where it shall be intended to com- I
ineuce the delivery of the spirits so entered, or any part thereof : |
for which purpole, every proprietor, importer orconfignee, mak- I
mg such entry, (hall deliver iwu manifeits ol tiie content] (upon J
one of which the said certificate shall be given) and shall at the
time thereof declare the port at which the laid delivery (hall be lo
intended to be commenced, to the colle&or or offic r with whom
the fame shall be made. And every permit granted by such col
lector, lor the landing of any of tiie laid lpirits, lhall, previous lo
such landin", be produced to the said officer of mfpedion, who
shall make a minute in some proper book, of the contents thereof,
and shall endorse thereupon the wofd " ihspiciid," the time
wlun, and his own name ; after which he shall return it to the
peifon by whom it lhall have been produced ; and then, and not
otherwise, it shall be lawlul to land the fpiriis iheieiri fpecified ;
and if the said fpiriis shall be landed without luch endorsement
"upon the permit for that purpnfc granted, the malier or peifon
having charge of the (hip or vessel Irom which the lame shall nave
been so lariaed, shall, for every such offence, forleit the turn of
five hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That whenever it shall be intended
that any ship or vessel lhall proceed with the whole or any part
of the fpiriis which shall have been brought in such ship or veffei
from any foreign port or place, from one port in the United States
to another port in the said United States, whether in the fame or
in different diftrifts, the malier or person having the command
or charge of such ship or vessel, shall, previous to her departure,
apply to the officer of infpeftion, to whom report was made, for
the port from which she is about to depart, for a certificate of the
quantity and particulars of such of the said fpiriis as shall have
been certified or reported to him to have been entered as imported
in such ship or vessel, and of so much thereof as lhall appear to
him to have been landed out of her at such port; which certifi
cate the said officer shall forthwith grant. And the malter or
person having the command or charge of such snip or vessel, lhall
-within twenty-four hours aftei her arrival at the port to which
she shall be bound, deliver the said certificate to the proper officer
of iufpe&ion of such last mentioned port. And it such ship or
vessel lhall proceed from one port to another within the United
States, with the whole or any part of the spirits brought in her as
aforefaid, without having firft obtained such eernficate ; orif with
in twenty-four hours after her arrival at such other port, the laid
certificate shall not be delivered to the proper officer of infpeftion
there, the inafter or person having the command or charge ot the
said ship or vessel, shall in either cafe forfeit the sum ot hve hun
dred dollars; and the spirits on board ot her at her laid arrival,
shall be forieited, and may be seized by any. officer of infpeCUoii.
And be it further cna&ed, That all spirits which shall be ns
portec as aforefaid, shall be landed under the infpeftion ot the
officer or officers of infpedtion for the place where the fame lhall
be landed, and not otherwise, on pain of forfeiiure thereof; tor
■which purpose the said officer or officers lhall, at all realonable
times, attend ; Provided that this lhall noL be conltiued to ex
clude the. infpettion of the officers of thecuftomsas now eftablilh
ed and praftifed.
And be it fuither cnafted, That the officers of infpeftion under
whose survey any of the said spirits lhall be landed, lhail up,on
landing thereof, as soon as the calks, vclfels and cases containing
the fame shall be gauged or m.afured, brand or otherwise mark
in durable characters, the several casks, vcffels or cafcs containing
the fame, with progressive numbers ; and also with the name ol
the ffiip or vessel wherein the fame was or were imported, and of
the port of entry, and with the proof and quantity thcreot ; toge
ther with such other marks, if any other (hall be deemed
as the refpeflive fupcrvifors of the revenue may dire£t. And the
said officer shall keep a book, wherein he shall enter the name ot
each vessel in which an> of the said spirits lhall be so imported
and of the port of entry and of delivery, and of the mailer ot luch
vessel, and of each importer, and the several casks, vessels and ca
ses containing the fame, and the marks of each : and if such offi
cer is not the chief irifpe£tor within the survey, he lhall as soon as
may be thereafter, make an exact iranfeript of each entry, and
deliver the fame to such chief officer, who shall keep a like book
for recording the said tranfeript.
(To be continued.J
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY, Feb. 4.
The HANK BILL under cons deration.
MR. BOUDINOT faidhe meant to confine
himfelf to two or three great points on
which the whole argument appeared to him to
reft. He considered the objections to the bill as
pointed against its constitutionality and its ex
pediency. It was efl'ential he observed, that
every member fliould be fatisfied as far as poflible
of the firft, for however expedient it might be, if
it was clearly unconstitutional the bill (houlcl ne
ver receive thefaniSion of the representatives of
the people. He would in a great measure refer
its expediency, if constitutional, to the experi
ence of every gentleman of the House, as the
1110 ft fatisfacftory proof on that head, and he con
ceived there was no need of much argument in
fupporc of its decilion—The firft queltion then
was—ls Congress vested with a power to grant
the privileges contained in the bill ? This is de
nied and ought to be proved. In order to fhevv
in what manner this fubjecfthad struck his mind
he firft laid down these principles.
Whatever power is exercised by Congress must:
be drawn from the constitution ; either from the
«!Vrprefs words or apparent meaning, or from a
neceflary implication, arising from the obvious
intent of the framers.
That whatever powers (vested heretofore in
any individual State) not granted by this instru
ment are still in the people of such ilatp and can
not be exercised by Congress.—That whatever
implication dettroys the principle of the confti
tuiion ought to be rejeifted.—Tliat in conihuing
an instrument the different parts ought to be so
expounded as to give meaning to every part
which will admit of it.
Having dated these preliminaries, fr.r. Bou- j
dinot proceeded to enquire, what were the pow
ers attempted to be exercised by this bill ? for
until the powers were known the quellion ot
constitutionality could not be determined.
By it Coiigrefs was about to exercise the pow
er of incorporating certain individuals, thereby
establishing a Banking Compauy " for fucccfsfull}
conducing th; finances of the nation
The next enquiry is—What rights will this
Company enjoy in this new character, that they
do not enjoy independent of it ?—Every indivi
dual citizen had an undoubted right to purchase
and hold property, both real and personal, to
any amount whatever—todifpofe of this proper
ty to whom and on Vhat terms he pleased—to
lend his money (in legal interest to any person
willing to take the fame, and, indeed, to exer
cise every power over his property that was con
tained in the bill. Individual citizensthen, hav-
ing these powers, might also aliociate together
in company or copartnerfliip and jointly exer
cising the fame rights—might hold lands in joint
tenancy or as tenants in common to any amount
whatever—might put any sum of money into
joint stock—might iff'ue their notes to any amount
—might make bye-laws or articles of copartner
fhipfor their own government, and finally, might
set up a bank to any amount, however great, and
no authority in the government could legally in
terfere with the exercise of these rights. The
great difference between this private aflociation
of citizens in their individual capacities, and the
company to be created by this bill, and which is
held up in so dangerous a light, is, that the one
exposes the company ro the neceflity of ufingeach
individual's name in all their tranfatftions —suits
mult be brought in all their names—deeds mufl
be taken and given in like manner—each one in
his private estate is liable for the default of the
reft—the death of a member dilfolved the part-
nerlhip as to him—and for want of apolitical ex
igence, the union may be dillolved by any part
of its members, and of course many obvious in
conveniencies must be fnffered merely of an of
ficial kind. By the bill, thcfe difficulties are to
be removed, by conveying three qualities to them.
ift. Individuality, or constituting a number of
citizens into or.e legal artificial body, cabable by
a fictitious name, of exercising the rights of an
individual
2d. Irresponsibility in their individual capa
city, not being answerable beyond tlie joint cap
ital.
3d. Durability, or a political existence for a
certain time, not to be aftedted by the natural
death of its mejnbers.
These are the whole of the powers exercised,
and the rights conveyed. It is true these are con
venient and advantageous to the company, but
of trifling importance when considered as a right
or power exercised by a national legislature, for
the benefit of the government. Can it be of any
importance to the state whether a number of its
citizens are considered in legal contemplation as
united in an individual capacity, or Separately
as so many individuals, especially if the public
weal is thereby promoted. By their irrefponfi
bility being known, every person dealing with
them gives his tacit consent to the principle, and
it becomes part of the contract. And by politi
cal duration, their powers and abilities are lim
ited, and their rights relhiifted, so as to prevent
any danger that might arise from the exercise of
their joint natural right, not only as to the amount
of their capital, but as to the bye laws they might
make for their government.
A private bank could make contrails with the
government, and the government with them, to
all intents and purposes, as great and important
as a public bank, would their capital admit of it;
though they would not poflefs fucli qualities as
to juftify the confidence of government, by de
pending on them in a time of danger and necef
lity. This might put it in the power of any in
dividuals to injure the community in its ellencial
interests, by withdrawing the capital when molt
needed. To prevent this and many other incon
veniencies, it is neceflary that a bank for the
purposes of govern ment should be a legally arti
ficial body, poflefling the three qualities above
mentioned.
Mr. Boudinot then took up the Constitution,
to fee if this simple power was not fairly to be
drawn by neceflary implication from those veiled
by this inllrument in the legislative authority of
the United States. It sets out in the preamble
with declaring the general purposes for which it
wa» formed—" The infurancc of domejlic tranquil
ity—pftvifion for the common defence —and promotion
of the general welfare." These are the prominent
features of this instrument, and are confirmed
and enlarged by thefpecific grants in the body of
it, where the principles 011 which the legislature
should reft their after pi oceedings are more fully
laid down, and the division of power to be exer
cised by the general and particular governments
dilliniftly marked out. —By the Bth feifuon, Con
gress has power " to levy taxes, pay debts, provide
If or the commou defence and general -welfare, declare
-jjar, rat ft: and support armies, provide J or andmain
782
tain a navy," and as the means to accomplilh these t
important ends, "to borrow mouty," and finally, "
"to make all laws, necejfary and proper, f or car' A
rying into execution the foregoing powers." 9
Let us then enquire,—ls the conltituting a pab- ■
lie bank lieceflary to these important and eflential '■
ends of government —if so, the right to exercise jfl
the power mult be in the fuprcme legislature. ,ffl
"He argued that the power was not contained iu|fl
express words, but that it was necefiariiy
ced by the itrongefr and molt decilive
tion, because he contended that it was a
means to attain a iitccjfary end. Necellary
tion had led Congress, under the power to
and collect impolt, and taxes, to eitablilh
for the collection—to infuift penalties
those who fhotild defraud the revenue—to
vcileis to enterat one port, and deliver in
—fubjeifted them to various ceremonies in
proceedings, for which the owners were
pay—and he conceived that it was not so
an exertion of power by implication, to
rate a company for the purpose of a bank.
also deduced the right, from the power
ing debts—railing armies—providing for
neral welfare and common defence, for
they were to borrow money. All tliefe
farily include the right ofuling every
necefTary means to accomplilh these
ends. It was certain, he said, that money
be raised from the people : This could, not
done in funis fufficient for the exigencies of
vernment ill a country, where the precious
tals were so scarce as in this. The
general are poor, when compared with
nations—they have a wilderness to fubduc
cultivate—Taxes mult belaid with prudence,
collected with discretion—The
the revenues therefore, by borrowing
becomes absolutely necefTary. Iffo, then
constitution had not fpecified the manner qf
rowing, or from whom the loan
tained, the lupreme legislature of the (Jnion
at liberty, it was their duty to fix on the
mode of effecting the purposes of their
men:. For it was a found principle, thai
a general power is granted, and the means
not fpecified, they are left to the discretion SH
those, in whom the trull is reposed, provided
do not adopt means expressly forbidden.—
public defence, or general welfare, retted on
annual supplies from uncertain revenues,
j expose the very existence of the community.—
is the duty then of those, to whom the
have committed this power, to prepare in
of peace, for the lieceflary defence, in a time mH
war. The United States are now happily in fM
Hate of peace ; but it was impossible for any one 9
to fay, how long it would continue. By prudeolH
management, it might be long preserved ; binH
this prudence consisted in being always found iriH
a state of preparation to defend our country, <9
The conftirution contemplates this very dutjflH
by authorising Congress ro provide for the cohmH
mon defence, by borrowing of money. WhjH
borrow money ? Are not the annual
fufficient ? ft might be so, if nothing was to b|H
attended to but internal wants ; but
defence and general welfare, loudly call for thttH
provision which will produce a constant guard oiH
external enemies and internal
To this necellary end, it becomes Congress tffl
provide that the necefTary means may be alwawH
at hand, by being able to arm their citizens anal
provide for their support while engaged in thwß
defence of their common country. I his can hSM
done only by borrowing money, which is
of citizens or foreigners ; if of the firft, it mnflM
be from individuals, or from private banks
Will it be prudent rotruft to either ? Loans froafl
individuals were attempted during the war, whejMl
patriotism produced a will in lbn.e lenders, anflH
others were glad to get rid of a depreciating pafl
per currency, almoti: 011 any terms whatever. ■■
(To be continued.) 'M
LONDON, Dec. i
The following Letter was addrefled by the late
Dr. Samuel Johnson to Dv. Lawrance, ou
the death of Mrs. Lawrance :
Dear Sir, . J
At a time when all friends ought to fhewthetrj
kindness, with a character which ought to ma
all that know you your friends, you may wonde 3
that you have yet heard nothing of me. _ j
I have been hindered by a vexatious andl in Jj
fant cough ; for which, within these ten days.
have bled once, failed four or five times, ta e i
physic five times, and opiates I think fix.
day it seems to remit. , r
" The loss, dear Sir, which you have lately luN,
fered, I felt many years ago ; and know their-,
fore how much has been taken from you,
how little help can be had from consolation. twj
who outlives a wife whom he has long ove ,
himfelf disjoined from the only nnnd t .at _
the fame hopes and fears and interest ; tronil l
only companion with whom he lias stared 1
good or evil ; with whom he could fe_t his
at liberty, to retrace the past, or antiopafuture. The continuity of being is lacerated ;
the fettled coutfeof fentimenc and a<ftion is (top
ped ; and life stands suspended and motionlets,
till it is driven by external causes into a new
channel. But the time of fufpence is dreadful.
Our firft retourfe in this dillrefsful folitude,is,
perhaps, for want of habitual piety, to a gloomy
acquiescence in necessity. Of two mortal beings,
one must lose the other. But iurely there is a
higher and a better comfort to be drawn from
the conllderation of that Providence which watch
es over all ; a belief that the living and the dead
are equally in the hands of God, who will re
unite those whom he has separated, or who lees
that it is belt not to re-unite then).
The King's compliments of congratulation to
their Imperial Majelties, on the Emperor's electi
on as Ivir.g of the Romans, were sealed up before
the cabinet council, at the Secretary of States'
office, on Monday night, and the Earl of Elgin,
appointed amballador extraordinary to the court
of Vienna, to deliver the fame; with which his
lordship set off immediately.
Earl Cornwallis, on acconnt of the present com
plexion of affairs in India, continues Gov. Gene
ral some time longer.
According to letters from Berlin, a great change
has taken place in the ministry there, through
the influence of Prince Henry, the King's uncle.
Comte de Hertzberg, the prime minister, has re
signed, and is replaced by the Cointe de Bifchoff
Warder : The Duke of Brunfvvick has also retir
ed from taking any pare in the Prnffian affairs.
December 2
Upwards of thirteen thoufar.d of Mr Burke's
political work have been fold since its publicati
on. The author has derived no other advantage
£w>m this admirable production, than theencrea
lea celebrity it has procured him, having given
ic to his bookleller before ic appeared.
ExtraCl oj a letter Jrom Ojlend.
December 4,
The town is now under the protection of the
Society of St. Andrew. The revolution is rtow
complete, both here and all over the couutry.
The Patriot party is now quite annihilated, the
officers fled, and privates gone to their refpeiflive
homes. Colonel Rogard, a Patriot officer, was
arretted this morning, in attempting to escape
to England, and is now a prisoner. General
Koehler, commander in chief, is expected here
this evening, and will probably betaken. They
have loft all their baggage, and every thing they
poflefTed, in the late battle ; so that we fear our
countryman, second in command, will not add
much money to his name.
January 2,
It is confidently reported, that the Lord Chan
cellor has not only lignified his acquiescence to
a bill of insolvency -but been graciously plea-
Ted to propose one liimfelf, on fucli an extensive
humane, and liberal scale, as will effectually
clear the different prisons in the kingdom. Af
ter which, new laws and regulations are to take
place respecting imprisonment for debt, more
congenial to the liberty of the fubjefts, and a
greeableto the true spirit and meaning of Mag
na Charts.
PARIS, Dec. 23
National Assembly, Dec. 5
The King's letter upon the Civil Conjlitntion of the
i HIS morning, Mr. Andre, the Prelident,wait
ed on the King to know if the'decree on the con
ititutioii of the clergy had been accepted. The
King Tent the following answer in writing :
which immediately caused the warmeit debates,
and is likely to be followed by the moil alarming
consequences.
" In accepting the decrees upon the civil con
stitution of the clergy, I announced to the Nati
onal Affenibly that 1 would take the most conve
nient measures to secure the execution of that
decree. From that time, I have not cealed to
think 011 the fubjeft. The decree of the 27th of
November being 110 more than a confcquence of
that of July, 110 doubt ought to be entertained
of my intentions ; but its execution appears to
me to require the greatest attention. My refpeifl
for religion, and my desire to fee the constitution
eltablilhed, without agitation, and without trou
ble, have made me redouble my activity in the
measures I have taken, and I hope the National
Aflembly will agree with me, by employing the
1110 ft lenient measures, and fucli as would be mod
secure from troubling the public tranquility ; I
hope to consolidate the basis of the constitution
ot the kingdom. I repeat it again to the Allem
bly, that they would place in me all the confi
dence I mtrit."
This letter caused a long debate, which con
cluded with a decree, that " the IVefidentfoonld
wait on ilie King to-morrow, to desire him to give
an anfwcr (fignetl by his Majesty, and counter
signed by a JVliniller} to the dccice oi' the 27th
of November."
Clergy
The foil owing Statement may be traced ia the
lacelt accounts published from Britifii pa pel's.
FRENCH REVOLUTION
PRO. CON.
THEidea of a counter-revolu
tion in France, Ceems to be a
bandoned.
The patriots are prosecuting
their object with the utmost
pcrfeverance.
There is a perfefl confidence
between the King and the Nati-
onal AHeiTibly; as far as words
can be believed, both the King
and Queen are on the bell termi
with that band of patriots.
The example of Fiance has
reached even Constantinople,
where symptoms of the French
fever, in some recent duburban
ces, have appeared.
The Emperor has his hands
full of business; having fettled
in pan the troubles in his own
dominions, he will find enough
to employ his attention, with
out tioubling his neighbors.
The higher orders of the cler
gy having been stripped of the-r
overgrown wealth, and the in- The Bifhopshave remonftra
ferior placed on terms of justice trd against the decrees of the
and equality—the majoiity of National Afombly, refpe&ing
the Priesthood is warmly at- spiritual matters,
tached to the revolution. The cities of Lorraine have
The municipalitiesof thepro
vinccs exhibit daily new proofs
of their attachment to the de
crees of the National Alterably.
All fears of a counter-revolu
tion are at an end. The King
has wrote to the Count d'Artois
and the Prince of Conde, to re
turn to their country, and be at
peace. And the King of Sardi
nia has given the exiles a broad
hint to decamp from his territc-
So great has been the demand
for Mr. Burke's celebrated
pamphlet, that an impreflion of
thirteen thousand has been fold
since its publication.
WILMINGTON, March 2
We are happy to inform our readers, that the
improvments in grift-mills, lately invented by a
citizen of this ftate,Mr.oliver Evans, are encreaf
ing very rapidly in public eltimation. Every
part of the machinery in which those improve
ments consist, is now in use at the Brandywine
Mills, and is highly approved of. The wheat
elevator has been lately applied,for rhe firil time,
to unload a lhallop ; it elevates 300 bushels per
hour, and enables the miller to convey his wheat
to any granary in the mi'l without the assistance
of manual labor. To Inch perfection are our
grift and merchant mills brought, by the aflifi
ance of those improvements, that we may fay,
perhaps without boasting, that they are not equal
led in the world. The machinery is so well ap
plied, that from the time the wheat leaves the
waggoner's bag, the measurer's hals-bushel or
the veflel's hold, as the cafe may be, no manual
labor is required, but t:ie wheat is converted in
to fuperfine or other flour, fit for packing, en
tirely by the effetfl of the machinery. Mr. Evans
has obtained a patent for hisdifcovery, which we
are happy is like to turn out much to his advan
tage.
BALTIMORE, March 8
Ext rail of a letterjroma gmtlemari in Port-au-Prince
to his friend in this tovn, dated January 14,
<e Mr. Porter, from New-England, eftabliftied
as a Merchant in this place, died on the 24th ult.
His books, papers, &c. were immediately seized,
by virtue of the Droit d'Aubaine ; which isitill
cruelly and rigorously enforced in the French
Colonies, although expressly contrary to the trea
ty between France and the United Stat,es. Affi
davits of the feizurc will be taken, and forward
ed to the President of the United States, with a
representation of this unjust proceeding."
Philadelphia,
In the Emrlifli papers received by the Packet,
there is anjacfcount of a nioft tremendous Thun-
which pasted over London, on the
(morning of the 23d December last : The wind,
rain, and hail, were extremely violent ; great
damage was i'uftained by many buildings, and
the shipping in the river,
In the above storm an incredible number of
?e(lels were loft—the crews ot many of which
leriibed : The Charlemont Packet from Liver
pool for Dnblin was wrecked, and of no paflen
»ers, 19 only efcaped—Atender, havingon board
upwards of 400 men, was loft off Liverpool, and
almost every person 011 board perished. The Alert,
Cutter, Capt. Dean, was also wrecked on the
Chapel Rocks, in Budden Bay, and every foul
011 board loft. This storm extended almost all
over England ; the lightning and thunder were
the severest almost ever known, and the wind
blew a perfect hurricane ; The papers by the
Packet give a long detail of the dii'attrous confe
-1 0
\qucncei.
753
THE Marquis de la Fayette
has turned Printer; keepsa press
in his house, to putFoff his own
virtues.
The Marquis has seceded from
the democratical interest, and
has run off to Turin, to join the
Ariflocrats.
The revolutionists are renew
ing the works at Cherburg :—
This is no design of monarchy ;
but a desperate feint of the de
mocrats.
The revolution in Brabant is
at an end, the Emperor Leopold
being acknowledged in all the
cities; and the downfall of the
late usurpation, celebrated with
every demonstration of joy.
The Emperor of Germany is
determined to interpose in be
half of his fiflei, the Queen of
France, arid has already de
manded that fhc be sent to Vi
enna.
recalled their deputies and o
ther cities are resolved to fol
low their example.
A great blow is on the point
of being ft ruck against the revo
lution—The exiles arc, or have
been in motion—Fayette is no
longer popular, and has been
openly impeached in the Na
tional Assembly by one of its
members.
Burke's pamphlet on the re-
volution is called the ravings
of a mad man, and has tarnish
ed all the former lustre of his
political charatter and literary
abilities, and it hardly requires
common sense to letute it.
March 16.
Extratt of a litte? jrom Fort IV'ejhtngtou, Jan. 26
On the 1 oth January the Indian's attacked
Dunlap's ftation,about 25 miles uj> the bio; Miami
—The Stockade Fort, was commanded by Lieut.
Kingfbury, of the Federal troops, who had under
his command only 12 men.—There were in the
party of Indians 2jo —they remained before the
place 24 hours—and then retreated, driving o |>'
all the Cattle of the place—during the attack on
ly one soldier was wounded—The Indians left
three dead on the ground—and a number were
afterwards found ac a diltance from the iiockade
—The Indians on this occasion marched within a
short diflance of the Fort in columns, like vete
ran troops, with an intentien to florin it—but the
besieged poured info well directed a fire as
broke and dispersed them.
According to accounts from Georgia,it appears
that Mr. MATTHEWsand Mr. Jackson, loil their
election by a majority of only 5 voces in favor of
the fuccefsful candidates ; and that a very small
proportion of the votes of their refpecftive districts
were given in on the occasion.
Letters for'ihe British Packet will be received
at the Poll-Office, till 10 o'clock this mornihg.
PRICE CURRENT.
PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents inf. ljfi* pr. £. 85 pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents 9/ 4,5 do.
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 8/10 gf. 45 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 15/9 do.
Indents 9 f. 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12J6 6_g do.
|C 7* -A special meeting of the Society Jor the ef
tahlijhment of Sunday fchoots in this city, and liber
ties, will be held on Friday evening next, at half after
fix o'clock, at the Academy of Mr. Sharplefs, in Se
cond-Street. M. Carey, Sec.
March, 15, X 791.
Captain Armstrong,
INFORMS his fellow-foldier.«>aiid others,who njav wish to enlist,
that he has commenced recruiting in the city of Philadelphia,
where a generous bounty, and other encouragement will be given.
Young men, who wish to become Adventurers in a new
country, by joining this command, may acquire a of
the Western World, fubjeft to no exper.ee ; and after serving a
short period, set down on their own farms, and enjoy all ihc
bleflingsof peace and plenty. JOHN ARMSTRONG.
Philadelphia, March 14, 1791.
FOR SAL E,
In the City of Ns w-B runfw'tck,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almolb
new, pleasantly fuuated on the banks oi the Raritan, to
gether with a large J.ot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has four rooms on each floor, with entries between the fame,
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have poffeflion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms ot payment which
will be made easy by applying to Lewis Forman, in said city, or
the fubferiberin Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH.
N. B. If not told, to be rented from ill day of May next.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A WORK, Entitled
The Art of Writing,
R EDUC ED TO
A PLAIN AND EASY SYSTEM,
On a Plan entirely new.
IN SEVEN BOOKS.
By JOHN JENKINS, Writing-Majlcr,
THE firft book contains a very plain, easy and familiar intro
duction to this art, and leads the learner to a right under
standing of the principles of the work. The small letters arc dif
fered—the principal ftrokesare placed by themselves, and accom
panied with particular explanations. A table, or scheme, is ad
ded, which exhibits at one view the component parts of each let
ter, both small and great, placed indifferent clafles, that the learner
may at once perce've, by infpe£lion, the relation and dependence
which one letter has upon another. To which is annexed, a Dia
logue, calculated to fix the attention of children, and impress their
minds with right ideas of the letters. This work is defined for
the benefit of schools, and may be used with advantage by all who
would acquire a knowledge of penmanship.
Five of the remaining fix are proper Writing Books, with Cop
perplate Copies, and are deGgned as an execution of the foregoing
plan, each book proceeding by regular steps, from the fiift princi
ples to Joining-hand Copies, and gradually proceeding from a
large Round-hand, to an easy Running-hand ; ail which are pre
paratory to the seventh and last book, which is a collection of
Writing Pieces, Piomiffory Notes, Orders, Receipts, Bills of Ex
change, 6c c.
CONDITIONS OF THE FIRST BOOK
I. It will be printed on line writing paper, and contain about
twenty-eight pages, quarto, with eight copperplate engravings.
11. The price will be Three Fifths of a Dollar, stitched in blue.
HI. As the author rilks the publication, he requeits that cach
fubferiber would advance One Quarter ot a Dollar.
N. B. As the engravings are not yet completed, the price of the
remaining fix cannot at present be ascertained.
Gentlemen who have these fubfeription papeis in their
hands, arc requested to return them to Isaiah Thomas, Esq. of
Worceftcr, or Thomas and Andrews, Bolton, by the firftot June
next.
The plan of the above work has been submitted to, and
approved of by the Governors of several ot the States, ft" vera L..
members ot Congress—the Prefidcnti of Cambridge, Rliode-
Iflatid, Yale, Columbia, the Pre&dent and Vice- Prcfident ol New-.
Jcrfey, and several of the Profe'ibrs of Pennfylvanta Colleges--
Also, by many of the Clergy, and several eminent V, riling-Me
ters and Inftru&ors of Youth.
Philadelphia, March 7, 179
pr. cent.LISLE, Dec. 6
ON Thurday last, the 2d. inft. a part of the '
Imperial army, headed by Field-Marfiial
Bender, entered the city of Brullels, aniidit uni
■verfal fliouts of joy, and cries of " Vivt Leopold,
uotrc bon Sovirain !" Ten huflars, with two offi
cers, were the firft who entered ; about 9 o'clock
in the morning, these tookpofleifion of the Corps
de Garde, next the Palace: soon after them came
a company of grenadiers, commanded by Captain
Keltelbutt, who proceeded to take the principal
pods in the city without opposition. The officers
frequently addrefled the people very ardently to
this efFett " My friends, endeavour to avoid all
insults ; they are forbidden on both fides, under
pain of severe punilhment." In the afternoon
caine the remainder of the Imperial column,
whose presence diffufed more real joy than ever
attended the ridiculous triumphal procelfions of
the Vandernootian clan. The Baron de Bender
immediately publiflied the Emperor's Declarati
on, that he would reign only by clemency, and
that the troops were to enter the country with a
total forgetfulnefs of the past.
At Namur, a fanatic curate fired upon a compa
ny of Auftrians as they pafled ; he was immedi
ately taken out of his house and hanged, in con
sequence of the notice which had been previously
given, that all insults on each fide fliould be pu
nished with death.
the companies have laid down their arms,
all the splendid liberty Poles are carried away,
and the Imperial Eagle universally reinstated.
General Schoenfeld,on his departure for France
was arretted by the inhabitants of Boff'u, in Hain
ault, but soon afterwards released. In his port
manteau were found 6000 louis, in gold, the
fruits of his inactive generalfihip.
General Vandermerfch is now entirely at large
at his feat near Menin.
All the prisoners in the cells of Bruflels, who
havelanguilhedfor many monthspaft:,now breathy
once more the wholefom air of real liberty.
A general amnesty is illued, with only three
exceptions ; these are, General Gavaux, Major
Afcamp, and Captain Solaves, for surrendering
the Citadel of Antwerp, and the latter taking fer
■vice among the Belgians.
LAWS OF THE UNION.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thoufatid seven hundred and ninety.
AN ACT making an Appropriation for the Pur-
pose therein mentioned.
E it enacted by the Senate and House of Reprcfenta l .ives of
) the United States oh America in Congress afletnbled, That for
the purpose of effecting a recognition of the treaty of the United
States, with the new Emperor of Mo»occo, there be, and hereby
is appropriated a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, to
be paid out of the monies which prior to the firft day of Jannary
next, {hall arise from the duties imposed upon spirits distilled
within the United States, and from ftilis by the ast entitled, " An
ast repealing atter the lafl day of June next, the duties heretofore
laid upon distilled spirits imported from abroad, and laying others
in their stead, and also upon fpinits distilled within the United
States, and for appropriating the fame," together with the excess
of duties which may anfe from the duties imposed by the said
ast, on imported spirits beyond thofc which would have arisen
by the ast entitled, u An ast making further provision for the
payment ot the debts of the United States." And the President
is hereby authorised to take on loan the whole sum by this ast ap
propriated, or so much thereof as he may judge requisite, at an in
terest not exceeding fix per cent, per annnm, and the fund esta
blished for the above mentioned appropriation, is hereby pledg
ed for the repayment of the principal and intereftof any loan to
T)e obtained in manner aforefaid, and in cafe of any deficiency in
the said fund, the faith of the United States is hereby also pledged
to make good such deficiency.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prefident oj the United
and President of the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States
Depofitcd among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of State.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State-
AN ACT to amend iC An Ac% for eftabliftiing
the temporary and permanent feat of the Go
vernment of the United States."
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress aftembled, That so
much of the ast, intitled,an ast for establishing the temporary
and permanent feat of the government of the United States," as re
quires that the whole of the diftrift of territory, not exceedingtcn
miles square, to be located on the river Potowmac, for the perma
nent feat of the government of the United State?, shall be located
above the moui h of the Eastern Branch, be and is hereby repealed,
and that it shall be lawful for the President to make any part of the
teiritory below the said limit, and above the mouth of Hunting
Creek, a part of the fa:d diftrift, so as to include a convenient part
of the Eastern Branch, and ot the lands laying on the lower fide
thereof, and also the town of Alexandria, and the territory so to
be included, shall formapaitof the diftrift not exceeding ten
miles square, for the permanent feat of the government of the Uni
ted States, in like manner and to all intents and purposes, as if the
lame had been within the purview of the above recited ast, Pro
tided,, That nothing herein contained, shall authorize the erection
of the public buildings otheTwife than on the Maryland fide of the
river Potowmac, as required by the aforefaid act.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefevtatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
Approved, March third, 1791
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefidcnt of thellnited States.
Depoiited among the Rolls in the Office of the Secretary of Sfate.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
India Sales, at Salem.
At the STORE of
EL lAS HASKETT DERBY, Esq.
Oil TUESDAY the sth of April rnxt, at 10 o'clock, A. M,
will commence the sale, by AUCTION, of the
Cargo of the Brig Henry,
Lately arrived from Bengal, Madras, and Isle ot France ;
Consisting ot a large aild valuable assortment of
INDIA GOODS.
As follows.—viz
BAFTAS, > While Cloths, proper for
oannas, and > ~, ■ c\
CafTas l Shirting, or Sheeting.
Durtas—or striped Muslins.
Durea Chintz, or painted ftriptd do.
Chintz, a great variety.
Striped Cottons,
Jagrenant Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs.
Ginghams,
Blue Cotton Handkerchiefs.
Long Cloths, of a superior quality, fuitablc for shirting."}
Madras Patches, beautifully figured.
Camboys, or blue and white striped Cottons. |
Morcas, or plain white Cloths. 1
Madras Cambricks. f
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, with borders.
Book Muslins.
Ditto Ditto Handkerchiefs, a great variety. J
A quantity of China Silk Handkerchiefs.
A quantity of Ostrich Feathers.
Surat Cotton, 23 bales.
Indigo, of the Isle ot France, of a superior quality.
An aflbrtment of fine Winesof the Cape of Good Hope.
Kaifins of do.
A quantity of India Shirts and Trowfers, for Sailors' wear.
To the above will be added, a great variety of other Goods, which ar
not enumerated. Also%
100 Casks Raisins, )
75 Chests Bohea Tea/ f [h( ,
30 Ditto Hylon, f 1
30 ditto Souchong, J
The Goods may be viewed a few days previous to the sale.
W. P BARTLETTand CO. Auaioneers.
Salem, Feb. 21,1791
Virginia, Culpeber County, 25th Jan. 1791
To be SOLD by the Subscriber,
The PLANTATION, where
on he resides, laying on both fides tie Carolina road, in the great
fork of Rappahanock river, 36 miles from the town of Dumfries,
30 from Frederickfburg, and 28 from Falmouth ; in a most
healthy part of the country :— Confining of 2,000 acres—half clear
ed, and in good fence, well adapted for farming and grazing—the
foil is good, lays well, abounding with many excellent springs and
dreams of water, so dispersed a; to afford great opportunity of
making watered meadow of the firft quality,perhaps more than 300
acres—of which 120, in one body, is already in grass, and all wa
tered and drained at pleasure by a number of ditches, forthat pur
pose, pafling through the whole. Orchards of about 2000 bear
ing apple trees—near as many jeach trees, and a variety of most
other kinds of fruit, natural to the climate. A good dwelling,
house, the situation whereof is remarkably beautiful and pleasant;
and many other valuable improvements of divers kinds.
And one other Plantation about 5 miles nearer said towns, con
fiding of about 1500 acres, on which is good merchant, grift, and
saw mills, where nature, labour and art, have fully confpircd to
render them complete; a large coiftant stream, on which they
{land, affords them water in great abundance; convenient thereto
is a kiln end house, for drying con, a bake house, a dwelling
houfeand several other improvements mostly new ; about 300
acres of the lands are in cultivation, very good in quality ; the other
part thin foil, but abounding with timber, is an inexhautfable
source for the saw-mill.
Also several detached tra£ls witlin said county, of about 2, 3,
and 400 acres each,and though not rf so fertile a foil,their vicinity to
the towns render them valuable, on some of them there aie small
improvements, and the lands so ftuated, that they can easily be
made convenient little farms.
The whole or any part of the abovementioned poflefiions will
be difpoled of, on very reasonable terms—a small proportion in
ready money, for the balance, the payments will be made entirely
to accommodate the conveniency of the purchafets, who may be
supplied on the fame terms, with all kinds of stock, work hor
ses, oxen, See. See. Sec. by JOHN STRODE, [t, f.]
THE Copartrierfhip of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they request those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make fpcedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H HEWES,
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One calk of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hogftieads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best pickled Mackrel,
6by 8— 7 by g—Bbyio —gbyu—and io by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acrcs of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds ot the choiccft
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New- York. Jan. 1791
784
Bengal.
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Martinico Coffee,
(&aw6w.)
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS,
INTENDED AS MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OK THE UNITED STATES OF
By EBENEZER A. M.
IN this collcftion will be contained the Charters of the
feveial states which now compose the Union ;—the Records
of the United Colonies of New-Engi a nd ; —Royal Induc
tions to Colonial Governors ;—Ext r acts from Public
Records ; —and other authentic Documents tending to elucidate
our History.
The deftgn of this compilation was intimated to Congrcfs, and
honored with their approbation.—On the 20th July, 1778, their
committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it as
their " Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
deserves the public patronage and encouragemenr, as being pro
ductive of public utility;" Whereupon they " Relolved, That
it be recommended to the Governors, Prefidcnts, and Executive
Powers of the several states in the union, to aflift Mr. Hazard,and
give facility to his labors ; and that for this pnrpofe he be admit
ted to an infpe&ion of public records, and be furnifhed without
expence with copies of such papers as he may judge will conduce
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He wasj of consequence, admitted to the infpe&ion and use both
of public records, and the collections made by individuals, from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met with
on the fubjedl, and, he flatters himfelf, the largest ever made in
America) was formed. It has since met the approbation of many
eminent chara&ers,and even in its manuscript slate, has facilitated
the settlement of Tome important controversies.
The compiler cannot suppress the following letter from the honor
able the Secretary of State, to whose inlpeftion part of the com
pilation was submitted, as it contains so flattering and refpefta
blc a testimony in favor of the importance of the work.
" Philadelphia, February 18,1791.
SIR,
I return you the two volumes oj Records, with thanks for the opportu
nity of looking into them :—they are curious Monuments of the Infancy
of our country. I learn with great fatisfattion that you are about com
mitting to the Press the valuable Hijlnrical and State Papers \cu kink
been so long colfetting. Time and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals deposited in our public offices : the late war has done the
work oj centuries in this bufmefs : the loft cannot be recovered; but let
usfave what remains ; not by vaults and locks, which fence themjrom
the public eye and use in confgning them, to the wafbe of time, but by such
a multiplication of copies as jhali place them beyond the reach of accident;
this being the tendenc\ of your undertaking, be assured there is noonewhs
wishes it a more complete success than. S 1 i?,
Yout mofl obedient and mofi humble Servant,
THOMAS JEFFERSON."
Mr. Hazard
CONDITIONS.
I. The Work, to be pt'.blifhed in numbers, each containing
160 pages, large quarto :— A number to be delivered every three
months.
11. On delivery of the firfl Number, payment to be made for
the firli and second, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(except the last) so that the price of one Number will beconftant
ly in advance. The very great expence attending so large a work,
at the fame time that it renders this condition absolutely necefla
ry, will be a fufficient apology to the candid tor its insertion.
111. The price to Subscribers will be one Dollar for each num
ber. It is supposed that the Work will probably be comprised in
eight Numbers, forming two handsome Volumes, in large quarto,
printed on a neat Type and good paper.
IV. To those who choose to fubferibe for the Work in Vo
lumes, the price will be Four Dollar s and a Quarter of a Dollar, for
each Volume, in boards.
V. The collection will be put to the Press as soon as there
shall be a fufficient number of fubferiptions to juftify an hope that
the expences will be defrayed.
who receive Subfcriptious will please transmit accounts oj
the numbers obtained to Thomas Dobfon, No. 41, Second-Jireet, Phila
delphia } by thefiijl of May next.
Subsc r Ipt ions will be received in Portsmouth, (N. H) by
Jeremiah Libbey; Bodon, Thomas Sc Andrews; Worcefler,
Isaiah Thomas; Hartford, Thomas Hildrup ; New-Ha en, Ilaac
Beers; New-London, Timothy Green ; Newport, (R. I.) Jacob
Richardson ; Providence, John Carter ; New-York, Hodge, Al
len & Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. Lanfing ; Philadelphia,
Thomas Dobfon, and Hazard Sc Addoms ; Wilmington, (Dela
ware) Frederick Craig ; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexandria, Jo-
Ihua Merriman ; Norfolk, Mr. l.indfey ; Frederickfburgh, Ca -
lender and Henderfon ; Peterfburgh, John Grammer ; R'™"
mond, Augustine Davis ; Newbern, (N. C.) F. X. Marf.n; Wi -
mington, John Bradley ; Charlellon, (S. C.) William P. Youn^.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliOied a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Bolton, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will runthro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
tunes a week during the Summer Season.
Go«d Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided. -
Paflengers pay three. Pence per Mile, and are allowed i4poun
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hows for darting from the refpeftivc Stage
Houses is abfolutcly neccffary—from which therecati be no devia
tion. Norwich, Dec- 14» *79°•
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thuifdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Weft ward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence -Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROWN. 69-I*3™
A NEGRO MAN ELOPED.
RAN away f:om his owner about the 25th Jan. Uft,
a negro man. countiy born, noted as a P rt . ac c n
blacks, .30 years of age, about 5 feet 7 inches high—-tic >
set ; had on a brown cloth coat, light cloth jacket, leal rer
and (oarl'e wilton (lockings.—He also had a tow linen r oc
hiin ; and wore a fin a U round hat. lie is fuppo e to c g
Vnginia, as his father lives on Dr. Vandcveer s p antation,
State. Whoever will take up said negro, and 1
gaol of Philadelphia, or of Trenton, and give notice thcreot
fubferiber living in Bound-Brook, New-Jersey, rc "'
Twelve Dollars reward, and all necessary charge^
kn°" A few copies of the CONSTITUTION
United States, printed -with Notes, may be had of the
Editor.
I© 3r»
Philadelhua, Fcbru»rv 84th, 179,.
AMERICA