PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEKA'O, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 68, oi Vol. lIL] Wednesday, Decembeji 21, 179 1.
FROM THE S.ALF.M GAZETTE.
REFLECTIONS
ON THE PRESENT SITUATION OF THE
distilleries of the united states,
HERETOFORE EMI'tOYED ON
FOREIGN MATERIALS.
IT has been a fubjeft of frequent apprehcnfion, to attentive ob
servers on the internal industry of bur country, that the Diflil
leries wouid one day be deprived of their neceUary supply o\ fo
reign materials; the obvious poflibility of various events suggested
thcfc fears. A contingency, as unhappy as it was unexpected, has
at length happened, whicK menaces a long interruption, perhaps a
total privation, of that large part ot those supplies which has been
drawn from Hifpaniola ; and the late difordcrs in Martinico have
confpiied to heighten the evil.
In consequence of these events, the ordinary operation of above
one hundred Distilleries will be fufpeuded, and the subsistence of
those numerous families that are dependent on them may for a
time be cut off. The ravages already committed in the Weft-
Indies must occasion a defalcation of produce, which will require
several years of industry to restore, alter tranquillity shall be efta
b 1 vfhed. To supply our demand for the raw material from any
other source, is impra&icable ; and if it were poflible to procure
from the iflauds of other nations di/lillcd spirits equal to our con
sumption, yet the importation would be exceflively expensive, as
well as impolitic. Little more than eight millions of gallons are
annually made in those islands; and the demand for the expelled
Spanish war advanced the price of rum in Jamaica 50- per cent—
What then would be the effect of a new and certain demand for
feverll millions of gallons ?
But if it were pra&icable to procure the distilled spirits from
abroad upon moderate terms, what would be the fate of the Ame
rica*) Distillers, their workmen and dependents ?—Would not
their capitals become unproductive, and their distilleries fink, into
ruin ?—lt is to be feared, too, that the navigation interest conned
cd with this branch of industry, will teel a share of thefc unfortu
nate events.
To avoid evils so great and extensive, must be the wish and en
deavor of every good citizen : if, however, they cannot be altoge
ther avoided, prudence perhaps may mitigate them :—it is thought
that a mitigation of them miy be found in the application of our Diflil
lers to the manufacture of Grain Spirits.
The harvests of Europe are fa id to have been abundant ; those
of the United States are known to be so ; and a redu&ion of the
prices of grain seems to be a neceflary consequence : the present
time, therefore, is the proper one to commence this buftnefs.—
The transportation of grain coastwise to the Distilleries, and of
the distilled spirits to the consumers, on all the navigable waters
of the United States, will give employment to those velTels which
may neceirarily relinquish the Frcnch Weft-India trade.
It will not escape the. observation of those who meditate the
eftabliftiment ot Breweries, that the present is a favorable moment
for proceeding in that most beneficial branch. It is well known
that brewing, and the distillation of spirits from grain, are two
very profitable manufactures in Great-Britain ; altho the Brewers
and Distillers there pay 50 per cent higher for grain, than the or
dinary price of the fame article in this country. Holland also
brews extensively, and in distillation from grain exceeds Great-
JBritain ; vet fhc imports more gr;tin than (he manufactures, and
more fuel than her Breweries and Distilleries consume.
The difference of eleven cents per gallon (about 40 per cent, on j
the value of the article) in favor ot spirits dmilled frorr\ native ma
terials, when compared with imported spirits, gives an advantage 1
to the home manufacture, which will be duly animated by every !
judicious calculator :—there can be no doubt that this advantage
will be always preserved, and probably increased, by the laws of
the United States.*
The strongest inducement to reasonable men, for the employ
ment of their capital and talents in any undertaking, is the hope
of permanent profit founded on fair calculation : this calculation
she distillers are bed able to make—to them, therefore, the ideas
herein suggested are submitted, with due respeCt, by
Salem, Nov. 19, 1791. A CITIZEN.
* Ambng. other inducements the National Government would have to
*dopt this policy, it is demonjlrable, that the encouragement to the cuhure
of grain that would be derived from the use of it in diflillation would
prove the mofl effe&uaJ security againfl a scarcity of. bread.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ON POLITICAL CANDOR
CANDOR is an amiable virtue—it exifls in ve
ry well ordered minds only. It means con
descension to the opinions of others ; it implies
that we make proper allowances for the motives,
and give due weight to the reasons of those on
whom we pass our judgment. This virtue has
been ftjrangely confounded with sincerity—so that
when we fay a mill wants candor, he gets angry,
and underltamls by it that he is called a liar.
Whereas the faying of him that he is nncandid,
implies that he does not allow their jnlt weight
to the reasons and motives which govern another.
This fault he may commit in the sincerity of his
heart, and indeed in every controversy each is in
a degree obliged to fix this charge upon the
other.
Of all difimfiions, those which concern politics
are the most difficult to manage wit hour offending
against candor, and yet they are the very cases in
which it is molt amiable and ufeful to prat-life it.
Men love their own opinions—they finceiely be
lieve them to betrue, and that the errorof their
opponents will be very pernicious. Every spa' k
of their love for the truth, for the good of other
men, and of felf love, concenters in the contro
versy, till their zeal flames out, sometimes in an
ger, fonietimes in enthusiasm—Accordingly we
NOT E
find ujeri more zealous about the affairs of the
public than their own. You will find a man cool
and condescending in affairs that concern h'imfelf,
He ii ready to make facrifices, and is forward to
make them, to convince you that he is capable-os
acting a manly part. Wt that man into public
life, you will fee him (tubborn. He not only con
tends for intereils that c .ill, bur he will not give
up the possible chance of advantage. He works
the fineft thietUl of his fancy into the Itrongeft
rtulFs. HU theories, \Vlil 'h 110 other man would
father, become truths and duties.
Why then should men in public life judge of
one another by their opinions? — 'Tis a Itandard
which would keep theih ever at variance. Pri
vate worth and good sense are the proper objedts
of mutual esteem. After every debate, the zea
lous partizans on both fides, as foot! as they have
had time to cool, will find that they have rated
their own opinions too hioh, and those of their
adverfarics too low. As focn as they begin to
grow warm, theyflionld therefore begin to make
fui. ii allowances as they would wifli to have made
for ihemfelves.
PARI S, Odtober 7.
THIS clay the king came to the aflembl.y, and,
with as much cheerfulnefs as ever, deliver
ed a SPEECH, so well calculated le reflore har
mony, that it made a moil lively impreifion on
their hearts. The acclamations were as loud
and frequent as before, and the king was equal
ly gratified by his reception. It was in evjry
point the fame as 011 the 30th of September.
The following are close tran flat ions of the speech
es of the king and the prefulent.
THE KING'S SPEECH
" GENTLEMEN,
" ASS EM BLED by vi rtue of the coijftitntion
to cxercife the powers which it delegates to you,
yon will undoubtedly c<»> fider ss among your
firft duties, to facilitate the operations of go
vernment ; to confirm public credit ; to add, il
poflib'.e, to the security of the engagements of
the nation ; to {hew that liberty and peace are
compatible ; and finally, to attach the people
to their laws, by convincing tliem tliofe laws are
for their good.
" Your experience of the effedts of the new
order of things, in the several departments from
which you come, will enable you to judge of
what may be yet wanting to bring it to perfedli
-011, and make it easy for you to devise the mod
proper means of giving the neceflary force and
acftiviry to the administration.
" For my own part, called by theconltitution
to examine, as firft representative of the people,
and for their interef!:, the laws ppe'ented for my
fandtion, and charged with causing them to be
executed, il is my duty to propose to you fuel)
objects as I think ought to be taken into consi
deration in the courf'e of your feflion.
" You will fee the propriety of fixing your im
mediate attention on the finances, and you will
fee the importance of establishing an equilibri
um between the receipt and expenditure, of ac
celerating the afieflment and collection of taxes,
of introducing an invariable order into all parts
of this vast administration, and thus providing
at once for the support of the Hate, and the re
lief of the people.
«< The civil laws will also demand your care,
which you will have to render conformable to the
principles of the conftitutioiu You will also have
to Amplify the mode of proceeding io courts of
law, and render the attainment of juftite more
easy and more prompt.
" You will perceive the neceffitv of eftabhfli
ins a system of national education, andofgiving
a iolid basis to public credir. You will encou
rage-commerce and industry, the progrets of
which has so great an influence on agriculture
and the wealth of the kingdom ; and you will
endeavor to make permanent dispositions for af
fording work and relief to the indigent.
" 1 (hall make known my firm desire for the
re-eftabljfliment of order and difcipiine in the
armv : and I fliall neglect no means that mny
contribute to restore confidence among all Who
compose it, and to put it into a condition to fecuie
the defence of the realm. If the laws in this re
fuel are infufficient, I (hall make known to yon
the measures that ieeni to me to be proper, and
you will decide upon them. ;#
«< 1 fiiall in the fame manner communicate my
fentirr.ents refperting tlie navy, that important
269
fiflf
[Whole No. 276.]
part of tlie public force, dedined to protect trade
and tlie colonies.
" We lliall not, 1 hope, be troubled vrith 'any
attack from abroad. ] have taken, from the mo
ment 1 accepted the constitution, ami I ihall con
tinue to lake, the (leps that appear to me (lie
inaft proper to fix the opinion of foreign powers
in our favor, to maintain with them the goadsi
intelligence and harmony that ought to secure
to us tjie continuance of peace, I expecft the belt,
effects from them ; but this expectation doesnoc
prevent me from pursuing, with activity, Hfiofe
measures of precaution which prudence ought
to diciate.
[Loud plaudits of Vive le Fioi !]
" Gentlemen, in order that your important
labours and your zeal may produce the efFedtsex
petfted from them, it is neceflary that constant
harmony and unalterable confidence fiiouid reign
between the Igifiative body and the king, [re
newed applause and acclamations.] The ene
mies of our repose are 'ouc too studious to disu
nite 11s ; the love of our country mult therefore
rally us, and the public interest render us inse
parable. | warm applauses] Thus the public
force will be exerted without obftrudtion, the ad
ministration will not be harrafled by vain alarms,
the property and the religion of every man will
be equally protected, and 110 pretext -will be lefc
for any person to live at adiftance from a coun
try where the laws are in vigor, and men's rights
refpedted.
" It is on this greet bafifjfcf order-that t.he lia
bility of the Constitution, the success of your la
bors, the fafety of the empire, the fcgrcc of all
kinds of prosperity mult is to this,
we all ought to turn ourthaughts
111; this moment, with the utmost possible vigor ;
and this is, the objet r t that I recommejM|the most
to your patfiot
[The mod teftimonreis'of applause were
given to the king on thi* conclyfion.j
M. spoke as follow#':
"Sire,
" Your presence in t lie rri id ft of usis a new en
gagement, which you take towards the country.
It is right that you fhoulcl forget the confounded,
powers—A Constitution is cftablifiied, and with
it the liberty of Frenchmen- You ought to che
riill it as a citizen—as a King you ought to main
tain and defend it. Instead of violating, it af
cerraiirs your power—it has given as your friends,
all those who formerly called themselves only
your fubjetfts [here a buift of applaufe]—You
have reason to be beloved by Frenchmen — You
said so, fire, some days ago in this temple of the
country, and we also have reason to love you [the
plaudits were repeated ] The Constitution has
made you the firft Monarch in the world. Your
love for'it places your Majelly in the rank of the
njoft favored Kings, and the welfare of the people
will make you the moil happy. May our mutu
al union make us speedily feel its happy influence
—purify legislation, re-confirm public credit, o
verthrow anarchy. Such is our duty—such are
our wiflies—fuch are yours, Sire. Such are our
hopes, and the benedictions of Frenchmen will
be our reward."
The kine went out in the fame manner that
he enterjZj ainidil the most vehement acclama
tions of vive le Roi, and be was accompanied by
the fame deputation.
On the motion of M. le Croix, the speeches of
.he king and the president were ordered to be
printed.
October 19.
The Municipality of Paris have coilie to a reso
lution to teftify their gratitude to M. Ja Fayette
for the services rendered by him to the Capital
and llie Empire at large :
ill. By striking a Medal in honor of this brave
Citizen Soldier, Ltieemblems, &c. of which are
to be Academy of Inscripti
ons. ■
2dly. By piefentin.g him with the flattie of his
friend General Wafliington, executed by M.
Houdon ; and
3 d Iy. By ordering this decree to be engraved on
the pedeflal of the Bud of M. la Fayette, pre
sented two years since by the States of Ameri
ca to the City of Paris.
GENOA, September j.
On the third instant the noble Michael Ange
lo Cambiaro, was ele«fted doge of this republic,
\vi;h the ufoal formalities.BERLIN, Odlober 4
On Saturday lali the marriage of her Royal
Highness Princess Wilheluiina of Pruflia with his
Serene Highness the Hereditary Prince of O
range, was solemnized with the fame flateas that
of His Royal Highness the Duke of York with
the Princess Frederica of Prnifia.
The Duke of York, with his consort the Prin
cess Frederica,is making preparations for his de
parture on the Bth current, for England, and will
take Brunfwick and Hanover in his way.
M. de Mouftier, the Minilter of France at Ber
lin, arrived at Paris on the evening of the 15th
ult. He does not appear solicitous to succeed
JVI. de Montmorin ; it is, however, thought that
he will be peifuaded to accept the department
for Foreign Affairs.
L O N D O N, Ocftober if?.
Baron I'renck is again at liberty ; but he lias
been obliged to sign a new promise to live quiet
ly, to behave loyally, and not to travel without
aligning a reason, nor without having obtained
permiflion for tliat purpose.
The East-India company are going to build
three more (tacks of warehouses.
Advices from the Continent mention, that a
General Congress is proposed to be holden at
■Aix-la-Chapelle, to discuss the present situation
of France.
M. de Verac,formerly Ambassador from France
at Soleure, has resigned his office. The King has
Jiot yet appointed any person to succeed him.
We are likewise allured, thar M. de Tallyrand,
Ambaflador from France at Naples, has alio re
signed.
if Louis tlie Sixteenth Ihould nor now make
the bell of Kings, the fault mnft be his ewn, as
the ailcipline he has experienced in his person
and family, with the thorough reformation in
Church and State, mufthave, in a great measure,
effaced those prejudices with which every royal
mind is but too well furnilhed, till inflru<fted by
the precepts of the law, and the firmnefs of the
people. 1 he methods of governing a spirited, po
pulous, and extensive empire, are so plainly laid
out, that it is next to impoflible that either the
King or his Ministers can iniftake the road.
There are also fpirittial advantages secured to
Monarch ; for by being deprived of his own will
in all public atfts, he mult necedarily avoid those
crimes which a deviation from the rules ofknown
juflice are perpetually accumulating on the ex
ercile oi" arbitrary power. The maxim, " that
the King can do no wrong," is a reality in France
He whose wings are clipped cannot fly over
the constitution.
October 25.
1 he States General have ordered their ambas
sador to congratulate the French King on his ac
ceptance of the conllitution.
a he Count d'Artois and the other jlluftriout
French refugees, are amply provided for by cer
tain foreign powers : even from Paris, funis of
money are said to be remitted to them.
111 the new legislature of France the business
is to be tranfatSed, as in the last, by committees.
1 his was determined on Sunday last.
It is a curious fa<fi related by travellers, that
the plague is seldom equally deftruiftive to the
various nations who relide in the city of Constan
tinople. Of the Turks, Jew's, Armenians and
Greeks, who form the principal inhabitants, the
carnage is chiefly confined to the firft description
of people, while few in comparison, of the others,
fall vi<itims to its fury.
It may appear extraordinary, that the burial
ground around Constantinople extends now in
every direction 14 miles. So great for some years !
have been the ravages committed on the human
ipecies.
Al. Baiily finding his health afFecled, and per
ceiving that he can no longer dedicate his time
to the lciences, has exprcfltd a wish to resign his
fitnation as Mayor of Paris ; but at the pressing
and reiterated inllances of the municipality, he
has been prevailed upon to withdraw his resigna
tion for the prefertt ; he has, however, stipulated
that he shall retire in November.
PORTSMOUTH, (N.H.) M0v.23.
Subfcripiions arc now feandingabout this town
for eretfting a theatre, and entertaining the
inhabitants with theatric exhibitions during the
winter season. We hear the subscription fills
fact.
W ORCESTER, December 8.
We hear from Rockingham, in the slate of
Vermont, that Colon*! Enoch Hale of that town
who planned and executed the building pfa
bndgeover Connecticut River, at Bellows's falls
has planned and began the work of cutting a ca-
Hai for die purpose of building mills, and for
the building of locks, to carry boats, by said Falls
which would lave much expeuce to those persons
that can y loading up and down said river. If
this work should prove fuccefsfiil, it i s ro be wifti
ed that lome enterptifing person might under
take, and carry into effeift, the buildino- of l oc ks
at the other falls below. - « whs ■
_ Mr. Madison observed, that the idea of dimi
nishing the fractional parts appears to be the only
reaion For the alteration proposed by the Senate.
The aggregate of these fractions only has been
taken into consideration ; bur, said he, if the
fractions of any particular states will be aug
mented by the amendment, which would be the
cafe, he conceived that the argument amounted
to no good rcafon for agreeing to it—and this
he said, would evidently be the fact.
Mr. Williamfon was opposed to a concurrence
he observed, in general, that the operation of the
amendment was to diminifli the fractions to the
Eaflward, and encreafe those to the Southward
The southern Hates, he said, had fuffered so m uch
under the harrow of speculation, that he hoped
liomeafures would be adopted to leflen the means
of informations to the people of those states, by
denying them that proportion in the reprefenta-
T n r° wll ' ch the y aie entitled—He regretted
that some of the southern states were not fully
represented at this time in the Senate—he tho't
it probable that a different decision in that cafe
would have taken place.
Mr. White observed that the amendment would
operate generally against the larger states.
Mr. Sedgwick differed from those opposed to
t e amendment ; in his statements refpecfting the
fractional parts to be produced by ;,,ooo—he
saul they were fewer on the whole than would
result from any other number between 30 and 40
thousand, and those numbers both included • and
this saul he, figures would demonstrate. Hence
he deduced a greater degree of equalitv, and re -
lanvejuftxce between the several parts of the i
Union. I-Ie d.lclanned all local motives, and
■uggefted the propriety of gentlemen forbearing
° f ■■ <«"'r
Mr. Boudinot defended the amendment, and
oblerved that the Senate were in the legal exei-
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, December 12, 1791.
Debate on the amendments proposed by the Senate to
the Reprsfentation Bill.
' I "*HE firft amendment was to encreafe the ratio
to 33 thousand—which being read,
Mr. Gerry observed that the bill had paflcd
both the committee of the whole, and the house,
by a large majority. The principle, as he was
informed, on which Ine amendment had taken
place in the Senate, was to reduce the fractions
which would result from the ratio proposed by
the house—but he said this difficulty had been
fully considered in the house. The representa
tion. every body knows, is now unequal—and it
must be submitted to for two years longer—and
now it is proposed, at that period, to deprive the
people of that representation to which they are
entitled by the Constitution !
He thought that it was extraordinarj'that after
the ratio prbpofed in the bill had been agreed to
by the house, by so large a majority, a proposi
tion to alter it Should Save been agitated and
carried in the Senate. Till some better reason
than he had heard assigned should be offered, he
should be agahift concurring with the Senate
he moved therefore that the house disagree to
the amendment Qf the Senate. The motion
was seconded by Mr. White.
Mr. Livermore was In favor of agreeing to the
amendment—he enlarged on the inequality in
the representation the great fractional num
bers which would from, the ratio of 30,000.
He was fully of opinion that the public business
could be full as well transacted' by ioj members,
the number which Wotiltl be produced by a ratig
of 33,000, as by 112 o-r-113, the number arifini*' ;
from the ratio of 30,000.
Mr. Benfon said there was one idea which, if
[ it had been considered in time, might have been
adopted, and would perhaps have given very ge
neral fatisfa<stion, and that is, that the represent
atives of the United States shall amount to a cer
tain number, accordingto the whole number of the
people, fay one to 50,000 —this would have given a
surplus number which might have been assigned
to those states that have the largest fractional
numbers. He had formerly, he said, voted for
30,000, but as the principle of equality was more
particularly attended to in the amendment, he
Ihould now vote for the ratio proposed by the
Senate. He observed, some states are ftationai y,
the encreafed representation of the larger states,
when once eftablilhed, never will be receded
from—this ought to be taken into serious confe
deration.
270
cife of their office whetn'.iey p ;l ,Ted it a, 1• •
mod undoubtedly a right Po to do ' " ad
He read several calculations to shew thar i-t
aggregate of the fractions would be' reduced un!
w.uds of 90 thousand, by a ratio of 33 tiiouf.,,,,*»
and that the fractions in every ltat e ; except one'
would be dimimfhed also by it-He advened t '
the circumstance of the southern states deriving
Po great an advantage from the reprePeutativef
they are entitled to by reason of their po(/ effi J
flavesi ; and though he would not do any t hi n £
which would interfere with the Constitution
j that point, he Paid every dictate of jnftke and
J equality was oppoPed to giving an unneceflary
and undue advantage to the southern Hates
this matter. "
Mr. h'indley Paid he had expetfted tobearf ome
thing new 011 the fubjec't, to induce an ulte,-.
tion in the opinion of the house, but had heird
nothing. Fractions, said he, were fully consi
dered before, both 111 the house and in the com
mittee. This he considered as one of the lctltr
matters pertaining! to the fubjert. He Paid the
bed; way would have been to have Pettled the ra
tio without knowing the numbers of the peo-ilt
m the several ftates—tho that could not be done
as the numbers are known, yet he said he had
made it the rule of his conduct in voting The
principle being eftabiiihed, there will be no room
tor combinations, nor any ground for complaints
and reproaches refpecfting either southern or nor
thern mterefls. He was for adheringto the prin
ciple as that contemplated in the Constitution—
and this he conceived the house had done- and
he hoped they would nor depart from it; and as
to fractions, in competition with that principle'
he considered them of very little confequer.ee J
He c.id not deny but a smaller number of repre
sentatives would be competent to doing the pub
lic business ; but diPpatch of public business, and
a republican representation of the people, he con
ceived were diftinei things—he therefore should
have been in favor of a laiger representation.
. He controverted the right of the Senate to de
cide for the house in regard to this question—it
was not, he said, a question of right and 'privi
lege—it appertains principally to the representa
tive bod}'.
then considered the quertion as it refpedted
the Senate—and he thought that a large repre
sentation was neceflary as a barrier to the influ
ence of that body—nor do I, said he,'think this
as an unreasonable jealousy, when the constitu
tion ot human nature is considered. Theconfti
tution ot the United States is express on the.fub-'
ject, and now is the time when the people ought
to enjoy the ad vantages of the representation of 1
one to thirty thoofand.
Another consideration to induce a large repre
sentation, he deduced from the accumulation of'
money capitals in the United States, which, said
lie, have been encreafed beyond all parallel the,
influence of these capitals will find its way into,
thtf house. He hoped no alteration would be
made in the determination of the majority 0/ the
members.
4 W 1 ". Goodhue said, the difference between the
result of the two ratios was so small, that he did
not couceive it would constitute a Sufficient rea
son for disagreeing to the amendment ; he stat
ed that the difference between the Southern and
Nothern states, 011 the ratio of 30.000, was be
yond all reason in favor of the Southern states ;
whereas the difference on that of 33*000 was very
small indeed, in favor of the Northern states—
which evidently demonstrated that the principle
of equality was involved in agreeing to the a
mendment of the Senate.
Mr. Hillhoufe stated various particulars to shew
the inequality of the representation by 30,000,
particularly as it refpetts the smaller ftates—H©
said lie rejoiced that the Senate had given their
opinion on the fubjeA, they had a right to do it
they are the representatives of the people,and
on this question are probably more impartial
judges than this House.
Mr. Gerry still supported his motion for a dis
agreement—he stated a cafe to ftiew that in the
oidinary course of population, a state atthenexc
enumeration, which now contains 330,000, will
then have a much larger fraction, by a ratio of
33000, than any now contemplated.
_ He fuppofecl the Senate had a differentintereft
111 tins business from that of the House—The larg
er states not being represented in the Senate,and
the representation of those states which are fta-
tionary, or nearly s O , being full—is the reafou
of this proposed amendment.
Mr. Ames observed, that he thought the on
ly question was to consider whether the bill, as
.ent from this House, was a proper one—for as
to a fmnller oj- larger representation, he confi
c.ered all debate 011 that precluded, as the only
ciitierence was between ioj and 115.
He then entered into a consideration of the bill
as it refpetfts equality —he allerted that the bill
Was nor only iniprop:'«- as unequal, but was alio
uncou fticutional—l o shew the inequality of the
bill, he observed tha: Virginia, with 6;o,ooo in
habitants, would have as many members as fix
of the smaller dates, whose s>gpvega,e numbers
-%: Vexceeded those of Virginia upward* of 70,000 —
This inequality, lie laid, amounted 10 a direct
violation of the Conltitution, which expressly
declares that representation and taxation Ihall
be according to numbers—He amplified this
idea by (hewing how ic would operate, ifltricftly
adhered to in the afleftiuent of taxes.
Mr. Williamfon'ftill contended,that thededuc
tion from the bill was two members from th.-
Eaitern and four from the Southern (tates, which
plainly {hewed that the amendment was in favor
ofthe Eastern states—and added, that it the
Southern states had been represented in the Se
nate, the bill would not have been lent back.
Mr. Niles suggested an amendment to the a
•mendment of the Senate, which was to itrike
out one after the word Delaware, and to insert
two This, he observed, lie wns influenced to
move, from the consideration of the manifeft in
equality of the representation of that Hate, com
pared with that of other states, particularly Vir
ginia—fje had 110 doubt, from the jultice of the
House, that if the amendment he pi opofed was
not directly contrary to the Conltitution,it would
be aoreed to. —He then adverted to the Consti
tution, and read the passage refpeiftmg repre
sentation and taxation, which are to be apporti
oned according to numbers—He observed that
there were evidently wanting to compleat the
sentence, tliefe words, as nearly as may be, —with
this explanation addeid, he went on to shew that
the principle of equality would be more itriiftly
adhered to, by admitting his amendment, than
by rejetfting ic—for if Delaware contains 58,000
inhabitants, 28,000 were certainly nearer to
33,000, than 33,000 were to 58,000. He recited
other paflages of the Conttitution, to shew that
his idea was compatible with it.
Mr. Benfon again suggested his proposition, of
apportioning the reprefer.tation according to the
whole population—He was in favor of a large
reprefentaiion. The principle advanced by the
gentleman from (Mr. Findley) he
faidwas undoubtedly just, that a large represen
tation was neceflary in a free government, for
information and fecuricy—this principle is not
to bedifputed.—And with respect to the danger
from corruption, he said, undoubtedly patronage
and influence would creep in—but lie conceived
that danger of a more fefio-js nature was to be
appreheiuled from another quarter—gentlemen
had mentioned the funding system—in queltions
of that kind, where one part of the Union tho't
themselves the only fufferers—the liberties of
this country would be but a secondary consider
ation.—For in a republican government, the ma
jority must rule, and the minority mult l'ubmit—
except they are oppressed, and then they have
an undoubted right to refill. -
•Mr. Giles defended the bill—he observed that
the apparent inequality in the representation of
the smaller states, was rendered equal by their
representation in the Ser.ate—He enlarged on
the idea of adhering to the ameiulnieiit propof
ed to the Constitution. The inequality spoken
of, he said, was in fart in favor of the (mailer
states—He adverted to the reltive spirit in ftfttitf
of the Hates—rSome of the meafuresof CongresS,
h<f laid, were so disliked, that the people in those
states wished fhemfelves separated from the go
vernment. The people of the Mate from which
he came, were so imprefled with the idea ot the
ratio being fettled agreeable to the bill, that he
really feared the discontents of ihe people there
would be increased to an alarming degree, thould
the amendment of the Senate be agreed to.
MONDAY, December 19.
The petition of Richard Lloyd, late agent to
Gen. Hazen's regiment, was presented by Mr.
Boudinot—alfo the petition of John Purdy ; —
the former was referred to a feledi committee,
confilling ot Meflrs. Boudinot, Williamfon and
Seiley the latter, with several others from in
valids, were read, and referred to the Secretary
of War.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis their
Secretary, informed the house that they have
pafled the bill riiaking appropriations for the (up
port of Government for the year i 79 2 > with a
mendments.
The house took into confuleration the meflage
from the Senate of Friday last, in which they in
formed the house, that they inhlt on their amend
ment to the appropriation bill.
Mr. Benfon moved that the house IhouUl re
cede from their disagreement to said amendment
—this motion was seconded by Mr. Sedgwick,
and occasioned a debate which continued til! the
time of adjournment. The yeas and nay s being
called for, the motion was negatived as follows:
Meflrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne; Clark, Dayton Fitzfimons, Oilman,
Goodhue, Gordon, Gregg, Hartley, Hillhoufe,
Jacobs, Kittera, Learned-, Livermore, Niles,Sedg
wick, J. Smith, I. Smith, Sturges. Sylvester,
Thatcher, Wadfworth, Ward il.
AYES,
Meffis. Allie, Baldwin, Barnwell, Brown, Find
ley, Gerry, Giles, Griffin, Huger, Kev,
I-awrance,- Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, Muh
lenberg, Murray, Page, Parker, Schoonmaker,
Seney, W.Smith, Steeie, Sterret, Siunpter, Tread
well, Tucker, Venable, Wayne, White, William
ion, Wyllis 33.
On the motion to adhere to the difagrecinent,
the aj es and noes were reversed as above, except
ing Mr. Steele, who was not in the lioyfe when
the were called—for adhering 32, againlt
2 7- Adjourned.
TUESDAY, December 20.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States,
by his Secretary Mr. Lear, communicating a copy of a letter from
the Governor of Pennsylvania, with sundry documents refpe&ing
the purchase of a trad of land by that (late from the United States,
bounded on Lake Erie.— These papers were read, and a commit
tee appointed to in a bill to carry into execution the con
tra6t 011 the part of the United States—Messrs. Madison, Benfon,
and Sedgwick were appointed the committee.
Several petitions were read, praying for pensions, compensati
ons, &c. and referred to the Secretary of War.
Two petitions from Gen. Moses Hazen, praying copies of Sun
dry papers, were read and referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
A' petition was read from the commiflioner of loans in the
State of Rhode-Island, praying oompenfation for extra expences
in the discharge of the duties of his office ; referred to the Secre
tary of the Trcafury.
The amendments of the Senate to the appropriation bill were
taken into consideration ; the two firft amendments were to add
two thousand dollars to the suras appropriated in the firft fe&ion i
the third amendment provides for the discharge of incidental ex
pences incurred by the doorkeepers in the recess of Congress :
these amendments were agreed to—thelaft amendment was a pro
viio, that the sum of money appropriated for the payment of
Oliver Pollock, should not be paid without the consent of the
agents of the Court ot Spain.
This amendment after confidcrable debate was agreed to by a
large majority.
A message was received front the Senate by Mr. Otis their Se
cretary, informing the House that they adhere to their firft amend
nent to the representation bill; by this adherence the bill is loit.
In committee of the whole on the Poft-Office bih
The motion fcii striking out the franking fefiion under consi
deration. This motion after considerable debate was negatived,
25 to 21.
The committee rofeand reported progress, and the House ad
journed.
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Pcnn
fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for the relief of Davip Cook and
Tho.mas Campbell.
BE it enaßed by the Senate and Houfc oj Rcprcfcntativcs of the
United States of America in Congress ajjembled, Thac David
Cook, a Captain of artillery in the late war, and who, being {hot
through the body at the battle ot Monmouth, is rendered inca
pable to obtain his livelihood by labor, (hall be placed on the pert
fion-Uft of the United States, and ftiall be entitled to one third of
his pay, as a Captain of artillery : Provided, That he return into
the Treafury-Office, a sum eqnivalent to two thirds of his commu
tation ot half pay, being the proportion of his pension to the
amount of his commutation.
And be it further enaßed, That Thomas Campbell be placed on
the pension-list, and that the half pay of a Captain of infantry be
allowed to the said Thomas Campbell, who has been so injured
by repeated wounds in the fer\iceot his country, that he is unable
to support himfelf by labor : Provided, That he return into the
Treafury-Office a sum equivalent to the whole of his commuta
tion of half pay.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houfc of Reprtfentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prtfidcnt of the United States,
and PrejideTtt of the Senate.
APPROVED, DECEMBER SIXTEENTH, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
« , Prejident of the United States.
Philadelphia, December 21.
There is the highest probability that the reports relating to the
capture ol Fort-Jtfferfon are unfounded.
It is mod probable that General Scott, with the Kentucky mili
tia, may repair to the said poll, and bring off the wounded left
there ; and as it appears too far advanced to be supported, the gar
rison may probably be withdrawn.
The public may be alTured, theTe are some grounds whereon to
estimate the enemy who encountered General St. Clair's army, at
about three thousand Warriors. It is said, that upwards of eleven
hundred Warriors, of the Ottawas and Chippawas, who inhabi,
the waters of Lakes Superior, Michegan, and Huron, came to the
affiftauce of the Miami Indians. This number, combined wth
the Miami Indians the Powtewattimas, Wyandots, Delaware?,
and upper Wabafh Indians, would fully amount to the number
above mentioned.
It is said, that the Miami Indians, at the head of whom are the
remnants of the Shawanefe, after the deftruftion of their mwnsbv
General Harmar, in Oaober, 1790, fern meA'ages to the mod dis
tant nations of Indians, as well to the southward as to the west
ward for affiflance. Although it does not appear they received
any afliftaoce from the southward, as all those powerful tribes,
amounting to about fifteen thousand Warriors, are at peace, and
have treaties with the United State»; yet, the hcntile Indians were
but too fuccefsful in their negotiations westward.
It is further said, that lome of the nation of the Sacs would have
been in the aaion, had not their distance prevented. This nation
ar<i very numerous, and inhabit the country uoon the upper parts
of and moft'y to the westward thereof.
It lfWo said, that neither the famous Mohawk Chte., Captain
lofeph Brant, or any of the Six Nations, joined the Miami In
dians. Caot. Brant was at Niagara the beginning of November,
several hundred m.lcs from the place of iftion.
m. .
271
NOES.
Three hundred andTcventy-thr«e members form a legislative
afTembly for France ; and on the firft day of the meeting of the
new Jcgifldttire, there were three hundred and ninety-four present,
who all swore to livefree or die.
A London paper of the 29th September, fays, " That three
loans are now negociating in Holland, each at five per cent—witli
99 equal premium for Ruffing Sweden, and America ; and that afto
nifiling as it may appear, the prcfereuce is given to the latter.
Five hundred members of the new national afTembly of France,
arechofen trom the class of lawyers. Colum. Centlncl.
We hear that the Specie deposited in the Bank of the United
States, by private persons, amounted last week to nearly one half
of the Spccie Capital of the Bank.
Yesterday the Bank of the United States commenced business,
when, we hear, Discounts were made to a large amount.
Last Sunday evening a ftabje in Third-Street, near Spruce-Sf eet,
was discovered to be on fire, and in a few minutes burnt down,
together wuh a quantity of hay.—The flames extended to ths
cornice of an adjoining two-story brick house, but wne happily
extinguished by the a&ivitv of the inhabitants, who alfembled iu
great numbers upon the firft alarm.
By letters from Lancaster, we are informed, that, on the morn
ing of Wednefdav last, a fiie broke out in that place, which foim
communicated to several honfes, and, from the violence of the:
wind that prevailed at the time, fcemed to threaten universal
deftru&ion, but was at length with much difficulty checked, tho*
not until it had deft royed a brew house and a large ft one dwelling
house, together with a barn, and 500 bushels of wheat.
Extratl of a Utter from a gentleman in Kentucky, to his friend in
this eity.
" The uews of the defeat of the troops under Gov. St. Clair
by the Indians, so far from difhearteuing has filled every mail
in Keritncky with a thirst for revenge. General has pro
ceeded toward Fort-Jefferfon with fittee # n hundred mounted mi
litia and rifle men. As these people are perfc£Uy acquainted with
the Indian mode of warfare, and will not be encumbered with
artillery, and other similar apparatus (generally ulelefs in expe
ditions of this kind) we are dill in hopes of being in poffefllon of
the Maumee Towns before winter,"
Extratt of a letter from Cape-Franco; i, of the 16th of November, j 791,
received by the brig Keziah, t apt. Robert trowv.
11 We have juifc got a letter from Port-au-Prince of the 13d
instant, where they had received the news that 14 ships of the !nu
with troops were arming in France for Hifpaniola, so that we may
expett them now every day, and we hope that their afliftancc will
not come too late. The Mulatioes are very much difplealed thai:
the decree of the 15th of May is entirely rep alcd.
" The Negroes go on destroying this country, and although
we are fuccefsful in our attacks, we forefee it impoflible to (top
the rioters without alliftance from France. We are tired to death
of this fort of life, and many of us cannot bear the foJdiers duty.'*
The late accounts from England exhibit a ve
ry pleasing profpetit refpe<siing che affairs of our
gallic allies. The King ttf" the French appears
to enter into the spirit of the times, and admi
nisters, as fupi eme executive, the duties of his
office with atruly pan iotic disposition. Thp
culatiofo of grain—the fubjetft of emignfcif|%V
the refboration of order and fubmiffiotl <# v sElfe»
laws—the preservation of discipline among the
troops—and the security of the .frontiers, are
-among the varioris that have employed
his attention, and the fubjecfts of public ad
drefles from the Throne. The principles of the
Constitution appear to be justly appreciated by
him—and in all his communications, the fafety,
freedom and happiness of the people, form the
moll prominent features.
May he long enjoy the sublime pleasure of
knowing how much more glorious it is to govern
a racfe of happy and enlightened freemen, than
to be the greatelt despot (hat ever reigned
of Nimrod !
One disadvantage would refulc from the doors
of the Senate being opened—it would takeaway
a very copious fubjeiit of declamation !—and as
to punning, that would thereby receive a molt
mortal wound.
I wish, however, fays this correspondent, the
Senate would try the nieafure, at lead for 01%
feifion. It is said there are some tine fpeakersin
thac branch of rhe Legiflacure ; they would be
very popular—the only objection is, that they
would become too much so—They would then
exhibit in their proper persons—but at prefeat
they are only known by Cartcaiura—and fancy
can draw very queer figures—
From the dark conclave, clofc confin'd,
Hydras and gorgons haunt the mind ;
To clear away all fear and doubt,
They ought to 44 let the darkness out!"
Bright rays will then dart from below,
As all their rapid movements (how.
Whatever facilitates a general intercourse of sentiments, as good
roads, domestic commerce, a free press, and particularly a circu
lation of new/papers throughout the entire body of the people, and Re
presentatives going from, andretuining among every part of them, is
equivalent to a contra&iou of territorial limits, and is favorable
to liberty, where these may be too extensive. Nat. Gaz.
Married, on the sth inft. Kphraim Olden, of Trenton, to
Mary Cowpekthwaite, daughter ot William Cowperth
waite, near Burlington.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
Final Settl. and other Certificates
Indents 12/6
Bank Subscriptions, 13
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold at the Bank of the
United States, shewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Cents, from One to a Thousand Pennyweights—according to the
A& of Congress, ascertaining the Standaid and Value of Gold.
S3*.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
FUNDED DEBT.
« 2 /3 P r - L
»a/
■3/3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
20/6
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
ni| pr. cent.
65 do.
66J do.
102-J do.
Dollars.ADDRESS
V-
WE3TMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
REVENUE LAW.
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania.
Friends and Fellow-Ltnzeni ojthe Counties oj IVcJlmoreUnd,
Wi'jhingloii) Fayette and Alleghany,
XT is with p<ir*cular regret I perceive, that my acceptance of
J. the office I now hold under the United States, has not the ap
probation of a conhderable proportion of you. It is with ItilJ
more regiet I find that a very important law of the federal go
vernment is an obj'dl ot dislike and opposition with the fame per
sons, who difapprovc the part I have taken towards its execution.
It, in so great a public concern, I permit my (elf to mingle any
p rfonal confederations, you will, I hope, attribute it to no other
motive than my sincere anxiety to pielcrve your esteem. If any
part of my condutt in lile has afForded you proof of my being
afctuatcd by patriotism and public spirit, you will do me ihe jul
tice to believe, that, in accepting the office which displeases you,
I yielded to my convictions of the utility and necellity of the law,
and to a fcnle ot duty. It any part of you have ever had evidence
of my regard to their particular interest aud welfare that part will,
I trull, believe me, when I allure them, that the fame regard for
their intereli, that an unfeigned solicitude for their welfare, has
no small Ihare in dictating the observations which I (hall submit
in this their confide ration, and which I exhoit them,
as they tender the good of their country, and their own particular
good, to weigh with coolness and seriousness.
Felloiv-Citizens,
The law is a clear exercise of a constitu
tional power, delegated by the people o* the United States
to their reprefentatms in Concrefs. 11 is a powei grant
ed, not by implication, but by express words. The Bih
fe&ion of the full article of the federal conflitution fays, "The
Congress Ihall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts
and excises." The right, indeed, is not called in'qucftion, but
objections have been made to the exercise of it. In patting the
law, therefore, there was no usurpation of power, no in
vasion of the rights of the Slates or or the citizens'; nothing
more than the exercise of a discretion, constitutionally and clear
ly vested in the representatives of the UNION. Since the pafl
sing of the ast no State legislature has intimated a disapprobation
of it. 'Tis true that one branch of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
during the readings of the bill in Cong rets, exprelled their dislike
of it ; but the other branch alio freely chosen by the people dis
agreed to the r< solutions. It would not be unbecoming in us,
as citizens ot this Slate, to remember that our afTembly once enact
ed an excise law, authorising the forcible entry of dwelling
houses even in the night, and that there exiftcd at the time of the
late difcuflious in our legislature, an equal excise on home made
spirits, which being no higher on the Ilrongeft rum and brandy
than on our grain and fruit liquors, must be confefled to have
been much Ids favorable to agriculture than the prcfent law.
I flatter myfclf, I should not be one of the firft to recommend
to my fellow citizens an acquiefance in any attacks upon their
rights, a fubmillion to any alfumption of unconstitutional power
on the part ot their government, or an implicit deference to the
opinion of rulers. But, wheu a law has been enacted by the le
gislature of a countiy, after long, repeated, and mature delibera
tion; when its conflitntionaliiy is not even pretended to be
drawn into qucftion, when its expediency only is d'.fputed, it
appears to me that there are fomc reafonablc preemptions in fa
vor of the propriety of the law, which ought to have great Weight
with piudenl and good citizens.
It is a natural prcfumption for inflance, that the representatives
of the people of the United States must be better acquainted with
what will promote the best interest and greatest convenience of
the whole, than the inhabitants of any small portion of the union ;
and it is evident that the laws of the union ought to be accommo
dated to that rule, and cannot in every mltance operate alike up
on the wishes, and interefls, real or supposed, of every part.
Some laws will best suit fomc parts, other laws will best suit
ether parts of the great family ; and in the course of things the |
advantages and di fad vantages will be equalized as neaily as the
imperfection of human affairs will permit ; each part finding its
particular happiness in the order and piofperity of the whole.
This observation applies as well to the laws of a particular State,
as tothofeof the United States. Jt is, generally [peaking, im
ppffible, that any law can aftcCt all the parts of a community ex
:*£tly alike ; and it will be highly Satisfactory, if the operation of
all the laws should be so happily devised, astodrawthe public
revenues with equality from the whole of the people.
It, then, Congress, the members ot which body come from
every parrof the union, are likely to be better acquainted than
you are, with the interest and convenience of the whole, is it
not more probable that they have judged and a£t uprightly, than
that those among you who condemn what they have done, are
right in the judgment which they pronounce upon it ?
ocs u lerve to confirm this probability, that no combi
nations like those which have been formed among you have ap
peared in any other part of the United States ? If the law were,
upon the whole, really an opprtlfive and tyrannical a6t, would
not an opposition to it before this have resounded from every
pait of the continent ? Are the citizens ot the reft of-the union
iefs watchful ot their rights,lcfsjealousof their liberty,than you are?
I will not, however, attempt to conceal from you, that there
has been a degree of diffatisfaCtion in some other quarters. Mil
conceptions have taken place eliewhere as well as among you.
But I will affirm, that it no where else wears a serious afpedt ;
' in p ro portion as the law is explained and understood, its
jufticeand policy are admitted, that the principal part of those,
upon whom it immediately operates, in the greatest part of the
Limed States, are convinced of the neccflity and propriety of
the tax ; at moftonly desiring some alterations in the details ; and
t at the great body of the people of the United States concur in
tle opinion. This information I derive from unquestionable au
thority, and I pledge myfelf to you for the truth of it. It may
oetru.v laid too, mankind have confidcred diltilled fpu
nts.sftt objects of taxation, for we know not of any country,
K. 1 13s not laid internal and import duties on them.
1 ut £ cnera l prcfumption and fuggefttons ot this kind are not
he only lights you have to guide you. There are well known
lacts and circumstances which afford you a better rule of judging
ou .ave only to exercise your own understandings impartially,
to think for yomfelvcs firmly and cooly, and you will cafily dis
cover the path of your interest and duty.
You are well aware that a v f ry confidence debt was contraft
d tor the defence of the country during the late war. Official
of T madC publ ' C: mcw ' that 'he amount
ot the de Jt principal and interest, including the sums owing by
the States individually, which have bee,, a (Turned by Congress
qperations of.hc present federal
mountT 'M M my_flX mill,ons ol do:la "- Of thisa
mount a confiderablepart wasdue to foreign nations.
hbl" ™u a " , eq K U l t prOV,f '°n for th;s you moll be fen-
eq ' ,,r J u rer P caabl<: revenue; all the late
""P 0 ' 1 3 " d dollars of taxes having been applied to
our pars °f u, by the legislature of Pennsylvania before I- efta
hMhment of the federal government. I "fay our ° Jif .
T ' i; s was exclulive of the foreign debt. ' '
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
TO THE CITIZENS OF
ON THE
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
XJOTICE is hereby given that the Bank of the United States
1 \ will he opened on Monday the s'h iniUnt.
Transfers of the fubferiptions to the itodk of said Bank may
then be made.
On Monday t*ie 12th instant, deposits will be received, and 011
Tueiiday the 20th initant, discounts may be made.
By order of the President and Direflors,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
All Bills or Notes efTered for Dncount shall be delivered into
the Bank on Mondays or Wcdnefdays, the Discount lhall be fet
tled on Tuesdays and Thui fdays, and (hall be rwade know n ihe
next fuccccding days.
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS ok the
BANK or the UNITED STATES,
RESOLVED,
THA I' the payment of the portion of the Capita] Stock of the
Bank of the United States, consisting of Specie which will be
due on the fLVeral §harcs on the firfl Monday of January next,
tnay be made at the refpeflive Banksof Ma/fucHJilis and b'cw.Yotk.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of Inch
payment, shall, ori or before the tirfl Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Cjlhier of the Bank of the United Stales, a Certifi
cate signed by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
shall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
eflablilhcd to the contrary notwithstanding
By order of the Prefidrnt and Direflors,
JOHN KEA N, Cajhier.
Bank of the United States.
PHI ladelphia, November 22, 1791.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United State*
are hereby informed, that according to the statute of incor
poration, a general clrflion foi twcnlj-five Directors will he
held at the Bank of the United States, in the cityof Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh Jfe&ion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank afe hereby notified to affrmble in
general meeting, at the fame place, 011 Tuesday the third day of
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President and Dircftors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajhitr.
SecondfunAamcnut&kitiile of Statute of Inarporation.
" Not more than three-fourths of the Direaors in office, exclu
sive of the President, 'ball be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Diteftor who fhill be Picfident at the time of an elefclton,
may always be rc-elccled." ,
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, &Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-llrcct Wharf, adjoining their New Factory —
where t|iey have now made, and ready for sale, a general affnrt
ment ofSHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD the
production ol the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number ot experienced Englifli woikmen, they warrant \i to be
equal 111 quality to any manufactured in Europe, ana at a leduced
price from the coll of imported.
They also continue to manufa£lure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrcded to either of the
aboie FaSories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
Inortcfl notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, fobev, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where coriftant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments wtll be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
notifes for their reception. '
For further particulars enquire ofMefTrs. Moses Austin & Co
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1794. t f
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
tea S,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—lby retail,
No 19,
betwren Chefnut and MarketStrerts.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER
' PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcriptionjonCWw/^o?/,
Oat the following lates:
N the fpecicamount of all'fale« at auction, one eijrhtk no
cent. ° 1
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-halt per cent
On remittances, ditto
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
amount of the intereji. r
For making transfers at &Mo,fevtnty-jivc cents ■
{p- Such perions as may incline to favor the fubfenber with
l°V U " T bein .6 e *«uted with punauality,
fidelity anadifpatdi. H.s long experience and extensive dealings
in the public stocks, together with' a well elhblilhed correfpon.
dence throughout tne Un.ied States, enable him to couduQ his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PIMTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street. '
Oflober 15, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON
Chefout-Strcet, next door to the Bank, No! 97.
tt , ' rC r fs ' and f P cedi,v will be publiOied,
r STORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Consisting of State Papers, and other r-uthentic Documents
tending to elucidate the History of Am eric a, and
particularly of the United States
» , Th y - EB \ NEZER H *%ARD, A.M.
Ihe price to Subscribers will he a Hollar rr l
containing i6o laige quarto pages ; or Four Dollars anrl n™
for each Volume in Board. To be m iA r , Quarter
and second lumbers, or VoCe,£be oafd T'r"" **
tssk - ~Wsa*3 te s
of the work) and in other olarr. h„ ,u ,
.here i notncr P Uc " b , v /he pr.ncipal Bcokft-llers
«Wu£hl OU ST% A !s^ SSiOX of *' SENATt
9J mcvhuiu HATES, may h kai e j th( U)(or
272
DtCRMBER 5, 1791
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his Stores on Wain ut-St rui Wn.\ F
A FF.VV pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange M.rfe...
V clfk E ' Wh ' Ch HC W ' n d ' rP ° r<: ° f by ' he P ' ?Cl hoi(h«d or
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old
WINE ° f "" by the
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WIVE, of a superior q„al! tv
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or Wr
quantity. 6 cr
Cho.ce old Comae BRANDY, by the pipe, .ierce, or
quantity. 1 Ifcr o cr
A few quarter rhefts of firft quality Hvfon TEA
He h.sjJJ received by the Pig,, Ul JU.ey, rpafter.Yrort, London
a few quarter calks of old Madeira WINE-i And
By the hriV Mercuiy, Cspt. Stevens, from Dublin s f Pl „u„„,
of Iridi LINENS, low priced and well aflorted ■ a'few ha'
red and white FLANNELS, and forne GI.UF. ' '
A lew boxes ot Spermaceti CANDLES of the fi.fl J,;... .
Burlington PORK of prune quality.
stave's alf ° '° dispose 0t ' " l uanlit y of dressed White O-k
He means to keep a corrflant ftipply of First Quality Madeira
thlir Ul" k' T l A h Tt" " Pl " red t0 fjVOr h,m Wlt'l
their (u-iloti), may be afTmed of being well served
an , r»^. ill, ?, rOU S h the Wu,ter an ' ; s P r ">S. buyundrelfed HAND
t, s P urchari "g FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX and
will give the highefl price for them. :.i *
_ A few hampers of excellent London PORTER »,„4
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be difpoled of
Philadelphia, November 16, 179.1
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Psar-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
.. B O O K S,
VI htch may be ft en every day, untilfixe o'clock, p. m.
, Amon J them are the ftVcw'imr :
Mo. TTOMER, X«uo| Pla.o, Plutu'ch, Eufebius, Soto.
L J- men, rhcodory, Virgil, Horite, Livy, Tacitus Pater'
cuius, Concord amia Lat. Concordamia Gr. Thefnurus Ci
ceronis. Bib la Jur.it and Tremeil.i, Bible de Martin,Welk's Mans
capuiE Phavorini Martini I —Hoffmani Lexica, Voifii Etvmc*
logiron, Antiquit. Erclef. Britannicte, &c.
JT'- r . P "' dj T r ' C :Bentlefs Horace, Terence and
Phd. lius, Ovtd, Juvenal, Mamlius, Cictronit on. orn C^ r sr Su
etonius, Jumis Pollux, lledfric. Lexicon, Voflii Ai s Gram Cluve"
rn Geographia, Juftiniari Code,&c.
Orlavo el infra. Homer, Anacreon, At iflophanes, Lor*i nus
T.ieophraftus, Hefiod, Poet* minores Gr. Ifoerate*, Phalaris ral
rij«s edition 1 qfHorace, Virgil, Tercnce,and Ovid, Tibullus Plau
lbs Lucan, Matnal, CJaudian, Val. Flaccus, Aulo'niu,
Sailull, Curtius, Floms, lufit.i, Val. Maximum. A. Gelbus Hill'
Aaguft. Scriptores, Fngofk and French TranflatioZ of Lieof the
Claffies, at variety ot Greek and Latin Grammar;, & c &c
vr u- a 1 g " ff r may bc Wot Meff[s " Rice& Co. Bonkfell'ers,
JOHN CAREY.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
R U *r AY ' / ome tune Au ? u(l 1789. a yellow N'ECRO
W/,j /' n rT u " laiC the P r °P c "V ol A&*W
ickt/Jj', deceased about forty-five vears of age, about five feet
e.ght or nine inches high, p, etty well set, with a large woolly head
and large board, walks with his knees bent, often complain, o?
painsin his ectand ancles_by trade a bricklayer, (tone mason and
p s ui' r r IS a u hand V fcllow 2S 3 house. waiter, and is fond
oi fucb business. He is a great diflembler, and no doubt pretends
he a freeman He ha. been eloped so long that no defection of
his prefeut clothing Can be g.ven. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
1 wenty Dollar. reward will be given to anv person that wiH fe.
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will he paid-or Thirty-Dollar*
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchei.or, by J
CrIARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(mwgw)
Oftobcr i 2, 1791
The First and Second Volumes of th»
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE
{To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the State) '
By the Kev. [hem Beik»«,
Are ready for Delivery to Subfcribers-who mav receive their
Bookson application to HAZARD & ADDOMS at the
Corner of Chefnut and "l'hiid Sircets. '
S~, r Tk , contain the political history of the
S.ati from its firft fettlcment to the adoption of the present Co"
ft.;., .on of the United States ;-the third' containing fgo'phl
SfthfpX' C ' ififtofy,' &c. i,
\* A few copies of the fhft two volumes for falc'-price2o/
Anvember 5, 1791. " *
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
M R s,W A V f Worcdler - Mall"«hiiretts, moflrefpefl
nu v T;,' 1 " publ ', C ' <~at hc has this c ' a y completed the
HOLY rT 5 h L" R ° s '' l Edition of the
I r Th = Apocrypha and IVidix, &e. will be 6ni(h.
Ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Paters, he begs will
t0 f M 3t Wor "P r < or "> him and Company at Befion,
b» the last day of November next, and as much foorier as they con
venientlv can, 7
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of the
punting, its correftnefs, and 11s cheapness compared with Englilb
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is coined on folcly at his own roft, he is led to hope that all thole
who wilh :o poITciS a large family Bible, will fa far encourage this
lauda «,Ie undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to t ne lublcription.
WoTctJlcr, Sept. 29, 1791
advertisement.
: (M BY late arrivals from Frarce, the Editor frotz
iVo 10/03,, kotk induftve, of a Publication which ctiici out twite a
'■week entitled. " Cor r f.sponda nc e Nat i o.\ a l e."—
Fjo.n A» 1 to No. 10, have teen/kipped, lut arc r„>t \et come to hand.
■Any person juho may incline to fui/rriifjor this uvri, which appears H
be tngemotts, impartial and patriotici'may i> furvifhed with the numbers
as they armie by applying to the Editor tf this Gazette.
8C?" The price if .this Paper is 3 Dollars per ana
(iiD 6w.)
ISAIAII THOMAS.