PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. C 9, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHlLA^Tphia"
[No. 57, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE NEW-YORK JOURNAL, &c.
To the Gentlemen ej the GrarJ Jury of the County nf ABBEVILLE in
Ike State of Sou th-Caro l i n a.
A PRESENTMENT from your body t» one of the judical courts
of your State, has been published in several Gazettes in the
United States. As it applies solely to a national law, it is a pro
per object of decent com ment for any of your fellow citizens ;
and it cannot be doubted that you will be ready to hear any thing,
which can prove you are honestly mifhkcn in a matter which ts
deemed of so much importance to liberty, and which is also of
conlequence to the cridit of our common country abroad, and a;
home.
You fay the cxcife ast is a grievance of the highest nature. This
is (Irong language, brethren, and llronger, it is believed, than you
will find the fa£ls to support. If this law had been pafled with
out competent powers in Congress, aud to carry on an ambitious war,
it would surely have been a grievance of a higher nature. This is
no play on words, for grand juries are sober and important bodies
of men, have the mod serious duties to perform—(hould " enquire
diligently, and make true presentment." They (hould not mis
name man-daughter and call it muider, nor (hould they call b)
either of those criminal names, the lawful aflions of an individual,
much less of a government, though those actions should unhappily
end in death. It is never well in discharge of public duties to let
expressions go forth, which, by irritating, may produce lament
able evils. The more freedom is used with you, brethren, on
this point, because it is supposed the language of freedom will not
be oitenfive to you, and because you have (hewn all necessary mo
deration and reason in the conclusion of your presentment, by re
commendinga conftiiutional and lawfulapplication, through your
fenatois and representatives, for an alteration of the law.
You fay also, that all excifcs arc incompatible with liberty,
which history, you observe, will fully (hew. This is certainly a
miflake, lor the history of every nation that ever contra&ed debts,
and formed a fyftein to discharge those di bis (hews that they have
uniformly had recourse to them. The American provinces had
excises laid by their own legidatures, the popular branches of
which were freely chosen by the people—yet nobody ever thought,
or said, the provincial legidatures enslaved their conllituents. On
the contrary, it is well known they were conltantly engaged 111
druggies, against the crown, in favor of the people. The State of
Pennsylvania, which had only one popular house, for many years,
and no negative in the execuiive, had an excise through half this
century—The amount of it being eight pence, their money, per
gallon, was as near as poflible to nine cents, which is the rate of
country fpirils, per gallon, under the a£l of Congress, unless the
diftill: r, living in the country, chufes to pay sixty cents per an
num, for each gallon his (I'll holds, for the right of (tilling as
much as he can through a year -Then the duly will be lower, if
there is any industry in working the Hill. Massachusetts, a free
State, with a well conllituted government, had an excife—Con
nefheut, with a legislature chofrn half yearly, had an excise ; and
Co of other American States. Britain and Holland, two of the
freeft countries in Europe, had an excise ; and Fiance, now freer
than cither of them, or any other country in Europe, has anexcile.
All taxes (including excise) are equally compatible with liberty, if
the legijlature iifreely and frequently chosen. How can the cxcife of
Congress be incompatible with liberty, if the people veiled them
with power to lay it, and can turn out every Congress man that
voted for it, if they really think it bell, and chufe others instead
of them. Freedom can never be endangered by a law, the repeal
of which, a bate majority can any moment effect.
You suppose the dwelling houfesoi the people liable to be entered
at all times, night orday, by ihe oiticers. In this, brethren, you
are mistaken ; and it is a very great millake, for the officers are
not authorised to go into the dwelling houses, in ihe night or day
either. They can go into liquor (lores, liquor cellars, and liquor
vaults, and distilleries marked as such, but that only in the day
trmc. So tender is the law, that though it (hall be made to appeal,
on oath to a judge or justice of the peace, that spirits are fraudu
lently hid in a dwelling house, to deprive the country of the duty,
the officer cannot go into even that house without a warrant under
the hand and seal of a judge or justice, nor without a conft,.ble or
peace officer with him, nor can he go at any time, but only by
day. 1 1
It IS said, again, by you, brethren, that the dnty will not bear
theexpenceof coining in some places. This, also, mult be a
nunake, for a land tax, or poll tax, in a thin fettled country, must
be more cxpenfive and troublesome. Ailments, Uvics, dis
traints, advf rtifementss, and sales ot property for those taxes, are
much more inconvenient.
It fcems probable, that you were mifinformed about many
parts of the law, especially the manner in which the duty is laid
on country stills. Jomc have thought the duty to be sixty cents
for every gallon that the still (hould make ; bui this is a great error.
No more is laid than sixty cents tor a whole year upon thequantity
that would fill t he still once, and if enough fpiiitslhould notbemade
to amount to that at nine ccnts per gallon, the owner may have
it deducted, by taking care to keep an account of what he makes
in the manner the law dircdls. More than nine cents on what is
made will, therefore, never be paid by those who take proper
care of their own business ; but less will be paid by all those who
arc so induftiious as to make more spirits than sixty cents, on the
measure or capacity ot the still. will come to. This will have an
effect very favorable to the planters and farmers, because industri
ous men, who will make a trade of distilling, will set up work-,
ant! making considerable profiti by this, and by distilling largely,'
will be able to buy larger parcels of grain at better prices, to
manufacture into spirits.
You complain, that the northern distillers will have the ad
vantage, but you will think otherwise when you have examined
this point. Spirits from molafles pays two cents per gallon more
than that from grairror fruit, which is above twenty-two percent,
or twenty-two pounds in the hundied. This is too clear and
plain to dwell upon. It would be to queftian your candor or
understanding to do more than mention the tact.
'»u appear to labor under the fame want of information, when
you complain about theexcife being too high in proportion to the
jmpoft «)i) foreig/t spirits. The loweit proof of foreign rum,
randy, See. is at twenty cents ; the lowest proof of country grain
or fru't spirits is at nine cents. The difference is prodigioufiy in
h°f 1,0 homc anf * ' s Plainly better for him to have
1 e ftnall du y on country m.-de spirits, feeing it is accompanied
with one so much greater on rival foreign spirits.
It is but right to remember how much the States are made free
• « he occafiori to lay taxes by the aflumption, which part of the
P u ',c a "d the defence of the western country, this duty is
appropriated to. If South-Carolina is averfc to the excise, she
Saturday, September 5, 1791.
ought not to avail herfelf of the opportunity of getting four mil
lions of her debt on the United States. The ineafure comes re
markably easy to your State, because little foreign rum is used on
the sea coast countie , on account of the small number of whites,
and great number of blacks : and in the western country the
h' ne made spirits are to pay only nine cents, which is less than
half the duty.
I am, gentlemen,
Your friend and humble servant,
A New-York Grand Jury Man.
J'ROM THE NORWICH PACKET.
Mr. Trumbuli.,
In a late paper of your's, there appeared a para
graph respecting a meeting of the Clergy at
New-Haven, on the ensuing Commencement.
Some have supposed that said publication 111 if
took and mifreprf fented the object of the pro
posed meeting ; you may explain the true ori
gin and design of the fame, by publishing the
following
Extra:! 1 jrovi the Minutes of the Genera! Assembly ef
the Prejbyterian Church in the United States,
" A GREEABLY to the appointment of the
General Afleinbly, lalt year, directing
Dr. Rodgers, and Dr. M'Whorter, to correspond
with the congregational churches in Connecticut,
in order to renew and flrengthen the bonds of
union between ihofe churches and the presbyte
rian church in America, Dr. M'Whorter reports
that some progress has been made in opening a
planof correfpondtnce with said churches. That
three modes of oorrefpondence are proposed for
consideration, viz. — ift. By letter from a com
mittee ot this body, with a committee of the <*e
neral aflociation of Connecticut. 2d. By reviv
ing a convention similar to one which fubfiited
between those bodies before the late war. 3d.
By fending delegates reciprocally from each bo
dy, who shall fit in their refpecftive meetings, to
answer the important purpose designed by this
correspond en ce.
, ni otion, resolved, That in order to carry
intoefFeft the proposed plan for a correspond
ence with the congregational churches in New-
England, a committee confiding of Dr. Witlier
fpoon, Dr. Rodgers, Dr. M'Whorter, Mr. Chap
man, Dr. Samuel S. Smith, Mr. Tenant and Mr.
Auflin, or any three of them, be, and they are
hereby appointed to meet at New-Haven on the
second Wednesday in September next, to confulr
with such minitters from the New-England
churches as may be there present, on the subject
in contemplation, and ro determine on such plan
of correfpondenceandintercourfe as fliall appear
eligible. And that the profpeiftof accomplishing
the desire of the General Aflbmbly in this ap
pointment may be the more favorable, Doctor
M'Whorter is hereby directed to write immedi
ately to Dr. Timothy Dwight, of Connecticut,
and inform him of this measure, requeuing him
at the fame time, to lay it before the General
Allocation of Connecticut, that they may be pre
paid! to meet at tile time above-mentioned, and
do what they may think expedient in this con
cern.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTIXEL.
JUST COMPLAINTS ought to be heard and
REMEDY AFFORDED
\X7HAT compensation are the right worthy
* V citizens likely to receive, who not finding
it in their hearts to put any confidence in our
State or Continental Governments, never pur
chased any of their fecuriiies—and now, contra
ry to their belief, Publick Securities have risen
so amazingly as to make fortunes for fume com
mon folks—folks, we may fay, who never dream
ed of such a thing ?—We despise fpecularion ; —
if it had been right, we should have f:en through
it, and gotten twici as much by it, as anv of thel'e
moon-ftiine fortunes—lt's all delusion now, they
will go to ruin falter, ten times, than ever they
role, and our solid ellates will, ten chanccs to
one, be taxed yet, to (uppoi t these pretenders to
money—lt is impoflible there iliould be such a
golden fliower and we not catch ic—Thiy hug a
phantom, therefore, good people all don't wor
ry your gizzards about them—don't make wry
faces, nor look melancholy—Stocks fall already
— tksir faces are half as long as our's now let
'em alone, we'll measure with them by and by.
145
SKINFLINT & Co
Hkso
[Whole No. 245.]
W A R S A VV, May 15
different supreme tribunals have fern de
, . P ut ' es Co the King and the States, acknow
ledging their fidelity and fubmitiion to the new
conlliiution.
June if. The following articles have been
added to the New Coiittitution, and have receiv
ed the unanimous fantfion ofthe Diet of Poland.
Of the King, the Executive Power.
" No Government, though it were the mod
perfect that can be imagined, can subsist unless
the executive power be enabled to act with the
fulled energy.
[Would to Heaven that this principle, which
is incontrovertibly just and true, were every
where admitted ! Owing to the non-obfervaiice
of this indif'penfible axiom, the revival of liber
ty has become odious to all those who have Hill
a regard for social order.]
" Jult and equitable laws are the foundation
of national happiness.
All the good effects to be expected from
them, mutt depend on their having been vigor
ously executed.
" Experience has taught us, that to a want of
this executive energy, Poland owes all its mis
fortunes.
" For these reasons, after having insured li
berty to the Polish nation, and having made it
independent ; after having secured to it the
right of making laws, and of watching over the
executive authority, and also of chooling all pub
lic magistrates ; we entrull the King and his
Council (which shall hereafter be Ailed the Su
pei intending Council) with the Supreme execu
tion of the laws.
'[ executive power fliall be under a ftritft
obligation to superintend the execution of the
laws, and exemplarily to ,conform to them, k
(hall at't in all cases permitted by the law ; in all
such cases which require a fuperintendance, exe
cution, and even a coercive force. All Mapif
trates are bound to obey it implicitly ; and by it
they are liable to bepunifhed for neglect of duty
or disobedience.
" The executive power fliall neither make
laws, nor explain them. It (hall not impose tax
es, or levy contributions. It fliall not contract
public debts, nor make the lealt alteration in
the collection of the revenue. And finally, i c
fliall neither declare war nor make peace ; not
make any treaties with other powers. It fliall
only be enabled to have a temporary correspon
dence with foreign courts, so far as the fafery
and tranquily of the ftatc may require ; and for
this ir fliall be accountable to the following Le
gfflature." °
ROME, June 3.
The chagrin experienced by his Holiness, oc
casioned by the revolt of Avignon and the de
crees of the National AHembly of France relative
to the Clergy, is a little alleviated by learning
the progress of the Roman Catholic religion in
some of the provinces of North-America, and
chiefly in Acadia, Maryland, and part of Penn
sylvania. Charles Walmefly, Bifliop of Rama
has consecrated Mr. John Carroll, superior of the
foreign milfions, in quality of Bifliop of Balti
more, the Congress of Philadelphia having per
mitted the free exercise of the Roman Catholic
i eligion in the aforefaid provinces.
L E Y D E N, June 9.
The accounts from the empire are confirmed.
The Count d'Artois has been at Ulm, but is re
turned to Augfbourg. M. de Calonnc does not
mean to go there, for which reason the Prince
de Lambefc, and other emigrants of the old
French nobility, have quitted Manheim and Deux
Pouts, where they had aflfembled to wait the re
lult of the attempt on Huninguen, which itfeenis
has not answered their expetfation.
HAMBURGH, June ro.
The King of Sweden, who landed at Rostock
the 2 d inft. went the fame evening to LudwigC
t>urg to wait for his carriages. They arrived
the sth, and his Majesty remaining incognito, un
der the title of Count Haga, continued his jour
ney to Aix-la-Chapelle. The 6th in the evening
he arrived at lirnnfwick, where the Court was
very brilliant on the occasion.PARIS, May «•, . ,
Aecardiag to an account of the population 01
Paris for the year 1790 presented to the King 011
the 1 sth in it. we find, that the chriliem ngs a
mounted to 20,005, viz. 10,153 boys, and 9 »72
girls ; and the deaths to 19,445. viz. 10, c ;.
males, and 9373 females. In this account is in
cluded religious pei sons and strangers.
The number ot marriages was 5866, and that
of foundlings 5842, viz. 2967 boys, and 20 75
girls.
The result of the comparison of this account
with that of the year s, that there were in
in 1790, T23 foundlings, 622 chriltenings, an<
1085 marriages more, and 944 deaths less, than
in 1 789
June 16.
To morrow, the 17th of June, at one o'clock,
tliey will burn at the Hotel of (he extraordinary
hank, aflignars to the amount of thirteen mil
lions, which, joined to the 147 already burnt,
will make 160 millions.
Jnne 29. Mr. Giroy Dupre moved, yelrerday
evening, at the club of the friends of the conui-
tutJon,
" That Louis de Bourbon Ihould be provihon
ally deprived of all royal functions, until his
trial before a high jury lhall be finifhed, and that
this jury do afl'emble, at '.he latcll, 011 the 30th
of Aiigult next."
Another member moved, That the King's wife
Ihould no longer be called Queen ; because, by
the const itution, there is no such person as Queen
He w as also for a council of regency, but to have
no regent.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, June 17.
PUNISHMFNT FOR VEtJUTY.
After some debate it was decreed, " That for
the future, every legillator who ihall dispose of
liis opinion for money fliall be punished with
death."
LONDON, June 30
The Marquis de Bouille has not been appre
hended. It is said, that he escaped by changing
his uniform with a private dragoon ; and that
this man being taken for the Marquis gave rife
to the report of his apprehension.
M. Calonne is said to have taken abroad with
him a Sw'ifs gentleman, whom he had leletled
out for very 1 are ability.—This gentleman had
the address to reach the French King—to carry
on and plan all that scheme, which, so unfortu
nately for the King, has been defeated—lie ar
ranged everv means for hisefcape—procured the
relay of horses, along the road, and concerted
every step neceflary for the escape of the Royal
Family.
That gentleman is now fafe !
He made a noble effort to rescue the King—
whose person made it (till more dilficult to faye
him.
Fortune has defeated that event !— It will re
main with a generous people not to make an ill is
sue of what accident lias put into their power.
Greatness of mind never appealed to such ad
vantage, or flione with more brilliancy, in the
Royal House of Brurifvvick, than in the conduct
of our present foveteign towards the Duchess of
Albany. When we reflect on the misfortunes of
that unhappy family, and with what an eye of
enmity they have been beheld here, the recepti
on of the Duchess at this Court proves that his
Majesty is poflefled of every milder virtue.
Under our present form of government, this
country has arrived to a (late of wealth, power
and national happiness, that no other kingdom
or (late upon the face of the earth enjoys iii the
fame degree of perfection. Ought not the man
or men, therefore, who wilh to alter that system
of government, he gibbeted in the most conspi
cuous manner, as a common enemy and traitor
to the Constitution ?
At no time fi-.ice the discovery of America,lias
a trade of equal extent been carried 011 between
this country and that continent, as exills at this
moment, and which trade, fortunately for En
gland, is every day rapidly increasing.
It is greatly to the credit of adniiniftration,
that they are endeavouring by every prudent
means toincveafe the trade of Amei ica, and to
render them and us united as it is our mutual in
terest to be. The corn art of the last session will
be extremely gratifying to the Americans, and
■will mod certainly be considered by them as a
favor from this country.
Mr. Minchin's promised bill for the encourage
ment of the culture of hemp, which will be
brought forward early in the next feflion, will
likewise be advantageous to America, as we are
given to underftnnd thar it is the intention of
the promoters of that bill to introduce a clanfe
for allowing a bounty on the importation of hemp,
the growth of America.
The orders from America for woolen ponds
have much inereafed ; the quantity about to be
exported from Leeds, and its neighbourhood on
ly, amounts to nearly 600,0001.
There can be no doubt of the poflibility of ren
dering America as serviceable to this country, in
146
the production of raw materials, asthemoft ft te
nuous advocates against a Ruffian War contend
that Russia is ; and it is prefumcd that every
Entrlifhman, from the funilarity ot manners the
fame language, and the fame habits with his bre
thren of America, would prefer a trade wit 1
them to any other people under tlie fun. No
thing is more certain than that the Americans
prefer a connexion with England to any o> .iet
nation, and that they are daily becoming mote
attached to this country than they ever wet e.
Mr. Dundas is the firft secretary of Hate that
ever represented the city of Edinburgh in parli
ament; and the third Scotchman (nice the union,
at has had the honor ofthe new appointment
The Earl of Bute and Lord Viscount Stormont
were the others alluded to.
Mrs. Fitzhei bert, whose age has of late been
the invidious subject of female difcuflion, is nei
ther more nor less than thirty-five the 26.h of
next July, having beeil born on that day 111 the
year 1756. ... 1
The constitUtion of the pedestrian ladies and
gentlemen at the weft end of the town, mud be
very warm indeed, when it is a known fadt, that
one shop in the course ofone day, last week,fold
upwards of Five Hundred Glades of ice ci earns.
From Jersey we learn, that the inhabitants have
obliged the French emigrants to quit that island ;
heir numbers from Brittany, and the adjacent
-a-ts, have raised the price of provision to a de
cree before unknown.
The fire which broke out during the night of
the of May, at Brefl.iu,appears to have been
more deftruftive than from the fir It accounts it
was imagined. Seventy honfes, two bridges,
h.ee churches, a convent, and several mills tull
of corn, fell a facrifice to the flames.
M. de Calonne has drawn a very large portion
of his fortune from'this country in aid of the
counter-revolution in France. The Polignacs,
ind some other rich dillinguifhed persons, who
are likewise of the Royal Party, have also con
tributed very largely.
CAPTAIN GROSE
The literary quacks of the day elbow them
selves so much into public notice, that they
scarcely leave a niche for real genius ; hence we
hardly hear a word to the memory of the late
Captain Grofe, except the paragraph of his death,
and the advertifenient for the sale of his books
and drawings.
i he late F. Grofe was lefc a very independent
fortune by his father, at an early age ; but like
many men of a sprightly turn and good parrs,
lie did not reckon right for the evening of life
fie engrafted carelefsuefs on a love of pleasure,
and what was (till vvorfe, mixed the former in
his business ; insomuch that when he was Adju
tant and Paymaster in the Surrey Militia, his
only two books of accounts (as he used pleasant
ly to tell) were his right and left hand pockets
—In the one he received, and from the other
paid, and'this too with a want of circumfpecfti
on which may be readily supposed from such a
mode of book-keeping.
His lotTes, however, on this occasion, roused
his latent talents. With a good claftical educa-
ion, he united a fine taste for drawing, and en
couraged by his friends, as well as prompted by
his situation, he undertook a work that will long
remain a monument of his genius—" The anti-
quities of England and Wales " —This was fol
lowed by " The antiqnities of Scotland " A
Treatise on antient armour & weapons of war
—" Gambado on Horfemanftiip —" Military
antiquities and History of the English Army
— A number of private views—humorous books,
prints, sketches, &c. &c. His last work, which
is unfinifhed, is "On the antiquities of Ireland;"
—To which place he went in the course of last
winter, and where he died suddenly at the table
of a friend in the 54th year of his age.
This is a sketch of the literary hillory of the
late F. Grofe, Esq. which, as it is,
was exceeded by his good humour, conviviality,
and friendlhip. Living much abroad, and in
the best company at home, such as the Earl of
Bute, Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Joftiuaßeynolds.and
the feleifl members of the literary societies, lie
had the easiest habits of adapting himfelf to all
tempers and, being a man of general know
ledge, he always drew out some conversation
that was either nfeful to himfelf, or agreeable to
the party ; he could observe upon most things
with precision and judgment, but his natural
tendency was to humour, in which lie excelled,
both by the feletftion of anecdotes, and his man
ner of telling them, it may be said, too. that his
figure rather ailifted him, which was in faift the
very title page of a joke.
He had neither the pride nor malignity of au
thorship— he felt the independency of his own
talents, and was fatisfied with them, without de
grading others. His friendfhips were of the fame
cast, con (fan t and sincere, overlooking little faults
and reeking our greater virtues. In fiiorr, he
had a good heart, and, abating those little indis
cretions natural to most men, could do no \vron<*.
The address of the National AlTeaibly to t'„ e
people of France, in reply to the king'? prodT
mation, is such as might be from the
enlighiened representatives of the French, a i U
tio:i united among tliemfelves, and breathing a
spirit of liberty, and internal union and harnio
ny, they smile with contempt at the niachinati"
oils of despotism, and even defy tile worlj
arms ; and they express tliemfelves in that bo| j
laconic, and sublime manner which highpalHous
and views are naturally calculated to produ cc
To ftibjugate the French empire, the iiitiv",
mull be annihilated. Let despotism form, i 1
dares, such an enterprize, and i: will be forced
to submit, or at (lie end of its triumphs find u u .
thing but a heap of ruins." Here they seem ti,
have an eye to the heroifui, and the fate of Nu
mantis and Seguntum.
A capital French house in the city, has within
the course of a few weeks, received remittance*
from Paris, to the amount of several hundred
thoul'.ind pounds on account of the loyalilh;
It appe irs til it ihe warlike preparations are
Hill carried on in the pons of Ru3ii, wi;h much
alacrity. 0n rile tqili of May, Admiral Krufe
had taken tile command of the fqtiadi on at Crou
ftadt ; but Admiral Tfchiafchagoff, who is to
command the squadron at Revel, was ltill at Pe-
terfbtirgh.
The Mayor of Menehould pledging his head
to the King and CVieen of France, that 110 harm
ftiould happen to their Majesties in their way to
Paris, puts us in mind of the Lord Mayor of Lon
don, who declared, that if the Spaniards did ef
fect their purpose of invading England with the
Armada, they fliould be di Tap pointed in one thing,
for the devil a bottle of ale would he leave in
he Mansion house
Persons from this country have made some pur
chases of the church lands of France. Oi.e gen-
tleman bought half a Bijboprick, two nunneries,
and some wine cellars!
A prosecution was lately commenced in the
General Assembly of the Church of Scotland,
against a Dr. M'Gill, for heresy ; but the A lie in
bly difmifled the cause by a majority of 63 to 7—
a proof of liberality, which llrongly maiks the
difference between the present and former times.
A society of gentlemen, of whom Mr. Thorn
ton, Mr. Sharpe, and other friends to the aboli
tion of the Slave Trade, are the principals, have
undertaken an emerprize of lingular benevo
lence. The difappointmenr in the loss of the
question on the Slave Bill has excited them to
pursue the fame object by different, and it is hop
ed more fuccefsful means. They are about to
form a settlement 011 the native coast of the ne
groes in Africa, for the purpose of exhibitingthe
advantages of cultivating their own foil, inltead
of employing their lives in making each other
(laves to foreigners. From what we can colled
of the plan, it is proposed to invite, by the moll
kind and generous offei s, the natives of the coun
try to fend their children to this new feulemenf,
to be educated in religious principles, and to
learn the different methods used in the planting
of cotton, coffee, rice, and such vegetables as suit
the foil and climate, and to initiate therifingge-
lieration to such habits ot life as may give thein
some elevaiion in the fcaleof rational exiltence.
We remember that this idea, which is one of
those extraordinary stretches of lininanity that
diltingiiifh the present age, was darted many
years ago by the venerable Dean of Gloucelter,
as the only effectual means to be employed for
the removal of that grievance, the Slave Trade.
The Royal Aflent has been given to an A».t of
Parliament for the support of this truly philan
thropic projedi.
Our modern physicians have so many infalli
ble cures that it is wonderful any one ihould he
afflidted with any disorder—and yet the Bills of
Mortality continue much the fame, or rather up
on the encreafe. How can these things be ac
counted for ? Many of them aflert, that they can
cure the gout ; —let the afflicted beware of phy
sicians, for we read in the fir it book of Kings, that
Asa was the firit man who had the gout, and we
read also, the consequence of his resorting to me
dical assistance. " Now, Asa, the King was Hif
eafed in his feet, and he applied to the Physici
ans instead of applying to the Lord, therefore
the Lord flew him."
NEW-YORK, August: 29
Capt. Smith, lately arrived at New-Londo*
from St. Euftatia, fays a vessel had arrived t ' l * re
from the coast of Guinea, and brought advice
that an Englifli Fatftovy, on the coast, had '' ee ™
recently cut off, by the negroes, who facrince
the whole, except one, who happened to e|' a P e
—among the killed is said to be Capt. Wilha m
Wignal, of New-London. By this effort of tie
negroes, 700 of them emancipated themsel ves ""
So much jor the Guinea trad: !
A Boston paper of :he 24th infl. fays that Sciip|
had, within a few days, vibra-ted between ij
and 190 dollars.
A CAUTIONBENNINGTON (Vermont) August 22.
A writer in a Southern paper proposes, that
the Federal City be called Columbus, another pro
poses Wajhingtample,—The simplicity of repub
licanism is thought by some to be its greatest or
nament, why then (hould we disgrace our Fede
ral City, with ufelels terminations to a name that
cannot admit of additional honor from the inge
nuity of man
ALBA
Agreeable to an act of the last Allembly, the
surveyor general departed from hence last Friday
t;> explore the communications between theHud
fou lliver and Wood creek, falling into lake
Champlain, for the purpose of ascertaining the
mo ft eligible place to lay off the ground for the
proposed canal, to open a water communication
with Vermont, and thereby divert the produce
from Canada to our navigable waters.
We are further informed that Major Ilarden
bergh is also comniiffioned to do the fame between
the bead of Mohawk river and Wood creek,
falling into the Oneida lake, b rom ihefe ap
pearances, it is a chance if the long heads of
Pennsylvania will not be a little fliortened in
their projects.
On Saturday last, a yoong man, foti of Captain
Benjamin Townlend, of Renllelaerwyck, was
killed by the accidental difc'iarge of a muiket,
which he was taking out of a waggon, by the
muzzle, not knowingit was loaded.
Never take a gun by the muzzle !
SPRINGFIELD, Angnfl 24.
HaM.y, Augufl ii, 1 791
On Friday evening lalt, as Mr. Ebenezer Bolt
wood, Mr. Gideon Parsons, and Mr. Merril, were
going from Hadley to Amherft, in a covered wag
gon, they miffed their way, and instead of driv
ing to Aniherft, they turned to the left hand at
the North end of Hadley, at a place called High
Banks, and drove direcftly down the bank : —It
being measured the next morning, it appears the
horses and waggon descended 40 feet before they
{truck, and then threw the inen 8 or 10 feet fur
ther before they landed, without material injury
to men, horses or waggon. Something peculiar
must attend old bachelors, or Mr. B. inuft have
been killed.
N E ff-LON DON, August 25
The National Bank serves to facilitate that
moll delirable of political objects, the speedy re
drift ion of the National Debt, by affording ihe
means of accomplilhing it, in the purchase of the
principal itfelf, from (he profits ai ifing from the
operations of ihe Bank, to om e fifth whereof
the government "ill be enti led, if they keep,
as is proposed, that proportion of the ltock in
circulation. Thus, by a double operation of the
fame means, facilitating the commercial inter
course, and binding and weaving together the
va'-ious iniereits of the diltinift and remote parts
of he L ion, at the fame time that it iinpercep
tibi) lim in idles, with ihe consent of the propri
etors, that bane of al! free communities, « bur
thru/, Public Debt.
Pi ielphia, September 5.
T1 rf ly last a Committee was appointed by
the House of Reprefentativeg, confuting of Mr.
Clyster, Mr. Finley, and 'Mr. Gallatin, to bring
is! L . bill yiiij> in behalf of this Common
u• a]tli tlie fif-ft article of amendment, propot'ed
by Cor.grels to the Constitution of the United
S. ates
Same clay an aiifwer to the Governor's speech
was rn efented by a committee of the hbufe;—ln
which they recognize the great attention paid by
the firft niagiftrate to the public interest during
the recess—and mod heartily concur with him,
" in declaring that the prosperous iituation of
this slate, connedted with the credit of.the Union,
happily provides the means, and affords the, op
portunity, not only for the improvement of Penn
sylvania in her natural advantages, but in her
arts, commerce and agriculture."
The merchandize imported into Peterfburgli,
RulTia, the last year, amounted to 22,964,619 rou
bles—and the duties paid on merchandize im
ported at Revel, amounted to 1,500,000 roubles ;
in the year 1789, they only amounted to 200,000
roubles.
Some late accounts in . the English papers re
port, that insurrections have taken place among
the people in several parts of Spain.
The accounts from various places on the conti
nent, where the refugees from France are fup
pofcd to reside, contain no pofiiive relation of
such movements among the anti-revolutionists at
the time of the King's flight, which ftiould lead
to a supposition, that any plan to invade the king
dom was digested or ripe for execution.—The
officers of several regiments, ic is said, have left
the kingdom ; but it appears to have been in
confeqiience of a belief that the King had ef
fected his el'cape. Should the belligerent pow
ers conclude a general peace, some of the neigh
N Y, August 22
bonring states may possibly interfere in the af
iVus of France—but, even in that cafe, their at
tempts will depend on a concurrence of circum-
Ihmces, of which present appearances do not war
rant a:i expectation; among iliefc are, a certain
ty of their own dominions being feeure from in
fnrreclions, and thar fucli a p oportion of ihe ci
tizens of France will unite with thein, as to ren
der an iuvafi jn p atfticable, and in a high degree
likely to lucceed.— But should the French in the
mean time complete the fabric of freedom and
good government, they may defy the united
powers of despotism in their attempts to effedt a
counter-revolution.
Arrived at Bermuda-Hundred, brig Petite, Na
netre, Pittalugne, Havre-de-Grace, with Jl pas
sengers, 4? of whom are bound to Rudell county,
in Virginia, to make a fettlemeiit under the pa
tronage of Monf. de Tubeuf, 011 lands purchased
of a Mr. Smith, now in France.
Barns, it has been observed, are more fre
quently (truck with lightning than other build
ings May it not be owing to the rat ified (late of
the air within, occasioned by the heat generated
by grain and hay put in and closely confined, be
fore they are perfetfly dry. If this is the fad:,
would it not be belt to keep the doors and win
dows of barns constantly open till the above arti
cles are entirely diverted of moisture, that the
density of the circumambient air may not be
greater than that within ?—And on the principle
that r.irified air has a tendency to attraift the elec
tric fluid j fliould not the doots and windows of
houses be kept open in athutiderfhower, in order
to keep up ail equilibrium of air in the house
with the air without."
A letter of a late date from England;,'fo a gentleman in this city
contains the following observation " But it comforts me to con
clude that the boftilities upon the eminent will giv# the French
an opportunity of eftabliftiing their government, and of making
their kingdom an afvlum sot those opprefled fubjetts, whose age
or poverty will not admit of their fetking relief at three thousand
miles distance."
Arrived lately at Boston, the schooner Cohaffet, Plummer,
from Oporto. During the homeward bound passage, one of the
crew of the above schooner broke out with the small-pox, on
which Captain Plummer instantly innoculated hiinfelf and the
whole crew, ho all recovered.
Governor Mifflin's speech recognizes two circumstances in the
situation of our country, which will doubth fs inspire every good
citizen with sentiments corresponding with those expressed by the
patriotic firft magistrate of so refpe&able a member of the Union—
allusions to the flmrifhing state of our country from so high an au
thority, will have a proportional influence on the public mind ;
they are of more weight than the anonymous effufions of piivate
individuals however sincere and fervent ; and infinitely more
than counterbalance the evanescent ebullitions of little sneering
paitv minds—The Governor fays,
" I am happy in addrefling you at this period, while the beneficial
efFeßs ofthe eftablifliment of the public credit of the United States
yield a conclusive evidence of our national prosperity —
and leisure afforded from our private avocations, by an early and
abundant HA RVEST, will enable you to renew vour public
labors with the fame zeal and alacrity which distinguish the legis
lative proceedings of yo ur l feflion."
In times of anarchy and confufion, the bonds of focicty being
either relaxed or broken, confidence in public and private jufticc
is destroyed—the circulating property of men of business and
wealth, gtadually recedes, and becomes dormant; the precious
metals are transported into other countries, or retire to secret cof
fers, and rust in their retreat—every enterprize is foreborne, and
universal distress enfnes. In this situation of things the people are
very apt to mistake the cause of their diftrefles, and in consequence
have r<couifc to a variety of ill adapted expedients to retrieve
their affairs.
To rcftore mutual confidence, and give life and a£t vity to agri
culture, arts and commerce, the only adequate means is good go
vernment ; which being firmly eftabliftied, and just and compe
tent laws ena6ted and executed, produce 1 renovation in the ass irs
of every country. How forcibly is this sentiment imprefLd ou
the mind by the experience ofthe United States—from a full con
fidence ill the permanency of those fyftenis which the united wis
dom of our country has adopted, the men of property arc now
coming forward with their capitals to eflablifh manufactures on a
broad and extensive scale—which for wait of union in our coun
cils, and the incompetency of individnal means, have languiftied
under every discouragement, or proved ruinous to every periou
who has had temerity enough to engage in them.
There is a great degree of perverfenefs in some dispositions ;
to find fault appears their natural habit—and it is in vain to expe£t
any thing like good nature, or a generous acknowledgment of
merit from thi m. Men of property, who by a patriotic confi
dence in the fuccefsof the American cause, have encreafed their
foitunes, have been branded with the basest epithets—-and now
that some are devising plans for the advantage of the countiy, in
the establishment and extention of manufactures, they are charged
with designs hostile to the real interell of the people—Such con
duct need* no comment.
Some opposition, it is said, appears againll the excise in the
weftein country—but if this is fact, we doubt not on a little re
flexion it will disappear—when it is confidired that the froniiers
arc generally fettled by persons, who from previously living in the
more populous parts of the country, fee and realize the impor
tance of paying for the protection of government and the sup
port of just la ws, we may expect the most cordial acquicfcence
will soon take place; especially when they rcfltdt on the iinmcnfe
expences actually incurred by the United States for their prt sent
defen e, and the great sums in solid coin sent into the midftof
them so pay the army march ng from 6 to 700 miles for their
protection. Some persons are so illiberal as to fay that an exemp
tion from all taxation is one great ohieft to perfnns who emigrate
to the frontiers ; if this is the cafe, it is not this, that or the other
tax that would suit—every public imposition to raise a revenue
for any purpose whatever being equally odious.
The PROMPTER, corrrftcd, and with additional Numbers,
is shortly to be re-publifhcd in an O&avo Volume.
Di ed] —At Allentown. New-Jersey, on the 93d ult. the truly
amiable Miss Jan e Covenhoven, daughter of Mr. Peter Co
venhoven, an opulent iarmer of that Stale.—The drccafe of this
young lady is sincerely regretted by a numerous ar>d refpcftable
circle of friends—as, to the bcautici of external form, were added
thr ftiperior attractions of a virtuous and excellent difpofuton, anci
a fine underftandin*.
In this city, on Thursday last, suddenly, Mrs. Jane Hum
phreys, wife of Mr. Daniel Humphreys, Pi inter.
147
'1 iIL r lURE <), Lib '-i. i i
HER Zone unbound, her trclfcs unrohfin'd,
Spoke unci (i ;nt»g n; n • ol huk.,
True H.apru re's ncgligeu e; as 11 !hc ~am ,
IL rch 'k, was ;l >t v, I»ci h 1 eye vv.s flame :
Her floaiing robe* iigii ain'iou> -m'i s rece v<*,
Her mode It hrealt icii thousand vmrues heave :
Shield, had (he none, but Ho no,. i;, at 1 Ik Svo d
Was I ruth —and Angels, as Hie fmii'd, >doi'd.
From PELOSi's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORI of PHILADKLPH■' i.
Brig Havdiiriaii, Suter N't wry
Lord Hawkcfbury, Newbold,' Ttuk's-Ifl -d
Active, M'Kecvr.i, Cap -F; s
Sloop Polly, Smith, Au.<-C s
Polly,
PRICE CURRENT PUBLIC SECURII IKS
FUNDED DEli'l
6 pr. Cents 21f 21/3 pr. £ .
3 pr. C< nt s 12/4 12/5
Defered 6 pr. Cents ir/8 1 "Jg
unfunded'dert.
Final Setll. and other Certificates zcj6
Indents 1?/6
N. and S. Carolina debts, 1 4J6.
Bank Subfc iptions, 17,5 180 Dollars,
The Volunteer Company of Artillery is defued to meet at
the State-House, on Monday nex:, the sth inftam, at two o'clock
in the afternoon.
Sept. 3, 179!
A PERIODICAL PUBLICATION,
TO BE ENTITLED,
The Annual Register,
POLITICAL REPOSITORY
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Will fpcedily be commenced by the Subscriber, in the city of
PHI LADELFHIA.
This work will contain a hiftorv of the
PROCEEDINGS and DEBATES of CONGRESS, from the
beginning of the (eflion which will commence in Octobcr
Secondly—ST ATE PAPERS.
Under this head, wili becomprifed the Reports and Statements
of the executive officers of government, includitig tljofe wht • »
have already been made, official correfpon lence with foreign
powers, See.
Thirdly—THE STATE OF THE UNION,
This important article will (how ourfnuation wi'th regard to
foreign naiions, by adverting to treaties, whether concluded or
pending, hofti I»ties, and commeicial intercourse. It will also give
a comprehensive view of the internal fyflem ; to wit. populate n,
the national defence, by militia, regular troops, armed vt-ifels, 1 id
fortifications; national finance, as to loans, debts, revenue, bank,
See. national morals, as to prevailing virtues and vices; number
and quality of crimes and punishments, bankruptcies, See. g'-n I
progress ot the arts and sciences; general laws and civil
tions, whether of the fedetal government or state leg'flatures ; ?•-
nera! manners and customs ; and finally, the complexion of poli
tical sentiments, as it may be seen in public pi in; v, proceedings wf
the several governments, popular tranquility, or difcomcnt.
so IMPROVEMENTS,
In every orofeffion, art, and (c'ence.
Fifthly— MEDICAL OBSERVATION'S,
On the inorcafe and decreafc of diseases, See.
Sixthly— NATURAL HISTORY,
Parti ularly that of America.
Seventhly—CH A R ACTh R S
Eighthly— MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Which may be thought worthy of being preferred, from obli
vion, on philosophical, historical, biographical, agricultural, me
chanical, commercial, and other fubje&s, calculated to amuie the
mind, or advance the best interests of society.
Ninthly—POETßY—original and fHefted.
Tenthly—A REVIEW OF BOOKS,
American only; to which will be added, a lift of new Euro
oean publications, indicating such as may be deemed particularly
valuable in this country.
Eleventhly— A CHRONICLE
Of the moll interesting events of each year, fele&ed f om the
various newspapers, and methodically arranged.
(hT To the hiflory of the proceedings and debates of Congress,
in the firft volume of this w< rk, will be prefixed the Constitution
of the United States of America, together with a (ketch of the pro
ceedings, and the names of the members, of the firft Congress al
fembled under the auspices of the constitution.
Each volume of the Annual Register, and Political
Ripos 1 tor y of the United States of America, will con
tain at lead 500 pages, ottavo, and be printed on good paper, with
3 handsome type, equal to that with which the Editor's edition < f
the Laws of the United States is printed. The price to fubferibers
will be one dollar and a half.
The plan of this work has been submitted to the confederation
of Come of the firft characters in America, whose sentiments have
determined the Editor with reg?rd to the undertaking. The full
volume will be published in the spring of the yeai 179?.
In order to render thi»Kvork as perfe£t as poflible, and truly ho
norable to the United States, communications, coinciding with the
plan, as above given, and either handed to the Editor or transmit
ted to him by post, will be gratefully received. He with confi
dence expc&s this aflilUnce from Artists, Men of Learning, Phi
lofoph rs, and Statesmen, as they must be impresT d wi»h ade
quate ide-'s of the extreme utility of this arduous undertaking.
Gen'lemon who may incline to patronize this publication, are
requested to forward their names to M ft s. Thomas & Andr. ws,
Bo [ton ; John Carter, Esq. P< ovidence; Hud Ton & Good
win, Hartford; Mr. Thomas v'Jreenleaf, New-York;
Goddard Sc Angell, B I 1 more ; Augustine Divis, Rich
mond ; Mr. P. Young, Chatlcfton ; or 10
ANDREW BROWN,
Philadelphia, Aug. 30, 1791. in the ciiyof Philad< Iphia.
%* Subfcribcn' names shall he picfi*,-d 10 the wo k.
BY ORDER OF THE MANAGERS.
The MANAGERS of the
New-Haven Wharf Lottery,
HAVING fold what Tickets remained on hand, pledge them"
fclva 10 the public, that the D wing f»id Lottery w ill com
mcricc, in the Representatives' Chitnber, in the State Houfc in
New-Haven, on Monday the i2'.h of September next, at ten
o'clork, A. M.
New- Haven, dugvjl 16, 1791
53* A few Tickcts 111 the above Littery (and the only one»
now unfold) mjy be had of thcSubfcrioers, if toon applied foi.
STEPHEN AUSTIN & Co.
Corner of Front and Piuc-flreets,
Philadelphia, August 27, 1791.
Bunker,
ic6jpr. ccnt.
62 do.
fcaJ do.
102J do,
62 i do,
JEREMIAH FISHER, Capt.
AND
DBOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. NoiTH-FtoKT-Srmr,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among which are theJollon' n g
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVELASS on Bill* of Ex
change.
Clerk's Vade Mecum.
Gilbert'* Law of Evidence.
New Edinburgh Difpenfalnry.
Cullen's t'irft Lines of the Prac-
ticc of Phyiic.
Kufli's Medical Enquiries
Brown's Elements ot Medicine.
Ollerwald'iChriftianTheology. Jenyn'i Internal Evidence of
Rife and Progress of Religion 'theChriftian Religion.
in the Soul. Bcattie's Evidence of Ditto.
Necker on Religious Opinions Think Well On't.
Fordyce's Addreflrs to Young n< »out Chrifhan'i VadcMecum
Men. £.dward&'» i'iiflory of Redeinp-
Seimons to Young tion.
ornei
Poor Man's Help and Young fettii/ns.
a uu ,uc. against Chauncev.
Newton's Dissertations on the Booth's Apology forthe Bapnftj
Prophecies.
Le&ures delivered by Soame
fenyns.
The Cbriftian Reinem'orancei.
Future State Eternal.
RufTel's Seven Sermons.
Ramfav's American Revolution
History of America.
Morse's Geography.
Siege of Gibraltar.
Shaw's Abridgement of Bruce's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Ptlew
1 (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&ionto the mak
ing of Latin.
Dodfley's Fables.
P. Ovidii Nafonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Ailiftant.
Sele&ae e Veteri Teftamento
Hiftoria:.
Scott's Leflons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomson's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopllock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hiilory, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ame
rican War, 4 vols.
New Annual Register.
Vattel's Law of Nations.
6 vols..
Nicholfon's Navigation.
Alexander's Experimental En-
quiries.
Experimental Eddys.
Huxham on Fevers.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust
of Bread.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia.
Burke's Speeches and Political
Tra£b.
Eeauties of the British Senate.
Davies's Dramatic MifcelJanies.
Miss Murray's Mentoria.
Stuart's View of Society.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence
Man of the Moon, 2 vols.
Dramatic Pieces.
Philadelphia, Augvjl 6 1791
CHILDS AND SWAINE
Have now in the Press, and in a few days will publith
In a handsome Volume OCTAVO,
[PRICE ONE DOLLAR AND A HALF]
THE
LAWS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;
Collated with, and correfled by, the original Rolls in the office
of the Secretary ot State, agreeably to a resolve of Con<refs,
palled the 18.h February, 1791.
With a COMPLETE INDEX.
This volume will compnfethe Federal Constitution, the Afls
of the three Se (lions of the First Congress, and the Treaties : —
also, the Declation of Independence, and fundiy Resolves and
Ordinances of Congress under the Confederation.
Aew-York, Augufl 3.
Public Securities,
Bought and So<.d, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Cliefnut-Street, next door to the Bank No 07
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
AND NEW-HAVEN
L OTTER Y TICKETS,
To he had at the fame place.
T Philadelphia, 20th July, 1701.
HE CommtiQoners appointed to receive Subfcriptious to the
Bank °f thelimited States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in.
*orm the Stockholders of the fdid Bank, that an election for tweniv
five D.rectors w.ll he held at .he Chv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 2 til day of Oftobcr next, at 10 o'clock in the mornin*
THOMAS WILLING, °'
DAVID RITTENHOUS"
SAMUEL HOWEI.L.
Dailas's Reports.
Kirby's Connc&icut Reports.
Conductor Gcneralis.
Buchan's Domeflic Medicine,
latest edit ion.
Clark on D:fcafesof Horses.
Geuilcman'a Pocket Farrier.
on the Religious As-
Doway Tranfh'.ion of the Vul
gate Bible
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodist Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalms.
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenrk,
Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Palev's Moral Piiilofophv.
Smellie's Philofophyof Natuiul
History.
Nicholfor»'s Natural Phiiofophv
Junius's Letters.
Hale's Ass ftionate Epi ft les to
his Chtld r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Percival's Father's Inftruftions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbet.
Accompliftied Gentleman.
Ela, or the Delusions of the
Heart.
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphoufo and
Daiinda.
Beattic's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
ChefterKeld's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Apprentice.
Walker's Academic Speaker.
Life of Rob in Ton Crufoe.
Saville's Miscellanies.
School of Wisdom
Knux's Sermons, 2 vols.
Defcnption of 300 Animals.
Boyle's Voyages.
Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
The Apocrypha.
Marmontel's Belifarius.
Journey through Sweden.
Dupaty's Travels.
Stretch's Beauties of History.
Alii foil's EfTay on the Nature
and Principles of Taste.
(w&fgw iaw6t)
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
Oa COMMISSION, at public and private falc, on the
following lerms :
ON T (he specie amount of all sales or purchases at auction, one
eighth percent. .
Oil ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all (urns
below nominal dollars, one-liiilj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-Jourlh per ccnt.
For receiving intercif at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
(£3* Such pcrfmu throughout the United States, as may be
oleafed to favor tne fubfenbers with their orders, may rely on
iheir bein;; executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extenfivc
ronncftions in the city of New-York and diffeient parts of the
continent enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PI'NTARD & BLEECKER,
0 New-York, No. 51, King-Street.
fp7 taw 6m)
March 15, 1 791
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THK MANAGERS of th? STATE-LOTTERY aflure the
Public, thai the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commcncc drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thurflay ihe 13th of October next, orJooner, if the Tickets
hall be difpofcd of. As the Managers have in their fcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour afligned, to
they arc determined to be equally as pun&ual in this.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction ot twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
10000 is 10000
3000 are 6oco
2000 6000
1000 6000
300 500 c
200 6000
100 8000
5© 45°°
' 40 4000
30 3600
20 3220
jo 2000
ft 60680
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
9°
100
19.0
16l
200
75*5
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
2 §000 Tickets,
TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Manager s,vtho iut/l pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other placcs. as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.'^
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER,
GEORGE R. MI NOT, j
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Roflon, April 14. 1791.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents Ihall comc, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promiflory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one for seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen shillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundst hir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thojfand and forty.feven pounds fifteen shil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all persons from purchasing said
noies as thev will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, f Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th May, 1791
War Department,
MAY 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
of the United States, that the sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will become due on the 4th dav of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiilionersof the
Loans within the States refpe£lively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application lor payment mull be accompanied by the fol
lowing vouchers.
1 ft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the person
possessing the fame is in fa£l an invalid, and alcertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. 3 came before me, one of the Jufticcs of the connty of in
the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. 8. to whom the
original certificate in his pofjtffion mas given, of which the following is a
copy (the certificate given by the state to be recited) That he served (re
giment , corps or vejjel) at the time he was dfabted, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the lajl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, betides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of state of do hereby constitute and
appoint C. D. of tt( lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension Jar fix months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth dp of March, one thoufxidfeven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the four tk day of September of the fume y(&r.
Signed and s caled
in the presence of
Witngflcs.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal ev.dence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose penfiun they may claim.
By command of the Piefidcnt of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary oj War.
148
CLASS II
[$3"iVlperr o n S concerned will be pleaftd total;-, .
following advertifemeut has been varied fro,i, u,J ~'v '
our paper ot the 23d of March.] ' • "'- c - l
Treasury Department.
"VTOTICE is hereby given, th=it Propolalswi'iVrcc.'w '
IN orhce of the Secretary of the Treafurv, until the fiif.j "
11) September next inclufne, forthefupply ot a!! , aro 01Ci3 Y
may be required lor the use of the United Stales, liom'the si
of January to the thirty.-firft day of December, 1 79 , }, ot , " v
clufive, at the places, and witlimthe drftrias liei,,' n ■!/. .^* s ,u "
oned, viz. r ®cntu
At any place or places, betwixt Yot ktown in the Aatcof P
fylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt. cnn "
At any place or places, bctw Ixt Fort Pitt and Fort M l r
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'Tntofti and the v*n :
the River Mufkingum, and at the tnoufh of ihe River M, : , °
At any place or placos. betwixt the mouth of the
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, ai.d ar j V
carowas, and thence over tu the Cayoga River,arid down r "
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the Ri<,,- r y { 1
kingum, and the moulh ol the Scioto River, and at the i„o, a ;
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scio-.o River and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thcncc to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio and 2; '
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the jjreat M:a«
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetov. n, and thence on, l( , ,
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which raipi-.c* ;
Lake Erie.
At anv place or places from the rapid*ofthe Ohio,to themout!
of the W aba 111, thence up the said Wabafh to Poll St. Vmceiu,,
at Port St. Vmcennes, and thence up the faitl i iver Wabalh, to ;].c
Miami village, before described.
At any place or peaces, from the mouth of the Wabafh rtvci u»
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the nvcr Mi(li(ipp Jt
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of the Illinois river
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami livtr io
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufk
and at Sandufky, and from Sandofky to the mouth of Cayoga rivei
Ar anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le 3euf and at Preiq'lflc, and be
twixt Piefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, ou
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the Mifljfippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
125000
Should any rations be requiiea at any places, or within other
diftrifts, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of thefamcto
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contvaftor.
The rations to be supplied are to confiilof the following articles.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half ajill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, f
M , c r ° > per. 100 rations.
Iwo pounds of loap, ( r
One pound of candles, ;
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fiift Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the firft day ot January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1 792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Massachu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the ill Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the 1 ft day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saiut Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry lSurbcck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At thepofton the river Oconee, at prcfentcommanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main foulh branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
(e p. 3 m.
At any other place or places within the slate ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent pods by any troops ot the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future ports.
The rations are to be furniflied in such quantities as that there
sHall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient forthe con
sumption of the troops at each of the said ports, for the (pace of at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofies fuftainrd by the
depredations ofthe enemy, orby means of the troops ofthe United
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articlescaptured or Oc -
troyed, on the depohtions of two or more creditable characlcis,
and the certificate of a commiftioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount ot the articles lor which
compensation is claimed. .
The contratts for the above supplies will be made either Tor one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Perlons dnpo e
to contrafl will therefore confine their offers to one year, ort ey
may make their proportions so as to admit an eleflion o t e
term of two years. A
The piopofals may be made for the whole of theabove po- s °-
gether, or feparatelv for Suringfield, for Weft-Point,for \ orktown,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the posts in George,
and they must fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
Blink Powers to receive the Interest, andfor the transfer eft
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablifhed i* * '
Department : A!fo Blanks for abflrafts of Certificate j, ioeeju.
the Editor.
f£T The JOURNAL of the TillßD SESSION of <h< S^J ' 1
of the UNITED STATES, mai he hiiof the Editor hereof. __
JC yA fax copies of the CONSTITUTE "j
United States, printed viith Notes, viay be ha oj
Edit nr.