(P?-t/A><S£V <& tr/Axf er/<rt,-
/ rto i
r."- /?/ / -
fffb r#gf#p»
£
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS SV JOHN K NSO, No. 6 9 . HICH-&TREET, BETWEEN AND THIRD
[No. 22, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
Mr. RUSSELL,
~E> Y the English Constitution, the whole collec
tive power of the nation is delegated, and
the constitution itfelf is alterable by the fame au
thority which is competent to the common pur
poses of legislation.
Ihe trench are to have a constitution, every
part of which will be nominally beyond thecon
troul of their common legislatures, and which
will be unalterable in all parts, except by the na
tion in its " original character." Ac least Mr.
Paine has undertaken to anfvrer for them that it
will be so: Although I have not seen any such
article in the constitution, and though perhaps
it has not yen been decreed, I am willing to take
Mr. Paine's word for the fadi, and to conlider
the fubjetft, as if it were already determined.
I have made some observations upon Mr. Pa ine's
arguments, as they refpetf: the right of a nation
to delegate all their power. As a question of ex
pediency, it may perhaps be more difficult to de
termine, which of these two schemes contains
the least evil. Both of them are fuppovted by
the example of several among the American
States, and can therefore boalt the fantfiion of
authorities equally refpeitable.
Ihe fundamental principle upon which soci
ety is formed, appears to be, in order that the
power of the whole may be rendered subservient
to the interests of the whole. The problem to
solve is, in what manner the power shall be dis
tributed, so as most effeiftually to answer that
purpose. Confldering the extreme difficulty with
which a whole nation can be brought to atfl in
their original chara<ster, it should seem, that wis
dom mult didlate to them the necessity of dele
gating their whole power, in such a manner as
that it may be rendered beneficial to the nation,
because whatever power is retained by the peo
ple, cannot be exercised for their advantage,
any more than to their injury. The question
therefore occurs, why a nation should not dele
gate all its powers > Mr. Paine has bestowed ve
ry little Cpi.fir'erstion upon this fubje<a ; I fnm
that although he gives us his own opinion very
fieely, he offers only two reafoits to support it.
One, because, " such a government would be ar
bitrary The other, because " there is a para
dox in the idea of vitiated bodies reforming
themfelyes." In the sense in which the word
binary is here used, the firft argument attacks
the foundation of civil society itfelf ; for when
ever a number of individuals aflociate together
and form themselves into a body-politick, called
a nation, the poflL-ffion and the ufi of the whole
pov.er, (which is not however arbitrary power,)
is the very objeift of their allociation. This pow
er must exist Come where, and I cannot fee the
reason why it should not exist for the benefit of
the people.—But wheneveraconftitution ismade
unalterable by the common legislative authority,
the naiion do in reality abdicate all the powers
which they are laid to retain,and declare that very
important powers (hall at all events be useless to
t hem, from an apprehension that they might pof
fiblv be abused to their injury.—lt is as if a man
should bind himfelf never to wear a sword, left
lie should turn it against his own breast. The
only reason why the whole power of a nation
should not be delegated, mult arise from the dan
ger of us being abused: And a melancholy ex
perience has always shown that when the whole
power has been thus delegated to one mau, or to
one body of men, it has invariably been grossly
abused, and the sword of the people has been
turned into a dagger against them. From the
the predure of thole evils, many nations have
been induced exprcfsly to forbid their govern
ments the use of certain powers, without consi
dering that the impotence of their supreme au
thority, would certainly be very prejudicial to
them, and perhaps as fatal, as the abuse of pow
er. This experiment has repeatedly been made;
i t has frequently failed ; and I believe that after
several more experiments shall fully demonstrate
the ill policy of thus annihilating the power of
the nation, it will be clearly seen, that all the
powers of the people ought to be delegated for
their benefit, and that their true interest consists
in the distribution of those powers in fucha inan
rer as (hall in its own operation guard against
theabufes which alone are dangerous to the neo-
IO i
c
J he ConfUtution of the United States, appears
o »«c to unite all the advantages both of the
Wednesday, July 15, 1791.
French and of the Englifti, while it has avoided
.he evils of both. By that constitution, the peo
ple have delegated the power of alteration, by
veiling it in the CongrL-fs, together with the
Mate Legislatures ; while at the fame time it has
provided for alterations by the people themselves
in their original charadler. whenever it shall evi
dently appear to be the wuhof the people to make
them. This article appears to be replete with
wisdom ; I believe it will stand the celt of the se
verest examination, though according to the ideas
emanating from Mr. Paije, and coming to us at
the I'ania tune by refle<fti( r .i from the Secretary of
State, it contains a very tiangeroua political he
resy.
It is a maxim which wi not I trust, be dispu
ted, that no government of which the people is
not a conftuuent part, an secure their equal
rights ; but where this is the cafe, to cramp the
operations of their own government, with un
neceflary reftritfions, and forbid themselves to
enact ufeful laws, what : s it but to defeat the
purposes of society, by t'. ; very art, which gives
it a permanent existence; to tie theirown hands
from an imaginary appre' enfion that if left at
liberty they would admii fterpoifon to thebody
which nourishes them ?
It is in the distribution >f the national powers;
it is in the independent fj irit of the people, and
not in the manuscript limitation of the Legisla
tive authority, that a nar jn is to secure the p; o
tecftion of its liberties.—] this Commonwealth
we have a constitution, mi ft parts of which are
unalterable by ouk- ordinary Legislatures; it has
existed but ten years ; an already its operation
has convinced us all tha several alterations in
the system would be highl ' expedient. Our Le
gislative body would be fully competent to the
purpose, and if they had ihe power would rea
dily make such alterations as might suit the con
venience of the people; but they have no autho
rity ro a<ft in these cases for the benefit of the
people, and as the inconveniences to which this
injudicious jealousy has fubjecled us, are not
'-!* this time fucii iiiipti?\aiice as to render the
alterations, of immediate or absolute neceflity,
we must wait our appointed time, and patiently
submit to the operation of bad laws, because we
have not chol'en to invert our Legislature with
the power of making good ones.—Let us not be
frightened, however, from the pursuit of our
common interelt by the words arbitrary power.
Distribute the whole of your power in such a
manner, as will neceflarily prevent anyone man,
or body of men, or any poflible combination of
individual interests, from being arbitrary, but do
not encumber your own reprefenratives with
fliackles, prejudicial to your own interests; nor
fuffer yourselves like the Spanilh Monarch, of ri
diculous memory, to be loafted to death, by de
nying to your fervantsthe power of removingtlie
fire from before you
But although a constitution, profefledly unal
terable by the common legislative authority, is
of weight fufficient to prevent the enading of
many good lawn, yet it will not always opera*e as a
check upon your legislature. Such is the pover
ty of all human labours, that even a whole na-
tion cannot exprcfs themselves upon paper, with
To much accuracy and precision, as not to admit
of much latitude of explanation and e»nftruc
tion. Thelegiflature must always be allowed to
judge of the intentions with which the instru
ment was formed, and to construe and explain
accordingly the expressions which it contains.
They fonietimes think proper to violate the let
ter' of the constitution by adhering to its spirit,
and at other times they facrifice the spirit by ad
heriug ftri(flly to the letter. But when vour le
gislature undertake to decide that the Ipirit of
the constitution, is diredly contrary to its express
letter, where is the power in the nation that
lhould controul them i The fame power, which
will al ways be ftifficient to controul a Legislature
of which the peopie are a constituent part; it is
ihefpint of the people.—Let your Legislative and'
Executive authorities be so constituted, as to pre
vent every eflential, or dangerous abuse of the
powers delegated, but depend upon the honest
and enlightened spirit of the people for a fecuri
nty which you never will obtain, by merely with
holding your powers, unless that spirit fhotfld be
constantly kept up. Divide your power so that
every part of it may at all times be used foryour
advantage, but in luch a manner that your rights
may never depend upon the will of any one man
85
[Whole No. 250.]
or body of men ; entrult even the power of ap
'ermg your constitution icfelf, because occasions
may anfe, when die ufeeven of that power, may
be absolutely neceflary for your own welfare"
when ac the lame time it may be impolfible for
you to act in your original character, with the
expedition neceff'ary for your salvation ; but re
ierve to yonrfelves a concurrent power of alter
lng the constitution in your own persons, becauf<
by the decay to which all the works of man an
hab!e, it is poflible that your Legislature,
become incompetent to make such alterations as
may be neceflary. But, when the people ar<
conftantl- -presented in the Legislature, Ibe
I,ev " "«r find it necellary to recur tt
aiadter, in order to make ani
, J. era rl % nia y deem expedient, un
power of making them to theii
-•ltly repr.
;ibe ne
jr ofij ;
"ions !• ii
ley deny the
gifts une.
" But fays Mr. Paine, " there is a paradox
11 thejdea of vitiated bodies reforming them
elves This niu'vt depend altogether upon the
oinciJance of the part vitiated, with the pare
vhich isi to apply the remedy; for unless thede
ect ii felf neceflarily precludes the poffibilitv of
'pplying the power of reformation, the paradox
eases, and no more involves an absurdity, than
hat a phyflcian should use his own prescriptions
o cure hjmfelf of a disorder.
1 he veryatfby which septennial Parliaments
vere eltabliflied m England, affords fufficient
>roof that the power of altering the constitution
tfelf onght to be delegated, and even exercised
>y the government upon certain cnriral occafi
>ns. 1 hat a (ft was made at a time v. hen the
cingdom was threatened with an immediate in
alion, when a rebellion had but just be e/, quel
ed, and when, the peace and fafety of the na
-1011 depended upon the use of this power by
he Parliament; such w as the opinion of the neo
•le at that time, and the a(ft met with genera!
ipprobation, from the general convirtion of is
leceiiity. Such occafionsmay happen in the hif
oiy of every free people, and it is therefore
>i oper that the power lnouJa be deieo-ated Up
'n. the principles of equal liberty, upon the
irinciples of public liappmefs, and therefore of
Jolitical expediency, I think it may be fairly
_oncluded that Mr. Paink's preference of the
french to the Engiifh Constitution, so far as it
relates to this article, is not founded in truth.
[The foregoing is No. 7, of Foblicola— No. 6
is not come to hand.] ' '
BERKENHOUT's Discovery, for Dying Cotton
and Linen, in Scarlet, Crimson, and other Co
lour', as conwiuuicated to the Company of Dyers
of the City of London, by the Lords CommiJJioners
of the Treasury.
or linen, either in yarn or piece
V-/ should be perfectly wet with hot water'
and then wrung out, as is the common practice'
This being done, it rnuft be perfectly soaked in
a solution of tin, diluted with an eqi al quantity
of clear foft water. The cotton or line,,, bemjx
so far prepared, mull be wrung out, but not forci
bly : then it is to be nearly dried, lying hori
zontally upon a hurdle, with a double linen
flieer between, and covered with the fame. The
(olution of tin being for scarlet, mud be made
of nitrous acid, and not of aqua fortis ; but for
crimson, aqua fortis must be used ; and the
blooni is to be given, aher it femes out ot the
dye, by a finall quantity of sal ammoniac and
pearl ashes, difl'olved perfectly in warm water;
but this water must not be more uhan niilkwai m*
The colouring vat, for the scarlet or crimson
is limply cochineal in water, no hotter than the
hand can bear ; and, as vegetable matter re
ceives only the small particles of the colour
from the nature of its pores, two oz. to a pound
of the.materials dyed may beneceflary. But cot
ton or linen, frefh prepared, will draw from the
fame vat, heated as before, all the inferior
(hades from scarlet and crimson ; and, if any
colour still remains in the vat, it may be taken
out entirely, by wool prepared in the usual man
ner. The fame preparation of tin serves for the
g c en and yellows, with the fame marei ials only
that are employed by the dyers, except the bell
yellow, which is produced from turmeric.
It is neceflary to observe, that, after the pre
paration has been made use of for scarlet orcrinv
PUBLICOLAson, the relidne continues (jlßciftiitly strong for
greens and yellows, even after it has been ept
for a considerable time. .
N. B. To make tlie best solution of tin with
nitrous acid, it is neceftary to have the llrong
fmoaking spirit, to which an equal quantity ot
the puielt river water mull be added ; and the
proportions of the following ingredients are to
the weight of spirits ; l-l6th sal ammoniac, i-? 2
refined nitre, dissolved by a little at a time in
this aqua regia : dillblve i-Bth of gianu are.,
grain (in also by small quantities to prevem
too great an ebullition, which would weaken the
solution considerably. _ .
The ingredients and proportions are the lame,
when a solution is to be made with aqua torus :
but that spirit, in general, will not ear any
water, when a perfecft solution is inten e .
Extract from Crth's Chemical Journal. 11%9-
MVOGLER has discovered a method ot
. making a fine black ink, which has the
fine 11 of roses. 11l an earthem veflel he boils le
vel) ounces of rain-water with an ounce and an
half of dried tor men til roots, (tormentilla ereua
Lin.) When it has boiled fuilkiently, he pours
off the liquid, and adds to it a folutionofthree
drams of copperas, and one dram ef gufIHBBLC >
he then stirs the whole with a
grown cold, the ink is ready
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE
ANECDOTE OF A PATRIOT.
JUST before the the commencement of the
American Revolution, a band of SBriifts
were conversing on the various art* by
the British Ministry, to seduce and divide the
leaders in the glorious cause of our country—
Among other topics, bribery was mentioned—it
was well known at that time that attempts at
corruption had been unfuccefsfully made—One
®f the company asked a very diftinguilhed cha
racter ifno overtures had ever been made to him ?
He replied no !—for, added he, " they well
k tow that a guinea never gltjtened in my eyes." It
is hardly neceflary to add, that this was the Pho
cion of Mafiachufetts, their present Lieut. Gover-
jior
Lancaster, ( Pc nnjy Ivun'nx ) July 3, I 79 1,
THIS evening, at 6 oNsJock, arrived here, on
Ms t*eturn from his Southern Tour, his Excellen
cy the Prefidenr of the United States, accompa
nied by M pi Jackson. He was escorted from
>V i<*ht's Jerry by a refpertable number of the
in«iabir3ll rs of this borough : and on Monday,
July 4, being the Anniversary of American Inde
pt tler.ce, the Corporation, at the particular re
qiiell of the inhabitaius, waited on him with the
following address:
To George Wajhington, President of ths United
Siatei.
St R,
ON behalf of the inhabitants of the borough
of Lancaster, the members of the Corpora
tion beg leave to congratulate you on your ar
rival at this place. On this joyful occasion, they
approach the First Magiftrateot the Union, with
hearts imprefied with no less grateful respect
thin their fellow-citizens of the east and ot the
south. With them they have admired those ta
lents, and that firm prudence in the field, which
finally enfuved success to the American arms.
But at this time reverence forbids the language
■which would naturally flow from the recapitula
tion of the events of the late glorious revolution.
The faithful page of liiftory will record your
jllnftrious actions for posterity.—Yet we cannot
forbear to mention what we, in our day, have
beheld and witnefl'ed. We have seen you, at
the awful period, when the storm of war was
burlting around us, and our fertile plains were
deluged with the richelt blood of America, ri
ling above adverfiry, and exerting all the talents
of the patriot and the hero, to save our country
from the threatened ruin : And when, by the
will of Heaven, those exertions had restored
peace and profperiry to the United Stares, and
the great objecft fur which you drew the sword,
was acconipliihed, we have beheld you, adorn
ed with every private, social virtue, mingling
•with your fellow-citizens. Yet that tranfcend
ant love of country, by which you have always
been actuated, did no! fuffer you to reft here ; —
but when the united voice of myriads of free
men (your fellow-citizens) called you from the
repose of domestic life, actuated f'olely by the
principles of true glory—not seeking your own
aggrandizement , but fact ifking the sweets of
reti'ed life to the wiflies and happiness of your
country, we hive beheld you, poflefled of the
confidence of a great people, presiding over their
and, by your happy adminift'-ation,
■uniting them together by the great political bond
of one common interest.
It is therefore the inhabitants of this borough,
seize with joy the only opportunity which has
offered to them, to teftify their approbation of,
and their gratitude for. your services.
Long, very long, fir, mayjou enjoy the af
fetSions of your fellow, citizens. We pray for
- vmir health and happi
beloved country—and on You
o„beh,lf ord,.n,Mves »nJ .he inha
bitants of the borough of Lancaltei .
EDWARD HAND, ißureeffes.
PAUL ZANTZINGER, 5
JOHN HUBLEY, I
ADAM REIGART, I
JACOB KRUG, J> Afliftants.
CASPER SHAKFNER, I
JACOB FREY, J
To which the Prefulent was pleased to return
the following Anlwer:
To the Corporation and Inhabitants of the Borough
of Lancajl'er.
Gentlemen, .
YOUR congratulations on my arrival in Lan
calter are received with pleasure, and t if
flattering expreflions of your esteem are replied
to with fmcere regard.
While i confefs my gratitude for the diltin
cuifhed estimation in which you are plealed to
hold my public services, a sense of justice to mj
fellow-citizens, ascribes to other causes, the peace
and prosperity of our highly favoured country.
Her freedom and happiness are founded in then
patriotic exertions, and will, I trust, be train
mitred to distant ages through the fame medium
ot wisdom and virtue.
With sincere wishes for your social, I otter an
earnest prayer for your individual welfare.
v J G. WASHINGTON.
At three o'clock the President, and a very large
number of citizens, set down to an elegant en
tertainment, provided for the occasion, in the
court-house.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE CRITICS.
A FABLE.
WRITTEN SEPTEMBSI 17 $5.
"To every general rule there are exceptions." Common Sense.
? r said of every dog that's found,
X Of mongrel, spaniel, cur, and hound r
That each sustains a doggish mind,
And hates the new, sublime. refined,
Tis hence the wretches bay the moon,
In beauty throned at highcft noon ;
Hence every nobkr brute they bite.
And hunt the stranger-dog with spite;
And hence, the nose's dittates parrying,
They fly from meat to feed on carrion.
'Tis also said, the currifti foul
The critic race pofftfFes whole ;
Aj> near they romc, in tHo r ts and natures,
As two legg'd can, to four legg'd creatures ;
Alike the things they love, and blame,
Their voice, and language, much the fame.
The Mafe this fubjeft made her theme,
And told me in a morning dream.
Such dreams you sages may decry \
But Muses know they never lie.
Then hear, from me, in grave nariation,
Of these strange fads, the strange occafian.
In Greece Cyncthe's village lay,
Well known to all, who went that way,
FOl dogs of every kindred famed,
And from true doggifti manners named.
One morn, a greyhound pafs'd the
At once the foul-mouth'd conclave met,
Huddling around the stranger ran,
And thus their fmait review began.
" What tramper" with a grinning sneer,
Bark'd out the clumsy cur, " is here ?
No native of the town, I fee ' T
Some foieign whelp of base degree.
I'd (hew, but that the record's torn,
We true Welfti curs are better born.
His coat is fmooih ; but longer hair
Would more become a dog by far.
His {lender ear, how strait and sloping !
While ours is much improved by cropping."
" Right," cried the blood-hound, " that strait ear
Srems made for nothing, but to hear ;
'Tis long agreed, thro' ail the town,
That handsome ears, like mine, hang down;
And tho' his body's gaunt, and round,
'Tis no true rawboned gaunt of hound.
How high his nose the crea ure carries!
As if on bugs, and flies, his fare is ;
I'll teach this ftruttmg, stupid log,
To smell's the bufinels of a dog."
" Baugh-waugh!" the shaggy spaniel cried,
" What wretched covering on his hide!
I wonder where he lives in winter;
His strait* sleek legs too, out of joint are;
I hope the vagrant will not dare
His fledging with my fleece compare.
He never plunged in pond <5r river,
To search for wounded duck and diver;
By kicks would soon be set a skipping,
Nor take, one half so well, a whipping;"
" Rat me," the lap-dog yelp'd, 44 thro' nature,
Was ever seen so coai le a creature ?
I hope no lady's fad mishap
E'er led the booby to her lap ;
He'd fright Primrilla into fits,
And rob Fooler i a of her wits;
A mere barbarian, Indian whelp!
How clownish, countryifh, founds his yelp!
He never tafled bread and butter,
Nor play'd the petty squirm and flutter;
Nor e'er, like me, has learn'd to fatten,
On kifTes sweet, and fofteft patting."
44 Some parson's dog, I vow," whined puppy;
" His rusty coat how fun-btirnt! stop ye!"
The beagle call'd him to the wood.
The bull-dog bellowed> 41 Zounds! and blood !"
86
The wolf-dog and the were/
The Muse fays, an exception here;
Superior both to filch foul play,
They wilh'd the stranger well away
r.om fpUen the Jlnßurts rose to fury,
" Villain," grow I'd one, " I can't endure you."
" Let's feiie the truant," fnarl'd another,
Encored by every toul-mouib'd brother.
" 'Tis done," bark'd all, " we'll mob the creaturt,
And facrifice him to ill-naiure."
The greyhound, who despised their breath,
Still tlio'i it bed to shun their teeth.
£afy he wing'd his rapid flight,
And left the fcoundreis out of fight.
Good Juno, by the ancients holden,
The genuine notrc-damc of fcoldtng,
Sate pleased, becauts there'd such a suss been.
And in the hound's plac« wifh'd her hufbaad ;
For here, even plealure bade her own,
Her ladyship was once out-done.
•' Hail dogs." (hecricd, "of eery kind!
Retain ye still this snarling mind.
Hate all that's good, and fair, and new,
And I'll a goddess be to you.
Nor this the only good you prove ;
Lcatn what the fruits of Ju no's love.
Your fouls, from forms, that creep ail four en,
I'll raise, by fvftem Pythagorean,
To animate the human frame,
And gain my favorite tribe a name.
Be ye henceforth (so.I ordain)
Critics, the genuine curs of naen.
To snarl be ftil) yourhigheft bliss,
And all your criticism like this.
Wl.ate'er is great, or just, in nature,
Of graceful form, or lovely feature;
Whate'er adorns the ennobled mind,
Sublime, inventive, and refined ;
With fplecn, and spite, forever blame,
And load with every dirty name.
All things of noblsft kind and use,
To your own ft2ndard vile reduce,
And all in wild confufion blend,
Nor heed the fubje(l,fcope, or end.
But chief, when moiejl young beginners,
'Gainst critic laws, bv nature sinners,
Peep out in verse, and dare to ran,
Thro' towns and villages yothr own,
Hunt them, as when yon stranger dog
Sei all your growling crew agog;
Till ftunn'd, and feared, they hide from view,
And leave the count! y clear for you."
This said, the goddess kind carefling,
Gave every cur a double blefling.
Each doggilh mind, tho' grown 110 bigger,
Henceforth alTumed the human figure,
The body walk'd on two ; the mind
To four, still chose to be confined ;
Slill creeps on earth, still scents out foes,
Is still led onward by the nose;
Hates all the good, it used to hate,
The lofty, beauteous, new, and great;
The stranger hunts with spite quinteflent,
And snarls, from that day to the present.
LONDON, -April 7.
A T a convivial meeting, at which Lord
/jL Mountmorres was present, liis Lordship
being called upon for a toast, gave as follows :—
" Success to his Majesty's fleets by sea and land."
The venerable Earl of Mansfield being alked
what he thought of Payne's Book ? faid—"ln
my opinion it should be burned by the hands
of the common Hangman ; —but if that be not the
law of the present day, it ought to be bought
up at any price !"
Robberies were never so frequent in France as
they are at present; not only Paris, but the
public roads are infeited with thieves, many of
whom are disguised in the uniform of the Na
tional Guard. A Itage-coach near Brest was at
tacked a few days ago, the postillion killed, and
two ot the paflengers dangerously wounded.
The late King of Pruflia used to fay, that th«
pleafanteft dream a sovereign could have wa*
that of being King of trance—Louis XVI. would
be happy if he could even dream that he was so.
That Catholick Diflenters, if we may judge
from their writings, are as angry with the fear•
let whore oj Babylon, as any pious proteibuit can
possibly be. The Pope, with all his finery, is
as little reliflied in the ecclesiastical, as Mr.
Burke, with all his finely decorated aristocratic
principles, is in the political world. The fadl
is, that mankind will no longer endure civil or
religious tyranny in any dress.
Dr. Johnson, on being shewn his portrait by
Sir Joihua, representing him as near sighted,
(which has since been engraved) was much of
fended—but it being represented to him that
Sir Joshua had painted his own similitude with
an ear trumptt. "He may paint himfelf as deaf
as he pleases said the Dodtor, but I dj not chufe
to be handed down to posterity as blinking Sam\
April 26.
At a committee of the society instituted for
the purpose bf effecting the abolition of the
slave trade. Resolved,
That the thanks of this committee be refpew
fully given to the illustrious minority of the
commons, who lately flood forth the affertorf
of British justice and humanity, and th« enernie*
of a traffic in the blood of men.
Resolved, .
That our acknowledgments are particular y
due to William Wilberforce esquire, >°ir )S
unwearied exertions to remove this opprobrium
of our national character, and to the right 10-
norable William Pirt, and the right honora e
Charles Fox, for their virtuous and dig"" l 6
co operation in the fame cause.
Resolved.That the solemn declarations of these gentle
men, and of Matthew Montague and William
Smith, esquires, that they will not relinquilh but
with life their struggle for the abolition of the
Have trade, are not only highly honorable 10
themselves as Britons, as flatefmen and Christi
ans, b'U must eventually, as the light of evi
dence shall be more and more diffufed, be se
conded by the good wilhes of every man not
immediately interested in the continuance of
that detellabls commerce.
Resolved,
That anticipating the opposition we should
have to sustain from persons trained to a fami
liarity with the rapine and desolation neceflarily
attendant on the ilave trade, and sensible also
•)f the prejudices which implicitly arise from
long established usages, this committee consider
the late decision in the house of commons as a
delay rather than a defeat. In addrefling a
free and enlightened nation on a fubjeifl in
which its justice, humanity and wisdom are in
volved, we cannot despair of final success ; and
we do hereby, under an encreailng conviction ot
the excellence of our cause, and in conformity
to the distinguished examples before us, reneyc
our firm panellation, that we will never desist
from appealing to the consciences of our coun
trymen till the commercial intercourse wiih
Africa (hall cease to be polluted with the blood
of its inhabitants.
By order of the Committee,
Granville Sharp, Chairman.
PITTSBURGH, July 2
Thursday evening last arrived here from De
rroit, which place he left the 10th ult. from cap
tivity among the savages, Mr. Thomas Ray, \vh
was taken from Cuffawago by four Indians fomt
time ago. Mr. Bay has related to us the follow
ing, viz. At the time he was taken the Indians
killed and scalped one William Gregg; the)
then proceeded to Sandulky, where a pai:yol
Indians had just returned from committing de
predations 011 the frontiers of Ohio count j, who
were about halt drunk, and they beat hiin in a
cruel manner. Seven days after his arrival
there, news came in that our army was 011 their
march, against that place, upon which they
hurnt the houses and deltroyed the corn they
had planted, and removed their families offto
the rapid of the Miami river; at that place ht
favr a great many Indians, to the amount of'twc
or threethoufand, receive arms and ammuni ion
and proceed on to the Ma 11 inee towns, where, i
was said, 7000 were affeinbled,; that at Detro",
011 the ftrft Thursday of June, at a review of the
militia, he saw Ijo turn out voluntarily to join
the Indians ; that he saw a number nf Indians,
to the amount of 17 or 18 canoe load, who said
they had been three moons on their journey
come to join the others; they had bows and and
arrows, and had otter {kins for breech clouts
and bufftiloe Ikins instead of blankets ; that a
bout the Ift or 2d of J line the Indians brought i
12 scalps, together with the guns, bayonets, &c.
belonging to the party; that he saw Thomas
Dick and his wile, who were taken from nea:
this place, in good health at the Miami River,
and the boy, by the name of Brickel, with his
head Ihaved and painted, on his way with a
party to the Maumee towns. Mr. Raywasbought
from the Indians by a Britifti officer by whom he
was released.
Mr. Ray further informs, that the Indians en
tirely blame Mr. Wilson and Mr. Hamilton, as
being the cause of the Indians being killed on
Beaver creek, and fay, if they ever Ihould fall
into their hands, they would put them to death
in the molt cruel manner.
BOSTON, July 2.
Aristocracy is in a deep and rapid decline; In
the example of the United Stats, the world
has seen, that the energy and dig.ii:y of govern
ment may be combined wiih the jult rind equal
Rights of Men. Power ought ever to spring from
the People--atid being delegated for a given
time—those who life it, mull at the expiration of"
that time, revert to the general mass, and there
by be fubjecfl to every adt which is the execution
of that power, they have made. Thus arises a
security paramount to all others. Hereditary ex
ecutives, and hereditary Legiflarors are now ra
pidly growing into political tnonfters—while the
genuine principles of open and magnanimous
Republicanism is every day growing more amia
blc and salutary. In this eltablifhment, the an
nihilation of jealous Democracy as well as Aris
tocracy will be seen—and in their deltru(stion,
the world (hall rejoice.
The An'hcrats add the Medical title to
Mr. Pa i n'e's name—They fay he wishes to ino
culate the English Nation with the French difcafe.
\Columb. Cent.~\
PROVIDENCE, July 2.
Last Saturday afternoon, at Beaver Pond, in
Franklin, five men went off on a raft to collect
pond-lilies. The wind blowing frefh the raft se
parated and 4 of them were unfortunately drown
ed. Their bodes were taken up the fime even
ing.
Philadelphia, July 15.
Sunday evening an cxprefs arrived from Pittsburgh with dis
patches from Major General Butler, which were immediately
laid betore the Prehdent ot the United States, by theSecietary oi
the Department ot War.
The following article lately appeared in an
American newspaper, viz. " r tie re is one all'er
don ot'ihe author, which, as lie defends it, from
the experience of hiltory, and the actual ltaie
of the world at this day, ca«not otherwise than
claim fotne attention, viz. Th.it religion (its the
word is generally utidei Itood) is not uirtiu. Ihe
Jews (fays he) were eminently pure in their
worship—the Egyptians and the Persians were
(to them) Idolaters and Atneilts—the morals of
the latter were good, those of the former abo
minable—Rome, when (he produced the virtues
of Decius and r'abricius, was pagan and atheilt.
Constantinople was the reservoir of all the molt
detestable vices, after Conltantine had intro
duced the Chriltiau religion.—We have Apolto
lic, Catholic and molt Christian Kings; but no
Titus, no Trajan, no Antoninus. Modern Rome
in appearance is nothing but religion ; what
philosopher would compareit wi. h ancient Rome,
in refpetS to talents, industry, or merit ? Reason
therefore concludes that rehgioti is not virtue."
It may be called modern refinement, but it is
not a new thing under the fun, that men lhould
seriously propose to eradicate morality from the
world.— Ihe companions contained in the above
paragraph have a very obvious meaning ; they
aie designed to make the molt unfavorable im
prellions on the public mind in regard to the re
ligion profeiied in the United States, and in al
uioit every other civilized country. " .Religion
.s not virtue," —that is, chriltianity is inferior to
paganifin !—Civilization is inferior to nature in
aer rudelt forms ! —The idolatry of the Egyp
lians was superior to Judaism ! How prepolte
rous and absurd ! In one breath we are told that
<he world is making the most rapid progress in
civilization and reformation—in tlic next we
are referred to pajl ages as models for our imita
tion!— Pagan, atheiltical Rome produced her
Fabricius and her Decius—christianized Constan
tinople was the reservoir of the most detestable
wees ! But was there no religion in Rome before
chriltianity was introduced Let impartial histo
ry determine—When Rome w.is religious she was
ioral, she was free, flourifhing and happy
'Vlien religion declined, the Gods were con
emned, and their worlhip was despised, Rome
became venal, vicious, vile and contemptible,
lie people lolt their moral character and with
hat thi°y lolt their- freedom. -A few virtnous
nen appeared in the decline of the empire, ar
icftedits fate, and protratfled its existence.
she introduction of chriltianity by Conftantine
in all probability added a thousand years to the
• ge of the government—lmmediately before the
tVeedam of Rome was annihilated by the Csefars,
every species of villainy that springs from infi
del principles was rampant through ihe com
monweal! h—and when similar practices, ori simi
lar pi inciples, had filled up the measure of their
iniquities, heaven permitted Mahomet to annihi
late the empire of the eaft.—lt is abundantly e
vident from the feftimony of history, that the
deity governs the world by moral principles
without refpe<ft to particular religions tenets—
1 he prolperity of nations bears an exart pronor
uon to their practice of the moral virtues, and
and when these become extinifl among a people
their freedom and happiness soon follow.— '
" Religion is not virtue"—grant it—but till
we can find virtue without religion, I trust in
God that the good people of the United States
will not, at the inltance of any foreign or domestic
infidel part with their religion—lt has been of
service in times pad ; for though they may have
been deceived by rcligioui charaders without vir
tue. it is equally true that they never found a
virtuous character destitute of religion.
Extrafl oj * Utter from Trenton. July 9.
" This day marched horn this place, tor the Western Country,
Capr. P iclon, of the 2d United Srates Re- imen , with one hun
dred and seventy fine fellows, and a numbfcr ot Recruits for the
Artillery.— Also a few fix month's men."
We arc informed that the Comnnfltoner's receipts lor Shares
?n the Bank of the United States, will be ready to be delivered
on Friday next.
Extract of a Ijtter j rom a gentleman at Ne-wto-wn,
20 miles above point, dated June 23.
"On the ninth day we reached Newtown
where the Indian treaty is to be held, becaufi
rhe waters are too low to permit the boats wit!
pt efents and provision* to grf up to the Paintec
Port. We alighted at Col. Pickering's lodgings,
and found hiin conferring with feme Oneida
and other Eaflern Indians, who have conic down
with a view to mediate a peace. Their chief,
Hendvick Apanmiit, the sam« from whom I fe
ceived a letter some time finre, was speaking
when we entered: "The little Tomahawk the
Indians fight with," said he, " colls them very
little. They can kill game with it, «nd support
themselves ; but the Great Hatchet that the
87
United States use in war cods a great deal; ar.d
those who carry it into our country mult be pr o
vided for at a great expence. 1 know it is said
the United States are so powerful that they
could rife and dettroy all the Indians at onre.-l
It is true, they are too power fnl for the Indians •
but remember, tho' you may kill some wolves'
and frighten the reft away, you cannot deltroy
them all. They will return and infelt von ] t
were therefore much better for the United States
to live in peace with the Indians. A great while
ago, ourselves and the Shavvanefe were one peo
ple ; but the Great Spirit caused a famine, and
we separated to seek for food. We still speak
the fame language. lam willing to go to thein
and persuade them to peace. All o.her Indians
know that we have always been friends to the
English. They all acknowledge we know more
about the white people than they do. If I
I know it will be at the risque of my life. Per
haps your warriors will arrive at the fame time,
and then nothing can be done. I therefore
want to fee some of your Great Men. If they
will keep your young men at home, I will go.
Perhaps I may be able to induce their Chiefs to
come down and treat with your Great Men
about a lasting peace." This offer is now under
consideration. We hear that about Booofthe
Six Nation Indians will be at the Painted Poll to
day. They are expeAed here by the end of
the week; but it is not likely that the treaty
will beheld before the 27th or 30th of the month.
After which we hope a week or ten days will re-
Itore us to our friends and the comforts of civi
lized life."
The French passengers on board the IhipPenn
fylvania from Havre de Grace, have publilhed a
very honorable teltitnony to the humanity, pO
- and attention of Captain David Hardino-
Matter of that lliip, which recently arrived at
this port.
A late Engliili (ministerial) paper contains the
following article : A pitiful forgery, of the most
notorious kind, has lately been attempted to be
played off, by the friends of a notorious Ameri
can Author.— ! heir plan was this—Printed cir
cular letters—signed W.Rose, and dared from
Whitehall, as if coming from the Secretary of
the Treasury, have been sent to several of the
principal towns in England, recommending this
publication in the molt fulfome (trains of pane
gyric, and pressing the necessity and ufefulnefs
of its citculation.—Though such a fraud is easi
ly seen through, it is to be lamented, that there
are those amongst us, who call themselves En
glishmen, who are yet so industrious as to at
tempt sapping upon all occasions, the principles
oF our excellent constitution.
Recent accounts from Europe Inform that
M. de la Fayette has resumed the command of
the National Guards of France.
It has been infertea in several papers, that
the Grand Jury of South-Carolina has presented
the excise as a grievance.—Quere, is there any
such body as the Grand Jury of South Caiolina?
By the Ship Rofeway, Captain Woodham, ar
rived at New-London, from London, last from
Plymouth, which he left the 2jth of May, ac
counts are received, that preparations for war
were itill continued with vigor in England.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 18/4 18/6 pr. £
3 pr. Cents ,0/4 ic_/6
Detered 6 pr. Cents ic/4 io/"6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 17/4 17/687^
Indents 10/4 10/6
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15/ 15J6.
Bank Subfcriptious, 45 Dollars.
HAVING obtained Patents for fever a 1 Improvements on
Clocks and Watches, begs leave to inform his friends and
the public, that he is now ready to execute any work on the said
conftru&ions; which may be either applied to clocks and watchet
already made, or to new ones, and on trial, have been found fupe
nor to any heretofore brought into common use. He has so Am
plified the repeating part of a watch, as to enable him to make it
at two-thirds of the common price, which will not orily be an ad
vantage in the firft pufchafe, but ever after, as it can be cleaned,
when neceflary, for two-thirds less than the present price. He has
also fimplified the striking part of clocks, which enables him to
reduce the price one-fourth ; and repairs, at the lowed prices, ho
rizontal* repeating, plain, and other watches, and musical, chim
ing, and plain clocks, with punctuality and dispatch, and warrant#
all the work done in his shop.
An aflortment of Clock and Watch-makers Tools and Mate
rials for sale, on reafonablc terms.
Two Journeymen, and an Afprenticb, are wanted.
pr. ccnt.
524 00.
52J do.
do.
do.Matthew M'Connell,
In Cheinut-St ree t , No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT Of
THEUNION ; his frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS lo the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, >791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strcet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791. ( c P I O
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private falc, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, lie percent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punctuality, fidelity and dijpatch, as consi
derable experience in the public {locks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTAJID & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 1,5, 1791.
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold, or ex
changed; Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange negoctated;
Merchandize of all forts bought and fold on Commission, and all other
Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next door to the Cujlom-Houfe, State-Stre«t, BOSTON.
Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, second Door below Market-Street.
Francis White
BUYS and Sells on Commission all kinds of
Public Securities and Paper Monies.
Tranfadts business for those who have claims
on the United States, or againfl cither of the States, particularly for
the Officers, Soldiers and Mariners, and others who have served
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornies, See.
Certificates and such Paper Monies furnifhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. passed through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured for bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de
posits.
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, rented or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profefiion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with suitable do
mestics.
Those at a dillance -who may address on either the above fub
jefls, their letters being poll paid, will be duly attended to, by
FRANCIS WHITE,
(ep tf)
Philad. June 22, 1791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom thffe presents shall come, or in any wife concern,
That JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
decealed, did make four promissory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Philadelphia, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and fevcnty-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one tor seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been afligned by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the subscribers have fufficient vouchers.
These are therefore to caution all pcrfons from purchasing said
Botes as they will not be taken up.
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th Mav, 1791
The Catechism of Nature;
For the Use of CHILDREN.
By DOCTOR MARTINET,
Profcffor of Philosophy at Zutphcn.
TRANSLATED FROM THE DUTCH.
" Read Nature—Nature is a friend to truth."
Pubhlhed, and to be fold by the Editor, price £th of a Dolhr,
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the moll important Subject.-:,
Refpefting the REVOLUTION of' AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the year 1-80,
»> the Vice-President of tin UuitcJ Statu.
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT. i Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Giohce-Tovh, June 30, 1791.
THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES hiving approv
ed the files for the Public Buildings, to be erefled id purfu
anceof thes&of Congrefa for eftablilhing the temporary and
permanent feat of government of the United States, the Com
miflioners, appointed 111 virtue of that ast, will meet at George-
Town, on Monday the seventeenth day of O&ober next, and pro
ceed to (ell, at Vendue, a number of lota in the bed bluations in
the Federal City. A deposit of 8 per cent, will be required ; the
rufidue to be secured on Bonds, with security, payable in three
equal vearly payments. —The farther terms will be made known
at the (ale.
(gits)
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&icut, at their fellion in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fubferibers managers, -who having given bond
for th« faithful discharge of their trust, present the public with the
following
1
1
<
2
4
5
> 2
3®
45
5°
61
100
140
539 J
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Subject to a deduction of twelve and a half per cent,
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted v. ith the town
and harbour of New-Haven; to those who are nor, futifice it ' o fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafl" d, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the found
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is necefTarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when compleat
ed, will be the most extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3~4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and (he towns adjacent, but th
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. Thi
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clafles of people, for
the success of this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
\meriea) induce the manager? to believe the tickets will meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcaDed for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
jor the use of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Managers:
James RICE,
Jeremiah Atwater,
Joseph Drake,
New-Haveni April 14, 1791.
$3T TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Messrs. Stefhen Austin, and Co.
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the Maflachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS of the STATE-LOTTERY allure the
Public, that the second Class of the SEMI-ANNUAL LOT
TERY will positively commence drawing on the day appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13th of O&ober next, or Jooncr, if the Tickets
(hall be disposed of. As the Managers have in their feverai
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hoar assigned, so
they are determined to be equally as pun£lual in this. '
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars to
be paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a deduction of twelve
and an half per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Prizes. Dollars. Dollars.
1 of 10000 is 10000
2 3000 arc 6000
3 2000 6000
® 6000
10 500 c
3® 6000
80 8000
9° 4500
,0 ® 4000
3 60 °
161 3220
2 °° ,000
7.58.5 60680
8388 Prize.*.
16612 Blanks.
2§ooo Tickets.
TICKETS in the above Class may be had of the several
Managers, mho will pay the prizes on demand; of the Treasurer
of the Commonwealth-, of James Whiti, at his Book-store,
Franklin's Head, Court-itreet— and at other places, as usual
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.l
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Boflan, April 14,1791.
(e p. 3 m.
PRESIDENT 0 F THE UNITED STATES,
NE ATL, executed in Profile, have just come to band, and for
b y Messrs. Carey,Stewart and Co. Mr. William Youn s ,
Mr. Robert Campbell, Meffis. Rice and Co. Bookfcllcu, and by
the Editor.—Price gths of a Dollar.
Pliilad. June 29, 179:.
88
THOMAS JOHNSON, )
DAVID STEWART, S Commiflioners.
DANIEL CARROL, )
H E
s c
jo,ooo Dollars, ia
s°°o5 °°o
4000
2000 are
Prize of
1000
5 00
too
100
> s ®
40
3°
i so
10
8
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Michael Todd,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph Howeli.
CLASS II
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
j 000
5 00
20*
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
likenesses
ANCHORS pr. lb. 6£4
Allum, Engliih, pr. cwt. 33J
Ditto, Roch pr. Jb. 10d
Alhes, pot, per ton, 37/105
Pearl, 50/
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s 6d
Brandy, common, 7s 6d
Cogniac 6d
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ 16/
Bricks pr„ M to 305
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 14*
Ditto, pilot 27J 6i
Ditto, small water 40/ 4ss
Beer, American, in bot. ]
pr. doz. bot. incl. j
or. bbl. 35s
'Si f Oak pr.M feet, 67s 4/
0 | Merch. pine ioox
Sap, do. 3/
5 I N.Eng. 82i
=9 (.Cedar 100s
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yardpy ices add 15s pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 2js
C Irish pr. bbl.
< Bollon 55 s
33 ( Country 50J
Butter pr. lb. 14 d
in kegs *od
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot 2S2j6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d
Coal pr. bulhel is 6d
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d
Cinnamon zoj
Cheese, Englifli is
Country 6d *j^d
f Sper. pr. lb. 3J
d | Wax
•3 Myrtle Wax 12^
| Mould,tallow 10
U (.Dipped 95^
Cotton xi 4a 1 j
M E.
IC.OOO
500©
4000
400®
4000
2500
2400
3000
2250
200G
183 c
20 QyJ
1400
43' 120
8750 c
Currants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 14J
Cordage 60J 6256 d
Cocoa 6*2j6d 6-js6d
Duck, Ruffla, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 67*72j6</
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37*6 d
Common, 34 s 6d
Bur middlings,beft. 3U
——M ddlmgs 24 i
Ship-ttutf pr. cwt. 73 Ss
Flax pi', lb. 9 d
Fuitic pr. ton, 135* 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8d
Fiaxleed pr. bufli. 5J
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 52s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginleng, 2s 2d
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, {
Ditto, fine glazed 35J 6d
Gin> Holland, pr. gall. 55yd
Do. pr. cafe, 30/
[ Wheat pr. bush 7s 7s 6d
I Rye 4* 6d
2 I Oats \sZdzi6d
< Indian corn is-jd
7* I Barley 4s 8d
| Best (helled pr. llj, 3d
2s 6d
Hemp,for. pr. ton, s°^s3^
American,pr. lb. 4dj
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5.6
Herrings, pr. bbl. ißj 20J
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 d 10d
Hops 9S
Indigo, French,
Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt,
f Callings 22] 6d 305
Z. | Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
3 < P'g 10'
I Sheet 65/
Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 10s 40/
Lard, hogs 9d 10d
Lead in pigs 40 s 42s 6d
in bars 50s
Lead, white Boj
-red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1s ±d is6d
Lignum vitas pr. ton 42 s 4ss
Logwood 7/ 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 17*
Rye 2 5 s
MackareLbeft >
-Common $ none *
Mace pr. lb. 55*
Mustard 2s 4d
Madder, best \sd 18d
MolaflTes pr.gall.
Marble, wrought, pr. toot, 14J
Mail spars 2s 6d 6j
Mahogany %d tod
Nutmegs pr. lb.
Nails, iod\2d& 208 d B\4yd
Linseed, pr. gall. 4s
I Train 1 j iCd 2j
Spermaceti 3J 7d
I Whaie u \od 2s
r <J Olive 6j 6d
j Ditto pr. cafe 36.1
. Beftfweetin )
flafks,pr. box, £ 6 ° S
I—balkets 12 bottles
Oak timber pr. ton 38/
Porter pr. bl. 4 Oi
London, 15
125000
Blank Powers to receive the Interest, andfor the transfer of th
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejtablijhed in the Trm~
hp fitment•' Also Blanks for abflra£ts of ttbe fold
the Editor.
iCj-4few copies of the CONSTITUTION of tb
United Statts, friuted with Notes, nay b> had of :':t
Editer.
PRICE CURRENT.
P * * Ut'AKTITY
JULY 1a. —Dollars at 7/6.
1 J6 2s
9 s
10J
3 s I s
sqjsqj
■PHILADELPHIA.
Porter, American pr. dot talk
Pitch, pr. bbl. y
Pork, Burlington, **
Lower county
Carolina
P<-«, Albany
Ptpp«, pr. lb. tJ g.
Pimento ,
Rice pr. cvrt. **
Rosin p r . obi. Jof
RjiGn., bed, pr. k eg -
Diuo pr. jar 601
Ditto, pr. box
-T Jamaica pr. gall.
1 Antigua
? J Windward •
ft •) Barbddoe. v
. r°u n ,r y , N . E . 3JSi
Saflaf *'6«<
SajTafras pr . ton 45 , 6o<
Sal'pctre, pr. cwt. 4 / 10 ,
Sulphur, flour
Shot
j (German pr.cwt. 6?j-oi
w S bl ' ftered Bo*
W pr. ton 40/60/
« (.Crowley', pr. fag. B»,W
Snake root pr. lb. ,j M 2jgi
Soap, Common 5^
■ — -Browo gi
Castile 10rf .
Starch 4i g/
Snuff is sJ 3 ,g^
Spermaceti, refined, „
Sail C'.oth, EngliflO
pr. yard, J
—■ Botlon, No. I. a, oi
*T . » v " .
Ruflia (hcetiog, pr. p. go»
f~ Lump, pr. lb. 2Si i
& ( Loaf, fmglc refined uM
Ditto, double do. mod
c H.ivaonah, white urf
w j Ditto, brown, g/
LMufcovada.pr.cwt. 751904
SpiriisTurpentine pr. gall, a/
( Allum pr. bulh. a
-I 2J .
< j Cadiz ,
w 6
2*
•ihip build. W.O.framcs*| 7°J
P- to». j
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/ 6/51
Shingles, lhort, p. M. 221 6J
long dressed 37^
Scantling, heart, Boj iocj
—.S°t So'
f c P'- noo piecei 601
j3 ! W. O. hogfliead -I
> j R. O. do. 6/ ioj
< 1 Leogan 6,
to ! Barrel 4 / 10l
L Heading g,
I* Olter, best pr. piece goj
1 Minks uCa ~
Fox, grry
« rrd 4 J &4
Z Marnxii
2 Fibers 2 j6J 51
Xrj Bears
Racoons 2s 43
Musk-rats 9 d 1/81
' Braver, pr. lb. jj6 iijj
L Dcci, in hair is 6d 913*1
Tar,N.Jerfey, 2 4 gal. p . bb)- ,yj
——Carolina, 32 gall. io>
12J oi
Turi
Turpentine
. f James R. new bed 281
j inferior 20S2?fei
o I ——oM
" ( ia 35'
1 | Rappahannock 12J6J
O J Colo. Maryland 40/ cRs
y 1 D " k is,
< Long-leaf 18 ,
g J Eaftern-lhore 15s ij s 6d
• Carolina, new 22s 6d
L old 22s (id 2^5
( Hyson pr. Ib. -jsiiad
« I Hyson fk.n, 4 , v6J
2 < Souchong, 3j6a! 7/
f- | Congo, gj gd
LBohea, 2J
Tallow, refined g'i
Tin pr. box, ,00/
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 3*61/41
Vermillion, 12J
Varnilh, tJ fa
' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/-</
Liibon 3 e;
Teneriffc 20/10J 30/
W Fayal pr. gall. 3 .< 4 i
2 J Port pr. pipe 36/43/
g Ditto pr. gall. 6x
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 3c*
Claret 30J 451
1 Sherry pr. gali. 6sgd gi
t Malaga ss6s6d
Wax, Bees pr. lb.
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2Sjd
short, pr. lb. is
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 1
Ditto 60 days 71^
Ditto 30 aays
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s 11 d 3*
30 days $sid
France, 60 daya.pr.s" liv. 6s
30 days 6s id