PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 105, of Vol. 11.
Discourses on Davila—No. 31.
(concluded.)
NARROW and illiberal sentiments are not
peculiar to the rich or the poor. If the
vulgar have found a Machiavel to give counte
nance to their malignity, by his contracted and
illiberal exclamations againlt illustrious families,
as the curse of heaven : the rich and the noble
have not unfrequently produced fordid inltances
of individuals amongthemfelves, who have adopt
ed and propagated an opinion that God hates the
poor, and that poverty and misery on earth are
infli&ed by Providence in its wrath and displea
sure. This noble philofopliy is surely as shallow
and as execrable as the other Plebeian philolb
phy of Machiavel ; but it is countenanced by at
leift as many of the phenomena of the world.
Let both be discarded as the reproach of human
understanding, and a disgrace to human nature.
Let the rich and the poor unite in the bands of
mutual affection, be mutually sensible of each
others ignorance, weakness and error, and unite
in concerting measures for their mutual defence,
against each other's views and follies,by support
ing an impartial Mediator.
That ingenious Genevan, to whom the English
nation is indebted for a more intelligible expla
nation of tlieir own constitution than any that
has been ever publilhed by their own Aclierly or
Bacon, Bolingbroke or Blackllone, has quoted
this paflage of Machiavel, and applied it, like
him, to the dishonour of republican governments.
De Loltne, in his constitution of England, Book 2.
c. 1. fays—" 1 cannot avoid tranferibing a part of
" the speech which a citizen of Florence add relied
" once to the Senate : the reader will find in it a
" kindofabridgedftoryofall republics." Ilethen
quotes the passage before cited from Machiavel.
Why should so grave an accusation be brought
againtt republics ? If it were well founded, it
would be a very serious argument against such
forms of government: but it is not. Thediflen
tions of families are not the effect of republican
government, but of human nature. They are
the unavoidable consequence of that emulation,
which God and nature have implanted in the hu
man heart, for the wisest and be!f purposes, and
which the public good, instead of cooling or ex
tinguifliing, requires to be directed to honour
and virtue, and then nourilhed, cheriftied, and
cultivated. If such contentions appeared only
in republican governments, there would befome
color for charging them as a reproach to these
forms: but they appear as frequent and as vio
lent in despotisms and monarchies, as they do in
commonwealths. In all the despotisms of Asia
and Africa, in all the monarchies of Europe, there
are constant fucceftions of emulation and rivalry,
and consequently of conceits and di (Tendons among
families. Defpocifm, which crushes and decapi
tates, sometimes interrupts their progress, and
prevents some of their tragical effecfts. Monar
chies, with their spies, lettres de cachet, dun
geons and iriquifitions, may do almost as well.
But the balance of a free government is more ef
fectual than either, without any of their injus
tice, caprice or cruelty. The foregoing examples
from the History of France, and a thousand others
equally striking which might be added, (how that
Bourbons and Montmorencis, Guises andColignis,
were as fatal families in that kingdom as the
Buondelmenti and Huberti, the Donati andCer
chi, the Rici and Abbizzi, or Medici at Florence.
Instead of throwing falfe imputations on re
publican governments ; instead of exciting or fo
menting a vulgar malignicy against the most re
fpetfiable men and families—let us draw the pro
per inferences from history and experience—let
us lay it down for a certain faift, firlt, that emu
lation between individuals, and rivalries among
families, never can be prevented : second. let us
adopt it as a certain principle that they ought
hoc to be prevented, but directed Co vircue, and
'hen Simulated and encouraged by generous ap
plauTe and honorable rewards. And from chele
premises let the conclusion be, as it ought to be,
that an effectual controul be provided in the con
tution, 10 check their exceilcs and balancetlieir
If ihis conclulion is not drawn, ano
ther will follow of itfelf—the people will be the
8 ' and the leaders will worry each other and
the people too, till both are weary and afbamed,
and from feeling, not from reasoning, set up a
roauer and a despot for a Protestor. What kind
°f a Piotecftor lie will be, may be learned hereaf
ter from Stephen Boetius.
Saturday, April 23, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
[con c l uded,]
CONGRESS has 110 armies—and if it had, our
people might mock at force if that only was
used to govern them. It mud frame its laws on
such principles as an enlightened public will ap
prove : let the public then form its opinions calm
ly—lay facfts and arguments before it. Those
who do not chufe to be calm may give vent to
their passions in the Gazettes; a free press is a
sluice-way which lets off the torrent : But do not
blind the public with authority ; do not flop the
ufeful progrels of enquiry by telling it it is too
late, the trial is over, the point is adjudged by
the State legislature ; is there not danger that
this decision of a State will make right opinions
too liafty and wrong ones too obllinate, so as to
render the former despicable and the latter per
nicious ?
Every man may judge for liimfelf whether State
resolutions will croud narrow local prejudices in
to Congrels, or whether they will secure us an
adniiniitration upon liberal national principles.
The public will judge too whether a State go
vernment is the mod impartial judge of the con
du<ft ofCongrefs. It is best that a cause ftieuld
not be carried for trial before a tribunal which
is fufpeCied to have an interest in giving judg
ment against the defendant.
I am proud of iny country, becaufc I know chat
the government of it is a free one, and I think
it is well administered, but these bleflings are loft
to him whose mind ispoifonedby suspicion. To
vapourish women and hypochondriac men, even
health is no blessing. If State resolutions andin
(lruiftions convince liim that he is governed by
knaves in Congress who have bound liberty fall
for {laughter, he is more to be pitied than a fa
tisfied slave. He will even make a bad defender
of that liberty which, though he values, he deems
loft.
Ic cannot be denied that State resolutions may
be used to pull down a government. When the
national administration shall have become so cor
rupt and wicked as to be intolerable, this inflru
ment of deftrutftion may be employed with suc
cess. Perhaps fomc men in the State legislatures
are of opinion that the proper time for begin
ning this work of deftruftion is already arrived.
An ENQUIRER.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET VI
TO E G W I N A.
GO verse, fofi-whifpering, to ECwina fay—
'Tis riot that rich complexion's lucent white,
Tinged with the Role's fragrance-blufhing light,
O'er all her lovely features loves to stray ;
Nor yet, that Nature, with a fon^difplay,
Hath spread her auburn treffesoTt the fight,
And fram'd her lips the seal of sweet delight,
And op'd her eyes resplendent on the day ;
Tell her 'tis not, that o'er each motion, Grace
Sheds a fott lustre, as (he deigns to move,
Giving new beauties to the ambient place ;
That every tho't, and all my foul, is love.
But, that her mind, its radiant worth to prove,
Imprints the foul of Beauty on her Face. ELLA.
Philadelphia, April 20.
ExtraElfrom the Minutes of the House of Representatives of the Com
monwealth of Penrijylvania.
FRIDAY, April 8, 1791
THE Address to the National Aflembly of France, read April 6th
inft. was read the second time, and adopted unanimously, viz.
SIR, .
THE Representatives of the People of Pennfylvama, have unan
imously concurred in the desire of expressing to the Nation
al Assembly of France, their sympathetic feelings on the fubjeft of
their virtuous exertions in the cause of freedom : 1 hey lincerely
offer their congratulations on the success that has attended them,
which they have viewed, in its progress with the most pleasing
and anxious sensations.
A nation which has been a£luated by such magnanimous policy,
which, with a noble enthusiasm, so generoullv mterpofed its pow
er, lo profufely poured forth its treasures, and mingled its blood
with ours, in defence of the liberties of America, is entitled to a
grateful return of our regard, and to the warmest wishes that sensi
bility or attachment can express.
It was under the operation of these feelings, that we have al
ways lamented that a brave and gallant people, who have become
the voluntary companions of our freedom, should not themselves
be free ; that after having aflifted in ere£hng for us a temple of li
berty, they Ihould return to the house of bondage. Fortunately
the scene is changed, and your present situation awakens the molt
amiable sympathies of the human heart.
We now view, with grateful exultation, your glorious triumph
of reason over prejudice—of liberty and law, over flaveryand def
poric will. You have nobly broke the fetters that bound you to
, our former government, and have, *n the view of astonished Eu
iOpe, undertaken a revolution, founded on that pure and elcrnen
825
Hkso
[Whole No. 207.]
:ary principle, that the people are the source of power, that in them
it is naturally inherent, and from them can alone be derived.
The truth of this hallowed maxim, the pride and boast of our
American constitutions, could not remain undiscovered, and un
attended to, amidst the blaze of patriotism and philosophy which
has long enlightened France.
We rejoice that your government, though differently organized,
is eltablifted on such congenial principles,as to cement byftrong
er, because more kindred ties, the friendftip that nowconnefls us.
As an evidence of this disposition, we can allure you that the
fuffrages and sentiments of our citizens are all united in the warm
est predile£tions for your cause, and your country. We antici
pate the happiness and glory that will await you, when those var
ious resources by which you are surrounded, and which nature
has so profufely lavished on you, shall be put into energetic motion
by the operation of a free government.
We fondly hope that no untoward or inauspicious circumstance
may intervene to interrupt your glorions career, until you have
effe&ually restored to the bleflings of equal liberty, civil and reli
gious, so many millions of our fellow-men ; until you have abo
lifted the odious and arrogant diftinttions betwixt man and man
—until you have implanted in the minds of the people, a generou»
and paflionate enthusiasm for their country, instead of a confined,
though romantic, attachment to the person of a King.
But whilst viewing with awe and admiration the principles you
have eftablifted, and which we ardently wist may defy the ef
forts of time, tyranny and treachery to overthrow, we cannot but
rejoice that you have been expoled in your progress to few of
those convulsive struggles, that so strongly marked thevarious aeras
of the American Revolution.
If our solicitude for your success could be cncreafed from the
operation of extraneous motives, it would receive considerable
force from the animating and philanthropic refle&ion, that other
nations of Europe, from the influence of your example, will learn
to value and vindicate the rights of man ; and that such political
institutions will be more generally eftablilhed, as by experience
are found to contain principles favorable to the happiness of our
species, and suited to the dignity of our nature.
To the Prejidznt of the National Assembly of France.
From the New-Havbn Gazette
I HAVE frequently observed, that those per
sons who are troubled with weak or defective
eyes, endeavour to remedy the evil by using
fpecftacles with coloured glades. The prevalence
of this pra<3ice is an indication of the inattenti
on of man to fubjeifts of the utinofl. importance ;
and will be some apology for the following re
marks.
Every person who has removed suddenly from
a very dark situation to a strong light; or the
contrary, is confeious of having experienced a
very painful sensation. The sudden dilation or
contratftion of the pupil of the eye, and the vio
lent exertion which is required in the surround
ing inufcles,to enable us to perceive obje<Siswith
diltindtnefs, when the quantity of light has been
much increased or diininifhed, strain and injure
the vifive faculty. Coloured fpedtacles operate
in a similar manner; and consequently every
time we put them on, or take them off, the eye
fuffera. Thus the weakness we designed to re
move is perpetuated ; and after having accustom
ed ourselves to the use of them for some time,
the eye becomes so tender, that we are never af
ter able to relinquish with facility the ailiftance
, they afford us.
If the light proves troublesome to theeye, na
ture has pointed out the manner in which the
remedy should be applied. In a very ftronglight
we always projeA our eyebrows to preserve o«ir
eyes. This should teach us that the proper mode
of excluding all the fuperfluous rays of light, is
to suspend a shade from our foreheads.—For thi»
only diminishes the quantity of light, without
altering its natural qualities by any interposing
medium.
There are two methods by which we can de
termine, whether a parcicular pair of fpedtacles
is injurious to the eye:—r. If it is evident that
that organ has been {trained or fatigued, we may
conclude that the convexity or concavity of the
glafles we have used, was not adapted to the si
tuation of our eyes: This inconvenience is not
confined to the colour, and can only be remedi
ed by changing the form of the glass.—2. If af
ter having used Spectacles tor some time, we
lliould find upon removing them, that every sur
rounding objetSl is tinged in a disagreeable man
ner, we may conclude that the eye has been for
ced into an unnatural state, and has consequent
ly fufFered : coloured glafles produce this effetft.
Besides, green is not transparent—And if, by
indulging ourselves in the practice of wearing
coloured Spetftacles, we should become so much
habituated to their uSe, as to be unable to fore
go their assistance without the greatest inconve
nience ; in the decline of life, when the decreas
ing convexity of the humours of the eye, renders
it neceflary that we should employ convex glafles,
coloured ones will by no means answer the pur
pose for which they are designed—The eyes of
elderly persons are defective on two accounts ;
i fir ft, because the rays of light do not convergeto a focus until they have parted the retina: and
secondly, because a greater quantity of light is
neceflary to imprint an object with diftinCinels
upon the retina. Convexglafles of any kind will
remedy the fii ft defect ; but if they are coloured
they will ditninilh initead of increasing the quan
tity of light the eye receives; and will be found
to operate exactly in an inverse proportion to
onr wants. The more defective the eye becomes,
the stronger mult be the light it requires, the
more convex must be the glass it uses, and 11
lhatglafs is green, the greater will be the quan
tity of light excluded.
I offer these hints to the public, that tliofe who
have weak or defective eyes may examine this
fubjea, and discover whether for a temporary
convenience they do not expose themselves to
greater inconveniencies, which may arise at a
period when it will be too late to think of devi
line any remedy for their calamity.
Pythagoras.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
The PROMPTER.
Any other time will do as well.
NATURE never fays this. She jogs on with
out delay and always does her work infea-
foil. . ,
The parson puts off preparation for Sunday,
from Monday to Tuesday, and from Tuesday to
Wednesday, and so on to Saturday. He can
write a sermon at anytime. The firft of the week
Hides away in vifivs—in bufinefs—inamufements
the lad of the week is to be devoted to study—
but company, a sick parishioner, and twenty un
expected avocations break in upon this reserved
part of the week—no preparation is made for the
duties of Sunday, until Saturday evening—a ge
nius may yet be tolerably well prepared in a
few hours—but how few are the preachers of
fnch genius !—Yet even the dull have a resource
—an old fernion with a new text is just as good
as a fre(h made sermon—True, for how few
would know whether they had heard a sermon
once or a dozen times. Happy dullness! Like peo
ple, likep'ieft!
The Dotfoi has a patient in a dangerous situa
tion—he hurries to his relief—he makes no de
lay.—But fnppnfe his patient has a lingering dis
order— why, fays the do<fior, I can visit him at
any time. He has afiigned an hour indeed when
lie will fee his patient ; but any other time -will do
as -well. The patient waits tiilthe houris past—
then he becomes impatient—if his cliforder is not
violent, moll probably he is croft and irritable—
he frets at ihe doctor—and ten to one the doifior
loses his custom. Then thedotfor believes with
the Prompter, that no time will do so well as
the right time.
The Lawyer has several causes in court—he
can prepare them for ttial at any time. Several
causes ft and afligned for trial before his—he can
finifh the pleadings at any time—by some unfore
feen accident, business takes a new turn—the
court urge forward to complete it—his causes
are called, and they are not readj—a nonsuit—
a continuance—or some other expensive alterna
tive is the consequence.
The Farmer's fence is down and his fields ex
posed to his neighbour's cattle—but he has a lit
tle job to do firll—he can repair his fences at
any time—before his any time comes, fifty or a
hundred sheep into his field and eat and tram
ple down his wheat.—For want of an hour's
work, he loses ten, fifteen or twenty bushels of
wheat. His apple trees want pruning—but he
mud dress his flax before he can do it—warm
Weather approaches—he will certainly prune his
trees in a day or two—but he'll finilh a little job
firft—before he has done, the season is past—it
is too late to prune his trees —they must go ano
ther year— and half his fruit is lojt.
The lounging house-wise rises in the morning
in haste ; for lazy jolks are ever in a hurry—She
lias not time to put on her cloathes properly—
but she can do it at any time. She draws on her
gown, but leaves it half pinned—her handker
chief is thrown awry across her neck—her shoes
down at the heels—she buttles about with her
hair over her eyes—flie runs from room to room
slip-shod, resolved to do up the work and dress her
felf—but folks who are slip-shod about the feet,
at'e usually slip-shod all over the house and all
day—they begin every thing and finifJj nothing. In
the midst of the poor woman's hurry, somebody
conies in—she is in a flutter—runs into the next
room—pins up her gown and handkerchief—
hurries back with her heels thumping the floor—
O dear, you have catched us all in the suds—l
intended to have cleaned up before any body came
ir)_but I have had every thing to do this morn
ing—in the mean time, she catches hold of the
broom and begins to f'weep—the dust rises and
ftifles every foul present. This is ill manners
indeed to brufn the dud into a neighbour's face,
becanfe the woman is very sorry it happens so.
Many a neighbour has thus been entertained
with apologia and daft at a friend's lioufe, and
wherever this takes place, depend on it, themis
trefi puts off to any time, that is to no time, what
ought to be done at the present Urns.
TOCORRESrON DENTS. _
The Prompter fends Ins refpeifts to his cor res
pondents, with thanks for their aid. As it is his
profefl'ed business to give good hints, he is cord -
ally disposed to take tliem.
W A R S A W, (Poland) January IJ
AFTER the debates which were finiftied by
the law relative to proclamations, the Diet
entered on the question proposed to know whe
ther they should lefume the business of the Car
dinal laws, some of which had already been de
creed by the Diet, previous to its new conftitu
lion, or if they lhould proceed to regulate the
form of government. Upon this occofion some
violent debates ensued, and a great disorder pre
vailed throughout the afl'embly. Matters even
rose to such a height, that some Nuncios endea
voured to oblige the Marshal of the Diet to join
them, to separate themselves from the Senate,
and take polTefiion of the Nuncio chamber. The
Marshal of the crown thought to restore tranqui
lity by putting to the vote the question which
occasioned the disturbance, but the tumult only
increased. They reproached hitn with exceed
ing his authority in putting the question without
its having been called for. The King, however,
at length brought them to be quiet; and it was
resolved that the question should be put the next
day, whether they should proceed with the form
of government and Dietines, before they began
to discuss rhe Cardinal laws. They were a long
time in collecting the votes on this occasion, as
each member gave his motives for voting as he
did. Nearly all the Senate, the Marlhals of the
Diet, and a great number of Nuncios voted for
rhe continuation of the Cardinal laws ; but rhe
majority were for previously beginning with the
form of government, and in the firft place with
the new form to be given to the Dietines.
The decision of the republic relative to the suc
cession to the throne of Poland, meets with frefh
difficulties daily, at least nothing positive is yet
resolved as to the conditions to which the succes
sor acknowledged by the republic molt accede.
Many powerful 'members of the republic and
whole provinces are againfl an hereditary suc
cession ; we therefore fear that the variety of
fentimer.ts on this fubjeft will cause much trouble
and confufion.
A R I S,
COUNTER REVOLUTION.
The rumours of this project not only strength
en, but at length affiime something like a digest
ed plan of concerted operation. The circum
llances are thus stated.
The months of April and May are fixed for the
time of attempt. The troops furnifhed by the
leaguing Princes are said to be thus appointed
The Emperor, —
King of Prulfia, —
German Princes, —
His Sardinian Majesty, —
The Princes Artois and Conde
This formidable army is to be divided into
three principal bodies, and attack France at three
different points. The principal attack is to be
made on the fide of Germany, in consequence of
expetfled co-operation from Bouille, who influ
ences 1 3 French regiments.
The Arittocrats affirm, that for supplies, mo
ney will be furnifhed by all the European Poten
tates, even fucli as do not supply any forces to
the enterprizes. Their intention, if they suc
ceed, is to reform the constitution and restore
the Nobility and Clergy to their rights. Parlia
ments to be re-established, and the famous de
claration of the King of the 23d of June pro
claimed with certain modifications.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, February 13
THE consideration of the duties on tobacco
was resumed, and in addition to the article pafled
on Saturday, it was decreed that the importation
of manufactured tobacco Ihall be prohibited.
That the importation of tobacco in leaf shall
be allowed into ports to be mentioned, charged
with a duty of twenty-five livres per quintal.—
Tobacco imported in French bottoms diretftly
from America, to pay only three-fourths of this
duty,
February 14. The Bifliop of Viviers took the
ecclesiastical oath on the 7th inft. and to avoid
the imputation of being influenced by motives of
interest, immediately resigned his fee, declaring
that he would cheerfully perform the duties of
any ecclesiastical office which they should think
him worthy to fill. It is necdlels to add, that he
was unanimously re-elecled.
Of fifty Prielts belonging to the cathedral, one
only followed his example.
This Bilhop was chosen a member of the Stares
General, and was then a strenuous advocate for
the three orders fitting and voting in one house.
826
February 14.
INHABITANTS AND ELECTORS OF IRELAND.
From the detailed statement given at different
times of the population of that country,it appears
that the number of inhabitants in the nine north
ern counties, that form the province of Ulster,
1.323,228
are
In the twelve eastern and midland
counties of the province of Leinlter,
are
In the fix southern counties of the
province of Muniter, are 1,011,498
And in the five western counties of
the province of .Connaught, are
Making a sum total of 4)166,418
Of these the electors of all the counties, cities
and free towns amount not to 60000—a dilpro
portion flriking and fhameful and that loudly
calls for immediate correction.
The progress of improvement, and the conse
quent increase of wealth, will no doubt effedit
in the course of time: but the operation of these
causes should be accelerated by the spirit of the
people and liberality ot parliament.
The following is one of the principal causes
ofDividends remaining unclaimed,and weftrong
ly recommend the public to attend to it. A
named John Smith, dies, and leaves
James Brown, executor. James Brown does not
take the Stock into his own name, but with a
view perhaps to avoid a trifling fee to the Clerk,
has his name added ro the original account, so
that he receives his dividends in the name of
Smith, till his dying day.
His executor then applies to the Bank to know
what stock stands in the name of James Brown :
he enquires of the Clerk under the letter B. who
answers there is no Stock in Brown's name ; the
clerk having no concern with the Ledger under
the S. can give no intelligence with refpe# tothe
name of Smith, so that it frequently happens
that both principal and interest are 101 l and neg
ledled altogether.
In order therefore to avoid this mistake in fu
ture, we advise all executors to take their stock
into their own names immediately, and the pub
lic in general, whose friends or relatives were
ever known to be interested in the funds, to en
quire after the names of those persons to whom
such relations were executors: this,in many instan
ces, will lead to discoveries not only of dormant
dividends, but also of the dormant principal.
Mr. Painc's reply to Mr. Burke's pamphlet,
was advertised for this day—and there is not now
a copy to be had.
It is addreded to the President ot the United
Stares, in the following words :
SIR,
/ PRESENT you a small treatise in defence ofthofe
principles of freedom, which your exemplary virtue
hath so eminently contributed to eflablijh : That the
rights of man may become as universal, as your bene
volence can wijh—and that you vtay enjoy the htppi
nefs of feeing the new world regenerate the old, is th
prayer of Sir,
100,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
50,000
240,000
Infant re-animation, by Mr. R. Thompson.
I was lately called to a lady, who was deliver
ed of a child to appearance dead ; I ordered ltto
be put before the fire, and as soon as I could
leave my patient, which was in about a quarter
of an hoar, I examined the infant. It was dead
ly cold, its face livid, and no signs of life re
mained. The father, who was of thtf profefiion,
was fatisfied it was dead ; but I rubbed it with
warm flannel, and inflated its lungs by blowing
in the mouth frequently. By persevering in
these methods, I had at length the pleasure to
perceive signs of returning life, and the child is
now a very fine girl. The gratitude and tran
sport of the parents, will be better conceived
than language can possibly describe.
Singular Sign adopted by a Dutch Midwife
At a small Tillage called Bergen ad Zoon,isthe
following whimsical Sign. It is a tree bearing
fruit, and the branches filled with little naked
urchins, feeiningly just ripened into life, and
crying for luccour ; beneath, a woman holds up
her apron, looking wifhfully at the children, as
if intreating them to jump into her lamp. It be
longs to the house of a sworn midwife, and has
this infeription:
' Vang my, ik zal zoot zyn."
In Englilh,
" Catch me, I'll be a sweet boy."
Whoever visits many familiesduringthedraw
ing of th cLottery, will be convinced that thepun
iihment of the Wheel is not abolished in t is
country ! . j
Mr. Burke, in his treatise on the fubhme a"
beautiful, has a chapter 011 the sublime of od
ours and (links..—M. Mirabeau's address to tn=
Quakers in the National Aflfembly might be ad
ded, as the sublime of hypocrisy.
LONDON, March r.
UNCLAIMED DIVIDENDS.
ANSWER TO MR. BURKE.
your much obliged,
and obeditnt humble servant,
THOMAS PAINE.
i,3M,38S
517,306LIVERPOOL, Feb. 28.
A mill wright, at Leeds, has invented a ma
. - e for the threshing of corn, that is said to
C "fwer every purpose of hand labour at an ade
price ; it is worked by two horses to ierve
and the fame number to keepit in motion, and
Jhake off the ltraw.
A few days past a very fortunate circumltance
ccurred at theOrchard-houfe, Blackwall : Ben
kmin Kemp, Esq. breaking up an old Ihip (for
merly a Spaniard, which, when file was taken,
had the greatest part of her crew killed) dis
covered three ingots of gold of considerable
weight, which he immediately sent up to the
bullion-office, under aftrongguard of fiiip-break
ers • It is supposed the above circumstance will
increaftMr. Kemp's present wealth, 25 or 30000/.
ns there have been several smaller ingots found
iince. Sheisconftantly watched, and not a plank
ftiffered to be moved but in his pretence.
PITTSBURGH, April 9
For two weeks past we have had no accounts
of any depredations being committed by the In
dians, and from every appearance there are none
of tliem in our neighbourhood. Several parties
of volunteers, both from Weftmoreland and Al
leghany counties, have been scouting on the weft
fide of the Alleghany, but have made no disco
veries of any frefh signs.
A company of militia, consisting of ico men,
have been drafted from the four battalions in
this county, and are now scouting on the weft
fide of the Alleghany ; they are to serve two
months, and, no doubt, they will be relieved by
an equal num'ber, to be drafted for the fame
purpose.
NEW-YORK, April 19.
Extract oj a letter from a refpefiable mercantile house
in London, to a gentleman in this city, dated 2d
March, 1 791.
« This is just to inform that I have received let
ters from Biscay and Barcelona. The fii ll fay,
grain must not be tlioughcof this year for Biscay.
Tliefecond fay, about seventy cargoes of wheat
have arrived during the last 2 or 3 months, which
has entirely stocked that market. Betides large
quantities are on the way."
FROM THE NEW-YORK JOURNAL, &c.
CHARITY A-LA-MODE.
FROM southern climes a wandering veflel came
That from her looks or size small note could claim :
Her freight compell'd in port to stay,
Long by the walls this empty schooner lay ;
In vain the Capt. fe ch'd his fapieut flcull,
And flufh'd her masts, and painted up her hull,
No fails to trim, no work but mixing grog,
Pensive he fate, and long'd to heave the log ;
In vain he fearch'd, and ftopt up every leak,
Ana aavertis'd his bark from week to week.
All would not do !—the dock was still her fate
Idle the Master, unemployed the Mate ;
While, with the tide (he lay to rife and fall,
The wharfinger, 'twas thought, would take her all.
At length a man, who had much gold in flock,
One morning fair, came waddling to the dock,
Addrefs'd the Capt. as he pensive fate,
And cry'd " what fay you, friend, wilt take a. freight ?"
" Take it ! (said Jonas) take it ! —that I will
Take it as quick as patient takes a pill ;
This idle life's the very worst disease : —
But, let me know your terms, Sir, if you please,"
" Afv terms are so andfo" the merchant cry'd.
" What! sixpence less than all the world beside ?
What reafoncan be given, I humbly aflt,
That fix-pence ftiould be dipt from every cask—
Five (hillings, truftme, is the usual freight,
And given by every ftiipper in the State."
" That may be so—the miser said (most cool)
And yet there's one exception to the rule.
If you're arerfe, there's hundreds will agree,
This sixpence fav'd is meant for charity ;
My terms are good—»you can't be angry, sure,
Each fix-pence fqueez'd from you, fhallblefs the poor ! n
April 13.
Philadelphia, April 25.
Extract of a Utter from N;iv-Tork
" A society has been lately instituted here, for
the promoting of agriculture, the arts and ma
nufactures : It bids lair to be ufeful, and if the
fliftridt secretaries are public spirited and atflive,
it will be the means of advancing the general
interest, and circulating important information.
Exertions have been made to stimulate the legis
lature to imitate our brethren of Pennsylvania,
in roads and inland navigation : These attempts
have been but partially fuccefsful, but the germ
public spirit is quickening into birth, and I
forefee the spirit of emulation operating on our
Dutch Bottoms. The finances of our state
a mod pleasing situation ; exceeding, perhaps
the whole political world. The probability of
3 fuflicient fund in theftocks of the United States
to yield an interest after all debts are paid,
equal to supporting our civil lift ; this will fuper
ce<le the neceflity of taxation, which may be at
tended with th is inconvenience, that it would
he submitted to with relutftance, should ic be
come neceflary."
r he importation of bread,flour,and Indian corn,
the produce of the United States,into Newfound
land, is permitted by the King of Gi'eat-Britain
in Britifli veflels till the 13th June nexr.
The present situation of the United States mud
inspire the mind of every Philantropift with the
molt pleating reflection, and the bosom of every
patriot with sensations moreeafily conceived than
described.
So great, sudden and compleat a transition
from weakneis, confulion and discord, to strength
order, union and refpetlability, as this highly
favoured country has experienced, is absolutely
beyond ail parallel in the history of man ; and
while it forcibly imprefl'es on the mind a power
ful conviction of the excellency of a government
which in so (bott a period has produced such af
tonifiling effects, the people of these free states,
cannot fully realize their obligations ofgratitude
to the Supreme Legislature of the Universe, for
thus guiding their feet into the paths of " Peace,
Liberty, Safety," under the aufpicesofa free
conltitution.
Tuesday Evening last, the Hon. Judge Wilson
finilhed a course of 60 Lecftures on the study and
pradtice of the law—interspersed with a number
of law exercises. The approbation these ledtures
have received, and the advantages derived to
those who have attended them, reflect great ho
nor on the judgment and abilities of Mr. Wil.
son. We hear that next Winter this excellent
plan is to be resumed and prosecuted.
The Canton, Capt. Truxton, is arrived at Mar
tinique, in 3 months and 20 days from Calcutta.
Extract of a tetter from Amsterdam, to a gentleman
in this City, dated Jan. 16,1791.
" The admiralty of this country are endea
voring to colledt information with refpeift to our
ship timber, and particularly the live oak. They
have applied to Mr. refpedting it. Unfor
tunately the carpenters of the United States are
in the habit of employing timber 111 an unsea
soned state. This has already thrown our ship
ping into discredit which will prevent that art
becoming an important addition to our commerce,
unless the evil can be remedied by some means
or other. Some houses here had ordered iliipsto
be built in America by way of experiment. They
have turned out so badly, notwithstanding the
cheapness of the firft cost, that they have aban
doned the prosecution of their object—and this
has induced others to follow their example with
out the expence of an experiment.
" Samples of the fiigar of the maple tree re
fined at New-York, have been fenttofeveral hou
ses here—one of them has conceived such hopes
from them, that they intend to fend refiners
there, and endeavor to introduce this article in
to the commerce between this place and the Uni
ted Stares. I suppose however that it will be
some time before enough is made for our own
consumption, and that until then it cannot be
come an article of exportation."
By an extratftfrom the Leyden Gazette of Jan.
7 it appears that all the French Bifliops (except
ing only the Biftiop of Aucun) persist in refufing
to take the oath lately ordered by the National
Aflembly. The Aflembly refufes to give them
any longer time—and thus all the high Clergy,
and not a few of the second order also, are up
on the point of feeing themselves deprived of all
their places, and of all their revenues. A letter
from Paris of 15th Feb. fays however, that three
quarters of the Clergy in the Kingdom have taken
the oath. The carnage of Ifmael continued for
two complete days—that is, there were two days
of human slaughter, after all resistance had ceas
ed. Thus was revived the infernal mode of
butchering our fellow creatures, which for the
honor of modern humanity we were led to hope
was totally extin<st. But fnch are the effects of
unreftained power, and lawless ambition in eve
ry age.
A school for inftruifting indigent blind per
sons in inufic, has lately been instituted at Liver
pool in England. Genuine benevolence explores
every avenue of human mii'ery, in order to a
bate its poignancy.
House of Reprsfcntattves of the United States,Yeb. 23
IN the debate on the report of the felecft com
mittee, to which was referred the meflage of
the President of the United States, of the 14th feb.
MR. BALDWIN
Made the following remarks : He said he was
of opinion, that no person, who was not under
the influence of strong passions on this fubjeA,
could fuppofeit possible for Congress to form and
pass a navigation law, during the five days that
remained of the prelent session. It cannot be for
gotten, said he, that this has been considered in
general in this country as one of the greatest,
and at the fame time, 1110 ft difficult and perplex
ed fubietfs that had ever presented nfelf to the
councils of the country. The difficulties and
perplexities which it had occasioned, were among
the principal causes, and may almost be said to
be the onlr cause, which brought about our lalt
revolution". He then particularly alluded to the
different stages of the progress of this business,
as well in the proceedings of the several States,
as of the old Congress, and also of the federal
convention, which formed the conft.tution And
with this view of the importance and difficulty
827
of the fubjeft, can tills liotife, heaflced, after hav
ing been nearly eighteen months in acftual feflion,
on other business, which they have supposed more
important, expect to be able to take up ihis, do
j lift ice to ir, and finifh it in five days ? He 'was
lure the house was not yet fi> hardy in managing
the difficult affairs of io difficult a government,
and could not withold expressions of his surprise
to find some gentlemen, whom he hail so much
refpecfted for their wisdom and moderation, so
much engaged in this projetfi.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE USITED STATES.
A Gentleman being asked to fubferibeto the plan of the Sunday
Schools, declined, and gave the following reasons :
lft. Public subscriptions of all kinds are a very unequal and un
just mode of taxation—the wealth) never pay their proportion.
2d. Jnftitutions that the public interest is so eflentially connect
ed with, as those of Education, ought not to depend on a
casual support.
3d. In this free country, it is laying the foundation of a servile
disposition in the rising generation, to make the poor depend on
charity for education.
4th. Charitable institutions of this kind, never were, or can be
made commensurate to the great object of a universal diffufion of
the means of knowledge among the poor ; not one tenth part of
the poor in any country, where they depend on Charity Schools,
ever receive any education at all.
sth. A little Chanty will atone for a total neglect on the part of
government, in not making that provision, which every di&ate of
humanity and found policy urges, should be made by law, to sup
port a general plan of school education.
6th. In this country, the acquisition of a decent competency is
within the reach of every person whatever, who duly improves
fix days in the week—the sabbath therefore ought to be a day of
reft to all ; but if our children are to work like (laves fix days, as
the children of the poor are neceflitated to do in European coun
tries—and on thefeventh areto be confined to the shade of a school,
the sabbath will soon, as in the language of scripture, prove a bur
then—and religious worfhipand education become their aversion.
7th. The poorer and middling classes of citizens form the ma
jority in all countries; and in a republican government, ought to
have at least, equal influence in society with the rich; this, they
never will attain to, so long as they depend on the charity of their
opulent neighbors for the education of their children.
Bth. There can be no excuse for negle&iug the public interest
of education ; for the means judiciously applied, will always be
found adequate to the end, in every country.
The gentleman added, that tho he had no children, yet so fully
was he convinced of the importance: of diffufing knowledge a
mong all claflcs, without diJlinttion y that he would cheerfully pay
his proportion of public taxes for the support of public schools,
in which every citizen should have a right to have his children
inftru&cd in those branches of learning, eflential to all ; and this
he conceived would be not only the best, but the mod economi
cal plan that could be adopted—it had, he fdid, the Left of ex
perience in its favor, at least.
The Empress of Ruilia rejects the terms which
the allied and mediating courts propose as the
basis of peace : She fays that the ceflion of the
places she has taken, would not be likely to pro
duce a lasting peace; but would occasion bicker
ings between the two courts.
Other accounts fay that the face of affairs on
the continent aflumes a pacific afpecft. The bel
ligerent powers being nearly exhausted, even
Catharine herfelffeemsready to exclaim, enough !
The Prince, Bishop of Liege has returned to
his principality—he went to the cathedral attend
ed by a pompous train ; arid after Te Deum, the
corps, diplomatique, consisting of the minirters
of Prussia and Holland, and the Charges des Af
faires of Vienna and Paris attended to felicitate
his highness on his return.
Lately died in England, William Billings, aged
122 —the last surviving private that l'erved under
the great Duke of Marlborough.
The Grandees of the rurkilh Empire appear
to be desirous of peace with Ruflia—and have ac
cordingly addrelled the Sultana Vilide begging
her influence to induce her son the Emperor to
listen to their remonstrances.
An exchange of prisoners has taken place be
tween the Moors and Spaniards.
A new African Company is about being formed
in England to trade to the Western coait of that
country.
At a stated meeting of the American Pliilofophical Society, on
the 15th inft. the following Gentlemen wneeleflcd members:
Charles Pith Thl'nberc, Profefirof Natural History
in the University of Upfal.
Nicholas L. Burmann, M. D. Profeffor of Botany at Am
sterdam.
George Grosche, M. D. Profeffor of Natural History in the
University of Mittauw, Courland.
Thomas Pennant, Esq. of Downing, in Flintftiire, Great-
Britain.
Hon. Henrv Knox, Esq. Secretary to the United States, for
the department of war.
Extract from the Minutes,
SAMUEL MAGAW, Secietary.
The 14th inft. the prize of 10,000 dollars was in the Wheel of
the MalTachufrtts Lotterv.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/ pr. £ . 85
3 pr. Crnts 9/ 45
Detered 6 pr. Cents 8/ti qf- 45
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/10 80
Indents 9f- 45
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12/4 'if-
ARRIVALS at the PORT »/ PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Maria, Hopkins, Boston, 10 days.
Sloop Bitfy, Hand, Morris-River, 4.
Do. Nancy, Gad, Do. 3.
Schooner Little Sarah, l.owry, Jamaica, 28.
Brig Minerva, Rice, Madeira, 40.
Slooo Friendship, North-Carolina.
Ship Madeira Packet, Capt. Sutton, bound !• Madura, from
New-York, is Joft near Madeira.
pr. cent,
do.
do.
do.
do.The ADDRESS of the CORPORATION of the
City of RICHMOND, Virginia,
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, Eft. PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES.
SIR,
IF in you the Mayor, Aldermen and Commonality ofßichmond
beheld only the chief Magistrate of the United States of Ame
rica, they would indeed feel all that refpefl which is due to the
ruler of a free people ; but when they contemplate those virtues
which have excited the universal approbation of your own coun
try, and the admiration of all mankind, they cannot approach
you without emotions of veneration too big lor utterance too
pleafmg to be foppreffed.
If the voice of the people be the trumpet of the Almighty, the
univeifality of that gratitude which pervades every bosom in Ame
rica, will ever remain an inconteftible proof of the plaudit of
Heaven on the fortitude and wisdom which secured to our com
mon country independence and empire, and which now leads her
to wealth and glory.
We well know that to a mind like yours, fraught with bene
volence and affe&ion for all mankind, the gratitude and love of
the nation which you have saved mull be the best and moll pleas
ing reward ; yet we are aware that to such a mind nothing could
be more painful than that servility which would convert the sen
timent of love into the language of adulation ; we shun therefore
the expreflion ef the one, leoft we ftiould incur the imputation of
the other ; and while we beg leave to congratulate you on the
astonishing success which has heretofore attended all your endea
vors for promoting the public welfare, we look forward with
confidence and joy to the continuance of that administration,
which, through the hlefling of the Supreme Being, hath been al
ready productive of so much general happiness to the American
empire ; and we implore that Being, propitiously to smile on all
your future designs, to guard and protest you in your intended
tour, to grant you every earthly good, and that, when his provi
dence fliall fee fit to summon you hence, you may be wafted to
the regions of eternal happiness, lamented by men and welcomed
by angels.
The PRESIDENT'S Reply to the above.
Gentlemen,
THE very distinguished manner in which you are pleased to
notice my public services, and to express your regard towards
me demands and receives a grateful return.
If to my agency in the afFairs of our common country may be
ascribed any of the great advantages which it now enjoys, I am
amply and moll agreeably rewarded in contemplating the happi
ness, and receiving the approbation of my fellow citizens, whofc
freedom and felicity are fixed I trull for ever on an undecaying
bafisef wisdom and virtue.
Among the bleflings which a gracious providence may be
pleased to bellow on the people of America, I shall behold with
peculiar pleasure, the prosperity of your city, and the individual
happiness of its inhabitants,
Fredericksburg, April 14.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
SIR,
WE, the Mayor, Aldermen and Common-Council of the Cor
poration of Frederickfburg, are happy in this opportuni
ty of tendering you the sincere and unanimous congratulations of
the citizens, on your arrival in this town.
The inhabitants of Frederickfburg, Sir, as they can boa ft the
firft acquaintance with your virtues, claim a peculiar pleasure in
tcftifyingto the world, your exalted merit ; and in joining with
the reft of America, to express their entire approbation ot your
conduit througk life ; which has been so productive of bleflings
to its citizens.
The long and fatiguing journey you have undertaken, will fur
ther manifeft your unremitted attachment to that country, whose
obligations to you can be better felt than described ; and we trust
will not only influence the present generation, to admire public
and private virtues, from your example, but teach your fucceflors
how to watch over the welfare of this extensive Union.
We have the fulleft confidence in Divine Benevolence, that the
Disposer of all good will be graciously pleased long to continue
you in health, and reward you here and hereafter, with bleflings
adequate to your merit, which he alone can give.
I have the honor to be,
In behalf of the Corporation,
With sentiments of esteem, and refpeft,
Your mod obedient,
And very humble servant,
WILLIAM HARVEY, Mayor,
To which the PRESIDENT made the following reply.
To the MAYOR, ALDERMEN, and COMMON-COUNCIL
of the Corporation of FREDERICKSBURG.
GENTLEMEN,
AT all times flattered by the esteem, and grateful for the good
wilhes of my fellow-citizens, I am particularly so, when,
to my refpeft for their public worth, is united the endearments of
private acquaintance.
In this regard, I have the pleasure to receive your congratula
tory address on my arrival in Frederickfburg, and, thankingyou
with sincerity for the sentiments itexpreffes, I desire to assure you
of the affe&ionate gratitude which they inspire.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
LIVERPOOL, March 3.
JOHN WESLEY.
On Tuesday evening died, of a gradual de
cay, the Rev. John Welley, in the 88th year of
his age.
This extraordinary man was born in the year
1703, at Epworth, a village in Lincolnlhire, of
■which place his father, Samuel Wefley, was
Redtor.
At a proper age, John was sent to Chrifi: Church
College, Oxford. About 1725 he was eledted
Fellow ©f Lincoln College. In 1729, he joined
a society of fellow students in private devotion,
and from this his spiritual career may be dated.
In 1735, he embarked for Georgia, in order to
convert the Indians, but returned to England in
1737, where Mr. Whitfield had commenced the
■work of reformation. In 1738 he visited Count
ZinzendorfF, at Hernhuth in Germany, the chief
of the Moravians. We find him in England a
gajn in the following year, and on April 2, he
preached his firft field sermon at Bristol, from
which time his disciples have continued to en
creafe. He remained the reft of his days in this
kingdom, travelling through every part of it,
and eftablifhiug congregations in England Scot
land, and Ireland.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
In 17jo he married a Lady, who died in 1781 —
by her he has 110 children
Mr. Wefley's income was prodigious, not less
than io,cool. a year; but oot of that he appro
priated no more to his own use than was fuffici
ent to supply the necefl'aries of life. The money
went to build chapels, and pay his preachers
throughout the kingdom.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will rcccive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791,
Gallaudet andEwiNG,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported in the Lady WalterJlorJ\ from London, KTan
chcjlcr and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from Bristol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. On hand for
sale, a few hogftieads of OLD JAMES's RIVER TOBACCO.
Philadelphia, April 9, 1791. 100 epiin
Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private sale, on the
following terms :
ON the specie amount of all sales or purchases at au&ion, gne
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale, on all sums
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-half per cent. ; and on all funis
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punduality,fidelity and dispatch, as consi
derable experience in the public flocks, together with extensive
connections in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, 1791.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 17,
Third Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
|C7= A few New-York LOTTERY TICKETS
come co hand, for sale.
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In the Hurew, Greek, Latin, French, and Italian
Languages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufamas, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Otlavo (3 infra. Septuagint, Ariltophanes, Longinu , Theo.
phraftus, Epittetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
lfocrates, Polyanius, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poctae minores Latini, Callipsdia, Stiada L
Valla, See.
A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejfrs Rice and Co.
Market-Street, where further particulars may be learned.
FOR SALE,
In the City of New-Brunfwick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
*• new, pleasantly situated on the banks oi the Raritan, to
gether with a large Lot in the rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entriesbetween thefame
and a good stone cellar under the whole.
Any person inclining to purchase may have poffcflion the firft
day of May next, and know the price and terms ot payment which
will be made eal'y by applying to Lewis For man, in said city, or
the fubferiber in Borden Town. J. VAN EMBURGH
N. B. If not {old, t» be r«nted from ill day of May next
NOTIFICATION.
Colonel Thomas Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being neceflarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Gover nor hath thought proper to authorise
me to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return :
NOTICE is therefore given, to the MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia,theNorthern Libertiesof said
City, the Townfliips of Moyamenfing and unk, that they are
to meet and exercise under their rcfpeftive Officers on the fol
lowing Days, viz.
First Battalion on the ad Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on :he6'.h of do.
Sixth Battalion on the 9th of do.
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Lientenant,
pro tern, of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1791.
|C 7» The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ami.
828
(96 tfj
K S,
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
APRIL 22. —Dollars at y/S.
ANCHORS pr. Ib. 6|</
Allum, Engliih, pr. cwt. 33 s
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d
A(hcs, pot, per ton, 40/42/
Pearl, 52/ 531
Arrack pr. gall. icx 12s 6d
Brandy, common,
Cogniac 9 r
Braziletto, pr. ton. 16/
Bricks pr. M 351
Bread, ship pr. cwt. 17s ißj6
Ditto, pilot 35J
Ditto, small water 401 45c
Beer, American, in bot. f rc
pr. doz. I ,0 / 6
pr. bbl. 27 s
co f Oak pr.M feet, 4/IOJ 4/18,r
® j Merch. pine 5/
< i Sap, do. 3/
O I N. Eng. 2/ l-oj
03 LCedar 5/
"1 he above arc the Shallop prices ;
for the Yardp? ices add isspr M.
Brim stone in rolls pr. cwt. 27/
J*- ( Irish pr. bbl.
£3 < Boston 55/
( Country 455
Butter pr. lb. 14d
in kegs gd
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2S2s6d
Chocolate pr. lb. 12d
Coal pr. bufliel 1 s 6d
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d
Cinnamon ißj 20s
Caflia £s
Cheese, Englifli »
Country 6d y±d
fSper. pr. lb. 3s 2 d 3J6d
a I Wax 3 s
p Myrtle Wax 12d
| Mould,tallow io£d
U L r>ippea 9£d
Cotton 1 j 9d
Cuirants u6 2s
Cloves ioj
Copperas pr.cwt. 155
Cordage 6oj 62s6'd
Cocoa 6256 d 6ys6d
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj-
Ravens 6jsj2s6d
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37.16
Common, 35s 6d
Bur middlings,beft 345
Middlings 2 6s
Snip-ftuffpr. cwt. 9s6d 12s
Flax pr. Ib. 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2s -.od
Flaxfeed pr. bush. §s
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/1058/
Ginger, whiterace 52s 6d
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. Ib. gd
Ginseng, 2s 2d
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. >
quarter caflt, \ & os
Ditto, fine glazed 35J 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafe, 33/
f Wheat pr. bush 7s 6d
z Rye 5S
_ I Oats is 8d 2j 6a?
< <{ Indian corn 2s yd
Barlev 45 gd
« Best (helled pr. lb. 3 d
Buckwheat 2j6
Hemp, pr.ton, 50/56/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 22J 6d
Hides, raw pr. lb # gd 10d
Hops ?s
Indigo, French, ioj
— Carolina
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
[ Castings 28s
£ | Bar pr.ton, 29/30/
2 < pi s /
5 j Sheet 65/
t Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 30 s 40J
Lard, hogs gd lod
Lead in pigs 40J 42/ 6d
in bars 450s
Lead, white 80s
red s o s
Leather, foal pr. lb. is 2d
Lignum vita: pr. ton 42s 45s
Logwood 7/£ S 81
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. iys
—Rye 2 5 s
Mackarel.bcll 63s
Common 30J 581 6d
Mace pr. lb. 705
Mustard
Madder, best 15^181/
MolatTes pr. gall. 218 d
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, :4s
Mast spars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany 81/ 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails, lodizdSc iod~~ 8d B£dgd
"Linseed, pr. gall. 3s gd
Train is lod 2s
Spermaceti 3/ 7d
_j Whaie u 10d 2s
2 <{ Olive 6s 6d
I Ditto pr. cafe 28j 30J
, Best sweet in ) c, r
flalks.pr.boxjs^eo,
L—baikets 12 bottles 28*
Oak timber pr.ton 40*
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2s
London,pr.doz.i2j6<i 15*
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
particular State.
PER QUANTITY
Porter, American pr. doz
Pitch, pr. bbl. I
Pork, Burlington, .! f "-J
■ —Lower county ' -
Carolina
Peas, Albany .
Pepper, p r . lb. £ 6 «
Pimento
R'ce pr. cwf. 'J *.
Rof m pr. bbl. ®
Raisins, best, pr. keg
Ditto pr. jar 5 ' , J
Ditto pr. box
f Jamaica pr. gall.
j Antigua
§ Windward J'
£ Barbadocs **
■ Country, N. E. 3*£
Sa(T f Taffia 21 2j6J
Salt mm' pr - ton «' 6o '
o, ? etrc ' pr-ewt. 4 / 10j
Sulphur, flour 4C ,,,,
J TGerman pr.cwr. 6 s ,- ot
£j )En g lifh, bliftertd
h /American pr. ton 40/4J
« (Crowley's pr. fag. 821 Cj
Snake root pr. lb. u6i 2sU
ooap, Common ,j
Brown
Starch l ° d \
Snuff IJ 6d g, l d
Spermaceti, refined,
Sail Cloth, English, } J
pr. yard,
-Boston, No. I
— INO. 11. 2 J2d
Rufha (hecting, pr. p. q ox
(" Lump, pr. lb. u,d
J Loaf, Tingle lefined \szd
2 <| Ditro, double do.
I Havannah, white qj
<s> Ditto, brown, gfj
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt. 6oj; J Bj
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. 'j s
( Allum pr. bulh. 2S
•J i{
« IJInJ
Liibon is 2 j
Ship build. W.O. frames > go,
P- ton > 5 '00/
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/ 5 j
Shingles, Ihort, p. M. i 7, 20s
■ long dressed 90 j tooj
Scantling, heart, goj 150*
— JJ P 4" 45'
r ripe pr. 1200 pieces id
y!W. O. hogihead 71 r;
> | R. O. do. s l 5 ,
£ I Leogan 5 l IJX
to Barrel 4 /, 5 ,
LHcdding g/, 0 ,
Otter, best: pr. piece 30/
Minks u&sr
Fox, grey 2J 6d 5 s
red 4'
Martins
~ Fifhcrs 2*6^s*
00 Bears t2s6d2ss
Racoons 2* 4;
Musk-rats 9*/ u64
! Beaver, pr. lb. 5J 10/
l_ Deer, in hair is6d2ssd
Taf,N.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. gr
Carolina, 32 gall. 11 s
Turpentine 22j64
. C James R. new best 30J
~ — inferior 23*25*
o old 35/ 38*
Rappahannock 23s 6d
O J Colo. Maryland aos 60s
Dark 20 s
Long-leaf
( ® Eaftcrn-fhore
P ! Carolina, new
f L old
f Hyson pr. lb.
I Hyson fkn,
2 Souchong,
H I Congo,
l.Bohea,
Tallow, refined
3 s 7*
s °s
Tin pr. box,
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 4*4s 6d
Vermillion, B[6 10/
VarniOi,
Madeira, pr. pipe 40/75/
Lisbon 37/
Teneriffe 20/10J 30/
w Fayal pr. gall. 3'
Z Port pr. pipe 36/ 40/
Ditto pr. gall. 7'
>** Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 301-
Claret 30* 45/
Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd 9/
Malaga 5s 6s
:,Bees pr. lb. 2/
ile-bone, long pr. lb.
short, pr. lb. 1*
Wax
Wha!
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 69
Ditto 60 days 7 1
Ditto 30 days 7 2
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s nd 3*
30 days 3s id
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 6.f Sd
30 days 6s Sd
"3^
15J 16s
23 s2sr
30 s
7/ Bjpi
4 s 4 s 6d
3J 6d is
z s i d 3 J 9^
2J 74
84^
100 s
2J 6d