I'pISLIsHED V\ hnr. i.M).U S AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 62, of Vol. lII.]
PHILADELPHIA
READ IN THE HOUSE Oh' REPRESENTATIVES THE
TWENTY-FIFTH INSTANT
The Secretary of Stats. to xuhom was referred, b\ the House
of Representatives of the United States, the petition o)
Jacob Ifaacks, of Newport, in Rkodc-ljland, has examined into the
'truth and importance oj the allegations therein fit forth, and makes
thereon the following
REPORT.
THE petitioner sets forth, that, by various experiments, with
eonfiderable labor and expence, he has diicovered a method
of converting fair-water into frefh, in the proportion of 8 pints
out of 10, bv a process so simple th?.t it may be performed on
board of velfels at sea by the common iron caboufe with small al
terations, by the fame fire, and in the fame time, which is used
tor cooking the ship's provisions ; and offers to convcy to the go
vernment of the United States a faithful account of his art, or se
cret, to be used by or svithin the United States, on their giving
to him a reward suitable to the importance of the discovery, and,
in the opinion of government, adequate to his expences, and the
time lie has devoted to the bringing it into effc£t.
In order to alcertain rhe merit of the petitioner's discovery, it
becomes necefiary to examine the advances already made in the
art ol converting fait-water into frefh.
Lord Bacon, to whom the world is indebted for thefirft germs
of so many branches of feience, had oMervcd, that, with a heat
fufficicnt for diftillition, fait w:l! not rile in vapour, and that
falt-iwater distilled, is frefh. And it would fcem that ail man
kind ifiight have observed, that the earth is supplied with frelh-
Water chiefly by exhalation from the lea, which,is in fa6l an in
fenfib'le diitillaiion elided bv the heat of the fun. Yet this, tho'
the moil obvious, was not the firft idea in the eflays for convert
ing salt-water into frefh. Filtration was tried in vain, and con
gelations could be relorted to only In the coideft regions and fca
ions. In all the earlier trials by distillation, some mixture was
thought necelTai v to aid the operation by a partial precipitation
of the fait, and other foreign matters contained in
Of this kind were the methods of Sir Richard Hawkins, in the
a6th century, of Glauber, Hauton and Lilt r, in the 17th, and
ol Hales, Appl by, Butler, Chapman, Hoffman and Dove, ituhe
ißih : nor was there any thing in thefc methods worthy noting
on the present occasion, except the very simple still contrived ex
tempore by Capt. Chapman, and made from such materials as
are to be found on board evciy ship, great or small. This was
a common pot with a wooden lid of the usual form, in the cen
ter of which a gieathole was bored to receive perpendicularly a
short wooden tube, made with an iuch and half auger, which
perpendicular tube received at its top, and at an acute angle, ano
ther tube of wood also, which descended till it joined a third, of
pcwrei, made bv rolli'ig ub a dish, and paflir.g it obliquely thro'
a cask of cold water. With this simple machine he obtained two
quarts of frrlh-watcr an hour, and observed, that the expence of
fuel would be very trifhug, if the flill was contrived to itand on
the fire along with the ship's boiler.
In 1762, Dr. Lind proposing to make experiments of several
different mixtures, firft,diftiljed rain-water, which he luppofed
would be the purcft, and then sea-water, without any mixture,
which he expedted would be the least pure, in order to arrange
between thele two supposed extremes the degree of merit of the
ieveral ingredients he meant to try. " To his great surprise," as
he confeffes, the sea-water diftiiled without any mixture, was
as pure as the rain-water. Me puriued the dilcovery and cftablilh
cd the fatt, th. t a pure and potable Irefli water may be obtained
irom lait-water by limpie diftillaiion without the aid of any mix
ture for fining ot precipitating it's foreign contents. In 1767,
he propol. dan extempore still, which in fatt, was Chapman's,
only substituting a gun-barrel mftead of Chapman's pewter tube,
and the hand-pump of the {hip to be cut in two obliquely, and
joined again at an acute angle, inftcad of Chapman's wooden
lubes bored express ; or, inltead of the wooden lid and upright
tube, he proposed a tea-kettle (without its lid or handle) to be
turned bottom upwards over the mouth of the pot, by way of
itill-head, and a wooden tube leading from the spout to a gun
barrel palling through a calk of water, the whole luted with equal
parts of chalk and meal 11101 defied with falt-W3ter.
With this apparatus of a pot, tea-kettle and gun-barrel, the
Dolphin, a 20 gun (hip, in her voyage round the woild, in 1768
from 56 gallons o! lea- water, and with gib. of wood and 691b. of
pit-coal, made 42 gallons of good fre(h water at the rate ot 8 gal
lons an hour. The Dorfetfhin ,in her palfage from Gibraltar to
Mahon, in 1769, made 19 quarts of pure water in 4 hours with
lolb. of wood And the Slambal, in 1773, between Bombay and
Bengal, with a hand-pump, gun-barrel and a por, of 6 gallons of
sea-water made 10 quarts of frefh water in 3 hours.
In 1771, Dr. Imn, putting together Lind's idea of distilling
without a mixture, Chapman's Rill, and Dr. Franklin's method
of cooling by evaporation, obtained a premium of 50001. from
the British Parliament. He wet his tube conftantlv with a mop
instead of paflirtg it through a calk of water : He enlarged its bore
also in order to give a freer passage to the vapour, and thereby en
crcafe its quantity by leflening the refinance or prelfure on the
evaporating furface : this last improvement was his own, and it
doubtless contributed to the success of his models; and we may
suppose the enlargement of the tube to be ufelul to that point at
which the central parts of the vapour, paflingthrough it, would
begin to efcapc condenfaiion. Lord Mulgrave used his method
in his voyage towards the North Pole, in 1773, making Irom 34
1040 gallons of frefh water a day, without any great addition of
fuel, as he fays.
M. de Bougainville in his voyage round the world, used, very
fuccefstuliy, a still which had been contrived in 1763, by PoyHo
mer, so as to guard against ihe water being thrown over trom the
boiler into the pipe, by the agitation ot the ship. In this one sin
gularity was, that the furnace or fire box was in the middie of the
b<>>ler 3 so that the water fui rounded it in contact. This still, how
ever, was cxpenfive and occupied much room .
Such were ihe advances already made in the art of obtaining
ftelh from fait water, when Mr. lfaacks, the petitioner, suggested
his discovery.
As the merit of this could be 3fcertained by experiment only,
the Secretary of State asked the favor of Mr. Ritlcnhoufe, Prtfident
of the American Philofophicai Society, of Dr. Wiftar, profelTor
of chemistry m the college of Philadelphia, and Dr. Hutchinfon,
profeffor of chemistry in the univevfity of Pennsylvania, to be prc
fenr at the experiments. Mr. lfaacks fixed the pot of a small ca
boufe. with a tin cap and lirait tube of tin palling obliquely thro'
Wednesday, November 50, ly9l.
a cask of cold water ; he made use of a mixture, the compolition
of which he did not explain, and from 24 pints of fca-wa.ter, tak
en up about 3 miles out of the Capes of Delaware at flood tide,
he drilled 22 pints ot frclh water in 4 hours, with 2olb. of sea
soned pine, which was a little wetted by having lain in the rain.
In a 2d experiment ot the 21ft of March, performrd in a fur
nace and 5 gallon still at thecollege, from 32 pints of fea-u a'er he
drew 31 pints of trelh water in 7 h. 24 mm. with 511b. of hicko
ry which had been cut about 6 months. In order to decide whe
ther Mr. Ifaack's mixture contributed in any and what degree to
the success of the operation, it w.ts thought proper to repeat his
experiment under the fame circumstances exafclly, except the o
miflion ot the mixture. Accordingly on the next day the fame
quantity of sea-water was put into the fame still, the fame furnace
was used, and fuel from the fame parcel. It yielded, as his had
done, 31 pints of frefh water in 11 min. more of time and with
lolb. less of wood.
On the 24th of March Mr. Ifaacks performed a 3d experiment.
For this, a common iron pot of gallons was fixrd in brick
work, and the flue from the hearth wound once round the pot spi
rally, and then pasTed off up a chimney. The cap was ot tin, and
a lira it tin tube of about two inches diameter, palling obliquely
through a barrel of water, fcrved inttead ot a worm. From 16
pints of sea water he drew off 15 pints of frefh water in 2 h. 55
min. with 31b. of dry hickory and 81b. of seasoned nine. This
experiment was also repeated Ihe next day, with the fame appa
ratus and fuel from the fame parcel, but without the mixture. Six
teen pints ot sea water yielded in like manner 15 pints of Irefh, in
t min. more of time, and with half a pound less ot wood. O9
the whole,it was evident that Mr. Ifaacks' mixture pioduced no ad r
vantage, either in tiie process or result of the distillation.
The diltilled water in all these instances was found on expert
ment to be as pure as the bed pump water of the city. Its taste
indeed was not as agreeable, but it was not such as to produce
any dlfguft. In fa£t, we drink in common life, in many places,
and under many circumstances, and almost always at sea, a worse
tailed, and probably a lei's wholesome water.
The obtaining frefh from fair-water, for ages was confidcred ajs
an important defiderarum for the use of navigators. The process
for doing this by iimple distillation is so efficacious, the erecting
an extempore still with such ulenfils as are found on board of every
iV.ip is so pra&icable, as to authorize the aflertion, that this deside
ratum is fatisiicd to a very ufeful degree. But though this has
been done for upwards of 30 years, though its reality has been ef
tab!ifHed by the a£lual experience of several vessels which have
had recourse to it, yet neither the fact nor the process is known
to the mass of seamen, to whom it would be the moil ufeful, and
for whom it was principally wanted. The Secretary of State is
therefore of opinion, that since the fubjeft has now been brought
under observation, it should be made the occasion of difl*eminatin<r
its knowledge generally and effe&uallv among the fea-faring citi
zens of the United States. The following is one of the many me
thods which might be fordoing this. Let the clearance for
every vessel failing from the ports of the United States, be printed
on a paper, on the back whereof shall be a printed account of the
eflays which have been made for obtaining frefh from fait water
mentioning shortly those which have been unfuccefsful, and more
fully those which have fuccccded ; describing the methods which
have been found to answer for conftiu£ling extempore fti|| s Q f
such implements as are generally on board of every veflel, with a
recommendation, in all cases where they shall have occasion to
resort to this expedient for obtaining water, to publish the result
of tfreir trial in some gazette on their return to the United States,
or to communicate it for publication to the office of the Secretary
of State, in-order that others may, by their fuccels, be encouraged
to make similar trials, and be benefitted by any improvements or
new ideas which may occur to them in practice.
Philadelphia, November 21, i7qt
L O N L) O N, September 19
Nothing could have been more dexterous than
the art with which La Fayette seized the moment
of the Allembly's joy at the royal acceptance, to
proeme from them an Amnesty. This was art
fully availing himfelf of the motlia tewpora fandi.
Any delay might indeed, from the tumultuous
clamours of the Enragees, have proved fatal to
that wife and magnanimous measure. It remains
to be ascertained, whether the haughty spirit of
the Princes and Nobles of France will fnffer them
to re-enter their country as pardoned criminals.
The French King's speech does no little ho
nor to its author : betides the good Ityle and good
sense which pervade it, there is an apology for
the King's late elopement, intermixed with pe
culiar skill and efted.
The acceptation of the new Conftitiilion by the
King nf France, imilt certainly be regarded as in
ionic measure definitive, and depriving others of
a pretext for interference. The alternative was
either that he lhonl-J accept upon the terms there
granted hiin, or abdicate the throne.
The nifl of oblivion, jufl: now pafled in France,
was certainly dilated by a wife and good policy.
It will tend to fofien the animolity of parties,
and reconcile the minds of tho!e who ar* yet a
verse to the Revolution
When the King of France refufed to wear the
tecorations of the St. Efpnt, notwithftandingthe
previous penniifion of tlie iNational Aiiembly, he
aid, " that he could not decide in regard to the
?rince Royal, who was a minor ; but lie doubted
lot but that the eldest Ton of a King of Fiance
would endeavor to diitingiiifli hiinrelf by the vir
tues of his heart, rather clian any bauble about
his person." . .
Numbers of French families are preparing to
quit London, in confcquence of the adjultnieiic
ol'ifce French Conflitutioii.
245
TH. JEFFERSON.
ttitfoo
[Whole No. 270.]
Saturday lait difpatclies were received at the
India hotife, over land, confirming the particulars
of the capture of Darwar by Colonel Frederick,
who is not dead, as has been generally reported.
Rufiia has begun to fulfil her terms with the
Porte, and the peace, at length established be
tween these violent foes, proinifes to be one of
fonie continuance.
Among the curiosities imported from Botany
Bay is a leaf, of very uncommon properties. The
rnoft extraordinary is that when dried, even with
out being pulverised, it goes off on the applica
tion of a match, with an explosion somewhat si
milar to gunpowder ; and the air is afrewards
agreeably perfumed. Experiments are now mak
ing to try what force it may poflefs, compared
with our materials of explosion.
The capture of Darwar took place about the
latter end of March. The Mahratta troops dis
played much gallantry, and were chiefly inllru
mental in shortening the duration of the siege.
The fort re fs of Darwar is in the P/Jyfore coun
try, on the Bombay fide ; and will by the conve
niences attached to it, greatly accelerate rhe to
tal subjugation of Tippoo and his flying follow
ers.
Near three millions have been remitted to Lord
Cornwallis from Bengal and Britain, since he
took the command.
Yesterday dispatches were received at the Se
cretary of State's office, from Mr. Whitworth,
tlie British Ambafl'ador at Peterfinirg. They
were brought over by the Jezikill Garnour. It
was mentioned, news of the greatest importance
had been received by the Empress from Prince
Potemkin ; that on the departure of the nief
fenger, the Ruffian army continued to penetrate
farther ng:iiiift the Turks ; that the former had
been fuccefsful in several skirmishes ; that the
latter received several considerable reinforce
ments from home: and, not having heard of the
treaty of peace between tlie two powers, they
were about to rally themselves for tie purpose
of a general engagement. In the lad rencoun
ter, the chief of the Turks and a lieutenant-ge
neral of the Piuffians, felH It is however believ
ed, that the communication of the peace would
soon disperse the several encampments, and
render the usual guards on the frontiers on
ly necessary. The Ruffian fleet at Cronftadc
had been dismantled ; and the empress had issu
ed orders for another jete in hono r> of-her con
quers.
WARW I C K
At a quarter part twelve, Francis Field, other
wise Rodney, and John Green, convicfted'for the
offence of aiding and afiifting in the demoliftiing
of the house of Mr. Taylor, at Aftiton, near Bir
mingham, were taken to the usual place of exe
cution, where, together with two others, the one
for horse-stealing, the other for a highway rob
bery, they were executed purfnant to their sen
tence. The rioters behaviour was fuchas might
be expeifted—expreffive of sorrow .for their of
fences ; and confeffing the caufeof them to ariic
from delusion and tnilguided zeal.
PLYMOUTH-DOCK, Sept. ro,
This day his Majesty's ship Impregnable, of 98
guns, Sir Thomas Bayard, was paid off and laid
up in ordinary.
When the Impregnable was paid oft, all the
seamen went to the pay-table in uniform ; and
afcer receiving their wages, they went relpeft
fully to return thanks to all the Officers for their
treatment of them ; as did also upwards of sixty
fine boys, sons of the seamen, who, from the li
berality of the Officers, had been taught to read
and write.
PORTSMOUTH, Sept. 12.
An inventijn is fuccefsfully used in the Dock
yard for tarring ropes by the labor of horses in
ltead of men, and another is (hortly to be intro
duced for laying the cables by the fame means.
This will be a great injury to the people em
ployed in the rope-house, but a very connderable
saving to Government.
LIVERPOOL, Sept. 17
: hurfday morning last, about five o'clock, the
poll-boy carrying the mail from Warrington to
Manchester, was robbed of tlie Chelter and Li
verpool bags, and murdered.
•t. 8
, 01«
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY November. 15, 179r.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
Debate on the Ratio of Representation.
(continued.)
MR. HILLHOUSE said lie had ever been a
friend to a republican form of government,
and God forbid, added he, that 1 should ever
give my vote for any measure that should endan
ger the liberties of my country. He said he was
in favor of an energetic government, as that a
lone can secure the blessings ofliberty—As to the
dread of corruption in this House, which some
gentlemen appeared to entertain, he thought
there was 110 foundation for such an apprehenfi
-011 ; at least, said he, as the idea refers to one
or two hundred representatives—two hundred
he contended were as easily corrupted as one—
But the corruption coniemplated was a meer mat
ter of opinion ; no farts, he presumed, existed
in this country to juftify a positive assertion, and
as to foreign countries, it seems to be conceded
that a larger number than any that has been
mentioned is susceptible of undue influence.—
He then adverted to the reftricftions on the Pre
sident of the United States, and the Senate, in
refpecfl to the means of corrupting the legifla
ture—l he Constitution has also made provision
to secure the independence of the members, &c.
He then urged some difficulties which would be
occauoned by a small ratio. —He observed that
the population of some of the states was nearly
stationary—it a small ratio is now established, the
consequence will be when it is augmented, that
the representation of those states muff be dimi
nilhed—this he conceived, would be a measure
that would be greatly disliked. With respect to
the proposed amendment, he thought it was en
tirely out of the question, till it was ratified by
three fourths of the states. A very numerous
representation, he further observed, would tend
to weaken if not destroy the state governments,
and that in the ifl'ue would destroy the general
government—For, said he, they mutually depend
on each other for support.
Mr. Sedgwick rose for enquiry, whether if the
word thirty should be struck out, it can be restor
ed ? For though he wished for an encreafe of
the ratio, yet he thought it ought to stop short
of 40,000. He was in favor of making the pro
posed amendment to the Constitution, the rule
to guide the House. He said he had no idea that
the liberties of this country depended on the dif
ference in the representation between 100 and
113 members. With more than 1800 watchmen,
in the state legislatures, he conceived that the li
berties of this country were perfeiflly fafe—and
he never could believe that the people of the
United States would ever be slaves ; he was sure
they never would so long as they were jult to
themselves and deserve to be free.
Mr. Heiiter was in favor of retaining the ratio
of one to 30,000 —He Hated sundry particulars
refpedtiug the very distant local (ltuations of the
representatives of the United States, which ren
dered it almost impofiible for theprefent number
to do compleat justice to their lefpective diftricfts.
Mr. Kitchell was in favor of a numerous re
presentation—He thought the amendment pro
pored to the Constitution ought to be the guide
to the House on this occasion. He did not draw
his ideas of what fho.ild constitute a proper re
presentation, from the examples cited from fo
reign conntiies—nor was he actuated by an ap
prehension of corruption, as more applicable to
a final] number than to a large one ; but when
he considered the various objects, views, denomi
nations, profeffions, callings and interests of the
citizens ofthe United States, he was fully con
vinced that a large reprefentacion was necessary
to embrace the wifbes and answer the expectati
ons of the people.- He fliould therefore vote a
gainlt the motion for (hiking out 30,000.
Mr Findley rofc to explain certain expressions
flitch he said had been mifnnderftood- he de
fended the opinion he had before advanced, re
fpeaing a large reprelentation. In reply to Mr.
Clarke he observed, that the information to
which he alluded when he said that a larger num
ber would enable the representatives to adapt
the laws and proceedings of government, to the
circumstances of the country, was that species of
knowledge wh.ch arises from a more perfect re
the people 0 " ° leWantS ' Wi<heS ' a " d imerefts of
Mr. Gerry closed the debate this day—He took
a general survey of the arguments against tfce
proposed ratio of one to 30,000 In noticing the
objection from the instability of the Itate legis
latures, he fair! it was not owing to their num
bers, but to the mode in which they are eledled
—were the Senates and executives of the several
(fates cholen asthofe of the general government,
there would have been as much liability and con
filtency in their tranfacftions, as in thole of the
government ofthe Union. A gentleman had said
that the proposed amendments to the Constituti
on, had been adopted with relutftance by some
of the states which had accepted them—He call
ed 011 the gentleman to produce his authorities
for this adertion.—A relative proportion between
the members of the Honfe and the Senate had
been suggested ; this idea, he said, had no foun
dation in the Constitution—and he further ob
served, that the Conftitulion has so compleatly
guarded and secured the rights and indepen
dence ofthe Senate, that he could not conceive
of the apprehensions of gentlemen, who appear
tj think that an encreafe of the members of this
House will overwhelm that branch of the legif
lature—ln all events the privileges of that bod}'
will remain the fame. The States it is said have
reduced their representative aHemblies— This,he
said, so far from being an argument againfl. the
proposed ratio, was directly 111 favor of it—The
diminution of the Itate legislatures has been oc
casioned by the idea which the people entertain
of the encreafing importance ofthe general go
vernment—The objetfls of legislation to both go
vernments are nearly similar ; they relate to
those important concerns which interefl: the feel
ings of every citizen of the United States—all
the difference lies in the magnitude of their re
fpecftive spheres of action—hence it miift evident
ly be the wifii and expectation ofthe people, that
their interelts in every point of view, fliould be
fully and adequately represented in this House.
The gentleman from North-Carolina, has said,
that extending the fphereof Representation will
lead to a choice of more competent characters ;
but he observed, that the larger the sphere, the
less knowledge of the merits of candidates—and
the electors will be obliged to rote on trust.
The mode of election in Great-Britain, and
not the number of the members of the House of
Commons is the source of that corruption which
has been so frequently alluded to ; the mode of
election in that country admits of an executive
influence in the election of a majority of the
members ; this is the rotten part of their con
llitution which requires amputation.
He did not apprehend any danger from undue
attempts to influence or corrupt the members of
the house—but though he admitted that the go
vernment may be untainted at the present time
—yet he conceived it the belt policy to prevent
the evil, rather than to wait for a corrupt adini
nittration and then to seek for a remedy.
The idea which had been suggested, that en
creafing the federal representation, would tend
to diminifli the importance of the State govern
ments in the estimation of the people, he con
ccivccl had no foundation ; it supposed a want
of wisdom in the community at large, which
supposition had nothing to support it. The peo
ple know that their happiness depends on pre
(erving the balance between the State govern
ments and that of the Union.
The government of the union lias been justly
compared to a pyramid ; he wiflied that the
base which was confHtuted by the representative
body might be broad in order to give it (lability
—and therefore hoped that the original motion
or one representative to every thirty thouland
persons would be adopred.
FRIDAY, November 2J.
Resolutions of the House rcfpelting the conteflid eltc-
tion of Anthony Waynt, member from Georgia.
RESOLVED, That the firft Monday of Febru
ary next be assigned for the trial of the article'
alledged in the petition againfl the said return.
Resolved, That the evidence which may be of
fered on the part of the petitioner, fliall be con
fined to the proof of the articles of charge exhi
bited in the said petition, against the validity of
the return of the said election.
Retblved, That on the trial, the deposition of
a vvinicfs ihall be received, which (hall have been
taken more than 25 days prior to the day allign
ed for the trial, before any jultice or judge of the
courts of the United States, or before any chan
cellor, justice or judge of a supreme or superior
court, mayor or chief magistrate of a city, or
judge of a county court of common pleas of any of
United States, not being of counsel or attor
ney to either the said Anthony Wayne or the pe
titioner : provided, that a notification from the
magistrate before whom the deposition is to be
taken to rhe ad verse party to beppresetn t at the tak
ing of the fame, and to pot interrogatories if he
think fit, fh.ll have bee.l firfl and fa v
ed on the adverse party, or his attorney fpeci
neJrefl '•f' 1 - e h pU^ofe ' as either maybe
nearefl, if either is wuhin one hundred miles of
the place „f su ch captlon> a n owin ; mefor h j
attendance, after nonfied, not less than at the
rate of one clay, Sundays exclusive, for every
246
twenty miles travel. And every nerfon rW r
I 1 all be carefully examined and cautioned 5
vorn or affirmed to teftify the whole truth *"1
shall subscribe the testimony by him or t.
given, after the fame (hall be reduced to writiS"
which /hall be done only by the magistrate r^ 1 *
,hc<i r fi,i„„ , r bv, l ,/d/ ponenM | ,
And the depositions so taken, together with,re/
tificate of the notice, if any, given ,o theadverfc
party, or 11S aUorn ey, shall be sealed up by th !
laid magiitrate and directed to the Speaker
Provided nevertheless, That no « de
tion shall be used on the trial of the laid peliS'
which shall have been taken at any timL before
the 26th day of December next. Provided all"
That evidence, taken in any other manner than
is herein before direded, and not objected to bv
the parties, may, with the approbation of the
house, be produced on the trial.
MONDAY, November 28.
The bill for the relief of David Cook was read
a second time, and referred to a committee of the
whole house to-morrow.
Mr. Sedgwick presented the petition of Samuel
Negus, which was read and referred to the Se
cretary at War.
Sundry petitions, praying for the settlement
of accounts, and the renewal of loft ordeftroyed
certificates—were read and referred to the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Thatcher presented the petition of Samuel
Procftor, which was read and referred to the Se
cretary at War.
The memorial of James Simpfon, a surveyor
under the late geographer general of the United
States, was presented—read and referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented the petition of Ni.
cholas Schultz, which was read and referred to
the Secretary at War.
Mr. Clarke presented the petition of Joel
Phelps, praying the benefit of a pension in con
sequence of difabilicy incurred while in the ser
vice of the United States. The report of the Se
cretary at War on the petition of said Phelps re
ferred to him at the last session, was called for,
which being read, the following refolntion was
moved, and agreed to by the house—That the
reports of the Secretary at War on the petitions
of Joel Phelps and others, whose claims appear
to be precluded by the resolve of Congrefsof nil,
of March, 1773, and have not yet been adled
upon, be referred to a committee of the whole
honfe on the state of the Union, and that the re
ference be the order of the day for Monday next.
Mr. Ames presented the petition of Samuel
Breck, and others, proprietors of the Sail-Cloth
Manufactory in Bolion, praying that they may
have the exclusive privilege of affixing certaiii
marks to their Sail-Cloth, and that meafnres be
adopted for preventing the said marks from be
ing used by others—read and referred to the Se
cretary of State.
Agreeably to the order of the day, the house
resolved itfelf into acommittee of the whole, Mr.
Muhlenberg in the chair, to take into coiifidera
tion the bill making compensation to widows,
orphans and invalids, in certain cases.
rhe committee reported progress, and are to
fit again to-morrow. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, November 29.
Sundry petitions praying compensations, pen
sions, &c. were read, and referred to the Secre
tary of war.
Mr. Livermore reported a biil to eftabiifh the
pofl-office, and pa ft-roads in the United States—
read the firft and second times, and referred to
the committee of the whole House on Monday
next —Ordered that the bill be printed in thein-
erim
Mr. Dayton presented the petition of sundry
persons, refugees from Canada during the late
war—read, and referred to a felecl committee,
consisting of Meffis. Dayton, Bourne, (R. 1.) and
Murray.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by
Mr. Secretary Otis, informing the House that
they have palfed a bill refpeCling Consuls and
Vice-Confuls.
The House went into acommittee ofthe whole
on the bill making coinpenfation to widows, or
phans, and invalids in certain cafes—rhedifcuffi
on of the bill wasfinifhed—the committee agreed
to sundry amendments—they then rose and re
ported.—And the House adjourned.
PORTLAND, (Mafl.) Nov. 10
Tuesday ]ast arrived here the snow Eliza, Capt>
Jackson, belonging to Portfniouth (N.H.) in 30
days from Cape-Francois, in Hifpaniola.—Capt.
Jackson has brought back the cargo he carried
out from Portsmouth, which was lumber.
By Capt. Jackson we learn, thar the white in
habitants are in a molt deplorablefituation. The
whites do not consist of more than 3000 strong,
exclufiveof Americans and others detained there
by the embargo. The negroes consist of more
than 30.000, and it was daily expected that they
would auack the town.PUBLISHED BY PARTICULAR REQUEST
LETTERS,
EARL OF DUN DO NA L D,
ON MAKING BREAD FROM POTATOES
THE discovery of a method to make good
bread of the Potatoe, or its farina,
been a desideratum, and the only thing wanting
to render it the moll ufeful of plants.—The in
tention of the following letters, is to communi
cate to the public the result of my experiments
on the above subject:—And which, I am happy
to have it in my power to lay, have been attend
ed with the wi(hed-for fnccefs.
The proeefs of making a flour, or farina, from
potatoes, is similar to what has long been prac
tised in the Weft Indies, by the negroes, in the
preparation of the Callado flour ; viz. by grating
down the root, and by subsequent and repeated
walhingswith water, to free it from the juice,
which is a flrong poifon—lt is likewise nearly
the fame as has been pra&ifed by families in the
making starch from potatoes ; for the meal or
flour got from potatoes is a starch powder.
It has for some years been known, that grain,
particularly wheat, consists of two diftind:, and,
in some circumstances, opposite substances : viz.
a powder insoluble in cold water, called starch ;
and another substance, which may be rendered
soluble in cold water, resembling completely in
its analysis to animal matter, hence called by
the French chemists, vegeto-animal.
Potatoes contain likewjfe those different sub
stances, with the addition of certain salts, not
contained in grain, at leaftin that abundance
Potatoes contain a large proportion of liquid,
which grain does not.—lt is from this liquid that
the vegeto-animal matter, as well as the saline
matter, are to be got. —The proportion of the
vegeto-animal matter in the potatoes, to the
starch-powder, is much less than in grain : and,
from the quantity of liquid contained in pota
toes, in which the vegeto animal is soluble, the
two fubftancesdo not join together, and form a
solid substance, as is the cafe in grain.
The powdery part of the potatoe is found in
the state of a powder extremely fine, and of a fi
brous part, which conne&s the particles of the
powder : which fibrous part is capable, likewise,
of being reduced to a powder by drying and
grinding. This last bears a proportion to the
former (according to the average of the trials
made) of about one to i wo.
The very fine and white powder got from po
tatoes, and which is ftateJfco be in the propor
tion to the fibrous part as two to one, precipitates
in cold water like sand. The particles have ns
union the one with the other, as in wheat-flour
The reason is : It contains no vegeto animal mat
ter. It is a pure (larch, free from the acidulous
smell of starch, separated from wheat by mace
ration in water.
The fibrous matter of the potatoe, when dried,
and ground, has a greater degree of tendency,
than the fine white powder, to form a palte with
water ; but not fufficient to allow it, by itfelf, to
make a proper palte or dough for baking : Al
though it thickens little inferior to wheat flour,
■when made with milk and eggs into a dumpling,
or boiled putting.
From what has been flared, it is obvious, that
the farina, or rather powder, got from potatoes,
does not contain that substance, which is the
cause of wheat flour forming a paste with water;
and that the desideratum, is to add to potatoe
powder something which should give it that qua
lity.
Nothing appears mart [imply, and more likely
to answer the purpose, than the mixing it with
differen t proportions of the flour of different
forts of grain, according to the kind of bread to
be made of it, whether leavened or unleavened.
Two parts of wheat-flour to one of potatoe
powder, make a leavened bread, in no "ways to be
dijlinguijhed from wheat-bread alone.
Equal quantities of wheat-flour, and potatoe
powder, make a bread which leavens, and rises
exceedingly -well .• but which has a taste. although
very ptcafant, a tittle different from wheat-bread.
Equal quantities of wheat-flour and potato
powder make a sea biscuit, -which cannot, by the
nicest tafle, be distinguished from biscuit baked
wholly of wheat flour.
Equal quantities of oat-meal ahd potatoe-pow
der unleavened, or with a small portion of yeft,
make a cake or flat bread more pliafant, to the
taste, than when made only of oat-meal.
With pease and barley-meal the potatoe-pow
der has not yet been tried : But it is more than
probable that equal quantities of pease meal, and
potatoe-powder will make a good wholesome
bread, fiinilar to a mixture of barley and peafe
meal.
There is reason a priori, however, to believe,
that a mixture of barley-meal and potatoe-pow
der will not answer equally well. To this ac
count of the component parts or analyses of po
tatoes, and the uses to which the powder ntay be
BY THE
LETTER I
applied, I shall subjoin the result of my last ex
periment made with 241b. avoirdupoife of pota
toes. From these were got 61b. 2 one half oz.
ot flour, and 2 oz. of bran, or skin of the pota
toes, making in all 61b. 4 one half oz. The
Hour was prepared into the different kinds of
ead stated below ; wherein the weights of
wheat-flour and potatoe-powder, as well as of the
bread weighed when it came out of the oven, are
accurately stated.
LEAVENED, OR LOAF-BREAD.
Potatoe-powder illb. ) ... . , .
Wheat-flour lbWeight of Bread — 3 lb. 135 oz,
Potatoe-powder i lb. > ,
Wheat-flour 2 lb. $ Wc, S h t of Bread — 3 lb. 14 oz,
6 lb.
Potatoe-powder 1 lb. ) .... , , „
Wheat-flour t lb. J Wc, g ht ° f Bread — 1 lb. 12 or.
Potatoe-powder zA lb. „ ,
Wheat-flour 2 | lb. J Wel S ht of Bread — 4 lb. ioi oz.
7 lb.
Enough has been dated in this letter to call
the attention of the public to the farther uses of
a plant, or root, which, in its simple and (unpre
pared ftatc, has been deemed, by one of the ablest
men in Europe, (Abbe Raynal) to have been the
only fuhftantial blessing which the inhabitants of
Europe derived from the discovery of the conti
nent of America.
Another letter will soon follow this, Hating
other experiments on potatoes, as well as uses to
which they, or the powder made from them, are
applicable; together with the beneficial conse
quences that will ensue to Britain and Ireland, by
the increafedcultivation of a plant which, contrary
to graniferous plants, produces its farina, or
flour, under the furjace of the earth, protected jrom
the injury of the -weatherand which yields that
farina, on the fame extent of ground, in the pro
portion of near to one, to what is got from
the bell crop of wheat.
Culrofs Abbey, Feb. 1 791
[LETTER 2, INOUR NEXT.]
Philadelphia, November 50.
of a Utter f rem James Maury, Consul of the. United. States at
I P-'.-- — >
Extra&
Liverpool, to the Secretary of State, dated September 14, 1791
" The Ports ol Britain arc shut againfl Foreign Wheat.—Many
of our vessels within my di6lritt have been under difficulties this
year ; and although, as yet, they have been released (except in three
cases not finally decided on) without any great expence, yet the
delay has been extremely injurious to, and been very hard on the
owners. The causes have been informality in manifefts, irregula
rity in crews, trading to Guernfcy, as before-mentioned, but prin
cipally excess of spirits.
" The brig Bctfy, Capti Salter, of Portsmouth, New-Hamp
shire, was refufed entry in the Cl)de fix weeks, for the tonnage
and where built being omitted in the manifeft, and the affidavit
thereto being made before a Justice of the Peace instead of the
British Deputy Consul, although it was afterwards certified by
said Deputy Consul.
" I submit to you the propriety of making public these par
ticulars that similar inconveniences may be guarded against in
future.
A notice from the Board oj Cujloms, to the Collector and Comptroller oj
Liverpool.
" Whereas it has been slated to have been the practice for
American (hips and veflels to land at Guernsey cargoes of tobacco,
the produce of the United States of America, contrary to the
12th Charles ad. Chap. 18th.
" We dire£l you to make it known to all owners and mailers
of American veflels which may trade to and from your part, that
two American veflels have been on that account lately seized
there, and that the said ast which not only prohibits the before
mentioned article, but all other species of goods, the produce of
America, from being imported into the aforefaid Island, or the
Iflaud of Jerfcy, in foreign ships, will be ftri&ly enforced in fu
ture."
The produce of the Rice Plantations the present season, are
much larger than were ever before known in Carolina—and this
is owing principally to the use of machines, the introdu&ion of
the plough instead of hoes, and to the humane treatment of the
slaves, who are found to encreafe thereby, instead of diminiftiing,
as is the cafe in the Islands.
The Englifti papers fay, that the elections for the new Legisla
ture of France go on with great rapidity, and every where with the
mod profound tranquility.
The harvest in England the present year, has turned out very
favorably.
It is aflerted in a late French paper, that the Abbe Raynal was
not the real author of the work entitled, u The History of the
European Eftabliftiments in the Eaftand Weft-Indies."
From the general tenor of the late European papers, the new
French Government is now universally looked upon as estab
lished.
Amongst the objefls which will claim the attention of the pre
sent Congress, will be a provision for the refiduarv surplus of the
unfublcribed debts of the States. This fubjecl, which was sug
gested in the President's speech, has been specially referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury by the House of Representatives, and the
liberal policy of that officer leaves little room to doubt that he
will be an advocate for the measure, without which the Finances
of the Union can never aflume an orderly (hape. Confufion mull
be the result of clashing revenue systems among the several States,
and between the general Government and the States ; —one gene
ral system should embrace the whole debt. N. Y. frapcr.
The glory of old England was ihe burthen of the song, from the
Tar who swabbed the deck, to the immortal Pitt who guided the
elm—tbe enthusiasm excitcd by this ignisfatuus, carried their
triumphs round the globe; —but, happy for mankind, tne princi
ples of reason and philosophy are inspiring jufter sentiments —a ri
valry in the arts of peace, and univeifal philanthropy, will crown
the labors of that country which (hall make the molt diftingmfhed
exertions to level the jealousies and prejudices in the family ol
man, with more real dignity than is comprized in all the victories
from Alexander to Caesar, and from Caesar to Catharine.
APPOINTMENT.
The President of the United States has been pleased to appoint,
bv and with the advice and consent of the Senate, Richard Har
r'i son, of Virginia, to be Auditor of the Treasury.
247
7 lt>- 113 oz,
BISCUIT.
6 lb. 6g oz,
It is an old adage, Hove fly is the heft policy—this
applies to individuals and societies—to rulers and
people—it extends to opinions and actions—to
giving and receiving, and in all implies that
golden rule of doing as -j>e wo'/Id be done nrito—ic
carries its own reward with it—and in all ages
and countries has rewarded the fathers and be
nefactors of mankind with the love of the peo
ple, promoted their happinels and celebrity while
living, and embalmed their memories in the pre
cious repositories of a grateful recollection in fnc
ceedingages. Why then will liuman folly and
a falfe greatness stimulate the ambitions pigmies
of a day to iuch conduct as renders the tenure
of their present enjoyments in (ecu re, and trans
mits their name to posterity with execration 1—»
It is becnufe the demon of avarice hath extracted
from their bosoms every drop of the " milk of
human kindness."
Many people read newspapers who read little else—They live
in retired situations, and feel a strong curiosity to know the news,
and to join in the opinions of the day. To a retired man,a news
paper is always company—sometimes inftru£lion. Bad newspa
pers, therefore, fliould be difccuraged—becaufe it is fumifhing
bad company to those whose folttary way of living makes them
willing to accept of almost any. The mind profits as much, or
more, by discipline, than the body. No exercise, therefore,
should be encouraged, which tends to make it worse. When
Gazettes are filled with tales to set credulity gaping, with slander
of private characters, to supply malice with more poison ; or with
sou' afpcrfions on government, to make patriotism sick at the
heart—what is it but to nurfethe bad paflions with the food lup
plied lor wisdom and virtue f
Liberty is not only secured against many former dangers, but
it has fewer enemies to contend with. As knowledge spreads
through Europe, it gains authority over the hearts of its adversa
ries ; Kings begin to talk like good republicans—they give a tone
to the fafhion of being free. But let those who love liberty be
careful how they mistake the love of liberty for the practice of its
discipline. No man loves to be under the power of a master.
1 herefore, to become free men have only to let their paflions
loose ; -to secure freedom, they must contrive to put them under
prudent restraints. This is the work of the understanding—it is
never easy though often necessary to persuade men to surrender
present power for future fafety.
Our Allies, in forming their Government, have, according to
the English paragraphifts, deviated from the opinions of the great
Democrat, Mr. Paine, in several points ; —they have eftablifiied a
monarchical form of government, and made the monarchy heredi
tary—and their constitution they have made perpetual, by declar
ing that it is fufccptible of no alteration. This is, in cffeft, bind
ing those that are to exist, at a future period ; or which is the fame
thing, it is faying that those who will in a few years be no more,
(ball bind those who may then be on the flage of life.
Perhaps there is a point of perfe&ion in government, if not in
other things, beyond which mankind cannot progress—and if men
can agree and determine precifefy, when that point is attained, in
which the two great objects ot forming the social compact, liberty
and security, may be most compleatlv realized, why is it not a
di&ate of wisdom to resolve, that a Confirmation thus organized,
shall never be changed ?
Monday the ele&ion of Directors to the institution for pro
moting American Manufa&ures, was made at Trenton—seven
from New-York, and fix of New-Jersey. We are not in pos
session of the names at present.
To JOSIAH HARM AR, Esquire,
Brigadier-General in the service of the United States. and Lieutenant
Colonel Commandant of the firfl United States Regiment.
S I K,
THE officers of the firft regiment beg leave to express the
warmth of their attachment to your person, and that perfect
fatisfa&ion which they have severally experienced under your
command.
United as they have always been in sentiments of affeflion and
friendfhip towards you, it is with extreme regret they are Inform
ed of your intention to quit the army. —If, Sir, upon this inter*
efting occasion your officers might presume their advice—or would
you attend to the refpe£tful solicitations of men anxious for your
welfare—they might yet hope for your continuance in the service.
But—whatever may be your final determination, that honor and
happiness may attend you, is amongst their firft and moll ardent
wishes.
We have the honor to be, with perfect esteem and refpeft,
Sir, your very humble servants,
[Signed by twenty-fix commijioned Officers.]
TO THE OFFICERS OF THE FIRST UNITED STATES
REGIMENT.
Gentlemen,
YOUR very affe£lionate address of this morning, claims my
warmest acknowledgments.
If I have been so fortunate, during my command, as to give
fatisfa&ion to ray officers, believe me it has been reciprocal.
I sincerely thank you, gentlemen, for your expreflions of af
fcftion and friendfhip towards me, and of the obliging part you
appear to take in my future welfare. When I tell you that I (hall
continue to remember you, my companions, with emotions of
friendfhip and affe&ion, and that my best wilhes for your hap
piness through life, can only cease to exist with myfclt, I beg
you to receive it as the gennine cffufion of my heart.
I have the honor to be, with the most affe&ionate regard,
Gentlemen, your most obedient servant,
J. H A R MA R, B. G.
Fort-WaJhingtoVy Augujl il, 1791.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS *t the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig James, Roe, Cape-Francois
Minerva, Raden, Jamaica
Charleston, German, Charleston
Brothers, Carpenter, Cadiz
Snow Noftra Seignora, Bernardo, Oporto
Schooner Ann & Mary, Sweetman, Virginia
Sloop Peggy, Whitby, Ditto
Merrimack,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Detcied 6 pr. Cents 13/
UNFUNDED DEBT.
F > 1 Settl. and otlier Cauilkatcs 10J6 zcf par.
Indents 11/6 57$ do.
Bank Subscriptions, 140 to 143 Dollars,
Edwards,
Newbury-Port
2 '/9 >CBJ pr. ctnt.
12J5 61 do.
6j do.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
I'BR QUANTITY*
NOVEMBER 30. —Dollars at j/6.
ANCHORS pr.lb. yd Portei, American pr. dos. tosS
AlJum, Engiiih, pr.cwt. 30 s Pitch, pr. bbl 13J Iss
Ditto, Koch pr. lb. 10d Pork, Burlington, yoj
Allies, not, per ton, 37/io.j Lower county q2s bd
— Pearl, 50/ ——Carolina bysbd
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s 6J p t as, Albany 5 s
Branny, common, 8j 4u Pepper, pr. lb. 3->
Cognidc Pimento ** bd
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/15/ Rice pr.cwt. pis 6d
Bricks pr. M 305/0 37s bd Rosin pr. bbl. ißj £OJ
Bread, flup pr. cwt. 15* 'Raisins, best, pr. keg 601
Ditto, pilot 27s bd Duco pr.jai 22s 6t
Ditto, finall water 40/ 454 Ditto pr. box 3c
Beer, American, in bot J IQ /g r Jamaica pr. gall. 6s 91
pr. doz. bot. incl. j J Aruigua 6s be
pr. bbl. 35* I Windward 5/ bd 6
f Oak pr.M feet, 67J 75* Barbadoes 5* 6<
| Merch. pine 120J ! Country, N. E. 4J
Sap, do. 67/0 -^sbi
O I N.Eng. 82 j Saffafras pr. ton 45J 60
w L Cedar 10 5 s Saltpetre, pr.cwt. 4/10 J 5
The above arc the Shallop prices ; Sulphur, flour 5°
jor the Yard puces add 15spr M. Shot 52
Brimitone iu rolls pr.cwt. 35/ f German pr.cwt. 65s 7°
u* ( Irish pr. bbl. w jEnglifh, blistered '5
2 j Boston 6oy pr. ton 40/60
ca (Country 52s 6d pr. fag. 80
Butter pr. lb. Snake root pr. lb. u6d 3J21
in kegs *°d Soap, Common fid 6>
Cedar,rednmber pr.foot2J6J3J Brown 6<
Chocolate pr. lb. Castile lOfl'i
Coal pr. bulhel is yd Starch 4c/ 61
Coffee pr.lb. Snuff is6d 2s\d 3161
Cinnamon ißj2oj Spermaceti,refined, 3* i°
Cheese, English Sail Cloth, Enelilh, 1 c ,
isbd 2S2i
Country pr. yard, J
fSper. pr.lb. 3 f -id Boston, No. I. 2J'3<
A I Wax 4 J No. 11. 2J-2-
3 Myrtle Wax 12d Rullia fhecting. pr. p. 90,
j Mould,tallow 12 d rLump, pr.lb. is-$l
j I,Dipped 10 d & 1 Loaf, finale refined isiOi
Cotton 9.) $d < 1 Ditto, double do. 2s 6
is O *
Cutraats
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. 14 s
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa Boj
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 67J72J6./
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 37^6^
Common, 35 J
Bur middlings,bed 33J
Middlings 2 4*
Ship-ftuft pr. cwt. 7*6 d ioj
Flax pr. lb. $d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 15OJ
Feathers pr. lb- 31
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 6s6d 7 r
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/10.58/
Ginger, whiteracc 65J
Ditto, common 50*
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9d
Ginseng, 1/6 I^lo
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. £
quarter cask, J 3' '
Ditto, fine glazed 30.?
Girt, Holland, pr. gall. 6s
Do. pr. cafe. 32J 6d
f Wheat pr. bush 7s 7r 3 /
Rye 4/6.'/
I Oats 212 d
< <(- Indian corn 3-f 6./
I Barley . 4s f{d
| -Bed (helled pr. lb. 3d
[Buckwheat 3_f
Hemp, for. pr. ton, 4 5 / 53 /
American, pr. lb. 4d
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 516/
Herrings, pr. bbl. iSj 2or
Hides, raw pr. lb. gd 10d
Hops ss 2d
Indigo, French, io«
• Carolina 3-f 7s6d
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 50*
f Callings 2ss 6d'3os
j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
O «> Pig io/
5 I sheet 65/
Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. io.v 4OJ
Lard, hogs 9 d 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42J 6d
-:n bars 505
Lead, white 753 80s
• red 50 J
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1 s 1 s6d
Lignum vitas pr. too 42J 45s
Logwood 7/ 5 j 8/
Meal, Indian, pr. bbl. 20s
Rye 22/ 6d
Mackarcljbeft 6oj 67J 6d
- Common 45)-
Mace pr. lb. 55J
Milliard *s \d
Madder, bell tfid 18d
Mobiles pr. gall. 3*3 s ~d
Marble, wrought, pr.foot, 141
Mart spars 2J 6d 5s
Mahogany 8 d 10d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67s 6d
Nails, \cdi<?.d&.2.od—%<r%\dqd
f Linseed, pr. gall. 35 9d
1 Train 1 j iod' zs 2d
Spermaceti 316 d
I Whale 1 rfid 213 d Bills of Exchange, London,
O tv Ve r 6; 90 days, 71
Ditto pr. cafe ißj gd Ditto 60 days 72
B-lt Iwect m > nitto s
flalk«,pr. box, J 7&< Amftcrdam, 60 days,
I —hafcets 12 bottles37j6</ pr. guilder, ,r
Oak timber pr. ton ;jBl * oA ' 3
or er pr. bl. 4°* *" Government nills, drawn at 1®
Lb nab n y pr. dbz. iai &d 155 days per 11 guilders, 33J id.
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, ami BOHEA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firll quality—by retail
No 19,
Hurd-Street,between Chcfnut and Market Streets.
Havannah, white 1 7'
to Ditto, brown,
Mufcovad;>,pr.c\vt, 10545
pirii sTurpentine pr. 3?
( AlJum pr. bull). 2J lu
j 2J 4d
< \ Cadiz u
2:1
Ship build. W.O. frames'] 90s
p. ton, J loco
Do. LO. Sc red C. do.
Shingles, Ihort, p. M. 22s bd
long d relied 90J 105J
Scantling, heart, 8/ 1 5^
Sap 60s
r Pipe pr. 1200 pieces 6oj
2 ; W. O. hogshead 7/ 2s 6d
> J R. O. do. 7/ 6s 34i
f*- 1 Lcogan 0/
£ Barrel 3/ isi
L Heading 8/
' Otter, bell pr. piece 351
Minks 1 j6<z 4j
Fox, grey *>
red 4.* 8)4
Martins 2.* 716 d
—< Fiftier? 2s6d $s
Bears 12s 6d 2^
Racoons 21 5J
Musk-rats gd is Btl
ft 'aver, pr. lb. $s6 9 s6d
_ Deei, in hair 1
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 7)6
Carolina, 32 gall. io< i2ibd
Turpentine pi. bbl. 12s 15J
. C James R. new best 2&r
:£ inferior 20*2 /6</
0 • j
o old 3,5 j
** Rappahannock 1-8/9 2?/6
O J Colo. Maryland cos 60s
y Dark 19.5 (Sd j
< Long-leaf lgs 6d
cq Kaftetn-ihore iys S4
Carolina, new 22J 6'^
L .old 22*61/251
( Hyson pr. lb. 7s Bjgd
0 j Hylon (k n, 4s 6j 6d
'Souchong, 3.?6d 7 j
j Congo, 3$ 4d 3J gs
[Bohea, 2s gd
Fallow, refined B~d
Tin pr. box, iooj
Verdigreafe pr. lb.
Vermillion, 12s
Varnish, 2 s 6d
" Madeira,pr. pipe 40/75/
LHbon 36/
Teneriffe 20/10J 30/
w Fayal pr. gall.
j Port pr. pipe 36/43/
J Ditto pr. gall. 6s
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30*
Claret 30* 45.5
\ Sherry pr. gall. 6sod gs
Malaga $s6sbd
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2s
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2ssd
-short, pr. lb. is
Tun
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
the United States.
Bank of
Philadelphia, Afovtmbtroo f j
THHE Stockholders of the Bank of (He Ok it ed Jitate!
X are hereby informed, that according to the statute of incor
poration, a general election for t wcniy-five Di recto r s will be
held at the Bank of the United Siates, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the second day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh frcfion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to aflemblc in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuelday the third day ot
January next, ai five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the President znd Dire&ors,
JOHN K E A N, CaJJiicr.
Second fundamental Article of Statute of lntoYporation.
" Not more ihmi three-fourths of the Directors in 6'tHce, cxclu
five of the Proficient, lhaJl be eligible for thenaxt year.
But the Director who (hall be President at the time of an election,
may always be rc-eletted." [ p P l Q
George Meade
Has for SALE, at his S;ores on Wa l n ut-St reet Wharf,
A FEW pipit nf 3 and 4 years old bills ot exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hoglhead or
quarter cask.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firil quality, by the hogshead or
quarter caflc.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of 3 superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He Jips just received by the Pigou, Loxley, master, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
By 'he brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irilh LINENS, low priced and well adorted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES cf the firfl. quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quanlitv of dressed White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of Firfl Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is plea fed to favor him with
their custom, may be allured of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undrefled HAND
SPIKES. He is purcbafing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London POUTER and
Taunton ALE, juit received, and to be disposed of
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
TO RE SOLD,
E Y JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, PEAR-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
B O O K S,
Which may be fcen rvery day, until jive o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufcbius, Sozo
i. A men, Theodoret, yirgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
cuius, Pliny. Concordantiji Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thcfauius Ci
ceronis. fiiblia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wclls's Maps,
Scapula:—Phavoriui—Martinii— Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etyma-
An'jqutt. Ecclef. Britanricas, &c.
Qjiarto. Pindar, Cyropasdia, Bentley's Horacc, Terence and
Ovid» Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Cafar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hedcrici Lexicon, Vofiii Ais Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia. Juftinlari Code, See.
Octavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariftophancs, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poeta: minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, va
rious editiom o/Horace, Viigil, Tcrcnce,and Cvid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aulonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Cuit.ius, Florus, Juttin, Val. Maximum, A. Gellius, Hill.
A uyuft. Script ores, Englijk and French Trqrjlations of some of the
dafTics, a great. Variety ot Greek and latin Grammars, &c. See.
03" Catalogues may he had of McHYs. Rice & Co. Bookfell rs,
Markrt-ftreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 31. (ep tf.)
TO BE SOLD,
And pofTeflion given immediately,
That pleasantly fltuated Faiim
Whereon the fubferiber now lives.
IT lies on the road from Princeton to Brunfwick, about a mile
and a half from the former. It contains 213 acres, whereof
47 are woodland, upwards of 30 meadow, and 20 more maybe
made. Alio a youpg. orchard of 200 apple trees, betides a variety
of pjsch and cherry trees, and a large garden ; the, whole under
good; fence. There are on the prcmifcs a two story stone house
and kitchen, with an elegant piazza, the whole pair.ted and
finifhed. Also, a smoke-house, work-Slop* granary, waggon
hou-fe; barrack cow-hou-fos. two stories high and go feet long,"and
a good barn, with (tabling. From the buildings there are charm
ing views of Princeton, live neighbouring farms, and Monmouth
hills. Any pcrfon inclining to purchase, may know t'ue terms by
applying* to the fubferiber on tire prcmifcs, or to Isaac Skowden,
No. 141, South Second-fticet, Philadelphia.
Princeton, O&obcr 10, 1791
Lectures on Government e-c Law.
THE Honorable JAMES WILSON, L. L. D. ProfViTo. of Laws
in the College and of Philadelphia, proposes to
deliver, Winter, two Courn sos Le&ures. One Course to
begin on the Second Monday, the other on the Second Tuelday of
December. WILLIAM ROGERS,
, Secretary to the Board of Faculty.
Philadelphia, Oaober 12, 1791. (cptD)
In the Press, and fpeedilv will be pnblifbrd,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
ConfiHing of State Papers, and oth, r authentic Documents
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of ihf United St a tes
By EBEN EZER HAZARD, A.M.
* The price to Snbfcribers will be a Dollar for ea h Number
containing",6c large quarto pages ;or Four Dollars and a Quarter
r J ?! urnr 10 ;to be paid as Follows, viz.,' The firft
and second Numbers, or Voluxes, to be paid for on delivery of
dcKvelV 31 " rubre q iiC '« ?"? (except the la ft) at the time of
0--' Subfcr.pt, on, will be rreffcr«J,.in.thij citv, by Thomas
DoßsoN.and Hazard & Addoms, (who will exhibit fp.-imens
ihe.e and ,nothcr pl«« bv »"*.* or ■ n .1, okf. l.cr.s
lfcc,e " Pii.'Mphiu,
245
(ep 6w.)
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Junior.
[cD2mj
Funds of the United States.
ALL kinds of the Public Debt of the Union, bought, fold orrx
changed ; Foreign and Inland Jiilts of Exchange m-gonaied
Merchandize ol all lons bought and folj on (omm'Jion, and j//other
Business in the line of a BroKer, tranfatted by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
tht Office next door to the Cuftoni-Houfe
State-Street, BOSTON. ' 2m
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKERS: AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES and SI-.LLS '
PUBLIC DEBTofevery defcription.onCommijpon
at the following rates: '
the specie amount of all Talcs at auction, one eighth pel
On ditto at private falc or purchase, one-halj per cent
On remittances, ditto!
Receiving intere!l at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the intciefl.
For making transfers at ditto, fevnty-five cents pertransfer.
(j-3* Such persons as may incline to favor the fublrnber with
their orders, may rely on their being executed with panguatity
fidelity a-;ddifpatch. His long experience and extensive dealing
in the public stocks, together with a'wril rllablilhrd correfpon.
dcnce throughout the Untied States, enable him to conduit his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
October 1,5, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strect, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place.
W. M'D OUCA LL'S
DANCING SCHOOL,
Is now opened at his School-Room,
No. 28, Carter's Alley.
HE returns hit (iticere thanks for the great encouragement he
has experienced these eighteen years; hopes the reputation
of his school for decorum and good order, as well as the perform
ance of hisfcholars, will dill ensure him a refpeftable (hare of the
public favm.
A number of new Cotillions and Country Dances will be taught
during the season.
Those who please to honor him wilh the tuition of their chil
dren, may be allured, they will be taught 'n the most approv. d
stile, and that proper attention will be paid to their carriage and
manners.
A general praflifing for the improvement of the scholars, will
be held at the New Rooms, every other Wednesday ; when the
employers, and ll> angers ot genteel deportment, wi!! be admitted.
These pra6tifinws will be attended wiih no expcnce.
N.B. Ail EVENING SCHOOL will be opened for grown
Gentlemen, as soon as a fufficicnt number offer!
Philadelphia, September j 4, 17qi
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, some time in\Auguft 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, late the property of Nathaniel
Wicklijf, deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, oreitv well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, {tone mason and
plafie'-er. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is fond
of ft:ch bufmefs. He is a great difT-mble'r, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.—
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any p p rfon that will se
cure said Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid—or Thirty Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchelor, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(lawgw)
October 12, 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LAST night was broke open the Store of the fubferiber, at Bor
dentown, and ftoien from the fame the following articles, viz.
One hair trunk, containing womens' wearing apparel; 1 small
box, containing four clocks and one dozen teftamcnts; 1 ditto
containing one bottle green cloth coat, one flriped velt and
breeches, two fiiirts and a lmall bag with 36 dollars and 20s. to
30s. Jeifey copners; 1 keg containing a large bible, with other
lmall books ; 1 box containing 447 real ostrich feathers, some of
them large and elegant, and of different colours; 2 barrels rye
meal, branded Stout and Imlay; 1 barrel pork, 1 ream paper, and
1 dozen paste-boards. Stolen at the fame time, a large Batteau,
with black fides.
A rewaid of Twenty Dollars will be given for the fccurityof
the above property, so that the owners may have the articles again,
or in proportion for part thereof ; also a further reward of Twenty
Dollars will be given for the security of the perpetrator or perpe
trators, so that they may be brought to jnftice, bv
JOHN VAN EMBURGH,
Bordcntown, New- jcrfev, Sept. i. 1701. [ e P*U
A Young Gentleman, of American birth and education (being
a graduate) would for a liberal compensation engage as
Tutor in a family, or take charge of an Acadetnv, to teach the
Latin and English Languages. He has had r om . experience in
teaching, and trulls he can exhibit fatisfa&orv recommendations.
Any letters upon this fubjeft, pofl paid, addre{T"d to A— S—,
and the caic of the Editor hereof, prior to the 25th December, will
be puri&u?! ly attended to.
Odober 22, 1 791
The Firfl. and Second Volumes of the
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the StateJ
By the Rev. Jeremy Belknap,
Are ready for Delivery to Subfcri! rrs—who may rece-ive their
Books on application to HAZARD& ADDOMS, at the
Comer of Chefnut and 17hit d Streets.
The above two volumes contain the political hifto' y of the
Slate, from its firO: settlement to the adoption of the present C (,:>
ftitntion of the United States ;— the third, containing a geographi
cal description of the S:a;e, iketches of its natural history. See. is
in the press.
*** A few copies of the fiwft two volumes ror fale—z,ucc2of.
Ncvewbcr 5, 1701.
JC7 3 * The price of this i cruris 3 Dollarspir nr."'
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 37, King-Street.
( t . f.j
[law]