PUBLISHED WiiiIN'ESDAYS AND SATURDAYS a\
[No. 70, of Vol. 111..] Wednesday, December 28, 175)1.
A N
ADDRESS
TO THE CITIZENS OF
WESTMORELAND. WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
REVENUE LAW.
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District-P£nnsylvawia.
(conti NU ED.)
THE sale of the western lands is also mentioned by the com
mittee, as a resource for the purpose. This is something
more tubftautial ; and accordingly Congress have by law made
provision for appropriating the proceeds of the sales of those lands,
4S a fund lor finking the debt and freeing our country of its
burden. This resource is wifely destined for the discharge of
the principal. H Congress could honeltly have refrained from
making another provision tor the interelt, it would have been
very bad management to have done 10, and to have exhausted so
good a tund for extinguishing the principal, in the mere pay
ment ot mtereft. But Congress had not this option ; the honor
and credit ot the country, its faiety in time of future need, obliged
them to make provilion tor paying the interest annually in money,
according to their contract. The goverment, and the country
would have been the deriiion of the woild, if they had failed to
dilchargethis duty. And iutficient dependence could not have
been placed upon the produce otthe sales of the weilern lands, to
answer that end, if it had even been deemed expedient to eat
them out with intereii of the debt.
It may be thought, that Congress ought before this to have
passed an a£t for the eftablifhmcm of a land-office. This business
has not been negle&ed ; some examination of the fubje& has been
made, but those who are aware, how many difficulties attend
the regulation of this matter, and how much difficult business
Congress have had on hand besides, will be leady to make allow
ances for the delay ; it is probable 100 that the disturbed ttare of
the frontiers has contributed 10 the suspension ot the land-office.
It may have been thought belt not 10 fell the land till the contro
versy with the Indians was finally fettled. But be this as it may,
the observations which have been made are, I trust, fufficient to
iatisfy you, that this fund could not have rendered an additional
tax unneceifary.
The committee ask, why not open an office for unpurchafed
lands, and give the holders warrants tor their debts ? The an
swer to this is plain : because it would be a violent breach of
faith and contract; bccaufe Congress, having promised to pay
the creditors in money; tooblige them, without their confcnt,
to take wild land, would be little better than not to p3y them at
all; because nations, like individuals are bound by mtefe(i:, as
weil as duty, to be honest, and to perform their engagements ;
because not to do it as tar as circuniftances permit, is we ak and
fooijftx, as weil as wicked ; bccaule the United States may again
be engaged m a war, and in such cafe would ag-am ivave occafiofl
to borrow money, and if they were to treat theis pnfent credi
tors in the manner proposed, they would never be trusted ;
because, in fine, the public bonds, or the evidences of the debt,
are as much the property of the holder, as his hat or his coat, and
to violate that property would be an a£t ot tyranny ana oppression
in the government.
I lie truth is, fellow-citizens, that some additional revenue was
indispensable ; and that Congrels had no option, except between
a duty on diitilled spirits, and a tax on houses, lands, horses, and
« attic, and, it the tax now complained of were lo be repealed,
it would only be to make way tor the other.
Aieyou ler.oully of opinion, that it would be better to have a
tax on all your houses, lands and ttock than on the whilkey you
dittili or consume ? The committee ex pre Is an opinion that it
would be. But have they lufticicntly weighed the matter; have
they not rather coufulted their dtfiike to the present tax than ex
prelled your real fenuments in relation to the substitute ?
Remember, that a duty on spirits divides itfelt among all those
who confurne the spirits, whether they are the makers ot it, or
the purchasers troin those who make it ; but that a tax on laud
talis wholly on the proprietors of those lands ; are the proprie
tors ot lands among you prepared to take upon themselves the
who'e weight of the burden, rather than to thare it with other
dalles ot the community ?
Remember alio that a tax which might be laid by Congress on
lands, would be according to some g:neral rule, which would
operate alike in all parts of the State. It would not be pollible
to ihift the burden from one county to another. Can it be the
interest 01 the new fettled counties to fee a tax laid and colle£led
upon luch principles ? think well of these matters, and
whether it be prudent to leek a change of the present duty for a
tax on your houses and lands.
Suffer me to appeal, upon the present occasion to your candor,
ou certainly remember that one ot the objections molt ilrenu
oufly urged againlt the prtfeiu constitution of the United States,
"was, that it gave Cougreis a power to levy dir.£l taxes : it was
then laid by the oppol rs ot the government, that the differenc
of cucumftances ot different parti of the union rendered it im
pollible tor them to - xerciie the power without opprellion. A
mongst thole who molt itrongly objected to direct taxes were the
representatives of thele wefterh counties, in the State convcniion ;
and i: was admitted by the friends of the constitution, that there
might be real difficulty in the exercise of that power, and that it
ought to be forborne as long and as much as pollible.
1 his objection extended throughout the United States, Amend
ments have been proposed to take the power from Congrels, tho
H has not been proposed to lelTcn or abolish their power to lay
«n excise. Would it have been wile in Congress, when they
'iad a choice, to exercise thus early the very power the poll". Hi on
«>l which was mod objected to ? Is it probable that an exercise ot
>r would have been better icliihcd than of the oue whicn has been
cxercifed ?
Congrcis, indeed, when the duty complained ot was laid,
could not have laid a direct tax, if they had defircd it. Dircdt
t'iXet by theconditution ate to be apportioned according to num
bers. Ihe cenliis to afcertairi these numbers was not taken at the
Ume of laying the duty on spirits.
I 1 el low citizens—The committee indulge themfclves in an in
nifcrimiuate reprobation ofexcifes, but they do not lay what they
mean by the term. It is necessary to annex a meaning to it, and
to attend to the reafonablencls and confequencc* oi thai rcpioDd-
i he usual bonification of an excise, is an internal dutv on con
tnable co«nuoUi4;c>. Ix evciv fucft due - lu its nature odious
ON THE
fUtI.V FFA'.VQ, N HI, :I-ST REE C, BETWEEN iECO.SD AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
and tyrannical ? if it be, then is the filiation of the fanner much
less eligible than I had ever supposed it to be. I will explain my
meaning. Duties on articles of coufumption naturally and gene
rally la.ll upon the. con turners. The idle man who lives on his in
come, the land-holder, the merchant, the lawyer, the mechanic,
in (hoi t every man vho consumes, pays his part of it; they are o!
course divided among the whole community. This is the more
important, b cause excilesare actually the greateit revenues of all
countries we know of, and prevail mod in the freeft governments :
but i! no internal duties on con! am able articles are to be laid, if
so important a branch of revenue is to be taken out of the hands
of government, how can the ch*Tm be filled but at the expenceof
the landed property ? What other fund can furnilK an excess ca
pable of (applying the place of lo confiaerable a resource ? And
how will \he farmer be able to struggle with this increase of bur
den ?
This point ought to be viewed with reference to future as well
as p.ift times; it excises may be proper taxes hereafter, they can
hardly be tyrannical now.
But in truth no good rcafon car. be afligned, why an internal
duty on a coniumable commodity is more improper than an ex
ternal duty on a similar commodity. Ail must depend upon the
regulations under which either is colle£ted; either may be op
pressive or not, according 10 the nature of these regulations ; and
whatever objections can m any time be ju'ftly made on the fubjeft,
ought to be applied to the mode of colic&ion, not to the duty
itfclf.
And if any internal duty 'on articles of consumption is proper,
that on ardent fpints must be admitted to be the most proper* Ic
is not the less a luxurv from being the luxury of all classes. What
article can be imagined that ought to be preferred ?
I lhall now, fellow-citizens, state the leveral objections which
the committee have urged againlt the law, and I ihall lubmit to
your impartial decision a brief aniwer to each.
First objection. •' Excise laws are dangerous to liberty, and in
compatible with the temper of a free people."
Awlwer. The manner in which they are dangerous to libertv
ought to have been (hewn. In England, where there is a heredi
tary monarch, and the powrrs and prerogatives of the crown are
immense, the number of officers occafioncd by the great multipli
cation of excise laws, might be regarded as dangerous to liberty,
inasmuch as it might tend'to inci\'afe the influence of the crown,
already too great. But this does in no (hape spply to a govern
ment, at the head of which is an e eftive and responsible magis
trate of four yeaTS duration, with powers incomparably more
limirted, and coupled with a branch of the legislature in the ex
ercise of some of the most important of them; and which go
vernment has the power of appointing officers in only a limitted
number oFcafes. The difficulty of lepealing a dangerous clause
in an excise is greater too in Englaud by reason of an entire houfc
of hereditary nobler.
One great ofrje&ion to the excifalawin England, on the score
of danger to liberty is, the summary jurisdiction granted to
tf|e excise officcr invading the con ■ <£ of the common law and the
trial by jurv , •no SUCH JURISDICTION ).> given by
the a6l in question.
Excise laws exist and are tolerated by the people in the freeft
countries of Europe ; and fhey have long exiftrd and been fub
mittc-d to in teveral of these States : and those among the tore-
Hi oft so; h' . tachment to liberty, and their exertions in our
revntutje- In eonnefticut they have been extended to foreign
articles r i consumption generally.
The above positions so contrary to all experience and fa£c, and
so incontinent with the neceflities of focieiy cannot tail to be er-
roneous.
Second objefiio'n. " Excises are odious on account of the
" powers of in (pelting and feaiching houses which are necef
lt farily given to officers to secure the collection ot the duty j be
u ing an invasion of domestic peace and private property."
Answer. The great body of confederate citizens generally
vrw excise laws as neceflary to answer the public exigencies,
without opprefling any particular class of the community, and
acquiesce in them accordingly. Some of the powers attending
fomeof the excise laws of Great-Britain have been complained of
even by sober men. Such is the power of the officer to visit and
search at his discreeion any house or building what
ever of the persons who deal in the excised article. But no such
power exists in the law which is the fubjelt of thi« addrefr.
(to be continued.)
BERLIN, October i
CERSMOSt Of THE DUKE Of ¥ ORlt's MARRIAGE.
day before yellerday in the evening the
A wedding of the l'rincefs Fredcrica with the
Duke of York was couiummated.
About fix o'clock all pei foils of a princely blood
afi'einbled in gala in the pp.irtmems of the Dow
ager Qneen, v/here the c!ia:nond crown was put
on the head of Princess Kiederica. The gene
rals, ministers, ainbafiadors, ;ind the high nobili
ty, aiiembled in the VVhne-hall.
Immediately after it itmck seven o'clock the
the Duke of York led ilie Princess, his spouse,
whole train whs carried by four Dames de la
Cour, preceded by the gentlemen of the cham
ber, and the court officers of Hate, through all
the parade apartments, into the White-hall.
After them went the King, with the Queen Dow
ager ; Prince Lewis of Prulfia, and the reigning
Queen, (the crown Prince was absent by indifpo
fuion) ; the hereditary Prince ot Orange, with
Pi ill eel's Wilhelinina ; Prince Henry, thild Con
to the King, with the hereditary Siadtholdrefs,
his aunt; Prince Welhelm of Prussia, with Pi in
cefs Augusta ; the Duke of Weimar, wiih the
Ypoufe of Prince Henry of Prulfia ; the reigning
Duke of Mecklenburg Streiitz, with tlie heredi
tary Princess of Bruufwick.
In the White-hall, a canopy of crimson velvet
was eiecled, and also a cria.lUn velvet fofa for
i!i- marriao-e cei cuiotiy.
277
Hi^o
[Whole No. 278.]
| When the young couple had placed themselves
umler the canopy, before the fofa, and the royJ
, ft»od round them, the upper Counci
lor ot the conliftory, Mr. Sack, made a speech in
Gei man. This being over rings'were exchang
ed, and the iliuftrious couple, kneeling on the
lota, were married according to the rights of the
refoi med church. The whole ended with a pray
er ; and, twelve guns placed in the garden fir
ing thiee rounds, the benediiflion was given.
After which the new married couple received
the congratulations of the royal family, and they
1 etuined in the fame order to the apartments,
where the royal family and all persons present
lat dewn to card tables ; after which the whole
court, the high nobility and the ambafladors, fat
down to flipper.
The supper was served at fix tables. Thefirft
was placed under a canopy ofcrimfon velvet,and
the victuals served in g„ld dishes and plates.
Lieut. General Bornftedt and Count Erohl had
the honor to carve, without being seated.
The other five'tables, at which" fat the gene
rals, niinifters, ambafladors, all the officers of the
courts, and the high nobility, were served in o
ther apartments.
Those who did the honneurs at the tables
were, at the firft, Prince Sacker, Minirter ofState
7—at the second, General Mollendorf—at the
third, Count Finckenttein, Minister of State—at
the fourth, Count Schulemberg, Lieut. General
and Minister of State—at the fifth, Major Gene
ral Bifhoffswerder.
During supper, music continued playing in the
galleries of the firit hall, which immediately be
gan when the company entered the hall.
At the detfert, the royal table was served with
a beautiful set of china, made in the Berlin Ma
li ufactory.
Supper being over, the whole afl'embly repair
ed to the VVhire-hall, where trumpet, timbrel,
and other mufjc was playing. The Klaifibeau
Dance was at which the Minivers
carried the torches. With-thw-ended rhe fjillvity. »
The new couple were attended to their apart
ments by the reiguing Oiieen and the Qjieeu
Dowager.
The Duke of York wore, on this day, the En
glifli uniform, and the Princess Frederica was
drelfed in a suit of drap d'argeut, ornamented
with diamonds.
The palace of the Margrave of Anipach was il*
luiniiuued.
LONDON, October 10.
7hi Duchtfi of Tori.
Ac this jun<fture a few traits descriptive of
Royal Highncfs's person and chacgt<fter may qg)C
be unacceptable to our readers. ,f
11l (lature, her Royal Ilighnefs is fliort, her
symmetry, however, is exact, arid the general ef
fect it produces upon the fpeiftator, ifitdoes 110 c
llrike by Majellv, conciliates by amiable gentle
liefs, and wins its way easily lo the heart.
Her countenance resembleS, in Itile of feature, .
her augult parent's ; the eye, like his, full and
inild; the mouth f.nall, and not projecting, the
chin sweetly turned, and, as a phyfiognomiit
would remark, indicatory of sensibility and fine
temper. —Her complexion is fair, clear and heal
thy ; the hair appioaching to flaxen.
Lord Dorcheller and family, recently arrived
from Canada, leturn no more lo America, his
Lord(hip being succeeded in his government.
A cause was brought on at York afiizes some
time ago, by a physician for the recovery of his
fees. He had a verdict in liis favor; but at thfr
lad afiizes, the verdict was let aside, and Lord
Kenyon gave it as his opinion, that a phyftcian's
fees are not demandable of right.
The much talked of Abbe de*"Barmond lias
written to the Piefident of the New Afiembly,to
disclaim all participation in the general Amnes
ty. Proclaimed in consequence of the King's ac
ceptance of the Conflitution, which being forced,
he coufiders null, lie disdains to avail himfelf of
its effects, and demands a decree of exception ill
hi: favour.
Mr. George Forfter, so famous for travelling
by land from Calcutta to London, died in Fell, ar
Nagpour, where lie had been re si dent about 8
months. It may prove fonie conlolation to the
literary world, that he had prevjoufly arranged
and completed a relation of his journey from
Kafhuiire ro England, through Afghaniltan and
Persia, and into Caiiia by (lie Caspian sea.Sketch cj a fyPan of Colonial t>'.i a n-.ner.t, pr-.-f:ut:d
to the National J§;mblj by M. Bai i:av;, Seyt. 24.
Article The National Aflembly (hall liave
the exclnfive right of" making laws for the Colo
nies, with the fancTtton of the King, as fjr as re
spects their external government. I'hat is to fay ;
the aflembly ihall make laws to regulate the com
mercial connexions of the colonies with the mo
ther country, and to support the fame in provid
ing for the security of the trade by having the
decisive right of punishing all infringements
thereupon ; also, to guarantee the execution of
the engagements betwixt the merchants and the
inhabitants of the colonies ; and secondly, the
National Aflembly is to enaift such laws as may
be thought neceliary to the defencc of the Colo
jiics ; such as relate to the military ; the decla
ration of war ; the adminiflra-tion of the gene
ral government, and the marine.
Art. 2. The colonial aliemblies shall have the
right to petition and 1 emonih ate 011 all thole sub
jeCts : but these shall only be considered as fir.l
ple petitions, and not provifionary regulations—
excepting only upon extraordinary and tempo
rary occasions relative to the importation ofpro
■vifions, and other supplies, when laws enacted
by the colonial aflemblies and approved by the
governor, shall be allowed to operate as the dic
tates of necessity.
Art. 3. Such laws as relate to the situation of
persons not actually free, and the political con
dition of Mulattoes and free Negroes, a& well as
the regulations for the execution of those laws,
fliall be made by the Co'lonial aflemblies, and fliall
be executed provilionally, with the fantftion of
the governors of the Colonies, to be approved by
the King, without any previous decree operating
as an obttacle to the full exercile of the right
conferred by the present article upon the Colo
nial aiTemblies.
Art. 4. In regard to the formalities of the ex
ecution of such laws as relate to the internal go
vernment of the Colonies, and which have 110 re
lation to the condition of the persons designated
in the preceding article, they lhall be determin
ed by the supreme legislature, as well as other
matters relative to the organization of the colo
nies, so soon as the Colonial aflemblies fliall be
properly authorised to explain upon their parti
cular conftitutiou.
M. de Valory, one of Louis XVlth's Gardes du
Corpes, at the time of his flight riding as a pos
tillion, when he was liberated from the prisons
de l'Abbaye, went immediately to throw himfelf
at the feet of his Royal matter. The monarch
raifea and tenderly embraced him. At this
touching moment 011 c of the attendants appear
ing,. M. de Valory exclaimed, ' Sire, feme one
approaches.' The answer was worthy of the
Sovereign—' It is no matter who*—he continued
to caress his faithful and valiant attendant.
SALEM, December 13.
Happy is that people, whose commerce flou
rilhes in ledgers, while it is bewailed in orati
ons ; and remains untouched in calculation,
while it expires in the pictures of eloquence !
BEVERLY MANUFACTURE
The goods firft sent out from the cotton ma
nufactory at Beverly, were made when the ma
chinery was new and not fufficiently proved,and
the work people inexpert—their quality proved
them to be the firft eflays.—Great improvements
have since been made in the manufactures,which
»re said to be quite equal to the European. A
number of pieces of Thicksets were lately carri
ed to Philadelphia, where they were much ad
mired, compared with English thicksets, and pro
nounced superior.
BOSTON, Dec. 14.
The Kon. Thomas Russell, Esq. we hear,
has presented to the Humane Society, upwards
of 3001. in public securities, and a Seal for the
Society's nfe.
The following advertifemenfc copied from a
la|e Halifax paper, may pleafeThe Anti-Theatri
calills—who will consider it as a reformation !
" Notice—That the METHODIST SOCIETY are
in poflTeflion of the PLAY-HOUSE ; wherein they
will hold public worship. from this dare.— Hali
fax, Nov. 18."
PROVIDENCE, Dec. r 5 .
The great improvement made during the pre
sent year in what is called the post-road from
Providence to* Norwich, deserves notice—and
those who effected it are entitled to public thanks.
This road a few years since was not pad'able.
with any degree of fafety, even on horseback, it
is now a good and convenient road for any car
riage. We *vifh the fame laudable spirit would in
duce a thorough repair of all the roads in iheState.
ALBANY, Dec. 12.
A subscription being opened in this city in
the course of the la ft week, for the purpose of
iorming an extensive library, we arc happy the
lift of f'ubferibers is already very refp eft able,
and it is probable the establishment of this ufe
iul institution Will be tarried into immediate
efiteift.
FRANCE
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ol Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
fylvama, Monday the tw> nty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
An ACT making appropriations for the fnpport
of Government for the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-two.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress afTcmbled, that for the
service of the year 1792, and the support of the civil lift of the U
nitcd States, including the incidental and contingent expences of
the levcral departments and offices thereof, there (hall be appro
priated a sum of money, not exceeding three hundred and twenty,
nine thousand fix hundred and fifty-three dollars and fifty-fix
cents, that is to fay,
For the compenlation granted by law,to the President of the li
nked States, thcVice-Prefidcnt.Chief-Juftice.AiTociate Judges and
Attorney General, fifty-three thousand dollars.
For the like compensation 10 the Diftrift Judges, nineteen thou
sand eight hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the members of the Senate and
House of Reprelentatives, and the officers and attendants of the
two Houses, estimated on a session of fix months continuance, and
including the travelling expenses of the members, one hundred
and twenty-nine thousand seven hundred and thirty dollars.
For the like compensations to the secretary and officers of the
fevera! departments of the treafurv of the United States, including
clerks and attendants, and the falarits of the refpe&ive loan-offi
cers, sixty thousand three hundred dollars.
For ihe like compensations to the secretary and officers of the
department of state, fix thousand three hundred dollar>.
For the like compensations to the secretary and officers of the
department of war, nine thousand fix hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the members of the board of com
missioners, for the settlement of the accounts between the United
States and the individual states, including the clerks and attend
ants, thirteen thousand one hundred dollars.
For the like compensations to the governors, judges, and other
officers of the Weftet n Territory of the United States, including
contingencies, eleven thousand dollars/
For the payment of the annual grant to Baron Steuben, pursu
ant to an ast of Congress, two thousand five hundred dollars.
For the payment of sundry pensions granted by the late govern
ment, two thousand seven hundred and fixly-feven dollars and se
venty-three cents.
For defraying all other incidental and contingent expenses of
the civil lift establishments, including firewood, stationary, toge
ther with the printing work, and all other contingent expenses of
the two Houses of Congress, rent and office expenses of the three
several departments, namely, treasury, Hate, war, and of the gene
ral board of comrftifiioners, twenty-one thousand five hundred
and fifty-five dollars, and eighty-three cents.
And be it further ena&ed, That the compensation to the door
keepers of the two Houses, for services which have been hereto
fore Tendered, or may be rendered in the recess of Congress for
the year 1792, and certified by the President of the Senate or
Speaker of the House of Rcprefentatives, in manner required by
law for like ferviccs during sessions, shall be discharged out of the
money herein before appropriated for the contingent expenses of
the two Houses of Congress.
And be it further ena&ed, That for discharging certain liqui
dated claims upon the United States, for making good deficien
cies in former appropriations, for the support of the civil lift esta
blishment, and for aiding the fund appropriated for the payment
of certain officers of the courts, jurors and witnefTes, and for the
establishment ©f ten cutters, there (hall be appropriated a sum of
money not exceeding one hundred and ninety-seven' thousand one
hundred and nineteen dollars and forty-nine cents : that is to fay,
For discharging a balance due on a liquidated claim ofhisMoft
Christian Majesty, against the United States, for fuppiies during
the late war, nine thousand and twenty dollars and
cents. 0
For payment of the principal and intercft on a liquidated claim
of Oliver Pollock, late commeicial agent of the United States, at
New-Orleans, for supplies of clothing, arms, and military (lores,
during the late war, one hundred and eight thousand fix hundred
and five dollars and two cents : Provided, That the laid monies
be not paid to the laid Oliver Pollock without the consent of the
agents of the court of Spain.
For making good deficiencies in the last appropriations, for the
compenlations to sundry officers of the civil lift establishments,
five thousand four hundred and seventy-one dollars.
For defraying sundry authorised cxpenfes to the commiflioners
of loans in ihefeveral dates, twenty-one thousand dollars.
For defraying a balance of certain liquidated and contingent
expenses in the treasury department, two thousand eight hundred
dollars.
For defraying the additional expenfeofthe enumeration of the
inhabitants of the United States, nineteen thousand seven hundred
and seventy-two dollars and seventy-nine cents.
l or making good a deficiency in former appropriations, to dis
charge the expenses to clerKs, jurors and witnesses in the courts of
the United States, five thouland dollars.
tor the maintenance and repair of light-houses, beacons, piers,
flakes and buoys, fixteeti thousand dollars.
For the expense of keeping prisoners committed under the au
thority of the United States, four thousand dollars.
For the expense of clerks and books in arranging the public se
curities, two thousand four hundred and fifty dollars.
tor the purchase of hydrometers for the use of the officers in the
execution of the laws of revenue, one thousand dollars.
*or the farther expense of building and equipping ten cutters,
two thousand dollars.
nlr d n. be " fui ' hcr ena&ed, That for the support of the military
eltablilhment of ihe United States, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and r.iiiety-two, the payment of theannual allowances to
the invalid penfkmeis of the United States, for defraying all ex
penses incident to the Indian department, and for defrayiuethe
expenses incurred in the defenfive proteflion of the frontiers asrainft
the Indians, during the years one thousand seven hundred and
ninety, and one thousand seven hundied and ninety-one, by virtue
of the authority veiled in the Preftdent of the United States, by the
acts relative to the military eftablilhment, patted the twenty-ninth
tie' i" P ' Cn 'i Cr ? °. uc , t ' lou ' a "d seven hundred and eighty-nine, and
t le thirtieth of April, one thousand seven hundied and ninety, and
tor wh.cn no appropriations have been made, there (hall be ap
propriated a sum of money not exceeding five hundred and thirty
278
two thousand four hundred and forlv-ninc dollais rcv Cn tv- r iv
and two-thirds of a cent; thai n to Uy, j) a[s Q
For the pay of troops, 102 ; 686
For fubfiftance, i <0,68807
lor clothing, a y
For forage, 4 8 ;° 0 °
For the hoipital department, 6 oc-o
For the quarter-mailer's department, 50,000
For the ordnance department, 7,204 6
For the contingent expenses of the war depart- ' *
ment, including maps, hiieof exprelfcs, al
lowances to officers for extra expenses, print
ing, loss ol (lores of all kinds, advertifwg and
apprehending dcfertera, 20 o»o
For the dilcharge of certain sums due for pay and
fubfillence of sundry officers of the late army,
and for pay of the late Maryland line, for which
no appropiiations have been made,
For the payment of the annual allowances to in
valid penlioners. .g
For defraying al! expenses incident to the Indian
department, authorised by law,
For defraying the expenses incurred in the defen
ce prote&ion ot the frontiers, as before re-
cited, 37»330 48
And be it further enacted, That the fevera] appropriations here
in before made, (hall be paid and discharged out of the fundsfol"
lowing, to wit: Fii ft, out of the fnm of fix hundred thousand dos
lars, which, by the ast entitled, " An ast making provision for
the debt of the United States," is reserved yearly for the fupporc
of the government of the United States and their common defence-
And secondly, out of fu h surplus as (hall have accrued 10 the end
of the present year, upon the revenues heretofore efhblifhed over
and above the sums neccifarv for the payment of .interest on the
public debt during the fame year, and for fatisfying other prior
appropriations.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
APPROVED, DECEMBER TWENTY-THIRD, 1791.
G.EORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF R E P R FSE NTATIVE S,
FRIDAY, December 16.
In committee of the whole, on the Poft-Offics Bill.
TV/TR. VVADSVVORTH moved an amendment,
to withdraw the privilege oi Franking from
the members of both houses of Congress.
In fupportof this motion, ic was said, That the
grand fecnrity which the people of the United
States have in their representatives, is, that those
representatives are fubjeift to the lame regulations,
as their constituents : in the article of postage,
this was not the cafe : Congress in this cafe as
sume to themselves a privilege, which they re
fute co the people : they took money from their
constituents, and paid none theinfelves : the
people viewed this privilege with a jealous eye;
and could not be pleased to fee it enjoyed by
Congress, whlllt neither the members of the
Stare aflemblies, nor even the Governors were
indulged in ic : Congress enjoys only chartered
rights ; and all rights not expressly mentioned in
the charter, are of course excluded : the consti
tution is their charter : the Convention, who
framed it, had, no doubt, well considered the
whole fubje<st of privileges, and accurately de
fined all (uch as they vvilhed the legislative body
(hould enjoy diftindt from their conlticuents : in
the enumeration of those privileges, there is
not a (yllable tending to exonerate them from
their (hare of the common burden of postage:
they have no constitutional claim to such an im
munity j and if they adumed it, they would in
crease the burden on their constituents ; the polt
office if unable to maintain itfelf, mult derive
its support from other sources of revenue : alrea
dy, the members of both houses fend and re
ceive, during their feffion,as many letters through
the general pott-office, as all the other inhabit
ants of Philadelphia : those letters, if paid at
the ulual rates, would amount to half the post
age of the United States : the number and bulk
of the franked letters and packets excluded the
newlpapers from the mail, and thus prevented
the circulation of intelligence : if the evil en
creafed (and there was no probability of its be
ing diminished, except by the utter abolition of
the privilege) it would eventually prove the ru
in of the poft-office :—the example of Britain
shewed to what an enormous height the abuse
of such a privilege may be carried : and though
similar abuses inay not as yet have taken place
here, yet it could hardly be doubted, that many
unnecedary letters were daily Cent by the post,
which never would have been written, if fub
jscffc to postage :—thofe letters are not only un»
productive, but an aiftual expence to the poft
office, as the pofl-mafter receives a certain per
centage on these, as well as upon other letters :
the privilege of franking is moreover unequal in
its operation : while some members use it only
for the purpose of transmitting political infor
mation to their constituents ; others, absent per
haps during the whole session, use it for very
10,490 36
7»different purposes : to men in trade it was a con
liderable advantage, amounting probably, in some
instances, to a hundred dollars a year :—itwouid
be better to take away the privilege entirely, and
reduce the general rates of postage one half, or
to allow the members, at the close of each feiiion,
to make a charge for all letters on public bufi
liefs, from their constituents, or to make them
an allowance in gross to defray the expense of
postage :—better even, if neceliary, to make an
addition to the compenfatiou which the mem
bers receive for their services, if the present one
be found incompetent to their honorable support.
On the other hand it was observed, that the
privilege of franking was not aflumed by the
members, for their own private accommodation,
but for the benefit of their constituents, to tranf
jnit to them every neceliary information, rel
pedting the operations of the general govern
ment, and to receive from them i'uch informa
tion as they might have to communicate;—pe
titions are frequently enclosed to members ; and
if these were to be fubjetit to the payment of
postage, the privilege of petitioning the houle,
would be in a great measure defiroyed : the di
minution of revenue, which the poit-oiKce might
in some instances fuffer from the privilege of
franking, ought not to be deemed a furficient
reason for abolifliing that privilege ; since it was
allowed, that the object, contemplated in the
establishment, was the general convenience, and
an easy and speedy mode of diflemina.ing public
and private intelligence :—revenue was but a se
condary consideration ; —although the citizens,
who live at the feat of government, and have
daily opportunities of learning from the news
papers what public measures are going forward,
may not be materially affeifted by the abrogation
of the privilege, yet the cafe would be widely
different, with those who live at a diltance, es
pecially when fifcal operations were on foot:—
those who are informed, will make a prey of
those who are ignorant ; and deftrucftive specu
lation will enrich the few, at the expense of
the many :—in a government of opinion (which
is the government of America) much greater re
liance is to be placed on the confidence of the
people, than upon any other circumstance :—
that confidence can only be the result of the ful
left information :—but if the privilege of frank
ing were taken away, the avenues of informa
tion would be, in a great measure, closed ; for
the members could not undertake, at their own
private expense, to transmit intelligence to eve
ry part of the Union : yet the citizens have a
right to expedl information not only of the aifts
of government, but also the principles, upon
which they were grounded :—The abuses of the
privilege, that have prevailed in England, do
not prevail here ; and its abolition would give
general difl'atisfaftion, particularly in the more
distant parts of the union, where information
would be fubje»st to a very high tax, if circulated
through the poft-office, at the ordinary rates of
postage : df those bundles of letters received arid
difpatclied by members of Congress, many (tho'
far from being unnecefTary, as had been laid)
would perhaps never be written, if they were
not to pass free of postage ; and thus that free
communication of sentiment between represen
tative and conflituent, which is so eflential in a
government like this, would be in a great mea
sure cut off; and the poft-office would gain little
or nothing by ir, as those packets of newspapers,
bills, reports, &c. would either be sent by pri
vate hand, or not sent at all : even here an in
equality would prevail, a? the people who live
near the feat ot government, and all along the
main road, could, from the greater frequency of
epportunities, receive such packets with more
ease and regularity, whilst those in more remote
Situations, could seldom or never receive them,
unless by the mail : the expense arifingfrom the
percentage to the poflmafter on the free letters,
is but trifling, as in such cases he receives no more
for a packet of two ounces, than for a single let
ter : and as to the idea of allowing the members
to make a charge for their letters, this would be
no better than receiving with one hand, and pay
ing away with the other: if however it were
found absolutely neceflary to take precautions
against the abuses that were apprehended, this
might be done, by limiting the number or weight
of letters that fliould go free by any one poll,
without entirely preventing the interchange of
sentiments between the representative and his
constituents.
MONDAY, December 26
The bill for carrying into effect a contra*fl be
tween the United States and the state of Pennsyl
vania (relative to the pnrchafe of a traift of land
bordering on Lake Erie) was read a third time
and pafled.
Mr. Clark prefenred the petition of Patrick
Ferrall, chief clerk in the office for Jettling the
accounts between the United States and indivi
dual States, praying to be placed on the fame foot
"lg in refpetft to salary as the chief clerks in the
1 reafury department, which was read and laid
«n the table.
Several other petitions were read, and referred
to t kji heads of departments.
In committee of the whole, on the Pott-Office
Bill—Mr. YV. Smith in the ctair.
1 he 23d section relates to tie carriage of newf
papei s—ic was moved 10 out the feiiiion,
and lubftitute the following:
That all newspapers earned in the mail, and
which il 1a 11 be under cover open at one end, shall
be charged with the payment of one cent for any
diltance not exceeding 100 miles, and one and a
half cent for any greater diltance—and that the
new (papers be carried in leparate bags from the
letters—and it (hall be the d utyof the l J oit 111 alter-
General and his Deputies to keep a leparate ac
count of ail uewfpapers ; and, the Deputy Po(t
---m a iters (hall receive 50 per cent, upon the pott
age of i hem — which was agreed to. The com
mittee then rose, and reported the bill, with sun
dry amendments, which were laid 011 the table.
i he Speaker laid before the House a letter
f 1 0111 the Secretary of the Treasury, covering a
report on the petition of Catharine Greene, wi
dow of the late General Greene, pursuant to a
reference of the late House of the 4th of March,
1 79°) which was read, and on motion ordered,
that it be referred to a committee of the whole
iioufe on "1 hnrfday next, and that 100 copies of
laid report, and the documents accompanying
the fame, be printed. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, December 27.
The report of the committee of the whole
House on the Poft-Office Bill was taken into con
sideration.
1 he ieveral amendments agreed to by the com
mittee, were read—the principal part of which
being (till further amended, were adopted by
the House. The amendment to the2oth feiftion,
which refpecfts the privilege of Franking, being
read, Mr. Wadfwoah renewed the motion for
expunging the claul'e—this occasioned some de
bate. Mr. White proposed a fubfliture which
contained varioos rellrictions on the privilege—
but an adjournment being called for, took place,
without a decision—and the further confederation
of the amendments was postponed till to-morrow.
LEGISLATURE of PENNSYLVANIA.
To the Senate and House of Reprefeutatives ef the
State. oj Pennsylvania.
GENTLEMEN,
IT gives me great fatisfa<ftion to communicate
to you a copy of a letter from the President of
the United States, from which you will obl'erve,
that exertions are making under the authority of
the Federal Government to protedl the
exposed part of the frontiers.
THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Philadelphia, 2/\th December, 1791.
United States, 23 d December, 179 1
SIR,
I HAVE received your Excellency's letter of
yesterday, enclollng a copy of a representation
to you from the inhabitantsof Pittfburg, relative
ly to their apprehensions, in consequence of a late
defeat of the troops under Major-Gen.' St. Clair.
I can, with great propriety, a(I u're your Excel
lency, that it is my earnelt desire that all the ex
posed parts of the frontiers ihould be as effectu
ally protected, at the general expence, as the cafe
may require.
] shall dire<st the Secretary of War to confer
with your Excellency upon this subject, and to
inform you of such ineafures as have been direct
ed, and are in a train of execution.
I am, with due confederation,
Your Excellency's molt obedient servant,
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
His Excellency the Governor of Peniifylvaniu.
Philadelphia, December 28.
Wednesday lad Richurd Henry Lee, Esq. took
his feat in the Senate of the United States.
Two important bills are now before the Senate
of the United States—one for the encouragement
of the Bank and other Cod-Fisheries—the other
for the eltablifhmeUt of a Mint.
The project of uniting the Delaware and
Schuylkill by a canal, is an undertaking worthy
the enterprizing spirit of the times, and will
doubtless be carried into execution.
The number of paflengers which have arrived
in the port of Philadelphia in one year, with a
view to become settlers in this country* amounts
to twothoufand seven hundred and forty persons.
By an address from Gov. Telfair to the AlTem
bly of Georgia, it appears that the Treaty with
the Creek Nation, made by the United States, is
to be the fubjecft of animadversion in the Legis
lature of that State.— It is rather curious that the
fame Treaty does not meet the approbation of
W. A. Bowles, who is fomenting mifchief among
the southern Indians.
It is molt probable that the Treaty, from this
state of things, is just and right.
279
In the account of the deftruiftioti of the town
of Port-au-l'i ince, in Hifpaniola, which fad event
took place the 22A ult, it is said that the Mulat
toes set fire to different parts at the fame time
that 32 squares, with all that they contained of
produce, (tores and provisions, &c. were confum
e(l-—The cannonading laded one hour after
ward, and the mufquetry continued the remain
der of the day, and during the night. Manyper
fons mull consequently have periihed.
Ex.traCi of a letter jrom a gentleman in the country,
to his Jrienr! in this city.
" Melancholy news from the Westward
Are not such repeated ttrokes indications that our
cause in that country is not good ? 1 think so I
fear we are too rath in our operations that way.
No doubt the Indians, dittnrbed on their native
foil, feel all the boilihgs of injured innocence
and were a few of their Chiefs in audience be
fore Congrets, perhaps they might plead their
cause to the confufion of many who think little
of them—their rights—or of what ought to be
said in their favor.
" I hope such measures will be taken, or reso
lutions gone into in consequence of this defeat,
as (hall be confident with the great principles of
j'uftice, as well as national policy Have there
been any measures taken by government to make
peace with these unhappy people ?—lf fo,it would
tend to fatisfy the minds of our fellow-citizens
by making them public—if not, what has notour
government to answer for > —Doubts on this head
give real distress to every serious friend to their
country."
Public measures are doubrlefs open to public
animadversion—but our remarks should always
be seasonable, ourcenfures direifled by judgment,
and in all misfortunes tempered with this conil
deration,
" That profp'rous actions always pass for wife."
The business of fending newspapers by the
mail, may with the greatelt l'ecurity be put on a
liberal footing. The interell of Printers is very
little concerned in the matter—but that of the
public is, and ought to be considered as deeply
involved. If by an ealy feafible plan the trans
portation of newspapers is facilitated, theftreanis
of information will be wide and copious, especi
ally for a season—but as in all other cases where
individuals difFufe their property, and encreafe
their debtors for final) funis, and at a distance,
inevitable loss ensues, so it is in this of Printing ;
and nothing but the greatest facility and certainty
in transporting the papers, will give the buiinefs
of an extensive circulation any degree of liability.-
There is not a government on earth which is so completely in
the hands of the people as that of the United States. By prel'erv
ing and strengthening it, the people secure their own power. For
they have no other means of a&ing as a people, and it is not easy
to conceive of any half as effectual. The state governments reach
to almost every object. The national government seems to be in
the air over men's heads, and barely touches their individual con
cerns. The power of tne latter is so limited, that it is little, and
so divided with the state governments, that it is lcfs than the letter
of the constitution seems to give : It has fewer officers than any
fovercign government in the world. Look round, and fee how
few there are who have more than a common interest to support it.
It is a trust, and a precious one in the people's own hands to keep
it inviolate. It is their own; therefore it deserves their confi
dence, and will reward their care.
IMPROMPTU.
Joe Miller's Jests, as all the world may fee,
Furnish our modern strokes of repartee;
Thence the " sweet fa&"—which all belief furpaflcs,
Of the plump buxom maid— drench'd in Molafles !
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.-
FUNDED DEBT.
2?/9 yr. I
13/4
'3/6
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates
Indents 12^9
Bank Subscriptions, 14
At No. 263, South Front-Street,
This Night Joh n Macpherson will Le&ure on MECHANICS,
and begin precisely at Eight o'Clock.
Tickets are fold by Mr. Poulfon, at the Library ; Mr. Peloji, at
the Merchant's Coffeehoufe; and by said Macphcrfon, at one half
a dollar each.
$3" Next Wednesday and Friday, he Le&ures on the fame
Branch. Dec, 28.
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the sub
scriber now ; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which are a neat and commodious two story house,
compleatly finifhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
d.y, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all finiftied
in the bcft manner, together with several other necelTarv outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fkillful gardner now em
ployed in putting it in fine order ; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and of excellent water—the
profpeft is equalled by few, and ex'celled by none in America—
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mud render it in*
a few years of great value, being in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other tv/o towns. Should a purchaser
offer before the of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputablr title, clear of a4l incumbrances, will be made
by the fubfcribei. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles distant, which will suit well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
Dccyr.bcr 14, 1791
113J pr. cent.
66| do.
67J do.
20fS
102J do.
63i
Dollars,
(if; BALDWIN DADE.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
DfiCEMBER 27. —Dollars 100 Centseacli.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c Pitch, pr. bbl. id jsc id
Alium, pr.c. 3J73C Pork, jiuriingion, * \od
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. nc Lowir coit.uy c)d 3;
Alhcs, aot, pej ton, f)od xood Carolji:u 8
~Pearl, fca.sAlbany pr. bush. 7'
Arrack pr, gall. pepper, pr.lb.
Braroy. common, ldnc Pimento
—-—Cogniac id 2Cc id uzc *> •,• . n . , ,
Br»eiletto,pr. ton. 4C<i n'tV 05 ' H •'^ r * * 1 6 ',
Bricks, pr. M. \d\j ®! ° pr ' J" 3i
Bread, [hip, pr. cwt. id 88c id " P r ' ox , 1
Ditto, pilot 3 d6 7 c £'« P';"''- ><t67 e2 i.W.
Ditto, small water 36c 40c °P'-k • ' :j'j L 'd&jc
Beer, American, in 1 , f J""."'™ P r ' S all - 9<*
bocpr.doz. bot. incl. Jld * 0C ? | 87.
pr.bbl. 4d6 7 c 2 73C77C
« r Oak pr.M feet, gd ,od <* j ® aH " doc '
«' I Merch. pine .6d n d LCountry, N. E. 59 c
Sap, do. B<tf scc Cfd Salt oetre, pr. cwt. 13d 33 c 14./
O i N.Eng. n</ SalTafras pr. ton 6d 8J
J.) d Shot 140J
The are Ike Shallop prices ; £ German pr.lb. 9c
jot th( yardftices a4d id 331; uj JEnglifh, blillered cwtioi/
P r - M. 1 } American pr. ton : 1.3</33C
• #Hmftancrolls pr.cwt. 3</ tn (Crowley's pr. fag iod6yc
j* (Irish pr, bbl. Snake root pr. lb. ao£42c
w < flofton 7d fid Soap, Brown 6c
« (Countiy 6d yd White 8c
-Butter - ,pr. lb. 16c Callile iu
— in kegs 10c 12c Starch 7 i
£ fSp?r. pr.lb. 43c Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4J $d 6cr
►4 I Wax 53c 46c Spermaceti, refined, 48c
g Myrtle Wax 13c Sailcloth, Engliih, ~| „
| Mould,tallow 11c No 1, per yard, J 2
O (.Dipped toe Boston, No. I. 30c
Cheefc, Englilh, pr. lb. age j\! 0- u.
——— Country Bcioc . Ruflia (heetihg, pr.p. 12d
Chocolate 15c r Lump, pr.lb. ißr
Cinnamoij 2d 4c c 2d 67c q/ I Loaf, tingle refined 25c
ClMes id 33c < j Ditto, double do. 33c
iCoal pr. bushel 20c 22c j Havannah, white 16c 17c
.Cocoa pr. cwt. iod&ic ni 33c £ Ditto, brown, 121
Coffee 'pr.lb. 15c 16c LMufco.nr.cwt. i2^i4^33(
Copperas pr. cwt. id6-jc Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33c 37c
Cordage yd6ycSd (Alium pr. bufh.j24C2;£
Cotton pr.lb. 22c 30c 3 i f
C>«r»nti 13 c < V.adiz 23C24r
Duck, RufEa.pr. piece 111/331: w (Lisbon 24c 26c
-—Ravens 8J 93c 9467 c Ship build. W. O.T , ,
Feathers pr.lb. 40c 44c frames p. ton, j 12 "'3*33
a * toc Do. LO. isd 33c i6d67c
Flax feed pr. befh. 9 0c 93 f Do. red cedar, p. f. 33 c 40c
FJour,Superfine, pr.bbl. £</ Shingles,lh.p. M.zdidfy
Common, 4^74 c Do. long drelfed izdisdgji
——Bur middlings,beft 41/ 13c Scantling, heart, 2^331
-Meal, Indian id 6yc Sap %i $d 6jc
- pr.cw. id ids3c TPipe pi. 1000 30^
Fustic pr. ton, 20d w | hoglhcad 10d 331
iiin, Holland, pr.cafe, \d > J R. O. do. iqd 50
Do. Pr gall. Bct < j Lcogan i6u
, Glue, pr. cwt. lod °id 33c Barrel i ol
Gioeer, white race 7^7<'33 1: LHeading 261/6,
Ditto, common yd 20c r Otter, belt pr. pie.
Ditto, ground pr. lb. ge Minks 2Cc 4c,
Ginseng, 2CC 24c Fox, grey 40c Bot
Gunpowder, can-) . , _ rrd ld2Cl
non, -p.. q, c. J3" « Mart.ua ¥ ,<
Ditto, fine glazed id £ F:lher f 3 oc 6ji
J" Wheat pr. bulb 93c97c « B cars "
2 R y= ® oc Racoons 27c 6or
5 ° al ? 2& Mulk-rats ntsc,
Indian corn 47c Braver, pr. lb. 67c id 33,
I Barley 60c 63c l_l)eei, j 0 j, alr 20c
I Best (helled pr. lb. 3c _
(Buckwheat per bush. 40 c T " ,N ' 2 4 R al - P- bbl. ic
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, nod 146. 67c -Carolina,32 gall id 33 cid6 7 <
American, pr. lb. 4 c 5 c T « r P«"ie pr. bbl. i„' 67c 2 fl
Herrings, pr.bbl. 2</6 7 c f J ames "• r beft 3 d 6o< 73,
Hides, raw pr.lb. gc nc "o inferior 21/67 C 31.
Hops ■ « 27c ° ~ °'" 4^®7!
Hogshead hoops, pr. M i s </ - Rappahannock id s oc 3 <
Indigo,Frenchlb. idsoc P °<o.Maryland 33c 8t
Carolina 40c id g P ark , r
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 d 33c < , 21/401
" f Callings pr. cwt, 3 </ 47 c « taftern-lhorc 2d ?d 23,
Bar pr. ton, 8 2 rf Larollna .»«w 2</ 7c 3 ,
®•< Pig 24<Z 26d 67c >„ . 0 d ,°-
2 IShi-et > 173 d 33c f Hyson pr. lb. 93c ■;/28,
I. Nail rods g6</ J ", n llc ' n ' 53 f 67^
Jank, pr. Cwt. t d s d w .y»o«cnong, R oc 93 ,
Lard, hogs pr 1 . lb. 9c 10c K °f® o ' 13 c s°'
—iZ Pr ' C ' TaL°, refined
Lead, white io</io</67c Tm P r -box, J3</ 33c 67,
—^ —red 6diOc6d6;c Veidigreafe pr.lb. 47c ,53
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c Vermillion id 33c id'6y
Lignum vitip pr. ton, 60c 6d Varnilh, 33c 37
Logwood 24d f Madeira, pr. p. 1061/200.
Mace pr.lb. yd33c 67c Lisbon 961/100,
Mackarel, bed pr.bbl. 91/ Teneriffr. gjfeal yrKr,
second quality 61i 67c Fayal Tpf 44c 49
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c J Port pr. p. io6d67c 120,
Marble.wrought, pr.f. K/33C21/ j Do. in bottles,pr. doz. 4
Mali spars 33c 67c | Claret 6<
Molafles pr. gall. 41c 45c Sherry pr. gall. 90c idvc
Mufiard- per. lb. Byc Malaga 77c 8c
pr. foot, 10c
"Neils, lo,dittd and 20d io<
lb. g,
f Linseed, pr. gall. soc5 oc
°. :,ve 87c ~
I Bcft Wt'iiw' 2dyC E ' l!s °J Exchan ß e > London,
- i fbfks.pr.box { iai /' }i ßi
0 I -baskets „ bottles ,rf 6 ° „ ays ( P" / 45°^7<
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c 3 V ' W3V
I Train 24c 2 *-c Amsterdam, 60 days,
Lw Iwle 2 :czßc pr. guilder, 3 q c
Porter pr. cade, 5J 33c 90 days 38^
— -Lo»do.-,,pr.doz. id6oc Government bills, drawn at 10
for!-i..imtncaii ) irfitirffioc da ys per 11 guilders, 4:/44 c
pr.doz. bot.mcl. go <iays ' 4
A TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
TABLE for ieceiving and paving Gold at ihe Bank of the
r™„ r"" o Ut "' ,hc Valu < of Gold 1,1 »»d
Cent, !r„m One to a Thousand Pennyweights— acceding to the
Att ol Congress, afccrtamin s the Standaid and Value of Gold.
0) IH,Rr > SESSION »f the SL\'4Tt
»! I*lM7 iL'i TATZS, „ ey h hoi hLj.
PER VJt'ANTITY
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whalc-bone,long pr.lb. 13^306
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bank of the United States.
Decemser 22, 17*91.
RESOLVED, That ;he Difcounis ill future' be made upon
Turfday and Fndiy, and that the Notes or Bills ottered lor
Diicoilnt, be prefentedai die Bank, on Monday aiul Thursday.
( 4 tJ JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
TOTICE is hereby given that the Bank of the United States
1 H wili be opened on Monday the s'h intLnt.
Transferspf the fublcnpuons to the lkock of said Bank may
then be made.
44 c 4
'iC.
On Moudiff the 12th instant, deposits will be received, and on
Tueiday tn.- 20th iultaut, discounts may be made.
By order 01 the Pieiident and Dircttots,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhicr.
All Bills or Notes »>fß»red'for Dilcount shall be delivered into
the Dink on Mondays or Wednesdays, the Dilcount fha 11 be fet
tled on Tuesdays and Thurldays, and shall be made known the
next fucccedir.g days.
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS'of the
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
December 5, 1791.
RESOLVED,
r | f the payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
X Bank of the United Stales, consisting of Specie which will L«
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made at the refpeftive Banksof MaJJhchvfctts and Ntw-Yo?k.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, shall, on or before the firft Monday in January next,
xhibic to the Calhier of the Bank of the United States, a Ceitifi
cate finned by the Cashier of the Bank into which such payment
(hall have been made —any thing in the regulations heretofore
eftablilhed to the contrary notwithflanding
By order of the President and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, CaJliier.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, November 22, 1791.
rFIE Stockhoi.nEksof the Bank of the United States
are hereby informed, that according to the statute of incor
poration, a general election for twenty-five Directors will be
held at the Bank of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
n Monday the fccond day of January next, at ten o'clock in the
forenoon.
And, pursuant to the eleventh fe£lion of the Bye-Laws, the
Stockholders of the said Bank are hereby notified to alterable in
general meeting, at the fame place, on Tuesday the third day ol
January next, a; five o'clock in the evening.
By Older of the President and Directors,
JOHN K E A N, Cajkier.
Secondfundamental Article oj Statute of Incorporation.
{< Not more than three-fourths of the Dire&ors in office, exclu
(ive of the Pxrfident, Ihall be eligible for the next succeeding year.
But the Director who shall be President at the time of an election,
may always be re-ele£Ud." t e P'o
MPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
11EFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Ot the firii quality—bv retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and lalt Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Stieet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
fouthof Walnui-ft reel Wharf, adjoining their New Fa£toiy_
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
mentoiSHOT of all lizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.csjn Virginia. As they have employed a
nuipberoi experienced Eoglilh workmen, they warrant it to be
• qual ill quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a jedueed
price from the enft of imported.
They also continue to manufafturc all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
Inorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, induflrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good w ages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Mcfl'rs. Moses Austin & Co
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Piar-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
books,
Which may be seen every day, until five o'clock, p. m.
dn.ong them are the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophnn, Plato, Plutar°ch, Kufebius, Sozc
-1 Tbt:odo " :t . Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pate,-
cuius, Plinv, Concoi dautia I.at. Concordantia Gt. Thtfauius Ci
ceroots. Bib ia Jurm and Tremtllii. Bible de Martin. Wells's Macs
Scapulf —Phavonni— Martinii—Huffmani Lexica, Vollii Etvmol
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclcf. Britannic®, &c.
PhiT"' C y™P* dia > Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Cifar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii Ais Giam. Cluvc
ru Geographia, Juftiaian Code, &c.
a inJ Z-c Anacreon - Aristophanes. Longimis,
Theophraltus Hefiod, Poet® mmores Gr. liberates, Phalaris, va-
Tints edition* of Horace, V ngil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus Pl au
SaHuVr"'. v, al,Cli ," d ,l an ' Val " Flaccus > Aufonius, Buchanan,
Hull, Curtius, Flows, Juihu, Val. Maximum, A. Gell.us, Hilt
ClTffi ;>Cr ' ptorcs • E "S li l h and Fre "cl> Tranjluliov, of some of the
Clank,, a great varuty of Greek and Latin Giammars, &c &c
m "w" "*■ Ei",s„c
tJftobcro,. JOHNCARE-i.
frit
280
TO BE SOLD,
Orf the Waters of Tv t Rt v ek. a fcrancn ot jAMr.Rtvta
the County or Atnhtiil, at;d State o.'Vi.-gm,a, '
About 7,000 acres of rich Land
Well adapted to produce every kind r,f grj j„ a[>(l r , '
can w1 fh to cultivate, diltant fio.n navigation twenty m.; cs [
For terms apply to JAMES ROSE, reading on the Land.
Ant her It County, Vug* ma, Dec. <3, 1 ~tn . I^.)
George MEADE
Has for SALE, at his Siaitson Wa lnut-Stuet V/h ar r
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Made!.*
WIN'E, which he wiil dilpofc ol by the ," u - fin- d<„
quaiicr ca(k. ° " r
London market Madeira WIISTE, 5 and 6 years old
Old Sherry WINE of the firll quality, l,y the h'oglh'cad „ r
quarter calk.
Three and 4 vears old Lisbon WINE, of a fnperinr <~j,ijtv to
what is generally imported, by the p.pe, quarter c.ik, or h,„ er
quantity. o 1
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or lar-*-r
quantity. °
A few quarter chests of firftqualiiv Hyson TEA.
He hasjuft received by ihe P.gou, iinxley, inafter.Vrom Lot.do,
a few quarter casks ot old Madeira WINE— And ' '
By I he brig Mercuiy, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few hnv,.
of Irish LINENS, lnw priced and well afToricd ; a few bah < „(
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of tic firttqualirv , rH
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to difpofc of, a quantity of dreifcd Wi-i, r> t,
STAVES.
He means to krep a confiant supply of Firfl Quality Madeira
and Liflmn WJNfcS, and whoever is pleased to t„v»r lnm wuh
meir cuitom, may be affined oi being well served.
He will, tiirough the Winter and Spring, buy undrrff d HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES- WAX' i
will give the higlrcft price for them.
N. 3. A few hampers of excellent London POUTER and
Taunton ALE, jult rc.civod, and to be dii'pofccl of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
■ John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription.onCewTO.^o,,
at the following ia!es: '
ON' the specie amount of all i'ales at auaion, one ebl'h Dt.
cent. 0 "
On ditto at private sale or Durchafe, on,-halt ner cent
On remittances, " ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one per cent, on the
amount of the interelf.
For making transfers at ditto t feventy-five cents per transfer.
H ;> " ch |x- ' r °" s as m »y mc »'nc to favor the fuhf. rihrr wiih
their or<Jct, may rclv on their being executed with puntlualny
fidelity and d'fiiauh. His long experience and extenfivc dcalmn
111 the public (locks, together with a well cllahlilhed corrcfpon.
dence throughout the Unued States, enable, him to conduct his
opeiations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
OMoberi ci, ijqj
1 he Fit ft and Second Volumes of ihe
HISTORY OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE,
(To which is prefixed an accurate Map of the Stkf }
Bv the Rev. J Eft em y Bet. k. is a p.
Are ready for Delivery to Subfoihers—who may receive their
Books on application to HAZARD & ADDOMS, at the
Cornerof Chefr.ut and Thiid Streets.
fcT The above two volumes contain the political history of the
State, from.its firft fettlemenr to the adoption of the present Con
lhi«non of the United States the third, containing a geographi
cal description of theSiate, ft.etchetofitsnaiui.il hiitorv, &c. is
in the piefs.
A few copies of the fuft two volumes lor falc—pi ice nof.
November i), 1791.
In the Press, and fpccdily will be. pubhlhed,
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS;
Confilling of State Papers, and other authentic Documents,
tending to elucidate the History of America, and
particularly of the. United States.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
he P r, ce to Subfcnbers will be a Dollar for each Number,
containing 160 large quarto pages; or Four Dollars and a Quarter
tor each Volume in Boards; to be paid as follows, viz. tne fitft
and fccond Numbers, or Volumes, to be paid for on delivery of
the fiift ; and each subsequent one (except the Jail) at the tune of
delivery.
Subfcj 1 otions wili be recefved, in this city, by Thomas
Do3son, and Hazard &c Addoms, (who will exhibit specimens
of the work), and mother places by the principal Bookfrllers
Philadelphia, November 5, 1791.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
T? UN AW AY, some time in August 1789, a yellow NEGRO
MAN, named Abraham, late the property 01 Naih&nitl
Wick!ljf y deceased—about torty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, preitv well set, with a large woolly head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complains of
pains in his feet and ancles—by trade a bricklayer, stone ma Ton and
plafleier. He is a very handy fellow as a house-waiter, and is son*
Oi Inch bufmefs. He is a great dissembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long that no description of
his preleut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there:-**
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any person that will fe
curefaid Negro inanyjail, so that the fubieriber may get hun
again; and reasonable charges will he paid —or Thirtv Dollars
will be given if he is brought to Prince William County, Virginia,
to Mr. John Kinchelok, by
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(1a W9W}
Oflober 12, 17Qi
advertisement,
(£T BY late arrivals from France, the Editor has received from
No. 10 to 31, both inclusive, of a Publication which, comes out tune *
week in Pans, entitled, " Cor r esbondance Nationale." —
From No. 1 to No. 10, have been /kipped, but arc not yet come to hand,
■any person who may incline to lubfcribe for tins work, which appears t»
be ingenious, impartial and patriotic., may be furnifhed with the rtumbas
as the? arrive by applying to the Editor of this Gazette.
(p? Blank Powers to receive and for the transjtr oj'tht
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejiablifhcd in the. 'l 'rea
fury Department : Also Blanks for abflraEts
the Editor.
The price of this Paper is 3 Dollars per ttnn
One half to b: paid at Suhfcrtb'mg.
(ep6w.)
JOHN PJNTARD,
New-Y otk, King-Street.