PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADFI PHIA
[No. 25, of Vol. in.]
FROM THE (BOSTON j COLUMBIAN CEN'TINEL.
Mr. RUSSELL,
MR. PAIINJE affirms that the French nation
have a Constitution, and that the Englifli
have none. I have already offered a few ooler
•vations upon the latter part of this allertion, but
as a prelimanary to some remarks, which 1 pro
pose to make upon his comparison, 1 mult pre
mise that directly the reve*fe ot his opinion up
on this fubjedt is the truth, and that in reali.y
the Englifli nation have a Constitution, and th
French as yet have none. The National A lie in
bly have indeed been constantly fitting these two
years, to form a Constitution, and at the teie
niony of the Federation about eleven mouths
since, they swore theinfelves and their King to
the observance of a Constitution, to be made.
But as they are still pollefl'ed of the whole pow
er of the nation, they may repeal any article
upon which they have hitherto agreed, by virtue
of the fame authority, which enabled them to
pass the decree, and therefore according to Mr.
Paint'% own ideas, the French' cannot be said to
have a Conrfltuiion, until the National Aflem
bly Ihall please to diflolve themselves and to put
their whole fyltem into operation.
1 have endeavoured to (how that it is not ab
folutcly efl'ential to the exigence of a Constitu
tion, that it flioold be producible " in a visible
form." The period of time when the founda
tions of the present Englilh government were
laid by the alfociation of the people, in " their
original character" cannot indeed be ascertained.
Many of the laws which are in use to this day
in Great-Britain, and from thence have been
adopted by the American Republics may be tra
ced back to theremotelk period of antiquity, and
the origin even of thp inltitmion of Juries, an
institution so congenial to the genuine spirit of
freedom, is loft in the obicurity of the fabulous
ages. Many of the fundamental principles of
the Englifli Constitution, are known to have had
existence long before the invention of printing,
and even before the inhabitants of Britain were
acquainted with the ofe of letters, and it would
therefore be an absurdity to vequi re that the ori
ginal articles ftiould be produced, " in a visible
form." But "ex nihilo, nihil fit," the very ex
istence of these principles proves the formation
of a social compact previous to that exiltence,
and the spirit of liberty which is their diltin
guifhing characfteqiftick. affords internal evi
dence, that they did not originate in the merci
less despotism of a conqueror, but in the free
and unreltrained consent of a manly and gene
rous people. It will not be said that an original
compacfl was never formed because it is not re
corded in the page of liiftory ; as well might it
be pretended that the pyramids of Egypt arose
felf-created from the earth, because the time of
their erection, and the names of their builders,
have been consigned to that oblivion, in wnich
all human labours aredeftincdto be overwhelm
ed.
William of Normandy, to whom Mr. Pains al
ways refers the origin oftheEnglilh government,
was the conqueror only of Harold. He obtained the
crown of England by popular election, upoa the
express condition that he would govern the na
tion according to her ancient laws and cuttoms ;
lie took the fame oath at his coronation which
had been taken by his predeceflors ; and by his
last will, after bequeathing the province of Nor
mandy to his eldest fbn Robert, he expressly ac
knowledged that he did not poflefs the kingdom
of England as an inheritance, and only recom
mended his son William as hisfucceflor. It would
be altogether unnecefl'ary at this time to discuss
the question whether the crown of England was
originally hereditary or elective, but the faifts
which I have here stated, and which are war
ranted by all the moll ancient and moll authen
tic English historians, fully demonstrate that the
Englilh government did not originate in the Nor
man conquest. "If the fucceliion runs in the
line of the conquest, the nation runs in the line
of being conquered, and it ought to rescue icfelf
from this reproach," fays Mr. Paine. "The
•vitflory obtained at Halting? not being a victory
over the nation colleCirjely, but only over the per
son of Harold, the only right that the conque
ror could pretend to acquire thereby, was the
right to poflefs the crown of England, not to al
ter the nature of the government," fays Judge
Blackltone, (i Com. 199) Upon a question of
Saturday, July 16, 1791.
fadt relative to the English constitution, Black
.tone is, 1 believe, as good -in authority as Mr.
Paine, but 1 wilh not to reft the question upon
iny authority whatever ; I venture to affirm that
my man who will coolly and impartially exa
nine the fubjecft, and appeal to the original
sources of information, will acknowledge, that
rhofe who derive the origin of the English go
vernment from William th.: conqueror, can do
it upon 110 other principle t in that of support -
ing a system.
It is not however neceflaiy on the present oc
casion to revive a question, .vhich has been dif
ciiffcd among the Engltjh with all the acrimony
of faction. Mr. Paine has chosen the ground,
which was not found tenable by the flavifli f'up
porte; s of passive obedience, and the divine right
of Kings. They took it originally because it
was neceflary to them for the support of their
system, and they wete driven from it by the
friends and fupporrers of equal liberty. Mr.
Paine found ii necessary 10 support a doc'trine of
a very diffvrei.t nature ; and adopting the max
im that it is lawful to learn, even from our ene
mies, he has freely borrowed from them the
practice of accommodaiing the farts of history
to his political purposes.
Be i hat however as ir may, the Parliament of
Great Britain from time to time have enacted
certain laws which from tiieir fnperior import
ance have been deiiotnina'ed constitutional ;
the acquiescence of the people, to whom molt of
those laws have been extremely fatisfacftory,
gives them at least as (*ood a faniftion as the
constitution of Krance has obtained. The Na
tional Ailembly were nor oigmally chosen to
form a constitution ; they were called together
as States-General, under the authority of ano
ther constitution, such as it was. They aihimed
the power to dilfolve the old constitution and to
form another, and the acqniefcence of the peo
ple has confirmed that aflinnption. At all events
therefore their conftitnt 'i ilartd* upon no bet
ter ground than the aCU ot the tfritifti Parlia
ment.
If . hen the Parliament of Great Britain have
a right to declare what lhall be the supreme law
of the land, they will be able to produce a sys
tem of constitutional law, even according to
Mr. Paine's wifli "in a visible form." This sys
tem is contained in a number of statutes, enadted
not at one time, or by one body of men, but at
divers times, according to the occasional conve
nience of the people, and by a competent autho
rity. These statutes contain the principles up
on which the Englilh government is founded,
and are therefore proper objects of coinparifon
with the constitution which is to be the supreme
law of the land in France. The comparisons
which Mr. Paine has drawn are not partially fa
vourable to his native country. We lhall en
quire whether they are perfectly confident with
truth.
PUBLICOLA.
The above is No. 6—No. 7, appealed in om lafl.
FROM THE NEW-HAMPSHIRE CHRONICLE.
The ECONOMIST.
Make not more hafle than good speed,
IS advice worth observing. Halle often makes
wufte. Some lose more by their precipitancy
than they gain by their indnftry. They are in
so great a hurry about one thing, that they for
get other things and accoinplifh nothing. They
have a dozen ilefigns in their heads at once, de
manding attention, and like » numerous litter
of pigs, pufliing away one another. They are
busy in collecting ; and what they gather with
their hands, they kick away with their feet.—
Fsrvidus is one of this fort of men. No man is
more busy, or does left to the pnrpufe. A piece
of ground rauft be ploughed to-day. To-mor
row something else malt be done. He hires a
plough-boy, tackles his team, drives them on the
full run into the field, has forgothis plough,
whips the boy because he did not think of it,
hastens back after it, the boy runs home ; it is
noon before he can bring his matters together,
and he does but half a day's work. In the
course of a summer he overturns several loads
of hay: There is the appearance of a Ihower,
lie goads 011 his cattle ; and inltead of looking
at his cart, looks at the cloud ; his load is over
set, and out in the rain. He rises in a winter
morning, with a determination to (led home
three loads of wood. He must firft get his boots
89
fill tso
[Whole No. 251.]
mended. He runs to the barn—throw: some
hay to his cattle in the (tables—forgets thofc in
he yard—never shuts the door, haitens to the
! hoeinaker, but has left his boors at home—runs
back after them—finds his cattle in the barn
and his oxen at the corn-crib—drives them out
with a vengeance—goes into the house in a
foam—ftrikes the firlt he meets for leaving the
barn door open—concludes his oxen will die—
cooks a mess to prevent the fatal effecfts of the
corn they have eaten —in his hurry kicks it o
ver—and then prepares another. He gets no
wood to-day, keeps himfelf in a fret and his fa
mily in a tumult. He gives his people no order
how to employ themselves—they lose their time,
and at night he is in a rage, because not a foul
has done any work. Fervidus fully believes the
doctrine of witchcraft. .And his family are so
berly of the opinion, that there is an evil spirit.
Ltntulus is a different character. He is indul
rrious, but moderate. You never fee him idle,
nor in a great hurry. He plans his business
well ; lays out no more than can be executed
in season ; takes things in their proper order,
without confufion or interference. He finiflies
what lie undertakes, proceeds with little noise,
and never destroys what he has done, by an ea-
Sjernefs to do more than can be done. He rises
early, attends the dated duties of the family de
liberately, idues the orders of the day calmly,
and finds them at night executed faithfully.—
When one thing is done, all know what 10 do
next; there is no confufion ; and what cannot
bt accompli/hed in one day, he is content to
leave for another. If, when he has hay abroad
he fees a shower ariflng, he will secure it if he
can. But he never breaks his rakes by his hur
ry to anticipate the fliower ; nor breaks his reft
if the Ihower anticipates him. When the day is
closed, his cares are dismissed. He spends the
evening in nfeful conversation with his family
or a neighbour. Whatever happens, you will
fee him serene and temperate. He is thankful
for fuccef3—never dircompufeil by cross acci
dents—He never blames others for his mistakes,
nor chides them with paftionate severity for their
own. You never fee him out of humour for
what could not be prevented, or anxious for
what is not in human power. He spends the
day cheerfully, closes it devontly, and pas
ses the night quietly. He is fuccefsful in his
business ; his donielticks love his service ; the
blessings of the poor come upon him, and the
smiles of heaven attend him. Lentulus is never
molested by witchcraft.
FROM THE NEWPORT HERALD.
Bishop Newton's Prophesies.
Mr. Printer,
IN reading the late Bishop of Bristol's difierta
tions on the prophesies, wrote in the year
1754, I met with two paflages bearing some
reference ta what now pafles in Europe :
ift. " There is a current tradition among the
common people in Turkey, that their Empire
shall one time or other be destroyed by the Ruf
fians." This doubtless makes them fear the
Ruffians, and probably occasions their not making
that head against them, that they would againit
another enemy.
The other paflage needs 110 comment: "Rome
therefore will finally be destroyed by some of
the Princes, who are reformed, or (hall be re
formed, from Popery;—and as the Kingx of
France havs contributed greatly to her advance
ment, it is not impoflible, or improbable, that
some time or other they may also be the princi
pal authors of her deftruclion. France hath al
ready fliown some tendency towards a reforma.
tion, and therefore may appear more likely to
accomplish it,"
Ed. 8. V. I. p. 407: V. 11. p. 336.
FRENCH CONSTITUTION.
The following Jketch of the French Conflitutitrt, as
given by the late celebrated Mirabeau, is •wetliuorth
the attention of our readers.
THAT general system of admiration is now
full and complete, which throughout the whole
furface of the empire, gives interpreters to the
petitions of the people, organs to the laws, fanc
ionatiesto the executive power, mandatories
to each department, and to each city intennedia
tory officers to the collctftion of citizens.During the important moment of preparation
for a grand creation, and where all the ancient
initiations being overturned, offered nothing
but the ruins of twenty ages, France could not
but present the image of real chaos. This cha
os has disappeared, a durable order now succeeds:
the polls arc fixed, and the places are filled up,
and all rights are determined. We have escaped
that death which extinguishes empires as well as
individuals. You (to the National Assembly)
have not only prolonged the duration of our bo
dy politic, but have re-created its very existence;
and it is even in the bosom of that Itbrm, in
which it was about to be swallowed up, that you
have refitted the vessel of the state.
As Frenchmen, we partake of theglory of your
labors, but as public officers, we inult be occupi
ed entirely by our own duties.
The legislative body and the monarch are the
representatives of the people, and as for us, we
are no more than their mandatories. The Mo
narch is the executor of the law, we are the or
gans of the monarch in that execution. Tbefe
different relations determine all our duties.
We cannot express the will of the peoj le ; we
can only transmit to you their wants, their
wishes, their hopes. As light is spread over the
whole universe from one single focus, so the law
issuing forth, completely formed from the legis
lative body, and the Monarchs find, from that
moment nothing but fubjeclts on whom it atfts,
we the Magistrates receive it from the Chief of
the empire, and in caufingitto be executed give
the firft example of obedience.
LONDON, May 16
There is not perhaps such a memorable and
deplorable inllance of the loss of popularity, as
that which has occurred in the person of Mr.
Burke. While he combated the venality of Lord
North's Administration—while he venerated the
•virtues of a Washington, approved the counsels
of a Franklin, and flied virtuous tears over the
memory of a Montgomery, he was refpe«sled even
by those inimical to his principles.
Mr. Mackintosh, in his admirable Defence of
the French Revolution, has drawn a close and
striking parallel betwixt the principies of Mr.
Burke in the present, and those of Judge Jeffe
ries in a former age! This is, no doubt, by way
of retaliation for the celebrated comparison be
twixt the late worthy Dr. Price, and his pretend
ed prototype Hugh Peters !
The Marquis of Lanfdowne, and Earl Stanhope,
are the only two Englilh Peers who liave as yet
given a decided opinion in favor of the French
Revolution.
The commiifioners under Mr. Pitt's bill, for
tlie reduction of the national debt, had redeemed
on the ill May, I 791, seven millions, one hun
dred and fifty-five thousand, fix hundred pounds.
The Pope has written to the King of the French,
informing his Majesty, that he would not receive
any Ambaflador who fbould take the Civic Oath.
Louis XVI. has in return informed his Holiness,
that this oath has been taken by himfelf, and eve
ry other public functionary in the State, and at
the fame tiir e intimated, that if he persists, the
Minister from the Court of Rome mult quit Paris.
It is not a little remarkable, that this letter has
been printed on the motion of M. Treilhard, for
merly a Biihop of the Gallican Church, who fays
that it ought to be circulated on purpose " to
ihow the Holy Father's ignorance !"
From the London Gazette of May 14,
The King has been pleased to constitute and
appoint the Right Hon. William YVyndham, Lord
Grenville, one of his Majesty's principal Secre
taries of State; the Right Hon. William Pitt,
Chancellor of his Exchequer ; the Right Hon.
Henry Dundas, the Right Hon. Lord Frederick
Campbell, his Grace James Duke of Montrofe,
and the Right Hon. Thomas Steel, to be his Ma
jesty's Commiflioners. for the affairs of India.
Trinity-House
It having appeared to this corporation, that a
due attention has not been paid to the notice
publilhed in Auguit last, of the alteration made
in exhibiting the light at Scilly, from a disre
gard to which some inafters of (hips and others
have exposed theinfelves to those rifques it was
intended to prevent, the corporation judge it
neceflary to repeat their said advertisement,
namely :
" That the light at Scilly is now exhibited by
a number of argand lamps, fixed on a machine
moving in a circular revolution, which preients
a bright and conspicuous body of light once in
a minute."
This alteration was adopted for the purpose
of diftinguilhing to a certainty, the light at
Scilly from all other lights in the channel, and
if carefully attended to, cannot be miflaken by
lljips coming from the sea, whenever it can be
leen, as by its frequent vivid slashes, like light
ning, it may be known to b" the firfl light they
generally make on entering the British channel
in the night season.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A FRAGMENT,
In imitation of Spenser.
Ah me ! how black misfortune clouds the day .
How joy isbanitVd from the human mind
How plcafurc flics at like the evening ray,
Ne can we e'er its lovely footfteps find.
And still unheedful, to the present blind,
We let the joyous moments (lip along ;
Still to ourselves eke careless and unkind,
We pass e'er Graying from the happv rhrong,
Ne join the easy dance, ne footly raise the song.
Yet now, regardful of life's little space,
And wifely yielding with obcifance still,
Let me no more the plcafant scene deface
With griefs responsive to the murm'ring rill,
And moans loud echoing o'er the neigh'bring hill.
O let me hide mv sorrows in the night,
And bow fubmifltve to the Eternal will ;
Then Time shall load each moment with delight,
And o'er my foul shall shine the Muse's living light.
'Twas when the Sun had climb'd the azure steep,
And shed his yellow influence on the earth;
Had driven the roaring tempests 'neath the deep,
And call'd the green creation into birth ;
When lively Youth, gay Health and buxom Mirth,
Scatter'd the Summer's jovs the world around ;
When the neat houfewife from her kitchen hearth
Had thrown the ashes on the garden ground,
And with green boughs and flowrets it had crown'd ;
Then, where Libanus which is hight the new*
Spreads all around its ever varied scene,
And pours a rich creation on the view,
Stray'd from mine home, in fpritely youth I been,
Then, with frefh joy I ken the smiling green,
The distant mountains frowning on the vale,
The loftv woods which shew their heights atween,
The speckled flocks thick nibbling in the dale,
And leaves, and flutt'ring birds, ay flying in the gale.
Aid me, O Muse ! the varied joys to tell
Which in this region of delight appear;
To mark the sorrows which must here ay dwell ;
The joys, and woes, which call the differing tear.
W T hat curious Nature hath ypighted here
Ay torturing pain fore'erto drive away,
And ease the grief of many tiresome yeare ;
Or to add comfort to the present day ;
Eke her unkindnefs joying kindly to o'erpay.+
From the smooth plain we rife the crzr?gv hill
That tortuous windes its lengthened way along ;
Leave on the left the hoarse ay clacking mill,
And reach the dome, meet burthen of a song.
The dome e'er swarming with the busy throng,
That with a different purpose seek the place,
In pleasure's paths to wander all among ;
Or dry the tear from sorrow's faded face,
Which the foft hand of Love delights away to chafe. J
Straught from the morning to the falling ray,
Full many a foot the building fpred, I ween,
And its front proudly to the fouthcrn day
Uprearing pleasant, from afar was seen.
Flank'd with a broad Piazza round it been—
Meet place to walk, and spend the fummcr's morn;
And from its edge to view (he distant scene,
When the fun, riling, all things doth adorn,
And gild the flowers, an<* dew-drops glistening on the thorn.
Here, when the orient blushes o'er the earth,
I walk, regardful of the enchanting view.
What charms the voice of Summer wakes to birth !
What beauty trembleth through the lucent dew !
Far round the horizon rife the mountains blue !
In distant profpeft mingling with the sky ;
And here the woods in varied foliage shew ;
Yielding foft pleasure to tbe roving eye,
That longs the innumerous sweets of nature to descry.
At distance still, and o'er a beauteous plain
A village breaketh through the tufted trees :
Where industry renews her daily pain,
And labor (igheth on the careless breeze.
Here, tho' rich plenty laugheth o'er the mees,
In antic vesture robed Religion walks,
Her face in sorrows dreft, all hearts doth freeze,
And with a frigid hand creation balks ;
While in her train wan Care, with Pain united, ftalks.^
Here, while the eye doth glisten with delight
To fee what pleafaunce livcth o'er the scene,
Yet doth companion's tear bedim the fight.
O Heaven ! (hall Virtue of celefttal mien
The foul of nature, and creation's queen,
Reign but to spread deftruftion on mankind ?
Shall Piety, bedeck'd in God's own sheen,
I.ive but to seal damnation on the mind—
fi'/iofe very foul is love with adoration join'd ?
ELLA.
* New Lebanon springs, in the fiate of New-York—commonly
called the Pool.
+ Tkefe uialers have proved a radical cur; in many cases of rheu
matifa, and in fcrophu.'ous affcHwns ; and have relieved many other
complaints. One fmgutar cafe of their efficacy in Spasmodic diseases
is daily exhibited there, and is worth relating. A Mr. Hitchcock, who
keeps the Bath House, has lived there many years unable to remove.
He appears perfeflly well. Generally once a day—fometimei left often,
and sometimes oftener, he is Jeized with flrong convul/ions ; his muscles
appear to br. drawn into knots—which I have seen of the size of a large
egg. In thisfituation, unable ttfipport or assist himfctf, he is carried
to the hath. Jtripped and rolled m. The effett is injlantaneous. He
immediately jumps up perfeßly recovered ; and is commonly free till
nearly the fame time next day.
+ Much company resort here in the months of July, Augufl, Sep
tember and OSober, for the purposes of pleasure, ' and recovering
health.
\ This Ttjtr< to the fell called Shaking Quakers. About two miles
from the Pool they have a handjbme church ; and a large house in
which near an hundred persons live.—Their devotion confifls princi
pally in dancing and singing. Thele exercises are carried on to their
own extreme emaciation.—They art very laborious, and have generally
the charaZer of scrupulous honejly.—The women and men live in di f
ferent parts of the Jame house ; the married persons have no connexion
with each other, and all marriages are prohibited. Their dress is ex
tremely simple. The men wear jhort coats andfhort hair. The women
are. generally, drejed in a white/kort gown and skirt, and in small
clcf long.eared caps.— Thefellfeems to be rather diminifhinas the
natural means of increase arc cut off- few profektes are gained ; and
thefeverity and conflancy of their fatiguing exercises carries them
ojf in a jew years —This denomination of rehgiomjls made its appear
ance about ten years f nee. The htad of them was the former miflrers
of a Britfh officer. She called herfelf the £le(l Lady; and lived to
fee her principles adopted bv a con/idcrable number of people in the
north part oj the States of New-York and Majfachufetts, and Tome
parts of Vermont—Thty call thmftlves Chriflians—but their exact
principles I am unacquainted with.
90
BOSTON, July 6.
There are accounts in town from Liverpool
England, which relate the particulars of the de
feat erf General Meadows, and the Britilh armv
by that Asiatic Frederick, TippooSaib—and add'
nothing but a rapid flight of the Britilh forces
prevented a complete " CornivaUif.ide."
In consequence of this intelligence, the British
Monarch, it is Hud, immediately difpatchcd a
mefl'enger to the King of Prnlfia, to put a flop to
the marching of troops to aflilt the Turks— and
it was fuppof'ed that a ceH'ation of the warlike
preparations in England against Catharine, would
l>e the confequence —that attention might be paid
to the preservation of the Britifli territories in
India.
An express arrived in town yesterday, from the
Vineyard, informing of the fafe arrival thereof
thelhipßuby, Capt. Rich, from India— Mr. Jones
the owner, being on a journey to the Eastward'
and the person immediately setting off, to ac
quaint him of the arrival, we have not been abl*
to obtain any information of the progress of the
war in India.
We learn with pleasure that on Friday eveninn
laft, the Committee forthefaleof EaUrern Lands'
closed the contract for the sale to Mefl'rs. Jack/on
and Flint, for themselves and aflociates, of two
millions of Acres of that Territory. The price
agreed on is Two Hundred Thousand Dollars
specie, to be paid in eight years, with interest. '
BALTIMORE, July 12.
Extract of a letter frovi a gentleman in Berkelty
County, Virginia, to his friend in this town, dated
July 9, 1 791-
" A gentleman, just arrived from Kentucky,
advises, that General Scott marched some time
ago from that state, with 850 men, on an expedi
tion against the Savages. Soon after he had cros
sed the Ohio, they were attacked by a party of
Indians whom they routed, and pursued (with
the loss of 30 horses) some distance. Gen. Scotc
then altered his route to the left, and surprised
four Indian towns, which he deltroyed, and kil
led 52 warriors, and took another prisoner, with
50 women and children, with whom he arrived
at Kentucky on the 15th of June. had four
men wounded, and three were drowned in crof
sing White-River. General Scott also brought in
with hioi a certain Abraham Wileman, who con
fefles he decoyed 011 shore several people, among
whom was a Mr. May, on their pallage down the
river Ohio, who fell into the hands of the Sava
ges, with all their effects. He has often been
guilty of such crimes. When this white Savage
saw no way of effecting his escape, he feigned
himfelf insane, and, under the character ofama
niac, is now on his way to the mad-house at Wil
liamfburg. When my informant left Kentucky,
General Scott was preparing for another expe
dition."
PORTLAND,
Extratt of a letter from Bridgeton, to the Editor of
" The following aifcovery has lately been
made at Sudbury-Canada, a new settlement on
Amarefcoggin river.
A Mr. B. RufTell was hunting in the woods in
the beginning of last May, and found a large
extent of ground where the trees were univer
sally covered with pigeon nests, containing the
young. On his return home, his account was
not credited by his neighbors. About a fort
night after, several of them accompanied him,
and found his account did equal what they there
beheld ! a large extent of land of several miles,
through which the} pafled, (how much farther
they know not) the trees on which wereentirelv
covered with pigeon nests. The young were
mostly in their nests. but ready to fly. There
was but one in a nest, ft ill they took four dozen
from a tree. They took from 50 to 100 dozen
in a day.
The scene was admirable to behold ! the young
were hovering on the nests, and calling for
while the old ones darkened the air with a con
tinual motion to and from the nests, busily em
ployed in feeding their young.
N E W B E R N, June 3j,
The Circuit Court of the United States ad
journed on Monday last, till the Bch of Novem
ber next. During the term, the court made it a
rule that Attornies, having pratftifed two years in
the Superior Court of this State, on fatisfying
them of their moral chara<fiers, may be admitted
as Counsellors and Attornies; and those licenced
to practice in the Superior Courts of this State,
may be admitted as Attornies of the Circuit
Court.
Accordingly George Duffy, John Hamilton, Si
las \V. Arnett, John L. Taylor,Triftin Lowther,
William R. Davie, D. Witherfpoon and B. Woods,
Efcjrs. were admitted as Counsellors
And Edward Jones, William Sladc and Edward
Graham, Esquires, as Attornies.
(M.) July 1.
this paper.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
I AM not a negociator, neither have I ever bought or fold a cer
tificate—but, Sir, my feelings are not injured, nor is my envy
excited at the prosperity of thole characters who havebeen fuccefi
fully employed in the business of [peculation. Many of those
persons have been benefactors to the original holders of public
paper ; and to my knowledge have often given more to the soldier
for his securities, than those who now declaim againflthcm would
give at the fame time.
The forming an open market, for public paper, was done by some
Tefpeftable brokers ; by which means the highelt pi ice wasalwdys
to be obtained—-and a great increase in the price was occaho led
bv the competition thereby produced: before that time many
unprincipled persons, among whom were fecrct, fqua re-toed,
hoary [peculators, who imposed on the credulous and unwary,and
obtained their securities for a fon^.
It is the genuine effufion of malice and envy therefore, to brand
a set of men as knaves, cheats and pick-pockets, among which are
as rcfpe£table chara&ers for honor, integrity, henevolcnce and hu
manity, as any in the community.—Sir, I have known some bro
kers who made it a constant practice to advise the oflicers and so!-
diers to retain their paper, and wait if pollible for the time when
they should realize its value from the jfilhce of their country ; and
when they have been determined to part with it, have al ways given
a higher pricc than any perfou not m the business ot a Broker
would give. V E R I T A S.
Philadelphia, July 16.
By the arrival of the brig Peter, Capt. Brooks,
at New-York, in 55 days from London, news
papers are received to the 16th of May—Tliey
inform—That the Ruffians under the command
of Prince Gallitzin have defeated a body of
8000 Turks on the banks of the Danube, killing
3000 thousand and taking as many more prison
ers—While this was doing, the Ottoman (hips of
war experienced a severe defeat, the admiral of
the Ruffian Flotilla having taken and funk a
great number of them, with very litrle loss to
his own squadron—Great tumults subsist in Con
ftanrinople ; the city being frequently set on
fire by the incendiaries, the infurredjons were
frequent, and a revolution hourly expected—
Great preparations are making in England to
carrv 011 the war against Russia—Prince Potem
kin has accepted the offer of having a palace
built for him at the public charge—The Nation
al Affeiwbly of France has palled a decree for is
suing affignats of five l'tvres each to the amount
of one hundred millions, money to an equal
amount is at the fame time to be coined for the
payment of them.
Great rewards have been given by the Assem
bly to all who have contributed to the detection
of those desperate offenders, who went from
France to England for the purpofeof forging af
iignats to the amount of a million sterling—The
magistrates of Bow-street, London, exerted
themselves on the occasion, and through their
exertions alone it was owing that the culpiits
were difcovered—Caglioltro is to be immured
in the eaftle of Angelo as a heretic, a judicial
astrologer, a magician and a freemafm ! Crimes
somewhat singular at the latter end of the 181h
century! General Meadows, it is reported at the
India House, has taken several of Tippo's Forts
and killed 5000 of his troops —Lieutenant Riou
has arrived in England—Mr. Paine's pamphlet
has been translated into French, German and
Italian—The multitude in Paris on the 4th of
May burnt the Pope in effigy in the Palace
Royal—Several of the fetftions in Paris, of which
there are 48, have parted refolutioris highly cri
minative of the conduct of the Sieur de la Fay
ette, particularly for dilbanding and disarming
a Grenadier company without trial or judicial
procedure of any kind—for resuming the com
mand of the National Guards without being pro
perly re-eletfted—but especially for exerting
himfelf to prevail 011 the Guards to fire on the
people, who opposed the King's departure to
St. Clouds. M. Bailly, the Mayor, is involved in
the 1 all charge.
The Englilh pnpers alfogivean account of the
firlt pitched battle to which the Frcnc'h revolu
tion has given rife; it was fought near Carpen
rras, between 10,000 pnti iors and about 7000coun
ter-revolntionills. The latter were coniplerely
routed, and Carpentras, in which was a garrison
of 4000 men inverted by the patriotic troops
On the 21 it of April a capitulation was proposed
by the besieged.
Yesterday the Commiflioners appointed to receiveSubfcriptions
to the Bank, of the United States, began to issue their receipts to
the Subscriber?.
Extradoj a Utter from Pittsburg, July 7, 1791
" This moment we have a well authenticated account, that
General Scott, with his party, have returned, having compleatly
surprized the Wabafh Towns.—He has brought in thirty Indi
an men's fcalos, fifty prisoners, and two hundred horses, loaded
with peltry, and other articles taken from tke towns, and he has
effe&ed all this with a very incoafideiable loss eithe*- of men
or property. The above is confirmed, with the particulars, that
General Scott is (lightly wonnded in the thigh, and that three
only of our men are killed. The General has sent back ten
ot the oldest men amongst his prisoners, with a meflagetothc
Indians, that it they do not immediately fend in every one of
our prisoners amongst them, he will put the other 40 prisoners
to death with the mod excruciating tortures."
Accouuts from theEaftern States concur in one general senti
ment of exultation, Joy and feftivity on the late anniversary of
independence.—lnßollon a public oration is annually delivered
at the requcft of the town—This year the orator was Mr. Thomas
Crafts, whose performance was received with applaule by his
follow citiicn*. The Oration to the Cincinnati of that (late was
delivered by William Euftis, which was highly and de
fervedly applauded.—The day was also celebrated at Wdrce&cr
and Braintree with uncommon fellivity. -Similar accounts from
the Southern States are received—all which fully confirm this
fentirnent, that Independence, Freedom and Government aie
dear to the citizens of this great Republic—That the Presi
dent and Vice-President of the union enjoy, as they justly
merit, the love and confidence of the people, that the general go
vernment is dear to the citizens, and that the laws ena£ted under
it, receive their approbation —all which is abundantly evident
from the trulv patriotic toasts and fentirnent* expicfled at a time
when genuine benevolence and philanthropy absorbing the af
fections, exclude every meaner consideration.
The rapidity with which the fubfeription to the National
Bank was filled* far furpalfed the most sanguine expectations.
Such facility to deposit so large a sum of specie, evinces the
wealth of the country, while the astonishing eagerness to sub
scribe is a proof of the high estimation in which the plan of the
Bank is held by the public. The fliarc- .ire already fold at a
great advance, and must rife, when foreigners come forward to
purchase. Many citizens who have been unfortunately exclu
ded, desirous of being stockholders will also become purchasers.
With the aid of a Bank organized as this is, the fifcal operations
will move with ease and celerity* and the establishment of
branches frdm the Parent-Bank will gradually dtffufe wealth
throughout the Union. We may therefore anticipate the time
when the credit of this country will not yield to that of any
other, when order will be completely established in the finances
of every state as well as of the union, and every species of pub
lic security have a known, determinate and fixed value. Even
should individual states neglect to make Adequate provision for
particular description* of paper, the government ot the United
States will be imprefled with the expediency of doing away the
disgrace resulting to the national chara&er from the exigence
of any depreciated paper trash ; altho' the United States should
make the most ample provision for their own debts, it is evident
that the hawking about other public securities In a very depre
ciated state reflets discredit on the American reputation, parti
cularly in the eyes of foreign nations, who will naturally con
found one species of paper with another. When it is considered
at what little expence to the union this may be accompliftiea,
we may reasonably entertain an expe&ation of so desirable an
event. A people poffefling the spirit, enterprising genius and
resources ot this country, will ere long be difiatisfied at feeing
its honor tarnished by the low value of some of its certificates
now float : ng in the market in a fort of amphibious state, and
the growing prosperity of the nation will dailj? add to that ho
nest and noble pride, which cannot brook the-flighteft imputation
of injustice.
A Georgia correspondent observes, that a treatise on the culti
vation of the vine, and the process of making wines, would be a
very ufeful addition to our agricultural stock of information :
the vine is a native of our foil, and from the nature of the cli
mate, and the goodness of the wild grape, he doubts not that
wines of a good quality may be made in various parts of the
United States, particularly in Georg"t%.
Says a correspondent, I'ome persons who have set themfelvcs
up to adtnoriilh and reform, and who at the fame time are known
to be inveterate enemies to public credit arid oppofld to the pay
ment of the national debt, are constantly finding fault with every
perion and measure anyways connefled with the finances. It is
lather outre to obfeive one person in particular perpetually de
claiming in print and out of print againlt speculators, when it
is well known, that scarcely any methods have been uneffayed
by this infallible monitor, /peculation, deep and Juperjicial specula
tion not excepted, to make a fortune.
The colonial afl'embly of the citizens of Chan
dernagore, in the Ealt-Indies, have protelted
againlt the condudt ofthe Englilh Government of
Bengal, which has not only encouraged the a
riitocrnti in their opposition to ihc revolution in
that quarter, and given fancSuary to foine of
their refugees, but has alio rescued others, by
attacking with a superior force tlie veflel which
was transporting them to France. The pi oteltalfo
complainsof commercial injultice and impolition.
The following refers to Bilhop Seabury, and
is copied from the New-Hamplhiie Gazette.—
While every polite attention was paid to this
eminent person by the citizens of this town, it
is with pleasure repeated, that the utmofl de
corum was observed and 1110 ft serious attention
paid, by crowded and refpeftable audiences, to
the various duties performed on the occasion bv
him, who is at the head of Episcopal affairs in
the United States, as the eldell on the bench of
Bishops.
In a (peculation entitled " Occurrences on a
journey in 1791," published in the Maryland
Herald, is an attack on the Pofl-Office Depart
ment, forirregularity in the tranfiniUion of News
papers. Fatfls should be Hated that the public
opinion may not be milled. Agreeably to the re
gulations of Congress under which the Poll-Office
is now conducted, the Post-Master General is at
liberty to charge for his trouble in transmitting
Newspapers ; —he has not done it. Papers cir
culate free of all expence, and the Poll-Offices
are open for the reception of them from every
quarter. This is an indulgence which the Prin
ters owe to the Department. But so important
an objetft as a free circulation of Newspapers for
the information of the inhabitants in every part
of these states, fhonld certainly not red 011 the
will, and depend on the indulgence of the offi
cers in any department. The public have a right
to expect from their Representatives in Congress,
and will no doubt obtain some regulations at the
next felfion, which will put the business upon a
footing to be depended on : For it cannot be de
nied that Newspapers now deposited in the seve
ral Poft-Offices, do nor always reach the place of
their dellination, for want of such regulations as
would require expence, aijd are therefore out of
the reach of the department as it is now organiz
ed. One adertion in the speculation above al
luded to, is entirely unfounded it is said, that
while we were dependent on the Britilh govern
ment, Newspapers found their way regularly
through every part of the Continent;—this was
not the cafe generally, and the few that did cir
culate were entirely independent of thePolt-Of
'fice, and were carried by the Poll-riders at their
ipleafnre, and on their own private account.
91
Gen. Adv
EXTRACTS,
The inftrtiiftions, delivered by the people of
France to their Representatives in the National
AfTembly, are a faithful portrait of their fenti
nients. They form a collection of the most in
terelling state papers, that ever were written.
They recommend the forming of high-ways and
canals ; the improvement of agriculture, and
encouragement of commerce; a provision for the
adminifti ation of justice: They paint out the
most falutavy reftrnints on arbitrary power; on
the expenditure, and application of the national
revenue: They are ditftated with a spirit unpa
ralleled in history ; a spirit at present utiiverfal
in France. They prove inconteftably, that the
fun of liberty and science has arifenin the land,
by which the clouds of despotism mult finally be
difpelied. Accidents, perhaps, may occur, which
for a while, may prevent these effects ; but fol
low they unavoidably must. So long as the pre
sent habits and femimeuts of the nation Continue,
so long must it befr'ee. The maxim, " That all
government is founded on opinion," is undeni
ably just. Amidst opinions, therefore, udiver
fally favorable to liberty, despotism cannot pos
sibly subsist.
Virtue, knowledge, and freedom, are the
grand requisites of national happiness. Without
these, no society ever poflefled comfort :—with
them, none was ever unhappy. On the last,
however, the two firft wholly depend. Liberty,
founded on equitable laws, is intimately connec
ted with all that is estimable or' worthy in hu
man nature. No sooner are men's persons and
property secured, than industry and opulence
are diffufed in society. When their cirfcumftan
ces are easy, and their minds unfettered by ty
ranny, they recover the life of their faculties.
Pleasure attends every exercise of the under fland
ing. The human mind will always be improved
where it is not overawed by authority. This
will still more infallibly happen, iffuch improve
ment leads to conlideration and preferment in the
community.
The qualities ofthe heart are no less interested.
here. Freedom is the parent of virtue, as well
as of knowledge. Treat a man unworthily, and
he will soon become less virtuous. Every gene
rous and manly sentiment languishes, in a Hate
of oppreflion. Revenge, cowardice, diffimula~
tion, every passion vuihich can torment the heart,
and render life a enrfe, is the natural produc
tion of such a condition. An enlightened citi
zen, in the pofleffion of wealth and independ
ence, is farther removed from the condition of a
slave, trembling under the rod of his master,
than the latter is from a beast. They arc in the
two opposite extremes of the scale of human hap
piness.
The truth of this reasoning is not founded in
speculation ; it is confirmed by the experience of
every age, and the concurring testimony of all
nations. Compare the splendor and happiness
of the free, enlightened inhabitants of ancient
Greece and Italy, with the mean and wretched
Hate of their abjetfl posterity ; and you must be
convinced, that the mere abuses of government
xan convert the most fertile fields in a barren de
sert. They can change heroes into slaves, and
patriots into monks.
Samuf.l Osgood, Elquire, hal resigned his office of Pofl-
Maller-General of the United States.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
££3" " Gracchus," "Henry," and other favors, in out
next.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Esther, Bufluiell,
, Sloop Rose and Hetty, Bags,
Polly, Burke,
Sally, Lawrens,
Orange, Rhodes,
Lemon, Hall,
Schooner Hardy, Green,
— Sally, Lounfburv,
Isabella, Anderfon,
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 18/6 18/9 pr. £
3 pr. Cents io/6 ioJg
Defered 6 pr. Cents 10/6 10/9
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett!. and other Certificates 17JS 17/988J
Indents lof 6 10/9 53^
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15J6.
Bank Subscriptions, 45 1048 Dollars,
Six pei Cents, weie fold, for cacti, in New-York, at 19/2, on
the 1 qtli instant.
TAKE NOTICE.
THE Manage r s of the Newark Bridge Lottery will
begin paving the Prizes drawn in the First Class on Mondav
the nth of July, by which time the Tickets in the Second Class
will be ready to deliver to applicants agreeable to the scheme.—
To accommodate holders of Tickets undrawn in the First Class.
the fame numbers in the Second Class will be lodged, if conveni
ent, i n ihe fame places where the firft were fold, as soon as poflible,
and if not, such holders must apply to the Manager who Hgned
their Tickets. Such persons wil! please to take notice, that appli
cation for renewal in the Second Class must be made before the
i ith of August next.
JOHN N. CUMMING,)
JF.SSF. BALDWIN, C Managers.
JOffN D. ALVF.Y, )
of Ncw-Brunfwick.
(iaw lm)
Newark, June *7, 1791
Virginia,
do.
do.
Nevis.
Cape-Francois.
St. Euftatia.
Cape-Francois.
St. Euftatia.
do.
93J pr. cent.
53i do
bii io.
do.
do.Intelligence-Office,
In Four th-St ret, *et, second Door below Market-Street.
Francis White
Buys and Sells on Coininiflion all kinds of
Public Securities and Paper Monin.
Tr an fads business for those who have claims
on the United Slat's, or against either of the States, particularly lor
the Officers, Soldiers ?nd Marin.rs, and others who have served
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad
ministrators, Attornies. &c. _
Certificates and such Paper Monies furnilhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to fpccie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. palled through the different
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured lor bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de-
P °Houfes, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought-and fold,
and Houfcs, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, icnted or set, or pro
cured for S'rangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
proftflion, out of Place, may hear ol Employ—and Families,
Merchants, Travellers and others, be supplied with (uitable do
mestics.
Those at a distance who may addrtfs on either the above lub
ie£b, their letters being post paid, will be duly attended to, by
WHITE.
(ep tf )
Philad. Tunc 22, 1 7QI
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chukut-Stkiit, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT O!
THF UNION ; has occalion 10 NEGOCIA7
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Oic>
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITE i
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
A FINE CHANCE FOR A YOUNG PRINTER
FOR SALE,
A Printing Press and Types.
together with the right of publilhing a PAPER, in good repi:
the subscribers to which are continually incrraCing - The prefei
number ot its patrons is between seven and eight hundred. T
types confifk ot Butctois, Pica, and i fufficient quantity of I.
get letter to display advert ifements to advantage. The fituatini
is in the interior part of Massachusetts, in the centre of
populous and tbrivng community, and within ly miles ot an ex
cellent Paper-M'll, where paper of every quality and size mai
always be had on short notice. Perhaps no country paper on th
continent has a larger fhareof Advertisements than the one offer
for <Me. A very considerable profi' also accrues from the sale i
Blanks of all kinds, whirh are much used in the place—from th
publication of Hand-Bills &<". 4c. It is a good (iiuation, alf
for a small Book-Store—and it is fuppufed ihe Book-Binding bt
finefs might be carried on in the fame place to advantage.
For ftiriher particulars, enquire of John Fenno, at his Office
No. 69, High-Street, between Second and Third-Streets. Phi
lade 1 '' ; a. r ' a "'8 '
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents shall come, or in any wife conccrp
That JAMES GARDNER, late ol Wilmington, Norlh-Caroltna.
deceased, did make four promiflory notes .ayable to SAMI'EI
JACKSON, of Piiilad lphia, Mer hant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix momhs—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelvr
months—and one for seven hundred and foriv-five pounds thir
teen (billings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight pounds thir
teen (hillings and thrce-p»nce, and payable in produce at Wil
mington :—Which said notes have been afligned by the said Sa.
mm' Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMKS
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty-feven pounds fifteen fliil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
These are th refore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT,
ROBERT SCOTT, S Executors,
, M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 2-jthMa), 1791
War Department,
MAY 30, 1 791.
INFORMATION is hereby given lo all the military Inv l ei
of the United States, that the sums to which they are
for fix months of their annual pension, from the 4th day of Mireh.
1791, and which will become due on the dav of Septembei
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commilfioners of th
Loanswithin the States refpe&ively,under the usual regulations,viz.
Every apolicauon lor payment mud be accompanied by thetol-
Jowirsg vouch- rs.
ift. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the perfor
poflcding the fame is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the futn
to which as such he is annually entitled.
ad. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form
A. B came before me. one of the Juflices of the connty of in
the fiat eof and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his pojfeffion was given, of which the following is a
cof)\ (the certifeate given by the/late to be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or vessel) at the time he was dijabled, and that he now re
sides in the and county of and has resided there for the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apoly for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to thefollowing foim:
I, A. B. of county of Jlate of do hereby constitute and
Appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my penfon Jot fix months, as an invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, and
ending the fourth day of September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealcd
in the presence of
Witneffit.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the. invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prcfid -nt of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Sireet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
May 28, 1791. '
Georce-lowh, June 30, 1791.
THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES h,v ng approv
-1 ed the sites for the Public Bu. dnas, to be erefled in purlu
.nceof the ,ft of Congress for eaablifhing the temporary and
permanent feat of government of the United States, the C m
m.ffioneis, appointed in virtue of that ast,, will meet at Geo g
Town on Monday the seventeenth day of October next, and pro
ceed to (ell, at Vendue, a number ol lots in the best situations in
the Federal City. A depof.t of 8 per cent, will be requ,red;ihe
residue to be secured on Bonds, with fecunty, payable in three
equal vearly payments.—The farther terms will be made known
atthefale. x
THOMAS JOHNSON, )
DAVID STEWART, S- Commifhoners.
DANIEL CARROL, )
CONTRACT,
For erefling BRIDGES over the Hackinsack and Pas » a ' ck
Rivers, between Powles-Hook and Newark, in the State ot
New-Jersey.
npHE Comroiflioners appointed by an atl of the legislature ol
i ihe (late of New-Jerfev, to erefl bridges over the Hackinfack
id PalTaick rivers, having obtained the neceflary surveys, are
I,a- ready to receive proposals for performing
ffer the following conditions for theconfiderat.on of such as may
• inclined to contract: . ... ,
The Situation of the bridge across the Hark,nfack river, will be
one of the following (Uuons, as (hall be hereafter determined
noft eligible. „ n A , u —
lft. At the place where the orefent ferry is established, where
:e width of the river is 1448 feet.
Depth at the eastern shore, 8 feet 8 inches.
Do. western (hore, 8 11
Created depth, 2 5 4 ,
2d. At a place more northerly, called Douw's Ferry, when
\e width of the river i 846 feet.
Depth at the eastern (We 19 feet 10 inches.
Do. western (hore 12
Greatest depth 35 ® . . ....
The situation of the bridge across thr PafTaick river, will be at
fir of the three following stations, as (hall be hereafter determin
d mod eligible. . .
ift. At the place where the orefent fetry is eftaolilbed, where
the width oi the river is 6 6 f^et.
(g6 tf)
Depth at the eastern (bore 8 feet 6 inches, -
Do. western shore 9
Grcateft depth *7 ,
2d. At a place more westerly, called Beef-Point, where the
readth of the river is 799 feet.
Depth at the eastern "shore 11 feet,
Do. western (bore 4 5 inches,
Greatest depth 13 4 . .
3d. At a place still more northerly, called Hedden's dock, in
the town of Newark, where ihe width of tho river is 526 feet.
Depth at the eastern (hore 4 leet 5 inches,
Do. western shore 10 8
Greatest depth 15 11 , n
The bridges are to be condoled on the pnnciplesof those erect
ed over Charles, Mvftick, and Beverly Rivers in the State of Mas
sachusetts, with a draw to admit a free paflage for vessels with fix
ed (landing masts, not lefsthan twenty-four feet wide, to be pla
ced in such part of the bridges as shall be determined most con
venient for the navigation of the Tiver, with piles or blocks o»
ach fide of the entrance of such draw, as shall be judged fufficient
:o aid vessels in pafling through. Also, one lamp on each fide o
the draw, to be lighted every night from funfet-to sunrise, durin*
the continuance of the lease.
The bridges aie to be built with such piles, timber, scantling,
and plank, as shall render them perfectly substantial and secure ir
the opinion of the commillioners, and are to be of a futficicnt
height to protest them against the tides, which rife at ordmar\
ides from 5 to 6 feet, and at spring tides from 8 to 19 feet. They
are to be 31 feet in breadth, viz.
Allowance for cairiage way, 20 feet.
Do. for foot walks, railed off on each fide, 4 each, 8 feet.
Do. for balluftrades, 1 foot each, 2 feet.
Do. for hand-rails for do. 6 inches each, 1 foot.-—Total, 31 feet.
The fides of the bridges to be secured with strong balluftrade'.
after the manner of the bridge between Boston and Charleftown.
The bridges and draws are to be kept 'n constant repair, and at
he expiration of the lease are to be surrendered in good order,
.greeably to the a£t.
The following are the terms which the commissioners are au
thor! fed to offer to contractors :
(e p. 3 m,
A Icafe of the exclusive privilege of the bridges for a period not
exceeding 99 years, with a toll equal to three-fourths of the pre
sent rates of ferriage.
From as accurate an estimate as could pofliblv be obtained, the
;.6tual receipts of the ferries for a medium of five years last past,
.mount to twelve hundred pounds, New-Jersey currency, per
annum, three-fourths of that sum will corifequently produce an
immediate income of 900 pounds per ann. This may fairly be
cftimated as the smallest profit that can be calculated upon. The
advancing population of the United States, the increasing inter
course between the two cities of New-York and Philadelphia, the
facility which the conftruftion of these bridges will give to travel
ling, the easy communication thereby offered with the state of
New-York, on the wettern fide of the Hudson, are all important
circumstances, which must necessarily tend rapidly to accumulate
the profits of the bridges. The commiGioners are moreover au
thorized by law to raise four thousand pounds to be applied to
wards making causeways and laying out proper roads conneffced
with the bridges, and have a lottery now on foot for that purpose.
As soon as the places (hall be determined on where the bridges
are to be fixed, and thecontra6ls for eie&ing them are ex cuted,
ihe roads and causeways will be immediately undertaken.
Such persons therefore as mav be inclined to contrast on thf
above principles, will be pleafrd to fend in their terms sealed,
within three months from this date, to Wi lli am Maxw el l.
Esq. in New-York, fpecifying the ftiorteft period of lease foi
which thev will undertake to erect the said bridges,together with
proper security for performing the fame.
Newark, State of New- Jcifcy> April 22, 1791
Blank Powers to receive the Interest, andfor the transfer of //
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflabliflied in the Trea
fury Department: Afo Blanks for abflrafts of Certificates, to be fold by
the Ed iter.
92
SAMUEL TUTHILL,
JOHN NEILSON,
ROBERT KEMBLE,
WILLIAM MAXWELL, |
JOHN PINTARD J
All persons concerned wiil be pleaftd to take notice that t •
following advertisement has been varied from that publi(bed i'.i
our paper of the 23d of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propoijls will l»e received at the
office of the Secretary of the Tre furv, until the firft Monday
in September next inclusive, forthefupply of all rations, which
may be required tor the use ot the United States, from the fiift (J 3 y
of January to the thirty-firft day of December, 1792, both days , n _
clufive, at the places, aud wuhio the diftri£ts herein after menti
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof Penn.
fylvama and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh
011 the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lntofh.
At anv placeor places, betwixt Fort M latofti and the mouth of
the Riv r at the mouth of the River Mufkingum.
At any placeor places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to theTufcarowas, and at theTuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the fa id
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf-
and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Sciolo River, and
the mouth of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rap'.ds, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Raoids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name whichrmpties inta
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe 0hi0,40 the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafti to Post St. Vincenn<s,
at Post Sr. V'ncennes, and thence up the said river Wabaih, to the
Miami village, befort described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllmois river.
At any place or places, from the moulh of the Miami irver to
the Miami Village.
At any place or place?, from the Miami Village to Sandtifky,
and at Sandutky, and from Sandulkv to the mouth of Cayoga river.
Atany placeor places,betwixt Tort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and it
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mou;h of Cavoga river, and at anv pla :e or places, oa
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by tbe
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, totiieri-er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any lations be requited at any places, or wiihin other
diftrifts, not fpecifird in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixtthe public and the contractor.
The rations to he supplied are to confiltof the following articles.
• \z. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or \ of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar, ( 10 0 rations.
Two pounds ot loap, r
One pound of candles, J
ALSO. That Proposals will be received at the said office until
he fir ft- Monday in September next, inclusive, for the fjpply of all
nions which may be required for the use of the United States,
'rom the fvft day of januarv to the thirty-ftrft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of Massachu
setts, and the Poftof Weft-Point, io the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame articles as
r e above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
he lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplv of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
Vom the ift day of January to the 31ft day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftrifts herein
after mentioned.
At the poll on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the Dost on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of thefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At anyother place or places within the state ot Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at ail times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said ports, for the space of at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses sustained by the
depredations of the enem), orby means of the troops of the United
States, thai) he paid for at the prices of the articles captured or def
troved, on the depohtions of two or more creditable chara&crs,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
compensation is claimed
The contra&s for the above supplies will be made either for one
ear, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
o contra# will therefore confine their offers to one year, or they
nay make their proportions so as to admit an election of th
term of two years.
The piopofals may he made for the whole of the above posts to
gether, or feparatelv for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,
nd the seventeen places following it, and for thepofts in Georgia;
"H (hey mull fpecify the lowest price per ration, for prompt pay
ment.
This day is publipied',
By THOMAS LANG, No. s«, Clmrcb-Allcy, and fold by J*
the BookfelWs, (Price 3-8 of a Dolter)
The Catechism of Nature;
For the Use of CHILDREN
1 w. 3m
By DOCTOR MARTINET,
Profeffor of Philosophy at Zutphen.
TRANSLATED FROM THS DUTCH.
w Read Nature—Nature is a friend to truth."
JQ"=* The price oj this Paper is 3 Dollarsp:r ar.n.