PUBLISHKD WRI >\' I- Si>A Y \ \ '
[No. T 04, of VoJ. lI.J
Discourses on Davila—No. 52.
BUT amidst all these scenes of anarchy, car
nage and defolatiori, aiul aniidit so many
pretentions to reformation, were there no pro
jects to change the form of government?— Yes,
there were ; and lonie persons appeared as zea
lous to deltroy the monarchy and nobility at that
time, as any of the national allembly, any of the
men of letters, or public creditors of the present
day in Fiance. One of these has left an ellaylo
■very curious that it is worth preserving : It con
tains all that can be said or thought, as far as I
know, against monarchy and nobility, and (liows
that the dodtrines which now prevail in France
are no new discoveries or inventions : They are
nearly two hundred and fifty years old. Neither
Turgot, Rochefoucaulr, or Condorcet, have the
merit of these invention?. Stephen Boetius, as
we learn from his friend Montaigne, died in
1563. His vehement Philippic against monarchy
and ariltocracy, mult have been written therefore
more than 230 years ago—it mult have been writ
ten an hundred years before Marchement Ned
ham's Right Constitution of a Commonwealth.
Inllead of taking praise to themselves, the men
of letters in France, if their present systems fuc
ceecLand prosper, ought to eredl statues and llrike
medals to Boetius and Nedham, whose political
dilciples they certainly are.
If by divine power a man flioukl be miracu
loufly formed of mature reason and full informa
tion of every thing, but men, nations and go
vernments : and you Ihould aik hiin, what he
thought of tWenty-five millions of men, compo
fmg the whole of a great nation, furrenderii.g
the whole sovereign legislative and executive
power over themselves to one individual, and or
daining that all that power should descend to his
male pofteriry forever ; he would probably think
it the moll irrational, and ridiculous idea ima
ginable. If you were to tell him that alrriofl:
all the nations of the earth had done it, he mull
be aftonilhed and very inquisitive to be informed
of the causes, physical, moral or political,
■which could have prevailed upon reasonable
creatures to consent to such an inllitution. Is
there any other answer that could be given to
him than this ? Mankind found by experience,
government necellary to the preservation of their
lives, liberties and properties, from the iujuftice
of one another. That they had tried all poffi
ble'experiments of elections of Governors and
Senates: But that they had found so much di
■verfity of opinion and sentiment among them.
So much emulation in every heart, so many ri
valries among the principal men, such divisions,
confufions and miseries, that they had almoll
unanimously been convinced that hereditary fuc
cefiion was attended with fewer evils than fre
quent elections. This is the true answer, and
the only one, as 1 believe.
It is to be regretted that Boetius, who disco
vered so much ingenuity in reasoning against the
one, and the few, had not told the many, how
they (hould govern themselves. He is for pujl
ingdown, but (hows not how to build up. That
lie who abates a writ ihould give a better, is as
reasonable a rule in legislation as in law. If
Boetius, or the National Mlembly had proposed
a sovereignty in three branches forming a mutual
balance, whi?h would have prevenred the one,
the few and many from running into the fins
that molt easily beset them ; they would have
teen justly applauded : but to throw the whole
power into the hands of a majority of that mul
titude against which Boeiius raves with more in
temperance, if poflible, he does against
Kings, is an experiment which must be fully tri
ed and found beneficial before it can be appro
ved. But as the reader will be more entertained
and inftrurted by the discourse of Boetius, than
w ith the discourse on Davila, he shall be no long
er detained from it.
LONDON, March 3.
Extra!} <sj a litter jrom Paris, January 7.
T[Tranflated from ilu- Lt sden Gazette.]
HE oath to be taken by the Ecclesiastics, is
the cause of much dillurbance, and it is, as
Jet, difficult to determine, what turn this affair
take, or what may be the final consequences.
To form a jnil idea of what iyay be the effe<fts,
on e must go back to the original cause of this
piocedure. When the clergy werefirftdeprived
A W. No. b.j HI&H-STREF.T, BETWEEN SICOS'D AND THIRD STREETS. PHI! AIiFI.PHIA
Wednesday, April 27, 1791.
of their properly, that is to fay before their civil
government was determined on, several Bifliops
b'gan to thunder foith their Anathemas againii
the proceedings of the National Aflembly, under
cover of" certain writings called Mandates, or
P ditoral letters. The refufal of the National As
fembly to eltablifti the Roman C atholic religion,
furniihed them with an occasion for writing and
circularing their inflammatory productions, the
whole view and design of which was to alarm
weak understandings and by universally spread
ing discontent throughout the Nation, to obligt
the Aflembly to defiit from their determination
of granting freeclorji of conscience. In the large
cities, and even in the Provinces, where the pen
pie were not wholly unenlightened, the poison of.
those Holy mj n could do no harm •; but in the
cantons where ignorance and superstition (till
maintain their influence over the minds of men
(places, fortunately, at this day no more than in
fignificant fpotsin thevaft extent of France) there
it was that disquiet took pofleflion of every bo
som, and the interested cauf'e of theJ'e gowned
hypocrites was made the cause of the God of
peace and purify ! —lf the disturbances at Nitnes
and Montauban had not been extinguished at their
firft appearance, again should we have witnefled
those horrid scenes which dif'graced Prance in
the fifteenth century ; but thanks be to God, the
vigilance and zeal of some neighboring towns,
more enlightened by the benevolent philosophy of
the present age, and principally Bourdc-aux, had
the ability to prevent those cruel excefies. No
sooner where these tumults allayed than the Civil
Constitution of the Clergy afforded another pre
text for infurrecftion. The National Aflembly
having divided the Kingdom into departments,
to destroy, root and branch, those former di
visions called Provinces, had thought proper al
so to direcft a new division of Dioceses. I hey
had remarked that the Bifliops had always ex
ercised over the Clergy of the second older a de
gree of authority littie ffoort of defpotifin, and
which appertained neither to the ipirit of reli
gion nor the Constitution ; In consequence of
which they decreed that the Bifliops fliould ef
tablifli permanent and regular courts, but (hould
pais, no aifis of authority till the second order
had been admitted into a fliare of their deliber
ations. It was to no purpose that the Bilhops
ftrennuoufly opposed those innovations (as they
termed them) and complained of an invasion of
the spiritual jurifdidiiun and that the Aflembly
encroached upon the authority of the Church.
They were deaf to their complaints and remon
strances ; and referred them for an answer to
the authority of Charlemagne and the ancient
discipline—Upon this the Episcopal Mandates
and Pastoral letters suddenly made their appear
ance again, (luffed with complaints more violent,
and refiecftions more bitter than ever ; but the
difcentented Clergy perceiving their letters dil
regarded and not answering the purpose intend
ed, fell upon other means of blowing up the
flames of discord. They flattered themselves
that a Proteflation, worded equivocally, and with
a plain title, and signed by some of the more ftt'ict
Clergy would have both a surer and readier ef
fect. And hence originated the famous Decla
ration, which at firft was only signed by those
refractory Bishops, who were deputed to the Na
tional Aflembly. This piece proposed a coalition,
and by that means gained some attention ; but
altho' it was publiflied throughout the Kingdom
to a degree of l'atiety, it made few converts, and
only received in general terms the approbation
of those whose opinions were already fixed 011
the fide of the Bilhops—So much clamour, secret
machination, felf-interefted opposition, and the
apprehension of flill greater evils, have at length
determined the Aflembly to take efFet r tual men
fures humble the High Clergy. Kor this pur
pose they have decreed, that all Ecclefiaflics ant!
public officers of the Church should be compelled
to take an oath " to support not only the gene
ral government of the Kingdom, but also their
own particular constitution 011 penalty of being
deprived of theirplacesandlivings." 1 h:s seems
to be the last remedy in a desperate cafe, the on
ly probable means of accelerating and confoli
datino- the re-establishment of order in the King
dom.—However (to speak the truth) there is no
EXTREME REMEDY without danger ; and it is
poflible that some recent proceedings in the As
sembly may be followed by a violent concussion
All the Bishops (excepting only the Bifhopof An
tun) have perfilted in refufing the oath—The As
829
[Whole Mo. 2o£.]
fembly refufes to give them any longer time :
and thus all the High Cletoy, and not a few of
the second order also, are upon the point of fee
ing themselves deprived of all thei, places and
of all their revenues."
\From Vol. 3, of " Memoirs of the Manchester Lit
" ' »» * " • / / n /-t
tsrary Society," just fubhjhcd.]
I REMEMBER it was fomc yeais since, men
tioned in this Society, that a method had bee.
recommended, but where 01 by whom I do not
ecolletft, of preventing the neceifiry of using
fpec r tacles in advanced age. Ii cot) lifted in the
practice of reading a very fmalJ punt by the
■ght ot a filial I candle. By this means the hu
mours of rhe eye being protruded, the cryftaline
'ens was supposed to be hindered from loiino; its
convex form, and ailuming that flainefs which
it acquires in old peifons.
I lately met with a gentleman, who, contrary
to what generally happens to men as they advance
in life/ was, at the age of fifty, become (ho: r-fight
ed ; whereas, when younger, his eyes hail not that
fault ; and w ho, instead of being obliged to use
convex glailes, had found it necelfary to employ
concave ones, and to procure them (till more the
older he grew. This change in his light, he in
formed in e, hefiilt obierved after having for
some time accufioined hinilelf to read a book
printed in a small character, and that frequent
ly in the close of the evening, when the li"hc
was not fav n-able for the pu pose.
As this is an uncommon fa iff, and may serve ro
confirm the prop-iety of the doiftrine I have"al
luded to, 1 thought it might be proper to com
municate it to the Society.
The sermon preached by the Bilhop of LandafF,
before the Humane Socie.y, at St. Martin's it! the.
Fields, on Sunday last, was one of the fine It and
moll impressive examples of Pulpit Oratqry we
have ever heard. His Lordthip's discourse v .is a
m )It happy compolition of theological learning,
pliilofophical difquifitiol), Clii illian inflrucftion,
and philanthropic exhortation, aided by the pow
erful influence of the molt graceful delivery.
The Queen has jtill: eftablHhed a Botanic Gar
den, with forcing houffes at Krogmore, where lier
Majesty and the Princefles frequently.pay vilirs.
HOUSE of COMMONS,
Monday, February 8.
AMERICAN Loyalists
• Sir Henry Clinton presented a petition from the
American Loyalilts, praying for farther relief.
Mr. Pitt said he had no objection that this pe
tition should be granted ; but he was much a
fraid it would not avail them. The time for re
ceiving such petitions had already been three
times enlarged. He did not know after all, but
that there might be cases which would deserve
the attention of the house.
Sir Henry Clinton said a few words upon this
petition ; after which it was received, and order
ed to lie on the table.
UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND BILL
The bill for appropriating to the public ser
vice 500,000/. of the unclaimed dividends was
read a firlt time, and was ordered to be printed.
Wednesday, March 2
AMERICAN INTERCOURSE BILL
Mr. Pitt brought in a bill for continuing the
laws regulating the trade between his Majesty's
fubjetfts of this country, and the inhabitants of the
United States of America.
This bill was read a sis It, and was ordered to
be read a second time to-morrow.
Alnioft all the clergy in Brittany, (France,)
whose influence on the people is vevy great, are
resolved not to conform to the decrees ofthe Na
tional Aflembly, refpec ( ting the civic oath, and
the civil confUtution of the church.
Between the people and the National
who vainly attempt to conquer this refratftory
f'pirit, desperate battles have already been fought
attended with bloodlhed.
In A 1 face, the Cardinal de Rohan, the clergy,
and vast numbersofthepeople are entirely ofthe
fame disposition as the Bretons, and resolved not
to submit to the decrees ofthe Rational Aflembly.
From the bey den Gazette, of February I.
Mr. Luzac, the Editor, after giving extracts
from the British papers on the fubjedb of the
WAR IN INDIA,
Inch as have been publiflied, adds, With ihefe
accounts, taken from English papers, it may be
Swe ll to compare tlie following extract of a letter,
dated Pondichery, July the 27th. The letter was
received by La Nyviphe, a French frigate ot war,
that left the IHe of France the 24th of last Sept.
and arrived at L'Orientthe 12th January.
" The army of Geiteral Meadows having be
gun its march the 10th or 12th of this month, as
if to proceed to CoinikoutoH*, for the purpose ot
attacking that of Tippo Sultan, commanded by the
Prince hiinfelf, the Madras Gazette of the 9th of
fuly, informed us, that on the 14th, a conlidera-
Lle firing was heard at a few leagues diltant Ca
rour, and that there was no doubt but that there
mud have been a brisk engagement between the
vanguards of the two armies. It was not before
the 27th that we were fully informed of the par
ticulars of this attack. Occnlar witnelles report
them to be as follow : The southern English ar
my having attempted to take a road, which led
to a defile, through which they intended to pass
in order to cross the mountains, without being
obliged to meet TipporSultan at Coimboutour,
and to pour in their forces into the extensive
plains of Seringapatnam, the capital of Mi fore—
the Nabob met them with his feletft forces, chose
liis situation as an experienced general, and de
ceived the English by opposing them, to appear
ance, with a battery of 2 or 3 pieces of cannon
only : But in one night augmented it to IJ, and
raised two more of equal force, as wings to sup
port the firft ; but concealed them behind bushes.
lie also placed in ambuscade in the plain of Jou
ary, at the bottom of the defile, a considerable
body of cavalry, and of Caytoquiers. The British
on the 14th July, advanced to force themselves a
paflage ; but were surprised to find the refinance
j»reat, and were obliged to fall back. General
Meadows then drew up his army in three columns,
and again advanced up to the batteries, which
he attempted to take by a (fault. The rolumn
which was directed to make up to the firft bat
tery, obliged to pass by the plains of Jouary,
to reach it : Two or three thousand hand-gre- j
nades here, cause much confufion in the column
arid the cavalry of Tippo at this instant came out
from their ambuscade, fell upon the column, at
tacked it vigorously, and prevented its rallying.
The two other columns were in the fame manner
driven back. Tippo-Sultan was posted behind
these batteries, with 12,ooochofen men, infantry,
and cavalry, and his army wjsd. awn up in order
of battle, at about a league from the place of
action. His son and Sayb-Saheb's commanded the
centre battery ; the other two were commanded
by Lally, andanother general of reputation. The
action, tho brisk, lasted 3or 4 hours. General
Meadows was obliged to fall back three leagues,
to encamp in a fafe place : He has loft in this at
tack his bravest troops. Provisions are fcaree in
liis army, and the price of then enormous. The
light cavalry of Tippo intercepts every thing
that attempts to pass between Trichenapala and
Carour. It is added, that Madras, which the
news of this action reached on tlie22d, is in great
consternation ; and that the loan of J lacs of pa
godas, which t lie English company is in great
want of, it is possible, may not succeed. This,
loan was opened at Madras, upon an interest of
10 per cent, the principal to be redeemed in two
years: Under the express condition, that if the
company is unable to pay at the expiration of that
rime, measures will be taken, fucVi as will best
fuir the convenience and advantage of the cre
>»
It is well known that the National Aflembly
had very sanguine expectations of relief to the
Finances from the patriotic gift and the volun
tary contribution of the fourth ofevery citizen's
income: Indeed, it was publicly alferted that
the contribution of Paris alone would amount to
30,000,000 of livres, about 1,250,000!. llerling.
How were these expectations answered ? It ap
pears by the last accouut Mr. Neckar presented
to the National Aflembly, 31ft July, 1790, that
the receipts of the patriotic gift amounted to 110
more than 361,000 livres, and of the voluntary
contribution 9,721,000 livres : so that the patri
otifin of all France, urged by all its ofators,
to fubfci ibe in support of its new born liberty,
produced about 420,000!. Englilh money, a sum
considerably less than our annual malt tax:
My rabies meet it is, I set down —
" Pauiois wish more to plunder than to pay
" At lealt, I'm sure it may be so in France."
Last week, during several days, the thermome
ter of popular fermentation at Paris, was at the
highefi. Several causes Angularly concur; ed to
p oduce this efFeA.viz. the departure of Mefdanies
— the abolition of the Droits d'Entree, the high
gtax lately imposed on industry—the dettrucflion
of the gaming houses, the turning a drift thou
fandsoffliarpers, and seizing their gambli'ng ta
bles and ca(h—the intrigues of various clubs, but
particularly that oPthe Jacobins, whose tyranny
is become intolerable.
M. <Ie la Fayette expetfted every moment an
explosion which would have laid the capital in
ruins. To his vigilance, coolness, and intrepi
dity, the inhabitants of Paris are, a second time,
indebted for their fafetv.
The flames of a religious war, once lighted, are
not easily flopped in their progress. Only fix
Bifliops liaveyet taken the civic oath. Those who
have not, have been fuperceded in their functions.
THE FRENCH NAVY,
At present consists of
Ships of the line, 74
Ditto on the flocks, 1°
Frigates, " 2
Ditto on the flocks, 6
Ships of the line in commission, 21
Frigates ditto,
28
Corvettes, 8
Brigs,
Flutes,
Total number of seamen,
CONSISTENCY OF MR. BURKE
" The greater number of the Deputies sent to
the Congress were lawyers—this study renders
men acute, inquifitive,dextrous, prompt in attack,
ready in defence, full of resources." See Mr.
Burke's speech on his conciliatory motion in 177J,
page 31.
" J LK 'S e my surprise, when I found that a
great proportion of the Aflembly vras composed
of Practitioners in the Law. From the moment
1 read the lift, I saw diftincftly, and very nearly
as it happened, all that was to follow." Re
flections on the Revolution in France, p. 31.
How happens it, that a profeffion, which in the
year 1 775, qualified an-American for legiflaiion,
lliould,in theyear 1 790, difqualify a Frenchman !
The partizans of Leopold have just published
an appeal to the Belgic Nation at large, against
the unjust proscription which the States of cer
tain Provinces were desirous of pronouncing
against the ancient servants of the Prince. In
this piece, they invoke the justice of the nation,
and demand that the moll respectable citizens of
each municipality declare their sentiments be
fore the Magistrates, whether the services of
these persecuted friends of government were or
were not agreeable to them. This public appeal
to the people is a pointed instance jf how much
the tone of the haughty House of Austria is chan
ged with regard to its fubjecfts.
A loom has been invented in Ireland to weave
cott<m and linen, by which two webs can be
woven at the fame time by one weaver, with
more ease and expedition, and, (as it is report
ed) with more perfe<ftion, than one web can be
woven in a common loom. A committee of the
Irifii House of Commons have made a report
highly in iis favour.
The corps commanded by General Suwarow,
has been in winter quarters since the 12th of
that month, and the Ruffian fleet in the Black
Sea, cnder the command of Vice Admiral Ufcha
knw, returned to the port of Sebaftople, on the
26th of December.
Yelterday Mr. Attorney General came into
Court at the old Bailey, and prayed the judgment
of the Court ujion a man who was con vitled on Sa
turday lafl of a misdemeanor 111 printing and pub
lishing certain obscene and icandalous prints and
libels, and he was.accordingly fentencedfor the
fame, to pay a fine of 6s. Bd. be imprisoned twelve
months in Newgate, and afterwards to fiud secu
rity for his good behaviour for three years.
The Pandora (loop, now inlearchof the pirate
Christian, has, probably, by this time, secured
this traiior to his King and country : the last ac
counts of iiim were, that he had entrenched
hiinfelf in one of rlie Friendly islands mounted
the Bounty's guns, consisting of eight four poun
ders, on two redoubts, and having plenty of
powder and ball, appeared confident, that no
force sent into those seas, would be able to dis
lodge him.
' A correspondent who happened to be in West
minster Hall when the high tide broke in on our
aftoniflied Lawyers—describes the court of King's
Bench in a chai acfteriftic manner •
The Judges looked alarmed when Mr. Bear
croft alledged, that judgment could not take
place on lawyers by water, as they were to un
dergo a fiery ordeal.
Mr. Law said a Collect nearly through ; not
having wholly forgotten his father's instructions.
Mr. Erflcine began a speech from Shakefpeai c
but recollecting the necessity of something reli
gious, he had recourse to the Scottilli mode of
extemporary prayer. It is wonderful, words
(hould be wanting to a man who has so many of
them on all occasions.
Mingay opened his mouth, and out burst an
oath, " that the Devil mutt have his due."
The firfl. boat that appeared for their relief
was an old inan ; and a general cry of' Charon'
frightened the whole court, least they should be
ferried over to the other world.
The " Reflections" of Burke on the French
Revolution, have drawn forth a swarm of pow
erful disputants. The names of Priestly, Tow
ers, Rous, Sheridan, Price, Capel LofFt, Dr.
Geddes, Major Scott, one German, and half the
members of the Nationl Meinbly, are already
mentioned. Mrs. M -.caui.iv Graham and Mrs.
Uarbauj.d, have also entered the lifts against
him, and drawn their grsy goose quills in defence
of the violated rights of men !
830
11
S
25,129
PARIS, February 17,
The two extremities of France, Britanny and"'
Alsace, are in a 1110 ft convulsed liate, and boiU
for the fame reason—in the former province,' well
known for the bravery of its inhabitants and their
little knowledge of the French dialeift, the peo
ple consider religion as injured, as annihilated
by the laws enacted on the civil constitution of
the clergy ; they think that their children wilt
not be baptised, and that the patient, ftruggli n >r
against the afiault of death, will be deprived of
the spiritual comfort he would at a former period
have foliciied and obtained from ihe Minister of
the Altar. "We will, fay they, keep onr good
Bifliop among us, and he (hall continue in his pa
lace at Vannes ; we will have our Redtors and
our Chapter, onr Clergy (hall be honorably us e d .
we will pay them their tythes ; we regre: the
suppression of the monasteries, and we deem wor
thy of public indignation all such as buy what is
misnamed national property." Thus was the
matter laid before the AU'embly on the 14th, and
it gavp rife tothe following decree : " The King
is prayed immediately to fend into that province
troops, to quell the disturbances that diflradt it
and commifiioners to calm the people's fury;"
and the Aflembly enacfts, " that the Bilhops of
Morbihaun, of Leon, and of Vannes, do attend
the House." It is imagined here, by both par
ties, that the Bishops will not be allowed to come
up to Paris, and that the foldierswill ineet with
a warm reception from the hot-headed Bretons.
11l Alsace, the people consider the religion of
their fathers as and feeni inclined to
risk their all tooppofe those whom they consider
as the tyrants of their conlcience. On the 9th
the Archives of the Cathedral were taken awav,
and the foletnn inflallation of the Chapter of
Stratfburgh took place the day following, in the
presence of the Cardinal de Rohan, at a town
called Off'einboury, four leagues from Stratfburg,
but in the Imperial territory : His Eminence of
Rohan gave a splendid repafton the occaiion.
In the fitting of Monday evening, the AfTem
bly annulled one of the most bare-faced contracts
that soothing intrigue ever extorted from the
weakness of a diflolute Court, and against which
the public voice criedout aloud, though theßaf
tile reared its gloomy head, and the police I'pies
were on the watch to seize every found—the ali
enation of the domain of Fenetanges in favor of
the celebrated M. and Madame de Polignac, on
payment of one million and two hundred thous
and livres, which funi was never paid into the
public treasury. The domain, with all its ap
purtenances, reverts to the nation, and will be
fold accordingly ; and at the fame time an indem
nification granted to M. de Polignac of 800,oo*
livres, was decreed void—the proper law officer
was enjoined to sue M. de Polignac, and the in
strument of the depredation, M. de Calonne
for the principal andintereft of that funi. Du
ring the debate M. C. Lameth imagining himfelf
aimed at by an insinuation of M. de Caftine, said,
" my name is in the red book, my mother re
ceived sixty thousand livres; I think my mother,
the wife of a soldier, a soldier's daughter, and
the sister of soldiers who merited well of their
country, and fuffered much during the admini
stration of Abbe Terray, deserved the indem
nification ; but as the spirit of party upbraids
inefo'-it, 1 here declare myfelf ready to refund
that funi, though as a soldier, my fortune is but
fm all."
MILAN, January 26.
M. d'Artois, afrer having received a positive an
swer from the Emperor—Tha: he could not per
mit him to come to Vienna, but that he might
chufe for his residence any other town in his do
minions—set out for Venice ; in his way thither
he was escorted by the imperial guard as far a»
Bergamo, where the Republic's foldicrs took that
task upon them, and saw him fafe to the capital.
There he intends to spend the Carnival, and vi
sit in the Spring the Southern parts ef Italy- The
Emperor is likewise expeifted at that time at Flo
rence, and his intention is, after having visited
his Italian dominions, to pass through those of
the Netherlands before he returns to his Impe
rial residence."
PITTSBURGH, March 26. . . .
Extract of a letter from Enfigo Jacob Melcher, of the Ift Unite
States Regiment, to the Printer, dated Mouth of Wabafn.
" J have been informed by a boat going down the rlve T> l at a
malicious and falfe report has bem spread of my conduct on tie
morning ot the 23d ult. when attacked by a large party o n
dians, in the river Wabafh, and in company with Mr. Vigo s oat.
I will now reverse the matter, and do affureyou, that in ' ca , t
my behaving contrary to what a military man ought to 0,
we fought as hard as it was poflible for about 12 or 15 minu e
Before I cleared the point of the I (land, which was verY narr< \
and (hallow, my boat was on fliore, and I was °blig e a |° P
her off under a heavy fire, the distance not more than w
yards. Mr. Vigo's boat was then about 30 yards above niC '
as soon as the firing began, they to a man laid down in t icir
and did not fire but two or three (hot,on which I ordere
my men, ffom those that were fighting, to man the oar *' , c
•keep the boat from (Iriking the ground ; in this manner
and rowed until I got from out the island, when I taw t
floating down towards the point of the island, and about t y
forty Indians go on board her, on which I ordeie my .
take to their oars, and made the best of my way < own '
and at du(k I arrived at the mouth, having had one man Kiiic
two wounded,t rc ,naincd one dav opposite the Wabalh, and then proceeded
, . (i.ftfcttlcment on the Mifliuppi, where I got provisions to
'° ' me to the American f ttlement at Koiknfkias. I mull here
<7: that my small party behaved as well as ever foldifers did,
ddie'men in Mr. Vigo's boat behaved as cowardly. This I
"{T and am able to prove to the fatisfa&ion ot myfelt, paity and
world, and I give it as my firm opinion, that fomc of them
mufThave known of the Indians intending to attack me, or they
m QU ( j not have fiifttred themselves to be taken. The lavages did
not touch one of them, but let them go. _
I {hall thank vou to insert this in your newspaper, ana as ioon
I pet to Post Vincennes, (hall demand a court of enquiry, and
have the matter fully investigated, and ihall transmit you the opi
nion of the court, for publication.
HARTFOKD, Apt il 18,
A Correspondent observes, by a paragraph from an European
oaprr, that the National Assembly of France, in forming a judi
ciary system for that kingdom, contemplate the eftablifhirient of
juries, but are at a loss to know what the Englilh mean by calling
a trial by jury a trial by a man's petrs ; and it has been much deba
ted whether any property, and how much should be made a re
quisite to constitute a legal juroT. There is no doubt but any man
would be puzzled to find how jury trial in England is a trial by
nery man's equals \ as civil suits of all kinds, whether between
two noblemen or two tenant# are tried by a common jury.
It is fufpefted that the English idea of the origin of juries is
wrong, and it has remained for one of our own countrymen to
detest the mistake. Mr. Webster, in his ElTays and Fugitive
■writings, has made it probablo that the word peer did not come
from a word, denoting equality, but had a very different origin.
If his derivation is the true one, it throws new light on the ln
dilution of juries, as well as on other parts ot the Englilh conlli-
tutton,
BOSTON, April 9.
Mr. Dobson, at Philadelphia, continues with spirit his fine
addition of the Encyclopedia.
Mr. Thomas, at Worcester, has made considerable progiefs
in the Folio and Quarto Editions of the Bible—Judges have pro
nounced both the letter-press and copperplates already finifhed,
to be elegant and correct.
Mr. Freneau —thc Pindar of America—is about eltablifhing
a newspaper, in New-Jersey. He has also prepared for the press,
a third volume of his Milcellanies.
Meflrs. Hodge, Al len, and Campbell, are pursuing with
spirit, a neat edition of Brown's felf-interpreting folio Family-
Bible, ornamented with copperplates, elegantly engraved by an
American artist.
SAVANNAH, April 7.
The fublcriber, imprefiTed with the most lively sense of the
iupport he met at the late Election of Federal Reprelentatives,
requests those Electors who honored him with their fuffrages on
theoccafion to accept this public testimony of his gratitude.
He has the afiurance to hope that he has surrendered the trust
jepofed in him to those who gave it inviolate, and he rctiies from
public life with the pleasing fatisfattion of having done his duty.
JAMES JACKSON.
Savannah, April 1, 1791.
TO THE PRINTER
TO evidence tlie positive and just attention
which the best military officers in the JJritifh
service have ever paid to the Indian Nations, I
think the annexed original order of the late Ge
neral Bouquet, to Ensign Pauley, commanding at
Sandulky, worthy being preserved in your Ga
zette, for which purpose I transmit it to you
if you think proper to insert it. It may serve as
a contrail to the injustice of other nations.
Fort-Pitt, 3d April, 1762
Sir,
Mr. Hutchins, who will deliver you this, is
going to visit the western Indians, and you
will please to give hhn all the assistance in your
power, and if poflible a bat tea u or canoe to pals
to Detroit.
Mr. Philip Doyle, has my leave to plant corn
at Sandufky, as near the Fort as poflible, provi
ded Mr. Hutchins can obtain the consent of the
Indians, for I would have no difficulties about it.
If it can be done, it would be a great saving
and conveniency for the support of your garri
son. He is to carry you some garden-feeds, and
I would recommend to you to taife a good stock
of greens, particularly turnips, carrots, and
cabbage for the winter. I am, Sir,
Your obedient, humble servant,
H. BOUQUET.
Ensign Pauley.
FROM THE (MaIT.) HAMPSHIRE CHRONICLE.
MR. PRINTER,
I AST Saturday night I went with several gentlemen, who view
ed and measured the rock from which Lt. Joseph Shaw fell,
an was remarkably preserved from a sudden death : And as I
oubt not but you will give it a place in your paper for your
readers I beg leave to fend you an account of it for publication.
On the morning of the 19th Feb. last, Mr. Shaw had taken a
and on the top of a very high mountain, for the purpose of
way-laying a fox which he expe&ed, as the hounds were then
in the woods, and at no great distance. He had not waited long
f °re the fox came in view on a cragg of the rock some distance
e °w him ; he fired, and the fox dropped from the rock on
TKf fell dire&ly out of fight down the mountain.
e f '°w was exceedingly hard and smooth, occasioned by a
«on iderable rain which had fallen a few days before, and after-
Vva r s froze very hard. A considerable quantity of water had
e m way from cinder the snow, a few feet from the verge of
•c preje 1 pice, and there frozen to a smooth, solid ice, which ad-
j c t0 *he hideoufnefs of the place ; a light snow which was then
a ,n g, made it impoflible to distinguish between the encrusted
now anc * ice : Thus ciicumftanced Mr. Shaw ventured to the
°f the ledge to fee what had become of his fox ; when
ad got within a few feet of the summit of the rock, he fteppefi
the icc, and his feet flipping up, he fell instantaneously
°*n the precipice.
wher 'h* dr3wn rom *ke pl ac c where he flipped off the rock, to
t Cr f e struck, which was on another rock, measures fitiy-
and an half; he then fell fifty-feven feet and an halffur-
j fel C }*l re ' ,e struck again, and from thence he slid twenty-five
ot (J ' even inches, to the verge of another ledge, or benching
hold e f rnouma,n , where he providentially flopped, by catching
he it ° A P' nc bush not larger than a man's finger. When
°ppcd,he lay wiih his head so far over the rock that he cou -a
look down the ledge, wheretf he had fallen again, he mull have
dcfcended seventy or eighty feet further, and probably have been
dalhed in pieces. As foori as he was able he callcd for help, and
two young men who were hunting, and *vere at the foot of
the mount ain, thr> they exerted themselves to the utmost of their
power for his dflillance, could not by any means get within feve
•ral hundred feet of him. Alter some lime had elapsed, his bro
iher, Mr. James Shaw, hearing him calling for help, tho at a
d (lance ol near a mile, came to his affitlance ; after two hours
incredible toil, he at length got within five and twenty or thirty
febt of him, and found it irapoflible to proceed any nigher.
Mr. Shaw, finding no way to be aflifted, found it necelfary to
extricate himfclf from his deplorable situation ; he therefore, not
without great danger, found means to get into his hand a dry small
ltick, the end of which he sharpened with his knife, and then by
cutting holes into the snow and ice, drew himfelf on his belly to
his brother.
One thing I had like to have forgotten to mention ; when Mr.
Shaw had lain in the situation I have described. near half an hour,
and was endeavoring to fhift himfelf into an easier pofturc, he
found his fox dead, and lying under him, which he threw down
to the men who wrere waiting lor them at the foot of the ledge.
Tho the two brothers were now together, they found it very dif
ficult to get off the mountain, which however they effected in
about four houts ; and notwithstanding Mr. Shaw had fallen so
far, an d was \ery much bruised, yet he walked home to his own
houff, nnd is now nearly recovered.
The above circumjlances are well authenticated.
Monson , March 28, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
SOFT o'er my foul the voice of music breathes,
Waking the sympathies which thrill delight.
The Mental Spirit hails seraphic light;
Heavenly Visions fill the fight.
Glory bangs immortal wreaths;
Joy the Harp divine unfheaths ;
Echo answering as it rings,
Female Virtue strikes the strings.
Nearly allied the trembling Pa/Jions live :
And all the Emotions of the human mind,
In mystic bands united, fondly give
Mingling responses, tremulously join'd.
Now tranquil Pleafurc foftly moves along.
Touching the cord to which mild Melancholy's voice,
In answers low, awakes the figh-cxciting song,
Making sweet Pity's tear-fuffufed eyes rejoice,
As now, in awful tho't fubltme,
She fees the immortal Spirit triumph over Time.
O Thou whofc foul, rcfponfive, wakes the lyre!
Throw off, of gorgeous praise, the rich attire,
And. with united labours, let us toil,
To raise the mind to energy of tho't;
To bid Morality attractive frnile;
And deep impress what Heaven itfelf hath taught.
O let us strive, with union'd hearts sincere ;
To form the patriot foul to deed severe;
To draw the sympathetic tear ;
To bid of love the generous transports glow;
The ennobling warmth of friendfhip flow ;
And kind companion's hand.
In extacy expand,
To soothe Misfortune's woe.
O let us wake the Imaginative Powers
Wbofe smiles give pleasure to the pafling hours ;
Whose kind progreflion weans the heait
From earth, and all its low concerns,
And bids it, anxious, wish that better part,
That borne, for which the immortal Spirit yearns ;
Which draws it, sweetly, from this fad abode,
To Heaven, to Happinef, to GOD.
This be our oraife—That Virtue, Truth, irifpire ;
And Human Bltfs, breathes o'er the echoing lyre.
A. B
Written after hearing a SONG sung by several SISTERS.
ARK!
Of warbled music float along the air?
Soft are the founds, —the Sifter band how fair!
How high flies rapture when it springs from P*)n*,
So round the lyre the heavenly Muses stand,
And charm the changing foul with varied joy ;
So Ella's lays the feeling heart command,
And faintly hide Apollo in the
Hail charming group ! lor you shall Fancy rife,
To you young Love his earliest homage pay ;
And while our fouls on foftencd flav'ry stray,
Your Minds preserve the conquests of your Eyes ;
Till ripe you fall, as Heaven and Fame approve,
From Beauty's branch, into the lap of Love.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
WHAT, she a pretty girl—you fay ?
She is the meereft bag—
Remove jhat darkling veil away,
Nor buy a pig in bag.
Philadelphia, April 27.
European accounts, received in various direc
tions, concur in a general approbation of the
measures adopted by the government of the Uni
ted States, for the establishment of peace and
promoting prosperity at home, as well as to sup
port their chara<fter and relpecftability abroad,
more particularly in regard to its public credit
and finances—and no law that has been enadled,
is more likely to conciliate the refpecft of Fo
reigners than that for the establishment of the
bank of the United States. The eflentials of this
Law are contained hi the Report of the Secre
tary of the Treasury, which appeared early in
the feflion ;it soon found its way across theatlan
tic—and strange as fame folks may think the cir
cumstance to be, the article which excludes fo
reigners from voting in the dire&ion of the
831
ODE TO BI RT HA.
FROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
SONNET,
! —hear'fl Thou not the sweetly (welling strain
IMPROMPTU
bank, is one of those which receives the fulleft
approbation among the 1110 ft intelligent charac
ters, the other fide ot the water.
A letter from London, to the Editor of the Ge
neral Advertiferin this city, fays—The National
AH'embly have equipped two vellels to go in quest
of M. de la Peyroufe.
When I left Madrid a trial for a libel was pro
secuting against 4 Italians and 3 Spaniards, all
men of family—they were accused of writing a
gainst the Queen, and the niinifter of finance
Not Florida Blanca, heis minister of State—and
a man who defei ves to be, and is beloved.
It was talked of at Madrid, that Mr. Cabarrus
would be set at liberty—This worthy gentleman
was accused of causing to be bought at Paris, to
the amount of eight millions in the French funds,
and the King had been made to believe there
would be a lofa of twenty-five per cent. But
since a private bancker of Madrid has contracted
for the purchase of those funds the disagreeable
impreflion on the character of Mr. Cabarrus, is
done away.
In Italy every thing is quiet—in Spain it is a
crime to (peak of the French revolution—ltaly is
still too fond of the fine arts, to allow them time
to turn their attention to politics. For my part,
I wifli that every nation may enjoy that liberty,
the sweets of which you Americans have so well
deserved and which you now enjoy in full per
fe<ftion.
" Wc are making great prr parations for the reception of the
the President of the United States.—There is to be a ball on the
night of his arrival -What think you of 1001. for the rent of a
house fix or eight days? Sixty pounds was the lowest it could be
obtained for—however, I tell them it is wrong to engage one
as the President will not deviate from his rule, which is, not to
take private lodgings." - „
No. 6052 has drawn 10000 dollars in the Maflachufetts Lotte
ry—bought by a country Farmer.
The mail from the Southward) due yejlerday, by some accident hat
mi/carried.
Two years have elapsed since the firft number of this Gazette
was published : In retracing the period, what a series of events
croud on the mind ! pieafing, important, and intercfting to man
kind in general, and peculiarly so to the citizens of these free
States. The transforming influence of that Conflitution, which,
without fraud, force or surprise, a wife and magnanimous people
have adopted, is most strikingly exemplified, in that peace, secu
rity, and respe&ablity, which this Union now enjoys :—Long
may they continue ; and under the'r benign afpe&s, may the
foundations of civil liberty be laid so broad and deep, as to resist
the changes of human weakness, and the ravages of time. It has
been the supreme ambition of the Editor to disseminate senti
ments favorable to the produ&ion of these events ; if he has, in
any degree, contributed to r.heii existence, his labors will be re
warded, at lead with pieafing refle&ions.
The present poftureof affairs in this Union, is as novel as it is
pleasing : Envy, faction, and party, are drftitute of a fubjett—and
except the pride o f prophecy fliould be piqued at finding its anti
cipations totally illusory, our country mud progress in freedom
and happiness.
The United States may therefore be felicitated on its situation
and profpe&s ; a glorious spirit of emulation pervades the several
governments, and to excel 111 arts, manufa&ures, agriculture, and
commercial enterprise, appears to be the general object.
A series of speculations in the newspepers, on the mod ufeful
fubjefh, are continually pouring a rich ve n of information and
inftru&ion through the country.
ELLA.
A spirit of Intolerance is almost universally reprobated— and
Religion, Moials, Politics, Law and Government, have fair play.
May no root of bitterness spring up to trouble us : May pros
perity not enervate us, no*- pride, corruption, and falfe glory,blaft
the faireft profpeft that Heaven hath ever delineated to the view
of the sons of men
" Hints to Reviewers" in our next.
11 Arc as" is not original—and would not do, if it was.
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defcred 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Setti.and other Certificates 16f 8o
Indents gf. 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, 12/4 isf. do.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
Arrivals since our laji.
Ship Swanwick, Camel, Lisbon, 45 days.
Brig Betsy, Night, Edenton, 7.
Do. Polly, Egger, Cape Francois, 30.
Sloop Sophia, Stites, Port-au-Prince, 35.
Do. Wilmington, Justice, Cape-Francois, 3,5,
Do. Chray, Williams, Virginia.
Do. Phoenix, Burrows, Turk's-Idand, 20.
Ship St. Peter, Lacofta, Lisbon, ss.
Schooner Betsy, Millers, Madeira.
Brig Newton, Hawkins, St. Croix.
Sloop Liberty, Montayne, St. Kitts.
Do. Oliver Mary, Mason, Savannah.
Do. Bermuda, Burrows, Bermuda.
Schooner Sally, Taylors, AuxCayes.
Do. Nelly, Byrne, North-Carolina.
Do. Holker, Deal, Savannah.
Brig Eliza, McKoy, Lucia, 17.
Sloop Friendftiip, Hill, Grenada.
Do. Polly, Heath, Virginia.
Do. Orange, Rhodes, Cape-Francois.
Brig Lady, Vanife, Do.
Snow Harmony, Pall, Oporto,) , ,
Capl. Truxton, frojn Calcutta, \ down thc rlver -
HENRY.
Funds of the United States.
ALL lcinrtsof ihc Pkbhc Debt ot the Union, bought, fold, ore*,
changed ; Foreign and inland Bills of Exchange, negociated ;
Merchandize of all forts Bought and Sold on CommiJJion, and lit
oiher Business in the line of a Broker, tranfa&ed by
WILLIAM CLELAND,
At the Office, next aoor loihe Cujlon-Hcufc, State-Street, iOSTOX,
Extra# of a letter from Charleston, S. C. April f.
To Correfpondetits,
FUNDED DEBT.
17/: pr. I
9/2.
8/u q/
85 pr. cent.
46 do.
44 do.PHILADELPHIA
SXPENCE AND PROMT OF RAISING SILK-WORMS
ONE hundred trees of two or three
year's growth, will feed an amazing
number of silk-worms, rate them at £.0 7 6
The land they are put in a mere tri
fle : They can be planted in hedge rows,
and improve the ground in which they
grow. Any vegetable or grass will
thrive well under them : indeed by
keeping the ground loose about their
roots jhey will thrive the best. Say
that the room they take up is worth
another dollar. 076
The worms thrive best in mere flieds
almost. A tight room is not the thing.
A hut, any kind of rough and flight shel
ter is best. An unfinilhed garret ; the
corner of a barn enclosed for the pur
pose, will serve : But suppose it were
lieceflary to run up a small building for
the pui'pofe, you may raise many thou
sands in one that every farmer may
build for liitnfelf and it wont.cost him
more than 300
3 IS o
Ten dollars is then the capital required to set
up this bufijnefs. *• -
JSlow let us fee what it will take to carry it on.
Suppose our farmer has a wife and two chil
dren. Well, about the ioth of June he thinks
ot hatching his eggs (they will cost him nothing)
and by rhe middle of August the work is done.—
In that time his wife children and himfelf, not
employed all the day long about the silk-worms,
may raise at lead 160,000 of them.
Then the only thing is to reelofFthis silk. To
be sure if will require time, patience and indus
try to reel off 1,900,00 c yards of silk which these
160,000 worms have made ; but no money is re
quired to doit. The wife and children doit at their
leisure, and when it is done they have 541b. of
raw silk to dispose of at 3 dollars per lb. this is
£■ 5° 12 6
All by the labour of his own and family's hands,
and that only during part of the year.
His trees remain, his (hed Hands, and his land
is itill his, and not impoverilhed.
And why wont our farmers plant these mul
berry trees and busy themselves in the culture
of this silk ? It is for want of thought ; but their
will be soon opened to their interest. £.50.
for a fuiall family to make in one year from a
capital of [. 3 1 only with iuduftry and atten
tion, is certainly worth thinking about:—Where
is rhe farmer that can do better with his land,
time, or money? - General Advertiser.
A -writer in the Columbian Cent'tnel, of
Mr. HAZ ARD's intended publication oj American
State Paters, fays,
HAVING observed in the Gazette of the
United States, an advertisement, inviting
subscriptions for a collection of AMERICAN
STATE PAPERS, 1 am not only well pleased my
felf, but am happy in believing that every friend
to Science and to America, who is acquainted
with the design, enjoys pleasure. The un
dertaking indeed is laborious, but the advantage
to the public will be iminenfe. The voluminous
collections of Purch as andßusH worth, in the
last century, have done eminent service to the
cause of Science, and formed materials of which
every I'ucceeding Hiltorianhas taken advantage.
The work of Mr. Hazard, has beenlongin con
templation, and pursued with a patient atten
tion and perseverance which does him much ho.
nor. He has already been so happy as to receive
the countenance and encouragement of the belt
judges and nioft diftinguilhed characters on this
continent—and it is hoped that gentlemen of
erudition, will do all that lies in their power to
forward the publication of so interesting a work.
Gallaudet andEwing,
No. 54, South Second Street,
HAVE imported -n the Lady Waltcrjlorf, from London, Man
chejler and Adriana from Liverpool, and the Birmingham
Packet from B.iflol, a GENERAL ASSORTMENT of
SEASONABLE GOODS,
which they will fell on reasonable terms. ({3" On hand for
fa]'., J few hogfheeds of OLD JAMES'S RIVER TOBACCO.
Philadelphia, April 9, 1791. 100 epim
FOR SALE,
In the City of Niw-Brunfuiick,
A Commodious TWO STORY HOUSE, almost
n w,p ifani ly fjti ;d on the banks oi the Raritan, to
gether Wish a large Lot in he rear, and a very good Wharf im
mediately in front of the House. Said House is thirty-four feet
square has tour rooms on each floor, with entriesbetween the fame,
and a good Hone cellar under the whole.
Any v-'fin inrlinina to purrhafe may have possession the firft
day ■■ \ M 'V nrx'. and l"iow the price and terms ot payment which
■will be r.HV b. aoo'vins to Lewis For m an, in said city, or
the iubfcTiher *n Borden Town. J. VAN F.MBURGH.
N. B. If not lold, to be rented from ill day of May next.
All peifons concerned will be pleased to take notice that the
following advertisement has been vaned from that publiftied in
our paper of the 2gd of March.]
Treasury Department.
March 22, 179 1 •
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propoials will be received at the
office of the Secretary of the Treasury, until the firft Monday
111 September next inclusive, for the supply of'all rations, which
may be required for the use of the United States, from the firil day
of January to the thirty-ftrft day of December, 1792, both days in
clusive, at the places, and within the diltn&s herein after menti-
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the state of Penn
sylvania and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntofh,
on the River Ohio, and at Fort M'lntofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M* Intofh and the mouth of
ihe River Mufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mufkingum
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at the Tuf
carowas, and thence over to the Cayoga River, and down the said
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River, and
the mouih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami,
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown,. and thence over to the
Miami Village, on the river of the fame name which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places froip the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Vincennes,
at PoftSt. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabaih, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh river to
the mouth of the rivfer Ohio.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the river Miflifippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllinois riv^r.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to
the Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sandufky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandulky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango and Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, and be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the nlou:h of Cavoga river, and at any place or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
rhe mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or places, from the said river Margot, to the river
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other
diftri£ls, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confiit of the following articles,
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of perk.,
Half a jill of rum, brancy or whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, (
rr 1 , rr ° > per. 100 rations.
iwo pounds or loap, C r
One pound of candles, )
ALSO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclusive, for the supply of all
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
ft'om the ;firft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of MalFachu
fetts, and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be supplied, are to consist of the fame'articles as
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the Ift Monday in September next inclusive, for the (apply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the Ift day of January to the 3iftday of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the post on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At the post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt,
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ol Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be furnilhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the space of at
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provisions.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, as
are abovementioned.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all losses sustained by the
depredations oftfre enemy, orbymcans of the troops of the United
States, shall be paid format the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable characters,
and the certificate of a commissioned officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for which
cornpenfation is claimed.
The contrasts for the above supplies will be made either for one
year, or for two years, as may appear eligible. Persons disposed
to couti ast will therefore confine their otters to one year, or they
may make their proportions so as to admit an election of the
term of two years.
The piopofals maybe made for the whole of the above polls to
gether, or separately for Soringfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorktown,,
and the seventeen places following it, and for the polls in Georgia;
and they mull fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt p'jyl
iy3~ The Printers who have publijhed the alove advertisement, are
requejled to reprint it with the alterations.
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION; has frequently occasion to NEGOCI ATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receive Orders
for.n-.king SUBSCRIPTIONS to tile BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
832
(g6 tfj
IMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG,and BOHE \
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICFS 'f.
Of the fir ft quality—by retail, ' * C>
No. 17,
Third Street, between Chefnut and Market Streets
fey A few New-York LOTTERY TICKETS
come to hand, for sale.
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In the Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Fsench, and It.uiaj
Lan gu aces— being part of a private Library ;
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Deiiu "hencs, Xcnophoti, p] ato
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Pro-.oius, Eufehius, Niccpho!
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Taciius, Scneca, Pliny, &<;,
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Csfar, Suetonius
Juvenal, Manilius, See. '
Offdvo & infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinus, Thco
phraftus, Epicletus, Hefind, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris
liberates, Polyaenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertiui'
Paterculus, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida Bui
chanan, Boethius, Poetffi minores Latini, Callipaedia, Stiada I
Valla, &c. ' '
G=r A Catalogue is left at the Book-Store of Mejfrs Rice and Co
Market-Street, zvherejurther particulars may be learned.
NOTIFICATION
Colonel Thomas Procter, Lieutenant of the City and Liber
ties of Philadelphia, being necessarily absent from the city, his
Excellency the Go ve r nor hath thought proper to authorise
mr to discharge the Duties of that Office until his return:—
NOTICE is therefore giver., to ihe MILITIA of the City
and Liberties of Philadelphia, the Northern Liberties of f,id
City, the Town (hips of Moyamenfing and PaffWnk, that they arc
to meet and excrcife under their refpettive Officers on the iol
lowifig Days, viz.
First Battalion on the 2d Day of May next,
Second Battalion on the 3d of do.
Third Battalion on the 4th of do.
Fourth Battalion on the sth of do.
Fifth Battalion on the6'-h of do.
Sixth Battalion on the 9th of do.
Seventh Battalion on the 10th of do.
ELEAZER OSWALD, Lirntenant,
pro tern, of the City and Liberties
of Philadelphia. ,
Philadelphia, April. 6, 1791.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A COLLECTION OK
MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS,
Partly original, and partly already publijhed,
Written by Mathew Carey.
CONDITIONS.
I. HHHE Work shall contain 200 pages ; be printed on the
JL finest writing paper ; and be elegantly bound, edge
rolled and lettered.
11. Price to fubferibers two thirds of a dollar, to be paid on the
delivery of the book.
111. The work shall be put to the press as soon as 250 copies
are fubferibed for.
IV. The fubferibers names (hall be prefixed,
gdT SUBSCRIPTIONS are received by Carey, Stewart,
and Co. a*nd all the other Bookfeliers in Philadelphia; also, by the
different gentlemen throughout'the United States, who supply fub
feribers with the AmericanMufeum.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1791.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
LIVINC S T 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in veiy good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, Jan. 1791
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
N0.91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
particular State.
GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
ICj 1 " THE principles on which this publica
tion is founded, have been appreciated by the
public, in that genera! circulation which the
Gazette has obtained : To hold up the people *
own government, in a favorable point of light
—and to impress just ideas of its administration,
by exhibiting facts, comprise the outlines of the
plan of this paper—and so long as the principles
of the Constitution are held sacred, and the rights
and liberties of the people are preserved inviolate,
by " the powers that be," it is the office ofpatriotilm,
by every exertion, to endear the general go
vernment to the people. Through theaimtance
of several diftinguiftied literary characters, w ®
labors would give celebrity to works of afuperio
denomination, this Gazette has been continue
two years,and the present number (208) formst
END of the SECOND VOLUME.
K S,
80 3m