/yftfec? /WJ cTyrzTrtJ&t: &
t
; ■
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS 3Y JOHN FENXO, No. 69, HIGH,STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREFTS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 8, of Vol. lII.]
TRANSLATED
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES,
A DISCOURSE OF STEPHEN BOETIUS,
Concerning voluntary Servitude : Or the Anti-One.
(Continued from A : o. 6of this Gazette.)
BUT ill truth, it is idle to debate, whether li
berty is natural since we cannot hold any
one in Servitude, without doing him wrong : and
there is nothing in the world so contrary to na
ture, which is all reasonable, as injustice. It re
mains then to fay that liberty is natural, and for
the fame reason in my opinion, that we are not
only born in the poffeflion of our freedom, but
also with affecftion to defend it. But if you are
in doubt of this and are so far bastardized, that
you cannot recognize your property, nor indeed
your natural affei'lions, I must do you the honor
which belongs to you, and raise up the brute
beasts into the pulpit, to preach to you, your
own nature and condition. The brutes (God
bless me) if men are not deaf, cry out to them,
' Liberty forever !' Several among them die as
soon as they are taken ; as the fillies which lose
their lives as soon as their water, quit the light
and will nocfurvive their natural liberty m If the
animals had among them their ranks and pre
eminences, they would make their nobiliiy, in my
opinion, consist in freedom. The others from the
gieatell to the least, when we take them, make
lb great a reliftance witli their nails, their horns,
their hoofs and their bills, that they declare,
loudly enough, how dearly they hold that-which
they lose. Being taken, they give us so many
apparent signs of the knowledge tliey have of
their misfortune, that it is beautiful to fee that
from that time, it is rather languifbing than liv
ing ; and that their lives are continued more to
bfcinoan their loft liberty, than to take pleasure
in servitude. What less than this is the language
of the elephant, who, having defended liiuifelf,
as long as he could, feeing no longer any remedy,
and being on the point of being taken, he seizes
a tree with his jaws, and breaks out his teem :
Kis great desire to remain 'free, as he was born,
gives him wit and invention, and instigates him
to bargain with the hunters, to be quitted for
his teeih, and to pay with his ivory tlie ransom
of his liberty. We pamper the liorfe as loon as
he is born, in order to tame him to the service :
and although we know the art of flattering him,
and succeed in taming him, yet he champs at the
bit, and he flings at the spur, as if to ihevv his
nature, and teftify at least by this impatience,
that although he serves, it is not with his con
feut but by our constraint. What shall we fay
then ? Even the oxen groan in the yoke and the
birds complain in the cage, as I have laid here
tofore elsewhere in some of my amusements in
French rhymes, for I am not afraid, in writing
to you (O'Longa) to intermix my own verses,
which however I never read but when you make
me vain by pretending to be pleased with them.
Since therefore all things which have fentiuient,
or sensibility, feel the evil of fubjetftion and pant
after liberty : Since the beasts, which are made
for the service of man, cannot accustom 'theni
felves to service, without frequent protestations
of a contrary desire : What marvellous abfuidity,
is that which has been able so to unnaturalize
man, who in truth was alone born to live in free
dom, as to make him lose the memory of his
primitive condition, and the desire of regaining
it ?
There are three forts of tyrants. I speak of
wicked Princes. Some have their Kingdoms by
the election of the people—others by force of
arms, and others by succession of consanguinity.
Thole who have acquired it, by the right of war,
we know very well how they behave in it. They
are, as we fay, in the land of conquest. Thole
who are born Kings, aie not commonly much
better : being bom and nouri(hed in the blood
of the tyranny, they draw in with their milk
the nature of the tyrant, and make a property,
an estate of the people who are under them, as
of their hereditary villaines : and according to
their complexions, by which they are more in
clined to be avaricious or prodigal, they behave
in their kingdoms as in their inheritances. He
to whom the people have given the State, ought
to be, I should think more supportable : and
would be lb, as 1 believe, were it not that, as
soon as they fee themselves elevated above others,
flattered by something, 1 know not what which
is called grandeur, he deliberates on the me,ins of
holding his preeminence. Commonly fucta an
•Wednesday, May 25, 1 79 1.
one makes &n estate of the power which tiie
people have depolited inhini totranfmit it to his
children. But, from the time that these have
taken such ail opinion, it is a Itrarfge thing, how
much they surpass in all forts of vices, and even
in cruelly, the other tyrants. They fee no other
means, of afluring the new tyranny, than by ex
tending far and wide, thefervitude, and estrange
their fubjefts so far from lib vty, even while the
memory of it, is still freft. ■ as to make them
wholly lose it. Thus to i-jf the truth, 1 fee
very well that there is some difference between
thein ; but 1 fee no choice—and although the
means of arriving at kingdoms are different,
still the manner of reigning, is very much alike.
The eletfted as if they had taken bulls to tame,
treat them accordingly. The conqnerors think
they have a right, as to their prey : The fuc
ceflors, think they have a right, as to their natu
ral llaves.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ODE
TO HENRY.
WITH what an anxious, trembling, joy
Doth Modesty his powers employ !
While earnest pantings fill his breast,
He shrinks with (hadowy fears diftreft.
Warm'd with Fancy's glowing fire,
Henry can thy foul desire
Far from Virtue's aid to fly ?
Virtue daughter of the Iky.
C I had hoped, with fond delight,
With thee, ambitious, to unite ;
With thee to wake the answering lyre ;
With thee the strength of truth infpirc.
Now thou fli'ft the doubtful field ;
Yet untried, I fee theo yield ; {
Shun the stormy face of day,
Which to glory points the way.
We might have join'd, with studious care,
To chafe from earth tire fiend Despair.
To wake new tenderness and truth,
New virtue, in the foul of Youth.
Mi.ejht f- ; -ndfllio rijP**
Love regardless of disguise ;
Merit garb anew the mind ;
Worth the glory of mankind.
To us the Muse have oped her store
With luxury unknown before ;
Our fainting fouls with strength have fired ;
Our fotig with energy inspired.
Now a tear her cheek bedews—
" Henry hath forgot the Muse.
" Slights the power whose constant care
" Makes him lovely to his fair.
" Tell him, altho the fires of ever.,
" Before the Sun, are loft in heav;n ;
" Like, are the Muse's splendid iays,
" Th c gloiy oj the latter days.
" Radiance gilds the Poet's sky ;
41 Heavenly visions fill his eye ;
" Time's dominions unconceai'd,
<c All Creation lies reveal'd."
Georgetown, (S. C.) April 30,
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
The address of the inhabitants of Georgetown, and its vicinity.
Si R,
WE, the inhabitants of Georgetown, and of its vicinity, beg
leave to congratulate you upon your fafe arrival in South-
Carolina, and to assure you, that having ever entertained a high
sense of the obligations which you have conferred upon your fel
low-citizcns in general, we are happy to embrace this opportuni
ty of tettifying to you our particular fentimentsof gratitude end
of affe&ion : We are no less happy, Sir, at being called upon by
the laws to obey, and to refpeft as firft Magiftraie of the federal
Republic, that person, whom of all men we were most disposed
to revere as our benefa&or, and to love as the father ol his country.
Having ftiared in the diftrelfcs of the war, and been exposed to
those calamities, and to that lofsof property, which were the con
fluences of it, we have been taughl to set a proper value upon
the exertions which were made in our behalf, we have experien
ced the happy influence of your councils, Sir, and have distinguish
ed you as the guardian of our laws, and of our liberties, as an m
ftrument in the hands of providence to protect our dearest rights,
and to save us from oppreflion. The breath of popular applause
is fleeting, but the merit of such illustrious actions can never be
effaced ; they czjry along with them their best reward, and we
trust, Sir, that in pursuing your progress through this state, you
will have the fatisfa£tion to perceive a spirit of freedom, which
your services during the war enabled us to maintain ; a degree of
order and tranquility, which your administration has diffufed,
and a growing profperny, than which no better proof could exist,
of the goodness and efficacy of that government, over which you
preside.
Such, fir, are the feniiments with which we approach you upon
this occasion, and fucii the feniiments which wc shall in honor,
and in gratitude transmit to our latest posterity.
Signed by order ot the inhabitants of Georgetown, and its vi
cinity. HUGH HORRY,
Wszc? tcasts /vet*
G*y/k , t J
hfiifid,
29
ELLA
JOSEPH BLYTH,
¥.. ROTHMALER,
F. KINLOCH,
GEORGE KEITH,
MATTHEW IRVINE,
R. BKOWNFIELD,
SAMUEL SMITH.
[Whole No. 216.'
THE ANSWER.
To the INHABITANTS of GEORGE-TOWN, and of iti
VICINITY.
G£ntlemen,
I RECEIVE your congratulations on my arrival in South-Ca
rolina with real pleasure, and I confefs my obligations to your
affe&ionate regard with sincere gratitude.
While the calamities, to which you were exposed during the
war, excited all my sympathy, the gallantry and firmnefs with
which they were encountered, obtained my entire esteem 1. x
to your fortitude in those trying scenes our country is much in
debted for the happy and honorable issue of the conteft—from
theintlv'er virH»t:s, inchuratt.rife your cond«i& hi peace, our
equal government will derive those aids, which may render its
operations extensively bcneficial. •
1 hat your participation of ev.cry national advantage, and your
proiperiry in private life, may be amply proportioned to your
past lervices and fufferings, is my fuicere and fervent wish.
Irious Biotticr, GfcOKGi. WASHINGTON, Pre
sident of the United Stales.
'o our
Si r,
AT a time when all men are emulous to approach you, to ex
press the lively sensations you inspire as the father ot cur country,
permit us, the brcthern of Prince George's Lodge* No. 16, to
have our share in the general happiness, in welcoming you to
Georgetown ; and the pJeafure ot refle&ing that we beholrl in
you the liberator of our country—the distributor of its equal
laws—and a brother of our mod antient and mod honorable in
flitution.—At the fame time indulge us in congratulating you on
the truly honorable and happy situation, in which you now stand,
as the grand coudu&or of the public interest of these United
States.
Having by your manly efforts caused the beautious light o'f li
berty to beam on this western hemisphere, and by the wifdoni
Heaven has graciously endowed you with, established the liber
ties of America on the jufteft and firmeft basis that was ever yet
recorded on the annals of hiltory, you now enjoy the fupremeft
of all earthly happiness, that of diffufing peace, liberty, and
fafety to millions or your fellow-citizens.
As a dup reward for your patriotic, noble and exalted services.
we fervently pray the grand architett of the u.iiveii'e long to bless
you with health, (lability, and power—to continue you the
grand pillar of the arch of liberty in this vast empire, which
you have been so eminently distinguished in railing to the pitch
of perfection at which we now behold it.
May the residue of your life be spent in ease, content and hap
pinefo—and as the great parent of these United States, may you
long live to fee your children flourifh under your happy aufpiccs,
and be finally rewarded with eternal happiness.
We conclude our present address with a fervent wish that you
will continue as you have hitherto been the friend of our antient
and honoruble order and of all worthy masons.
J. VvHirt, "J
R. GRANT, J
A.COHEN, from Prince
J. BLYTH, 1 George's Lodge.
J. CARSON, J
Georgetown, April 30, 1791.
To the BRETHREN of PRINCE-GEORGE's LODGE No. 16,
Gentlemen,
THE cordial welcome which you gave me to Georgetown, and
the congratulations you are pleased to offer on my ele&ion to the
Chief Magistracy of the United States receive my grateful thanks.
I am much obliged by your good wifhcs and reciprocate them
with sincerity—alluring the society of my esteem, I request them
to believe that I (hall always be ambitious of being considered a
deserving biother. GFORGE WASHINGTON,
Charleston, May 5, 1791.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
Sir,
THE intendant and wardens, repfefentatives of the citizens of
Charleston, find themselves particularly gratified by your arrival
in the metropolis of this State.
It is an event, the expe&ation of which they have, for some
time, with great plcafure indulged.
When in the person ol the supreme magistrate of the tJnited
States, they recognize the father of the people, and the defender
of the liberties ot America, they feel a peculiar fatisfaftion in de
claring their fiim persuasion, that they speak the language of their
conftituenti, in asserting that no body of men throughout this ex
tensive continent can exceed them in attachment to his public cha
racter, or in revering his private virtues : and they do not hesitate
in anticipating those bleflings which must ultimately be diffufed
among the inhabitants of these States, from his exertions tor their
general welfare, aided by those in whom they have also rested a
(hare of their confidence.
Go on, fir, as you have done.—Continue to pofTefs as well as
to deserve the love and esteem of all your fellow-citizens ! while
millions in other parts of the globe, though strangers to your per
son, (ball venerate your name.
May you long be spared to receive those marks of refpefl,
which you so entirely merit from a grateful people, aud may all
who live under your auspice«, continue to experience that free
dom and happiness which is so universally acknowledged to have
proceeded from your wife, judicious and prudent administration.
At nold Vanderhorst, Intendant.
THE ANSWER.
To the INTENDANT and WARDENS, Representatives of the
citizcos of Charleflon.
Gentlemen,
THE gratification you are pleased to express at my arrival in
your metropolis, is replied to with fincenty, in a grateful ac
knowledgement of the pleating feufations which your affc&iouatc
urbanity has excited.
Highly sensible of your attachment and favorable opinions, I
intrcat you to be persuaded of the lading gratitude which they
impress, and of the cordial regard with which they are returned.
It is the peculiar boast of our country that her happiness is
alone dependant on the ooHe&ive wisdom and virtue of her citi
zens, and rests not on the exertions of any individual. While a
just sense is entertained of our natural and political advantages,
we cannot fail to improve them ; and, with the progress of our
national importance, to combine the freedom and felicity of in
dividuals.
I (hall be particularly gratified in observing the happy influence
of public measures on the prosperity of your city, which is so en
titled to tbe regard and esteem of the American Uniou.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
GEO&CE WASHINGTON.FOR THE GAZETTE OF TliL UNITED STATES.
SONNET TO Jt E FLECTION.
THE Lord of light has journey'd down the fly,
And b;i:h'd his courfeis in the foaming wave ;
The twinkling flar of hv'en too, hastes to lave,
Her (liver form, and vanish from my eye.
Now dusky twilight (lings her sombre shade,
O'er the bright beauties of the silent vale,
The afpin trembles not, the verdant blade,
No longer nodding answers to the gale.
Come fwect Refleflion ! hither pcnfive Maid !
Direst thy wandering steps, and on this iVjne,
Worn by no travellers feet, with inofs o'ergrown,
R pose with me in solitude's deep (hade.
Then (hall I know the height of human bliss,
And tafle the joy of other worlds in this.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jsrr. u.
THE maflacre of the brave garri&n of Ifmael
by the Ruliians has so enraged rhe grand
Seignior tliat he has (worn to pursue the war against
the Ruffians to the utmost extremity, and never
to pardon the useless cruelty exercised by that
nation, even in the midst of its victories, and af
ter so many conquests. Wethei eforedo not think
that the Sultana mother will be able to persuade
her son to participate in the universal dread and
consternation that reigns in the capital.
The Sultan, who feeins alfured of apeace with
the House of Aultria, is preparing to direcft all
his forcesagainft Ruifia.
frl the mandates which he has sent to all the
Governors, Pachas, and Cadies, throughout his
estates, he breathes nothing but vengeance, or
dering them to enrol all his fubje<fts, who are
able to bear arms, from fifteen to sixty years of
age ; but the general consternation ieeuis contra
ry to rhefe ineafures : Peace or war can no longer
depend either on the forces or the decrees of the
Divan. The destiny of the Turkifli empire de
pends entirely on the mediating powers, by their
putting a flop to or prolonging hostilities, or by
their giving or refufing peace. There is, however,
some likelihood, that the Porte, upon reflection,
will, after having made peace with the houle of
Austria, conclude one with the Emprefsofßuflia.
VIENNA, Feb. 23.
We are allured, that England has demanded a
categorical answer from our Court as to what his
Imperial Majesty will do if the Empress will not
conclude a peace, and the allied Courts fliould
find it neceilary to oblige her to it.
LEYD EN, March 3.
In these times of trouble and agitation the con
tagion had reached Switzerland, but the prudent
firmnefs of its government, particularly that of
the Canton oi Berne, flopped the fermentation
in its beginning, but it exists strongly on the fron
tiers, particularly in the Biftioprick of Bade, and
at Geneva, which latter place fuffered a kind of
assault on the part of the peasantry, who pretend
ed they ought to be admitted to the privileges of
citizens gratuitoully ; and who, in that enterprise
were seconded by the French of the county of
Gex, whilst the populace favored them within
the city.
The true purport of all this seems to be to make
Geneva a French municipality.
PARIS, March 10,
No sooner is the spirit of infurreftion quelled
in one province, than it appears in another with
redoubled mifchief. Blois and the circumjacent
towns are a prey to all the horrors attendant on
fanaticiftn. The ex-prelate will, in despite of
the law, continue in the fee ; the prieftsand de
votees of both sexes identify themselves by the
crofter-and mitre ; they inflame the minds of the
more ignorant, and are ingenious in fomenting
difcoril, and breathing execration against the
proceedings of the Aflembly. Compte De La
Tour, known by his unmilitary exploits at Bifort
in Alsace, which place he was obliged to quit,
is now at Metz; he was the person coinnm'iioned
by the Prince of Conde, to alt the elector for
the use of his palace at Worms—it is very gene
rally imagined that M. Artois, M. de Calonne,
and rhe chief of the French fugitives will foun
meet there.
The King is now considered to bethe molt de
cidedly for the New Constitution—every a<ft of
Ins goes to prove it; and so convinced are the
National Reprelentatives of what we advance,
that yesterday, when it was in agitation to know
•whether or not the adminifhator of the public
treasure should be named by the King, it was
decreed in the affirmative.
It is fomewbathngular that Britons, who come
to France to view the Aurora of liberty, soon
become wedded to the aristocratic principles
we know many who, at home, are columns of
the opposition, but are here friendly to the un
popular cause.
The King lies dangerously ill. The late trou
bles have altered the ltate of his health: He
J'pits blood and lias a most violent cough. He is
confined to his bed.
A letter from Lyons informs us, that the Mef
dames palled through that city without any op
position. They mult consequently be now out
of the power of the National Afleuibly and of
the Kilh-woinen ofParis.
Comptede Mirabeau was the highell bidder
for the Abbey of Argeiueuil, so celebrated for
the tears of the too tender Eloifa when lhe re
ceived the veil from the hands of her unfortu
nate husband. The Comte is fending thither the
elegant library of the late Mr. BufFon, which he
has also bought.
The Duke de Richelieu died the 12th of this
month after along illness; he leaves one son,
who is at present in the Rufiian service, and
who diltinguifherl kimfelf at the taking of Ifniael.
The ladies of Thouloufe allembling in great
bodies ta hinder the Clergy from taking the ci
vic oath, the municipality ordered the pumps to
be worked, and actually walhed away all their
opposition.
B I R T H A.
Major-General Popow, is arrived here with
dispatches from Prince Potemkin. He has deli
vered up to the Eniprefsthe keys of Ifmael, toge
ther with th* particulars of the liege which have
been publilhed by order of the court. The whole
narrative takes up three sheets of paper. There
were in the fortrefs 42,000 regular troops, be
sides the inhabitants; 30,8r6 men were killed;
14,000 were taken prisoners— 2,000 Turkifti sol
diers died the next day of the wounds they had
received, and 1000 more were diftributecl among
the conquerors, to be supported by them.
The Empress intends to make Prince Potem
kin a prelent, as soon as he arrives, of a mag
nificent and superb suit of clothes, adorned with
diamond buttons, epaulets, and loops, worth be
tween two and three hundred thousand roubles.
Her Majesty has also purchased for him the Pa
lace of StockbofF for 400,000 roubles, which is
to be fitted up and furniflied in the molt superb
stile.
All the frontiers are lined with troops, artille
ry and ammunition, just as if an invasion was
threatened.
An attempt had been made through the ladies
of the Seraglio, with the Empress Mother at their
head, to induce the Sultan, on account of the
late very ill success of his troops, to come into
a peace on any terms. These were seconded, or
more properly set on by fix thousand Grandees
of the empire, who had all put their hands to a
petition for that purpose. But the Sultan, 011
receiving advice of the capture of Ifmael, and
the cruelties pra<3ifed there by the Ruffians,
most gallantly fvore, that he would sooner be
buried under the ruins of Constantinople, than
make peace with so brutal an enemy.
Everfince that period it has been publicly pro
claimed at Constantinople, that it (hall be death
for any one to talk of peace ; and the ladies of
the Seraglio have been enjoined under threats
of the fame puniftiment, not to intermeddle again
in any thing of the like tendency. The Empe
ror, no doubt, finds himfelf strengthened by the
exhortations of the Britifli and Prussian ambafla
dors, who have certainly promised him assistance
from their mailers, should their offers of medi
ating a peace l>e rejected. The Emperor of Ger
many, too, it is not doubted, will give assistance
to the mediation, the moment bis own peace with
the Turks is concluded, which is allowed to be
in the most favorable train.
In the mean time Catharine still remains llub
born. Prond and imperious, and unaccustomed
to controul, she will not allow of any mediation,
nor admit of peace at all, unless dictated by her ;
or rather means perhaps entirely to defer it, till
her favorite General shall have planted her en
ligns on the walls of Conftantinoplt.
To oppose any attempt which the Pruflians may
intend to make in favor of the Turks, her ar
mies in Livonia are perpetually increaling. To
oppose the Englifti, should they offer to enter
the Baltick, orders are given to fit and imme
diately draw out her whole fleet, confiding of
thirty-fix ships of the line, and several frigates,
the command of which is entrusted to Prince
Alexis Orlow, who/performed so many gallant
things in the course of thelaft war, on the coasts
of Egypt, and several parts of the Levant and
Greece and was afterwards some time resident
here in England.
The American Payne over-flrepped the bounds
of prudence, and his publisher ihru nk from the
danger ; but another has been found more hardy.
That publisher has escaped for the ' Leflons to a
Prince the principles of which work, refpe<fl
:ng our having ' 110 political constitution,' no re
presentation, &c. are literally adopted and co
pied by Payne.
Sundaya meflengerat Lord Grenville's Of
fice from Sir Robert Ainslie, our Minister ar
the Porre, with advice that some fre(h impedi
ments had been recently thrown in the way of
the negociation for peace between the Turks
and Ruffians ; and that, in consequence thereof,
the Grand Signior had issued orders for recruit
ing his forces with theutnioft celerity and vigor.
30
PETERSBURG H, Feb. 22.
LONDON,
March IJ.
March 23.
A child of fourteen years of an* »i -
a gallant, is a fine panegyric on n.odeKS
A Fa(t The Porter at a canlr-.l !
city, got the half of a ao.oool. p, J2e f""
ago. He commenced gentleman kemh"
'' and so forth," and i„ a very 'few yea,"' u'
dint of galloping, arrived at his l.,(l '}.■
is now porter at the very inn where he fornic I
plied and as to «is a!> We „ as X
expected. a "
On the 17th inft. about 7 o'clock in the morn .
mg, a fire was d,fcovered in t | le Great 1)
ry at Canon-Mills,Edinburgh, occupied al '
lent by Mertrs. Steins. The damao e is cJ '
ted at 20001. but tiie preraifes are n,l,i ie d
The quackery of Animal Magnetilm Iti'lK
its Notaries even.among persons of reputed fente'
The Empress ofßuflia acfted wifely wli eu lhe 1,
nifhed impostors of all kinds f, o a, her domint
ons. Magnetism, we believe, was also baniiW
from France, after being detected and proved ,
gross fraud on the underftandino-.
The transports, with provisions, and 220 con
vicfts bound to 3otany-Bay, failed from Ireland
the 10th inft. They are to call at Madeira and
remain for the fliips from England, with a' fti]i
larger freight.
Several of the French refugees intend to ap
ply for bills of naturalization, with a view of
establishing themselves in this country. One
for the Marquis of Clioileul is now before thr
House of Lords. C
March 2j
The majority in favour of the bill for apply.
>pg 5:oo,oool. of unclaimed dividends ti>the pub
lic use, is much more in argument for the bill
than we are tiled to consider majorities in gene
ral. Only fifty-four could be found- wlk> would
vote agsfinft it.
Thefqnadron destined for the Baltic will con
sist of eight line of battle (hips, two forty-four
gun frigate*, and four cutters. Lord Iloo'd will
probably be appointed to its command.
The petition against the unclaimed dividend*
lyiug at the London Tavern to be signed by the
ftockliolders, fills very (lowly.
Ihe aggregate number of ftoclthohlerj, a»
lately stated, amounts to one hundred and twen
ty-nihe thousand persons.
The company of booksellers of Dublin, have
resolved on giving a considerable bounty for ay
improvement in the manufacture of paper in
that country.
HOUSE OF COM MO NS,
Wednesday, March 23.
The Speaker and several members attended in
the House of Lords, to hear the rtoyal aflent gi
ven by conimiflion to the Indemnity bill, Ame
rican Intercourse bill, Mutiny bill, and several
private bills.
Roman Catholic Bill.
Mr. Pitt gave notice, that he should to-morrow
move for the poltponing of the commitment of
this bill for a few days longer.
From the CONNECTICUT COVRANT.
THE PATRIOT.
THE constant cry of the British merchants to
the Americans is, you are by nature design
ed for an agricultural society : You have an a
bundance of land ; an extenlive country adapted
to the culture of almost every kind of valuable
productions : To the multiplying these produc
tions you should bend your whole united efforts,
and leave to Europeans the trouble of transport
ing these produces to foreign markets—working
up into the various manufactures that part whicli
are designed for such improvements, and return
ing you such of them as are suited to your mar
kets. But why, 1 ask, do they constantly ring
this peal in our ears ? 13 it because that manual
labor, applied to the production of raw mater
ials, will procure the person who performs it
more of the con veniencies of life than the fame
quantity of labor employed in manufactures ?—
Certainly not ; otherways common laborers in
the field would get better monthly wages than
Jradefmen, which every one knows is not the
cafe.—Would it not therefore be quite as wife
and economical for the Americans to fend their
wheat to London to be made into flour, and re
turned for their consumption, as to fell the 811-
tilh merchant their tobacco, and import from
Great-Britain their ftinfF-—and so 011 their iron,
&c. These foreign counsellors, aided by ill in
formed and interested Americans, urge us to la
bor in the field altogether, and leave it to the
Britons, the Persians, and the Chinese, to cloath
us for feeding them. Let us examine this mat
ter, and fee if this advice be the result ofiriend
fhip for us, or from an insidious plan, long fine 6
laid, of keeping us always dependant on them,
and subjected to their domination.
It is true we have, at much expence and haz
ard, set ourselves free from the dominion of then
government —we have set their armies at defiance
—but not their artifrins. We are not in reab.;i
ndependent whilll we arc obliged to look to
hem for our lieceflary cloathing, or even liiper
iuous ornaments.
Suppose the whole population of this country,
which is lo rapidly increasing, were devoted to
hulbandry—what depreciations would be made
in our forefts*! How loon would our fields be
cloatlied with every kind of grain—apd our pas
tures filled with cattle, feeding oil a thousand
hills ! This would be charming—no fear of a fa
mine—every one would have food for allcing fol
ic—but what price would our provisions bring,
and what is to be done with thefurplus of them ?
Why fay thel'e wife men from the East, (and their
humble retainers of this country) let the Euro
peans come and fetch them away, or starve.—
This is very good—and pray what are we to do
if their crops lhould not happen to fail them—
or when their kings should be tired of war, and
consent that their iubjeCts be permitted to culti
vate their own fields in fafety ; will these fo
reigners, out of mere charity, come and take your
i'uperiiuous crops off your hands ? Will they give
you a generous price for your wheat, &c. ? I
presume not. Pray let me alk these politicians,
these friends from the other fide the water, who
are so alarmed left we injure ourselves, by en
gaging improvidently in manufactures, why
grain is dearer in England than iii America
Our lands do not produce so many bushels on the
acre as theirs—we give higher for labor, and yet
we undersell them lb much in market, thattheir
farmers would be ruiaed if a free importation
from this country was admitted. I (hall proba
bly be told that rents in thac country are higher,
and that causes the difference; but I demand,
why are rents higher there than here ? Why be
raufe the products of land will fell so mueh high
er there than here. And why do they fell so
much higher there than here ? Is it for exporta
tion ? No such thing—lt is because of the "inalti
tude of their mechanics and artizans, who create
a conltanc demand for home consumption.
A home market is always the belt, abating ex
traordinary demands that may arise from the ac
cidental failure of crops in a foreign country ;
or the ruinous depredations of enemy. The
average price of wheat in England, 1 suppose may
be stated at 6s. to 6s. 6d. lterling the bufiiel.
"When it arileth to 7s. the bufliel, their ports are
opened for importation, lealt the dearnefs of
bread (hould injure their man utadlures; but when
it falls to the uftial standard, their importations
are prohibited, left the farming interell (houkl
l'uffer.
The average price of wheat in America, taken
at the farmers' lioufes, inay be rated at j to j-6
of a dollar ; tho at the ports of. exportation it may
average one dollar. But if our country was as
full of manufacturers as Great-Britain, our grain
would be principally wanted for home consump
tion, and the price would be raised to js. 3d. or
even 6s. sterling the bufliel. The farmer would
then save not only the transportation to the sea
port towns ; but the subsequent storage, shipping
coastwise, freight, insurance, &c. to Europe; and
the price and rent of lands would rife in propor
tion. But this is not the whole advantage—.if
we can make our own cloarhing, it will soon re
duce the price materially, and enable them to
make a saving in their purchases as vvell as on
the sales of their crops, so that the farming in
terest is most intimately concerned in tlie fuc
refs of our manufactures. Whenever wool be
comes as plenty in this country as it is in Eng
land, the price of woolen goods made here will
be as low as those of the fame quality are in that
country ; and the expence of purchasing, pack
age, storage, shipping charges, freight and in
stance will be a clear saving to this country.
J his cannot be rated at less than 20 per cent, on
all our importations Think of these things
my countrymen, and let your Patriotifin appear
by your conduct.
Utility cj planting Willow Trees in Burying Grounds.
FOR many years pad, the phi'.ofophcrs and phvficians of Eu
rope have borne a testimony against the interment of the dead in
the centre of large cities. But since the difcoverv of the ufefulnefs
«t trees in absorbing putrid air, and discharging it in a pure Hate
much less *vil than formerly is to be apprehended from ifns p , dr '
tice. To derive and extend the utmost possible benefit from this
discovery, would it not be an a a ot humanity in each of our reli
gious societies, to surround their grave-yards with trees ? They
would afford a {hade to a ctfnfiderable part of our city, and add
to it! coolness and ornament in the summer. The weepm* wil
low would accord mod with the place. U puts forth its leaves
tarly in the (pring, and returns them late in the fall. Befidcs,
Doflor Priestly has demonstrated, that it is the best and quickelt
correttor of impure air, of any tree that grows. Its rapid growth
■will moreover, in a f«w years, give us all the advantages we expect
,rom Mufcum.
PORTLAND, May 9.
We have heard from Falmouth, that at a late meet ; n;r of that
town, the inhabitants were all, except four, in favour of a lepa
ra un from the other part of the Commonwealth.
A: Standilh, 46 were for, and 16 againll the measure.
At Hallowell and Vaffalborough, they were all in favour of a
separation.
Ihe inhabitants of Portland are on Wednesday next to confi-
and decide upon the question.
N E W-Y OliK, May 20.
Tlie St. James's Chronicle of the 15th March,
fays, the toial average price of wheat in Eng
land, and Waies, per bushel is 6s. qd.
£~/ce
LANSIrtGBURGH, May 13.
Ihe Hon. Oliver Phelps and Ifracl Chapiri,
Esquires, are appointed the judges of the court
of common pleas of the county of Ontario ; Ju
dah Colt, Esquire, iherifl", and Nathaniel Gorhain,
jun. Esquire, Clerk.
The road from the weft branch of Mohawk l i
ver contracted for byMefl! Pepoon and Edwards,
mentioned in a late paper, is found to be a mis
take ; it ourfhc to read from the wejiern branch of
the Delaware.
BOSTON, May 14
On Thursday the Circuit Court of the United
States was opened in this town. The procellion
was formed at the Senate-Chamber, and proceed
ed therefrom in the following order :
Eighr Constables, with Itaves.
Deputy Marlhals Bradford and Thomas.
Marshal Jackson.
Chief Judge Jay.
Judge Cushing—Judge Lowell.
Attorney of the United States—Attorney-General
of this State.
Clerk—Rev. Mr. West
Barristers, Counsellors, other Gentlemen of the
Bar, and Citizens, two and two
Tlie pro'cefiion having arrived at the Coin*
House, and the usual Proclamations being made,
a very refpecfiable Grand Jury was sworn, (of
which Mr. Thomas Harris, of Charleltown,
was appointed Foreman) —After which the Chief
Justice delivered to them a (hort and elegarit ex
tempore Charge.
From a Briflol paper of the 26th March, brought
by Capt. Wilder, w: have extracted the following : —
Paris, March 20. A meifenger extraordinary
sent from the Northern Department has brought
to the National Aflembly intelligence of the most
afflicfting kind from Douaj. The seizure of a
boat full of corn gave rife to a dreadful commo
tion; and to quell which the troops of the line
being brought ouc, refufed to obey their com
inlander. The municipality being unwilling to
declare the martial law, the fury of the insur
gents had full scope for its execution ; and two
of the national guards, who wished to interfere
in the riot, were suspended at the fatal lantern
post. The members of the deparsment, terrified
at chefe proceedings, would not flay any longer
in the town, but fee off to hold their fittings at
Lisle.
Philadelphia, May 25.
In arbitrary governments, there are no " fixed principles," whether
the adminiftratton be in the hands of the one, ihefew, or the many
It is efll-ntial to a free government iha there thould be " fixed prin
ciples" ia its conflitution : The jorm of theConftitution may be al
tered, modified, and adapted to particular circumstances ; but the
great principles always remain—they are unchangeable : These
principles refpeft the unalienable rights of man in all possible fi
xations, whether in a civil or savage state : They exist indepen
dent of government, or society—are ins-parable from a /late of
freedom, and are therefore the basis of every free Constitution—
they refpea the rights of the minority as well as the majority, and
cannot be " annihilated" without the interpolation of despotic
power.
With all the guards to libeity that can poflibly be devised,
such is the prevailing influence of riches, honors and pteajures, that
mankind in all ag?s have facrificed their precious rights and pri
vileges to gratify their appetites for these baubles: And it is in
vain to talk, of equal rights, ar.d of constitutions, to a people who
are uninformed—for as an enlightened people can never be ensla
ved—so it is impoflible that an ignorant people can long continue
fr «- —What is the duty then of real patriotism ; Is it to cry aloud
that Liberty is in danger, when every man fits quietly and securely
underhis own vine and fig-tree, having i,one to make him afraid f
Is it to pretend extraordinary zeal in the cause of freedom, while
no exertions are made to place the people out of the reach of ty
ranny, by addingto the bleflings of liberty, the means of perpe
tuating the invaluable inheritance ? The following extradl from
Dr. ADAMs'Defence of the American Constitutions, on this point,
will remain a monument of his penetration and philanthropy, so
long as genuine patriotism is conlidered a virtue—Ue observes,
" The inftruftion of the people in every kind of knowledge that
canbe of use to them in the prafticeof their moral duties as men,
citizensand christians ; and of their political and ciril duties as
members ol society and freemen, ought to be the care of the pub
lic, and of alf who have any (hare in the condu6t of its affairs, in
a manner that never yet has been praftifed in any age or nation :
The education here intended, is not merely that of the children
o. the rich and noble, but of every rank amJ clafjof people, down
to the lowest and poorelt: It is not too iitSfch to fay, that schools
or the education of all should be placed at convenient distances,
and maintained at the public expence." In this way, and this
only, can we provide fuflicicnt checks to a baneful aristocracy,
wnich is always disposed to monopolize the avenues of knowlege
to the exclusion erf the great mass of the people. No greater fole
cilm can exist, than that a man (hould be a friend to Freedom
and at the fame time opposed, or indifferent to the
means of learning among the people, except it be this, That a
friend to an universal inftruftion of the people, in the knowledge
of their sacred, civil, and political rights, (hould at the fame time,
be an enemy to public liberty !
On Friday the 20th inft. the Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Efq
S-crctary of State, and the Hon. James Madison, Esq. arrived at
New-York, from the Scat of Government, on a tour to the East
ward.
The Grand Vizir Haffan Pacha lias been deposed and beheaded
Papers from London, received by a late arrival at New-York
inform, that there is not the least idea of peace at Petersburg'
Ruflia but on the contrary, every thing wears the appearand
of war.
On thequeftion for commiting the bill on the unclaimed di
vidends, in the Houle of Commons, March 15, there appeared in
tavor of the commitment 191— againfl it 83.
Lend on papers of a late date, fay, that the Pope has disowned
and cxcoinmuoicated all the new Bilhops of Francc.
31
ExtraH oj a Utter f,em a laly in Chtrltjlm, to heirffiend in this city,
" O nr city lias been iniuch a bustle all this week,
and every body so much taken uji with our be
loved President, that little or nothing like busi
ness has been done, as you will fee by the news
papers 1 fend yon. He arrived lalt Monday—and
was received with every pofiible demonltration
of joy ; almost every body went to fee him, ea
ger to have a fight of a man they so much love—
I went among the reft ; tho 1 had seen him so
often, I wished to have one more look, as tis pro
bable it will be the last time.
On Wednesday evening he honored the cor
poration ball with his company ; the collec
tion was very large and brilliant indeed—near
ly 2 Jo ladies, elegantly drefled—many wore sash
es and ribbons 011 their heads with his picture
painted on them, and different inlcriptions in
gold and silver letters, pertinent and fentiinental.
When he entered the room joy sparkled in
every countenance ; but more I'o when, after
being seated a few minutes, he rofs, went all
round the room and bowed to every lady—this
gave particular fatisfa&ion, as every one was
anxious to have a good view of him. The city
hall was elegantly prepared for this occasion ;
The pillars were all entwined with laurel and
flowers. On Thursday the Governor gave a
public dinner, and in the evening there was a
concert, given by the St. Cecilia Society—at which
the number of ladies exceeded those at the ball.
The President dined with the Governor,
and passed the whole evening at the concert
he gratified the company greatly by frequently
star.ding up, and with charming ease and digni
ty walked about the room anticipating the willi
es of every spectator. On his entrance, and ac
his retiring, pieces prepared for the occasion
were performed. The heartfelt fatisfatflion de
pid;ed on every countenance, was reflected from
one which beams with benignity on all.
The bells have been ringing and gnns firing
every day since his arrival ; yesterday howevei"
was pretty quiet as lie dined at a private din
ner with Major Butler. This day he is to dine
with the merchants—and on Monday next he
takes his departure for Savanna ; May every
protecting angel be his guardian."
Asa iyiuptooi that a more enlarged plan of po-
Hey will in future be adopted by the Britifli go
vernment, leave has been given to bring a bill
into the House of Commons, for the relief of
the proteiling Roman Catholics, by a repeal of
thefeveral penal laws against them now in exist
ence. This motion met with little or no oppo
sition even from the minister.
We are left, by the latest foreign prints, to
wander in the wilds of conjecture as to Eui'opean
news and politics. It seems the Grand Seignior
has sworn that he will not make peace with Ca
tharine, till she has expiated for her cruelties at
Ifmael ; we do not learn whether his fubjedts
have sworn to support the oath taken by Aclimet;
some accounts wear a different appearauce so
that as to peace between Ruilia and the Porte,
we are just at the point we fat out from months
ago—uncertain.
It seems to be very problematical what part
Great-Britain means to take in this war whe
ther coercive, mediatorial, or neutral ; it is
probable that Catharine will pursue her objedl
without consulting any of the other powers
meantime the stock-jobbers mull have something
to form the basis of fpeculatien, and whether
Great-Britain Jhall interfere or jiot P appears the
most obvious question for the moment—this be
ing the cafe, nothing but positive jafts can be de
pended upon in all that we read on the fubje<ft.
With refpe<st to French affairs, the English
papers gi«e accounts of various infurre&ions in
the provinces—but they appear to be merely lo
cal and temporary—and have no important af
petft on the revolution—so far from this, it does
not appear that there has ever been in contem
plation any fei'io'us plan of a counter-revolution
and perhaps to this hour all the oppofiiion that
has been made to the decrees of the national af
fenVbly, has not been more than was neceflary to
keep alive the fire of patriotifin. This was re
markably the cafe in these United States at the
commencement of theconteft with Great-Britain
—In some States there was a greater proportion
of dftaffetfion to the cause of liberty, than in
others, but the whole quantum produced and
kept alive, a watchful, vigorous and animated
oppofuion, which finally carried us to the con
fum niation of our wishes. It is the prayer of all
good men, and of Americans in particular, that
the cause of freedom in France may obtain a
compleat and glorious triumph, and that the es
tablishment of a free and equal constitution in
that great empire may forever blast the hope!
of defpotifin both in Church and State.
Pft ICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.
: 7ji. 17/2 pt.£
9/' 9A
o/i._
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cinti
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Srttl.and ntl.et Certificates 16
Indtnts qfr
N. and S. Carolina atbts, icj.
May 7,
1. 86 pr. cem.
46 no.
45 do.
80
43 do.
d».An historical View of the COD-FISHERIES of France, England
FRANCE
— Ton- So- v . , Value
fcs Kcntals. ~
~Z nage. rnen Dollars,
1577 >5°
1615
1626
i6i°
1676
»73 l
1744 5 6 4
1764
176,5
1766
1767
1768
1769
1770
1771
1772
1773
1774
1775
17 8 5
1786
1787
1788
1780
179°
27>d°° ■>44 I >s°o
259 2 4i4 a0 9»7 28 200,000 861,723
264 24,996 10,128
ADVERTISEMENT
HAVING completed the fecoud volume of this Ga
zette, its patrons, and the public at large, are inform
ed that it •will be prosecuted on its original plan, "with
every improvement that friendfhip and ingenuity may
fuggefl.
The price of this Gazette, (publijbed Wednesdays
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum —one
half to be paid at the time of fubfcriiiug.
The utmofl putiCluality is observed in transmitting
the papers to fubfcribtrs : The Editor thinks is
the faireft profpeß that Information frotn the feat of
government, to the extremes of the Union, will in fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, than
through the pajl winter.—Additional subscriptions
from all parts of the Union are therefore foliated.
An index to the second volume is preparing for the
pre/s.
This volume contains the laws of the two lafl feflions
ef Congress—the journal and debates of the house of
Reprcfentatives—reports of the heads of departments
besides a greater variety of original communications
immediately contießed with the intere/h of the United
'States, than any other periodical publication.
Editor acknowledges with gratitude tht punc
tuahftayments received from a great proportion ef his
fubffribers —fame arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very fpeed'tly be discharged.
Payments may be made to the several persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements »f one square, or less, •mill be tn
ferted in this Gazette, three times, for on: dollar—
subsequent insertions, twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion ; No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation —and the num
ber of each impression is at present fourteen hundred.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, fold at the Office of SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street.
May 18. 1791
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Public—withes they may
be informed that he has received a very handsome Assortment
ef the best chosen
SPRING GOODS,
By the Pi cou, and other ISte arrivals, which are now opening at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, North.
which he is determined to dispose of (at wholesale or retail)
d low terms as must maka it an objctt to cujlomers. Orders
\ his friends will be attended to with punctuality and dispatch,
.iiiu the lime of pa) ment made convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Street, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds of THE PUBLIC DEBT OF
THE UNION ; has frequently occasion to NEGOCIATE
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will reccive Orders
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNITED
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
THE Subscriber, who served a regular apprcDticefhip to the
business of VENDUE-M ASTER, under Mr. George
Kelly, has just opened an OFFICE in the Borough of Noa
rolk, Virginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
the County Wharf, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com-
mands.
Norfolk, Virginia, April 21. 17Q1
H lank Powers to receive the lncercit, a ndjor the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules eflabhjhed in the Trea-
Jury Department: Also Blanksfor abjlrafts oj to be fold by
he Editor.
REPORT
CR E T
S E
On ihc fubje£t of the
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES,
7>ooo 426,000
6,000 128,000
A CARD.
ADVERTISEMENT.
JOHN H. HALL.
or THE
OF S
[continued.]
No. I.
ENGLAND.
Ton
t
u nsgc.
> .
<5
>5°
1.5°
8o
102
Sea- v . , Value
Kentali. _~
men. Dollar*.
8,000
1,738,800
200,000 540, ®00
9,180
25,000
516,000
516,000
400 36,000 20,000 600,000 2,250,000
7,000
470,000
14,000 732,000
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legiflalure of the State of Conne&icut, at their session in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the fiibfcribers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their trull, present the public with the
following
S C ]
z
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5°
6i
100
140
539°
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
Tickets* at Fit? Dollars each, is
Subject to a dedu&ion of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with the town
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who are not, fuffice it to fay,
that its beautiful situation is not surpassed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
but by reaion of the flats, this wharf is necessarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when com pleat
ed, will be the moil extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3~4ths of a inile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towils adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the States will be benefited by it. The
general with that prevails in the minds of all classes of people, for
thefuccefsof this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
America) induce the managers to believe the tickets wi-11 meet with
a speedy sale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortnnate numbers will be publiflied, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as given
for the ufc of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
James Rice, Michael Todd,
Jeremiah Atwater, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howell.
New-Haven, April 14, 1791
(£3T TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Meflrs. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner'ot
Front and Pine-Streets.
Tickets in the Massachusetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
In various Lang ua^es—being part of a private Library \
Among 'chich are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, i.omer, Demoithenes, Xenophon, Plato.
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
(96 to
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terence, Ovid, Csefar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Octavo & infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinus, Theo
phraftus, Epidetus, Hefiod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalaris,
liberates, Polyienus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Pdterculus, Florus, Luc m, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, V»da, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poets minorea Latini, Callrpcedia, Stiada, L.
Valla, &c.
(jdr Catabgves may le had, and further particulars learned, at the
Book-Store of MeJJrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
aljoJUtched up with the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April.
(1 ep 7w.)
copies of the CONSTITUTION of thi
United States, prini/d -with Notes, may bj had of the
Editor.
32
T E,
T A
and the United States.
UNITED STATES.
| Ton- Sea- KcnljJl Value
cage, men Dollars.
665 2.5,000 4,40.5 350,500 1,#71,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4.405 350,500 1,071,000
66.5 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
665 25,000 4,405 350,500 1,071,000
539 1 9>*®5 3>? 8 7 250,650 609,900
539 »9> 18 5 3> 2 ®7 250,650 609,900
539 >9> ,8 5 3,287 250,650 609,900
539 '9> 18 5 3> 2 ®7 250,650 609,900
539 »9>'Bs 3.287 354> 2 ? 6 865,207
HEME.
io,o©o Dollars, is
5000
4000
2000 arc
Prize of
1000
s°o
2CO
100
5 °
4°
3®
20
lO
8
Not two Blanks to a Prtze
Managers
To be diipolcd of,
BY P I V A T E S A I. E,
A Crs LECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
March jj, , 79 ,
OTICE is hereby given, that PropoLls will tcrrr.-.
IN office of the Sccrnary oi the Tr- furv, until t!ie hrf; y '
in September next inclusive, forthefupply or all ratio s "!
may be required ior theufe o! the United S rt, from the !ii(l u
of January to the thiny-Brft day of December, i~oi, hoti ■
clufive, at the places, and within the diUridls hereinafter in
oned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in the fate of P,p
fylvama and Fort Pitt, and at Fort Put.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lotofh
on the River Ohio, and at Foit M'lutofh.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort Mlntofh and the mouth of
ihe River ivlufkingum, and at the mouth of the River Mulk •
At aoy place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River M
kingum, and up the said River to the Tufcarowas, and at iheTd.
carowas, and thencc over to the Cayoga River, and down the L a
River to its mouth.
230,000 6:1,000
IC.OOO
5000
4000
4COO
4000
2500
2400
3COO
2250
20C0
1830
2000
I4CO
43' 120
87500
K S,
'5-' All perrons concern.- will be pWedtotike noiicr v. .
fol.ow.n-, jidverii fe.ne.it na s Men varied from that publuVd,"
our paper of the 3U of March.] 0
Treasury Department.
At any place or places, betwi xt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or plaees, betwixt the mouth of Scio'.o River and
the mooih of the great Miami, at the mouth of the great M am
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio, *nd at the
id Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami,
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thcnce over to the
Miami Village, on the river ofthe fame name which emptier into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids ofthe Ohio, to the mouth
of the Wabafh, thence up the said Wabaih to Post Sr. Viuceoors,
at Post St. Vincennes, and thencc up the said riv«r Wabaih, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh riven®
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on theeaftfideof the river MilTnippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelljinois river.
At any place or placcs, froro the mouth of the Miami iiver to
he Miami Village.
At any place or places, from the Miami Village to Sanduiky,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandulkv to the mouth of Cayog* nvci
At any place or placcs, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and it
Venangri.
At any place or places, betwixt Venango a/id Le Beuf, and at
Le Beuf, betwixt Le Beuf and Prefq'lfle, at Prefq'lfle, aud be
twixt Prefq'lfle and the mouth of Cayoga river
At the mouth of Cavoga river, and at any pla e or places, on
the route from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At any place or places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any place or placet, from the said river Margot, totheri-er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth- of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requited at anv places, or within other
diftri£b, not foecified in these proposals, the price of thefaroeto
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to confillof the following ariidcs.
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of perk,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Two quarts of vinegar/ IOQ ra(ions _
Iwo pounds or toap, C 1
One pound of candles, }
ALSO, That Proposals will be received atthefaid office until
the firft Monday in September next, inclufivc, for the supply of alt
rations which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the fir ft day of January to the thirty-firft day of December,
1 792, both days inclusive, at Springfield, in the state of MaiTachu
fetts. and the Post of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
Yhe rations to be fuppllcd, arc to consist of the fame articles as
are above mentioned.
AI.SO, That proposals will be received at the fnid office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapply of all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the lft day of January to the 31ft day of De-camber, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri£U hereiu
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at present commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbcck.
At the poll on the river Altamaha, at present commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at present commanded by Capt.
Joseph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at present commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main south branch of the said river, from
the said mouth up to the source of the said main south branch, and
from thenac to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the ftnte of Georgia which
may hereafter be occupied as permanent posts by any troops ot the
United States.
And for rations deliverable on the march to fueh future pons.
The ration* to be furnifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said poifs, for the fpaceofat
least two months in advance, in good and wholesome provifious.
The rations to befupplied are to consist of the fame articles, is
are abovementioned.
It is to be undcrftood in each cafe, that all lofTes bv
depredations of the enemy, orby means of the troops of the U nut
States, shall be paid for at the prices of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable characler.%
and the certificate of a commifQoncd officer, ascertaining the cir
cumstances of the loss, and the amount of the articles for whic<
corripenfation is claimed.
The contracts for the above supplies will be made either or one
yearj or for two years, as may appear eligible. Perlons <i< \>o e
to coutra£l will therefore confine their offers to one year, or t
may make their propositions so as to admit an eiettion 0 1•£
term of two years. ,
The piopofals may be made for the whole of the 2r>ovr po 1 c 0
gether, or separately for Soringfield, tor Weft-Point, for \or lown '
and the seventeen places following it, and for the ports in corgia,
and they must fpecify the lowest price per ration, for pioropt pa)
tnenr. —* , .. , ,
The Printers who have publifhedtkc above adverttjemer.,
re que fled tt reprint it with the alterations.
. »
Philadelphia, Ai.iv 3.
WE, the Cotrmiflioners, appointed to receive:
to the Bank ot the United States, do hereby give P a
notice,lhat the Books will be opened by us for tnst P 1,,p0
the Bank of North-America, on Monday ilie 4th day ot jut,
Thomas Willing, Samuel Howell,
Real e Bordiey, Lambert Cadwala
David RITTKN'HOL'SE, .
All the Punters w the United States are rejvepi to fub.t/i.' -