PUBLISH II WEDNESDAYS AND - Vl"' RDAYS HY JOHtV FENNO, No. 6q. HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 16, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE (BOSTON) COLUMBIAN CENTINEL
Mr. RUSSELL,
IN that part of Mr. Paine's pamphlet which
he has chofeii to call the milcellaneous chap
ter, he observes th t, " when a man in a long
" cause attempts 10 Iteer his course by any thing
" else than fomepolar truth or principle, he is Cure
"to be loft." I have fought for the polar prin
ciple to which his exertions were directed in
this publication, and 1 must acknowledge I have
fought in vain. His production ;s historical,
political, mifcellaneons, satirical and panegy
rical. It is an encomium upon the National
Aflembly of France. It is a commentary upon
the rights of men, inferring questionable deduc
tions from unquestionable principles. It is a se
vere satire upon Mr. Burke and his pamphlet,
upon the English government, upon Kings, up
on Nobility, and Aristocracy ; it is a narrative of
several occurrences, connected with the French
revolution, and it concludes with a kind of pro
phetical iinpulfe, in the expectation of an " Eu
ropean Congress to patronize the progress oj free go
vernment, and promote the civilization oj nations -with
each other." The objetfl which he promised to
himfelf, in this publication, is not so dubious as
the principle on which he wrote. His intention
appears evidently to be, to convince the people
of Great-Britain, that they have neither Liberty
nora Conftitntion—that their only pofiible means
to procure these blefiings to themlelves, is to
" topple down headlong" their present govern
ment, and follow implicitly the example ot the
French. As to the right, he scruples not to fay,
" that which a whole nation clioofes to do, it
" has a right to do." This proportion is a
part of what Mr. Paine calls a fyftetn of prin
ciples in opposition to those of Mr. Burke, and
it is laid down without any fort of qualification.
It is not my intention to defend the principles
of Mr. Burke•—truth is the only object of my
pursuit, and 1 fliall without helitation relule my
aflent to every principle inconsistent with that,
whether it proceeds from Mr. Burke, Mr. Paine,
or even from the illustrious National Atfembly of
Trance. This principle, that a whole nation has
a right to do whalfoever it pleases, cannot in
any l'enfe whatever be admitted as true. The
eternal and immutable laws of justice and of mo
rality, are paramount to all human legislation.
The violation of those laws is certainly within
the power, but it is not among the rights of na
tions. The power of a nation is the collected
power of all the individuals which compose it.
The rights of a nation are in like manner the
collected riphts of its individuals ; and it mull
follow si om thence, that the powers of a nation
are more extensive than its rights in the very
fame proportion with those of individuals. It
is somewhat remarkable that in speaking of the
exercise of the particular right offorining a con
stitution, Mr. Paine himfelf denies to a nation,
that omnipotence, which he had before so li
berally bellowed. For this fame nation, which
has a right to do whatever it pleases, has no
right to establish a government in hereditary fuc
cefiion.— It is of infinite consequence, that the dif
timftion between power and right fliould be fully
acknowledged, and admitted as one of the fun
damental principles of Legiflatoi s. A whole na
tion such as France, England, or America, can atft
only by representation ; and the a<ft» of the re
presentative body must be confldered as the atfts
of the nation. We must go farther, and fay
that the ads of the majority in the Representa
tive Aflembly are the a<fts of the whole body, and
confequer.tly of the whole nation. If therefore,
a majority thns constituted, are bound by no
law human or divine, and have no other t ule but
their sovereign will and pleasure, to direct them ;
what pofiible security can any citizen of the na
tion have for the protection of his unalienable
rights ? The principles of liberty must still be
the sport of arbitrary power, and the hideous
form of despotism, must lay aside the diadem
and the sceptre, only to afl'ume the party-co
loured garments of democracy.
The f'yftem of principles upon which Mr.
Pai/ie advances this aflertion is intended to prove
that the Englilh nation have a light to destroy
their present form of government, and to ere<ft
another. lam not disposed to deny this right,
nor is it at present necefl'ary to examine whe
ther Mr. Burke's opinions upon this ftibjeft, are
not directed rather against the expediency than
the abftratled rights of such a mrafure. It may,
Wednesday, June 22, 1 791.
however, not be improper to trace the origin of
Mr. Paint's arguments against the principles
maintained by Mr. Burke. Doctor Frice had as
ferted, chat " by the principles of the revolu
" tion, in 1688, the people of England had ac
" quired the right, I. To chufe their own go
" vernours. 2. To cashier them for mifcondudt ;
' and 3. To frame a government for themselves."
Mr. Burke endeavors to prove that the princi
ples of the revolution in 1688, so far from war
ranting any right of this kind, fupporc a doc
trine alinoli diametrically opposite. Mr. Paine,
in reply, cuts the gordian knot at once, declares
the parliament of 1688 to have been down-right
usurpers, censures them for having unwisely
sent to Holland for a King, denies the existence
of a Britifli Constitution, and invites the people
of England, to overturn their present govern
ment, and to erect another upon the " broad
" basis of national sovereignty, and government
" by reprel'entation."—As Mr, Paine has depart
ed altogether from the principles of the revolu
tion, and has torn up by the roots, allreafoning
from the Britifti Constitution, by the denial of
its exigence, it becomes neceflary to examine his
work upon the grounds which he has chosen tc
aflume. If we judge of the production from iti
apparent tendency, we may call it, an addrels tc
the Englifli Nation, attempting to prove that
they have a right to form a new constitution ;
that it is expedient for them immediately to ex
ercise that right, and that in the formation ol
this constitution, they can do no better than tc
imitate the model fei before them by the Frenc)
National Ajfenibly. However inimethodical hi;
production is, 1 believe, the whole of its argu
meniative part, may be referred to these thre<
points. If the fubjeut were to afFetft only the
Brjtifo Nation, we might leave them to reafoi
and a<S for themselves ; but, fir, these are con
cerns equally important to all mankind ; am
the citizens of America are called upon, fron
high authority to rally round the jlandard ofthi:
champion of revolutions. I lhall therefore now
proceed to examine the reasons upon which hi
founds his opinions relative to each of tliefi
points.—
The people of England have in common with
every other nation, a natural and unalienable
right to form a constitution of government, not
because a whole nation has a right to do what
ever ic chooses to do, but because government
being instituted for the common security of the
natural rights of every individual, it mult be
li-.ible to alterations whenever it becomes incom
petent for that purpose. The right of a people
tolegiflate for i'ucceedinggenerations derives all
its authority from the consent of that posterity
who at e bound by their laws, and therefore the
expressions of perpetuity used by the Parliament
of 1688, contain no absurdity—and expressions
of a similar nature may be found, in all the con
fliiutions of the United Statej.
Bur, fir, when this right is thus admitted in
its fullelt latitude, it ni.uft also be admitted that
it ought never to be exercised, but in cases of
extreme urgency : Every nation has a right as
unquelHonable to diflolve the bands of civil so
ciety, by which they are united, and to return
to that state of individual imbecility in which
man is supposed to have existed, previous to the
formation of the social compatft. The people of
America have been compelled by an unaccounta
ble neceflity, diftrefling in its operation, but glo
rious in its consequences, to exercise this right,
and whenever a nation has no other alternative
but the degradation of slavery, or the formida
ble conflict of a revolution, the generous spirit
of freedom will not hesitate a moment ill the
choice ; whether the people of prance were at
the period of their revolution, reduced to that
unhappy situation, which rendered it absolutely
neceflary to overthrow their whole system to its
foundations, is a question, upon which the ablest
patriots among themselves have differed, and up
on which weaie inadequate to decide. Whether
the people of England are now in that calami
tous predicament, i» a question, more proper for
our difcuffioii, and upon which I shall take the
liberty to examine the reasoning of Mr. Paine.
THE RETURN.
" KIND heav'n O fend him fafely back"—wc pray'd
Nor was the interceflion urg'd in vain—
The tour perform'd, and millions happy made,
His Vernon hails in health its Lord again.
61
PUBLICOLA.
[Whole No. 224.]
FROM THE QUEBEC HERALD.
DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CHEESE
TO farmers who live in the country and keep
many cows, it would doubtless be an ad
vantage to know how to make their milk into
good cheese ; for through the want of that
knowledge the dairy women are often at as
much pains to spoil their milk by making it in
to very bad cheese, as they would then be to
make it into that which is very good.
Much depends upon having a portion of fait
petre used with common fait in ialting the
cheese :—lf the latter is only used, and a quan
tity fufficient to keep the cheese sweet is put in,
the cheese is apt to be very hard, and to have a
biting disagreeable taste ; but if not so much
is taken, then, wheri the cheese is drying a pu
trid fermentation conies on, and the cheese swells
up much in the middle, often till it is twice as
thick as it was before. If the cheese fhotild now
be cut it would be found to fend forth a disa
greeable stench, and conld not be eaten ; but if
fuffeied to stand, the fermentation gradually a
bates, and the cheese falls even lower than it
was at firft, so as to be concave on both fides :
By age such cheeses grow much sweeter than
they were when fermenting, yet always retain
something of the faine disagreeable strong taste.
Cheeses that are not salted enough, will be more
or less, according to the above defcriptioii,, in
proportion as they lack more or less of being
salted enough ; fa that whenever the dairy wo
man perceives the above appearance in her
cheeses, flie may know that it is time for her to
alter her hand in salting. The people of En
gland have perhaps as many different ways of
making cheese as there are different counties in
England ; which is fufficient to (hew that cheese
may be good, and yet differ in some refpedts as
to the way of its being made ; for the bett of
cheeses are made in divers parts of England ;
yet whatever particulars they differ in, they
doubtleft agree in adopting the usd of falt-petre,
though perhaps not in the fame proportion j for
it is well known that cheeses from different parts
vary in quality, and yet are all very good.
Cheeses made accordiug to the following re
cipe have by long experience been found to be
of a very excellent quality, and perhaps inferior
to none that are made in England :
* Let the runnet be prepared by soaking the calye's big in cold
water, and faking it enough to keep it sweet; to the milk, firft
made blood warm, add enough of this to turn the milk into a
curd in half an hour, which quanti y will soon be found by ex
perience ; then heat it as hot as you can well bear your hand in
it, and having ftraincd the whey well from it, break or chop the
curd to pieces, and to every five pounds of cheese put a tea-fpoon
full of falt-petre, and a large table fpoonfull of common fait; (it
will soon be learned by experience how much milk or curd will
produce five pounds of cheese) it must now be put in the press and
turned within an hour ; kept in the press two days—turn it twicc
the firftday, and once the last.
They ftiouid while drying, keep it in a dark room, or other
ways keep it from flics.
If any cracks come in them when drying, let them be filled
with a paste made of butter and flour to keep the flies from com
ing at them, if any should get into the room.
Extraflj from the Direflions of the Philadelphia
Humane Society.
TO prevent the fatal effects of drinking cold
Water, or cold Liquors of any kind in warm
weather.
ift. Avoid drinking while you are warm, or,
2clly. Drink only a small quantity at once,and
let it remain a short time in your mouth before
you swallow it ; or
3dly. Grasp the vessel out of which you are
about to drink (provided it is made of glass,
earthen ware, or metal) for a few minutes, with
both your hands, for each of these substances
convey off a portion of the heat of the body into
the cold liquor, and thereby leflen the danger
which arises from the excelfive heat of the body,
on the one hand, and the coldness of the liquor,
on the other ; or,
4thly. Wash your hands and face, and rinse
your mouth with cold water before you drink.
If these precautions have been negletted, and
the disorder incident to drinking cold water
hath been produced, the firft, and in molt in
itances, the only remedy to be administered is,
sixty drops of liquid laudanum, in spirit and wa
ter, or warm drink of any kind.
If this ftould fail of giving relief, the fame
quantity may be given 20 minutes afterwards.
When laudanum cannot be obtained, rum and
water, or warm waterfhould be given. Vomits
and bleeding (hould not be used without con
sulting a physician.PHILADELPHIA CARPET MANUFAC TOR i .
AMONGST the many accounts of the Hou
rilhing Hate of the infant manufactures ot
America, it seems ftrai.ge that the Carpet Manu
factory has been hitherto so little notified A
correspondent who has lately visited that elta
blifhment in the Northern Liberties, informs us,
that he has seen fomeofthe carpets manufactur
ed there by William Peter Sprague of those du
rable kind called Turkey and Axmmfltr, which (el
at 20 per cent, cheaper that those imported, and
nearly as low as Wilton carpeting, but of double
itsdurability. . , , .
The carpet made for the Prefulent, and others
for various perfbns, are master-pieces of then
kind, particularly that for the Senate chamber
ofthe United States. The device wove .ft the
Jaft mentioned, is the Crest and Armor tat Alchtnf-,
tnents appertaining to the Untied Stat/'. hir
teen Stars forming a conftellatioli diverging from
a cloud, occupy the space under the chair ofthe
Vice-Prefident. The American Eagle is dil
played in the centre, holding in his dexter ta
lon an olive branch, in his Snifter a bundle of
thirreen arrows, and in his beak, afcroll infcnb
ed with the motto, E pluribus unttm. The whole
surrounded by a chain formed of thirteen shields,
emblematic of each Stare.
The fides are ornamented with marine and
land trophies, and the corners exhibit very beau
tiful Cornn Copias, some filled with oli v e branch
es and flowers exprelfive of peace, whilst others
bear fruit and grain, the emblems of plenty.
Under the arms, on the pole which supports
the cap of liberty, is hurg the balance of JuJiice.
The whole being executed in a capital fttle,
with rich bright colours, has a very fine efFecft,
notwithstanding the raw materials employed,are
ofthe refufe and coarser kind ; so that this ma
nufatftory is an advantage to others by allowing
n price for those articles which could not be u(ed
in the common branches of woolen and tow bu
finefs.
Manufactures of all kinds will generally mee:
with the support of the friends of the country,
and this in particular, which already gives em
ployment to a number of poor women and chil
dren, will no doubt be encouraged. The article
of carpeting is now imported in considerable
quantities, for which, large funis are annually
exported to Europe ; but if due encouragement
be afforded, there is every reason to believe that
it may become an objeCt of exportation.
MADRID, April i.
THE ArchbHhop of Toledo, in quality of pri
mate of Spain, lias addressed apaftoral letter
to all the Spanish Bishops, recommending to them
to give the most generous reception to those
French Prelates, whom perfccul'ton has already
driven, or may hereafter drive into Spain. They
already reckon here fix refugee Biftiops, and ma
ny Cures, Cannons, and Priests, who have been
desirous of escaping from the Revolution in tlieir
country-,
PARIS, April a?. :
Since the resignation of M. de la Fajffctte, the
conversation of this capital has been engrofled
solely by that subject. Deputations from differ
ent bodies have waited upon the general, to in
duce him to resume a situation in which he is
thought neceflary, if hot for the maintenance of
the Constitution, at lead to fruftrate the plans of
the Aristocrats and demagogues. At present,
hopes are entertained that M. de la Fayette will
comply with a with so honourable to him, and
that he will resume his post.
LONDON, April 21
Yesterday his Grace the Duke of Leeds re
signed his office as Secretary of State for the Ko
reign department.
Oczakow, the Turkish town so much the ob
ject of die Ruffians, is the capital of a Sanglack,
of the fame name, inhabited by Tartars ; it was
taken by the Ruffians in i 737> and all those who
refilled, put to the sword ■: the Ruffians them
felvesloft 18,000 men in the assault. The Turks
returned the fame year with 70,000 men to re
take it, but were obliged to retire with the loss
of 20,000,
The language of Mr. Fox on the Canadian
Con{litution. was certainly the mod boldly Re
publican that had ever been fpofcen in the Bri
tifli Senate ; and from the complexion of many
circuniftances, that cannot escape an observing
mind, it fliould seem that the alarms of Mr.
Buike for Democratic plots, would now be much
better founded than they were in February
1790, when he exprefled them with so much en
ergy
Leopold has eflablifbed a commission for the
reform of the criminal code in Auflrian Lorn
bardy, and to the honour of his judgment and
liberality let it be mentioned, that he has named
as one of the members of that commission, the
Mw.l.Bwj'hJ; Vj 1 S-Jj.
Though the question for the
hear it iw Jb,ought foward in ano
ther ihape, so as to go to many interior regu .
ons before the close of this session.
The Gazettes by the last French mail affirm,
that the Turks are tocede Egypt 'oEnghn,|n
confi deration of the interpofit.onofourn..
try, to oblige the Empress to accede to the terms
° f A Society* of Gentlemen of the Revolution and
Conftitutionrl Societies, have raised by iabfcnp
tion, a futficient fntn fur the purchase of 2 ,000
of that ,110 ft admirable Treat,fe wnt en bj Mr
Paine, " entitled the Rights of Man,
thev mean to distribute grans, v,z. 7000 in this
metropolis, 10,000 in England, Wales, and Scot
land, and 8000 in Ireland.
The various states in Europe that groan under
the tyranny of the Turks, formerly contained
50 000,000 of souls—oppression and savage bar
barity hath reduced them to less than 7,000,000.
Their whole government is one fyrtem of cruel
ty and enormity, from the Grand Seignior to the
m earieft Janniflary.
ATRIL 28.
The remains of Dr. Price were interred on
Tuesday last, at the Burial Ground, in Bunhill
Fields between one and two at noon ; thecorpfe
in a h'earfe with fix horses, was followed by 20
mourning coaches of his family and immediate
friends, after which a train of thirty gentle
men's carriages followed, containing many pub
lic characters, who attended out of respeCt to his
memory ; among others were observed, the R>.
Hon. Earl Stanhope, Count Zenobio, W. Smith,
Esq. Thomas Rogers, Esq. Samuel Vaugban,
r<fq Samuel Baddington, Esq. John Mollis, Esq.
Bays Cotton, Esq. William Stone, Esq. and many
orher gentlemen of the Revolution and Confli
tutional Societies.
The Pall was supported by—
The Rev. Hugh Worthington,
The Rev. Samuel Palmer,
The Rev. Thomas Taylor,
The Rev. R. Harris, D. D.
The Rev. A. Rees, D. D.
The Rev. Joseph Priestly, L- L. D.
And a discourse was delivered ar the grave by
the Rev. Andrew Kippis, D. D. but from the
weakness of his voice was xery imperfectly
heard by the surrounding fpeclators.
The total amount of gold, coined during the
present reign, in guineas,half guineas, and quar
ter guineas, is Bs. 6d. and in fiiver,
coined during the fame time, 68,609!. 9s. 2d.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
The fallowing IMe Poem was written as a tcjlimony of the Author's
refpefl for the talents oj Mr. Ralph Ear l, t Painter of thefchool
oj West, and one whom nothing hut misfortune has hindered from
making a confpicuousfigure ammg the great artifis in the projejjion
of Painting.
A FRAGMENT.
***#******** With steady hand,
There Earl marks out the deep-expreflive line.
Fix'd o'er the work intent, the colours spread—
Thro the thin white deep blulhes now the red;
And here the violet, mingling with the blue,
Spreads loose in flowing folds of azure-shining hue.
* With form embodied, Force, and Vigour stand ;
And Eloquence extends the hand j
And sober Tho't coritra&s his brow ;
And Sadness wipes the tears that flow
In foftly-fympathetic woe.
Still at his touch new foVms arise ;
The foul fits sparkling in the eyes;
Speech opes the lips ; the throbbing heart
Seems (hro the swelling breafl to (tart;
The hirgid muscles aid the vivid ftrife,
And all the form bursts trembling into life.
+ Simplicity, with ardent gaze,
Stands fix'd in deep amaze ;
And agitated Rapture lifts his trembling hands;
Bent o'er the piece young Genius (lands;
While Tenderness, with tearful eye,
Strives to suppress '.he rising sigh;
And Superstition lifts the affrighted ciy.
ELLA.
* Rrfering to fexwal Paintings by Mr. Earl.
+ The cjfeli which the Jight oj them produce! oil different charaQeri.
BOSTON, Jane n.
" At a Meeting of the Societt for CONSTI
TUTIONAL INFORMATION, held in London,
March 23, 1791.
" RESOLVED,
" THAT the thanks of this Society be given
to Mr. THOMAS PAINE, for his mod masterly
Book, intitled The Rights of Man ; in which not
only the malevolent sophistry of hireling fci ib
blers is detedled andexpofedto merited ridicule,
but many of the mod important and beneficial
political truths are stated, in a manner so irre
fiftably convincing, as to promise the acceleration
of that not very distant period, when usurping
Borough Sellers, and profligate Borough Buyers,
62
fiiall be deprived of wli-u they impudently date
to call their property ; the choice of the Repre
sentatives of the People.
" The Constitutional Society cannot help ex
preiTinjr their fatisfaftion, that f > valuables pub
lication has proceeded from a Member of that
Society ; and they finrere'.y hope, that the peo
ple of England will give that attention to the
fobjetf difcufled in Mr. Paine's Trtatife, which
their manifeft importance fa jtiftly deserves.
" Refrilved, That the foregoing Resolution,
and all future proceedings of this Society, l.e re
gularly transmitted by the Secretary, to all our
correlponding Conftitntional Societies in En
gland. Scotland, and France.
•*' DANIEL ADAMS, Secretary
FLEMINGTON, Hunter don Covntf, (N.J.) June i, J791.
This day the High Sheriff of the countv affiftcd by the manag
ers, vix. Messrs. William Chamberlin, Thoroai Stout, Esq. ana
Tofeph Atkinfon, and a very great number of inhabitants from
ail parts of the country aflTembled on 'he occasion—with fenti.
merits of real ioy, laid the firft stone ot Hunterdon County Court
House, appointed by law to be erefled in thi. town : M Jamei
Alexander generously made a donation of the ground to the pub
lic to cftablifh this much desired building—and the tallowing it
a copy of the infeription on the foundation stone.
IN THE YEAR OF CHRIST,
17 9 1.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
President
of the United States of
America :
happily ruling with the esteem of
all men.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Esq,
Gover nor
of the State of
New-Jersey.
With the concurrence of the
Council and Assembly,
and the unanimous voice of the free citizens of
Hunterdon County,
have generously founded this
Building,
for the administration of justice, the
prote&ion of innocence, and
upholding the rights of mankind.
James Kinsey, Esq.
Chief Judge.
Isaac Smith and John Chetwood, Esq's.
AfTociate Judges.
Joseph Bloom si eld Esq.
Attorney-General.
Eiisha Boudinot, Esq. Clerk
of the Circuits.
Joseph Reading, esq. one of the Justices
of the Court of Common Pleas.
Samuel W. Stockton, Clerk of the Court,
William Lowrey, Esq. Sheriff.
May the Almighty God prosper
This undertaking,
and influence the hearts of all ruling with
mercy, justice and equity,
and bless
the inhabitants of
Hunterdon County.
WINCHESTER, June 11
A letter from a gentleman in the territory of
the United States, south of the Ohio, dated May
19, 1791, fays, " Governor Blount is very indus
trious, and leaves no ftene unturned to bring oft
a treaty with ihe Cherokee Narion of Indians.
Should it take place, it will be the largeftand
mod general treaty that has been held with
thein since the revolution, as the heads of the'
whole nation have promised to attend. There
has jnft been held one of the longest Talks, on,
the fnbjeft of the treaty, that has been fora
number of years. M'Gillivray has been confut
ed much 011 this business—his yellow brethren
consider him as one of the greatest and wisest of
men—he advises them strongly to treat ; but, in
the midst of these favorable appearances, some
recent depredations have been committed on the
frontiers—two men on Beaver-Creek, who were
out in search of their horfea, and two miners oft'
Cumberland mountain, have lately fallen vic
tims to savage barbarity.—Nineteen horses have
also been stolen out of Cumberland lettlement.
It is not known to what nation the Indians wh®
committed these depredations belong."
MR. FENNO,
I have the pleasure to endofe to vou ail iccount (»f the attention*
paid to the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, by the
Citizens of the Village of Salilbury, North-Carolina, which
please publilh in your paper, and oblige,
Sir, your obedient servant,
Salisbury, May 30.
THIS morning the Pielident of the Untied States arrived in this
town, on his relurn from the ft ate of Georgia. He was met at
the county line, and conduced to his lodgings by a largenumber o
the mod refpe&able gentlemen of the town and country, together
with Capt. Stokes's company of cavalry, completely equipped ana
uniformed. At the skirt of the town he was falutedby about forty
boys in uniform, who had chosen officers, and arranged themfclves
for that purpose. At the Court-house he was saluted by the a,tl ~
lery company as lie pafled, and when it was announced that e
had entered his lodgings, the brass fix pound pieces were di
chargcd fifteen times. He entered the town on horseback, an
frequently, in the course of the day, tjeve the people opportunities
of feeing him. After he had taken some refrefhment, he was
waited upon by the Hon. Mr. Steele, the Hon. Judge Macav, and
Max. Chambers, Esq. magistrate of police, with a number of ot er
gentlemen, who presented him with the following Addre.s .
The ADDRESS of the INHABITANTS of SALISBURY,
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
Si R,
WE have the honor to Ggnify to you the joy which your pre
sence, after a tedious journey, affords to the inhabitants o 1
place. Words are wanting to express the gratitude we owe
heaven for continuing your life, on which our nations! 5 a "
A. T.domestic tranquility, even at tins day, fcern suspended. Situated
at a remote distance frotn the feat of government, deriving no ad
vantage from the eftabllfhmrnc of poll-roads, arid deftnute of re
gular information, we are foinetnnes at a loss lo form proper opi
nions of national measures ; but we neverthc left baft, that we have
been and still arc zealously attached to order, and etfeaive govern
ment. And having been tanked with thole who fufftretl in the
late war, we pledge ourselves to be amongst the foremoft to main
tain and perpetuate the federal government. That your life, justly
dear to the people of this country, a life precious, an ornament to
human nature, and a blessing to the United States of America, ma)
long he preserved, is the fervent and unanimous prayer ot the peo.
pie of this village.
To which the President was pleased to return the following
Answer r
7p the Inhabitants oj the Town of Salisbury.
Gentlemen,
YOUR expreflions of fatisfaftion on my arrival inSalifbury, «re
received wuh plealuie, and thanked with sincerity. The intercft
which you art pleased to take in my personal welfare, uxcites a
sensibility proportioned to your goodness. While I make the
jnoft grateful acknowltogment for that goodness, allow me toob
ferve that your own determination, co-operating with that of your
fellow-citizens throughout the union, to maintain and perpetuate
ttre federal government, affords a better assurance of order and ef
fective government with their concomitants private and public
prosperity, than the best meant endeavorsof any individual couk
give. Oor national glory, and our domestic tranquility, can ne
ver be tarniOied or d.fturlied, while they are guarded by wife laws
founded in public virtue. Anions the measures which an enligh -
ened and patriotic legislature will pursue to pr< serve them, I doubt
not the means of diffufing ufelul information will be duly consi
dered. My best wishes for the prosperity of your village, and for
your individual happiness, are fincerelv offered.
GEOR E WASHINGTON.
After the President had delivered he answer, the gentlemen of
the town conducted him to Mr. Hughs'*, where an elegant dinner
■was prepared for the occasion. On his way to dinner, he pafled
through great crouds of people who had colle£ted foi tht purpose
of feeing their illustrious and revered Chief Magistrate. He bowed
Tefpeftfully to the people, and passing the artillery company he
■was again saluted with a discharge of the pieces, followed by three
cheers—Long live the President! Long live the Piefiient'. Long live
the Prefident I—At1 —At dinner the President was chearlul,and appeared
highly pleased with the appearance of the upper country.
Aftrr dinner the following toasts were given, and every toast
accompanied by a discharge of the artillery.
1. The government of the United States.
■i. The Governor and Stateof North-Carolina. (By the President)
3. The conftnutional liberty of the people.
4. The committee of Congress who reported the declaration of
Independence.
5. Mav Congress take effcftual measures to keep alive the mili
tary fpiril of America.
6. May Congress take eaily and effectual measures to diflemi
■nate political knowledge
7. May harmony subsist between the federal and ftatc govern
ments.
8. The agriculture, manufaSures, and commerce of the United
States.
9- The European powers in alliance with the United States.
,o. May the French revolution terminate favorably to liberty,
ji. Mav the Icivices of General Greene be remembered with
gratitude by the people of the Southern States.
12. May reason, and not the fwoid, terminate all uational dif-
putcs
13. May the officers in eveTy department have a sacred regard
10 national justice.
14. The friends of religion, morality and ufcful knowledge
/fT n--r. J— . 1 1 .1 - .--11 \
_ _ - B ' '
(Here the President retired—and the next toast was,)
T.r T /. . .
15. George Washington—Long may he lite,
The whole was conduced with decorum ; and feftivity and joy
were seen on every face. He was escorted to the river next morn
ing by the gentlemen who dined wi'.h him, and the company of
cavaliy. At parting he made a short address to the military com
pany, and took leave of the other gentlemen in the mod polite and
affe&ionate manner. That evening (Tuesday, 31ft Mrs}) at four
6'clock, he reached Salem*. He was received at the biidge by
the people of the place, and conduced into town with a compleat
band of music playing before him. On hft arrival the bells rung,
and the church organs played almost the whole of the night. Ne.xi
<J«y he set out to view the battle ground at Guilford Court-houft.
* Moraviax-Town.
Philadelphia, June 22.
ThePRESiDENT of the United St ate s, ar
rived in perfect health at Mount Vernonon Sun
«lay the twelfth instant.
M. de TfRNANi, an officer of distinguished
merit, who served in America the last war, it is
said, is appointed minister plenipotentiary from
the Court of France to the United States, and may
be expected here in a few weeks.
The Hon. Thomas Jefferson', Secretary of
State, arrived in town on Sunday lalt, from a
tour to the Eastward.
By an arrival at New.York accounts are re
ceived from Europe to the sd May ; They state
that the victorious army of the Einprefs of Raf
fia is within a few days march of Conftaritinople.
There has been a strong rumour of peace ; in
consequence of which the British funds got up
but the general tenor of the speculations on the
fubje.fl abate that idea, and speak confidently of
■war with Russia. The Spanilh navy is said to
bt in the highest order, and they are getting
their gallies ready—the Englilh fay,to affilt them
againll Catharine ; —who, they also fay, is ma
noeuvreing to patch up a separate peace with the
Porte. The head of the late Grand Vizir was,
on the 19th of February, ftnek upon a pole and
publickly exposed—a plsafar.t circutnltance for a
Bririfh pun.
The Royalists of Paris, the Eriglilh fay, la
ment the death of Mirabeau ; if there is any
truth in rhis, it is at lead enigmatical.- The
King of France, who intended to pais Kaftei
at St. Cloud, was ftopt in his carriage as he was
setting out, by the populace, and forced to re
turn— Upon this he wrote a letter to tlie National
Aflembly, requcfling admittance to the h<;ule,
which being granted, he delivered a speech,
which was replied to in an affectionate Inanner,
by the Prcfident. It was laid the King had port
potted his intend'ed journey to St. Cloud, altlio
lie perfilled in liis speech in going there—lt is
further said he has difmiflecl leveral persons a
bouthim, that were inimical to the Revolution—-
M. de la Fayette has adiually resigned, and it
was feared other resignations would take place
in consequence. Still all was peace and ttan
quiiity at Paris when thelaft accounts arrived.
Other accounts, hy the fame channel, further
inform That the Ruffian cabinet wifliing
to be allured of the disposition of Spain at the
present jundlure, sent a courier extraordinary to
Madrid for that purpose ; the answer from Spain
was fatisfatflory, and attended with proniifeS of
every good office in favor of Rulfia ; that four
teen millions of piasters in gold and silver are ex
pected by Spain, to arrive from Mexico and Peru
TYiat the Turk* are making vigorous pieparations
for a fourth campaign ; the talk ot a (eparate
peace between Russia and the Porte still continues
—the private bagjgage of the King of Prussia is
sent off to his army—the duke of York was on
the point of letting out for the continent to join
the Prussian forces ; that infurretflions have ta
ken place in Macedonia and Epirus, the inhab
itants endeavoring to throw off the Turkish
yoke; that the last divifior. of theTurkiih fleet con
filling of 56 fail took its departure from Conltan
tinoplethei7ih March; that his Gallic Majelty has
chosen Count Montmorency, an avowed enemy
to the present constitution, to be his confeflbr.
M. de la Fayette continues inflexible as to his
refignation—tho' fifty-four, out of the sixty bat
talions of the national guards have urged him
to resume the command. Great disturbances
have taken place in the country of Avignon.—
The Danifli East-India company like all others
011 the continent has failed.
The newspapers have given accounts of a
league of German Princes that made certain re
presentations to the National Aflembly to obtain
a modification of some decrees which, they com
plained, infringed on their rights. Commission
ers we now hear from undoubted authority were
appointed by the National Aflembly to confer
with thelpGerman Princes, and amicably fettle
their claims. The cominiilioners have been fuc
cefsful in their negociations, and fulfilled the
object of their appointment. The Princes on
certain stipulated terms have agreed to give up
their claims. Mr. de Ternant, the gentleman
who is appointed Minister Plenipotentiary from
the Court of France to the United States, was
one of the commilfioners. Gen. Adv.
Knowledge or education i 3 to the mind,;what
the natural fun is to the world—it enlightens,
improves, and expands the human foul. If edu
cation then may be juflly compared to that glo
rious luminary who iheds his benignant influen
ces on all, what a forcible idea is iinprell'ed on
the contemplative benevolent bol'om, of the jus
tice, and indispensable neeeffity and importance
of diffufing the rays of initru&ion and know
ledge on all the members of the community.
The gospel is preached to all, and whosoever
will may come and partake of the blefling—but
may not this .be jultly compared to building with
out laying a pioper foundation ? If the basis of
a good conflitution of body is laid in infancy,
how much more reqnifite is it that the founda
tion of virtue (hould be laid by an early educa
tion. Learning, like liberty, should be the na
tural inheritance of our children, whether rich
or poor. This can only be the cafe to a compe
tent degree, by ordaining that schools and in
ftrudtors fliall be appointed fufficient to inftruit
all, and paid out of the treasury of the corpora
tion. The town of Providence, in the State of
Rhode Island, has lately set an example which is
worthy of the imitation of every community,
whether large or small, viz.
" That a fufficient number of fchoolm fters, to
inftrudt alt the children in town, ftiould be appoint
ed, and that their salaries should be paid out of
the town treasury; a pi opofition that receiv
ed an almost unanimous approbation—and a num
ber of the nioft opulent gentlemen who will pay
largely to the support of this eflabliftiment,have
interested themselves warmly in its favor."
Can any thing reflect higher honor on the hu
man character, than such benevolence and ge
nuine patriotism ?
ADVICES FROM QUEBEC,
On the 30th April, his Kxcellency the Gover
nor of Quebec gave his aflent to an ait to reward
Samuel Hopkins, Angus IMacdouncll, and others, for
their inventions of two new and improved me
thods of making Pot and Pearl Ashes.
The Bishop of Canada, and his Clergy, for the
encouragement of industry, have abolilhed ho
lidays.
The new conllitution for Canada appears
be a popular ineafure in that province.
On the 2id May none of the constant tradi
veflels had arrived at Quebec.
63
Notwithftantiir.g the Decree of the National
Aflembly, the duty on our oil to be paid in
Fiance, will prove a complete prohibition.
The motion made in the House of Represent-
fives of Massachusetts, to fjbfcribe to the Bank
o'f the (Juiced States, has been negatived by u
large majority.
A PREDICTION
In the 54th letter of Dofior Coldf.nith's Citizen
of the World, is the following memorable re
mark :
" As the Swedes are making concealed ap
proaches to despotism, the French on the other
hand, are imperceptibly vindicating themselves
into Freedom, I cannot help thinking that the
genius of Liberiy has entered that kingdom in
disguise. If they hav: but two or three tueak Mo
narchi MO r e fucceffiveiy, the majJ: wilt be laid ajidt,
and the country -will once mors be jree
One, among a thousand initances which may
be produced, of that superior combination qt
causes and effects, which are almost appropriate
to an observing, penetrating mind.—lf men will
but think, they will think out their political sal
vation.
THE PATRIOT
TRUTH for his motto, Virtue lor his friend,
His Country's happintfs his only end—
To Freedom, and her friends he'll firm adhere,
Tho' frauds and factions (hake the solid sphere.
(£s* THE Public are hereby informed, that the annual Prize
of K'oah Webster, jun. Esq. is adjudged to a Composition
entitled, " An Ellay on die religious Opinions of Mjnkn.d, and
their Effefis on Manners and Morality," written by Samuel
M. Hopkins, a Senior Sophifter in this College.
EZRA STILES, Prcfident.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Schooner James, Darrell,
Brig Maria,
— Pt sgy>
Bet fey,
Ship Rising San.
Bvig George,
TO A CORRESPONDENT
The concluding lines in the Sonnet handed us last week
are obfeure—the authar is requelied to icmove that objection,
and they lhall appear.
gC?" Securities as in our lajl
Intelligence-Office,
In Fourth-Street, fccond Door below Market-Street.
Francis White
T3UYS and Sells on Comniiflion all kinds of
Public S-'cunttes and Paper Monies.
Tranfatfls business for those who have claims
on the United States, or against eith rof the States, particuia ly tor
the Officers, Sold>ers and Marineis, and others who have
in or about the late American Army, or for their legal Heirs, Ad*
miniftratois, Attornies, See.
Certificates and such Paper Monies furnilhed
for country people and others, who have to make payments to the
Pennsylvania Loan or Land Offices, as will pass equal to specie,
and their warrants, patents, &c. passed through the different
offices.
Money borrowed or loaned, and discounts
procured tor bills, bonds, and notes of hand, with or without de-
posits.
Houses, Farms, Lands, Lots, bought and fold,
and Houses, Rooms, Boarding and Lodging, reined or set, or pro
cured for Strangers or others.
Reputable Characters of either sex, and of any
profefiion, out of Place, may hear of Employ—and Farm! e»»
Travellers and others, be supplied with luitabie do
medics.
Those at a distance who may address on either the above (üb
je&s, their letters being post paid, will be duly attended to, by
FRANCIS WHITE.
(ep it)
Philad. June es, J 791
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents ftiall come, or in any wile concern,
That JAMES (GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolina,
deceased, did make four promiflory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, ot Philadc lphia, Mer' hant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one for three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—-one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
in nine months—one lor seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelve
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which laid notes have been assigned by the said Sa
muel Jack lon to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and havr since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and foity-feven pounds fifteen Ihil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE, and Co.
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
f hcfe are therefore.to caution all persons from purchasing f«id
notes as they will not be taken up.
ll'ilminglon, North-Carolina, 27M May, 1791
Publilhed, and to be fold by the Editor, price Jth of a Dollar,
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the mod important Subjeds,
Refpefling the REVOLUTION of AMERICA
Written in Holland in the year
By the Vjce-Piiisidint oj the United State*.
ing
YALE-COLLEGEy JUNE 24th, 1791
Charleftort,
fiofton,
Corunna,
Gibraltar,
Madura,
Hopkins,
DeflTart,
Watson,
Decaton,
Fowler,
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, [ Executors.
M. R. WILLKINGS, )
ditio.
(e p. 3m.ON PITY.
BY GCNKRAL BURGOYNE.
SOFT Pity never leaves the gentle breast,
Where Love ha* been recciv'd the welcome guest,
A* wandering faints poor huts h.'ve sacred made,
He hallows cvtiy heart he once has sway d;
And when his prcfence we no longer .. are,
He leaves Com pas»i on as a relic there.
R E
SECRETARY OK STATE,
ON THE SUBJECT OK THE
COD AND WHALE FISHERIES.
[cos TINU ED.]
No. X.
ARRET of the King's Council of State, prohibit
ing the importation of foreign whale and foer
macifiti oil into his kingdom, 2Sth September,
17-58.
Extrall from the Regifltrs of the Council of State.
THE King having taken information on-the fucccls attending
the whale fifhtiy, and the profpeft of :t» greater profperiiy
within his kingdom, and his M-.jc Ity being willing to grant a spe
cial proteflion 10 this important filhrry which has just commenc
ed in France, and which may become an abundant source of
riches, while at the fame time it affords to the marine a nurfcry
for feamrn of great confcqucnce to the feivice of the (late—hu
Majesty has conceived that th« prohibition us foreign oil would
be the mod beneficial encouragement that could be granted to this
branch of industry. Being willing to provide accordingly, and
having heard ihe report ot the Sieur Lambert, Councilor of State
and Ordinary to the Council of Dispatches, and to ihe Royal
Council of Finances end Commerce, the King being present :n his
Council, has ordained, and docs ordain, that, computing from the
day of publilhing the ptelent artct, the introduction of foreign
•whale and fpcrmacjeti oils (ball be prohibited throughout his do
minions. His Majefly commands and orders the Duke de Pcn
thievre, Admiral of France, th« Intendarts and Commifliaties
throughout the provinces, the Commissaries deputed for the obfer-,
vation of tht ordinances in the Admiral its, the officcis of the
Admiralties, Maftcrs of Pons, Judges of Treaties, and all others
whom it may concern, to afliit 111 the execution ot the present ar
let, which shall be regiftercd in the officts of the said Admiralties,
read, publiihed and paftcd whercvei it fiiall appear necrflary.
Done in the King's Council of State, his Majrfty being present,
held at Versailles, 28th September, 1788,
(Signed)
No. XI.
ARRET of the King's Council of State, excepting whale and
other fifh oil, and also whalebone, the product of the fifheries
of the United States of America, from the prohibition contain
ed in the arret of the 28:h of September last.
December 7th, 1788.
Extract Jrom the Regijlen of the Council of State.
THE King having taken information 011 the arret pronounced
in his council the 28th December last, prohibiting the importation
of whale oil and fpermacxti, the produce of foreign fifheries, into
the kingdom, observing that oil made from sea calves and other
fifh, and sea animals, not being comprehended in the said airet, a
fraudulent importation of whale oil might take place under the
name of the aforefaid oils; and that on the other hand it might be
inferred from the tenor ot the said arret, that oils th. prorluce of
the fifheries of United States were prohibited : And his Majesty
wifhingto remove every doubt 011 this head, to provide therefore
for the fame, having heard the report of the Sicur Lambert, Coun
cilor of State inordinary, and of the Council of Dispatches and
royal Council of Finances and Commerce, the King being pre
sent in his Council, has ordained and does ordain, that reckoning
from the fiift day of April next, oil made from sea calves, and
from filh and other sea animals, produced from foreign fifheries,
as well as whale-bone produced in like manner from the said fo
reign fifheries, sHall be prohibited from importation into the king
dom, without permitting the said prohibition nevertheless to ex
tend either to the said kinds of oils, or to the said whale oils and
fpermacacti, or the whale-bone produced from the fifheries of the
United States of America, and imported directly into France in
French vefTels, or those belonging to the fubji £ts of the said United
States; which shall continue to be provisionally admitted, agreea
ble to the firft atid third article of the arret of the 29th of Decem
ber last; on candition however, that the captains of the said vefTels
belonging to the United States, bring with them certificates from
the Consuls of France residing in the ports of the said United States,
or where these cannot be obtained, from the Magistrates of the
places where the embarkation of the said oil shall be made, for the
purpose of proving that the-cargo of the said vt flels is the produce
of the fifheries carried on by the citizens of the United States;
which certificates fhaii be presented to the Officers of the Admi
ralty, also to the Commiflioners of the Farms, in the ports of
France where it shall be landed, to be mentioned in the port of
their arrival.
" His Majffty commands and orders the Duke de Penthievre,
Admiral of France, the Intendants and CommifTarits throughout
the provinces, the Commissary appointed to observe the oidinan
cesof the Admiialty, the Officers of the Admiralty, Mailers of
Ports, Judges of Treaties, and all others whom it may concern,
to assist in the execution of the present Arret, which lhall be rc
giftered in the offices of the said Admiralties, tead, publilhed and
poftcd wherever it may appear necellary.
Done in the King's Council of State, his Majrfty being present,
held at Vcifaillcs the seventh of December, 1 88.
(Signrd)
(To be continued.)
An accoont of VESSELS from foreign Ports, and
- ©f Coasting Veflel* entered at the Custom
house of the Port of New-York, from the ill
day of January to the 4th of June, 1791.
Ships 37
Packets 6
Brigs 105
Snows 4
Schooners 61
Sloops 5 J
Coasters
ANECDOTE.
AN Trifliman, at an aflize in Cork, was arraign
ed for felony before Judge Monteney—he was
alked who he would be tried by—" By no one,
by J s," said hp. The Jailor told hiin he
mi-It fay "By God and his Country." " Faith
tha; I wont (replied Paddy) 1 do not like that
at all at all, for God knows all about the matter,
and so my dear I will be tried by his Lordship the
Judge, and my Country."
PORT
OK THE
LA LUZERNE.
LA LUZERNE.
268
368 Total, 636
ADVERTI S E M E N T -
Hj4VING completed the ficond volume oj thts Oa
zetteits patrons, and the public at large, are inform
ed that tt wUI be prosecuted on its original plan with
every improvement that friendjhip and ingenuity may
Wife'price of this Gazette, (published Wednesdays
and Saturdays,) is Three Dollars per annum-one
half to be paid at the tme of Jubfcribing.
The utmost punduality it observed in transmitting
the papers to fubferibns ■ The Editor thinks there i>
the fairefi proheß that Information jrom the feat of
government, ti the extremes of the Union, wtU m fu
ture circulate with greater facility and certainty, than
through the pafi winter.—Additional subscriptions
from all parts of the Onion are therefore foliated.
This volume contains the laws of the two lajt JeJpons
of Congress—the journal and debates oj the house of
Representatives—reports of the heads of departments
be fides a greater variety oj original communications
immediately connected with the interejls of the United
States, than any other periodical publication.
The Editor acknowledges with gratitude th< punc
tual payments received from a great proportion of his
fubferibers—fome arrearages remain—which he is con
fident will very speedily be difchargtd.
Payments may be made to the fsveral persons of
whom the papers are received.
Advertisements ef one square, or less, will be tn
ferted in this Gazette, three times, for one dollar—
subsequent insertions, twenty-five cents each; larger ad
vertisements in proportion ; No vehicle in the United
States gives so immediate a circulation —and the num
ber of each imprefion is at present fourteen hundred.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
(Price Six Shillings)
By CAREY, STEWART, if Co.
No. 22, North Front-Street,
A TREATISE
on the IMPORTANCE of
RELIGIOUS OPINIONS.
BY M. NECKER.
Extra&s from the Monthly Review, vol. 78, page 598.
De Importance des opinions religieufts. By M. Necrer.
" r I~ , HE offering here made at the (hrine of religion, by a man of
-L business, a man of true political wisdom, and a man of the
world, in the city of Paris, is a curious phenomenon. —It is alio a
noble one—and gives M. Necker, who has been longefteemed for
his great capacity, literary merit, and eminent virtues, a veiv and
dijlinguiflied title to the veneration oj the public. It has been this vir.
tuous man's destiny to arrive at eminence in line that he has
purfucd, from the counting house to the thr- (hold of the cabinet,
And it is impoflible, if we iead the work before us with candour
and attention, not to fee that both his head and his heart make a
dijlingufjhed and ajfefiing appearance in the cause oj religion.
Vol. 80, page 370.
" We rejoice to fee this excellent work naturalized here—and it
ought to be translated into every European language." (4^
To be disposed of,
BY PRIVATE SALE,
A COLLECTION OF
and Valuable
Scarce
800
In various Languages—being part of a private Library;
Among which are the following :
FOLIO. Euripides, Homer, Demosthenes, Xenophon, Plato,
Lucian, Plutarch, Paufanias, Procopius, Eufebius, Nicepho
rus, Cicero, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Seneca, Pliny, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Aristotle, Terencc, Ovid, C<efar, Suetonius,
Juvenal, Manilius, &c.
Oclavo & infra. Septuagint, Aristophanes, Longinus, Theo
phraflus, Epi&etus, Heliod, Orpheus, M. Antoninus, Phalari*,
Ifocrates, Polysenus, Lucretius, Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius,
Paterculiis, Florus, Lucan, Statius, Gellius, Aufonius, Vida, Bu
chanan, Boethius, Poetae minorea Latini, Callipasdia, Stiada, L.
Valla, &c.
(£3*" Catalogues may be had, and further particulars learned, at the
Book-Store of MeJJrs. Rice and Co. Market-Street. Catalogues are
alfojlitehed up with the AMERICAN MUSEUM, for April.
June i, 179*. (e2w]
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the fiank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL
Lottery Tickets,
Class Second, to be had at the fame place.
Mav 28. 1791.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Suhfcriber, who served a regular apprenticelhip to the
business of VENDUE.MASTER, under Mr. Gtonci
Kelly, has juil opened ail OFFICE in the Borough of Nob
folk, Vrginia, in a good and convenient House, situated near
ihe County Whart, where he is in hopes of giving general fatisfac
tion to all those that may be pleased to favor him with their com.
mands. JOHN H. HALL.
Not folk, Virginia, April si, 1791. e p yw)
ADVERTISEMENT
WHEREAS by thedeath of John Gebbie, the Partnerfhia
of GEBBIE and ELLIS is diflblved. The fublcriber,
surviving co-partner'and administrator of said deceased, rtquefts
all persons who have any demands against their late firm, to fend
forward their accounts for"fettlement as soon as convenient; and
all those who are indebted (o said firm, by bond, note, 01 book
account, are eaineftly requested to discharge the fame without
ael '>\. , CHARLES ELLIS.
June 7, 1791. fep?w)
This day fiublijhrd, Prici 6d.
And to be fold by the Editor, and the Booksellers of this City
AN ADDRESS
To the STOCKHOLDERS of the
BANK of NORTH-AMERICA,
On the Subject of the old and new BANK.
-64-
K S,
Matthew M'Connell,
In Chesnut-Streit, No. 66,
BUYS and SELLS all kinds ot THE PUBLIC DEBT Or
THE UNION ; has frequently occafioo to NEGOCIATK
INLAND BILLS OF EXCHANGE—and will receivt Order,
for making SUBSCRIPTIONS to the BANK of the UNiT£D
STATES.
Philadelphia, March 30, 1791
Joseph Wheaton
PRESENTS his compliments to his old Military Friends, the
Gentlemen of the Civil Lift, and the Piiblic—wilhcsthey may
be informed that he has received a vefy hand Come AssOßT MiN r
of the best chosen
S P R I N, G G O O D S,
By the Pi cou, and other late arrival?, which are now opcnin* at
his KNOWN CHEAP STORE, No. 38, Third-Street, Nonh,
and which he is determined to dispose of (at wholcfale or retail)
on so low terms as mull make it an ohjeS to cujlomeis. Orders
from his friends will be «Uended to with punttuality and aifpatch,
and the time of payment m»de convenient.
Philad. May 2, 1791
Pintard and Bleecker,
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private fjlc, on the
following terms :
ON the fpecre amount of all sales or purchases at auction, me
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private We, on all Turns
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-halj per cent. ; and on all funis
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pleased to favor the fubferibers with their orders, may rely oti
their being executed with punctuality,fidelity and dispatch, as confi.
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extensive
connexions in the city of New-York and different parts of the
continent, enable them to condufl their operations with peculiar
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
A'cw-Yoik, No. 57, King-Street.
(97. taw 6m)
March 15, 1791
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State of Conne&icut, at their feflion.'iu
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channH;
and appointed the subscribers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful discharge of their truil, prcl'ent the public with the
following
S C ]
Prize of
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5°
6i
100
140
539°
5842 Prices.
11658 Blanks.
175°° Tickets, at Five Dollars each, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subject to a deduction of twelve and a half per cent.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with thetowa
and harbour of New-Haven; to those who are not, fuffice it tt> fay,
that its beautiful situation is not furpafled, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heart of a country, which may, with propriety, be f«jid
to be the garden of America. The harbour lays open to the lound
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is netefiarily extended to the
channel, where ships can load and unload ; and when corftplcat
ed, will be the moll extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3>4thk of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the. States will be benefited by it. The
general wish that prevails in the minds of all clafTes of people, for
thcfuccefsof this enterprise, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet published in
Ameriea) induce the managers to believe the tickets w ill meet with
a fpecdy sale.
The drawing will pofuivcly commence at the State-House, in
>Jew-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or sooner ? if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes not called for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
for the ufc of the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Jam el Rice,
Jeremiah Atwater,
Joseph Drake,
Next}-Haven) April 14, 1791.
TICKETS in the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Messrs. Stefh en Austin, and Co. corner of
Front and Pine-Streets.
feotf)
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the MafTachufetts Lottery that have drawn prizes,
will be received in payment for the above tickets.
This day is publifhedy
By THOMAS LANG, No. 21, Church-Alley, and fold by all
The Catechism of Nature;
By DOCTOR MARTINET,
Profeflor of Philosophy at Zutphen.
TRANSLATED FROM THE DUTCH.
41 Read Nature—Nature is a friend to t ruth."
Blank Powers to receive the Interest, tndfor the tramfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejiablrjhed in the Trea
sury Department : Also Blanks for tbjlrafts of Certifcatciyto be fold ty
the Editor.
ICT-Afew copies of the CONSTITUTION of tht
United States, printed with Notes, may be had of the
Editfr.
A CARD
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
1 r' 1
HEM £.
10,090 Dollars, is
5 00 °
4000
2000 arc
1000
500
too
! OO
5°
4°
3 3
20
10
t
Managers
Michael Todd,
Elijah Austin,
Joseph How el i .
the Booksellers, (Pri«e 3-8 of a Dollar)
For the Use of CHILDREN
s
(96 tf)
10,000
5000
4000,
4000'
4000
2500
24C0
3000
. 2250
2 COO
:
2000
.*4°°
43' 123
8750®