PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 54, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, August 24, 17 1.
FROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
[Our Readers will be pUafed with the following Letter cf the Mayor
cf Paris, translated from a Parij Paper : Independent of the light
tt throws upon the Jituation of Paris, at the time our latcfl accounts
left that city, it cor tains fuck juji principles of rational liberty, a»d
Jack warm effu/ions ojgenuine patriot fn t as mujl interejt the jeel
i rigs oj every American.]
Letter from the Mayor of Paris to M. Le Fluv re d* Arles.
ctmmandant of the Battalion oj Penis- Auguttms.
Paris, June 5, »79 l -
THE Commander in Chief informs rne, Sir, that, on Satur
day, even before the receipt of any orders, the battalion of
Fctits-Augujtinsy which you have the honor to command, had re
ioived to meet velterday at fix in the morning in the Iheet Bourbon,
to preserve good order about the church of the Theatins, and se
cure the execution of the law which efltablifhes religious freedom.
I have learnt, Str, that their resolution was carried into execution;
and am informed that your battalion had fulfilled that duty with
zeal, and has been fortunate enough to protect from violence a
diftrefled Priest. As a citizen and as magistrate I applaud the
conduct of your battalion, and am made happy by tlie refpelt
1 hey have shewn for the laws. I view 111 their conduit the pat
riotism of citizen-soldiers. It is not enough to fight for our
country when in danger from attacks ; but it is alio neceilary to
■watch over its tranquility, and prevent its falling a villi m to in
ternal diilentions. The soldier-citizen has this double duty to
attend to, and you have performed it.
In paying attention to the croud which is atfralted towards the
Theatins, I am forty to find that the people of Paris are misled, —
1 am lorry to find in that croud, enemies to the public peace and
"welfare, drelfed in national uniforms, to appearance the mod ac
tive leaders. It can't be denied, Sir, the public weal is in dan
ger ;—our enemies wish to avail themselves of the divisions of the
clergy, and disputes of the priests to involve us in difficulties :
they wish to bring about a civil war, through the means of religi
ous contentions. Similar attempts have always succeeded, when
undertaken by the seditious of every country and in every age ;
hut it concerns our glory and iutereft,that they should fail among
the French, who, in two years, have brought about a most won
derful revolution, and have framed a molt admirable constitu
tion. Our enemies tremble to fee the edifice of this constitution
completely railed, and the last hand put to it to complete it,
theirlaft resource to oveiturn it is t > lay to the people, 44 The
cause of Re li g ion is in danger, a dreadful schism will take
place ; the ex-clergy are enemies of the contfitution, and the di
rcltory, the municipality, their chicfs, the military who protelf
them and execute their orders, are aristocratically inclined."
Arid I answer the people,— 44 That religion is in no danger ; no
thing of its eflentials s changed ; its tenets are prcferved in all
their puriiy ; the doltrine is the fame with the priests, who have
acknowledged the new constitution, and have taken the oath,
■with those, who, upon conscientious principles, or for other rea
ions, have thought pioper to refufe. This conscientious princi
ple is 111 themselves, and nothing is to be feared from it by others .
it is of no importance to the people, so tha: it breeds no disputes,*
—as disputes and diffentions only can disturb the public happi
nels, and throw an obstacle in the way, which may retard the
completion of the constitution. If the views of aristocrats have
given rife to thele disturbances, let us bury in oblivion their bad
intentions, which we re to give rife to civil wars and commotions,
their latt resource. Let us not however, by our conduit, iecond
their efforts ; let us peifevere in this important work of securing
public happincfs,by preserving peace, andof bringing about good
ordei, bv shewing fubmiilionto the laws.
The National AHembly has decreed that no restraint should be
laid on lib rty of conscience, and that religious worfnip of every
kind Ihould be permitted. If the tenets and worfhipof the ex
clergy arc the fame as those profeffed nnd that praltifcd by the
clergy paid by the nation, they are our's, and we ought to refpelt
them. If it differed from our's we ought to bear with it, just as
we permit other forms of worlhip totally different from that we
profeis. liut, then, the pee>ple aie told, if ihefe priests are per
mitted to fay ma<*s, they should not be fuffered to preach, or con
fels!—Why not ? I would ask—Where then would be their li
berty if you lay restraints on their tenets and mode of woifhip ?
Where is the freedom of citizens, if on account of these tenets
and mode of worship they are not matters of chufing their own
Spiritual guides ? More has been laid—it has been aliened that
some peifons have been seen at the communion table two arid
three times a day. The report is certainly [faWe ; but if it was
n ue, if it were one of their religious principles, that principle
15 free by the decree of the National Aflembly.
Frenchmen under (land tli nature of liberty ; it ought to be
complete and common to all ; by granting it to one set don't de
prive others of it-—The National Guards are yet told, take care
to w hat use your patriotism and courage are put ; —examine the
orders givt n you, ana only obey those which appear to you just
and of a ufeful tendency : And, who is it, that thus pretends to
lubjclt the law, wbich is the reason of ail, exprellcd. to the rcafon
of a few ; the law, that is the general will, to private will ( Soldi
*rs, Citizens, and even Magiflrates, are not to deliberate when
the law has pronounced, when it is exprcft'ed by the organschofen
and appointed by vourfelvo—obedience is then necefTary, it is a
duly or abioluie nec< fftiy, and to oppose, or even evade it, is a
l»reach ot iheconftitution, it is d ftrultive of the order of civil fo
cety, it is fnbftituting all the evils, which depend on anarchy, in
the room of national order, which it !S ourgloiyand interest to
preserve.
li mv voicc could be heard bv all my fellow-citizciu, if I could
h ve deft rvtd their confidence lo far aj lo hope that they would
I'ften to the exprt llious of my councils, I could tell them : Don't
jutier y»»ui lelvcs to be m'Qi d ; your happincfs is at hand, it is al
rcady in your poflTeflion ; the cmititution is neatly compleaied.
you are ab<nt enjoying the blcifings you have a right to expiit
♦ ">in its influence, uul<\t> you overset th work ot your hands.
1 herr i're a number of seditious aud ill-intentioned persons, ac
tuait d by the hope of enriching thcinfelvcs bv if coniufion
cau be pioductd. In Par is you are surrounded with a prodigious
Dumber of people ol this (lamp. enemies of the public good, and
active in (ftoits to deiiroy :t ; fomc ©f ihefe speak, and profanr
the language of liberty, and the cxpredions ot patriotism by thei»
nfc of them, others a£}, and commii cxctlTcj in the violation of
the rictus ol pt ifon and properly. To you foremoft it belongs to
oi>p«>f« their aiit mpts. When the duty of our magistrates and or
our citizi'ti-ioldiers nrompt them to purlue these pcrturbatois ot
public pea< <, ihe pcorie, who arc not performing military dutv
lo unite their eilorts with tltofe of the ftratts and Nan-
rtnal Guard. In ta& those very Magistrates and that National
Guard are the people themlelves ; it is their cause they defend, ii
s in defence of liberty they a&, desirous to secure it on the firm ba
is of public tranquility,
You are told that your Magistrates deceive you; you are told
leir orders are tyrannical ; and it is undoubtedly the interest of
hose who tell you so to repeat it again and again—all they want
s the return of anarchy and confufion, and the boldeit step to this
s disobedience to legitimate authority. You have every calami
y to dread, if your magistrates are deprived of our confidence,
md if legal authority is diverted of its influence. I certainly am
lot deceived, and it is impoflible that I could wish to deceive you.
What am I ? One raised by your own hands, after 50 years of
fcnown probity, and about to return to the obfeure retreat from
which you have taken me, there to carry nothing besides a confid
ence, which docs not reproach me with having done any evil, if I
have not the fatisfathon of having done much good. I cannot wish
lor any thing more than your interest and prosperity. You have
evinced your esteem tor me ; I refpeft and love you. You raised
me, and I watched foryour fafety. I have not had a thought for
these two years, but for you ; I beg you will be convinced of the
security of my intentions, and the fmcenty of my exhortations.
Yon are free, and you wish to be happy ; you can only be hap
py and free by your fubmiftion to the laws ; every breach of the
law is an encroachment on your liberty. You are reminded of
despotism; it is done away. You have a beloved King, his
right to rule is granted to him by the constitution ; —he toremoft
obeys the law when he executes it. You have magistrates chosen
by yourselves ; —they arc chosen but for a time, and are refponfi
b'e. You have adminiitrative bodies who watch over the pro
ceedings of each other, and over those of the legislature, the organ
of the law, the focus from which the rays of justice diverge. Op
preilors have no longer means to oppress ; the opprefled shall al
ways be heard, or rather oppreflion can no longer exist. Let us
then banish distrust ; suppress the difturbanccs which afTemblies
and mobs of motion-makers* occasion ; all these irregularities strike
the minds of peaceable citizens with terror, they drive away the
opulent, depopulate the capital, encreale the misery : And by re
storing peace and good order, let us by wifdorn ftnifti a revolution
begun with courage.
This, .Sir, is what I (hould wilh to fay to my fellow-citizens :
These are the truths and principlesby which you and the battalion
you command have been led. You are at liberty to publilh this
letter in any manner you may think proper.
Mayor ot Paris,
(Signed;
[ * The fie are men from the party called Enrages, or mad Demo
crats, who would be better pleased with no government at all than any—
who have nothing to lofc y and may gain much, if the kingdom could be
thrown into a Jlute oj anarchy. These men, chiefly paid by the Enrages,
harrangue the people in the jlreets and public squares, and then make
motions oj a nature to create disorder and dijlurbance, which they always
cart y. b\ acclamation from the mob, and these seditious opinions, collided
in this vague and tumultuous mannei, they then Jpread abroad as the
sentiments of the body oj the people.]
A Letter from the Provincial Afoubly of the North
of St. Domingo, to the King of the French.
" SIRE,
" \7"OUR children, your faithful colonics of
-1 St. Domingo, offer at the foot of the
throne, their just complaints, and deposit in your
paternal brealt, their fears and their alarms.
I'he province of the North of St. Domingo lias,
until this moment, difcovercd the molt refpetftful
fubinifiion to the decrees concerning the colonies,
made by the legiil.ttive body, and /auctioned by
your Majeily ; and this fubmiflion has entitled
them to the molt flattering applause from the
narion in general. We have relied on the reite
rated promises comprehended in the decrees of
the Bth and 28th of March, and 12th of October,
1790, to pass no decree upon the fubje*st of qua
lification of persons, but what lliould be precise
ly and formally represented by the colonies; but
a new decree of i!ie 15th of May, which (.an be
but the result of surprise, of cabal and intrigue,
causes all our hopes to vanish, and plunges us in
the greatest confiernation. This decree, which
is absolutely contradiiHory to those which have
preceded ic fays, " 1 he National Assembly de
" crees, that it will never deliberate upon the
" qualities of the colored people who are not
" born of free parents, without the previous,
" free and fpomaneous wish and desire of the
" colonies: that the Colonial Allemblies now
" exiiling fliall be continued ; but that the co
" lored people born of free parents lliall be ad
" mitted into the Parifhional and Colonial As
" femblies ; provided always, that they poflefs
" the other requisite qualifications."*
We fliall not attempt to paint to your Majelly
the shocking sensations the news this impolitic
decree has caused in this town ; and the misfor
tunes that will follow its promulgation are un
accountable ; they will be such as will draw af
ter them the total annihilation of this flourishing
colony
The profpenry of your kingdom, Sire, is eflen
rial'y connected with that of the colonies which
form a part of it, and these cannot flourish ex
cept they maintain the ltritftelt subordination
among those employed in the different kinds of
* A> u» nioprrtv. coin! loihc pavrrifnt of thue '.ivies for %J\)
taxe;
133
BAILLY.
[Whole No. 242.3
culture: this subordination will cease to exist,
the instant the line marked out which separates
the whites from ihe colored people lhall be bro
ken through, and both placed upon the fame line
of equality.
The order established in the colonies, sanction
ing certain prejudices, is by no means originated
by pride, as those pretended philosophers who
call thernfelves the Apoitles of Humanity sup
pose; it is dictated by the extreme necessity
which will never admit the colored people, the
offspring of former slaves, to be entitled to the
fame privileges with the whites, and be compre
hended without di&in<ftion with them. If this
indifpenfible order of the colonies is annihilated,
the ruin of them must inevitably ensue.
This, Sire, is what the legislative bodies had in
their wisdom particularly attended to, when
forming their decrees of the Bth and 28111 of
March, and 12th of October, 1790; the colonics
according to those decrees were left to make
their formal reprefenrations concerning the qua
lifications of persons, because it was judged im
poflible to do ample justice without such repre
ientation ; the infraction and violation of these
principles of justice aud equity, the refultof the
new decree of the ijth May, become the source
of the greatest ills.
It is in calumniating us that these Philanthro
pists have propagated their dod:rine; they re
present us to those who are unacquainted with
the colonies as the murderers of our slaves and
the tyrants of the colored free people. Huma
nity and our interest induce us to preserve the
former, and the latter are upon the footing of
white citizens under the immediate protection
of the law which renders their persons and pro
perties secure.
Cart, Sire, a kind look over your colonies, and
you will fee them peopled with Frenchmen who
tenderly love you, and who are entitled by eve
ry claim to youraffetftion. CondelVend to receive
in a favorable manner their jnft complaints. If
it is not too late, prevent the calamities with
which we are threatened, and refufe your aflent
to an atft so bigwirh mifchief; and if it is alrea
dy faniftioned, interpose your authority and ltop
its promulgation.
We are, Sire, with refpe<ft for your Majesty,
the most humble and faithful French colonilts of
Sr. Domingo.
(Signed) Gremier, Prefidenr.
Petit Deschampeaux, Vice-Prefidem
Bouysson,
Poulet, > Secretaries
Francois de Chaumont, j
LISBON, May 14
WE have received an affecting account from
our squadron which failed from this port
the latter end oflafl month. Don Joseph Mello
Brayner was giving his orders to the captain of
the Minerva frigate in the bay of Lagos, on the
29th of April, when a sudden squall broke the
cordage of a yard, which fell on the breast of the
admiral, who died a few hours afterwards. By
his death our navy loses an experienced
and a man who is universally regretted.
VIENNA, June 4.
The Turks have thrown a bridge of boats over
the Danube near Siliftria, and mean to pafa th£
river, notwithilanding the representations that
have been made to them. They have already
pafied hoi f'e» once into the opposite meadows to
the number of five or fix thouland, and hare even
erecfted tents there.
This proceeding of the Turks gives cause for
reflection, and as it is by no means conformable
to the terms of the Armistice, which will expire
in a few days ; we (hall soon fee what steps they
will take when the ufc of the meadows isrefufed
them.
Our Bifliop Filaret has just received certain
advices, that the Ruffians are in motion near Si.»
liltria, with an intention, as is supposed, of de
stroying the bridge of boats which the Turks
have tonllrufted there.
Extrafl of a letter from Cofiflantinople
" Wt have been tor tliefe fix weeks pad in the
most cruel alarms—fires exist night and day, both
in the city and suburbs ; neither the strength nor
activity of the government has been able to put
a Hop to this calamity, which will destroy all the
habitations. From what we obfeive with our«wn eves, it appears that the soldiery as well as
the citizens ai e discontented ; for if the troops
•were not :'.i league with the incendiaries, this
lcourge could ifot long exist.
" i he ravages which the flames have made in
Conllaijtinople, in Pcra and' Galatea, are beyond
estimation. ' Nor docs the government leem to
wish to have an accurate iJea of the iolies.
'• All the b'ranks are aftoniihed to fee tbeftea
dinefs of the Sublime Forte tinder tliefe cireuni
flances, and ate at a loss vvh:it to think.
'* But the politicians who fee clearly, fay that
Selim 111. is pei fuaded, or has been induced by
foreign insinuations, to think that the people aie
not discontented with th* war, but only the want
of success; and in consequence of this principle
he flatters hiinfelf that their unealiueft will be
converted into juy as soon as couriers arrive with
account of the Empire of Rufiia being attar li
ed by powerful fleets in the Baltic, and that by
this "division the Grand Vizier will be in a ftrua
tion to give law in his turn on the banks ol the
Danube, if we may rely on the language of the
Ottoman Mini dry, we may expect accounts wit bin
a fortnight, as they consider the affairs alieady
fettled."
W A R S A W,
The Comptc Malachowfki, Warlhall of the
Confederation, and of the Diet, went, imme
diately after the adoption of the new conllitu
tional articles, ro the Hotel tie Ville, accompanied
by a great number of Nonces and other gentle
men, and took, as citizens, the civic oath.
The citizens of Warsaw inanifelied their joy at
this event by unanimous acclamations, and by a
concert of music playing at the fame time.
The people attempted to take oft the horses
from the Marfhall'schariot, and to draw it tliem
lelves, but he would not accept this houour,
which he confideied as degrading to his fellow
citizens.
The spirit of the Nation seems entirely chang
ed. Several of the representatives have gone in
to mourning for M. Mirabeau, who is conlidered,
as having nobly defended ilie rights of Man, and
the justice which ought to be reciprocally oblerv
ed between nations and their fovereijrns.
O
PARIS, May 27
A riot, that gave much alarm, happened on
Sunday last, in the Thuilleries, and which was
occasioned by the ill behaviour of fcveral grena
diers of the National Guard, who grolsly affront
ed the people walking there. Whether any
thing more mifchievons than what happened was
expe<3ed is not generally known, but from this
period the King's guard has been rcinforced.
June 15.
We have just received letters from Bonn, which
fay that the general report i:i that citv is, that
Med'rs. L'Artois and Conde mean immediately to
quit Germany, and return to Paris. Should this
be the cale, they add, adieu counter-revolution i
We only repeat this as it is a report.
But other accounts allure us, that the biack ar
my, which in Alsace they term the army of
" thirty-tliree," is daily augmenting the numbei
of its officers, without gaining any addition in
men.
Our letters from Bourdeaisx fiy, " That they
have given there an entertainment to Ernest At:
guiius, ionof' George Hi. kingof Great-Britain,"
and add, " they do not know how king George
■will receive this news, as they know lie is not
fond of the revolutionists, and had particularly
forbid his son to become too familiar with these
heretics."
The remains of Voltaire are expetfted to ar
rive between the 15th and 2o:h.
The aflaflination of Mr. IMatiduit, an account
of which was read to the aflembly on Thursday,
produced a general indignation againit the per
petrators, and the aflembly has promised 10 bring
his murderers to justice.
LONDON, May 24
There are few Sovereigns at present who en
joy a greater (hare of happinefsand fecuriiy than
the King of Poland. As a private cbaiatfer,
Stanislaus was always esteemed—but his ready
acquiescence in the new conttitutiun, has gained
hi in the hearts of all his fnhjec r ts. He is now
Ihe King of Freemen ! a title not extorted lYom
liim, but to which he aipii ed.
A number of gun boats, lately conftruded at
the merchants yards, have been put together in
the boat-house at Deptford-yard, to be furveycd
by the Cominiflloners of the Navy ; after which
they are to be taken to pieces, and sent on board
the men of war under the command of Lord
Hood, destined for the Baltic.
The sub-treasurer mid steward of the focietv
of Liticoln's-Inn, has laiely absconded to Ameri
ca, with no less a i'uni than i 4 ,0p01. belonging to
tlie society ami a few individuals who had en
ti ufted liim with funis of money. He had received
the rents of the focieiy to the latell date, and
had boi rowed money wherever he could raise
it. He had previously destroyed the books of
Apr] JO,
the society, and fold every article of his own fur
niture. He had been abf'ent some time before
his elopement was discovered, under pretence of
going to Margate for his health.
On wednesday last died, Mr. Van Veyhovm,
a Dutchman, at his lodgings in Air-ltreer, i'lcca
dilly. He departed, where he had live<s, in a
garret. The fortune he has left behind liim, it
is said, amounts to 400,0001.
He had reached the great age of 76—in which
he had daily denied to himfelf the neceflaries of
life. To those whom he had solicited to attend
his funeral, he did not leave mourning.
Aniongfl the Aims he has bequeathed in Pub
lic Charities, are the following
To an Hofpiial,
To propagate [lie Chriflian Religion
in foreign parts,
To cl'eanfe ihe itreers of Dublin from
Vagrants, - - 20,000
Our i ngenious Correfportdent, who favors us
with this, fays—" That had lie appeared there,
with his old wig and tattered blue coat, he would
inevitably have fallen a victim to his own bounty."
Junt 7. Saturday, while the guns were firing
in St. James's Park, a pickpocket was industri
ously following his vocation ; being however de
recfted, he had the temerity to draw a knife, and
threatened anv one with instant annihilation
that fhonld prefunie to lay bold of bin) ; this so
juflly exasperated those present, that they seized
the daring wretch, and harraffed him up and
down the Park, then took him to the bafon,where
they kept dragging hitn through until be was
nearly exhaulted.
June 14. The following is a more correct ac
count of the Ruffian fleer, which was ready to
fail from Cronlfadr the 18th of last month, than
has been yet piiblifbed
Ships of 100 guns,
Ditto of 92
Ditto of 76
Ditto of 74
Ditto of 70
Ditto of 66
Frig it es 7
Sloops 9
Store Ships II
Gun Boats 13
THE PROROGATION
At three o'clock his Mnjefty came in the tifual
state to the House of Peers ; the sword of 11 ate
was borne by Earl Walfingham, and the cap of
maintenance bv Earl Cardigan.
His Mnjefty being seated on his tlirjne in his
Royal robes, wiih the ufnal/oleninities, Sir Fran
cis Molyneax (Gentleman Ulher of the Black
Rod) was ordered to the Commons, to command
their immediate attendance on hia Majetty.
The Commons attended accordingly,and their
Speaker addrcfled his Mnjefty to the following
efFei't :—T hat he held in his hand a Bill ena
bling the Governor and Company of the Bank of
England, to pay into the receipt of his Majesty's
Exchequer, 500,000!. which closed the I'm plus
granted by his Mnjefty's mod faithful Commons,
for the services of the year : that in the course
of a long and laborious feflio'-i, his Majesty's
faithful Comm ns had given a recent instance of
heir duty and attachment to his Royal Person,
I >y making a provision one of the aggregate re
venue of the Kingdom, for the relief of the Ci vil
Lift from an expence necefl'ary to the mainte
nance and support of one of the j ounger branch
es of his Mnjefty's Royal and Auguil Family : —
Keeling tlie blefllngs of our own happy conlVitii
ion his Majesty's faithful Commons had, on the
fame principles, provided a Government for the
rovince of Quebec : and that his Majesty's faith
ful Commons bad provided for the maintenance
of the honor of his Majesty's crown, by coming
10 a unanimous vote to enable his I\lajelly to aug
ment his navy, in order to give weight to his
Majesty's negociaiions for restoring peace to the
contending poweis He concluded by reading
the ti'le of the Bank l oan Bill.
The Bank Loan, and other Bills agreed to
by both Hoiifcs, were immediately pafied by the
Clerk's in the ufu«] form.
His Majelty was then pleased to make the fol
lowing molt gracious speech :
" Wy Lords and Gentlemen,
" In closing the present feliion of Parliament,
I cannot, omit expressing my fatisfatftion in that
zeal for the public interests with which yon have
applied yonrfelves to the consideration of the
dliferent objects which I recommended to your
attention.
" The measures which have been adopted for
defraying the extraordinary expences of last
year, in iuch a manner as not to make any per
manent addition to the public burthens, and the
provisions which have been made for the «ood
government and prosperity of my fubjedts in
Canada, call for my particularacPnowledgments.
" Gentlemen of the Hovfe of Commons,
I return yon my thanks for the readiness
vith whicu you have granted the fupplics ne
134
4
i
2
9
5
2
lotal of tlie line—23
4
2
2
7
on three decks,
ditto
011 two decks,
ditto
ditto
ditto
Cutlers
Luggeis
Shallops
Ordnancc Barges
cetfary for tlie public service, and f or the niw
of your affecftionate attachment in enabling
to provide for a part of the charges of the
cr branches of my family out of the Confolid
ed Fund.
" My Lordj and Gentle-,
" I am not yet enabled to inform you of o
result of the (teps which I have taken
view to the re-eitablifliment of peace hetwe/
Rullia and the Pone : It is my earneit wish t | "
this important objedt may be effectuated in fiich
a manner as may contribute to the [>refer» ailU]|
and maintenance of the general tranquility of
Europe. I feel with the greatest farisfu'tionthe
confidence which you have reposed in nie, and
my constant endeadours will be diretied to tlic
pursuit of such measures as may appear to me
to be the bed calculated to promote the interells
and happiness of my people, which arc infepe
rable from my own."
60,000
90,000
" My Lor 1)5 an 4 G tnthvien,
" It is his Majelly's Royal will and pleasure
that this Parliament be prorogued to Tuefdar
the 16th of August next, to be then and there
holder) ; and the Parliament is accordingly pro
rogued to Tuesday the i6th day of Augultuext."
The Attorney-General has filed an informati
on, ex officio, upon die provisions of the last bill
against Mr. Holland, lately arrived in the Rod
ney, upon a charge of having accepted*a present
of 120,0001. from a single donor.
The Ruffians, it is now confirmed, have receiv
ed a check before Brahilow, which has oecafiou
ed them to raise the siege of that place.
The meflenger from Peterfburgh, with Mr.
Fawkener's fiift dispatches, is expected at the
Secretary of State's office in the course of Sun
day or Monday.
The accounts brought by the Seraphis, East-
Indianian, which arrived at L'Orient on Friday
last, are in the highest degree favorable to the
intereffs of this country in India. They state,
particularly, that Tippoo was reduced, by his
repeated flights, to such If raits as to be in adual
want of common neceflaries, even for his body
guards ; and in this perilous situation had at
length made overtures for a pacification to Earl
Cornwallis, in the most humiliating manner.
The Cabinet now con (ills of the following in em
bers :—Mr. l'iit, Lord Thurlow, Lord Camden,
Marquis of Stafford, Lord Grenville, Mr. Dun
das, Lord Chatham, Duke of Richmond, and
Lord Hawkefoury.
Of these, four are generally in the habit of
agreeing with the fiifl Lord of tlte IYeafiiry,
viz. Lords Camden. Chatham, Grenville, and
Mr. Dundas. The Marquis of Stafford has al
ways gone with the Chancellor, and tiie Duke
of Richmond (lands by himl'elf. Lord Hawkef
bnry has, ever since the secession of the Earl of
Bute, been considered as the chief of that party
which is distinguished by the appellation of the
King's friends.
The fleet, in spite of two months prefting, is
flill very deficient of men ; and, un]e(i> the Welt'
India (hips come in time to supply it, 11111 ft put
to sea without its proper complement. 1 his was
the cafe with the fleet equipped last year ; it was
not completely manned, although fix months
were employed in preparing it for sea.
Tuesday night and Wednesday morning the
press on tiie river was so great, that they cleared
every fliip of their hands, not regarding protec
tions, and picked up abou't 230 men.
Some thousands of men have been employed
within the lafl four months in (lengthening
the worksat Revel, eredting frefli batteries, and
putting the old works in a complete fiate of repair,
Mr. Bofwel, in his life of johnson, has endea
vored to refute the long received opinion that
Savage, the poet, was Lady Macclesfield s son.
He fnppofes hi in to be an impostor, and to ha\e
deceived Johnson into a belief of his (lory. Mr.
B. brings forward some circumstances and lea
foning, which do not, however, we think, amount
to a certainty, when put into the balance again!
the evidence for Savage's illegitimdlly-bouourt
defcent.
A correspondent observes, that Mr. Saycj s
new print, enti'leil, Air. Burkj'i pair of
c/cs for fbort sighted politicians, in relpett to " f
and lucky hits, is allowed to exceed all hi* °J
satirical efFufions. The following are the c >ie
circumflnnces reprefeuted 111 it : .
A hand displays a pair of fpe<ftacles, the £ a c
of which exhibits the captivating countenance
Mefl'rs. Kox and Sherrydcrrv —the former w
pering, and the latter pouting. The f
Portland (his nose fallened to a firing he
Mr. Fox) is seated 011 a fragment of the
proposed to be ereifted atßunnymede. 1* r -_ j
in the charadlcr of Cromwell, with the
cockade of France in his hat, is appl) in s ~
axe (on which th; Right< of Man are ell . (J
to the root of onr constitutional tree.
brows the efctitcheonsof hereditary a s.
are suspended. Busy devils (poor Ch<u C y enlJ
fociates) are driving to cut down thelc en.
with fciflars, scythes, &c.
June 16Reports of an invasion are induflrioufly circu
lated, by the friends of freedom, in every part
of France, in order to support the cause of free
dom. Every frefh alarm adds friends to the cause,
and induces the Revolutionills to unite with more
warmth, for their general support and protection.
The force of l lie Turks oil I he Black Sea is i'u
perior to chat of Russia, confiding of j8 line of
battle lhips, 31 frigates, and upwards of 60 gun
ihallops. It failed on the sth of May.
The Poliili monarch, in the godlike triumph
of his heart, makes kings of citizens: and in
imitation of that great authority, which (aid—
k Let there be light, and there was light"—:his
king lays to his f'ubjecls, enjoy the light of rea
fou—bcjree.
June 21.
As Chronicleers we (hould notice the extreme
coldnels of the season. Sharp frolls have ap
peared every morning for fonie days pall ; by.
which all tender plains have been greatly hurr,
and the farmers, we learn, are apprehensive, as
the wheat is now in bloom, that ic will greatly
(offer. We may fay with Shakelpeare,
44 Hoary-head d troll
" Dwells in the irefli lap the crimson i-ofe."
Accounts from various partsof the country, in
form us that on the mornings of Monday, i uef
day and Wednesday in the last week, the frolls
were verv severe, and did much damage to gar
dens lituated near rivers or moid vallies. We
hear of ice half an inch thick, and hailliones an
inch in diameter. The Thermometer was on
thole davs many degrees lower than we liave of
ten known it in December. Let the Philofophei s
account for such phcenomena in the middle of
June.
COMMEMO RAT IO N OF HANDEL
The fir It performance in Weftniinfter Abbey,
was yesterday attended by about fourteen hun
dred persons : Their Majcfties, and the tmee
Princelies were present, attended by the Dune of
Montrofe, Lord Amherft, &c. &c. The King
was dreficd in scarlet and gold ; tlie Queen in a
green and silk tiflue. The Princelies were all
in striped silks ; their head-dre(l'es, as usual, ve
ry plain, with a final! bunch of flowers in their
caps. The king looked extremely well, and in
high spirits. '
The grand Coronation Anthem was performed
in a molt exact and capital manner.
Signor David diffilayed his altoriiiliing powers
to great advantage in " Fell rage and black del'
pair." Their Majelties, before whom this was
David's firft appearance, exprelled altonifhment
mixed with the moit lively pleaftne.
The chorus of •' Hail Stones," had fucli ai
cffect as co draw tears from the Queen. The c!u
et, " The Lord is my strength," was never bet
ter sung, than by BignoraSiorace,and Mrs.Crouch
The performance was ended about a quarter be
foi e iour o'clock.
PRICES OF STOCKS, „■
Bank Stock,
3 Per Cent, Reduced,
g Her Cent. Confolidaied,
4 Per Cent. I 777,
Bank Long Annuities,
English Lotierj Tickets,
1 riill Tickets
London Exchange on Dublin,
PORTSMOUTH,
The whole of tlie grand fleet at Spithead is 60
fail : there are 7 flags fiying, which make a very
formidable appearance. The ships are manned
with good Teamen in general, as no landsmen
have been pretled d uring the w hole ofthebuflle.
N E W 13 K R N, August 6.
Extract oj a letter frotn an officer of th. United States
in France, ItiJrch 201.
" Yon have heard 1 have been appointed by
Congress Vice-Consul of ciie United Stales a: this
port. The conimilOons of die American Consuls
in this kingdom, though since four months in
the hands of the French IN'iniltry at Paris, are
Itill detained there (1 know not from what mo
tive) to receive the liecefliuj exequatur-, mean
while tliefe officers cannot be recognized by the
Executive l'ower in their respective didrieis.
1 hope, however, %ve (liall fuon receive them :
until then I will not wear the uniform, and the
arms of the United States will not be fixed 011 the
door of my house."
N E\V-YO 11 K, August 18.
F.xtrafl of a litter from Mr. Obadiah Herbert, of
Mount Pleafunt (in Middietovju At w-Jtrfy) to
his friend in Nov- Tot k.
" I have fin i (lied my WHEEL, and it answers
all the pttrpofes I told yon of. It f'pins, doubles,
twills and reels off"the thread at the fame time.
The machinery is fiich that it does not impair
the of the rim in the lead ; and ii is al-
lowed by a number who have leeu ic, to be a
' ompleie piece of machinery. boincof the LelV
spinners fay it runs as easy as they can with, and
atifwcrs the purpofc extremely \»eli."
By a gentleman who left Cadiz the 12th July, we learn, that it
was currently reported and universally believed at that place, that
the King, Queen and Dauphin of France having left Paris, had
got to a dill,mce of 30 leagues —iWhfn they were discovered, ar
lcfled and carried back.
By the July Packet, arrived at New-Yotk, English papers are
received to the 6th July—We have been favored by a brother
Typo, with the perusal of ievcral numbers of the Morning Chro
nicle, from which we have time to collect only a few particulars
of the above intei elting event: The King, Queen and Dauphin
with ieveral ladies of the Queers bed. choinoer, accompanied by
several of tne guards in carriages, left the pa lace ot the 1 huiilcries
on the morning ot the 21ft. June —-and had proceeded as far as
Varennes (in Lorraine) without interruption ;at this place they were
recognized by a Dragoon of the name ot Drouet, who in concert
with a comrade, by the name of William —took their measures
with such address as to secure the persons of the Royal Family,
without injury or confufion.
News of the King's being overtaken having reached the Na-
tional Afiembly, Coramiflioners were immediately appointed to
superintend efcqrtjnc him back- tp Paris, which was ctfe&ecl with
out tumult. Sepjrate guards were appointed for the security of
the King, Queen, and Dauphin—their atiendants were all com
mitted to c'tofe confinement. The National Afiembly conduced
with great ealmncfs, dignity and propriety, on the occasion. Many
important Decrees, providing for the immediate security of the
kingdom from external and internal attacks, were patted with
great promptitude and decision. But with refpe£t to the King
and family, the Afiembly had rcfolved not to take any measures
but such as were the rcfult of a full and deliberate enquiry into all
circumftanccs attending this extraordinary business. M. Mont
moriu had been examined before the Afiembly, refpe&ing the
paflport with which the Royal Family had been furniftied, when
his innocence of being privy to their flight fully appeared. M.
La Fayette having had Come refl ftions call upon him also, the
Afiembly investigated the fubjeft fully, and rcfolved that no
grounds of suspicion existed ; and that full confidence fbould be
reposed in his orders as Commander in Chief.——[ln our next
we shall endeavor to narrate tiie interfiling particulars of this
event.J
Accounts in letters received by the Packet inform, that the
Empress has concluded a peace with the Porte—That great com
motions had taken place in Spain, in which Come lives were loft.
Yellerday the Legiilature of this Common
weal th afl'einliled at the Suue-lloufe, purfuaiu to
adjuurninciu,
T UNK. 21
186 1-8 Ss 7-8
81 18 80 7-8
82
ioi 1-4 1-8
23 ? 4
161. 6d.
61. 16s. 6d.
o -j-O
June 19
Philadelphia, August 24.
Tliurfdav lad the French and Spanifli Minis
ters, together with several other distinguished
personages, dined with the Pr'efulent of the Uni
ted States, and in the evening there was a dlfplay
of fire-works exhibited nearly oppolite the Presi
dent's bouse, by foine citizens, in compliment to
the company.
East India intelligence received by tbe latest
arrival from Europe, is to the 29ih January lalt.
A letter from Lord Cornwallis, of 28th De
cember, derails his future plan of operations—
the tiate of the army, the magazines and military
(lores, be observes, is fjch as to give him great
fatisfaiftion.
A letter from General Abercrombie, of Dec.
22, to Lord Cornwallis, informs him of the cap
ture of C'annanore, and of Firicackabad, the ca
pital of Tippoo on that coalt, by Col. Hartley.—
Thele fuccefles, he adds, liaverompletely cleared
the Malabar coalt.—The la It accounts from (.Jen.
Meadows left him in pursuit of Tippoo near
Trichinopoly. Some ittdi rect overtures of a
treaty had been 1 eceived by him from Tippoo's
Minister. 'J he fort and garrifoii of Daraporam
having been taken by the enemy, Tippoo's en
gagement \Vith Caj)t. Evans, the commander,
were fcrupuioufly adhered to on the pare of the
Conqueror.
A letter of h January informs, that Lord
Cornwallis, having taken the com in and of the
army, expects to begin his march for the Mysore
Country in a few days.
In a late debate in the National Aflembly of
France, one of those denominated Ariitocrats
complained molt bitterly of the tyranny of the
majority in not being permitted to fin i 111 a de
clamation which he was uttering againit the le
port of a committee 011 a particular fubjecl.
It is reported that a motion has been made in
the National Aflembly to divide the members by
lot, into two houses—this tlivifion to take place
at the commencement of every new Aflembly—
this mode ot division to be adopted that the mo(l
pcrfeift equality may be preserved what the
result was, does not appear.
It is the constant and uniform language of the
Patriots of France that tlie law isfnpi eine ; —this
idea, it is presumed, includes both the law and
the conflitution, and is certainly jttit. How little
do thefc Patriots know of Liberty, compared to
a lare wiirer in one of the Ealtern papers, who
has aliened that " every ous has a conltitutional
l ight to attempt to alter it [that is, the Constitu
tion ot the United States] wljen he chooses to
do it."
A late Boston paper informs, tliat 011 the re
presentations ot the niunicipaliries and others to
the of France, againil the decree granting
to the si ee people of colour in the i (lands, the
fame privileges which the t-nv>y, lie had
refofed to sign ir, and had lent it back to the Al
feinhlv—and that in cpnfcqucnce of this refufal,
it had not bccotne a law.
Mr. Hailings concluded his defence before the
High Court of Parliament in tiie following ani
mated and bold apo(boj»(jc, t« tlit- ISntifh Jluule
135
of Commons : u You have told the world,
that I have brought great loss and damage upon
the Eait India Company, and disgrace upon the
Bi itifh nation. 1 tell, you, that 1 improved your
resources ; thar 1 made a numerous people hap
py ; and that the BritUh name and character
never itood higher than when 1 left Bengal. —
Every regulation in the Kafl originated in me.
1 gave you the Salt Revenues, the Opium, Bena
res and Oude—J formed all the official arrange
ments ; and if any changes have been made,
they are modifications only of my fy Items, tor
the pur pole, as my noble and virtuous fucceilor
fa id (applying his remark to Oude) of render
ing the principles eltablilhed by me the moie
permanent. —" I gave yon all—And what lias
been my return ? A character degraded, as far
as you could degrade it—a fortune totally ruined,
and a life of impeachment."
On the Btii of June, in the Honfe of Lords,
Ear] Stan hope moved, that the bill tot* remov
ing all doubts refpeding the rights of Juries, be
now read a fee on & time.— 1 lie Chancellor
moved to omit the word now, tor the put prtfe
of inferring t hls day month. After some de
bate the amendment was carried.
It cannot reasonably be expected, that the di
vidends of the Bank of the United States, aftei
deducting the charges, which will be heavy ac
the outset, will amount to the common and legal
interest of money, in less titan eigh.een months
or two years from January next; —on this fup
poficion the original fnbfcribers will in effect pay
a considerable premium 011 their shares, bv their
money's laying as it were dormant and ufelelsfor
so long a time.
O
Population' of Virginia,
of Kent ucky,
In the yenr 1781 a very inaccurate census was
taken, several counties made no rtturn ; but
fuppiying bv conjeifture the deficiencies, the
population of Virginia was then computed ac
567,614 The increase then is 258,673, and is ai
9 to 1 3 in ten years.
The increase of slaves, during those ten years,
has been less than it had been obfei ved lor a cen
tury before. The reafou is, that about 30,000
slaves perilhed wirhtlie linall-pox, or carAp-fever,
caught from the Britiih army, or went off with
them, while Lord Cornwallis was roving over
that State.
From PELOSIs MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Peggy, Fleming,
Levant, Gillis.
Cleopatra, Geddes,
Brig Hope, Linthorne,
Jenny, Brown,
Maria, Hopkins,
Lady Waiterftorff, Gardiner,
Barque Prudence, Miller,
Schooner Adonis, Goddard,
Sloop Prince of Wales, White,
Liberty, Mountaync,
Union, Watson,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 21/3 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents 12/j
Dcfered 6 pr. Cents 12/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 2Cf
Indents • 12 /3
N. and S. Carolina debts, j 5J6'
Bank Subscriptions,
COMMUNICATION.
AS the fituatiorf of the United States is eflentially different from
that of European countries, in rcfpeft to wars and politics, it is
difficult to account for the fluctuation in the priccs of our itocka—
but adverting to facts will enable us in fome-meafureto fatisfy oiir
felvcs on this point. The appreciation of the Public Securities has
been a gradual business—their rife is the rcfuh of fair calculation,
and a just ronftdence in the funds and faith of the Government —
but the rife in the price of Bank Stock was too rapid for calcula
tion, and too surprizing to leave time for cool reafoninjj on the
fubje£t: It proved a sudden, but powerful temptation to persons
in trade, to ftcp out of their usual course; this biought a new ca
pital into the marker, which aided the balloon in its flight. From
an uunatural elevation it has descended with greater rapidity than
it rose, and many are left in a novel and unpleafing fitnanon. The
real excess beyond its value, that has been paid tor Script.is a loss
that mull fall somewhere—the arts which will be employed 011
this occasion to fhiftoffihe burthen, will keep the ball suspended
lor some time to come. I: will be well for thojfe who have al
ready fuffcred, to examine with great attention the
thermometer—the impulses on that machine arise from various
combinations formed among a prodigiouJl\ cunning set, but whofc
t wi(tings and tergiversations may be traced by the due of commoi*
fen fp 1
That Script (hould ho at soo to-day g '*nd 156 to-morrow, can
not he the rclult of calculation. He that runs, may read.
Gray's Gardens.
A CONCERT of VOCAL 2nd INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
will begin To-morrow, the of Auguff, at 4 o'clock in
ihe afternoon, and condudc at 9 at night, Oiould ll.c day be fair.
Tickcts delivered at one Quarter of a Doliar at tic- B-tr.
The ship Union will be ornamented in the dav, and illuminated
at nighi. The Water-Fail wrll be much improved, and lighted
in such a manner as to make an elegant natural landfcapc; in the
wardens, a great change in the Illumination will take place
Gray's fcriy, Auj'.itl 24.
747,610
73.677
821,287
I.ifoom
Liver poo 1
Bel fa it
New foundland
Madeira
Button
Cadiz
Ferrol
Kmgflon
sc. Kitts
Diim
New-York
ic6}pr. cent.
do.
do.
par.
613 do.
165 to 170 Dollars,
O.&K.GKA Y.MASSACHUSETS SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY
THE MANAGERS oi lh.» STATE-LOTTERY aflure the
Public, that the fecoud Class ot the SEMI-ANXUAL LOT
TERY will pofuivcly commence drawing on ihcday appointed,
viz. On Thursday the 13'rt of Odober next, or Jooncr, it the 1 '.ckeis
{hall be difpolcd of. As the Managers have in their tcveral
monthly Lotteries commenced drawing at the hour aiTigiicd, 10
they aie determined to be equally as pun&ual in ihis.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are 125,000 Dollars, to
be paid in the following Frizes, fubjeft :□ a deduction of twelve
and an ha!f per cent, for the use of the Commonwealth.
Pmz ks. Dollars. Dollars
1 of 10000 is
a 3000 are
2000
6
10
3»
80
90
100
12©
161
200
7585
8388 PrizM.
16612 Blanks
25000 Tickets.
TICKETS in the above Class may be bad of the several
Manage K& y vihowill pay the prizes on demand; of the Tr e asu r 1 R
of the Commonwealth; of James White, at his Book-itore,
Franklin's Head, Court-street—and at other places, as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.")
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER.
GEORGE R. MINOT,
JOHN KNEELAND,
BoJlon> April 14, 1791.
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
THE Legislature of the State ot Conne&icut, at their fe&orf in
December last, granted a Lottery for the purpose of extend
ing Union Wharf, in the harbour of New-Haven, to the channel;
and appointed the subscribers managers, who having given bond
for the faithful dilcharge of their the public with the
following
SCHEME.
io,ooo Dollars, is
5000
4000
are
1
1
1
2
4
5
12
3°
45
5°
6i
2 0©
140
339°
Prize of
5842 Prizes.
11658 Blanks.
17500 Tickets, at Five Dollars cach, is
Not two Blanks to a Prize
Subje& to a deduction of twelve and a half per ccnt.
The public utility of extending this wharf, is too evident to re
quire any comment, to those who are acquainted with ihetown
and harbour of New-Haven ; to those who arc not,fuffice it to fay,
that its bcauutul fituatton is not furpafTed, if equalled by any ; be
ing in the heartof a country, which may, with propriety, be said
to be Ihe garden of America. The harbour lays open to tlie found
but by realon of the flats, this wharf is neteffarily extended to the
channel, where (hips can load and unload ; and when complet
ed, will be the mod extensive and commodious wharf in America,
the whole extent being about 3-4ths of a mile; and not only the
mercantile interest of New-Haven and the towns adjacent, but the
maritime interest of all the Slates will be benefited by it. The
general wifo that prevails in the minds of all clafles of people, for
thefuccefsof this enterprize, together with the very great advan
tage which this scheme holds out to adventurers (there being more
capital prizes for the number of tickets than any yet publilhed in
Ameriea) inducethe managers to believe the tickets will meet with
a fpeedv lale.
The drawing will positively commence at the State-House, in
New-Haven, on the 13th of September next, or foontr, if the
tickets are fold.
A lift of ihe fortunate numbers will be publiihed) and the prizes
paid on demand, by the managers. Those prizes notcalled for in
nine months after drawing, will be deemed as generously given
ior the ulc ot the wharf, and appropriated accordingly.
Jamejßice, Michael Todd,
Jer emi ah At water, Elijah Austin,
Joseph Drake, Joseph Howell.
JVetc-Haven, April 14, 1791.
TICKETS 111 the above Lottery may be had at the
Compting-houfe of Meffts. Stephen Austin, and Co. corner ot
Front and Pine-Streets.
Who will pay the prizes which may be drawn by Tickets pur
chased of them in said Lottery.
Tickets in the Maflachuletts Lottery that have drawn prizes
will be received in payment »or the abovr tickets.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these presents (hall come, or in any wife concern,
1 hat JAMES GARDNER, late of Wilmington, North-Carolirfa,
deceased, did make lour promiflory notes payable to SAMUEL
JACKSON, of Phi lad. lph.a, Merchant, all bearing date the 19th
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able 111 lix months—one for seven hundred and forty two pounds,
»n nine months—one tor fevenhundred and forty pounds,in twelve'
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in the
•whole to two thouiand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
tcen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington Which said notes have been afligncd by the said Sa
muel Jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and TAMES
r ur' erc^ants » Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the laid Gardner, by him been accounted for and paid in part
to the amount of two thoufaud and lonv-feven pounds fifteen fhil
lings and fix-pence, to the said THOMAS MACKIE. and Co"
in proof of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
1 hefe are th retore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes as they will not be taken up. '
THOMAS WRIGHT,)
ROBERT SCOTT, C Executors,
M. R. WILLKINGS.S
Hilmtngttn, Nertk-Cdrcliiui, z-thMa\, 1791. (c p 3 m
CLASS II
1000
S co
2CO
100
5*
4°
3°
20
1 o
9
[►Managers
I
j
2000
1000
$0©
200
100
5®
4°
3®
20
10
S
Manager. ll :
Charleftown (MaflT.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of fiid Lottery prcfcnt to the Public
Hie following
SCHEME
Of the Tw INT Y-StCOND Clasi,
Confiding of 7000 TicKcts, at Three Dollars each,-i,oc»
Dollars.
1 Prize of
i
>5
20
20
20
40
60
70
10000
6oco
6000
80
2008
6000
SOOC
6000
SOOO
45°°
3600
3220
20C0
60680
2335 Prizes,
4<)bs Blanks,
7000 Tickets, Amount, 21000
p!r This Class will commencedriwmg on or belore the ill of
Srptember.
Tickets may be had of the several Managers in Charleftown,
and at the ulual places in Bolton.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, £ Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, )
Charleston, May 15, 1791.
12£OOQ
Hazard and Addoms,
No. 173, Mai ket-Street,
HAVE T1 ck ets >n the above, and in the Maflachufetts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL LOTTERY, for Sale.
BOOKS.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, \orTH-FrON T-St R&ET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
A large collection of BOOKS;
Among uhich are the following
AMERICAN EDITIONS.
LOVF.LASS on Bills of Ex- Dallas's Reports.
change. Kirby's Conne&icut Reports.
Clerk's Vade Mecum. Conductor Gcneralis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
IC.OOO
500©
4000
400©
4000
2500
2400
3000
2250
2000
1830
2000
1400
43» 12 °
New Edinburgh Difoenfatory.
Cullen's First Lines of the Prac
tice of Physic.
Ruth's Medical Enquiries.
Brown's Elements of Medicine.
Ofterwald's ChriftianTheology. Jcnyn's Internal Evidence
Rife and Progress ot Religion the Christian Religion.
in the Soul. Beattie's Evidence of Ditto,
decker on Religious Ooinions. Think Well On't.
ordyce's Addreffcs to Young D »out Christian's VadeMecum
Men. Edwards's History of Redemp
-4 ion.
Sermons to Young
Women. ,
Poor Man's Help and Young
87500
Man's Guide.-
Newton's DilTertations on the
Prophecie?.
Le&ures delivered by Soame
Jenyn«.
The Christian Rcmembrancei.
Future Srate Eternal.
Ruffel's Seven Sermons.
Ramfav's American Revolution
History of America.
Morse's Geography.
Siege cf Gibraliai.
Shaw's Abridgement of Brace's
Travels.
Keate's Account of the Pelevv
1 (lands.
Pike's Arithmetic.
Gough's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
Clark's Introdu&iontothe mak
ing of Latin.
Dodflcy's Fables.
P. Ovidii N fonis Metamor
phofeon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar.
Ruddiman's Rudiments.
Schoolmaster's Assistant.
Sele6ta2 e Veteri Teftamento
Hilforias.
Scott's Lessons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar.
Young Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hervey's Meditations.
Young's Night Thoughts.
Thomfon'a Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
Klopftock's MefTiah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTED BOOKS.
Rennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred History, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Amf
-6 vols. rican War, 4 vols.
Jicholfon's Navigation. New Annual {legifter.
lcxandei's Experimental En- Vattel't Law of Nations.
luirics. Walker's Academic Speaker.
Experimental EflTays. J i-le of Robinson Crufot
Huxham on Fevers. Savtllc's Mifcellanici.
V'rtucs and Efficacy of a Crust School of Wisdom
of Bread. Knox's Sermons, 2 Vols.
Edinburgh Pharmaccpia. D fctipnon ot 300 Animal
Bin ke's Speeches and Political Bovle's Voyages.
Ttafts. Sterne's Sentimental Journ',
ReauticN of the Brilifh Senate. The Apocrypha.
Davies s Dramatic Mtfcellanics. Marmontel's Belifarius.
'Ills Mu'tav's Mentoria. ] mriiev through Sweden
Stuart's View of Society. Dupatv's Travels.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpnndence Stretch's Beauttes of History
Man of the Moon, 2 vols. All.fort's Elfjy on the Natuir
Dramatic Pteces. and IWtplcs o[ T-fte.
Philadelphia, Augvfl 6 t-ai.
136-
»s°° Dolls, is 2500
ioco 1000
1500
1000
800
600
»>o
6'>o
5 60
480
8032
OOU
100 are
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
6
4
17872
3:28
D:du&ion,
Buchan's Domestic Medicine,
latest edition.
Clark on Difrafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Farrier.
on the Religious As-
sections,
— against Chauncey.
Booth's Apology for the Baptists
Dowav Translation of the Vul
gate Bible
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodilt Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalm*.
Pmcc's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenrk,
Smith's Wealth of Nations.
Paley's Mora! Philofophv.
Smellie's Philofophyol Natural
Hiftorv.
Nicholfon's Natural Philosophy
Junius's Letters.
Hale's AfF, 6liona*tc Epistles to
his Children.
Beauties of Johnson.
— of Sterne.
Percival'fc Father's Inftru&ions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters,
Emma Corbet.
Accompiifhed Gentleman.
Ela, or the Dclufions of the
Heart
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dalinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conqueit of Canaan.
Chefterfield's Principles of Po
liteness.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
Morc's Sacred Dramas.
Preleut for an Apprentice.
Itt&fjw law 6^)
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
PER QUANTITY
AUGUST 2j.—DOLLARS at 7/6.
ANCHORS pr. lb. yd
Alium, Englith, pr.cwt. 32J6d
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d
Ashes, pot, per toe, 37/ioj
Pearl, 50/
Arrack pr. gall. IOJ 12J 6d
Brandy, common, ys 6d
Cogniac 9» 6d
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/16/
Bricks pr. M 2ss to 30/
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. 1,5r
Ditto, pilot 27 j bd
Ditto, small water 40J 4
Beer, American, in bot. ] in fa
pr. doz. bot. incl. J
pr. bbl. 35^
r> f Oak pr.M feet, 6~s 4/
0 | Merch. pine iooj
•( Sap, do. 3/
O I N. Eng. B'i
l. Cedar iooj
The above art the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard pt ices add 15JAf.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 26s
f Infh pr. bbl.
3 50 s
23 ( Country 50J
Butier pr. lb. 14d
in kegs *0d
Cedar,redtimber pr.foot 2S2i6d
Chocolate pr. ib. 12d
Coal pr. buthel 1 s 6d
Coffee pr. lb. 13d
Cinnamon ißj 2cs
Cheese, Englifa is 4d
Country 9d
2 f Sper. pr. lb. 3 J
3 | Wax 4 s 3<i
P Myrtle Wax 12d
| Mould,tallow 1 \d
u Dipped
Cotton is±d\i\od
Cui rants
Cloves
Copperas pr.cwt. i<\s
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 62j6i 6-,s6d
Duck, RufTia, pr. piece Boj
Ravens 67^72^6^/
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 35-16^
Common, 3-i-f 6d
Bur middlings,beft. 315
Middlings 24*
Ship-ftutf pr. cwt. y* 8/
flax pr. lb. 9d
Fufttc pr. ton, 1355 15c s
Feathers pr. lb. 2J 8d
Flaxfeea pr. bush. 5$
Glue, pr. cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 651
Ditto, common 50s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. yd
Ginseng, 1/6 tjio
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. 7
quarter cask, )
Ditto, fine glared 35 s 6d
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. s*9d
Do. pr. cafe, 30/
\ Wheat pr. bush 6s 84 7s
Rye 3 s 6d
5 I Oats xs6d
< Indian corn 2J 7d
yi I Barley 3s
Best (helled pr. lb. 3J
[_ Buckwneat 2s 6d
Hemp, for. pr. ton,
American, pr. lb. 4d
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M 516/
Herrings, pr. bb). ißj 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 d 10d
Hops 9S
Indigo, French, ioj
Carolina 3 s 7s
Irons, fad pr. cwt. 50 s
(" Castings 22J 6d 301
55 j Bar pr. ton, 29/ 32/
2 < P, S 10/
5 I Sheet 65/
I Nail rods 30/
J<Jnk, pr. cwt. ioj 401
Lard, hogs 10d
Lead in pigs 40* 42s 6d
in bars 50 5
Lead, white 75.1 Boj
red 50 s
Leather, foal pr. lb. is is6d
Lignum vitae pr. ton 42 s 45 s
Logwood 7/ 8/
M al, Indian, pr. bbl. 17s
Rye 25s
Mackarel,beft none.
Common 25*
Mace pr. lb. 55/
Mustard r>s 4J
Madder, best 1 $d 18d
Molalfe* pr. gall.
Marble, wrought, pr. foor, 14/
Mast spars 2s 6d 6s
Mahogany 8 d 10 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 67* 6d
Nails, ioa?i2'7& 20d— 8d 8-^d9 d
I" Linseed, pr. gall. 4s
I Train u 10d 2s
Spermaceti 31 yd
I Whaie is icd ?s
g Olive 6s 6d
I Ditto pr. cafe 36J
. Best sweet in )
I fldlks,pr. box, \ 15 s
L—balkets 12 bottles37j6«/
Oak timber pr. ton 38J
Porter pr. bl. 401
London,pr.doz. 15J
Blank Powers to receive /A/IniereH, and for the transjtr of
principal of public dent, agreeable to the Rules ejiabhjhed in the fry
fury Department: Aijo Blanks Jor abjlratis oj to be jet
the Editor.
fae fOURNAL of the THIRD SESSION of the
of the UNITED STATES, may te hti of the Editor hereof
SC7* The price cf this Paper is 3 Dollars per *>■<■
Porter, American pr. do,
JP«tch, p r . bbl. ' ~J l >
Pork, Burlington, ( . 3j
■ Lower countv "
Caroima
Peas, Albany
Pepper, p r . lb.
Pimento
R'ce pr. cwt.
Rosin pr . b h|
kaifius, best, pr. fc c
Ditto pr. jar °
Ditto pr. box
f Jamaica pr. gall. 3 jj'
| Ann-ua c, ' .
g Windward -,lA
s<l Barbados 0f b '
j Country, N .E. * «
LTaffia 2r .j „J,
SafTafras pr. ton \ J
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 4 / 10 , 't
Sulphur, flour
Shot f
j (German pr. cwt.
w )tnglifh, bliftcicd
H ) American pr. ton 40 /fc,/
f V Crowley', pr .» aß . s „ t
Snake root pr. lb. u6 i tsHJ
soap, Common , a -
~ Brawn cj
—CaftUe ,«
Starch , A
C ir 4" M
Snutf u6d mi 3l ej
Spermaceti,refined, ~ , j
Sail Cloth, Enghfh, - ]
pr. yard, J Ij D"2J2d
Boston, No. I. 2i^d
iNt>. 11. 2j .n/
RuHia Ihetting. pr. p. qoj
fLump, pr. lb. mi
Ci j Loaf, single refined ufjj
< Ditto, double do. üB4
| Havannah, white
to Ditto, brown,
L Mufcovada,pr.cwt 7,51821
SpiritsTurpcntme pr. gsll.
( Allum pr. bu(h. ,J
►J 2 j id
< j Cadiz
Q Lisbon 25
Ship build. W.O. frames"! gcj
p. ton, i !CO ,
Do. LO. & red C. do. 6/6/51
Shingles, fliort, p. M. izj 611
long drelTcd 3-J6J
Scantling, heart, Bcj iocj
Sap cos
f Pipe pi. 1300 pieces 60/
J3 jW. O. hoglhcad -,l i s j
> J R. O. do. 5/
< 1 Leogan 6/
« Barrel 4 / , 0J
L Heading jj/
I*6 2s
9 s
Otter, btrft pr. piece 30/
Minks uSajr
Fox, grey
red 4; Su
C/N » r 1 *
Martins 3^
~ <{ Filhcrs 2*6:/ 5/
cc Bears 1:^0^25/
Racoons 2/ 4/
Musk-rats 9d is 8-i
! Braver, pr. lb. ioj
in hair i:6d 9ssd
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. btl. 7/6
Carolina, 32 gall. ics
"urpentine pr. bbl. 12J 6d
r James K. new belt 8/
inferior 20J2 J6J
—old 35
Tup
o
O ■
Rappahannock :Bfg 2 h
C J Colo. Maryland SCJ be,
<-> ' Dark ißj
Long-leaf ißj
ca Eaftern-fhorc 15s 17s 6d
p I Carolina, new 22s 6d
old 22J 6d 25J
( Hyson pr. lb. 7* Biqd
cr ! Hyson {k n, 4J 6j 6d
Souchong, ys6djs
h 1 Congo, $5*4 3*9'
L Bohea, 2 • qd
Tallow, refined
Tin pr. box, iooj
Verd'greafe pr. lb.
Vermillion, 12J
Varnifb, 2s 6d
f Madeira, pr. pipe 40/7
• Lisbon 3^/
J TenerifFe 2c/10s 30
w I f-yal pr. gall. 3 s6i
g; ) Port pr. pipe 30/43'
jT Ditto pr. gall. &
*"* Do. in bottles, pr.doz. 30J
Claret 3 0$ 45*
Sherry pr. gall. 6590 9*
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2 '
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 2J3<*
. short, pr. lb.
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of .Exchange, London,
90 days, 73
Ditto 60 days
Ditto 30 oays 75
Araflcrdum, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2s ii«
30 days 3 51 '
Government bills, drawn ar ig
days per 11 guilders, 33M"
"-I
VCI
3'
XI
21S