PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 55, of Vol. lII.]
LONDON, July 7
ESCAPE of the ROYAL fAMILY from PARIS
THE eft:ape of (he Royal Family was made at
one o'clock on Tuelday morning, June 21,
Jior was it dilcovered until between seven and
eight, wlien the Commandant of the Caflle of
the Thuilleries went towards the King's apart
ment, to fee whether his Majelty was stirring.
He was met by one of the houfbold, who told
him that neither the King, Queen, the Dauphin,
hoi the Princess Elizabeth, were to be found.
I he ili ess in which ihey efeaped is not so well
authenticated, nor do we believe that it is pre
cilely known to any one.
It was at ti. It 1 ulpetfted that M. de la Fayette
was p: ivy m the design, for no sooner was the
King's el'cape known, than he and Monf. Cazales
e Seized and held in confinement, until a
deputation from the National Aflerably rescued
them The people talked of no less than hang
ing rhein, and would have kept their resolution,
had not the pretence of the troops protected
them.
The Duke d'Aumont was likewise flopped by
the people, and the clothes torn offhis back. The
people were conducting hi in to the Plaa de Crevt,
with an intention of hanging him a la lanterne,
but he was fortunately rescued by the National
guard, and conducted to the guard house, though
not without (bine refinance, for the people re
fufed to give him up. He had been on duty the
preceding evening, and it is (ufpecfted he favor
ed the Royal escape. He has demanded to be
tried by a Court Martial
The escape was certainly made through one
jf the piivate doors of the Palace ; it is believed
through a pallage leading from (lie pavillion in
which the slept, and from which theie is
a private communication to rlie garden. This
avenue had 110 fen .ry pi.iced over it. It is said
that the Royal family got into 1 heir carriages at
the Pont Royal, a ihort diltance from the Palace.
The carriages confided of a be 11 in drawn by fix
horses, and two diligences. The berlin had been
made some time before for an officer of the Roy
al Guard, and held fix persons very coinmodioufly.
The pollill ions who drove the Royal Family from
Paris fay, that in the berlin were two women,
and two children, and in one of the chaises two
men of a swarthy complexion. They drove them
as far as Senlis. Several otficers of the King's
former body-guard attended at the efcapc, and
foine of them followed the Royal carriages at a
• . - ■» r*
little diltance drellea in liveries. About fifty
persons immediately in the confidence of their
Majelties are milling.
It is fufpe<fted that M. de Bouille, who com
mand!! in French Flanders, alfifted the escape
through the garrison towns under his authority.
The news of the escape became generally known
through Paris about nine in the morning, and,
as it in ly be supposed, created great confufion ;
the National guards were immediately ordered
mi !er arms, and double sentries ported at all
the ga es of i he ci y, with orders to prevent any
pe.fon from palling or repafling.
Many faces wore a countenance of surprise,
several car ied vjfible marks of terror, and a ge
neral difiiKty prevailed. The people, made amock
parade of t lie King's Arms in the Marketplaces,
and, dafliing them and the figure of a crown to
the ground, they trampled upon them, crying
out—" Since the King has abandoned what he
owed to his high situation, let us trample upon
the ensigns of royalty !"
The King on rhe preceding; clay had mritten
:i letter with Iris own hand, addrefled to M.de la
Porte, one of the Ministers of Slate. This let
ter contains the reasons which induced his Ma
jelly and the Royal Family to make their escape,
Copy of the King's 1 rodamation to all the French,
rj'i his departure frotn Paris
" Whilfl the Kingconld hope to fee order and
happiness reilored by the means employed by
the National AflVtnbly, and by his own residence
rear that Alfembly, he fubniined to every (aeri
fied ; he was even content to bear the loss of his
liberty, of which he lias been deprived since the
month of October i 7P9 ; but now, when the re
fill! of all these operations is found to be the de-
Ururtion of royalty, the violation of property,
the wvafion of pei fonal security, the ellahlifli
mentof a compleie anarchy in every part of the
cmpiie, without any appearance of authority
Saturday, August 27, 1791*
fuffieient Co restrain it ; the King, afcer proteft
iug against all the adts extorted-from him during
liis captivity, thinks proper to submit to the eyes
of Frenchmen an accounc of his conduct.
" In the month of July, 1789, the King, rely
ing on his own integrity, came, without any ap
prehensions, among the Parisians. In the month
of Olftober of ilie fame year, fully informed of
the intentions of the factious, he dreaded left a
handle should be made of his departure, in order
to foment a civil war. ft is universally known
with what impunity crimes were then commit
ted.
" The King yielded to the wifli cxpreffed by
the army of Parisians ; came, with his family,
to reside in the palace of the Thuilleries ; no
thing was prepared for his reception ; and the
King, far from meeting with the accommodati
ons to which in his other palaces he was accus
tomed, did not even poflefs common convenien
ces. In spite of every constraint, he thought
proper, the day after his arrival, to give the pro
vinces assurances of his residence at Paris. A
more painful facrifice was Hill exacted ; he was
obliged to remove his Gardes du Corps, of whose
fidelity he was allured ; two of them weremallh
cred, and several wounded in executing the or
ders, which they had received, not to fire all
the art of the factious was employed toiGprefent
in the worfl light a faithful Queen, whose con
duel had been uniformly unexceptionable ; it is
even evident that all these machinations were di
rected againfl the King hiinfelf. It is to the sol
diers of the French Guards, and theParifian Na
tional Guard, that the care of the King's person
has been committed under the command of the
Municipality of Paris, froin whom the Comman
der General derives his authority. The King
thus has found him felt a prisoner in his own Hate
for what other name cm be given to him, who
is forcibly surrounded by persons whom he sus
pects. It is not in order to criminate the Parisi
an National Guard that I repeat this detail, but
in order to slate the real facts ; on the contrary,
I am ready to do juflice to their attachment,when
not under the influence of the factious. The
King ordered the Convocation of the States Ge
neral ; to the Third Estate he granted the privi
lege of a double reprefentatioo ; the re-union
of the Orders ; the Sacrifices of the 23d of June
—all have been his works, but his efforts have
been flighted and perverted. When the States
General aflumed the name of the National Afli. ni
bly, they revived the plots of the factious in se
veral provinces ; they revived those attempts
that had been made to reverse the inftrinftions of
their conflituents, which appointed laws to be
enacted in concert with the King. The Aflem
bly have removed the King from the Conftituti
on, by denying him the privilege of fandtioning
tonftitutional acts ; in which class they ranked
whatever acts they thought proper, restricting
to the third legislative body the privilege of re
fufing its fancftion. They have given him twen
ty-five millions which %re entirely absorbed by
the neceflary cxpences of his lioufehold. They
have left him the profits only ofcertain domains,
saddled with oppreflive forms : and have depriv
ed him of the patrimony of his ancestors ; they
took care not to comprehend, in the article of
expence, those services done to the King, as if
they were not inseparable from those of the slate.
1 Let the different parts of the adminiflration be
examined, it will be found that the King has no
longer a fliare ; he has 110 part ill enacting laws ;
he can only intreat the Aflembly to dirert their
attention to fnch and such subjects. In the ad
miniflration ofjuftice, nothing is left for him,
but to dispatch the commiflions ofthe judges,and
to name the coinmiflaries of the King, whose
functions are much less considerable than those
of the ancient Procnratoi s-general- The public
part has been committed to new officers ; and
one prerogative flill remaining, the niofl valua
ble of all, that of pardoning and remitting pu
nishments, has been taken away from the Kings,
and is now veftc-d in juries, in consequence of
their of explaining, according to their
pleafurp, the sense of the law. Thus the Royal
Majeftv is impaired, to which the people former
ly had recourse, as to the common centre of
goodnefi and beneficence. The internal admi
niftratjon of the departments is embarrafled by
wheels which obflruct- the motion of the ma
chine ; and the fuperimendance of ministers is
1 educed to nothing.
137
[Whole No. 245.].
'• The Societies of Friends of the Constitution,
are mucli more powerful, and engrofsevery part
of the adlive adminiltratioii. The king lias been
declared supreme head of the army ; however,
every thing has been done by the Committees of
the National rtflembly, without my participation ;
they have granted to the King ihe nomination
of some places, yet the choice which lie has made,
has experienced contradiction ; lie has been
obliged to revise the operations of the General
officers of the army, because their choice displeas
ed clubs ; to them only are to be attributed the
greater number of the revolis of the regiments ;
when an army no longer refpedts it officers, ic
becomes the terror and firebrand of the ftaie:
the King has always been of opinion that officers
ought to be puniflied as well as soldiers, and that
the road to promotion ought no less to be open
to the latter according to their desert. As to
the foreign affairs, they have granted to the
King the nomination of Ambafladors, and the
conducfl of negociations ; but they have taken
from him the right of making war ; they ought
not however to have fufpedted that lie would e
ver declare war without special reason. Ihe
right of making peace is of a different foit. Ihe
King wishes only to a(ft in concert with the nati
on, but what power will enter into negociations,
when the right of reviling them (hall belong to
the National Aflembly,
" Independently of the necefTary secrecy,
vliich it is impofiible to preserve in an AHembly
vhofe deliberations are public, who would choose
o stipulate engagements, except the persons with
vhom they were formed had the power of rati
"ying them ? With refpeft to finances, the King
iad recognized before the States General the
ight which the nation has of granting fubfidics,
tnd in this refpecl he complied 011 the 23d June
ivith every thing that had been demanded. On
lie 4th February the King requested the Nati
jnal AfTembly to rake into conlideration the state
as the finances ; they deferred it too long ; they
have not yet a just statement of the receipt and
expenditure ; they allowed themselves to go in
to hypothetical calculations ; the ordinary taxes
are in arrear, and the resource which has been
employed of the twelve hundred millions of af
fignats is almost exhaufled ; they have left to
the King nothing upon this occasion but a barren
nomination ; he knew the difficulty of this part
of the administration ; and if it were pofiible
that this machine could have been put in motion
without his direcft fuperintendance, his Majesty
would only have regretted that there was no di
minution of the imports ; an object which he de
sired, and in which, had it not been for the Ame
rican war,he fliould most certainly have succeeded.
" The King has been declared Supreme Head
of the Administration of the kingdom, and he
has been able to change nothing without the de
cision of the AfTembly. The chiefs of the pre
vailing party have thrown out such defiance a
gainst the agents of the King, and the penalties
denounced against prevarications have occasioned
so much alarm, that thefe'agents have remained
without force. The form of government is in
two refpetfs particularly faulty ; the Aflembly
exceeds the limits of its power in interfering in
justice and the internal administration ; by its
Committee of Researches, it exercises the most
barbarous of all despotisms. It has established
afl'ociarions, known by the name of Friends of
the Constitution, which present corporations in
fini:ely more dangerous than the ancient; they
deliberate 011 every part of the government, and
exercise a power of such preponderance, that all
the bodies, and even the Aflembly itfelf, can do
nothing except by their order. The King does
not think it possible to preserve such a Govern
ment. In proportion as the period of the la
bours of the Aflembly approaches, the sages of
whom it is conipofed lose their credit. The new
regulations, instead of pouring balm upou the
fores, on the contrary inflame their malignity ;
a thousand journals and libellous pamphlets per
petuate the difordc, which the Aflembly is un
able to remedy ; their labours tend only to a go
vernment, meraphyficnl in its principles, and im
practicable in its execution.
" Frenchmen, Is it this which you intended
by fendingvour Representatives ? Did yon defile
that the defpotifni of clubs should replace the
monarchy under which the kingdom has pros
pered during fourteen hundred years? The at
tachment of Frenchmen to their monarch is rank-Ed among the number of their virtues. I have
received marks of it too affecting to be ever for
gotten; the king would not bring forward the
following, were it not to repiefent to his faith
ful fubjecti the difpofilion of the factious. The
people kept in psy for the triumph of M. Necker,
affected not to pronounce the name of King;
they, at this period, persecuted the Archbilhop
of Paris ; a courier of the King was rtopped,
searched, and the letters which he carried broke
open ; at this time the Allembly feeined to insult
the King; it was determined to carry to Paris
the words of peace; during his journey, they
Hopped, in order to fupprcO any cry of Vivt I:
Rot. They even made a motion to carry him off,
and to put the Queen in a convent ; this motion
was applauded. On the nights of the 4th and
sth, when it was proposed to the Afleinbly to go
and hold their fitting in the prefelice of the King,
the answer was, That it was not consistent with
their dignity to go thither. From that moment
the fcencs of horror were renewed. Upon the
arrival of the King at Paris, an innocent person
•was maflacred almult under his eyes, in the gar
den of the Thuilleries ; while all who abused re
ligion ami the throne received the honour of tri
umph. At the Federation of the 14th July, the
National Afienibly declared, that the King was
the head ; but in order to (how that they could
name another, his family was placed separately
from him ; it was then, however, that he spent the
mod agieeable moments of hisrefidence at Paris.
" When, from religious motives, Mefdames
wiltied to go to Rome, notwithftanditig the decla
ration of rights, their departure was opposed ;
they were carried to Bellevtie, and then to Ar
ney-'e-Duc, to wait the orders of the Aflembly
for their departure ; the authority of the King
was disregarded. In the tumult which fat'lioufly
disposed persons excited at Vincennes, thofewho
aflembled around the King from regard to his
fafety were maltreated ; so far was their inso
lence carried, that their arms were broken in the
presence of the King under whose protection they
were. When, to get rid of an indjfpolition, he
was preparing to go to Sr. Cloud ; in order to
Hop him, they availed themselves of the refpec't
which they knew he entertained for them, and
the religion of his father ; the club of Cordeliers
brought a charge agamft him as refractory to
the law—in vain M. de la Fayette endeavoured
to protect him: they violently seized the faith
ful servants who surrounded him, and he again
relumed his prison. In fine, he was obliged to
oider the removal of his chapel, to approve the
letter of the Minister to foreign powers, and to
go to mass at the new curacy of Saint Germain
I'Anxerrois. With such motives, and in the im
possibility which the King feels to prevent evil,
ir is natural that he should endeavor to ensure
his fafety.
" Frenchmen, and yeu who are called inhab
itants of the good City of Paris, withdraw your
confidence from the suggestions of the factious,
return to your King, he will always be your
friend ; when your holy religion (hall be ref
pedted, when government shall be secured on a
firm footing, and liberty eftablilhed upon an un
ihaken basis. (Signed) " LOUIS."
Paris, 20th "June, 1791.
FRANCE.
Proceedings of the National Assembly.
At nine on Tuesday morning the National As
sembly met, and the fittings were opened by a
communication from the President, of the King's
flight.
A motion was made and carried unanimously
to the following purport :
" The National Aflembly, conflicting the re
presentatives of the nation, decrees, r 11, That
the decrees already pa (Ted or to be pafled, and
which cannot be fancftioned by the royal prero
gative on account of the King's absence, shall
still preserve the name, and have the force of
laws throughout the Kingdom, and the seals of
office already approved of (hall be affixed to them."
" 2dly, The Chief Minilter of Jultice (hall be
authorised to affix the seals of state to all the
adis of the legislative power, and to sign his name
tothein." ,
" The National Aflembly orders that the min
ister for the home department ihall initantly dis
patch couriers to all the departments of the king
dom, with an order to all the public officers, na
tional guards, and the troops of the empire, to
flop e»ery person who shall attempt to quit the
kingdom ; as well as to prevent every species of
goods, arms, stores. or money, horses orcarriages,
from pafling : And thatfhould the couriers over
take the king, or any individuals of the royal
family, or tbofe who may have alfifted in their
escape, the said public officers, national guards,
and oihers, (hall be bound to take the neceff'ary
meafuie3 to prevent it, to detain those persons
who have attempted it, and to give immediate
notice of it to the legislative body.
'• The National Aflembly declares to all the
citizens of Paris, and to all the inhabitants of
the empire, that the fame firmnefs and energy
which have enabled them to contend with so
138
manv (lifficultier, fliall be obfcrved in their de
liberation on the present occalion of the escape
of the King and royal family ; it recommends
to i he citizens tlie neceffi y of prefcrving the in oft
lVrict good order to preserve the public peace ,
that the National AlTemhty has taken the molt
active measures to find out thole perlons who
have rendered themlelves guilty, by allifting in
the escape of the king, and that it will uninter
ruptedly employ itfelt in providing such means
that public affairs lhall not Puffer by the event ;
that it is the duty of atl citizens to rejioPe their
confide.ice in them, in whatever i egards the sal
vation of the empire, and that whoever (hall ex
cite disturbances, put citizens in fear ot their
lives, or threaten their property, fliall be deem
ed guilty :
'■ Orders, That all citizens (hall hold rhein
felves ready to acft for the preservation of pub
lic tranquility and the defence ot their country :
" Orders, 'That the adininift ration of every
department, and the municipal officers of the
ki.igdom, fliall promulgate the present decree,
and watch over the public fecuritv.
" The minister of war shall be directed todif
patch M. de Rochambean immediately with the
neceHary orders to put the frontiers of the king
dom in a state of defence, and to arrest all those
persons who shall be fufpe<fted of having altifted
in retelling the king
" 6th, the National Afiembly decrees, that all
he seals of office, as well as others made use of
£>y the different committees of the Na ional As
fembly, (hall be got together and placed under
the diretftion of four comniiflioners appointed bv
the National Aflembly, of whom one always fliall
be in attendance to expedite its decrees. That
notice (hall be written without delay to all tilt
directors of departments in the provinces charg
ingthem to be extremely vigilant in not fuffet
ing any fictitious decree to be spread through thi
country.
*' The National A(Temhly derrees, That the
jublic ministers (hallretie to an adjoining; room,
to give the necettary orders that the present de
crees be put in execution.
" Decrees, That the ministers shall be author
ized to hold a communication, with the Aflem
bly as often as they (hall judge necellary."
ThurfJay Morring, J tin: 23.
The Ptefident refnmed the chair, and the As
fembly so med itfelfinto a deliberntive body.
One of the secretaries read a letter, ftatinp.
that three cil izens of Paris offered to the Aflem
bly a voluntary contribution for the payment of
the National Guards who (bould be employed in
the defence of the frontiers.
Monf. Mangin, the surgeon, who was the means
of apprehending the Royal Family, was the per
son dispatched to the National Aflembly, who
were deliberating at the moment, when a con
fufed cry was heard in the hall—" He is taken !"
" he is taken !"
A packet was delivered to the President, when
the Secretary was ordered to read to the Allem
bly, a letter from the officersof the Municipality
of Varennes, dated the 21It of June. It was con
ceived in these terms:
To the President of the National Affemlly
" Sir,
" In the state of alarm which we are now in,
when every moment is of consequence, weamho
rife M. Mangin, Surgeon at Varennes, to wait
upon yon instantly, to inform you, thai the King
is now in our hands ! We beg of you to inform
us what condudt we are to puifue."
A letter was theti read from the officers of the
Municipality of Saint Menehnud, which gave an
account of various orders iliiied by M. iiouille,
commander of the troops, to fend to him a num
ber of troops of the line, as well in the Munici
pality of Menehoud, as elsewhere.
I he President announced that Mangin, from
Varennes, desired to be admitted to give an ac
count of the manner in which the Ki was Hop
ped. He was admitted, and gave the following
account:
" Yelterday, June 22, about one in the morn
ing, a carriage entered Varennes, which was not
suspected to contain the King and the Royal Fa
mily. It was efconed by a detachment of Lau
zun's hollars, and attended by several per Tolls
who acted as couriers.
" The Poll-Mailer of St. Menehoud, who en
tertained suspicions relpetfting the carriage, and
had followed it from Clermont, where the cou
riers declared that they were going to Verduu,
perceived that it took the road 10 Varennes. He
then got before it, and cried out ill the town to
stop a carriage that was paflinor
" Two young men, Paul le Blanc and Joseph
Ponfin, Hopped the carriage. The polfillions
whipped their horses, and the men threat
ened to fire into ihe carriage if they attempted
to proceed. The persons in the carriage order
ed them to flop. In the mean time several other
persons allembled, and gave the alarm. The tra
vellers alighted wiihout refiilanct. The Na
tional Guard fin-rounded the detachment of hus
sars, who also fabmicted. The Attorney-Gene
rnl of the community condn/ied the travel;..,,
his house, where they alked for vefrethmrnr °
" Their quality was (hil unknown, when I en.
tered and recognized the King, the Qiieen t |,J
Dauphin, Madame Royale, and Madame Kliza
heth. I went out, and gave notice to my fV'.i.m"
citizens, that it was the King ami Royal' Kam! v "
They profeffed the greatest zeal to oppose their
departure, and drove away foine officers of h-if.
fars and dragoons, who attempted to favor it __
The good countenance of the National Guards
and the firninefs of the Municipal Officers re „!
dered all tlieir attempts fruitlels.
" 1 iuftantly mounted a horse, ss did twelve'
of my fellow citizens. We rode from vjli:i<re to
village for alfil'ance, and in less than an hour We
collected above four thousand National Guard,
besides the hollars and dragoons, who joined u<*
and condu< r ted thetnfehes like good patriots. '
" When 1 saw that we could nnfwer for the
detention of the King and the Royal Family, {
hastened to the capital, to quiet the ininds of all
good citizens, and especially the reprefentativrs
of the nation. I set out at four in the morning,
and reached the barriers of Paris at seven in the
evening. The people of the capital, whom I in
formed as I palfed , prevented ine from appearing
sooner before this august Aflembly, by their ea
ger: efa to be afl'ured of the farts, which 1 have
now communicated."
The account was received with loud applause
and ordered to be printed.
The Aflembly having heard the different dis
patches, immediately ilfued orders—
rff. That Ihe most inviolable regard iliould be
paid to the fafety of the King's person, in con
ducting him to the capita'.
2d. That information should immediately be
conveyed to the whole kingdom, that the King
was taken.
3d. That M. Ronille fhonld be deprived of all
command, and immediately arretted.
Thrnf.iay Afternoon,
The President read the following letter from
the three couiniiflionei s to meet the King:
"La Fertefous Tottare —A'ire o'clock in the v/ornin^.
" The King left Chatons Jaft night, efcortea
by sin army of national guards, assembled from
;he neighbouring departments, as soon as the
news of his being (topped was made known. We
have given orders every where for the fateiyand
tranquility of the return of the King. We have
been effectually seconded by the dispositions of
:he citizens. The fentimenrs of the people are
every where the fame as at Paris; their deport,
ment is magnanimous, vet tranquil. We have
every where experienced teltimonies of refpetfi
and confidence in the National Afleinbly."
Letters from different departments were then
read, nil breathing an entire devotion to the de
crees of the National Aflembly.
A numerous deputation of t lie National Guard
was admitted, when M. la Fayette, the speaker
of the deputation, addrefled the President in the
following tpeech :
" Von fee before yon citizen?, who have never
measured theii zeal but by the exigencies ot their
country. They ask for the permillion of swear
ing, in your presence, that they will noc employ
those arms which they took up in the canl'e ot li
berty, except in the defence of the conllitution
and of freedom. The late occurrences, as far
as they have affeiled the people of the capital,
have been what all movements and procedures
fliould be which do not attack the rights of ci
tizens. If ic he true that the bold and impre!-
five serenity of which they have displayed so at
ferting an example, augments the fury ot our e
nemies, haflen to inform us of those places in
which thev can be discovered ; and may the Silt
soldiers who armed themselves in the defence of
liberty, become, likewise, the firft soldiers who
marched forwards to give battle to the champions
of despotism !"
The President made the following reply :
" From you it was narural to expert \he moffc
intrepid and virtuous efforts fur the prefervatioii
of rhe public freedom. All France is too sensi
ble of the obligations which you have alreai'y
bellowed, nor to suppose it certain, that, in die
sequel, yon will confer more. It is with jov, it
is with confidence, that the reprefeiiratives ot
the nation receive your oa hs. should our ene
mies forget that the people of France are f>e<%
thev will be taught by vou that the power of
freemen is as inexhaustible as their valour.
The Parilian National Guard, to which wfr .
united the Swiss Guards, and a great numbei o
citizens, armed and unarmed, entered with op'
lifted hands. They inarched across the ha ,
and llepping before the Prelident, unaniiio"'■
exclaimed—" We swear, we will livefreeoroie
These having retired, were succeeded by a |( jj
rher patriotic phalanx, which also made the
reloimd wirh their oaths and acclamations
mixed with the found of military inftruine |,s '
Two hours and a half were confumecl 11 ia ',
ing the oaths by similar bodies, that foi° weu
these with the fame acclamations.
(Tu lie ctntinusi.)L O N D O N, July 5.
It evidently appears that Louis lfith. intended to escape toMentz,
the capital of the Eleclor of that name, where the chiefs of the
counter-revolution now are. It is certain that he never meant to
go to Bru(Tels,and the report of the government raeflengerof his
having paflfed Douav, is wholly unfounded. Tiic king was to
have met the prince de Conde, the count d'Artois, and M. de Ca
lonne at Ment?, where the two former arrived the 13th instant,
accompanied by the dukes ot Boitfbon, and Ertgien, and were re
ceived under the discharge of a.w*ute of artillery, and on the pa
rade by a company of gren^tlie^y.
The Elector, accompanied^'.'all the French general officers at
that place, received their with great pomp ; the palace
■was verv fupcrbly there was a grand supper in
theevening. The count rcudes at the Electoral palace.
The prince de Conde and his Tons at an Hotel, where he is ai
tendid bv a loyal guard.
In confrquence of a decrce passed soon after the opening of the
National AfTembly on the morning of the 21ft of June, Mr. de
Rochambeau appeared at the bar. This venerabe soldier observ
ed to the aflemblv, that the decree which ordered him to head
the troops, and secure the frontiers, imposed on him a refponfi
bilitv, which perhaps exceeded his physical and moral power ,
as he was then at the age of seventy years ; but that he would ne
verthelefsfet no bounds to his zeal, and that thealleinbly and the
nation whom they leprefented, might depend on his fidelity.
Mr. de Rochambeau was accompanied by a number of general
officers, who as well as he, all bound themselves by oath to defend
the conflitution,
The last advices from China acquaint us, that the Emperor of
that kingdom had declared war against the Empress of Ruflia,
and had forbidden the importation of Ruffian furs into the do
minions of China.
A letter iull received from Grand Cairo, the metropolis of
Egypt, by the way of Leghorn, fays, that the plague rages there
mod violently, and has already carried off t20,000 people.
By private letters from Pcterfburgh, received by vefterday's
mail, we learn that Mr. Fawkener had his firft audience of the
Empress the id inft. seven days after his arrival at Pcterfburgh.
The fame day he was at Court, but very coaly received. The let
ters mention that the Empress made extremely ligi t of being
threatened into the measures of the allied Courts, by our fend
ing: a fleet into the Baltic. She oMerved that she had a fleet also,
which was fufficient to prff eft her.
In consequence of these advices, Stocks fell near one per cent,
although there was no open market.
The National Aflembly, it is said, have determined—" That
the King, by palling beyond the dillance of twenty leagues from
Paris, without the consent of the National Aflembly, had, ac
cording to a constitutional decree fan&ioned by himfelf, commit
ted a formal abdication of the Throne ; that he was declared to
be deposed ; that the Dauphin was entitled to the Crown, and
should govern under a commiflion of Regency, the members of
which would be appointed as soon as poflibJe ; and that his edu
cation should be superintended bv three Commiflioners, and by
visitors chosen by the National Aflembly."
The Dauphin is now in his seventh year, having been born
March 27, 178,5.
It was not believed, that M. D' Oilcans would have a (hare in
the Regency.
The Duke de Choifeul and Count Damas, who facilitated the
flight of the Royal Family, are aireited, and now in prison at
Verdun.
Colonel Frofen is arretted on a charge of having procured the
cairiagesand horses that conveyed the Royal Family out of the
capital. M. Thierry, the King's valet-dc-chamber, has disap
peared.
The King's departure from Paris was to have taken place five
days b.efore it actually did, and was delayed by his reluctance.
He was not prevailed upon to move at lafl but with much diffi
culty.
On the road he insisted on flopping four hours at one place for
refreftiment, to which the failure of the whole plan is attributed.
It was the current report, that the King asked La Fayette, 44 Are
the National AflVmbly and the people disposed to put us to death ?"
To which the Commander answered, " Sir, the National Alfem
bly, and the citizens, who tenderly loved you, commiserate the
situation in which you have plunged yourlelt ; but as to the Queen,
I am ft lent."
A gentleman just returned from Peterfburgh fays, that the re
ception which Mr. Fawkener experienced from the Czarina, and
the Ruffian Ministers, on his arrival, was not only the molt polite,
but the moll cordial that any of his predectffors ever met with at
that Court ; and at the time of his departure from that city it was
positively said, that the Empress had agieed to submit hcrfelf, in
the molt eanaid manner, to the mediation of the allied powers.
A plan for railing the Royal George was this day laid before
the Admirals and principal Navy Oificcis in this place, by a Mi.
JF.dwards, who is to receive 70,000!. from Government if he fuc
reeds, and nothing it he fails.
The Neptune, Capi. Balfour, belonging to Leith, in the Green
land Fishery, was loft on the ice the 23d of May, by two large
pieces of ice meeting,faid to be from lorty to fiity miles in extent,
-which cut her through in five minutes. The crew were saved by
getting upon the ice.
Should a peace between Ruflta and the Porte be concludcd on,
the frelh bet ween the latter power and Aultria will ot
couiTe terminate ; and there is reason to believe that the King of
Ptuflia has undertaken to accommodate the bufmefs; as for this
purpose he has fetit Col. Bifchofiswerder to the Emperor in Italy.
The following is the copy of a letter from M. D'Orleans to the
printer of one of our newspapers, after the flight of the King
was known.
" Sir,
t{ Having read in your Journal your opinion on the measures to
be taken on the return of the King, and all that your justice and
impart allty have dilated refpetfcing me, I ought to r peal to you,
w hat I have publicly declared since the 21ft and 22d of this month
to several members of the National Aflembly, that I am ready to
serve my country, bv land or by sea, in a diplomatic capacity in
Ihott, in any post which r quirts bur a zeal and an unbounded de
votion to the public good ; but that it a legencv be the qu ftiou,
I lenounce from this moment forever, all rights which the confti
tin ion gives me to be elected to that office. Ido allure you, that
having marie so many facrifircs to the- interests of the people, and
the cause of liberty, I have not freedom in my own mind to de
part from the rank of a simple citizen, which I have adopted, bui
with a firm dererinination to remain forever in it—in conftqucnce,
ambition would in me be intxcufable. It is not tor the purpose
of filencingmy detractors, that I make this declaration. I knou
too well, that my zeal for the national liberty, and for equality,
•* hich is it s bafts, will ever heighten their hatred against me. I dif
iheir calumnies—my conduct will ever prove the malignity
and the absurdity of them ; but on this occalioi., I ought to de
clare mv fen 1 imcnts and my irrevocable resolutions, that the pub
lic ©pinion may noi reft upon a falfe basis, in its reasonings upon
the new measures which it might be neceflary to adopt.
44 (Signed)
EAST-I DI A INTELLIGENCE
Thw vrmrmng the long expected hox-pd<_ket% containing pri
vate letups by the Ptince W;lliain Hepry, were received at the
lndia-ho«Te. as well as ihofe by the William Pitt.
A 10 ihe coutlutlm of th's paper, dai<*<i Mad-ra«, Febru
ary 18, frnt nfl whilltthc Prince W:liidm Hfnry was getting- tin
der *ay, has the tallowing wrKoint mr.!! ;.nCw rtfpe&ing the
Bovcniculf of ilic giaad army.
I. P. D'ORI.EANS/'
tc Letters are this moment received froi«n the army, dated the
14th of February, from Chittoie, to which place they had ad
vanced by a rapid march from Vellore.
44 Their bullocks were f > numerous, and in such excellent con
dition, as to present a Icene aTio^itheir'nouvsltit —for the line of
guns were absolutely waiting for the infantry.
44 The army is in high lpirits, and both Oncers and men warm
ly attached to, and well pleased with the condutt or their gallant
coiniriaridcr earl Cornwallis."
P 1 TT S B U R GH, August 13.
We have the pleasure to inform the public, that on Tuesday the
2d inftani., Capt. Beaty and Doyle's companies, with detachments
of artillery and levies, failed from this place for Head Quarters :
They are to be joined at Whelin bv Major Bedinger's Virginia bat
talion, and to take two brigades of horfts for the campaign. The
whole to be commanded by Col. Drake.
About eight miles down the Ohio one of the store boa's flruck
a rock, and although part of her load ./vas powder, it was all pre
fers ed fate, ar«d no other loss was fuftaincd than a few bushels of
Indian coin, owing to the exertions of the officers and men. The
boat was repaired the next day, and went on with the fleet, which
was seen going on well last Sunday morning, near fifty miles down,
though the river was remaikably low.
Ou the 7th, Capt. PheJon arrived at this place, after a march
600 miles, with a fine body of tioops; aud yeftcrday a large con
vov of Majors Butler and Clark's battalions of levies embai ked and
failed for Head Quarters, under the cc.mmand of Col. George Gib
fon. They are to lake in two other brigades of horses at Whelin.
The militia have taken post at different Rations for the prote&ion
of the frontiers, while the army will be performing their part a
gainst our tawnex enemies : and another embarkation is preparing
to move in a few days; so that, under Providence, we may hope
in a short time to fee our citizens at peace.
We hear that an additional number of continental troops ar<
their march from this quarter.
Accounts from Fort Franklin on French Creek, mention, that
old Mr. Mead, the father of the two principal settlers of that name
on French Creek, is found dead, with old Bull, the Indian that
was the principal murderer of Cutright's family this summer, n ar
this place, They were close together, the Indian.stabbed in the
belly,.and a cut aerofs his throat with a knife. Mr. Mead had
been taken prisoner, on the 28th ult. by two Indians, Bull and
another, and on their way, a day's travel in the woods, the old
man, though feeble with age, yet of a bold spirit, watching his
opportunity, and ftiziug the Indian's knife, had given him his
death ; but, it is supposed, the other-Indian overpowered and kil
led him.
BALTIMORE, Augufl 23.
F.xtrafl of a letter from London, dated June 21, Iyq 1.
" Lately died, at Yeverdein, in Switzerland, Sir Frederick
Haldimand, Knight of the Baih, a Lieutenanr-General in his
Britannic Majcfty's service, Colonel of the6oth (British) Regiment
of Foot, and late Governor of Canada."
Philadelphia, August 27.
On Tuefdav, the time to which the legislature of this Common
wealth was adjourned, a quorum of both Houses assembled in the
State Houfr in this city.
Wednefdav, both Houfesconvened in the Senate chamber, to
receive the Governor's communications, —when he addrefled
them in a lengthy fpcech, containing a statement of the impor
tant objetts which had been attended to during the rccefs, and
tbofe wh ch now demanded their deliberation.
The Speech, among a variety of other interesting particulars,
mentions the following,—that contra&s are concluded for im
proving the navigation of the rireis Delaware, Schuylkill, Lehigh,
and Lechawaxen ; for opening and improving the roads frtmi
Wilkefbarre *.o the Windgap, Irom Keplinger's mill to the Sufque
hanna, from CatawefTy to Hamburgh, from Middle Creek to
Grubb's furnace, fiom Daniel Titus's to Poplar-run ; ai.d for o
pening and improving the roads through the Long Narrows,
through Jack's and Jgow's Narrows, and through the Canoe Nar
rows. That a loan of 60,0001. has been negociaterf with the Bank
of North America, for the use of the Commonwealth.—That the
arrangement in refpedl to discharging the grant to the proprieta
ries, Messrs. Penn, has been carried into effect as far as relates to
exchanging the warrants of the Supreme Executive Council, for
new warrants payable in 6 per cent stock ; this arrangement has
received the entire approbation of the agent of Messrs. Penn—
a very few days will probably close the tranfattion with credit to
the state, and advantage to the partus.
That the balance of the claims of Pennsylvania against the Unit
ed States, will be about 14,735,250 dollars. That the active pro
perly belonging to the state amounts to 1,377,494!. the debts it
owes amount to 599,9141. 18s. sd.
That a letter has been received from the National Aflemblyol
France, adduced to the Representatives of the people of Pennsyl
vania, See. See.
After the si ght of the King t>f France was known, the National
Assembly fat one hukdrei) and twenty-seven hours,
without intcrmiflion; the members relieving each other for reft,
and refrefhment by tumxlan Evidence of their fiimncfs and he
roism in the moment of danger.
Bv the last accounts from France it appears that the Pope has
revoked all his hulls and ana;hemas, against the proceedings of
the National Assembly—and proposes to take the civic oath him
felt f and that all the Cardinal should do the fame—this circum
stance caufcd great rejoicings ir.d illuminations in Paris.
Ot 4,B i sßquaitcr barrels of gun-powder which have been depo
sited in the magazine of this State since January last, only 370
barrels were imported. f
The balance of the claims of the State of South-CaroJina against
the United States, amounts to upwards of fourteen millions of dol
lars. "
Tjie revenues of rhe kingdom of Denmark amount to one mil
lion of pounds, sterling—and those of Sweden to about one mil
lion and a halt, sterling mon£y.
. In the Sandwich Packet (aj-i iued at New-York) cart;e palTen
geis Mils Thomas, Miss Johtifon, the Right Hon. EailolWy.
comb, Major Grneial M nfejl, Mr. Manfell, Mr. Waller Manlell,
Mr, Thornpfon, Mr. ThotnaJ, and Mi. Newman.
Alexander Lowry, fcfquire, is appointed Senator for the
D'.ftritl composed of Lancaster and York Counties, Ptnnfylvania.
The following very interesting Decree patted In the National Af
fembty ol France, on the 4 h of June Jnft, is extracted from thi
Count t dc I'Eu/opc of the joih of thi f«me month.
" THI. National Aflembly having htard the contents of a
letter from the Minister of.the United Satis oi America, ligned,
" and ltlat from \be Representatives ol Pennsylvania,
dated the B.h of April (ast, on the ripoitof the Diplomatic Com
mittee, decr.es. that ihe I*o above mentioned letters (bal! be
printed and infer ted at large in their journals : the P' -fuient is
directed to answer ihe letter of the Heprefeniativ s of Pennfy Iva
nia, and to express to the Mimfter of the United States of Ameri
ca their eai tit It wifb to strengthen more and more the bands ol
fraternity which unite vhelwo nations.
" The AlTemhly fuithei decrees, That the King (ball be re
<]ucftcd to negotiate a new treaty of cotnmeice with the United
Staus, which may multiply such commercial regulations between
the two nations as may be reciprocally advantageous to both."
139
The affairs of France have long exhibited an intertfting fpe&acle
to mankind—the friends of the human race have rejoiced in the
downfall of one of the most stupendous fabrics ever ere&cd by the
dempn of defpotifrn, and have earnestly wiftied to fee the glorious
temple cf freedom ere&ed on its rnins. The progress that has
been made in this great work, is truly allonifhing. At the present
moment a piinciplc of enthufisfm in the cause of liberty appears
to have taken poflTeflion of the minds of the great body of the peo
ple—and a£luated by one impulse, in whatever shape or form the
ancient tyranny appears, it is instantaneously refilled.
The recent attempt of the King, and its consequences. exh'bit
the new character of the people in a most rtfpt&able point of
light. At the moment when a fele&ed body ot troops were called
upon to afliil in aiding the flight o! the King, their aims fell from
their hands ; and those whom it was expected would have been
the faithful adherents of the Monarch, were instantly transformed
into the guardians of the public fafety;-—-Well might Louis de
clare. that he was now convinced that the people were in favor of
the Revolution.
Tt is a pleasing reflection to every patriot that the laws of the
Union have not only retrieved <4ur credit as a nation, but have al
so placed the funds of every particular slate in a rtioft eligible litu
ation—a fituat on that was not anticipated by an individual in the
r 'nited States. And can it poflibly be considered as a criterion of
.pntriotifm to excite jealoufus and suggest suspicions refpe&ing the
teneial government ? Can those men be friends to the peace, the
■appinefs, the prosperity or freedom of their country, whose
whole merit as political chara&ers, arises from their secret and
■pen cabals this government and the present administration
Ii- the people know that thev cannot. >
The individual governments, and all the particular branches
nd members of them, niuft on every confident principle, be ftte
uous supporters of the government of the ; and this they
will do, for it is not pofHble that men in their senses should at
tempt to render useless the pillars that fuppoit the temple of our
union—exoerience {hews that without a general government,
ftaies will destroy each other.
F.nvy is a mod fruitful source of complaint and declamation;
the Jjrofperity of our cotemporaries to be borne, unltfs we
have participated in their good fortune ; " it is by pru£tifing the
arts of knavery and deceit that great estates are accumulated—in
a fair competition, the abilities of mankind are so exa£lly on a le
vel, that an equal diftrbution of riches must be the refult-—there
fore we that are in the rear in the pursuit of gain, have not been
JairJs diflanced thus will the envious vent their spleen against
their more prosperous neighbors, and if it relieves their minds.
it may fervethe purpose of more just and liberal reflexions. There:
are methods however which the envious adopt to express their
chagrin and malice, which are not always so harmless in their ef
fects—if in their great wisdom they can trace any connefton be
tween the fucceTs of individuals, and a just confidence in the go
vernment—altho this confidence was proposed to every citizen
without exception, the government forfooth must be traduced for
not making their fortunes, equally with those who embarked their
all on the ifTueof that contelt, which saved the liberties of Ame
rica—a little attention to motives, will prevent a great deal of dc-*
ception.
APPOINTMENTS.
The Governor of this Commonwealth has been pleased to make
the following appointments:
William Bradford, jun. Esq. one of the Judges of the Supreme
Court.
Jared Ingerfoll. Esq. Attorney-General of Pennsylvania, in the
room of M». Brad'ord, promoted.
James Biddle, Esq. Pr. fideni of the several Courts of Common
Pleas in the Circuit, confiftng of the city and county of Philadel
phia, and the counties of Bucks, Montgomery and Delawaie.
William Augiiftuf Atlee, Esq. Prcfident of the several Courts of
Common PI as in thr Cirruit, confiit ing of the counties of Chester,
Lancaster, York and Dauphin.
Jacob Rush, Esq. Prelident of the several Courts of Common
Ph as in.the Circuit, confilling of the counties of Berks, Northamp
ton, Luzerne and Northumberland.
1 homaf. Smith, Esq. Piefident of the several Courts of Common
Pleas in the Circuit, consisting of the counties of Cumberland,
Franklin, Bedford, Huntington and Mifflin.
Alexander Addifon, Esq. President of the several Couits of
Common Peas in the Cucuit, conlifting of the counties ol Welt
moreland, Fayette, Washington and Allegheny.
Di ed, near London, the 17/h June la ft, in the 84th year of her
age the Hon. Seiina Countelsof Huntington—the great pa
ironefs of the rmthodiOs.
At Binfield, June 23, the celebrated Mrs. Cathafine Mjcauley
Graham. Some particulars iefpe£ling the above chara&ers in our
next.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Dublin Packet,
Brig Chance,
Kitty,
Barque Sally,
Ship Ajax,
Snow Experiment,
Sloop Governor Hamilton,
Brig , Moore,
Mentor, Parker,
— Georgia Packet,
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
21/ 21/3 pr./.
'*si W5
12/8 12/9
6 pr. Cenfs
3 pr. Cents
Deiered 6 pr. Cent*
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Sett], and other Certificates 20/6
Indents 12 Jg
N. and S. Carolina debts, 15/6.
Bank Subscriptions,
f 1 Letter s for the Englijh Packet will be received at the Poll-Office
in this city, till M'ednejday the 3CM lujlant,
New-Haven Wharf Lottery.
(BY ORDER OF THE MANAGERS.)
New-Haven, July 20, 1791'.
THF Public are informed, that the Tickets in the New-Huitn
WharJ Lottery have met with a rapid Sale-, — more than two
thirds are already disposed of. The DRAWING will pofttively
commence on the 131 h September next. Thole Per Jons who have
received Tickets to fell, are rtqut (led, without Jail, to return to the
Managers what lhall remain unfold on the 10th September. Those
who inttud to become Adventurers in this Lottery, will do well to
Jrcure TICKETS immediately, eft, by delay, they loose the
< HANCE of m. king their FORTUNES ; as the Managers have n»
dour.t the Tickett will all be SOLD before the 10th September.
0— A few of the above TICKETS may be !iad i:f applied for
f>on) of M elfrs. STEP HP N AUSTIN & Co. corner of Pine and
f ront-ftfet ts—who are authorijd to pay the PRIZES.
Philadelphia, August 13, 1791.
Davis,
Ham 11,
M'Aliifter,
Calledv,
Weir,
Froficr, Jamaica,
Stiles, Turks-Island,
Cape-Francois,
St. Vincents,
Georgia.
Cadi*,
Lifban,
Grenada,
KillibegSj
do.
Burrows,
1065 pr. cent.
62 do.
63J do.
iosi do,
6a| do.
185 Dollars.Pintard and Bleecker,
PURCHASE and SELL all kinds of
Certificates & Public Securities,
On COMMISSION, at public and private fail", on the
following term* :
ON the fpecieamount of ail iales or purchifes at auction, one
eighth per cent.
On ditto of all sales or purchases at private sale. on all turns
below 5000 nominal dollars, one-haJJ per cent.; and on all sums
above 5000 nominal dollars, one-fourth per cent.
For receiving interell at the Loan-Office, one per cent.
For making transfers at ditto, one dollar each transfer.
Such persons throughout the United States, as may be
pie a fed to favor the fubfrribers with their orders, may rely on
their being executed with punEiuality^fidelity &nd dijjiutch) as consi
derable experience in the public stocks, together with extensive
connections in the city of New-York apa different parts of the
continent, enable them to conduct their operations with pecuiiai
advantages. PINTARD & BLEECKER,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
(97 law 6m)
March 15, jjgi
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Strcet, tifxt door to the Bank, No. 97.
MASSACHUSETTS SEMI-ANNUAL,
and NEW-HAVEN
LOTTERY TICKETS,
To be had at the fame place,
Philadelphia, «oth July, 1791.
'HE Commifltoners appointed to receive Subscriptions to the
X Rank of the United States, do hereby, agreeable to law, in
form th Stockholders of the said Bank, that an election for twenty
five Dire&ors wi'l be he'd at the Citv-Hall in Philadelphia, on
Friday the 21ft day of October next, at 10 o'clock in the morning.
THOMAS WILLING,
DAVID RIITENHOUSE,
SAMUEL HOWELL.
Her Mofl Faiihiul Majtftv's Consul-General to the United State
p'iblifbes the following EXTRACT from the Indru&ions fen
him by the Royal Board of Trade at Lisbon, lor the informa
tion of those whom it may concern :—
ALL Mercantile Contra&s, Policies of Insurance, Protests, o
other Documents, which arc to be given in evidence ir»
Courts of Justice, or out thereof, (hall be authenticated bv the
Consuls, and sealed with the royal arms <>t the refpeftive Confu
late, which her Majesty has been p'eafid to grant tht Consuls tr
affix to papers relating to thrir office; without which no credi
shall be given thereunto in Couris ol Justice, or othei wife.
Philadelphia, August 12.
Public Notice is hereby given,
to all whom these prcfcn.s (hall come, or in any wile concern
That JAMES GARDNER, late ot Wilmington, North-Carolina
deceased, did make four promiflbry notes payable to SAMUEI
JACKSON, ol Pniladclphia, Mer hant, all bearing date the 191,
July, 1785, one tor three hundred and seventy-one pounds, pay
able in fix months—one for seven hundred and tdrty two pound*.
in nine months—one ior seven hundred and forty pounds, in twelvt
months—and one for seven hundred and forty-five pounds thir
teen (hillings and three-pence, in fifteen months, amounting in th
"whole to two thousand five hundred and ninety-eight poundsthir
teen (hillings and three-pence, and payable in produce at Wil
mington : —Which said notes have been adigned by the said Sa
muel jackson to THOMAS MACKIE and Co. and JAMES
HOOD, Merchants, Philadelphia, and have since, in the life-time
of the said Gardner, by him been accounted for znd paid in part
to the amount of two thousand and forty- seven pounds fifteen (hil
lings and fix-pencc, to the said THOM AS MACKIE, and Co.
in proot of which the fubferibers have fufficient vouchers.
Thcfe are the refore to caution all persons from purchasing said
notes 3S they will not be taken up.
THOMAS WRIGHT, 1
ROBERT SCOTT, £ Executor*
M. R. WILLKINGS,)
Wilmington, North-Carolina, 27th Max, 1791
War Department,
MAY 30, 1 791.
J\ T FORMATION is hereby given to all the military Invalids
ol the United States, that tfie sums to which they are entitled
for fix months of their annual penlion, from the 4th day of March,
1791, and which will bccome due on the 4th day of September
ensuing, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners of the
Loans within the States refpe&ively,under the usual regulations,viz.|
Every application tor payment mull be accompanied by the folJ
lowing vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the person
poffefling the fame is in fa& an invalid, and ascertaining the sum
to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came be/ore me. one of the Jvflices of the connty of in
the Jiate of and made oath that he is the fime A. B. to whom the
original certificate in his poj]e[jion was given, of which tht 101 l owing is a
copy f the certificate given by the Jiate to be recited) That he served (re
giment, corps or veffelj at the time he was difabfed, and that he now re
jdes in the and county of and has resided thcrfjor the lafl
years, previous to which he resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment hy attorney, the'
said attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following four :
1,A.8.0f county of Jiate of -do hereby conflitute and
appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my penfon Jor fix months, at an inv/fid of the United States, from the
fourth dt\ of March, one thoupndfeven hundred and ninety-one, arid
ending the fourth day of September of the fame year.
Signed and r ealed
in khc prefcnce of
| Witnejfes.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators muff be aecorapa
nicd with legal evidence of their rclpettive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, vvhofe prnfion thev mav claim.
By command of the Prefidf-nt of the United Stales,
H. KNOX, Secretary oj War
ADVERTISEME NT.
fp3* BY lite arrivals from France, the Editor his received from
Ko. 10 to 31, both inch,jive, of a Publication which comes out twite a
week in Paris, entitled. " Con R esponbanc t. Nationale."
From A'o 1 to No. io, have been (hipped, but are not yet come to band,
jinx fierfm who mav incline to fiijcribe for this work, which appears to
he ingenious, impartial mi patriotic, may be fumi!hed with t»e numbers
as they arrive ty applying to the Editor oj this Gazette.
books.
Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, North-Fhont-Strest,
11AV E FOR SA L F,
A large colle£tion of BOOKS;
- Among which are thefol/ouixg
f AMERICAN EDITIONS.
J" OVF.LASS on Bills of Ex- Dallas's Reports.
1 , change. Kuby's Connecticut Reports.
Clerk's Vade Meeum. Conductor Gtncralis.
Gilbert's Law of Evidence.
Vew Edinburgh Dispensatory.
Cullen's First Lines the Prac-
tice of Phvfic.
Rush's Medical Enquiries.
Brown's Elements of Medicine.
Oilerwald's ChriftianThcologv. J?"yn\« Internal Evidence of
R.fe and Progrefc of Religion the Chriltian Religion.
f in the Soul. Beanie's Evidence of Ditto.
Veclter on Religious Oo'nions. Think Well On't.
Fordvce's AddrelT.s to YouDg D ■*out Christian's VadeMeeum
Men. Edwardi's Hillory of Redemp-
Sermons to Young tion.
Women.
?'>or Man's Help and Young
Man's Guide. Chauncev,
Mewton's Ditfertations on the Sooth's Anology for the Bapufts
kProphecifs.
Tfcftures delivered by Soarae
Jenyns.
The Christian Remembrancei.
Future State Eternal.
RufTel's Seven Sermons.
Ramsay's American Revolution
History of America.
Morse's Geography.
*iege of Gibraltar.
law's Abridgement of Brace's
Travels.
•Crate's Account of the Pelew
I (lands.
ke's Arithmetic.
r sigh's Arithmetic, altered by
Workman.
" lark's I ntrodu&iontothe mak
ing of Latin.
iodfley's Fables.
Ov.dii N fonis Metamor
ohoffon, 1. X.
Philadelphia Latin Grammar,
luddimari's Rudiments.
: choolmafter's Afliftant.
•dt&ae e Veteri Teftameuto
Hillorije.
Scott's Leflons on Elocution.
Sargeant's Short Hand.
Wettenhall's Greek Grammar,
doling Man's Companion.
Catechism of Nature.
Hcrvey's Meditations.
Young'* Night Thoughts,
Phomfon's Seasons.
Rudiments of Taste.
K'opftock's Mefliah.
Lavater's Aphorisms.
IMPORTER BOOKS.
Kennet's Roman Antiquities. School Dialogues.
Trimmer's Sacred Hiftury, Andrews's Hiftorv of the Ante
-6 vols. rican War, 4 vols.
Nicholfon's Navigation. New Annual Rcgifter.
Alexander's Experimental En- Vattel's Law of Nations.
quirics.
Experimental E flays. Life of Robinson Crufot
Huxham on Fevers. Saville's Miscellanies.
Virtues and Efficacy of a Crust School of Wisdom
of Bread. Knox's Sermons, 2 vols.
Edinburgh Pharmacopia. Description of 300 Animals.
Burke's Speeches and Political Bovle's Voyages.
Tra&s. Sterne's Sentimental Journey.
Beauties of the BritifK Senate. The Apocrypha.
Davies's Dramatic Miscellanies. Marmontel's Belifarius.
Miss Murray's Mentoria. Journey through Sweden.
Stuart s Vtew of Society. Dupaty's Travels.
Richard Steele'sCorrefpondence Stretch's Beauties of History.
Man of the Moon, 2 vols. Allifori's Eflay on the Nature
Dramatic Pieces. and Principles of Taste.
Philadelphia, Augujl 6 179*. iaw6t)
(e p. 3 m
Charleftown (Mass.) Lottery.
CLASS XXII.
THE MANAGERS of said Lottery present to the Public
the following
Of the Twenty-Second CtAss,
Confiding of 7000 Tickets, at Three Dollars each, ji,oe#
1 Prireof
t
'5
ao
20
20
40
6o
70
80
2008
2335 Prizes,
4665 Blanks,
7° oo Tickets, Amount, 21000
(£7* 1 his Class will commence drawing on or before the ifl of
September.
Tickets may be had of the feverat Managers in Charleftown,
and at the ulual places in Boston.
THOMAS HARRIS, )
MATTHEW BRIDGE, < Managers.
SAMUEL SOLEY, \
Charleston, May 25, 1791.
Hazard and Addoms,
„ . No - 1 73. Market-Street,
«™, T V*, thc abovc ' 3nd ,he MafTachufctts Second
SEMI-ANNUAL iOri'ERY, for Sale. ' '
140
Buchan's Doraeflic Medicine,
Ja'.eft edition.
Clark on Dfcafesof Horses.
Gentleman's Pocket Furiier,
on the Religious As-
feClions,
Doway Translation of the Vul
gate Bible.
Enfield's Family Prayers.
Methodist Hymns.
Watts's Hymns and Psalm?.
Price's Sermons.
Life of Baron Trenck,
Smith's Wealth of Nation*.
Palev's Moral Philofophv.
Smellie's Philosophy of Natural
History.
Nieholfon's Natural Philosophy
Junius's Letters.
Hale's AfF ftionate Epistles to
his Child r en.
Beauties of Johnson.
of Sterne.
Pcrcival's Father's Inftruftions.
Lady's Advice to her Daughters.
Emma Corbft.
. Acconipiifhed Gentleman.
E)a, or the Dtlufions of the
Heart.
Adventures of Maria Cecilia.
Adventures of Alphonfo and
Dilinda.
Beattie's Poems.
Conquest of Canaan.
Chefteifield's Principles of Po
litenefj.
Economy of Human Life.
Fables for the Ladies.
Freneau's Poems.
Mackenzie's Lounger.
More's Sacred Dramas.
Present for an Apprentice.
Milker's Academic Speaker.
CHE M E
Dollars.
2500 Dolls, is
1000
2 5 0°
1000
1500
>000
800
600
80
60
560
480
803 *
17872
Dcduflion, 3:28
mo are
5»
40
3°
20
"10
8
6
4
[(f3T AN persons concerned wiil be plcafed to take not" -, t V s •
following advertifemi'Dt has been varied from th„t uub'-iV j
our paper of the 23d of March.] 10
Treasury Department.
March 22, i- QI
N OTICErs hereby given, j will be rcccitof
office of the Secretary of; lie Tie. fuiv, until the fiifty 1(J /'*
in September next inclusive, for the supply of ail ratio, v "V'P
may be required for the use of ihc United States, from thcfiittd
of January to the thii ty-firilday of December, 1792, both cay, 1"'
clufive, at the place*, and within the diflri£U hertin after mci!""
oned, viz.
At any place or daces, betwixt Yorktown in the ftateof p cr
! fylvania and Fort Pilt, and at Fort Pitt.
At anyplace or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Fort M'lntoft
on the River Ohio, and at Foil M'lntofti.
At any place or places, betwixt Fort M'lntofti and the mouth of
the River M-uikingum, and at the mouth ot the River Mufkineum
A« any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River l\l u f
kingum.and up the laid River to the Tufcarowas, and attheTuf"
carowas, rid thence over to the Cayoga River,and down the f„ d
River to its mouth.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River Muf
kingum, and the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of
the said River Scioto.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of Scioto River and
the inouih ot the great Miami, at the mouth of the great Miami
and from thence to the Rapids, on the Fallsof the Ohio,and at the
said Rapids.
At any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami
up the said Miami, to and at Piquetown, and thence over to the
Miami Village, 011 the river of the famename which empties into
Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapidsofthe Ohio,to the mouth
ot the Wabafti, thence up the said Wabafh to Post St. Viocennes
at Post Sr. Vincennes, and thence up the said river Wabafh, to the
Miami village, before described.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the Wabafh rivei to
the mouth of the river Ohio.
At any placeor places, on theeaftfideof the river MifGfippi,
from the mouth of the Ohio river,to the mouth of thelllino;> river.
At any place or places, from the mouth ot the Miami xiver it*
the Miami Village.
At any plice or places, from the Miami "Village to Sanduflty,
and at Sandufky, and from Sandufky to the mouth of Cayoga river.
At anv place or places, betwixt Fort Pitt and Venango, and at
Venango.
At any place or places, bet wixt Venango and Le Bcuf, and at
Le Bens, betwixt Le Bcuf and Prefq'lflc, at Prefq'lflc, and be
twixt Prefq'lflc and the mouth of Cayoga liver
At the mou'h of Cavoga river, and at any pla:e or places, 011
the route from Fort Pilt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the
way of Big Beaver creek.
At anv placeor places, on the east fide of the Miflifippi, between
the mouth of the Ohio and the river Margot inclusively.
At any placeor places, from the said river Margot, totheri-'er
Yazous inclusively.
At any place or places, from the mouth of the river Tenefee, to
Ocochappo or Bear creek, on the said river inclusively.
Should any rations be requiied at anv places, or within other
diftri&s, not fpecified in these proposals, the price of the fame to
be hereafter agreed on, betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to confillot the tollowingarticlcs
viz. One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brancy ©r whisky,
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, ( jOQ rat ; ons
Two pounds of ioap, (
One pound of candles, )
AI.SO, That Proposals will be received at the said office until
the fiift Monday in September next, inclufivc, for the supply of ill
rations which may be required for the use of the United Matcf,
fiom the si ft day of january to the thirty-firft day of December,
t 792, both davs inclusive. at Springfield, in the (late of Maffachu
fcits, and the Poll of Weft-Point, in the state of New-York,
The rations to be fupphed, are to consist of the fame articles ai
are above mentioned.
ALSO, That proposals will be received at the said office, until
the lft Monday in September next inclusive, for the fapplyof all
rations, which may be required for the use of the United States,
from the ast day of January to the 31ft: day of December, 1792,
both days inclusive, at the places, and within the diftri&s herein
after mentioned.
At the post on the river Saint Mary, at prefcnt commanded by
Capt. Henry Burbeck.
At the poll on the river Altamaha, at prefcnt commanded by
Capt. John Smith.
At t he post on the river Oconee, at prefentcommanded by Capt.
fofeph Savage.
At the post on the river Apalachee, at prefcnt commanded by
Capt. Michael Rudolph.
At any place or places from the Rock Landing on the Oconee,
up to the mouth of the main fou'h branch of the said river, from
r he fair) mouth up to the source of ihefaid main south branch, and
from thence to the Currahee mountain.
At any other place or places within the state ot Georgia which
nay hereafter be occupicd as permanent posts by any troops of the
United States.
A nd for rations deliverable on the march to such future posts.
The rations are to be fumifhed in such quantities as that there
shall at all times, during the said term, be fufficient for the con
sumption of the troops at each of the said posts, for the fpaeeofat
least two months in advance,in good and wholesome provifiops.
The rations to befupplicd are to consist of the articles, as
are abovementioned.
It to be undcrftood in each cafe, that all lofTes sustained by the
depredations of the enemy, or by means of the troops of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the priccs of the articles captured or des
troyed, on the depositions of two or more creditable charaflcrs,
and the certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining the c«r
cumftances of the loss, and the amount of the articles lor which
compensation isclaimed.
The contrails for the above supplies will be made either ■ nrol
year, or for two vears, as may appear eligible. Persons difpo c
to contrail will therefore confine their offers to one year, or t ey
may make their proportions so as to admit an ele&ion of t e
term of two years.
The piopofa's may be made for the whole of theabovepoits to
gether,or feparat« ly for Springfield, for Weft-Point, for Yorkto*»fl>
and the seventeen places following it, and for the pofts'.n Geofg'3.
and they must fpecify the lowcft price per ration, for prompt pa>
ment.
fpT Blink Powers to receive M<lntercft, andforliet'wfer f/'£
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablijhed»" J .
fury Department : Also Blanks J or abjl rafts ej Certificates-, to Cj
the Editor.
(PT '«( JOURNAL of the THIRD SESSIONof the Sl'f^ TE
of the U SITED STATES, mav if Wo/ M< Editor hereof.
few copies of the CONSTITUTION
United States, printed with NotcSy maybek> "J
Editor.