PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS B" JOHN FUN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHII.ADEI PHIA
[No. ?6, of Vol. lII.]
PREMIUMS
THE Pennsylvania Society for the encourage
ment of Manufactures and the ufeful Arts,
raking into their consideration the Premiums pro
per to be offered for the ensuing year, agreed
upon the following :
THE CONDITIONS ARE,
That the specimens on which the premiums
fiiall be claimed, mult be the produce or manu
facture of Pennsylvania, Jersey, or Delaware,
and that they be exhibited to the board on or be
fore the fir(t day of December i 792. That those
who may bccome candidates, will be expected to
prepare clear and fatisfaJtory proofs, such as
their cases may require ; and that the Society
reserve to themselves the right to determine,not
only the comparative, but the absolute merit of
the specimens produced by the different candi
dates, and of giving or withholding their premi
ums accordingly.
I. To such person as (hail exhibit the best spe
cimen of Earthenware or Pottery, approaching
nearest to Queen's Ware, or, the Nottingham or
Dels Ware, of the marketable value of fifty dol
lars— a Plate of the value of fifty dollars, or an
equivalent in money.
2. To such person as Hiall exhibit the bc-ft spe
cimen of Stone Ware, or ihat kind of Earthen
Ware which is glazed with fait, of the marketa
ble value of 50 dollars— a Plate of jo dollars va
1 tie, or that futn in specie.
3. To fucli person as (hall exhibit the largest
quantity of Wool, not less than joolbs. wt. the
produce of one farm—a Plate of ihe value of jo
dollars, or the amount in specie.
4. To such person as (hall produce the largest
quantity of bleached Wax, fit for candles, or ex
portation, not less than 500lbs. wt. —a premium
of Jo dollars.
5. To such person as stall produce tlie g:eat
eft quantity of painters' colours, manufactured
from materials found in Pennfy Ivania, New-Jei
fey, or Delaware—a premium of Jo dollars.
6. To such person as shall make ami exhibit
the largest number of Smiths' Anvils, not less
than 20 of ioolbs. wt. each, equal in quality Ui
those imported—a premium of JO dollars.
7. To such person as {hall make and exhibit
the bed specimen of Stoves of cast iron, at least
400wt. approaching nearelt to the quality of Bath
Stoves, in finoothnefs and evenness of the furface,
and relief and elegance of the figures—a premi
uni of 80 dollars. ,
8. For the best specimen produced of frnall hol
low iron Ware, three tons wt. approaching near
est in Jightnefs, elegance, &c. to the imported—
a priinium of jo dollars.
9. For the belt specimen of Stone or Marble
Slabs, not less than 2000 square feet, sawed by
machinery, moved by horses or water—a premi
um of jo dollars.
10. To the person who (hall produce the next
greatest quantity of Stone or Marble Slabs, not
less than tooo square feet, sawed by machinery
moved by horses or water—a premium of 2J dol.
lars.
11. For the best specimen of Stone or Marble
polillied by machinery moved bj horses or water,
not less than square feet-,-a premium of jo
dollars.
12. For the best specimen of red leather, at
least ioo Ikins, approaching nearest in finenels of
colour and dressing to the Morocco leather—a
premium of 50 dollars.
Published by order of the Board,
Thomas M. Willing, Sec'ry
Th'tladtlphia, Dec. 9, 179 T.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
r I present posture of onr national affairs
A bavin® bccome a matter of such general
contemplation, a few obfervatiortfc may perhaps
be offered to the public (more especially fhoold
they agiee with those of many judicious minds)
without being thought obtruftve. All those who
o(lifted jn the undertaking and eflablifhing of
the independency and freedom of this country,
have acquired certain indisputable rights, which
rights are deposited, in trull, in the hands of a
number of dire<flors, so to manage, as may belt
conduce to the intereflof the whole; and there
fore it cannot be nnderftoodat improper fo,rany
one who has an interefl In this common flock, at
any time ropffer such hints a* may fend to aid
Wednesday, January j 8, 1792.
the directors in cond ucfting their ineafures to the
true point. From this view of matters, lam em
boldened to '-ffer the following remarks rel'pect
ing the Indian war.
l"lie principles on which tills war lias been
arried on, no one will lay are unjult, who has
ny»knowledge of the raeafures taken by go
enmient, to cultivate peace and a good under
landing between the United States and the In
lian tribes. Thar peace would have been effeft
■d with many of the tribes, is apparenr, were it
lot for the Wabalh nation in particular; they
icing numerous, and the great pofleffors ot the
.Veltern Country, and admitting other tribes to
ive, and hunt 011 their grounds only on fufFer
mce, could prevent those from treating of peace,
md oblige them to aHi It in war ; —this being the
•ale, and the Wabalh generally inclined to war,
:oercive measures have long since become indif
lenfible. Tliefe circumltances have perhaps led
he chief magjltrate to intimate the necelfitv of
Force in Tome of his speeches to Congrels at the
ipening of their feflions. We now discover,
from two fruitleft campaigns, what might have
seen done the firft, had that information been
3litaitied which is but lately received. We know
lie force to be contended with ; we know the
firmnefs with which rhev have, and will dispute
ihe ground; and we know that a force but little
superior to our enemy, will be obliged to pro
crastinate, or great facrifices mull be made, and
great hardfhi ps imposed 011 our troops. Then if
we value the lives of our fellow-citizens, if we
wifti to support our rights which we have pur
chased heretofore at lo dear a rate, and at the
lame time to spare the blood of those aboriginals,
it inuft be by a well appointed army, which, in
the opinion of the writer, ought not tocemfiltof
less than eight thousand men—tliefe, with pro
per compenlations while in service, and proper
rewards for their services when they may be dis
pensed with, will give the neceflary Itimulous
and exertion iji the operations. Of this number,
when appointed, and every poilible exert ion used,
more than three-fourths will never be collected
at any one given place. Tliefe troops mult be
taught to act in three different capacities, fay
1000 cavalry, 1000 rangers, and 4000 infantry,
in the whole 6000—which number, perhaps,
might be pot together in the Western Country,
by the latter part of the present year ; they, at the
fame time,(might give protection to our frontiers,
and, by the funimer of 1793, may take the field
ofFenfively. On these conditions, and with such
a force, we might promise ourselves, by eftablilh
ing proper polls in the Indian country, and by
hsrralling them in their settlements by our horse
and rangers, that we fhonld soon experience the
happy effects of peace without the shedding of
much blood—on the contrary, onr little armies
will be cut up in detail, pur belt patriots fall a
facrifice to the tomahawk, and an alinolt endl.efs
expence accumulate.
New-London, Januarys, 1792.
THE number of inhabitants within the city
of New-London, taken frotn the Marshal's
Schedule, in the Cenfusof the United States, 1791.
Males, 1177 ?t- . 1 /
Females, 1288 } ° n
Of the above 138 are Blacks.
Bill of Mortality within the City of New-Lon
don, in the Year i 791.
2 between 86 and 90 years
1 _ 70 _ 7J
4 — — 60
2 _ 3.5 _ 40
2 — 30 — 3 5
1 — 25 — 30
4 — 16 — 20
1 — 11 — —
/
6 — —
birth — 2
~° J Total 37
173
1
19
Males,
Females,
Diseases. 1 Bilious-Cholic— 4 In
flammation of Bowels—l Pleurisy—2 Peripneu
inony—6 Consumption—6 Convulsions—6 Diar
rhsea—l Dysentery—3 Canker—l Grave!— 2 Old
Age—l Drowned.
BIRTHS
Males, 00 ? _ .
Females, 69 5 1 otal 1
301
A CITIZEN,
[Whole No. 284.]
LONDON, o<ftol>er 10.
A>: A to Dr. Priefl t*y, ncrreid upon at a me;t
---"!S °t tl: ' s Philosophical Society at Derby, Sept. 3.
Sir,
WE condole with yourfelf, and with the fci
* entific world, on the loss of your valuable
library, your experimental apparatus, and your
more valuable mannferipts ; at the Came time we
beg leave to congratulate you 011 your peifonal
lafety, in having escaped the sacrilegious hands
of the ravages at Birmingham.
Alinoft all great minds, in all ages of the world,
who have endeavoured to benefit mankind, have
been persecuted by thein ; Galileo, for his phi
losophical difcovei :es, was impt ifoned by [he in
qniiition ; and Socratcs found a cup of hemlock
his reward ft>r reaching, <« there is one God."
Your enemies, Enable to conquer your arguments
by reason, have had recourse to violence ; they
have halloo d upon you the dogs of unfcel
'n£[ ignorance, and of frantic fanaticiftn ; they
have kindled fires, like those of the inquifilion,
not to illuminate the truth, but, like the dark
lantern of the allaltin, to light the murderer to
his prey. Your philosophical friends therefore
hope, that you will not again rifle your peifou
amongst a people whose bigotry renders them
incapable of inftrudion : they hope vou will
leave the unfruitful fields of polemical theology,
and cultivate the philosophy of which you may
be called the father ; and which, by inducing
the world to think and reason, will filentlv mail
fhal mankind against deluiion, and with greater
certainty overturn the empire of fuperflition.
In (pite of the persecution vou have fuitained,
we trust, that you will persevere in the exertions
of virtue and the improvements offcience. Your
fame, alieady cohfpicuous to every civilized na
tion of the world, Ihall rife like a phoenix from
the flames of your laboratory with renovated
vigour, and fliine with brighter corrufcations.
R. ROE, Secretary.
Reply to the Members of the Philosophical Society at
Derby.
Gentlfmfn,
I KEEL myfelf greatly encouraged, 111 my pre»
lent fufferings from the effeiSs of bigotry, by the
lympathy exprefled by you, and by other liberal
friends of science here and abroad.
It will be a new thing in the woHd, if any
thing truly valuable lose credit, or have alefs ra
pid l'pread, in consequence of perfecuiion.' If
any tiling will bear to be viewed and examined,
it must derive advantage from whatever draws
attention to it ; and such I am confident is tlip
cause in which I fufFer.
In conleqtience of this, far from being difcour
raged, I feel myfelf more animated than ever ;
and I am at this very time fitting about the re
eitablifhmeiilofmy philosophical apparatus, and
resuming all my former pursuits.
Excuse me, however, if I dill join theological
to philosophical (Indies ; and if I consider ths
former as greatly superior in importance to man
kind 10 the latter. But as these differentpurfuiis
have never yet interfered with, but promoted
each other, be persuaded that this will contiriyp
to be the cafe.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your very humble servant,
J. PRIESTLEY.
London, $ept. 21
A Writer in an Englijh Paper on the Subjetl «f
FIRES fays,
WE may even now, here and there, meet with
3 matter, or by rare chance with a mistress,
whose mind is not altogether so Shattered by the
current habits of diilipation, but that thev con
stantly walk the round of the house every night
before they retire to bed, to fee that doors, win
dows, fires, and candles, are all fafe. Thofewho
expect that money is to do every thing, and that
the services they pay for, is to exonerate them
from all dpmeftic cares, which are left to vulcat
minds, nniit run the hazards they wilfully incur
fiom servants. who are full as careful to avoid
vulgarity as themselves.
ANECDOTE.
A CHAP once afktd of a close old Griper
To buy his grind/tones; add »g thev werfc low.
*' I grindflones !" cried old Square Toes ; " no, you viper
" \Vh?t made you think of me ? I tell you no!"
Sir," said the man, 41 no evrl was intended;
" An offer of my gtindftoms is not binding;
*• Nor fbould I thus your worfliip ha*e offended,
" Had I not known you very fond of grinding.)'CONGRESS.
1 PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, December 23
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the Poft-Office Bill.
the Bth Jeßion, vihich had been poflpo/ied, and "which
regulates the rates of pojlage, was taken into con/i
---deration.
MR. FITZSIMONS offered a Iketch of rates
of portage, by way of amendment, differ
ent from that reported in the bill, and the rates
now paid—his plan was a general reduction of
the rates.
Mr. Goodhue said, he did not believe that the
revenue from the poft-office, any more than that
from the impott, would be increased by establish
ing an high rate of poltage.
He was pleased with the /ketch offered—and
wi/hed it might be agreed to as an amendment—
he had no doubt of its the revenue of
the department.
Mr. Livermore was in favor of the original
rates reported in the bill—he conceived tlr.it the
reduced rates would be so low, as materially to
injure the income of the department. He said,
that he did not conceive why the rate of portage
for 100 miles, in one part of the United States,
fhotild be greater than for 100 miles in auothe
part—he referred to the diminished rates for
great distances.
Mr. Williamfon was in favor of reducing the
rates—He observed, that though our experience
in this business was not great, yet it wasfufficient
to /hew that a reduction of the rates of postage
tended to increase the income of the department.
And the experience of European countries was
incontroverti'bly in favor of the idea of a reduc
tion.
Mr. Baldwijt replied to Mr. Livermore, and
observed that the amendment recognized the
fame principle in refpecfl to great diftances,which
is contained in the bill as reported.
On motion of Mr. Williamfon, the amendment
was altered, so that the rate of portage for a An
gle letter to the greatest distance, lhoulcl not ex
ceed 25 cents.
Mt. Fitzfinions' amendment was then adopted
The fevftion which makes it death for persons
employed in the pod-office department to rob the
mail, occaltoned considerable debate—the words,
" shall fuffer death," were struck out, and it was
then moved to insert imprisonment for life, or
for a term which the court may think proper—
This motion occasioned further debate, on its be
ing moved to amend it, by linking out imprison
ment for life—
Mr. Murray entered into a general considera
tion of the fubjetfl—He was clearly of opinion
that if the punifliment was not lofsoflife, it
ought to be the next in point of severity—He en
larged on the enormity of the crime, and infered
that a person who was so depraved as to be guil
ty of it, ought to be forever deprived of the pow
er of injuring society again—He adverted to the
principles advanced by Montesquieu, Beccaria,
and others, who had wrote so ably on crimes and
punifliments ; but with all their refinements, he
said, they were obliged to acknowledge that as
there were grades in guilt, so there should be de
grees of punifliment. He adverted to the regu
lations of Pennsylvania, he said their gaol was
more properly a school of morality, than a place
of punifhmetit—lt may reform, but it will never
deter the abandoned from the perpetration of
crimes—lt might answer, he observed, the pre
sent (late of society in the commonwealth, but he
doubted whether it would not invite to the com
million of crimes, and accelerate the period when
they niuft have recourse to a more severe system
of jurisprudence. He concluded by faying, that
as imprisonment for life was the next severest
punifliment to loss of life, he should v o re against
the last amendment.
Mr. Hartley defended the system of punish
ment and reformation adopted by Pennsylvania
—He said, experience was in its favor—The gen
tlenian has carried our ideas to European coun
tries, but lie thought that examples from our own
country were more in point—He objected gene
rally to sanguinary punilhments; and the puni(h
ment now proposed he thought would be too se
vere, if generally incurred for the crime under
consideration.
MONDAY, December 26.
jDebate on the PoJhOffice Bill continued.
_ On the fobjetfl of newspapers, Mr. Williamfon
l'uggefted the propriety of their being so packed
that they may be easily infpeifted by the Poll
matters—that there lhould be fepfir&te accounts,
and a separate mail or portmanteau for them—
and that the rate of postage {hould be in propor
tion to the distance they are carried— those sent
100 and not exceeding 200 miles, i cent—thole
200 and not exceeding 300 miles, 1 cent —
those above 350 miles, cent. He moved to
(hike out the 23d feiStion, and to infertthe above
as a fublliiute.
Mr. Clark proposed to amend the clanfe by a
proviso—that the papers {hall be dried.
Mr. Fitzfimotis doubted whether it would be
proper to agree to the amendment—he was of
opinion that the consequence would be, very few
papers would be sent by the mail. He efnqnired
who-is to pay the poftage?—The Printers will
not pay it—they are fufficiently out of pocket by
distant fubferibers. Is it to be defrayed by the
lubfcribers weekly ?—there is no coin of. the de
scription mentioned. "He observed that difficul
ties would result from the mode which is neces
sarily adopted for great part of the year of (end
ing the mail on horseback. Should the papers
encreafe, as is supposed, it would be impotiible to
fend them. There were difficulties in thebuiintfs;
the Printers had been called on to declare what
would be convenient and agreeable to them—
but there was so little concert among them that
they bad not given any intimation to the depart
ment of what would please them.
Mr. Williamfoii replied to Mr. Fitzfimons, and
obviated fotne of the difficulties he luggefted.—
He observed that a certain weight ought to be
fpecified, which the Postmaster ought not to ex
ceed when the mail is sent on horseback.
Mr. Clark said he thought the molt eligible
method would be to make the Printers account
able for the postage—this, he said, had been pro
posed by a Printer, who, he said, printed a lar
ger number of papers than any other Printer in
ihe United States. This, he thought, would Am
plify the bulinefj, and prevent trouble in the
different polt-offices.
Mr. Bourne objected to different rates ps port
age for newspapers. He believed it was not cuf
toinary with the post-riders. He observed that
newspapers contained general information, and
ought to come to the subscribers in all parts of
the Union on the fame terms—the £ cent would
indemnify for .the charge. He moved that such
parts of the motion as proposes a different rate,
should be (truck out.
Mr. Boudinot said that he believed the gentle
man was mistaken in refpecft to expence of car
riage to a great distance.—He further observed,
that the rates being the fame to all parts of the
Union, would operate asabounty to the Printers
at the feat of government; for it was well known
that the Printers at the southward could not af
ford to fell their papers at the fame rate with
chose at the northward.
Mr. Williamfon enlarged on these ideas.
Mr. Steele laid that the amendment of his col
league, instead of giving facility to the circula
tion of newfpapeirs, tended only to give a dou
ceur to the Primers of particular (tares. He
could have wished that the privilege of franking
had been (truck out, and the supposed amount
thereof applied to defray the expellee of trans
porting the newlpapers—it would conduce to
opening a larger channel of information, and
would in an eaty way bring intelligence to the
door of every citizen in the United States. He
preferred the bill without the amendment, as
more competent to the great object.
Mr. Parker observed that every law ought to
be founded on a principle of equality—and on
this idea, fuppol'ed the portage ought to be aug
mented in fume proportion according to the dif-
tance.
Mr. Hillhoufe advocated an increase of the
portage. He (aid the rates proposed were not
competent to discharging the expence.
Mr. Williamfon (aid that the half cent for a
great distance would not defray the expence—
he had authority for the assertion — and if the
late is reduced, it will operate to discourage the
private rtages, and all communication 011 those
roads Supported by private subscriptions, will be
cut off.
Mr. Hartley was in favor of one rate—He ob
served that the rates demanded by private polls
was so hign, as to amount to an interdiction of
the papers almort entirely.
Mr. Barnwell was in favorof Mr.Williamfon's
motion ; an half cent, he said, would notbefuf.
ficient to defray the expences.—He enlarged on
the bad policy of giving a monopoly to the prin
ters at the feat of government—country papers
are impoitant on many accounts, and ought to
be encouraged. He said it was the opinion of
the port-mailer general, that, a half cent was not
afufficient portage.
Mr. Bourne's motion for ltrifciiig out was ne
gatived.
On motion of Mr. Hillhoufe, the portage for
100 miles was raised from an half to a whole
cent, and one cent and an half for any greater
distance.
Mr. Clark moved to add this clause, " to be
paid by the printers fending the fame, at the ex-
302
piration of every three momhs"~ttu& was
carried The fetflion was further amended b\
faying that the newspapers fbal! be under cover
opened at one end—the port-matters to receive
50 per Cent of the postage.
The residue of Mr. Williamfon's amendment
was agreed to. '
Mr. Liverniore moved that the proviso, which
empowers the contraiftiMS to carry newspapers,
should beftruck out. '
Mr. Page obfer veil, that in difpofmg of this
business, rlie uimoft c;.ution ought ro be ufeii
left some infringement of the liberty oftlieprefs
should be the consequence.—We have f;jbjecled
the printers of papers to a certain tax for fend
ing their papers by the mail ; and now it is pro
posed to cut them off from all opportunity of
making their own contracts—He thought the bu
siness ought to be Amplified as much pofiible
—and the printers left to themselves to difyofe
of their publications as they think proper, inde
pendent of the mail.
Mr. Barnwell supported the motion, he fai.l
that bv retaining the clause, t he pott-office would
be fubjerted to innumerable impolitions.
The proviso was Itruck out—and another nro
pofed by Mr. Boudinot, to the fame pnrpofe,with
an addition, fubjetfying papers sent by contract,
to the infpe&ion of the poflr-mafters.
This motion was objected to, as it would ope
rate against the revenue of the pod-office.
Mr. Boudinot observed, that in forming the
contracts, the contractors always agreed for a
less consideration, on account of the advantage
derived from carrying newspapers.
This motion was alio disagreed to.
The committee then rose and reported the bill
with amendments to rhe House.
MONDAY, January 16,
The meflage from the President of the United
States, relative to the fituarion of the Western
Frontirs, being the Order of the Day, after read
ing petitions, the House went into a committee
of the whole, and the galleries were cleared.
TUESDAY, January 17.
A bill to reimburse ceitain extra cxpences in
curred by the late commissioners for treating of
peace with the Creek Indians, was read the firft
tune
A representation and memorial of Christopher
Junior, and Charles Marshal, Hating that they
have established a chemical laboratory ir. the ci
ty of Philadelphia, for the manufacture of Jinl-
Armoniac, Glauber Salts, &c. and praying the
p tronage of Congress, by laying extra duties on
those articles imported from abroad—was read
and 13icl on the table.
Several petitions for pensions and com petifati
ons were read,and refered to the Secretary of war.
A petition of Henry Lee was read, prayingthe
renewal of a certificate of public debt, which
bad been deftroyed—referred to tlie Secretary
of the Treafiiry.
Mr. Murray moved that the petition of John
F. Amelnng should betaken up in order to its
being referred to the Secretary of the Treofury.
Mr. White objected to going into the discussi
on of any business of a private nature, while pub
lic concerns of the fir ft importance demand the
immediate attention of the House.
i he queflion being put for taking up the pe
tition, it was negatived.
Mr. Dayton laid the following refolntion, in
Aibftance, on the table, that the President of the
United States be requested to cauf'e to be laid be
fore ihe House copies of the official communica
tions which have taken place between the Su
preme Executive of the State of Pennsylvania,
and the Secretary of War, relative to a plan of
military operations—also such documents as may
have been received refpecfting an invasion of the
frontiers of this State.
The order of the day on the President's mes
sage refpeifting the wellern frontiers, being cal
led for, the galleries were (hut.
BOSTON, January 2.
Capt. Clap, in the brig Lion, arrived at Port
land 011 Saturday, the 24th ult. from Por!-au-
Prince, and intorms, that on the 22d of Novem
ber, that place was fee on fire by the Mulattoes,
and almofl entirely dellroyed.
Immediately aher the town was deftroyed,the
Whites (on the idea that the Blacks were accef
lory to its deftruiftion) formed the horrid dejign
of putting to death all the Negro and Mulatto
women and children, who remained in the town.
And this design, to the eternal infamy of the per
petrators, was put immediately into execution.
An indiscriminate llaughter took place ; and not
one who couid be found during that, cay whe
ther innocent or guilty, but was inft n:3i'.epufly
butchered, either by a bullet through the head,
or a bayonet into their bowels.
Capt. Clap lefc Port-au Prince the 2Jth of No
vember ; at which time the tow; was fliil- sur
rounded by the Mulattoes and Negroes. The
Whites were greatly dilciuraged, and were dif
po fed to njake peace on any terms.Philadelphia, January 18.
The late accounts f rom Europe inform us of a
very great Itorm or hurricane on the coalt of
England, Ireland, &c. about the 20th Oct. great
damage and loss were fultained both by land and
sea.
A manifefto against tlie new Constitution o!
France, signed by the refugee Princes, has been
publilhed—the leading fentiinent of which is,
that the King was not free when he accepted it.
Mirabeau having died insolvent, the National
Afl'embly has voted uuaninioufly to defray the
expences of his funeral.
An English paper of the 24th Ocft. contains the
following article, viz.
" It is laid that one of the firft arts of Colonel
Simcoe's Government in Canada will he, to deli
ver up the Britifli JPofts fitoatedoh the ealt of the
River St. Lawrance, and 10 the Couth ut Islova-
Scoiia, according to certain articles in the peace
with America."
Thomas Willing, Esq. was nnaniim ufly re
elected Prefidentof the Bank of the United States
on the 4th inlt.
The members of the North-Carolina legisla
ture, which is now in feflion, have taken the oath
to support the constitution of the United States.
Prnpofals have been publilhed for eftabliftiitig
a second bank in the city of New-York, under
the name of the " Million Bank of the State of
New-York," and we hear upwards of 15,000
(hares were subscribed in a few hours.
Extract of a letter, [dated Bourdeaux, Sept. 25,
179 1 ) to a gentleman in this city.
" Exchange is rising alittle, and specie coming
nto circulation, tho' yet at an advance of" five 10
ifteen per cent. As confidence gains, it will be
anie more abundant, which wiJl operate in fa
vor of the intercourse with America, heretofore
oreatly interrupted by the low exchange and
scarcity of specie. Was exchange near par, this
country would now pay ten or twenty per cenr.
higher for tobacco, rice, indigo and grain, than
any of its neighbors, and thiSjVear would take a
considerable quantity of the lait npentjoned arti
cle ; the late crops having proved very short,
considerable supplies will be wanting in all the
south of France."
original Communications.
A correspondent fays he was greatly pleased
at hearing a member of the House of Reprel'en
latives of '-he United States fay in his place, the
other day, that he hoped the time would loon ar
rive when Turnpike Roads would be opened in
every part of theiJjiion.
The interest of individuals, of farmers, me
chanics, merchants, and of all others whose bu
siness obliges them to travel, would be eflentially
promoted'by improved roads—the expence would
be repaid an hundred fold, if that can be-called
an expence, which is absolutely nothing more
nor left than converting property to the belt pur
pose, combining private emolument with public
benefit, on the molt extensive plan poflible.
Should ignorance, prejudice or wickedness,
find ways to check the ardor of the present mo
metic to engage in the improvement of roads and
inland navigation, it would be a very great pub
lic injury, and evince that even in this enlight
ened age the reliques of barbarism are to be
found.
The general government of ilie United States,
pursuing the obligation of the federal conltitu
tion, have honeltly determined, that those who
could prove themselves (he public creditors
Ihould be paid a jult equivalent for their de
mauds. The new '•morality" of some to'.ks would
have taught them how to discharge the principal
of their debts for a quarter of their value ; they
have given ■ Iketches of a fvftern of Ethics, which
would have enabled the public to iflue a certifi
cate for the payment of interest at a remote pe
riod without any compensation for the use of
the money in the mean time ! Whgt would have
been " the tendency" of l'uch measures ? How
pure would have been the public and private vir
tue of such a country ; how refpetftable their
name among the kontjl nations of the world ;
how proinifing of prosperity their future prof
pecfts ? The old world (their senses being loft in
the admiration of our tranlcendent virtue) would
probably have inade loans to us without interest,
nay they might poflibly have paid us for boi
aowing money fronn them !
There are not wantvng persons in the United
States, who affect to collider the genera] govern
ment in the light of a one. Blinded by
the love, not of state fyftenis in general, but of
the particular state system to which they belong,
they consider a genera? controuliiig national
power, as an alien force, although they have
participated 111 the ele<Jtio.n and appointment of
those whoexecute it, as fuily as in the election
and appointment of the atiminiftrators of the
f*late government. These perfonscannot be fuid
to love their country, but the spot they live on.
"I hey do not embrace in their affections the whole
body of* the people, but the Jittle circle of their
immediate connexions. To the United States
they are not patriots or friends to their country.
I o the people of America they do not hold them
iclves fellow citizens.
The following ideas 011 account of their intrin
sic value deserve to be fcleifted from the report
of the Secretary of the T.reafury on the fubjecft
of manufaCtnres.
1. That the promotion of manufactures (that
is our home trade) is rendered necessary by the
rettrictions of foreign nations on our navigation
and external commerce.
2. That there is an absolute necessity to pro
vide a home market for the increasing produce
of our farms and plantations.
3. That the United States an inimenfe
burden in the charges of importing foreign ma
nufactures, which amounting to twenty per cent,
upon fifteen millions of dollars is not less than
three millions pr. annum in peace, and more in
war.
4. That no country, however fertile has re
tained its gold and lilver, if it has not manu
factured.
5. That by the intervention of women and
children,and machinery, manufactures have been
brought to require a finall portion of the labor
of men, and that these may be obtained from
abroad
6. That a judicious system of measures to en
courage manufactures will draw capital from
foreign countries to be employed in the United
Stares in working up and consuming our raw ma
terials and provisions
7, And laltly, that manufactures will succeed
n the United States, because they have been in
ceflantly springing up, and jncreafing for many
years
Some political writers have censured the Se
cretary of the Treasury, for ptopofing too much
in favar of the public creditors. These, it is
probable, have no interest in the debt. Other
political writers have censured liitn for propos
ing too tittle in favor of the public creditors.
These, it is probable, have bought largely of the
debt. Such being the two extremes- dictated by
felfintereft, it would seem probable that justice
and found policy were to be found between
them. That Congress have hit this middle line,
is proved by the value of the public liock, and
the credit of the country abroad and at home.
We frequently hear the general government
blamed for exposing thjfe, who held jthe public
fecuriries, to {peculators. Every advanmge of
fered to public creditors, was recommended to
Congress by the report on the debt, on the 9th
of January, 1790. The proposition of the af
funiption was contained in the fame paper. This
report was publijhed and re-publijhed throughout
the United States. Thirty days carried it to e
very (late- The holders in all Jlates were put upon
their guard, for the funding law did not pass till
fix months and twenty-fix days after. Were the
people then,taken by surprize ? No.—The truth
is. that the state governments had so long neg
lected to provide funds to pay the interest, and
so long refuted to empower Congress to do it,
that their constituents, in too many of the states,
did not believe an adequate provision would or
could be made. It was therefore the former con
duct of many oj the states that exposed their citizens
to the /peculators, and not the present honed sys
tem of Congress. If the states had made provi
lion from 178310 1 789, the debt would have been
worth twenty shillings in the )>ound, and specu
lators could not have got the people's certificates
but by paying that value for them. Every Hate
government knew of the proposition to fund in
the month of February, 1790. If the people
'were uninformed, measures could have been then
taken to apprize them at that time, when the
continental i'ecurities were worth no more than
seven or tight shillings in the pound, with two
years interelt due upon them.
It is a remark frequently made, that the ene
mies of a government are more diligent and alert
than its friends—Were it necefiary, the reasons
might be readily assigned.
The m oft effectual defence of any adminiftra
tion arises from conscious honor and honelty—
these coniUtute a shield of defence which mult
repel the fhafts of every allailant. But to be fuc
cefsful, these virtues m uit be known— for the know
ledge of the people is the support of a good go
vernment—but their ignorance is the strong tow
er of those who deal in lies and mifreprefenta-
tions,
A fair profpecfl -appeared lately to dawn upon
the public in refpetft to tl»e general diffufion of
that information among the people which is the
life blood of a free republic—but, alas, is it
not at prefer.t overcast ?—Better for the govern
ment to expend an hundred thousand dollars an
303
nually, than to defeat the public expectation, as
will be the cafe lhould the present imperfecft, un
certain and vexations fylteni, refpecftirig the cir
culation of intelligence, continue.—lf it is a con
ceded point that the nc-wfpapeis cannot be fenc
but by Jtages, and it is left difcretioiiary with the
I'oftmalter-General to fend the mail either on
horseback or in a carriage, and at the fame time
it is thought necedary to fend it by the former,
for fevcral months in the year—what alteration,
for the better, will take place, even lhould the
law now on its patfage be finally enacted? The
mail, from' December to April, isdifpatched from
tnis city, to New-York and Baltimore, 011 horte
back , — the consequence is, that liewfpapers, ex
cept lot Pi inters, mult be rilked in the llages —
and the security derived from going under the
sanction o) the mail, is Jolt.
Security and dij'patch are efl'ential in transacting
the bnfinefs of a poft-oflice—the former is un
doubtedly the molt important—and if they can
not both be obtained at once, the mind does noc
balance which to prefer ; but that mode which
comprizes both, is surely the molt eligible—and
this, 011 a proper arrangement, will probably be
found in the use of light stage waggons for a gi
ven length of time; but if not, their superior se
curity renders them decidedly the molt proper
and when their neceliity to the transportation of
newspapers is considered, it seems to follow, that
if there is any f.rious determination to circulate
those iminenfely important vehicles amoiig the
people, and to carry the provifionsof the law for
that pnrpofe into execution, that the mail lhould
always be dilpatched from the feat of government
in carriages.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank of the United States,
January 12, 1792, the following election of Directors for the
Offices of Depotit and Discount, in the Cities of Charleflou and
New-Yoik, and Town of Bollon, were made :
CHARLESTON.
D<mt£l De SaufTure
Nathaniel Ruflell
Rawlins Lowndes
Henry Laurens
Edwaid Kutledge
Arnoldus Vandeihoifl
Adam Tunno
Richard Harrifon
Gerard Bancker
Nicholas Hoffman
Philip Livingfton
William Laight
Thomas Buchanan
John Atkinfon
Thomas Rufiell
Christopher Gore
Jofcph Barrell
Jonathan Mason, jun.
David Sears
John Codman,jun.
John C. Jones
APPOINTMKNT—BY AUTHORITY.
Ri chard Peters, to be Judge of the Diftritt Court ot the
United States, for the Diftritt ot Penrifylvania—in the room ot
William Lewis, who has resigned.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 24/9 pr. £
3 pr. Cents 15/
Defercd 6 pr. CentJ 15)3
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 21J6 do.
Indents 14J'6_ 72J do.
Bank Stock—half Ihares 118 per cent premium.
—whole (hares 60 per cent.
SALES
Of rhe real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Ben felem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, decealed, pursuant to the Directions
of his 1 alt Will and Testament.
ON Tuefdav the 27th oi March next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, fuuate on the river Delaware; on
which is erected a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn,ftables, hay-houle,
and other convenient outhoufis. A good orchard ot the best kind
of gratied fruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a (had and herringHfhery before tlhe door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncy of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, ftabJes,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving Orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accuftoraed tavern ; and the fcfiy belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe£ts on the
liver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, situ-
in the township of Southampton, in the county aforcfaid ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lor. containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading fiom Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-ihop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Alio, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of be, one-third of the purc.hafie
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with inteieft.
JOHN SWIFT, }
JOHN M. NESBIT, > Executors.
(cptm27) SAMUEL .BENEZET, )
Thomas Jones
John F. Gnmke
Kdward Blake
Robert Haziehurft
William Thayer
Adam Gilchrift
Jofiah Smith, Cafliier.
NEW-YORK.
Alexander Macomb
John Delaficld
Matthew Clarkfon
Edmund Prior
David Gelfton
George Service
Charles Wilkes, Cafhitr.
BOSTON.
Joleph Rufiell, jun.
Caleb Davis
Israel Thorndike
William Wetmore
John Lowell
Theo. Lyman
Peter Roe Dakon, Cajjiur.
12 3 i P r - cent.
75 do -
76£ do.rs
address
TO THE CITIZENS Or
WE3TWOBSLAWD, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
Off THE
R E V E N U E LAW.
Bv JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Riven*?*
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania.
WILL any sober citizen among us look forward, to the lat
ter with approbation ? VVill he believe that a constitu
tional law of his country, laying a moderate duty upon fpi
nts, me lowed we know of any where, affords fufficient cause for
diltnrbing the tranquility of the community, tor involving a civil
commotion, for hazarding a trial of ltrength with tne government
of the na ion.
These, fellow-citizens, arc (erious considerations. They ad
dress themselves to your calmeit and soberest considerations.
1 hey make a solemn appeal to your true intercfts, to your patriot
ism, to your prudence. •
You are told, as if to sharpen your resentment againfl the law,
that it is in support of a system, which has taken away all repub
lican equality in fortune, weakened industry, shaken morality, in
troduced corruption, and laid the foundation of a difToiucion
of the government itfelf.
But where are the proofs <»f ail this ? what are the fvmptoms
or appearances of these dreadful efFefls attributed lo that Jyftem ?
It will not be denied that there are some persons who have
made fortunes by the provision for the debt ; but neither are
their number so great, nor their fortunes so considerable, as in
any degree to effect the balance of republican equalitv. The
whole debt bears too fmalla proportion to the aggregate proper
ty of the community, to occafton any such effect, if even the
%vhole of it were accumulate d in a few hands ; but the truth is
otherwise, it is still subdivided among a great number, and a
great proportion of it is in small sums. The alteration, which is
made in the relative state of property of the whole society, is as a
drop in the ocean.
Industry, too, it is said is weakened. Look, around you, fellow
citizens, and inquire of a!! '.hose who come from other parts of
Hie country, and you will learn, that there never was a period in
its affairs, when (peaking of the United States colleflively, the in
dustry of the community was greater or more productive. It
will be a /ml anfwr to this suggestion to tell you, that th« greater
part of half a million of dollars h«.s been lately subscribed, paya
ble in the public debt, for the purpose of establishing manufac
tories, which will probabl) give bread to the industrious poor
throughout an extensive fcere, and be Felt by the agriculture of
fevrral States.
Morality, it is said, is fiiaken, does the payment of just debts,
does the performance of ihe most solemn engagements, through
the means of the greateil source of intemperance and immorality,
make morality itfelf ? what is meant by this aflertion ?
Corruption is introduced, where ? amon* whom ? in what
manner ? let the corrupters and the corrupted be pointed our.
Tis no where fellow-citizens, the thing does not exist; and those
who make the eharge may be firmlv called on to bring a shadow
ofproofofit.
But a foundation h?s been laid by this pernicious ftflem
FOR A DISSOLUTION OF THI COVER.VMJNT ITSELF. This,
fellow-citizenr is an alarming declaration. Has the standard been
cre&ed and the signal for that difTolution given ? who will fly to
it ? who would wish to fee the government of the country dif
fbived ? who would defirc to fee the bands of the union and of
focicty cut afundcr ?
But, fcilow-citizens, a government ere&rd by the people of
America will be supported by that people. It is not a house
built on the sand. It is the temple of the happiness and fafety of
America, reared on an immovable rock.
Fellow-citizens, lend mc an attentive and dfpaffionate ear.
Hear the admonition of an old, affe&ionate and\aithful servant
and friend. Listen to the words ol soberness and truth.
You are told that the government of the union have in a very
Pnort time, made hasty strides to all that is UNJUST and OP-
E. I tell you that it has already done you much good ;
that many blcffings have already flowed from it, and that many
more are likely lo flow from it.
The present government of the United States has restored confi
dence (which was wanting before) between individuals and the
public. This has unlocked the fecrct ftorrs which were before
hoarded up indifferent places, and hasthrown them into circula
tion for the benefit of industry. Induftrv has accord n-ly in eve
ry branch of business revived, and flourifhes beyond the exam
ample of any former time.
There are few who have fufficiently appreciated the value of
confidence. It is truly the animating principle of the body po.
litic. It brings into aftmty all the resources of the community,
tor thepurpofe®f private and public exertion, wealth and iltength.
This precious confidence has been produced in two ways, by the
provisions of the constitution againl) laws impairing the obliga
tions of contrails and the rights ot property, and by the meafurcs
which have been taken for the restoration of public ctedit.
Accordingly the government has restored public credit, the si-
IKW of war, and the great instrument of economy, in peace. A
nat on in . ull credit may defy all itsenemies; a NATION with
«>ut CRED IT has every thing to Fear, A nation, like an indivi
dual, in full credit, purchases cheap whatever it cannot immedi
ately pay for A nation, like an individual, in bad credit, must
pm an exccliive price for whatever it is ol>li£;rd to buy on credit.
The government has intioduced order and vigor into the cub
ic finances. The interest of t he puhlic debt is paid with exatl
3un£ly iMty each quarter. All other engagements of -he oublic
ire fulfilled to a day. The late government could not maintain
he perlons neceflary for its ordinary business. The present ro
ernmentcan pay and subsist armies for the defence of the citi-
Zen«.
The government has rot only made prov'fion for the interell
° IU debt; but has aaually abfoibed by purchale more than a
Million ot dollars.
The present government has restored (he reputationof the coun
try abroad.as well a, a, home. . Before i. s eftablilWm, the
name of an American was a reproach in foreign countries. .Vow
It ts one o. the best titles which a man can- hove. Our govern
ment andcountry are celebrated „ models so, the imitation of
mankind. The ireafures, as well as the conftttution of the to
vcrnment. Jiaverxcited general aoplaufe; and amort* h s raeafurri
shoe for the rftabl'.ftuncnt of public credit have been the moll
approved. uw
The government has not only improved own fin.ncrs, but
has betteredl those of several of the Stair?. You are told bv the
governor of your own State, in his Uft f Decc h m the lecture
jha.'Mhe beneficial effefl. of, he eftabl.foment of the public ere'
dit of the United States we a eonclufivc evidence cf national
profperitv," that " a sum of 60,000 pounds borrowed for the
ufc of the State from the bank of Nonh America might be con
veniemly discharged faleof a part of ,he public debt of
the union owned by this commonwealth ;" that the claims of
the State, upon tTie Twifurv of the United Statee, would pioba
J.y PHOOUCSA supply in "s!«on, to answer the expences
■ ol government; and that, according to a rcprefemation of the
regtfter general ; a lale of th« defe*k.id stock of the Uni
•' ted Slates alone, whichwas owned by the State, would -ut
• Pennsylvania from every pecuniary embarrassment. completely
and honorary fat«fy her creditor, «f every dcfcripucn, and
A N
(CONCLUDE!^.]
" lca« bcriapofTeffion of an uniocnmbcrca revenue, amply faf
" 6ctirnt for the support of government, and the profecutien of
" every ufeful and patriotic undertaking."
The government has not only effe&ed ihefe great.things, but,
in the mode of doing it, baa lightened the burthens of the "people.
Ti® certain that, in moll parts of (he onion, the burthen of taxes
is lighter than it was under rtie former Siate'of things. All thia
is the effeftof more order and energy, and of more judicious ar
rangements of the public refoiirces.
Lattly, under the operation of the present government the agri
culture. < ommerce, inanufatturej and navigation of the United
Stales, have been extended. The navigation ol the country has
of late taken a spring, which null afford great pleasure to all its
true friends. This has proceeded from threecaufes ; theconfidence
already taken notice of, the encouragement rcfulting from the
laws which have been paOed, and the increase of active capital
from the funding of the public debt, of the operation of the let
ter a striking inllance has already been mentioned.
But we are threatened, alas, that these great things arr to be
undone. That ineftimible confidence and credit, which have
been established, are to be subverted. Diftnift, disorder and com
mntiou are to be fubflitutcd to confidence, eider, and induflrious
repose.
You may be told, that nothing of this kiad is meditated. I
-affirm, that the doQrines which have been promulgated,the mea
sures recommended by the committee, and those which have be
gun to be put m pradice as auxiliary to them [I allude to the
latejoutrage againit an officer of the revenue] will, unless re
ltnquifhed or over-ruled, inevitably be productive of all the
evils which have been mentioned, and others equally alarming in
their nature.
Fellow-citirens, I know you do not intend to expose your
country or yourselves to the unhappy consequence* which await
a pursuit of the advice given (o you. It is tha|efoie I make this
appeal from your advisers lo you. It is exhort yon to
Mercife your own judgments, to think and idrtot yourselves. L
fliould be sincerely sorry to give offence to an* ; but I prefer MY
DUTY and YOUR GOOD to aH other considerations.
Fellow-citizens, I have one thing more to fay to you. That
government which yon are in fact, however it may be in form,
advised to oppole, is at this instant, affording you, and all those
who are called upon to combine against it, the moil liberal pro.
teflion. The whole monies which will arise throughout the union,
during the present year, from the duty complained of, those very
monies will have been fent-on to the militia who have been called
out as guards, and in the expeditions which have been carried on
and are carryifife on against the savages who infect the frontiers
And whether there be peace or war a sum beyond coMfAKi-
SON CREATE*, will be (pent each year on the establishments re
quifitefor the fecunty ofthe western country, than will be col
letted among them. Thus not only the duty you pay will be
(pent among you, but you will be cniiched by aconfiderable
part of that which is paid by your fellow-citizens.
Is it then generous, is it either j,.(l or wife to refill or embarrass
a government from which yoa derive fnch immediate advantages ?
Can all these things be done without revenue or without credit ?
You, 1 am sure, will answer as I wish.
POST-OFFICE,
estabushmen?:;;;^
WHICH IS TO COMMENCE TH. SIXTEENTH INSTANT.
The EASTERN MAIL will be closed oa
j tt half pall eight o'clock in the morning, and
y reach New-York at two o'clock, P. M. on
each succeeding day.
Mondays
Toefdays
Wednesdays
Thursdays and
Fridays
The Mail from New-York will be closed there on the fame
days, and at the lame time in the morning; and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesday?
Wednefdavs f #
Thurfdayi at one etlock, P. f M.
Fridays and I
Saturdays
The SOUTHER AIL will fc closed on
Mondays J at half part nine o'clock, A. M. (reaching Bal
fndays " ' 5 P.m. 7 " 3
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Taefdays )
Thursdays and £ at one o'clock, P. M.
Saturdays \
The MAIL for the EASTERM SHORE of MARYLAND
as far as CHESTERTOWX, will be closed on
Mondays ) .
Wcdncfdaysand > * o clock in the morninjr,
Fridays ) Cheftertown each succeeding day) and
_ ~ Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tu' n>y, )
Thursdays aod ( " ,°? c o'c'ock, P. M. in summer, and at two
Saturdays ) ° clock > P - M - in winter.
The MAIL for CHESTER-MILLS and EASTON, will leave
Philadelphia every Monday with the other Mails forihe Eastern
fft ,« M r n Ur " , W " h 1, < v "y Sa,urd av from November
ill to May lft, and every Thurfdav the reft of the year
The MAIL for DUCK-CREEK CROSS-ROADS*DOVER
will also leave Philadelphia every Monday with ihe Eastern Shore'
ylar retU ' a W " h ' he " r ' y Tl,urfda y throughout the
for PITTSBURG, will le,vc Philadelphia every
Saturday o clock, A. M. and the Mail from P.ttiWg will
arriveat Phi.adrlphia every Friday at noon.
delffTr.Unr ' b T ,om,k<:n P th * numerous Mails
she ooft fc lf° Ut t T J T,cnlloned > a " t>- Ifft at
the port-office half an hour before the times of closing the refi.ee
tue Mails in uh ch they are to be sent. c
State's 'lhe e me e h""' P J'"u ° f ,he famr " ,m * in ,he L'n.ted
Mates, the nvrchants and o.hers are requested to he very p arrc ,,
lar in inc direction of their letters; and when le.ters a-e nit lor a
po.* town,the nearest poll town to the place ought to he mentjoned
ROBERT PAT TON, Port-Marter.
TTO BE SOLD,
HAT Keautiful and elegant (ituat.on on the hanks of the Pr>-
f.r.K. ' ri 0 " 1 " 15 ,hc!ownof Alexandra, whereon the fnb
imn nv'T =5 or 3= "res will he fold wuh the
comoleatl "si * nd " m,nodlo, « two ftorv house,
v£b?j 'he cellar to the garret, a kitchen, l,„n!
f„)h m "'- houfc ' da.ry.twn (lory barn, and ioe house, all fin,toed
in the best manner, together with several other ncceirai v ou-houfe!
*° Sirac " " e f y palcd ' and a ft,lirul now em-'
' f ,n fine ° 'he land well enclosed wiTa
"j » wc »- «"» fp"»s« of excellent water-,he
profpea „ equalld by few, and excelled by none in America-
M,con',gu,«y to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and Geo'
Town, having a „ne and lull view of each place, must render it in
tionfcom A? RtC ". va,ur ' bfln * <*•"&'* in a line of communis.
offerbefote he': th a V° ' W ° '° wns - Shoii!a a P'"chafer
had An.nd.l 5 ' h ,° f , Fcb :" arv » bargain mav be
ol„ ( t" ' " tlc ' clf " a " incumbrances, iill h, ,na,!e
by the fubfenber. I wi ,, also w , w:th „ m , • *■£«*«
por,hea a bo' p,,,3^'1 ; s d,(lan "' wh:c ' w "' «■-«•«»»
port me a hove in wood and timber.
303
BALDWIN DAD. 1 ),
War Department.
January 2, 179?.
is hereby given to all ihe military invalids
A of the United States, that the sums to which they are intitlcd
for fix months of their horn the 4th day of Sep
tember. 1791, and which will become due on the sth dav of
March, 1792, w.ll be paid on the said day by :he Commifliouers
of the Loans within tne states refpe&ively, under the usual regu
lations, viz.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
ift. The certificate given by rhe state, fpscifyin* that the per
son poflefßug the fame is in fact an invalid, and afccrtainmg :be
sum to which as such he is annualiy entitled.
2d. An affiddvit, to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticesof the coun'v of
in the state of and made oath fh*t he is the fame A. B. ro
whom the original certificate in h's oofleflion W3* given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate g-ven by the fta'e to be re
cited) That he fei ved {regiment, corps or vefiel) at the time he
was Hiftbled, and that he now resides in th« and conntv of
and has resided there for the last years, previous to which he
resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an »f*omev, the
fa id attorney, besides the certificate and oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to Ihe fo!low=n<» form:
I, A. B. of county of state of do hcrcbv "tronfti
tufe and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Un -
ted State*, from the fourth day of September, one thousand fcven
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and nimtv-two.
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged beford rfre,
Applications of executors and fnuft ht 1 iWftmua
tlied With legal evidence of their refpeft.ve offices, and also ol the
time the invalids died, whose peoiion thev may cbim.
By command of the President of the Uniird States,
H. KXOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in therefpeaiveftates are rrquefted to publifli
the above in their newspapers, for the space o c two months.
Annapocis, January s, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Vifitorsand Governors of St. Tohn's Col'egr
in the State of Maryland, on Thnrfdav the loth <Jf Novcml
ber last,
! RESOLVED, ->
THAT this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro.
ceed toeleS a Vice-Principal of St. John's Colleee.
I " That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, ro
teach fojne of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy ; and that: the departments of the said Principal and Vice
j Principal [hall hereafter be alcertained with precision, on consi
derations of their mutual convenience and refpeflive qualification;.
That the Vice-Principal (bal) be entitled to receive, for his ser
vices, a salary of three hundred and fiftv pound*, current money,
rating dollar* at 7/6 each, to be paid quarterlv.
~ Th „ P Trfon * "f. »nd qualified for the appointment of
, \ ice-Principal, be, by public advcrtifement. requested to make ao
plication-to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Cairoll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hfllfon, all of the city of Aona-
P°"*- By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, President.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit all
preffrence on account of n li£ioui tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
com pleat the plan of this rifiog ft miliary, the Board will ccrtainlv
proceed to the elation at the Oa«d time; provided a person qua
-1 * ,hclr judgment, for this important station, can be pro
cured. The personal attendance of the candidates, although not
pontively required, will be obviously proper.
It may be ufeful to remark, that the falariesof all the proFeflort
and teachers have hitherto been paid withentire punfiualitv • and
that the/unds ot St. John's College produce a certain annual in
come, superior to all the appropriations, which have been, or pio
bably will be made. r
G~f The Printers of newspapers throughout the United State*,
are earnestly requeued to insert the above resolve and remarks—
and to repeat the publication as olteo at convenience will permit.
Public Securities,
Bougk t and So ln, on COMMISSION' by
-SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Stieet, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
MPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
T E' A S,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, SSPICES.Sc.&e.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefuut and MartetStreetj.
A few TICKETS in 3d and last Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTtERY.
American Lead Manufactory. .
__ A s T E p H E N A USTIN,''i Co.
°P" ,rrf Lud-Wahhocse, two doors
foulhofU jlnuuftrcft Wharf,adjoiningiheir New Fa&nrv—
Z\Xur^ e en' 7, n '7r m^C ' ar "* ' raav ,or falr - a general afTort
mnit nfSHOTof all fii.-s, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production ol ihe Mir.es ■„ Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced En s l.(h wo.kmen, .hey warrant it to be
<nual in quality in any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
pricc from the co!l of imported.
They aI so continue to manufaflure all the above articles «
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
ahove FacWs, w„l be thankfully received, and elected on the
nof.ee.
Mn' War " cd ' ,nrJ " f,ri °us, sober. Labouring Men, at the said
,W mT C ° em ° loy ' S" od '•*?«• >nd other encou,a»e-
L rS r" c K' vrn ' means of com, VJnce being provided, and
houies for their rccrpr-on. Jk
at P " tic ' ,l " sen <l uirer 'fMrfTr S . Moses Austin* Co. *
P* 7'j /?'" y n T hmond ' Qr " above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791; ,f
A T i RTr T° KE SOLD BT THE SDI TOR,
AI- A C ,c T v,n R an 'l paving Gold at the BiiSk of the
W,n « 'be Val " of Gold in Dollars and
an r p™" 11 ? e ' nou fap d Pennyweights—according to the
Acl afcertain.nj he Standa.d and Value of Gold.
' If THIRD SESSION tf the SENATE
oj tkt Oil 11 EX) STATES, 0 le Uiof He Ed,tor hereof .
| Witnesses.