A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED Wt UN'fcSDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 83, of Vol. lII.] Saturday, February 11, 1792.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, January 26, 1792
IN COMMIT TKK OF THF. WHOLE.
On the Bill providing for the Defence of the Frontiers.
Question under conliderat ion,
AMOTION to itrike out the frcond fedionof the bill, which
contemplates the raising ot three additional regiments of in
fantry, and a iquadron of light dragoons, amounting in all to thiee
thousand and forty men, exclusive of coinmillioncd officers.
In favor ot the motion, and against the proposed augmentation
of the military <ilabliftimcnt, it was urged,
That the Indian war, in which the United States are at pref< nt
involved, was, in its origin, as unjustly undertaken, as it has since
been unwisely and uniuccefsfully conducted ; —that depredations
had been committed by the whiles, as well as by the Indians ;
and the whites were most probably the aggrclfors, as they fre
quently made encroachments on the Indian lands, whereas the In
dians ihewed no inclination to obtain poffeflion of our territory,
or even to make temporary invaiions until urged to it by a fenle
of their wrongs : a proof ot this un, ncroaching diipofition on t heir
part, plainly appeared in their cor.dust, after the vi&ory they late
ly obtained over our troops; for, when, flulhcd with fucctfs, they
might have swept the country before them, and penetrated as tsr
as Pittsburgh, they contented themselves with the advantage they
had gained over their invaders, and did not attempt to invade our
territories in return, although there was no where at hand a fuffici
ent force to check their career.
The mode of treating the Indians in general, was reprobated as
unwise and impolitic; the Indians are with difficulty to bt re
duced by the fwoid, but may easily be gained byjufticc and mo
deration : and although iheir cruelties are alleged as reasons for a
different condudl, and the fufferings of the white people patheti
cally deplored, these narratives, (it was said) are at bed but ex
paite evidence ; —we hear nothing of the fufferings of the Indians ;
but if Cornplanter's speech were read, it would fct the matter in a
very different point of view, and furnifti a complete answer to
all the charges of their accusers.
Peace (it was said) may be obtained from the Indian tribes, at a
much less expense than would be ncccffaiy for the lupport of the
war ' —to ptrfevere in hostilities, would be wafting ihr pubjic inn
ney to a very bad purpose indeed ; for (uppofmg our arms crown'd
with viflory, what are the advantages wc may expetf to reap trom
our success ?—-wc can only gain poflcflion of their lands—a pof
lcflion, that must long continue unproductive of the smallest be
nefit, as we already poflefs land fufficient; more, in fad, than wc
will be able to cultivate for a whole century to come.
Instead of being ambitious to extend our boundaries, it would
answer a much better national purpole rather to check the roving
dilpofition of the frontier fetilers, and prevent them from too ftid
denly extending themfelvcs to the western waters : if kept closer
together, and more neatly conne&cd with the old settlements.they
would be more ufelul to the community at large, and would riot
(<> frequently involve us in unneccflary and cxpenfive wars with
the Indians : but if permitted to rove at pleasure, they will keep
the nation embroiled in perpetual warfare, as long as the Indians
have a tingle acre of ground to r< ft upon.
If the citizens of the United States were recalled within their
proper boundaiies, there thev might, for years to come, cultivate
the foil in peacc, neither invaded, nor invading. As the country
progrtlTes in population, and our limits are found too narrow, it
will then be soon enough to contemplate a gradual extension of out
fiontur : but in the mean time, it is an idle profufion of blood
and treasure, to carry war beyond our present line of forts : it is
only exposing our arms to disgrace, betraying our own weakness,
andl lelicning the public confidence in the general government, to
fend forth armies to be butchered in the forefts, whilst we fuffcr
the Britilh to keep poflVfljon of the posts within our teiritory.
As long as Britain is fuftered to retain those posts, wc can never
hope to f'iccetd against the Indians; nor ought we to trace our
late misfoi tune to any other fouree than her still holding them in
her poirtflion : were they in our hands, the Indians could not car
ry on their operations against us with the fame degree of vigor as
thev now do ; for it is from those forts that they obtain their Ap
plies of arms and ammunition, with which ihev'can be, at all
times, plentifully fu*nifhed, as long as things continue on their
present footing.
Until thole posts are'n our pofJVflinn, it will be vain to fend
our ;tmirs into the wildernefi. A body of five thouland met.
lent out agairift the Indians, under the present circumflances'
would be as ettefluallv defeated as the fmallcr ones have already
Been : in those wilds, our troop, have nofrier.dat hand, to lurmlh
• hem with lupphes or to g,ve them intelligence of the app.oach
and operations of the enemy ; whereas the Indians, receiving ho'h
«.d and information f™ theie friendly netghbprl, can pre-co!,-
cert their plans, and chufe, according to their own convenience
»hc Place and vhr hour of juaek, a, they did before '
f.deof t hen ri: ft obf " V ! d 3n hon »"ble gentleman on the other
t hthat we ought undoubtedly to get poffeflion of"
had n P I f ; ; nd r lh r at W We obtained it,lfwe
our pom th f " f " n ' blt , tmb "P" on all the Britilh (hipping
Z- h k Whether it would at present be
uo°t on „f ' C " "'P' " ,hc En S l,th havc loft lo a
£££&£ K'e&T'' COn^UaICC 01 ,hC add '—
""T"' " - w " fur ' hcr ur S cd ' that Wpofing
r u . fidel-",n D of, rlf h °u gmal,y "" d "'aken with jutt.ee on
for a continuance of hoftilUill y"',''"" W in ' Cr " ft "
hoth instances, heVn^uch"mo Vff ,; " ent '' aH '
from a third expedition of the fame k' 7 flal,e . rin S P rof P cft
mon- J,,i ~ki fame kind : it was thought much
4du,C4b ' c 10 co, " cm ourfvlves with defend,n S the frontier ;
and this might be done, without making so great an augmentatior
in the military eftablilhmenf.
The only use of regular''troops on the frontier, is to gariifon the
forts, and to have a (landing (oicc in the neighbourhood, to form a
station, to which the inihna may relent either (or protection or
supplies: but as to a£l»ve feivice, the fiouiicr militia and ranger'
were pionounced to be by far pieferable to the regular troops, as
hcing more expert woodfmcn, and belter habituated to the Indian
mode of fighting. To defend the torts, a small number of regu
lars would befufficient; the present ettablilhtnent of two regi
ments would, it gompleated, be amply adequate to the purpose;
and when ailifted by such forces as might at all times be colle&td
on the frontier, would be able to repel every inroad of the enemy.
Experience has proved, that the sudden and desultory attacks ot
the frontier militia and rangers, are ever attended with better fuc
ce/s than the methodical opi rations of a regular fo r ce ; the former
air beiter calculated for expedition and furprile, making unex
pected sallies, fcouringthe country in small bodies, harrafliug the
Indians, and intercepting their draggling panics, by whom their
motions are unobieived ; whereas, when a body of regulars take
the field, encumbered with baggage and heavy artillery, the una
voidable slowness of their movements affords the enemy an oppor
tunity of watching all their opeiations, colliding their whole (orce,
and (kuiking in the woods around them, till they can seize t he fa
vorable moment to ftnke a sudden blow, which they generally do
with fucct fs, but which they could never attempt, if exposed every
hour t» the unforefeen attacks of our woodsmen, who would keep
their attention conflantly engaged in all quarters, and thus pi event
them from uniting in large bodies.
It was further ohf< rved by some gentlemen, who even admitted
the propriety of invading the Indian teiritory, that toeffc&ihis
with success, it was by no means neceflary to make such an cn
cicale in the militaiy edablidiment, as that contemplated in the
bill: the mifcarria'gc of the former expeditions could not (ihey
said) be alledged as a fufficient reason : fqr it is well known, that
the former edablidnnent was far from being complete : the regu
lais, for the service of the lafl campaign, were to have
been above two thousand two hundred ; the President was besides
empowered to raise two thousand five hundred levies in addition
to the regulars; and thefewould together havecondituted an army
of about four thjufand seven hundred incn : had such a body
been employed, we might have expelled much better
fuccrfs against the Indians, whose numbers were so far inferior,
the whole force of the Wabafh tiibes not amounting to above ele
ven or twelve hundred warriors, who never could keep the field
for any length of time, but mud be soon obliged to disperse, with
out venturing an attack upoji an army of such superior drength.
Infirad of this, our army confided of only about twelve hun
dred men, and of these not above tour or five hundred were regu
lar troops : bcfidi $, had even this foice been fuflicif nt if employed
in season, the delays, that had taken place in the execution of
the plan, would alpnc have been fufficient to defeat the intended
purpose. During the winter, the law was paffc-d for laifing the
additional troops to carry on the war with greater vigor; the
w hole summer was spent in the butanefs, and the few men that we
did enlist, were not raised till late in the fall : collected at length
at the hca<l of the Ohio, they fiuitleftl) loitered away their time,
till they finally crctted a monument to our eternal disgrace and
infamy.
Whatever troops arc to be employed, ought to be raised with
diligence and dispatch, if we wilh to avoid a similar milcarriage
in our next attempt : the aimy ought not to enter the Indian
country, till their whole farcr is complete—difficulties however
and delay, equal to those of §ril year, may be expe£lcfl in enlist
ing the men and we shall have the officers in pay a considerable
time, without any soldiers : perhaps the former pay of the troops
was *00 low ; and proper effe&ive men weie unwilling to ac
cept of it ; if so, let it be raised ; let the men be well clothed and
fed; and they will moie leadily engage in the service : probably
also the term of three years was an objc&ion with many, who
would otherwise have joined our ftandaid : if enlisted only for
fix months, the rank* will be sooner filled ; and this ought to
have considerable weight wilh those who advocate the augmenta
tion of the military eftablilhment, as they cannot but know, that
if we set about cnlifting the number of men contemplated in the
bill, and in the manner there prescribed, they cannot be raised
time enough to render any service in the next campaign.
The information, contained in the repct on the table, was not,
it was faidf to be implicitly relied on : that report was made by a
man, who had not personally visited the frontier : oiheis, who
had been on the spot, were of opinion, that if 2000 levies had
been laifed last year, they would have been fnfficient not only for
the defence of the frontier, but even for any oftenfive operations,
that might have been thought neceflary : such troops, colicftcd in
the vicinity are more competent to the undertaking, than the
troops now in contemplation : no complaint had been made of
their conduct; whenever they were tried, they benaved as well
as the regulars, and in the adiion under General St. Clair, they
gave eqnal proofs of their valor.
It was farther urged, thar the frontier mi'itia are not only equal,
but infinitely fupenor to any regular troops whatever, for the de
fence of the borders, and that they are in fad, the only force
' hat can be effectually employed in expeditions againff the hostile
Indians., whofc mode of fighting is familiar to them, and docs
not ftnkc them with that degree ot terror, with which it inspires
those men whoenlift on the regular eftablifament : —these latter
being colledhd in the heart of populous cities, where the face of
an Indian is seldom leen, hardly know, whether the Indian and
his horse are not the fame animal : and when thev approach the
enemy, at the very firft shout, even before he is in view, they are
terrified at the idea of savage barbarity, which they have ever
been taught to refl;£l on wrth horror ; and being incapable of ie
filtance, they commit their fafety to flight. To prove the supe
riority of the militia, gentlemen need only contrail the dispatch
and success of the expedition conduced by General Scott, with
the delays, disgrace and mortification which attended that und r
General St. Clair, and consider the difference of the cxpence on
those two occasions
The expence of such an army as the bill contemplates, is an
objcCt well worthy ot fei ious consideration, efpectaliy at the pre
ftnc moment, when thete is fcaicely a dollar in the treasury.
Gentlemen would also do well to'advert to the progress of this
bufmefs, and consider where they were likely to Sop, if they
went on at the present rate : -at fiiff, only a single regiment had
been raifcd, and the expense was about 100,000 dollais ; a second
was afterwards added,v/hich swelled the expense to about 300,000;
and now a standing force ot 5168 men is contemplated, at an an
nual expencc of above a million and a quarter. Can this be juf
tificd in the present ffate of our finances, when it us well known
329
[Whole No. 291.]
that the Secretary of the TrealYiry, having been requefled by the
members from a pa»ticular State, to build a light-hotife on a part
of their coast, declined the undertaking, and alledged the want
of funds, as the reason ?
Our resources however might be made to answer for the sup
port of such a force as that, whiclji was intended [or the service of
the prectding year, and there would be little complaint or diflatis
fadion among the people : very few murmuring* were heard a
gainfl: rhe former establishment : but such a one as is now con
templated, will be thought extravagant, will breed discontent
the citizens of the United States, and perhaps afford our
neighbors in Canada an opportunity to take advantage of our di
vided fttuation, and involve us in a war more dangerous than the
former which ieparated us from "Great-Britain.
Apprehensions (it is said) are entertained, that the obje£l con
templated in raising those additional troops, is not so much to
punish and coerce the Indians, as to have a (landing regular force
equal to what the British have on this continent. This is said to
amount to about fix thousand men, including those in Canada :
but it is to be remarked, that the British nation has not above one
ihoufand men within the limits of the United States ; and yet
with this handful of troops, they not only keep the Indians in
awe, but even, in opposition to the wishes of the United States,
retain pofledion of those ports, which (hould have been ceded to
us pursuant to the terms of the treaty :—why then is it necessary,
lor the purf>ofe of establishing pods and garrisoning them, to en
creafe the (lauding force to so large a number, as that contempla
ted in the clause under consideration ?—During our late arduous
druggie for liberty, when we had to cope with the mod powei
lul nation under heaven, the commander in chief had never at
any one time above ten thousand men, under his own immediate
command ; and if with so small a force, we were able to cft'e£l so
glorious a revolution, there can be no neceflity of going such
lengths at present, for the fake of edablifhing a military charac
ter—it is drange policy indeed, to raise five or fix thousand men,
to oppose a handful of Indian banditti, whose utmost amount does
not, from the documents on the table, appear to exceed twelve
hundred.
We arc pieparing to squander aw-.y money by millions : and
no one, except those who are in the secrets of the cabinet, knows
for what reason the war has been thus carried on for 3 years : —
but what funds are to defray the encreaff d expense ot maintaining
such a force as is now contemplated ?—The excise is both unpo
pular and unp">du6live :—the impoil duties have been raised as
high as is confident with prudence : to incieafe them would
be but to open a door for smuggling, and thus diminish their
produ&ivenefs : and if those sources of revenue fail, if our finan
ces be thus exhauded in unneceflary wars we shall be unable to fa
tisfy the public creditors, unless recourse be had to new taxes,
the consequence of which may, with just reason, be deplored;
wheieas, if we but keep our expences within bounds, if we nurse
our finances, we (hall be refpc&able among the nations of the
earth, nor will any nation dare to insult us, or be able to do it
with impunity.
During the course of these observations, an honorable gentle
man asked, •whethrr this was a day Tel apart for rhetorical flour,
ilhes, as the galleries were open, and he law the short-hand wri
ters Rationed at their different posts ?
At an early stage of the debate, an honorable gentleman had
suggested, that, in (lead of pafling a law for raifmgat all events
the additional regiments, which, for his part, he did not think
neceflary, the house (if they finally determined the present efta
bhlhment to be inefficient) would perhaps do better to appro
priate a certain futp of money, to enable the executive to call in
such additional aid,as circumstances may require.
To this it was objected, that it is the duty of the reprefenta
tivcsof the people m all appropriations of the public money, to
make them lor certain fpecific purposes ; —to ast otherwise on the
piefent occasion, wpuld be fctting a precedent,that might, in its
consequences, prove highly injurious : for, although the grsateft
confidence may fafely be reposed in the virtue and integrity of
him who now fills the presidential chair, it is irnpoflible to fore
fee what use may heieafter be made of the precedent by his fuc
ceflors, or how far it may be canicd.
Against the motion for striking out, and in favor of the propo
sed augmentation of the military eftablifbment, it was urged,
That as to the juftiee of war carried on against the Indian tribes,
that was a question which could not admit of a doubt in the mind
of any nun, who would allow that felf pVefervation and indis
pensable necessity arc fufficicnt caufcs to' juftify a nation in taking
up arms :— if the present war be not in every refpeft juftifiable,
then there never was, nor ever will be a just war : it was origi
nally undertaken, and since carried on, not for the fake of con
quest, but to defend our fellow-citizens, our friends, our dearefl
connexions, who are daily exposed, in the frontier fettlemeuts,
to all the rage of savage barbarity, to which they, with their
wives and children, mud soon fall viflims, unless we speedily
fly to their afliftance :—and alt hough there are some people, who
utterly deny the juftiee of any war whatever, this do&rine, how
ever fine in theory, will hardly ever obtain in practice : for, is it
to be imagined,that any set of men arc of such a paflive difpofiuon,
as calmly to look on, whilst their friends and relations are butch
ered before their eyes, and to refute giving them every afliftance
in their power ?
The muiders and depredations, which have, for years past,
been repeatedly committed by the savages, loudly call for redrels :
—from various documents of unqucftionable authority, now in
the hands of the Secretary at War, signed and attested by the exe
cutive and legislature of Kentucky, by the diftrift judge, and
the captains of the militia, it appears, that from the year 1783 to
1790, there have been, of the inhabitants of that diftrift, or of
emigrants on their way thither, rto less than fifteen hundred per
sons either mafTacred by the savages, or dragged into captivity ;
two thousand horses taken away ; and other property plundered
or destroyed, to the amount of fifty thousand dollars ; and there
is good reason to suppose, that on the other frontiers ot Virginia
and Pennsylvania, r .he number of persons murdered or taken pri
soners, during the abovementioned period, would furuifh a lift
of one thousand or fifteen hundred tAore.
The white people, it is true, have sometimes committed depre
dations on the Indians : but the instances have been rare [the ho
norable gentleman who spoke, did not recolle£l above one or
two] of their making unjuit attacks upon the savages, nor did they
on thole occasions commence hostilities against them, till exaf
per«ned-by the ffrongeft provocations, that could poflibly ffimu
late the human heart : t his circumstance mav be justly allowed as
lome palliation ot the offence :—even in these instances, however,
a tew individuals only were concerned ; and when the affair
came to the knowledge of the State, ample reparation was madero the. injured party the general government
too had (hewn an equal difpolui.oll to do jultice
to the Indian tribes ; wit net's the affair of the
Cherokees : for as soon as Congress had heard
their of an encroachment made on
them by some of the people from the frontier of
the Carolina, immediate orders were ifluedl for
obliging the intruders to evacuate the Indian
territory.
But notwithflanding the disposition that pre
vails as well in the legiflatuies of thole States
whose frontiers are molt exposed, as in the ge
neral government, to cultivate peace and amity
with the neighboring Indians, that desirable ob
je<ft is become utterly flnattainablein the present
Jiofture of affairs : — The frontier Indians have
killed a number'of whites ; the whites, in their
turn have made retaliation : both parties are in
the highefl degree exasperated against each o
ther, and likely to continue so, in spite of eve
ry endeavor that can be made to effect a recon
ciliation : with minds thus irritated, it is vain
to hope for peace, as loyg as they continue in
each other's neighborhood ; it is therefore ne
ceflary to form a strong barrier, to keep them
asunder, unless indeed the advocates tor a cefla
tion of Jioftilities would oblige the frontier set
tlers to abandon tlieir lands :—but by what
new-invented rule of right, should the inhabit
ants of Kentucky, and the other frontier set
tlers be laid under a greater obligation, than a
ny other citizens of the United States, to relin
quish a property legally acquired by fair pur
cbafe ?—were it even proposed to pacify the sa
vages, by purthafing the lands anew, such a mea
fore would answer 110 other purpose, than tliar
of procuring a temporary peace, which would
soon again be interrupted by a war, that would
reproduce the necessity of again having recourse
to the fame'expedient : we should have to pur
chase the lands again and again without end ;
by thus squandering the public money year af
ter year, we should only swell the national debt
to an amount, that we cannot pollibly forefee :
—better at once to make a vigorous effort, to adl
in a manner becoming the national dignity, and
to maintain our ground by war, since we can
not obtain a durable or an honorable peace.
Attempts have at various times been made to
treaties of peace with the Indian tribes,
with wham we are now at war:—and although
these efforts hav» conltantly proved ineffectual,
they yet {hew that neither the United States, nor
the state of Virginia, were backward on their
part to adopt conciliatory and to do
away that animosity whjch had commenced on
the part of the savages at an early period of the
late war with Britain, and had continued to break
out at intervals ever since. In theyears 1783, 84,
87, 88, and 90, offers of pcace were made to
them : on the last mentioned occasion, when a
treaty was proposed at the Miami village, the In
dians at firft refufed to treat: they next required
thirty days to deliberate—and in the interim,
the inhabitants of Kentucky were exprefly pro
hibited by the President of the United States, to
carry on any offenfive operations agaiutt them ;
yet notwithflanding tnis forbearance 011 the part
of the whites, 110 less than 120 persons were kil
led or captured by the savages, and several pri
soners roasted alive, during that ftiort period, at
the expiration of which, the Indians refufed to
give any answer at all.
On another occasion, riie Indians, not content
with rejecting our pffers of peace, proceeded even
so far as to infulc us, by telling us, we have lands
within the British ports, and alking us, why we
did not go and take pofTeflion of them ?—Will it
be said, that we are unable to do it ?— Is this lan
guage to be used within the United States ? No !
we an able, abundantly able to do it, whenever
we please : and if we would but retrench our
expenses in some instances, which might well ad
mit of a reduction, our ability would still en
creafe : our finances are not quite so inefficient
as some gentlemen seem to imagine, nor foeafily
deranged—we are still able to prove that the
boasted efficiency of the general government is
fomeihing more than an empty name—we can
yet raise both men and money fufficient todefend
the nation from either injury or insult.
It is now too late to enquire, whether -the war
was originally undertaken on the principles of
justice, or not: —we are adtually involved in it,
and cannot recede, without exposing numbers of
ipnocent persons to be butchered by the enemy ;
for, though we fhcaild determine to discontinue
the war, can it be said that the savages will alf}>
agree to a celfation of holHlities ?— it is well
known that they are averse to peace ; and even
the wirmeft advocate of pacific nieafures must
therefore allow that the war is a war of neceffiry,
and must be supported : we cannot, without im
peachment both to our jullice and our humanity,
abandon our fellow citizens on the frontier to
the rage of their lavage enemies : and although
the excise may be foniewhat unpopular, although
money may still be wanted, what is the excise?
what is money when pat in competition with the
lives of our friends and brethren ?
A fuffieient force inuft be raiTed for their de
fence : and the only question now to be corii
dered is, what that force shall be : experience
has proved, that the force employed in the lafl
campaign, was inadequate : it is true the elta
blifhtiient wns not complete : but who will ven
ture to aflert, that, if if had been complete, it
would have been fuffieient for the intended pur
pose ? Are gentlemen, who aflert this, so well
acquainted with the circuniftances of the enemy,
as to be able to give an accurate liatement of the
amount of their forces on the frontier.' There
are higher opinions in favor of an augmentation
of the army, than can be adduced againlt it
opinions, given by men of judgment and experi
ence, who have themselves been on thefpot, and
are well acquainted with the situation of affairs
in that quarter: —these gentlemen, who tnuft be
allowed to be competent judges, are decidedly of
opinion, that the prefenc ellablifhtnenc, though
completed to the last man, will not furnifh an
adequate force to carry on the war with effetft ;
and that it will be a hopelels attempt to open
allot her campaign, with le/s than about fivethou
fand regular troops, the number contemplated
in the bill.
Nor ought that number to be deemed extrava
gant, under an idea, that we have only a con
temptible handful of banditti to contend with :
their numbers were, lait year, si om authentic
documents, Itated at about 1200 warriors, from
23 different tribes • —such was the opposition then
contemplated , —but it is impossible to ascertain
what acceliions of strength they have since re
ceived, or even what force they had engaged in
the late unfortunate action ; as the very men,
who were in the engagement, do not pretend to
Torm any jtifl oraccurate estimate of thenumber
of their allailants : but there is good reason to
suppose, that they had previously entered into
an aflbciation with various tribes, that have not
as yet cotne within our knowledge : thebwwsand
arrows, used againfl our troops, 011 that occasion,
afford a convincing proof, that they had foes to
encounter from diilant nations,as yet unacquaint
ed with the use of fire arms—nor does the ac
count of the bows and arrows depend, for its au
thenticity, on newspaper evidence alone ; gen
tlemen of unqueltionable veracity, who were per
sonally engaged in the action, have declared,that
they had theinfelves noticed the arrows flying.
When we consider the warlike disposition of
the Indians in general, and the alacrity, with
which the victors are ever sure to be joined by
numerous allies, we have every reason to expert
a much more formidable opposition in rhe next
campaign :—it is well known, that the favuges
place all their glory in deeds of war ; and that,
among them, a young man cannot make his ap
pearance in company, till he has signalized his
valor by some martial archievement :—when, to
this powerful incentive, a new ftimulos is added
by the trophies obtained in the late action, it is
presumable that numbers will crowd to thei\-
ftandaid ; and it strongly behoves us to prepare
in time for,a much more vigorous effort, than
any we have as yet made against them.
The objections drawn from the encreafed ex
pense, mult entirely Vanish from before the eyes
of any man, who looks forward to the confe
quences of one more unfuccefsful campaign : —
such a diltafter would eventually involve the na>
tion in much greater expense, than that which
is now made the ground of oppolition : — better
therefore at once to make a vigorous and effec
tual exertion to bring the matter to a final ilfue,
than to continue gradually draining the treasu
ry, by dragging on the war, and renewing hosti
lities from year to year-.
If we with to bring the war to a speedy and a
happy conclulion, and to lecuve a permanent
peace to the inhabitants 011 the frontier, we
niuft employ such troops, and adopt such mea
sures, as appear belt calculated to enfuie success :
—if we delay our determination, unt.il the force
of the enemy be ascertained, we can make no
provision at all : forthe nature and circumrtanc
es of the cafe preclude us from the very poliibi
lity of obtaining a knowledge of their rtrength
and numbers :—but are we, mean while, to re
main inactive and irrefoluie, and make no efforts
to repel their intended attacks ? No! Whatever
their numbers may be, prudence calls aloud for
provision of lome kind : and if experience is to
have any weight with us, the example of the
rench and of the British points out the true
mode of securing our frontier, and rendering it
invulnerable to an Indian foe : let us occupy
ports in the vicinity of the enemv ; let them be
properly garrisoned, and well, "provided ; and
the business i 5 done.
These will afford an opportunity of trading
with the fi iendly tribes, and will prevent all in
tercourse between the whites and the Indians,
except under proper regulations : fliould hofti'
lines be meditated by any tribes who are not in
aniitv with us, early intelligence of theii move
ments, can be obtained : their marauding par
ties may be either beaten off on their approach
or lnteicepted on their return
330
may be taken of separately attacking the hostile
tribes : thjeir old men, their squaws, their chil
dren , will be exposed a great part of the year
whillt the others are out hunting in fhorr if
sfear, hope, interest, can be supposed to have any
iufluence on the Indians, this mode of defence
niufl be allowed to be preferable to any other
as giving the fnllelt scope to the operation of all
those motives.
A different mode has been long pursued in Vir
ginia, and adopted by the inhabitants of Ken
tuckey ; but its success has not been such, as to
offer any inducement to the general government
to follow the fame plan :—Rangers have there
been employed for a number of years, to scour
the frontiers ; and those rangers, too, were ex
pert woodsmen, perfectly inured to-the Indian
mode of warfare : yet notwithstanding their ut
ruolt vigilance, the savages (till found means to
commit all the murders and depredations already
enumerated : — 'tis true, however, that a frontii«r
militia man, trained up in the woods, may be, in
many refpetfls, preferable to a l egular soldier,
who has not the fariKe knowledge of the country,
and of the mode of fighting :—but with equal
experience (and proper men, poflefled of that
experience, tnay beenlilted on the establishment)
regular troops will be found infinitely superior
to any militia upon earth.
Every man who has ever seen militia in the
field, cannot bat know, that a very triflingdifa!-
ter. or a flight cause of discontent, is fufficientto
make ihem disband, and forget all subordinati
on. so far as even to negleift the means of felt
defence ; — whereas regular troops,under proper
discipline, and acting with greater fteadiuefs and
concert, are much more to be depended on, es
pecially when the objec't of attack is diilant, and
great fatigue is to be undergone. The militia,
in whatever mode they ma)' be called out, will
hardly furnifh' men of the proper description :—
if large pay be offered, the temptation wiil e
qually prevail upon those who are unfit for the
service as it will upr>n good effective men :—be
fides, foine of the states have no militia laws;
and even in those states which have such laws,
they are gone into disuse : no dependance cau
therefore be placed 011 tnilitia, under any laws
now exifling :—there is, indeed, a general mili
tia law now before the house : but if it ever
pafl'es, it certainly cannot be pafled indue season
to answer the purpose of providing for the •.in
mediate defence of the frontier—regular troops
mull be raised, or nothing effectual can be done:
—and if to avoid the expense we refufe the only
aid that may prove of any real service, we render
ourselves responsible for the consequences of this
parsimonious policy, which may be attended with
the'ruin and deftrutftion of our fellow citizens
in the wellern country.
The Cornplanter's speech was again mention
ed, and called for : but, as it had been confiden
tially communicated by the Prelidenr, au objec
tion was made to having it read, without clear
ing the galleries ; —whereupon,
An honorable member arose, and mentioned
his having read it in one of the public newf'pa
pers in the ltate of New-Jersey.
To this it was answered, that if any gentleman
had the newfpaperto produce, the speech might
be publicly read from that : — otherwise, altlio
it might be very proper that the speech iifelf
should be read, yet, as it had been confiden
tially received from :he executive, there would
be a manifest trefpals on propriety and decorum,
in having it read with open galleries : —it was
therefore wished, that the galleries might be
cleared.
The parliamentary etiquette requiring that
this should be done by the house, and not by a
committee, the committee rose for the purpose ;
and,
Flie Speaker having resumed the chair, the
lotion for clearing the galleries, was renewea.
An objection was here started, by an honora
jle gentleman it. favor ofthe augmentation,who
(aid, that, as some gentlemen had spoken oil the
popular fide of the qu&rtion, whilit the galleries
had been open, it was unfairto preclude tholeot
opposite fentinients from an opportunity ot an
swering their arguments in the fame public man
ner, and proving to the people the justice, aim
necefiity of the war.
The motion, however, was perflated in, and
the galleries were cleared.
[The speakers in this day's debate, were Me(Fr?»
Wayne, Goodhue, Boudinot, Livermore, Steele,
Parker, Bourne (Rhode-Island) White and Moare
Mr. White and Mr. Moore opposed the
motion ; they were in favor of the augmentati
on proposed in the bill—The other gentlemen
were in favor of striking out the claufe.j
WEDNESDAY, Februarys
The Spenker laid before the House a 'etter
from the Secretary of War, enclosing copies
tlie official communications which have ,a ( sel '
place between him and the governor oi the ! ate
of Virginia, refpeifting the temporary defence
of the frontier of that commonwealth.A message from the of the United
States, was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear, to
gether with a rtateinent of certain articles of ex
pense, which have occurred in the department of
foreign affairs, and for which 110 provilion is
made by law. — [The expense alluded to, was in
curred for the relief of a number of American
sailors, imprelled in England to serve on board
the Britifti navy.]— The tnellage and accompa
nying papers were referred to a feletil commit
tee, to examine and report.
A bill for apportioning representatives among
the several states, according to the fir ft enume
ration ; and making provilion for a second enu
meration, and an apportionment of representa
tives thereon, to compote the houle of represent
atives after the 3d day of March, 1797 —was read
u second time, ordered to be printed, and refer
ed to a committee of the whole house 011 Mon
day next.
The committee, to whom was refered the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury 011 the pe
tition of Comfort Sands and others, made a re
port, which was read and oidered to lie on the
table.
Mr. W. Smith laid on the table a resolution,
that the Secretary of State be directed to lay be
fore the honfe copies of such laws as have been
adopted and published by the governor and judg
es of the territory north weft of the Ohio.
Mr. Gerry gave notice, that, if the poft-office
bill is, by the approbation of the President, pass
ed into a law in its present form, he will move
for bringing in a bill, to amend it, by reducing
the portage of newspapers.
The committee, appointed for that purpose,
reported a bill, providing for the settlement of
the claims of persons under particular circum
stances, barred by the limitations heretofor efta
blifhed ; —which was twice read, ordered to be
printed, and reset ed t j a committee of the whole
house on Wednesday next.
The house then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole on the fiftiery bill, and having
gone through, and amended it, rose and report
ed it with the amendments, which the house im
mediately took into consideration, and adopted.
The bill was then further amended, and the
houfc adjourned.
THURSDAY, February 9
The bill for the encouragement of the bank
am! other tod-fifheries, and for the regulaiion
and government of the fifhermen employed there
in, was read a third time, and pafled—Yeas 38,
Nays 21
IWelT'rs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B, Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Fitzfinions,
Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue,Gordon,Gregg,Griffin,
Hartley, Hillhoui'e, Huger, Kittera, Lawrance,
Learned, Lee, Livermore, Madison, Muhlenberg,
Wiles, Schoonmaker, J. Smith, f. Smith, W.
Smith, Sterret, Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher,
Treadvvell, Vining Wadfworth, Wayne—3B.
Meflrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Brown, Giles, Grove,
Heiiter, Key, Macon, Mercer, Moore, Murray,
Page, Parker, Seney, Steele, Sumpter, Tucker,
Venable, While, Williainfon, Wyllis— 2l.
The House then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole—Mr. W. Smith in the chair—
on a bill (received from the Senate) relative to
the election of a President and Vice President of
the United States, and declaring the officer who
fliall aift as President in cafe of vacancies in the
offices both of President and Vice-Prefident.
The ninth fe<Sion was Itruck out, in wlych the
President of the Senate pro tempore was delig
nated to a<ft as President, in cafe of vacancies in
both of the above mentioned offices.
A motion was then made to add a new fetflion
to the bill, appointing the senior AfTociate Judge
as the person ro fill the vacancy. A motion was
made to amend this propoiltion, by substituting
the Secretary of State, instead of the senior Aflo
ciate Judge. A short debate ensued, after which,
the committee rose without taking the question,
reported progreft, and obtained leave to fit again.
' Mr. Lawrance presented a petition from the
tanners and curriers of the city W New-York,
praying relief from the hardships they labor un
der, in conftfquence of the exportation of tan
ner's bark. Referred to the fame committee to
whom a similar petition was referred yesterday.
Mr.'S. Bourne, from the committee of enrol
ment, presented to The Speaker the pod-office
bill duly enrolled; who signed the fame,.
FRIDAY, February io.
Sundry petitions were read and referred to
the heads ot departments.
Mr. Muhlenberg presented a petitition from
the tanners of Philadelphia, fimilarl to the pe
titions from the tanners of New-Jersey and New
\oik ; amotion to refer this petition to the
coinmitttee on the two last petitions, occasioned
lome debate —the motion was aoreed to.
On motion of Mr. Fitzlimons, the petition of
C. and C. Marital was referred to the commit
YEAS
NAYS
Adjourned
tee of the whole house on. the fubje<& of manu
factures.
Mr. Wayne moved the following resolution
in substance : 1 hat the fitting member for the
lower cjtftrict ut Georgia, and James Jack foil,
the |>etjtioner against the validity of the elec
tion of * said member— Should be furnifhed ref
pedtively on application, with copies of such de
positions and documents relative to said election,
as may be received by the Speaker; this resolu
tion was agreed ro.
The resolution, that the Secretary of State lay
before the house copies of the acts and resolves,
parted by the Governor and Judiciary of the
Weffern Territory—was agreed to.
111 committee of the whole on the bill relative
to the election of a President and Vice-President
of the United Slates, &c.
Mr. Ben lon's motion to insert the Senior djfo
ciate "judge, as the officer to fill the vacancy in
the office of President and Vice-President, was
negatived.
Mr. Giles's motion to insert ihe Secretary of
State, was then difculled, and, after some debate,
adopted—2B 10 21.
The committee rose and reported the bill,
with the amendments, to the House, which took
the fame into confederation : The firft amend
ment was to strike out the 9th fec f tion, which
provided that the President of the Senate pro
tempore, should aift as President in cafe of vacan
cy— this amendment was agreed to—ayes 32
noes 24.
The substitute which provides that the vacancy
shall be filled by the Secretary of State for the
time being, was also adopted—33 members rising
in the affirmative.
Several amendments in addition were propos
ed—some of which were disagreed to—One mo
ved by Mr. Hillhoufe, to determine the number
of elecftors, was discussed till an adjournment
was called for, and no decision took place.
A ineflage from the Senate informed the House
that they have agreed to their amendments to
the fifhery bill.
BOSTON, January 28.
On Thursday afternoon came before the House
of Representatives, the report of the committee
011 the law for preventing stage plays, and other
theatrical entertainments—" That it was not ex
pedient to repeal that law." The report was
opposed, in a sensible and judicious fpeecli, by
Mr. Tudor ; Mr. Gardiner delivered an elaborate
and learned cflay to prove it confident with the
principles of christianity and good morals, and
Dr. Jarvis displayed ihe blaze of eloquence in a
speech, pure, forcible and refinedly ingenious.
Yet all this, enforced by observations from other
gentlemen, and not opposed by any other speak
er, did not produce conviiftion in the house, who
accepted the report by 99 votes out of 143.
Philadelphia, February 11.
The Briti/h December Packet arrived at New-
York on Tuesday lait. Accounts by her, are re
ceived to the beginning of December.
Lord Cornwallis writes from India, that he had
attacked and totally defeated Tippo before Se
ringapatain—but on account of the Monsoons set
ting in earlier than usual, he found himfelf ob
liflied to retreat to Bangalore, without making
an attempt on Tippoo's capital.
The English and Parisian articles of intelli
gence, are to the 2d December—They refer prin
cipally to the movements of the counter revolu
tionists—some in a ridiculous way, others more
serious. No decisive lteps appear to have been
taken by the ex-princes.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS
The people have seldom cause to feai\that ac
cusers of their government will be wanting.
The rifle is, that a sudden and patfionate censure
will be paded upon their rulers. The pleasure
of the people is often opposed to their interest.
Public men are at least apt enough to yield to
the love of popularity. The greater danger is
that they will want firmnefs when great things
are to be obtained by disregarding little ones.
It concerns the people therefore todealont their
censure sparingly ; and never till enquiry has
firft been had. In that cafe, many men whoj>of
fefs virtue, but want firmnefs, wiil dave to serve
the public faithfully.
Every thing has its season—There is a kind of
fafhion in the turn of writing, oil political fub
jetfts especially, which every warrior of the quill
is fond of following. He likes to step to the
tune that is playing : when the government
was firft adopted, they came forward in ranks,
keeping time to the music ; What a ble[fedgovern
mtnt—what a wife government —the -wonder of th?
world ; public credit will be protest
ed, we shall be a nation, ire.—then the tune chan
ged again—This government wants amendments
without amendments 'tis a terrible government, a ty
ranny—hrdfhipi will be as thick as taverns, and we
321
Adjourned till Monday
shall get as much intoxicated with them—The amend
ments, like cold -water, -will keep us temperate and Co
ber. After the fir ft Congress met, what salaries—
what a burden on the country—the public debt will
not oe paid—the money all goes Jor Jalaries—trade is
taxed t» death—the land is ready to Jink under the
weight oj taxes, which are not laid to pay them—the
wheat will blajl—the grass will not grow—tte ships
will not fail-the tide will not rife, becaufc of high sa
laries. The second fefiion of the firft CongVefs
brought a new fy flein of grievances into fafhion
IVhy does Congress hear Quaker petitions, andnegleft
providing for the public debt P—why is it notfunded ?
—the public creditors are jlarving—Cong) ej sis trow
ing fat in Jloth aud good pasture—while the time is
loft in making and hearing Qilaker frmons, for aud
against flavsry. The debt was funded':—out
rushed an angry tribe of writers, crying, rogues
and cheats—Congress hat cut of the jyft demands of
the creditors— 4 per cent, in/lead of 6—and one third
of the debt 'deferred jor ten years, without interejt.
The state governments pursued the idea, and
made up the deficiency to their creditors.
That tapic was worn out, and then the oppofue
dodtrine was taken up : — Congress has given too
much—the public creditors are living in luxury—such
a flood oj wealth will drown us—What will btcomeof
all this sea of money P—lnduftry will turn lounger
economy will keep open doors—virtue itches to take a
bribe, and republicanism has loft her voice, and is
choaking with her own fat. IVe might have gone on
without funding the debt and mortgaging the reve
nues—w; pay too much to the creditors— we might
have paid the debt e after —we might have paid it with
out paying, and have kept our money and our tem
pers, and have had no taxes—and all this we mi«ht
have done, and have kept our credit as good as it was.
Now the Indian war seems to have beaten the
debt, and the lordfliips, aud the Quakers, and
the amendments, as soundly as it has beaten the
brave St. Clair, and his army. Nothing but the
Indian war—How cruel to kill the Indians—how
joolijh to jend regular armies, which will not kill
them. Poor humanity is ready to die of grief, be
cause you take their lands—yon seek their lives', and
advifs to fend volunteers to kill them all. It is
not flrange that a fubjetl should be left as soon
as the public is tired of it; —but the curiosity is,
that one fide of it should be taken, and then the
other, so that the accusation may never lanauifli.
1 find by reading tbe papers, that Congrefs°is al
ways in the wrong—it errs by forbearing to act,
as well as by acting :—and if the advice of the
complainers is followed, they turn about to the
other fide, and condemn them for having done
it. Is the public opinion nndeady—or are there
a few men (a few can make a great noise) who
lie in wait, and l'eize every opportunity, Speci
ally public disasters, to make the people hate the
government as bitterly as they do themselves
" Between two stools wp are likely to fall to
the ground."—rThe people found the state go
vernments incompetent to the prefervatipn.of the
Union, or the support and encouragement of
their trade, a criculture,& manufactures ;
it is a late discovery that the general govern
ment is equally incompetent to these objedis, par
ticularly in regard to the two laft.—lf we are
thus circumstanced, our boasted sovereignty and
independence are but empty founds.
How different have events turned out from the
predidions of those who opposed the funding
fyftein ! —Have any of the Ethiopeans changed
their Ikin ?—Let recent publicationsanfwer
" All human virtue to its latfft breath,
Finds envy never conquered but by death;
The great Alcides, ev'rv Lihor past,
Had yet this monflcr to subdue at last."
This day the President of the United States
enters into the 61 ft year of his age.
At a meeting of the of the Bank of the United States,
tin Monday,laft, the following Gentlemen were chosen Direfior*
for the office of Dcpofit'and Difcoumt in the town of Baltimore :
Smith Stephen Wilson
James Weft Nicholas Slubey
James Carey David Stewart ,
Adriai) Valck Geoige Gale
Archibald Campbell Jaffnes Dall
John Swain John Holmes, jun.
Christopher David Harris, Cajkicr.
SUPREME COURT OF the UNITED STATES.
Friday, Feb. 10, 1792.
The Court met pursuant to adjournmen—prefent
The Hon. William Cushing,")
Tames Wilson, v arr » >
John Blair, ( Affocute Judges.
J. 4 mes Iredell, )
No business being before the Court, it adjourned till to-morrow
11 o'clock.
The Judges appeared on the bench in their robes ps office.
•„* Sundry favors omitted, (hall appear in our next.
Erratum—ln our last, under the Philadelphia head, middle
column, for 14 a small (chooneifrom Jamaica" read, from Jeremy;
which is a port in Hifpaniola.
ADVERTISEMENT,
fcT THE Subfcribeis for 1 his Gazette, in the City and State
of New-York, or to the kaflward of said State, are requested to
pay any arrearage which niay be due from thim refpeftively, to
MclTrs. Prosper Wetmore & Brothers, No. q, Burlinz-
Slip, New-York.
Philadelphia, February n
JOHN, F£NA'C.PREMIUMS.
THE Pennsylvania Society for the encourage
ment .of Manufactures and the ufeful Arts,
taking into their consideration the Premiums pro
per to be offered for the ensuing year, agreed
upon the following :
THE CONDITIONS ARE,
That the specimens 011 which the premiums
lhall be claimed, mull be the produce or nianu
fatfture of Pennsylvania, Jersey, or Delaware,
and that they be exhibited to the board on or be
fore the firft day of December i 7<;2. That those
who may become candidates, will be expelled to
prepare clear and fatisfavftory proofs, such as
their cases may require ; and that the Society
reserve to themselves the right to determine,not
only the comparative, but the absolute merit of
the specimens produced by the different candi
dates, and of giving or withholding their premi
ums accordingly.
1. To such person as shall exhibit the bed spe
cimen of Earthenware or Pottery, approaching
nearelt to Queen's Ware, or, the Nottingham or
Dels Ware, of the marketable value of fifty dol
lars—a Plate of the value of fifty dollars, or an
equivalent in money.
2. To such person as {hall exhibit the belt spe
cimen of Stone Ware, or , hat kind of Earthen
Ware which is glazed with fait, of the marketa
ble value of Jo dollars—a Plate of 50 dollars va
lue, or that sum in specie.
3. To such person as lhall exhibit the largest
quantity of Wool, not less than joolbs. wt. the
produce of one farm—a Plate of the value of Jo
dollars, or the amount in specie.
4. To such person as (hall produce the largest
quantity of bleached Wax, fit for candles, or ex
portation, not less than soolbs. wt.—a premium
of 50 dollars.
). To such person as /hall produce the great
eft quantity fit painters' colours, manufactured
from materials found in Pennsylvania, New-Jei
fey, or Delaware—a premium of jo dollars.
6. To such person as (hall make and exhibit
the largest number of Smiths' Anvils, not less
than 20 of ioolbs. wt. each, equal in quality to
those imported—a premium of jo dollars.
7. To such person as (hall make and exhibi
the best specimen of Stoves of call iron, at leal!
4aowt. approaching nearest to the quality of Bath
Stoves, in finoothnefsand evenness of the furface,
and relief and elegance of the figures—a premi
cm of 80 dollars.
8. For the best specimen produced of small hol
low iron Ware, three tons wt. approaching near
est in Jightnefs, elegance, &c. to the iniported —
a premium of 50 dollars.
9. For the bell: specimen of Stone or Marble
Slabs, not less than 2000 square feet, sawed by
machinery, moved by horses or water—a premi
um of 50 dollars.
10. To the person who (hall produce the next
gveateft quantity of Stone or Marble Slabs, not
less than 1000 square feet, sawed by machinery
moved by horses or water—a premium of 2c dol
lars.
ti. For the best fpeciinen of Stone or Marble
polished by machinery moved by horses or water,
not I'efs than 100 square feet—a premium of 50
dollars.
12. For the bed fpeciinen of red leather, at
lead 100 skins, approaching nearest in finenefs of
colour and dressing to the Morocco leather—a
premium of 5:0 dollars.
Published by order of the Board,
Thomas M. Willing,Sec'ry
Philadelphia, Dec. 9, I 791.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
T E • A S,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPI
Oi the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Tnirrl-Sirect.between Chefnut and Market Streets
TO Bb SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. '6, Pear-St rest,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
B O O K S,
Which may be fcen every day, until Jive o'clock, p. M .
Among '/ :m arc the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xenophon, Plain. Piutaich, Eufebius, Sozo
-1 1 men, Theodoret, Virpil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
eulus, Plmy, Concordanlia Ear. Concordanlia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Bibha Junii and Tiemtllii. Bible dc Martin,Wells'sMaps"
Scapula: Phavorim—Martini!— Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo'
lo'icon, An:-qu:t. Ecclcf. 3iii?nnice, & c .
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropardia, Benrley's Horace, Terence and
Phidrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om Caesar Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hedcrici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram Cluve"
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, Sec.
OClaco « infra Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes. Lon g i nus ,
Theopl.raftus Hefiod, Poeis minores Gr. liberates. Phalans la
nous edition, of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus Plau
tus, Lucan, Mama!, Claudiao, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
■ Sailult. Curtms, Flomis, Juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellm. Hill
August. Scnptores, Engl.fi and French Translation, of tome of the
Van " y o1 Gr " k 2,, d Utin Grammars, &c & c
C ' ,,l °K ußf faY b « MclT.s. Ricc & C-,. Bonkfeller.
Market street. or of JOHN CAREY '
Oflobtr 31. (
Joseph Anthony, 8c Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on CheJ'iuL-Strcct WharJ,
A FEW puncheons choice oitl Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis P*um,
P rrt-:;!j-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam MolafFes,
Coflee, Colon, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the firft quality,
Cloves, C<-.llia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermatasii Candles and (trained Oil,
Salmon dud picked Mackarel,
Boston Beet and Burlington Pork,
RuGia and Boston Canvas,
A tew bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candiis,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pip 's, hogsheads and ouartcr caiks,
And a itv. cafcs oi 1 Batavia Ariack,
February 8, 1792
Public Securities,
Bol'cht and Sold, on COMMISSION,by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97,
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE jull now opened their Lead-War ehouse, two doors
south of WaVnut-ilreet Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for (ale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all lizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production oi the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
qual 111 quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addrtfitd to either of the
above Fa6tories, will be thankfully received, and execnied on the
fhortcft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good w ages, and other encourage*,
nents will be given, means of conve) ance being provided, and
louses for their reception.
"*Fo- further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austin & Co.
•t their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of everydelcription,on Commifiou,
at the following ratts:
the fpecieamount of all sales at auction, one eighth pei
ccut.
On ditto at private faleor purchase, onc-haj per cent
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For makingtransfers at A\\lo,feventy-Jive cents pertransfer.
(Kf Such pcrfons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punctuality,
'iielity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings'
a the public llocks, together with a well eftablilhed correfpon.
lence throughout the United States, enable him to conduil his
iperations with peculiar benefit 10 his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
Neui-Yoik, No. 57, Kivg-Strtct.
0 Sober 15, 1791
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 7,50 for the purpose ot rcDairing the
Proteftart Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfyi ick
jgreeable to an ast of the J-egiflature of the State of New-Tetfey'
palled November 1 791. J n
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
O This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjea to a deduction ot twelve and an half f, e r
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotlei v vet
offered to the public—and it being ol Inch evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but me undertaking will meet with the moil
liberal lupporr.
ES,&c.&c
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April
or looner if the T,cke„ are disposed of, the oty of New!
B.unfw, k, under .he mfpeftion of Col. John Bayard, PrefHem
a d A lV' Efq ' Mayorof the "tv of Ambov ■
ing of New. j"; f e?- G ° VerD ° r °' ,he
nnmipil^iw' ° bc haQ ° f th . C fo,lowin K persons, who are duly ap
po nted Managers, are under oath, and have given security ,h c
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the.fortunate numbers will be publilhed, and the
prizes paid immediately alter the drawing Q f lhe Lottery
IOHN PARKER. )
!v™ KEI NON '' > Managers.
K R ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
after'the 7r,° pnz " w t" ch " e not demanded within fix months
tia.'o„t R Cburch e . LOtler> '' * CO " fid - d »» 6—
Acw-Brunfwick y January 20, 1792
ID t N AWA\ from the Subscriber, living i n Elfenboronoh
XV n arlyoppofue Rcedy-Mand, on the n%ht of the
, v"' 1 '9 1 * an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN MORRIS
[uppofed he went nn board Come vessel a, he w,? S
Reed'"-^^"" 5 Whlf "T'k ' >ing " the
BENJAMIN HOI.ME.
A TARIP J° " E SOLD BY THE ""To«,
A United St«« reC !v."""® '"t P " Vi " S G °' d at thf Bink °f <he
Cents, from One TWand Peln''' "\ GM and
Ast »f Congrefl, * ,n "? w "«»'M-«ccordin* to the
b »> aicer.ainujg the Siandaid and Value of Gold.
332
CHE
5
i Prize of 200®
i rri
1
2
5
10
3°
9°
>675
1000
500
200
100
50
20
4
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls,
[cp 4 w]
M E.
Dollar* is 2000
ioco
1000
1000
1000
1500
1800
6700
16000
[cp 3 m]
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginu,to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina
or for conducting the work, will be leceived until the ninth dav
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg ; Thomas
Newton, jun: and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gatrt County; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam.
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about fixieen miles; the country through which it will pass. i s
swampy, free from (tones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal ii to be thirt)-two feet in width, and eight feet at least iu
depth, below the furface of the earih, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vtfTels drawing three feet water.
Good fecuiiiy will be required of contraftois; and pfrfnns
making application to be employed as managers, mutt produce
certificates (from characters of refptlability] of their qualification!
for a bufintts of this kind.
By oidcr of the President and Director®,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
( c P I 9 A )
Norfolk, January 21, 1792
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Townfhipof Benfelem, in the County of Bucks
Esquire, deceased, porfuant to the Diretfious
of his last Will and Testament.
ON 7 Tuc fday the 27th of Marco next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farqi, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the river Delaware; 011
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn,(tables, hay-house
and other convenient outhoufrs. A good orchard of the oeft kind
of grafted fruit, now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a shad and herring ftfhery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncy of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which iJ
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, (tables
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard Of the best
grafted fruit, and a shad and herring fiftiery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern; and the feny belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much frr
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpt&s on the
liver, and aie remarkably healthv.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, fili
ate in the township of Southampton, in the aoumy aforefaui; oil
which are ere£led two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. containing four acres, situate on the great pod-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and Work-Ihop ad
iotning, with a well of excellent water at the doer: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and olace, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
monev to be paid down, and the remainder iu two yearly pay
ments with interest.
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, £ Executors.
f-ptm27) SAMUEL BENEZET, )
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining thetown of Alexandria, whereon thefub
fcriber now resides; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvement s, which are a neat and commodious two story house,
coropleatly finilhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all finilhed
in the best manner, together with several other neceflarv outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fkillful garaner now em
ployed in porting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and springs of excellent water—the
profpeA is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
ns contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and Georgr
-1 own, having a fine and full view of each place, mud render it in
a few years ot groat value, being in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaler
offer befoiethe 15th ot February next, a cheap bargain may bp
had. An mdilputable title, clear of all incumbrances, will be made
bv the lubferiber. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles distant, which will suit well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 1791. (tf)
War Department.
January 2, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military invalids
of the United S.otes, that the sums to which they are lptitled
for fix months of their annual pension, iiom the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners
of the Loans within the dates refpe£hvely, under the usual regu
lations, v z.
Every application for payment mufl be accompanied by the
following vouch-rs.
lft. Ihe certificate given by the ilate, fpecify'tng that the per
son poffefHng the fame is in fatt an invalid, and afcertaiuing the
sum to which as such he is annudliy entitled.
2ci. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form ;
A. 15. came before me, one of the Jufticesof the county of
in the (tare of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original ceitificate in his oofieflion was given, of which
the following is a* copy (the certificate given by the state to be re
cited T hat he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now reiides in the and county of
and has resided there for the last years, previous to which he
resided in
la cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney,the
said attorney, befidesthe certificate artd oath before recited, must
produce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of itate of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of my law.'ul attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pen (ion for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the tourth day of September, one thouland (even
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the prcfetice of
Witnefles.
Acknowledged before me,
* P^' lcat ' ons executors and administrators must be aceompa
nie C K®l evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and alio oi the
time t e invalids died., whose pen (ion they may claim.
By command of the. President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpe&ive states are requested to publift
t jc above in their ucwfpaper*, foi the fpacc of two months.
BALDWIN DADE.