A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 108, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF THF. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ot Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
° fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand leven hundred and nineiy-one.
AN ACT to indemnify the Estate of the late
Major General Nathaniel Greene, for a
certain Bond entered into by him during the
late war.
BE it enatted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the Uni'ed States of America in Congress afTembled, That
the Unued States shaH and will indemnify ihe estate of the late
General Greene, for the sum of eight thousand fix .hundred and
eighty-eight pounds fix (hillings sterling money, being the amount
due on the fiift day of May, one thouland seven hundred and
ei"htY-f lx » on a certain bond executed to Mcflieurs Newcomen
and Collet, by the said General Greene, as furcty lor John Banks
and Company, and the interest thereon; excepting therefrom a
certain conditional bond given in June, one thouland seven hun
dred and eighty-fix, for about one ihoufand fix hundred pounds
fterlii.g, (be the fame more or less) being part of the aforefaid sum
of eight thousand fix hundred and eighty-eight pounds fix lni!-
Jings* which was to be paid, only in cafe the said General Greene
/hould recover from the said Banks, or Banks and Company, a
sum fufficient for his indemnity ; Provided It (ball appear upon
due mveftigation, by the officers of tnc Treasury, that the laid
Ceneial Greene, in his life-time, or his cxecutors, since his de
cease, have not been already indemnified, or compenlatcd for the
/aid sum of eight thousand fix hundred and eighty-eight pounds
j'ix IhiHings, except as aforefaid : And also provided, I hat the
said executors shall account for a sum being about two thousand
pounds ftcrling, (he the fame more or less) recovered of John Fer
-3 ie, one of the partners of the said Banks and Company, by the
jaid executors, to be in part of the indemnification aforefaid ;
and also (hall make over to the Comptroller of the Treasury and
his fucccflors, for the Un ted States, all mortgages, bonds, cove
nants, or other counter-lccurities whatfoevcr, now due, which
■were obtained by the said General Greene, in his life-time, from
the said Banks and Company, on acconnt of his being furcty for
them as aforefaid, to he fuea for in the name of the said execu
tors for the ufc of the United States. And the officers of the 1 rea
fury are hereby authorized to liquidate and fettle the sum due to
the estate of the said General Greene, to indemnify the fame, as
aforefaid, according to the true intent and meaning of this aa.
ind to pav the fame, out of the Treasury of the United States, to
the laid executors, to be accounted for by them, as part of the
said estate,
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
RICHARD +lENRY LEE, President
pro tempore of the Senate,
APPROVES APRIL THE TWE N1 Y -SE V fc NT H , I 79 2 *
GEORGE WASHING I ON,
President oj the United States.
FROM THE AMERICAN MUStUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION.
THE export trade cf the United States and the increase of
the home coniumption have placed the American produ
ces on a very advantageousfooting. The competition which
ctifts in our markets, between the purchasers for the account
of foreigners of various nations, for our own merchants, for
the great consumption in the leaports and parts adjacent to the
coasts, and for the use of the manufacturers, together with the
occalional lhipments made on their own accounts by the fouth
crn planters, by the millers of the middle States, and by the
owners of the eastern fifhing vessels, afford the cultivators and
fifhermen Co many alternatives, that they can always obtain
the best prices which circumstances will juftify. In ffioit,
these several demands, at once various, steady, and extensive,
efficiently fnpport our agriculture : and though peculiar en
terprise and faculties in commerce and manufactures, the
power of capital, and an intimate knowledge of our trade and
interior system, enable a particular nation to participate
largely in the exports of the United States —the remainder |
of the world receive from us a very considerable value, and |
the variety of demand which the destination of our exports
proves to exist, affords us certain relief from the confequen
res of the commercial errors of any oi tho e countries, whose
citizens are our consumers. Whenever such errors ihall oc
cur—or so far as they may have already taken place,, to dif
fufj a knowledge of our resources among all nations, to in
l'pire them with confidence in our laws and modes of dealing,
-nd to convert our commodities by manufactures, into every
iliape which their occasions may require, will prove the effica
cious corrective, by enabling us to obtain from wife nations a
favorable market for our productions.
It is fatisfaClory toobferve the regular increase of manufac
tured goods in our returns of exported commodities. The
number in each of the two lad years is upwards of one third,
in a lift which amounts to near three hundred articles. Hence
we may infer, that the time is really arrived, when foreign
trade is iucreafed and enlivened by home manufactures. This
idea, together with the domestic commerce produced by them,
will be more particularly noticed in another place.
CONCERNING THE M ANU F ACTU RES OF THE UNITED STATES.
In considering this subjeCt it will be unnccelTary to adduce
any arguments to influence the judgment of the eastern parts
cf the union. Many of our citizens near the ica-coaft oi the
[continued.]
Wednesday, May 9, 1792.
middle States arc equally convinced of the beneficial effects of
manufactures. The cultivators in the iouthern and western
country, and a refpe&able proportion of our mercantile ci
tizens are apprehensive of injury to themselves and to their
country from the pursuit of this object. These are two de
scriptions of persons whom it is in every view our duty to fa
tisfy, if the truth and reason will permit; and it is principally
from a due attention to them, that the iubjeft is proposed to
be examined here.
An opinion has prevailed that the fonthern States will be
facrificed to the eastern, and in some degree to the middle
State", by the plan of manufactures. It is plain, however, 1
that as the foil of the eastern States is not equal to the pro
auction of a fufficiency of provisions and raw materials for :
their own use, they must resort to the more southern States |
for several raw marerials and for new supplies ot provisions.
It is known, too, that some valuable articles for manufatfures
cannot be produced but in the southern States, such as cotton,
and indigo, and that tobacco is almost confined to them. "T he
southern States and western country will have considerable
advantages in the support which the home market of the ma
nufacturers will give at all times, and especially in time of
war (when freights will be high, and shipping scarce) to their
agricultural and landed productions. Even now, in profonnd
peace, it is the cafe. Kemp was delivered in the ports of the
middle State-., from the lands of the southern States, at lei's
than five cents per lb. in 1/9** Nothing would ha\e kept it
at that rate, but the rope and twine manufactories of the mid
dle and eastern States. The breweries of Philadelphia draw
nearly as much of their barley from the Chelapeak as they de
rive from the lands of Pennsylvania. Thef# and other xafts
(how the beneficial beginning.of things. The manufacturers
of mips and cordage throughout the union, procure from the
southern States all their tar, pitch, turpentine, oil of turpen
tine, and rolin. The ports of Philadelphia and New-York,
take three-fourths of their (hip timber fiom their, jufUy pre
ferring veflels of live oak and red cedar to all others. The
owners of the coalmines of Virginia, enjoy the monopoly ot
all the supplies for the manufacturers of the more noitl.em
States,.who live in the sea ports: a demand which is increasing
rapidly. No lead mine of any consequence is yet worked, ex
cept one near the fuperier waters of James river. The south
ern States abound with iron-, and have much moie fuel of ah
kinds than the northern States, and they have streams for the
most powerful water works. Few or no very abundant depo
sits of coal have been yet difcoveicd further noi th or tail
t 'an the waters of the Ohio and Cheiapeak, even in internal
si liations. The ircn manufactures of the United States are
a'readv important ill value, and immensely so in point of uti
lity, or rather of necessity. Farms, manufaaories, (hipping,
fiflieries, fleets, and armies, all demand them. In Ihoit, tie
all-important landed inteveft would languish, and its p^ogrefs
in prosperity would he retarded in the counties of the southern
States, even near the sea, if our present manufactures were
to be abolished, and all future eftabliftiments of thatkind were
to be given up. But their inland and western counties
CANNOT 2ESUPPORTED, UNLESS MANUFACTURES SHALL BE PRO
MOTED and introduced among them. In the counties cl
Pennsylvania beyond the Allegany mountain, are 63,000 in
habitants, and probably 10,000 of these are farmers. The
wool of that country is yet very inconfiderabie—their furs
are more abundant. From these two raw material*, no less
than 10,140 wool hats, and 2,200 fur hats are manufactured
yearly in thirty-three hatters' (Hops. Sail cloth (which, when
manufactured, would be worth 30 cents pr. lb.) could be made
at Pittiburg, Winchester in Virginia, Hillftjorough, and Salis
bury in North-Carolina, Camden in South-Carolina, and Au
gusta in Georgia, out of hemp, the value of which, there, does
not exceed 4or 5 cents. To bring a ton of hemp to the sea
ports from those towns, except Augnfta, costs from 35 to 40
per cent, of its value. To bring a ton weight of fail cloth
from the fame places to the fame ports would not toft above
6 or 8 per cent, and the manufacturers' provisions and fuel are
attended with similar savings. DeduCt for a moment the de
mand of foreign commerce from both Alexandria and Win
cheiter, and the latter would appear to be mod: vigorous and
flourifhing; because it manufactures more, having not so high
a market for its provisions and raw materials. These obser
vations apply with equal force to the whole State of Vermont
and to all our interior country. ■ The nation that supplies u
with hempen, flaxen, and iron manufactures, takes immenfe
quantities of hemp, flax, and iron from Russia. These Ruf
fian raw materials are purchased at the eastern extremity of
the Baltic, are transported to another country and manufac
tured there, ar? transported hither, and haled through bac!
roads, 50, 100,200, and 300 miles into our most productive
countries which yieldthe requisite raw materials. These faCts
powerfully incite us to fofter manufactures of the fame kinds,
there and elfewnere. Till that (hall be the cafe, we (hall con
tinue to drag those raw materials through the fame bad roads,
and (hip them under charges of carting and freight equal to a
third, an half, and two thirds of their value, according to the
distance. The present system of negleCting and repelling the
eftablilhment of manufactures, appears to otcafion immenft
deductions from the profits of our lands; and due confidt ra
tion, it is believed, would convince us, that the bed interests,
nay the neceflities of our landholders require t:;e introduction
of some kind of manufactory in almost every vicinity.
(to be continued.)
anecdote
A COUNTRYMAN in Birmingham market (England) was
observed lo laugh while the Clerk was taking a quantity o
butter from a woman, which was deficient in weight ; the offici r
not being pleased with the fellow's want of decency, observed
that it ill became him to laugh, adding, "I took two pounds
from you lad week"— *' I'll lay a guinea ot it," said the country
man " Done," said the officer ; and putting a guinea into the
hands of an eminent tradetman, the countryman instantly covered
it and then with a sneer laid, " had it been two founds could .yon
have taken it Irom me, was it not for being Jhott of that weight
that I loft it ?" The officer attempted to explain, but the gentle
j man who held the ftakts was so perlrftly convinced, that he gave
i if e countryman the lv/o guineas immediately.
429
[Whole No. 516.]
FRANCKKORT, February 12.
THE Emperor's troopscertainly march to Bri ■
gaw, and they only wait the answer to the
i equintorial letters for their paflageto put them
selves in motion : 20,000 men will be drawn from
Bohemia, of whom 12,000 will proceed to Fran
conia, under the command ot General Count
Wallis, and Bcoo to Suabia.
This measure, however, is only to cover the
frontiers of the Low Countries, and the Auilrian
poileflions in Suabia ; but even, on thai iuj pofi
lion, it is a measure that cannot fail being at
tended with bad effetfts.
They write from Berlin that the foreign de
partment was never I'o occupied as at the piefenc
moment: couriers arrive and depart daily, chief
ly to Peterfburgh and Vienna. The affairs of
France and Poland are the objedt of their la-
bours.
PARIS, February 17.
On Monday the following letter, in the King's
own hand, was received by the Mayor and the
Municipality :
" Gentlemen,
" I have already mentioned to some of you the
reports which are spread about my pretended
leaving Paris: I thought that what 1 mentioned
ot it would have been f'ufficient for discrediting
these reports ; but as evil minded people conti
nue to propagate them, in order to alarm ther
inhabitants of Paris, and to calumniate my in r
tentiors, 1 will explain my felf clearly 011 my way
of thinking.
" 1 know the duties which the Constitution
imposes upon me, 1 will always fulfil them ; but
1 also know the rights it gives me, and 1 will ne
ver refufe myfelf t lie power of making use of
them. Nothing keeps me at Paris but my will
of being there, as 1 think my pretence neced'ary,
and 1 declare, that 1 will and (hall remain there )
and whenever 1 (ball have teafons to leave it, 1
fliall not disguise them.
" I have 10 add, that if a person is not qnire
deprived of the use of his senses, or incurably
perverse, he cannot entertain the lead doubt ut
my inviolable attachment to the welfare of the
nation, and the inhabitants of Paris.
(Signed) LOUIS." ,
March i. The three generals are ttill at Pa
ris. Luckner is supposed to advil'e war, Rocham
beau peace, and Fayette an offenlive war in pre
ference to defenfive.
A division is talked of among the ministry, of
which the minister of marine is the cause. Iwo
of his colleagues are of opinion that it is impos
sible to fnpport a man against whom he public
opinion is so pointedly declared; and the reft,
that he ought not to resign, and mult be fop
ported.
The Emperor's answer to the King's late re
presentations, wai communicated _ to the diplo
matic committee on Ttiefday, and is expecfted to
be laid before the Aflembly this day. It is long
and elaborately ambiguous. The. substance on
the mod favourable interpretation is :
That his Imperial Majesty does not wife todif
folve his alliance with France; that he never
ineant to interfere in the internal affairs of the
kingdom, nor to disturb the order of things
established by the new constitution—only feeing
the person of the King in danger, and the king
dom threatened with a total diffblutiofi of go
vernment, he entered into engagements.with the
oilier powers of Europe, to succour th'eking and
his kingdom, if neceflary ; that the political Itace
of Europe, and the rank which France holds in
it, made such engagements neceflary to save her
from ruin; that these engagements still exist,
but that the execution of them depends on what
{hall pals in France; and that if the person of
the king (hall be menaced, if the republican fpi
rir (hall make such progress as to attempt the
fubvevfion of the monarchy, hislmperial Majesty
will find himfelf obliged to interfere, in conceit
with the other powers who have an interest in
maintaining the order and the balance of Europe.
It inveighs against the republican spirit and the
Jacobin societies, and concludes with a lequifi
tion for ptibliftiing it, that France and all Europe
may be informed of his Imperial Majesty's Hefire
to live in peace with the French nation, as long
as the king and the new constitution accepted by
him, {hall be refpeded as they ought.
Yesterday the Priiffian Minister presented a
Declaration, profeifiug the adherence of his mas
ter to all the points of the Emperor's answer.1
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, March 29, 17?2-
In committee of the whole, on the report oj the Secre
tary of the Treasury on the public debt.
MR. GILES proposed a clause to be added to the firrt propo
rtion offered bv Mr. Fitifimons, the ohjrtl of which was
to preclude the admiflTion of thc ( irredeemable principle in the
debt hereafter to be fubferibed to the loan of the United States.
Mr. Giles supported his motion by adducing sundry reasons
The creditors, by not availing themselves in leafon ot the chance
of fubferibing under the terms of the fulWubfcription— the go
vernment, said he, are under no obligation to renew those terms.
He said his motion is to have a subsequent operation, and there
fore cannot be considered ss an infraction of extlling contracts
The irredeemable principle, he observed, is an exotic, and ap
pears to have been adopted without a due consideration of its ap
plicability to our circumllances —The fundiug system of Great-
Britain has proftratcd that government —the prosperity of that
country is not owing to its financial arrangements ; Great-Britain
is in us decay ; this government is in its youth —It is improper
for us to use such (limuUntsas may be necelfjry to induce vigor
in age. The irredeemable quality is the result of necefilty in the
funding system of Great-Britain ; and that principle will operate
its ruin. The argument drawn from a violation of contratts, ap
plies as well to the firft lyftem as to that now propoled ; the re
duction of the inteieft was a violation of the original contrast.
He then entered into a consideration of the principle of equality,
and (hewed from the present {tare of the debt, being pan of it in
the hands of those who were inimical to the cause which this
debt was contracted tofupport, the obligation of the government
to add to the gift which in fa6t has already been made to these
people, by infuling this irredeemable quality, may well be qucfli
oned. He added Tome further remarks, and concluded by faying,
he hoped that a principle which would be so fatal to the United
States, would be reje£ted, by adopting the proportion he ottered.
Mr. Ames offered various estimates, by which he demonstrated
that funding the debt on the principle now opposed, would not
incapacitate the government from discharging it—on the other
hand, it would facilitate the object greatly.
Mr. Lawrance observed that the oppofers of the proposed sys
tem, after offering various motions, appear at last to be agreed in
a fpecifie obje£t. He denied that the consequences which it had
been said resulted from the funding system of Great-Britain, had
taken place : adverting to the operation of the system in this
country, he said the observations were no better founded —With
refpeft to the irredeemable quality, he said it was not a novel cir
cumstance ; under the old Congress, foreign loans had been made
on a similar principle—lt is well known, said he, that the old
Congress contra&ed a debt which they could not discharge under
ten years; and the payments then could be only made by instal
ments—No fault had ever been found with this traofaftion. He
then entered into a general defence of the funding system ; and
adverting to its operation, he shewed what had been done—the
credit of the country had been raised from the lowest ebb, and a
larger sum of the debt had been paid off, than any man in the
country had any conception of—Here he noticed some remarks
which had been offered yeJUrday by a gentleman, who had said
that the Secretary had insulted the House by his propositions—
and said in his opinion such reflections were not merited by an
officer who had done so much for his country. He defended the
irredeemable principle, and fhewfd the advantages which the
country derived from it. He further remarked, that the govern
ment was not precluded from exerting its faculties in discharging
the debt, to as great a degree as any person had proposed, or as
had been confidercd prudent; and while the United States are
thus circurr.ftanced, the douceur to the creditors in the principle
row opposed, is in fa£t no poflible disadvantage to the govern-
ment.
Mr. Mcrcer Paid Llie funding fyflem wss not undciflood by the
country at large, and he was not surprized when he found it was
not un<Jerftood in (his House—He was glad therefore to hear ob
servations thrown out, which served more fully to devclope this
fyflem.
The irredeemable quality he was afloniflied to hear advocated
by any gentleman in this House, for sure he was, that no raeafure
of the government was more odious elsewhere, or more uni.vet
fally execrated. He adverted to fomc of the financial operations
of the Briiifli government, and tlicw a comparison which placed
the funding fyflem of this country in a, less eligible point of view
than that of Great-Britain. He said that by an easy process it
could be made to appear that one half, or at least one third of
the 6 per cents might have been paid off, viz. by borrowing at
3 or 4 per cent ; this is the mode which the Bruifh miniftcr a
dopted. He fhewtd from certain flatements, that this irrcdcem
ar le quality operated so the injury of the holders of the 3 per cents
of the United States. The Briti h 3 per cents were ai 100 per
cent for a number okyeats togefhei. He denied that the loans
which had been made by the old government were on the irre
deemable principle ; he said the terms were in favor of the bor
rower on exa&ly similar principles with the contra&s in common
life. He introduced fame observations ol thofc who had wrote
on the fubjefl of finance—he said that funding fyflems had uni
formly operated to the definition of the common people ; the
principle has railed a fplcndid fuperftru&ure on no foundation
whatever. He contrasted the situation of the modern with the
ancimt Dutch republic—He dated the enviable situation of the
Swiss Cantons—this he said was an eulogiurn on the fleady pro
duce of laboi and induflry.
Mr. Gerry stated his ideas on the irredeemable principle ; he
oefended it on the grounds of justice and policy. He then ad
verted to the operation of the funding fyflem—lt had changed,
he said, the whole face of our affairs—had transformed us from
the vaflals of foreign creditors, to freemen—had revived the trade
agriculture and manufactures of the country ; and placed the cre
che United States on an equality with thatot the moll flou
rifhing European governments, and in a situation much fupenor
to some of them.
Mr. HcifWr, in a fpecch of Tome length, opposed the irredeem
able principle, and ihe funding fyftein in general.
Mr. Find Icy said he w?s opposed to the irredeemable quality,
lie doubted whether it was nrot go-n-r beyond what is allowed by
the (jonftitution. He had heard ii often said that principle was
infufed into the system on the idea of its being an equivalent for
a redu6l ion of the intcred ; this idea seems to be afTumed bv gen
tlemen, but he had not heard any of them adduce anv reason in
flip port of tt. He did not think it in any degree an cciuivalenr,
nor did he think the creditors considered it in any such lizhr. He
was not unacquainted with many of the public* creditors, they
r,ot confidcr this as an equivalent; the debtors in this cafe aI
fumed the office of judges, and they only considered what was an
equivalent. He admitted that the debt was above par ; but com
mon interest had not declined—it was in fatt higher at any
period during the war ; this he said shewed that the irredeemable
qualiiy was not an equivalent; Hence he inferred the cred't of the
country was not I'upported by the funding system ; the present
credit of the country is a nominal and deftru£hve credit—'there
fore he infilled that admitting the residue of the creditors to loan
on this principle, will not be g'ving them an equivalent : He con
sidered the funding system from the firft, as tending to the interest
—not of the citizens but of foreigners ;it has given rife to one
bubble after another, which have deluded our citiiens to their de
ftru&ion. He denied that it had encreafed the specie, or circu
lating medium, or raised the value of the lands, or promoted the
manufa&urcs or industry of the country—the r.everfe of all this he
laid were farts; credit between man and man is lessened, extra
vagance and immorality have spread their baneful influence. He
then adverted to the fvftern generally, and reprobated it as a de-
the original contratt, thatcontraft which was mod
solemnly guaranteed by the cortftitution.
What is the obligation of the government in refpeft to the resi
due of the debt—he conceived that the present Congress was per
fectly clear to ast agreeable to the principles of the original con
trail, as much so as the firft Congress. Jn providing for the re
sidue he said the government was bound to pi ovide for it by a
provision to pay 6 per cent, but not to pay interest on interest.
Here he entered into a consideration of the policy of funding the
facilities—this he reprobated as unneceflarily incrcafing the public
debr, and he could conceive of no other reason but that of en
creafing the debt which gave rife to this measure—a measure
which ought not to have been adopted, and ought to have been
prevented by the States doing their duty. He denied the right
of one Congress to fay that another shall not provide for paying
off the whole of the debt or of any part of it—for this reason he
considered it unconstitutional and should vote against the irre
deemable quality : He had no doubt of the right of Congress to
alter the funding system tn regard to this principle, and that they
would doit whenever they thought proper.
The question being put on Mr. Giles' motion it was negatived,
3 2 to 2 5-
SATURDAY, May 5.
The amendments of the Senate to the two following; bills
were taken into consideration, and agreed to by the House, viz.
The bill concerning spirits distilled within the United States,
and the bill relative to the compensations of certain officers em
ployed in the colledlion of' the duties of impost and tonnage.
Mr. Madison, of the committee of conference on the process
bill, reported that they had met the somrnittee on the part of the
Senate, and had agreed refpe&ing fame of the amendments, but
did not agree to others—this report was deferred for conlidera
tion on Monday.
The bill providing for the fettlcment of the demands of A. W.
White aoainfl; the United States, was read the third time and
pafled.
The hill supplementary to th* ast making provision for the
debt of the United States, was further di He tiffed—a motion to
provide for funding a farther sum on account of several of the
States, of their refpe&ive debts, being made, a debate ensued —
The previous question being called for, Shall the main qneftion
be now put ?" it pafled in the negative, ayes 24, noes 35—as
follow ;
Meflfrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Fit?-
simons, Gerry, Goodhue, Gordon, Huger, Lawrance, Learned,
Murray, W. Smith, Steele, Sterrett, Sumpter, Sylvester, Thatcher,
Tucker, Vining, Wadfworth, Ward, Williamfon— 24.
McfTrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Boudinot, Brown, Clark, Dayton,
Findley, Giles, Gilman, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hetfter, Hillhoufe,
Jacobs, Key, Kitchrll, Lee, Livermore, Macon, Madison, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Niles, Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, Seney, J„ Smith,
I. Smith, Sturges, Treadwell, Venable, White, Wyllis—3s.
The bill being further amended, at a late hour, the qucftion
for engrorting was put, and carried in the affirmative.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House, that they have postponed until the next fertion of Con
gress, the consideration oi the bill sent from this House, intituled
41 An ast for fettling the demands of Anthony Walton White,
against the United States"—also, that they have parted a bill regu
lating foreign coins. &c.—-and that they have appointed a com
mittee tQ wait on the Prertdent of the United States, to notify
him of the intended reccfs.
A mcflage from the President of the United States, by Mr. Se
cretary Lear, informed the House that the bill, entitled, 14 An
ast for granting and conveying certain lands to John Clcves
Symmes, and his artociates also the bill for altering the time of
the next annual meeting of Congress, have both received his ap
probation and signature. Adjourned.
MONDAY, MAY 7.
Mr. Bourne of the committee 011 enrolled bills, reported as
truly enrolled, the bill relative to the compensations of cer
tain officers employed in the collect ion of the duties of import:
and tonnage—and the bill to continue an ast providing for
mitigating and remitting certain forfeitures and penalties ac
cruing under breaches of the revenue laws, and to provide for
the payment ot invalid pensions—The Speaker signed the a
bove bills. Mr. Bourne reported that the committee had ex
amined the bill entitled, an ast concerning spirits distilled with
in the United States, and found an error therein—the fame
was corrected by general consent.
An engroflod bill supplementary to the ast making provision
for the public debt, was read the third time—The time of
subscribing is extended to the firfl day of March next the
books to be opened the firft dav of June next—the other blanks
being filled up, the bill was patted.
A bill regulating foreign coins, was read twice, and com
mitted.
The error in the bill concerning spirits distilled within the
United States having been rectified, the speaker affixed his sig
nature to the fame. 0
Mr. Bourne reported a bill making compensations to the
commifiioners of loans for extraordinary expenses, which was
read twice, and ordered to be eneroffed for a t iird reading.
The meilage of the Senate, which informed the House that
they had appointed a committee to wait on the President of
the United States, and notify him of the intended lecefs, was
taken into consideration, and concurred—and Messrs. Senev,
Gilinan and Grove appointed the committee on the part of
the House. r
In committee of the whole on the bill concerning the claim
of John Brown Cutting against the United States.
A motion by Mr. Kitchell to strike out 2000 dollars and to
insert iooo, some debate—the question beinp put,
the motion was negatived—The bill was then reported to the
Hon.e without amendment, and was ordered to be engrofTed.
The engrofTed bill for maktng compensation to the commif
fioneri of loans for extraordinary expenses, was read a third
time and pafied.
lii committee of the whole on the bill received from the
Senate, making alterations in the Treafnrv and War depart
ment-. T he'irft feftior, which provide-fir ?.n accoiaita-t
to tne War department, \ra, agreed to. The fecnnd, which
430
AYES.
NOES.
relates ta die appomtm-nt of a crnimWr.ry of military ftor „ .
wa« moved ftould be (truck out—this motion »fter fomt deh>.
was carried m the affirmative. Some other amendments we,A
greed t«, and then the bill war reported to the House. Tk
mendments were taken intoconfideratiori, and adopted' wirti
exception. The bill was then ordered to be read the third time"*
it was accordingly read, and patted. •
A bill concerning the claim of J. B. Cutting, «n read the third
time and paued—a yet 13 —noes 22 As follow :
AYES.
Messrs. Ames,Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, B. Bourne, Clark
FitjfimQns, Gordon, Griffin, Heifter, Huger, Lawrance, Learned"
Lee, Livermore, Madison, Muhlenberg, Murray, Pjge, W. Smith*
Steele, Sterrett, Tucker— .23. '' " '
Messrs. Alhe, Baldwin, S. .Bourne, Brown, G'le«, Good'nu'
Key, Kitehell, Maeon, Moore, Schoottmaker, J. Smith, I.Smith'
Smrgtj, Sumpter. Sylvester, Thatcher, Tread well, Venible.Wanf'
White, Williauifon—22. '
On/notion of Mr. Lee, the report of the feieft committee on
the memorial of Joseph Ceracchi, was recommitted.
Mr. Seney, of the committee appointed 10 wait on the PreGdent
of the United States, and inform him of the intended adjourn
ment, reported that the committee had peiformed that fervtce.
The committee to whom was recommitted the memorial of
Joseph Ceracchi, brought in a report, which was read, and is
highly honorable to the character and abilities of Mr. Ceracchi;
but states that it would not be expedient to provide at the present
time for carrying into execution the resolution of Cougielt, fc.
fpeflingthe statue of General Walhington, &c.
On motion of Mr. W.Smith, the House refolded that when they
adjourn, they adjourn to meet again at 5 o'clock this afternoon.
A meflage from the Senate, bv Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House that they have pal Ted the bill making compenfatiom to
the Commiflioners of I.oans, for extraordinary cxpenfes ; and the
bill supplementary to the ast making provision for the debt of the
United States.
The House took into consideration their amendments to the
process bill disagreed to by the Senate. The amendments of
the House to the 2d feftion which was to strike out the words
" and be at liberty to pursue the fame till a tender of the debt
and costs in gold and silver lhall be made," was the firft it
was moved that the House should adhere, this motion, after
debate was carried in the affirmative—ayes 3?, noes 17—as
follow :
MelTrs. Aflic, Baldwin, Brown, Clarke, Findley, Gile%
Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Heifter, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell, Lee,
Livermore, Macon, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Page, Par
ker, Sen'ev, J. Smith, Sumpter, Treadwell, Tucker, Venable,
White, Williamfon, Wyllis—3o.
MelTrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, Fitz
limons, Gilman, Goodhue, Hillhoufe, Learned, Murray, J.
Smith, W. Smith, Steele, St urges-, Sylvester, Ward— 17.
Adjourned till five o'clock.
five o'clock, p. m,
The House met pursuant to adjournment.
The consideration of the amendments to the process hill was
resumed—the House insisted on one, and recedcd from the refi
dur of their amendments.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for regulating foreign
coins, and for other purposes—.Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
The bill bring read, a motion was made to strike out the fiift
fc&ion ; on the question, the numbers being equal, the chairman
vored against the motion. The committee proceeded through the
several frftions, they then rose and reported the bill without
amendment. The House took the fame into consideration. The
motion for striking out the firft feftion being renewed, it was
agreed to. The fe£Hons depending on this, which related to the
rates at which foreign gold and silver coins shall pass in the United
States, were of course struck out. The fc£tions relating to a cop
per coinage were agreed to—and the bill, as amended, was read
the third time and palled. T,he title of the bill was amended to
read, " A bill to provide for a copper coinage."
Two enrolled bills were reported ; one, "An a£l makingcorn
penfationsto the Loan Officers of the United States, for extraor
dinary expenses"—the other, " An ast fupplemenrary to the ast
making provision for the debt of the United States." The Speaker
signed the fame.
Mr. Key, after observing that it was of the utmofl importance
to provide for finking the public debt by the sale of the vacant
lands, moved to take up the bill for the lale of the lands norlli
weft of the river Ohio—This motion being put, was negatived.
In committee of the whole, on the bill making ccrtain appro
priations therein fpecified.
The committee proceeded through the bill without amend
ment.
Mr. Lawrance then moved that the report relative to the pn
foners redeemed from Algiers, also refpefting those remaining in
captivity, which report had been referred to the committee o
the whole on the aopropriation bill, ftiould be taken into cqn 1-
deration. Two fcftions were proposed to be added to the I<>
agreeable to the report, but after some debate were disagreed to.
The bill was then ordered to be cngrorted.
A mertage from the Senate, by Mi. Secretary Otis, in ormc<
the House that they have concurred in their amendments to t re
bill making alterations in the Treasury and War Depaitmcnts,
with an amendment." ,
This amendment was taken into consideration, and agree to.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, May 8.
An engrofTed bill making certain appropriations tnerej*
fpecified, was read the third time, and palled.
A melfagefrom the Senate by Mr. Secretary Oti> T mlorme
the House that they recede from their disagreement to tie a
mendments of the House to the process bill—and that t ev a
gree to the amendments to the bill for regulating; °* e o'
coins, &c. ,
Mr. Bourne of the committee on enroled bills, repnite
truly enrofled, following bilh—viz. An ast making aitc.s
ticms in the Treasury and War department- —an ast for regt
lating proceiTes in the courts of the United State*, and
ing compensations for the officers of said courts, andforjuro.s
and witne.fes—and an ast to provide for a copper coinage
Tiie Speaker signed the above bills. .
A bill to compensate the services of the late e^ t j? e
Gibfon, was taken into consideration, in committee o*
whole, and agreed to without amendment —It was ti.en rea
the third time, and parted. , ..
Mr. Murray called for a resolution laid on the tame by
a few days since—viz. Resolved, that the fame a lieu a. ce pc
diem be made to the President pro tempore of t.e cn " '
as is given to the Speaker of this House ; and that aco
tee be appointed to report a bill accordingly--The re.o
was taken into confideration —some difficulties being
ed, the motion was withdrawn. . f
Mr. Willis pre fen ted the following resolution m r " D *
that the Secretary of the Treafurv report at the next
as early as may be, the number and capacity of t c 1
the* several diftri&s and ftate c —the nett product o ■
nue arising from the duties thereon, £cc.— c 1
NOES.
AYES.
NOES.employed in coUe£tiag the dutle:, Zee—T
adopted.
Mr. \V. Smith ca'led the attention of the Huufe to a report
of the Secretary of State, on t'ie fubjeft of procuring frefti
f.otn fait water —md proposed a refutation purl'uant to the
Secretary's report, authorizing him to cause the several col-
Jeftors to be provided with blank clearances, on the back of
which ihall be printed directions for the process. This refu
tation was agreed to.
Mr. Heifter moved the f>llowing refutation in substance
That the Secretary of the Treasury be requeued to report to
this House at their next fitting,—The quantities, kinds and
values of foreign merchandize imported intu the several dif
trift; of the United States, since the operation of the
Laws — r pecifying the ports at which l'uch importations were
made and the laws under which the duties were paid ; this
resolution was not agreed to.
Mr. Fitzfimons of the committee appointed to enquire into
the causes of the failure of tho late expedition under General
St. Clair, brought in a report, which was read—after a detail
of facts; the report contains the following result in substance,
That the failure of the expedition was principally to be attri
buted to the deficiency of the neceiTarv articles of military
stores, fee. the failure >. the quarter-masters' department,
failure of the contractors and the want of experience and dij -
cipline in t'ie army.
The commander in chief, General St. Clair, is fully exone
rated from all blame or imputation whatever.
This report was ordered to be printed.
It was then moved bv Mr. W. Smith that tie Hou*e fliould
resolve that they would take the said report into conlideration
early in t'.ie next fefiion ; this resolution was agreed to.
A message from the Trelident of the United States by Mr.
Secretary Lear, informed the House that the President has
approved and signed the following acts :
An ast relative to the compensations of certain officers em
ployed in the collection of t!.c duties of impost and tonnage:
An ast concerningfpirits distilled within theUnitedStates; and
An ast providing more effectually for the national defence, by
eftablilhing an uniform militia throughout the United States.
A qaeffage from the Senate informed the that the
President had notified the Senate that he hid approved and
figriedan ast for the relief ofperfons imprisoned for debt—and
an ast to continue in force an ast: providing for mitigating or
remitting certain forfeitures and penalties arifmg under
breaches of the revenue laws—and to provide for the payment
of invalid pensions.
The committee on enrolled bills., reported as truly enrolled
a bill to compensate the services of the late Col. George Gib-
son—which was signed by the Speaker.
In committee of the whole on the bill entitled an ast, in ad
dition to the ast to provide for the Territory North Weft of
the River Ohio.
The committee difcufled the several feftions, ar.d made
sundry amendments, which were reported to the Houfc—The
Hoafe adopted these amendments, and then the bill was or
dered to be engrolfed for a third reading.
A resolution was offered for indemnifying the officers who
have attended the committee of enquiry for their extra necdlary
expencej, also for compensating the clcrk employed by the com
jnitfee on this oecafion—laid on the table.
A mcfiage from the Senate informed the House. that they con
cur in the resolution authorizing the Secretaiy of State to provide
the printed clearances, agreeably to his report.
Mr. Wiliiamlon called up a rrpcrt of a feleft committee on the
petition of sundry inhabitants ot the flute of North-Carolina,
praying Congrtfs to authorize that state to pass a law impofmg a
duty on tonnage, to be appropriated to defraying the expence of
cleaiing obftrudions in the navigation of a particular part ot that
state— the report is in fdvoi of the petitioners, and was agreed to.
Mr. Parker moved the following resolution : That the Secre
tary of the Trcafury cause Aich returns to be made as will shew
the quantities and qualities of the exports from one state to ano
ther ioaftwife—to report the next fefiion—-laid on the table.
An engroflcd bill, entitled, " An ast in addition to an ast to
provide for the territory north-weft of the river Ohio," was read
the third time, the blanks filled up, and the bill patted.
A mcfiage from the Serrate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House that they have palled the bill making certain appropri
ations therein fpecified, with an amendment—also, that they
hare patted the bill relative to the claim of J, B. Cutting, against
the United States. The amendment to the appropriation bill,
appropriates the lum of 50,000 dollars, for the purpose of car
rying on and facilitating the intercourfe-with foreign
nations. This amendment was concurred in by the House.
The remainder ojyeflerday l s proceedings are unavoidably pojlponed
till our next.
DUBLIN, February aS.
The popery bill received a firft reading on
Friday in the House of Lords, and was ordered
to be printed.
March t. Yeflerday the Members of the House
of Commons a(Te»flb]ed in the Coffee- Rooms, as
the House had been entirely destroyed by fire
the day before.
The Speaker said, he was happy in being able
to inform the House, that not withstanding the
dreadful accident which had happened, none of
the records or journals of the House were de
stroyed, except the roll which contained the fig
natures of the Members, which had been burnt
with the table upon the floor, in a drawer of
which it lay.
A committee of the House met in the Speaker's
Chamber, which escaped the conflagration. They
fat a wry considerable time, for the purpose of
enquiring into the cnufe of the late dreadful fire
which consumed the House of Commons.
None but Members admitted into the Cham
ber. We tinderftand, however, that though se
veral evidences were examined before the com
mittee, nothing fatiafa<ftory transpired as to the
real caofe of that dreadful cataflrophe.
Philadelphia, May cj.
Lad evening Corgrefscloiecl their feflion—when both Houses
adjourned to meet again on the firft Monday in November
next.
Monday arrived hcrr, in 38 days from Marseilles, the ship
Louifc», Crtpt. Birkhead. The Captain informs, that the partie>
<or and a gain ft the revolution, had, in feme instances. proc.eded
'o act? of violence, and that fcveral persons, on account of their
political fentimcnts, had been put 10 death.
wa:
Adjourned till 6 o'clock, f. m
Eufut j u! - 0f,2,| i April, dates, that
mage h?s been tultanied thee and at St. Kuts by heavy ~.. ,
'ha. x
The moll recent account, from Hifpsniola, teem with difa-ree
bit reprefcmationa o! the {Ue ola Hairs in that rflat, Dilfe'i
loni among the whites appeal to be the cause of u,,mafias
n eVVe "'T ,hf thW ~^e, s ll,^
d„n I fro,n ,s returned, and the other two have eon.
Mvfrf A "10 CrtatC many cmmi,s - The "oops that have ar.
ouflvf,,li "°' tT'T lo r ,no ". lh » n ""king up 'he bffes prev,-
tn loree riIUC D y iiifu:re£lioti-_.and the iufurgeots continue
By the Clip Catharine, from London, arrived at Norfolk
papers are received to the 6th March—in addition to the ar
ticles under foreign heads, the following mifcelianeous epitome
oi intelligence is extracted from them :
-I lie Austrian fortes 011 their way to the low countries are
truly formidable the object, to secure the tranquility of the
peaceable citizens, and prevent external attacks. The forces
ot tiie emigrant Princes appear to have no retting place, they
are perpetually (hitting their quarters. .
A rebellion now exists in the kingdom of Morocco, and it
|is laid the Spaniards aflift the usurper The affairs of the
Dutch «Vest and East-India Companies, by articles under the
t'rankfort head, arc verging fact to ruin—and the credit ot
their bank is said to be lb low, that the merchants will not trust
their money in it.—On the 27th February M. Marbot pre
sented to the National Assembly, in the name of the extraor
dinary committee of finance, a plan to fubftitutc for the whole
nials of aflignats now in circulation, other ailignats, to fabri
cated as to defy forgery or imitation. The Afiemfcly referred
tins to the three committees of finances.—The political augurs
° re . m *fchief from tiie frequent conferences between the
Miniiters ot Pruftia, Spain and Sardinia, and Prince Kaunitz.
Tiie concourse of lpectators to fee the Turkilh Ambalfador
enter Vienna, was as great as that on the arrival of the Pope,
in 17^2.—A treaty offenfive and defenfive, between Auitria
and I'ruffia, is ligned.—An article urder the Leyden head, of
the 23th February, fays, there can be no doubt that France
win be vigorously attacked in the month of April or May, if
between that time and then, affairs lhould not be changed by
the civil war which appears on the point of breaking out —
The lame article fays, there are but French emigrants in
Holland, notwithstanding there is no cabinet in Europe moi«
active than that ot the Hague.—The French funds are in lucl
discredit at Amsterdam, that 1000 French livres were offeree
or. the exchange for 163 Holland florins. Notwithfiandin;
these acconnts, peace and general tranquility appear to pre
vail in France ; and the AlTtmb'v are proceeding with spirit ii
the administration of the government.
The bills to repeal taxes, as opened in the Eritilh budget
have been read the third time, and palled the House of Com
mons.
The remains of Sir Joshua Reynolds were buried with great
funeral pomp, after laying in ftatc at Somerset-House. Forty
two mourning coaches, a mute on each fide, and 46 noblemens'
and gcntlemens' carriage; attended and formed the procession.
Doctor Priestly has been unanimously eleftcd fuccelfor to the
late Doctor Price, and has commenced his ministerial labors
accordingly.
CO N G R £ S S
The new government when it was
was known to have many evils to redress, and
many good things to attempt. It is a pleasant
retrofpetft which we have now to take. We find
that every session has advanced the work which
the fenfe"bf America as well as the preamble of
the conditution has marked out as the duty
of Congress. Two primary objecfts appear 10
have given birth to the new form of government.
During the war, all America felt ihe want of
national credit. Our liberties were expoftd to
extreme hazard, because Congress had only pa
per means of refource.—lt is true a free people
fuppliea by an ardent enthusiasm in the common
caui't> almost every thing that was wanting. But
at length time that cools all strong emotions,
and adverle fortune exhaulted the powers of
I paper money. The illustrious General in his
farewel letter, Congress in their jaddrefles to the
people, the attempt to prevail on the (tates to
grant the five per cent, import, and the general
sense of America, shewed the necellity of a go
vernment adequate to the support of national
credit. Accordingly, Congress in the 2d feflion
made provision for the public debt, and induing
it, they have not been unmindful of the other
common obje<S, the protection and advancement
of our trade and manufactures. The laws which
impose duties on imported articles, have given
a spur to the activity of trade and manufadures.
she wealth of the nation has grown with its in
dustry in a wonderful manner. Experience, the
judge of nations, and their forms of government,
has decided in favor of the American.
Among the objects of the present feflion, the
provision for the Indian war has been the mod
adverse. The government has nothing to hope
for. It has more than land enough to fell—and
as to the honours of vitftory, experience has not
afforded much to expect. Neither the pride nor
the cupidity of the administration could desire
the continuance of the war.—Unwelcome as the
profccution of it certainly is, government had
no choice to make. The frontiers were bleed-
ing.—An enemy, scorning peace, can be made
to forbear only .by chaftilement.:—The war with
the Indians, which has continued ever since that
with Britain, iinpofes a heavy burden on the
people.—Yet tire duties imposed will cherifli ma
nufactures, and encourage the railing of hemp,
flax, cotton, and various producfts of the farms.
The fuccels of manufactures is now put beyond
hazard, and the demand for raw materials will
increase that intercourse between the different
states, that mutual dependence and common in
terest, which every friend to the union will re
joice to fee.
431
~a
The alterations made in the excite law arc it,,
tended to conciliate the affa<Sions of the com
plaining part of the country. The rate of duties
holds out lignal advantages to the manufacture
of grain spirits. They will 110 c l'urely condemn
a law which affords to those who produce grain
who diffil the (pints and wlio consume them, i'i
preference, which considering ■ lie duties on all
other spirits, gives them reason to delire the con
tinuance of the law, rather than its total repeal.
All America has a common intereit in the en
couragement of the cod-fifhery. The filhermea
as a militia by sea, afford a security to the ex
ports and imports of the nation 111 time of war
which is absolutely indispensable We have no
other means of effecting the fame important end.
The act for the encouragement of the fiiherv,
while it costs no money, will halten the naval
strength of America to a very early maturitv.
At length a mint is eltabliihed, and the coin
of the United Siates being itgiilated with accu
racy, we shall no longer be subject to the capri
cious changes of the foreign Itandard ; a copper
coin will be of no finall accommodation and lav
ing to the poorer classes of society.
1 he militia law will probably feeni a feeble
fy flem to many persons versed in military affairs.
The great difference of the militia laws of the
several slates is such, that fume will improve,
and ethers perhaps run retrograde in consequence
of this law of the United States. But improve
ments and amendments will be made from time
to time, and it is to be hoped tuat eventually
th is ail will not be one of the lea ft perf'etft parts
of the national system.
Of all the fubjetJts which have occupied Con
gress, none has been so fruitful of debate as the
, law apportioningreprefentatives. The conilruc
lion of the confHuition adopted and expietfed by
the President in his objccftions to a bill prefeiued
to him, finally prevailed, and has become a law.
—The people of the United States have reafbii
to felicitate thenifelves that the difference of opi
nions in refpedt to apportioning representatives
turns on finallei- inequalities than any other na
tion has in its aflemblies.
The law for admitting the unfubfcribed debt
to be loaned, completes the system of credit, ex
cepting the proviilon for the state debts,which at
the next session many expeift to fee afTui'ned.
The humane purposes of Congress in favor of
the invalidsare in some roeafure thwarted by the
unconstitutional objections of the judges. Ie
'might be arrogant to express adoubt whether the
opinion they have exprefled be lound. It is
hoped the invalids will not be negleCied.
The table of Congress is still covered with bu
siness, Yet the people have reason to hope it
will in due time be dispatched, under the direc
tion of the fame national principles which they
have seen adopted thus far by Congress.
Some part of the meafurcs of government may
want wisdom, and some parts of the couutry may
want moderation and candor, but on the whole,
no nation hr.s prospered more, or enjoyed tran
quility in a greaterdegreethan the United States
since theeftablifhmentof the present happy con
ftitution—andfurely none can look forward into
futurity with more pleasing anticipations.
Since government has a tight to pay off its debt in full propor
tion to its ability, with what propriety can it be said that the
debt is irredeemable ?
There is nothing which gives general, much lels nniverfal fatif>
fa&ion. Some complain of the administration of the new go
vernment, while they acknowledge the conditution to be excel
lent : Others conlider the system «s eirentiaily defective, and fav
that there is the greaieft danger of its imperfpttions being over
looked, in the wisdom and Iplendor ot its administration.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS AT THE PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Adriana,
JLouifa,
Brig Molly,
Sch. Sally,
Dolphin,
Sloop N. Y. Packet,
Carlton,
Rainbow,
Betfev,
Speidwell,
Ranger,
Lively,
Roba,
Dolphin,
§0= Price of Stocks as in our lap.
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each share of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Rank, or at
any of the offices of difcouut and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of Inch payment, may be made on the
books of the Trealury of the United States, or in ehe office of any
of the Comtnifiioners of Lo«jns in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be oepofued in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (hall be made.
Rrfolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious >0 the firft days of July and January of each year.
Robcrlfon,
Birckhead,
Rafer,
RufTcl,
Smith,
Dunbar,
Bdilcy,
Wilton,
Mackie,
Lewis,
Smith,
Liverpool
Marseilles
Havre de Grace
Port an Princc
Ncw-Y ork
N. Carolina
New-York
Hifpaniola
N. Carolina
Aux Cayes
New-York
Story,
Bunker,
Eafterbrook,
Car-hart,
Savannah
Rhode-Island
N. Carolina
Virginia
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.advertisement.
TO comprize m the present volume of thi, Gazette all the
Laws which are and may be er.acled by Congress in the prefentJeffion,
:t will be necejftry to extend the numbers to the lajl of May. Thef mi ih
volume, therefore, will commence with the beginning of June-and mil
be printed on paper of larger dimenfons than the present, provided the
Editor'j receipts of arrearages fkall enable him to do it—the price to con
tinue at Three Dollars per annum.
Three years arc Marly expired since this publication frjl nude lis ap.
pearance; during which, scarcely a Jingle inflance has occwrcd of re
riijjnef in punHually dijpatching the papers from the Printing-VJice
their falluies in reaching the fubferibers, have been owing to causes
w'r. h were er.tirely beyond the contreul of the pubhfher. Under the
new regulations of the Pofl-OJiee Department, the Subscribers for the
GazlT t l of the Un i T i o St at *» may therefore prouiife themfclves
the advantage of the ftnilefl punSuality on the part of the Editor—
which, aided by that energy we have the greatejl reason to expetl will
dijlmguifh thefuptrintevdance of the Gentleman now at the head of the
Pofl-Ojjicc Department, will ensure ajleady tranfmiffon of Newspapers
to all parts of the Union.
LieutenANT's-OFFICI, April *79 2,
' NOTIFICATION.
To th* Militia of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia and
Northern Liberties, «od the Diftrifls of Moyamenfing and
P?ffvu«k, j 1. •
THAT ihey are to meet and exercise in Battalion, under their
refpeflive Otficers, on the following days, commencing the
firft Monday in May :
The Artillery, and Fiift Battalion, on the 7th dayot May,
Second Ba.talion, 00 the Bvh do.
Third Battalion, on the 9th do.
Fourth Battalion, on the 10th do.
fifth Battalion, on the 1 ith do. '
Sixth Battalion, on the 14th do.
Seventh Battalion, on the 15th do.
THOMAS PROCTEII,
Lieutenant of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia.
£3=" The present Officers commanding Battalions, and the
Officeis of the fcveral Companies, are to perform their duties re
fpettivelv on the above field days.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
THE Sobfcriber intending to confine himfelf entirely lo the
PURCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafeto favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfaded with ilie ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Oiders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be ftriflly attended so.
May 2.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY fituatcd, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
-watered in a dry time ; 15 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
Jap of about 50 acres of rich out marlh, from which [b< an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate txpence; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good fpoit with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and necffl'ary out-buildings ; an orchard of the be ft kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to Dr.
|ohn Gibbons, in Arch-ftrect, Philadelphia; Mi. Henry
Waterman, at the Waflvingion, on theßiiftol road; or to
Mr. Joseph Baldwin, at Nelhainany Ferry, or Mr. Barxet
Du ree n, fame place, Bucks County. The purchafcr, paying one
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the re-
Adue, paying iniereft. May ,5. (ep.tf.)
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY VIRTUE of an order from John Holmes, Edmund
Weatherby and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs. Judgesof
the Court of Common Pleas for the County of Salem, directing
us to make Sale of so much of the Lands of Benj ami n Cripps,
in the Township of Maningtoti, in the County of Salem aforefaid,
as will defray the expences attending the diviiion or paitition of
Lands held in common between Abraham He*wlinc and the
aforefaid Benjamin Cripps, agreeably to an aSi of Aflembly, See.
In pui fuance of the above order, will be Sold by public Vendue,
a trad or piece of Land (or as much thereof as will defray
above cxpence-) being part of the above, situate and bounded by-
Lands of Job Shieeve, the aforefaid Abraham Hevlings, and
others, on fevenih day 26th of May next, 1792 —A: the t.ouf.
of Henry Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem aforefaid—by
WILLIAM GOODWIX,)
JOHN VVISTAR and C Commiflioners
THOMAS CLEMENT, )
20th April, 1792
TO BE SOLD,
That large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
fubferiber now livis. (iiuate in Elizabeth-Town, in the ilate
ot New-Jeriey, within 16 milci of the city of New-York. It is
finifhed in the very heft manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large l-mily, The Lot contains about tour
acres ot land —the Gjiden is large, well laid out, and flocked
with a good afTuiment of ttuit. For further particulars, enquire
of Wi 1 it AM BRADFOnn.Efc). in Philadelphia, John Pintakd
Esq. in New-York, or the SuKcnber, on the Prennf s. '
Mav 2, 1792.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, March 31,1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the inierdl for the quarter,
ending this day,on the FUN'DED DEBT ot the United Slates,
Handing on the books of the Trcafury, and of the Commiflioner of
Loans for this State, will be paid at the Bank of the Unired Stares
Certificate Loft.
WAS I.oft, on the i 7 th i..«, a CERTIFICATE, Numbered
59,49°, granted to Lewis Nichols, for the sum of
307 24-901!) Dollars, dated the jft of May, 1784, and limned by
John Pi.rce, Esq. marked with the letter /.—Whoever has
Jouna the fame, and will return it to Clement Biddie F.fq
Notary Public, at No. 62, tit Front-street, louth of Ma.ket-ftteet
or to the Printer of this paper, shall be generously rewarded.
April i&, 1792.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
• (<■'•)
Apri L 27, 1792
4w.ep.
ELI AS BOUDINOT.
tkisdav xs ruBLISHED,
(price 6/0.) %
By MATHEW CAREY,
A'j. 118, Market-Street, near Fourth-Street,
The Ladies' Library;
CONTAINING,
t. Mrs. More's E flays 5- Swlfl ' s Letter lo a new mar "
2. Gregory'* Legacy f ' c<i Lady
3 . Lady Pennington's Advice 6. Mifc Chapone on command
.4. Marchioness of Lambert's ot Temper ...
Advice 7* More's Fables for the Ladies
THE editor of this publication hopes, from the eftabhftied re.
putatton oi the fcveral tracts of which it is composed, that
it will be found a more complete Tynem for the infttuaion of the
female world, than perhaps any other extant.
A volume* Hnder the present title, was lately puMilhed in Eng.
land and Ireland, and had a most rapid sale, having been puichafed
hv almost every lady "f taftf in 'hose kingdoms. To this volume
the editor has added Miss More's Essays—Mrs. Chapone's letters
on the government of the tamper—and Swift's letter to a young
lady newly married. These have confideiably enhanced its value,
and he doubts not, the ladies on this Tide of the Atlantic will be as
generous in their encouragement of a work intended for their ad
vantage as those in England and Ireland have been.
%* SETS OF THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
AS fcveral gentlemen in afferent parts of the United States, hi re
been heretofore difappointei in then applications for complete Jets oj the
American Museum, the printer informs the public, that he is en
gaged in reprinting the deficient numbers of the work, and ha< now and
will henceforward have a conjlant fupph offets on hand\—fuch gentle
men. therefore, as please, may be jurnifhed withfets neatly bound, in ton
volumes at jtxteen dollars.
This work will be found to contain at leajl as great a variety of poli
tical, agricultural, and mijcellantous ejfa*s t as any ever puhlijked in
America.
Said Carey has lately publijhed,
1. fteauties of Poetry, Britifn and American, 6<.
2. Beatfe's Elements of Moral Science, ss. 75*
3. M'Fingal, an epic poem, 2/9.2
4. Blair's Sermons, complete in 2 vols. 15s.
5. Nccker's Treatise on Religious Opinions, 6<.
6. Examination of Sheffield's Oofcrvations, 4/18
7. American Constitutions, 4/8
8. Doway Bible —near, 6 dolls.—elegant, 50/2
9. Vade Mecum, 1/IOJ
10. Charles Grandik>ii, abridged, 1
xi. Humphrey's Poems, bound 2f6> in blue paper t/ioj
12. American Jest Book, in two parts, bound, 4/6
13. Sfleft Poems, i/*3
14. Think well on't, i/io£
15. The Christian Economy, \J.io£
16 Smith's History of New-York, 9^45.
17 Garden of the Soul, plain 3/9— elegantly bound 5/7 J.
OJ said Carey nay be had, Bibles, Tejiaments, Spelling-Books,
Pri-ncri, Quills, Ink-Powder, Writing-Paper 0} various kinds, Bonnet-
Piper, Pocket-Books, Scales and Dividers, Ink-Stands, Message and
Playing Cards, &c.£sc.
FOR SALE,
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jersey, occupied for many years pail by
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a tra£l of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftrect leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said ftrect on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a fquaie; which, from the combined ctfe£t of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the mcft
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, weli-fmiihcd brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very cxtenfive and pleaiing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new ftont
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proofs and a stone cow-houle, upwards of igo feel in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete stone fmokc-houfe, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a rapacious ice-house, and every, other ne
ceflfary out-building. The ground is properly divided into small
helds, all well watered, highly improved, and chieflv under the
moil approved grass. This square has produced annuallv, for se
veral years past, upwards of lixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the futnmer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper fcafons
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in trcfti water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whol of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
and rails of ch fnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhauftiblc quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest pundually paid, will not be demandtd for many
years.
Any pei son desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be gratifi d
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at prcfent occupies the farm-houleand
part of the lano—and may know the price on application to the
fubfenber, a? No. 213, South Second-sir ect, oppofiteto the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank of
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit br
authorised to receivc of Stockholder? the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Cafhieis of the said offices g'-ve duplicate Teceijjts for such
payments, one ot which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full shares, and to all the benefits of the Resolution
of the Board of Directors patted the 21 ft instant, relative to com
pleting shares by paymentat any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Dirrftors.
JOHN KEAN, Cajkitr.
432
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders br, and hereby art, au
thor ifed to compleat their Shares by pavmeut at any time
before the periods required by the law ot inrorpo»at»on.
Resolved, That each Share io completed, ftiall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits ot the BanK, fiom and after the firft
dav of the month next lucceeding the day of such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interest upon the Pub
lie Debt tiansferred to compleat any Share as afcitfaid, as (hall
nave accrued before the firft day of the month next fucteeditigihe
completion of such Share, (ball be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who fmll have transferred the fame.
By order of the Prifident and Dire&ors,
frptiftj) JOHN KEAN, father.
Publtlfced th's day, and 10 be (old by
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
Bookseller, No. 54, Srcond-ftreet, South—aud by ali the principal
Bookfellets in Philadelphia— Price -|ths of a Dollar,
PROCEEDINGS IN the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
OP THt UMTEO STATES O* AMERICA,
Refpefting the
CONTESTED ELECTION
For the Eastern Diftrtft of the Siate of
GEORGIA.
CONTAINING the petition of General James faci/on.apaiuft
the ei«ftion of General Anthony H'aync, and the proceedings
relative to the Resolutions directing the mode of conducing the
Trial ; with s sketch of the debates from the commencement to
the end of the business ; including the speeches of the parties, a
(ketch of Mr. Lewis's defence, council for Gcnei3l Wayne, and
the concluding speech of General Jackson, for which he received
the aDplaufe of the auditors: also, the subsequent proceedings of
the House rcfpefling his rigkt to a feat after the elc&ion ot ihc fit.
ting member had been declared illegal.
Together wi'.h a SUPPLEMENT,
Containing a summary of the proceedings of the Leciflature of
Georgia, relative to the Impeachment of Judge o [borne; taken
from the papers sent under the seal of the State, and produced in
Congress bv Mr. Baldwin, which were rejt&ed.
JUST PUBLISHED %
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Bookfelter,
At the Stone House in Second-Street,
Thr Fiift Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-.
Confiding of state papers, and other authentic documents,
intended as materials for an Hi (lory of the United States
OF America,
By.EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M
Member of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge ; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The design of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular series of the mod important and authentic documents re
lating to the history of America, from its difgovery by Columbus
to the present time, it must be peculiary interesting to all who with
10 acquire a thorough knowledge of this fubjeft.
April 4,
Farms & Mills for Sale &Lease.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, situate on the Turnpike Road lead
ing from Baltimore-Town to Rifter's-Town, about 6§ mt.es
from the tormer ; containing about 430 or 440 acres oi good
farming land, 70 or 8j acres of which are excellent grass ground ;
about 170 acres are cleared, upwards of twenty whereof arc made
meadow; the residue abounding in good timber, and other trees
for enclosure and fuel: There are two apple-orchards ihereon,
and buildings tiiat inay do, for the present, for an Overleer and
his family.
Also, a Tract of LAND, containing about 600 acre , within
two miles of the fame road, and about 18 or 20 miles distant from
Baltimore-Town; about 700 acres whereof are cleared, welleii
clofed and improved by culture and with valuable buildings, some
excellent meadow, near 20 acres, made.
Also, a small FARM, on a public road leading to fai<l town,
about the fame distance theretrom as the laftdeftribed land ; con
taining 103 acres, whereon is an excellent apple-orchard, but no
other improvements of much value.
The two firft above-mentioned Farms are furnifhed with (lave«,
stock of each kind, and all necelTary implements of hafbandry,
v hich may be had with them ; they are sown with wheat, which
promises an abundant crop the business of the last of the two
has b en, for nine years, and js now, conduced by a fkilful in
dustrious Manager, who may be cooiinued iu the management,
on terms.
TO BE LET,
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from Rifter's-
Town to Wtnchefter, Taney-Town, Frederick, and HageiM own;
whereon is eredled a large commodious brick house, that has been
used for some yea» s past as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified tor
that business, could be made an excellent stage ; within a tewr
rods of which, and on the main Falls of Petapfco, is also ereCU
a GRIST-MILL, now in good order for Merchant-Work, with a
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith.
For the title and terms of sale, and the lease, of ad or any part
of the above valuable property, apply to
Baltimore County, March 7. 1793
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-War ehouse, two
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Jfaeioiy
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a °u
mcnt of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LiAU. "
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have e,D ? l
number of experienced Englilh woikmen, they vrairaot 1 ,
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, an at -
price from the cost of imported. - 1 a .
They also continue to manufacture all the above ar
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to eit er
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and cxe*.n
fhortcft notice. s i,_ f,;<l
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men,
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and ot tr en . . au( j
ments will be given, means of conveyance being piov.u ,
houses foi their reception. a„ cTIN &Co.
For further particulars enquire of MeflVs. Moses A
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia. Dccrmber 3. ITQi
03" Blu*i Powers to receive the\n\ctei\,anaJoith<tr av 'J y r . a _
principal of public debt, * JJ'' '
ury Department: Also Blanks for oJCert,ficates, lotljo
rhe Editor. ____
fcj* WANTED, the First Volume nt <he G *" TT ' " d by
U.NITID Siatis-for -which Six Dollars will
ihe Eoitoh.
(rp.ix)
THOMAS JONES.
'M