&#z(fU of§ $&&&£%
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 74, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, Januar.y ii, 1792.
ADDRESS
TO THE CITIZENS OF
WESTMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLLCfJANY COUNTIES.
ON THE
REVENUE
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania
(continued.)
IF the duty is too high for your ability to pay it, it might be
reason tor an application to Congress to lower it, but it can be
none for an oppofuion to the whole.
But is there fertoufly any reason to believe, that the fa£t alledg
ed is well founded ? Is not the duty payable half yearly ? Does
not the government of the United States continually fend a much
larger sum among you, towards the support of the troops <*n the
frontiers, and for the payment of such of yourselves as are called
into fervire, for your own immediate defence., than you will re
<]uir<" for the half yearly payment of the duty ?
I have no doubt myfelf, that a fair trial of the thing will con
vince you of the contrary of what is aflerted. Let the experiment
be made, and if the payment of the duty is found to produce any
real difficulty ordittrefs, then may your representation, being
founded on experience, be expe&ed to have weight with the na
tional councils, and to lead to a diminution of the rate of the
duty.
I have now, fellow-citizens, gone through those objections of
the committee, which appear to have been intended as arguments,
and I flatter mylelt you will agree with me, that I have fully an
swered them. There are, however, some observations and sug
gestions in one of the addreflfes of the committee, which ought
nor be palled over in fjlence.
It is laid, that the tax carries with it a great insult In the col-
Je&ion : bccaufc <1 freeman is treated like a knave, and an oath ex
acted as of one who may defraud, a mark set upon his door and
upon all calks and veflels, and his buildings invaded and searched
by orficejs callous to humanity.
judge, fellow-citizcns, for yourfelvcs of the candor and weight
of thele mfinuations
I have already observed to you that oaths are constantly required
oi matters and owners of veflels, in order to the colle6tion of tne
duties on impoited articles generally, that this is the common
pra&ice in like cases, and thai it was the pra&ice under the state
la ws. I have added that it is submitted to without a murmur as
an indispensable requisite.
Are matters of veflels, the mer;hants of your country, and the
numerous impoiters of goods for their own use of all proteflions,
less FREEMEN than you are ? Can a requisition which they ac
quielce in as proper and unavoidable be deemed an insult to
you ?
Are the inhabitants of free countries exempted from the ordi
nary vices and frai-Jtits of human nature ? Are there no felons,
no cheats, no fraudulent individuals among them ? Is every
FREEMAN ofcourf.* an honest man ?
Why, then, all the laws for the puniihment of crimes and for
the fupprcflion of vice and immorality ? Do not these suppose
equally with the regulations complained of that there are knaves
among freemen as well as among other men ?
Would to heaven it were not sb ! But you would laugh at the
person who should tell you it was not. And yet this is the sub
stance of what the committee fay.
As well might i( be said, the law prescribing oaths to witnefles
and jurymen in courts of juitice carries with it a great insult. A
free man is treated as a har, and an oath exa&ed as fiom one
vho may lie.
What would you fay to such an observation ? Or what ought
you to fay to one which amounts exadtly to the fame thing ? What
is the true view of the matter ?
It is this. There are knaves among all societies, among free
men as well as among the fubje&s of despots. The laws mull
luppote the fadt, bccaufe it is a fact ; and they muff make pro
vision accordingly, not only for the security of the public, but
lor the security ot honest men against kn a v es, and as the le
giflatuic have no mark by which to distinguish the honest man
iiom the knave, its precautions rnuft of neceflity apply to all. If
there were no oaths nor penalties in revenue laws, houeit men
would bear the whole burthen and knaves would go free.
Hence the oaths which are required ;hence the registers granted
toihips, and the other numerous documents they are obliged to
-provide ; hence the marks set upon them, delignating then names
and the places to which they belong, which you will find to be
required by the laws ; hence the marks upon buildings, casks
and other veffcls containing fpints, hence, in fine, all the precau
tion of all ihe revenue laws of all the countries in the world.
I he marking of buildings, however, has evidently another ob
ject, favorable to an exemption of the persons concerned, from
improper intrusions and searches. It designates to the officers the
buildings and even the particular apaitments, to which alone
they can have access, and warns them not to intrude upon any
other. It is therefore, one of the means, by which the power of
infpe&ing and searching is confined within reasonable limits.
I need not, I am sure, trouble you longer on this point,
ihe committee, after treating the tax in question with every
species of opprobrium, and reprobation, go on to aflign a reason
tor its having been laid. They tell us in substance, that it was to
conceal from the people the amount of the money raised upon
chem, left ihiy should enquire into the appropriations of it.
Judge again for yourselves of the fairnefs of this suggestion.
Ihe provifionsof the conllitution, and the practice of the go
vernment, will afford the bell answer to it.
First. hisan express atticle of the constitution of the federal
government, "That no money shall be drawn from the
tkf.asu RV, bm in consequence ot' appropriations made by
law, and thai a regular st at em en t and accounts of the receipts
and expenditures of all public money (hall be published from
time to time. r
Second. By the law of Congress efbblifhing the Treasury de.
partinent, it is made the duty of the officer at the head of that
department, who is called the Secretary of the Treasury, among
other things " to prepare and report to Congress eflima.es of the
public revenue and the public expenditure," and it is made the
duty of another officer called the Treasurer, to receive and pay
the monies of the United States, upon warrants drawn by the Se
cretary. cou.nerftgned by the comptroller, and recorded by
the regiser of the Treasury. The comptroller is the officer,
•who, aftrr they have paflVd under the examination of the audi
tor, finally fettles all public accounts. The register is the officer
A W
L A \V
who keep* the public books and records. It is further made the
duty ot the Treafurerto render his accounts to the comptroller
quarterly or oftenerif required, for fettlemen*, and when fettled,
he is to fend a copy to the Secretary of the Treasury, and on the
third day of every feflion of Congress, he is to lay before the two
Houses, lair and exd£t copies of all the accounts by him rendered
and fettled, together with a true and perfett account of the state
of the Treasury ; he u obliged at all times to submit to the Secre
tary of the Trealury and the comptroller or either of them the in
fpeftion of the monies in his hands, and for the faithful perform
ance of all this he is obliged to give lecuriiy in the considerable
sum ot one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. So far you will
fee that the greatest care has been taken to secure a due administra
tion of the public monies, and an exatt knowledge of the courle
of the receipts and expenditures.
Thirdly. The Secretary of the Treasury, in pursuance of the
provision which has been mentioned, yearly Jays before Congress
a particular liatement of all the monies which are required for the
ferviceof the year, particularly fpecifying before hand vvery ob
je£t for which it is wanted. This estimate is committed for ex
amination to a special committee, who report a bill comprehend
ing an appropriation or grant for all fach objects fpecified in the
estimates as appear to be conformable to law and right, and di
recting or pointing out the funds out of which the money is to
be paid.
Both the previous estimate and the law are afterwards inserted
in the public newspapers, so that every citizen who wonld give
himfelf the trouble, may inform himfelf of the sums appropriated,
and the purposes lor which they are appropriated.
The Secretary of the Treasury also lays before Congress state
ments of the amount of the|public debt, and of the interest upon
it, and estimates of the probable amount of the taxes proposed to
be laid by Congress, which are likewiVe published in the news
papers for the information of the people.
The fame officer, likewise, makes returns to Congress of the
yearly product of all the taxes which they lay, fpecifying the ar
ticles on which they are laid, the expences of the collection, and
the nett residue, which comes into the Treasury. These returns
too, as well as all the other documents are publifhcd in the news
papers for the information of the people/
By the instruCtions which have issued from the Treasury pur
suant to the law in question, each collector of the revenue is to
make a weekly return of the produce of all distilleries which are
rated per gallon of the spirits dift.illed to the inspeCtor within
whose survey he is, who is to make a like weekly return to the su
pervisor of the diftriCt. Each collector is also to render to his in
speCtor a quarterly account of all monies colleCted by him; and
each inspeCtor is to render to his supervisor a like quarterly ac
count of all the monies collected within his survey, and each su
pervisor is to render a like quarterly accountof all the monies col
lected within his distriCt to the Treasury, where the duties are
charged on the stills, these being payable half yearly, the ac
counts from the respeCtive officers are Tendered half yearly instead
of quarterly as in the other cafe ; and from the whole of these re
turns, a general statement will be made up at the Treasury, which,
as in preceding cases, will, of course be reported to Congress, and
by them communicated through the newspapers to the public.
Hence, therefore, you perceive, that the constitution, laws and
practice of Congress are all united in the point of giving the peo
ple the molt full and complete previous information, of the money
raised upon them in every way, of the expence of railing it, of
what comes into the Treasury, and the manner in which it is dis
posed of. Here is more communication than has an example un
der any other government; more even than has been experienced
under any of the State governments. Here is no mystery, no
concealment. Here is evidence of the direCt contrary of what
the committee suggest to have been the probable motive with Con
gress for seleCting the duty on spirits as a resource of revenue.
(to >1 CONTINUED.)
FROM THE FARMER'S JOURNAL.
THE METABASIST
SHE MUST DlE"—faid the Dodlor—
" She mull die—She has a Jpafm of
juices"—The mother wept aloud—" Is there 110
help Doctor ?" said /he, " Mult I then lose my
only child ?"—" I have tried every remedy,"
said the Doctor, setting his hand upon his hip,
" which is known to the healing arc—and there
is no man, I'll allure you better acquainted with
medicine than myfelf; for I travelled three
years with the great Indian-Doctor Mohohonock." I
The scene was truly affetfting.—While the
Dotftor without any emotion of pity, boasted of
his (kill :—The mother was affectionately tak
ing leave of her daughter—" Adieu," " adieu,
gentle spirit ; fondly did 1 hope thou wouldft
live to be the supporter of my age." 1 was
too much affected with pity for the mother, and
indignation againlt the Doctor to be a farther
witness :—I dole silently from the room.
—Of all quacks, quacks in phyficare most per
nicious to the common people.—Can a man of
feeling be a witness of the daily havock, made
by these officers of death, among his fellow crea
tures, without a sigh ?—lndeed I could hardly
refrain from tears, while tny uncle, the other e
vening, told how his father was physicked out of
the world by one of these Doctors, because he
had a red spot upon his nose, which the quack
declared to be a cancer. —But said my uncle,
" my father had as found a nose the day he di
ed as the Doctor himfelf."
—Perhaps, reader, you are learned,may be,
member of the State legislature; you fay, " I de
left a quack, I would never employ him"—but
your neighbour is an illiterate man, who cannot
determine whether a physician be a man of learn
ing an J Ikill or not.—But, reader, if you do not
2 93
[Whole No. 2 82.]
in reality belong to the legislative body, yet for
this once imagine you do.—lmagine that twice a
year you afleinble yourfelf with the wile men of
the State to ena<ft laws for the good of the peo
ple—lmagine that you have kindly provided a
gainst quacks in law, by impowering our County
Courts co inquire into the learning and abilities
of those who design ihemfelves for the profeffion
of the law, and to give licence if their know
ledge is fufficieAt—lmagine that you have by a
statute restrained swine—And then iipagine (but
blush while you even imagine it) that these quack
physicians are permitted to depopulate your do
minions.—
By an English statute, 5 Eliz. chap. 4, no per
son is allowed to execute any trade of (kill, un
less he has firft served a regular apprenticeship
ot seven years.—Surely as much care ought to
be taken that men (hould not be deprived of
their health and lives, as that a clock (hould keep
time regularly.— By a statute of this state, a tan
ner is not allowed to fell leather, unlets he has
firft manifefted his (kill 10 the County Court,and
from them obtained licence ; nor then until the
leather has been approved of, and sealed by a
sworn sealer : But phyficiansare allowed to make
and vend medicine, and are not even themselves
required to knsw what they are, or what will be
their eflfedl.— It is a serious confederation.—ls it
not high time there (hould be some regulations
concerning physicians. .tffo
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
MR. RUSSELL,
WITH a lingular species of zeal and philan
thropy, the cause of the hostile Indians,
againfl whom the army under Gen. St. Clair,
was directed, is advocated—their fufferings deli
neated—and their diftrefles depicted. But to
impute any of these, if they exilt—to a want of
humanity in government, is unjust—The desire
to establish permanent and honorable peace be
tween the United States and all the tribes of In
dians, has been zealously exhibited both by the
former and present governments. In some in
flances they have been attended with success—
as the treaties between us and the Creeks. Choc
taws, Cherokees, and others. But all endeavors
to effe<fl Peace with the Indians in the regions
North-Weft of the River Ohio, have proved abor
tive.
" The General Government took early mea
sures for this purpose Treaties had been form
ed, under the old Government, with the Six Na
tions, the Wyandots and Delaware!, and fomemore
of the Western Indians ; but the Wabajh Indians
always declined to attend at the negociations of
those treaties, notwithftandiijg they were invit
ed thereto.
•' In order, If possible to bring those deluded
people to a just sense of their situation, the Pre
sident of the United States, directed that they
fliould be invited a-new, to treat of peace, and
that the consequences of their refufal, and per
sisting in hostilities, fho-dd be fully placed before
them—and at the fame time, the people of Ken
tuckey were prohibited from making any further
incursions into the Indian Country.
" This invitation was executed early last year,
to all the Tribes inhabiting the River IVabaJh,
from Polt Vincennes up to Miami village. The
invitation was not only refufed by the Indians,
but their hollilities were renewed with greater
violence than ever.
" The campaign, therefore, of the Jaft and
this year, were ineafures of neceflity—The Indi
ans had been invading our frontiers, and had
killed many hundred innocent men, women and
children.
" It became just and highly proper, that the
power of the United States should be put in mo
tion againlt these blood-thirsty tribes—and than
it should be ineffectual is to be deplored—and at
tributed to the fmallnefs of our numbers.
" Notwithstanding the provocations of these
Indians, it is said, nieafures will be taken to o
pen their eyes to their true interell : But if the
measures taken for this purpose fliould be in vain,
the meekness of christianity willjuftify the go
vernment, in taking efFecflual nieafures to prevent
the murder of its peaceable citizens ; and the
arrangements to be made, it is hoped will be en
tirely adequate to the full convidtion of the hos
tile Indians, that they have abundantly more to
hope, from the mercy, than to expetfl from the
weakness of the United States."CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, December 19
DEBATE ON THE REPRESENTATION BILL
[Continued.]
[The Senate had amended the bill by encreaftng the ratio Jrom 30,000
to 33,000 ; the tiouje haddjagreed to this amendment ; the Senate vv
ted to adhere. It was moved in the Houjc this day, that they Jhould re
cede Jrom their disagreement J
MR. FINPLEY. —From the various observa
tions which had been made on the fubjedt,
said it had become neceHary that a votelheuld be
given with due deliberation—such a vote as con
ltitutioual justice (hall require—on the ground
of constitutional justice, for as to general j ustice,
it is entirely out of the question—and indeed he
said that general justice could not be done on the
principles of any government under heaven.—
He adverted to the particular lituation of the re
fpetftive Hates, and iaid that this general justice
was not attainable in any one of them. We are
not to be moved by any threats ; we a>fi on prin
ciple, and will entrench ourselves in princi
ple— and this principle of constitutional equality
js all tUat we crfn pretend to. But it is objected
that the ratio will produce fra&ions—and to get
rid of this difficulty of fractions, we are to re
duce the representation of the people from the
constitutional number of one to every 30,000 —
that is, we are to strike off one sixteenth part of
the whole representation of the Union—he urg
ed that the representation on the ratio of 30,000
■would not be too great —he instanced the repre
sentation of Geneva, and other foreign states.—
If there fhouldarife any inconvenience from the
present ratio of 30,000, government were not
obliged to wait for the expiration of ten years to
remedy the defecfi ; it was always in the power
of Congress to order another census to be taken
at any time. For his own part he had not consi
dered fractions as an obstacle to the bill ; on the
contrary, he was rejoiced that the population of
the country increased so rapidly as to make those
fractions always quickly increase to an whole
number. To conclude, he was for going on ge
neral principles, which would certainly reftetft
the most honor on the proceedings of the legis
lature.
Mr. W. Smith said be had hitherto voted uni
formly in favor of a fnialler representation than
that which was contemplated in the bill, and in
doing so he bad atfted from principle, without
any reference to the do<slrine of fractions—as the
enumeration of his date was not yet known, it
must be evident to every gentleman in the House
that this was the cafe : but he now saw the necef
fiiy of changing his vote, since the bill had been
returned from the Senate, where it seemed there
was a disposition to modify every bill and every
proceeding of this Honfe jull as they pleased.
He thought it would have a very awkward ap
pearance to the world, if the House fheuld give
■way in all cases whatever, and more especially
in the present instance, where the Senate had
teen equally divided, and the question was de
cided by the vote of a single member of that bo
dy—the Vice-Prefident. For these reasons, and
the locality and fractions that had been intro
duced into the debate, lie would vote for an ad
herence to the former decision of the House, in
order to support that balance which ftiould be
preserved between the two branches of the legis
lature.
Mr. Benfon said, that if this business is in fu
ture to be made a lottery, let us at once declare
it—for if principle is entirely out of the qneftion,
it remains that we should declare explicitly the
truth. J
Mr. Sedgwick said, that it was impossible for
him to underhand on what principle the
man ft om South-Carolina, and his colleague, were
to give their votes, (contrary to their former ex
prefled opinion, excepting that they had disco
vered that the Senate concurred with them,
•which would not, he hoped, be generally consi
dered as a good ground for changing ; as it seem
ed to be embracing contradiction for the purpose
of contradiction ;) nnlefs, as the
declared, that at the time he formed his opinion
he did it on principle, by the abandonment of
which, he could acquire an undue weight to the
district of country from which he came, by de
parting from a just equality in repiefentarion.
Gentlemen had teemed to wish to obscure the
merits of the present controversy, by confulerinw
it as a contest between the larger and fmalle'r
states, and by supposing that the latter would be
compensated for their loss of weight and infhi
cnce in this house, which would result from an
unequal apportionment of the representation,
by the undue influence which they poflefled in
the Senate. He himfelf came from a very large
and important state. Justice, however, ybliged
him to declare that this mode of conducting the
argument, only tended to divert the judgment
from the true merits of thequeftioti. What had
the distribution of the powers of the government
which by the constitution tfasadjufted tothein
terefts and sovereignty of the states, to do with
the apportionment of representation, as it re
speCted either its numbers or the various inter
elts which' Were to be secured by equality of in
fluence ? Was it possible that any mind should
be so weak as to discover that the constitutional
organization of the Senate was not wholly irre
lative to thole considerations which should influ
ence in the decision of the present question ?
In contemplating thefubjeCt before theHoufe,
he observed, that a vast variety of circutnftances
were entitled to deliberate consideration. A
mong others, the number of representatives com
pared with the number of inhabitants of the U
nited States. In determining which, the nature
and objeCts of the government we were adminif
tering, its machinery, the distribution of its
parts, the conftruCtioH of the other branch of the
legislature, and many other objeCts were to be
considered. That we had not on any of these
subjeCts the aid of experience, and that the go
vernment itfelf was a novel experiment. He
need not therefore that there were no data
from which any certain conclusion could be
drawn. All was uncertainty and conjecture.
Was an apportionment of a ratio of 30,000 eligi
ble ? as an abstraCt proposition he was disposed
to give it a preference to any other. But if he
was aflced wherefore, he could only answer, that
it was rather an inclination of sentiment, than
the result of rational reflection. He would not
therefore, because justice would not permit it,
facrifice to the efFeCt of conjecture, which might
be only the result of whim, the important and
indispensable duty he owed to respeCt the claims
of states to equality.
If an apportioment was made by a ratio of
30,000, the members would fee 7 more than if
the amendment of the Senate were adopted.
Which ever proposition was agreed to, would a
ny one venture to affirm that the liberties of the
people would be more or less secure, the House
a gg re g ate, y nore or less wife, or the due ba] ance
between the two Houses better or worse adjust
ed ? Considering thus the subjeCt, does not the
earnestness with which gentlemen contend for
the proposition of the House, appear perfectly
unaccountable ? But in thrprogi ess of this bnfi
nefs, it is discovered that an application of the
principle of the Houfe,gives a balance of weight
and influence to one part of the United States,
to which it is not entitled by the equal apporti
onment contemplated by the constitution, This
is agreed by all, it is demonflrated by figures.
Nor can it be denied that equality is am6ng the
most eflential principles of istprefentation, and
expressly provided for by the constitution, as far
as would consist with the state of our society,
having a due regard to our particular circum
stances. Yet all important as this consideration
is, it is to be facrificed with all the interests in
volved in it, to a fanciful idea of theory. The
ory unfanCtioned by experience.
For his own part, he believed that wife policy
would be found perfectly to coincide with, and
reconcile the various interests of this extensive
country. It could nor, however, have escaped
, vat '? n . °f erer y gentleman, that there
existed an opinion of an opposition of interests
between the northern and southern states. The
influence of this opinion had beer, felt in the dis
cussion of every important question which had
come under the consideration of the legislature.
The extreme anxiety of gentlemen on the pre
sent occasion, would render all other evidence
fu pern nous on this subject. Such a belief, he
raid, however ill founded, would as long as it
continued have the fame efFeCt as if it existed in
U • i eeh "g. the weight of this observation.and
the influence ir ought to have to give to everv
pair of the United States as nearly as might be
a due proportion of constitutional weight in the'
pub]ic councils, he was incapable of reconcil
ing the conduct of members who were disposed
to facrifice the most important interests of their
immediate constituents, to their ftrange:ideas of
conjectural perfection. It seemed to him that the
gentlemen who came from the north, and on
this occasion djdented from their neighbours
were disposed blindly to surrender all the iml
portant interests of their immediate constituents
to the arbitration of chose, the whole course of
whose. condnCt had demonstrated that they tho't
thole interests adverse to their own.
He concluded, by warning those who had hi
therto composed a majority on this fuUjeCt, to
reflect on the danger that would result from a
pertinacious adherence ro a mealure so produc
tive of the f o „ rC es of jealoufv. And he called
on their generofhy, magnanimity and justice to
respeCt the claims of the minority tow equal
294
weight in the government, on the principles of"
the constitution.
Mr. Gerry made Tome reply to his colleague,
Mr. Sedgwick, respecting locality of imerelts,
and declared that he never would agree to a re
duction of the people's representation.
Mr. Lawrance said he had always advocated a
large reprefenration, without any reference to
the part of the Union frqm which the members
are to come—3o,ooo will give the num
ber that we can get —he conld have wilhed it had
been larger—but as it could not, he should vote
againlt 33,000, which would diminish the num
ber—and this was the principle he acted upon.
If an equality is the objert, is there not a num- s
ber which will produce a (till greater equality
than that proposed by the Senate—if there is,
there is 110 principle in the ratio of 33,000, for it
ought to be carried to the full extent to make it
perfectly equal. He was sorry that the discussion
of the qneftion had excited those dif.igreeable
reflexions which had been made, and that the
discussion of general principles was dwindled in
to a debate on fractions, and on the interests of
the northern and southern parts of the Union.
He was persuaded this would rot be the proper
mode of obtaining the end, which ought to be in
view, but would only tend to diflurb the tran
quility and harmony that ought to cxift in invefc
tigatingand determining this fnbjetft.
Mr. Kitrera having at firft voted for 30,000, lie
thought it proper to offer a few reasons for al
tering his opinion.—He had voted for 30,000 be
canfe it would give the largefl representation—
but finding its nnjnfl and unequal operation, in
refpedt to a majority of the (tares, he had deter
mined to vote for the ratio of 33,000. —He then
noticed the remark of Mr. Findley, that the in
juflice may be corrected by an enumeration atan
earlier period than that proposed in the consti
tution—he obferred that this was in efFecft faying,
let ns do injnftice, and wait a number of years,
and then justice /hall he done. Why not do jus
tice now,as far as is in our power ?—Mr.Lawrance
had said, why not ndopt a ratio that would leave
less fractions than 33,000? —He said this was in
effect faying, that because we could not do com
plete justice, we would not do it to any degree
whatever--The superior degree of equality which
would result from the amendment of the Senate,
had been so fully demonstrated, that he ftjould
now vote to recede from the disagreement of the
House to it.
The motion to recede was negatived, as lias
already appeared.
MONDAY, January 9, 1792.
The bill to establish pod-offices and port roads
in the United States, was brought in, engrofled,'
and read the third time—Mr. Murray moved to
recommit the bill, in order to amend the fertion
refpetfting newspapers, by reducing the portage
on them to an half cent—Some opposition was
made to this motion, and the queltion being put
it was negatived.
The Honfe then proceeded to fill up the blanks
—the blank for the term of the contract was fill
ed with u fin; years"—Penalty for obftrutfting
the transportation of the mail roo dollars For
negligence 011 the part of any ferry-man, by
which the mail may be delayed, 10 dollars for
every half hour—Advertisement for contract to
be publfhed 12 weeks—The blank for the Port-
Master General's salary was filled with 200 c dol
lars—that of the allirtant tooo dollars—The new
rates of portage to commence the 1 ft day of March
next—Penalty for exacfting a greater rate of port
age than that established by law 100dollars—-Pe
nalty for setting up ports for carrying letters,
&c. in opposition to the general port-office 200
dollars—for continuing so to offend, 200 dollars
per week—For the deputy port-mailer's neglect
ing to account with the post-master genera? for
way letters, 100 dollars- Penalty for unlawfully
opening, detaining or embezzling letters, pack
ets, &c. by any pet foil in the port-office depart
ment, 300 dollars, or imprisonment for fix months
—For quitting and deferring the mail so that ic
should nor reach its destination in season, 100
dollars—For carrying letters contrary to the pro
visions of the law, 50 dollars—The compensation
to any deputy polt-inarter not to exceed 20 per
cent on the portage, and in no one instance to
exceed dollars—1 500, 2090, and 2JOO dollars
were severally proposed to fill this blank ; after
Tome debate 2500 and 2000 were put ar;;] nega
tived— 1950 were then proposed, the debate on
the motion was renewed, and continued till the
time of adjournment, which took place without
a decision.
TUESDAY, January io,
A memorial of George Turner, ore of the
judges of the Western 1 erritory, was read, and
referred to a fe'etft committee, confiding of Mefll
Livermore, Lavvrance, White, Williamfon and
Smith, (S. C.)
A petition n r James Demir was read, and re
ferred to the Secietary of War—as 'vere also the
p 1 : s tions o; Henry Skinner, Elizabeth Jones, Bar.
nabas Murphy, Aaron Stratton, James Shields,rnocli Leonard, Abigail Hale, Jeremiah Pritch
ard.
A petition of Lawrana Richardson was read,
praying the ifluing of a duplicate certificate of
public debt, in lieu of one which she had loft—
Referred to the Secretary of the Treattiry.
The House proceeded in filling up the blanks
in the poft-office bill, and completed the fame.
The blank refpe<fting the amount beyond which
the salary of no deputy poft-ma(ter (hali extend,
was filled with 1500 dollars. The relt of the
blanks being filled, the bill was palled.
A resolution which had lain 011 the table for
f>me davs, requiring the Secretary of War to
lay before the House a particular statement oi
all afcertainecl balances due to invalid petition
ers claimed or unclaimed—was called up by Mr.
Giles.
Mr. Wadfworth moved that the refoliition
fliould be teferred to a felert comniitte, which
was agreed to, and Mr. Wadfworth, Mr. Giles
and Mr. J. Smith, appoinied.
In committee of the whole on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury on the petion ot
Catharine Greene
Mr. Smith,. (S. C.) in the chair—The difcnfli
m of the fubjeifl was opened by Mr. Wayne,who
ifrer a few introductory remarks', proposed the
following resolutions : ,
Resolved, ns the opinion of this committee,
That the eltate of the late Major General Greene
rtnght to be indemnified for the engagements en
tered into by that General, wit> certain persons
in the State of South-Carolina, for the purpose
of obtaining supplies for the army of the United
States, under his command, in'the year 1783 —
That a lum not exceeding onght to be ap
propriated and paid to his executors to make
good those engagements—and That a committee
be appointed to bring in a bill accordingly.
After some debate the committee rose without
taking any vote, and the Honfe adjourned.
LONDON, November 8
Tlie -National Aflembly of France havejnft
pa (led the following decree relative to Louis Jo
leph Xavier, t;he King's next brother upon whose
conduct that of the other French Princes is sup
posed to depend.
It having been before refoWed, that the per
son entitled to the Regency would forfeit his
right by remaining absent from the kingdom, it
was dccreed, on Sunday the 30th OtSober,
1. That proclamation lhould be made withirt
three days in Paris.
2- That the requisition lhould be notified to
the Prince by no other mode than that of pro
elamarion.
3. That conformably to the confticutional de
crees, the promulgation of the law (hall be made
by the Executive Power.
4. That the fuppleant of the regency shall be
bound to return within th#ee or (ball
be held to have right of the re-
gency.
The National Afl'etnbly have yet had but little
time to discover their talents. A lending feature
in their charafter,it cannot be doubted, is an at
tachment to the conflitution eftablilhed by their
predeceflors.
The National Affeinbly have pafled a decree
against the emigrants.
This country Teems to have compleatly gained
the confidence of the French, who are equally in
clined to dojuftice to tUe moderation of ou'rmi
nifters, and the liberality of fentimerit which has
been displayed on the fubjedt of their revolution
in every part of the British dominions.
Since the last melancholy accounts from the
French Weft-Indies, the Cabinet Ministers have
liad several meetings, and vigorous
mearis are to be adopted, in order.to prevent a
similar spirit of dii'tord and revolt in Jamaica and
otir other colonies. •*.
Several Frenchmen, wfyo had cauf<»d waitings
on Liberty to be tranflatedintoPortuj^ft£*''ere
lately put on board a veflel to be lent'Hback to
their ewn country.
The conduct ojt the captain and chief mate of
the Neptune transport, lately returned from Bo
tarfy Bay. is about to undergo a severe scrutiny.
No less than 171 canvitfis died on the voyage;
and many inttances of the moll inhuman treat-:
merit are daily brought forward. 'r
Mr. Burke is talked of as the fncceflor of the
late Bamber Gafcoyne, Esq. in the office of Re
ceiver General of the Cuttoms.
Whitehall, Nov. J. The Kinghas'been pleased
to appoint Hugh Elliott, Esq. to be his Majesty's
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Ylenipoten
tiarv to the Court of Dresden.
T he Revolution of France was on Tuesday, for
the firft time, called the Reformation ; this is sure
ly a misnomer ; Reformation is ytt to come.
The King of the French fays briefly to the now
defuntft National Aflembly—" (gentlemen good
bye to you, you have finifhed, and theproduct of
your precious labours be your reward—lf what
yon have done be a good thing for France, it
will ultimately be a good thing for you—Tell
the people that I have, and always had, their
welfare at heart; as for yourselves, you mult
make thetn believe the fame of you, as well as
you can ; but particularly tell them to pay the
taxes cheerfully ; —Gentlemen, good bye to you,
and leave the reft to me."
M. d'Orleans was to have been in England in
time for the present Newmarket Meeting ; but
the National Aflembly having deprived hiin of a
great portion of his Land, he feels the less incli
nation for indulging liimfelf in the pleasures of
the Turf.
The eyes of Europe are now fixed upon the
New National Allembly of France, it being now
considered ihe xra in which " the Rights of
Men" are either to be solemnly recognized and
firmly eftablithed, or Monarchical Government
regained and reinstated ; little-can be deduced
from the proceedings of the AfTembly, not hav
ing yet fairly entered into any national business ;
but the specimen that has been given us, carries
with it a democratic tone. From thellrong points
of their prologue, we have every reason to ex
pert a piece pregnant with much business and
incident, in which the performers will have am
ple scope for the display of their several powers.
Tiie French Patriots view their Conititutional
A<ft as a divine work. It supplants the Sacred
Scriptures, and is 10 thein Divinity, Law, Physic,
History, Philosophy, and Poetry. It will be law
to thoScnate, a prectdetit to the Bar, and a Text-
Book fdr the Pulpit
WARS AW, (Poland) October 24
Yesterday evening intelligence was received
here, by M. de Bulkakow, the Ruffian Minister
to this Court, of the death of Prince Poremkin,
which happened at Vafly, on the 16th inft.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. H.) Dec 4.
Some people, with, perhaps, more sensibility
than reaf'on, appear to condole with the Indians
on their continual hunted state, and to lament
the depredations which have been heretofore
made on their settlements by the arms of the
Union; but do not feetn to companionate with
their unfortunate fellow citizens of Pennsylva
nia, Virginia and Georgia, who have frequently
had their houfea burnt, their property delfroyed,
their wives and children butchered, and them
f'elves driven from their homes, by those savage,
murderers of the wilderness.
SALEM, December 27,
The idea has been fuggefted,that for Congress
to grant to the people called quakers, the exemp
tions from military duty which they require,
while the reft of the community are subjeCt to
such service, would amount to a " legal esta
blishment of the Quakers form of religion, when
no other form is even acknowledged by law to
exist in the United States."
An old remark.—^Sometimes the moil frantic en
thufialt, or the mod absurd and unintelligible
mortal, fliall be the author of a dodtrine or of a
system, and (hall beget sons and daughters after
his own image and fitnilitude. True it is, that
such a fe<ft feldfijgn holds out for above half a cen
jtury, ordefcends beyond the second generation :
as, among the brutes, a mule, whose lire is an ass,
leaves no polterity, and is the last of the family.
Philadelphia, January n.
The President of the United States has approved of, and recog
nized the foreign appointments in our last—M. PALESKE, con
sul-general from his majesty the King of Pruflia ; and M. MAR
BOIS, vice-consul from his most christian majesty, within the
States of Conne&icut, New-York and New-Jersey.
The uniting of the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill by means of
a navigable canal for (hallops, appears to be seriously contempla
ted by the legiflatureof the State of Pennsylvania.
On Thursday last, the Governor of the Siate of New-York open
ed the fellion of that legislature with an address to both houses.
In the address the public are informed, that, in consequence. of
the powers vt-fted in the Governor, the people had been removed,
who had intruded, some time since, upon the lands belonging to
the Oneida and Cayuga nations of Indians, and thereby given
caufeof complaint to those tribes. The financial concerns of
the State ate represented to be in a flourishing condition; and,
particularly, that from the sale and disposal of the waste and un
appropriated 'ands, the Treafuvy would receive an augmentation
lufficient to produce an annual revenue,exceed ing theordinary cx
pences of the government. —The report of the commissioners of
the land office was, further, submitted to the legislature, by which
it appeared tint the junction of the Mohawk River and Wood
Creek, by rneansof a canal, was'prafticable at a moderate expence;
as alfoa junttion between Wood Creek and Hudson's River, by
similar means ; all which could be effe&ed from the ordinary re
sources of the State without the aid of taxes.
The Pennsylvania Hospital having been found inadequate to
the two totd purpose of accommodating Jick and mad per Tons, it
has been proposed to ere£ta House, near the present hospital, for
the exclusive use of such as aie deprived of their leafon.
Extratt of a Utter from an officer at Fort-Wajhington, dated Nov. 17.
Active meafuies, indeed, must be immediately taken, to effedt
any good put pose ; and tbe United States will deceive themselves,
if they think an insignificant, undisciplined army, badly provided,
will conquer the formidable enemv they are now at war with.
They are numerous—they are trained warriors, and are elated
with vi&ory and plunder ! They gained it, however, wi»h consi
derable loss on their part; but we cannot ascertain it exa&ly.
" Our army was badly modelled, for fighting Indians : it was
raw, and wanted hoife and riflemen ; it was badly provided, and
of course was discontented.
14 The length to which affairs have gone, oertainly requires the
moftfpeedy exertion of the public ; a ftron£ army, compared to
the last, must be raised, and disciplined to fight the Indians in
their own manner ; such an army, well commanded and modelled,
I ftiould like to serve in, and would still hope to fee thole favagea
subdued."
295
A mefiiige fYom his Excellency the Governor
to the Legislature, last Friday, informed them of
further alarms at Pittfburg, on account of the
Indians—that a plan' of defenfive operations has
been recently proposed to him by the Prefidenc
of the United States—" which, as it claims in
some refpedts the fant r tion of the Legislature, he
fnbmits ro their confiderntion"—fugge'ting ac
the fame time the necellity nf adequate appro
priations of money tor arms and ammunition, &c.
to co-operate in the measures of the federal go
vernment for the protection of the frontiers.
This meflage was accompanied by a letter from
the citizens of Pittfburg, to the Governor, and
two letters from Lieut. Jeflrers, commanding of
ficer at Fort-Franklin—all of which express the
strongest npprehenfions of an immediate attack
by the savages on the above Fort.
According to the late census of the inhabitants
of the United States, it appears that in the States
of Maflachufetts, Diftrieft of Maine, Rhode-lfland
and Connecticut, the number of females exceeds
that of the males—whereas in all the other states
the number of males greatly exceeds that of the
females. From this (late of farts, the plea of any
necessity in favor of poligamy, is invalidated, if
not totally exploded.
According to rhe Jaft accounts from Cape-Fran
cois, afFdirs appear to be afluming a more tran
quil afpeft, and some late letters fay that the
market there promiles good prices for our pro
duce ere long.
It is however said that the Mulaitoes have ta
ken possession of Aux-Cayes.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Every department of government, in a free
country, has the idea of responsibility attached
to it—but perhaps there are no officers in the
executive whose characters Ihould he fairer for
integrity than those in the Pod-Office. On this
principle their conipenfations ought to be libe
ral —that abilities and honesty may be encouraged
and rewarded, and every pretext for impoficion
on the public, entirely removed.
It is said that the power and importance of the
state governments are declining, and depreciat
ing in the eflimation of the people—Quere, whe
ther a great encreafe in the representative body
of the Union will not tend to augment this dif'af
fecflion to the state governments —especially when
it is considered that this augmentation will most
undoubtedly absorb a proportional ratio of the
genius and abilities of the several states.
" Success crowns the enterprise."—Since the
event of the late expedition againfl the Wabafh
Indians haS been known, there has been wisdom
enough displayed by certain individuals andwri
ters, to have planned, and carried into compleac
and fuccefsful operation a more arduous and
complex expedition than either Congress, or all
the executive branches of the government, will
ever be called on to devise and execute from this
time to the end of the world.
When Vitlory our hopes derides,
And in a paflion changes fides,
Each politician, sage and four,
Is ten times wiser than before;
Can tell you, (and quite fly his nod is)
What has affronted madam Goddcfs ;
And shew by dint of second fight,
What would have set all matters right.
At a stated meeting of the American Philosophical Society, for
the annual ele&ion of Officers, on the 6ih of January, the follow-*
ing Gentlemen were duly chosen :
Piefident—David Rittenhoufe, L. L.D.
( Thomas JefFerfon, Sec'ry ot the U. S.
Vice-Preftdents, < William Smith, D. D.
( John Ewing, D. D.
f James Hutchinfon, M. D.
0 jSamuel Magaw, D. D.
Secretaries, < j onathan Willlams ,
(Robert Paiterfon.
f Charles Wilson Peale,
Curators, < Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
(Caspar Wiftar, M. D.
Treasurer—John Vaughan.
S Charles Petit,
Nicholas Collin, D. D.
Benjamin Rush, M. D.
William White, D. D.
The Counsellors whose term of office is not yet expired, are
the following:
Adam Kuhn, M. D. Thomas M'Kean, L/L. D.
Jared Ingerfoll, Robert Biackwell, D.D.
Andrew Ellicot, William Barton,
Samuel P. Griffitts, M. D. Isaac Gray.
Extratt from the Minutes,
J. WILLIAMS, Sec'ry.
Arrivals at the port of Philadelphia, for the year 1791 : —Shipt
arid Barques, 122 —Snows and Srigs, 250—Schooners, 78 —Sloopt
117 —Coatiers, 694 —making in the whole 1261.
Neither New-York city papcis, nor any from the Eaftwari
thereof, were received bv the Editor, by yesterday's post.
ThfeiSmarks on the " Respondent," CignedCandidus f v/td9
not think*CorrefDond with the signature.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT?
6 pr. CentJ 23/9 pr. /.
3 pr. Cents 14/3
Defered 6 pr. Cents 14J6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and othei Certificates toj6 102 i do.
Indents 13\f 65 do.
Bank Stock —half shares 109 per eent premium,
—whole (hares 60 per cent,
pr. ec*t.
do.
721 do.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
ri> -QUANTITY.
Januaxy 10.—Dollars to*
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c Pitch, pr, bbL
Allum, Engliih, pr.c. 3d 73c 4i Pork, Burlington,
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. lie
A (hes, pot, per ton, god 1 ood
■ Pearl, 140^
Arrack pr. gall, id 33 c id 67c
Brandy, common, iduc
Cogniac id 20c id 30c
Braziletto, pr. ton.
Bricks, pr. M. 4d $d
Bread, IViip, pr. cwt. id 88c id
Ditto, pilot 3d67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in } tJ
bot.pr.doz. bot. mci. j
. pr. bbl. 67c
on f Oak pr.M feet, gd 10d
Q | Merch. pine 16d 17d
Sap, do. Sd goc gd
O | N. Eng. nd
cs LCedar *4d
The above are the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard prices add 1 d 33c
pr. M.
Brimftonc rolls pr.cwt. 3d
u- ( Irilh pr. bbl
[J] < Boston
sa ( Country
Butter pr. lb.
• in kegs
S r s P cr - pi-.ib.
| Wax
Q Myrtle Wax
5 I Mould,tallow
CJ LDipped ioc
Cheese, Englifti, pr. lb. 19c
Country 8c 10c
Chocolate 15c
Cinnamon 2d 40 c 2d 67c
Cloves i^33 c
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10d 67c \\d 33c
Coffee pr. lb. 17c 18c
Copperas pr.cwt. id6yc
Cordage yd6ycSd
Cotton pr. lb. 23c 34c
Currants *3 C
t>uck, RufTia, pr. piece wd^c
Ravens 8d 93c gd 6?c
Feathers pr. lb- 40c 44 c
Flax 10c
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 85c 90c
Floar, Superfine, pr. bbl. $d
Common, 4d 74c
Bur middlings,beft 4d 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id\d%sc
Fustic pr. ton, 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, 4^4^33^
Do. pr. gal I. Boc
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d 2ld
Ginger, whiterace
Ditto, common 7d 2cc
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gc
Ginseng, 2cc 24 c
Gunpowder, can-} . .
non, pr. q. c. 0 0
Ditto, fine glazed 4d
f Wheat pr. bulh 90c 93c
Rye 5 0c 54*
£ I Oats 26c
< Indian corn 40c 44c
Barley 60c 63c
Best (helled pr. lb. 3c
Buckwheat per bush. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 120 d 146. 67c
American, pr. lb. 4c 5c
Herrings, pr.bbl. 2d67c
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9c HC
Hops 9JC
Hogshead hoops, pr. M
Indigo, French lb. \d2oc id33c
Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
f Cartings pr. cwt,
£ | Bar pr. ton, 82*/
O Pi jr 24d 26d 67c
S i Sheet IT 3d 33c
L Nail rods g6</
Jank, pr. cwt. 4^s^
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 c io*
Lead in pigs pr.c. $d6yc
in bars yd
Lead, white \odlod6yc
■ red 6d^oc6d6-c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c Iyc 20c
Lignum vitas pr.,ton, $d6oc6d
Logwood 24^
Mace pr. lb. . yd 33c 67c
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. gd
second quality 6d 6yc
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Ma ft spars 33c 67c
Molafles pr. gall. 41 c 45c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, ioc
Nails, tod\2d and 20d icc
Nutmegs pr. lb. 8d
'Linseed, pr. gall. 50c
Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2<f 50c
. Beftfweetin ) ,
** <J flafks,pr.box )
O | —baskets 12 bottles
J Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 24c 27c
I Whale 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, $d 33^
—« London.pr. doz. \d6oc
Porter, American) , , c
pr.do». bnt.inel. \
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE fer receiving and paying Gold at the Bank of the
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Cents, fr»m One to a Thousand Pennyweights— according to the
A£t of Congress, ascertaining the Standaid and Value of Gold
(J3" Blank Powers to receive wintered, and for the transfer of the
principal of public debt, agreeable to the Rules ejlablijhed in the Trea
sury Department: A/so BUnfs jortbjlradls oJCertihcatts, tobefMby
the Editor.
Lower county gd 33c
Carolina Bd
Peas, Albany pr. bush, '73c
Pepper, pr. lb. 44 c 47 c
Pimento 19 c 20c
Railing, best, pr. keg 7d 8d
Ditto pr.jar Jd
Ditto pr. box 4d
Rice pr. cwt.
Rosin pr. bbl. td-QQC td6jc
f Jamaica pr. gall. goc
I Antigua 87c
g ! Windward 73 c 77c
04 S Barbadoes 73c
Country, N. E. 59c
Salt petre, pr. cwt. 13d 33 c 14d
SaflTafras pr. ton &d 8d
Shot i^od
j CGerman pr.lb. 9 c
W blistered cwtio*/
American pr. ton 113^33c
co ( Crowley's pr. fag iod6yc
Snake root pr. lb. 20c 42c
Soap, Brown 6c
White 8c
-Castile 11c
Starch jc
Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4d $d 60c
Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Sail cloth, English,"] 8
No 1, per yard, J
Lofton, No. I. 30c
• No. 11. 291
Ruilia (heeting, pr.p. 12d
Lump, pr. lb. 18c
& j Loaf, single refined 25c
j Ditto, double do. 33c
S? | Havannah, white 16c 17c
J Ditto, brown, 12c
L Mufco.pr.cwt.
Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33c37c
f Allum pr. bulh. 24C27C
j 31c
< Cadiz 23c 24c
w ( Lisbon 24c 26c
Ship build. W.0.l
frames p. ton, J ° oo
Do. L O. 15J 33c i6i67c
Do. red cedar, p. f. 33 c 40c
Shingles, (h. p. M. 2d 33c
Do. long dressed i2disd3QC
Scantling, heart, 23d 33c
Sap SdSdbyc
7 d
6/ yd
10c tic
43'
53 c 56c
•3'
11c
C Pipe pT. 1000 30d
2 j W. O. hogshead 19 d 33c
> J R. O. do. igdsqc
< j Leogan 16d
In Barrel iod
LHeading 26d6c
' Otter, best pr. pie. 4467 c
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, grey 40c80c
■ red xdzee
Martins 24c id
~ Filhcrs 33<" 67c
« Bears 3 d
Racoons 27c 60c
Mu(k-rats lie 20c
Braver, pr. lb. 67c id 33 c
Deer, in hair 20c 30c
Tar,N.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
—Carolina,32 gall, t
Turpentine pr. bbl. id 67c 2d
f James R. best 3 d 6oe 73 c
inferior 2d 67c 3d
o old 4d 6jc
Rappahannock 2d 50c 3d
q Colo.Maryland
U Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf td 40c
ca Eastern-shore 2d 2d 23c
O Carolina,new ad 7c 3*/
. old do.
f Hyson pr. lb. 93c id2Bc
I Hyson skin, s3 c 67c
w -J Souchong, 50c 93c
(-> | Congo, 43c soc5 oc
(_ Bohea, 34c «6c
Tallow, refined gc
Tin pr. box, 13d 33c 67c
Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47c 53c
Vermillion id 33c id6yc
Varnilh, 37^
* Madeira, pr.p, \c6diOod
Lilbon gGdiood
Teneriffe, pr. gal. 51C60C
W a y al 44 c 49^
j; J Port pr. p. 106^67c \2od
5 Do. in bottle>,pr. doz. 4<i
> Claret 4^6d
Sherry pr.gall. 90c\d20c
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whalc-bone,longpr.lb. 13C30C
Tar,
—C;
Tur]
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days J}
60 days pr. cent. prem.
30 a ays 1 )
Amftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3 q c
90 days 3 8c
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per 11 guilders, 4</44c
France, 90 days q IC
From a late Bntijhpublication, entitled, " Lines to tlie Memory of
the Rev. Mr. John Wesl ey, A.M."
41 "O OUND We/lcy*s Urn no sanguine laurels bloom,
Xv No Widow's Curses murmur on his tomb;
No blood-ftain'd fpe&res haunt his parting hour,
Grin sound his bed, and o'er his pillow lour;
No butcher'd Orphan glares indignant by,
To scare the {lumbers from his closing eye ;
But Peace comes fmilingon her Seraph wing,
And steals the barb ftom Death's relenting sting :
To his last hours the good Man's meed is given,
Approving Conscience and approving Heaven !"
The char after of Mr. Wejley is thus delineated:
lt Glowing with Christian zeal and Patriot fire,
With all the love that Count ry can inspire,
With all the warmth that Genius can impart,
He pours the living precept on the heart:
Spreads on the darkling mind th* illuming lay,
And all the glories of Eternal Day.
Consoles the feeble, and confirms the strong,
And leads the timid fearlefsly along :
Grief, Sickness, Sorrow, Want, his bounties share,
And needy Worth becomes his guardian care.
Around his board no pamper'd lacquies wait,
In all the pomp of Oriental state.
He rears no Palaces, no wide spread plain
Calls him sole Lord of all its proud domain.
He courts no grandeur, and he hoards no wealth,
And toil and temperance procure him health.
Not even Avarice, the Vice of Age,
Clouds the mild lustre of his life's last stage.
Rich in the treasures of a feeling mind,
He knows no good but that of all Mankind ;
No fdfifh aim inspires his great design,
But Holy Love and Charity divine :
While to the wrangling sons of noisy ftrife,
He gives th'example of a blameless Life."
id 73 c 2d
10d 33<r
When the late justly celebrated Dr. Fothergill
was in the height of his practice and reputation
in London and Westminster, the following ad
vertisement appeared in one of the Englifli coun
try newspapers:
" This is to fartify, that I John Fothergill, of
Wooton Ballet, who cures all forts of glanders,
informations, diffnefles, and all akermunnys of
the blood both in the human and broot specious,
am not the Dr. John Fothergill as lives in Lon
don, but his fuperer, both in art and medefon, as
thousands are reddy to teftafy."
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Strekt,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be seen every day, until Jive o'clock, r. m.
Among then arc the following :
Folio. TTOMER, Xetiophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo.
*■ men > Thcodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
cuius, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremellii, Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulae—Phavorini—Martinii— Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britanaics, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropsedia, Bentley'i Horace, Terence and
Phadrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Ciefar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, See.
OBavo et infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longious,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetae minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccuif AuTonius, Buchanan, '
Sallufl, Curtius, Floaus, Juftin, Val. MaximttJ, A. Gellius, Hitt. <
Augult. Scriptores, Englijh and French Tranjlations of Come of the f
Classics, a great variety of Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. &c.
Catalogues may be had of Messrs. Rice & Co. Bonkfellera,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
October 31. ( ept f.)
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE juftnow opened their Lead-Warehousi, two doors
fouthof Walnut-street Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mcntofSHOTofall sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they liave employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufaflured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
1 hey also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
Inorten notice.
N. B. Wanted industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, Where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception. "
For further particulars enquire ofSjeffrs. Mosis Austin& Co
at their Factory in Richmond, or at above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. t f
Public Securities,
Boucht and Sold, on COMMISSION bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
R U MAM W . AY '/T e " me in uguft l ? 8- a y ellow NEGRO
rT üBRAHAu BRAHAM * lale the property of NatUnicl
ickhjf, deceased—about torty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pretty well set, with a large woollv head
j , With his kne " benl > "hen complains of
p'afterer He isa " cI "- b y«"de a bricklayer, stone mason and
o such brfSl H y y J'r " a hour -waiter, and is fond
hl"r u H 7 a « reat d'ffembler, and no doubt pretends
et:;:, He h " K b " n el °P ed f ° lnn S defcriptiono?
K 1 clothing can be g.ven. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friend, there _
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to anv person that win fe
cure said Neg,o many jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will be paid-or Thirfv Dollar
w ° UehUoPr ' nce William County, Virginia"
to Mr. John Kinchjlor, hy }i Virginia,
CHARLES WICKLIFF, Administrator.
(xawgw)
Odlober 12, i;gi
296
IMPERIAL HYSGN, SOUCHONG, a»d BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c,
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and last Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
George Meade
Has for SALE,at his Stores on Walnut-Street Whar r t
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hogshead or
quarter cask.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 j'ears old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firft quality, by the hogftiead of
quarter ca/k.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the prpe, quarter cask, or larger
quantity.
Choice old Couiac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few fjucrter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He hasjuft received by the Pigou, Loxley, master, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
By the brier Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well aflTorted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spernraceti CANDLES o"f the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of -prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantity of drefled White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of First Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to favor him With
their cuflom, may t>e aflurcd of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy undreflM HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEEDand BEES-WAX,and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton AtE, just received, and to be difpoled of.
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of everydefcription,onCotnmifion,
at the following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at auction, one eighth pei
cent. 6
On ditto at private sale or purchase, onc-halj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interefl at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at &\Uo,feventy-Jive cents per transfer.
(J5" Such persons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with pun&ua/ity,
fidelity and dijpatch. His long experience and extmfive dealings
m the public flocks, together with a well established correfpon.
dence throughout the United States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to hit employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
Neui-Ynri,'No.* I y, King-Street.
October 15, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant lituatiota en tire banks of the Pe
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the sub
scriber now resides; about e 5 or 30 acr*a will be fold with the
improvements, which are a neat and commodious two story house,
compleatly finilhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two 4ory barn, and ice house, all finilhed
in the best manner, together "with several other necessary outhbufes,
the yard and garden neailypaled, and a {killful gardner now em
ployed in patting- h in fine order ; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence; ft well, and of excellent water—the
profpefl is equalled by few, and excelled by none in Amerita-
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mult render it in
a few years of great value, being in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchafrt
offer before the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputable title, ciear of all incumbrances, will be made
by the fubferiber. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles distant, which will fait well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 1791
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An extensive AlTo'tment, of very superior texture, suitable for
every branch of the business, just imported from Arofterdam,
and for Sale by
DANIEL TYSON,
No. 114, South Front-Street;
Wher« Millers and others may always be fupolied with the best
Cloths, and large allowance made to those who purchase in quan
tities to fell again.
Also for Sale, a Quantity of Particular
madeira WINE,
Of the firft Quality, fit for immediate use, in Pipes.
Philadelphia, December 6, 1791. [lawnn]
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
M R ,-,™ MAS, « f Worcester, Massachusetts, most refpcft.
■AiT fu '^ T ,nform » the public, .hat he has this day completed the
SIVmRU uT"' h '' Ro >' al Quarto Edition of the
J UI,U ; r Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finifh
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he begs will
return them to him at Worccjicr, or to him and Company at 80/ ion,
by the last day of November next, and as much sooner as they conl
vemently can. 7
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
With their highest approbation ; both as to the execution of the
pi inung its corref::.e!s, and us cheapness compared with English
copies ol the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly rxpenfive undertaking,
is carried on foleiy at his owncoft, he is led to hope that allthofe
who w,(h to poflfefs a large Family Bit.!.-, v. ,11 <b far encourage this
nudafcle undertaking of their eountrym n, as to add their names
1 ';ie fublcriptton.
fier, Sept
J7QI
lC' a 1
* t A
(ep Bw.)
BALDWIN DADE,
ISAIAH THOMAS.
• • 5 Dollars per una.
" übfcribing.