, A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 6g, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 95, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
AT FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at thecitv ot Philadelphia, in 'he State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT relative to the Eledtion ofaPRESiDENT
and Vice-President of tlie United States,
and declaring; the Officer who shall acl as Pre
sident in cafe of Vacancies in the Offices both
of President and Vice-Prefident.
BE it enacted by ttie Senate and House of Representatives of the
United Slates of America, in Congress aiTembled, That ex
cept in cafe of an election of a President and Vice-Prrfident of the
United States, prior to the ordinary period as hereinafter fpecified,
electors (hall be appointed in each state for the election of a Pre
sident and Vice-President of the United States, within thirty-four
davs preceding the firft Wednesday in December, one thotiland
(even hundred and ninety-two, and within thirty-four days pre
ceding the firft Wednesday in December in eveiy fourth year
(ucceedingthe last election, which electors shall be equal to the
number ot Senators and Representatives, to which the several
(tales may b> law be entitled at the time, when the President and
Vice-President, thus to be chosen, should come into office: Pro
vided always, That where no apportionment of Representatives
shall have been made after any enumeration, at the time of chufing
electors, then the number of electors (hall be according to the
existing apportionment of Senators and Representatives.
And be it lurther enaftrd, That the electors (hall meet and
give their votes oh the said firft Wednefcfay in December, at Inch
place in each IVate as (hall be dircfted, by the legislature thereof ;
and the electors in each state (hall make and sign three certificates
of all the votes by them given, and shall (ca 1 up the fame, certify
ing on each that a lift of the votes of such Hate for President and
Vice-President is contained therein, and shall by writing under
thejr hands, or under the hands of a majority of them, appoint a
person to take charge of and deliver to the President of the Senate,
at the feat of government before the firft Wednesday in January
then next ensuing, one of the said certificates ; and the said elec
tors (hall forthwith forward by the poft-office to the President of
the Senate, at the feat of government, one oiher of the said certi
ficates ; and (hall forthwith cause the other of the said certificates,
to be delivered to the judge of that diftrift in which the said elec
tors lhall assemble.
And be it further enacted, That the executive authority of
each State (hall cause three lifts of the names of the ele&ors of
such State to be made and certified and to be d< livered to the elec
tors on or before the said firft Wednesday in December, and the
said elettors lhall annex one of the said lifts to each of the lifts of
their votes.
And be it further enaded, That if a lift of votes, from any
State (hall not have been received at the feat ot government on the
said firft Wednesday in January that then t he Secretary of State
shall fend a special messenger to the diftrift judge in whole custo
dy such lift shall have been lodged, who shall forthwith transmit
the fame to the feat of government.
And be it further enaded, That Congrcfs (hall be in feflion on
the second Wednesday in February, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-three, and on the second Wednedav in February tuc
ceeding every meeting of the electors, and the said certificates, or
so many of them as (hall have been received, (hall then be open
ed, the votes counted, and jhe persons who shall fill the offices ot
President and Vice-President afccrtained and declared, agreeably
to rhe conftitutior..
And be it further enabled, That in ca(e there shall be no Pre
sident of the Senate at the feat of government on the arrival ot the
peifons entrusted with the lift of the votes of the cle&ors, then
such persons lhall deliver the lifts of votes in their custody into
the office of the Secretary of State, to be fafelv kept and delivered
over as soon as may be to the President ot the Senate.
And be it further enabled, That the persons appointed by the
ele&ors to deliver the lifts of the votes to the President ot the Se
nate, fh ill be allowed on the delivery of the said lifts twenty-five
cents for every mile of the cftimatcd distance by the molt usual
road, from the place of the meeting of the elcttors, to the leat of
government of the United States.
And be it further enafcted, That if any perfpn appointed to de
liver the votes of theele&ors to the Pr fident ot the Senate, (hall
after accepting of his appointment ncglc£l to perform the fertices
required ot him by thisaft, he shall forfeit the sum of one thou
sand dollars.
And be it further enabled, That in cafe of removal, death, re
signation or inability both of the President and Vice-President of
the United States the President of the Senate pro tempore and in
cafe there (hall be no President of the Senate, then the Speaker of
the House of Reprelentatives, for the time being lhall a6l as Pre
sident of the United States until the disability be removed or a
President shall bcele&ed. j
And be it further ena&ed, That whenever the offices of Presi
dent and Vice-President lhall both become vacant, the Secretary
ofState (hallforthwith caulea notification thereof to be made to
the executive of every stats, and shall atfo cause the fame to be
published in at least one ot the newspapers printed in each state.
ipecifying that elettors of the President of the United States lhall
be appointed or chosen in the several states within thirtv-four days
preceding the firft Wednesday in December then next eniuing :
Provided, There shall be the space of two months between the
date of such notification and the laid fifft Wednesday in Decem
ber. but it there shall not be the space of two months between
the date of such notification and the firft Wednefdav in Decem
ber, and it the term for which the President and Vice-Preiident
]ast in office were elected lhall not expire on the third day of
March next ensuing, then the Secretary ofState (hall fpccify in
the notification that the elettors shall be appointed or chosen with
in thirty-four days preceding the firft Wednesday in Dcccmber
Saturday, March 17, 1
in the year next ensuing, within which time the electors shall ac
cordingly be appointed or chosen, and the electors shall meet and
give iheir votes on ihe laid firlt Wednesday in December and the
proceedings and duties of the said electors and others dial! be
puifuant to the directions prescribed in this act.
And be it further rnafted, That the only evidence of a rrfufal
to accept, or of a resignation of the office of President or Vice-
Prclident, shall bean ittiument in writing declaring the fame
and fnbfcribed by the person refuftng to accept or vefigning as the
cafe may be and delivered into the office of the Secretary of State.
And be it lurther cnafted, That the term of four years tor
which a President and Vice-President (hall be eleftrd (hail in all
cases commence on the fourth day of March next succeeding the
day on which the votes of the elcftors shall have been given.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Rcprcfentatives.
JOHN ADAMSj Vke-Prejidevt oj the United States,
and Prefidcnt of the Senate.
APTKOVED, MARCH THE FIRST, 179".
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
IT is curious, ss well as ufeful, to observe the
changes which induflry has effccfied. Italy is
at prefeiit rich in silk—yet, in this very country,
during two liiriulred and fifty years fioin the time
of its being firlt known in Rome, it was fold for
its weight in gold. Jr was not till many hundred
years after silk was known there, that the (ilk
worm was introduced into Europe from China.
In the year 551, two Monks were employed by
JuJUuian, the Emperor of Constantinople, to bring
the eggs of that ufeful infecft. This'they acconi
pliftied—and the rearingof (ilk-worms has spread
into several countries, and at last is beginning to
be an object of attention in some parts of Ame
rica. It is more than twelve hundred years since
the (ilk-worm was brought frpm China to Europe ;
and one would naturally suppose that there is
nothing further remaining to be done towards
extending thte culture of (ilk to places where it
is not yet introduced, or improving it where it is
already pra«ftifed. Yet fjhis inference, however
natural, is invalidated by two remarks. The
progress of the culture of silk has been extremely
(low, and late experience has proved that it may
be extended even to northern climates. Dear as
silk was, and eager as the trading world was to
get it, it appears that it was near seven hundred
years after the (ilk-worm was brought to Con
(tantinople, before the culture and manufactory
of silk was e(labli(hed even at Venice. It was
(lowly spread from place to place on the (bores of
tli,e Mediterranean. The experiments made in
our own country have universally succeeded. It
appears that the hatchingof the eggs maybe de
layed, artificially, till the mulberry leaf is ready
forthe supply of the young artists. The cold of
our seasons leeins, in this manner, to be obviated
without expence
There is a fore of prudence which condemns
lew schemes as viiionary, and which no doubt
deprived ten generations of this prudent race of
the advantages of this culture in Venice, and
•other places near Constantinople. There is 110
doubt that had the culture of silk been haltened
and foftered by the patronage of governments,
and of enlightet.ed nations, it might liave been
advanced a thousand years ago as far as we fee
it at this day.
The result from these remarks is, that the fuW
jecft of the culture of silk deserves the attention
of the governments and people of America. His
tory Ihews us how little was done for ages—and
our own experience proves that more may yet be
done. The southern states leem to be belt situ
ated for it, but the attempts made in the north
ern ftiould be also patronized and extended.
LONDON, January 7.
THE finances of Sweden are 111 such a ruinous
fituatlon, that the King finds himfelf under
the neceflity of convoking the States. His Ma
jesty, still perseveres in his in
tentions in favor of the French Princes ; for all
the officers of the army have received orders to
remain with their regiments ; no leave of
absence is granted on any pretext whatever.
No less than seventy Swedish merchantmen are
at prefenc in the Mediterranean : the late rup
ture with Algiers therefore fills the merchants
of Stockholm with great uneasiness.
Her Imperial Majesty was so much affetfed
with the death of Prince Potemkin, that Ihe did
not appear in public for fifteen days after she re
ceived the melancholy tidings !
The house of Jiope, at Amsterdam, has found
a great increase of banking bufinefc by their con
369
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefidcnt of the United States.
[Whole No. 501.]
cents with the French Princes. This misforiune,
however, attends ir, that ir is tranfaOted chiefly
with cro\vned heads, in which there is sometimes
not the mod exact remcmbravce of fromifss !
It is said that a commercial treaty Ijetwecn
Grear-Britain and America will take place tiie
next feifion.
The Kinprefs of Russia refufe? to recognize.
M. Genet, rhe French Minister at the court ot'
Sr. Peterlburgh.
The town of Seringapatam, in the East-Indies,
(since the mafl'acre and plunder of Delhi by Na
dir Shah in 1737) is now considered as the lar
gest, and by far the molt wealthy town in India ;
it contains the accumulated wealth of a long line
of affluent princes, and the iniinepfe trenfiires of
Tippoo. It is situated upon a long island in the
Caveri river, and connected with the' main by an
immense bridge : its defences are not naturally
Itrong. The Caveri, like most of the rivers in
India, is fordable at all times, except during the
rains, at which period the (trength of the place
becomes considerably increaled. The rains ge
nerally commence about the end of May, and
break up in July.
Jan. 9. The exiled French Princes have be
gun'a coinage, and are about instituting an or
der of knighthood. Monficur has replied to the
king's letter in ihe following terms, so that a ci
vil war seems yet inevitable.
" 'Sire, my Brother and Lord,
" Count Vergennes has remitted me a letter
011 the part of your Majesty, of which the ad
dress, in spite of my baptismal names thereon
written,, was so little mine, thai 1 was abouc to
return it, even unopened.—However, upon his
positive afl'urance that it was for me, I opened it,
and the name of brother found therein, leaving
me no more: donbr, 1 read it with the refpe<ft I
owe to the hand-writing and signature of your
JYlajefty.
" The order it Contains, to present myfelf be
fore your Majesty, is not the free expression of
your will ; and my honor, dntv, and atFeiftion,
equally forbid my obedience."
The Emperor and the King of Prussia have con
cluded a defenlive alliance, in which the latter
has undertaken to guarantee the Germanic con
ftitutian, and all the rights and pofleftioiis of the
empire
We are happy to hear from one of the firft mer
cantile characters in the city, than great as the
surplus of the revenue was latt year, that of this
prefeiit year will exceed it by one litillion lix
hundred thousand pounds.
To the above pleafingcircuniftance we are hap
py*to add, that, in consequence of the sum appro
priated for the American loyalilts being liqui
dated this year, we shall have next year, beiide
every other incidental increase, a further addi*
lion of three hundred thousand pounds.
* It is said that the court of Madrid has agreed
to all thedemands of the Anglo-American States,
even to the free navigation of the Mifliffippi.
The King of Spain persists in rcfufing to re
cognize the New Constitution of France.
The following is the reply of Count Florida
Blanca, to the French Minister, in regard to the
question—
' The King, has not asyet fufficient
experience of the conduct of the French nation,
in regard to their own sovereign or Spain, to
give a categorical answer on this fubjecS.'
The King of Prussia has conferred the rank of
Major-General, and a penlion of 200 Rix Dollars
on General Heyinann, who left die iervic? ot
France in company with M. Bouille.
Yrfterday morning at eight o'clock the house
of the Duke of Richmondj in Privy Garden,wa»
discovered to be on fire.—Before the engines ar
rived, the flames had got to fuc'i a height that it
was a considerable time before they could be in
any degree reduced—but fortunately the firehav
ing broke out at the top of the house, an oppor
tunity was thereby afforded of getting out uie
molt valuable furniture in the lower apartments,
which was removed to places of falety in the
neighbourhood.
It is with much pleaftire we learn that the Duke
of Richmond's valuable museum did not fall a
prey to the flames during the late fire. —Had it
been destroyed, it would have been almost a na
tional loss, for the collection is one of the molt
splendid in Europe.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE of representatives,
W 1 DfsESDAY, Feiruaky 8.
hi committee of the -jjholt, on the Fijhery Bill.
On the motion to iti ike out the words l( bounty now allowed,"
and 10 inferx ' ailowaiice now made,' &c.
"jVT R - GILES observed, tliac he conceived the
-LVJL vote of yesterday againit fti-iking out the
firfl fedtion, was a decision in favor of the poli
cy of granting governmental aid to the fiiheries ;
the inquiry of to-day will be 011 what terms this
aid /hall be granted ?
lie felt, he laid, but little regret at the deci
sion of yelterday, because he had himfelf pre
vioutly contemplated some reasons, not unim
portant, to jnflify that decision, ancl others had
been luggeited by several gentlemen in the course
of .he debate : The principles of this policy,
lie thought however might be combated by rea
sons of at lead equal, and as far as he was able
to judge, of paramount importance; but as he
admitted r.onfiderable weight in the reasons on
each fide of the question, he was not particu
larly tenacious of the preference which his own
opinion suggested. When he firfl mentioned his
doubts respecting the principle of the bill, it was
with diffidence, and those doubts in some mea
sure arose from an idea that the bill contained a
direct bounty upon occupation ; upon a more
minute examination lie thought tjie term bounty
unneceffiirily introduced into the bill, and that
the objetfi of it could be anfvvered without the
use of terms, which might hereafter be deemed
to contain a decilion upon the general principle
of the conditutional right to grant bounties ; it
was to avoid any thing which might wear the ap
pearance of such a decision, that induced him to
make the present motion.
He proceeded to remark that as great a dif.
ference of opinion often exilled refpedtir.g the
precise meaning of the terms used, as the conse
quences which flow from them after attaining
such precision of meaning ; and it is of impor
tance to the present difcufiion that an accurate
definition of the terms used in the bill, and those
proposed to be used, fliould be had.
The avowed object of the bill is not to increase,
but to transmute the sum or a portion thereof
now allowed to the fifheries in lieu of the draw
back upon fait, from the merchant who is now
supposed to receive the sole benefit, to the fifh
ermen really employed in the fifliing veflels :
I his is a mere chimerical project, but if it be ad
mitted that this is the object to be effected by
the bill, the term bounty is improperly applied.
A gentleman from Maflachufetis (Mr. Antes' l
who rests the defence of this bill almost folelj
upon this position, that those who receive the
benefit intended by it, are of right entitled to
such benefit in consideration of a previous ad
vancement in value, and that this bill contains a
nteie permission to them to retain their own, has
at the fame time declared, that he thought' the
term bounty the most proper and technical, to
convey this idea—in this, the gentleman appears
to have deviated from his usual accuracy. A
bounty is the granting a benefit without a" cor
-1 efpondent return in value—a drawback is the
retaking of lomething in consideration of a pre
vious advancement ; this is always founded up
on a consideration pteviouflv received—that is *1
grant of favor ex mero motn. '
But the great charatfteriftic diflinttion between
bounties and drawbacks as they efl'entially relate
to the adminiltration of this government, con
-1,1 tilc governmental objects to which they
may severally be applied : Drawbacks are ne
ceflarity confined to commercial regulations
bounties ma y be extended to every pofiible object
»>i government, and may pervade the whole mi
nutia of police, they may not only be extended
to commerce, bat to Wa/ai, agriculture, ttiaun-
Jaatjre j and even the fast tine ft of religion will
ue found too feeble to furnifh complete protec
tion from their influence. The people of the
United States have always been scrupulously te
nactous of a conilitutional security for the mofl
free and ec-un! exercil'e of this right, but through
t>ic mcu'jjmit bounries even this right may be
mvac.eJ, and the only security againit such in
valion innft be governmental discretion.
1 he fame ch»radteriftfc difliniftion will attend
that Jpectei of bounty which may incidentally
relult from commercial regulations; and direct
01111 tics i.pon occupation founded upon the broad
bafts o( di.c; euonary right : the fpecification in :
the ccnfhttuion of the right to regulate com- 1
merce, way pofilbly in fctne cases give rife to '
this indirect species of bounty, not from any
right in the conltitution to gra,nt bounties,/but
as the necelfary result from tlie fpecified right to
make commercial regulations—and this fpecifi
cation can be the only foundation of juftification
ro this ihdireot species of bounty, but there is no
fpecification in the coultitiition of a right to re
gulate learning, agriculture, manujatturcs or reli
gion, and so far as the sense of the constitution
can be collected, it ratherforbidsthan authoi ifes
the exercise of that right.
Aigunients used to deduce any given authority
fiom the term general welfare, abiiractedly from
the fpecification of fotne particular authority, are
dangerous in the extreme to rights constitution
ally i eferved, and ought ever to be viewed with
! g reac caution and suspicion ; they serve diredtly
to fliew that this government is not only consoli
dated in all its parts, but that it is a consolidated
government of unlimited discretion, that it con
tains no constitutional limitation or reftriJiion.
If any given authority }>e inferred from the
term general welfare in the abftrsuft, any other
authority is equally deducible from it, 'because
the term is applicable to every poflibie object of
government, and differs only in degree, as to
the several governmental objects.
He could not fee the force of the novel andcu
rious distinction taken by a gentleman from Con
necticut (Mr. Hillhoufe) between general weljare
and particular weljare ; for every particular wel
fare however minute, maybe in a degree for'the
general welfare, and if the- decision refpeiting
the existence of this diftinttion, have no other
limitation than congreflional discretion—it is e
qually deltruitive of all confth'utional rellraint.
Gentlemen who have advocated this principle
of conltru<tion, appear'ftartled at forne confe
quetices fuggelted to result from it, and have de
nied that they have made the admiflion of such
consequences ; this is true, nor have tbofe in re
ply so aflerted, but they have taken up the prin
ciples of construction furnifhed by its advocates,
and made the application of it to the consequenc
es which they themfdves infer ; and if the prin
ciple be admitted, it is undeniable but that the
conclusions drawn from it will necefl'arily follow
in their utmost latitude.
A gentleman from South-Carolina (Mr. Barn
well) confidently spoke of the inherent rights of
this government ; this is a new source of aucho
lity, and totally inapplicable to this government
if there be inherent rights in governments at
all, they mull belong to governments growing
out of a (late offociety, and not to a government
deriving all its authorities by charter from pre
viously existing governments, or the people of
those governments. In such a government, the
exercile of every authority not contained in the
lnftruinent, or deducible from it by a fair and
candid conltruciion, is an nnjuflifiable assump
tion j}nd usurpation.—-He did not mean, he said,
to analife this fubjetfi further at this time, and
had been led into thefegeneral remarks, because
the impatience of the committee to have the
question upon striking out the fecftion, had caus
ed him to refrain from delivering ih e f e senti
ments at that time. '
He would remark further, that bounties in all
countries and at all times have been the effect
of favoritifin , they have only served to divert
the current of industry from its natural channel
into one less advantageous or productive ; and
in fa<ft they are nothing more than governmen
tal thejts committed upon t'he rights of one part
of the community, and an unmerited governmen
tal munificence to the other— In'this country and
under this government, they present an aspect
peculiarly drsadjul and dejor?ued.
I To contemplate the fubjetSs upon which boun
ties are to operate in the United States, the na
ture of the government to dispense them, the
date preferences which now do and will forever
•more or less, continue to exist, the impoffibilicy
of an equal operation of bounties throughout the
United States, upon any subject wha'ever, should
beconfidered ; and one of these two effects will ne
cellarily follow the exercise of them—either 'the
very exidence of the government will be dedroy
ed, or its adminidration ui 11 it be radically chamr.
Ed it mult be converted into the molt complelc
lyitem of tyranny and favoritifin.
. He observed, that it is not unfreqiient at this
time to hear of an eaflern and southern interest,
and he had tor some time filcntly and indignant
ly leen, or thought he saw, attempts by this mean
to influence the deliberations of this House upon
alinolt every important question ; so far as be
was the inliilted objedt of tliefe attempts, he felt
that contempt for their authors, which appeared
to him to be the correspondent tributeto theim
punty of their designs s yet he thought that this
had been the molt formidable and effectual ,ni
mfttrial machine which had been yet tifed in the
adii'imftratton of the government. Butoneo-reat
mi. chief he apprehended from eftablifhine the
pt inc.p.e ■) t, 1 e unrcftrained right to grant boon
be > tl,ac u >nake the difference of
th eaflern and font hern, so far as
iey differ in their refpedtive flares of maimfac-
370
IS™;' l g n; C ntke e t'ha?p' ar 7 y h S,,tSi
artificial The jealousies and fufpieions arifinff
from party will then have a fubrtantial founda^
pn, which now have no foundation in fadt but are
ingeniously Simulated by a few fnrrh-' r
of effecting particular
vernment fliall be adminidered liberally & im
ally, as long as the principle of reciprocal de
inand and supply between east andfouth (hall re
main in violate,fo long there can exilt,,o eflential
diflmtt interest between them ; but. the instant
bounties or governmental preferences are granted
to occupation that instant is created a separate*
wholly between ealt & foiHr
but between the man ufacturer and the cultivato'-
ofthe foil ; there will still ex ist a community 0
agricultural intweft throughout theUnitedStates
and he hoped the time was not fardiftant when
a common sympathy will be felt by the whole of
that class of the community.
For these reasons, he hoped the motion would
prevail. IU
WEDNESDAY, Makch 14.
A meflage from the Senate was delivered by
Mr. Secretary Otis, notifying, that they had, oil
their part, agreed to the report of the managers
of the conference, on the disagreeing amend
ments of both Houses to the " bill to ascertain
and regulate the claims to half pay and invalid
pensions." ;
Th n °I d * r of f l,e d »y bein g called for, oil the
contelled Georgia eleifiion, ( ,
A motion of Genera] Jackfoii's, " that thede
cifion of the Senate of the State of Georgia on
the impeachment of judge Ofborne, so far'as it
refperts the Camden return for a member to re
present the slate of Georgia, on, the 3d day of
January, 1791, be received as evidence in the
prefentfria] of that eleiftion, toeltablift the cor
ruption of Judge Olborne," w 3 s the fubjetftofa
lengthy debate, in which the extent ofthe right
of the Ho life to judge in all cases of concerted
ele<siions, was fully difcufled.
The question being at length taken on the mo
tion, it parted in the negative—yeas 20—Hays 41.
Messrs. A (lie, Baldwin, Boudinot, Clark, Ger
ry, Giles, Gregg, Grove, Heifter, Jacobs, Key,
Kirchell, Macon, Schoonmaker, Steele, Sumpter,
Thatcher, Tread well, Tucker, Willis—2o.
NAYS
Meflrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Brown, Findley, Fitzfimons, Gilmau,
Goodhue, Griflin, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger,
Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Lee, Livermore,
Madison, Mercer, Moore, Muhlenburg, Murray,
Page, Parker, Sedgwick, Seney, J. Smith,
I. Smith, W. Smith, Sterret, Sturges, SyJvefter,
Venabie, Vining, Wadfworth, Ward, White,
Williamfon— 41.
Mr. Lewis, counsel for the fitting member,
then proceeded to reply ; and having canvafled
the evidence refpetfing the Effingham election,
The House adjourned.
THURSDAY, March 15.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by
Mr. Secretary Otis, informing the House that tbe
Senate have palled a bill, entitled, " An a<ft de
claring tbe consent of Congress to certain ac r tsof
the dates of Maryland,Georgia,and Rhode-Iflan<i
and Providence Plantations, so far as the fan:e
refpecls the dates of Georgia, and Rhode lilaiid
and Providence Plantations."
'The House proceeded in the trial of the Geor
gia elctftion. Mr. Lewis finifhed his remarks on
the evidence brought forward by the petitioner,
Mr. Jackson, at the close of which, he renewed
his propoikion for a postponement of the deci
lion of the house for a few days.
Mr. J ackson rejoined in a speech of fonie length,
and concluded by faying heihould confidein tbe
wifdoiii and justice which ihould guide the deci
sion of the House.
When Mr. Jackson finiflietl liis speech, a clay
ping of hands took place in the gallery.
Mr. Baldwin then renewed (he motion which
he made foine days Since, the substance of which
was, that certain papers tranfinitted to him by
the Supreme Executive of ihe state of Georgia,
being proceedings of the Hoiife of Reprcfenta
tives of that (late, relative to die election of a
member for the eaflern diftri(ft of said ftate,fhould
be received by the House This motion occa
floned a debate, which was finally determined by
calling for the previous question, in the follow
ing words—Shall the main question he now put r
This being determined in the negative, tiie
House adjourned.
FRIDAY,
Sundry petitions wore read and referred.
The report of a feleft committee to which was referred the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury on the petition of ccitain
ioan-officcrs, was read rhe firft and fccoad time, and referred to a
committee of the whole House. . ,
Mr. Boudinot after adverting to some irregularity which too
place in the gallery yesterday, and remarking on the im;>o'
of the freedom of elections, laid the following motion on the tab c. .
Resolved, That whenever in the opinion of the Speaker, 01 o
the Chairman of the committee of the whole H uufc, any difjru c -' r *
YEAS
March 16.ly Of improper behavior (tiall happen 'in the galleries, it be a
/landing rule of this H.ufe, that the Speaker or Chairman do or
der the galleries to be immediately cleared without taking the
opinion of the House or committee.
An enrolled bill entitled an ast declaring the assent of Con Orel's
10 a certain ast of the State of Maryland, &c. was brought in'and
ligned by the Speaker.
The House proceeded in the trial oF the Georgia eleaion ■ after
a few introduftoiy remarks, Mr. W. Smith moved the followitw
refolution,viz. That Anthony Wayne was not duly elected a
member of this House.— This relolution was unauimoufly agreed
to, Ayes fifty-eight. °
Mr. Smith then moved another resolution, viz. That a cerii
fied copy of .he vote just patted (hould be Iranfmitted by the
Speaker to tbe Supreme Executive of the State of Georgia
This motion, alter confutable debate, was by general consent,
Jaid on the tabic,nil Monday.
The Houll- took into conlideration the report of the committee
of conference on the bill to regulate the claims to half pav and in
valid pensions, and agreed to fa.d report, in confluence ol
V'hich the bill is palled.
The amendments of the S;nate to the Representation bill were
read, and laid on the table. The principal amendments are an
encreale ot the Representation to 120 members ; and afllgning ad
duional members to those States which have th • larked fractional
numbers on the apportionment of one Reprcfentative to ever,
3 o thousand persons, and expunging the fidl ion which provides
ior a lecond enumeration.
The report of the feleft committee, to whom was referred the
report of the Secretary of the Treafurv, on the pet itiou of Comfort
Sands and others, was taken into cdnfideration ; after confidcrable
debate, the House, without taking a vote, adjourned till to-mor
row.
BOSTON, February 22.
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, Feb. 24.
A lingular letter was presented by Amos Butterick, a Shaker
praying that government would receive bark the fecunties &c'
■which had been granted him, as a pension for the loss of an eye in
the iervice; declaring, at the fame time, that he could not confei
entioirfly keep it, nor receive any gratuity ; which was read and
committed to the hon. Mr. Hofmer, Dr. Euftis.and Mr.Johiifon—
who reported, that the applicant have leave to depofif.tie money
&c. in the treasury, and that it be fafely kept for him.
• There is 2 seasoning in wit, frequently to be found in the most
simple expreflion. On Wedncfday, a young pirl asked, what
ihe firing and ringing were for ? For Gen. Washington's Birth
"Day, was the reply.—" What again," faj s she, " /thought they
kept if a Jortmght ago but recollecting herfclf, " Ifibbok
fay« the, " He is so great a man, that he was horn twice."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TPHE attemp(|jof the persons in the gallery on
■A TlNirfday last, to manifeft their approba
tion of what was doing in the House of Repre
sentatives of the United Stares, by clapping their
hands, was too suddenly checked by the marks
of severe displeasure which appeared on the part
of the House. It :night be said, with more truth,
by a part of the Houfe—for proper exceptions
are always to be made. But why fliould not the
House fuffer the people to express their sense ?
They represent the people it is true—that, how
ever, is in the quality of substitutes for those who
cannot attend in pofon. Those of the people
who are prefeijt in the gallery, represent them
selves 5 and with the members, atSing as attor
nies to those who are absent, the whole is repre
sented. And so things go as merrily as at an
horse-race, by Ihoating and clapping of hands.
Who will not prefer this mode of doing business
u C j C ou '' s t " le gallery in conjunction, to
the dull nutcracking, apple-pairing, drowsy hum
of their ordinary proceedings ?—We talk oftlie
ienfe of the people. But this, on the old plan,
Js mere t,alk : by the addition of the gallery, the
advantage is doubled—we have two senses—at
lead we have added besides the sense.
The sense of the people exprefled at a distance,
gets cold before it reaches Congress. But if
ongrefi can be made to do as the gallery woi)ld*
have them, it seems clear that they will be made
to obey the sense of the people. This, it is true,
would throw a burden on the flioulders of the
people of this city. But, fSr the fake of their
diltairt fellow-eitizens, they ought not to refute,
especially as it would give those whom they t>b-
Jg e great pleafnre and fatisfa*fiion,'and increase I
the confidence reposed in Copgrefs. Nay, if the
1 rant iVates fhdiild happen to negle<ft chufing
members, or they fhpuld negle<si to attend, things
Would gdon iwitnhlingly notwithstanding. The
gallery would fep to them. The Senate keeps
its doors ftiut,,„ and seems to believe that a dell
eiative aflembly may deliberate without a gal
y* It seems easy to prove the very contrary.
- Sal'ery may goyerri very well without an af
lembly. They did so at Athens ; and if a fellow
*»as n °«y» or too tall to size with his townfnien,
'ey flurtfened bim by the head, or sent liini to
1 In oanifhrnent by the ostracism,
The Oppofuion to clearing the galleries was
very fit and Ojtoper. no doubt it could be
ihewn tjiat was unconstitutional. If
not from the conftituuon, at lead ther<? is a di
>ect precept from another b6ok, which is—" O
clap your hands together all ye people.
"o the Memory of JOHN HALL, Eftj. late of liurkc Courtv, State
of Georgia.
t her. my Hall, I drop a tear—well known
A- io genuine Kiendflup, and to her alone :
tor thee iball laftmg rctrofpe&ion mourn,
Weep o'er thy grave, and bathe thy peaceful urn.
I' e er ;i tribute was to virtue due,
• Honor 3,1(1 truth confirn the claim to you •
Your hfc, unfulheri, «, bv worth approv'd ■
\uudicd lunented, honor'd, and beluv'J
f
.1 r, t °I the hench 3S in aftate of rannvii
:sssis=H;r:
lefti ua, y>' ,e does not put a (lop, within his States, to all col
t ° , r ? S ' a " d a " tortile difpofuion. on the'par, f the
the r e Uke " ™ fu ß c in '" c stall ""fider him as
' " France and that he had made the mod proper mill
r° rCndCr h ' S declara[i °" s refpefted The
P , CeCh wi,h alTu """* of attachment to the
t-onll tution, and declaring that he " feels profoundly how
OLORtouS IT IS TO BE THE K 1 N G OF A FREE PEOPLE."
speech was received with (bouts of applause.
.he T ,-'il^ C " tof ' h; A s T * cmb 'y replied to thisaddrefs ; in which
n! ! k nC " l a J reßl,CI ' of cvrr y fopport necessary i„ de
whof h thc V'ona: Id'gnity, the Conftitmion, and of the King,
thronc stands ° n 'he ui:(haken basis of the Conßitution
The Minifferof War, after the King had retired, gave an ac
hid'h l ° 'C A r )ly of the measures and arrangements which
tad been made pursuant to orders from the King—by which he
laid 150,000 men would be on the frontiers in the course of a
month—that he was going to the frontiers to mlpeft in person the
fortifications and the army—that three armies were thought ne
celiary and were to be under the command of Generals Rocham
beau l uckner and La Fayette ; three officers In whose patriotism
and abilities ihe nation has the mofl unbounded confidence.
An encreafe of the public expenditure, he observed, would be
a ncceifary consequence of the measures already taken, but France
would not (land higgling when its liberty was at flake
The (ignal for war, be said, would be the signal for the return
or public order.
The manileflo of the Etnperor againfl France is dated the 21ft
of December, and was publilhed by the French Miniftcr Dc Lcf
iait, in Pans, the 2d of January, 1792.
A very confiderabie earthquake was felt in Lisbon the 27th of
November la(l— no accounts are received of any lives being lofl
tho the people weie in the grcarefl conflernation.
Articles of a supposed treaty between Russia and Sweden
published in the jEnglifh papers.
Further European int,r lligence, by the lateanival at New-York
informs—That the treaiy between Russia and Sweden is ratified •
that the communication between Russia and France is broken off-'
That M. Dnportail, the French Miniftcr of War, has refiened.
M. L. de Nar'oonne is talked ot as his successor— Four hundred
officers of the French navy have emigrated—That at Hanau a
town in the Landgraviate of HefTe-CalTl, great preparations are
making on the part of the emigrants—That the King of the French
will not, in ill piobabili'.y, affix his figuature to the decree againfl
•ic Clergy—That the King of Prussia is making great militaiv
preparations—That parties run high in Peterfbu'rgh, since the
Qeath of Prince Potemkin. refpecfing the late war—That the no
bility of Russia are opposed to entering into a French var— That
the spirit of toleration has penetrated even into Turkey, where the
grand Seignior has forbidden any insults being offered to the
Chiillians by the MulTulmen—-That the emigrant French Princes
have their public offieesat Coblentz, such as war-office, secretary'
ot dates'' office, &c. at which business is tranfafted with national
regularity— -I hat confiderabie sums of money have been remitted
to Coblentz, 'but the Count d'Artois, considering it as intended
for his own use, and that of some others of the roval hdufhold
had d.flipated the greatest part of it. M. de Choifeul Gouffier is
named Arobaffador to the Court of London ; and M. de Mouftier
to Constantinople.
M. la Fayette is arrived at Metz (a city of Germany, abouß 180
railes cast of Paris, fubjeft to France) where he was received with
every mark of patriotick diftin&ion.
On Wednesday last Forty-five Indians of diftinftion, from the
Northern Tribes of the Six Nations, arrived in this city ; and were
most cordially received by his Excellency the Governor.
Accounts from Georgia state, that the Creek Indians, finding
Bow L'E5 deficient in fulfilling his promises, had drove him away?
and that Gen. M'Gillivr av intended {hortly to attend to run
ning the boundary line agreeable to treaty.
A fnm of money has lately been fubferibed in the city of Al
bany, to be disposed of in premiums, for the purpose of promot
ing the progress and improvement of maple sugar—particularly
the graining of it. '
ExtraH of a letter from a gentleman, dated PojlVincer.nes. January 4 th,
1792, to his friend in Montgomery county, Pennfyivania.
" When we entered the Ouabaclie river it was lull of floating
ice, Major Hamtramck with whom I came, had about 5 o men
: we had 170 miles to ascend the river in this situation, and we had
but ten days provision. About 200 Pyankefhaw Indians, who
had beard of the defeat of the army, and that their prisoners were
hanged at Fort-Waftiington, fell in with us; wfc happened fortu
nately to have two Indians with us who had been up to Fort-
Walhington' to fee their friends, who were taken by Gen. Scott
and Gen. Wilkinfon ; these two informed their brethren, that
their prisoners had not been hanged, as had been told them', but
were well treated—this pleased them. But still we apprehended
they might wilh to take some prisoners which they could offer in
exchange for their wives and childrcq, and there were three or jour
of them for one of us. To account for it, I cannot, but the fa a
is, they were very kind to us, gave us plenty of frefh meat, and
all the afliftance they could in coining up. God grant they may
always continue in this difpofuion."
" The bill for erecting another Bridge over Charles'-River has
paflVd both Houses, and is become a law.
" The Uhiverfity of Cambridge is to receive 3001. annually
from the income.
" Three new Bridges will be building in thi? slate this year, of
great magnitude— two of them over Mfcrtimack River.
ENCODE.
" The fubjeft of the separation of Maine has been warmly de
bated in the House of Reprefemativs—the Sachem was very
pointed in his (IriQures on the Boston feat his remarks were
properly noticed—an adjournment prevented further perfonali
tles, which began to wear a serious afpeft. The sense of the peo
ple in the diflrift is to be taken on the fubjefi.
" We have had a great coitteft about the old bufincfs of incor
porating the town—a«d were out-voted. I have no doubt, how
ever, that there are mote than three quarters of the legal voters in
favor of the reform ; and measures are taking to ascertain tails.
" Henry Jackson, Esq. is chosen by the Ixrgiflature Major-
Geneial of the First Division of the Militia of the Commouwealih."
BSe&ej
■Ty~gtT»-
Philadelphia, March 17.
Extruft of a letter from Bojion.
371
"t Ma? BK
OR.IGINAL COMMUNICATIONS,
Wl, cn ,ncn , r , f, n in fmaM triKts or
'•V '"C a very unperlefi Hale or animation As t? f, I
fpm improves, hey w „, (!cfifc a more cxtc - ed
ma„ JK lr ? pOVV, ' ,S a " fl f!rr "" 1 toother, .he capacity t
formed ,mo a great nation. J, wool,! he cr.ous n.H r, ally
ful fpcculatloi, to stew the moral eault, wb ,ch produce , h1 ,7,W,
a great nation the mind of the individual feernj rnifed 'a JMu ,j.
WO. and the virtues and talents of men leein exalted °
Ame ri , ~n )fccpicmj r i;) w ,„ confirm thKthem j t^ h «
n wi lit, ufelt the feeds of it's own improvement: It wit) rail
forth all the energy of,he human chavader. A nation so nume
wiHVvP^ d,n i" VCr J Ch a rpact "' and so wonderfully prosperous
w,M excite and reward the highest efforis of gen.us'aod virtue
the H dn , f pol to bc iangume will no: so much doubt
i eg re eto which our national imptoVcmenr ishaJtening as the
£!r y ? OUr ™ n "" uin e inour P r «f='«courfe. He will admic
that Macedonia in all its power,-and Alhens with all its tall,
America™ "n le '' """ and ho P e il3r «!>»«
America He will fay it is yet too early to write the history of
A"' u u " <ecn ° nl >' ln hls cradlc - In this wh "'e horizon
of light, however, there is only one cloud—and that is charged
with temped and darkness and deflation. The reparation of the
Mates would blast all our hopes.—lt is the only riflt. we run as a
nation. Ihe world has admired the reflefling charafler of Ame
rica. It has done us the credit to suppose that the mind has given
us our prelent national pre-eminence ; we are thought to be the
molt completely civilized of any nation, and therefore the molt
'^ C ?, ', n '° a great and '"divisible society. But if we divide
we ihall (hew how much we have been over>ated—and if we con
lider what we (hall lose and what we (hall fuffer from each other
wc (hall be the mod miserable and moll degraded people on
The aSifc/ flatt of our country, intheview of everv impaitial
patriotic observer, is a flat contradiflion to the rcvilers of that go
vernment, which with so much joy the people so recently adopted.
Perhaps it is not in the power of language to convev to the hu
man underflanding more ingenious arguments againfl the measures
of Congress, than those which were offered in the House of Rc
prefentatives, and which have been publifficd, and circulated .n
ail parts of the United States ; but it is to be presumed, that the
answers to these argument were couched in terms equally for. ible
at least—these answers are likewise before the public that public
which has awarded its approbation to the measures of government
by re-ele£ling their molt diftinguithed advocates.
Say, can ought foo'.he the restless mind,
To all, but its awn merits blind ?
Not George himfelf escapes the spleen,
Of canktr'd malice and chagiine—
Tho' Heav'n. all-wife, with gracious hand
Created him to save this land.
The Prefiaent of the United States, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, has appointed the following gentlemen Offi
cers of the squadron of Cavalry, to be laifed agreeable to an
ast palled the sth inft. for the more effe&ual defence of the Fron
tiers :
MAJOR. 1
Michael Rudulph, at present Captain in the'l ft Reg.
fohn Watts, Virginia
fohn Craig, Pennsylvania
Robert Mis Campbell, S.Carolina William Aylett Lee, Virginia
William Winfton, Virginia William Davidfon, Maryland
CORNETS.
Leonard Covington, Maryland Solomon Van Ren(Telaer,#. York
Tarleton Fleming, Virginia James Taylor, Pennsylvania.
Married, on Sunday evening lad, by the Rev. Dr. Helmuth,
Mr. I s aac Neale, Printer, of Burlington, (N. J.) to Mils Peg
gy Kammeker, daughter of Mr. Henry Kammerer, ot this
city.
Died, in Charleflon.fS. C.) Capt. M'Al lister "
of the. late Maryland line of the Continental Army. This gentle
man fejrved with distinguished reputation in-tfte late war—he led
the forlorn hope in the brilliant coup-de-main of ftoiming Stony-
Point. '
In New-York, He nry Remsem, Esq. Merchant, of that
city.
SHIP NEWS.
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at the POkT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Maiy Ann, Thoimpfon, St. Euftatia.
Lce ' AuxCayes,
Sch. P. Mann, Virginia
Samuel, Kirby, ditto!
Pol, V». Andaule, PotMu-Priuoe.
Two Sifters, Lownfbury, HifpinioU,
|CP Price of Stocks as in our laj}.
I FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
On Wednesday the nth day of April next, at the House of
John Thompso'n, in the City of Perth-Amboy, or at private
Sale before,
A FARM, containing about four hundred acres of upland and
fait meadow, lying within three quarters of a mile of (aid
city; is a great part bounded on the found, and on a navigable
CI ek, on which is a good mill leat. There are on the farm seve
ral eligible situations for building, with delightful profpe&s, ex
cellent brooks and springs ; a large apple oichard, and some fruit
trees of other kinds, and a fuffieient quantity ol fire-wood. The
foil is good for grass and mott kinds of grain, and may at small
expence, from the conveniency of tiie fait meadow, and other ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any larm in New-Jersey.—
It will be fold all together, or in two or three divifior.s, as lhali
appear bell to suit those inclined to purchase.
For further particulars, previous to or at the time of sale, apply
to the fublcribers. JOHN' HALSTED, and
(40 . MATTHIAS HALSTED.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Creditors of John Craige,
Johnßild-erback,Samuel Barber, AboilaHotch!
ens. William Richardson, Gabriel West lonq and
Hugh Gunning, insolvent debtors, confined in the gaol of the
County of Salem, in the Siate of New-Jcrfcy, that the Judgeslfif
the inferior Court ofCommon Pleas, for the said County on ap
plication to them mado,have appointed the sixth day of April
next for the said Creditors to appear before any two ar more of
the laid Judges, at the town of Salem, to (hew cause, if any tney
have, why an aflignment of the said debtors ellate, rcfpeftivelv,
should not be made, and rhey be dif'harged from confinement,
puifuant to an a# of Assembly, 'palTcd 24th of November lad, lor
the reliefof insolvent debtors then confined. ■.}
c APT A 1 n s,
Lawrence Manning, S. Carolina
John Stake, New-York
LIEUTENANTS,
v-:f
• /THE Eziitok. ojthe Gazette of bd St at es, mefl
tarneflly requefli that those df his fubferibers, iohofe arrearages have
•been accumulatfrtg for more than twelve months, would make payment as
fetn as pofjible—at farthefi, before thefrjl day of June next.
Those persons whofhall be difprfed to patronize this Gazette after
the Poll-Office Lawfkallgo into operation, willQkaje tofigmty their
intention to Hie Deputy Po(t-Maft|js in the United States, who are
requtflcd toJdTwariJiich fubfcriplions as may be received, to the Editor,
to the ftidfirfl of June. The terms offubferiptionare
.Dollars per annum, etclujive of poflage—One half tobe paid at
tflt tlrSg cf fubferibing, the other half to be advanced at the expiration of
the firfi fix months.
CONTRACTS.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, M.nch 6, 1795.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will be received «
the Office of the Secretary of the Tieafury, until 5 0 clock
id the afternoon of Wednesday the a. It day of March instant. lor
the fu#ily of the following articles of Clothing lor the Troops
in the fefvlce of the United Stales, viz.
For the Infantry and Artillery.
4,608 hats 18,460 shirts
4,608 coats 7>95 6 P a,rs ot socks
4,608 vests 4 608 blankets
8,668 woolen overalls 4,608 ftotks
9,216 linen ditto 4,608 stock clasps
18.376 pairs of (hoes 4,608 pairs of buckles,
Fur the Cavalry.
320 caps 640 do. of ftock.ngs
320 coats 1,280 Hints
320 vests 3 2 ° bankets
320 pairs leather breeches 320 stocks
640 do. of boots 320 stock clasps.
320 do. of spurs
Also, 1,200 rifle shirts, to be made of Ruflia meeting.
Of the above clothing, five hundred fuitsare to bedcliveied
the 15th day of April next; one tlioufand luits on the 15th day
of May next; one thousand five hundred suits on the 15th day o
Tune next; and the remainder on the 15th day ot July nex'.
The place of delivery may be either at New-York, Philadelphia
or Baltimore, at the option of the contradtor or contrafiars.
Proposals will bereceived foi the whole of the above mentioned
clothing, or for any one component article feparalely; to be tur
nithed agreeably to patterns or specimens, which may be fcen a;
the War Office. .
Good fecuiity for the punctual and faithful performance ot the
contra6l will be required. The payments will be on the deliver\
of the clothing; or, if neccffary, such reafonabU advances will bt
made as may b e defued. —
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal Irr.m the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Palquotank in North-Carolina,
nr for condoling the work, will be receive until the ninili
of April next, by "Robert Andrews, ol Willumtburg; Tliotn.it
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bcdinjer, ol N' .rfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
absut sixteen miles; the country through which it will pals, is
i'wampy, tree from (tones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirt>-iwo feet in width, and eit;ht lee' at lead in
depth, below the furface of the earih, and capable ot being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three ret water.
Good fecuritv will be required of contratfors; and pcrfons
tiaking application to be employed as managers, mutt produce
:ertificates (from chafers ot [efpeftability) of their qualifications
or a business of this kind.
By older ot the President and Directors,
William AfBAYLEY, cierk.
f-.-p'QA)
Norfolk, January 21, i?9 2 -
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
fouthof Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New FaSory—
where they have now tnadef and ready tor sale, a general aflort
mentof SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engjitb workmen, they wa.rant it to be
equal in quality to any mmiufaaured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to inanufafture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders aridrelTtd to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
shortest noticc.,
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober,"Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will'be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for ilieir reception.
For further particulars enquire ofMeffrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
Militia Fines.
THE Collettors of Militia Fines in the Citv and Liberties of
Philadelphia,-and the diftri&s of Moyarm-nfnigand PalTyunk,
are hcieby required to collect and pay into the County Tieafury,
a-ll arrearages of fines, and to fettle and depolit their books and
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-ttreer, on 01 before the
fiift day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the said firft day of April, all Collectors who
fna'l lail in complying.with this requifmon, will be proceeded
against. according to law,
Phitad. Feb. 2.5, *792
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL thelandcd eftateof GEORGE WARNER^eceaied,con
fining of a valuable Plantation and tra£l of Timber Land,
supposed tocontaiu between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of which is plow-land and 150! drained meadow. There is
on the farm a and kitchen, a cooper's shop and a
large barn ; a well ot water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The houfc (lands close on a good landing belonging to the said
premises ; the reft of the land is well umbered and lies within
one mile of said an equal distance from a saw-mill
and grift-mill and also of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any person that is difpof. d to lew or purchafc the said pre
mises, may fee the place and ku. v the terms, by applying to
the fubfciibcis near the fame.
MARK MIU.T:R snd >
• ANDREW ! I.MIR, $ cutors '
Salem County, id mo. 13th, 179-.
N. B. There is like wife at lot. Nt M* w ground of about 25
acres, adjoining; lands of Abbott Sayrcs .and others, the property
of said dcceafcd, to be fq!d i» manner as above, by the said exe
cutors. [ep 4 w]
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberties.
Jones &c Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of ihe United States, on
CommifTion, by Pr.vate Contract, and Public Auction.
ThoCc gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and difpaich.
Bojlon, March, i7Q"2. (i aw 3n 1)
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, dndBGHEA
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPI£ES,&c.&c
Of the firft retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets
TO BE SO L 10,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
and V aluable
Scarce
BOOKS,
Whicb may be seen eveiy day, until jive o'clock, r. M.
Among them are the following :
Folio. T TOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufcbius, Sozo.
IjL mm, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
culus, Plinv, Concordantii Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thefautus Ci
ceroni*. Biblia Junii,and Tremellii. Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulas— Phavoriui—Mar(inii —Hoffmani Lexica, VofliiEtymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannic*, &c. v
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phasdrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. oip. Csfar, Su
etonius, Julius.Pollux, Hedcrici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Ge'ographia, Justinian Code, See.
Ottavo el infra. Horner, Anacrcon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophfadus, Heftod, Poetae minores Gr. Ifocrates, Phalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence,and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Flows, Juftiti, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hill.
Augnd. Scriptores, English and french Tranjlations of some of the
dailies, a great variety of Greek and Latin Grammars, See. See.
ftjj" Catalogue; may be had of Mcffrs. Rice & Co. Bookfelleis,
Market-dreet, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oflober 31./
FOR SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Fall* of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New- J rfey, occupied for many years part, by
tlie fublcriber ; containing upwards of 200 acrcs of land, befjdes
\ tract of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the 11ftin street leading from
Trenton to Lambertoji. and Philadelphia, into two pans, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The othir
oart, bounded by the laid street on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a fquate; which, from the combined effect of fili
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the moil
'..eautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-fmifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
the riv r, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new stone
coach-house and ftablrs, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-houle, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirtv-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &cc. Adjoining the court-yard ot Ihe tnanfion-houfe, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
hte of culture, and abounding with a iich colle&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of tbe square, is a new, well
h ult, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
fvn ing-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
ribs, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ce.f ry out-building. The ground is properly divided into small
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiifly under the
most aporovrd grass. This square has produced annually, tor se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or-
I ;hards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
I with great pi nty of all kinds of fi(h usually found in frefh water
tn this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclofcd and divided
l»y good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
and rails of chpfnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved fquaie feparate'.y, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well frcurcd,
and the inteieft punctually paid, will not be demanded foi main
\ ears.
0
Any pei Ton dcfirous of viewing the piemifrs, may be graiifi d
on application to Samuf.l W. Stockton, Esq. of Tienion,
or Mr. Inallman, who at prcfent occupies the tat m-houle and
part of the lane.—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Second-street, opposite to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, March 7, 1702
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
\ VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title inch fputable, in
l~\. the county of Gloucester, supposed to contain five hundred
and forty acres nf Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fituateon a
branch of Little Etrg-Harbour River, in the township of Galloway.
There is on laid prcmifes a frame house and kitchen, a small hay
houfeand stable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar fw 'nip, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (intetfperfed
with frefh water flowing dreams) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The situation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for raising stock.— Anv person inclining to purchase said Planta
tion, may have poffefliow from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, living at
Quinton's Bridge, in the county of Salem; or a further delcrip
rion may. be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonficld ; or of
james Sculi, adjoining said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleasant healthy country, within two nylt* of three grift and
saw-mills : And three houses appropriated to divine wor hip, are
about the fame distance. Terms of payment made easy, bv
Quinton's Bridge * Saiem CouKt\ 3
zd mo. 13tA, 1792. 1
372
A
JOHN COX
ANDREW MILLER.
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, decealed, pnrluant to the Directions
of his 1 alt Will and Teftainent.
ON Tiu fdav the 27th of March next will be expof-d to Sale,
by wav of Public Vendue, on '.he p>( mifes— One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, fnuate on the river Delaware; on
which is eretted a hancifomt? two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the Jront, two kitchens, a good bam, ftablcs, hay-hnufe
and other convenient outhouf s. A good orchard ot the best kind
of graited iruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and ingood order; and a (had and herring fifhery before the door.
This place, is remarkably well has a fufficicncv of mea
dow, a large front on tie river, and runs back to the pofl-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acrt>, the greatcit part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, ftabU,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a Iliad and herring ftfhery. Ic has long been a
well accustomed tavern; andlhe feny belongmgto it, known by
the name of Dtmks's, is noted well krpt and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the bell piofpt£ts 011 the
nver, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about fixty-lhrre acres, fit».
ate in the township of Southampton, ".n the sounty afoiefaid; on
which are erefled two log-haufes; There is a small orchard,and
a great fufHciency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot, containing four acres, situate o» the great post-road'
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles/rom the
tormer. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-fhopad
joining, with well ot excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame lime and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Hou (hold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat intfie
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-thud of the purchase
money to be paid down, asd the remainder iu tw» yearly pay.
mcntstvitli iutereft. I
(eptm27 }
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Pub i. i c Ven due, ou Weduelaay
the nth day of April next,
THE SEAT of the late Dotftor Lewis JohnJhn,
deceased, in Perlh-Arnboy, containing TWt) HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan, where it empties into the bay about 18 miles trom Sandy-
Hook, and affords two moll agreeable fltuations for Genilemens'
Sears. There are now on it, two brick lioufes, with gardens, and
a good collection of fruit trees of the bell kinds. The laud is very
fct'le, and a great part ol it very good mradbw ; and from itsfitu
ation on the river, has the advantage of filh of different kinds, in
their fpafons, particularly of oyftcrs and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flits before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy fltuation, capable of genteel and tally improve
ments; and as Perth-Atnboy is'one of the bcfl lea-pins in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, ihe prolpeit cl ill
increaiing in value from that circumllance, is by na means iucon
fiderable. . , , , 1
There wil l alio be fold, other Lots, within the bounds ot the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land ou the oppofi e fine
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a tarm -nil
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an 0IC;1J ™
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred .nd
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, we
wooded and timbered:, and verv convenient tor fupplyins . ew-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber tor (hip build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being ea y an
fafe. The conditions will be made known at the day ol
and the tequiflte conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and > T ft tothe faid Eftate.
BOWES REED, S . ,
Likewise to be SOLD, at the Jame time and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of Eill New-Jerfcy, wheie >nt e pro
prietary houfc lately flood. The elegant fltuation of this tpot is
hardly to be equalled; it affords a grand profpeft «
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan an "
foil's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to l ie -
a moil delightful one of the ferpe.it,ne coutfeof the •
for several miles, through a rich tratl ot meadow to
The great-quantity of (lone neatly dressed, and brick,
of the houle lately burned, will be nearly futficien ■ -
building; and a large .lone cittern, and well of exec
with a very convenient liable and c 'ach-houfc, w 1 gr y.
iheexpenceof putting the place in order for tlie rc \ c , ,j n
Gentleman.—There are lew fltuations so eligible, .««
the s um mer season-when the cool sea breezes, and the e
fltuations, runder them placrs ot pleaflng rtlieat, lr ° -
ment and sultry air of the louthern Hates and neigh (
Perth-Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792-
A LOTTERY,
T lO raifc the sum of £ ~jp for the P ur P of ® jX'nTJick,
1 Proicftant Episcopal Church in the city o ' , v cW .lctfty,
agreeable to an ast of the Leg.flature of the State ol New J "
parted November 1 791.
SCHEME..
i
1
2
5
10
3 3
go
'675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
1 1 fioo2 o^®*
53?4 Ticket-,, at 3 Dollars eat 1,, r B|jl]kl
pr This Lottery is composed of 5334 1 - an /,,![fir
to one Prize, and fubjefl to a dedufiinn o Lottf v vcl
ccnt. which is more favorable to adventurers j ul j|ity, that it
offered to the public—and it being ot Iul!i " , v itii the m a "
cannot he doubted but the undertaking win
liberal fupporr. , **nndav in Ap* l ''
The drawing will commence on the feron rf Nf „.
or (boner if the
Tickets arr disposed of, in Prc f.deot
Biunfwirk, under the infpefimn J > A , n |, 0 y;
of fa.d citv ; lames Parker, F.iq. Mavor of the „ u f,auf
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the
jog Society ot New- Jcrfcy. « 0 , re duly >P*
Tickets to%be hat! of the following •'f cc urity
pointed Managers, are under oath, and ave g
faithful performance ol their duty. „blilbed, i«d
A'liftof the fortunate numbers will W V o
priies paid immediately alter the drawing '
JOHN PARKER. Man3?rf .
PETER ItEENON,, r
ANTHONY'W.WHJTE,) j
Wew-Bruvfwickj January *79 2,
[cp4«]
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, } Exccuiois.
SAMUEL BENEZ.KT, )
M E.
Dollars is * ooe
PriiC of
2CO®
1003
5 00
200
100
5°
£0
4
IGOO
IOC®
IOO®
ioc®
>S**
i8o»
6700
16000