p ' f
[No. 5, of Vol. IV.]
\Vm. CLE L A Tvi D,
boston,
TranfatU business in Fund.. of :he United
States;
B ANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.|
ffs- OrdJrsfroro New-York, Phtftdeiphia, or;
any other part ot the Union, will h*-' itUcnilcd t u
withDn.io.HKS and Punctuality.
7»« 1. <f"' i" 1 "" 1
I'HE fallowing sos the >'• entitled,
« Aa ast for raising a farther < Jin ol" money!
for the protection of the frontiers and for
other purpose; therein mentioned, are repub*
)iihed f.>r Hie information of all pcrlbns.Tho,
on the day of Jun« next (I 79 2 ) h®
possessed of
WINES.
" Ssft. ANDbe it ftrther entfltrf, That
/1 all Wines which after the (hid
l*ft Hay of fime next, (hall be imported into the
Vnited States, shall be landed under the care of
ths mfpeftnr of the port where the fame lhallba
landed, and for that purpo!e, every permit for
lundim; any Wines, which (hall be granted by a
Collertnr, itiall, prior to fuc'.i* landing, b* pro
duced to tlia said infpeftor, who, by crxlorfcmont
thereupon under his hand, lhall fignify the pro
duction thereof to bim, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otl erwife, on pain of forfei
ture, it fh-all be lawful to land the laid Wine*.
And the said (ball make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk, cafe, box or
package whattbever, containing such Wines,
(hall be marked by the officer under whose im
mediate mfpeftion the fame (hall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with r.rogreffite
rumhers, tiw name of: the said officer, ahd tfiS
tpiality or kind of Wine as herein bet)re enu
merated and diftimuilbed. And the said officer
flrall graitt a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
hoglhead, caflc, cafe,box or package, fpecifvitig
therein thj name or names of the importer or
importers, the ship or vefl'il in which the fame
lhall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame whcrcfoever it lhall
sco r "" * - And if any P' butt, kiMifUeaii, cask,
eafc, box or package, containing Wine, fliall be
(t>und without such marks and certificates, the
fame fhalibe liable to be feiwd, and the want of
such marks and certificates shall be prtfntnptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" 11. And be it further ena&ed, That
every person, who (hall have in his or her po!-
fcflion, Wiues whidi are intended' for IV.lfr, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, fliall f>n*r to the fail! last day of Jiih« next,
make entry thereof in writing at some office oi
infpeftion in the city, town or county where he
ct (lie lhall reside, fpecifying and describing the
cifks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and ttie'kirxM, qnaKtie* and qnan
tities thereof, and where,and in wlio'if pofleflion
they are ; and the officer of at whoso
office such entry may be mad. 1 , (hail, as fuou as
. may be thereafter, visit and infpec>, or caule to
be visited and the Wines so reported,
and IhnJl mark,or daulc to be inUrktd, the call; :,
cases, boxes and packages contaimns tho fame,
with progreflive numbers, with the name of tiie
perlbn to who-n the Tame may belong. Ih® kind
or k'mirthcrro.', and words" <l OM Stock," and
(hall grant a certificate for each ca(k, cafe, box
of package containing ftldi Wine, ttefcribing I
therein tlie said calk, cafe, lx> t or package, an* t I
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
(hall accompany the fame, wherever it may be
sent. And if anv person who.may have Wines
in his or her poilfcfiion for 1 :i!e, fliall' not, prior to
tht said' lafr day of June next, rrtakle cutty there
of, as above direAed, he or: (He, for (hehoinifllon
or ncgleft, fliall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wine omitted to be entered, tx> be recovered
with costs of (hit", for' the benefit of any person
who (hall give information thereof, and the
Wines fa omitted to be entered, (hall be for
feited." (ept2o)
WR the fubferibfrs, weavers of the city o
Philadelphia, attended this day, Thursday
May 24th, at Mr. Pearck's Cotton Manu
factory, No. 13, Pcnn-ftreet, to view his ma
chinciy-; raoft of usarcHurcpeans.and do all apree,
that his mebhafiiftiYfrre fut>t*vior to
we ever saw, efpecullv in h»s double loom, in
which one man can tv\o pieces at the fame
time, 42 ifuhc* wiole, with equal' facility to one
pice© in the comWion loom; this ufelul loom,
Svhen examined, appears simple, the art of woik
irrg it fc*vn attatAed, atid the ef.tra ex pence very
fmaH ; his-machine j (or carding and roping are
excellent, and .til ihe reft of the utensils prepared
for the hiifinefs are contrived with great judgment,
the whole of which we hope will soon come into
gerteral use, 2nd be found of utility in the
United States.
George Storey,
Francis Storey,
llerculcs O'Connor,
David Napier,
William tyaddle,
John Maxwell,
James Darrngh,
*** Tht above beirg intended for a public good,
; « requeued the Printers oj Ticiujpajicrt uiil if Ctrl
throughout the United Statu.
A N.triSNAL PAPER. PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JO Hi! fFKSO, No. 60. HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
i !>. THAT ali iiewfpapers to be conveyed hy
poir, I«mi* as ufir.il, with the nHSBe; of
t'iv perl'ms to ukoihthey are t<» fce delivered,
fiiob/ riii! refpeftive Priuwy, be fuviftatl
lilt ) convenient packages; each package to
Milder cover (open at one endan the law diverts)
a«d sddreQed to the proper Pbft-Ma'ftir, Uy
whom its contenti a»et6fee d'Kvtered. That
on firth cevfcr, the Pointer mark dilHnftlv, tbd
aumt)-r of newfpujiers contained within it, for
Printers of newljjapers and for Subfccjbers. .
2<t. For the accommodation of Subferibefj
living remote ffam Vdlt-Olflcel:,, their newi"-
p»pers i:isyl»elbtniwl intA cov&rtA pac'i
afus, Mwkttf with tfte itiiivber 1 <* j»*fter« tlWy
i>«fpo<Siv«ly coataui, a*d dire&ed to be deliver
ed at noted taverns, or other convenient fia'di
, ion the pad-roads.—Such packages being also
:! attflfeft'd to the ncafelt ftiort of
the places of theiv still dfcfttfl Stlon, ftiall be twv
\r«yed bt tie «OiJ, am* be bf futb PolHlitffteirs
deSrt»d tu the nail carriers th fl* todgßtf a*
they goft at the JLmds here referred s». But
[as the Post-masters are responsible for the poft
lages of all new/papers by theci delivered, such
ifWcribert mutt either p.i'y the in ad
' vance, or make engagements to tlie fatisftfUdn
•of the tteipajlrtent
tber»#f,j»onthJy or <jvarterljr y a« *hey«a»agt«e r .
William Wgdfworth,
John Kelly,
John Fletcher,
Alien M'Cav,
Thoma« Rob) Ton,
Ifaar. Reighly.
Saturday, June (j, 1792.
n -vv s p a p e it S.
Tc t Z n ' facidt :to the connyuntz of h\ :ujp^ptrs
i.: to the fdw vf t!z United Siuta, the Pojl-nujitr
( **!fto/ prct>' jr\ —
3d. It is desirable that fucb new«-|>apo<« a*
are to be conveyed in the mail fUould be dried—
'f'his \VV.I reduce; their weight about one thirds
and at the fame time fcmre- theirdclverv in
pood order—new-papers put up damp tram tVe
press, Often pet injured" ill tild tftcir
covert are worn off, aild' thoil* diretHibns ren
dered illegible.
4th. "thelc mode; of convejtityg.ncws-papers
arc pTopofell a< the moil eligible which at pre -
sent occur—lf others more convenient (hoaMbe
devised, thrv \»til be readil? adop'ed.
TIMOTHY PICKtaiMU
Central fyjl.tfliu, rtiUJel/ihu, June 1, 1 f9».
M th GAS.tr If of the ONI rim STATES.
MR. FENN'O,
A WRITER in a laic Wilmington paper, in
fornt (Iti&torca on the oew proposed Cotifli
lution for the State ot flclawate, rrprbbalei the
article which iroder»th« Clernv ineligible to feats
in the Le^ifUture —thii he corifidets as a vtolauon
of .equal tights, a* degrading that order ul men to,
the condition of (laves, ar.d the offspring of flives.
In anfwcrto thcfe remarks, a writer tfi the Tame
payer oblcrtefr***" If there cxift* a c4«fi tff men
who by the influence-of their proUfQon,
or by any other iufluence, exacpt that of talents
end virtue, could gain feats in the Legtflature, such
clifirof met* faobld be excluded. Is there no]
dtngtr to be apprehended from eloquent and
crafty Priests ? Could not such command' a4l «br-l
1 votes »od all the influence of their congregations ?
1 He (word of religious discord, which has denrofr
ed more than plague, peftilcnce and famine, has
loft its edge in thtfc fhtcs. We have seep in a
public piotcfficm, Christian Mmifters of dtifeient
denominations walking arm in aim with a Rabbi
of the Je*s. Cut is there no danger of foment
mgafrefh trilgiona difienttons, by exciting in the
laity of different denominations, a conceit for the
eanyingof their refpeft've Priests ? Or is there uo
danger that such conufts would be excited ?"
Oft which a correspondent remaiks—That the
reasoning contained in the above quotation, is fub
veifive of every principle of right, justice and 1
freedom. To point out, and ftigmatiae any cla&
or profetfion of citizens, by disqualifying diftinc
tioirs, is cleat!y an'invafion of ludcfeafible righi* ;
to deprive them of their rank in focifty, antece
dent to any ad by which they have incurred pte
n.foment, is unjust ; and a community to hold a
perpetual proscription over the heads of a panicu- 1
lar body of men, is an outrage against libeity that
every one pofleflitig a paiticleof benevolence irttlft
revolt sr.
But why talk of u eloquent and crafty PriefU"—
are tht re not eloquent and crafty Lawyers, Mer
. chairs, Physicians, Farmers and others ?— 41 Cun
ning and cralty" are convertible teims, fomctimes
meaning one thing, and fbmetimes another. In
Merchants, Lawyers, Farmers, See. they Agnify
address and found reafomog—but applied to the
Clergy, they always have a wicked meaning. An
implacable spirit towards the Clergy, has been dis
covered in many recent publications—for wbai
good rcafon does not appear. Certain it is that no
defcriptior* of pcrfons have (hewn thernfelves
greater friends'to liberty and the independence oi
the United States, than ttf* Cleigy. But there are
some individuals in emcmg rts, who arc so te
nactons of the rights of man, that they wilh to dfc
i pi ive the people of thenght oi i hiuking and
, ing for themlclvcs. Tbeie cieclatmeis for the peo
» pic, are for taking the people under their own
■ (ruardiaiiihip—and to prevent the people from
being imposed on by craft and cunnirtg, they would
deprive them of the right of electing those whom
the people may suppose the best qualified to P'°*
mote their interefL— It would be just as wife to
prohibit the people from electing any m>n who
wea«s a black coat, or a wig, as to exclude 'he
Clergy from the Legislatures in this country ; where
the clerical proleflion boasts ot no legal andexclu
five privileges, and where it can never be made an
/ engine of, unless by unjust clcrgymcn
i fh.micV be compelled to form combinations in their
own defence.
9
MOM ttir. AMERICAH museum.
RtH.ECTIONS on the STATE «f lht UNION'.
Concerning tht manufaHtifes of tilt Umtei States.
(coHTtUuZtS.)
IT :i an obvious truth, that every thing i<;
more valuable in proportion to the number
and extent of it? iifei, or the pwrpofes to which
it cm be advantageously tr;>iriie*l. Flas, hemp,
wool, iilk, cotton, incline, tobacco, hides, iton,
wood, nain, and cattle, are valuable, wliert
they are wanted merely a? exports; but they
ttanif'efUy acquite a nfew v.il-ie, when wanted
to eAiploy, accommodate of hduTrfli manufac
ture!. In places from whenee those artitlfei
cannot be exported, without a great expenl'e of
t r.uiijortapoii, it is very desirable to give theli)
this/r'cuii life : but in situations too inteiior trt
V am-ftpd by the demand for exportation, and
where of enurfe they are not required for the
parjofes of external commerce-, this new use
mail be created for tlifcm, or thr*. ni/7 r.tl be prc
iucei, and agriculture will confeqnently lan
guid!. This view of the fuijeft (uggefts the
necessity cf manufactures to the
prafperitv of the interior and weAern country
as before intimated. Nor will thele idem ap
pe»r on kxamioiU,ion, to be msrely piaufihrte
co»j<ftures- They are no left (hpportcd by the
(latcof thing?, than by probab'lity and reason.
Thctowns ot\Va(Mtigton,f itt&urgh, Bedford, W
rtun-ingdoW, in rfcnnfyltAY.iJ, (rtfc nearell of
«Hii is iji inilw from * fei-porf, exflrtbit the
ftroaseft prociii, that inaniteftures are the lie ft
fopptrt of the interior landed irrtereft, and are
necefarv at once ta tUc accommodation and
prosperity of the cultivators of the middle ajid
•ce*V rn roniitry- The following table contains
an aVcomit of t*ie population of ttiofi: village:,
which is not ax-a»<?<"»ttjdr
I I '
1
■ i ; ?: f ■
>t; * •
.j . a 11> ■ a
a- ,2 2
2 - 4 . . ..4
* -5.3,4
i * * *
S '• «1« '
. i-' 1 *
-3- I 8 > I -
I , .
3,> ;
I
r ' • >'
■ -I' ! '!■'
t- 1
J • !
i a
3
i i ?
SfodcißgwopfWt, i i
Gmiifautlu,, , 3 1
tlopf ambtrt, '
. i.:
v Jjl. Aj JltM
T-UMI Amilfe's * f<Plpßjr
" Tbepopttlatfbii is unknown
1 lute if It Ittfc Htatfrtiat of WtmWgtt.
ICteA *n8 \7ttctimalier3,
a***, - v ,
SKUfc-trtffeu & breeefats Wakens,
Tankers 3rd curriers,
Tailors,
Cabinet makers,
pltekffirit'rt*,
SfcoeJTOkers,
Hatters,
Dveri,
Weavers,
Reed makers,
Sadters,
Sadtltetiff miken,
Spinniiigwbeet makers,
jailers)
Mil ters and brtwess,
Potters,
Tim el's,
bilWtert,
WhMlwrig>ft«,
It appears from this table, tliat in those coun
ty towns (of ofJWftee) in the interior and
4-aHefn parts ofi'cnMiytfante, tti; neccffitv for
ltianufa&ufes has occaGoned p. littlecongregati
on of axtizaas, ia the proportion of twfcnty-lr
ven parts in one hundred, nf the whole village
in the fttialleft instance, and ill the proportion
of part- in one liu-ndred, in the
largelt. The town of WalhiAgt , oii,\*hich is the
" most remote, and is beyond the Ohio, has been
creatvd Core the late war. Its Pittance is a
bout miles weft of Philadelphia. Tho vari
ety of its manufactures is striking, and it may
be fafcly affirmed, that at tho feats of justice,
ill the counties of Delaware, Bucks, Che ft el
and Montgomery, which are nearest to Phila
delphia, as great a number of marftifaftfcrers, in
proportion 'to their refpeftive popxilatiii, <fcs
not exist, though the family manufactures are
more considerable in these, ami though they
have milnerous tanneri;:, ironworks, pov.der
mills, paper mills, blacVfmiths, hatters, flioe
liiakers, weavers, and other valuable wafricmcn,
in their villages ami fcaitered throughout tiieir
populous townlhipt- This, however, is the
cafe, in some degree, likewise in the townlhips
of the Weltern fccne abdve described.
In the midland counties Ct Ptnnfylvania, ma
nutiftures have reiiilted from e flcvrjhmg <isn
cuittre, and, immediately on their birth, have
contributed to the prosperity of the cultivators.
The borough of Lancaster, which is the largest
inland town in the United States, is sixty-six
miles from a seaport, and ten from any practic
ed [>nit navigation. The nutnber of iamtles
was in 1786, about 700, of whom 234 were ma
nufacturers. The following is the lift of thein.
IFoirteen hatters, thirty-fix IhoeirTakers, lour
tamers, feventcenfaddlers, twenty-five tailors,
twaity-five weavers of wflolen, linen, and cot
toilcloth, three stocking weavers, twenty-live
» V
[Whole No. 325.'
'.vhite and black fpiithn, fix wheelwright", ele
ven cooper?, fr- ; i'lbclc a>iA \v4tch linkers, fix
tobacco and fnutf msnufuSiirert, tour dyers,
fr- i'i) gun&nithtvfiva fopeYnifcers, four ti'mers,
rwo bract fit.inders, tbree ilcitr d'.tfTeriy- one
lirufh maker, (even turner':, fevt n nai! makers,
five fitve'rfraiths, tluee potters, three brewers,
thf4eu.bppfcrimil.tis, and t.vo printer* in 'sn
glifh anfl German- There v.'tre rw I j9>, allfo
within thirty-nine mile's of the town, feveotetu
furnaces, forges, rolling mills and flitting iijilU,
{Si mile's of it eighteen corn raiits,
fifctfetfit fin* ihitts, cMe fWling mil!, fouV ailliiift,
five twijfonwlta, t#o boiling Mitl griAilmg nillls
for guu barrds*.and eight taniiei ies. TBe. ih
creafe since 1786, *»uft halve he«n very coflfide
ratale ; for the attention of tie United States
lids teen very much turned tq manuftftiwes
fintfc the year 1 tt tti&t Te lUfely afttthed,
tlittt-the cOtintiM df Lartfc&lWf(?h wftichtfifcbb
rtiagh re)- York attd Btrfcs Ife the lfcoA rfgbt--
otu in Pennfylvaoitj perhaps ih the and
that there are nqnein the ftatein which these
are niore manuiaftiiros, is beyond ajj qpeftiop
'They are ast fifVy mrt:j <«• fhdre frdin the' rieif
«ft feapotti ' 1
Information feveraJ c'rannolaffords
tlie greatest re a Ton to heiievfc, that the interior
of Frederick and Elizabeth towns in Maryland,
Stanton in Virginia, Lexington in Kent-ucicej.
and other towns in the fonthern Itates, wouid
prove on eraimmtron, fitniUr to eliofe of Pew.-
iytvania, and tlilt the improvement"; in rtet<eC
fary manufactures are as vhsble and at rapid,
as ttiolc in a^icbkurc*.
The reflexions ariftng &osn these fucS; are
highly fatisfaftory, and as they open nsw air.iS
extended views of (tie tefimMfcs and capacities
of the United States, they nwtft increaft ftfc
prtvabnt dijpofitioa of the people M inlpTOCfc
til* interior economy of our country. It h do
voutly hoped that they nav alii contribute to
remove tlia apprehensions of our fonthern and
tveftffift fellow citizens, in regard to unjust fi
crifieis oFtHeif , ?nft!ftus tn ftoft of their bre-
c |c
B tte £
tr i. -£ tc
g a c.k
« t: iSI£
CL< M'»
Hmvln-fcMt- tM t&ktthtrMiyMJ
_ t» o>ek ftiHhfc' utunhAiw» «ar *i» falalji »>■
7 vinte tWfe 4ir«& u<} ia<fin>s benefit* <W
Americwi BUnufrM&Mes* are fihcerely
■ bM'rt ved so pcfV!•-!?<■ /3fc —
(ti fer eß*mtjjsß.j
The folio win* actount of the five and of the
manufactures ofWinctaller, in Virginia, is fur
,ni(hedby aperfon lately a resident in that place.
' It' ippests to c*'cetd the towns of Pennsylvania
:in the proportion »f mafcufofttorttrj.
There arc aiboxrt tvro hundred hottftl in "Wift
cliefter. Provisions *od wood are io\r.
There are four or live tanr ytrds. The de
mand for leather is To great, that it is general
-1? fold unfit ftrt- use.
Ohe rope yatd carried on Mtetifively.
One or two ctrtchtodkers. Few are
Ufeid, the country being stony and hilly.
The bakers and dtftiilers brew i>otv atrtl then.
There are three or four diltilleries in town.
In the ncighbburhood there are many.
There-arc SI fo-ft vend oil mills in tliC ne'glr
bourhoed. The price of fiexfeed k 2s. add 256
|*r bttffiol, Virginia money.
Grill mills are numerous in the neighiaur
liood ; and teams are constantly employed ih
the transportation of flour to Alexandria : dis
tance eighty miles : carriage IJ dollar per bar
rel.
Oac copperfinitb, *&tio c*f?i©s on his buiit?e r 6
very extensively.
Three tin plate workers.
Eight or ten hatters. Wool hats, of 4 Winches
ter make, are in much repute, and are vended
in large quantities. Price eleven dollars pe.
dozen. Single hat, one dollar.
£T Note. Wool is one third ofadofkir per lb.
ind ii ojtcn prderti up J torn Flnlttttljiln* by the W in
ch JUr halters.
Twdlve or fifteen saddlers.
$3* Note. This itiaijufaftuTe, as WfeU as the
hattieg, is vn ti cm<htivn ) carried
on very extenjivily.
Five or iix blacksmiths—one employed iu
plating {addle trees.
Three or .four wheelwrights.
Right or ten tailors.
Eight of nine ihoc makers.
Four or five weavers. fj>iiimr£ Wheel
makers.
Three or four saddle tree makers.
EXTRACT^
(jRATITUDE is the growth of a v.-ai thy and
iitiv nttSWipeied miird, and always tales root
isi a well cfifpofed heart. O'rte who/ fs: itifphed
with religious gratitude rsSndecd faTisfiad wjdi
all the difpeiifatMn.s of heaven [ but receive
with peculiar feniibility every favpj&r,, and looks
apon it as a new demand upon him for Come
suitable return*. The 't-eguianfy, the pleasure,
f.ia cheerfulnefs, the gratiAl emotions atttf rff
feftrans of a rectified heWt, are a r.oorft<Jrpait
to the beauties of creation, and of the wife ami
beneficent adminiltrations of the nniverfat Go
vernor. To be excited to thankfulnefs and o
bedience by the propriety, beauty, and bereft
eence of God's works, is the rhaTafteriftic o'f a
trnty groat and pious miiKl, and as hij£iTv »n'
belliflies the man, as blofloms, fruits and ver
dure beautify the J.:iinns.
k
wCONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF RE I'RESENT AT WES,
THURSDAY, APRIt. 12, I7p 2
MILITIA BILL.
The feflion empowering the President oj
the United States to call out the Militia,
added as an amendment to the bill by
the Senate, under consideration,
MR. MERCERoppofed thefeciion.
He considered the fubjecft too
Important to receive a halty decision ;
and as the fcffion is so near its close,
and no immediate necefiity exilts to
inaUethe provision, he hoped it would
be postponed to the next session.
Mr. Steele objected to the fec'tion—
he considered it as having an inaulpi
cious alpeift—that it was-an insult to
the majesty of the people to hold out
the idea that it may be neceHary to
execute the laws at the point of the
bayonet. He moved as an amend
ment, " that nothing in this av!t ftjall
be construed to empower the Pi eli
de nt to march the militia of oneitate
into another." He said he had no
doubt that there were in every (late
a fufficient number of persons well
informed, and attached to govern
ment, to quell any infurreftion, and
to restore good order.
Mr. Ben (oh supported the fec'tion—
he observed that the question mult be
met some time or other—and he con
ceived that it would be a perfetft nul
lity to pass a militia law without the
provision contemplated by the amend
ment—for, he asked, to what purpose
is it to constitute a militia, if they are
not to be made any use of to fu.ppo.rt
the laws. According to a doctrine
whieh was avowed /in the lionfe yes
terday, the inftittition of a militia is
to enable (he individual states to op
pose the encroachments which may
be made on them by the general go
vernment ! This he conceived was an
entire new dotfrine, such a dodrine
as Was never before heard of. What
fort of government mult that be,
which is authorized to pass J,aws, and
at the lame time has nopoAer to car
ry those laws into execution ? He said
that' such a discretionary power was
lodged in the supreme executive of
the several dates, and for exacflly the
fame purposes fpecified in the amend
ment; and he had never heard it ob
jected to before Gentlemen contend
that this power is proper, as it re
fpeds the several states, but highly
improper as it refpeifts the govern
ment of the United States. What
sow of a fit nation said he, does this
place this government in ?
Mr. Williamfon objected to the
amendment, as imperfeA in its con
ftrutftion, and as containing some dan
gerous principles.
Mr. Livermore also opposed the
amendment.
Mr. Gerry opposed the amend
nieht, as veiling a dangerous power
ill tli-e fnpreme executive; that cir
cum fiances did not render the dele
gation neceflary. The people of the
leyeral states appear disposed to sub
mit to the laws, and foch an exigency
ought not to be anticipated.
Mr. Murray said he had voted in
the affirmative 011 the amendment
which had just been annexed to the
amendment from the Senate, because
it. limit ted the duration of a power
which (Iruck his mind as rather large
and undefined as to its obje&s. He
fhoukl now vpte againfi; the whole as
amended ; and he was at liberty so to
do, inasmuch as he had voted for the
amendment, because he wiflied, if the
gift of such power was to be made
to circumscribe at leafl its duration
He profeflwd' himfelf a friend to ener
gene government, but wiihedtocom
municate such energy through well
defined channels, and to fee it direst
cd towards conflitutional objeifts. He
would go as far as mofl men in en
forcing the laws of the union—in pro
viding tor the calling out of the
flrength of the community topreferve
peace and repel force—but he could
not accede to the idea contained in
the provision of' that fetfiion, which
was, that the time; the cause, and the
place in which the militia were to be
called our ; fholild be all left to the
dil'cretion of one man. The theory
of the gctfernhienc warranted no Rich
dereliction of power in this House,
nor its delegation to another. He
imagined that as the conllitution had
cotitcinplU.cecl the organizing of the
militia fepaiately from the pvovifion
for calling them into acfin'dl service,
H wonld-be most proper to fepai'ate
these different objects in lcgiHation.
He tl'ierefore hoped the amendment,
as amended, would be negatived, and
ihar a committee would be appointed
immediately to bring in a bill to ac
compliih its with proper mo
difications. To.create and organise
a militia, was one thing—to provide
for calling it forth to executethe laws
of the union, fupprcfs irifurredtions,
and repel invasions, was another and
separate object. ' These things were
as separate in their natures, as they
were diverfified by relative inferio
rity and magnitude of objects. The
ingenuity with which a weapon is
formed, bears no comparifqn with the
principles and wisdom under which
its life and direction are to beappl : ed.
Of all the offices of politics, the uioft
ii kfome and delicate is that by which
a legislature diredsthe military force
of the community to its own corfer
vation, as it presupposes lit nations i M
which rcfiltance to the goveriment
itfelf is contemplated. Hence wt fee
a jealousy even in England of the use
of the (word, when drawn agcinff
any prrt of the community. Jtwas
surely the duty of Congress to define
with as much accuracy as poflible uole
situations which are to jultify thei
execution in its interposition of ami
litacyforce. Thebillhehad in view,
he hoped, would, attempt to mark
with precision the objects the coi.'lii
tuiion looked towards, under the
words " execute the laws ofthe union,
and suppress infurredlions." What
was the occasion to warrant force of
.hat species, was the fit It obje<ft—who
was to judge of its exigence, was ano
ther— the space or diltrirt to which
; be daught should be or not be con
fined, was another—and the duration
ofthe service, another. Amongthefe
■conliderations, it could not be for
gotten that the civil arm was ever to
be united, if not commanding; and
how far the marshals and judges of
the courts of the union ought not to
have a power on this fubjeft, deserv
ed more time than the Houfc feenied
inclined at present to give this bill.
He would take the occasion to declare
he had no jealoujy as to abnfes of
power—but this government is to be
administered according to written
[ law, applying to defined objects and
situations. It was a government of
definition, and not of ti uft and dis
cretion. After the objetfts are well
described upon which the military
force is to a<ft, the evidence ,of the
occasion fettled, and the sphere and
duration limited, lie would heartily
support the mod energetic mode in
which the objed '/hould be reached,
and the ocafionobeyed— he therefore
hoped the amendment would be ne
ganved, and leave given for a com
mittee to bring in a separate bill
B l' ARI S, April i
>" letters from Hamburg and Stock
holm, we learn, that the Kiiifr of
Sweden died of his wound on°the
29th of March. The P.ince Royal
has been proclaimed King—Durum
the minority,, the kingdom will be
goveined by the Duke of Sudermania
in the capacity of Recent.
April 6
M. Dnramhon (an eminent lawyer
of Bonrdeaux) was appointed Minis
ter of Jullice »n the 1 3th inftanr.
Letter of M. Couviou* to the President
of the National AJfembly.
*. ~ P/IRIS > M April, 1702.
Mr. President,
I have the honor to enclose my re
iignation to the office of Demuy to
the National Aflembly. Were I cal
led upon to express my motives, J
(hould fay, that it would be too pain-,
t >u to me to live any longer in a city,!
where fonie magistrates of the peo-
T " |,! K en t'eman was Golcal in the arnv
tne United States during the late-war.
10
pie, rejoicing in the triumph of the
murderers of my brother and his fel
low-foldiers, have humbled the Na
tional Guards, who were stepped for
ward to the execution of the law.
Let me be placed with true friends
to the conftit ntion, and then ,it will;
be seen who defend it bed, we, or
the factious.
I am, &c
The following letter is fa id to have
been vvriten by fifty Bretons, on their
arrival at Coblentz, to M. D'Artois :
S I R,
" Tlie Bretons have the honor to
pay their refpec'ts to vou ; they ask
for bread, arms, and the road to Pa |
ris."
To which M. D'Arrois answered
" I (hall have, gentlemen, the hap
piness of dividing my own bread with
you, of offering you my own sword
(If I have no Other vreapon) and of
marching at your head."
The news of the of the King
of Sweden is confirmed in the molt
positive manner. This intelligence
h&s influenced public credit, for 110
.sooner did it reach Hamburg, but it
produced a rife of the exchange with
France. It is to be prefunied thar
Sweden, in the em-barraflinents of a
minority will not attempt to join the
leagues of princes to which Guftavus
was so much attached, and that this
event will flncken the ardor of- the
Cruzaders ag'ainft the "liberties of
France.
Exchange at Paris on . the, j6th of
April
For ioo livreshard mojiey, ij6 li
vres in alfignats, a louis d'or colts 40
livres 4 sols in aflignats.
The above are extracted from the
Gazette UniverfelJe and Journal de
Paris.
It said that conspiracies have,
since the death of Prince Potemkin,
been forming in Ruflia, and that the
empire is threatened with a revolu-
tlOll.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, March 28-
In tlic opening; of this -niorning's
fit in g, information was received than
in the department de Conral* fre(h
riots have broke out, infinitely more
terrible than those which haS Tome
time ago been happily quelled. The
chateaux are in a blaze ; and the
property of individuals is a prey to
the tnob. The inhabitants, Itrnck
with terror, demand the in oft: speedy
succours.
Referred to the com mittee nf twelve.
Ordered—" That the thanks of the
nation be voted to the Governor of
Jamaica, to the Britifli government,
to the American Ccngrefs, and to the
State of Pennsylvania, for the fuc
coiirs granted to the colony of St.
Domingo."
LONDON, April j
Yefterdaya nifflenger came express
from Paris to the French Minister:
jit is Paid, that he brings information
thstthc Nsttoiis] AlTenibly, from the
answer of Prince Ka unitz, had judg
ed it the inoft prudent and effectual
means of securing permanency to the
:Conftitution to declare war ao-ainft
the King of Hungary,
conuder as only tampering to watch
the most favorable opportunity of o
vertnrning the objedts of the French!
Revolution.
A melTenger has been dispatched
by cur government to Earl Gower at
Paris, to direct him to explain, and,
it poflibie, conciliate the transaction
in the East-Indies.
Aprh. 9.
Guftavus the.Third, King of Swe
den, was born in 1746, and succeeded
his father in 1 730. He poflelled abi
lines greatly superior to those of his
predeceflbr, and had much more am
bition ; his understanding had been
cultivated, he had an infiuuaring ad
dress, and a graceful and command
ing elocution. He was at Paris when
his father died, and soon after hisar
iival at Stockholm, swore to preserve
the conflitutiou as established in 1 772,
and not to introduce absolute sover
eignty. He did every thing to gain
tne afFe<ftjons of the Nobles and -.he
People. He gave public audiences
turee times a week, and to have re
ceived an injury was certain of pro
curing an introduction ; he listened
meane st of his fubjecfts withaf
ability, and entered into the miiiu
ted: details that concerned the-i i,
which means he made himfelfado'ie'i'
But at the fame time he was foment!
tng the differences bet ween the States
and, by his emiflaries, foiling di scon-
among the people, until findinrr
the htiline.'s ripe, he iii one hour made
the whole Senate prisoners, totally
overturned the mode of government
rendering himfelfin fad, ,ho not in
appearance, one of the mod abfolme
iVionarcha in Kuropc.
His death must give great joy to
the : riepds of French liberty, she
Swedish monarchs had long received
pensions from France—and Gullavus
of Holftein was an enthuli a ;i for the
old government.
GOUVJON
The KingofSw®den married Sophia
•Magdaleua in i? 7 S, Princess iloval of
Denmark, by whom he had! itl'ue Gll'"*
cavus Adolphus, horn Nov. 1,1778.
The aflaffin of the King of Sweden
had been doomed by his majetty to a
long and tyrannical imp, ifonmenr
for having thwarted his ambition i,i
the late revolution and the overthrow
of the nobles.
The conspiracy was discovered to
have been formed againfi more lives
than that of the King, but mentions
only the Duke de ashav.
tng been upon the lift of proscribed
Nobility. i
When the packet that carried Dr.
Willis to Portugal entered theTagus
they were met by the royal barge
with 120 oars, attended by two cut
ters, one of which, enquired " If the
great physician was on board which
being answered in the affirmative,
the other cutter drew near the pack
et, and the prince and printefs of
Brazil appearing on the quarter deck,
the Dotfor was formally announced
by the Captain ; but' declining to go
on shore in ffate, was conduded to
the Duke of Northumberland's hotel,
where he was met by Monsieur Pinto!
the late to our court, and
leveral othef- diftinguiihed
ages.
The Syren, Capryin Manly ; the
Andromeda, Capt. Salisbury-, and the
Hyena, Cape Kinnier, all at Plymouth,
are ordered inllantly to the Weft
liicfies. TI) ecfiß uflibVis iclpeSTng
ilie (lave trade will, n'o doubr, find
their way to our colonies in the spee
diest manner—to prevent any diftur
bailees which may be produced by an.
improper use of these discussions, is
probably the reason for this sudden
iwcre3(e of our naval force in that
quarte
Saturday evening the remains of
the late Earl of Bute arrived at Glas
gow from London, in a hearse drawn
by fix liorfes, with several mourning
coaches following, and lay in state
that night in the Black Bull Inn there.
1 he Coffin was covered with red vel
vet, on the fides of which were five
large coroneis, and two stars.
Yesterday Captain John Kimber,
of the (hip Recovery, belonging to
Bristol, was brought before Sir Sam
son Wright, from the citv of Briltol
and committed to take his trial for
the murder of one or more Negro
women, whom he was tranfporling as
slaves from Calabar, iu Africa, to the
Weft-Indies.
The husband of a vocal heroine is
fatd to liave procured a cornetcv of
dragoons through superior interelb,
on condition that he leaves his bag
gage behind him when he goes uj>ou
service.
The military force at present In
Canada confiftsof a detachment of ar
tillery, rfhe royal fnfileers, command
ed by his Royal Highness Prince Ed
ward, Ihe 4th, sth, 20th, 24th, 26th,
and 65th regiments of toot, and Col.
Simcoe's new-raised corps.
dr. Priestley's cause.
In about nine hours afrer the be
ginning of the trial, the jury return
ed their verdict for 2f021. rßs. being
16191. i;s. gd. less than Dr. Priest
ley's claim, which was 41221. lis. pd.
Kings surely ' Hand on flipper)* places
The prices current of monarclis, hi
Europe, has lately fuffered a rapid
fall. England's light—France's infig
nificairr The Fmpiri's poifoned —
Sweden's — Portugal's cra
zy ulna's fuperanuared -I/en
eak — Pruißa's triad—bnt P-o.
:iark
'and's ii..
CANADA.
A SCRAP ON KINGS.CHARLESTON, May i.
At a meeting ot' the citizens, at Wil
lianis's coffee-lioul'e, on Friday e
•veuing, Gen. Moultrie in the chair
Kefolved, That the eftablilhinent
of a fund for the purpose of" purchas
ing or taking up judgments, bonds,
or other evidences of debts, owing
by the inhabitants of this Hate, and
thereupon extending the time of pay
ment to debtors, on their giving luf
ficient security for discharging the
iame, would be highly beneficial both
to debtors and creditors, a:;d to the
community at large.
Resolved, That Meflrs. John Juli
us Pringle, David Ran-.fay, .Thomas
Kroft, John Edwards, Adam Tuiuio,
D. De Saufl'ure, D. J-ennings, N. Iluf
(el, and John Lloyd, fen. be a com-,
muree to prepare and report a plan
of an institution conformable to ilie
forejrotng resolve :—And that when
they have agreed to a plan they pub
lifli the fame, and lay it before the
citizens, at a meering'to be convened
yithin three days thereafter by pub
lic advertisement, for their consider-
anon
.WINCHESTER, May a 8
Our last accounts from the territo
ry of the United States south of the
Ohio, are to the 12tli in ft.—they state
that frequent depredations are ftiil
committed by the Indians in that
quarter, but that some of thein have
paid for the roast, 4 having been kill
ed lately by a party of militia. — That
the boundary line, agreed upon in
the treaty which took place 1 alt sum
mer, between the United States and
the Cherokees, is now running—and
that when this neceflary bufiuefs is
.accomplished, every exertion will be
ttfed by Governor Blount to pro
tect the frontiers from any depreda
tions a banditti of oiucatls may medi
tate.
D X N B U R Y, May 28.
Wednesday last, wai exposed foi
falein this town, the four quarters of
a calf, killed by Mr. Amos 12urriit,
butcher at Newtown, which weighed
as follows :
Flour quartets,
Caul,
Skin,
Total,
The calf wr.s 5 weeks and 5 days
old, raised by Mr. Nitam Curtis, of
Newtown.
BALTIMORE, June 5-
By the Brijgantine Greyhound, Captain Ellas
Porter, who arrived here in thirteen days from
•Cape-Fr&ncois, we are informed, that the fitua
• tibn of affairs, refpefting the difturbanles in
Hifpaniola, wore e ry day a more melancholy
afpe#—-that all hopes of peace being rcftored,
were relinquiihcd-—thatthe colony was,beyond a
'ievably loft—that, till latterly, some
expiations were entertained of the arrival of
more troop:, from but then every profr
pe£t of that nature had closed in despair—that
attacks were made, almost every night, on the
out-ports contiguous to the Cape—that the mi
litary forte was sb enfeebled, that a general
maJfacre was apprehended—-that the whites
were emigrating daily, and it was thought that,
in.the course of a few months, not one would
be found remaining on the French part of the
I .land—that it was confidently believed, that
some celebrated characters (atnong whom iz
fnppOfed to be the well known Count d'E ,
who had, a little before, arrived in a clandeftiqe;
manner from France) were the chief a&ors a
mong the revolted mulatt<Je r —that the Colonial
AfTembly was in a state of tlje molt ruinous a
naYchy, the members having, on the day before
Captain Porter failed, carried their differences
on political opinions so fa*-, that they actually
drew their swords on each other, and the house
would have been drenchcd in blood, had not the
interposition of some left turbulent spirits sub
sided the dreadf-il ferment.
Extract of a letter from Bordeaux, dated March
23, 1792, to a gentleman in this to\vn, re
ceived yesterday.
" What passes within our own country is
more interelting than the affairs abroad. The
King puflied impatriotifm so far as to difmife
-tke oily two patriotic Ministers hr bad near
and Cahier de Gervills. The
National Alfembly ha 1 ! arretted de Leflart, whole
manoeuvre* have been for a long time obnoxious;
It has seized upon his papers, and sent him to
Orleans, in order to be tried by tlie High Na
tional Court. It is said evqn that tiie other Mi
nisters are arretted: That the people of Paris
deinand loudly the head of the Qiieen. It is ad
ded, that fire has been actafed, on Monday lait,
by Mr- Condorcet —They fay—they fay, in fine,
thjjiy fay things which r.re alraoft all incredible,
anil wtich, without doubt, could not have been
spoken some years ago—but many things are
said which perhaps do not exist, au3 which I
wilt 1 inform you of only when confirmed.
u The army of the line had a deficiency of
fifty,two thousand men.—Well, ray friend, upon
a fimpfo iflvita-tion from the National Affembbj
in one clay, at the fame hour, without £.ny other
words but—thecountry is in danger—four hundred
thousand citizens have voluntarily inliftcd ! —
Many of thole new soldiers have been seen to
ride post in order to get more quickly to their
colours. Mention me any other country in
which soldiers rode post to join their corps ! —
This, is the fadt.—So I can afiureyou,
my dear friend, that the good cause will be tri
umphant, and that probably, before long, twenty
enslaved natrons will be restored to liberty, and
will sing in chorus tlie celebrated tune of the
French Revolution—-c air a."
HARTFORD, June 4-
Last Friday the honorable General Aflembly
of thirilrte, ended v,he .boilnef* of the Spring
i'eflion.
It ought in justice to be observed that the bu
fineis of the ieffion was conducted with the ut
moil candor, harmony and li'oerality. Nothing
of party spirit, private aniniofity or perfonai
abuse, was introduced in any of the debates.
The tendency of the public a£ts, is to promote
£nd encourage the agriculture, manufactures,
commerce, and literature of this fbate, to open
a field for the exertion of enterprise and icdnf
try, and to communicate to every class of peo
ple the full en joyment of their rights as menand
citizens. Notwithstanding many liberal grants
and appropriations were made, such was the fa
vorable iituation of our finances, that it was
finally determined not to be necessary at this
feflton, to lay any further tax on the inhabitants
of this ft ate.
EXTRACT from THE RIGHTS OF MAN.
Part thefccond—By Tmomas Paine.
Combining principle and practice.
n r'f i s t ] ie mature of compaflion to afTociate
A with misfortune. In taking up this fub
jeft I seek no recompence—-I fear no conse
quence. Fortified with that proud integrity,
that disdain? to triumph or to yield, I will ad
vocate the Flights of man.
" It is to my advantage that I have served
an apprenticefliip, to l'fe. I know the value
of moral inftru&ion, and 1 have leen the dan-
Igor of the contrary.
At an early period, iittle more than sixteen
years of age, raw and adventurous, and heated
with the falle heroifin of* a matter* who had
fcrved in a man of war, I began the carver of
my own fortune, and entered on board the Ter
rible, Privateer, Capt. Death. From this ad
venture I was happily prevented by the affec
lioriate and moral remonstrance of a good father,
who, from his own habits of life, being of the
Quaker profeflion, must begin to look upon me
as loft. But the impreftion, much as it effected
ac the time, began to wear away, and I enter
ed afterwards in the King of Pruflia Privateer,
Capt. and went, with-her t® lea. Yet,
f om such a beginning-, ;\nd with all the Incon
venience of early life against me, I n,m proud to
fay ? that with a perseverance undiihiayed by
ciifricultie-, a disinterestedness that compelled
refpecfr, I have rot only contributed to raise a
new empire in the world, founded on a new sys
tem of government, but I have arrived at an
eminence in political literature, the moft'diffi
cult of lines tp Succeed and excel in, which?
with all its aids, has not lien able to
reach or to rival.
" Knowing my own heart, and feeling' my
felf as I now do, superior to all die /kirmifli of
party, the inveteracy of interested or miflaken
opponents, I answer not to falfehood or abuse,
but proceed to the defedts of the Englilh go
vernment^"
122 3-4
5 3-4
17
I4f-l'-2
* Rev. IV iHi am Knowles, mafler of the grammar
/choolof Thetford, in Nor/oik.
+ Politics and /elf-interefl have been Jo uniformly
connected, that the world,from being so often deceived,
has a right to be Ju fp;aous of public chdrapers : but
lath regard to m felj, lam perfectly easy on this head,
1 did not, at toy jirfl Jetting out in public life, nearly
/eventeen years ago, turn ny thoughts to fobjetts of
government from motives of interefl ; and my conduct
from that moment to this, proves the faS. I saw an
opportunity, in which I thought I could do some good,
and 1 followed exdflly what "my heart diflatcd. I nei
ther read books, nor Jludied other people's opinions. I
thought for myjfelf. ' The cafe was this:
During the Jufpenfon of the old .governments in
America, both prior to, and at the breaking out of hvf
tititles, I was puck, with the order and decoium with
which every thing was conducted ; and imprefjed with
the idea, that a little more than what focieiy naturally
performed, was alight government that was necefjary ;
and that monarchy and ariflocracy were frauds and im
pofitidns upon mankind. Vntheje principles 1 pnblfil
ed the pamphlet Common Sewie. The success it met
with was beyond any thing since the invention of print
'nfS- IS ave ie CO Py right up to every State in the union,
and the aemand tan to not less than one hundred thou-
Jand copies. 1 continued the fubjett in the fame man
ner, under the title of the Gfiiis, till the complete efl a
bn/hment of the revolution.
sifter the declaration of independence) Congress una
nimovfly and unknown to me, appointed me Secretary in
te Jor eign department. This was agreeable to'mc,
/"■caufe it gave me the opportunity of feeing into the a
bilities of foreign courts, and their manner of doing hu
fivefs. Hut a mijitt;dcrjhindmg arising between Con
gress amd me, refpcQing one of (heir commifjio' rrs, then
m Europe, Mr. Silas Deatie, I lefigned the office, and
declined, at the fume time, the pecuniary offer 1 made me
h the minfiers oj France and Spain, M. (Gerard ai.J
Don Juan Mir alles.
J had by this time so completely gained the ear ana
confidence of America, and m\ own independence was
bccdmefo vijtble as to give me a range in political
writing, ieyqnd, per haps, what any man ever pojjtjjed
;n any country ; avd what is wore extraordinary, 1 held
it undimmifked to :he end of the war, and enjov it in
the fume manner to the present moment. As my oljttt
was not myfcf IJet cut with the determination, avd
happily with the difpoftion, of not being moved by briife
or cenfitre, friendfiip or calvmny, nor of being arerwri
from mypurpofe by any personal altercation ; and the
man.zvho c anrot d j this, u not ft for a public cha
racter.
11
FROM THE CONNECTICUT CCURAKT.
A PROMPTER.
Rags ! Rags !
HOW the hrjl things grow out of the uorjl !
—Even the bible is made out of rags !
And yet people will not save their rags ! Au
thors, printers, arts, sciences, and records ail
depend on rags for support, and yet rags are
thrown away. Great people, that is people really
great, save rags. Why ? because though saving
rags is a very little thing, yet it is a little thing
that has great ese&s. i'oor people, who are re
ally poor, that is, people who are not poor and
proud, save rags. Why ? because every little helps.
\ few pounds of rags bring a few pence, and
pence feed hungry children. But iniddlingpeo
ple, who are above want and below affluence,
will not save rags. Then let them put the bu
'finefs into the bands of little folks ; children and
maids. Tell Molly and Eetty to keep a rag bag
in a handy place—-give them all the pcnce that
their rags will produce. Their minds are not
above the butfinefs—they will think of it—they
will buy a cap or a hat with a year's collection
of rags ; and the rags will make a bible or a
law book—There is a bible and a cap clear gain!
Twenty thouland families in Connecticut will
save twenty thousand bibles and caps ! A great
laving this forowf year and one Hate.
P. S. Tel! -Molly and Betty, that the paper
maker? uu not mean to get &way their dilli
clouts—after their rags "are become unlit for
dilh-clouts and hoiife cloths, they are just as
&ood for paper-makers as ever.
Philadelphia, June 9.
On Tuesday last the President of the United
States, and his Lady, att«nded by the Secretary
of State, and the Sec retary of the Treasury and
his Lady, visited Mr. Vearcc's Cotton Manufac
tory. The President attentively viewed the
.Machinery, &c. and saw the bufmefs performed
in its different branches—which received his
warmest approbation.
The State-House garden, 011 Monday last,
witnelfed a icene of great bustle and confufion. i
To judge.from tlie croud, and the impatience of
the people to reach the windows, a stranger to
the cause would have supposed they were prefling
in to give their votes in a contested ele&ion for
Chief Magiflrate: But not so—Subscriptions
were receiving for the Lancaster turnpike road.
From 11 in the morning, till near 12 at night,
the subscription remained open, and when closed,
2276 lhares were found subscribed. Each sub
scriber advanced thirty dollars on his fhare,tnis
multiplied by the number of shares, makes the
um of 68280 dollars, subscribed and paid in
about 12 hours. This no scarcity of cacti.
Six hundred is the number of fliares limited by
law ; a lottery was therefore instituted to re
duce the subscriptions to the legal number : the
thirty dolkirs returned to those who are -*x- 1
c;uCcd by that tolicry. Gen. Ad.
A gentleman jately from tlie interior parts of
the ftateof Fennfylvania,informs that the coun
try in general bears the most promising appear
ance of a plentiful harve£. The rye, especially
between Lebanon and-Lancafter, is an instance
of extraordinary growth: its height is so great
as to give the oldest apple orchards the appear
ance of a low Ihrubbery, by entirely concealing
the trunk and lower branches of the tallelt trees.
*ome stalks of those rye fields actually measured
'even feet nine inches.
Extract oj a letter from Mr. Maury, Ccrtful for the
United States at Liverpool, to the Secretary oj State,
dated April 9, 1792.
u It is peculiarly incumbent on all Matters
if American vessels coming hither, toufe every
)rafticable precaution to be in-order.
u The brig Sukey, William Barker, mailer,
from South-Carolina, is under difficulties, and
he cafc appears a Angularly hard one. Previ
ous to leaving America, the master had those of
lis crew not natives sworn before a magistrate,
vhofe qualification was authenticated by the
Britifli Consul* Thefc men, on being examined
lere on oath, and their declarations riot acCord
hg with those they had made in America, the
teflfeT is flopped, and tho' I hope Ihe will still be
either admitted to entry or re leafed, yet the
celay and other inconveniencies will be very
great. The matter is now before the Lords of
the Treasury.—-I submit with deference the
propriety ef making this tr an faction public, that
V. may produce more caution."
A loan was necessary to carry into efifeft the
measures planned by the legiftature of the Uni
ted States for the protection of the frontiers ;
t'ie Itgijlature accordingly dire&edthis loan to be
made —the Bank of the United States have
lc ined the sum wanted, at an interest of five per
cmt. per annum, this is called plundering the
people !
It seems that if the government wants nio
n?y it rauft borrow it, without interest-—or wait
11 the taxes are collected—what apity they had
not applied to the dK-ivtereJic-d fault-finders !
In we fee a penetrating philosophical
mind duped by the advocates of religious fu
pcrftition and imposture. The clergy found him
tv>o great a man not to be drawn over to their
iide, and therefore accomplished their object in
the fame maimer as they formerly did with
Boyle, Locke, Newton, Addifon, &c. in England.
A Layman advocating fuperilition is always a
choice morsel for the clergy. See National Gazette
oj Monday l*fi.
A correspondent observes On the above, that
; the men who are tllere represented as the dupes
of superstition and imposture, were among the
nu>ft distinguished benefactors of mankind that
ever lived, and principally on account of their
being men of religion and virtue. The re igi
011s and moral character and sentiments of these
celebrated philosophers have been a u morsel"
to infidels that they could never digest—But it
is to be lamented that it was reserved for this
enlightened age to produce an ailaflin of their
fame, men of common sense, or common ho
nesty.
~ The abufcrs of government pretend lliat they
pre only cxeicifing a right given them by the con
ftitutioli, for the purpoic of preventing abulcs, but
how unreasonable vs it thus to take the advantage
and under the clokc of duty to commit £r»or.
May wc not be 1-eve in charity to our own coun
trymen, that they make but a small number of
(his rials, and that a majority of thcai are persons
from other countries who having lately escaped
from bondage, know not how to enjoy liberty."
at New-York, the 31 ft; ult. Col Sf.nf,
of South-Carolina (a genJejnan who (eiv d
in the American army in the lai«" w»tii rriui; >
reputation) to Mj[sVan Bfr ck t J.', of this city,
daughier of his Excellency Mr. iierckttl, lai •
Miniller of the United Netherlands to iht. United
States of America.
Died, at Frederickfburg,Virginia,
RiNt Wiatt, the amiable contort ot' William
Wiau, Elq. of that town, aged ;>6 year.-.
price of stocks.
6 per Cents*
3 per Cents-
Deferred,
indents,
Final Settlements,
Half (hares Bank U. vS. 70 75 pet cent, prcrn.
Shares Bank North-America, 17 ditto.
SHJP NEWS.
ARRIVALS at th{ PORT
Snow Concord, Markoe, Cape-Francois
Brig Chance, Wilfbn, GJafgow
Kitty, Moore, do.
Gayofo, James, Cape-Francois
Sloop Juno, Norton, Boston
Portland(Dijlrift oj Maine) May 20L Capt. Hart,
in the schooner Seaflower, here on
iaft. from Port-au-Prince, aftei a fJaflTage of 18
days. When Capt. Hart came awtfy, things were
in the utmost: confufion. All confidence between
man and man feemcd to be destroyed. The men
of property 1 , honor and bonefty, had chiefly left
the island ; and there remained a set of harpies
who pi eyed upon the fubitance of unwary ftran
gcrs.
Capt. Harding arrived here last week from Sf.
EuftiUia. He saw there on the 9th iftft. Captain
SylvanusCrofby, in the flmrp Betley,nf Rochester.
He had been on a whaling cruise, and had on
I board 110 barrels ot oil.
Capt. Jones, in the brig Betsy, arrived here yes
terday, after a palTage of 48 days from Liverpool.
He left there Capt. Trafk, in the b/lg Industry,
from Kenuebeck ; brig Hannah, Capt. Springer,
belonging also to Kennebeck, bound to N. York,
and would fail in a few days. Capt. Savage* in a
fhipfrom WifcafTet, left Liverpool the 8 h April.
The fchoericr Columbia, Capt. Young, left that
place the 6th April, was to touch at Whitehaven,
and was thence bound to Boston. Tbe br 15 In
dultiy, Capt. tlob,ot Boston, and Capt. of
Philadelphia, failed in company with Capt. Jones.
Caj>t. E<lwards, in a brig from Poitfraoulh, was tr»
Tail in a few days. Arrived at Liverpool, on the
7th t>i Ap» il,.Capc. J£d#>6, »r> 9 fhtp fron>Sa£o, a/ter
a peflage of twelve weeks from North-Carolina.
Peteijburg % V. May 31. The Grand Duke, Capt.
Pollock, airived in James Rivei, has brought an
account of the death of the King of Sweden, who
is said to have been alTaffmatfd at a masquerade,
by one of his Nobles.—The famcveflVl also brings
intelligence of the Parliament of-Eoglaud having
abolilhed the Slave-Trade,
Bojion, May 31. Arrived, brig Galen, Captain
Holland, from London, 52 days. The Rev. Mr.
lkown, lady and family, came pziTrngers.
Arrived, brig Mermaid, Capt. Gunnel, from
Madeira. In lat. 40. long. 70. spoke the brig
Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from i^ri(to) for Nrw-
York, out 75 days, in great Want oF pioviiious,
which were liberally fupplicd by Patrick lejfreyi
Esq. of this town, from on board the Mermaid.
These supplies conhfted not only, of neccffaries,
but delicacies.
Subscribers for this Gazette in Trenton, arc
reqv'ejled to pay arrearages to the present PoJlmafier t
Major Gordon.
Those pcrfons who decline taking the Paper, will
pieafe to pay the Pojlage on tJu Letters which ir.Jow
I the Editor of their determination.
JUST PUBLISHED.
AND-TO BE SOLD (PRICE lOf.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
A t the corntr of Third & Chefnui Streets,
THE
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Vol. 111.
Containing a geographical description o£ the
State—with sketches < t jtis naun* ■si pro
du£t»o..j, improvements, arid pr+-fem state of fo
ci ety and manners, laws and government.
By Jeremy Belknap, 'Ai'Al.
{jdT This volume compleats the history, and is
peculiarly interesting. Subfcribcrs ar • deiired
to call for their books.
RUN AWAY Irom the fubfenber, Jiving ia
Kent County, and State of Marfiand, on
Sunday the May last, a N E G K Ui MAN,
named Hark ; abotw 40 years of age, fboot five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over ' rue of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs h : t head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
liirn live followingcloaths, viz. a fear .ought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut k /ud, a white
kersey jacket aud breeches, two pair - ,t yarn ftock
n»g?j the orw- pair lately footed, and ? ;ie other not,
two oznaburgh Ihirts, each pieced on one fide,
two pair o! tow-linen tvowfevs, or s pair patched
with new tow-linen down the for- parts, and an
old felt ii<tr.
Whoever takes up said Negir , if out of this.
Statc,and secures him in gaol, fha' ) receive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS reward?— ai .<i if taken within
this State, and secured as afore said, shall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brought
home,, reaiouable exprnc/fs will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRISURY.
Chtfter-Tozsn, Jur.c 4, 1 791. (ep 8w)
■ 2 fi
'3/2
1 V 9
">V
18/5ELEGY ON PARTJNG.
I GO, my Love, and till we meet again,
Let hope and constancy the time beguile;
Again to meet, that profpeft (hall reftiain
The tears that start thro' my dissembled smile.
Farewell! but there is finirfi'd all my HoaO,
That tender accent takers <>n my tongue;
Ami I roust weep for that dear object 1011.
On which I gat'd so fondly and Co long.
O (lop, and turn, for ! have much to fay
One word, one look, I cannot leave thee so!
Ah me, (he take* a distant diff'rent way,
And I, unheard, unanswered, vent my woe.
From her foft voice no more I catch the found,
No more her beauties grace happy fide ;
I call, I search in vain, no more is found
My sweet companion and my promis'd bri^e.
Back to those happy scenes, remembrance fly,
Thy lenient aid my sorrows shall remove ;
For thou from those dear moments can'ft supply
Full many a proof propitious to my love.
Much tho' I lov'4, I found that love repaid,
And feem'd of afll men happy o'er the reft;
Consenting beauty heal'd the wound it made,
And love enflav'd me but to make me blest.
My lips the (lory of roy bosom told,
Chcck'd by no no unkind reply;
Then fav'ring glancfes bis my tongue be bold,
And mutual paflion kindled in her eye.
The bluvh foft spreading o'er her downcafl face,
The sudden sigh half rising, half fuppreft,
The cov diilrefs which heightens ev'ry grace,
In silent eloquence her love confeft.
Hov fwect to snatch her not unwilling hand,
And alf delighted on her charms to gaze ;
While roix'd with many a kiss we fondly plan'd
The tender condutt of connubial days.
Each social virtue decks her gentle mind,
And fledfaft honor waves her banners there;
So ctyaftc a Temple, Lovi was proud to find,
And truth proclaims the parting vqw fiucere.
While Tweet remembrance thus relieves my heart.
Ah why fhoutd grief on the fair profpeft low'r ?
we shall meet, and meet no mora to part.
And Heav'n and Love Hi all bless th' expelled hour.
Then fare thee well, and to thy constant mind
Still he my mem'ry dear, tho' I am gone;
Still be each tho't, each tender wilh, confin'd
To rac, whose heart 11 full of thee alone.
Tond Hope the while shall chcar my drooping foul,
In Tweet impatience shall the time employ ;
Shall chide tht lazy moments as they roll,
And Tooth my grief with tlto'is ol future joy.
JUST ARRIVED,
In tli4 Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-casks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported——
And a few bales of the very be ft CORKS,
George MEADE,
WHO HAS ALSO. FOB. SALE,
■.i,?vT°^ Ce i thre f anc ) five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-ca(k.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-calk.
±f* e ° IdSHERR * WINE > '»y tlie quarter-cask.
a fu P erior and such as is fit for
an talt-India voyage, put up in this citv.
Choice firft quality BEEF, ' do
Ditto fecor.d ditto do.
BURT?Nr^nKi F ' D , e^ Ual t0 My from th " c °untry.
w , PORK ' of t!,e firft quality, and
114 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. fee. See.
■ r\tlai ( lphia, Alay i 6, 1793
April 27, 1792.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SAI^E,
At any time between this dateand the firftday of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM
" P L n^ S^NTLY f " u f cd ' and bounded on the Eafl by the river
X .Delaware, 1 y miles above PhiladelDlna ■ ™ , ? ■
acres, 40 w lorcof is firft rate Timothv Meadow £"?' n S 20 3
watered in > dry time ;2, . ' "fff,!' w h,ch may be
very good ifteadow at an easy expencc Thr on ?'"? a y made
la? of about s o acres of rich out marft frfcm ti d > m ,he .
ascent to the cleared fields) ,30 acres of Media l * '
may be m.de ,at a moderate exoence ™'! r pland mtadow
never failing ft ream of water rJs throughthTs"^^ on A
a feat for ami 11, and in which is rood frmr, 7' , W< " ch ,s
hook ; plenty <>f rabbits and final] game • and hn' and
dance of wild d ucks in the season. A V hc , flats ' abun
den, and necessary ouubuildines ■an o/charrf""?"t II A°" rf ' gar *
■pplc, pear, peach and cherry free, bea , n J M ki " ds ° f
rye in the K rotin d, and a sprint;' crOD ®' a cro P of wh «t and
Peter 1.l Barb us Du Plessis Ffn w oc A PP Iv <0
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphr ey W*t C Mntit-flrret,
ton, on the Bristol road; or to D iftor T ' Walhing-
Fcrry, Bucks Courtly, The purchafc? Z K Nc(ha «>4
price down, may hi, ye a term of years to pay'the °"r ° f ' hf
interest. C 5 (S?
TO BE SOLD BY
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATTHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. A ME WAN MUSEUM, ftom its commencement in Janu
/jL arv 1787, to Decemher 1791, in ten vols. Price, neatly
boupd and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conducted on an improved pian, con
taining the best pieces publifhcd for and against the proceedings
of government, will be found to contain at least as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifccllaneousellays, as any ever pub
liflied in America, Perhaps in no one work are so many valuable
documents refpetting the history ot this country, collc&ed toge
ther. His Excellency the Prefideni of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a mo.reufeful literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving ot public encou
ragement." The fubfetiption is two dollars and a half per ant).
Gentlemen in t ; he country who wiih to be tupplied with this
work, are requested to give commiflion to friends in the city to
fiibfcribe for and receive if Any of the back numbers may
be had in-order to complete sets.
2. Ladies' Pocket library, containing Miss More's Essays,
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marrhionefs of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs.
Chapow on command oi Temper, More's Fables for the Ladies,
Price
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its firft fettlctnent to
the year 17.32. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, Mfith a fbort account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political (late, and the cooflilution of the courts of justice. Price
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements 0/ Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l, d. pro
feflor of moral philosophy «*nd logic in the Marifchal CoJLegje,
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : •• We have fecn nothing
on thefie fubje&s more plain, more perspicuous, or mote generally
ufeful."-t N. B. It is introduced into the Uuiverfuy m Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, Britifhand American, containing fele&
produ6liom of the most eminent British and American poets
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
6. Blajr's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
ot tb£ Bj itffti edition, in two—Price twq dollars.
7. Necker's Treatise on the iibportancc of Religious Opinions.
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, $ Bths of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the faveral United States, with the Fe
deral Constitution, See. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in i2mo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
n. American Jest Book, in two parts, with two very neat en
gravings—Price, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the SouJ, by Bifliop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bible, in quarto
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50/2 —plain, fix dollar*.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or reflexions for every day of the month.
Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript,
found in the island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse—Price a fifth of a dollar.
17* Hilary of Charles Grandifon, abridged—Price a fixtb of a
dollar.
18. Poems by Col, Humphreys—Price a t"hird of a dollar.
19. Seltft Poems, chiefly American—Price a sixth of a dollar
Said C.iaty has for fate, 3 large aTToitm«m of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he willdifpofe of on the
molt leafonablc terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fupplicd in the moil Uijfac
tory manper. A liberal allowance to l'uch as purchafa quantities
for poblic libraries, or to fell ajf^in.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very Hist quality,and lacft importation from Cant&u, via
New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chrmn'and Market Streets.
Stock Broilers Office,
TNo. 45, Great DocMlreet, NkW-York,
HE Snbfcribcr intending t. confine himfclF entirely tn the
PURCHASE and SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION
Beg« leave to ofter hla femces l> his friends and others, in the
hltr'b !fi f * Br ° k j r ' T h " fe v t° may P le,fc, ° favor him with
LEONARD BLEECKER.
MO
Md* 2
American Lead: Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co
TTAVBjuftnow opened thei, Lead-War ehouse, two doors
h ? 0 / Walnul " ftrcet Whsrf, adjoining their NewFaSnrv—
SHOT e rMf made ' an J c" dyforfa!e > a
I r\ Wltb S «fi£T.nd BAR LEAD, the^
production of th<: Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Knglift, workmen, thiy w» mt ,to be
equal in quality t6 any manufaflured in Euro*? and ai a reduc.d
price from the cod of imported. reouc.d
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, hi Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
fho'eft nmice"' " thjnkf . ull y'«-ved, audexecmcdon it*
N. B. Wantedindubious, sober, Labouring Men, at life said
!r' W |l'k tCI> °&=><« employ, good wages, and other encouraee
.. «»•""* o.
Philadelphia. Detemher 3, 1791.
('P9')
/ GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC )
THE subscriber.HATHOfiNEttA ''
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of ,he UNITED STATFS
In that con.mod.MS House lately occupied by
t* 1 ( n , , a^ 0r this Town.
He has furnifhed himfelf with a flock of the be ft T in.,. j
Will use every exertion to give fatislaftion bv or „ ' u
frafon, the bed of every fpeciea of or„. P j . '" S ' 1,1 ,hclr
served up in the most ZS
GEORGE H. LEIGH.
Tickets in the new-brunswick lottfrv
be had at the following placcs viz Sa> I r
ferry ; at Burlington, of R Pi cr f on ii j Coope,',
John Van Embufgh; Mount HoHv/of ?" R°' Mr "
SJWr® His i T", IfiWSt
Hunt; Cranbu.v of William■ Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
the Managers in Brunfwick. ,rockmo,ton Srotfwood ; and of
12
BOOKS,
NEW TEAS.
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 17*2.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third p a
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each ftiaic of
the Bank of ihe United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and depnfit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of ipch pay ment, may be made onthe
books of the Treasury of the United States, or iii the office of any
of the Commifitonera of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment fh«ll be made.
Resolved, That the transfer book-s be cloCed fourteen days pre
vious to the finft days of July and January of each year.
By Order. JOHN KM\ T . Cafhicr.
A LOTTERY,
TO rarfe the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing etifc
Protestant Epifcooal Church in the city of New-BiimTwicle
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of "Ncw-jwfev,
passed November 1791.
SCHEME.
Prize of 2000
1000
500
200
t
1
*
5
10
3©
9 t>
*67 $
1814 Prire*.
3520 Blanks.
.5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 DoJIs.
p3" ThisLoifTy is cornpofcd of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to ope Priaey and fubjeft to a deduttion of twelve and an hdf prr
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubied but the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
,n J uJ y» or f°r>»>er if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwiuk, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, frre
ftdent of (aid city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ol Am
boy; and Archibald Mrrcer, E-fq, Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufa&uring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, arc uoder oath, aiwd ha»« given (ccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he pufclifticd, the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottoy
JOHN PARKER, )
PEI ER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,>
N. B. Thofeptizes which are not demanded within fix month*
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Chur-ch.
%* Adventurer* in the above Lottery have a chance of mor*r
than 3 per cctit„ per month for their money. To accommodate
all those who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters dirv&-
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Poftmafler, at New-Brunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended 10, aud Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, Aprils©., 1792.
FOR SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT cleg**sEAi< at the Falls of Delaware;fn the vicing
of Trenton, in-New-Jerfey,occupied for many years part by
; ; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a tract of woodland of about 185 acres, at the diflance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
1 renton to Lanjbcrtonj and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming orders The other
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be oncof the moil
f>eautiful and deferable feats in the slate. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well T finiftied brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick,
kitchen ; and commanding a very extenfivo and pleasing view of
the river* both above and below, as well as including the falls, aod
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new ftooc
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one pravea stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &e v Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, isa gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collection- of the
choicest fruit# of almost every kind, and feverai large asparagus
beds, highly manured-. At a convenient diflance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in thecentre-of the square, is a new, well
built, lfcone farm-houfe, accommodatcd with a large cheefc-room,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete (lone fmoke-lioufe, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ceirary ouubuilding. The ground is properly divided into frmiM
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for fe-»
veral years palt, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, bc/ides
supporting through the summer season tweutv to thirty horned
cattle., and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chard* of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper fealons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with .a variety of wild-fowl; bi>th of whicli
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addiuon to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchafcr may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaufkible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The pui chafe money, if well secured,
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded foi many
years.
Any pci son desirous of viewing the premises, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Rfq. of Ticnton,
or Mr. In a l i.man, who at present occupies the farm-houfeand
part of the lane—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Secorrd-ftreet, ©ppofite W the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHTJ COX-
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subs riber, on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is ,55 years of age,
flout made, and bied a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much swelled;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went awav a big purpie
coloured cloih coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches,
a ruffled (liiit, an old beaver hat, with fboes, stockings and buckles,
all good. Alio, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
yeaisof age, flout and well made* 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown short coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
Hockings, a new wool hat, new shoes ant* buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, fliall rcceive the above reward, and all reafonabie charge*
ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792.
.
Dollais is
&OOQ
1000
IC&3
100 a
100
20
4
1000
WQ
1800
6700
»6»90