[No. 61 of VoJ. IV.] Saturday,
:#■> lift i -.Hi,j
-ii . Jflft A *>
. - '»'• '
Mr.
. i» a republican virtue
j *lio deities it ? Therefore [
ooey virtue when I suspect the mo
ljarchv-inen, who wiite for yntir
paper 1 in recommendation of public
schools. There is a snake in the
orafs. Ft is in print and for that
'jealon I belive it. as my *oo»i grand
mother did before me, 111: it ihe spi
rit rtf trn-r- )iberry is obfi-ured in the
eaftem ti'ates. The proof is nor
only ill print, bin there are many
otber circuniltances which corrobo
rate it. The people of those Itares
tire very ffcderal—tbey voted una
niiiioiifly for Mr. Adants, and they
appear ready and willing, if requir
ed, to carry the laws of Congress
into effect.• If tlirle are the effects
of public f&hoofs/'if fath an attach-
Witt toder ?M>4 tn thp i*.
furirv of property fpriT>£«frbwi'gi'v.
jngr Wt;!. J am again ii. aii
, _-.r jrnootii fchooi projects. Rea
lm) condemns them, and so does ex
perience—could-you raise a harried
mob agninft the excise—or would
your pen and ink-ploughmen com
bine to oppose the laws of Congress.
No, Mr. Printer, the influence of
schools is fatal to fucli noble efforts
of liberty against power. The mind
spends all its energies in thinking,
.ajid the man becomes a poor spirit- ,
less government-ridden creature,
nnrfes aristocracy. 1c
Jnakes a diftincftion of ranks that no
bill of rights can pi event, nor can
any force abolish. We have already
aristocrats en»ugh,& public fcfoooh
*(>rM make e. J his ■$ again It
■ _ <i>f._.»»r writers
would find 4.heir odes and edajsin
: defence of ty of r.o' effetft.
Giving fciiool ning to our chil
dren will b. {fie 'he labors of all t liefe
▼irtoous w, iiers against government,
and no f iit ere Mi:.<beau will per
suade thetn that the wearing silk
ilockii'gs or hair powder by our
rulers, is a forei unner efmonarchy
Jinti ariftociacy, and that liberty
wi : " 'it lolt if we do not fay Tbts
and !<> the PrefScient, Vice-Pie
fideii: •.ij ■ ! ' "-nds of depai tin cuts.—
irt fhoit, ig io'ance gives fuck to
f.ic'iion and anarchy : Why, by set
ting up public schools, will you bar
barously deliroy the mother and lier
children ? WAT TYLER.
C- -
Affairs.
F A J A' C E.
NATIONAL CON VENTION,
October 6.
Lisle, Ott. ~.
Letter from Gen. Culliue to Gin
Biron
Htad-Quarter> General, at Spires, Srp
tember 30, ire.
" My dear General,
" You that, agreeable to
the plan yon adopted, J was to at
tack Spires, in which there were
4000 Auftrians, or treops of May
ence, and magazines f'aid 10 be of
fonie confeqtience. I wiihed to cx
t'cute this plan as soon as the army I
command was organized ; but being
prevented by bad weather, I too. k
Rdvantage of the firft moment i : w»s
pofliLiJe for me to march to c.iliec'i
»ny army art Landau. The roaris,
Jiowever, being spoilt by the rnins,
rendered n»y march ve»y fatiguing,
«fpeciaUy that of the body which I
conducted, and whj-ch was delli.ied
to cut offthe retreat of the enemy
towards Worms. Having set out at
lime in the evening on the 29th. it
was two o'clock next afternoon,
when I arrived at the entrance of
those roads, which led from .Spires
to Worms and Manheim. I found
Auflrians drawn up in order of
A Ntl-tOCM PAPER, H-iiLhSHKD WHINES I) AYS ! A*H S -- — =.r—.■
" ' iOHN FENN °< No. 154, MRTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
b.U»;e r •-• 1,,,.;.... 'j3
1 'Rbt fm f Ntincnce, •■jvhicli i«
the ga'.e that boK lt . —."is Worms,
a ravine helnte ti'etn,and their left
extended, among lime gardens liir
rotinded with t! iick hedges.
" F dir. net hesitate a ntumeit to
attack them in this portion, ant di
recting Ligiip;; thei: line a Inavy
fije of artillery, vhich p-otefed
my own 11 ne while forming, I
marched nt the lame time upon their
left four battalions, defiineii tu ake
poliefiiun r>f the eminence wiich
commanded them. They soon de
termined to retreat within the wills
ofrhe town.—Having tried for a
moment to force the -gate by my
cannon, i preferred, when I (aw the
ardor with which the troops wtre
animated, the maki
to cnnlietn d-own with t-beir barrli
fis. pi-opot'ed tbif method,
;eing deinolifhed, hmil then ot
.he inner wall, the Aultrians were
•epulfed in every quarter ; but ta-
flicker houles, in which
hey formed poiit-holes, when our
roups were engaged in the flreets,
he enemy commenced a moil ter
ible fire on them. As I, however,
i.id taken the precaution to place
'.t the heads of the columns some
lowitzeis and eight pounders, I was
?nabled to rally my troops, who
.vere nt firft a little intimidated ;
ind soon after i he A uftrians thought
)f nothing hut retreating.
" Colonel Houchard, who had
>een prevented by a great inunda
ion r approaching the banks of
he Rhine, has, however, been able
o execute a comrnillion I gave bin)
»iffi tfie regiment which lie com
nands, and he has taken 40P pri
on ere. 1 resolved to pursue the
iiemy in their ret eat, and having
ome up with them at the Rhine,
hey laid down their arms.—When
n Spires they amounted to more
ban 4000 men. Several colours,
tandard, cannon, howitzers, and
ibove 2000 prisoners have been ta
cen in this expedition—TheAufhi
ms loft, besides, a great number
killed. The magazines, which we
found here are immense.
" I cannot at present give you
any details refpe«fting them. I mult
conclude my letter, for I am ready
to drop down with hunger and fa
tigue,having been twenty-two hours
on liorfeback, and the troops as
long under arms.
" I cannot conclude this dispatch,
with commending the fiimnefs of
the soldiers, the patience with which
they supported the fatigues of so
terrible a march, the discipline they
observed, and the bravery they dif
played. lam extremely happy in
having ibis day seen the cause of
liberty triumphant. It adds omy
pleafurc that L ha*'? been able to
moderate and check the fury of the
soldiers. i have the fatisfjtftion of
faying that in a town, taken by
ftorni,aml where a firing took place
in all the ftieets a single action lias
not been committed which 1 need to
blush at.
[Loud appianfes.]
" It gives me great my
dear General, after having found
an opportunity of inspiring my
troops with confidence,after having
carried away tlie magazines of the
enemy, and deltroyed their forces,
to be able to join you, in order to
save the departments of the Rhine.
I cannot fußiciently prnife the man
ner in which Marflial Newingar has
<;ondu<fled himfelf. He exectired
the difpofirions of the infantry du
ring that day, with a coolnets and
tranquility which must always in
sure great success
'(Signer!) C.USTINE."
P. S, I have the honor of tranf-
f;
1 my proinife had not the disorders
wnich prevailed here yesterday and
til is morning prevented mc—This
unhappy place was 011 the point of
being plundered, and to prevent
this, as well as the like events in
future, I wns obliged to make an
example ot fume of my men, and to
employ all the rigour of military
law. You will soon fee two thou
sand nine hundred prifonersarrive.
1 am going to fend immediately to
the national convention five stand
ards. Near 400 of the enemy were
drowned in attempting to cross the
Rhine. Thre« pieces of cannon
were alf<> loft, as alio twoftandards
belonging n> the division of the
dragoons of Tufcany. Eight hun
dred men were killed : their wounds
are dreadful, as they were made by
our cannon /hot fired from a very
short distance. A bank of earth
permitted us to place our batteries
in fucli a manner as perfectly to
command the enemies line, while
ours was flieltered from their can
non. Our batteries were ere&ed
under the flicker of this natural pa
rapet, and the column destined to
support them was luckily covered
by a riling ground. We loft, in
consequence, very few men ; we
had 20 kilted, and 30 wounded, a
inong whom were t*'o officers.
With regard to the magazines, I
have not yet been able to learn the
Hate of them. Four hundred wag
gons havefet out to-day for Landau,
and it does not yet nppear that the
magazines are much diminilhed.
(Signed) " Custine."
The minister of Jnltice fem to the
convention ihe seals of the (tare in
gold, with the Maces which were
carried by the Mace bearers of the
Chancery. »
The convention decreed, "That
these article*, as well as the Sceptre
and the Crowu of the ci-devant
King, atyl othpr insignia of the like
kind, fliould be broken and carried
to the mint.
" Citizen President—l have re
ceived no intelligence this moni-
-MBER. 25); Iff) 2.
i »*• -A si -4.;.
count of :h'e and ammunition
which we have taken
I'uilfp hq.iality 1 can certify
the truth of this, because J have in
my hand a copy of it attested by
Gen. Bi on.
Letter jrGW the Dliniftsr of IVjr.
Paris, Oc't. 10, 1792.
Citizet Prelideot—The Conven
tion will, doubtless, with pleaf'ure
fee, by copies of and extracts from,
the letter.' of Gen. Citiline, details
of his ufe'ul and glorious expedi
tion ; btityou will learn, not with
out pain, that the good conduct of
the troops, has been ilained for a
moment b_v emillaries mixed among
the brave defenders of their coun
try, who liave attempted, with a
iiio-nentary success, to introduce a
mong ;h<-n; a fvften; of plunder and
;rr( ,< ul-.; ;-i • j. • . us to !>*•
'ft .
conlpiracy of the enemies of liberty
and equality—l hope the conven
tion will approve the severe but ne
cellury conduct of General Culline.
—The severity which he has em.
ployed he thought neceflary for the
glory of the French republic.
" Gen. Dumourier informs me by
letter of some military operations,
and that to-morrow he means to
lend a fufficient force to dtive the
enemy from the department of the
North.
(Signed) LEBRUN."
Letter t'rom Gen. Cuftine to Gen
Biron.
" Spires, Off. 2.
" I promised you lome details,
and i (hol)Id havefoone, discharged
Letter from the Minifler ar War.
" Paris, Off. 6.
[Whole No. 385.3
: tVo..=
f>' I>Ul ihe city ofLifi.
CeWM Kcllermsi. »>;lVnis n>*
tnat ' !e 'Continues to purine the enc
my. He gives an account, at the
( line time, of the measures lie has
conceited with Gen. Dnisourier,
to fecuie more and moi e the tri
umph of the armies of the i epublic.
News was eagerly expected from
*jen. Anlelm, charged with one of
thole expeditions so well planned
tinder the nniiiftry of the patriotic
bervan,—T lie fuccels of. ir has been
equal lo those in Savoy and at Spires.
I tranfinit to the convention a
copy ot the dil'patches which 1 have
received : they contain an account:
of the capture of Nice and Momal
ban. (Signed) LKISRUN,
Minister at War per interim.
Letrer from C . ial nnfe'm.
Ci r iz-.-n, heii ; iiiKt'rtaiii in
what part of Savoy Citizen Montef
qtiiou may be at present, I thfnk ic
my duty to give you immediately
an account, that on the 23th nit. be
ing employed in making prepaiati
ons for palling the Vur, 1 received
different addles, stating, thai the
troops of tlu>"iiig of Sardinia wer«
making .olition* to retire to
wards So.jjello on the road to Colli.
" 1 imediately ordered all the
greuadieis of the army, supported
by two brigades, to make ready for
croifing the Var.
" 1 placed myfelf at rlie head of
this column, with which I palled
the river, and advancing with ra
pidity i o tlie ciry of Nice, entered
it without reliltance. AF.c • ei'ta
blilhing my jpjlit try pofls, n>v nrit
care was to Tend a body of trpoj *
to attack the fortreTs of Me«ra!baii.
1 fummone;! the Governor, threat
ened hiin with an efcaladc.for which
I was making preparations. He
then surrendered priloner of war,
with the whole garrison, confining
of Swiss troops. I found the artil
lery in excellent condition.
" Our grenadiers ar prefertt oc
cupy this poll, which is of the great
est importance, as it will enable me
ro maintain my position in Nice,
Ihonld I be attacked by a verv lis
perior force, and as it gives me ve
ry great advantages to get polieffion
of thecaftle of Ville-f'raiiche, which
1 hope to take to-morrow in some
way or other : it is defended by Gve
pieces of cannon.
" 1 have found between ihe Var
and Nice a great number of cannon,
several of which have been fpiketl
up in such haite, that I think it will
be easy to make them foou fit for
use. The enemy had not time to
carry away the ammunition belong
ing to these guns. I am already
provided with a great number of
muikets, and with ammunition and
provision of every kind.
" I mull bestow the highefl: prais
es on the zeal (liewn by the troops
whom I have not yet been able to
reinforce with other brigades, as I
wished to get pofl'eflion of Nice as
soon as pollible.
" I am afiured that the enemy
amunt to B,poo regular troops,
four regiments of which Swiss,
besides 12,000 militia,-all well arm
ed, I ain in purfoit of them,'but
they climb the high mountain*.
" I think I fliall to-morrow plant
the Tree of Liberty in the town of
Nice, and ii» the fortrefs of Montal
ban : and the day after to-morrow
in the town and fortrcfs of Ville-
Franche. I cannot comprehend the
reaf.ins which determined the troops
ot the King of Sardinia to abandon
with so much timidity such impor
tant polls, and such great means of
defence. It must have been thro'
a panic terror of which I (hall take
advantage. This prevents ine froi)|
«
■'•is-- u -
S •».• .f-p.<fti«r!ng into &*i.«r 4ft««' * scut
ii, de&imcy 1 fl»11 afterward, „
(Signed) •
rA ®" rets* 'fliut° n the conveiition
fpeeditr P» r »
complained £
"T r I .5 raid they, will never fufcr
f w °- th-Y have placed their coufi-
S.V^-»V'.Mew,.;,-
ty Courage ,n a tree people .s
1 virtgt, we Will ..ever depart from thu
at if it U just to obey the laws,
it", Woiuft to resist delpots under whatever
aai they may--s" icc '' tjhemfelves— Wc are
WpMtt **?' ? ur io V~ f|U ' r " £**
Oiy cfcetwms oy open vote..
' v Prej!s*/-- U CitSseas tV ri 6 lit of pettfiyn
,E is dfecred right; but thole who p-e ent
Aemfefves at the trar to employ it ought not
to forget that refpeft which they owe to the
representatives of the people.—l do not mean
to the people of Paris, bat to the people of all
Fl The National Convention acknowledge on
ly one people, pne ftvereign—that is, the
onion of the citizens of the whole republic.
The Reprelentatives will not be compelled
by threats to violate or discharge their duty.
They know it, and they will render tlieni
felves worthy of that confidence with which
the French republic has invested them. They
have nothing *o fear, and they:feor nothing
from the people of Paris; and what yon said
to a (Tore them was perfeflly useless. They
entertain neither fear nor suspicion. In Ihort,
the National Convention will always hear
with pleasure the language of liberty, but it
it will never fuffer that of licentiousness. It
wilj take your petition into confideration,and
admit? twenty of you to tfce honors of the
fitting.
Thg convention ordered this answer to he
fertnriß. r ' " : f
Tho feftiotr'of Gfavilliers protested
lubmiffio'i to the taw, but ironed tn
feftion for the fdtare ihouid fcs autho.. -to
choole bv open vote. They were of opinion
that no tear or preponderance of party could
influence elections of that kind.
A great number of other petitioners were
admitted 011 fubjetts of a private nature, and
their petitions referred to the proper com
mittees.
Monday, Oftober^S.
The following letter from tiff commiflion
ersfent to the army of Damourier, wa< read.
u Satr.lt Menelrould, Oft. 7.
« Citizens, the enemy continue their re
treat towards Stenay, and notwithstanding
the rapidity of their march, our troops in
cessantly harrafs them. We take great sum
bars of them prisoners every day ; and if they
had not taken the precaution to cause their
baggage to file off three days beforehand, they
would have saved none of it.
"We know that " mifunderftaixling be
t-.vriru tne Ki.ig of P -a, the emigrant-, and
' r Auttr-iar is crrier, to the ex.-
te >.—The King or' Prussia, when he begati
his retreat, (fcnt f"r the cidevant Monfienr,
and Generii C.~ ' yt, and sddneffed tfccm
ts follows :—" You have both deceived me ;
J will flill extricate you from the bad fitua
tio'n in which you are, but you will remem
ber me."
Gen. Bournonville's letter to General Du
mourier, dated March, Oclocer 5. The ma
terial parts are, 44 The weather is very bad ;
I have not been able to make use of my in
fantry ; they were 38 hours in going two
leagues ; tbev had no bread to eat these two
days; we have taken horses from the ene
my, two prisoner*, and 121 of their Tick.
I have declined burdening mylelf with so
great a plague j and have sent them to their
homes; if I had hearkened to the wifli of my
volunteers, we should have buried them in
the mud ; if this disorder continues raging,
the enemy will not get back either horses,
men, or cannon ; they are much in want of
the former for their artillery.
44 The King of Prullia and Monsieur passed
this way ; the former yefterdav, and the lat
ter the day before, appearing to be very much
frightened. However, the retreat of the
Pruflians is conduced with the greatest or
der •, the van-guard pal Ted Tiern at twelve
o'clock lad night, and Grand Pre at two
o'clock with sixty carriages full of their lick,
and I let thejn carry the plague farther on—
but am in readiness expecting you.
BOURNONVILLE."
Tuhsdat, October 9,
A debate arose on the decree f-efpeffing
the emigrants ; and it was finally decreed,
that such of them as are taken with arms in
their hands Shall be executed within 24 hours
after being fir;i proved to be emigrants be
fore a mi'.itarv commilfion of five person*, to
be appointed by the etat major of the army ;
foreigners who have quitted the set vice of
France (ince ; <e 14th ol' July 1789, and join
ed the emigrants, or the enemy, to be treated
in the fame manner ; the powers at war to
be responsible for all violations of t'.e law of
nations by any reprisals made by the emi-
grants.
txtraETof a 1 trier Jrom Cctiiral Cijtiiic to Central
Siren.
" Dear General,
" The letter I received from you yester
day and the news it contains, caused me to
reflect deeply on our situation, and the means
w$ have of doing the most ufefnl service to
ths public weal. The following is the re
l'ult :
" M. Dirbach, since the 2d inft. has re
aeivedorders to come and cover Worms and
Mavence, with a body of 12,000 men. He
t.'HI arrive rathe: late for the former, as I am
poifeflion of it. M. Nonveigner, with a de
tachment, entered it He found 1,800
tent?, anca Ir.a3r.zinc cf 3,2 m law: of corn arms until lialf after f<rvsn ue t: i • -
»i>d ftrawjwbich I directed to be moved im- Hearing thro no account or the
mediarelvmd sent to Landau I have demand- « et^nl y > |l ie garrifoo returned to the town,
ed a conti bacioi) of i ,233,033 l.v. V.7.20J. .of arcelv had thev retired, when the
Of the njiit noble Chapter, 430,03; ..i t. c o- -< ' , ' m i e „f horse. who
B.lh., PS a,d 633,003 of t(.e .n commandant of a patrole ot none.
This opjrsion Will he finiflisd before the ar- having been out reconnoiti wg, had io.t
rival of the Count Deihach, and 1 ihall a'fo , three of his men. tode lip on 8 mil gallop,
have e vaulted Spires.
Cctobf.R J
A letter was read t'roin the Minister for
Foreign Affkiis, in which, afrer relating the
proceeding between the French Iletident and
the Con lie; J, he announces that he withdraw
froci G.«cv» u the 4th i ift v."rt&cat taking
leave ; but remitting to the Council, the note
of which he jets i copy to twe afiembl*.
" In thiso'fcite'of things ('ays the mtmfter)
end LGiSictrr.zg hew important it is to in
vent even yet if polfible a rupture that wight
bring on a war with the Helvetic Body, the
Executive Council'have thought it .'heir duty
to authorise General Montefquiou lot to em
employ force, to oblige the troop*ot Zurich
and Berne to quit the territories >f Geneva,
but to expose to them the dangc of perfifl
irtg in a resolution, which circunftances do
not make neceffarv, and which i-not author
ised by any treaty."
The note of the Minister chiely has for its
object, to demand of the Gene\efe the pun
iftifiient of the magistrates, vho have, by
their manoeuvre provoked the requisition
made to the cantons of Zurich, md Berne for
troops.
The Minister at War comiuinicated the
following extract of a letter iroin General
Dumourier to the Minister at War :
Vou.ycrs, Oct. 9.
" I have just divided into two parts the
;irniy under my command in the Ardennes.
The brave Relief man, my companion in arini,
and Itif intiinatrffriend
that has been said, done, and written,to excise
animosity between us) undertakes to chafe
from onr territory the enemies who I afiijre
you willneverenferFrance again by this terri
b'e frontier, Consternation and ruin contribute
to ruin the army of the enemy, aud Keller
man will easily accompli(h their deftruftion.
The King of Prussia is departed for Berlin,
where his army follows him. He has had a
Ihocking conversation with the two ci-devant
Princes ot France. He reproached them with
having deceived him : he told them that they
had exposed him to be ill received in bis own
kingdom, and that he would remember it to
them all his life- After this conversation,
the truth of which I guarantee to you, the
two French princes went to the castle of
Vouxiers, from which I now write to you.
" \Ve took l'uch quantities of equipage as
to enrich our soldiers. Yefterdav the carri
age of Monsieur was brought in. We avoid
taking the waggons loaded 1 . , to lave
irar arm<- from cor.tagic... in fliort, I an
trr, particularly after the diversion made at
Spire, and after that which I have planned
with Kellerman, that the Germans will not
again penetrate into Franca : I flicild be
•.. ..ing to ?r.v duty of a General, if I lolt ten
days in marching at the head or the tail of the
columns, and if I did not on the contrary,em
ploy them in arranging with the council all
the operations which may give prosperity to
our military affairs.
Letter from General Dumourier to the Prefi-
tl The honour of the French nation has
been fulliedby two battalion-? of the Federates
of Paris. The Minister of War will give you
account of the measures which I have taken
to punifti the guilty. Our liberty would be
soon loft, if such arts were not fuppreUed—l
lhall deliver up to von the disturbers unarmed
—do you appoint judges for them.
The conduct of thele two battalions Mau
confeil and Republican, was explained in a
letter from General Cliazot ? commanding at-
Rhete!. Four Pruflian delerters had been ta
ken prisoners, who, according to the report
of the municipality, were desirous of entering
into the service of the Republic. These two
battalions fell upon them in the inoft inhuman
manner,and notwithstanding thetears and fup
pi'cations of their own General, like ruffians
and butchers, cut them in pieces. The or
ders of General Dumourier were, that these
two battalions should be surrounded by the
army, and forced to lay down their arm?,
standards and uniforms. That they should be
forced to deliver up the criminal? who com
mitted the inhuman mafTace at Rhetel, who,
under an escort of iod men, should conduct
tUem to Paris, and deliver them up to the
National Convention. That the reft of the
battalions should be broken—their arms and
' abits laid up in tne military store, and their
colours sent back to their diftrifis, to be by
them confided to men more worthv to bear
them. This ineafure was highly applauded by
the Convention.
A 1-Tter from General Cuftine was read,
dating, that he had imposed upon tie Canons
and Bishop of Swires, who were great friends'*
to the Emigrants, a contribution of 450,003
livres.
" Sptre, Oft. 5.
German account of the talittg of Spires.
Official account rubllfhtd by order of the
" Colonel de Winkelman, towards
evening of the 29th of Sept. received ad
vice of the approach of the enemy to the
number of 30,000. The Aultrian troops
and those of Mentz, marched out froyi
the city at eight o'clock at night, to de
fend the four gates, and remained under
CUSTINE."
(Signed)
11 Patriot Miniver,
44 DUMOURIER."
dent of the Convention.
41 Citizen PrcHdcnt.
" DUMOURIER."
Electoral Court of Menti,
with intelligence that the en«my were not
- • .1 . » r
Our troops returning then
far diilant
« «» .
k-ir foi mer pofitiou without the walls,
received about noon the French army,
wliom they found to amount to 17,000
men.Uv ; difchargeof their cannon. The
canomde was kept up with great iptrit on
*$oth <jd«r». The enetny*» JlrtdHery wa»
tnech more numerous ; as our irnopp
ij'ere drawn up only two men deep, while
the French ad»anced in columns, their loss
must liave beets considerable. At three
o'efcek the garrison retired to tlie town
thraigh the different gates, and the firing
was continued in the streets with fomuch
vivacity, that the infantry of Mayence
eigh; times repulsed the French cavaW.
Notvithftanding this brave reliftance, our
troop were obliged to give way before
the eiertiy, who were mucl) superior in
nnmter, and to retire through the gate
calli'J Weifethor, towards the ford of
Rhrinhoufe, at about the distance of a
league from Spires. The French pursued
them thither with their whole forces, and
thc7 were then reduced to the neeeffity of
asking leave to capitulate. After a delay
of firty minutes, lieut. colonels Dietrich
and Fechenbacn; the former in the fe. -
vice of Auilria, and the letter ia that of
the Elector of Mentz, agreei wlßi M.
Cuftine, the French general, that the
garrison should remain pri Toners of war ;
that the artillery, arms i s ar.. Lag
gage mould be given up to the enemy ;
that the officers should be fuffered to re
tain their atms, horfcs and effe&s ; and
that the soldiers should not be stripped.
After these stipulations were agreed to,
the garrison was brought back, to the
town, where the soldiers laid down their
arms close to the grand guard, and were
afterwards lodged in the Cathedral, but
the officers had permiflian to walk about.
" Next morning, October ift, all the
privates, reckoning from the firft ferjeant
of each company, were conveyed to
Landau, and a declaration was made to
the officers atkmbled at tlie Hoce!-de-
Vilk, that they would be set at liberty
after they had taken an «,ath not to serve
ih the war against the French tilt an ex
c, of prifi.ners should place—•
having acquiesced in this proposal, and
fold their horses for ready money to the
French, the commandant of Landau con
duced them without any guard to the
ford of Rhein-houfe, and permitted them
to retire wherever they might think pro-
per.
One of the Secretaries proclaimed the
qames of the members who arc to com
pose the committee of conttitutiun.
These were Seyes, Thomas Paine,Petion,
Briflot, Vergniaud, Genfonne, Barrere,
Danton, Condorcet. The Deputies
were Barbaroux, Herault, Lanthenas,
jtan Debry, Fauchet, Lavecomtrie.
Friday, OBober 12.
The Proficient announced a-Utter ttom C«m»-
ral Dumourier, in which he requefled leave to
come and present his refpefts to the National
Convention. The Convention having immedi
ately decreed that the General fhoi/ld be admit
ted, he appeared at the bar, accompanied by se
veral of his ftaff-»fficers.
General Dumouiier's Speech.
" C'ttiz.en-L,egiJlalors,
"LIBERTY is evtry where triumphant:
Guided by Philoiophy, it -will overspread the
universe, and it will eftablilh itfelf on all thrones
afterhavlngcftifhed despotism, and enlightened
the people.
" The constitutional laws which you are about
to frame, will form the basis of the happiness
and fraternity of nations. Thi? war will be the
last, and tyrants and privileged orders, mistaken
in their criminal calculations, will be the sole
vidtims in this ftruggleof arbitrary power against
reason. The army, which the confidence of the
nation entrusted to my command,have deserved
well of i* eircountry. Reduced, when I joined
them on the 28th of Augull, to 17,000 men,
and diforgar.ized by traitors, whom punishment
and (ham- every where ptirfuC, they were nei
ther int midated by the number, discipline,
threats, barbarity, nor firft fucccffes of 80,000
satellites of despotism. The defiles of the forell
of Aigon were the Thermopylae, where this
handfu! of soldiers of Liberty made a refpe&a
ble reiifiance, for 15 days, to that formidable ar
my More fortunate thin the Sp.trtans, we
were supported by two armies, animated by 1e
fame ; pirit, whom we joined at the impre .
camp ot st. Menehould. The cacmy, i 1 di
pair. wiflied to attempt an attack, hich addsa
new vi&ory to the military career of my )1-
league and frieL . Ktlerman.
'* In th? cam>> «>f St. • ' ''«f '
of Lib.rty difpiayed other miii J r
out wliidi cofifigj ev-« raiy t» •
dence in their chics, obed.ence, parienceand r
severance. That part of the 'republic con
of a dry foil, destitute of wood and water T-<«
Germans will renumber it, th-sir imptre Won*
w.Il perhaps lertil.z; thefifca, plains whj< . h
are now drenched with it. Th; ieafon w s
commonly ramy and cold ; our folJiers wer*
badly clothed; were destitute of ft raw to ie
upon; had no covering, nn I remained fome-.
times two days without bread, because tile pot'i
tion of the enemy obb-ed onr convoys to t ,r e
a long circuit, by croli-roads, which are very
bad at all fe a foils, and which were then f"":
by the Ion;; rains ; for I m ufl do jiiflice to tU
purvey*. ircvilSon' and for.-.,;e,
withl'undi.. ' the obrt.c es »f had roids, wa
weather, ana-I, r ecrer movenpsf, wjiicl. I wa ,
obiigcfL to concuii iron? th< Hi
abundance a. far as poffi >.e ; • ani"
happy in declaring, that we are indebted to their
car* for the good health of the soldiers. (Ap*
plaufes], I never heard them murmur. Songs'
and joy would have made one take this formi-f
dable camp for one of those camps of pleasure,
where the luxury of kings formerly embodied'
automata, for the amnfement of their miftrefles
and children. The soldiers cf Liberty wetc
supported by the hope of conqu.-ft ; ihuir fa
tigues and fufferings have been rewarded. The
enemy have funk under famine, mileryanddU
eafe. This formidable army, diminilHed one.
half, arc fled; the roads are strewed with the
carcases ofhorfes, and dead bodies; ICrHerman
is in pursuit of them with more than 40,030
men, while I shall march with a like number, tp
the 1 ill (lance of the department of the Nortl.,
and of the unfortunate and refpe&ablc Belgians
and Liegeoife.
I have come to spend four days here, only for
the purpofeof fettling,with the etecutive coun
cil, the p'isn of th- rriiitey campaign, i inbract
■is opportunity of prcfenting my rel'>ei2l to
you. I shall n®t take any new path ; I lty.ll
ftiw fttyfelf worthy of t'.n-.miji'Y,r>tr fyg ■
ren of Liberty, and to fupportthofe law • ' icii
the sovereign people are going to eiU for
themfelvfes, b" you, rhci Tr>:u - f :s>"'
■Lcciap-iuf',]
The President's An Tver.
u Citizen-Genera!,
" THE recep ion you have met with, from
the National Convention will expreis to you
much better than I can thtir iatiataSion with
your and that of your colleagues, and
the opinion they entertain of you. Continue to
dire& the courage and zeal the army ; conti
nue to guide your soldiers, and brethren in arms
in the path of honour and of vi&ory; continue
to serve your country vrith fidelity, and you
will have new claims to the esteem and grati
tude of the republic The Convention invites
you, as well 25 your brethren in arms, to the
honour of the fitting."
The General was then introduced into the
i Hall, together with the officers wh n tten 'ed
j him, on the table, as did a)f<> 1 >
' i- ' aot-fCi eral -Morton, bis militar; u. -
tions.
I T mort that the Conventiontirm
request General Dumourier to give m feme
information refpe&ing the letter of General
Dillon."
President — " General, do you Vnow any
thing of a letter written by General D llon to
the Prince of HefTe Cafful; and do you know
what was the intention of that General in wri
ting it ? The National Convention expedts some
information from you, as the Executive Coun
cil informed them that they hoped you would
be ablet® fatisfythem in this refpe&."
Dumourier—"l received a copy of that letter,
but I considered it a mere bravado, and of very
little importance, especially as Dillon, two days
after, pursued the Heflians with the utmost vi
gour. lam of opinion, therefore, that it is not
Worth notice."
An * General of I
prefer "Convention
whic 1 had dify._, -i, arc. vviii\> "
th<- fotdicreof liberty had . %
uom the enemy.
Th: Convention <lecreefl, flrat tr-:'i I. 71 JO/
rel-llion, instead oflxing hung in the '
tropin should be put into i. v " of U*
common ler, to be publicly burnt.
After some other business of little importance,
the fitting rose at 5 o'clock.
GERMAN ACCOUNTS.
The Leyden Gazette contains an account of
the of the Pruflian army on rhe 14th,
15th, & 16th of September, as pubbihedat Ber
lin.—This account, far from indicating tJie stile
of the BrufTeb Gazette, never mentions the
French troops with contempt, exprefcly fays
That in the various adions that took place oil
the 14th and the Prussian troops were re
pulsed, and (hews that altho' they always carri
ed their point in the end, every inch of
was warmly disputed. To this account
ed a letter from the army of General Clairfait,
dated September %6th, written in the fame ttile,
which makes thelofs of the Pruflians, in carry
ing the height before the village of W almy 500
men, and that of the French, attempting to e
fend it, 1200. The ctwdufis&ofjtisytlW'
th? diilrefs of the combined armies has rot Ken
exaggerated : "Since the 17th we have been
under the open Iky, without tents or *
The weather all the while has been dreadful—,
conflant and excessive rains, tempestuous winds,
and cold uncommonly severe for the
The armies on both fides have ; ~r' '■ '
the latter season cannot be more unfavourable
forthe operations of the campaign. According
to all the information we receive, the enemy 1*
still more diflreffed than we. \i r e are in t. e
i midit of Champagne Ponillenfe (U»e louiy) a
: country, poor in the extreme, unprovided ol
every thing, without water, without wood, al
i mot a desert, and entirely aban lonec'. by the
| native inhabitants. We muftfeek more
virtues, v.-Lh-
weh?I
» ..: ffMn our camp; a<!i to this, tliat
havruii'.cn rare to throw lime into
- ,11 the nclls. They make war with all
s rot only oi'the military art, but of
he !t virulent hatred. It is not from the
jrdinary uangers'of a campaign 'hat we mud
■uarJ ourielvxs, but from treachery and perils
f every kind. 7he tranfbortation oi proviiions
s thus rendered! uncommonly difficult, while
he aimvmuft carry every thing along with it,
the country nothing. Ycfterday.the
»cth, the enemy ccmandeda truce for 14 hours,
which was grantiji, and expires at midnight.
n
LONDON, October 12.
: ,ome hzrfh, means have been used, it
ii hi. :rht, to oblige the King of Poland
Jiit» it. mtatwm Nothing but the
hs ..Trt»ire could have forced
!jn a&ed so inglorioufly. Pro
i,abi ->• nprels will urge him also to
-1 all 1. iiab prefcnted to those per
i i■: outitry who interelled them
/L-Kei ■ Polish Subscription.
.an Catholics of Ireland, who
{«■ wit ' ided with refpett to the pe
o afe<4:'ament, 10 fftaqt the tight
>f li .ve ftanchife, ate now un'ted.
'«'<•« Jj.-niunVtrts 7ft W<Hco
and young Bnrke,~"For what rea
joi; knov not, continues their arrant,
the truth of the Ruffian invalion,
1 d tie winter campaign thry r.re to
make in France, we may judge by the
account of their match. It been said
at Vienna, that they are passing through
Pol,wd, at t?ie rate of 14 and r6 leagues
11 ' o
2 day.
A report prevaiku yeS'erday in some
cfiwojijii ia. Irela n4
between tfte Catholics and Pioteftants,
"iii wim'i m«r4i b!ooc« had been Ihed. It
—mftsti irkiiftinflly, and we hope untruly ;
btit was so far believed as to be at least
worthy of mention.
The Empress of Russia has got the
/noli complete pofTeflion of Poland, tf'heTe
fh<* means to support a very formidable
military eftablifhmerit.
The «mba(TafJors fromPrufiia andAuf
tria have each of them transmitted a note
to the Elector Palatine, fignifying that
thefr Imperial and Royal Majesties ex
peeked clHit iii cnfnleration of the a&ual
situation of the Kin * of France, the
Count D'Affigny, Milliter from that
Court, fhonld be ordered to retire from
■the Electorate. The reqoeft was com
piled . " '*• < v
an
i« . ' '-t '' -
pcfl fsi;, baffled tyrant.
•J E W - Y O R K, Dec. 24.
By thfchooner Charlotte, Capt. Schanck,
arrivrdtt Charleston 011 the itt iiift. in three
day? frrn St. Mary''!, we learn that the coni
mifiione* appointed for that purpose, had
toncluid a treaty with the Creek Indian?, to
the mihia] fati-faction of both parties; and
that tfr cominiflioners fat out to run the boun
dary jije.
We learn from Poughkeepfie, that wheat
in price more than' one fliilling per
: • Kent, E r q. ii nominated by a num.
of Dutc'ief*:, to serve as a Re
: le; fative in Congress for that Diftrift, in
:lie tor u : tho Hon. Egliert Benfon, who de
clined.
lie ':nn. ti . Hritu- eof this State, on
1,-»{}, •• fT-'J tiie bill, entitled, "An
--- o-' '' tU °.n aJI ioreita-
Nav igat ions witfiin
2 »" not'.*.- the obje&ions
council of rev • on to said bill.
bvM
frhrt Si
: V*O? T D, (Vi i« 'nia) Dec. 21
•)n -Ve <t;> . died at Urbanna, in-the
oi \ . i._ rnufß Lee, Esq. after
ac loss of this virtuous and
crii'ghtcned patriot, i, no less to be deplored
;u' fei -»!. ica, than by his native state.
J : J!«g.and aithtul services rendered to his
coi -.try, during her arduous ftrpgglefor inde
pendence, :n the alternate characters of Am
baiiador andStatefman, are universally known
and acknowledged.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, December 26.
The petition of Hans Morrifon and others
was read, praying the renewal of a loft certifi-
fulJlers ill the
4"» lulaehufetts reginicnt, praying the pay-
of » baliance Sue to them from the I'ay
. regiment, by whose failure they
#ave been deprived of the just cornpenfation due
' lem f or their Cervices, was read.
r f'' l ' oll of Anthony Hammil, Paymaster
t , tn « above regiment, read on Monday, with
above petition, were referred to a feled:
committee.
r * Murray then moved that t!:e petition of
e.iry CleJand Baker, presented last Monday,
Cle c^ 'o the above committee; ;he Clerk
e»ter/.d n as " refclved that the laid petition
' r was moved to amend the jour
. y "rikitijf out the clause, as no order had
pitfed the Ho afe for such a rcib'ution. Sundry
examples in point were cited from the journals,
that when a motion for referring any petition
was negatived, and no other motion made at
that time for its being laid on the tabic lor fur
tner conlideration, or to be referred any other
way, the custom was to enter the petition as
" rcje&ed." And on the qiieilion being put
for altering the journal in the above inilance, it
was determined in the negative.
A bill to provide for the payment of the prin
cipal and intercft oi a sum of money due to Ud
ny Hay, was reported by Air. Beuion, and read
the firlt time.
A communication wa3 received from the Se
cretary ol War, conformable to the motion of
Mr. Steele, for a return of the officers, non
conimiilioned officers, and privates, in the ier
vicc of the United titates. Laid on the tabb.
A bill providing fw a reimburfemcnt of a
loan made of the Bank of the United States, was
taken into consideration.
Mr. Steele moved that the firft fe&ion be
ft ruck out. This occasioned a debate.
The motion was determined in the negative,
Ayes 17 —Noes 34.
Mr. Madison t len moved to strike out of the
firft fe&ion the words " two millions," and in
sert tiro tboufand before the word u dol
lars."
The rn. J noes being demanded on this
•otiQjl are—Aye* 27 — Noes 26.
l-iie Speaker voting'in the negiutvj-; the mo
tion was lolt.
A motion by Mr. WilHamftm, to amend the
lection, by adding a clause to reftrifl the prt mi
uift on the loan to 5 per centum per annum, in
cluding all charges, was unaaiuiouily agreed to.
A.*;d then the House adjourned
THURSDAY, Dec. 27.
The petition of Hans Morriibn and others
011 motion of Mr. Hartley, was referred to
the select com mi'tec to whom the- r«p<:.-t of
Jhe Secretary of ttw.Treafury, onjolteeetiffc.
tates, was committed. - ' —
Mr. Giles proposed a r„-iolat»M- the !oi
lowing purport That .h« .i.etnkmt of the
United *~itei be re-; fu cause to be laid
before : ; hr a partteaiar account of the
ll'vera! .ums of money borrowed by bis autho
rity for the United States—the terms on
which such loans have been made—the amount
of the appropriations thereof pursuant to law,
and the balances, if any, which remain nnap
plied—fpecifying as fully as can be, the times
of the commencement- of interest on said
loans, and when the interest flopped on the.
sums paid. This resolution was agreed 10 by
the faoufe.
Mr. Bourn presented the petition of Wm.
Eliery, colleftorof the diftriftof flhnde-Iflar.d,
stating tlie inadequatenefs of his compensation
;is such, and praying an augmentation thereof.
Read and referred to the Secretary of the
Trealury. •
Mr. White, of the committee to whom the
V!' tn -eg -1 -j '
1: •• tri
•? I
- i-.M .
n lit in a-
amendments were made, which were reported
to the bouse. The house agreed to the fan e,
except one, wh : ch, with the bill, were laid on
the table till to-morrow.
Ia committee of" the whole—the bill to aC.
certain the fees demandable in admiralty
cafes,and for otherpurpofes, was further con
lidered—feveral amendments were agreed to
and reported, which, with the bill, were laid
011 the table.
Mr. Moore, of the committee on enrolled
bilis, informed the house, that this day the
committee had laid before the President of
the United States, for his approbation and sig
nature, the bill entitled, 44 An ast for regil
tering and recording of ftiips or veflels."
The communication from the Secretary of
War, purfuaqt to orders from the President of
the United States, received yesterday, was
called for—and being confidential, the gallery
was /but.
A petition of Amafa Keys, praying the renew
al o( a loft certificate, was read, and referred to
the comruiueeTon that bufmefs.
A memorial from the officers of the New-
Ham p(h ire line of the late army, similar to thofi?
from the officers of Pennsylvania, New-York
and Maryland, was re ad, and laid on the table.
A petition was icad trom Patrick SnlHvan, a
ftrj- ant in the late army ot the United States,
praying compensation tor services, See. laid on
the table.
A petition of James Dtigan, late of the
province of Canada, was read, praying com*
penfation for lofles fuftajned by his father's
family in consequence of their attachment to
the cause of the United States in the Jate
war ; laid on the table.
The House took into consideration the a
meudments reported by the committee of the
whole to the bill to ascertain the lees de
mandable in cases ot admiralty proceedings in
the Courts of e United States.
These amendments were adopted by * ,e
HouJe—other amendments were >
fiwne of wnich agreed to, others e j
ed—and tiie»i the bill was ordered tr en ~
groll'.-d for a t.-ird reading.
Mr. Steele called up his on the
able a lew days since, for the a*pointment of
. committee to prepare and K' n g ln a bill ior
educing the militaiy eftfO'>ffi m ent of the
.Fnittd State&c.
Mr. Steele, in a speech, enforced
he propriety of adopting this resolution. r»lr.
lartley, Mr. Fitzfmons, Mr. Dayton, MA
.Vhite and Mr. \V- Smith, spoke agrinft the
notion—Mt\ barker and Mr. William,on in
upportof it- A motion to commit the refo
lutroo to a committee of the whole being
made, some observations in favor of tbi? com-
rimr,
>ec. 20k
243
M "' an J
ha vai carried ior a
ti~ older ot_ tae d»v Wedneiitov
Ail, mi iiei! lIN Monday.
eoriheC, At,r ri. ~j ,/, t uxirEDsrjrzi
'TVII. party writer* have ufcd the word-
A monarchy, aristocracy, a.iti-reptiblu ar'
corruption, wmifterial influtnce, til)
(_K-n ow„ ear; seem to be tired of the f om V
T<> rejievc the dullnef; of p.-o'e, their poet
rhyrr.e; together. He has served rh m
i'i> hot m - rench—he has halhed them into
h B " tthelame lentiawnts even j„
eti. have become by repetition, as trite as
Stetnhold and Hopkins. For the fake of va
it is recommended to the artificers of
w'Sv? ** K :' ver,Hnent » '»S«'t 'et to
41 u(i<»—Oi her nations have longs wkirh in
spire h.;;h sentiments of national giorv—which
make the people refpeft thenifelves.'aod che
r the remembrance of their common dan
gers and effort,. The object of o:;r party
writers being to degrade the nation, and to
promote the ideas of confeious meanness and
turpitude, of dil'dord and anarchy; and their
eiiavs having beej. read aud chanted to no
purpose, it only remains to filth them—To
bringthe goodw o rk about, no means (hould
be ljft untried—Accordingly, it is asserted
that the Poet La meat of the Faction is ham
mering out the veiles of certain Tongs, \vhi< !i
have a tendency t;i abolilh Birth day Odes.
When the ideas they will inculcate ihall lie
adopted by the people, that birth-day will not
be worth remembering. ISCARIOT.
Philadelphia, Dec. 39.
KflgliiT* papers in t-* £3feber f -eceiv
cd by a - rwcci at Baltimore, co a
jt the following is a funj
" j xrmi'fmTC.i iraitßcoan -
maud of the Duke of Brunfwick,'had effe&ed
their retreat as far back as Verdun. The
enemies o{ the French Republic appear to be
completely difcancerted in the object of the
campaign. Theyexpefted to have been join
ed by large numbers of the French, but on
the contrary, few or none flocked to their
standard i They were promised fuppiies of
provisions from France, and depending upon
them, they were for fomc time in a flarving
condition. The Pruffiau magazines have
been exhaufled, and provilions carried to the
invading armies proved so unwholfome, that
sickness anddifeafe were the consequences of
using them. Theft added to inceflant rains
for many weeks, were the immediate causes
of the retreat. The French army under the
command of Dumourier and KeHerman har
raiTed their rear and captured numbers of
their soldiers, and large quantities of baggage
and stores. The siege of Lille sfrid of Thion-
WPrP certainly abandoned. The late
een of Ft
tied wouK ■ roi
■ ST The ' — ,
were in
jle naiiuii«l convei c< 1 :
selves with propriety, and poflefled the confi
dence of tlie people, and no doubt existed
that the new Republic would be eftablilhed,
notwithstanding the opposition of the allied
powers.
General Cuftine of the northern French ar
my had invaded the Imperial territories, and
reduced Spires, Worms, and several other
places, and taken large magazines of provisi
ons. Gen. Montefquiou had completed the
conquest of Savoy.
The unfortunate La Fayette was a close
confined, and cruelly treated prifouer at We
fel, in t-he Prnflian territories.
The Empress of Rulfia was marching an
army of 30,000 men to join the enemies of
Franca, and it was expected the Spaniards
would also unite with them in a short time.
1 Vednefday last fifteen Chiefs and / ee
Prineefles, of the Wabalh nation of I>" ans >
ia town, on a visit to the Pre^ nt 0
the United States. On this occafi.'' a e
*vas fired on the common by the -
M. Blanc-hard's forty-fifth * na ' Flight,
is fixed for Wednesday, 9 th > tlie
Prilon-Court, at 10 in the
weather permitting.
Bv a late return, it ppears that the num
berof convicts in of th.s c.ty amounts
to ;!n rtv-eight onlv-and these collected from
several counties. , , . , , .
' An entertain-?" 1 « ,ebrat i e f,T
furcejes of '< French Natum, the Mies oj the
United States * i»'°pofed at Oeliers Hotel on
New-Yea 5 Da >'- Such P er!ons 35 are
po'ed t<J oln on t!ie occafion,are requested to
leave- neir nam " with Mr - Oeilers as earl 3^
as jytfible.
The Xnfurance CompanyofNorth-America
/lave petitioned the Legislature for an ast of
incorporation. ■ A counter petition is also
on the carpet.
The North-Carolina Gazette contains the
following reflections on the unanimous vote ,
given by the Electors of that state for Gov.
Clinton
" A reflcftion, on the above unanimous
vote, will naturally occur to every man who
is anxious to preserve the coMitution of the
United State?—and that is, ti at when the
name of John Adams, Esq. wa-. offered as
Vice President, the* principal objttfion to
vote for him was, that he had functioned a
bill which the President had returned to Con
gress as unconf.itutional—And that no man
who is now ill t!'e Senate, and who has not
given the faireft and nioft indubitable testi
mony of his opposition to that strange system
oi'/ccret LegiJlatiov, inviolably prefe-rved
Senate, fliojjld eyer be again elected."
t'TEM.my AX nut*:
o>j t'.e letJi oft:* p, tfent v .,
'(bed at Bnhon, the.t'irft NnhiVr '
emitted, the" /,///„.,/ .
WjWrrefjK.n.lbg / ~„4 and roC^L.
The principal oi 3 ,-t of t,.0
pap_-r appear.? t«. be, td girt. „„ a(1 , '?
-mpa-ti,; hUtorical- J,, u . Tnlr\T
principle
whicha, el, utoh fc„rejv.„„ r
w this country. Jt'.twn
I"e <leti»il which he njve «i' r >,_ , ■>
««»!„,,, i" the v.tio V; \ - *>'? pro
oftheCWrorVerOMlle,, Jitf'X] f
at Pan,, pw,,, rcaiun to h
in t '"' C rCVo!u V' >r fa """ i* coaipriv-d
ln - s tlian fwenty-Jix numbers.
Of this paper the Agf,... <„. w . r v .
the folding manner : ' 1"l
" A WMtjwpev enmgifiiwed DttbUiliii »
this town on Mondav fcft, tailed t - " "
jal.Cu.ricr ,f tht W„u,» i„ Frr,J, ami
£ columns corresponding with cadi other.™
t rom tne l,,»cimen given in the firft num!)J ,
t ie public may anticipate much accurate in
formation of tlieSituation nf athirs in F. ancc
and tne Weft-Indies, from this ihurce. Jt ha-'
commenced with a luccmft account of the
life of the French Revolution, in language ele
gantly correct, and fentiinents evidently mi
pa^' aI - The Editor is a man of talent* •
and his resources ot information, dire ft
a political view the benefits of a paper con
duced on this plan, are obvious b-.,! IIO *
niore so than the advantage to learners <j
h rench, from having the eveuti of rbe times
handed to them in that "'*.m>uage, at
tended with an —It has our
baft wi&es fry- /i icefs."
C OM M UN IC^rrrv>^.
Kings and nobles have beeojuftly charged
with a sot jretfuinefs of what is due to the
people. One speaks cf the glory of my crowu,
3TW* u£jJ-l!- Ivoiuv*? <iiL,ffiV
whi'e the fwhjk multitude is despised and op
pre fled. Tiie writings of our factious men
indicate no less contempt for the people.-—-
They venture to treat t':em as if they could
not reason at all: otherwise they would not
addreft their paflions and prejudices as tf ev
do. They revjje and persecute the tried
friends of liberty; and they attempt todiftnrh
confidence in government, by tales of
corruption and mismanagement, and of the
schemes of a king-naking-parry too filly to
pass among the citizens of a less enlightened
nation. They have been bufv more tlian four
years mr.king ftarecrows, as if our country
could be turned topsy-turvy by fearing our
fcbool-boys. Their bad success should teach
them that the persons they address in fnch a
puling style are come to years of discretion,
and to be persuaded must be reaioned with.—
Let any one who may be disposed to try the
jufiiee of this remark, examine the nev/fpa
ner Drodnftinn* of the party, and he will ajlow
as
The vindicators of the plan of the Bar J- tell
that the public gains thereby near a milJu.n, as 9
profit en its /hares. But theje ingniisvs gentlemen
haveJhort memories ; they fo*ze* at the. ja-mt
plan y private fubfcr'bers r,car f° ,,r millionl :
So that as all depended op** e public be fore the charter
was granted, the iM*gave away four million; syr
the privilege of 'Of grnng awax the fifth. TheJa
cri sice howeve/ s t ! ,e more t0 beexcujedy as the bad
ness of the * r g a ' n Wi »s never hinted at the time,
and as «y JTnn y ' ,as never whispered that a fin
pie puP O man concer ncd in making it, has as a
fnbfcr Cr P ut a aT °* l^c our millions into
1 rivate pockr'.
sARIVEDa/ the PORTef PHILADELPHIA. '
Pallas, Poole, Spain..
Brig Minerva, Tltompfon, Madeir*
Hertv, Hood, C. Francois
Sch'r. Mary Ann, Coppinger, Guadaloupe
Sloop Polly, Norris, C- Fraiicoi#-
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 20[6
3 per Cents,
Deferred, 12J&
Full lharcs Bank U. S. 35 p* cent, prem.
ADVERTISEMENT.
PERSONS at a dijlance from this, city whe
itrijh tofubferibeJor this Gazetti, <jjc irjormcd
that the condition *f advancing fix months Jubferip*
tion. or making provision Jor its being paid here,
mujl be complied with> otherwje the papers cannot ty
forwarded —The Editor having been fever ely taxed
b\ the pojlage oj Letters, requejis the orders by po/i
Jor the Gazette, may be Jer.t himfree of that charge«
RUN-AWAY
TKOn THE SUBSCRIBER, THE 12th APRIL,
A NEGRO BOY, named Zeb\ Aim and tall,
(ixteen years old; came to Samuel Lipin
cot's at Bordentown on the 15th, said his nam*
was Henry, and left that place the 27th May.—
On the 27th day of June, he was taken up in
Bucks County, and carried before a Magill.atr,
said he was free, and that he lived on the Su(-
qnchannah —that a petfon by the name ot Abra
ham Frail, took him three days jcuinev t'uiro
home, and turned him adrift with one dollar—
He asked the Justice for a pass to go to hi» fa
ther, and nothing appeared to the cor iry—
He lived with one Thomas Paxw ell till t v 19 b
of this inflant, and then made his cfc?:>c l.m
him ; he called his name Peter John L cr had
on an old Grey Coating Round Jaci
with red baize ; an old pair Leather B- < inl
and an old Felt Hat. Whoever takes .... fairi
Bov,and brings him to Jacob Mer:, ;a j, on
Slat. n-Ifland, (hall receive TWEiN 1 D 1
LARS, with reasonable charges, pai:l by
JACOB MERSEREAU. Li us C
Dec. 29. > aw ■ '
rv—•Las
prologue,
TO CROSS PARTNERS.
Written by Georgf. Co l ema n. junior, Efq,
Stwk. n by Mr. Palmer
THJS is a Lad)'s piece—and after that
We nerd not sue lot iiivor —vnbuin Jut
John Bull, a fine, good-iiatui'd, honed blade is ;
°N<vmilk-fop hc-and yet John loves the Ladies.
What, il half take" fro™ the f>f" ch our Pla V'
Tj)o not, good John, gogrowlingly away !
If Munt, in gallantry you yield to no men;
you damn Mo'^Jeer, zoooit, roan, don t
dornv* <hc woman
jrhis tp plain John : and as for Maftet Jack,
T i a green bo*, hia coat half off his back,
T 7hat Play, or whose, he little tares, so he
ports but his figure a* the Comedy.
foo volatile to givtf he takes the tone j
facky has no opinion of his own !
As Critics frown,or smile, look pleaPd or gruff,
Jacky is with 'em—thinks their word enough,
And cries, damn'd good ! damn'd fine ! damn'd
bad! damn'd fluff! <
"While others, more refin'd, who deign to deck
Our lower »anpe, with towels round their neck ;
Stout, hign-born, Bfiprfli youth, who lounge
away
Three evening hours of a fuitry diy
In ten ftrfp T o- tr «jt«^ a ;ft.. coa ts at a play :
Vacant they fit ; nor praffe, nor damn the scene ;
Fashion is mod amazingly serene !
Or else Loid Bob, to Lady Betty
(Who It gentle breafl forfweet Lordßobby burns)
And breathes cold nothings ot his ardent love,
Which, like his muscles, nought he vows can
move;
While o'er his forehead, to Cncreafe her pangs,
In artificial ease, a love-lock hangs!
Thcfe sweet, foft swains, our drama ne'er
perplex ;
Nor dread wc ought from theJlill fofterfex.
Woman, whose every vein with feeling flows,
In whose mild breatleach kindly paflion glows :
Woman, whose heart for ruder man will bleedi
Mufl feel for Woman, in an hour of need.
Whom fear we then ?—all here fucccfs mufl
wish us;
And Hon eft Gods, above, be ye propitious!
By your loud fiats we mufl fink or rife—
Greit !uiliing and two-iVtlHn? Dcilici!
aOl - weil—none here will sure rcfufe
Aid t' a female—and a Virgin Muse !
To the Public.
THE SubfcrtWu having been apoointed a
committee of the Hoard of :he Truftecs of
the University of Nortb-c V o>ina, for the pur
pose of receiving proposals fr<wv{ uctl g( . nt | rmcn
as may intend to undertake of
youth in that institution, take the >p po rtuniry
of making known to the public theiv^j^
such gentlemen should fignify their i"S na .;, "
to the fubferibers. \
The objects to which it is contemplate.
the Board to turn the attention of the stud .n:
on the firft establishment, are—The lludy <K,
Languages* particularly the Englifti—Hifliory,
ancient and modern—the Bclle-letlres—Logic
and Moral Philosophy—the knowledge of the
Mathematics and Natural Philosophy—Agricul
ture and Botany, with the principles of Archi
tecture.
Gentlemen conversant in these branches of
Cclci.ct. oi.t! lihtUt uTc, and who can be well re
commended, will receive very handsome encou
ragement -bv the Board. The excrcifes of the
institution will commence as early as poflible
after the completion of the buildings of the Uni
versity, which are to be contra&cd for immedi
ately. SAMUEL ASHE,
A. MOORE,
JOHN HAYF,
D 2,<5 rpam
Soon will be pubu/hed y
•the SYSTEM OF
zJ/L ott-^anch
Ufraby Mr.ti.OYi), in takingaown (heDebates
ol Congvefs. A system so tjafy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearlv comprehend
it in half an hour, and Jfoon pra&ife it, in its
fulleft extent, without any further inftruftion,
than what will hi-conveyed in a few pages,-—
the whole ART being comprised in eighteen
Jimple chaia&ers, without any of those perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
Other fyftfms obliged to burden their me
mory, and embarrsls their pra&>cc.
Price, to Subfcriben, One Dollar— to Non
jkib (bribers. a Dollar and half.
Subftription# rcccivtd by'MeOYs. Rice,Book
fcl'.ers, Market-ftrcet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 56, Pear-Street.
Half a Dollar to be paid, at the time ofjubferibivg.
ADVfcRTISEMKNT.
C J This Gazette is puklijlirdin North Fifth-Street,
- 34, felwen H,gi and Mulberry Streets—where
the Ldttor now resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
-ifitly capacious to ftorcjcveral hundred ban els,
Enquire a< above.
DAVID STONE,
SAM. M'CORKLES
ADVERTISEMENT.
Felwttn December \Jf, 1792.
Wiftp* iAijWcv In the hifeh Court ofChance
*" r y n * '^ c alc
jatin o- Jerfry.
ihers Defendants. j Present,
His Excellency the Ch«mccllor,
rp<HE Complainant having filed his hill o!
1 Complaint against ihe Defendants :n the
month oF September, seventeen hundred and
ninv ty-onc, and in the said Bill of Complaint did
among other things fct forth that the laid Com
plainant being lv .zed in his Dcmcfne as ot lee
of and in a cei uin Ti ast ot Land. said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
bcintr in the township of Hardwick m the coun
ty ofSuilVx in the Mate of New-Jersey, did on
the fir It of March seventeen hundred and eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in tee fitu
ple unto John Meng and John Henderfon of ihe
citv ot Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver-
That on the fifth day of the fame month of
March the laid feoffees above named dtd execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mort
gage in fee Ample of the fa'.d 1 raft of Land to
fecnre the payment of ihe fa d sixteen hundred
pounds, with the lawful inlsrelt which might
theieon accrue—That in the year seventeen nun
dred and eighty-fix the la i John Meng and
William Goodwimdid become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the acts ot the Le-
of the Commonwe Ith of Pennfylva.ua,
and such proceedings were'.iad againlk them that
in the fame month they were duly declared
Bankrupts; and that they the laid John Meng
and William Goodwin did in some short time
afterwards convey and tiansfer all their eltate
both real and pcrfonal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premites above mentioned
«o JohnJield, Curtis Clay, James C. Ftfher,
>j< \Vl»d. <17. i John Kaighu and Arthur Collins
a of the Uty uc P fubjw* to the
Mortgage so as atoiefa'd Ujd Com
plainant.- the fain John TteiA, Curtis
C'ay, James C. F fher, Uaac W!j«*-"»n, loin
and Arthur Collins *00 u >: *r bargains,
fold and conveyed all their Right and \ le of
and in the said Tract of Land unto B■. bju.- 1
Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day of October seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town aod
Benjamin Town did excculc another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for securing the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
bailments—That id the month January seven
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in feefiinple all his Right and
Title to the said premises, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgagee aforefaid—That
in the month of February seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all his Right and Title to ihe said premises,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the cil et Phi
delphia, upon certain Trusts unknown to theal
Complainant—That fa id Benjamin Town the
soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the Slate ot Pefitilvlva
nia, did convey all his eflate and perlonal
to a cer'ai* Robert R?'i >n—That John Hp»i.
ucricn did alio in the month of S
rernrTiuiTaTeQ aibir ve n DeootneJ 1
rupt, and under the bankrupt laws of t!V
of' Penofytvania, did wid convey all
eltate rea-i and pcrfonal to David Ltnox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton arid
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doth in
and by his said Bill, pray that those having
Right to the said Eifate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the said Mortgages, or chat
the equity of Redemption be forcloied by the
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by Richard Stockton, Esquire, being of the com
plainants counsel—it appearing to the Court
that the said defendants do rcfide in the Sure
of Pennsylvania, without the jurifdi£lion of this
Court; and it appearing further to this Court
that writs of fubpocna have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this Court, that the fa id
writs of fubpeena have been duly served upon
*ie said several Defendants upwards of one
from this day ; arid that none of the said
hjve caused his or their appearance
Sitered in this Court to the suit of the said
™|>nt : ' s therefore ordered by his
xc \ the Chancellor, that the-laid' P
-611 , an^ st \aufe their appearance to be entered
to t e uit °\u c above Complainant according
to the rules oK, s Court jn [wo months t[on ! ' i
th.s d.y, °r [Vhe Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
confcffoagrccablV lhe<llr;aionsof (he
th<: Lfgifla'ure in cafe madc and ldcd
—The Complainant i • „ „ , ,
t . r i ving notice and making
publication of this ru ■ . ~ , ,
r . , . n «in and by the laid act
of the Legitlature is pro\\_j
WILLIAM PATKivrvxT ru //
n , * >ON, Chancellor.
December \JI, 1792
BOWEN's OF
W ax- Work &Pain% g S>
ARE open every day and evening (S\. ,„ v
excepted) at the House lately occi\; 'i
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-itreetX
First Room—Contains upwards of io\
elegant Paintings, and about 30Wax Figures
in full stature—among which' are Like°ie(Tes
of a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young Ladies of
different States, dc. be.
Second Room—Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club
or tie Oyster Supper ; and the School far
Scandal, coniiftiug nt twelve female Figure?
making their observations 011 a young JUadv
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance Ont Quarter oj a Dollar each
Room.
TO lit iULD JiV THE UHIOK,
A TABLE lor receiving and paying Cold
K , r according to Law—Blank MarnMb—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
Hicclijry 111 triinfafting Bufmrfs at the Trrafurv
or the Bank ol thy United States.
244
A GREAT BARGAIN?.
TT 0R Sale, a beautiful htuanon on the Po- I
JL towmack, adjoining the town of AJcxandin
and inalineof direfclion towards the Federal
City and Georgetown,in full view of each ulafce.
commanding i» profp- ct o( the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 of $Q acres of Land, lyin* gi
reftly on the nver, will be fold, with the im
provements, which arc, a two-story framed
d welling.houfr. neatly fmifticd,a kitchen, ojfiicc.!
buck lmoke-noufe and dairy, two-story framed:
barn, a well of excellent water, and an tcc
houle, a yard and garden, neatly rai'ed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne
celfary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, ten or fifteen acrts
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its |
contiguity to those three towns myft render it an
objrfr worthy the attention of any perfm who
wishes to invelt money in a prope»t\ that mufti
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
crease of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in ;•
central fituntion to each place. The Potowmaek
at this spot has a fine deep'fhore and harbour,
capable of receiving of any burden. It
may riot be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and conveniens
Ferry might be cretled here to the City olj
Washington and the Maryland lb >res leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
a.cres ol W§od-Land, about ihrce miles distant,
which will suit well to fupptv the above in
wood and ti'mber. The'title may be seen to the
»bove which isindifpuiable. and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
BALDWIN DADE.
December fzthy 1792. cpirn
200 Dollars Reward.
lOST, at Providence, or bet ween P ovidenee
and Boston, a very imall TRUNK, covered
Willi fca!-fkin ot a reddi(h colour, with white
foots. It contained a quantity of South and
J\ T wlina State Notcr, snd s few .-f th
of I" ; with other papers,which
- an<;'i n " to the proprietor. The
oiate notes are elw Vl ,c offices from whence
they iflued. Any peri l; r-njr 'he ' v >unk
(with its to JOHN iv"..* r l£sTGN\ >
Boston, WILLIAM i'ALL, of i 1•• ».
MelTrs PATERSON ana BR'SHER,
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EM£RY, Philadel
phia, shall receive the above reward, or i r
part of the property, One Hundred Dollars.
Bolton, Nov. 28
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES,
Phi lad el phi a, November 20, 1792.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States are hereby informed, that according
to thp (fatute of in jorporanon, a grnrral election
for twenty-five DirefcV>rs will be held at the Bank
ef the United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Mouday the seventh day of January next, at
ten o'co # ck in the forenoon.
And purfuan to the eleventh fe&ion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank at e j
hereby notified to aflemble in general meeting
at the uvne -■•lace, on Tuesday eighth day ojj
v m ; t c LWhg.
By ori if the Prcfidcm and D re6)or.«,
JOHN KKAN, Calhier.
To the Public.
THE subscribe*- begs leave to acquaint the pub
lic in genera!, and his customers in particu
lar, thafc he lias entered into partnership with
Mr. HENRY KA.MMERER, and that the Prim
ing buiinefs in ihe Engli(h and German language?
is now carried on under the firm of STEINER
and KAMMERER, No. 83, in Racc-ftreet, be
tween Second and Third-streets.
The German Newfpipcr will he published bv
them, as usual, on Tut fd ays, and all kind of Prim
ing work done with care and expedition.
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1 792
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONG,
Of rhe very fiift quality, and latcft importatioi
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 10,
ntrd, L.eWvcn Cnr'nur«rno~JvrßTket £>treets7
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSON for file.
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER,
INFORMS his friends and the public in gene
ral, that he continues to carry on his buiinefs
as usual, at No 1, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street, and thanks his former customers
for the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for (ale, an Infallible cure for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has ana will
he found to answer the purpose He has it in I
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar.—
Any person trying the above, if not found to
answer the character given, the money will be
returned
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, New-York,
rHE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
Entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to ofter
t»s ierv\e S to his friends and others, in the line
2t >v> » <*'. Those \vway uieaTe tola*
'or him wk the ir business, m< y depend upor
nving with the utmost fidelity an<
ifpa'ch. \
Orders from rV
?rr ot ihi I'nui.A
\ to.
For Sale, -it No. 3 VVort'i-FiiY
/\ N ALPiI A ISL i i C Ai\l IS I' of the D>. <f
Xi. pava!i!c oil r.oods, ~-c s JJ?r. •
dtzc* liripoitpo into tin, Unitt ,)t( ; j exhiljUtr.
th* Rate, ~n •!,„(«. ii»m-'-.icl'ui Si' r-» '
.Vcffclsof Ibe United S'-i.-s, it) Nov
or VfiWi; 'Rctiuiinj; ihf Duties I
which the icfyeS.vc Aiiides a<c litbic.
eptf.
MELCHIOR STEIVER
Made!phis,Sorton.nranv othr
Mates will be .utend-
VARD BLF.ECK K.R
B (^M
PRINTED AND SO], k f -y
M ATI-JEW C , i: v %
* i,
Ao. 11 8, Muid-Urt.'!, ] Wtslfhh
«. A MERlCAk'MtJSl.:U.M,r.^^ n>lr ; iVk ,
■L Jl mcnt m J.muary i ft [, ,
eleven vols. Puce, m.iK h, , ud ZLu'
levMHcen dollars and thu
This work, winch is now r,.„: r(i fn ,
proved pi»n, containing me .c - . '
for and against I lie ptoccrdi-.'»' ui „ovi
will be found to coulam at , " 1
a»rivtrllur»l,;.,Hl miliellitt ~ '
as any ever puhlifhcd in fl B ., (
*>ncwork ate so many i< i ii.i, j ,■ ,
iVle hiftoiy of Ih's col rn
His Kxccilcjx \ the 1'
h;:s declared of it, thst * , ,i , , '
plin has never been or.'diriat • I'!'1 ' ! '
ont'more deserving ol "publ
The r.ii.fciiption is two do ||. . h<l|(
aim. Gentlemen in the ro> ... , ',i; ! -
be fnpplied with this worjf, a , " X ,
commiflion tolriends in :hr i : i , i,.i,V- r K ;V 5
and receive it- Any ol the ij k „u„". j.''
maybe had in oMer to coraplt i
2. Smith's Letters to J iar ied ■.'.on"
;n£ and the management o! CKi •
"We recommend theft lelti r n'-, n f
those to whom they are partm iai; /&».ii -■
Monthly Review, vol p - t.,.!_-»* S
oa ccftTT,' -■ '
3. Duncan's FJefrtcnts.bf Lofcu - i 4s|>j
4. les Ol Fielding---jo.cfnt
5. Beauties of Blair—so ctrus, .v
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, rrm ■ >,- Mj(j
More'sEfTays, Gregory's Legacy. La- J\i. n „.. ~
ton's Ad vice, fs ol Lanii.r•' Ajvi /■
Swift's Letter * • a newly married :*s.Ciia
pone on com mand of Temper. Mo Cj •
the Ladies, Pi ice Sf6.
7. Smith's H.IWi v of New-York. Pii«£a<fof
lar and a quarter.
j 8. Elements of *
! L. L. D. fiiof.-fi
ii! t st: M TV;lr ' ~T~~
three-fourths of a . .
Critical Revit wen > ' • f
, have seen nothing . al „
i more pcrfpicuous, Mr more ?<°ne»allv yfcf\\,'
V. R. It is introduced into the I : unlay <n Phi- f
iidtiphia.
9 icautics c r Pociry. Price !our-f.hJ: S 0 f a
j clouai ,
10. BU'i* Srrmons. Frier rwo dollar?,
u. eke; eanfc on the importin gof Re-3
ligious Opinions—Pi ice i. ii.4i!ihs ol a do',l„r.
12. Examination of the Observations o'l(.rd;
Sheffield on Arnencan Conimcrcc—Pride, or. very
fine paper, B.hsol a dollar
13. The Conftiturions of thefeveral United
with the Federal Conftituiion, &c. Price live
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Pricethree-righfhs rf a dollar.
15. American Jcft Book. Price three-fifth 0/
16. G
.Ha doMarden of the Soul. Price half 1 dollar.
17 The Doway Tranfl.it ion of the Volgatc ii
ble, \n quarto— Price, elegaml) hound and 1 r
cd, 50/9—plain, f«x dr* 1
iB. D'.viut
qTTS icr 00il .
i£. Thin- cii out. y '
20. Ch- iftian Ecooorry. Price a fifti.( a
21. History of Charhctf Grandifon, ividged—*■
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Hum phrevs—Pi e a thiri
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American-Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey hasforfale. 3 large afTofrr'ent 6 f
Books, European ?s well as Amercan Mjiiioira,
which he will difpole of on the met* revfcnable
terms. Countrv gentlem< i», vho fa*, r hpiwith
commands, mav depend upon he : .:)/»fupjlied in '
the moil fatisfae'.orv manner. A 1 brral; Ifwance
to such as purchafc quantities lor public li uius
or to fell agnn,
PLA N S
OP T H ?
City of Washington,-
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOOSON, (.IREY,
Cautions
A I.L per ons are hereHv cpu: ioned Iro < r :-
IjL nig of Thomas Mackt'c & Co. or > .
perton, four Notts of Hand, giver ' i -c
James Gardner, of N'ort « -,
to Samuel JackJiin. of Philadelphia, all ' ;
the 19th July, 1785, amounting in the '
£. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina curr/. > ; *
grcatcit part ot which laid Notes hovf b"i. A.
to laid rhomes Mackie Si Co. in proof ot vvhicrr
she fuMcriUrr* iAvr t-h» dcxwifii -M*—
Mauduit. Jack/on, and other documents *hich will
fully and clearly illuftrafe the maitci. I
It is therefore exposed thar thi* notice, wi» .
the one adverufed in this paper in May orrtl June,
1791, will he a fufHcicnt caution 10 the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, > Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGSO
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. 1, 179*. \
THE EDITOR-TO HIS SI 1
THE Arrearage: 0] Subfcriptn•• > ■
hr.vr ; cr- jcr a hns tun"
A fur th e
>
have othuei'h- amounted to Mt'JH - ■ K • .
rta:H> [or f,tj nptiuu;
fifciouj. Thr. J Jitor has r.v olrn rcfiu'cc
„r«r* £ , ..
toircur ;r - t 'ofccvl ■.■ thf ?<•:>> ' "'■■
H. is , , ..-ft, utcl '■ a -'V
. r i ,-w rMr'tifo •*
f>.v "i M'.- ' " •' •• ; .■- ,1
~.. -i, ~r Hr<>wheUn »» /;'*
.. 'si- ?< ' • • •
>kts.the tnttnurttm °j u .
.j -h e r is orJO.
i extcrwvcty ct
0.1 tk~:f
'the. p!i ■ o '
\ ' *ri«»f thistiumis
j - w*Ki—(,he half t$ be p«td W'MJW?, r;