A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 85, of Vol. lII.] Saturday, February iB, 1792.
FROM THE DEL AWARE GAZETTE
CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT
PUBLISHED FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF
THE CITIZENS OF THE DELAWARE STATE ;
Purluaut to an Order of the Convention ot the 31 it Dec. 1791
(CONCLUDED FROM OUR LAST.)
a. T TPON the revsrfal ot a judgment or decree of the supreme
court, or cf the common pleas, or decree of the chancel
lor, this court shall refpe&ively reader such judgment, or pass
such decree, as the supreme court of the common pleas, or the
chancellor ought to have rendered or pa fled, except where the re
*erfal is in favor of the plaintiff or petitioner in the original suit,
and the damages to be aflefied, or the matters to be decreed, arc
uncertain : in°any of which cales thetaufe shall be remanded, in
order to a final decision.
3. The judges of this court may iflue all process proper for
bringing records fully before them, and for carrying their deter
minations into execution.
ARTICLE VIII
Section 1. The members of the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives, the judges of the supreme court and the common p'eas,
and the chancellor, (hall by virtue of their offices be conservators
of ihe peace throughout the Stale ; and the treafurcr, attorney.ge
neral, secretary, clerks of the supreme court, prothonotanes, re
giflers, recorders, fheriffs, and coroners (ball by virtue of their
offices, be conservators thereof, within the counties refpe&ivcly
in which they rcfide.
2. Provision refpe£ling the militia (hall be made by, law, con
formably to the conflitution of the United States.
3. The representative, and when there (hall be more than one,
the leprefentatives of the people of this State in Congress, (hall be
voted for at the fame places where representatives in the State le
gislature are voted for, and in the fame manner.
4. The State treafurcr (hall be appointed annually by the House
of Representative with the concurrence of the Senate. No per
son, who hath served in the office of State treasurer, (hall be eli
gible to a feat in either House of the legislature, until he shall have
made a final settlement of his accounts as treasurer.
5. Two persons for the office of lheriff", and two for the office
of coroner, shall be chosen by the citizens residing in each county,
and having right to vote tor representatives at the time and places
of election of representatives, one of whom tor each office rel
pe&ively, shall be appointed bv the Governor. They shall hold
iheir offices for three years, if so long they shall behavt themselves
well, and until fucceflors be duly qualified ; but no person shall
be twice chosen or appointed fhenff in any term of fix years.
The Governor shall fill vacancies in these offices by new appoint
ments to continue unto the next general election, and unnl fuc
celTors shall be choien and duly qualified. Every flierifF shall
keep a regular ftaiement and account of all monies received by
hirn as fhenff, and of the application thereof, and of all fees be
coming due to him ; and wiihin three months after the expiration
«f his office, shall deposit the book containing the fame, or a true
duplicate thereof, among the records of the prothonotary's office,
there to remain tor ir»fpe£hon. under such penalties for default as
shall beprefcribed by the legislature; and in like manner shall
return a statement and account of all monies received and applied,
and fees becoming due, upon sales made by h:m after the expi
ration of his office, within three months after every such falc.
The legislature, two thirds of each branch concurring, may when
u shall he judged expedient, vest the appointment of fheriffs in
ihe Governor, but no person shall be twice appointed fhenff in
anv term of fix years.
6. The attorney-general, clerks of the supreme court, protho
notaries, registers, clerks of the orphans courts, and of the peace,
ihail refpe&ively be cominiflioned tor five years if so long they
ihall behave themselves well; but may be removed by the Go
vernor within that time on convi&ion of misbehavior in office, or
on the address of both houses of the legislature. Prothonotarics,
clerks of the supreme court, of the orphans courts, regiflers, re
corders, and fheriffs, shall keep their offices in the town 01 placc
111 each county, in which the supreme court and the court of
common picas ace usually held.
7. All inferior officers in the treasury department, attornies at
law, election officers, officers relating to taxes, to the poor, and
to highways, constables, and hundred officers, shall be appoint
ed n luch manner as is or may be dirc£led by law.
8. All falancs and fees annexed to offices shall be moderate ;
and no officer lhall receive any fees whatever, without giving to
the person who pays, a receipt for tnem, if required, therein fpe
ciiying every particular and ihe charge fur it.
9. Norofts shall be paid by a person accufcd, on a bill beiAg
returned Ignoramus ; nor on acquittal by a jury, unless a majority
of the judges present at the trial certify, that there was probable
cause tor the prosecution.
io. The rights, privileges, immunities, and estates of religious
societies and corporate bodies, fliall remain as if the conftituiion
o{ this State had not been altered, No clergyman or preacher of
the gospel, of any denomination, shall be capable of holding ar.y
civil ofiice in this State, or of being a member of either branch of
the legiflaiure, while he continues in ihecxercife of the paltoral
or cltrical tunftions.
ii. All the laws ot this State, existing at the time of making
this conrtitution and not inconfiltent with it, fhal 1 remain in fntce,
"nlcls they thall be altered by future laws : And all actions and
prufecutions now pending, shall proceed as ii tins constitution had
not been made.
12. 1 his coni\itution (Tiall be prefixed to every edition of the
made by dire&ion ol the legislature,
13. 1 he legiflaature thail, as soon as conveniently may be, pro
vide by law, tor afceuaining what ftatutej, and parts of statutes,
J ":f nt ' nuc to be in llir « within this State ; for reducing them,
and all acts of the general assembly, into such o.der, and publilh
ing them in such manner, that thereby the knowledge of them
may be generally diffufed ; lor choosing infpefto.s and judges of
flections, and regulating the fame in such manner as fhill molt
tiKctnally guard the rights of the citizens entitled to vote; for
better fecunng personal liberty, and ealily and speedily redrefinz
all wrongful redraints thereof ; tor more certainly obtaining re
turns ol impart,al juries; for dividing lands and tenements in
la.es by theriffs, where they will bear a division, into as many
parcels as mav be, without spoiling the whole; and for ad*er
tiling and making the sales in such manner, and at such times,
and places, m may render them mod beneficial to all persons con
< erned ; and foi eftablilhing schools, aud promoting arts and fci
uoc" »n one or more {cminaties of karainj.
ARTICLE IX
Members of the general alTembiy, and all officers executive and
judicial, (hail be bound byoath or affirmation to lupport the con
ltitucion of this State, and to perform the duties of their iefpe£live
oracci with fidelity.
ARTICLE X
The general affcmbly, whenever two thirds of each house shall
deem it necefTary, may with the approbation of the Governor,
propose amendments to th"S conftitut ion, and duly publish them
in print for the consideration ot the people, at least three and not
more than fix months before the next general election of repre
fenrativcs ; and if three fourths of each branch of the legislature
shall after such an election, and before another, ratify the said
amendments, they shall be valid to all intents and purpoles as
parts of this conllitution. No convention lhall be called but by
Che authority of the people; and an unexceptionable mode of
making their sense known wi'l be for them at a general election
■of representatives, to vote also by ballot Jot or againjl a conven
tion, as they lhall feveraliy choose to do ; and if thereupon it shall
appear, that a majority of all the citizens in the State voting for
representatives, have voted for a convention, the general alTembly,
shall accordingly at their next leflions, call a convention to con fill
of at leail as many members as there aie in both houses of the le
gislature, to be chosen in the fame manner, at the fame places, and
at the fame time ihat representatives are, by the citizens entitled to
vote for representatives, on due notice to them given lor one
month, and to meet within three months after the laid ele&iou.
a true copy
JAMES BOOTH, Secretary oj the Convention.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENN'O,
I AM a plain farmer ; and as the winterevenings
are long, I love to gee the city papers and to
con over the affairs of the nation. My own af
fairs go very well ; wheat has fold very well
since the new government began, the crops have
been good, and I find since the debt has inade
such a suss 1 get the ready cacti better than ever,
for cafli is grown plenty. Thus I am quite at
leisure to inind what does not more concern'me
than another man. I have a family, however,and
I look forward to futurity as I ought. No body
will wonder then that 1 am a deep politician.
I have read the city papers til! the cold sweat
ran down my face—l never sweated more at the
plow. I read about the danger that our repub
lican principles are exposed to, and how nionied
men are growing up to the lize of Goliah, and
how Congress is all wrong, and how we are too
rich now to be virtuous and free, tho t'other day
we were too poor to pay for a government, and
then the charge of it would take our bread away,
and our children would cry for a crust. 1 love
my family as well as a bird loves her nest, and
my children as well as she loves her young. I
had rather secure to them a good education and
a free government, than to learn them to dance
and leave behind me a great estate. I have been
led into an hundred scrapes by thinking too well
of my own opinion, and so fays I, I will fee how
the wind is with my neighbors, far we live migh
ty well together. A dozen of us got together on
new year's evening, and then we talked all these
matters over.
If we had drinked small-beer, it would be a
short story to tell you all that palled, but as small
beer would not go down, we were all very talk
ative— we did not drink to excels however. in
stead of telling you all that was said, it will be
fufficient to tell you what was finally agreed to.
The funding fyftetn was at firft condemned as
very improper, and anti-republican — but after
mature enquiry it was allowed that it was a very
good thing. What does that promise, said we,
more than to pay ourjuft debts—Debts contract
ed to make the lands we live on our own, and to
remove a stranger and intruder from them.
Tho we pay at 20s. in the pound, as some com
plain, we had the value at that time when the
debt was contracted, and now we have the bene
fit more than twenty fold, having beaten our e
nemies, and being let down to enjoy pcace and
security under a free government. If then we
owe the debt, what harm to promise to pay it.
The funding fyftein acknowledges the debt, and
engages to pay the interest quarterly. Something
was to be done with the debt—Congiefs must ei
ther pay the principal of ihedebtat once, orpay
the interest yearly by annual grams, or fund it
as they have done, or take ihe fpuiige and rub
it out. When we blame Congress for the way
they have pursued, it is but fair 10 fee what o
ther ways lay open for them. We should not
have thanked Congress to call for a direCt tax to
pay off the debtat once. We had not the money.
Such a great demand would have cruflied us, and
it is out of the queltion.— Had Congress forborne
to fund the debt, it would ha. e been a better
speculating I'cheine than it is now. The more
uncertaiu from year to year, the better for the
357
ifc,
[Whole No. 295.]
{peculators. They would have (peculated oti
the chance chat the interelt would not be voted
for at the year's end. Who would have been
the gainers by this uncertainty. Not the farm
ers. The money would have been drawn to the
seaports, where this icheme of yearly grants for
the interelt would have opened' the molt profita
ble market for money. Therefore few would
have engaged in the improvements or purchale
of lands. And the debt itfelf, tlio always em
ploying money, would not have taken the place
of money as it has done ot late. Another very
bad conference has been told us, that foreign
ers would have got the certificates for a trifle.
It is true they have bought them (ince the debt
was funded, but we have got into the country
245. or 255. for evet y 20s. We receive more than
we give, and it is 110 c easy to fee how the coun
try can he made poor by making good bargains.
Why then (hould we not fund the debt at once.
We mean to pay it—where was the harm of fay
jng so. rh ela II method of d 1 fpofi ng of the debt
was to blot it out.—Some peopie think that would
be throwing off a weight they are tired of car
rying on their backs. Now, | teach my children
the ten commandments. I endeavorto bringthem
up to be honest men—and I (hould be miserable
it 1 forefaw that they would be brought to shame
for their misdeeds. — 1 (hould truly be afraid of
their turning out rogues in spite of my care, if
Congress had agreed to fpunge out the debt.
Government, by /hewing what advantage is to
be got by dilhonefty, would do a great deal to
wards (polling all the youth in the land. There
fore, if the devil tempted Congress to jockey the
public creditors, 1 am glad for my children's fake
they did not yield to him.
Some have found fault because the whole debt
cannot be redeemed at pleasure. Where is the
harm of that, pray ! We have taken a ftouc slice
from the creditors on that account ; atid have
we parted with any very valuable rights ? Have
we not rei'erved.the right to redeem as much of
the debt as we have money to pay off. And what
a rout is kept up in the liewfpapers, because we
have parted with the right to do what wecannot
do. And yet we have been well paid for parting
with the right by the funding fyftetn, i. e* by
the 3 per cents and deferred debt.
This is alledged to be dangerous to a republi
can people. There may be a snake in the grafSj
but 1 cannot fee how a people expose theinfelve*
by a<fting according to good conscience. We owe
the debt, and we ought to pay it as soon as we
can. I cannot for my life fee what there is anti
republican in purl'uing the plain old path of com
mon honesty.
As to the fiddle-faddle story of the great na*
bobs becoming lords, I feel quite at my eai'e.
They must leave off getting children—otherwile
half a dozen or halfa fcoreyoung fellows in each
family, will be found to have a greater inheri
tance in folly and luxury than in 6 per cents.
And what care we, the lords of the foil, for the
fix per cent gentry. Their wealth gives them
no power over us—and as to their number and
influence, they will afFecft llie price of pheafanis
and v enifoil more than the votes of Ihe yeomanry.
The country is in the hands of the landed in
terelt— which outweighs as much as it outnum
bers the monied inteieft. The latter has ever
been as a drop in the bucket : — and though it ha#
intreafed of late very unexpectedly, the landed
interest has not increased less—and it is going on
with a speed and to an extent that mocks the filly
apprehensions of the monied interest eating ic
up. Look round and fee how the frontier circle
widens—fee how the interior part improves—
fee how arts and manufactures multiply—A man
who stands 011 a wharf, fees none of this won
derful growth of the landed interest—he fees the
growth of trade, which indeed flows from the
growth of the country produce—he fees the mer
chants and rich people scattering handfulls of
money for luxuries, and he is ready to cry out
that the newspapers are in the right to found the
alarm for liberty ; and lb he snatches his pen and
ink to tell us how we afe made beggars by grow
ing rich, and all slaves by honest and equal laws.
But the landed interest governs every country —
and as in this men live on their own farms, and
are not tenants, nothing is more certain than
that the people may govern if they will. Liberty
is not exposed to any new danger by the new
monied interest, as the public creditors are term
ed by the angry newspaper writers, 0n thecontrary, it is plain that these men will !ofe more
than ether citizens by the dell ruction of th*
common liberty—sos their property v is m;ide to
depend wholly, 60 the Jaws—their policy is to
keep all quiet, not to change the government, as
many inlhiuate. It would be a <|ueer blunder
for a man os-six per cent, to join in a ploi against
a free government, which pays him his income.
Liberty, therefore,, has gained new friends ra
ther than foes by the funding fyftein—whofe liv
ings are made to depend 011 their support of the
prefect free and equal fyllem of laws.
On tile'whole, no country ever gained more
credit, wealth and power, in three year's time,
than this has dbne since the newgoverninent be
gau. If the newspapers are full of charges a
gainst the government whicii has chiefly produc-'
ed this wonderful change—at the very moment
when the change is fretli in our minds, and if
they are capable of souring the people against it
in theprofperousoutlet—What will happen when
tniilakes or disasters, incident to all governments,
shall have destroyed its popularity ?—lt will be
limb from limb, unless the body of the-peo
ple, who form its solid support, lhall be willing;
to pcoteft it agaiult its artful and implacable
enemies.—Of all its friends, the farmers (lioiild
be the-firmeft; for Congress lays 110 land-taxes,
and yet things go on very well—too well, fay
the newspapers.—And whether it encourages
manufa&urers to eat the proviHons at home, or
navigation-to seek a market abroad, we are sure
of the benefit. Opprellion will make a wife man
mad. If only talking about oppreflion when
there is none, will make a man mad, I will fay
lie is not a wife man. A FARMKR.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, February 3, 1792.
In committee of the whole, on the Fishery Bill.
THE ftift fediion being read as follows : —
" Be it enadled, &c. That the bounty, now
allowed upon the exportation of dried filli of the
lifheries of the United States, (hall cease 011 all
dried fifh exported after the tenth day of June
next ; and in lieu thereof, and for the more im
mediateencouragement of the laid fifheries, there
Jhall be afterwards paid, on the last day of De
cember, annually, to the owner of every veflel,
or his agent, by the collector of the district where
such veflel may belong, that shall be qualified
agreeably to law, for carrying on the Bank and
other Cod Fisheries, and that (hall actually have
been employed therein at sea, for the term of
four months at least, of the fifhing season next
preceding (which season is accounted to be from
the last day of February, to the lalt clay of No
vember in every year) for each and every ton of
such vessel's burthen, according to her admea
surement, as licensed or enrolled—if of twenty
tons and not exceeding thirty tons, one and a
half dollars, and if above thirty tons, two and a
half dollars, of which bounty three eighth parts
fliall accrue and belong to the owner of fucli (idl
ing veflel, and the other five eighths thereof fliall
be divided by him, his agent or lawful represen
tative, to and among the several fifliermen who
shall have been employed in such veflel, during
the season aforefaid, or a part thereof, as the cafe
may be, in such proportions as the fifh they shall
refpeAively have taken may bear to the whole
quantity of fifh taken on board such veflel during
such season. Provided, that the bounty, to be aH
lowed and paid 011 any veii'cl for one season, shall
not exceed 1 70 dollars."
Mr. Giles expredeH some doubt refpectino- the
principle of the bill ; and for the purpol'e of col
]e<fting the (enfe of the committee on the Hibie<fl
lie thought the nu.ft effectual means would he
motion to amend the hill, by striking out the
whole fcction.
He accordingly made the motion—obfervinp
at the fame time, that he could not positively as
iert, whether the reasons which determined him
againlt the principle of the bill, were weil found
ed or not ; that, in matters where a local pie
i erence .s given, it is neceilary to accommodate •
and he would be happy if his objections could be
removed.
1 he present section of the bill (he continued)
appears to contain a direct bounty on occupa
tions: and if that be its object, it' is the firft at
tempt as yet made by this government to exec
c.fe luch authority s—and its conftitutionalitv
"ruck him in a doubtful point of view; for in
n'o pars of the conftitntion could he, in'exprefs
terms, find a power given to Congress to errant
bounties on occupations the power is nelth"-
directly granted, nor (by any reasonable eon
lhuc'tion that he could give) annexed to any
other power fpetified in the conltitution. It
might perhaps bajferoughc in under a mode ot
conltruction al&eitdy adopted by the house, viz.
that, of " ways and ends by which any power
whatever might be equally implied :—'ouc he
wilhed ever to fee some connexion between a ipe
cified power, and-the means adopted for carrying
it into execution.
There is a great difference between givjngen
couragement, and granting a direct bounty.—
Congress have a right to regulate commerce ; —
and any advantage thereby reftihing to a parti
cular occupation cynneifted with commerce,conies
within that authority : but when a bounty is pro
posed to a particular employment or occupation,
this is llepping beyond the circle of commerce ;
and such a measure will affect the whole manu
facturing and agricultural lyftem. Iji all cases,
the revenue, to be employed in this bounty, is
drawn from all the sources of revenue in the U
nited States, and confined to a particular object.
He was averse to bounties in altnoft'every shape,
as derogations from the common right; and lie
thought there would be 110 great difficulty in
proving that a government is both unjust and
oppreilive in establishing exclusive rights, mono
polies, &c. without some very substantial merit
in the persons to whom they are granted ; altho'
even in that cafe the propriety of such grants is
still questionable.
Under a just and equal government, every in
dividual is entitled to protection in the enjoy
ment of the whole produtfl of his labor, except
filth portion of it as is neceifary to enable govern
ment to protect the reft; this is given only in
conlideration of the protection offered. In every
bounty, exclusive right, or monopoly, govern
ment violates the ftiptilation oil her part : for,
by such a regulation, the produift of one man's
labor is transferred to lhe life and enjoyment of
another. The exercise of such a right on the
part of government can be jultified upon no other
principle, than that the whole produift of the la
bor of every individual is the real property 01
government, and may be dillributed among the
several parts of the community by governmental
discretion ; such a supposition would diretitly in
volve the idea, that every individual in thecam
m unity is merely a slave and bondman to govern
ment, who, although he may labor, is not to ex
poet protection in the product of his labor. An
authority given to any government to exercise
such a principle, would lead to a complete fyftein
oftyranny.
He entertained fewer doubts, refpeifling the
principle, as it regards political economy. All
occupations that Hand in need of bounties, in
dead of increasing the real wealth of" a country,
rather tend to lellen it ; the real wealth of every
country confiding in the active product of ufeful
labor employed in it:—it is therefore bad policy
to encourage any occupation, that would dimi
nish indead of increasing the aggregate wealth
of the community :—and if an occupation is real
ly productive, and augments the general wealth,
bounties are unneceflary for its support; for
when it reimburses the capital emplo'ved, and
yields a profit besides, it may be said to support
itfelf : — when it fails in tbefe points, any forced
advantage, that is given to it by the government,
only tends to decrease the wealth of the country!
. The fubjecfl however might (he observed) be
considered in a more favorable point of view
and that is, whether the provision be efiential to
the defence of the United States, and whether
the bounties proposed in the bill were more than
equivalent to the portion of defence that would
be procured by them.—The bill does not (in his
opinion) contain that kind of encouragement
which is efiential to the national defence. Any
man, who takes a view of this country, mud be
convinced, that its real support lifes from the
land, and not from the sea ; and the opposite
nulla!, e mud have arisen merely from a servile
imitation of the conduct of Great.Britain : the
inhabitants of this country heretofore thought
favorably of her government, and the revolu
tion has not yet altered their former ideas .e
---fpetfling it.
Rut the cireninftan<?es of the two countries
Will, Oil examination, be found widely different •
Britain, surrounded by ,he sea on every fide'
finds a navy necefiary to support he, comme.ce •
whilst America, poflefled of an immense territo-'
y, and having yet ample room to cultivate that
e.ritoiy, has no occalion to contend L-y sea with
any European power :-her flrengthand her re
iourcesare alll to be found within the United
States ; and if she but attends to her internal ,e
sources, the objea of national defence wiil be
much better answered.
I3e next proceeded to consider whether that
pornon of the national defence which ,ni"h be
denved from the fineries, w„ u ]d not hep^chaf
338
portatxon of the iifhj and the
ed on the tonnage of the fifhirigvefl<?ls t the i rec»ii
be no comparative value between tire drawback
and the bounty ; they have „o neceflary relation
to each other; and the latter may exceed the
former, or the former exceed the latter.—He had
made a calculation, and upon the molt favorable
principles, grounded on the reports of the
cretary of the Treasury and the Sccretarv o(
State. '•
Here he produced a calculation, rending to
fiiew that the propol'ed bounty on the tonnageof
the veiieis, would conlideiablyexceedtlie
amount of the present draw-backs from a com
parison between the bouury, and the number of
sailors employed in the fifheries, he ihewed,what
an expense each man would be to :he s United
States—and, after other remarks, observed, that
even Great-Britain,whofe whole national support
and defence depends 011 her navy, had fotmd
that the men employed in the fiflieries, though
so neceflary for that defence, coil her too much >
—that America, whose consequence, as a nation
does not depend on a navy, ought to 'ake ales'
son from the experience ofHritain thathedii
not willi to enter into a competition with Britain
and France, in supplying the different markets
with fifh ; that, as those nations are able to liol4
out greater encouragement to their filhermen
than we can to ours, we would, by fucti a conj.'
petition, only exhaust the treasury of the United
States to no purpole : and Upon this principle
alone, he thought there wasfoiiiereafontodotfk «
the policy of the measure proposed in the ftfli
-011 under consideration, which therefore be jiop
ed the committee would agree to 'itrike out oil
lefs his objections could be obviated.
Mr. Murray obfervcd, that in orderto demon
strate the propriety of the measure, it would be
incumbent on the friends of the bill, firft, to
prove that tlie fifhery trade.is in a state ofdecay,
that the stock employed in it does not yield the
ordinary profits, so as to-jnftify ihe merchants in
embarking their capital in thi's branch of trade,
—-that theie is a fyflem of defence in contempla
tion, which tlie circumliauces of the country call
for, and which this trade is calculated tofurniflj,
—that other branches of trade, which do not
(land in need of encouragement, are not equally
capable oi iurnifliing seamen for tlie purpose,
that this particular object so peculiarly claims
the attention and encouragement of the United
States, as to leave tar behind every coitfideration
of the manufacturing interest, the agricultural,
&c. all this he thought neceflary for gentleman
to prove, and to shew (ome very itroiig necellity
for encouraging one particular class of men, in
preference to all others.
Mr. Goodhue.—lt happens, that the filheries
of the United States are alinoft entirely confined
to the Hate of Maflachufetts ; and they fnrnifit
a considerable, a principal portion of oar export
trade. As we are a part of the United States,
the United Siates in general are interested in
the profpericy of that branch of business, so iar
at lenft as it contributes to ihe national defence:
—it furnifhes a copious nuiTery of hardy (earner,
and off ers a never-failing source of protection 10
the commerce of the United States. If" we en
gage in a war witli any European power, those
seamen will be excluded from their ordinary em
ployment, and inuft have recour'e to privateer
ing. During the late war with Britain, we an
noyed tile enemy more in that line, than all o
thers ; and had ii not been for privateering, it
would often have been iuipoffible to keep toge
ther our armies, who frequently in tlie hour of
need, were supplied by the privateers with am
mution and cloathing, of which they were whol
ly aeftitute. All jliat we vvifh to ob ain by this
bill, is that we may not be burdened with du
ties. An opinion has been entertained, that no
drawbacks ought to be allowed on there-export
ation of articles imported from foreign coun
tries : hut if this opinion were to obtain in prac
tice, and no drawbacks were to be admitted, we
in 11 ft confine our importation to articles for our
own confuinption.
1 lie drawback, allowed by the exiftinglaw,oii
the exportation of fait fi(h, was calculated to be
only equal to the duty beforehand paid on the
quantity of falc tiled in curing the fiih : but
fifhernien complain, that, as the acs now (lands,
they are wholly excluded from any participation
in the benefit, which centers entirely in tlie cof
fers of the merchants : — the objecft of the present
bill, is only to repay the fame money into the
hands of thole persons who are)mincdiately con
cerned in catching the fifh ; and there can no
reasonable objection be made to fuel) a transfer
of the drawback, as government will not lose a ,
single dollar by the change. The gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Giles) talks of the unconfii
tutiona'it y of granting bounties : but no bounty
is required :— we only ask, in anotherniode, tlie
nlual drawback for the fait, iifed on the filh
if we can make* it appear that the bill does not
contemplate any greater funis to be drawn from
the treasury, than are already allowed, it is 10
be hoped that no further opposition will be madeto the meafnre :—and that this ii really the cafe,
can be proved by documents from the treasury
office
Here he read a statement, and calculation to
prove his afl'ertiou ; and to Ihew, that die United
States will probably pay one thousand dollars
per annum less in the proposed bounties oil the
tonnage of the fifhing veflels, than they would in
the drawbacks oil the exportation of the filh.
The filhermen, he continued, are now under
no coniroul : and in consequence of this want of
a proper restraint, they often take whims into
their heads, and quit the veflels during the Hill
ing season. To prevent the inconveniences of
this pradlice, the bill contemplates their exclnfi
-011 from the bounty, unless they enter into such
contracts and regulations, as may be found ne
cessary for the proper and fuccefstul conducfting
of the business, which, from our advantageous
lunation would be entirely in our hands, if we
did noc meet with fucli opposition and difcou
rageinent from foreign nations, whose bounties
to their own fifhermen, together with the duties
laid upon our fifh, would, to persons less advan
tageously fituatcd than us, amount almost to a
total prohibition.
In the report from the Secretary of State, a
drawback is contemplated of the duties on all
foreign articles, used by the seamen employed
in the tiftiing trade, such as coffee, rum, &c. &c.
—but we ask it, on the fait alone ; nor is it ask
ed as a bounty, but merely as a transfer from the
hand of the merchant to that of the fifhernian.
Mr. White had no objection to give the trade
a proper degree of encouragement ; but he did
not relish the idea of granting bounties if any
gentleman would prepare an amendment, so as
to make them drawbacks in fadi as well as in
words, he would consent to the measure.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
WEDNESDAY, February ij.
The bill (from the senate) relative to the elec
tion of a President and Vice-President, See. was
read a third time, and pafled, with the amend
ments
A bill (received yesterday from the Senate) for
regulating proceHes in the courts of the United
States, and providing conipenfations for the offi
cers of the said courts, and for jurors and wit
nefies, was read, ordered"to be printed, and re
ferred to a feletft committee, to examine & report.
—The committee appointed are Meflrs. Boudi
not, Smith (N.H.) Smith (S. C.) White and
Benfon.
Mr. W. Smith called for a second reading of
a memorial, some time since presented, from sun
dry inhabitants of the State of South Carolina,
who were engaged in commerce, previous to the
late revolution, praying relief from the incon
veniences, under which they labor, in confe
rence of having been obliged to receive pay
ments in depreciated paper currency, and to
pay their Britifti creditors in specie. The me
morial was referred (fine dieJ to a committee of
the whole house on the (late of the union.
The House then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole (Mr. \V. Smith in the Chair)
on the representation bill.
The question being taken on a motion to fub
ftirute the fir ft day of Ocftober 1792, instead of
the 41b of March 1793, as the period for an en
creal'e in the representation—it palled in the ne
gative.
A motion was then made by Mr. Vining, to
apportion the representatives as follows:—New-
HampQiire, j members; Maflachufetts, 16; Ver
mont, 3 ; Rhode-lfland, 2; Connecticut, 8; New-
York, ir ; New-Jersey, 6; Pennsylvania, 14 ;
Delaware, 2 ; Maryland, 9 ; Virginia, 21 ; Ken
tucky, 2 ; North-Carolina, 12 ; Georgia, 2.
After a short time spent in difcufling the pro
position, the committee rose and reported pro
g'efs. Adj6urned.
THURSDAY, February 16
Mr. Grove laid on the table a resolution for
the appointment of a committee to bring in a
bill for building a light-house on Bald Head, at
the mouth of Cape Fear River, in the state of
Nprth-Carolina.
Mr. Macon laid on the table a resolution, that
the Comptroller of the Treasury be directed to
lay before the House a statement of the balances
remaining unpaid, which may have been due by
individuals to the United States, previous to the
4ih day of March i 789 ; and to inform the House
whether any and what fleps have been taken to
lecover the fame; and also to furnifh a llate
inent of lundry funis of public money entrulVed.
«o individuals previous to the said 4th of March,
J 759, and not yet accounted for.
1 lie House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole, on the representation bill Mr. W.
Smith in the chair.
After some debate on Mr. Vining's motion for
5 representatives to the llate of New-
IJampfhire, &c.
Mr. Jjenfoii (with the consent of Mr. Vining,
w iio withdrew his motion for the purpose) pro
pofcj an amendment, to make the firft section
read as follows :
Be ic enacted, See. tiiat from and after the
3d day of March, in the year one ihoufand leven
hundred and ninety-three, the Hotife of Rcpre
fentatives (hall be coinpofed of " a number of
members equal 10 the quotient of the whole num
ber of persons in the Hates included in this union,
divided by 30,000, which members shall there
fore be" elected within the several ltates, ac
cording to the following apportionment, that is
to fay—within the itate of New-Hamplhire, &c.
This motion gave rife to further debate, in
which the arguments heretofore ui'ed in the dif
ctfffion of the former representation bill, were
again brought forward. The coniiitution was
frequently quoted ; —thole paflages in that in
strument relating to the apportionment of re
presentation and direct taxation, were explained,
commented on, and counter-explained ; every
different interpretation, that the ingenuity of
man could pollibly affix to the words, was given
to them. The question however being taken on
Mr. Benfon's motion, put an end to the debate,
and it pafied in the negative—Yeas 24, Nays 33.
The committee then rose and reported pro
gress. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, February 17
A memorial of P. L. Morell, on Indian affairs,
was read, and laid 011 the table.
Sundry petitions were read and refered.
In committee of the whole 011 the representa
tion bill—Mr. W. Smith in the chair.
The committee proceeded to fill up the blanks
in the firlt fec r tion annexed to the f'everal states,
viz. New-Hampshire 4 Representatives, MalTa
chufetts is, Rhode-Island 2, Connecfticut 7, New-
York 11, New-Jersey 5, Pejinfylvania 14, Dela
ware 1, Maryland 9, Virginia 21, Kentucky 2,
North-Carolina 11, Georgia 2.
An ainendmenc moved by Mr. Murray, dating
the principle of the apportionment of the repre
sentation to the several states, was adopted.
It was then moved to flrike out the second fec
tiou, which provides for an enumeration previ
ous to the expiration of 10 years, which was ne-
gatived
The committee then rose and reported progress.
Mr Venable presented the petition of Natha
niel Guest—which was read and refered to the
Secretary of War.
Mr. White's motion, laid on the table some
days since, was called up and agreed to, viz.
Resolved, That it be a Handing order of this
House, that whenever any confidential commu
nications are received from tlie President of the
United States, the House shall be cleared of all
peri'ons except the members and the clerk—and
so continue during reading such communications
and all debates consequent thereon—Also, when
any member fliall have any communication to
make which requires secrecy, the House shall be
cleared in like manner, &c.
Adjourned till Monday.
LONDON, December 7,
A contrail for thirty thousand arirtocratical
regimentals is now executing in Greek-street ;
but it is not probable they will be ltained with
Democratic blood till the spring meeting 011
Champ de Mars !
A f.milar contradt for fire arms is executing at
Birmingham. The order is for 25,000 Hand,
and they are supposed to be for the use of the
army of the French Princes.
That death should be an ariflocrat seems rather
extraordinary :—we rather take the grim tyrant
to be a furious democrat who levels all diftinc
tions, and pays very little refpeft even to the
Grand Monarch !
A very curious comment is made in one of yes
terday's papers, on enlilting men in this country
to serve in the army of the French Princes.—
The writer calls this an outrage, but at the fame
time confefl'es that making and felling 25,000
(land of arms in Birmingham, for those Princes,
is no outrage at all.—Pray of what use would
the men be without arms ?
Philadelphia, February 18.
Died, at Annapolis, on the 10th inft, his Excellency George
Plater, Governor of Maryland, aged 56 years.
A resolution is now before the Senate of this Commonwealth,
for inftru£tin£ their Senators in Congress to use their influence that
the debates of the Senate may be public.
Sixty real estates in the city of Ncw-Yoik are advertised for
sale in one paper of last week.
Thus by bank magic we behold
The lands transmuted into gold;
That gold will soon get paper,wings—
The reit—when time reveals—he lings.
The accounts of French affairs, received by the last packet, are
very contradi&ory—The emigrants from France are at Coblentz.
There, it :s laid, an army is forming, and that the number is ra
pidly increasing ; that money and its confcquent attendants abound
their. Other accounts fay that the emigrants are dellitute even
of the neceilarits of life—that Coblentz is the general rt fort of
every species of wretchedness and misery. The King's brothers
have aulwered his letters, m which they avow their attachment to
his pcifqn and character, but refufe to return.
339
The decree lately psfTed against the emigrants has been returned
to the Allembly wuh ilns affixed 10 it—The King wi Uu ,
mink—the formula of the Royal Negative. On which M Cam"
bon, a member of the assembly, made the following , av D em
nent remarks: ° ' F 1
1 he King, ' said M. Camfion, il in affixing his negative, has
exercised his right. Let us refpe£l his motives without enquiring
into them. Let us relpect the proof which he has given to Eu
rope, of the freedom which he poffefles, in the midst of his peo
ple : and let us fee noihing in the use he has made of the autiv.
niy entrusted to him, but a new pioof of his attachment to the
Conltitutjon."
A torrent of applause followed this fpecch.
P ,:oc ' ama "°", reflecting the emigrants, has bten
publiflied by older of the King.
The northern and middle States are fnppofed to be alone favor,
able to manufa&ures. This opinion has fcemed tote well found
ea ; but it has been prov'd of late that manufa&ures dttually ex
ilt in the foiiLhern States to a very refpedabte extent. The pro
greis of the arts towards perfection cannot fail to produce a more
than proportional increase to the fouthward—for as machines are
more and more brought into, use, it will be found that exienfivc
manufactories will fuccetd best in the neighborhood of the great
iuples or raw materials. Coal and all other fuel abounds most
at the louthward ; hemp is cheapest there—the carriage is expen
iive, the markets distant; cotton may be produced in abundance •
provifious are cheap ; excellent streams of water are frequent :
Many other advantages are poirefl"ed by the southern States, and it
cannot considered as an overfanguinc cxpe&ation to fee capital
manufactories flouiifh among them.
THE POWERS OF GOVERNMENT.
1 HE powers of Congress and the States,
That deathless source of learn'd debates,
turnifh—fo public clamor teaches,
An endless fund for pop'lar speeches ;
Three years the pleating peal has rung,
From many a bell with leathern tongue ;
1 he sticklers for the States don't flinch,
And Congress cannot gain an inch :
Thus in a circle always moving,
Arguing, proving, and disproving,
We're whirling round from year to year,
And always found just as we were—
Was cv( r such a blcfTed scheme
That furnifh'd an immortal theme—
For if we can't get rid of doubt,
Nor point the powers of Congress out ;
Th' entire buf'nefsof the nation
Is brought about by usurpation.
Married,lad Wednesday evening, Mr. George Harrison,
to Miss Sophia Francis, daughter of Tench Francis, Esq. '
Died, C./esar Lloyd Cummi ngs, a free black man, door
keeper and messenger to the War-Office—which place he had
filled with diligence and integrity, from the firft institution of the
board of war, under the late confederation, to the present time.;
Say, will refpeft to flation, color, (hade,
At the great audit of accounts be paid ?
All proud di{lin£tions prove in vain, ,
m And Virtue only (hail the plaudit gain.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 24fx 24/2 pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents
Defcred 6 pr. Cents Icf
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and oth'» Certificates 22f 110 do.
Indents 14/ 70 do.
hall shares Bank Stock—loo per cent premium.
Philadelthia, Jebrfiary 16. 17Q2
NOTICE.
THE Officers of the Militia Batialions of thcCity, the Northern
Liberties, and Southern Diftrift of Philadelphia, are requested
to assemble at the State-House, properly uniformed, ar half past
2 o'clock, on Wednesday next, ihe 22d inlbnt. The Volunteer
Corps of Artillery, Cavalry and Infantry, will parade at said
placc at 11 o'clock, to take orders for the firings and exercise of
the day. It is also particularly rcquefled, that such Officers of
the Army of the United Stales as may be in this City on that day,
will join the Proctffion of their fellow Officers and Citizens as
above, at half past 2 o'clock.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed estate of GEORGE WANER, deceased, con
fiding ot a valuable Plantation and tract of Timber Land,
supposed »o contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
go of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a d welling-houfe and kitchen, a cooper's (hop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The house itands close on a good landing belonging to the said
premises ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile of said landing, and an equal distance from a saw-mil!
and grift-mill and also of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any person that is disposed to view or purchase the said pre
mises, may lee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubferibers near the fame.
MARK MILLER and ) r
ANDREW MILLER, \ Executols -
Salem County, 2d mo. 13th, 1792.
N. B. There islikewile a lot of Meadow ground of about 25
acres, adjoining lands of Abbott Sayres, and others, the property
of said deceased, to be fo!d in manner as above, by the said exe
cutory C ( 'P4 W ]
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
'jL the county of Gloucester, supposed to contain five hundred
and forty acres of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fituatc on a
b» anch of Little Egg-Harbour River, in the township of Galloway.
There is on fajd premises a frame house and kitchen, a final 1 hay
house and liable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar (wamp, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (interspersed
with frefh water flowing streams) fufficient to lupply one hundred
head of cattle.—The situation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for railing stock.—Any person inclining to purchase said Planta
tion, may have pofleffion from the 25'.h of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying 10 the fubferiber, living at
Quinton's Bridge, in the county of Salem ; or a further descrip
tion may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Suiveyor, near Hattonfield ; or of
James Scull, adjoining said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleasant healthy country, within two miles of three grill and
saw-mills : And three houses appiopriated to divine worship, ate
about the fame diflance* Terms of payment made eafv, by
Quintan's Bridge, Salem County,
2d mo. 1 792.
J"i pr. cent.
do.
75 do.
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberties.
ANDREW MILLER,
■^t e P4 w ]«FROM A LATE HALIFAX PAPER.
Exlraß from the Proceedings of the venerable Society
Jor propagating the Go/pel in Jortigu parts.
" TN the lait year's abftradt it was mentioned,
1 that Mi". James Frafer was gone attendant
upon the Negroes to Sierra Leona, with an al
lowance of 50 guineas from the Society.
" That experiment had turned out very con
trary to the expectations of those who were in
duced from the belt motives to plan and encou
rage it. Mr. Frazer's health has been so mucli
injured by the undertaking, that he was con
strained to retufn home ; and though n> an y
months have elapsed since, he has not yet found
the blefling of a perfect reitoration. While he
was there he wrote two letters to the Society, ot
the refpedtive dates of July 22 and September 15,
178? : In the former he expresses his concern,
that there was no likelihood of a permanent fet
tleinent, from a variety of causes, some of them
unavoidable, and others unfortunate. They had
the misfortune to arrive just at the commence
ment ot the rainy season, so that the blacks could
neither build comfortable huts lor their fecui ity,
nor raise grain to supply provisions when their
allowance from government should be exhaulted.
The unhealthinefs too of the climate added great
ly to their misfortunes. This proved tatal to
Mr. Irwin, their conductor, the fchool-malter,
and 20 other white people, and 30 blacks ; be
sides, that 140 died in the voyage : and of the
330 persons then remaining, there were no less
than 150011 the lick lift. This had so prejudiced
the blacks, that many of them then proposed to
work their palTage to the Weft-Indies, after their
provision should be expended, which would not
last more than five or fix weeks. In the second
letter he said that the condition ot things was
■very little altered ; their number was diminished ;
the whites were still sickly, and the blacks, tho
healthier, were still far from being reconciled
to the place, or attentive to the cultivation of
their lots of land ; that they had sown little or
jlo feed, had built few comfortable houses for
themselves, nor any house for Mr. Frazer, or tor
public worship, and that they were very little
disposed to remain in the settlement. Soon after
this, he came home in a very ill state of health."
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chejnut-Strect Wharf t
AFEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kins and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam Molafles,
Coffee, Colon, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the fi'ft quality,
Cloves, Cassia, and Bolton Chocolate,
Spermacseti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarc),
Bollon Beef and Burlington Pork,
Russia and Boston Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogfoeads and quarter casks,
And a few cafcs old Batavia Arrack,
February 8. 17Q2
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of ihe firlt quality—by retail,
No 19,
Thircl->Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Cam,ina,
or lor conducing the woik, will be icceived until the ninth day'
of Aptil next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg ; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by-
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of c'sm
clen County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about fixieen miles; the country through which it will p d fs. is
swampy, Iree from stones, and covered with heavy wood. T> e
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight leet at .'call in
depth, below the furface of the earih, and capable of being nav
gated in dry seasons, by vciTels drawing thiee leet water.
Good fecuiitv will be required ot contraaors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, muit produce
certificates (from charaders of reusability) of the, qualifications
for a bufintfs of this kind.
By o.dcr o[ the Pr.-fidem and Directors
WIU.IAM A. BAYLLY, Clerk,
f'-pIC)A)
Nor J '/i, January 21, 1792
American Lead Manufa&ory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, &Co
HAVE jufl now opened their Lead-War EH0 USE , IW ' 0 door,
fouthof\. alnut-flreei Wharf, adjoining their New Fafloiv—
where they have now made, and leady for fair, a oeneral a(T,L
rncnt of SHOT ol all sizes, with SHEET and BAR I EAD ,h
production of the Mire, in Virginia. As they have employed .
number of experienced Engl,lb wo, km.-,,, they wa,™, it be
equal in quality to any manufafturcd ,n Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported. "ucec
They alio continue to inanufaflurc all the above =r,;.i
Xichmond, in Virgin,a. All orders addressed «o luher of the
tTeft notTce"' " 3 " d "«««» -
N. B. Wanted, indubious, foher, Labouiinp Men ar ihr f A
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and othe,VncouriK
tiients will be given, means of conveyance being provided and"
houieA tor their reception. '
Eo, further particulars enquire of MciTrs. MosisAut , ~ A r
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
« Philadelphia, December 3, 1791.
\ '
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pe A R-St R E ET,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be fcen every day, until five o'clock, p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folic. TTOMER, Xeuophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
ll men, Theodorcr, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Patei
culus, Pliny* Concordantia Lit; Concordantia G,r. Thesaurus Ci
ceronis. Biblia Junii and Tremtllii. Bible de Mart in, Weill's Maps,
Scapul«e— Phavoriui—Martinii —Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Aniiquit. Erclef. 3ritannicae, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropjedia, Beniley's Horace, Terence and
Ph&dru*, Ovid, Juvenal, M'amlius, Ciceronisop. om. Caifar, Su
etonius, {ulius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographic, Justinian Code, See.
Octavo et infra. Homtr, Anacrcon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraltus, Hcfiod, Poetae minores Gr. Ifocratt.% Phalaris, va
rious editionj of Horace, Viigil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
rus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Aufonius, Buchanan,
Sallutt, Curtius, Flosus, Juitin, Val. Maximum, A. Gellius, Hilt.
AuguiL Scriptorcs, Eng/ifo and French Tranjlations of fame of the
ClafTics, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, See. See.
Catalogue.® may be had of MelTrs. Rice & Co. Booksellers,
Maikct-ilrcet, or of
October 31
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M I S S I O N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97,
John Pintard,
SIVORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of everydefcription,on Commifion,
at the following rates:
ON the fpecieamount of all sales at auction, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, ong-kaj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto, feventy-five cents per transfer.
{(3T Such persons as may incline to favor the fubferiber with
their orders, may rclv on their being executed with punffualily,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extenftve dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well eflahlilhed correspon
dence throughout the United States, enable h m to conduit his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King.Street.
OElobcr 15, 1791
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Bt unfwick
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature or the State of New- Terfey'
pal Ted November 1791.
1
1
2
5
10
3°
9°
J 675
1814 P r, zfs.
Blanks.
f -p, 533i Tlck "*' at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls
This Lottery is compofcd of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half her
cent, whicn is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotter v vet
otiered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the iroft
liberal support. "
f eD4w~|
The diawing will commcncc on the second Monday in Aoril
or fooncr if the Tickets are d.fpofed of, the city „f New-
B.untw.ck, under the .nfpefl.on of Col. John Bayaid, Preliden,
of bid city; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the cuv of Ainl.nv .
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Mauufa&url
tng Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly aD
pointed Managers, arc under oath, and haye given security for the
faithful performance of their duty. '
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prizes paid immediately alter the drawing of The Lottery
JOHN' PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, ' Managers
MRU . . ANTHONY W. WHITE, $
N. B. rhofe prizes wh.ch are not -lemanded within fix month,
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confidt-r, A „
donation to the Church. generous
New-B run [wick, January 9.0, 1792
TT O iJ i. SOLD,
HAT beauhlul and elegant iituanon on the banks „f the Po
loniack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the ful>
fenber now reiido; about 2tor on acres k rij , ,
lion from Alexandria to the other two towns Sho n :ommu " ,c ' 1 -
offer bcloie the 15th of Februarv nevt a 1' " 1 3 P urc heler
had. An indilputable title clear ol all i'n k" P a 'S'""n«y be
bv .he fubh nber. IwMa Lfd ' ,h 7 bC ma<ie
Wood Land, about , m'l« difi , P ', a "'. 220 Ac '« °<
port the above in wood and timber. ' * ' C ' W ' U fu,t wcl! 10 lup-
Dectmbtr 14, 1 - Q ,. j
about 16 agej t£>kwuhhfmT MORRIS
cloth coat and brecchcs cordurm- l- ."™ ' ho,l,c fp"ii
homespun shirts, two pa,r ihocs and Com' 7° ft ,° ckin S s > ,wo
Juppofed he went on board v" ITT^'
R«d a y U -ina W nd.- '> *" g "
to h.. m.fte, again, £h»ll ,c«.vc Two "rdTy him
benjamin holme.
340
SC H E
Prize of
Dollars is 2600
200©
1000
500
200
100
.50
20
4
Baldwin dads.
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Townfhipof Benfelem, intheCounry of Bucks
Esquire, deceal'ed, pursuant to the Directions
of his last Will and Testament.
OM Tu< fdav the 27th of March next will be exposed to v Sa!e,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the river Delaware; on
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn,ilahles, h<ty-houfe
and other convenient outhoufrs. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted fruit, now in its prune; a large garden well fenced in
and in good order; and a lh;td and herring fifhery before the dooi
This place is remaikably w ell timbered, has a fufficiency of tnca*
dow, a large front 011 the river, and runs back to the polt-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; coi.taininrf
about two hundred and (even acres, the greatelt part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, itablesj
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the belt
grafted fruit, and a lhad and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern; and the feriy belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the aT)ove places afiord the belt profpt&s 011 the
xiver, and are remaikably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about fixty-thrce acres, situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the sounty aforefai'd ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
JOHN CAREY
(eo tf.)
One Lot, containing four acres, situate on the great pod-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and work-{hop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame lime and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder m two yearly pay
ments with interest.
Januar Y 2, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the military invalids
of the United Slates, that the sums to which they are intitled
lot fix months of their annual pension, tiorn the 4th day of Sep
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the $ih day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Commiflioners
ofr the Loan* within the Rates refpe£tively, under the uluai regu
lations, vi z.
Every application for payment mull be accompanied by the
following vouchers^
lft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the per
son po(lVfling the fame is in fa6f an invalid, and afcertaimng ».nc
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one o* the Jufticesof the county of
in the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whpm the original certificate in his pofieflion was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the ftaie to be re
cited) That he served (regiment, corps or veflel) at the time he
was di sabled, and that he now resides in the and county of
and lias reiided therefor the last years, previous to which he
resided in
1000
1000
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney,the
said attorney, belidtsthe certificate and oath before recited, mult
produce a fpceial letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of Hate of do hereby confli
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawlul attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pcnfion for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand (even
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two.
1000
1000
I .s*°
1800
6700
16000
Applications of executors and administrators mull be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpeftive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pcnfion they may claim.
By command of the President of the United State.*,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
?1 he Printers in the. refpe£tive ftatcs are rcqucftcd to publilh
the above m their newspapers, for the space of two months.
. . Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
ta Meeting of the Visitors and Governors of St. Jon n's College,
«n the State of Maryland, on Thursday the loin of Novem
ber tall, 1
RESOLVED,
1 this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro
cced toelca a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
1 hat it he the duty of the Principal and Vice-Piincipal, t®
teach tome of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy ; and that ihe departments of the fa id Principal and Vice-
I 1 incipal (hall hereafter be alcertained with precision, on consi
derations of their mutual convenience and refpc&ive qualifications.
I lat the Vice- Principal shall be eniitied to receive, for his (cr
vices, a salary of three hundred and fiftv pounds, current money,
ratrng dollars at 7/6 each, to be paid quarterly.
1 >at unions defuous of, and qualified for the appointment of
ice-1 nncipal, br, by public advcrtifcmcnt. rc que fled to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Cairoll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna-
P olls - By order of the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, Piefident.
N. B. Ihe fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit all
preference on account of religious tenets or opinions.
s the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
com pleat the plan of this rising seminary, the Board will certainly
}' r ' )CCf to eleflion at the llated time; provided a person qua
.hed, in iheir judgment, for this important Ration, can be pio
curs .' ' personal attendance of the candidates, although not
positively required, will beohvioufly proper.
It mav be ufelul to remark, that the falaviesof all the profeflois
a " l ' ac "ers have hitherto been paid withentire punctuality ; and
t-.at t e timds of St. John's College produce a certain annual in
comr, uperior to all the appropriations, which have been, or pto
bably will be made.
[cp3m]
nf nntcrs newspapers throughout the United States,
are earue ly requeued to in Pert the above resolve and remarks —
an to tepeat the publication as often as convenience will permit.
A TART FT° RE S ° LD ® Y ™ E ED,TOR » , ,
tt j receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
A r^ m nC t(> a ,ou^an< i Pennyweights—according to the
u ongicfi, afccrtaining the Siandaid and Value of Goici
JOHN SWIFT, )
M. NESBIT, t Exccuto.-s
SAMUEL BENEZET, )
(cpt!tl2 7)
War Department.
Signed and fcalcd
in the prefenci of
Witncfles,
Acknowledged before mt,