fftfi
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUhLISHt D WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHI A
[No. 96, of Vol. lII.]
XEAD IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, THE 17th INST
Treasury Department, March 16, 1792.
THE Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to a Resolution of the House
0/ Reprefevtativcs 0/ the Sth injlaut, directing the fiid Secretary to
report to the Houft his opinion of the bejl mode oj raising the additi
onal Supplier requijittfor the ensuing year, rejpetfjully submits the
following
REPORT
THE sum which is estimated to be nectflarv for carrying into
/•ffeft the purposes of the ast for making further and more ef
fectual provision for the prote&ion of the frontiers of the United
States, beyond the provision made by the ast making appropriati
ons lor the support of government for the year 179 a, is
Dols. 675.950 8
The returns which have been received at the treasury subsequent
to the Secretary's report of the 23d of Januaty last, among which
are those of some principal ports, afford faiisfa£lory ground of as
surance, that the quarter ending the last. of December wa* consider
ably more preduftive than it was supposed likely to prove ; au
thorizing a reliance that the revenues to the end of the year 179:,
will yield a furplusof 150,000 dollar*—which may be applied in
part of the film of 675,95° dollars and 8 cents, above Hated to be
weceffary.
Provision remains to be made for the residue. of this sum,
5 2 5»95° dollars and 8 cents.
Thiec expedients occur to the option of the government for
providing this sum.
One, to dispose of the interest, to which the United States are
entitled in the bank of the United States. This, at the preient
market price of bank stock, would yield a clear gain to the govern
ment much more than adequate to the sum required.
Another, to borrow the money, upon an eitabiiflimcnt of fund?,
fither merely commensurate ith the intcrtft to be paid, or af
fording a surplus which will discharge the principal by iDllalnqcQU
vi hin a short term.
The third is, to laife the amount by taxes.
Thefirltof these three expedients appears to the Secretary alto
gether unadvifeable.
fiift—lt is his pi efent opinion, that it will be found, in various
refpefls, permanently the intereil of the United States to retain
tfhe interest to which ihey are entiiled in the bank. But,
Secondly—lf this opinion should not be well founded, it will
~hc improvident to dispose of it at the present jimflure, since upon
a comprchcnfive View ofthe fubjeft, it can hardly admit of a doubt,
that its future value, at a period not very distant, will be consider
ably greater than its present—While the government will enjoy
the benefit of whatever dividends (hall bedeclaied in the interval.
And, Thirdly—Whether it shall be deemed proper lo retain
w difpole of this interest, the moO ufeful application of the pro
teedswill he as a fund for extinguishing the public debt. A ne
ceflity of applying it to any different objed, if it Ihuuki be lound
to exist. would be matter of fertous regret.
The second expedient would, in the judgment of the Secretary,
"be preferable to thefirft.
For this the following reason, if there were no other, is pre
sumed to be concJufive—namely, That the probable incieafe of
the value of the flock may itfelf be cftimated as a considerable, if
not a fufficient fund, for the repayment of the sum which might
be borrowed.
If the measure of a loan should be thought eligible, it is fubmiu
ted as mod advifeable to accompany it with a provision, fufficient
i\ot only to pay the interest, but todifcharge the principal with
in a short period. This will, at lcaif, mitigate the inconvenience
of thaking an addition to the public debt.
But the result of mature reflation is, in the mind of the Secre
tary, a strong convi&ioo, that the last of the three expedients,
which hn*e been mentioned, is to be preferred to either of the
«ther two.
Nothing can more interest the national credit and prosperity,
than a constant and systematic attention lo husband ail the means
previously poffefled for extinguilhing the present debt, and to a
void. as much as pofUble, the incurring of any new debt.
Ncccflity alone therefore can juftify the application of any of
the public property, other than the annual revenues, to the cur
*ent service, or the temporary and casual exigencies of the coun-
the contraftmg of an additional debt, by loans, to provide
for those exigencies.
Great emergencies indeed might exist, in which loans would
indifpenfible. But the occasions which will juftify them mud
be truly of that description.
The present is not of such a nature. The sum to be provided
is not of magnitude enough to furnifh the plea of nectflhy,
Taxes are never welcome to a community. The/ seldom fail
to excite uneasy sensations more or left extensive. Hence a too
strong propensity, in the governments of nations, to anticipate and
mortgage the resources of posterity. rather than encounter the in
conveniences of a present increase of taxes.
But this policy, when not di&ated by very peculiar circum-
Aances, is of the worst kind. Its obvious tendency is, by enhanc
ing the permanent burthens of the people, to produce lading dif
trels, and its aatural iflue is in national bankruptcy.
It will he happy, if the councils of this country, fan£lioned by
the voice of an enlightened community, (hall be able to putfue a
different course.
Yielding to this impreflion, th« Secretary proceeds to state for
the consideration of the House, the obje&s which have occurred
to biro as most proper to be retorted to, lor raising the requisite
sum by taxes.
From the most careful view which he is able to take of all the
c'rcumftancc*, that at the present juncture naturally enter into con
sideration, he is led to conclude, that the moil eligible mode, in
"which the neceflary proVision can at this time be made, is by some
add:tional duties on impoited articics.
This conclusion is made with relu&ance, for reasons which
noticed upon a former occasion, and from the refle&ton, that
frequent and unexpc&cd alterations in the rates of duties, on the
objects of trade, by inducing uncertainty in mercantile speculati
ons and calculations, are really injurious lo commerce and hurtful
to the interrftsof those who carry it on.
The (lability of the duties to be paid by the merchants is in
of more confequencc to them than their quantum ; if within rea
sonable bounds.
It were therefore much to have been wished, that so early a re
sort to new demands on that class of citizens could have been a
•voided, and cfpeciallv that they could have been dcicrred until a
Wednesday, March 28, 1792.
genera] tariff could have been maturely digtfted, upon principles,
which might with propriety render it cflVntially stationary.
But while there are these m©tivts to rcgiet, there aie others of
a consoling tendency, some of which indicate, ihat ?n augmenta
tion of duties, at the present juncture, may have theeffift of lef
fcning some public evil*, and producing fone public benefits.
Ii is a pleafinp; fitft, if the information of the Secretary be not
veiy erroneous, that the improved state of the credit of this coun
try enables our merchants to procure the supplies which they im
port from abroad upon much more cheap and advantageous terms
than heretofore, a circumstance which rauft alleviate to them the
prefTure of somewhat higher rates of duty, and mud contribute, at
the fametimc, to reconcile them to burthens, which being con
n<ftcd with an efficacious discharge of the duty of government,
are of a nature to give solidity and permanency to the advantage
they enjoy under it.
It is certain also, that a spirit of manufa&uring prevails at this
time in a greater degree, than it has done at any antecedent period,
and as far as an encreafe of duties (hall tend to Second and aid this
Spirit, they will Serve to promote essentially the indullry, the
wealth, theftrtngth, the independence and the Substantial prospe
rity of the country.
The returns for one year, ending the thirtieth of September
last, an abftraft of which is in preparation to be communicated to
the legislature, evince a much incrcafcd importation, during lhat
year, greater far than can be referred to a naturally increaSing de
mand from the progtels of population, and announce a probabi
lity of a more than a proportional increase of consumption ; there
being no appearance of an txtiaordinaiy abundance of goods in
the maiktt. If happily an extenSion of the duties Shall operate a&
a reilraint upon efcccflive consumption, it will be a falutarv mean
of preServmg the community from fntore cmbariafTment, public
and private. But if this fbould not be the caSe, it is at leafi pru
dtnt in the government, to extract Siom it the reSources neceflary
Sor current exigencies, rttherthan postpone the burthen to a peri
od, when that very circumilance may cause it to be more grievouS
ly felt.
Tbefe different considerations unite with others which will Sug
gest themfj'lves to induce, in the preSent state of things, a prefer
ence of taxes oq imported articles, to any other mode ol railing
the Sum required.
It istherefone reSpe&Sully Submitted—
That the existing duties on the aiticles hereafter enumerated, be
repealed, and that in place oS them the following be laid, viz.
W I N E S.
Madeira of the quality of London particular, per gallon,
Ditto London market per do.
Other Madeira wtuc per do.
Sherry per do.
St. Lucar per do.
Oporto per do.
Teneriffe and Fayall ptr do.
All other wines 4Q per centum ad valorem.
SPIRITS.
Those distilled wholly or chifily.Xioii) grain.
Of the fiift class of proof per gallon,
Ot the fee on d do. per do.
Of the third do* per do.
Ot the fourth do. per do.
Ot the fifth do. per do.
Of the sixth do. per do.
Other diAilled Spirits,
Of the feeond class of proof and under
Of the rbifd do.
Of the fourth do.
Of the fifth do.
Of the sixth do.
Beer, ale and porter
Steel
Nails
Cocoa
Chocolate
Playing-Cards
Shoes and flippers of silk
Shoes and (Uppers of stained or coloured leather,
other than black, tor men and women
Ditto ditto for children
All other flioes and flippers, for men and
women, clogs, golofhoes
All other Ihoes and flippers for children
ARTICLES ad valorem.
China wares
Looking glass, window and other glass, and all manufactures of
glass, black quait bottles excepted
Mufketsand Pistols
Swords, cutiaffes, hangers, and other fire and fide arms
Starch
Hair powder
Was ers and
Glue, 15 per centum ad valorem.
Call, flu and rolled iron, and generally all manufactures of iron,
ftcel, tin, pewter, coppcr, brass, or of which either of these me
tals is the ariicle of chief value, not being otherwise paiticulai ly
enumerated
Medicinal drugs, except those commonly used in dying
Hats, caps, and bonnets of tvery fort
Gloves and mittens
Stockings
Millenary ready made
Artificial flowers, feathers and other ornaments for women's head
dresses
Fans
Dolls, drefled and undreflfed
Toys
Buttons of every kind
Carpets and carpeting, mats and floof cloths
Sail cloth
Sheathing and cartridge paper
All powders, pastes, balls, balsams, ointments, oils, waters, wafli
cs, tinfturcs, cHeiices, liquors, or other pieparation or compo
sition, commonly called fujeet Junts, odours, perfumes, or coj
metics
All dentrifice, powders, tin£lures, preparations or compositions
for the teeth or gums
Printed books, except those specially import- d for a college, aca
demy or other public or incorporated ferni nary of learning or
inflitution, which shall be wholly cxempicd from duty—loper
cent. ad valorem.
381
per do.
per do.
per do.
per do.
per do.
per do.
per cvC
per Jb.
per do.
Der do
per pack
The foregoing duties to be permanently established, and to be
appropnaied in the fiiil place to the paym<nt of the nuerell ot
'he public debt ; inthefecond, to such other grants and appro
p iations as have been heretofore made; and in the tlii>d,to the
put poses of t he a£t for making lurthcr and more ettefhial provi
sion tor the proti&ion of the frontiers of the United i>:ates.
An addition of two and half per cent, ad valorem, to be made
to the duty on all goods heretofore rated at 5 ptr centum ad va
lorem.
This addition 10 be temporary, and accordingly to be so efta
bliflied as that i: (hall not continue longei, than till the present
Indian war shall terminally and the expences of carrying it on
shall have been defiayed, which will of course include the reim
bursement of any (unu, that may have been borrowed by way of
anticipation of the product of the duties.
It is represented that the present duty on fait operates unequally
from the considerable difference in weight in proportion co quan
tity of difte ent kinds of fait ; a bushel veig.ing from about $$
to upwards of 80 weight. It would have an equalizing effect if
the bulhel \*ere dt fined by weight; and ii 56 pounds were taken
the flaudard, a valuable acccflion to the icvenue would tefult.
1 his regulation is therefoic Submitted as a resource upon the
present occasion. The rate of duty to remain as it is.
It will be a reafojnabie accommodation to trade, if it is made a
part of this arrangement, to extend the credit lor the duty on fait,
to a longer term. It is an article, which from the circumflances
of its importation, frequently lies on hand for a confid. raoie
lime ; and in relation to the fineries is usually fold upon a cre
dit of several months.
Some remarks may be proper in regard to the proposed duties;
Those on spirits and wines may appear high. They artdpubt
lefs confidcrablt—-But there are precedents cltcwhere of much
higiicr duties on the fame articles. And it isceitainly in every
view juftifiable to make a free use of them for the purposes of re-
venue.
\Vtnes, generally Speaking, are the luxury of claffcs of the com
munity who can afford to pay a ccnfidciable duty upon them.
It has appeared adviSeable to adhere to the idea of a Specific du~
ty. per quantity on 411 the fpeciea of wines in mott common coi -
lumption in the country, and those molt susceptible of prccife de
signation ; as affording the greatcft certaintx to the revenue. And to
adopt a general ad valorem rate for other kinds, proportioned to
the Specific duties. This rate is 40 per cent.
This diftin&ion has proceeded from the difficulty of a piecifc
enumeration of ail the other k.nds of wine, which are and may
be imported, and of fuchan adjustment of fpecific rates, as wiil
bear some reasonable proportion to the value of the article. The
present lowest iaie of duty on wines amounts to 200 and 300 per
cent, on the value of certain kinds ; which may be confidercd as
equivalent to a prohibition.
While therefore ideas of proportion will be better consulted
than heretofore, by the proposed arrangement, it is probable, that
theievcnue will be benefited, rather than injured, by a redutlioa
of the duties on low priced wines.
Theconfideranons which render ardent spirits a proper obj 51
of hifch duties, have been repeatedly dwelt upon. It may be ad
ded, that it is a familiar and a just remark, that the peculiarly
low price of ardent spirits in this country is a great source of in
temperance.
To bring the price of tbe article more nearly to a level with the
price of it in other markets by an increase of duty, while it will
contribute to the advancement of the revenue, cannot but prove
in other refpe&s a public benefit.
( ents.
5 6
49
40
33
3°
2 .5
EC
£8
2 9
3 1
34
40
50
24
27
3 1
37
45
8
10c
2
2
3
2 5
20
1.0
7
ic
7
The tates proposed will be still moderate compared with ex.
ampUs ill other countries; and the article is of a nature to enable
the importer,without difficulty,to transfertheduty to the conlumer.
A difcriminatton is suggested in refpeCi to duties on fpi: us dil
tilled from grain. To this there have been two inducements —
one, that the difference in the duty is conformable to the differ
ence between the cost of the grain spirits usually imported, and
that of Wtit-India rum—another, that it is in a particular manner
the intcreft ot the United Stales to favor the distillation of its own
grain, in competition wiih foreign spirits from the fame material.
In the second division of spirits, the firfl class of proof is drop
ped, because none of it comes from the Weft-Indies ; and beca-ufe
any other spirits usually imported which may be of so low a proof
are higher priced, even than some of the higher proofs of Weft-
India spirits. The dropping of that class of pioof therefore
this cafe is favorable to the revenu: and favorable to equality.
Several of the other fpecific duties which arc proposed, beftdef
the inducements to them as items of revenue are strongly rccam*
mended by confederations which have been stated in the report oi
the Secretary on ihe fubjiCt of manufactures. The fame repoiC
stares inducements to als per cent, duty on some of the articles*
which are mentioned, as propei to be comprized under that rate.
With regard to china and glass, there are two weighty rcafonf
for a comparat.vely high duty upon them. The use of them is
very iimitcd except by the wealthier claflfes. And both theif
bulk and liability to damage in tranfportatiun are great securities
•gainst evasions of the revenue. It will however merit coufidcr*
ation, whether for the accommodation of im orters, a longer
term of credit ought not to be allowed on thele articles.
A duty of two cents per pound on cocoa is less in proportion
o Vdlue than the present duty on coffee. As an extensive article
of consumption, it is a productive one of revenue.
The duty on playing cards can give rife to no question except
as to practicability of a fafe collc&ion. In order to this it will be
proper to super-add certain precautions, which will readily occur
n regulating the details of a bill for the purpose. A fitnilar at
tention will be requisite in regard to the duties on wines. The
employment of marks and certificates may advantagtoufly b« ex
tended to this article.
The rate of 10 per centum ad valorem it is hoped will not be
deemed immoderate in relation to the articles to which it is pro»
posed to apply it. It is difficult to rules for what ought 10
be considered as a just standard. But alter the belt confederation
which the Secretary has been able to bestow upon it, he caru.oC
discover, that any real inconvenience is likely peimanently to
result from the cxtenfion of that rate to the cases proposed.
The addition of per ccnt. to the duiy on the mals ot articles
now rated at 5, will conflitu e an important, though not au ex
seifive augmentation. Nevertheless, it is propofeo, that it (hall
be only temporaly—and there is reasonable ground of expedi
tion, tiiat the cause lor having recourse to it will not be of very
long continuance.
It will not have efcapcd the observation of the House, that the
dunes which were fuggelted in the Secretary'sreport, on that fub
jeft, as encouragements to manufactures, are for the moll part in
cluded amoug the objecis of this report.
[Whole No. 504.}It may tend to avoid futrtre embarraflments, that fuel) abolitions
and drawbacks, as (hall be deemed expedient, with a view to
promoting manufactures, (hall accompany the eftablifhmcnt and
appropriation ot whatever further duties may be laid, for the ob
jeftin contemplation.
And may be found convenient to qualify the appropriation of
the surplus which is to be applied to ih;it obje£t, so to as to let in
such other appropriations during the feflion as occurrences may
suggest.
An estimate of the additional revenue which may be expe&ed
from the proposed duties is subjoined.
It will occur to the Houfc, that the credit allowed for the du
ties will require an anticipation of the product by a temporary
Joan, for which provision in the law will be requisite.
All which is humbly fuhmitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the TveaJ'ury.
ISIMATE OF PROBABLE ADDITIONAL REVENUE FROM THE
* PROPOSED DUTIES.
Madeira wine 300,000 gallons, average encreafe 12 cents
per gallon, -
Other wines 700,000 gallons, average encreale 3 cents
per gallon, -
Distilled spirits 3,600,000 gallons average encreafe, al
lowing for proposed deduction from the duties on do
mestic spirits, 2 cents,
Salt, from the equalizing regulation proposed, will
probably yield 1-6 moie, or 2 cents per bushel on
2,000,000 bushels - " -
Malt liq-uors 200,000 gallons at 2 J cents
Nails and spikes i,800,0001b. at 1 cent,
Cocoa 800,ooolb. at 1 cent, -
Playing cards, 20,000 at 15 cent?,
Other enumerated articles ad valorem at 15 per cent.
Jncreafed duty on articles rated permanently at 10 per
cent, ad valorem, computed at 2 millions of dollars,
in value at 3 per cent. -
Temporary aaditition of 2 5 per cent, on thearticles now
rated at 5, computed on 10,000,000 of dollars^
CONGRESS^
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, February 16.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the Representation Bill.
[continued.]
MR. PAGE.—I rife not to enter into a debate
on the question before you, Sir, because,
as 1 said yesterday, it being out of order, it did
not admit of debate: it is true the question is
now a little varied, but it covnesto the fame thing ;
for if we vote in favor of it, we must vote contra
ry to a solemn decision of this very committee.
What I wi(h to observe, Sir, is in reply to the
member from New New-Hampfliire, who seemed
diflatisfied with my ideas of order ; and to make
one remark on what the member from Massachu
setts (Mr. Ames) said as to truth being his aim.
As to the point of order, it mult be molt evident
that it is to no purpose to put a question in a
committee of the whole, if when the sense of the
committee has been taken, another question may
be proposed, which may lead to a decision direct
ly contrary to that before made : — but the gen
tleman tells us that the committee were taken in,
that they began too at the wrong end ; but surely,
Sir, this cannot be said, for the blank in the 16th
line was not filled up till after solemn debate ;
and it was generally ufulerftood, that by filling
it up, we Should fix the principle of the bill. On
that question, the ratio of x for 30,000 was estab
lished, and applied in a clause refpeding South-
Carolina in such a manner as, without inconsist
ency, must lead the committee tofill upthe blanks
now under consideration. But, Sir, if such de
bating as is contended tor be allowable, when
can the business before us be finifhed ? How
many amendments of this fort may not be pro
posed ? Is it not fufficietit for gentlemen to vote
againtt the motion if they dislike it—and then
in the House, where they will have a right to be
heard, to propose their own amendments \ There,
if they can convince the House that the commit
tee were ill an error, they may correct it but
surely, Sir, the committee cannot now, without
violating order, and being charged with a great
agree to the motion before you.
Truth is my aim, said the member from Mafla
chufetts : it is mint asmuch as his :—but, without
pretending to decide whether his confirmation of
the constitution is right or not, I will ask him,
how are we to arrive at the truth we now aim
at; that is, how find the numbers to be inlerted
in the blanks, if his construCtion be right ? For
according to that conftrutftion, we must apply the
ratio to the whole federal number of the United
States, before we can find the number of repre
sentatives forany one state; and can this be done
till South-Carolina has made the return of the
census .'—and if this construCtion be right, may
not South-Carolina, if it be the interest of that
state to retain its present representation, keep
back that return ? This conltrutfion then is at
tended with an insuperable difficulty ; and indeed
I think with my colleague (Mr. Madison) was
never thought of till lately within this Foufe
Our conltauents put the construCtion which the
majority of the committee and of the House have
hitherto put on the constitution; and several
stares have (hewn by their arts that their conltruc
tion is the fame.
Mr Vining said, if by consolidation is meant
a consolidation of inrerelh, he gloried in the idea;
but it a conlolidation of states is intended, lie
was opposed to such an idea as much as any mem
ber on the floor. Adverting to Mr. Findley's
idea of local interests being represented, he con
tended he had given up the contest ; for if the
gentleman is sincere, he mud concede that the
proportion now under consideration, more per
fectly accorded with that idea than his own—
Virginia represented as Delaware, would have
but about 10 members—are the local interests
then of Delaware represented by olie member,
when Virginia is represented by 21 ?
Mr. Murray hoped that number would not be
inferred. If however the moion were carried,
he wished its friends would, if confident with
order, amend the preliminary fecftion of the bill,
by inserting the principle under which this mo
tion is made. The principle is, that the ratio of
30,000 is to be applied to the aggregate number
of the continent, and not to the aggregate num
ber of each state. He could not, 011 the fulleft
and most liberal reflection, give hisalfent to such
a principle ; but observed that at all events some
principle, whatever it might be, ought to (how
that the vote of the house was regulated by rule
rather than expedience. On a question so im
portant as that of representation, the measure
agreed to ought to result from some established
principle. As the bill now (lands, it will appear
altogether arbitrary ; and rights in which all are
concerned, seem to flow more from grace, and
the flrength of majority, than fettled system. If
there is a principle in the bill, it is to be disco
vered merely in its provisions—whereas on such
a fubjeifi its light, destined to guide the under
standing, ought to be steady and apparent, and
not glimmer dimly through the intricate wind
ings of various provisions—these ought to have
been natural conclnfions/refulting from the prin
ciple, rather than the sources from which it isto
be inferred. It ought to have been fettled as
soon as the bill came in, and before a vote indi
cative of it had been moved. As the whole of
this fubjccS had been hitherto completely fifted,
he would make but one or two remarks. The
trainers of the constitution could never have
thought of this mode of applying a ratio. All
the guards in favor of state governments, show
that the states were viewed refpecftively and Se
verally. The laws relative to elections, are Ln
tirely and exclusively in the hands of the states.
Had the convention intended the aggregate of
the whole, and not of states, (hould be the object
of apportionment by ratio, they would have kept
the election law in the hands of Congress—they
would have empowered Congress to divide the
continent into diftriifls. If New-Hampshire has
5 members here, and her aggregate divided by
30,000 would give her but 4 (which is the cafe)
she will have an undue influence on this floor;
as the weight and power that any state has here,
ought to be but equal to her numbers. It has
been laid down as dotfirine here, that every mem
ber represents the whole. He could not compre
hend the force of that position in the use and la
titude in which it was applied. He would not
annex any meaning to theoretical truths, which
did not admit of awholefome pra(fiice. A mem
ber here represents his constituents—he legislates
for the whole. The people whose rights and in
terests are the fubjeft of legislation, are a whole—
from their unity of interests, and from their union
of government, results the general duty of the
reprefentativje. His responsibility to his own cir
cle of constituents, is on his duty discharged or
negleded to the whole ; because the true good
of the several parts confirts in the general pros
perity of the whole. Where, he said, a member
represents one diftridt, he meant to give, and
show, a truth, on the use of which alone he could
conceive a pradical operation to the principle of
responsibility could be obtained. Any other idea
of responsibility which he had ever heard, was
too refined for common use. If a member from
one part of the union is to be the representative
of a part which does not eleefi him, agreeably to
this fractional doctrine, he cannot be held in
check or controul by them ; and the very reason
that may make him hateful to them, may ingra
tiate him among those from whom he actually
comes. Instead of cementing confidence, such a
predominance given any one state beyond what
her numbers entitle her to, will sow discord and
jealotify.— He had an amendment ready to offer,
which was, to strike out the words in the fifth
line, " within the several states," and to insert
these words, " agreeably to a ratio of one mem
ber for every 30,000." He would vote against
the motion, and against the principle on which it
was founded, which, though not Specified in the
bill, was obvious, and take the liberty of moving
his amendment, if the motion now before the
committee failed, which he hoped would be the
cafe.
Dd/S\
36,000
21,000
72,000
40,000
5.000
iß,ooo
8,000
3, 000
i 0,000
60,000
250,000
Dollars, 523,500
Mr. Bondinot said he could have wished that,
as the house had gone into a committee of the
whole, the gentleman (Mr. Murray) had brought
forward a proposition, as he is abundantly able
to do, which would give the bill the confiffency
he wished for. He then entered into a defence
of the proposition, and juftified its friends from
the charge of inconsistency. He had been in fa
382
vor of 40,000—if that had been agreed r 0 he
should have applied it as it is now propofe'd in
relped: to 30,000. He replied to several objec
tions, by explaining the constitution. J
Mr. Benfon moved an amendment as a fubfti
tute for Mr. Vining's proposition, expressly ap !
portioning the representation on the aggregate
number of the people of the United States—this
he moved in conformity to the idea of Mr. Mur
ray, who contended that there was no principle
in the bill.
Mr. Vining, on this, withdrew his propdfition.
The debate was continued on Mr. Bciifon's
motion, and was finally negatived 33 to 24.
FRIDAY, Maich 23.
On the motion to recede from the disagreement
of the House to the amendments of the Senate
to the Representation Bill—the ayes and noes are
as follow :
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne
B. Bourne, Clark, Fitzfimons, Gerry, Gilmau'
Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley, Jacobs, Kitchel, Kit
teia, Lawrance, Learned,-JLivermor'e, Muhlen
berg, Niles, Schoomnaker, Sedgwick, J. Smith
I. Smith, Steele, Sylvester, Thatcher, Treadwell'
Vining, -Wadfworth, Ward—3l.
Me'ffrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Barnwell, Brown
Findley, Giles, Gregg, Grove, Heifter, HillhonfeJ
Huger, Key, Lee, Macon, Madison, Mercer,
Moore, Page, Parker, Seney, W. Smith, Sterretr,
Srurges, Sumpter, Tucker, Venable, White, Wil
liamfon, Wyllis—29.
The Senate's amendments being adopted by
the Honfe, the bill is reduced toafingle section,
as follows:
" Be it enabled, ire. that, from and after the
3d day of March, in the year 1793, the House of
;Reprefentatives shall be composed of 120 mem
bers, elected within the several states, according
to the following apportionment; that is to fay,
within the state of New-Hampshire, within
the state of Maffachnfetts, 16 ; within ihe state
of Vermont, 3 ; within the state of Rhode- Island,
2; within the state of Connecticut, 8 ; within the
state of New-York, 11 ; within the state of New-
Jersey, 6 ; within the state of Pennsylvania, 14;
within the state of Delaware, 2; within the state.
of Maryland, 9 ; within the state of Virginia, 21;
within the state of Kentucky, 2.; within the state
of North-Carolina, 12 ; the state of South-,
Carolina, 7; and within the state of Georgia,2."
SATURDAY, MARCH 24.
A memorial was read from the merchants Mid
traders of Philadelphia, renionftrating against
the additional duties proposed in the report on
Ways and Means.
The hill for extending the time prescribed by
law for the payment of the duties on teas, was
read the firft and second time, and made the or
der of the day for Tuesday next.
In committee of the whole on the bill for estab
lishing a Mint, and regulating the Coins of the
United States. The committee proceeded thro
the difcuflion of the bill, and made one amend
ment, which was reported to the House.
This amendment was, to flrike out the clauft
which provides that the coin {hall bear the irri
prefs of the Prelident's head for the time being.
On the question to agree to this amendment, the
Ayes and Noes were as follow :
AYES.
MefTrs. Bald win, Clark, Fitzfimons, Giles, Gregg,
Heifter, Kitchell, Kittera, Lawrance, Lee, Macon,
Madison, Moore, Niles, Page, Seney, J. Smith,
Sterrett, Schoonmaker, Sumprer, Tucker,Trea •
well, Venable, White, Williamfon, Wyllis-20.
Messrs. Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot, B.Bourne,
S. Bourne, Brown, Gilman, Gordon, Goodhue,
H tiger, Hartley, Hillhonfe, Key, Learned Liver
more, Sturges, Sedgwick, W. Smith, Syhe er,
Thatcher, Wadfworth. Ward —22. (
It was then voted to substitute the words
device emblematical of Liberty, with an inlcrip
tion of the word Liberty." —The bill was
ordered to be engrossed for a third reading
Monday next. Adjourned.
MONDAY, MARCH 26.
The bill for eftablilhing a Mint, and to ref
late the Coins of the United Stares, was read tn
third time, and, after some debute, was pa e
The Ayes and Noes being as follow:
AYES. *
Meflrs. Aines, Afhe, Baldwin, Barnwell,Ben t
Bondinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Brown, bch
Gil man, Goodhue, Hartley, Heifter,Huger. zj<
Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Livermore,. '
Muhlenberg, Page, Sedgwick, W. Smith, S •
Sturges, Sylveft'er, Vining, WadAvorth, Ward,
Willianifon— 32
Messrs. Clark, Findley, Giles, 3ordo.n, Gr£f,
HillViouJ'e, Jacobs, Kitehell.Lee, !v ' acon '' , |
Moore, Miles. Parker, Schoonmaker
Smith, Sumpter, Thatcher, Treadwell,
VKbite—22.
AYES
NOES,
NAYS,In committee of the whole on the report of the
feledt committee on the petition of the Directors
of the Ohio Company of Associates. The fol
lowing refohitions, in substance., were agreed to
by the committee, viz.
" Resolved, as the opinion of this committee,
That a title be made to the Company for so much
of the land as they have already paid for.
" Resolved, That in addition to the above
quantity of lands, there be also granted to the
Ohio Company, 214,285 acres, being the propor
tion they were by resolve of Congress authorised
to pay in army rights, upon their delivering to
the Secretary of theTreafury rights'fufficient for
the purpose.
" Resolved, That there be also granted to the
said Company, 100,000 acres, to make good one
thousand lots of roo acres each, appropriated by
said Company as bounties to such as shall become
settlers, &c.
" Resolved, That a title to the remainder of
the 1,500,000 acres, be made to the Company,
on their paying the Aim of cents per acre,&c."
These resolutions being adopted by the House,
a committee was appointed to report a bill in
conformity thereto
A nieffage was received from the Senate by
JVlr. Secretary Otis, informing the House thai
they have disagreed to the amendment of the
House to the bill for eftablilhing a Mint, &c. and
that they have agreed to the amendments of the
House to the bill Supplemental totheatft making
further and more effectual provision for the de
fence of the Frontiers.
The H°uf e took into consideration the disa
greement of the Senate to their amendment to
the Mint Bill.
Mr. W.Smith moved that the House should re
cede from their amendment.—This motion occa
sioned a long debate, which continued till half
after 3 o'clock, and was determined in the nega
tive—the Ayes and Noes being as follow:
Meffi-s. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Boudinot,
S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Fitzfimons,Gerry,Gilman,
Goodhue, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Jacobs,
Kittera, Learned, Livermore, Sedgwick, W.
Smith, Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Wadfworth,
Ward— 24.
MelFis. Aflie, Baldwin, Brown, Clark, Giles,
Gordon, Gregg, Grifßn, Grove, Heilter, Key,
Kitchell, Lee, Macon, Madison, Mercer, Moore,
Murray, Miles, Page, Parker, Seney, J. Smith,
I. Smith, Steele, Sumpter, Tread well, Tucker,
Venable, Vining, White, Williamfon— 32.
The House then voted to adhere to their
amendment. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, March 27.
The following motion laid on the table yelterday by Mr. Giles,
■was taken into consideration, viz.
Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested
to institute an enquiry into the causes of the late defeat of the ar
my under the command of Major General St. Clair ; and also in
to the causes of she detention or decays which are suggested to
have attended the money, cloathing, provifions,and military stores
for the use of the said army ; and into such other causes as may in
any manner have been productive of the said defeat.
After some debate a motion was made to refer the resolution to
a feleft committee, this motion was negatived—2B to 22. The
resolution was then divided, and the ayes and noes called on the
firft part as far as the words General St. Clair—and were ayes 21,
noes 35* The reft of the resolution fell ot course.
Mr. Fitzfimons then moved the following resolution :—That a
committee be appointed to inquire into the failuie of the late ex
pedition under Gen. St. Clair, and that the said committee be em
powered to call for such persons, papers and records as may be
neceflary to aflift them in such inquiry.
This motion was adopted—ayes 44 —noes 10 ; and a committee
of leven appointed accordingly.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the Houfc that the Senate recede from their difagree*nent to the
amendment proposed by the Houfc to the Mint Bill.
f A message from the President of the United States by Mr.
Secretary Lear informed the House that the President has this day
-approved and signed two acts, one an ast to provide for the fet
tiement of the claims offundry persons under particular circum
ftances,barred by the limitations heretofore established ; the other
an ast making provision for widows, orphans and invalid pen
lioners.
The following resolution in substance was agreed to : Resol
ved, that the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of War
be directed to return to the House the petitions of invalids and
others which have been referred to them, whose cases are com
prehended in the acts already parted, With the papers accompany
ing the. fame—and that the petitioners have leave to withdraw
such petitions.
The report on the petiton of the officers of the levies was taken
into conGderation—this report was in favor of the petitioners
and wasdifagreed to.
Mr. Madison, after dating some obje&ions to the resolution in
troduced by Mr. Fitzfimons, and which was adopted, moved to
reconsider (aid relolution, for the purpose of agreeing to th' fol
lowing—Refolved, Thai a committee be appointed to make en
quiry inio such circumstances connected with the late unfuccefslul
expedition under the command of General St. Clair, as may be
proper to be repoited to this Houfe—■'This motion meeting wiili
some opposition, was laid on ihe table. Adjourhed.
N E W-Y O R K, March 23.
A Meeting was held at Corre's Hotel, on Wed-,
nefday last, of the merchants and dealers in
flocks, when they came to a resolution, that af
ter the 21ft of April next, they will not attend
any sale of (locks at public auction ; and also ap
pointed a committee to provide a proper room
for them to aftemble in, and to report such re
gulations relative to the mode of tranf'a&ing
their business, as in their opinion may be proper.
AYES,
NOES
Philadelphia, March 28.
Official accounts have been received, at the War-Office, from
Lieuienant Colonel Commandant Wilkinfon, advitong'o! his hau.
nig vi ited the field of aftiou of (he 4th of November last, and re
tuined to Fort W<ifhington without having seen any Indians.
He commenced his march from Fort Walhington the 25th of
January, wiih two companies of the second regiment, and one
hundred and thirty volumei r militia cavalry of Columbia diftrift
in the vicinity of Fort Washington. The snow being deep, re
tarded the march o( the party so that it did not reach Fort Jeffer
-011, 685 milt s dillant, until the 30th of January, where the snow
was too feet deep on a level.
Bad weather prevented ihc march from Fort Jefferfon, until the
3d of February, when, from the path being excessively bad for the
infantry, Colonel Wilkinfon ordered them to return to Fori Wafh
mgton, while he proceeded to the field of battle, on which he ar-
V" 10 °' the 4th of February, being 29 miles from Fort
Jefferfon. 44 A description of the fpc&acle which the field pre
sented, tho' covered with twenty inches deep of snow, would be
ofxenfive to humanity."
u one ' Juried 3S many of the dead as could be discovered.
He found all the cannon-carriages, but three, rendered unfit for
ervice; on one of which, a four pound iron carronade continued
mounted. The other cannon could not be discovered, being pro
bably covered by the snow, or ice, or buued in the vicinity. The
damaged carriages were burnt, and the iron separated, which,
with the three carriages, and carronade, were placcd on flcds,and
taken to Fort Jefferfon—to which place the party returned on the
sth, having encamped on the field of battle during the night of
the 4th February.
44 Not a tree or bush, or fcarccly a twig, could be found on the
left, between the lines of the army, which had not been marked
by a ball."
On the nth of February, after Col. Wilkinfon had left Fort-
Jefferfon, it appears that Capt. Shayler, the commanding officer,
Lieut. BifTell, Mr. Mason, Mr. Kibbev, Mr. Fowler, wiih Capt.
Shayler's fon,and a soldier, being about halt a mile distant from
the fort, searching for lome hiccory wood, for the purpofesof
the fort, were (uddenly fired upon by a number of Indians, dress
ed m blue coats. Mr. Mason and young Mr. Shayler were killed
upon the spot—The Captain escaped to Fort-Jefferfon with an ar
row (ticking in him—Lieut. Biffell and two others (not named)
escaped to Fort-Hamilton, and one was still miffing. Capt. Shay
ler is arrested, and will be tried at a general Court-Martial, for
leaving his garrison contrary to orders.
ExtraEl ofa Utterfrom Columbia, between the Miami Rivers t dated Feb. 14.
" General Wilkinfon arrived at the fatal spot on the lft Febru
ary, and as there was a considerable crust on the snow, and the
horses legs were much cut, and it was not known how far it was
to any of the Indian towns, nor the direst course—a fatigue partv
of 40 was ordered out to bury the dead—the reft being busily en
gaged in looking for the cannon, and fitting up the carriages.—
Ihe cannon could not be sound—supposed to be thrown into a
large creek hard by, which was froze over—every poflibie search
was made, but in vain. The party returned to Foit Jefferfon,
bringing with them one howit, one fix pound carriage, two three
pound ditto, and four sleds with double teams loaded with iron.
The carriages which could not be brought away, were destroyed.
I am told there is nine months provision in Fort Jefferfon.
" I am very impatient to know what Government are about to
do for us. We certainly are citizens, and, from the principles of
the compact, are entitled to prote&ion as much as you in Philadel
phia—and I doubt not the fathers and guardians of our country
view the matter in the fame point of light.
44 P. S. We had a report that Capt. Shayler and Lieut.Kibbey,
of the militia, were killed—but by the arrival of an express from
Fort Jefferfon, it is found that Capt. Shayler is not killed but
Capt Shay er's son, and Commissary Mason. Lieut.Kibbey went
out with a party and brought in the two slain, who were fcalpcd."
The proposition that the debates of the Senate of the United
States (hould be pnblic was negatived in Senate on Monday last
by a majority ot seventeen.
The Legislature of Maflachufetts is prorogued
to the Tnefday preceding the last Wednesday in
May next.—The Governor was requested totranf
mit the copy of an address to the Senate of the
United States, on the fubjetft of the atf'umption
of the residue of the State debts. Among other
arts, they have passed a Canal bill, Bank bill
Militia bill, &c. '
A committee of the House was appointed to
confer with a committee of the Senate, on open
ing a gallery to the Senate chamber—the result
does not appear.
Two veflel loads of Negroes and Mulnttoes sent
from Port-au-Prince to the Bay of Honduras,
have since arrived at Jamaica ; these wretches
were banilhed from 1 ort-au-Prince for having
borne arms against the whites. The govern
ment of Jamaica, it is said, gave orders to have
them sent to Cape Francois under an escort of
two men of war—where they have since arrived.
The Grand Jury of the county of Chatham,
Georgia, have formally returned thanks " to
the Hon. J. Jackson, Esq. for his patriotic exer
tion in bringing to view certain mal-pradtices at
a late election in the lower diftridl of that state
for a Representative to Congress."
The French frigate which arrived here on
Friday from Cape-Francois, brings 110 intelligence
of confequence—lt is said (he is to load with
flour and return immediately.
Much time was spent in the House of Repre
sentatives 011 Saturday, before they could agree
011 a proper device for the Federal coins. Hut,
inflead of the emblematical figure of liberty which
they have adopted, how simple and a-propos it
would have been, since they have retained the
Eagle on one fide, to have placed fifteen emble
matical pigeons 011 the other—A device, which
perhaps (all things considered) would be much
more in character. Nat. Caz.
The Eagle, the arms of the United States, is
a device of the old Congress ; The symbol of of
fice borne by the Serjeant at arms to the prese nt
Congress has an Eagle 011 the top —so that it ap
pears both the old and new Congress had a latent
design against the pigeons !
383
A hint for the several states to appoint each a
snort hand writer to attend and take down die
debates of Congress, l)as been publiJhed — i lie ob
ject is to obtain a compleat, full, and impart.-)
atement of every speech made in the liou.e of
lleprefentati ves.
1 he Indian Chief, from the Oneida nation
who was buried in this city on Wedneldav l.,u'
was about 26 years of age, and named Ojikheta
the appellation of Pierre Jaqnette, or Otfequettt
having been alfumed several years ag-> m com
pliment to the Marquis de la Fayette. The
hardship of his journey to the feat of government
occalioned a pleurisy, which carried him oif.
He has left a wife and several children.
From the return of the Marshal of the Diftritft
of Kentucky, it appears, that that young coun
try contains,
Free white males of 16 and upwards, 7
including heads of families, v *5* 54
Free white males under 16, 17057
Free white females including heads of 7
families, | 28922
All other free persons,
Slaves,
' 12430
The following was received by express from N. York.
I o the Holders of Engagements under the
Signature of the Subscriber.
New-York Prison, March 24, X 792.
IT is with regret that the fibfcriber finds him
felf disappointed in bringing forward to his cre
ditors, 011 this day, such l'pecific propositions for
the ultimate redemption of his debts, as he had
once reason to expect.
At a meeting of a number of gentlemen, (all
of whom ftiled thenifel ves his friends,and amonnft
whom some were really so) it was thought advis
able to postpone the publication of the plan he
had in view, till it was supported by them in such
a manner as they conceived mod likely to ensure
success.
But (the causes of such change it is not neces
sary to detail) the malice of open enemies, and
the infiduous infinuntions of pretended friends,
have chilled the fir ft glow of benevolence; and
left to the fubferiber the guardianlhip of his own
lame, and that of the interest of all his creditors.
A lac red trust ! which the fubferiber pledges hini
ielf to discharge with fidelity and honor.
In this view it is proposed by him as follows:
lit. 1 hat he will within nine months, compu
ted from the present date (or sooner, if poflibie)
make a settlement of all his concerns, point ouc
the sources and amount of his lofles, and conlti
tute an adequate fund for the ultimate redemp
tion of the principal and legal interell of all his
debts.
2d. That this fund shall be so formed as not to
place it within his own reach, to divert it from
the objerts of its destination.
3d.-! hat he will make prompt arrangernents
for the reimbursement in thefirft instance, of all
advances made by diftrefled widows or orphans,
mechanics and tradesmen, to whom any conside
rable delay would operate as ruin.
4th. That till the above objedts are effedted,
the walls of a prison shall secure that confidence
which he feels might have been justly placed in
his honor.
jthly. That, trusting to time and a conscience
void of intended injury for juftificatiun, he ac
present leaves to his enemies the crueT triumph
of sporting over his afflictions—and to a generous
people, who may flill be mindful of his public
and private services, the proteiflion of a virtuous
wife and innocent family. WM. DUER.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Pcrfeverance, Boys, Buurdeaux,
Schooner Betsey, Earle, St. Domingq,
Sloop Illinois, Story, W. Indies.
Articles omitted shall appear 11, our next.
'RICE CURRENT— PU B LICSEC U RITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 2J f
3 pr. Cents 12 r
Defered 6 pr. Cents 12/6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 10/6 q 7 i do.
Indents 12 y
Hal! (hares Bank Stock— 57 per cent, premium.
3 per Cents and Deterred 6 per Cents were purchafrd by the
Trtr.ftir rolilK United States at the ahove prices last week.
S T O L K N,
WITHIN a few days last part, from the Subscriber, the fol
lowing NOTES, issued by the Treasurer of the Common
wealth of Maflachufctts: No. 18721, Dec. i, 1783, 72 ,5,
payable to Ph 1 neas Lyman ; No. 18379, Nov. i, 1783 £ <j6 4'
payable to William Lyon; No. 1301, Dtc. 1, 1781,/".8o q'
payable to Nath ani f. i. Wricht ; No. 16200. Aue. 1, 178;'
£. 28 16 No. 71, Oft. i, 1781, £. 48 i, payable to Dottor
Samuel War e.
Whoever will apprehend and secure the Thief or Thieves, so
that he or they may be brought to justice, (hall receive a rew'iM
of Twenty Dollars; and whoever wiil produce the above
Notes, and return them to the fubferiber, shall reccivc a reward
ot Onundred Dollars, and all neceflary charges.
Precaution having been taken to prevent their <*ver being paid
to the 1 hies or Thieves by the Treasurer abovementioneo : All
persons therefore arc cautioned not to purchase the above Not s,
of any one offering th.m for sale.
Northampton, Feb. 29, 1792. 4t NATH. WRIGHT.
Total
73677
P r -/
105 pr. cent.
60 do.
62J do.WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
rmflioners of the Federal Buildings, to the per fori who, befoie the
fifteenth day of July next, {hall produce to them the moll ap
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be erefled in this Cuv. The (he of the building, il the art lit
will attend to it, will of coui fe influence the afpelfc and outline of
his plan ; and it's deftiriation will point out to him the number,
size, and distribution ol the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
ere&ed for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable ot admitting the additional pans, in future, if thcyi
shall be wanting. Drawings will be expelled of the ground plats,
elevations of each front,and fe&iOris through the building, in luch
dire&ions as may be nectfiary to explain the internal ftru£ture *,
and an estimate ot the cubic feet oi brick-work coxnpofing the
whole mass of the walls.
tf THE COMMISSIONERS,
March 14, i 792
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in this City, to be designated by impartial juries,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commif.
fioners of the Federal Buildings, to the petlon who, before the
fifteenth dav of July, 1792, shall produre to them the moll ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by them, for a CAPITOL, to be ere£>< d
in this City; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
oV a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
shall adopt The building to be of brick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit
A ) fufßcient to ac-")
A Conference Room ( commodate 300 | tKefe rooms
A Room for ihe Rcprcfcntat.vcs pc - r(ons ! to he of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the' Utter j full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area | tion.
An Arftichamber or Lobby to the last J
ia Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Cleiks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will he expetted of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and feftions through the building in such directions
as may be neceflary to explain the internal ftru&ure; and anefti
mate of the cubic feet of bnck-work composing the whole maf6
of the walls.
Match 14, 1792,
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
On Wednesday the 11th day of April next, ;* the House of
John Thompson, in the City ot Perth- or at private
Sale ffefore,
A FARM, containing about four hundred acres df upland and
fait meadow, lying within three quarters of a mile cf said
city ; is a great part bounded on the found, and on a navigable
creek, on which is a good mill feat. There are on the farm fevr
ral eligible situations for building, with delightful profpetts, ex
cellent brooks and springs; a large apple oichard, and some fruit
trees of other kinds, and a fufficient quantity ol fire-wood. The
foil is good for grass and molt kinds of grain, and may at small
expence, from the conveniency of the fait meadow, and other ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any farm in New-Jersey.—
It will be fold all together, or in two or three divisions, as (hall
appear belt to suit those inclined to purchase.
For further particulars, previous to or at the time of fale,apply
to the fubferibers. JOHN HALSTED, and
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Public Vendue,on Wednesday
the 1 ith day of April next,
r I ''HE SEAT of the late Docflor Lewis Johnflon,
-** deceased, in Perth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan, where it empties into the bay about 18 miles from Sandy-
Hook, and affords two most agreeable situations for Gentlemen*'
Seats. There arc now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good collection of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is Very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from its situ
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oysters and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flats before the doors. It is a
delightful, "healthy situation, capable of genteel and tafly improve
ments; and as Pcrth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the profpett of its
increasing in value from that circumstance, is by no means incon
siderable.
There wiP also be fold, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the opposite fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and bam, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and very convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for Ihip build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being cafy and
fafe. The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
and the requisite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and ) _ A t t r . JT . n
BOWES REED, $ rufteet to the said Eftalc.
Likewise to be SOLD, at lite Jame time avd place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of East New-Jersey, whereon the pro
prietary house lately flood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to he equalled; it affords a grand profpett of Raritan
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the East and
a most delightfnl one of the serpentine courfeof the Raritan river
for several miles, through a tich trafl of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of stone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the house lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent water,
•with a very convenient ftableand cach-houfe, will greatly leflen
the cxpence of pulling the place in order for the refidcnce of a
Gentleman.—There are tew situations so eligible, particularly in
the summer season—when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
situations, render them placcs of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and neighbouring citics
Pcrth-Amboy, Feb. 1,5,1792. (ep6w)
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given 10 the Creditors of JohnCraice
Johnßilderback,Samuel Barber,Aquila Hutch'
ins, William Richardson, Gabriel Westlonc and
Hugh Gunning, infolrent debtors, confined in the gaol of the
County of Salem, in the State of New-jersey, that the Judges of
the inferior Court of Common Pleas, for the said County on ap
plication to ihem made, have appointed the sixth day of April
next lor the said Creditors to appear before any two or more of
the said Judges, at the town of Salem, to (hew cause, if snv thev
have, why an alignment of the said debtors efbte, rrfpcftivelv
Ihould not be made, and ihey be discharged from confinement'
puifuant to an ast of A {Terribly, patted 24th of November last, lor
the reliei of infolveot debtors then confincd. ( 3 ,)
1J THE COMMISSIONERS.
MATTHIAS HALSTED
Bank of the United States.-
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby art, au
thonfed to compleat then Shares by payment at any time
before the periods requited by the law of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleated, shall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the Ban*, from and after the firft
davofthe month next succeeding the day of com pleating fuoh
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's intereftupon the Pub
lie Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued belore the firft day ot the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who Ilia 11 have transferred the tame.
By order of the Prcfident and Dire&ors,
(tpt'iftj) JOHN KEAN, Cijhier.
The Universal Tontine
IS opened this day at the office of HAZARD and
ADDOMS, at the corner of Third and Chefnut Streets, tor the
purpofc ot forming a Society, by a SubfciMption on Lives, to con
tinue alTociated for the petiod of 21 its principal obje£t is
to effect a Union ot public and private intcrefts, and the Terms of
Ad million are easy, being calculated particularly to favor the less
opulent citizens.
The Articles of AfTociation, in which the principles of the Ton
tine are detailed, may be had of Mr. Francis Bai ley, Printer,
in Market-Streel.
N. B. Subscriptions will he received from 10 10 1 o'clock,
daily, till the whole number is fubfr.ribcd, according to the ai
ticles.
March 19, 1792
PROPO S A L S
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Majfkckujktls,
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES df AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERISTS POCKET COMPANION.
IN THREE PARTS.
Part 1. ONTAINING the duty and pra&ice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery :
to which will be added, an extract of a Treatise on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the line, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of direflions
for tompofition, and the method of making artifi ial fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of ord
nance.
By WILLIAM STEVENS, FJq.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole t>f the
late revolution, and since in the Militia.
CONDITIONS.
This woik to be printed on good paper with a handforrte type,
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, Containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed bv able artifls.
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume—to non-sub
scribers, One French Crown each volume : and those who fubferibe
for fix setts, shall have a feventhgratis.
This work (Kail be published as soon at five hundred copies are
fublcribed for.
Subscription papers will be lodged with the principal Printers
and Booksellers in the United Slates of America.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Chur#h in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable »o an afi of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
passed November 1791.
6
1 P
1
a
S
10
3°
9°
SC H E
Prize of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls,
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjefk to a dedufhon of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotteiy yet
oifefed to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal ftipport.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, President
offaid city; Tames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy ;
and Archibald Mercer, Efq, Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New- Jerfcy.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing #f the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, ) '
PETER ICEENON, i Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prir.es which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confideied as a generous
donation to the Church.
S3" Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all those who may be difpoled to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to p. Keenon, Manager, and Post-Master, at New-Brunf.
wick, and cnclofing good bills will be attended to—and Tickets
forwarded on receipt of such letters.
Ncw-firunfivick, January 20, 1792
THE Editor of the Gazette of the United States, mtfl
earneflly requeflt that thofc of hi, fib/enters, whose arrearages have
teen accumulating for more than twelve months, would make payment as
soon as possible at farthefi, before the frfl day of June next.
Thofeferfons whoJhaU be dffiofed to patronize this Gazette after
the Pod. Officc hivfhallgo into operation, willpteaje toJgnifi thrir
intention to the Deputy Post-Masters in the United States /who are
requefled to forwardJuchfubfcripttens as may be received, to the Ed itor,
previous to the faidfrfi of June The terms offibferiftion ere
Three Dollars per annum, exclufve of poJlige—Or.chalftobe paid at
the time of Mfcribmg, the ether half to be advanced at the expiration of
the frjl fix months.
384
O R,
M E.
Dollars is 2f?o©
200* D'
1006
5 00
200
IJO
5«
•ZQ
4
1000
lOOQ
1000
l'Cto*
1500
1800
6700
16000
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut andMarkelStrerts.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on C O M M IS S I O N by
SAMUEL ANDERSON, '
Chefnut-Street,nrxt doorto the Bank, No. 97,
THE Collc&ors of Militia Fines in the City and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and the diftritts of Moyamenfingaud Paifyunk,
are hereby required to colle£l aTid pay into the County Tirafvry,
all arrearages of fines, and to feitle and deposit their hooks ancL
vouchers in my Office, at N". 61, Walnut-ltrcet, on or beforethc
fiift day of April next.- Wherefore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the said firft day of April, all Collet)ors who
(hall fail in complying with this requisition, will be proceeded
against according to law,
Phitad. Feb. 25, 1792
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters of Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be received until the ninth-(lay
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomaj
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bcdinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia; h.y
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will he
atoeut sixteen miles; the country through which it wi-ll pass, is
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet i« width, and eight feet at lcaft m
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons. by vessels drawing three feet water.
Good fecuritv will be required of contraftora; and persons
making apolication to be employed as managers, mud produce
certificates (from eharaflersot refpeftability) of then qualification*
for a bufmefs of this kind.
(a'/>
Ntirjslhy jarytary 21-, 1-795.
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant S£AT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in Nfew-Jerfey, occupied for many years paftby
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, befidvi
a tract of wood-laVid of about 185 acres, at the diftattce of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftieet leading,from
Trenton to Lambeuon. and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly pan being arable land, is Idid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by the river 11
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of fili
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the moH
beautiful and desirable feats in the (late. The manlion-houfe is a
handsome, well-finifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two/fory brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pieafing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
al-fo of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements oa
both (ides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new stone
coach-house and ftablcs, fufficient to contain fix carriages and teti
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat prfoj, and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, Btc. Adjoining the court-yard ol the manhon-lioufe, isagar
| den of about two acres, extendingtowards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and levcral large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient d'ftance Irom lite man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, weiW
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a largecheefe-room,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete florUe smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every ot ' lcr .
ceflary out-building. The ground is properly divided into final
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under the
molt approved grass. This Iqnare has produced annual!), for *-
vera! years past, upwards of lixty tons of the best hay, bf •
supporting through the summer season twenty to thiriy horn
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper (en jus,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in Irein water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of wn.i»
may afford a pieafing amufemenlto the sportsman, as wei 2s a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of hi& tab c. *
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and ivi <
bv good fences, great part of which is formed of red ceaar po %
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchaser may a<■
the improved square separately, or the whole t«geth« r , a* '"'Y
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good buno
ing stone on the river shore. The putchafe money, if we ccurc '
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded toi ma
years.
Any pei son desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be z T3
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. <> ,e " '
or Mr. Inallman, who at prefentoccupus the farm- ou e
oart of the lana—and may know the price on application
fubferiber, ai No. 213, South Second-street, oppofrte to the
Market, in Philadelphia.
P hi/addphi 17, March 7, 1792.
American Lead Manufactory-
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE iuftnow opened their Lead-Warehouse, <•"
fouthof Walnut-fired.Wharf,adjoiningtheir NewF«aV
where they have now made, and ready for sale. a S c " rra „
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BA _; o vedi
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have etnp
number of experienced English workmen, they watran
equal in quality to any manufa£tured in Europe, and a a
price from the cost of imported. „,; f |ts it
They also continue to nianufaflure all the > ov
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addreffedto eith:
above Faflories, will be thankfully received, and execn
(hortcft notice. the Tai<l
N. B. Wanted, induttrious, sober, Laboring Men,
Mines, where conllant employ, good wages, an ot c . . 3fl( i
mcnts will be given, means of conveyance being pro
houses for their reception. iillT , N &0
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses A
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
[ f P 3 1 * 1 ]
Philadelphia, December 3. 17Q*-
$3" Blank Poucrsto receive
principal tfpublic debt, agreeable tot < R " les 'ft a Lf. ' te le/ildU
fury Department: Also BUnks_forabfira£t S UUJ
the Editor.
Militia Fines.
THOMAS PROCTER, L.'.at.
of thr City and Lihfriies,
By oiciffr of the Prefidmt and D : re&®rs,
WILUAM A. BAYLEY, Clnk.
(<-r'»4
FOR. SAL E,