A NAIIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH.STREET, PHILADELPHIA 7~7"
I
[No. 22, of Vol. IV.]
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofalj will
be received at the oHice of the Secretary o!
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day of Sep
tember next inclusive, foi the fuppiy of all Rations
which may be required for the use of the United
States, from the firil day of January to tne thirty
firft day of December, 1793, both days lnclufive,
at the places, and within the diftritts herealter
mentioned, vis.
At any place or placcs betwixt Yoik-Town anH
Carhfle.in the (late of Penn{ylvaii'3,aiid Pittlburgh,
and at Piufburgh, York-Town and C-uliHc.
At any place or places from Pit.tib.urgh to th<
mouth of Bier Beaver Creek, and at the mouth o,
Big Beaver Creek.
At any place or places from the said mouth to
the upper falls ot the said Big Beaver, and at the
upper falls.
At any place or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
At any place or places from the said Mahoning
over to the Head Navigation ot the River Caya
hoga f and at the said H-ad Navigation.
At any place or places from the said Head Na
vig<»i!.)M t'> (he mo.ith of ihe said River Cayahoga,
and at the said mouth.
At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Big B ver Creek to the mouth of the River
Muik igum, nd up the said River to the Tufca-
TO;v,;<;, and at th Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga R.ver, and thence down the said
River jo its mouth.
At any place or places betwixt the mouth of the
River Mufktngum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth ot the said River Scioto.
At any place or placcs betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami
at the moutii ot rhe Great Miami, and from thence
to ihe Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapid.o.
A' any place or places betwixt the mouth of
the Great Miafrii, up the said Miami to and at
P que Town.
At anv place or places from Fort Washington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
place or places from Fort Hamilton to Fort St.
Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
At any place or places from Fort Sr. Clair to
Fort Jeffcrfon, and dt Fort Jtfcrfon.
At any placc or places from Fort Jcfferfon to
the field of art ion of the 4:11 of November, 1791,
and at the said field of action.
At any place or places from the said field of
a£hou to the Munn Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages 10 the Falls of the Miami River, which
empties into E»ie, and at the fdid Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
At any place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie to Sandufky Lake,
and at Sandufky Lake.
At any place or places from the said Sandufky
Lake to the mouth of the River Cayaboga.
At any place or places from the mouth of the
said River Cayahoga co Piefque Isle, and at Prcfque
Hie.
At any place or places from Prefque IHe to the
liream running into Like Erie from towards the
J.idaghque Lake, and thc-nce over to and at the
laid Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg
hany River to Fort Franklin.
At any place or places from Piefque I lie to Le
Bens, and at Le Bcuf.
At any place or places from Le Beuf to Fort
Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and Irom thence
to Pittsburgh.
At any place or placcs from the Rapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the WabaQi River, and from
the mouth of the (aid Wabafti River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
At any place or placcs on the Eafl fide of the
River MiffilTippi, Irom the mouth of the Ohio
jßiver, to the mouth of the lUionois R'ver.
At any place or places on the E.ilt lidc of the
MifiiHippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclufivtly.
At any place or places from the said River Mar
got to the River Yazous inclusively.
At any placc or places from the mouth of the
Jaid Wabalh River up to Fort Knox, and at Fort
Xnox.
At any place or places from Fort Knox, up the
feid Wabalh, to Quiltanon. and at Ouittauon.
A', any place or places from Ouittanon, up the
said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a branch
thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
At any place or places from the said head navi
gation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
At any place or places from the mouth ol the
River TeiiclTee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
the said River, inclusively,
At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nilhville, on the said River,
ana at Nafhvillr
And at any p! acc m places within thirty miles
o fa.ii Nalhvillc to the Southward, Weftvmd or
Northward thereof.
Should any rapons be required at any places, or
■wiihm other d:ltri£ts, not Ipecified in theie pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
On betwixt tiie public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to coufift of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound ol poik,
Hall a jill of rum, brandy or whilky,
One quart of fair, >
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, P er 100 raJ,ons «
One pound of candlcs r )
Ihe rations are to be furnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there (hall at all times, during the said
term, be fufiicient for the consumption of the
troops at each of the fa'.d polls, for the fpaceof at
ieaft three months in advance, in good and whole*
fotne provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all lofTcs
sustained by the deprtdotions of the enemy, or by
means of the tro >ps of the United States, thai I be
paid lor at the pi ices of the articles captured or de
itroyed, on the depofinons of two or mor? credita
ble charaflers, and the certificate of a commiflion
ed officer, ascertaining the circumstances of the
loss, and the amount ot the articles for which com
penfat;on is claimed.
Aucust 10, lyqs
1 he contract for the above supplies will be made
either for one year, or for two years, as may appear
eligible. Persons disposed to contract will there
fore confine their offers to one year, or they may
their propositions so as to admit an election
ol the term of two years.
The offers may comprise all the places which
have been fpecified, or a part of them only.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNIOX.
A N enquiry into the knowledge or /kill, affi
a. A. duity, economy, or frugality, and good
management with which the several defecti
ons of citizens in the United States pursue their
employments, has never been made. The fub
jeft is copieus, and would require much previ
ous enquiry and detail. It is not intended,
therefore, in this place to attempt a develope
mentofit : yet it may be serviceable to be
stow up 0:1 it a few brief reflections. The learn
ed profellious will not be brought into view, as
tney are not ftrktly of the nature of the obieft
contemplated. The planters, the farmers, the
merchants, the navigators, the fifliermen, the
ihipbuilders, the manufacturers and the mecha
nics, with the perlbns immediately employed
by tnem, are all which are conceived to be
comprehended in the fubjeft. The body of the
planters, that is, those who cultivate tobacco,
rice, indigo, and cotton, are, as a general de
scription of cultivators, the bell informed in
regard to the object of their particular pursuit,
though it is manifeft that they have abundant
| matter for increased attention in perfecting
| their cultivation, in ascertaining those species
! of their valuable plants, which are molt excel
lent, molt certain, and most productive, in the
improvement of tiieir implements of hulbandry,
in the acquisition of auxiliary implements and
machinery, in perfecting the modes of curing
their produce, and preparing it for market, and
particularly in the attainment of an adequate
substitute for the ordinary species of labourers,
a supply of which has become precarious. It
appears to be worth their considering, too, as
well with an eye to profit, as humanity, whe
ther an advantageous variation in the employ
ment of some of the blacks might not be made,
by introducing upon every estate some of the
ampler manufactures to employ children, old
and invalid persons ot both sexes, and . particu
larly the females during that term when two
lives depend upon their health.
Tae merchants, navigators, fi(hermen, and
(hipbuitders of the United States, may be fafelv
affirmed to be four descriptions of our citizens
whole industry is as uniformly energetic and
well directed, as those of any country in the
world, though it i 3 certain that a much ftrifter
economy prevails among persons of some fo
reign nations engaged in those pursuits—an ex
ample demanding serious attention.
The manufacturers in some branches pursue
their occupations under the disadvantages of
very ftw errors ; yet those citizens would be
fenlibly benefited, were they able to relieve
themselves of certain parts of their labor by
the attainment of the auxiliary machinery,
which are the purchase of larger capitals than
are yet engaged in their line. Circumstances,
however, of various kinds', are daily conti tout
ing to remove this inconvenience. The bu:k
of the manufacturers do not want industry, nor
Ikill enough to succeed in those simple manufac
tuies, to which it is moll their interest to apply
themselves. It may be rather said, that they
manufacture ordinary kinds of fabrics, from
the nature of the demand, than that they iria
nufaflure badly. Their bufmefs is, moreover,
prograffiveiy advancing, and has felt, on seve
ral occaiion;, some of them recent, the foltering
hand of government. °
The mechanic branches have been, til!. this
time, on nearly as good a footing; but those
employed in the erection ofbuildings ought now
to seek the aid of such parts of science is have
relation to their calling. Architecture has been
little (tud'.ed. It ought not to be forgotten,
that a competent knowledge of it is no lei's
conducive to economy and convenience, than
to elegance and splendor.
The moil importantcf all the employment!
of our citizens, that of the farmer, remains to be
noticed. It is very mich to be feared, that ii
po'nt of execution, ?. caidid examination would
prove that this belt of pursuits is most imper
fsdtly conducted,, at ledt la the grain state;.
Wednesday, August 15, 1792.
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
Concerning the nationalindujiry.
85
| The proofs are, innumerable instances of impo
verilhed lands, bodies of meadow land?, in the
old settlement-, which remain in a state of
nature, an almolt universal inattention to the
making or prefervlng of manure, the frequent
inattention to the condition cf the feed grain,
evidenced by the growth of inferior grain in
fields of wheat, and by the complexion of the
flour in some quarters, the bad condition of
barns, stables and fences, and in some places the
total want of the former, tie deficiency of
spring-houses or other cool dairies in extensive
tracts as country, the want, or a trifling flock,
of bees, t e frequent want of orchards, and the
neglect of those which have been planted by
preceding occupants, the neglect of the sugar
tree, the neglect of fallen timber and fuel, "ac
companied with the wanton felling of timber
trees for fuel, the neglett of household manu
factures in many families, the neglect of mak
ing pot-sfh, the non-use of oxen, and above all,
the growth in fnbftance, of large bodies of farm
ers on lands of ordinary quality, while the in
habitants of extensive scenes, hardly extract
from much superior lands, a miserable fufte
nar.ee and more miserable clothing.
It is a fact very painful to observe, and un
pleaiunt to represent, but it is indubitably true,
that farming in the grain states, their great best
business, the employment molt precious in free
governments, is, too generally speaking, the
least understood, or the least economically and
attentively purl'ued, of any of the occupations
which engage the citizens of the United States.
It is acknowledged, however, with fatisfaftion,
that great changes have been lately made, and
that the energy, spirit of improvement, and eco
nomy, which have been recently displayed, pro
mise the regular and rapid melioration of the
agricultural system. All other things have tak
en a course of great improvement—and it can
not be apprehended that, the yeomanry of the
United States will permit themselves to be ex
celled by any of their brethren, in themoft pre- '
cious charaaeriftic of a good citizen—u/e/ulne/i
in their proper Jphere.
(to be continued.)
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
If the following Jhould.be deemed worthy of a place in
your Gazette, by inferring tt you wiUftrvc the caufc
of truth and your country.
THE molt judicious wiiters on civil government
are agreed that a general prevalence of virtue
among the citizcns is tfllntial to the existence and
permanency of a republic, and experience proves
the opinion to be well founded. It becomes the
United Ssates therefore, as they wiih to secure the
blessings of freedom and independence to them
selves and posterity, to inspire the riling genera
tion with a sacred regard to truth and justice, and
.to favour ihe cultivation of such pnnciples as will :
give liability and dignity to their em pire. The
most effectual way to accomplish this end is to
promote the interdls of true religion—Virtue de
rives all its force and propriety, all its reason and
beauty from religion ; diOblve the alliance, and
you st once reduce it to a mere speculative prin
ciple, and diveftit of all its authority.
No o;her principle can supply the place of reli
gion the sense of honor and (hamc— ihe
beauty of propriety and the reason and necefli
ty of fubmiiting to the decision of ihe majo
rity, are weak rt liraints to men in the eager pur
suits of their plcalures and paflions. The conlli
tuition of human nature, as well as the hillory of
civil society evinces the neccfiity of fomc authori
tative principle, that wiil penetrate the heart and
afford an invariable fanftion to the rules of social
and moral duty.
How preposterous is theconduft of those who
declaim upon the progrcfs of ariOocratical princi
pics in this country, and at the fame time endea
vour by their writings,their innuendoes,their anec
dotes, and indeed by every means in their power
to l. flen the inflnence of those principles which
form the only bafts of a popular government.
Whence is it that the clergy are indiscriminately
blackened under the odious name of priest, and re
ligion, fcandalizrd under the falfe appellation of
fupr.ftuion and prieftcraft ? Is there any thing that
these declaimers have deviftd as a fuhftitute for
religion, that will be more effectual to produce
virtue among mankind? If they have, Jet them
make known the discovery, they Dull have the
honour of it, and be icwaided ! r their pains.—
But il not, lit them keep filencc, or speak confif.
tentlv.—The roan who endeavours to undermine
religion, saps the foundation of mora] virtue, re-
Ijxcs the principles of social obligation, and whe
ther-+ie knows it or not, advocates the cauTe of
anarchy or dcfpotifin.—ls there any cbfs of men'
mi (he tinned States, who have difroverrd a more
finccre and ardent attachment to the principle of
ilie revolution than the clergy in general? Are
<here any who contributed more in their fpberes
to accompliQi it ? Were there any who displayed
more fortitude, or did moreto support the finking]
fpirjts ol their fellow citizens in the darkest Ibgejl
of ihe war ? Are (here any who have given a morel
ready reception to such measures as have been ge
nerally thought conducive to the intercfts ot this
■country ? And are there anv less exceptionable in
their general deponment than they? How then
■ve *hey provoked such abuse as certain writers
are conuantly calling on thein ?
Can it be affirmed that they are a factious, dis
contented ambitious class of citizens? Are they
ltivcfUd with dangerous privileges ? Aic ihey dis
posed to form combination* the measures
[Whole No. 454.]
lr, n » fnt? , Are ,hey " in pro
por.io.l to lOC 01 lur c'afiVs of cures » 4 to d „ r
comoinations eafyot dangerous ? Do they by their
tonverfat ion or writing. endeavour to enflam. the
t7,",'h ! ! ? rcnd.Mhcmuof.icmliv
to the law,? Arc tlrey cnlrulted with 100 lmic f,
power? Have they too great revenues for citizens
"f a free country ? Or have a .lanoerons , n i
' fl'.ence in the councils of il.eir ? 'Some one
or more of theft- cha.ges n,,,8 b. supported m
■ oroet to give a fiudow of truih or uropriety to
the repiefentations ot certain writers; and 1 am
well peiftißded, that there is not a man in the
United States who is not an ideot or wurfe who
would openly attempt to flppon them.
The clergy, as far as inuocciice of manners-*
uprighmefs of conduit, and Jiv« devoted to the
rtioit benevolent purposes can render them, are
worthy of the eltecm and approbation of their
fellow ciu?ens. They have more individual in
tluence in naming ourcit.rens to the habits of so.
brtety,and industry—in forming the manneis of
our youth and 111 impressing thei„ with fentintent»
of virtue and morality, and in genera! in rtfeaine
the ends of civil government, than any denomina
tion ofcitizens whatever ; and what greatly en
hances their mei it is, that they have volunlKiily
ieclude<J thcmtclvcs from ftiartug the emoluments
of government ; they have renounced the profprct
of wealth of honor, and of office, and have devo
ted their time and talents to the bell interells of
their country. Judge then yc wliofe finis are not
utterly devoid ot sensibility, if Rich difinterrftrd
nefs merits no better return than derision and in
fuk ; if any clals of citizens defer ves the cfteem of
the public, it is that of the clergy ; the faenficts
which they make, and the benefits which they con
tribute principally to procure, entitle them at leait
to the gratitude of country. If thefc writers
have any reasonable exceptions againll the clergy
m any refpetf, let them (late them openly and can
didly, and not affoflin-like divulge their Icandal
in so aitful and dailardly a mannei as to pioctirc
reception by its association with truth, and thus
deprive the friends of virtue ot any suitable mbde
of defence.
Such condufl confideied either in a moral or
political view is abominable—it i s beneath the
character ol a man ot sense or talle ; it is a r.o:o
---rious breach of good manners—a giofs inlult to
'clings and opinions of their fellow-citizens
and tends ultimately to the deftruftion of our ow»
conftnution and of all free government.— But wha'
renders then eonduft the more dctcftable is, tha[
like Satan who ensnared and ruined our fiift Da
rent, by profeffionsof Iriendlhip and auachment"
they pretend a zeal (or equal liberty and the r'ehts
ot men, and under this mask endeavor to propa
gate opinions defirua.ve of all order and subordi
nation in foeieiy and utterly fubvei fiveof the ii,i„-
ciples that eonftitulc the only baits of civil Co
vernment. °
Thele gentlemen if we may judge from the spe
cimens they have given us ot rheir opinions have
quite outdone Epicurus, and all the Atheists and
. 1 * sol ancteiir or modern times. They never de
n 'ho ncceffity of religion to civ,l govern
ment, but on the contrary, they supported the »e
---celliry of maintaining the appearance o( it though
iney dilbclieved Kg reality. 6
But it thrfe writers are resolved at all events to
Obtrude their sentiments upon the public; I would
advise them-to abridge the labour by uublifhine
»t onte a new cdm 9 n of Tindal-Toland—Chubb
—or some other of that Iraternity, as they are now
out of print as well as out of credit ; and try v he
ther their beloved doctrines will succeed better in
this country than tliey did in Gie-t-Britam.
This in iny opinion would be a much better
way, and I am sure a much more honourable way
than to retail their principle, by scraps, and that
without the genius or taste of the original writers
I am not a clergyman and therefore have Ipo
ken the more freely, but I am certain I speak the
lemimenu of a very large proportion ot my fel
low-cmzens, and I think ot every one not blind
ed by prejudice or d .veiled ol the feelings of hu
manits'. I am your's, &c.
PARIS, May 31.
Y OU will fee by the decrees of the
■1. National Aff'embly, thar the con
jectures we communicated to you by
the Jait port have been literaljy ful
filled. The King's Guard are con
ltgned to the Military School, and the
service at the Thuilleries is perform
ed by the National Parisian Guards.
The gardens are fliur, and no person
allowed to enter them; all is fufpi
c'on, fear, and accusation.
From Valenciennes we learn from
a good channel, that the General*
have renounced the plan of oiFenlive
war vecoin mended by the Marefchal
de Luckner, who is to conduit it, to
adopt the defenfi*e projedi of Monf.
de Rochambeau who has resigned.
We fhonld scarce dare to fend you
this extraordinary piece of intelli
gence, did we notthink ourselves au
thorised to rely upon the authentic!-
ty of our information.
It is something curious andworthy
the confufed ideas of our modern plii
lofoplieis, that a nation which de
PHILAGATHOS.Clares war, should think to carry it
on defenlivejy—what if the House of
Austria, against whom the war is de
clared, and with whom the choice
feerns more natmally to refide,fhould
determine to carry it 011 in this way
too what would be the result ?an
armed frontier on either fide without
any aggreliion of territory.
borne very incendiary publications
having made their appeal ance here,
going even to the length of applaud
ing regicide ; and papei s having been
publicly diltvibuted ut the following
horrid contents :—" Six months ago
I foretold that our generals (all crea
tures of the court) would betray the
nation, and deliver up the frontiers ;
my hope is, that the army will open
their eyes, and fee that the firft thing
they have to do is to maflacre their
generals M. de Benquot entered
the National Aflembly with one of
tliefe papers in his hand, and in a
very animated fpecch execrated the
publication of inch papers, and re
commended the prolecutioii of the
authors and pnbliflieis, which was
decreed accordingly. During the
course of the debate much wasfaid of
the liberty of the press ; but it was
determined that every thing libellous
and licentious should be retrained
and punished.
B R U S S E, L S, May 10.
The ill success of the fir It invasion
on the part of the French is the more
fortunate for our government, as the
public tranquility is not too well se
cured in our provinces. No diltrict,
village, or individual, it is true, de
clared for them, on the entrance of
their troops, though the enterprise
was planned by the French miniltry
oil that supposition. The partizans,
however, of the famous Vander Noot
do not seem inclined to remain quiet;
they have taken advantage of the mo
ment when the cities in the interior
parts of the country were furniflied
with troops, to raise the people in
various places, and urge them, to the
commission ofexceffesat Dielt. They
have mal treated a number of rel'-
petfable citizens, destroyed their pro
perty, pillaged and damaged their
houles, and committed all the outra
ges that the spirit of party could com
pel them to. The monks, we are as
sured, are at the head of these fana
ticks, and have seduced them under
the pretence that those whom they
insulted were Vonekiefti, or royal ene
mies to the constitution of Brabant.
At Louvainethere has been aconflidt
between the citizens and the students,
the martial law was proclaimed, and
they fired on those who, in spite of it,
continued riotous, by which many
persons were killed. Yesterday morn
ing a detachment of infantry, ano
ther of dragoons, and some artillery,
set off, from Brnflels, to restore tran
quility in those two cities.
LONDON, May 27
The villainous attempt which ap
peared last week, to burn down the
Hobfes of Parliament, and some other
circumstances, join to tell us, that
there are turbulent spirits who have
set a party to work to make such ir.if
chiefhere; but the gteateft part of
the people are fatisfied and happy in
comparing our (late with that of the
neighboring nations ; and it is to be
hoped, that the eyes of government
are on the watch, and steadily resolv
ed, to pnnifh in an examplary man
ner, all those who are traiteroufly en
deavoring to introduce niifchief and
confufion among us.
Count Cabanas, who was deprived
of his liberty under the administra
tion of count Florida Blanca, has ob
tained per mi Hi on to jullify himfelf
on the canfe of his detention. Ma
jor-general Pignatelli, who was sent
from Madrid, and several other per
rons who had been disgraced, are al
so recalled by count d/Aranda.
The declaration of war by France
has coniiderably lowered the funds at
Vienna. They are now two per cent,
below par.
June 7.
Onr profpetlts now are truly de
lightful—political foes uniting in the
common cause of the Constitution
its oppofers linking into contempt
and awed into silence—the King ador
ed—his Minister beloved—so true it
is that—
" Nought can England rue,
44 If England to itself do prove but true
Catharine the great, Empress of
RulTia, lias publilhed a declaration
which is a Chef d'Ouvre, and Unique
in the diplomatic annals. From mo
tives of tranfcendant generosity and
disinterestedness, fays this magnani
mous Princess, I have ordered my
troops to march into Poland, being
graciously inclined to restore to the
ill lift rious nation of the Poles, a Cou
ftitution which they abhor, and un
der which they have unanimously a
dopied another, which secures their
liberty and independence. How
confcqnentially this great female ar
gues ! ! !
Every day brings to light some dis
covery tha: does honor to the genius
of our countrymen, and forms a pre
sage of the encreafed prof'perity and
glory of England : The improve
ment in the ileain engine, and its ap
plication to new obje<fts : The won
derful art of multiplying pictures in
oil colours, so as notto bediftinguifh
able from the originals but by micio
fcopical attention : The discovery of
so many different kinds and qualities
of arts :—All thefie, and many other
circumstances, mark the prefentasan
sera of rapid advancement in science
and practical knowledge. An inven
tion of equal importance to any of
tliefe, attracts attention at the pre
fenc moment : and it peculiarly be
comes the conductor of a Printing
Press to mention it :—A gentleman
of Kent has found out a chemical pro
cess, which renders paper tnade of
any rags, as white as that made of
the fined kind ; which, it is hoped,
will considerably reduce the price of
paper,
Lord Lauderdale's flngle lignature
:o the late protest, gives him a very
just claim to the title of Lord Unit
Napper Tandy's trial is to come
on in the Court of King's Bench, Dub-
1 in, on Monday the inh of June.
The Bill of Indidtmenc contains four
counts against him.
A great personage in France lately
said, let them do what they please,
they never can detach my heart from
the House of Austria.
At a confukation held in the House
of Commons, upon the inflammable
[ Breechts found in an adjoiningcldfet,
Sir Joseph Banks took away a flip of
the lame, to make experiments there
on.—This the public may depend Up
on is a fa<st.
The Count Siaray who commanded
he Auftrians in the engagement with
the Fiench, is an Hungarian Noble
man of the firft rank, a Knight of
Malta, aud of the order of Maria
Theresa He is lineally descended
from Prince Ragotfi, a Prince of Tran
sylvania.
He was trained up in the military
school of Marshal Laudohn, and made
all his campaigns under that General.
Staray served in the late war against
the Turks, and killed, with his own
hand, the Bashaw of Belgrade, and
took his hor<e and
and sent the Turk's bridle svs a ij>re
fent to his Royal Highness the Prince
of Wales.
Many people affetfled by the cir
cumftanceof a noble Lord's (Rodney)
body, being kept above ground by
the Sheriff's Writ, exclaim against the
cruelty of such a law ; but, alas, fay
the prisoners in many of t tie gaols of
England, let us only be free while
we live, and you may arrest our b«v
dies, when dead, with all our hearts.
The corpse of a Peer may.eertainly
be (topped by rhe laws of England
for a debt. The body is no longer a
Peer.—The son is the Peer as soon as
the father is dead, whether he be bu
ried or not.—O, the pity of it, im
mortal Rodney, O the pity of it.
The Duke of York is buying seve
ral running horses. He gave Lord
Barrymore 2800 guineas guineas for
Chanticlear after his last match won.
The Age oj Chivalry is nut gone by.
His late Majesty ofSweden having,
at the close of the war between the
Swedes and Ruffians, been pleased to
install Sir Sydney Smith in the pre
sence of both armies, with the Order
if the Sword, of the firft class, which
honor gives to him and his heirs the
privilege of Peerage in that kingdom ;
His Majelly, at the particular request
of the late King of Sweden, inverted
Sir Sydney the 16th uh. in form with
the Co.lla:- of that order.
86
CONCORD, (N. 11.) July i 3.
It is fafliionable to rail at every
thing (whether just or unjust it mat
ters not) which is contrary to public
■whim— or, in other words, which is
not Illicitly cultomary. It was a cuf
torn, for many years, for people, in
different parts of the United States,
to receive newlpapers by the mails,
free of postage—This was a cujlom—
But J USTICK awakes with the new,
efficient government, and points out
a more equitable mode—The Guardi
ans of our Liberties do not fee any
iujultice in a man's paying for tranf
porting his newlpapers, even if they
be transported in the public mail—
nor do they fee the justice of an in
dividual's employing a fervent of the
public in his own private business,
without compensating the public
therefor—Hence, we suppose, they
thought themselves wholly jultifiable
in laying poltage on newlpapers car
lied in the mail :—lnconsequence of
'this, many have ltrove to traduce the
c-haratfter of Congress, and have hal
looed in the people's ears, that the
liberty of theprefsis infringed—that
despotism begins to prevail — that our
rulers will enllave us, &c. But no—
this is not lioneft dealing—The liber
ty of the press remains fecure—Tho*
Congress may have infringed tiie right
of transporting newlpapers in the
public mail, free of ty.pt.nfe to individu
als—they have not infringed the'
Freedom of the Press ! It is yet Free
—nor are our papers J, lamped !—The
present eltablifhment renders the ex
change of papers, between the re
fpec r tive printers 011 the continent,
more sure than ever it was before
since the birth day of America : —
Postmasters are now bound by law to
forward all exchange papers to the
printers—before they were not —of
confeqnence the circulation of News
is more certain and extenlive—The
printers in New-Hanipfhire may now
receive papers from the printers in
Georgia, or any other state in the
Union, regularly—Therefore, the li
berty of the press is not infringed —
The tax on subscribers' newspapers
is certainly JUST —Nor is the tax ex
travagant —though perhaps half the
ftim might have answered the pur
! pose. The portage on a weekly pa
per, conveyed in the mail from Phi
ladelphia to thecentre of New-Hainp
(hire, will be but very little more
than a private post would charge, for
conveying the i'ame paper from the
centre of New-Hainpfliire to the ex
tremity thereof—a distance, perhaps,
of about one fifth. Those whodecry
the tax, are those only whole private
interells interfere—at: least, their ob
jections cannot arise from a republi
can fpirit—buc from a quite different
: cause : it is because they are obliged
to pay for a benefit, which they long
enjoyed gratis, but for which they
ought always to have paid. Is the
government under obligations to fend
newspapers to individuals, who chitfe
to take them, from New-Hatnpfhire
to Georgia, free of portage? An in
dividual has as J tilt aright to demand
a liorfe to ride a journey of that dis
tance, pn private business of his own,
and to hive his expenses defrayed
by the public—The tax on papers is
uo more an infringement on the press,
than a private port rider's refufing to
distribute papers through the coun
try, gratis, would be. If people were
once iKcuftotiitd to it they would de
mand, as a jurt claim, a fee for receiv
ing newspapers gratis—and would
(ay, the liberty of the press was in
fringed, if the fee were not paid.—
The government does not compel
people to receive newspapers by the
mail—nor does it debar them the pri
vilege of using any other mean that
they may find more convenient. And
till individuals are willing to trans
port the mail for the public, gratis,
they ought not to expert the free
transportation of their newspapers.
Where is the Justice of it ? In truth,
Justice is out of the play—and a felf
ijh difpofttion, dangerous inaßepub
licati country, is fubllituted. Because
we were once indulged in receiving
our papers free of postage, shall wc
lay it is nnjuft if we not always gra
tified in that way ? We jnight, with
equal propriety, ttaintain, that be
cause our forefathers wore Jhortcoats,
i t is nnjull, tyraniical, and antifede-
I'al, for us to wear hng ones !
h ir n s oN, tr t-
On TuefUay morning last, Mr.He«.
i v Lyou of this city, calmly and de .
I.berately,,,, the prefenc. •f* num .
ber of people, walked down the fer
ry ftaira.iuto Hudson's river, till th«
water was. as deep as his breast, «h en '
he immediately fell backwards au<l
was drowned. Notwithrta.uling he
continued in. the water not more than
eight or ten minutes—and every ex .
ertion poflible was niade to rest or e
him to life—all endeavors were iajjf
teOtual. An incident so extraordina
ry, natutally roused the attention
the people, and led ihent tv -eftquirs
into its cau4e. f rom every chutm.
ttance it 'is highly probable that Mr»
Lyon was deprived of'his reason.
For a considerable lime palt he
been fubjedt to periodical fits of infaJ
nity, which continued but tor a ihort
time, and almolt immediately depriv
ed him of sense and motion.
PROVIDENCE, August 4.
Capt. Corey, of the Sloop Nancy,
arrived here 011 Thursday last, in u
Days from Leogane. He informs,
that on the llt of, July two 74 gun
fliips and a frigate arrived at Capo-
Francois from France, with 200 a
troops ; that these fliips brought the
decree of the National All'embly in
favor of the people of Colour and
free Blacks ; that the decree had
been publiihed, and tinanimouiiy ac
cepted at the Cape, after which the
/hips, with the Governor-General ot
the Cape, and Mr. Rouuies, a Com
miflioner from France, accompanied
by ijoo troops,proceeded to St. Mark,
at which place the decree was like
wise accepted unauimoufiy ; and that
from thence they proceeded to Port
au-Prince, where the decree was also
submitted to.—Capt. Corey, 011 his
paflage, fell in with a fliip returning
from Cuba to Port-au-Prince, with a
large number of emigrants that ha 4
fled from Hifpaniola. The Negroes
that had been in arms were returning'
to the plantations, and there wasfpuie
propped of tranquility being restor
ed.
BOSTON, August 4,
OUR COUNTRY,
As it refpedts public affairs has eve
ry thing to hope, and nothing ib jtar.
If there is not a peace made with the
Indians, it wiJ]< not be the fault of
the Supreme Executive—as every pro
ject which can be supposed to accel--
lerate it, is in train. As to pad tranf
adiions, a full developement will un
doubtedly take place the next feffiou
of Congrefi, and justice will be done.
The recruiting lervice goes on with
vigour and success—and, it is not un
reasonable to conjecture, that after,
this, our frontiers will forever repose
in peace—and the wilderness blsflom
as the rose. Universal tranquility,
in respect to the laws of the Union;
prevails in all parts of the Nation— t
and we trust we IhalHong cootiot
happy as to " know our happy fiatc,"
Frequent mention is made in tb#, t
General Orders of the Frtnch Arwrff
of our beloved Pr(fid{tit —hi 3 exam
ple is recommended to the officers,
and the example of his troops to the
troops of France.
ANTIGUA, June 2J.
The commotions which lor some
time pqft existed in Martinique, we
are informed, have totally subsided.
SALEM, August 7
LATE INTELLIGENCE KROM SPAIN.
Captain Strong arrived here yes
terday from Bilboa, which he left
the Bth of June. A Spanilh officer
in the land service informed him,
that there were orders for railing
18,000 inen in the northern parts ot
Spain, to be fentto Madrid, t0 °
awe the people as was supposed, wbo
begin to talk and write cod fr M v. ®
the measures of government. T *
Queen's party is considered 'h' l "®.'®.
was the cafe in France) as lnimu*
to the intereftsof the people,in com*
pliance with whose wishes and .s°"
trary 10 hers, the present mini t
have been brought into office.
CHARLESTON (S. C.) August 2-
DrE u—At the Rock Landing, o
the j2th ult. Martin Brlm me *
Sohier, lieutenant ill the
United States regiment, and adjutan
of the federal troops in Georgia..«a
FROM THE VIRGINIA CHRONICLE.
THE GOOD WIFE.
HILE in the labyrinth that Fafhionfcrm,
Some Wives are loft, and round its mazes roam,
The good Wife guards her children from the
storms
That Life annexes to this transient home.
Content to fee their new ideas rife,
And their young heads get nearer to the ikies.
Mulic can thrill thro' many a nervous fair,
Whose nerves no infant-accents ever mov'd;
Stage mimic Misery draw the real tear,
And mimic Lovers show them how th*y lov'd.
Music and Love wait here the HnlbancKs step,
AncJ her's the foirow, when her children weep.
Rais'd where at mountain-heightHygeia lives,
Above the. glare that gaudy grandeur Ihows;
The trusty, good Wife raiies future Wives,
And her kind breast with kindlier transport glows.
As pleas'd, (he views the prattling brood in
cieafe,
And each new comer bring the branch of
peace.
Though gewgaw Gaiety should fliun her way,
And Science spurn her from his lofty height,
'Tis not for her to flaih—-a u meteor day,"
Or trace the comet in his vagrant flight.
Enough (he knows, her seasons roll serene,
Her good Man happy, and her Infants clean.
The Sun's Srlt light still fees the good Wife rite,
His ray of noon still cheers her*ufeful toil,
His htft faint beam oft lingers in the ikies,
As loth the tender intercourse to spoil.
And friendly Night that shields her while at
reft,
Light lays his (hadows on her peaceful breast.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
CONSISTENCY !
tl T TONOR and fhamefrom no condition rife,"
XJ. Says Pope—but azosfcrflpatriotsfay he lies—
For if the wayward dame
Should point the way to fame;
And one of Crispin's cobling race,
Should quit his Last to join the chace,
And overtake the goddess as ihe runs,
'Bout " boots, andJiraps, and awls," our ears their
poet stuns.
Patriots of philosophic phiz,
Who make the very air to whiz,
With canting notes that "men are equal,"
IJow little you regard the fequd.
u Merit is all"—but Crispin in a coach,
You load with obloquy and foul reproach;
So modern patriots rave, till in a sweat,
Thercgame for thousands—and ne'er pay a debt.
Philadelphia, Aug. 15.
The Geneval Advertiser of yesterday fays—
*' By a courier arrived at Havre-de-Gract, just
as anAmerican vessel was about to lailforNew-
York, and which had but 27 days pafl'age, the in
telligence was received, that the army of M. la
Fayette had taken the citadel of Namur, after
having cannonaded and bombarded it for 48
hours'fucceffively, with a formidable train of
artillery, and then carried it by aflault as soon
as the breaches were fufficient to render it prac
ticable. The French killed 3300 men, made:
1500 ptifoners, and only loft sdo men in the ac
tion. After the capture of the citadel, the
French entered the town, where the inhabitants
were dieffed in the national cockade,and where
♦he three coloured flag was unfurled and orna
mented by the cap of liberty.
" The citizens offered refrefliments to the
French troops, who accepted but paid for what"
they took.
44 Detachments of M. la Fayette?s army fur
prised and tookMons andCharloroy, where they
17 50 prisoners."
Axtraft of a letter from a gentUman in Cape-Francois,
... j~*.J 1.. i.
to his/■>>(•> > r t : /i.f city, dated July 22
€e t»trorn from "this island are ilill very
great; a final 1 portion ol' the Emigrants vilit
Philadelphia. If this spirit was prevalent only
among the non-proprietors, it would be rather
of advantage to this country; but it is more
general among proprietors, and especially those
in the bell circumstances, who abandon,not only
their public duty, but take away the protection
their property Hands in need of, and leave it
unrepresented. The people of colour appear
willing, cordially to unite with persons of pro
perty only, they Hill entertain a great averlion
for those of another class.
" Tiio' they do not appear to place entire
confidence in our acceptation of the decree of
the 24th of March, yet their suspicions gradually
die away.
" The Commander in Chief has visited St.
Marc, Port an Prince, and Jeremie, where he
.now is. He has restored tranquility wherever
he has been. Part of" the people of* colour as
well as whites, who have been concerncd with '
Borel, are set at liberty.
" You must have learnt before this, that Bo
rel having been named General of PortauPrince
by thq banditti at the time in pofiefiion of the
city, jei-t- t!:is place to go there. He firft went
to tneMole, with the delegation that came for
him. There he got together all forts of vaga
bonds and ill-intentioned people,bribing also fe
veml fold:ers of the Mole. He even broke open
the prison and rcleafed the murderers of Guiton
and violet; and collected a body of 200 or 300
men, with 15 or 16 small boats, which he had
forcibly taken. With these he was to go to
Port au Prince under the escort of two pirates
belonging to that city, and a third carrying 20
guns-was to meet him. Eut their project did
not fpcceed :he was taken with 120 of his fol
lowers. Borel is still, with a number of his
companions, in close confinement at Port an
Princie. Their confinement has not a little
contributed to reftoTe tranquility in that place.
£very thing begins to assume a better appear
ance in thoifc quarters,as well as in thelbutitVi
parts. Proprietors are returning to their pkm
tations. The northern parts will be the la* u, :
lubmit. "We expe<st the return of the Comman
der iu Chief with 1 j 01 1800 men of colour, r<
aJfift us in making ibrrie. Our rebels will took
out 110 doubt, and I fear a long time. Since
your departure we have been tolerably quiet:
There has been 110 where any attempts of con
ference, except at Jean Rabel and Port PaU,
where the negroes have rebelled."
Accounts are ;eceived in London from the
new colony of Blacks at Sierra Leona, dated
xvlarch 26; they are proceeding with the utnioi'
diiigence in clearing the iand and building 0i
houles—lome haVe been sick, and iome have
died—-Mr. Clatki'on the fuperintendant had
been iick, but was recovering.—The climate
is delcribed as being more faiubrious than had
beed expe<sted. The united content of all the
neighboring chiefs has been obtained to elta
bliih liiC icttlement— and the dilpolitions of
KiiigNaimbanna have appeared throughout to
be extremely friendly.
A warrant has received the signature of the
King of Great-Britain for a grant of £13,592,
for the transportation of blacks from Nova-
Scotia to the above settlement.
The Mayor of Paris being informed that the
King of the French intended to quit that city,
gave notice to the commandant of the forces
to be on his guard.
The King was offended, and in a letter to the
municipality of Paris, alks, " Why does the
Mayor, in conleqnence ot'luch peports, give or
ders to the Commandant-General, and commu
nicate nothing to me, since it is his duty by the
Conflitution to execute my direction for the
maintenance of the pnblic tranquility ?"
The Mayor, in reply to the King, has pub
lished a statement of various particulars, to
/hew that the extraordinary movements at the
palace at that time, and the crouds allembled
round the ThuiUeries, with other interesting
particulars, rendered it proper and indifpenia
bly necelfary to take the ilieafures he had
adopted.
In answer to the King's remark, that it was
the Mayor's duty by the Constitution to apply
to him, M. Pethion fays, " It is incorrect to
fay he ought to have taken the King's orders;
idr itwould then be theKingwho would govern
the police ot Paris, who wonld communicate his
pleasure to the Mayor, who would have to
transmit it to the guard;—the King would also
be the actual commanderoftheNationalGuard,
which by law is not entrusted to him."
The Mayor concludes his letter by faying,
that if the King himfelf had been to take pre
cautions for the public tranquility, and for the
fafety of his perfon,he could not have imagined
any other.
Observations on the prefentfituation of landed
property in America, have been recently pub
lished in London—Theie contain the molt ho
norable teftimouials in favor of the government
of the United States—the funds of the Union,
its laws, itsflourifhing circumflancesandfuture
profpefts. Adverting to the purchases of lands,
the observations fay, that crafts of land in the
back parts of New-York government, which had
been fold in townlhips of fix miles ftjuare, at
I/. an acre, have been subdivided and fold in
farms to fettlers,from £ to I, 2, 3, 4 and 5 dol
lars per acre, according to the situation and
quality of the foil.
Collections are made and making in England,
Scotland and Ireland, to assist the French in ther
war- against the powers combined to reftora the
old government or despotism of France,—A
propolition has been made in the Columbian
Centinel for the people of the United States to
evince their gratitude to the French nation, by
" doing iikewiji."
An error is discovered by the marine sur
veyor of the admiralty, in the latitude of the
iflandsof Scilly. The true latitude of the light
house on St. Agnes is found to be 49 deg. J3
min. 47 fee. N. and that of Pednathius Head,
49 deg. 52 mill. 2 fee. N.
Private accounts from Paris down to the sth
of June, mention, that MeiFrs. Montmorin and
Bertram! had publilhed pamphlets, in answer to
the wild denunciations of fomehot heads, which
had had a salutary efleet in restoring the trai.
quilitv of Paris, and opening the eyes of the
people ; also clearly ftiewing that the existence
of an Austrian committee was merely ideal, and
exposing the views of the party who supported
the opinion of its reality.
John Brown and John Edwards, Efqrs.
are chosen to represent the State of Kentuckey.
in thij Senate of the United States.
Entries at the Custom House, Port of Phila
delphia from Foreign Ports, from the lit April,
to the 30th June, 1792.
Ships 43
Barques 3
Snows 4
Brigs 89
Schrs. 41
Sloops 63
240 measuring 32,963 Tons.
At a Meeting of the President and Managers
of the Schuylkill and Sufquehannah Navigation,
August 13, 1792-
It was Resolved, That the work of the Canal
be immediately commenced on the Crown Le
vel.
Capt. Bafden, of Fame, arrived here
on Monday last, in 15 days from Bermuda.
When this velfel failed from Bermuda, there
was a scarcity of provisions in that ifland,which
had induced Governor Hamilton to iliue a pro
clamation, for allowing the importation of all
kinds of provifionsfrom foreign ports what
oever. in British veflels, navigated according
to law, or any foreign velTels whatever, from
I the 24th of July, till the ift of November next.
Exiraft of a letter jrom Birmvda, July 28.
u The ship Sovereign, Capt. Welsh, which
arrived at Barbadoes the 13th inft. from Lon
don, on her paUageoutfpoks the Lord Cambdeu
87
r.'-, bound home with Government
:.i-Lord Corirwallis, (.ontaing tiic
CU -v; ci i.'.e taKiug of Seringitpataii!,aftei
Eafi-I
„ i c >
ere couHiif., tut tbatTippo eicapetf."
• 3 ne King of Hungary and Bohemia is in the
2stii year of his age, having been born on the
12th of February, 1768.
At a meeting of a considerable number ot
citizens at Epple's Tavern, on Thurlday and
Saturday evenings, the 2d and 4th oi Auguli
itnk- a number of gentlemen were appointed as
i committed 44 to correlpor.d with the leveral
p rts of the State, in order to obtain the lenti
iijejßts of the inhabitants on tiie lubject of a
r r representation inCongrel?, and of elec
tors <tf a Preiident and Vice-Prelident-inter
rupting no man's right uiurping 110
power* of aeting for others, they deputed this
committee to render thole '.ervices, which the
citizens could not individually engage in—And
if on a-free and full iaveftigation oi characters,
proper names shall be obtained and proposed,
they will no doubt meet the countenance and
approbation of Pennfylvania —For this very de
lirable purpose the committee, earned l>y the J
Meeting to represent them, invite their fellow :
citizens throughout the State, to a torrelpon-j
dence, through their chairman, George Lati
mer—and will be happy to receive their tene
ments on the mofl: effectual mode to obtain a
wife and virtuous representation for Pennsyl
vania, in Congreis, and a proper choice ot Elec
tors of President and Vice-President ot the
United States—The committe appointed are—
Mellrs. George Latimer, Robert Wain, William
Lewis, Israel Whelen, William Rawle, Richard
Wells, Hilary Baker, John Wilcocks, and Ben
jamin R. Morgan.
Since the foregoing was prepared, a notifica
tion has appeared in the papers from a meeting
of sundry inhabitants at the county ot Montgo
mery, preparatory to a conference which they
propose lhould be held at Lancaster the 20th ot
SepfieiiAer next.
meeting of the merchants of Fredericks
burgh and Falmouth, Virginia, on the 14th ult.
it was unanimouJly determined by them to
purchase wheat hereafter by weight only—cal
culating the bufliel at 60 pounds.
The Hartford (Con ) Bank began to discount
the Bth inft.
Extrafi of a letter from Bojlon, Augujl 5.
1 u The aim of the Oppofers of government is
well understood among us—their endeavors to
introduce confufion, I think, will be in vain.—
\Ve have had a large number of French fami
lies arrive here from the Weft-Indies, but the
circumstance has not affe&ed the rents. To
take an advantage of people in their situation,
would be diabolical—besides, it would be odious
and oppreilive to the inhabitants—tor asking
these houseless strangers an exorbitant rent,
would lead to an enhancement of rents gene
rally."
COMMUNICATIONS.
The right of fuffrage is a most sacred deposit
which every freeman ftiould be tenacious of as
tlie pledge of his own liberty and that of poste
rity. The right exercile of this important pri
vilege is a consideration of the utmost impor
tance.—The cunning and unprincipled politician
will leave no artifice untried to bewilder and
perplex the honest and unfufpefting voter in
giving his fuifrage—but to the unbiall'ed and in
dependent mind, no duty is more plain and sim
ple. Honesty and ability are the grand requi
sites for a candidate ; where these are wanting,
no prufejjions ought to avail—for without them
there is no security, and expedition will most
alfutedly be disappointed.
Parties willexift in most governments—in a
free their features are perhaps more
ftrikirigly portrayed than in a despotism. It
would be aifrontive to common sense to lay that
they are unknown in the United States.
The government of the people, such an one
is that of this country, and of every free repub
lic, knows no party —because the majority of
the people can never be a party agamft them
lelves— the supposition is a gross abiui di*y—
those therefore whd oppose the government,
are the party. Tiiere are men among us who
have always been known as partizans, and vio
lent ones too— these fay they are opposed to the
tn ajuns of the government only. But let me
mory do its ollice. They have ever been hos
tile to the Constitution of the United States—
and if they now pretend to be converted, their
conversion is only a pretence, a medium by
which they mean to introduce themlelves into
power—-to administer a government they are
in heart opposed to.—Can there be any fafety
in trusting such characters ?
The party that is out naturally wiihes to get
in to place. They consider those who are in of
fice as adversaries who must be driven out. To
have enemies is bad enough—but to be lubjett
to their power, is ten times worse. The outs
therefore consider the power of the government
administered by their opponents as the power
of their enemies. Hence we find them praising
their proud spirit "which scorns to flatter at
court—their hatred and jealousy of power
which is always on the watch, and their scorn of
tbofe who eat the bread of office. They put i
the indulgence of their palfions on a rank with
the virtue which fubjefts them to reason, and
they seem to admire, with a spirit as sincere as
it is enthusiastic, the purity of their views, the
genuineness of their repubiicanifm, and the ar
dor with which they labor, to better their condition.
The English of all this regard for liberty among
this junto, is, they hate their adversaries, and
are trying to get help to overcome them. Of
them it is eminently true, that felf-love and
public are the fame. The cur that is (hut out
of doors will surely bark, especially in cold
nijbts—but open the door, and he sneaks into
the chimney corner silent and fatisfied. If a
{hanger approach, however, he barks again
with fury, and threatens to bite.—Which of our
giumblers would not be fatisfied with a bone ?
There ii fonscthing entertaining in the ca:it
of the hypocrites who profefs such jeai„ui> ,<f
the loss of liberty. Tney affect to dread tie
influence of the opinions propagated by their
opponents, which tliey lay tena°io aristocracy
and monarchy —for they are above making dif
tindtions. It a pian againit liberty were icall
toriued, the compirators would take the oppo
lite courie. They would out-cant the canter .
They wouid iound alarms when theie was uo
danger, till jaalouly itielf ihouid go to iieep.
in Ihort, they would tread in the of t.
virtuous junto who modeltly deem ;,.ciiiic'!ve-;
the trullces of the people's libertj—t:ie ;je ,p...
tiiemfelves whom they delpiie and iuiuu be'.-i,
.n their opinion, incapauie of t: ! ii io ■
this precious property for Iheaiielves.
It/will not bp tjie fault of certain restless cha
racters among burielves, if the tauhtii.gpredic
tions of our tormer enemies are not fu.iult.-u.—>■
It was laid by them, " that tin; Union of the
States would prove a rope of fatiii—that the
dil'pofition of tiie people of this country was 10
fickle and capricious, that when once rclealed
from their connection wic»i Great-Britain, and
their dependance on Bntifh power, tney would
never be able to iorm any government of their
own, for the preservation of perfonaj freedom
and personal property." The woiid has ieen
that tliefe imputations were unfounded, that
they resulted from spleen and dilappointiuent.
We have eitablilhed a government which the
patriotic world admires. We have prolpered
under the adpiiniftration of that government
beyond the anticipations and molt ianguinc
hopes of its friends—and the prolpeCt before
us, while the fame wile and judicious plans are
pursued, is boundiefs. From hence we may
juftJy infer, that the machinations of thole who
ate so indefatigable in dilfem.nating jsaloufies,
propagating llanders, and pouring out abulc in
refpeft to this government and its meaiures,
are no better than agents in the bleffea work of
fulfilling the prophelies of our enemies. The
good fenie of the people will however prove a
bulwark agalnlt their devices.
FOR THE GAZETTE Ot THE UNITED STATES.
IF the writer in the Gazette of the United
States, under the signature of " An America)*,"
will come forward, and support the charges lie
has made against the Editor of the National
Gazette, he lhall be answered. Personal cha:g.s
from an anonymous writer deserve no anlwer,
and lhall have none—from
Ihe Editur oj the National Gazette.
August 14-
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
AMONG the various descriptions of persons
in a free community, there is none perhaps
that ought to be watched with greater caution
than the cunning politician. There are many of
thi; denomination extant now-a-days—and at
the feafoft of elections luch are always peculiar-
Ily busy and alert. Some might be mentioned
who have never diftinguilhed themlelvci inuuy
manner, but by their oppolition to thole mea
(iires which have proved the salvation of our
country—and have placed on a firm foundation
the hopes of every indultrious citizen.—Others
there are, whose genuine character and princi
ples are not so fully developed as that a proper
opinion can be formed of them. Sureiy no wile
man will put his confidence in thole who, from
several circumstances which might be mention
ed, it is impollible should be known to the peo
ple.—The old adage—Trujl vo one on a flight uc
quatnt&nce—-applies with peculiar force to mat
ters of political public concern.—A man desti
tute of modesty, is generally defiitute of hones
ty.—The electors of this commonwealth, and
of this city in particular, have been repeatedly
admonished to be on their guard againlt the de
signs of the leaders of parties —but these admo
nitions are principally designed to counteract
the views of those who wiih that the people
should take effectual measures to promote a
concert of views in feledting the most worthy
and confidential characters to reprelent them
in Congress.—Surely it is of the greater im
poi tance that the aggregate body of citizens
lhouldaft underflandiqgly in this important bu
siness—that they fliould be united as far as pof-.
fible—that they lliould give their votes from
information, sentiment and principle, and a
full persuasion that their fuflrages are bellowed
on the molt meritorious characters.—lt is noto
rious that parties exilt in the State—those who
fay they do not, are molt undoubtedly taking
measures which will prove that their ailertions
to the contrary are meant to deceive.
Let the free electors reflect in time on cha
raßcrs, profejfions and principles—and determine
in due l'ealon what they will do—for thole can«
did,cunning politicians, who are so much afraid
that a delegation of the right oi fufirage Iliould
take place, have been the firft to controul the
opinion of the people, by secret nominations.—
" Prove all things—hold fact that which is good."
A.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Ely, Smallwood, N.Carolina
Peter Auguflua, Robfon,
La Maria Sophu, Martial, C. Francois
Sch'r. Alexandria, Town, Port-au-Princc
Nancy, Wallace, Virginia
Pink, Pierce, N. Carolina
Example,
Sloop Endeavor,
Polly
Harriot,
Lark,
Three Friends,
Leavani,
Perkins,
Condon,
Havens,
Burrows,
Doming,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, gif
3 pcrCenu, is/'o
Deferred, , 3 j 2
tull fiiarcs Bank U. S. * 50 pci|cent. piein.
J (hires, C 2
Sr. fcuiUua
Maftachufetts
Virginia
ditto
St. Marti us
ditto
GeorgiaWar Department,
August 6, 1792.
JNFORMATION is hereby given to all « he
Military Invalids of the United S:atts, that
the fuins to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pension. from the 4th day of March
179°, and which will become due on the sth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the (aid day
by the CommiHioners of the Loans within the
Stares refpe&ively, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application lor payment mud be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
:ft. The certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that the perlon poffefling the fame is in fad an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as such he
is annually •ntitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
//. B. came before me, one of the JuJlices of the
county of in the Jlate of and made oath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjeffion was given > of which the following is
a copy ( the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
Thai he served (regiment, corps or vejjelj at
the time he was disabled, and that he now resides ia
the and county of and has resided
therefor the lajl years, previous to which he re
sided in
In cafe an invalid should apply foi payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, mull produce a spe
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form :
I, A. B. of county of fate of do
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. oj my laujul
attorney, to receive in my behalf of ray penfon
for fix months, as an invalid ef the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the pjth day oj
September, one thoufandfeven hundred *nd ninety-two.
Signed and led led
in the prefencc of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executor* and adminiftiatora
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of their
refpefttve offices, and also of the time the invalids
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the
Prcfident of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
(£r* The Printers in the refpettive States are
requcfted to publish the above in their newspa
pers, for the space of two months.
Bank of theUnitedStates,
RESOLVED,
THAT an Office of Discount and Deposit, Iw
cftabliftied in the Cityof Richmond, Siateof
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tucfday in September next be ap
pointed for the Elc&ion of Thirteen Direttors and
a Caftiier, for the Office of Discount and Deposit,
in the City of Richmond.
By Order of the Prcfident and Directors,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,
Sunday Schools.
THE focicty for the inflitution and support of
First-Day or Sunday Schools, in ihc city of
Philadelphia, and the diftriils of Southwark ant)
the Northern Liberties, having eftablilhed two
schools for boys, under the care of Mr.John Poor,
and Mr. John Barry, and one school for girls, un
der the care of Mr. John Ely ; the Board of Vic
tors do hereby earnestly solicit all their fellow
citizens, who cannot otherwise avail themselves
of educating those under their care, to (end them
to those schools, to receive that inftruflion which
which is lo necefTary to qualify them for ufelul
nefs in civil focicty. I
Firmly petfuaded of this great truth, that to
disseminate knowledge, is preparing mankind for
virtue, freedom, and happiness ; the Board do
therefore also eaineftiy rcqueft, that all their fel
low citizens who have experienced the advantages
of education, will use their influence with those
whose circunifta'.ces prevent the inftruflion of
theirchildren, to fend them to those schools, that
they may thereby derive the advantages intended
by the fociery.
Philadelphia, Jul)') 1792,
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Secund-Strcct, where he continues to purchase
and fell on Commiflion, Certificates of debt of the
United, and Individual' States, Bank. Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares.&c. &c.
Subfcriberstothe Universal Tontine who
have not yet received their Certificates are delired
to call for them.
July 18,
American Lead JVI anufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
TT AVE jult now opened their Lead-Ware
,.ru "°" SE '. lwo doors fo "<h of Walnut-street
Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Faftorv— where thev
have now made, and ready for sale, a general
Bfforttnent of SHOT of all fizes,with SHEET and
BAR LEAD, the production 'of the Mine.
Virginia. As tney have employed a number of
experienced Lnghfh wo, kmer., they wa.rant i.
to be equal in quality to any manufaflured in
Europe, and at a reduced.pi ice from the cost of
imported. 1
also continueto wianufa&ure all theabove
a J V" j 1 R ' c .l"nond, in Virginia. All orders
beth t f',l C ' °f the abr,VC Fa «"ies, will
be thankfully received,aud executed on the fliort
elt notice.
iJ. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouiino
Men, at the said Mines, where constant employ
good wages, and other encouragements will be
hZf?,'. ncal,s . conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MelTrs. Mose<
«"bove. 'heir Factory in Richmond, orj
■Philadelphia, December 3,
The Travels ' of Cyrus
TO WIIICH IS ANNEXED,
A DISCOURSE upon the THEOLOGY and
THE Travels of Cyrus having gonr through To
many editions iu Europe, evrry thing which
might be said lo recommend so valuable a work,
is rendered useless ; and as it is now almolt, if not
entirely out of print, the publilher trtifts then !
will be little difficulty in procuring a rcfpe&able
lift of fubferibers to ail American Ediiion,
This work will be publiflied in one volume,
1 2mo. on good demy paper, and a neat type ; and
will contain about 350 pages.
The price to fubtcribers wul be On e Dollar,
to be paid on the delivery of the book, which
will be neatly bound and lettered.
The work lhall be put to press in Oflober nexi
provided there fliall be 250 fubferibers.
Any person fuofcribing for, or procuring fub
fcribeis for twelve books, and will be responsible
lor the payment, shall be entitled to.two gratis.
The names of fubf'cribcis lhall be pichxcd to
the work.
(J<f* Subscriptions received by mod of the
Bookfellcrs in Philadelphia and New-York.
N. B. Gentlemen who may please to encourage
the work by procuring subscriptions, are requested
to rorwaid a lift of the names fubfenbed, by the
20th day of Ofclobsr next.
Vritnejfes,
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jtc Proposals at large.)
Subfenptions are received by the principal
Booklellerj, and by the Editor,
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
July 10, 1792,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfcller, at the Stone-Houf?, in Second-Stieet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VI of
encyclopedia
Or a Ditfiionary of Arts, Sciences,
and Mifcellaneotis Literature,
On a plan entirely new : By which the differem
fctenccs and arts are dialled into the form
Of diftintf Treaties or Syflans.
1 his sixth volume contains, among a variety o'
interesting articles,
Dioptrics,oiftiilation, diving bell,art of drawing,
Dublin art of Dying, theory of the earth and earth
quakes, Edinburgh, education,!hiftory of Egypt
Syftcm of electricity, history of England, engrav
ing, essaying, history of Ethiopia, &c. &c. &c:
Iclujlruted uiilh twenty-two copper plates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fupeifine paper, and
new types (cast for the purpose in Philadelphia)
which will be occasionally renewed before thev
contrast a worn appearance.
11. The work may be had in volumes or half-volumes
it bring proposed to deliver the volumes in
parts, at twenty fhillings(Pennfylvania currency)
each, in boards, or tor the whole volume, five
dollars, in boards. The volumes now finiftied
are to be paid foroll delivery,and the price of one
volume is to be paid in advance, and the price
of each succeeding volume to be paid on de
livering the volume preceding it.
111. In thecourfeof publication will be exhibit
ed above five hundred copper plates, elegantly
engraved in Philadelphia ; which by far exceed
in number those given in any other fcientific
d 1 611 on ar y At the close of the publication will
be dc.ivcred, an elegant frontifpiece, the dedi
cation, preface, and proper tide pages for the
ditierent volumes.
*** f. s thc ver y g rcat expenee attending the
undertaking, makes puna..al,<, of payment in
dispensably neceflary, the puhl,fi,er fl.tteis him
lelf that the fubfcr.bcrs will be perfectly fatisfi«i
with his adhering ftriflly lo his original plan ol
delivering the books only on receiving payment
agreeable to the conditions of publication
(ep.tf )
Subfcnpttons for the Encyclopedia
Will continue to be received on the fame lerms a,
usual, till the firft of September, i 7q2 , when«hc
price will be encrcafed. Ten Dollars to be
paidonfubfcriplioii, by thole who have not sub
scribed before that time.
Those who have fubferibed, bet not takenthci,
hooks before that t.me, will be confulercd a 5 no,
having fubferibed.
Asi (he subscription will probably be clofea b v
Chriltmas, such as chufe to be possessors of th
very valuable and important work, will do well
to come forward in time, that they may not b f
dif 'pp""«« d - juiy y TJ
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by ' THOMAS DOBSON, and olhc ,
A r 11 ® ookfell " s Philadelphia,
Authors, and publilhed' by Older™ tie C""
° 4 ' frptf.J
PROPOSALS,
By ISAAC NEALJ;
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION^
(Ti,e ninth edition of)
MYTHOLOGY of the PAGANS.
BY THI CHEVALIER KAMSAY
CONDITIONS.
Burlington, July 21,1 792
To be published by Subscription,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old Cfon^re^) 3
From September 1774, to March 1789; —
An authentic and origin*! collection of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the late war;
And extracts from the
JUST PUBLISHED,
88
TO BE SOLD HY THE EDITOR,
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Duties
payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchan
dize imported into the United States ; exhibiting
! the Rates payable on those impoited in Ships ot
Veficls of the United States, and in foreign Ships
or Vcffels; including the additional Duties to
which the refpe&tve Articles ate liable.
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduated according to Law—Blank Manifefts—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Atioine>
11 ■ cellary in tranfacl.ng Buiim fs at the Treasury ot
at the Bank of the Unitrd States.
WHITE WAX MANUFACTORY.
Thomas james, wax chandler,
from London, refue&fnlly informs the public
that he has established a Manuia&ory of the above
branch, at the upper end of Mulberry-Street, New-
Yoik, where Merchants, Captains of Veflels,
Druggists, and Families, may be supplied w:th
excellent and pure White Wax Candles, White
Wax in Cakes, Tapers, Wax'd Lamp Wicks.
Flambeaux, See. warranted equal to any made.in
London, and twenty percent, cheaper.
Orders in this and the adjacent States, reeeived
bv Mr. John Good eve, Bridge-Street, Mr.
William Frobisher, Fletcher-Street, and at
the Manufactory, where samples may be fcen.
N B. Bees-Wax taken iu payment, or bleached
on moderate terms.
Ncw-Yotk, Jul/ 19, 1792,
TO BE SOLD,
(And pofleflion given immediately)
A Valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted tografs,and (here being lo much meadow,'
a large stock may be raised : it is »!fo natural to
wheat, and a proper attemion to a well-kept P.ock,
will much improve its quality, and be the moil
profitable : it has a young orchard of 200 apple
trees, a variety of peach and ch?ny trees, and a
large garden. Theie are on the premises a hand
some two story stone house and kitchen, and an
elegant piazza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon.houle, work-!hop,,
and fmoak-houfe. The fnuation is high, plcafant,
and healthy, and afford* Tome very agreeable pro--
fpefls, and is in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road to New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The title was examined and approved
by eminent council before thefubferiber purchased.
For further particulars apply to the fubfrrihet, at
No. 141, South Sccond-ftreet, or at No. 81, South
Water-street, Philadelphia.
(ep3w)
ISAAC SNOWDEN, Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had ol the pre
sent tenant.
Alfo.io be Sold, arid entered immediately,
A two-llory Brick HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-street, No. 23, 16 feel two inches in from!
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above.
Stock Brokers Office,
No -4S. Great Dock-street, New-York,
I 'HE Subscriber intending in confine himfcl!
X entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE ok
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
<>t a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor mm with their business, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fidelity and
difpaich. '
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of tne United States will be ftriftiy attend
ed to. r
Mav 9
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
PURSUANT to the last Will "nd Tefta'nent of
7" r ' 3tc ,^ tv - AI «*»» d
decealed, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thnrf
day, the mh ol October next,at Georgetown
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond wuh approved security, to bear intcreft from
, the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
IS rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of atfording a very considerable
quantity ci fine meadow ;-Situated about 6 mile*
Iron, the Federal City,and the fame dilbnce fro,,,
Oeorge-Town, a gcnlccl neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
I he improvements are. a very elegant two story
Brtck Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
pallagc, or entry, on a floor) and the necclLry out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND )
'entOl ?^"'° DDERT ' f Executors.
.epiQ) THOMAS IQHNS. )
TERRITORY or COLUMBIA.
T"n- S "'°J[ cr!, J er off "» for Sale, a
J ck Cr «k. d-cmcd by these who have rx.
,t eqna! to snv in the Unitrrf Slates. The
Mil.-House may he placed within onc quarter of
■Ve"^ 0 ! , r'7 , ' Po,own,ac,hi,if a ,niic f"»n
i omthe P r'i ] n f Gcor S eIOWT1 ) and one m,le
romthe President s square, in the city ol Walt>.
in;;lon_on tide water, n.vigable for vcffels of le
ver,! hundred b.,„i,e„._The Ar-am „
[nd n ntV t u CyCa T li " d ' lotUr " '"'"P"""' 'tones,
nd the fall may be made fron, 05 „ 0 sect j
rytodWCllon ' he adVa "^ 5
JIT P , UrC , har, " r ""Y be accommodated wjtfi a
_( e P3 m 14 Jul)
|T^ f ! E p *ri"cr(hip°f HAZARD & ADDOMS
; l A r U *»»™K
thrtr FIRM, arc defined to c.ill fr, r frttl-n nt
upon EBENEZER H.t r.ARD, „ No . I2 g
r rCC 'r a " d ' h< <° U arc r,-
qucfte'l 10 iramwliair pjymrnt in bin
WJEVEZER HAZARD,
p,-,,. ~ , ,/O.VAS ADDOMS.
<i>adcffhia t July 13, 1792. /.n
ALSO,
( r P'O
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(t.f.)
R. STODDERT.
N ew-Brnnfvvick Lotte r • •
HIGHEST PRIZEj 2,333 DOLLAR:,."' '
' j Public ire hereby informed .l, ,
A drawing of the above Lottery it \»4
t.ll the third day of Sep,ember
time, the Manager, are potttively determined I,
drawing (hall commence, in Mr. Koimu,', in
Room, in ihe Cityof Ne\»-Brumwi c k S
Ticket» are to be had at Sami-»-' r-.
Ferry, where, fortunate advcmu,e, s ' m , y
their prize-money ten day, after dra w i„,'
° [ f™<"natc numbers will b 0 publilhcd i„ k
Ga»ittr of the UfUTEO States.
pT n.aod , ,
0 Lotteries have occaftoned the ncceffi.v o , '
Curt iier portponement. The R e «or and W J
atk the assistance of their ep,f c „ r ,l ar>d
frienJs, in fuppiymg thtmlelvcs with nn.
V.ous to the above day-confident that no Lotutv
more favorable to adventareis has bten -oflrred !
:he public—the dcdu6*ion being oi,lv t2 1 n,.
ccnt. anil notivfo blanks to a prize. 2P
* * . j n THE MANAf iERSi
** I.rtrerj dtrcflcd to Pet,er Km
Post-Master, New-Brunfwick (post paii«!\-wjjl'tr
.immediately attended to.
NVw-Brunfwick. July 25, i
BOOKS,.
PRINTED AND SOLD If V
MAT HEW CAREY
A Ho. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia *
MERICANMUSfcUM,fiom it, comment,
meat in January 1787,10 Bccembtr i-o,
in ten vols. Price, neatly bound and ittioL'
sixteen dollars. *
Thu work, which is now eoqduSrd on !n i m
proved plan, containing the bell putts publifW
for and against .he proceedings of gove.,
will be found to contain at Icait as great a variety
of political, agricultural,and raifecihneous clTm
as any ever pnolifhed in America. Perhaps in n,'
one work are lo many valuable documents r ,f p( . t (
ing the history of this country, coUcfted together"
His Excellency the Prcfideni of the United States'
has declared of it, that " a more ufcful literary'
plan has never hern undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement
The fubfeription is iwe dollars and a" half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wilh t0
be fupplicd with this work, are requcited to give
commiflion to friends in the city to lubferibe for
•<nd receive if Any of the back numbers
may he had in orHcr to complete sets.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss.
More's Eflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pcuninj;.
'oo's Advice, Marehioncfs of L» nbert'f Advice
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lsdy,Mi». dis
pone on command of Tamper, Moic's Fables for
theL idies, Price
3. Smith's History of New-York, frosnits firft
feuiement to the year 1732. To which is annex
ed, a description of the country, with a short
account of the inhabitant!, their religious anil
political flatc, and the coiiftittftien of the coiuts.
ofjuftice. Pi ice a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, l v James Bet.
tie, 1.1.d. profeffor of moral |:hilyfophv 3i>ri
logic in the Marifeha) College, Al.erd t en~lPnec
th.ee-fourths of a dollar. Of tbi, !,„ok the
Critical Reviewer! (vol. 69, p. 628] fay: " Ws
have seen nothing on these fuhjctU more plain,
more perspicuous, or more geneially ufcful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfilviii Phi
ladelphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, Br:tilTi rnd American,,
containing fele& production*- of the roofteminent
British and American poets—Price four-filths of
a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons,containing Ihe whole of t'jf
three volumes of the BritMh edition, :n tyro -
Price two dollars.
7. N cket's Treatise on the importance of Re
igious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Oblervations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Puce, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
9- The Conilitu:ions 0/ the fevrr.il United Ststes,
with the Federal Cfnftitution, &c. Pricc five,
eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in
12mo.—Price three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book* in two parts, with*
two very neat engravings—Price bound, three
fifths of a dollar. - — ——
12, Garden of the Soul, by Biftiop Chalenor--.
Price, bound in calf and lettered, three
of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13. The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi-
Me, in quarto—Pi ice, elegantly bound and jcuei
°d, 50/2—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mccura—Trice a
quarter dollar.
15- Think well on'r, or rcflcftions for every
day of the month.--Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a
Gieek manuscript, found in the island of Pafinoa
where Sr. John wrote the Apocalypse—Prices,
fifth of a dollar. '
17. Hift'>ry of Charles Grandifon, abridged—
Pricc a sixth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys— Tricc 3 third
of a dollar.
19. Select Poems, chiefly American—Price a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Car ey has for sale, a large affortroertt of
Rooks, European as well as American edition*,
which he will dispose of on the most revocable
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being f'uppl fd 111
the moll fitiafactory manner. A liberal alio vancp
to such as purchafc quantities for public liberies,,
or to fell again.
WANTED, to go to Boston,
A JOURNEYMAN COPPERSMIT H ft
small work, such as Tca-Kettl s, (
Pots, &c.— Good wages and conflant emploMnmt
will be given to a peifon with good ircomn na
tions—a (ingle man would be pieferrtd. £ ; iru" c
of the Editor.
Julvzs
NEW TEAS.
IM P E RIA L, HYSON& sOU CH C KG,
Of I lie vci v fill! qu-Oi'v, n"- > alc(t impo CJioa
frmn Caiuuu, ti.= by retail, tf
No 19,
Thirtl, between Chefuut and Market Strt I'- 5,
-ft
(rp-S)
179".,
r~ r .■