' a r - / ' ' s
> <?<!>/''a-f/ssi
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 6, of Vol. IV.]
ADVERTISEMENT.
I DO hereby give notice to all persons, not to
credit any person or persons whatever on my
account, other wife 111 m) name, or on my credit,
without special order from under my hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
any debt or debts controlled without such order
lacing produced,
THOMAS JONES.
Frederick-Town, Jane 5, 1792. ( e P4 w )
JUST PUBLISK£D t
AND TO BE SOLD (PRICE 10f)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of T' ird & Chefnut Streets,
the
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical description of the
State—with {ketches of its natural hiflory, pro
dfc&ions, improvements, and present Rate of so
ciety and manners, laws and government.
By Jeremv Belknap, A.M.
This volume compleats the history, and is
pe:uliarly interesting. Subscribers are dctired
to call for iheir books.
WHEREAS it appears, by the proceedings in
a certain cause now depending in the High
Court of Chancery in England, wherein William
Webb is the plaintiff, and John Porker (the exe
cutor of Thomas Bradley, deceased) is the defen
dant—that Henry Webb was put out apprentice
by the Greenwich School, for the lea service, in or
about the year 1775, w * l ° was ,en °* l^e a § e
of 14 years, or thereabouts, and lailed from Eng
land in the year 1776, 10 some part of Noith-
America, in the (hip or vefTel railed the ArtemiHa,
Captain Llewellyn, formerly a Spanilh Trader, and
at that time a Navy Vi&ualler or Transport, in
his Majesty's service. And whereas it appears
that the said Henry Webb defertcd and run away
from the said ship or velTel, and entered on board
a certain privateer or vtlfel, called the Revenge,
or Vengeance Privateer, of which one John Dean
was then matter or commander, then lying in
New-York, 111 North-America ; and that the said
Vengeance Privateer, on or about the s'h of No
vember, 1779? failed from New-York aforefaid to
Savannah, and arrived at such last mentioned place
in or about the month of March, 1780, and failed
from thence in the said month of March, or in the
month of April following, to some portor place in
America, but to what port or place is not known ;
and that in the Month of May, 1780, the said ship
or velfel was ffen at Barbadoes, in the Weft-In
dies, but the said Henry Webb hath not since been
heafd of, and is supposed to be dead, it having
been reported that the Tender belonging to the
said fhtp orvelfel called the Vengeance, which
fhio was then commanded by Captain Knowles,
with a number of her meo, to the amount of 20,
or thereabout (and among whom the laid Henry
Webb is supposed to be one) were taken by the
cnemv, and carried into Philadelphia.
NOW, in pursuance of an order made in the
said cause, bearing date the 3d day of December,
1790, any person or persons who can give anv ac
count or information touching the said Henry
Webb, or of the said (hip Vengeance, or whether
the said Henry Webb is living or dead, and if
dead, when and where he died, are required to
give such account or information to William]
Weller Pews, Esq. one of the Mailers of the
said Court, at his Chambers, in Svmonds-Inn,
Chancery-Lane, London, on or before the 6th day
of November, 179?- —and luch person or persons
will be rewarded for their trouble by applying to
Mr. Samu e l Nay lor, the follicuor in the cause,
at No. 4, Great Newport-Street, London ; or to
the Rev. John Stanford*, No. 46, William-
Street, New-York; or to John Prettyjohn,
Esq. Bridge-Town, Barbadoes.
( 3 -A'iaw) W. W. PEPYS.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE.
Philadelphia, June 6, 1792.
TH E Printers of Newspapers in the U (kited
States are defued to take Notice, That Mr.
Francis Bailey, Mr. Daniel Humphreys, and Messrs.
SpotfwooJ and Carey, of this City, have ceafcd to
print Newspapers. and of course can receive none
from the other Printers free or Pottage. Ths
Printers of Newspapers are therefore desired to dis
continue fending their Papers to those Gentlemen,
unlets they should becoinc Subfcribcrs, on the toot
ing of other Citizens.
As divers Printers in other Places may havedif
continucd their printing of Newspapers, the Pofl
mafters in thofc placcs are defined to give Notice
thereof in the Newspapers in which thev usually
Advertifc ; that the Newspapers fcni to such for
mer Printers may be dilcontinued, and the Pub
lic'Maiis be relieved from useless Burthens.
T. PICKERING.
Wm. cleland,
boston,
Transacts business in the Funds of the United
States;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, &c.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June t. (epim £2 iaw2m)
Wednesday, June 20, 1792.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN' AWAY from the fubferiber in February
faik, a TS T "EGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years ot age; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a paii homespun breeches, and a tow
Ihirt ; the fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighih obout live tCct iix or leven inches, very
square made ; has a mark along fide of his nofc,
ana one ot his inlteps has been bui nt, which causes
the (inews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and secures him
in any jail, so that 1 may get Dim again, fVall re
ceive the above reward, and have all reaionable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
HeadSaJJafras, June 16, 1792. (*epim)
RUN AWAY trom the iubferiber, living in
Kent County, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 2Tih May last, a NEGRO MA N,
named Hark ; about 40 years ot age, about live
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnoughi coat,
a black and white kerley coat, cut round, a white
kerley jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn llock
ings, the one pair lately tooted, and the other not t
two oznaburgh -ftiiits. each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfcis, one pair patched
with new tow-linCn down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up fa id Negio, if out of this
State,and hiin in gaol, lhall rtccive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS rewaid—and if taken within
this State, and fecurrd as aforcfaid, lhall receive
EIGHT DOLLAK.S reward ; and it brought
home, leaiouable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LEIHRBURY
Ch'flcT-Toiun, June 4, 1791
THE following feclions of the adt entitled,
An ast for railing a further sum of money
'or the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, are repub
lished for the information of all persons, who,
011 the 29th day of June next (1792) shall be
polfeifed of WINES.
" Sect ic. A ND be it further enacted, That
-lX all Wines which after the said
last day of June next, lhall be imported into th'e
United States, lhall be landed under the care of
the infpe&or of the port where the fama lhall be
landed, and iijr that pnrpofe, every permit for
landing any Wines, which lhall be granted by a
Collector, lhall, prior to such landing, be pro
duced to the said inspector, who, by endorfemcnt
thereupon under his hand, lhall iignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and the time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of forfei
ture, it lhall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said infpe&or lhall make an entry of
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk, cafe, box or
package whatloever, containing such Wines,
lhall be marked by the officer under whose im
' mediate inspection the fame shall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with progredive
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the said officer
fhali grant a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
hoglhead, calk, cafe,box or package, fpecifying
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the lhip or velfel in which the fame
shall have been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it lhall
be lent. And if any pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk,
cafe, box or packagc, containing Wine, lhall be
found without such marks and certificates, the
fame lhall be liable to be seized, ana the want of
such marks and certificates lhall be prcfumptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
ii Setft. u. And be it further ena&ed, That
every person, who shall have in his or her pof
feflion, Wines wliich are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, shall prior to the laid last day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at some office of
infpe&ion in the city, town or county where he
or llie ihall reside, fpecifying and deferibing the
casks, cases, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where, and in whose poffeflion
they are ; and the officer of infpe&ion, at whose
office such entry may be made, shall, as soon as
may be thereafter, visit and infpeft, or cause to
be vilitsd and infpedted, the Wines so reported,
and shall mark, or cause to be marked, the calks,
cases, boxes and packages containing the fame,
with progrellive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kinds thereof, and words " Old Stock," and
lhall grant a certificate for each cask, calc, box
or package containing such Wine, describing
therein the said cask, cafe, box or package, and
the Wines therein contained, which certificate
shall accompany the fame, wherever it mav be
sent. And if any person who may have Wines
in his or her pofleflion for sale, shall not, prior to
the said last day of June next, makeentry there
of, as above directed, he or she, for such oiniflion
or neglect, shall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wine omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with costs of suit, for the benefit of any person j
who shall give information thereof, and the
Wines so omitted to be entered, ihall be for
feited." (ept29)
21
,: 8 L ISHED FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE
To the DIRECTORS and COMPANY of the
Si'squ eh an nah and SchuylkiLl Canal,
or Inland Navigation.
Gentlemen,
THE inland navigation of this state being of
the greatcft public utility, and having of latc|
drawn ihe attention of the legislature, as well as ol
the citizens in general thereto, as to a fubjett of
immense magnitude, some observations on it may
be necePary and ufeful at this time.
I. The immenje advantages of the objett absorb every
idea oj otjettion anjivg Jrom the expevce of it, the
only mailer of felicitous enquiry is the pra&icabi
iity of it. An inland navigation between Schuyl
kill and Sufquehannah, will bring by water to Phi
ladelphia all the trade of the extensive waters of
Sufquehcnnah and ol a ranft fertile country of about
one thouland fquars miles, or 6,000,00 c acres of
land.
But this is not all—if this can be accompli died,
a further extenfton of the inland navigation may be
talily nlade to the Ohio and to Lake Erie, which
at once opens a communication with above 2000
miles extent of western country, viz. with all the
Great Lakes, together with all the countries which
! '■ on, the wa-ets of MiiTiflipppi, Milourt ami all
1 heir branches; an object valt indeed, and far
greater than any one of a like kind which can be
produced in any other country on earth.
11. The water communication between Schuyl
kill and Sufquehannah is the foul of all this, or at
least js the Great Sine qua rion of it all; for were
011 the proposed water communications weft ot
Sufquehannah compleated, but mull flop at Sufque
hannah, or could the communication with the fia
be made in any other way than the on* piopofed,
'tis manifeft that the whole advantages of thnt
immense trade would be in a manner 101 lto this
city, and would go to some of our neighbors, and
aggrandize them fir beyond every power of com
petition which would be left for us.
(ep Bvv )
111. This water communication between
Schuylkill and Sufquehannah mull be formed over
a trail of country, of about 40 miles extent from
river to river on a firaight line, but about 60 miles
as the navigation mull go ; this trail is cut by two
creeks, the Quitapahilla, which is a branch of the
Swatara, and runs into Sufquehannah at Middle
town, and the Tulpenhoking, which empties into
Schuylkill at Reading. Thcfe two cieeks lead
within 4 miles of each othei ; the level of then
head waters is nearly the fame, and the space be
tween them makes the height o» land, or as 'tis
commonly called the crown lard, between the two
riveis, which is nearly a plain; and the bottom
of the canal through which the navigation mull
pass, will no where rife more than 30 feet above
the level of the head waters of the two cieeks
above mentioned, nor so much as 200 feet above
the level ot the waters of Sufquehannah or Schuyl
kill.
IV. The ground thro* which the canal must
pass from one head wat- r to the other of the fa id
two creeks, is a fort of gap or valley into which
much higher grounds on each fide descend in
gradual dopes from the distance ol several miles;
in which high grounds, many rivulets or (beams
of water are formed : supplied by perennial Iprings
riling in grouuds of e level much higher than the
high; ft part ofthecanal, some of these llreains car
ry mills thro' the year, and all of them united to
gether, would convey a large supply of water quite
fuflicient for all the purposes of tlie canal.
V. By actual and molt careful surveys and le
vcllings sundry times repeated, it is certain, it i
an established fa ft, that enough of the above laid
waters may be brought into the canal from sour
ces more than 20 feet above the level of the highefl
part of it, enough water I lay to carry a heavy saw
mill through the year ; which is as much water as
will be fully fufficient to supply a canal on the
largelt scale which can ever be neceirary in any fu
ture time.
And as these waters are derived from limestone
Iprings and other iources, that were never known
to fail, we have every reason to be airured thai
1 hey w ill afford a conltant peiennial supply of wa
ter , even through the d 1 yeft f afons of the year.
It appears then with most decided certainty,
that the communication in qucftion (however valt
and immense its importance) is practicable on the
latgeft icale requisite for all itsufes ; tor when wa
ter enough for ail the purposes of the canal can be
produced on the height of land, and which can
be let out either way as occasion requires, there
can be nothing impracticable, nor indeed very
difficult in forming the whole communication from
t iver to l iver in a manner cafy, fafe and fufficient
iv ;impleor exienfive for all its purposes.
VI. All 1 conceive neceirary to be done after
this is,
l. To make a fuccefliori of dams across the
crerks from each rivei 10 the height of land, so
conftru6ted, thai the tail of one pond may reach
the Gain next sbove it, and rife so much upon it
ai 10 produce the nccelfary depth of water ; these
dams are mostly built alreadv, and will require no
other ex pence than repairs, or ftrcngthemng for
more certain security, and perhaps fame height
ening, that the water of the pond may swell or rife
up to the dam above it, when thai is not the pre
fcrnt cafe.
2. F;om ihc !op of each dam to make wavs or
an inclined plane, leading down to the water of
the pond below, floored with strong pl<tnk, with
an angle of d?preffion fufficieut to give it a necef
lary but gradual dcfccnt, fay, it you please, one
foot in ten.
3. To make a cradle like a fled, if yon please,
with lidcs of very strong timber, 111 each of which
arc to be infcitcd two wheels, about 16 feet afun
BY D£SI R E,
[Whole No. 328.]
der, on which the cradle will run up the ways, the
lower wheel to be of lomcwhat larger diameter
than the upper cne, that the lower part of the
boat's keel may be railed nearer to a level than the
floor ot the ways, then fink the cradle and draw
the boat over it, then laife it to the bottom of the
boat, and fallen the boat securely to it,
4. In the pond above the dam, and at fuflficient
diftaoce and height, fix a flrong poit, and to it faf
ten a large block and fhieve.
5. At the dam, close beside the head of the ways,
make a floom and gate, and fix a water wheel with
a (haft or axis parallel to the top of the dam, and
H right angles with the ways, the fliaft of which is
:o reach over the ways, and be of fufficient height
.0 admit the boat and cradle to pass under it.
6. To the tongue of'the cradle or fled (which
mutt be strongly braced) fix a chain or rope of fuf
ficient strength, cairy it up the ways, and reeve it
through the block fattened to the pott as aforefaid,
then carry it back and fatten it to the fhaft of the
water wheel,
7. Fix your cradle carefully in the midst of the
ways below, then hoitt the gate and set the water
wheel a going, and I conceive it will draw up a
boat of 40 tons, wi'h a tteady and fafe motion,
and launch it into the upper dam in one or two
minutes. You may at any time increase or di
rtiinifh yorir force by letting out more or iefs wa
ter on tUc water wheel.
8. When the boat is launched into the upper
pond, difengageit from the cradle, float it off", and
let it go on its pafl*age, and bring or. its place ano
ther boat, bound down ft ream, and fatten a chain
or rope tothe lower part or fterri of the cradle,
and make it fatt to the (haft of the water wheel
and the gate, which will immediately draw
the cradle over the hc?d of the wavs, when the
gate mud be inftaiuly (hut down, and the latt men
tioned chain mutt beinttantly disengaged, which
is mod eafilv and fafely Hone by a large iron bolt,
pierced perpendicular through a flrong timber in
the ttern of the cradle, and which will be drawn
out of course the moment it pitches over the head
of the ways, and brings the bolt light under the
Ibaft. The upper rope mutt: be fattened to the
tongue of the cradle, and I conceive the force ot'
the boat running down the ways will be fufficient
to turn the w?tcr wheel the contrary way, and un
wind the chain from off the fhaft ; if this should
not be fufficicnt, a little force may be added by
hands, or if the wheel should turn too violently,
it may be checked by letting a little water on it.
VII. The ways, water wheel, and house for
the people who tend the works, mutt be ciouded
up as near the fhoreas pofiible, that the middle of
the dam may be left as wide as may be for a watte
way, over which ice, logs, See. in times ot"
frefhes, may pass without touching or injuring the
works.
(To be concluded in our next.)
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, April 23, 1792.
In committee oj the whole, on the the bill
for catling forth the militia.
MR- LIVERMORE objected to the general
terms ufcd in this feftion ; he thought the
nature of the offences intended to be guarded
againft,ought to be more particularly defined—
that the sources from whence complaints Ihould
iil'ue Ihould be pointed out.
Mr. Benfon was in favor of introducing th<?
express words of the constitution—and moved
to strike out certain expreflions for the purpofis
of substituting those words.
Mr. Whita observed, that the objections
which had now been started were considered
by the committee, and attempts Were made to
render the clause more express and definite,
but it was found they only rendered it more
obscure.
Mr. Baldwin said he conficiered the objection
of the gentleman from New-York as involving
a dangerous principle—it seems to suppose that
the general government only poffefles the pow
er to suppress infurreftions; whereas the States
individually certainlv pofTefs this power, they
can suppress infurrettions, and will do it; their
interest is involved in supporting the laws—and
they are fully competent to do it.
Mr. Kittera said the "fnrlcmnn f;o:n New-
HainpOiire objects to the ciaufe because it is not
particular enough—while the gentleman from
New-York thinks it not general enough ; he
thought that the ciaufe was very well exprelfed;
it adopts that medium which in fuGh cases is
perhaps always the fafeft.
Mr Page- I move to strike out the clause—/
it cannot be amended j I hope that there is ni>
occasion for such a clause, it holds out an idea
of resistance which I will not fuppoie can exilh
Mild and equitable laws will not be refitted, and
if Cong-eft should be so infatuated as to enact
those of a contrary nature—l hope they will
be repealed, and uot enforced by martial law f
we have fcen no occasion for three years past ofInch a law as is now fuppoftd necefTary. If the
refinance be finall (said a member from North-
Carolina) the magiitrates will be competent to
the business—is great, it would not be prudent
to attempt to cruih it. It is not to
make Jaws merely because the constitution au
thorizes a dangeroir. power.
Mr. Murray laid he was opposed to the last
notion, a» well as to that from the gentleman
from New-York. lie offered several remarks
to fh;w the necefiity of providing for an ener
getic execution of the laws, while at the fame
time he was fully imprefled with the importance
of having the power defined and guarded as
much as polUbie. He adverted to the Britilh
government, where a prompt and energetic ex
ecution of the law is considered of the firft im
portance, while at the fame time the military is
never called in but in the last extremity.—He
gave a short account of the proceedings of that
government in the infurre&icn railed in the ci
ty of London, by Lord George Gordon, &:c.
Mr. Clark was in favor «f striking out—lie
said the motion from the gentleman of New-
York went to call forth the military in tale of'
tiny opposition to the excise law —Co that if an
old woman was to strike an excise officer with
a broomstick, forfooth the military is to be cal
led out to fuppref'. an infurrc&ion.—The go
vernment lie obierved was in its infancy—and
lie saw no neceff.ty for fuppoling that the peo
ple would at tills early oppose the laws.
Mr. Benfon rose to explain—he said his ideas
were he had no such designs as
were imputed to him—his wilh was to provide
in the fnnpleft and belt manner for the object
contemplated in the bill.
Mr. Gerry said he was opposed to striking out
the section, but (till was not pleased with it al
together—and moved an amendment.
Mr. Mercer said he had not heard any pro
portion which pleased him—"ie liked the feclion
as it stood better than any of them, but thought
that required some efTential alteration or addi
tion; he had no idea that this government was
to depend on the several State governments for
carrying its laws into execution. He then ad
verted to the two different powers in a commu
nity, the civil and military—the firft is a deli
berative power, the other cannot deliberate—
and therefore in no free country can the lat.ter
be called forth, nor martial law preclaimed but
under great reftriftions. He observed that the
general government had refpe<st to the persons
of the citizens of the several States, and not to
the government of those States; on this prin
ciple the marshals of the several States have a
power to call forth the pojj'c comitatus—and addi
tional marshals should be appointed, and only
in the last extremity they may call forth the
military power ; he was in favor on the whole
of retaining the fettion, and concluded by read
ing a clause which he propolcd ihould be insert
ed as an additional fe&ion.
Mr. Seney was in favor of retaining the
clause, but he thought it ought to be qualified
by foine explanatory article.
(to be continued.)
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
MADRID, March 28
THE Queen was delivered this day
of a son, which has been bap
tized by the name of Don Philip :
all the foreign Ministers, the Nuncio
not excepted, were acquainted with
the event too late to be present at the
ceremony, which was over before
they came.
PARIS, ApiH to,
NA TIONAL ASSEMBL T, April 14,
NEGOCIATIONS with AUSTRIA
All the ministers having entered
the Mali—M. Duniourier then read
the dispatches which he had sent to
Vienna, and the answer which he
had that night received by an extra
ordinary courier.
The minister, in his letter, takes a
view of the different motives which
might influence foreign powers to
arm against France. Could the af
fairs of the Princes who laid claims
to Alface,&c. be afTigued'as a motive ?
It was proposed to adjuftit amicably,
and this therefore could only be the
pretext, and by no means the real
cause. Cotild it be to support the
cause of the emigrants ?—The kin«
had declared against: them : it was
the king who wished to maintain the
new government. Was it the Clubs
who had formed, or the pamphlets
which had been publiflied ? In that
cafe, other powers might have lon<r
fincc undertaken a cruf.de again If
England.
M. de Noail'es, the French ambas
sador at Vienna, observed in his let
ter to the niinifler, that the yontio
king was eager for war ; that he
hiiiili.lt had experienced so manv
mortifications, that he thought it un
iiecefTary to present the above dis
patch. He complained of the im
peachment of M. de Leflart, the late
liiinifter for foreign affairs, and de
sired leave to resign.
M. Dumourier then read a cop)' of
another dispatch to Francis, which
concluded with stating, That iinlefs
the King of the French received a
categorical answer, he mnft consider
himfelf as at war wiih the King of
Hungary ; and that if the armaments
in the neighbourhood of France were
coininued, it would beimpoUible to
restrain the resentment of an offend
ed nation. The miniller added, thai
the King had written with hia own
hand to his nephew, to remind him,
for the lait time, that on his decision
for peace or war muit depend the
peace of Europe, and the fame of his
own dates ; and to recjneft him, in
the name ot glory and humanity,not
lo plunge into an unjuit war. " I
have," laid his majesty, " freely ac
cepted the conftitutioil. I havefworji
with the nation, whose Hereditary
Representative I am, to live free or
die. M. de Mault, my AmbaiTador
Extraordinary, will explain my sen
timents more at large."
M. de Noailles's refilling to com
municate the difpatchts tranfinitted
ro him, being considered as a breach
of trust ; a decree of accusation was
pafied against hinu
APRIL 15
Before the minutes of Saturday
were read over and finally fettled,
the minister for foreign affairs in
formed the National Aflembly that
he had received a letter from M. de
Noailles, flaring, that he had obeyed
the King's orders, in delivering the
dispatches transmitted to him to the
King of Hungary.
This brought on a debate on the 5
propriety of revoking the decree of
accusation again ft M. ,le Noailles,
which, after a reference to the Di
plomatic Committee, was adjourned
tor further consideration.
APRIL 20
Decree declaring -war againfi the King
" rr i r> r
• rr ° °
oj hungary and Bohemia
The National Aflembly deliberat
ing on the formal proportion of the
King, considering that the Court of
Vienna, in contempt of treaties, has
continued to grant an open protecti
on to French rebels ; that it has ex
cited and formed a concert wiih se
veral powers of Europe against the
independence and security of the
French nation:
That t rancis I. King of Hungary
and Bohemia, has, by his notes of
the 18111 of March and 7th of April
latf, refufecl to renounce this concert :
That notwithflanding the propofi
lion made to him by the note of the
111 hof March, 1792, to reduce, on
both fides, to a peace establishment
the troops on the frontiers, he has
continued and increased the hoflile
preparations :
That he has formally infringed the
[sovereignty of the French nation, by
declaring that he would support the
pretentions of the German Princes,
pofTeflionaries in France, to whom
the French nation have continued to
offer indemnifications :
That he has attempted to divide
the French citizens, and to arm them
against one another, by holding out
support to the malcontents in the con
cert of powers ; considering, in fine,
that the refufal of an answer to the
last dispatches of the King of the
French, leaves no longer any hope
to obtain, by means of amicable ne«o
ciation, the redrefii of these diffeiem
grievances, and amounts to a decla-
ration of war, it decrees that there
exists a cafe of urgency.
The National A(Tembly declares,
that the French nation, faithful to
the principles consecrated by the con
ftitntion, not to undertake any war
with the view of making conquests,
and never to employ its force against
the liberty of any people, only take
up arms in defence of their liberty
and their independence ; that the
war, into which they are compelled
to enter, is not a war of nation against
nation, but the just defence of a free
people against the unjust oppreflion
of a monarch: that the French will
never confound their brothers with
real enemies ; that they will neglect
nothing to foften the rigours of war ;
to preserve their property, and pre
vent it from sustaining any injury
and to bring down upon theheadsof
those alone, who league themfelve*
against Liberty, all the evils iisfepa
raU'e from war.
Xhu* it adopts all ibofe foreigners
who, abjuring the cause of its ene
mies, fiiaii join its standard and co> -
fecrare their efforts in the defence of
freedom ; that it will even favour,
22
by all means in its power, their efla
blifliinent in France.
Deliberating 011 the formal propo
sitions of the King, and after having
decreed the cafe of urgency, decrees
war againlt the King of Hungary and
Bohemia.
THE KING'S ANSWER
" 1 (hall take the decree of the
National Afiembly into deep consi
deration. It involves the molt im
portant interelts of the nation."
Next day the Minilter of Juflice
informed the Assembly that the King
had faniftioned the Decree.
LONDON,
KING OF SWEDEN.
The prayer prescribed by the Coun
cil of the regency of Sweden, to be
tead for his Swedish MajeHy, in all
the churches of that kingdom
" O God, be propitious 10 thy peo
ple, and forfake us not when we pros
trate onrfelves before thee. Our
King, solemnly acknowledged by a
people, whole gratitude lie desires,
and has preferred ; who was protect
ed by the fafety which the religion
of a country giants toils Chief-—this
very king, for whom we have so of
ten befeeched ihy grace and blefling,
and have been heard by thee ; this
gracious King has been wounded by
the (hot cf a traitor, fuffers the moit
excruciating pains, and is in danger
to lose a life, the objedt of our love
and thy protection- Extricated from
the danger of war by thy aid,
where a thousand deaths encouipalled
him—peace maker among a divided
people, and now in the bosom of the
tranquility which he hiinfelf procu
red to the public welfare—it is the
lot of this great King to be wounded
by a murderous (hot, fired off to be
reave hiin of life and happiness, in
the metropolis, in his cattle, under
the fafe guard of the laws and socie
ty. —But the King lives, and only
through thee, OGod, he lives. This
melts our hearts in gratitude. We
may entertain hopes of the recovery
and health of the King, if thou, O
God, heareft our prayers and solici
tations in the time of need. O God,
mitigate the fufferings of the King,
help him, strengthen his fortitude,
give him life, health and thy blefling
for many years to come, to the com
fort of his worthy fpoul'e, whose se
paration from him could never take
place without numberless tears ; to
fiuifh the education and the example
of a Prince, who could never af'ceud
the Swedish Throne with a right
greater than that which he may ac
quire by paternal love from his peo
ple ; to the consolation of the Royal
Family, who bell forefee the conl'e-
I quences of an event so fatal to the
kmpire, and which nothing but thy
grace can avert. God, be merciful
to thy people, and forfake us not
while we call upon thee. If it be
possible, yet nothing is impolfible to
thee, we supplicate thee, O Loid, ne
ver to let the blood shed by an assas
sin come upon this country, where
theie is 110 man so bale, so hard, so
heathenish not to deielt and abhor
(his deed. God be with us, as with
our fathers. Forsake us not, with
draw not thy hand from us, for the
fake of Jesus Christ, thy Son, our
Lord, Amen."
The present diflnrbances in Swe
den cannot be ascribed to the influ
ence of liberty fentimfnts ; it is the
struggles of one tyranny against ano
ther. The nobles formerly exircifed
an unlimited oppreifive power, which
was overturned by the present King,
who took it into his own hands ; and
although the finances of the country
had been invoked by his schemes of
ambition, to which he was (limulated
by the old French government, yet
i he people nave enjoyed more privi
leges under him, and therefore pre
fer his despotism to that ofthfc no
bles.
A severe inquiry is on foot concern
it'g ihe accomplices of the aflaflin
Ankeiitroin ; but a degree of commo
tion in Stockholm rendeis it uncer
tain whether the prcfent Government
of Sweden may not yieid to a return
of tile former influence of the Order
of the Nobles and Gentry.
We cannot observe without regret
and indignation, the efforts of certain
> efllefs, turbulent, and fanatical fpi
its, who seek for employment and
distinction to themselves in confu(ioi)
and turmoil to their country, a- i
we hope that there will not be a i y
rapid or great increase, in number 0 ,
consequence, to thole perfong who
have had several meetings, and, we
underitand, regularly meet together
under the name of Friends to a Con
stitutional reform.—There is nothing
in the present situation of our
bouring kingdom, France, thatouHic
to encourage innovation and revolu
tion in this country.
Extrafl oj a letter fro,,, Madrid,
Murc'n 29.
" M. Garcioqui who replaced M,
de Lerena ad iuieriin, has been defi
nitively appointed miniller of finan
ces. The King has reserved to him
fclf the nomination of the governor
of the council of finances, and that
of the fiiperiiuendant general of (he
revenue. 1 hel'e polls were formerly
held by the fame person.
Count d Arsnda has withdrawn
the Royal edidt ofthe 2cth of July,re
quiring an oath from Grangers. This
edict, though explained and frequent
ly commented upon by itsau hor.M.de
Morida Blanca, dill contained verv
great inconveniences, served as a pre
text for vexations of every kind, and
greatly checked the freedom of trade.
April 13.
" The place of counsellor of the
Council of War, vacant by the death
of M. d'Hcredia, has been conferred
on Don Michell d'Ottamendi, who
presides at the head of the office for
Foreign Affairs, and will be succeed
ed by Don Dominique d'Yriarte, Se
cretary to the Embaflfy at Paris."
Tlie la'l accounts from this new co
lony are of a dreadful nature. The
whole settlement were put upon (hurt
allowance, on account of the extreme
scarcity of provisions—and the crops
raising at Fort Jackson were of the
mod unfavorable kind—themollpro
mifing not likely to yield three bush
els for onelown ; and, in many parts,
even the (eed was not expedted to be
returned. Norfolk Jfland did not
produce corn enough for its own in
habitants. In short, the profpetl of
the whole settlement was deplorable
in the extreme.
In confequeiice of tliefe accounts,
orders are fuid to liave been fcnt to
Portfmoiuh, that the ftiips destined
for that place 111 mi Id be detained.
The intelligence of the death of
the King of Sweden produced, as
might be expected, the most lively
effect upon the French Princes. M.
de Conde was very much afFetfted ;
the grief of M. de Artois was so great
hat for fume time he was unable to
suppress his tears. This Prince, and
his brother Monsieur are at present
examining the ftaie of the French
cantonments. The Marquis de Bro
glio had traced the plan of a camp
between Luxembourg and Treves;
but it is probable the declaration of
war will put a flop to this encamp-
ment
THF. KING OF SWEDEN'S WILLS.
Supplement of the fir ft of June, 1 789,
to the will made by the King in
1 780.
Article I. We confirm his Royal
Highness the Duke C harles in the
gurrdianlhip and regency, with the
exceptions ; all of which being men
tioned in our will of 1780, and in
this ast of Ift June 1789, and pre-
Icribed to his Royal Highness :
1. Not ro create, convocate, and
nominate, any CounfellorsofllieEm-
pi re.
2. We forbid his Royal Higbnefi
to convocate the States ofthe Empire,
on accountof theaftual machinations.
3. Nor to change nor dismiss the
persons which attend our son, with
out special order given by our hand.
11. This article concerns the oath
his Royal Highness is to take.
111. This article is relative to the
Governor and Tutor of the young
King.
IV. In this articlethe Puke Charles
is requefled to look out for a conf»rt
for the Young King, when fcventeen
years old, and to accelerate the mar
riage. She mull be of Royal or
princely Mood. Mention is made a
f'refh of (he reservation, that the
young King, when wronged during
his minority, may claim it afterwards
again, and every thing done without
his co 11 Pent fiiall be deemed void.
Was signed, GUSTAV.
&tockho!:n, June ift, 1759.
NEW SOUTH WALES
A PRI L 27,HOUSE OF COMMONS
FRIDAY, APRIL 27
In a committee of the whole House
on the slave trade, Mr. Secretary Dun
das's motion for prohibiting tiie im
portation of African negroes afier
Jan. I, 1800, was read.
Lord Mornington argued Itrenu
oully for a more speedy abolition of
the trade, and moved that 1795 should
be inserted inltead of ISOO.
The committee divided upon Lord
Mornington's amendment for the a
bolition 011 the fir It of January, 1795
Ayes 130, noes 161 —majority 31.
The Speaker proposed Jan. 1,1796.
Sir Edward Knatchbull begged to
know, whether, if 1 796 was agreed
to, it was intended to revive the ques
tion by the promoters of it, l>y nrg
itia, at any future period, a more
speedy end to the trade.
Mr. Pitt and Mr. Kox both declar
ed, that they fliould confuler the vote
of that night as decisive upon the
qneltion, and not fubje<ft to revilion.
The committee again divided upon
the proposition for the lit ot Janua
ry, 1796— Ayes iji, noes 132—majo
rity 19 for abolilliing the trade after
January 1, 1796-
WATER FORD, April 5
t*o LERSTION.
A Jewish awlior thns describes the
Tolerant Spirit of the Government of
Venice : " The Repulic alone, fays
lie, " and noc the Inquisitors, have
the Press under their cognizance."
Thus at Venice, an author may bring
forth what he pleases, provided it
does not affect the government. The
Jews have had a Talmud, and Leon
of Modena, and others, have lately
publilhed theiropinions there. The
Turks have printed their Alcoran ;
but what is still more furpriling a
mong the Nazarines (viz. CUrillians)
is that they there publish books a
gainst the Clergy and the Sovereign
Pontiff, which are received with ap
plause, though this fame Clergy are
i'antftioned by the Magistrates. The
Venetians render their religion sub
servient to their policy, and their
faith to times and seasons ; so that
the body of their Dotftors are com
posed of Nazarine Papists, Schifiua
tics, Heretics, Jews, and even Turks ;
for the Senate there freely permit
the Uni v»rfity of Padua to give the
Dutorial Bonnet, without requiring
any profeflion of faith from the candi
dates, though that profeflion is or
dered by the Pope. From hence it
is plain, that this wife republic think
the road trj the sciences ought to be
open to all men ; and that it is a
hard (hip to have any Humbling block
thrown in their way under the pre
tence of religion
A a late patriotic meeting in Ire
land, their sentiments on the Slave
Trade were thus strongly, though
quaintly marked. Their toalt was
<< The cause of all who are perse
cuted because they are black, and
blackened becaule they are perlecu
ted !"
DUBLIN,
Extratt of a letter from Paris, to a gen
tlevian of refps&ability in this city,
dated 19th of March,
" You have aiked what is my o
pniion of the present posture of af
fairs !—lt is the fame, I believe, as
that of every man, who is not ltrong
ly an infatuated friend, or enemy 10
the confticution—All, I think, tnull
agree, that the present pollure ot af
fairs is inoft wretched—that we have
neither liberty nor security that
anarchy, a state much inferior to the
mod despotic Government, pervades
the land ! and, in fliort, that we seem
to be rushing precipitately into thai
state of disorder, in which force sup
plies the place of law and justice,
and in which all the bonds of social
union are diflolved.
" In Paris, though the fermenta
tion of men's minds be extreme, great
er tratiquilily is enjoyed than in any
other part of the kingdom. Never,
however, were libertinism and irre
ligion carried to the pitch which they
have here attained •• In the provin
ces are daily committed disorders of
every denomination.
" Perhaps before this letter reach
es its deltination, the flames of civil
war will have broken out in the
southern provinces. The clubs ol
the Jacobins, dispersed through the
kingdom, I co'.ifider to be the prin
cipal caule of the disorders. They
iiiHame the minds of the people, ex
cite them to riot, counteract the
nicafures taken by the civil inagil
traies for the re-eltabliihment of or
der, and whilit they are violating
the conftirution, pretend to be iis
chief I'upporc
" The Majority of th« National
rllleinbly is coiiipofed ot men ot that
party — hence the confufion ami tu-
hiuic winch accompany all their tie
bales, their continual complaint oi
he inactivity of the execuiive power
—the denunciation of Miniiters—that
indecent abuleof foreign government
— the provocation of war," &c. &c.
N E W-Y O 11 K, June 15.
Who would have thought (fays a correspon
dent) that tie effects ef the late misfortunes of
many of our citizens would have been 16 little
felt in general, as they are atprefent ? Scarcely
any traces of thv difalters, except in tlie Ipccu
iating line, which happened some time ago, aie
now to be seen in tlie commercial iphere.—
Trade of every kind begins to be carried on
again with spirit and success—The reprefenta-
tioiis which have been made of the situation of
Mew-York, in consequence of the late specula
tive failures, have been very exaggerated and
talfified. The Ihock at the time was severe,
but of snort continuance. Credit is again re
vived—ind prosperity once more approaches
.11 fight.
Philadelphia, June 20.
By an ordinance of the' King' and Council of
Great-Britain, the a<sfcs regulating the trade of
that kingdom with the United States of America,
which were continned to the sth April, 179 2 >
are further continued to the sth April, 1793-
Monday lad: arrived in this city from Lon
don by the way of New-York, a model by which
the New Theatre of MeiTrs. Wignell and Rein
agle in Chefnut-ftreet is to be erected.—This
plan has been pronounced by European archi
tects and perlons of taste and judgment, to be
better calculated for a building of convenient
and elegant accommodation, as well with res
pect to the performers as tire audience, than
any Theatre of equal dimensions hitherto con
ftru&ed. The model will in a few days be ex
hibited for the gratification of the curious.
The late European intelligence exhibits a
very interesting tho' confuled draft of the state
of affairs in that quarter of the globe. France,
finding that the combined powers of Austria,
Prussia, &c. were mak ng the most a&ive war
like preparations, while they continued tonego
ciate very indefinitely, has declared war against
the King of Bohemia and Hungary. This, it is
expelled, will consolidate the views of the na
tion; and while the ardor of the great body of
the people will lead them to the most strenuous
exertions against the common enemy of the
revolution, the legislature will be enabled to
complete without interruption the great busi
ness of arranging their finances, and finifliing
the internal organization of the kingdom. The
momentum of the new power, that of the peo
ple, will be felt, and fubmittcd to in all the de
partments ; and while so striking and important
an object is to be provided for as the war, taxes
will be paid with chearfulnefs, to P ich an amount
as that the treasury will probably be full and
flowing.—The accounts from Austria and Prus
sia are vague ; the marchiug of troops to the
frontiers in large bodies, councils, meflengers,
and other concomitants of war are mentioned.
The King of Sardinia disclaims all lioftile inten
tions against France. The ex-princes and their
forces are quite in the back ground of the pic
ture. — >\veden must be in confufion since the
death of Guftavus ; their own concerns will
probably be luHicient to engross their whole at
tention—an investigation of the lateafiaflination
is prosecuting.—The Swiss Cantons do not ap
pear in a conspicuous situation at the present
crisis.—No recent intelligence is received from
Spain which can enable us to determine what
part ihe will take in the war; her old habits,
and the late change in her ministry, are sup
posed to be favorable to France.—England will
probably remain neuter ; some, however, fup
pole her continental engagements will render it
difficult for her to keep out of the scrape. On
the v/hole, the French, united among themselves,
and animated by the fervor of liberty, will be
invincible, while their enemies will have to ast
with the utmost caution, left while theyattempt
to extinguish the fire of freedom in a neighbor
ing kingdom, their own houses lhould be involv
ed in the flames.
April 5
The late glorious triumph of reason and hu
manity in the decision of the Britifli House of
Commons, for the abolition of the slave trade,
mnft inspire every benevolent mind with the
most pleafmg and refpe£tful emotions towards
that enlightened people. Y/hen we consider the
immense intereit which was supposed to be in
volved in this decision, and the per vertingpower j
of avarice over the human mind, we may juftly 1
exclaim, The lacred influence of Liberty is ir
resistible !
This vote of Parliament, with certain splen
did decrees of the National Afiembly of France
in favor of man, have poured a flood of glory
on the tranfa&ions of the present period, which
throws the events of past times, however bril
liant, into the fhacle.
The number of persons in Edinburgh, taken
last year, was 81,865.
Married, Mr. Jacob C. "NVikoff, Druggill, to
Miss Charlotte Phile, daughter of Frederick
Phile, Ffq. Naval Officer of the Port of Phila
delphia.
23
[The contested cle&ion of the State of New-York
is highly inieiciting, as it relpeCts the imports;
'privilege of free futfrage.— We are alfured thai
it is the decided opimon of the well informed
of both parties, that had all the legal volts given
»t the election 10 which the following protcft
resets been counted, there would have been a
very conlideiable majority lor Mr. Jay a& Go
vernor. j
NEW-YORK, June 13,
WE, the fubfcnbcrs, membeis ot the joint con
rriiice appointed 10 canvass arid tftuuole the vote
tak.cn at the lait elc&ion in this Suic lor Gov. root
Lieurnant-Governor and Senators,do dilfent t roc
and pi oicft againtl the determination ot the majo
part ot the laid committee, lefpetting the vote
laken at the fa id election, in the county ol Otfege
I. Because thcfc votes, having been given o
ih< freeholders of Otfego, and the packages con
tainirtgthe lame having been received, and tranl
mitted in season to the Secretary's office, by th
per lon a£hng as fheiift ot the county, the commit
ite have no right to rcjefct thcin, under the'pre
tcoce ot judging o! the legality,validity, operatio
c>r extent of the (heriil's authority or Com million
Thcfc que-ftions being foreign to the duty ot thei
appointment, and capable of a decision only in th
ordinary courts of law.
11. Because, if the committee was by law au
thorifed t» examine, and determine the legal it
and extent of the Sheriff's authority and commil
lion, we are of opinion that Richard R. Smith, a
the tim: he received and transmitted the ballots
was the lawful fberiff of Otfego. by the Confti
tulion the (Vieritf, whatever may be the form o
Ins commiflioh, mull hold his office during th
pleafurcof the Council ot Appointment, and b
ihe law of the land, he mult continue therein un
111 another is appointed, and takes upon himfel
ihe office. Richard R. Smith having been ap
pointed on the 17th Fcbru?iy, 1791, and Benja
min Gilbert having been appointed on the 30c;
March, 1792, but not having qualified, or takei
upon himfelf the office, until Richard R. Smitl
bad received and tianfinitted the ballots, Richari
R. Smith, at the time he received and forwarder
:hc lame, mutt be deemed the lawful Iheriffof th
:ounty. The uuifoim pra£tiee which has prevail
d since the eftabliftiment of the constitution, pie
ludes all doubt refpe&ing its true conitru&ion o
!ns point. For, although the com millions of th
fheiifls are for one year, they neveithclefs continu
d toexercife the office, until others were appoint
and entered upon the execution thereof
which has ofien been long after the expiration o
the year, and sometimes after ihc fame person ha
remained in office lot more than tour years fuc
t (lively. And such fheriff sometimes after th
of their year, at others,after having hel<
'he office for tour fuccemve years, have receive<
and tranlmitted ballots for Governor, Lieutenant
Governor, and Senators, which ballots have, 01
former ele&ions, been received and canvaflVd
Ind even upon the present canvass, the committe
lave canvaflcd the ballots taken in the counties o
Kings, Orange and Wafhinton, notwithftandin,
he year had expired for which the fheritls o
liefc counties were commillioned, and no nev
:ommiflion had been itTccd. Hence the (herift
)f thole counties, in receiving and tranfmittin,
he ballots, must have atted under their forme
:ommiflions, since a mere appoint me fit without
omrniflion, and a compliance with the requilite
uefcribed by law, could not, in our opinion, giv
»nv authoiity as flieriff to the person so appointed
111. Because, if Richard R. Smith, at the tim
ie received aud forwarded the ballots, was 110
foe nil, the county was without a fhetitf, a pofitio:
00 rnifchicvous to be established by a doubtfu
:onftru£lion of law.
IV. Because, ii Richard R. Smith was not c
r:ght fHeriff of the county at the time he receive*
ind forwarded the ballots, he was then Iheritf 1
:a£t of that county ; and all the a£ts of such an offi
:er, which tend to the public utility, or to pre
erve and render effectual the rights of thiid per
ons, are valid in law.
V. Because, in all doubtful cases, ths committe
)ught, in our opinion, to decide in favor of th
/otcs given by the citizens, left by too nice am
rritical an exposition of the law, the rijht of fuf
rage be rendered nugatory.
We a!fo disTent from, and protcft against the de
ermination of the major part ot the laid commit
ce, refpetting the votes, taken at the laid cle&ion
n tne county of Clinton.
Because, it appears that theffieriffof the fait
:oun:y deputed a person by parole to deliver th
containing the ballots ot the fa id county, inn
he Secretary's Office. Such deputation we deen
obefufficient; and as ihere is fatisfaftory evi
knee, that the box was delivered in the fa mi
late, ;n which it was received trom the fheriff
he votes in our opinion ought to be canvafled.
We also dilfent from, and protest against th'
letcrniiuation ot the major part of the laid com
mttee, by which they declare that George Clintoi
was, by the greatest number of votes taken at th
ast elc&ion, ior Governor, Lieutenant-Governor
ind St r.ators, cholen Governor of this state ; am
hat Pierre Van Cortlandt was, by the greatcl
lumber of votes at the laid election, chosen Lieu
enant-Governor of this state. And that John Li
'ingfton was, by the greatest number of votes a
he laid election, in the Eastern d 1 ftr 16b of thi
late, chosen a Senator in the said Eastern diftriil.
Because, itcannot be •fcertained whether Georg.
Jlmton was chosen Governor, or Pierre Van Con
andf, Lieutenant-Governor of this Itate, by th<
;reatcft numhor of votes at the last election, with
>ut examining the ballots, contained in the boxes
lelivered into the Secretary's Office, by the the
iffs of the counties of Otfego and Clinton ; there
leing a lufficient number of freeholders in theft
ounties, with the votes given in other parts ol
lie state, for John Jay, as Governor, and Stephen
ir-.n RanfelUier, as Lieutenant-Governor, to give
hem a majority ot votes tor thole offices; nor can
t be afcertaincd, whether John Livingfton was
hofen a Senator in the Eastern dillrift, by the
;ieatcft number of votes in that diftrift, without
xamining the votes taken in the county of Clin
on, there being a fufficient number of freeholders
n that county, with the votes given in other
f the diftridl, for Thomas Jenkins, as a Senator,
d give him a greater number of votes for a Scna
or, than the number given for the said John Li
ingfton. SaMUEL JONES,
ISAAC ROOSEVF.LT,
LEONARD QANShVOORT.
Secretary's Office,
New-York, June 12, 1792.
From ths title of t';a National Gazette
■'fays a Corrjfpoiideut) it was natural to ex
jsft that it would have been conspicuous for
d.ileininating principles calculated to promo.e
the great national interetts of tlio United States
the national union, natior.il credit, national projj't
rity, in respect to commerce, sericulture and
manufa&ures-*'national in refer
ence to the conllitution, the laws, and govern
ment ; and in respect to the administration of
the --jvcrnnient, which is placed in the hands
of the ti-it patriots of the country, at the head
of whom ii the man who '* unites ail hearts,"
at least apparently; an administration which
with so much harmony, concord a..d luccei;,
have given America a name in tho earth, and
made her the model of t ie nations that deter
mine to be free. —Initead of realizing these rea
sonable and ji-It expectations, w.-.at do wc bj
holu? A faction, who arrogating to themselves
a superior degree of sensibility fjr the liberties
of this country, are incelfantly pouring forth,
through the medium of that Gazette, a torrent
of abuse against men and measures; and load
ing the government of t:;e people with epi
thets of opprobrium, furpafiing thnfe formery
applied to the measures of the Britiih mimltry
ti their attempts to enllave us.
be considered in any other point of view, than
a continuation of that oppoiition which sprang
up immediately on the promulgation of thecon
ftitution to which the United States is indebted
for its prelent enjoyments and futureprofpe&s-
It may not be improper to exhibit, occasion
ally, an abi'haft of those sentiments and opini
ons, by which the party that supports this Na
tional Gazette propose to secure to the people the
bleflings of union, and a republican system of
government. C.
Tiie following national sentiments appear in
the National Gazette of Monday la.it:
" The fpirtted conduCl of some good old whigs of
1775, in deflroying the notification of the exciseman u1
Germantown, as a dilgracrijl of flavcry, may
convince our rulers that a Jree people unit not be
amused by financial palliatives.
" The government of the United States in all thingi
wishing to imitate the con apt principles 0/ the court of
Great Britain, has commenced the a J graceful career
by an etcife law, and during t/ie lajlfefjlon oj Congrejs
attempted a stamp duty on cards, with a faniliftcd
pretence to ditcourage gambling
N. B. The acquiescence of the refpeftive
dates in the excise law, is manifeft from this
circumstance—that they generally, if not all of
them, have repealed their state excile laws, in
consequence of that species of taxation's being
iffdmed by Cangrefs agreeable to the consti
tution.
Extract from the fame paper.
" A refpelakle minority in Congress (the [ingle note
of Gen. jjekfon might have frequently made it a ma
jority) have rearobatrd every one of the meaf ires that
are complained oj; andij Pennfy'vania had been re
prejenttdin the Senate, many oj those measures, which
mere carried only by the cafling voice of the Vice-Presi
dent, would perhaps never have been adopted."
Extract from Thursday's Gazette.
" That there wai an evident bias m the llmJc oj
Rcprefentatives, of a mojl lingular nature, in the vote
given the 2lft of March Ufi, mujt appear to every nu
partial examiner, who will take the trouble to call his
e\e ovet the Yets and Nays, where it will dearly ap
pear that the northern members generally voted in the
negative on the quejlion for declaring Gen. jfacljon en
titled to a feat."
This is truly republican indeed! Thus also
has the Speaker of the House been stigmatized
in the National Gazette as a prejudiced man, for
the abominable crime of exercising his own
judgment !
Another extract.
1 " Was it a hofi oj who, with the Pres
ident of the United States at their head, kicked out of
I doors the iradtiom/.ing reprejentation bill, to introduce
\a conftilutional one
This fliews the fent'iinents of the party—
from such intolerance may the United States
forever continue free.
The New-York papers teem with publica
tions (pro and con) relpefting the decision of the
canvallers of the votes at the late election in
that state.
A meetiug was to be held on Monday at the
City-Hall, for the purpose of"adopting measures
to obtain legal rcdrefs of the injury conceived
to be done to the Constitution from the decision
of a majority of the can vailing committee.
At a meeting of the Convention of the Pro
testant Episcopal Church in this State, held at
Christ Church the sth inft. the following gen
tlemen were appointed delegates to the general
convention of said church in the United States,
to be held in the city of New-York, the 3d
Tuesday in September next, viz.
The Rev. Dr. Smith, Rev. Dr. Magaw, Rev.
Mr. Pilmore,Rev. Mr. Grig, William Bingham,
Esq. and Meflrs. John Campbell and Wooddrop
Sims.
Died on Saturday last, after a fliort illness,
much regretted by a numerous
Col. Richard Fullertoh, of t'lis city,
and on Sunday his remains weredepofitedin the
burial ground of the firft Presbyterian Church,
attended by a large number of refpedtable citi-
zens.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deterred,
indents,
Final Settlements, 2C~f
Half shares Bank U. S. 75 per cent, prern.
Shares Bank North-Amerira, 17 ditto.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT <?/" PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Juno, Erice, Havre de Grace & Exeter
Brig Columbus, Selman, Cadiz
$3T The Editor of this Gazette informs his
patrons, that he has constantly lent it to those sub
scribers who have not directed that it should be
discontinued after the firft of June.
This cannot
22/"
13/
life
13 Jr9
=
From the United States Uiror.ic!e, printed at P.-ovidcnce, (It. I.)
JN ODE.
TIXE EFFECTS OF SPIUNG.
REMOTE from noifc, in (Vies fcrene,
Old Taunton's dsui-capt fpircs afccnd,
The hills are cover'd o'er with green.
And blossoms make the forclls bend.
Tho' fools contest, and bigots rave,
Bright rcafon yet dirc£ts the foul,
While forae, just toti'ring o'er the grave,
Seem quite impatient of controui,
Let satyr keen, and w it rcfin'd,
Tianfmute enjoyment into pain,
Till ieafon ftimulatcs the romd
To court philosophy again.
Here heav'n-taught science rears her head,
And labor marks the road to wealth,
While foeial mirth, by fancy led,
EftablLfhes convenient health.
Here too, on plcafurc's airy tide,
We court the muses in the (hade,
Or on the ambient waters glide,
To fee the glimmering landscape fade.
Amufcment oft at evening hours,
Impels the rustic swain !o rove
In search of pinks and fweetell flowers,
To deck the bosom ct his love.
Enamour'd there he drops his head,
In vain he courts forbidden bliss;
And tho' he fails her charms to wed,
He now and then purloins a kiss.
Our cattle in the forcfts flray,
Our lambkins bound the meadows o'er,
Their gambols round their mothers play,
And vultures kindle fear no more.
Since herrings came our flreams to trace,
Health fpaikles on the damsel's cheeks,
She lures on (bore the finny race,
While rapturous joy her bosom fpcaks.
She takes the victim by the tail,
And bends her footfteps to her home ;
And as Hie winds along the vale,
She cries—" the herring tribe is come!"
Now pie a Cure darts in ev'ry eye,
Each bosom glows with fervent heat;
The fainting more than gain supply,
The v/rctchcd quit their dark retreat.
The limping fire his crutch forgoes,
His wither'd limbs revive in bloom ;
He throws aside his bag of woes,
Nor yet salutes the sullen tomb.
O Spr INC! Thou happicft scene of man,
Push on thy blcflings through the year ! —
O let it end—as it began,
Without a sigh—without a tear!
Taunton, May 24, 1792,
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-caflcs of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very bell CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-calk.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-caik.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit for
an East-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choice firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft qualitv, and
114 Hhd'.. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792
Bank of the United States,
MAY 8, 1792.
ESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay.
V mult due on thcfirft Monday of July next, on each share of
the Bank of the United Sates, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
■public debt 011 account of Inch payment, mav be made on the
books of the TVeafury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commifiioncis of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment lhall be made.
Refolveo, Tb»» 1 be tranifn-fwmlcs be elofcd fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days of July and January of each year
"V O" 1 "- JOHN KEAN. Cafiiier.
GEORGETOWN (POTOYVMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
In that commodious House lately occupied by Tkonas Sidle, fc'fq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnifiled himfelf with a (lock of the bed Liquor* and
will use every exertion to give fatislaaion by procuring in 'their
season, the best of every' fpecics of provision, and having the fame
served up in the mod neat and elegant manner.
[lawiftjul.] G£ORGE H. LEICH.
. W TEAS.
1 L HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Oftl = I iju.uuy, and latest importation from Canton, via
New-York, by retail, at
No 19,
>d, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
Stock Brokers Office,
N". 45,.Great Dock-street, New-York,
r I \I; of ' it.tr intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
I jkCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
B< gs ! . o joss. 1 his Icrvices to his friends and others, in the
line ot a Stoek Broker. Those who may pleafeto lavor hini with
tHcir bufiucb. mav depend upon having it tranfa&ed with the ut
mnlt fidelity and difpa'ch.
Oiders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
Ufiutd States will be ftri&ly attended to.
May ?,
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-Strf.ET, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Cointn:llion, by Private Contrast, aiUl Public Auction.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
80/ ion. March, 1792. (1 averts)
WASHING J ON, in thi Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com
miilioners ot the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, Iha 11 produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, lor a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be ere&ed in this Cuv. The si eof the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it's deiiinatioo will point out to him the number,
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
eredled for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable ol admitting the additional paxts, in future, if they
lhall be wanting. Drawings will beexptfltd of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fe&ioris through the building, in such
directions as may be neceifary to explain the internal ftruflure;
and an elkimate of the cubic feet of brick-work com poling the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbi a.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be designated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commif
fionert of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, beforr the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, (hall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by thrm, for a CAPITOL, to be eredeel
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
fhail adopt. The building to be of biick, »nd to coutain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit:
A Conference Room
A Room for the R<
j persons each. I 10 be ot
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter f full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area | lion.
An Antichamher or Lobby to the last
12 Rooms ot 600 fquaie feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Olfices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be cxpc&ed of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and fe&ions through ihe building in such diretlious
as n»ay be necellaiy to explain the internal ftru&ure; and ancfti
mate of the cubic feet of bnck-work cornpofing the whole mass
ol ths wails.
March 14, 1792 tf.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £ . 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Prottftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
ag'C able (oan ast of the Legislature of the State of Ncw-Jericy,
paiTed November 1791.
1
2
5
20
30
90
*675
a 81 4 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
.5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
fcT ThisLoitrry is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prite, and fubjett to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ol such evident utility, that it
cannot he doubled but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal support.
The drawing will positively onmmenre on ihe second Monday
in Julv, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpettton of Col. John Bayard, P,e
fident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Am
bov ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufadturing Socirty of New-Jrrfey.
Tickets to be had ot the following peffons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the foitunatc numbers will he publifhcd, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER K EEN ON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church.
( e P9 )
%* Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
thai, 3 per cent, per month for their mowev. To accommodate
a.I thole who may he disposed to purr-baft Tickets, letters Hireit
ed to P. Ke en On., Manager, and Poftmafter,at New-Brunfwick,
*nd enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
Ntw-Brunfwick, April 20, 1792,
"Tickets , n I, e new-brunswick lottery, .re to
— be h ' a , at lhc following places, Samuel Cooper's
Ferry ; at Bu.lu.gton, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordemown, of Mr.
John Van Eraburgh ; Mount Hollv, of J. Rwd, Esq. Trenton,
«f John S,n s er Esq. Amboy, of Jamr, Pa.ker, Esq. Elizabeth.
Town, of R Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Indee
Hunt; Cranbury of WtlliarnThrockmortonSpoifwood ; and of
Uic Managers ;n Brunfwtck.
24
LEONARD BLEECKER.
(i.r.)
THE COMMISSIONERS.
fufficicnt to ac-~)
> commodate 300 j these rooms
fentativcs
.epre
THE COMMISSIONERS.
SCHEME.
1 Prize of 2000 Dollars is 2000
1000
50©
200
100
5o
20
4
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SAL/.,
At any time between this date and the firik day of July euu
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY ("mated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watetrd in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy cxpence. The upland lays in th«
lap ot about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing dream of water runs through this (raft, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar.
den, and neccflarv out-buildings ; an orchard of the brft kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing; a crop of wheatand
rye in the ground, and a fpriny; crop putting in. Apply to
Peter Le Barbier Du Pl ess is, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreei,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey V/aterman, at the Washing
ton, on the Bristol road; or to Doctor Tomb, at Nelhamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchafcr, paying owe third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
interest. May 5. (cp.tf.)
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
l. A MERICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in Janu
jLJL ary i 787, to December 1791, in ten vols. Price, neatly
bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now rondu&ed on an improved plan, con
taining the best pieces published for and agatnft the proceedings
of government, will be found to contain at Irafl as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and mifcellaneousefTays. as any ever pub
)i shed in A merit ?. Perhaps in no one work are so many valuable
docummts refpecling iVie biftory of this country, collected toge
ther. His Excellency ehe President of the United States, has de
clared of it, thnt " a more ufeSul literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more deferring ot public encou
ragement." The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per ann.
Gentlemen in the country who wi(h to be fuppJied with this
work, are requeued to give commiflion to friends in the city to
fubferibe for and reccive if Any of the back numbers may
be had in order to complete feis.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's Eltays,
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchioncfs of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs.
C.hapon** on command of Temper. More'* Fables for the Ladies,
Price 6f6.
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its fiift settlement to
the year 1 732. To which is annexed, a dtfenption of the coun
try, with a ftiort account nf the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the constitution ol the courts of juiUce. Pticc
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l d. pro
fefTor of moral philofophv and logic in the Marilchal College,
Aberdeen—Price thiee-fnurths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have seen nothing
on these fubjrfts more plain, moie perlpicuous, or more generally
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfuy in Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feleft
produdlions of the moil eminent liritifti and American
Price tour-filths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
of the Br it tfh edition, in two—-Price two dollars.
7. Nccker's Treat tfe on the importance of Religious Opinions.
Price four-fifths oi a dollar.
8. Examination of the Obfervat'ons of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce— Price, on very fine paper, 5 Bihs of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the fcvcral United States, with the Fc
dcial Confutation, &c. Price Sve-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in i2mo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jest Book, in rwo parts, with two very neat en-,
gravings—Pricc, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the Soul, by Bilhop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13. The Doway TranOation of the Vulgate Bibi-, in quarto-
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50/2— plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum— Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on'i, or reflexions for every day of the raonik.
Price a quarter dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a Greek manufcripf,
found in the island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse—Price a fifth of a dollar.
1 7. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—Price a sixth of a
dollar.
1000
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
19* Srlcft Poems, chiefly American—Price a sixth of a dollar
Said Carey has for sale, 3 large allottment of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he will dispose of on the
mod reasonable terms. Country gcn»lemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon bemg fupplicd in the moftfatisfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance 10 such as purchase quantities
for public libraries,or to (ell agdin.
IOGO
1000
1000
1 ,500
J 800
6700
16000
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their L e ad-War rhou se, two doors
south of Walnut-ilrcet Wharf, New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they watrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a rcduced
price from the cost of imported.
They alio continue to manufa&urc all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrelftd to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, aud execnted on the
ihorteft notice.
N T . B. Wanted, industrious, sober, l abouring Men, at the tara
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosis Austin & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY Irom the subs riber. on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN,.is 55 >' cm of
It out made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much swelled,
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; hid on when he went away a big purp c
coloured cloth coat, a Ihort linen coat, a pair of fuftian brecches,
a ruffled shirt, an old beaver hat, with fhoc<. ftockingsand buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO COY named SAM, is 19
years ot age, stout and well made, 5 Icct 9 i nc^fS mucn
marked with the fmail-pox ; had on when lie went away, a is
blue coat, a brown Ihort coat, overalls of a mixed clotK, ut e
(lockings, a new wool hat, new shoes and buck<cs. °f X h r
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to t e u
fc riber, shall receive the above reward, and all rca f° n3^ifA?,^ CS
paid. ALEXANDER RO3ERISO.V
Morris-Town, April 17, 1792
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATTHEW CAREY,
Pr j l r