A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. no, of Vol. lII.]
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
pipes and quarter-calks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported -
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Ex-change MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-cask.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-cafe.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a fiiperior quality, and such as is fit for
an East-India voyage, put lip in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1795
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ol Philadelphia, in the State of Pcnn
fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT more effe&ually to provide for the Na
tional Defence, by establishing an Uniform
Militia throughout the United States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress afrembled,
That each and every free able-bodied white male citizen of
the refpe&ive States, refidetit therein, who is or fliall be of
the age of eighteen years, and under the age of forty-five
years, (except as is herein after excepted) shall severally and
refpeftively be enrolled in the militia by the captain or com
manding officer of the company, within whole bounds such ci
tizen (hall reside, and that within twelve months after the
parting of this act. And it shall at all times hereafter be the
duty of every such captain or commanding officer of a compa
ny, to enrol every such citizen, as aforefaid, and also those
who shall, from time to time, arrive at the age of eighteen
years, or being of the age of eighteen years and under the age
of forty-five years (except as before excepted) shall come to
reside within his bounds; and shall without delay notify such
citizen of the said enrolment, by a proper non-commissioned
officer of the company, by whom such notice may be proved.—
That every citizenfo enrolled and notified, shall, within fix
months thereafter,provide himfelf with a good musket or fire
lock, a fufficient bayonet and belt, twofpare flints, and a knap
sack, a pouch with a box therein to contain not !efs than twen
ty-four cartridges, suited to the bore of his musket or firelock,
each cartridge to contain a proper quantity of powder and
ball : or with a goad rifle, knapsack, shot-pouch and powder
horn, twenty balls suited to the bore of his rifle, and a quarter
of a pound of powder ; and fliall appear so armed, accoutred
and provided, when called out to exercise or into iervice, ex
cept, that when called out on company days to exercise only, I
he may appear without a knapsack. That the commissioned
officers shall feverallv be armed with a sword or hanger, and
efpontoon; and that from and after five years from the passing of
this ast, all mufquets for arming the militia as is herein re
quired, shall be of bores fufficient for balls of the eighteenth
part of a pound : and every citizen so enrolled, and providing
himfelf with the arms, ammunition and accoutrements re
quired, as aforefaid, shall hold the fame exempted from all
suits, dittrefles, executions or sales, for debt or for the pay
ment of taxes.
And be it farther enacted, That the Vice-President of the
United States; the officers, judicial and executive, of the go
vernment of the United States; the members of both Houses
of Congress, and their refpeftive officers; all custom-house of
ficers, with their clerks all poft-ofiicers, and stage-drivers
who are employed in the care and conveyance of the mail of
the poft-office of the United States : all ferrymen employed at
any ferry on the post-road; .11 infpeftors of exports; all pilots;
all mariners actually employed in the <ea service of any citi
zen or merchant within the United States ; and all persons
who now are or may hereafter be exempted by the lawsof th t
respective States, shall be and are hereby exempted from mi
litia duty, notwit'nftanding their be ; ng above the age ol
eighteen, and under the age of forty-five years.
And be it further enacted, That within one year after the
passing of this ast, the militia of the respective States shall be
arl-anged into divisions, brigades, regiment-;, battalions and
companies, as the legi<la»-m-e of each State fliall direst; and
each division, brigade, and regiment, shall be numbered at tht
lormation thereof; and a record made of such numbers in the
adjutant general's office in the State ; and when in the field,
or in jbrvice in the State, each diyiiion, brigade and regiment
fliall, respectively, take rank according; to their numbers,
Wednesday, May 16, 1792.
reckoning the firft or lowest number hlgheft in rank. That i<"
the lame be convenient, each brigade shall consist of four re-
giments ; each regiment of two battalions; each battalion of
five companies; each company of sixty-sour privates, That
the said militia (hall be officered by the refpe&ive States, as
follows : To eaca division, one major-general and tiro aids-de
camp, with the rank of major; to each brigade, one brigadier
general with one brigade infpeftor, to serve also as brigade
major, with the rank of major; to each regiment, one lieuten
ant colonel commandant; and to each battalion, one major ;
to each company, one captain, one lieutenant, one ensign, four
ferjeants, four corporals, one drummer, and one flier or bug
ler. That there lhall be a regimental ftaff, to consist of one
adjutant, and one quarter matter, to rank as lieutenants ; one
paymaster ; one surgeon, and one surgeon's mate; one fe;jeant
major ; one drum major, and one fife major.
And be it further enacted, That out of the militia enrolled,
as is herein directed, there shall be formed for each battalion,
at least one company of grenadiers, light infantry or riflemen;
aud that to each division there lhall be, at least, one company
of artillery, and one troop of horse : There shall be to each
company ol'artillery, one captain, two lieutenants, four fer
jeants, four corporals, fix gunners, fix bombardiers, one drum
mer, and one fifer. The officers to be armed with a sword or
hanger, a fufee, bayonet and belt, with a cartridge box to
contain twelve cartridges; and each private or matrofs lhall
furnifh himfelf with all the equipments of a private in the in
fantry, until proper ordnance and field artillery is provided.
There lhall be to each troop of horse, one captain, two lieute
nants, one cornet, four feijeants, four corporals, one fadler,
one farrier, and one trumpeter. The commissioned officers to
furnilh themselves with good horses of, at least fourteen hands
and an half high, and to be armed with a sword and pair of
pistols, the holsters of which to be covered with bearlkin caps.
Each dragoon to furnilh himlfelf with a serviceable horse, at
least fourteen hands and an half high, a good saddle, bridle, mail
pillion and valise, holsters, and a breast plate and crupper, a
pair of boots and spurs, a pair of pistols, a sabre, and a car
touch box to contain twelve cartridges forpiftols. That each
company of artillery and troop of horse lhall be formed of vo
lunteers from the brigade, at the discretion of the commander
in chief of the State, not exceeding one company of each to a
regiment, nor more in number than one eleventh part of the
infantry, and lhall be uniformly clothed in regimentals, to be
furnilhed at their own expense ; the color and falhion to be
determined by the brigadier commanding the brigade to which
they belong.
( C P9')
And be it further ena&ed, That each battalion and regi
ment lhali be provided with the state and regimental colors
by the field officers, and each company with a drum and fife or
bugle horn, by the commissioned officers of the company, in
such manner as the legislature of the refpe&ive States shall
direct.
And be it further enacted, That there shall be an adjutant
general appointed in each State, whose duty it shall be to dis
tribute all orders from the commander in chiefof the State to
the several corps; to attend all public reviews, when the com
mander in chief of the State shall review the militia, or any
part thereof; to obey all orders from him relative to carrying
into execution and perfecting the fyflem of military discipline
established by this ast ; to furnifh blank forms of different re
turns that may be required, and to explain the principles on
which they should be made ; to receive from the several offi
cers of the different corps throughout the State, returns of
the militia under their command, reporting the actual situa
tion of their arms, accoutrements and ammunition, their de
linquencies, and every other thing which relates to the general
advancement of good order and discipline : All which, the se
veral officers of the divisions, brigades, regiments and battal
ions arc hereby required to make in the usual manner, so that
the said adjutant general maybe duly furnifhed therewith:
From all which returns he shall make proper abftrafts, and
lav the fame annually before the commander in chics of the
State.
And be it further enacted, That the rules of discipline ap
proved and established by Congress, in their resolution of the
twenty-ninth of March, 1779, shall be the rules of discipline
to be observed by the militia throughout the United States,
excep't such deviations from the said rules, as may be rendered
neceiTary by the requisitions of this ast, or by some other una
voidable circumstances. It shall be the duty of the command
ing officer at every muster, whether by battalion, jegiment
or single company, to cause the militia to be exercised and
trained agreeably to the said rules of discipline.
And be it further enacted, That all commissioned officers
lhall take rank according to the date of their commissions ;
and when two of the fame grade bear an equal date, then their
rank to be determined by lots, to be drawn by them before
the commanding officer of the brigade, regiment, battalion,
company or detachment.
And be it further enacted, That if any person, whether of
ficer or soldier, belonging to the militia of any State, and call
ed out into the service of the United State-;, be wounded or
disabled while in actual service, he shall be taken care of and
provided for at the public expense.
And be it further ena&ed, That it shall be the duty of the
brigade infpeftor, to attend the regimental and battalion
meetings of the militia composing their several brigade?, du
ring the time of their being under arms, to infpett their arms,
ammunition and accoutrements; superintend their exercise
and manoeuvres and introduce the system of military disci
pline before described throughout the brigade, agreeable to
law, and such orders as they lliall, from time to time receive
from the commander in chief of the State ; to make returns
to the adjutant-general of the State t at lead once in every
year of the militia of the brigade to which he belongs, report
iirg therein the actual situation of the arms, accoutrements
and ammunition of the leveral corps, and every other thing
which, in his judgment, may relate to their government and
the general advancement of good order and military discipline;
and the adjutant-general lhall make a return, of all the militia
of the State, to the commander in chief of the said State, and a
duplicate of the fame to the President of the United States.
437
[Whole No. 518.]
And whereas sundry corps of artillery, cavalry and infantry,
r.ow eriit in several of the said States, which by the laws, cus
toms or usages thereof, have not been incorporated with or
fubje<?c to the general regulations of th<i reft of the militia.
Ee itenafted, That i'uch corps retain their accultomed pri
vileges, fubjeft, nevertheless, to all other duties required by
this ast, in like manner with the other militia.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Hat ft of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Pre/ldent
pro tempore oj the Semite,
ArrßOV£» MA* TUI £ I GHTfI, »79®.
AN ACT for the relief of persons Imprisoned
for 4ebc.
BE it ena£led by the Senate and Hmife of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflembled, That
persons imprisoned on executions issuing from any court of the
United States for fatisfa&ion of judgments many civil attions shall
be entitled to like privileges of the yards or limits of the respec
tive gaols as persons confined in such gaols for debt or judgments
rendered in the courts of the several States arc entitled to, and un
der the like regulations and reftri&ions.
And be it further enacted, That any person imprisoned as afore
faid, may have the oath or affirmation h rein after expr("fled ad
ministered to him by any judge of the United States* or of the ge
neral or supreme court of law of the State in which the debtor is
imprisoned, the creditor his agent or attorney, if cither live with
in one hundred miles of the place of imprisonment, cr within the
diftrift in which the judgment was rendered having had at least
thirty davs previous notice, by a citation served on him, lflued by
any such jhdge, to appear at the time therein mentioned, at the
said gaol, if he fee fit, to shew cause why the said oath or affirma
tion should not be so administered j at which time and place, if
no fufficient cause in the opinion ot the judge, be (hewn or doth
from examination appear to the contrary, he may at the request
of the debtor, proceed to administer to him the following oa;h or
affirmation, as the the cafe may be viz. " You folemrly
swear (or airirm) that you have not estate, real or personal, nor is
any to your knowledge holdcn in trust for you io the amount
or value of twrnty dollars, nor fofficiem to pay the debt for
which vou are imprisoned." Which oath or affirmation being
administered, the judge (hall certify the fame under his hand, 10
the p» ifonkeeper, and (h ill fix a rtafonable allowance for the
debtor's support, not exceeding one dollar per week ; and if the
creditor shall theieafter any week fail to furnifh the debtor with
(uch weekly support, by paying or advancing the money to h>m,
or to the prifonkeeper, for his use, the debtor (ball be d (charged
from his imprisonment on fuchjudgment, and shall not be liable
to be imprisoned again for the laid debt; but thr judgment shall
remain good and fufficienr in law, and may be fatisfied out of
any estate which may then or at any time afterwards belong to
the debror.
And be it further enalted, That if any person shall falfely take
the oath or affirmation aforefaid, such person (hall be deemed
guilty of perjury, and fuffer the pains and penalties in that cafe
provided.
And be it further ena&ed, Thjt this ad D»a!l continue and be
in force, for the space of one year from the paHing thereof, attd
From thence to the end of the next fefiiou oi Congress, and Ho
longer.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
ofthe Himje oj Reprejentativti,
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prejident
pro tempore of the Strttte.
APFROVID MAY THS 7IFTH, 1792,
THE PORTRAIT—an extract
•' —HE returned from the fatigues of his br.'-
linefs at ten in the morning. His feelings call
ed loudly for the poisonous draught ; but the
well was dry„and no water could be had but
from a distant spring. He dispatched a servant
express with the pitcher. The bottle of rum
was on the table in readiness—the weather was
hot, and his third was excefiive the moments
were anxiously courted, and rolled on more te
diously than they do when chided by an anxious
lover waiting for the mistress of all his affecti
ons.—He took up a Gazette to cheat the delay—
but the time was prolonged, for the servant had
broken the pitcher in his return from the spring,
and was afraid to provoke his mailer with the
disappointment ; lie therefore ran to buy ano
ther, but the fliop was ihut.
Charles walked the room in an agony ; but
contemplating on a fragment he had been read
ing in the Gazette, entitled the progress and ef
fects of drunkenness. It had made a deep im
pression on his inind, and held a mirror before
his eyes which gave him pain. His piclure, tak
en about three years before, was hanging in the
room. He viewed his image in the large glass,
and then turned and viewed the picture with
aftoniftunent. He counted the number of years
since he had been thrown on the canvass with
all the vigor and fprightlinefs of healthy man
hood ; and soon recollecting that none of his
neighbours, excepting two, who were intemperate
fats, had gone down the bill of life so fwiftly as
he had done. He was thus thrown by accident,
into a light, where he conld no longer conceal
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Prejident of the United States.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejident of the United Statei.lnmfeHTrom him Pelf ; and his reason told him
that he had been o.pofed to the world, as lie
then was to binifelf. _
Cliarlei was a man of finnnefs. He was ah
lent liero.— He at once resolved to conquei- lo
foul an enemy, or lo die nobly in the attempt.
Jnfpired with this noble resolution, lie no longer
waited for the return of the unfortunate pitcher,
but called for nib hoi fe, and went to his business,
nor did he ever inquire into the cause ot theler
vant's delay. — From that time forward lieie
liounced the nfe ot ardent Ipirits. ilis health
has returned, his reputation is secured, and his
wife and children are ine*preHibly happy.
EXTRACTS
" THERE is nothing more difguttfu! com
roonly to the judicious, than noisy controversy ;
and especially t hen the parties contending make
victory, and not truth their mair\ objert. When
a paper war ofiliis nature breaks out, luch wea
pons are used as are both mean and dilhonorable.
The auxiliaries of the combatants are burlelque,
and personal invec'tive ; which, .inllead of aid
ing, always injxire their caule. Fei lons who con
tend under the influence of fucli a temper, are
wont to all'ert things which are borh falle and
ridiculous in the view of their readers ; and like
two men engaged in atftual fight, every blow
they strike detra(ffs froiri their honor. The
greatest advantage that can accrue to readers of
lucli kind of writings, is lo them a more
striking idea of human depravity. And I be
lieve we :nay fafely fay, thac it is impoHible to
ascertain the merits of a cause, from writers of
this stamp. We may always llrongly fufpetft
that person to bcin the wrong, who, wiili all the
airs of dogmatism, proclaims his innocence and
cries down his antagonist ; and especially when
he has nothing but his bare ipfe dixit, to prove
his aflertions. Thac cause which requires scur
rility for its support, is a despicable caule indeed ,
to use it in a good cause, is execrable."
THE habit cfchewing tobacco, taking fnufF,
or finoking a pipe or fegars, {may be clalled a
mongst the inoft dirty, disagreeable habits that
a man can be fubjetfled to. However 101 l a man
may be to the sense of it himfelf, yet the use of
tobacco renders him very offenfive, and disagree
able to all them with whom he happens to be
near, and who are so fortunate as not to life the
nauseous weed. It inufl be peculiarly disagree
able to the ladies ; and they never fail to raise
the muscles of their face in disgust, when they
are near enough to take the breath of a smoker.
I have fat with pity, and overborne with coin
padiou, when 1 have seen a gentleman by the
lide of his wife, a fine delicate lady, and he hea
vily, and Uupidly (laiiiing his breath with the
sickly and dirty vapour of the moll natifeous ve
getable produced by the rays of the fun.
LONDON, March ;
LETTERS from Bnchareftllate, thatasfoonas
the Beys of Egypt, who had determined to
render thenifelves independent, and to fliufce off
the Ottoinau yoke, Jearnt that the Porte had
made peace wit h the Ruffians, they changed their
plan of conduct, and feiu to the Sultan an ex
traordinary embafly, with rich present, and the
most politive assurances of perfect fubniiffion.—
This event canfed the greatell pleafare at Con
stantinople ; the embafiy was received, and was
honored with a solemn entreaty.
The fame letters add, that in the month of De
cember, the heat was as great in the capital of
the Turkiih empire, as ul'ually in the month of
June ; that the plague continued its ravages, and
daily carried off great numbers.
The Emperor has informed the King of Prus
sia, that for the security of the empire he has
given orders to his troops to hold themselves in
readiness to march, and he doubts not that his
PrulTinn Majelty will effectually concur for the
fame falutarv end.
There exills in Portugal a moll formidable in
quisition against all who prefuine to (peak in fa
vorable terms of the French Revolution : They
are immediately seized and confined ; and this
practice prevails not only with refpeift to natives,
but likewise foreigners. A very great number
of persons have already been seized, and the ri
gour with which their sentences are inflidled in
ci eases every day.
In the National Aflembly of France, on Tues
day last, an account was read from the depart
ment of the lower Pyrennes, flaiingthat the Span
iards had made an incursion, and carried off 500
sheep and three men ; and that the people were
preparing to retaliate, but had been prevailed
cn to wait till the opinion of the National Aflem
bly was known. The Aflembly decreed. That
the Executive Power, should enquire into this art
of pillage, demand reparation, and indemnify
the persons who had fuffered by it.
Letters have been received at Malta from all
the Knights acknowledging the receipt of the
circular letter from the Grand Mailer, in which
they are adinoniflied to observe a neutrality as
to tlie affairs of France. '
M. Birthelemy, the French AnibafTadov at the
thirteen Cantons, has found al! through his rout,
the spirit of the people, as well as the Magis
trates, very adverse to the new conflitutioii of
France. Great preparations are making for war
in Savoy. Ten thousand men are actually re
ported to be moving towards the Itonticrs of
France
Although an open attack upon trance is at
present far from probable, we think it neceflaiy
to Itate that the following are reported to be the
forces designed lor this expedition :
I $0,000 Autfrians 15,000 Ruffians, and
6.c,000 Prnflians 80,000 men furnilhed
17,000 Swedes by the Germau Body.
On the 20th inft. the Queen of France went
to the Italian theatre—ihe moment (lie appeared
all the people in the boxes cried out "Long live
the Queen !" The people in the pit roared out
in chorus, " Long live the Nation !"
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF R E PRESENTJTIVES,
SATURDAY, March 24, 17911
MR. PAGE, in fupporc of Mr. Key's motion
to amend the bill (from the Senate) for
eflablifliing a mint, by striking out the words,
" representation of the head of the President ot
the United States for the time being, with an
infeription expreifing the initial or firlt letter ot
his christian or firlt name, and his fur-name at
length, the succession of the Presidency numeri
cally," and inferring an emblematical figure of
Liberty—said that it had been a pri»<stice in 1110
narchies, to exhibit the figures or heads of their
kings upon their coins, either to hand down in
the ignorant ages in which this practice was in
troduced, a kind of chronological account of
their kings, or to shew to whom the coin belong
ed—We have all read, added he, that the Jews
paid tribute to the Romans, by means of a coin
on which was the head of their Celar—Now as
we have no occalion for this aid to liiltory, nor
any pretence to call the money of the United
States the money of our Presidents, there can be
no fort of necelfity for adopting the idea of the
Senate. I second the motion, therefore, for the
amendment proposed ; and the more readily,
because I am certain it will be more agreeable to
the citizens of the United States, to fee the head
of Liberty on their coin, than the heads of Pre
sidents— However well pleased they might be
with the head of the great man now their Presi
dent, they may have no great reason tobepleaf
ed wi h fonie of his fucceflors—as to him, they
have his buffs, his pictures are every where—
historians are daily celebrating his fame, and
Congrels has voted him a monument—A further
compliment they need not pay him, especially
when it may be said, that no republic has paid
such a compliment to their chief ruagiftrare—
and when indeed it would be viewed by the
world as a stamp of royalty on our coins — would
wound the feelings of many friends, and gratify
our enemies.
Mr. Williamfon seconded the motion also, and
affirmed that the Romans did not put the heads
of their consuls on their money—that Jylius
Cefar wished to have his on the Roman coin, but
only ventured to cause the figure of an elephant
to be imprefled thereon, that by a pun 011 the
Carthaginian name of that animal, which found
ed like the name of Cefar, he might be said to
be on the coin. He thought the amendment
confident with republican principles, and there
fore approved of it.
Mr. Livermore ridiculed with an uncommon
degree of humor, the idea that it coqlcl be of any
consequence to the United States whether the
head of liberty were on their coins or not — the
President was a very good emblem of liberty—
but what an emblematical figure might be, he
could not tell—A ghost had been said to be in
the shape of tlie found of a drum, and so might
liberty for aught he knew—but how the Presi
dents head being on our coins could afFeJt the
liberty of the people, was incomprehensible to
him He hoped therefore that the amendment
would be rejected.
Mr. Smith of South-Carolina agreed with Mr.
Livei more in opinion—adding that the President
representing the people of the United States,
might with great propriety represent them 011
their coins. He denied that republics did not
place the images of their chief magistrates on
their coins—and said he was surprised that a
member who so much admired the French and
their nesv conilitution, should be si averse to a
pi a.lice I hey have eftablifhcd—the head of their
438
king is by their conftirutioli put upon their mo
ney -Behdes, it was It range that for a'circum
itance so trivial we should lose time indeVatin®
and riJk the loss of an important bill.
The motion for striking slut was carried.
March 26.
The bill having been retm ned from the Se
nate, and the amendment proposed by tlieHoul'e
ili I agreed to—it was moved that the House fliould
recede tVom their amendment.
Mr. Livermure ftipported the motion—-He laid
he did not conceive it poflible that any friend to
the President of the United States, the chief ma
gistrate, that great and good man, would have
refuted to pay every tribure of respect which
was justly due to him—we have now a favorable
opportunity of complimenting him without any
shadow of flattery, and without any expense—
But instead of this, what is proposed ?—An em
blematical figure of liberty^—But what is this li
.berty which some appear to be so fond of !—He
had no idea of Tuch liberty as appears to pollels
the minds of some gentlemen—it is little better
than the liberty of lavages, a relinquillnveiit of
all law that contradidts sr thwarts their passions
or desires—His idea of liberty was that which a
rose from law and jnltice, which secured every
man in his proper and social rights—Some gen
tlemen may think a bear broke loose from .his
chain a fit emblem of liberty—others may de
vise & different emblem, but Jie could not con
ceive that any of them would be applicable to
the situation of the United States, which jnftly
boasted of being always free.—lf any idea of an
emblem is necellary, he thought it might be ap
plied to the head of the President of the United
States. The present occasion affords the belt-op
portunity of doing honor to the man v»e love—
instead of which we offer him an affront—He
could not reconcile this conducft to propriety or
confiftency—for while it is propofod to railea
monument to the memory ofthe Prefident,.which
will cost 50,000 guineas—a proposition to honor
him in a more efFe<ftnal manner, and in a way
which will be fatisfa«ftory to the people, without
any expense, and with perfect security to their
liberties, is objevSed to—He hoped the House
would recede.
Mr. Mercer replied to Mr. Livermore witli
some degree of afperity—l!e obfei ved that there
was a rule in the British House of Comtiions, iliac
the name of the king fiionld never be mentioned
in any debate—he thought foine such rule migli:
be introduced with advantage into this Houle.—
In the course of his remarks, to fliew that the
circumstance of having theHrefident's head Itanip
ed on the coin could noc be justly considered as
doing him an honor, he said that persons of no
better character than a Nero, a Caligula or an
Heliogabulus, may ewjoy it as well as a Trajan,
&c.
Mr. Senev animadverted with severity on the
remarks offered by Mr. Livermore, and on the
conduit of the Senate ; particularly in returning
the bill with a negative to the amendment of the
House, within a period that left them no time to
deliberate on the reafotis which might have in
fluenced the House.
Mr. Giles opposed the morion for receding
He adverted to the ideas which are connected
with the business in European countries ;i"
President's head will not designate the govern
ment said he, there is to be but one head, but
does not our government coniift of three parts .
Is there any other head proposed to be oil the
coin but the President's ? He said this circniu
(lance was of a piece with the firfl a A of the Se
nate— it had a near affinity to titles, that dai ling
child of the Senate, which lias been put to nui.e
—with an intention that it (hall be announce
at foine future period in due form.
Mr. Senfon said he supposed he should be ex
tremely disorderly were he to mention the mo
tives which influenced the Senate in their di cu
fioris—he knew not what they were, nor «as n
of importance that he fhould —He then oblervet
that plain pieces of metal will not answer or
money, some impression is neceflary to guai >i
gainst counterfeits—He fiid the Senate have < e
terinined what the device {lull be—but the iou
bv their amendment, have left the mattei entire
ly to the judgment of the artifl, who may
such an emblem as suits his fancy. Mi. ° ,
ridiculed the idea of the people s being
by their Presidents—and much less by his i»' a S
on their coin. . , . f
Mr. Page replied that he was sorry to find t M
some gentlemen endeavored to ridicule re l>"
can cautions—he thought that both in< -
and inconsistent with their fitualions, as weir
highly impolitic—He confefl'ed that as o'g
the people were sensible of the blessings o 1
ty, and liad their eyes open to watch end
uients, they would not be enftaved , 111 1
fliould ever ftiut them, or become inalte "" ,
iheir interests and the true princip es o .
government, they, like other nations,
lose their liberties —that it was the t uty
members of that House to kee|> the eyes; o
constituents open, and to watch o*er t •
ties—it was therefore unbecoming atreit with levity, aivi to ridicule any feiMiii-iits which had th.it
tendency—For his part, he thought ic the peculiar duty of the
representatives of a free people, to put the'ii upon their guard a
gamil.any thing which could po'.libly endanger their libecues —
that with this view he warned his conftitucms of the d mger, nt
merely of imitating the flattery, and almost idolatrous practice of
monarchies, with relpect to the honor paid to their kings by im
prelling their images and names on their coins, but he wilhed to
add as few incentives as poflible to competitors tor the President's
place—He warned his country againlfc the cabals the corruption and
animosities which might be excited by th e intrigues of ambitious
.men. animated with the hopes of handing their names down to
the Jatclfc ages on the medals of their country. —But this indi(cri
minate honor is unworthy of the President's acceptance ; a Nero,
a Caligula an Hcliogabulus it has been observed (by Mr. Meroei)
may enjoy it as well as a Trajan—to apply it to the preienc chief
niagiftrate alone would be less exceptionable ; but this would be
highly improper, for if he should pass an ast for this purpose it
might blast his reputation. lam of opinion that the Senate knw
his delicacy would not permit him to pass such an one—tliev have
therefore extended the compliment to ail his lucceflois. We are
under obligations to the great man now our Pi'efident— but a lover
of liberty and friend to the rights of man, would be cautious
how he (hewed his sense of that obligation. As a triend to the
Prelident. I am unwilling to offer him a compliment, which if
accepted might damn his reputation-—Were I in his place, I
would cut off my hand rather than it should figu the ast as it now
Hands—Were I his greaieft enemy, I should wilh him to pass it
as it was palled by the Senate. Sir, lam as much his friend as
the member from New-Hampdiire, and hdve lhewn at proper
times and places that I was so. lam too lenfible of the honor
our Pieftdent has acquired, to suppose that an unbecoming com
pliment can in any degrc» contribute to its increase— I hope,
therefore, the amendment will not be recedcd from which the
House has made.
A few remarks were made by fevf ral other gentlemen, and then
the queflion for receding being put, it was negatived.
[The foregoing (ketch has not appeared in any other paper.]
Philadelphia, May 16.
By the Birmingham Packet, Captain Simmons > from Bristol,
European accounts are received to the 10th March. In addition
to the articles under the foreign head, the following abltraft is
gn en:—
Great exertions are making in Scotland and England to effedl
he abolition of the slave-trade ; a great number of petitions were
o be presented to Parliament on the fubje6t— twenty were pre
ifnted the 5' h March. It is not ex peeled that Mr. H tilings' trial
will be finiftied during the orefent fefiion. March 6, the dele
gates from the provincial diflenters met in London, and deter
mined not to renew their petition to Parliament for the repeal of
the test and corporation a6ls. The prelent complicated Hate of
European politics, and the continued apprchenhon of innovations
in her own government, arefaid to have occasioned the derange
ment in the intellects of the Queen of Portugal—if this is fail, we
are furniihed with a second female vi£liin to the Frcnch revolu
tion. Conspiracies are forming in the Ruffian empire, which
threaten a revolution in that country—this fcory sprang up imme
diately on the death of Potcmkin, and has been circulating ever
since! French aflignats now lose 70 per cent, and it is expos
ed they will soon be at 100. 11 The monthly deficit has been for
a long time taiher more than 30 millions of livres—The extraor
dinary bank has furnifhed the treasury with nearly two thouf.iud
millions livres since the revolution, or eighty millions sterling"—
A limilar (lory to this has been told for more than 18 months
part! and vet the revolution progresses—Time alone tells the
rruch. The Popery Bill palled the Irilh House of Lords una
nimouflv—• on which oceafion, mapy fentiincnts fell from mem
bers which did honor to their heads and hearts. James Mapper
Tandy, a leading character in I>iblin, having challenged a mem
ber of Parliament, the Solicitor-General, an order was ilTued for
taking him into custody—he was accordingly apprehended, but
made his escape. James Mapper Tandy is about fixtv years of
a _ . J- ■ , ,
The South of France is in a state of efFervefcence-— an article
under the Pans head fays, if the Spaniards lhould enter France,
they would be received with open arms.—N. B. All forts of
newspapers are printed in Paris.
Paris itfelf is reprcfcnted as in a state of cotfifufion—no day
pitting without some riot. Foreign powers arc drawing their
armies towards the frontiers of France—this circumstance, with
mhpis, lead to a belief that •* war is inevitable." By a manifefto
of the ex-princes and nobles of France, which has been published,
the Courts of Russia, Turin, Madrid, Vienna and Berlin, are to
guarantee certain parts of the French Couftiiution—fo that at
any rate the people are to be benefited by the revolution.
Do£tor Willis, it is said, is sent for to attend the Queen of Por
tugal— his fee to be 20,c001, whether his prcfcripiions arc fuc
ccfsful wr uot.
The Georgia Gazette, received by the last veflel, contains the
charge of the Hon. James Iredell to the Grand Jury of the Cir
cuit Court of that State, published at the request of the Jury—
who, in their address to the Judge, fay-— u We recommend to
Congress a total repeal of the excise laws, conceiving them op
preflive and dangerous in a free country, and the word mode of
taxation that can be devised by an) government."
We have frequently observed, that fubfequcnt accounts from
the frontiers contradict those of a prior date. A letter from
Major M'Culiy, dated at Pmfburgh the sth inil. fays, that the In
dians have been troublesome on that and on the frontier ol Virgi
nia, but have not done so much damage as has been represented in
the Putfburg Gazette of 281b ApiiU—that Gazette fays,that many
of Capt. Paul's men a»e not armed. The Major fays, this is a
mifreprefgntation. When Capt. Paul marched out, he had 72
good rifles 111 his company, fix only ot his mer. weie without
nfies ; and that at present there is not a man in the corps unarm
ed, and but 31 mujkcts in ail. The lbldiers are kej>t continually
icouting, and the fpiea always out.
Yefterdav the honorable Junes Iredell and Nathaniel Pen
dleton, Elqrs. gave judgment in the Circuit Court, in the in
teresting cafe wherein Samuel Brail sforcl and others were
p'aintiffs, and James Spalding defendant. One of the plaintiffs
(Mr. Brailsford) was a real British fubjeet, being a native of
Great-Britain, and having resided there from 1767 to 1784,
and the other plaintiffs were citizens of South-Carolina, whole
property (with an express exception of their debts) was confis
cated in that state. The judges gave their opinions, with
their reasons at large, and the substance of their opinions was,
that, as Mr. Brailsford's debts were only sequestered by a
law of the state, upon which no further proceedings had taken
place, the* treaty of peace, as confirmed by the constitution of
the United States mult have the effe<st of an express repeal of
that part of the act of a.Tembly which had created an impedi
ment to his recovery ; and*that there was no bar in refpedt to
the recouery of the other plaintiffs, inasmuch as, under the act
of aflembly of this state afib&ing them, their debts were not
confjfcated, because their debts had not been confifcated In the
iiate of South-Carolina, the ast of alfembly of this state mak
ing citizens of other states liable to the fame measure cf for
feiture (and no other) in this state, as in their own. They
therefore gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
South-Carolina accounts, a-, late as the third of May, men
tion many additional instances of distress, from the floods of
rain that fell in that state the beginning of April. It is re
markable that this happened about the fame time with those
heavy rains in the Weft-Indies, which did so much damage in
the i.lands of Nevis, St. Eullatius, &rc. Many particulars of
devaluation, from the extraordinary swell of the rivers, are
enumerated in the Carolina prints, of which we ihall only men
tion the following:—The Congaree was raised to such a height
a ; to overflow an eminence on the banks of that river, which
had been used by the Indians, from time immemorial, for a
burying place. The rapidity of the current dillodged the ske
letons from their place of interment, carrying off a great part
of the foil, and leaving disclosed to view, a variety of curious
urns, rude images of birds and beasts, wampum, bows and
arrows, stone battle-axes, Bcc. &c. affording a quantity of cu
riolities of this kind, not unworthy the notice of the philol'o
pher.—lt is probable a similar swell in the Congaree river has
not happened for many ages since ; had this eminence been
fubjeft to an overflow, the aborigines of the country would
never have clrofcn it for a burying ground. Nat. Gaz.
The intended bridge over Rock-Creek, opposite the Federal
City in Virginia, is now begun, under the immediate dire&ion
of Mr. Harbaugh.
Yesterday tiie.Legiflature oP the State of New-Jcrfey met at
Trenton, for the dispatch of bublic business.
Tlie affairs of Hifpaniola still wear a gloomy afpeft—diffcntion
among the %vhites strengthens the temerity of the insurgents ; and
so little head has lately been made against them, that very serious
apprehensions are entertained respecting the fate ot the whole of
the French poffeflions there.
On Friday last the Governor of this Hate laid the corner stone
of the President's House in Ninth-street. The following inscrip
tion is on the itone :
At a commencement held in the University of Pcnnfylvania on
the 1 ith inft. the following young gentlemen were admitted to
the degree of Batchelor of Arts, viz. Benjamin Chanipneys, Jona
than Holmes, and Samuel Moore, of New-Jeifey ; Eboiezer
Dickey, Jenkin Whitefide, and Joseph Dil worth, of Cheiter coun
ty ; Archibald M'Lean, of Montgomery county ; William Fen
nel, of Delaware county ; William Ramsay, of Bucks county ;
John Church, Joseph Davidfon, John Duffield, John Ewing,
Samuel Ewing, Andrew Geyer, Henry Helmuth, Benjamin Jones,
Frederick Kuhl, George M ; GofHn, John Oliphant, Jacob Senn,
William Sergeant, Frederick Smith, and Jacob Wack, of the city
of Philadelphia.
At the fame time the following gentlemen Were admitted to
to the degree of niafter of Arts, having been three years ago con
stituted Batchelors, viz. George M. Baynton, William Boyfe,
John Davidfon, Robert G. Davidfon, Robert Frazier, Samuel
Hazlehm ft, Thomas T. Hewfon, Marcus H. Kuhl, George Lock
man, Samuel M'Cullough, Samuel Miller, Richard Renfhaw,
Andrew Rhea, Casfar Rodney, Benjamin F. Weft, George Wil
liamfon, and Jofiah Bailey.
The degree of Doctor of Mcdicine was also conferred upon
MefTis. James Colefbury, Ninian Magruder, James Meafc, Valen
tine Seamen, Tristram Thomas, and Jairtes Woodhoufe, who te
verally delivered their* printed theses upon different fubjetts in
medicine, and defended their theories againll the objc&ions of
the Medical Faculty in publ c on the day of commencement.
S.*VAfCNAH, May 3.
Monday lafl a letter i/as received at the Coffce-houfe, from
tie convention of Pilots aiiembled at Marcus-Hook, dated
Mi/ 12th, dire-fled to the Gentlemen, Merchants of Philadel
phia, enclo.lng a copy of tbren resolutions they have agreed to.
T:ie fubftmce of these resolutions, as well as we can rccol
l *c c t, i; as fjllo vs :—Taat velfels drawing 12 feet and under
ftiall piy 7-,. 6.1. for every half fjot, veffeis drawing upwards
of 12 f.*et, 12;. 6.1. per half Velfels not registered in
the United States, 235. That the pilot who has brought up
a veifel, .'hall be entitled to carry her down, unless the owner
can oier a fuficient reason to the Wardens why he Ihould not.
That yelTels of less than 5) tons refuting to take a pilot, lhall
pay half pilotage, to go to the fund for the support of widows
and children of pilot . If a pilot of the firft order be taken to
sea, through stress of weather, he lhall be allowed yi. 10s. per
month until brought back t > Philadelphia j a pilot of the se
cond rank, 5!. per month; and one of the third, 41. If a pilot
b? taken away intentionally and inaliciouflv, the Captain shall
forfeit and pay sdl. and the owners 3031. —that they lhall be
allowed 20s. a day for the use of their boat, Ihould itbe wanted
by their employers ; and 15s. a day when detained for them
selves.
A refpe&able meeting of Merchants took up these refolu
t ions, and resolved, unanimously, that no further notice should
be taken of them.
Indeed, if a combination of the kind, entered into without
warning, Ihould be produ<stive of success, they might be 4o fre
quent as to prove of great detriment to the interests of com
merce, and merchants would be obliged to state, as a condi
tion to the dispatch of their velfels, not only wind and weather,
but Pilots permitting. Gctt. Adv.
Weft-India prints abound with circumstantial accounts of
the disasters that have happened in several of the Windward
J (lands, in conlequence of the floods of rain that more or less
fell in those parts, from the beginning till near the middle of
April. The town of BalTeterre, in St. Kitts, has fuft'ered le
verely by the torrents of water, which rushed down from the
mountains, and carried almost every thing before them. Nevis
has luffered lightly ; but at St. Euftatius the effects of this de
luge of rain were tremendous; where the whole loss is esti
mated at near 33,000 joes, besides several lives; amongst
which, unfortunately, was not included that of a baker, who
immediately after this devastation of nature, advanced three
stivers upon the price of each loaf.
This corner stone was laid
on the ioth day of May, 1792.
The State of Pennsylvania out oi debt
Thomas Mifflin, Governor.
It was intimated by some writer that the public debt in
creased like the muftlrodm under the hand of night, by the in
strumentality of the speculators. In answer to this it was
said, who that can read, will believe that the speculators
made their own certificates, or increased the sums of them? It
is a fact well known, that in some of the northern dates, such
tranfa&ions were frequently pra&ifed, and we know many
were imposed 011 with the altered certificates, and I would
thank lome of your readers who can give information, to let it
be known whether they could, in all cases, be detected when
they were offered for funding? Nat. Gaz.
All experience shews that the cryagainft men in power pro
ceeds from a pure love of the public. The complainers have
no desire to take the places of the bad men they are writing
at. Not being ambitious of power, having 110 cabals or in
trigues, they attempt to raise diflurbance merely for the fake
of peace and tranquility—they write against men and mea
sures, merely to reconcile the people to the government —
they show how imperfect its form, how dangerous the tenden
cy of its powers to the (late governments, to liberty and vir
tue, and the rights of man, merely to manifeft their ardent at
439
tachment to the constitution* their reverence for its princi
ples, and their firm resolution never to lose fight of it.
Ail this they tell us—and their word, added to what experience
shews, inuft fatisfy us that nO manner of doubt can be enter
tained in regard to their real sentiments !
There are some persons who make it a principle to believe
all they fee in print. But of late, tiiofe who call themselves
the friends and admirers of the government, but who really
are the constant and bitter revilers of its me a lures and oiticers,
have thrult down the gapingthroat of credulity so many choak
ing morsels, that their faith will certainly be strangled. Many
think it fafer to refufe credit to all they fee in print. One of
the moffc difficult things to believe is the pretence of the'e
men, that they love and admire what they take so much pains
to make appear detestable.
The gentlemen composing the volunteer corps of horse, ot this
city, lately commanded by the Hon William Bingham, Esq. hav
ing met the luh inft. at Mr. Epples Tavern, in pursuance ot a
notification from the Lieutenant ot the city and Liberties, arid a
letter from Mr. Bingham fignifytng the incompatibility of his si
tuation with his wishes to accept the honor of a second appoint
ment to command the corps being lead, the members proceeded
to anele&ion of officers, and the ballots being taken, the follow
mg gentlemen were unanimously eletted :
William Jackson, Captain,
Jacob Cox, firft Lieutenant,
John Melbeck, second Lieutenant,
Abraham Singer, Cornet.
At a meeting for the. eleflion of Officers, on Friday the nth
inft, at the City Tavern, —Col. Christian Febiger was unanimously
elected to the command of the firft City troop of Horse.
At an eleflion of officers for the PennsylVania population Com
pany held on Friday May nth the following gentleman were du
ly elected, viz.
president
Johj4 Nicholson,
Theofhilus Cazenove,
GEN. WM. Irvine,
George Meade,
Daniel Leet,
John Hodce,
Gen. Walter Stewart,
Tench Francis,
The President of thfc United States, by and with the advice and
conftnt of the Seriate, has made the following appointments and
promotions in the army of the United Slates.
Appointed—Rufus Putnam, Brigadier General, Western Terri
tory, Vice Willet, declined.— Otho H. Williams, do. Maryland,
vice Morgan, declinedj
Infantry.
Appointed—Williatri Powers, Captain, Pennsylvania, vice
Guthrie, declined—William Lowder, Captain, Virginia, vice
r 'gg 5 > declined.—William Lieutenant, N. Carolina,
vice Sumner, declined.—Hartman Leitheizer, Ensign, Pennsylva
nia, vice Kell'o declined* \
CAVALRY.
Appointed Jedediah Rodgcrs, Captain, New-York, vice
Craig, declined.—Henry Bowyer, do. Virginia, vice Manning, de
clined.
Promoted—William Winfton, do. do. vice Watts, declined.—
Tarlton Fleming, Lieutenant, do, vice Winfton promoted.
Appointed—John Webb,iun. Cornet, do. vice Fleming, pro
moted.
SURGEON'S MATES.
Appointed—Joseph Strong, Conne&icut, vice Elmer, declined.
—Joseph Andrews, Maflachufetts, vice Meale, declined.—John
C. Wallace, Pennsylvania, vice Woodhoufe, declined.
The President ot the United States j?as been pleased to appoint
Tench Coxe, Efq.coinmiflioner of the Revenue.
Died, on Sunday evening* Dr. Henry Stuber, of this city,
in the 24th year of his age.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Birmingham Packet, Simmons, Bristol
Schr. John, Darrill, Bermuda
Olivia and Mary, Donovan, Georgia
Sloop Califty, Larage, St. Martins
Lark, Burrows, ditto
PRICE OF STOCKS,
6 per Cents, - - - 2 ,J$
3 per Cents, ... X2J6
Deferred, - . _
Indents, - 12 J3
Final Settlements, - - 18\J6
Half shares Bank U. S. 45 per cent, premium,
Shares Bank North-America, 15 ditto.
NEW TEAS.
I*IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very fiift quality, and latest importation from Canton, via
New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets.
For BRISTOL,
The Ship Birmingham Packet,
Lf.esok Simmons,
A remarkable fact sailer, her catgo is all ready—neverthelefSf to
accommodate those who may be dilpofed 10 put freight on board,
"it will be taken in. She will fail in a few dayi. For freight or
padage, apply to the Captain on board, laying at Walnut-flreet
Whart, or to GEORGE MEADE.
Those who have goods on board, are earncftiy requested to
enter them, take out their permits, and give the neceflary direc
tions :o their porters to attend the Ihip.
N. B. The owners are determined that the (hip (hall leave
Bristol with the firfl fall (hips.
M " v '4- (41)
ADVERTISEMENT.
TICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are to
be had at the following places, viz.—Samuel Cooper's
Ferry; ai Builingfon. of R. Pierion, Esq. Bordentown, of Mr.
John Van Emburgh ; Mount Holly, of J. Read, Esq. Trenton,
of John Singer, Esq. Amboy, of James Parker, Esq. Elizabeth-
Town, of R.Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt ; Cranbury, of William Throckmorton Spotfwood ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
MANAGERS.
T R EASU R E R
votes
1 43°
143°
*43°
>43°
>43°
J 43°
•43°
>43°tea
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PER QUANTITY
May 15. — Dollars 100 Cents each.
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7c 8c Pitch, pr. bbl.
Allum, Lnglilh, pr.c. 3d 73 c Pork » Burlington,
Dnto, Roch pr. lb. uc Lower county
Aihes, pot, per ton, god rood Carolina
Pearl, Peas, Albany pr. bufti.
Arrack pr. gall, \d33cldb7c Pepper, pr. lb.
Brandy, common, 1 d 26c Pimento
Cogniac id 65c Raisins, best, pr. keg yd
Braziletto, pr. ton. 37"33 C 4 C " Ditto pr.iar 3 d
Bricks, pr. M. 4d 5d Ditto box 4d
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. id 00c 2d Rlce wt . 6yc
Ditto, pilot 3 d6yc Rosin pr bb |. 24 / 33<: . a!67c
Ditto, (mall water 36c 40c r Jamaica pr. gait. 112 c
Beer, American, in "j , Q( . Aniigua 100 c
bot.pr.doz. bot. incl. j * g Windward 86c 90c
~~7X r \ 1C A * Barbadocs 77'
„ f Oak pr.M feet, gd lod Country, N. E. 67c
0 | Merch. pine 16d 17a
s<; Sap, do. 8d 50c yd Salt petre, pr. cwt. 13d 33c 14^
q | N.Eng. 1111 SalTafras pr. ton 6d 8d
« ICedar 14d Shot 1401^
Tie above are the Shallop prices ; f German pr.lb. 9c
for the Yard prices add id 33c W )Engli(h, blistered cwtiorf
pr. M. £ pr. ton 113^33 C
Brimstone rolls pr.cwt. 3J 33c w C Crowley's pr. fag lod 6yc
C Irish pi. bbl. Snake root pr. lb. 20c 42c
£j < fiofton 71i 8d Soap, Brown 6c
CQ (Country 6d 50 c White 8c
Butter pr.lb. 16c Castile 11c
in kegs toe ljc Starch 7 c
2 [Sper. pr.lb. 43c Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 ii $d 60c
_1 | Wax 53c 56c Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Q Myrtle Wax 13c Sail cloth, English, ~) 2 g c
5 j Mould,tallow 11c No 1, per yard, J
cj |_Dipped 10c Boston, No. I. 30c
Cheese, Englifli, pr. lb. 19c No. 11. 29c
Couutry Bcioc Ruflia Iheeting, pr.p. 12d
Chocolate 17c 18c ("Lump, pr.lb 22c
Cinnamon id 40c 21/ 67c c£ • Loaf, Tingle refined 25c
Cloves id 33c < j Ditto, double do. 36c
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c S? | Havannah, white 17c ißc
Cocoa pr. cwt. i\d 33c So Ditto, brown, 15c
Coffee pr. Id. 20c L Mufco.pr.cwt 14^16^/33^
Copperas pr. cwt. id6jc SpiriisTurpcniinc p. g. 33c 37c
Cordage yd6ycßd , ( Allum pr. bulb. 24c 2-c
Cotton pr.lb. 30c 42c j 29c
Cuirants 13c < yCadiz 23c 24c
Duck, RuTta, pr. piece ti<a f 33C "'(Lisbon 251:27 c
Ravens 8i 93c 9<J 67c Ship build. W. 0.1 . ,
Feathers pr. lb. 40c 44c frames p. ton, J J «">
Flax toc Do. LO. isd 33c i6d6yc
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 85c 90c Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. $d 6c Shingles, fh. p. M. id 33c 2d 67
Common, 4d Do. long dressed liii^d^c
Bur middlings,befl 4d Scantling,heart, 23d33c
■ Meal, Indian 2d 67c Sap Sd 8d &y c
• Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id r Pipe pr. 1000 3 o</
Fustic pr. ton, 20rf <w IW. O. hoglhead igd 33c
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, > J R.O. do. lgd 50c
Do. pr. gall. 80c < I Leogan i6d
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d 2id 33c Barrel 10d
Ginger, whiterace 7d L Heading i6d 67c
Ditto, common 7d f Otter, best pr. pic.
Ditto, ground pr.lb. 8c Minks 20c 40c
Ginseng, 20c 24c Fox, grey 40c 80c
Gunpowder, can-) • . -red \d2oc
non, pr. q. c. J 7^ C * Martins 24c id
Ditto, fine glazed 4d —■ Fishers 33c 67c
'Wheat pr. bufti 95c id Bears 3d
Rye s° c s4 c Racoons 27c 60c
Oats 26c Musk-rats 11c 20c
Indian corn, 40c 44c ! Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
Barlev 90c Deci, in hair 20c 30c
r7^^ lle t P^ lb - 3<: Tar.N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
. Buckwheat per bulb 4.C _ C a r ol.na, 3 2 gall. id 33 cid6yc
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, 146. 67c Turpentin£ d pl % bl . ,f 6 \ d
American, pr.lb 4c 6 c , James R. best 3d 60,73 c
Herrings, pr. bbl id6yc £ J _ inUnor tdSyc od
Hides, raw pr.lb. gene o oM
au at Rappahannock 2d toe 3d
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M i s d Q - Co lo.Maryland 5 d 33c %d
Indigo, French lb. id2oc id 33 c u ' Dirk -id 4 oc
Carolina 40c id Long-leaf id ape
Irons, fad pr. ton, 1331/ 33c m Eaflern-lhore idid? 3 c
f Castings pr. cwt 3d47c O 1 Carolina, new id-jc 3d
55 j Bar pr.ton, Sid 6;c (_ old do.
P, S 67c f Hyson pr.lb. 93c id 28c
I Sheet 173 d 33 c I Hyson dim, .53c 67c
(.Nail rods 96d Souchong, s°c 93c
Junk, pr. cwt. 4d s d H | Congo, 43c floe
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9c iO£ LBohea, 30c 34c
Lead in pigs pr.c. 50!33c sd6yc Tallow, refined 9 c
- -m bars yd Tin pr. box, 13d 33c 67c
Lead, white lodiodonc , r ,• , ~
red 6d 40c 6d 67c Verd.greafe pr.lb. c
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c *r Crm *n l ° n if/ 33c 1^67(7
Lignum vits pr. ton, s^6oc 6d arm 33 c 37 c
Logwood 24d f Madeira, pr. p. iobd2ood
Mace pr.lb. yd 33c 6-c Lisbon g6d lood
Mackarel, bell pr. bbl. 9d Teneriffe, pr. gal. 51C60C
• second quality 6d 67c y Fayal 449 c
Madder, bell pr. lb. 16c 20c < Port pr. p. io6d 67c 120^
Marble.wrought, pr.f. Do. in bottles.pr. doz. 4^
Mast spars 33c 67c Claret 6d
MolafTes pr.gall. 44C48C Sherry pr. gall. 90c i^2oc
Mustard per. lb. 87c? Malaga 77c 80c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, lodizd and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7d 8d
' Linseed, pr. gall. 54c
Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafc, 2dscc
Bcllfwettin >
flafks,pr.box \ lod
® j —baskets 12 bottles
. Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 24C27C
L Whale 22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, $d 33 c
London,pr. doz. id6oc
Porter, American > , _
pr.doz. bot.incl. J id^cia6oc
ff' By thePoJl-Office A3, afterthefirjl c/June next, newfpapeTs
Jent by the mail arc fuhjeß to poflage of one cent each paper, for
100 mles carnage, or le/j-andfor all dijlance, more than an hundred
mles, one cent and an ha f each paper. The poflage ,0 bepaidhthe
SukJcnbers atLthe office where the papers arc 'del.vered.' 4 S j,
n*t '"/"'T pap ' TS thrm £ h ""
of the Pojl Office, ortocontraß with the Stage Proprietors, the patrons
of this Gazette, within a short dijlar.ee oj this city, mav find itadvan.
tageous to adopt the latter mode. J
id 73 c 21i
nd 33c
ic d
gd
73 c
50 c
16c
Wax, Bees pr. Ib. 25c 27c
Whalc-bone,longpr.lb. 13c 30c
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days 4) pr.ci. under par.
60 days > par.
30 aays 5 ) pr.ct. above par
Aniftcrdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3? > £
90 days
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per n guilders, 41/ 4.4 c
France, 60 days 80c
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the fi/ft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expencc. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marlh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acrcsof excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence j 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing ftieam of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is goad sport witli the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small gahie ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A. good man(ion*houfe, gar
den, and nectflary out-buildings; an orchard ot the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach aod cherrv trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Applv to Dr.
John Gibpons, in Arch-street, 0/ Peter Le Barbier Du
Plessis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftrcet, Philadelphia; Mr. Henry
Waterman, at the Waftiington, on the Biiftol road; or to
Mr. Joseph Baldwin, at Nefhjmany Ferry, or Mr. Barnet
Dur ee n , fame place, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the re
sidue, paying interest. May 5. (ep.tf.)
Bank of the United States,
May 8, *792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of such payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commiflioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment shall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft days 9f July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
-Bank of the United States.
March si, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby arc, au
thorised to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
before the periods required by the law of incorporation.
Resolved, That each Share so compleated, shall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK,from and after the fir ft
dav of the month next succeeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Rcfolved, That so much of the quarter's intereftupon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued before the firft day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
co the persons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By order of ihe President and Direttors,
(epnftj) JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
At a melting of the Directors of the Bank of
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit be
authorised to receive of Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Cafhieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one of which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt Sufficient to complete said (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of the Refutations
of the Board of Direttors pasTed the 21ft instant, relative to com
pleting shares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Direflors.
JOHN KEAN, Ca/hicr.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com.
miflioncrs of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to them the mod ap
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be eretted in this Citv. The site of the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it's destination will point out to him the number,
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
eretted for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
and be capable of admitting the additional parts, in future, if they
(hall be wanting. Drawings will be expe&ed of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fe£lions through the building, in such
dire&ionsas may be necelTary 10 explain the internal ftru&ure ;
and an estimate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, 1792. tf
WASHINGTON, /;/ the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be designated by impartial judges,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; ora MEDALof that
value, at the option of the party; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July* 1792, (hall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by them, for a CAPITOL, tobc ere&ed
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
Avail adopt. The building to be of biick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit;
A Conference Room ) fufficien J to
A Room for the Representatives ( con l m odate 300 | these rooms
) perions each. { to be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter { full eleva-
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area j tion.
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J
12 Rooms of 600 square feet area each, for Committee Rooms and
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be cxpcfted of the ground plats, elevations of
cach Iront, and fe&ions through the building in such dire&ions
as may be neccflary to explain the internal ftruaure; and an esti
mate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the whole inafs
of the walls.
March 14, 1792. tf
TO BE SOLD,
'T'HAT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
j. fubfenber now lives, situate in Elizabeth-Town, in the (late
of New-Jerley, within 16 miles of the citv of Ncw-Yoik It is
fiiiithed in the very bed manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about four
acres of land—the Garden is large, well laid out, and flocked
with a good aflbrtment of fruit. For further particular,. f „ qu j re
of W, l , ; iA „B» AOF ORn,Efq. in Philadelphia, John Pintard,
Esq. in New-York, or the Subscriber, on rhe Prcmif s.
May 2,1702. (iaw 3 w) ELI AS BO'JDI NOT.
440
A/RIL 27, 1792,
THE COMMISSIONERS
THE COMMISSrONFRS.
Stoek Brokers Office,
Thit N°:'4s.G r «tD ock . ftMrt) Niw . Yo
HKbobfcriber intending to confine hitnfelf enrirrl® ta.i.
PURCHASE and SALE or STOCKS on COMMISSIrtw'
Beg, leave .o offer hi, service, to hi, friend, Tnd oiher s lf,u'
th"! °h a f St ° f ck Brok "- ""infe who m »y plMfe 10 favor him wiih
"" b " 1 " t "
vs&zrjsvs&xzz-'""""
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2
LnuTEßjKt's.OiFici, April 17, no,
notification. 9
To the M.liti, of the City and L,berries of Philadelphia and
Paffvnnk a " d lhe D,ftri£h of Moyameufing ,„d
T HA 7 » h<ry "V mret 3n<l e,,^cifc >" Battalion, under their
A *. P J- ?, fficcrs ' on the '°»owing days, commencing ,hc
n>ft Monday in May : °
The Artillery, and First Battalion, on the jih day of Mav
Second Battalion, on the Bih do.
Third Battalion, on the 9th do.
Fourth Battalion, on the lOlh do.
Fifth Battalion, on the 1 ith do.
Sixth Battalion, on the 14th do.
Seventh Battalion, on the 15th do.
THOMAS PROCTER
Lieutenant of the City and Liberties of Philadclphii
jpr The present Officers commanding Battalions, and the
Officers of the leveral Companies, ate to perlorm their dutiesrt
Ipeaively on the above field days.
Farms & Mills for Sale &Lease.
TO BE SOLD,
A VALUABLE FARM, situate on the Turnpike Road lead
ing from Baltimore-Town to Rifter's-Town, about 6J miles
from the former ; containing about 430 or 440 acres of good
farming land, 70 or 80 acres of which are e-xcellent grass ground •
about 170 acres are cleared, upwards of twenty whereof arc made
meadow; the residue abounding in good timber, and oihertretj
for enclosure and fuel : There are two apple-orchards thereon,
and buildings that may do, for the present, for an Overleer and
his family.
Also, a Tract of LAND, containing about 600 acre , within
two miles of the fame road, and about 18 or 20 miles diftantfrom
Baltimore-Town ; about 700 acres whereof are cleared, welleu.
closed and improved byculiute and with valuable buildings, some
excellent meadow, near 20 acres, made. *
Also, a small FARM, on a public road leading to said town,
about the fame distance therefrom as the last described land j con
taining I©3 acres, whereon is an excellent applc-orch»d, but no
other improvement of much value.
The two firft above-mentioned Farms are furnifhed with (laves,
stock of each kind, and all necessary implements of hufbandiyj
» hich may be had with them ; they are sown with wheat, which
promises an abundant crop;—the business of the last of the two
has b en, for nine years, and is now, condu&ed by a flulftil in
dustrious Manager, who may be continued in the management,
011 terms.
TO RE LET,
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from killer's.
Town to W.nchefter, Taney-Town, Frederick, and Hager'sTown;
whereon is erefled a large commodious brick house, that has been
used for some years pad as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified for
that bufrnefs, could be made an excellent stage ; within a few
rods of which, and on the main Falls of Petapfco, is also ereflcd
a GRIST-MILL, now in good order for Merchant-Work, witha
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith.
For the title and terms of sale, and the lease, all or any part
of the above valuable property, »pply to
Baltimore County, March 7, 1792
FOR SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jerfey,occupied for many years paftby
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, befidcs
a tra£fc of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the rtiain street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effe£lof fmi
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the most
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on cach floor, with excellent cellars, and a twoftory brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing viewer
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new llonr
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof , and a stone cow-house, upwards of i®o feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highelt
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collection of tlie
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large alparagus
beds, highly manured At a convenient distance from the mau
fion-houfe, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, wt
built, ilone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefe-ioom,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every otherr ne
ceflary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jma
fields, all well watered, highly impioved, and chiefly under t e
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, °!V"
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best ha), f 1
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty orne
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains alio two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in thePP r 00 P cr ., ea °° '
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in Ire vu e
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; bot o * " c
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as wC
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his ta > e.
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed an ,vl L
by good fences, great part of which is formed of r< ce ar f •
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchafcr m a >
the improved square separately, or the whole toget er, a*
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity o goo
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase morie), 1 f '
and the intercft pun&ually paid, will not be deman e or
Aay pet son desirous of viewing the premifrs, may be £ .
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, E q- 0 .
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies t c arm
part of the lano' — and may know the price on app ,ca xw
fubferiber, a* No. 213, South Second-street, opposite t
Market, in Philadelphia. J UHfN
(t.y
THOMAS JONES.
"[6-]