® qzeife fifjß
ASATWSAL P A P E«, Pt'M. ISH i' I) WKDNKSDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 7PH , K, TOKr , PHI LA DEI.WH A*
[No. 94, of Vol. lII.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE VSITED STATES.
MR. FEiNNO,
THE funding fyllem is alledged to be contrary to republican
principles. I am a zealous republican. I have neard a
gieat manv high wrought fpc< chesand have read at leafl a thonfand
cutting keen p-tagraphsin the ncv (papers (hewing the danger
th.it our principles are exoofed to. What is a man good for il he
hjs not principles.— He is not fit to be hanged—or if you will, he
is fit; for you may have it as you please. Now, Sir, I am pei
feftly found and well fixed in mv principles. One is that the
public is to be preferred to the individual—that is patriotic, and I
niavfay it in modeftv, it is mu. hto mv honor. Paying debts,
fay the paper«, is anti-republican—the lunding fyflem is anti-re
publican. I owe d*bis, and wilb the advice of the writers in the
nrwfpaper* with regard to my cafe.—lt is a cafe of conscience.
I ain in tiade, and having run in debt for my flock, I have eat
and diank the profits —for a man mud live you know, fir. Whe
ther it is anti-republican to pav private debts, as ii certainly is for
Cougrefs to pay those of the public is my doubt ; I do not readi
]v fee the d'ffcrcnce—and this difficulty of my cafe is not to be
overcome unless by confirming the opinion I incline to adopt,
that the payment of mv debis is improper for a republican. In
some refp. els it is worf- than paving public debts, For the fin
]if at 3 man'* own door; he makes it his own private ail. Ano
ther poini seems in my affair clearer flill. My creditors are very
rich and are growing richer. This overgrown wealth is tgreed
to be improper in a Hate of republican equality ; (Rail I then by
pav'ngthem add to 'his inequality and dcllroy the just balance
the modcll and vir'uous level which ought to be maintained. No
my coun'ry is to be ' r ferred to niyfelt ; and the creditois, if they
are good cuizenswill refpeft mv principles anil bequiet— if tbey
arc not good citizens lhall I pamper them with my money ? No,
I will not : Therefore I do not much infill on having mv cafe of
conscience folved—for I have resolved what to do—or rather
w.'i r I will forbear do^ng.
H?ving begun to scribble about principles, I find I have more
to fay, though I have finiftied the point I fir.ft intended to state.
The public fpw 'ted and iroly virtuous wiiiers against the funding
system do not spare the speculators. Vipers ! I like to fee them
well threshed. The do&rine of equal rights has b en strained by
some to fuchextravagance as to admit that they have equal rights
■with other citizens : But every rule has it* exceptions, and Con
gress Ihould luve made-them. The\ should h<>ve said in then
funding (aw—property's found ; k is every man's own, and we
canno: touch it—excepting however the property of the holders
of the public cetrificar; % and also of such other perf >ns as Con
go's on the ground of this precedent fh sll tlrnk fit by decrees
from time to time to except, and as the public good in their o
pinion may require. The widows and fatherlefs should have
been provided for—forne persons have hastily obie&ed to this hu
mane Dlea for the widows and orphans who held certificates and
have fold then-, that it relief had been given them, the provision
for them bv law would have been a funding law, and of course as
unconftirutional and anti-republican as the ex sting act. This is
a (hallow objection—talking and writing in favor of poor orphans
lays no tax—does no violence to the conftitu,tion or to republican
equality; in fact a law might have been pasTed so as to create no
buiden. Wc h. ve as much as a folio of State laws for cancelling
their debts wSich never took a dollar out of their tjeafuries ; and
Congress might have done the like. But alas, with precept upon
precept from the newfpapersand the example of the States before
their eyes they have wilfully offended by their funding law a?a nfl
jurtice, principle, republicanifin and the poor widows. For all
which it appears the newspapers will never forgive them.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
MeflVs. Printers,
Or late, the newspapers have offered opinions which deserve
10 be well considered before they are received as truths. It
has beenfaid that we mud keep up a general government, because
we cannot have an union of the States without it—and according
to the frozen praile of these writers, the union is rather a good
thing than othcrwile. But we must npt have a jot more of a ge
neral government than just enough tor the union to rub and go, or
speaking more correctly to rub and not go : because fay they if
you give an inch more, consolidation will ensue, and consolida
tion is wo r fie thjn Ichifm, that is, than no union.
According to these new faugled federalifts, the movement of
government in future on the mutual refpedl and love oi
Congress and the State legislatures. The great concern of the la -
ter is to be should lose a part of the power neceff.i y
for the union, and Congrcfs in this traffic of (enderntfs is to si r
left the States should want power to prevent a consolidation—at;
so there will be a great deal of love loft. It will be 1011, tor as he
baiance betwe> n the national and State governments is to be tri
in money scales, and nothing according to these writers, bur 'ovt
and good wi.l can keep the balance tru., it will soon be drftrov -
cd. I r the trutft love is (<>me T imes hot and form-times cole
and in the fir ft change away goes the balance, and dilunion Or con
folidation J'Hows in a trice. Ti is do&nne tho cxprefled in o
iher terms h $ been advanced in one of the P'oiladelphi pipers.
rheiufioious conclusion is manitci^v—'l t e balance of Congr f.
and the Slate goverurn nts is so very nice and hard to prrferve, and
so very unequal, confolidaiion being so much wo;f
than difuniqn, we hive nothing to do, but to turn to the 1<
hend pdth wi.i h w? Nt in 1787 was leading us to deli u -
Hon-—t V , rht S:<*te leg-flvures mofe power, take away part o'
that which is allort- d to Cpn *refs, oppose and embarrass its exer
ciiing what it left, and break the union as fact as we can.
It canno: b ti a; those who f-und these alarms are alarn.ed.
encroachmerit on the State powers is made or threatened
there is no symptom of any difpoh:ion inthe public to counte
nance likH an attempt. Congrcfs is not < v«n accused of having
excrer ed ii< powers ; it has repeatfdlv ftopt ftiort of the limits,
as iu tin judicial law and 'me others : These writers fee no dan
ger on the other fide ; they «re silent on the cxciufi jii of federal
officers from S ale alTemblies,on the refufal of State l<jgiflators to
take Ihe oath to fapp the const tution—on the continuance of
tender and paper' moot \ laws—oll the dilcuiTions in the State af
fcnibl es of he ex :f c law, &cz. &c.—lt is only Congress that
u u-ns r>f»wers and dilregards the coqllitution.
NV» friend of his country would approve the disturbing its peace
by ufurpat on 011 '.he part of Congress. The wishes and the m
terrfti () f the nation concur in keeping each government within its
proper bonnds. 1 ime is daily foftcning piejudiccs and binding
GOOD CONSCIENCE.
Wednesday, March 21, 1792.
move clofcly together the affVflions of our citizens. Knowledge is
prrading, and liberty of course is better undfrltood, and (lands ■>.!
J founder foundation th.in ever. The future n's of ou
sorer,imem will depend on the people thsmfelves; and il th„
enlightened, ihus improving, they (hould be so imprudent as ;o
make or allow an unnecessary change of the forms and p.iweis o>
Ifg flatures, ,t would be Itrange if their cafe Ihould b.come
at once so bad that thev could neither mend nor endure it —fu el
a free people could apply a remedy, as well as many palliatives
of Ihe evil. 1 r
It will not be denied that separate leg'flatures are cxpofed to
the danger of clashing. The danger, however, is aggravated by
infiructing the people to look with dislike and fear towards Con
giefs, and this they furelv will if they believe that i.onfolidation is
the greatest and most probable danger they stand expofe-f to. The
i-onltitutiou t> the child of the people. It is not doubted they
love it too well to futfer these men to execute upon it the
mcnt ot Solomon, atid \.o saw it in two. 3
Tliefe writers have little atfcaion for the union or a flranje ap
orehenfion of futurity when they repreftot consolidation as woile
than schism or no union at all. It is not. easy to imagine what
could be worse than a d vision of the dates. The evil affoids no
room for palliatives. Rival or neighbour states could not remain
friends. Injuries would sharpen resentments, and hatred would
become hereditary And what could be gained or hoped for ?
With more enemies and those within our present limits, (honld
we have less armies or taxes? Would a weaker government de
lend us, or would its yoke fit lighter? Should we enjoy more 1,-
bfcrly, more tranquil.ty, or more wealth. What can be more
shocking to a nation than its d'flolution, than brothers becoming
enemies and seeking each other's blood.
Those writers who reprelent consolidation as wor r e than a fe.
oaration of the dates, arc great admirers of the French revolution.
France has indeed recovered its liberty, and one of the firft us. s
it made of it was to break down the provincial governments, and
to consolidate the whole nation into one body. France has f ven
times more people than the United States, a r.avy, colonies in
every quarter ot the earth, and a vail trade. The present happy
order of things is not to be changed to follow the example of
France— tLit no mar. will believe that it is not better t/> adopt that
example than to (uffer a fcparation of the union. That we may
not be driven to this alternative, let ns contradict those who re
present confol;rtation as no improbable event, and yet as the worst
of all political evils.
[If the following > marks are net predicated on the idea that "oc-vern
ment ISA necessary Evil—they art Janflioned b\ the Jen.
timcnt, that " order is Heaven's first law."J
FROM THOMAS', MASSACHUSETTS SPY, Q c .
Sutton, January it iiat
To Majler KIDDER.
SIR,
IT is a common report, that a school diftrift engaged yo.u to
teai h their school this winter; which school you set up and
tiught.fome days; but in the mean while anorhtV teacher wa/
*»nfulted, and a diftrifi meeting appointed to answer the requ ft
of a certain gentleman ; but his request was totally disregarded,
and the time fprnt in disputing, whether your government Ihould'
be regarded by treirchildren, or not. And wlion jhe vote was
four appeared for vour government, and (our against it.
Then one of your fchotars, who was under age, put in the calling
vote, which turned you out of the diffrift ; or you inuft give up
your government, which, by judicious men, is supposed to be
good. Now, Sir, whether this report be true, or talfe, I lenow
not ; and who the gentlemen are, is none of my business : But
the abovementioned report, is the occasion of my writing to vou
upon government. 1 Neither do I with to applv my observations
upon government, to those gentlemen in particular;, but t» the
charafler deserving.
Government is an institution of Heaven. When maA was firft
formed, he was put under law and government; the violation of
which, has introduced into the world, all the evil which now s
or perhaps will be ; which was effe&ed by the instigation of rh.'
Hevil ; and by him and his emidaries, this rebellion is Ail! go-ng
on. But r.he feed of the woman hath undertaken to put a check
to it. and to introduce good order and government again ; whirh
he v ill do rfF'&ually amoug his children, which apparently dif
t ngnifhes them from the children of the devil. Now wherever
ou find godly parents, the man, according to the order of Hra
f»n, izkes the lead, and the wife is in fubje&ion ; and their utmost
endeavor is to fubjett their children to good order. For the wel
fare of this rising nation, depends much upon the good govern
ment of paren s and school teachers, toward the blooming youth:
r or thr want ot which, the Sabbath may be violated, gaols crowd
d. whipping ports employed, and gallows s loaded, &c.
Now, Sir, a placed for tfce defrnce of thi* nation,
w-H be of no avail, if children may govern their parents; for pa
enf< mnft govern in state and town matters ; and if thev are go.
their children, and their children by the devil, then On
• hose (boulders is government ?
To conclude, Sir, I was informed, that with all modrfty, vou
rood vonr ground like an heio : And an he»o in the field, cannot
be ter serve his country, than vou can in your school, by fubjeft
i;ig your pupils to good order and government.
Frcm your friend.
SAMUEL WATERS.
Mr. Ashbil Kidder
P. S. If children can rule their parenrs and frhool teachf-is
w'nile under age, who is there whom thev cannot rule when thev
come to vears ? Thev feel every way-qualified to >ule kingdoms
and flairs; and all must bow to them, or there are di'Mirbancts in
neighbourhoods, rtoifv town-meetings, mobs, inlurrcttions; and
kingdoms and slates, by th**m are difqu:cted. This ground alio
produces tavern-haunting, horfe-jockying, caid-p'avtng, thieving,
robbrg, rioting, murder, and all manner of vicious prattlers.
But, will no: God ihorten their days ? Will not the earth »uen
her mouth quickly, and {wallow them uo, ;ts the did Korah ? For
by tbem the government ot Heaveq is struck at : I 1 To, the nei,-
lecfcof proper government, bv parents, maflcrs and school train
ers, " is no less than a wicked conspiracy, againlt both God and
inan."
I have only given you a general sketch of mv Simple thoughts
upon the education of children ; and more efpecLallv, some of
the ill confcquences which accrue from the neglcft of it. —There-
fore, Jet us, bv our exam pies, teach them every point of pietv,
especially benevolence towa'd our enemies.
373
A FRIEND TO THE UNION
[Whole No.
LONDON, January 7,
HP HE galleries in The National Aflembly of
)• ranee, continue rlie indecent practice of
re!lifyi:;o; their approbation by plaudits. Snre
, one fei ious admonition from the Frefidenc
would correct this.
A merchant at Dunkirk, named Peter du
Burgo, is gone off with two hundred thousand
livres, the property of various creditors. He
has deftrojed or Carried away all his books, ac
counts, &c.
T lie P.irifian Volunteers, upwards of thirty
thousand in number, are now become a well dM"-
ciplined body. Gieat harmony reigns nmonglt
them, and they are united by o.tie great and com
mon intereit. ] hey are for I lie molt pari Itrong
ly attached to the leading principles of i.h'e pie
(f nt con ft itu'ion, and disposed patiently to fuffer
the inconvenience of iis defers, until bv time
arid experience a remedy for these can he found,
without endangering the fafety of the whole.
In the course of the la 11 twelve months, they have
had frequent communications with each other,
and the sentiments of the majority a're known to
each individual. They feewiih indignation the
present effervefcence in different pans of the
kingdom, and the source of this thejr know to be
in the capital.
Legislative and municipal enquiries will soon
lead to a lull discovery of the authors ; and in
ii«e punifliment of these the immediate fafety of
the nation depends.
T lie duration of the treaty between Russia and
Sweden is to be for eight yeais. The four Swc
dHh plenipotentiaries have each received d rich
fnufF-box, and 3 000 ducats in The RuP
fian general de Pahlen, has on the other hand
been gratified by the king of Sweden with liis
pi<Sure surrounded by diamonds, and with a ve'-
ry valuable ring from the queen.
After a late interviet* between the Elertor of
Saxony and the King of Pruflia at Cunerefdorf,
they fat down to a grand entertainment, in a
magnificent saloon, buile by his ; Majefty expieff
ly,for that purpose,
The Mentor of" Saxony infills on the foliowing
tip 11 lations previous to his provisional acceptance
of the crown of Poland.
irt. ! har no decree of the States fhal! have the
force of a law, without the royal fan<sti'oft.
2dly. I hat the marriage of the Princess of
Saxony A:m11 entirely depend upon heraugul't pa
rents ; and.
?dly. That the Kingfhall command the army,
and be indepeiidant of any military contFoul
whatever.
Extract oC a letter from a gentle?/:311 in Paris, to the
Editor of the Gazetteer, dated Die. 19
" The leading features in the state of this ca
pital remain pretty much the Cameras they have
been dfcfcribed in m y former letters. Happily
the extreme violence which lately prevailed has
been attended.wirh some good effedts ; an union
of the moderate party has in consequence been
formed, and is as present predominant in the
Aflembly. More prudent measures have been
adopted, and the proceedings of governmeiic
inarked with more confidence.
" The King has been exceedingly popular
fincfe his lare refnlutions. Nothing indeed could
be better calculated ro conciliate the public muid :
A war against the emigrants, and those German «
Princes who favor jdefigns, is now the ge
neral cry, and in Head of dreading art attack,
they are eager to commence hotliiities f The ap
pointment of La Fayette as one of the Generals,
affords the high?ft fatisfadtion. No person can
be better qualified to defend the new constitution,
than he who had so great a (hare in eltablifhing
it.. None has been engaged in public with more
advantage to the community, or a character more
irreproachable to liimfelf.
" M. Pethion has commenced his office of may
or with great activity. The vigor of his pro
ceedings against gamblers lias been attended with
the moll ufefnl efFe<sis. Along with the morals
lie has not failed to attend to the appearances bf
the city, and is at prefeni busy to promote the
convenience and beauty»of the Itreets.
" The state of credit is very fluctuating. The
fame lamentable fcarcityj of money remains.
The late changes in the state of credit have,
however, rather been for the better, and from
the popularity of the measures now adopted by
government, we trull will continue to improve."CONGRESS.
PH ILA D E L P H I A.
HOJJSE OF R E PRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, February 13.
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
On the neiu Reprcfcntation Bill.
SMITH (S. C.) in ihe Chair.—The bill
-LVA was read through by the Clerk.
The firft section being repeated by the Chair
man—Mr. Seney mowed that the blank in the
16th line should be filled with the word thirty—
which would determine that the ratio of repre
sentation should be 30,000.
This motion was opposed by Mr. Hillhoufe,on
the old groupd of its unequal operation.
■ Mr. Gerry replied to Mr. Hillhoufe—He ob
served that this apportionment 011 the aggregate
federal number, would be more equal than by the
ratio of 33,000 —but this had been rejected by
the Senate j and as the ratio of 33,000 would not
perfe<ftly cure the difficulty, and would operate
to reduce the whole number of the representa
tives, he conceived that no new light had been
thrown on tfce fubjedt to induce the H'oufe to
confeAt to such diminution.
Mr. Mercer entered into a general view of the
fubjeJt—He supported a large representation—
and urged its importance, as it vefpetfts the de
mocratical part of the community.—The theory
of government is the fame, said he, whether ii
refpeifis a free or a despotic government —it is
not a small number that can govern in any coun
try —Standing armies supply in despotic govern
ments, the place of a large reprefentatioi. in a
free government—Still the operations of govern
ment in both cases, depend on a large numberof
people.
The question for inferring 30,000 was carried
in the affirmative, 30 to 21.
Mr. Mercer then moved t'oftrike out the third
day of March, 1 793, and to insert the fii ft day of
October, j 79-2 —refering to the period when the
states (hall be rep' efepted by the number arifiug
from the firlt enumeration.
H£ informed the House that Virginia had al
ready made provision to fend forward their sup
plemenrary numbers.— He urged the right of the
states 1 efpec'tively to fill up their reprelentation
agreeable to the enumetation, See.
Mr. Gerry supported the motion.
Mr. Fillhoule suggested another mode—He
proposed that thep'efent Congress fhonld expire
after the present session, and a new House be eledl
ed agreeable to the census, to meet at the time
to which the present Congress may be adjourned
—He urged many advantages which would result
from this plan.
Mr. Mercer said his idea was, that the chufing
these additional members would be only filling
up vacancies.
Mr. Murray was for striking out the third day
of March, 1793, for the purpose of inferring an
earlier day—The great objection is an inconve
nience—lt is said the members which now com
pose this House will have to continue by law ano
ther fellion, and 1 he fuppleniental members would
have to continue but to fill the intermediate fpaee
of time from the election to the third of March.
He begged gentlemen to give him leave to fay,
that the only possible obstacle to their thinking
as he did, arose from themselves :—from a defiie
he would not fay how disinterested, to continue
in power longer than they were entitled to re
main under the constitution. The ad: of Con
gress declaratory of the time which members
were to continue, was the sole obstacle 10 the gra
tification of the people in one of their bell rights
—This ast, funded in error ought pi evioufly to
be repealed, and then no difficulty eiiher from
the conftrucftion of the constitution or from in
convenience, could be raised to the wifti that the
additional representatives should take their sea s
immediately after the next general election.
This act produced a mischievous and unthought
of solecism in the government—lt separated re
presentation from confidence, and violated re
fponfibiliry, which is the very foul of the govern
ment..—The people could not but be aftonifiied.
that after the last generalelec r tion, the members of
Congress whom they had not chosen, still conti
nued there to hold their feats, and to act as upon
their confidence and trust. Surely one of the
most obvious truths in a government by repre
sentation is, that election (hall be the criterion
of confidence—and that a continuance to dis
trust after it is withdrawn, overturns
every idea of representation He wished the
committee to reflect that the principal objection
to the motion was eaftly removed, if members
would a<s a disinterested part :—and that if it
be admitted that the duration of the present Con
gress is the obje&ion to the admission of the fup
pJemental members, gentlemen cannot helitate
between the gratification of what evidently ap
pears to be the rights of the people under a fair
conftrusftion of the constitution, and a declarato
ry law which is repealable, and which is so con
trary to realou—'The objection is removable—
the right is permanent. It is certainly of more
confeqoence to adhere to the principle of a just
aivd numerous representation, and to adopt an
early day to give it operation, than to give the
principle the go-by, merely to support a stretch
ed duration of our term, under a law »hat over
sets the mod obvious truths and reafoningon re
presentation. As to the members from Georgia,
if the law giving an extra term to the feats of
members were not repealed, he would still vote
for Georgia's having three members till the term
expired—but at all events he hoped the motion
[ would be agreed to.
The motion was finally disagreed to
TUESDAY, February 14
In committee of the -whole on the bill relative to thf
< "I r r» r * ' -- " "
ilcßion of a President and Vics-Preftdent, ire.
A motion made yafterday, to insert a clause
reftridling the number of electors to the number
of the present Senate and House of Reprefenta
tives being put and negatived.
Mr. Gerry moved to insert a clause, which
fpecifies that " the electors (hall be equal to the
number of Senatorsand Representatives, to which
the several States may by law be entitled at the
time when the Prefidentand Vice-President thus
to be chosen should come into office , provided
always that where no apportionment of Repre
sentatives shall have been made after any enu
meration, at the time of chufing electors, then
the number of electors shall be according to the
existing apportionment of Senators and Repre
sentatives."
This motion with very little objedtion was
adopted ; its propriety will appear from the
following remarks made by Mr. Murray who
("aid, lie was in favor of the wliole, both the pro
pofiiion and the proviso ; the fir ft meditates a
Wiore equal representation of the wishes of the
people of America in the election of the two
great officers of the State ; the proviso guards
against a confufion which might take place with
out the provision. The present representation
in Congress is by no means equal—the States in
their conventional deliberation produced the
present proportion of representatives, more from
compromise than authenticated data ; no census
had then measured to the publip the proportions
of population, which one State bore to another,
and Reprefent&tives including Senators and elec
tors of President and Vice-President, being the
fame in number, and the scale of Representa
tives being unfounded in fatfts and evidence,
rhe inequality which is eviden t, is not to be won
dered at. This proposition remedies the ine
quality ; the proviso was not perfectly agreeable
to his wiflies ; but as it refers the number of elec
tors to a scale of representation ascertained b)
an actual enumeration, and at the fame time will
remove the probability of c«nfuflon by making
each Sta-.e uniform with others as to the rule of
fixing the number of electors, he should vote foi
it. This was a great object attained. It is not
a difficult thing to forefee, without jealousy 01
suspicion, that unless the States are uniform as
i o the rule of apportioning electors, the repose
of the Union might be violated. Should this
law refer to an apportionment to be hereafter
made by Congress this event might take place.
A disagreement might happen between this House
and the Senate, and in the tumults and contu
macy by which they might be agitated towards
each other, no apportionment might be made ;
in this situation the executive would be left at
the mercy of the two Houses and the order of
things violently deranged.—But even if the peo
ple having a census before them, though not
aJted on by Congress, were to make their elec
tions agreeably to what might be their refpec
tive ideas of the apportionment to which the
census apparently entitled them, yet we are not
certain that they would all acft by a uniform rule
—and if they acted without such rule, there might
appear before the tribunal of the public two Pre
sidents, or two men of great power claiming the
Presidency of America—This would be an evil
of great; and alarming size—and one which he
fomnch deprecated, that he willingly yielded
to the proviso, which he thought would tend to
leflen the opportunity by which designing men
could effect it. &
SATURDAY, March 17.
The Speaker laid before the House a Report
from the Secretary of the freafury, 011 the peti
tion of the trustees of Wilmin«gron College, and
a report from the Attorney General, 011 the peti
tion of A. Jackson — which were read and order
ed to lie on the table—as also another from the
Secretary of the Treafmy, in obedience to a le
lolutian, parted on the Bth inilanr, directing him
374
to report to the House the Ways and Means, by
which, in his opinion, the additional funis, ne
ceflary for the public service, ought to beraifed.
In,this last report the Secretary proposes an
alteration in the impost duties on certain foreign
articles, and to have them rated as follows :
Cuits.
C London pr. gall. 56
Madeira Wine London Market,
£ Every other quality, 40
33 cents. Oporto 25
30 TeneriiFe & Fayal 29
2 5 _
Sherry
St. Luca
Lisbon
Spirits distilled from Grain, or in which grain
is the principal ingredient, Cents.
First class of proof, - 28 pr. gtif.
2 - - 29
3 - - - 31
4 - '34
y 40
6 - - - -SO
Other distilled Spirits,
Second class and under 24
3 - - 27
4
5 - ' - 37
6 4>
Beer, Ale and Porter, 8
Steel per cwt. 100
Cocoa and Chocolate, 2
Playing Cards, 2J
Shoes and Slippers, of silk and
ftuff, per pair, 20
Do. of leather, 10
Glass* (except bottles) guns,
pistols, starch, &c. ad. val. 15 percent.
' Veflels of tin, copper, &c. 10 do.
Oils, Cosmetics, Dentrifice Pow
ders, printed Books, &c. xo do',
and all goods now rated at per cent, toberaif
ed to 7J per cent. Salt to be raised 1-6 of the
present duty—from all which it is proposed to
draw an additional revenue, viz. from Madeira
Wine, of which the average imported is 300,00®
gallons. 36,000 Dots.
Other Wines, 700,000 gallons, 31,000
Distilled Spi its, 73, 000
Salt, 40,000
Malt Liquors, Cocoa, Playing
Cards, other articles, ad. val. 93,500
2 per cent, addition on those
at 5i
Total, 523)500
Which, with the surplus in theTieafuryofthe
preceding vear, will make up the mm wanted.
Ordered, that this report be taken up ill com
mittee of the whole on tiiday next.
A motion laid on the table by Mr.Williamfon,
on the 6th inft. being called up and agreed to,
a c iinmittee was pursuant thereto appointed, to
bring in a bill to amend the import law, so far as
to permit the landing of fait at certain ware hous
es belonging to the fiflieries, and to provide for
an allowance of a drawback of the duties on tlie
fait used on provisions exported.
The House then, took up for consideration tlie
amendments proposed by the Senate to the repre
sentation bill.
The firft amendment, by which the Senate pro
pose, without any fixed ratio applicable t" the
refpedive number of inhabitants in each ot the
several dates, to increase the representation from
112 members (the number fettled by the Hou e,
at the ratio of one for every thirty thoulandj to
120, by the addition of one member to each 01
ihe following (tales, viz. N. Hampfhite, Maßa
chufetts, Vermont, Connecticut, N. Jeriey,
iaware, N. Carolina, and S. Carolina, -was pro
ductive of a warm debate, in which a dilWut
of the government was talked of as an even
no verv diltant perfpetftive, in cafe the <>
(hould, in compliance with the views ot tne:
nate, adopt a mode of apportionment, o
irarv, and so directly tending to deltroy
dividuality of the dates, and to swallow them
up in a genetal eonfolidation. „ t ,- r i n r
The q tieltion being finally taken on con
with the Senate, it palled in the negative
5 0 —nays 31. YEA S, n„„rnf.
Me (Irs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, • .
B. Bourne, Clarke, Fitzfimons, Ger '7» hfl |
Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley, J ;icobs ' Nj)es
Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Livermo , * .
Schoonmaker, Sedgwick,J.Smith, i,
Sylveder, Thatcher, Treadwell, Vin"' 0 .
worth, Ward.— 30.
NAYS. ...
MefT-s. A (lie, Baldwin, Barn'well, Hi l|.
ley, Giles, Gregg, Griffin,. Groves H«fte , .
house, Huger, Key, Lee".Macon.
cer, Moore, Muhlenbutg, . > Tucks,
W. Smith, Sterrett, St urges, il,nl P te J_
Venable, White, Williamson, W'lH • ■ , t0
The other amendments being 2 ; ntnl ent ci
_Mr. W. Smith moved for -
a committee, to cpnfer witli ja„,e,id
the Senate might appoint, tpconli. ■ dl""*-
nients. The motion being <•?['£' .j. all d W-
Madison, Findley, Baldwin, , rnQ fe.
Smith, were appointed for that P l - 1
TOO
2 SO, 000A motion was laid on tlie tabic for the appoint
ment of a committee, to bring in a bill, to con
firm the award of the referees between the Unit
ed States and Comfort Sands an J others.
MONDAY, March 19
Among a variety of private petitions, which
were read, was one from Capt. John M'Pherfon,
fecting forth, that he has discovered an infallible
method of ascertaining the Longitude to a degree
of precision far beyond Mr. Churchman's preren
fions : and requesting that Congress, for the pur
pose of enabling him to prove his theory by ex
periments, will fend him out in the character of
a gentleman, on a voyage to France, witli proper
recommendations to their good ally, the King of
the French. Ordered to lie on the table.
The petition of Cornelius Cooper, praying for
a repesl of so mucli of the import law as relates
to Bristles, and the imposition of an additional
duty on the importation of trunks and brushes,
was referred to the committee of the whole noufe
on the report from the Secretary of theTreafury
on Manufactures.
A melfage from the President of the United
States was delivered by Mr. Secretary Lear, no
tifying the house, that he had this day approved
and signed " An acfl declaring the confenc of
Congress to a certain acft of the state of Mary
land, See. See.
A meflage front the Senate was delivered by
Mr.Secretary Otis, notify ing that they had agreed
to the proposed conference on the fubje<ft of the
disagreeing amendments of both houses, to the
Representative Bill, and had, on their part, ap
pointed managers ; —alfo, that they infilled on
some, and had receded from others of their a
xnendnients to the bill for the relief of certain
"widows, orphans, invalids,'and other persons ; —
and al<o, that they had patted a bill for the erec
tion of a light-house on Montaugh Point, in the
state of New-York—to which they requested the
concurrence of the house.
Mr. Oris delivered a second ineffage, notifying
that the Senace had, with amendments, pafl'ed a
bill (sent to thein from the house) providing for
the settlement of the claims of' persons under
particular circumstances, barred by the limita
tions heretofore established.
The order of the day, on tjie Georgia Elediior.,
being called for,
Mr. W. Smith withdrew the motion he had
made on Friday last, for transmitting to the exe
cutive of Georgia a copy of the resolution re
fpedting General Wayne'* eletflion :—and in lieu
thereof, proposed one to the following effect:
" Resolved, That the feat of Anthony Wayne,
as a member of this house, is, and the fame is
hereby declared to be vacant Ordered, that
the Speaker, do transmit' a copy of the preceding
resolution, and of this order, to the executive of
the state of Georgia, to the end that the said ex
ecutive may iflne writs of election to fill the said
■vacancy."
Mr. Giles (with the consent of Mr. Smith,who
waved his motion for the purpose) moved the
following resolution :
" Resolved, That the petitioner, James Jack
son, is entitled to a feat in this House, as a mem
ber for the lower diltridlof the (tate of Georgia :
and that the right of petitioni igagainll the elec
tion of the said James Jackson. be reierved to all
persons, at any time, during the term for which
he was elected."
A lengthy debate took "place, refpetfting the
right of the Honfe to pronounce a decision on
General Jackson's election ; and how far the il
legality of one part of an election may operate
to the invalidation of the whole Without
taking the question, the House adjourned. &
TUESDAY, March 20.
A bill to crest a light-house on Montaugh Point, in the ftjte r.f
New-York, received from the Senate yesterday* was read a firlt
and lecood time, and referred to a committee'of the whole to
morrow.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill, entitled, " An ast
providing for the settlement of claims of persons baired by the
limitations heretofore eilablifhed," were taken into consideration,
and agreed to,
The Senate having receded from some, and infilled on others of
heir amendments to the bill, entitled, 44 An ast for the relief of
certain widows, orphans, and other pcrfons"—which had been
disagreed to by the House—the House took into consideration the
amendments thus infilled on bv 'he Senate, and concurred therein.
The order of the day, on Mr. Giles' motion, refpe&ing th
Georgia Ele&ion, was taken up, and debated till alter 3 o'clock—
when the House (without coming to a decision) adjourned.
PROVIDENCE, March 8.
Mariied, on Tui fday evening last, by the Rev. Mr. Maxcy,
Mr. Thomas P. Ives,tot he amiable Mi fs Hope Brown, daugh
ter of tlie-latr N\' holas Brown, Esq. On this happy occasion, the
elegant Chandelier in the Baptist Meeting-honfe was lighted by the
Society, as well to icftily their joy on the auspicious event, as to
evince their grateful fenfioility to the young ladv,for her truly ge
nerous Don?tiou to the Society, by which the facrcd TempLc is so
richly and beautifully embelliftied.
SALE M, March 6
The beautiful new lhip Grand Turk, jjo tons
bnrihen, built in this town, and furniflied with
fails and rigjring from the Salem faiftories, is rea
dy to fail with the firft fair wind for Calcutta, in
the Ealt-Indies; flxe.is commanded byCapt. Ben
jamin Hodges. ~
MR. FENNO.
I 11 * criminate the proceedings of government, is a t:ifk at orire
X easy and pleasing; rafy, as it requires not tin tdl -uts of in
"entive genius; pleasing, as it accords with the difpofttion to \ ■
pin ng and complaint, so predominant in hum u, i;-ture.
Adjourned
To these causes may be traced the bitter rrvilings which fill
many of our pa pi rs of laic, a g:>i uft the management of public af
fairs. It is ihe mislonutie of mankind that tliey look lor happ -
m is in every other situation lhari that they happen to he in ; ex.
pefting to derive relief (torn every change, they rove from tiough
10 bough, not like the bee, to inhale their fwects, but in search or
thorns to enhance their pain.
Prior to that eventful petiod which g,ive us the form of govern
ment we now polfcfs, the mind was bo 1 nr on the wings of pleat
ing anticipation; this epoe.ha was anxiotifly looked to as the'oe
riod which* would produce the tiee of our political life; but'llo
sooner do we find ourfe'ves in the enjoyment of it, than the.coin
hand of difconterit is employed to chill its bioffoms, and deltroy
the maturity »f its fruit.
Government is ot too sacred and serious a nature, of too great
importance to the welfare of society, to be raised up as children do
their card houses, merely for the pleafureof tumbling them down
again.
It is a duty incumbent on those who are so ready to Tail at the
present plans of adminiftratiort, to offer feme fubftttute in their
Head; without this, their worK it but imperfectly done ; without
this, their views are but half visible; or may be justly prefumcd
to originate from flagitious principles : that the auihors ot them
are either weak or wicked, is the necclTary dedu&ion.
What opinion Ihould we tiave of a person, who, meeting us on
a journey, should inform us that the road we were in was n«t Ihi
one leading to the place of our deftinatton, unless he proierdcd
o designate the true path ? Should we not fufpe& design mafkrd
under apparent friendfhip, and a wish to bewilder us, to anfwei
some finiflsr purpose ? We certainly (bould : then how fuperiorl>
aggravated must be his crime who endeavors to 11 gger the confi
dence of a whole people, in regard to those measures in whir'
they place their fafety and happiness, unless he points out the true
magnet leading to these invaluable objetts: happily their failure
in this refpeft, bv evincing the motives of their actions, tends to
obviate the malignity of their effe£l.
There is a contiderable number of politicians in all government*,
who are always enemies to the present establishment ; not becauff
it is an ill orte, or becanfe those who administer it beti»,y their
trust, bnt because they themselves are not in it.
Hiftorv, ancient and modern, i? replete with evidences of rht
ourfints above alluded to, and their fatal consequences. Such hav
been the favorite themes of the demagogu sos every age & country.
Such have ever been used as ftiirups by which to mount into the
(addle of power, to ride over the necks of their fellow-citizens—
the most vociferous advocates fey liberty, have been often foun
its firft and most powerful enemies. It t§ to be hoped that Ame
ricans, who have a government the offspring of unbiased judg
ment and found und<*rftandir»g, will never p- rmit (he mists of pai
ty paflion or prejudice to cloud the rays of reason ; but that thro'
the whole tenor of their political existence, they will exemplify
to the world the superior power of public virtue.
By the Ship Britannia, arrived at New-York, in 32 days from
Greenock, accounts are received to 6th February :—They state,
That the military preparations go on at Vienna, in Pruflia and
Sweden—That rhe Emperor has revoked the amnesty giantcd
ro the States of Brabant —That the Bishop of Treves has fulfilled
what was required of him by the law of nations in refpefl to the
French emigrants—That the refugees in his estates cannot be
considered but as peaccable travellers and fojourners—That an
embargo has been laid on all (hips at Dunkirk,—this being
construed by the diunicipality to extend to French veflels, the En
glish (hipping failed immediately—The Swallow packet has ar
rived from India ; Lord Cornwall's army had returned to Ban
galore, where it was well fupplitd with provisions, and had not
been molested bv Tippoo The En»lifh have taken the Fo<t
of Ryacottah and OfTour, the place which Lord Cornwallis an
nounced his intqr.tion to attack.
In August Tippoo attacked Coimbatur, but was repuHed
A party ot the Mahrattas, who continue hrm to the English, had
been defeated by Tippoo, and loft 7,000 men.
It does not appear that Lord Cornwallis had re-commenced
his operations for the captuie of Seringapatam.
Fresh overtures of treating had been made by Tippoo—but
Lord Cornwallis refufed to treat in any way but that of writing.
The English East-India Company has lent out this year 400,000 .
in specie. An erabaiTy is intended for China, which is ofFer&d to
Lord Macartney.
, On the 16th January the National AfTembly decrced that Louis
Stanislaus Xavier, French Prince, has forfeited his right to the
Sovereignty. t
By accounts from Savapnah (fays a New-York
paper) ic appears that Gen, Bowles has taken a
lmall fort belonging to the Spaniards, in confe
qnence of which the Governor of East-Florida has
offered a reward of two thoul'and dollars for his
head
Richard Morris, Esq. late Chief Jultice of the
ftat;e of New-York, is appointed huper*ifor of
New-York diftridt, vies William S. Smith, Efq,
who has resigned
The fuperintendant of this port cautions all
persons employed in conducting vessels to and
f oni the fame, trom (landing too close in towards
the piers at Mud-Jfland ; the outermost of the
said piers having been so far destroyed by the
late breaking up of the ice, that no part thereof
is to be seen except at very low rides.
In the Maflachuferrs criminal code, but seven
offences are considered as capita]—in some others
of the dales the number may be less. According
to Judge Bl:»ckftone, no lei's than one hundred
and lixiy are declared by a Itatute of the Parlia
ment of England to be capital offences.
The following gentlemen are chosen Direc
tors of the Bank of New London.
Meflrs. Jedediah Huntington, Joflvia Lathrop,
Marvin Wait, Joseph HowJand, William Stewart,
Daniel L. Coil, Kdward Hallam, Samuel Wood
bridge, Guy Richards, fofeph Williams, Samuel
Wheat, Joseph Perkins, George Philips.
After which the Dii eclors met and m ide choice
of Jedediah Huntington, Esq. President, and Mi.
John Hallam, Cafliier.
fUR I lit. GAZt. l i L 0
Philadelphia, March 21.
375
it. uNIIc.O SIAI'LS.
VIATOR.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
1 lie malignant pleasure of blamingthe prc
fent, and applauding the pa r t, was charged on
mankind by and has been continued by
moialifts to this day—Every warm patriot mult
feel in bis own bread a refutation of the calum
ny" -as it may be extended to the fltuatioii of
the United States. We cannot, however, please
ourselves with the expectation of an uuiverfal
approbation either of constitution, laws, men or
meafures—for there are, and always will be, per
(ons of so peculiar a calf, that they feein fated to
deri e no fat,isfa<ftion from contemplating the
works of either God or man.
Tht? public liberty should have vigilant watcli
men—bur its greatefl dangers arise from ihofe
wluj cry IVolj too frequently.
While tliofe who difleininare principles that
have a tendency to make mankind better fathers,
brot hers and citizens, merit more from their coun
try than those who atchieve the most splendid
victories—those 011 the other hand, who by their
wiitings attempt to weaken the bonds of society,
by teaching the principles of a felfifh policy, and
inculcating dodtrines that confound all diftinc
tiotis of right and wrong, are more injurious to
the world than earthquakes which depopulate
whole regions.
While the new constitution was under the con
federation of the people, preparatory to its adop
tion, one of its bitter and pei fevering enemies
was asked, whether he had read a pellicular pub
lication, which was in favor of the initrument ?
His answer was, that he had made up his mind,
and was determined not to trouble hi in lei f with
jading any speculations 011 the (object.—lf per
sons. who at the present day are so zealous and
induflrions in poisoning the public mind, would
adopt a different line of conduct from theabove,
we (liould not fee so many barefaced f.ilihoods
attempted to be palmed 011 it, refpeifting :heex
cife, impofl, See. &c.
Funding rhe public debt, is opening Pandora's
box—What was to have been preferred ? Why,
annual provisions to pay rbe interell. This would
have been prcrty, indeed!—A debt under the
management of too financiers ! —The fpec'ulatftrs
have loft a glorious harvest —{top—rlieie was a
fhorcer cut to the end of the business.
The Prefiaent of the United States, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, has made the following Appointments and
Promotions :
Appointments (or Twelve Companies of Infantry.
Captains. Lieutenants. Enfi-rs.
Vermont. William Eaton James Underbill Charies H' de
New-York. Isaac Guion Robert Cochran J.Vif. her
New- Jersey. Zebulon Pike J-ihn R< ;>d J°^ n Poihriiius
Pennsylvania. Jacob Slough Robert Thompson John Paine
Delaware.
Maryland.
James Wells M. Bines, Pennf. Wm.Div(rn,Pennf[
Henry Carberry Benjamin P'lte Campbell Smith
Wm.Buchannan Henry De Butts Wur.PittGaffaway
William Lewis Joseph Gough Charles Wright
Nicholas Hannah William M'Rea Aaron Gregg
Joseph Brock, Henry B.Towl-s Peier Graylon
John Heth Samuel Tinflcy Peter Marks
N. Carolina. Joseph Kerr Thomas E.Sumner Sam<u ID tvidfon
Promotions and Appointments in the Battalion of Artillery.
Virginia.
PR OMOTION s
Henry Burbeck, Major Commandant, vice Fergufon, killed No
vember 4, 179 r.
jolin Peirce, Captain, vice Savage, resigned October 1791
Mofei Porter, Captain, vice Burbeck, promoted Nov. 4, 1791
Daniel M'Latie, Captain, vice Bradford, killed Nov. 4, 1791
George Demlar, Lieutenant, vice Spear, killed 4th November,
1791 ; promoted from an Enfigncy in 2d Regiment, to rank from.
sth March, 1792.
APPOINTMENTS.
Joseph Elliot, Lieutenant, vjee Peirce, promoted. (SouthCarfilina)
Purcy Pope, do. vice Porter, do. {Virginia)
Ebenezer MaflTey, do. vice M'Lane, do. (Maryland)
'/?/<
'£ CURRENT.—PU BLiC btCURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
2 as pr.£
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificate* ig_/" 95 do.
Indents 12J6 625 do.
Half {hares Bank Stork—7o per cent, premium
PROPOSALS
TOR PUBLISHING, BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In ihc Commonwealth ofMajpichujetts t
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE *fthe ARTILLERY
in the UN'ITED STATES of AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET COMPANION.
IN THREE TARTS.
Part 1. ONTAINING the duty and prattice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery :
to which will be added, an extract of a Treatise on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the lint*, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of directions
f>r compaction, and the method of making artifi ial fire-works,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kjnds of ord
nance.
By WILLIAM. STEVENS, EJq.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
lace revolution, and since in the Militia,
CONDITIONS.
This woik to be printed on good paper with a handsome type,
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket Volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pjges; illuitrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed bv able ar'.ifts.
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume—to non-sub
scribers, One French Crown each volume : and thole who iublcnbe
:ot fix setts, o>all have a fevcnih^ra/ij.
This work fhail be publifhcd as soon as five hundred copies arc
subscribed for.
Subscription papers will be lodged wfch the principal Printer*
and Bookifllers in the United Siatc* of America.
110 pr. ccnt.
6aJ do.
65 do.
O R ,9
PRICE CURRENT, PHILADELPHIA.
peH quantity.
March 21.— Bollaßs 100 Centse3fh.
ANCHORS pr. Ib. 7c 8c
Allum, Englilh, pr.c. 3^73^4^
Ditto, Roch pr. Jb. 11c
Ashes, pot, per 101:, god 100 d
Pearl, \ipd
Arrack pr. gall. 1 d 33c id bye
Brandy, common, 1 d 26c
Cogrnac 1 d $cc
Braziletto, pr. ton. 4c d
Bricks, pr. M. 4d *d
Bread, thip, pr. cwt. id 88c .>d
Ditto, pilot ' 3^67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in ]
bot.pr.doz. bot. incl. j
pr. bbl. 4d 67c
co f Oak pr.M Feet, 9d 10d
Q | Merch. pine 16d iyd
Sap, do. %d 50c 9d
O I N. Eng. 11 d
03, l_ Cedar 14d
The above arc the Shallot prices ;
jor the Yardpiices add 1 d 33c
pr. M.
Brimstone roils pr.cwt. 3d
( Irish pr. bbl.
< Boston 7d B»i
C 2 ( Country 6d 7d
Butter pr. lb. 16c
in kegs toc 12c
2 f Sper. pr. lb. • 43c
•-I I Wax 53c 5 6c
p Myrtle Wax 13c
| Moil-'d,tallow 11c
O LDippeA 10c
Cheese, English, pr. ib. igc
Country Bcicc
Chocolate 17c 1 Br
Cinnamon 2d 4c c 2d 67c
Cloves id 33c
Coal pr. bufliel
20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. \[od,6jc 11 d 33c
Coffee pr. lb. 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. \d67c
Cordage yd6jcßd
Cotton ' pr. lb. 27c 37c
Currants 13c
Duck, Ru(Tia, pr. piece 1 ldogc
—-—Ravens * 8d 93c 9 d 67c
Feathers pr. lb. 4 oc 44 c
Flax
Flaxfeec pr. bulb. 85c 90c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. S^ x 2> c
Common,
— Bur middlings,beft \disc
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-fluff pr.cv/. iV 1433 c
Fustic pr. ton, , 20d
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe,
Do. Pr gall. 80c
Glue, pr. cwt. 2Cd i\d 33c
Ginger, whiterace ydjUyyc
Ditto, common yd zee
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9c
Ginfcng, 20c 24c
Gunpowder, on-> . .
non, pr. q. c. 0 0
Ditto, fine glazed 4d
"Wheat pr. bush qoc 90c
Rye 5° c s¥
Oot's 26c
40 c 44<
| Barley 60c 63c
J Best fhcllcd pr. lb. 3c
(_ Buckwheat per bufli. 40c
Hemp, fo.pr.. ton, 120 d 146.67 c
Anieric.--n, pr. lb. 4c 5c
Herrings pr. bbl. 2d6yc .t.
Hides, raw pr. lb gc i\c "o
Hops fjc ?
Hogshead hoops, pr. M \§d ,
Indigo, French lb. ldzoc '
Carolina 40c id
Irons, Cad pr. ton, 133 / 33c
("Callings pr. cwt ]d 4~c
y. | Bar pr. ton, 82// 6 c
C <( Pig 24d 26d 67c
2 I Sheet '73 rf 33 c
IN ail rods g6d
J ink, pr. cwt. 4^s^
Lnrd, hogs pr. lb. oc io«
Lead in pigs pr.c. s d6yc
■ —■ —mi bars 7,/
I.rad, white \odlod6jc
red 6d 40c 6d6 -c
leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
.ignum vita; pr. ion, $d 60c 6c
wood
Mace pr. lb. 6:
Mackarcl, best pr. bbl. g
f cond quality 6d 6yt
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f. \d%<»c2d
Mast spars 33c 67c
MolaiTes pr. gall. 46c 50c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, lodizd and 20d- — -ioc
. 8d
r Linfccd, pr. gall. $oc
| Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2d ccc
I Best Tweet in )
~ fljfks,pr.hox S 10
j —baskets 12 bottles $d
Spermaceti pr. gal!. 48c
Train 24C27C
LWhaie 22c 28c
Porter pr. cafic, 5^,33c
! ondon,pr.doz. • ldGcc
Nutmegs pr. lb,
Porter, American ) ,
p'r.doz. bnr.incl.J
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.& c
Of the fir ft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnuund MaiketStreets.
id 73c 2d
1 id
Pitch, pr. bbl
Pork, Burlington,
»L >wcr county
Carolina
Pras, Albany pr. bush,
Pepper, pr. lb.
Pimento
Raisins, best, pr. keg jd&d
Ditto pr.jar 3d
Ditto pr. box 4c!
Rice pr. cwt. 2d 6yc 2d
Rosin pr. bbl.
Jamaica pr. gall. 112 c
1 Antigua gee
J Windward 80c 83c
i Barbadoes 77 c
Country, N. E. 59c
Salt petre, pr. cwt. 1 33 c 14d
Saffafras pr. ton 6d 8d
Shot 140^
j f German pr.lb. 9 c
W )Englifh, blistered
P American pr. ton :
in ( Crowley's pr. fag 10d6jc
Snake root pr. lb. 20c 42c
Soap, Brown 6c
White 8c
Castile nc
Starch 7c
Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4d $d 60c
Spermaceti, re fined, 48c
Sail cloth, Englilh, "| 2 g £ .
No i. pf>r yard, J
Boflon, No. I. 30c
— No. 11. 29c
1 cd
9 d
~'i c
44 c 47C
j 7 c
Ruflia sheeting. pi".p. 12^
C Lump, pr. lb 22c
d 1 Loaf, finale refined 25c
"f- J Ditto, double do. 36c
] Havannah, white 17c 18c
oo Ditto, brown, 16c
lMufco.pr.cwt x±d\6ds3C
SpiriisTurpentme p. g. 33c
r t Allurn pr. bulh. 24C2 c
j J Liverpool 29c
< S Cadiz 23c 24c
f Lifhor> 25c 27c
Ship build. W. 0.1 ,
frames p. ton, j 12U1 3'33
Dn. L O
■ 33 c 67c
Do. red ccdar, p. f. 33 c 40c
Shingles, (h. p. M. 2df 33c 2d 67
Do. long dreiTed l2^l
Scantling, heart, 23^33,
Sap 8d 8d 67^
C Pip? pr. 1000 nod
2 } W. O. hogshead 19 d 33c
> J R. O. do. igd qOC
f* I Lrogan 16d
in Barrel 10 d
L Heading %6d 67c
I Otter, btft pr. pie.
Minks 2cc 40c
Fox, grey 40c80c
red id 20c
Martins 24c \d
~ Fi(h <--" 33'67;
« P-rars
Racoons 27c 60c
Musk.-rats 1 xc 2Cc
I
i
Tar,
—C
Tun
Braver, }>•-. lb. 67c 1d 33
Deei, in hair 20c 30,
C. Jcrfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1,
roiina.,32 gall. Tdsstut6j
>entinc pr. bbl. i-; 67c l><
James R. be ft %d 6c <r "3
inferior 2d6"jc 3,
old 4d 67,
Rappahannock %d epc o.
J Colo.Maryland 8<
Dark 2^40,
Long-leaf %d 40,
Eastern-shore 2d n d <>3,
Carolina, new 2d jc $c
L old do.
Hyson pr. lb.
0 Hyson fk n, - 67,
£ Souchong, s oc 93,
_ | ( nnm,
tßohea, 34 c 36,
Tallow, refined n
Tin pr. box, 13*/33 c 67
Veidigrcafe pr. lb. 47c ,53
Verm.llion
Vamifh, 33c 37.
C Madeira, pr.p. 106^200,
. I.' fbon t\6'l joOfl
CcnrritFe, pj 1 . gat j}ic6o<
| fayal 41, -nr
x J Port pr. p. 1061/ 671 120 d
r 1 Do. in bottles.pr. doz.
Claret 41/6 d
Sherry pr.gall. 90c idioc
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,long pr.lb. i^c^cc
COURSE OF EXCHANGE..
Bills of Exchange, Londn,
qo days 10? )
60 days gU Pr Ct " "" der
30 oays 6J) Far "
Amftcrdam, 60 Havi,
30C
38.
pr. guilder,
90 days
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per 1 1 guilders, 4d 4.4 c
France, 60 days 80c
THE Editor oj the Gazette ojthe United States, m*Jl
earneflly requejls that those of his fubferibers, whose arrearages have
been accumulating for more than twelve months, would make paynent as
soon as pofjible—at farthejl, bejore the frfl day oj June next.
Those per Jons who /hall be dijpofed to patronize this Gazette after
the Poll-Office Law fkall gy into operation, willpleafe to fignijy their
intention to the Deputy Pol'KMafters in the United States, who are
requejled to forwardjuchJubfcriptions as may be received, to the Editor,
previous to the faidfrfloj June. The terms offubfenption are
Three Dol'ars per annum, exclusive of pofhge—Or.ehalf tobe paid at
the time of Cubfcribing, the other half to be advanced at the expiration oj
the jirfl fix months.
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION,
On Wednesday the 11th day of April next, at the House of
Johv Thompson, in the City ot Perth-Amboy, or at private
Sale before,
A FARM, containing about four hundred acres of upland and
jlT\. fait meadow, lying within three quarters of a mile of said
city; i> a part bounded on the found, and on a navigable
creek, on which is a good mill feat. There are on the farm f ve
ral eligible firuatioos for building, with delightful pmfor&s, ex
cellent brooks and springs; a large apple otchaid. and some fruit
trees of other kinds, and a quantity of fire-wood. The
foil is good for grats and moil kinds of grain, and may at small
expence, from the of tlie fait meadow, and other ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any farm in !Cew-Terfev.—
It will be fold all together, or in two or three divisions, as (ball
appear best to suit those inclined to purchase."
For further particulars, previous to or at the time of sale, apply
to the fubferibers. JOHN HALSTED, and
CONTRACTS.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, ALrch 6, 179?.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will be received at
the Office of rhe Secretary of the Treafiiry, until 5 o'clock
in the afternoon of Wednesday the 21.fl day of March instant, for
the supply of the following articles of Clothing lor the Troops
in the service of file United States, vir.
For the Infantry avd Artillery.
4,608 hats 18.460 shirts
4.608 coats 7-9.56 pa'of socks
4 608 veils 4.608 blankets
8.668 woolen overalls 4,608 flocks
9.216 linen ditto 4.608 flock clasps
18,376 pairs of fho'-c 4,608 pairs of buckles.
For the Cavalry.
320 caps 640 do. of (lockings
320 coats 1,280 shirts
320 vefls 320 bjankets
320 pairs leather breeches 320 flocks
640 do. of boots 320 flock clasps.
320 do. of fpnrs
Also, 1,200 rifle shirts, to be made of RufTia sheeting.
Of the above clothing, five hundred fuitsareto be delivered on
the 15th day of April next ; one-thousand suits on the 15th day
of May next ; one thousand five hundred suits on the 15th day of
June next; and the remainder on the 15th day of July next. —
The place of delivery may be either at Philadelphia
or Baltimore, ax the option of the contractor or contra&ors.
Piopofals wili be received for the whole of the above mentioned
clothing, or for any one component article fepirately; to be fur
nifhed agreeably to patterns or specimens, which may be fcen at
the War Office.
Good security for the punctual and faithful performance of the
contrail will be rcqu ; rcd. The payments will be on the delivrry
of the clothing; or, if necefTary, such reasonable advances wi 11 be
made as may be desired.
FOR SAL E,
BLOOM S B U R Y,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls ot Delaware?in ihe vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jfrlcy, occupied for many yeais past by
the fubtcriber; containing upwards of 200 acres ot land, betides
a tract of wood-land of about 185 acrcs, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftieet leading from
Trenton to Lamberion, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity; the eattwardly pait being arable land, is laid
ofl in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by th'c river on
the weft, forms a squats; which, from the combined effect of fix
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the molt
beautiful and defiiahle feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-timfhed brick buildin?. 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extenfivc and pleating view sf
the rivi r, both above and below, as well as including th- falls, and
also of Trenton ar.d the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both tid<* of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new tlonr
coach-house and (fables, fufßcient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a ftorie cow-house, upwards of teo feet in leneth'
containing ihirtv-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, Sec. Adjoining the court-yard of the ttianfion-houfc, is .1 gr.
den ot about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
(fate of culture, and abounding with a rich crtllrftion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and I'everal large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance frotn the man.
fion-houfe, and nearlv in the centre of the square, is a new, well
huilt, Itone farm-houfc, accommodated with a large cflecfc-room,
fnrtng-houfe, garden, Sec. a complete stone smoke-house,- corn
cribs, waggon-hnufe, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
celTary out-building. The ground is properly divid- d into small
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and (,hi< fly under the
moll approved grass. This square has produced annually, for fc
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the bell hay, bclides
supporting through the summer season twentv to tbi rty horned
cattle, and ei»ht or ten hnrfes. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good truit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons
with great plrnty o! all kinds of filh nfuallv Sound in frefh water
tn this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleating amusement to the sportsman. as *cll as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. J"lie
whbl ■ of the land, except the wood-land, is inclof.d and divided
b V good fences great part of which is formed of red ccdar po(t<
and rails of civ■ fnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
•he improved fq rare fcparatcly, or the whole together, as mav
hell lint lnrn. There is an inexhaustible quantity of jood build
,ng Itone on thejiver (hore. The pu,chafe money, if well secured,
and the interest punflually paid, <will not be demanded foi many
years. 1
Any peifondcfimus of viewing the picmif s, may be -ratifi d
™ application to Samuel W, .Stockton, Esq. of T.pnton,
or Mr Inahman, who Mpr.-ftnt occupies the la.m-ho„(c and'
rYr, lanc - and ""y l »»» 'he price on application to the
luMcribcr, ai No 213, South Second-ftrect, oppolite to thr NVw
.•la'krt. in Philadelohia. ' rnv
Philadelphia, March 7,1792. J (cpti)"
376
MATTHIAS HAI.STF.D.
SALES
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfclem, in-fhe Cbunty of Bucks
E (quire, deeeafed, pur foam to the Directions
of his last Will and Teftamewt,
OV Tuifday the 27th of irtW* exoofrd tr-SaV
by way of Public Vendue,' on the exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farpi, containing abont two
hundred and ninety-nine aens, situate on the riv-r Ctlawfee- 011
which is errfted a hanrffome two-fWy brick houfc, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn, llables, hay-house
and other convenient outhouf s. A good orchard,ofihe bell kind'
of grafted truil, now in its prime; a large rarden well fenced in
and in good order; and a (had and herringfilirry heforethedoor'
This p'ace is remarkably ,wrl! fimbered, has a fjfficicnry of meal
dow,a large front on tirriver, and rims back to the pnft-roarf.
Onr;other very valuable Faim, adjotntngthe above; containing
about two hundred and frvn acres, the great<4»»ft of which it
wood-land. There are on this farm a good n(Be, barn, fbbles
and other Oitthoufej. with a young thriving orcffSrd of the belt
grafted fruit, and a lhad and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accuftnmed tavern; and the feny belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for brjog well kept and much fre.
quented. Both the above places afioid the bed prol'pc&s on the
river, and are remarkably hcaithv.
One other small Farm, containing about fix'y-thrre arrr-s sou.
ale in the townfbip of Southampton, in the aoutuy afmefaid ■ 011
which are erected two log-Houses. is a (mall orchard, and
a gte'at fuftlciencvof wood-land and meadow giound.
One Lor. containing four acres, lunate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelohia to New-York, and'ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and work-shop ad
joining, with well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also. at the fame time and will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniiure, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the onrehafe
money to be paid down, and the remainder iu two yearly pay
ments with interest.
JOHN 1 SWIFT, )
JOH\ T M. NESftIT, > Executors.
SAMUEL BEXEZET, \
(ep'ms?)
To be SOLD peremptorily, ai Pup lic Vendue,on W. linelduy
the 11th dav of April next,
""THE SEAT of the late Dotftor Lewis Johifttn,
d^ceafed, in Perth-Ambov, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of L AND.
This place is bounded fontherly for near a mile on the r : ver
Raman, where it empties into the bay about 1 Z miles from Sandy*
Hook, and affords two most agreeable fit nations for Grn-lemrns'
Sea's. There are now on it, two brir.k houses, with gardens, and
a good colle&ion of fruit trees of the bell kinds. The land is v ry
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; from its situ
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oyflers and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flits before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments ; and as Perth- Ambov is one of the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the orofoeft of its
ir.creafing in value from that circumstance, is by no means mcotw
fiderable.
There wil' also be fold, other Lots, w thin the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Lard on the opposite fide
of thr river Raritan—part of which is improved bv a farm—on
which there is a framed d weHing-houfe barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
nftv acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and verv convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for lh»p build
ing, and other uses, the fanfpprtatiort by water being easy and
fafe. The conditions will be mada known at the day of falc,
and the lequifite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and > _ „ ~ ,
BOWES REED. £ Truftecs tothe fa.d Eftair.
Lihewife to be SOLD, at the Jame time and place.
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietor? of East New-Jerfev, whete n the p o
prietary house lately stood. The elegant fituaiion of this spot is
hardly to he equaHed; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of the Bay formrd by the waters of Rantan and Hud
son's rivets, where thev disembogue into the sea to the East—and
a most delightful one of the serpentine courfeof the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a rich tract of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of stone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the house lately bum 1, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent W3trr,
with a very convenient liable and coach-house, will greatly leffea
the expence of putting tHe.place in order for the residence of a
Gentleman.—There are few situations so eligible, particularly m
the summer season—when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
Qfuatfons, render them places of pirating retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and neighbouringcitics.
Perth-Amboy, Feb. 15. 1792. (ep6w)
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ol Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank. in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be leceivedL until the ninth 3V
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Wilhamfburg; Thonjas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia; f
John Cowper, of Gates County \ and Benjamin Jon s, of a, " _
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will
about sixteen miles ; the country through which it wil! pa.s, "
Iwamcy, free from (tones, and covered with heavy wood. e
Cana' is to be ihirt\-two feet in width, and eight feet at lea t m
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being n avl
gated in dry feafdns, by velfels drawing three feet wjiter.
Good fecuritv will be required of contractors; and per ins
making application to be employed as managers, muit p rf) 11 e
certificates (from characters of re fpe&ability) of their qualification!
for a business of this kind.
By Older of tlic Pr<-M?nt and DiffSors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Cirri.
( C P ; 9 A ) _
W]
Norfolk, "January ?.i, 1792.
Militia Fines.
r ■ "HE Colle&ors of Militia Fines in the City an \ L-"- s "
1 Philadelphia,and the diftrift* of Moyamejifinjrwid PaflyOn /
are herebv required to collect and pay into the County Trea ut )'
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and ctepofit their boo s <•
vouchers in mv Office, at No. 6t, Walmit-ftfcct, on or r orr
fir ft day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, »n 1
mediately from the fdid firft day of April, »ll Colic orS .
shaH fail in complying with this requisition, will be proccc
against according to law,
Philad. Feb. 25, : 7^2
TO BE SOLD BY TH f. EOT TOR, ,
A TABLE for receiving and pavinjr Gold 1' th- Bin* •
United Stafcs, ftiewinsc the Value of Goltl >>1 '»the
Cent*, from One to a Thousand Penny wrijrhf<-—arcor rv
Act of Congress, afcertatping the StMiJaid and Value cn j '
THOMAS PROCTER. L ,eut '
of the C;tv *n<l Liberies.