PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 75, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF thf. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION*
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Pcr.n
fylvanta, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for carrying into effetfl a Contract be
tween the United States, and the State of
Pcnnfylvania.
FOR duly conveying to the State of Pcnnfylvania a certain tiaft
of Land, the right to the government and jurifdiftion where
of was relinquished to the said State by a relolution of Congrcfs of
the fourth dav of September, in the year one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty-eight, and whereot the tight of (oil has been fold
by virtue of a previous resolution of Congrcfs of the hxih day of
June in the said year :
Be it enabled by the Senate and Hnajc of Reprejcntatives of the Untied
States of America, in Congress ajjembled, That the Prefidcnt ot the
United States be authorised, on fulfilment of ihc terms llipulated
on the part of the State of Pcnnfylvania, to ilfue letters patent, in
the name and under the seal of the United States, granting and
conveying to the said State forever, ihc fafd tratl of Laud, as [lie
fame was afceriained by a survey made in pursuance nl ihc resolu
tion ef Congress of the sixth day of June, one thousand seven
hundred and eighiy-eiaht.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-rrefident of the United Slates,
and Prefidcnt oj the Senate
APPROVED, JANUARY THIRD, 179
The following Address was presented to the President
of the United States, by the Right IV orjhipful Grand
Officers of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, on
Tuesday last.
To his Excellency GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PreJident of the United Statei.
SIR AND BROTHER,
THE ancient York Masons of the jurifdirtior.
of Pennsylvania, for the firft time assembled,
111 general communication to celebrate the feaft of
St. John the Evangelist, since your election to the
chair of government in the United States, beg
leave to approach you, with congratulations from
the Eafl, and in the pride of fraternal affedtion,
to hail you as the great majler-builder (under the
Supreme Architedl) by whose labors the temple
of liberty hath been reared in the Weft ; exhi
biting to the nations of the earth a model of beau
ty, order and harmony, worthy of their imitation
and praise.
Your knowledge of the origin and objelis of
our institution—its tendency to promote the so
cial affections and harmonize the heart, give us
a Cure pledge that this tribute of our veneration,
this effulion of our love, will not be ungrateful
to you ; nor will Heaven reject our prayer, that
you may be long continued to adorn the bright
lift of matter-workmen which our fraternity pro
duces in the terreflr'tal L*dge ; and that you may
be late removed to that ceteflial Lodge, where
loveand harmony reign tranfcendant and divine ;
where the Great Architetfi more immediately
prelides ; and where Cherubim and Seraphim, watt
ing our congratulations from earth to Heaven,
fliall hail you Brother!
By order and in behalf of the Grand Lodge of
Pennsylvania, in general communication as
sembled in ample form.
{Signed) J. B. SMITH, G. M.
Seal. yfttcfl.
(Signed) P. Le Barbter Du Plessis, G. Sec.
To which the Prefidentwas pleased to give the
following answer :
7*o the ancient TORK M4SONS of the jurifdiUion of
Pennfylvdu'ta.
GENTLEMEN AND BROTHERS,
r R H.CEIVE your kind congratulations with the
purelt sensations of fraternal affection : and
i rom a heart deeply imprelTed with your gene
rous wishes for my present and future happiness,
I beg you to accept my thanks.
At the fame time 1 request you will be allured
of my belt wishes and earned prayers for your
bappinefs wh'le you remain in this terreltrial
manlion—and that we may hereafter meet as
brethren in the eternal temple of the Supreme
Architect. G. WASHINGTON.
GJLORGE "WASHINGTON,
Prefidcnt of the United States.
Saturday, January 7, 1792.
FROM THE UNITED STATES CHRONICLE.
DESCRIPTION of night.
Verjijied from an ancient writer in the Gallic language.
X-jOUD bowls t'ie wind—the (bowers descend,
The mountain Spirit (creams—
The windows flap—the tall woods bend
And roar the rain-fwol'n streams :
To ford the torrent, fad the wand'rer tries—
But hark! o'er-whclm'd, he (hrieks—he dirs
Swift down the hill rugged and steep,
The affrighted bcafts retire—
The hunter rouses from his sleep.
And wakes the flumb'rmg fire—
He bars the wind—'round the hearth the while
His wet dogs smoke—companions of his toil.
Sad on the distant mountain's fide,
The lonely fhephcrd sighs—
And bids, his wand'ring steps to guide,
The iing'ring moon a rife—
While the sorest roars,
And down the rock the headlong torrent pours.
The Ghost rides lightly on the storm —
Loud arc it's cries, and fhiill ;
The houfc-dog barks--the lhadowy form
Flies o'er the misty hill :
Cold, daik and gloomy is the scene,
Anfe, my friends, and let the wand'rer in.
City-Hall, Philadelphia, Jan. 3, 1792.
WE the Subl'cribers, appointed by the Stock
holders of the Bank of the United States,
ro preside as Judges at the election of twenty
five Directors for the said Bank, do hereby cer
tify, that the following Gentlemen were duly
eleified, agreeably to the namberof votes annex
ed to their refpedtive names.
William Smith, S. C. 3870 James Watson, N. Y. 3298
Samuel Johnftoo, N. C. 8618 Archibald M 4 Call, Penn. 3170
Fisher Ames, £ m fl* 3^° 2 *AndrewCraigie, 306*
*TriflramDalton, } 3 ' 35Q0 Nicholas Low, CN. Y. 3043
Joseph Ball, Penn. «R-C. 2870
John Lawiance, ).. v 3477 William Bingham, Penn. 281,5
Rufus King, ) ' 347° R« Fendall, Virg. 9.386
Thomas Willing, Penn. 3445 #^aac Wharton, Penn. 2313
George Cabot, MafT. # Henry Nichols, Mary. 2278
JeremiahWadfworih,Con.3423 J. C. Fiihcr, 2205
Joseph Anthony, } * Mat. M'Connell, > Penn. 2026
Robert Smith, C Penn. 3348 Charles Petlit, 1891
Herman Le Roy, ) 3300
In witness .whereof, we have hereunto fee
our hands and seals, the day and year fir It
above written.
D. SEARS,
JOHN DELAKIELD, (l. S.)
GEORGE LATIMER, (L. S.)
Those with this (*) mark are new Dire&ors.
AT a meeiing of the Society tor promoting the improvement
of Roads and inland Navigation, held on Monday the 2d
of January, 1792, at the State-House in the cit/ of Philadelphia,
the following Officers were chosen, viz.
President Robert Morris.
Treasurer Samuel Meredith.
Secretary—Timothy Mat lack.
Committee of Correfpondence-i-The Rev. Di.WilliamSmith,
William Brown, of Kiftiacoquilis; William Mont
comer y, of Northumberland ; William Findley,
Tench Coxe, Georce Clymer,John Adlum.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UMILD STATES.
PEOPLE govern their opinions, and, in the
event, their condudl by their feelings and
wifties. In company, you will fee mtfn of
sense and merit taking part againlt aathoriiy,
and on the fide of those who insult and resist it
on almost every occasion ; they seem to think it
a dury to do so, because they wifli to strengthen
the caofe of (he people : and in the second place,
government being always strong enough, often
so strong as to encroach, is not the worse for be
ing abuled and pelted back somewhere within
its lawful boundary line—it is thought at any
1 ate, but indulging a good propeufity. This
may be very honed conduct, but is it wife and
proper ?
Under a bad government the people have some
thing to get—scorn and calumny and public ha
tred may controul the miiiions.of despotism, and
make the government afraid to go to extremi
ties.
In America, the government is as free as can
be desired, or leafonably conceived. The pro
per care of the people is, not to extend their
own ground, not to attack the government, but
if poflible to make it immortal : As in France, so
in America, the constitution is the fan<ftuary
where liberty takes (helter from violence ; it is
not what has been got from the people—it is
what they have got tor thenifelves and mean to
lay up and lock up as they do their jewels and
ueafures. When the ncwfpapers tell us of the
289
Marc
L. S.)
tst#Po
[Whole No. 281.]
minions of power and of overgrown individuals
in ollice and of other cant which feeins to be co
pied from an Englilh opposition print, what are
wetothink? In thiscountry men are honored with
public trull because they poflefs public confidence;
as this trull should be discharged in a manner to
deserve the character of honest and able inen,
the public approbation is at once the reward of
their exertions, and a new pledge given to the
public that they will continue to deserve their
favor. Very bad men are not the 1110 ft solici
tous to acquire ingenuous praise. Why then
should the public be so often addressed as it is,
to make the government fufpcdled and the men
who adininifter it odious ?
In Turkey a good son of liberty would wish to
fee a revolution. The fame principle would
lead him in this country to fortify the govern
ment. C I V I S.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, December 19.
DEBATE ON THE REPRESENTATION BILL.
[Continued. J
[The Senate had amended the bill by encreafing the ratio from 30,000
to 33,000 ; the House had difa greed to this amend*:;nt ; the Senutc vo
ted to adhere. It ums moved m the House this day t that they Jhoutd re
cede J turn their difagr cement .3
Mil. MAbISON, after making a few prefato
ry observations, said he felt himfelf impell
ed to take some notice of the arguments that had
been nfed this day, on the fubjedt before the
House : he would not, however, attempt any re
ply to the gentleman from New-Jersey, nor pre
tend to follow him iu hit flights of imagination
refpe&ing the New-Jerusalem or the umpirage
of Pennsylvania, but leave it to those to whom
such observations might have been addrefled to
draw their own concTulions. He was sorry that
it almost always happened, whenever any quelti
on of general policy and advantage to the union
was before the House, when gentlemen found
theinfelves at a loss for general arguments,
tbey commonly resorted to local views ; and at
all times as well as the present, when there was
most occasion for members to adt with the utinoft
coolness, when their judgments ought to be the
lead biafled—it was to be regretted that at those
times ihey fuffeved their feelings, palGons and
prejudices to govern their reason. Thus it is
that the most important points are embarrafled,
the northern and southern interests are held up,
every local circumfiance comes into view, anil
every idea of liberality and candor is banilh«|d.
The gentleipan from New-York, (Mr t Law
rance) when he introdoced this fubjedt at the
commencement of the prel'ent session, did it on
the most generous plan, and disavowed every
principle of calculation so much, that he then
declared he had not so much as made a single
calculation of the different fractions which have
since been introduced into the debate—his only
object'was to fix a rule on general principles, a
greeably to the conltitucion and to the
tion of the rights of the people ; and this idea
was approved by two of the gentlemen from NeW-
Jersey, who have since altered their
although they then had no objections but as to
the expence : the idea of fractions was not then
contended for, but has since becoine the very e£
fence of the opposition ; and we are called on
to violate the constitution by adopting a meafurc
that will give representatives for ihofe separate
and diftimt fractions in the refpetflive states ;
and afterwards are rold it is not to |the fraifti
onal numbers in the states that they refer, but to
the aggregate of the fractions in the United
States. If this reasoning is good, why do the
gentlemen flop at this boundary of a representa
tion by states ? why not proceed to eredt the
whole of tha United States into one diftridt,with
out any division, in order to prevent the inequa
lity they conceive taexift in refpett to individu
al dates !He would Hot encroach upon the timeof the
House by protradling the debute,which had alrea
dy swelled to an immoderate extent. Upon the
whole, he said that this was a great queition,
wherein attention ftiould be paid to the people,
and a strict eye kept towards the public good,
divetted of prejudice ; but he had heard with
pain how much had been said to divert the Houle
an attention to fractions, from the true ob
ject of general welfare—yet-he hoped that the
government would be equally administered—that
none of those predictions or threats thrown out
in the course of the debate, that 110 mutilation of
the union, would take place ; but on the contra
ry, that harmony would guide the decilion ol
this ( queftion, free from every local considerati
on.
Mr. Hillhoufe.—lt lias often been said this go
vernment is a government of confidence—an<l tak
ing this for granted, can it ever be supposed that
a plan of repiefentation, which is unequal and
unjust, can excite this confidence. This ratio of
30,000 throws an additional weight of 7 repreien
tatives into the fcalc of the large states. If this
principle can be established on this occasion, it
may be also extended to taxation. Notthern and
southern interests have been mentioned—he was
sorry the idea had ever been suggested—but as it
had, there was 110 impropiiety in adverting to it
let a line then be drawn at any given place,
and a ratio established which will do equal jus
tice to the members on both fides of that line—a
repiefentation that will deviate from such a prin
ciple, it cannot be expeifted, will give fatisfatlion
or be chearfully fubuiiued to by the people.—
The ratio of 35,000, figures will (hew it, will
give a more equal repiefentation than that of
30,000, —and there has not, aijd, in his opinion,
lie said, could not be any good reason alligued
■why it ftiould not be adopted.
Mr. Boudinot said he was pleased when gen
tlemen were desirous of appealing to candid and
fair argument, in determining important quefti
ons.—ln the present cafe, he thought there was
propriety in examining the principles of the bill
and amendment, by the terms of the constitution
—It had been said by gentlemen, that the ratio,
when adopted, must be applied to the number of
citizens in the individual states, and that no re
gard was to be paid to the fractions occasioned
thereby, because not regarded by the conllituti
on—This he thought, was no means conclu
live.—The House of Representatives was to con
sist of members'chofen every second year, by she
people of the several states—these members not
to exceed the proportion of one to 30,000. —It
appeared to him that the whole number of repre
sentatives, to be chosen by the whole people of
the union, was the fubjeift contemplated by the
constitution ; as eonftituting this branch of the
legislature, while by another part of the confti
tu;ion, it becomes the duty of Congress, t» appor
tim them when so afcertained,among the several
states in proportion to their refpediive numbers—
As an instance, suppose for arguments fake, the
aggregate number of the citizens of the United
States, to be exactly three millions, by applping
the ratio of 30,000, the constitutional number of
this House would be found 100 —Congress fliould
then proceed to apptrtio?i (for he could apply no
other meaning to the word) the too members a
mong the States, as their rcfpecftive numbers bore
a proportion to the whole number of three milli
ons—Thus the representatives from every state
would bear an exatft proportion to each other,
according to the number of inhabitants in the
state ; and the whole repi efentation would stand"
on principles of perfect equality. An equal re
presentation appears to have been the desirable
objetft of the framers of the constitution—it is the
very spirit of our government. He infilled that
this was the only mode of applying the ratio,and
making the apportionment that would hold good
at all times, and under all circumstances. hcan
not be said with propriety, that the constitution
does not proceed on principles of perfect equali
ty in this House, yet if the ratio be applied to
the numbers in the individual states, it will al
ways produce (as has been fully ihewn by seve
ral gentlemen) very great inequality, by large
fractions being unavoidable—in one state we now
find one upwards of 29,000. He acknowledged
the amendment did not proceed 011 this prin
ciple any more than the bill, for which rea
foil he fully approved of neither, but as the ratio
of 33,000 in the amendment produced a much
greater equality, and came in efFecft nearer to his
principle,.(by reducing the fractions made by
the bill nearly two thirds) he should prefer it,
as he must vote for the one or the other.
It had been (aid that they were making distinc
tions between the north and the fonth—between
the large and finall states—He observed in an
swer, that if gentlemen would introduce princi
pies of inequality, that bore unconstitutionally
hard on individual states, they ought not* to take
it amiss, that the fuffering states would complain
of the injustice—The injured must complain,and
the fault, if any, lies with the firft trainers of
the principle.
If gentlemen wiflied for equality, let them ad-
here to the principles of the constitution. Ap
ply the ratio to the whjle number ot citizens, by
which you find the number of representatives to
constitute this House, and then apportion those
representatives among the individual' Rates ac
cording to their refpeiftive numbers.
When gentlemen advert to the Senate, and
fay that the equal representation ot the final!
states there, (hould be taken into the account,
they do not consider the relative situation of the
states as reprefentcd in that House—there the lo
vereignty of eacli state is represented, and not
the individual citizen—sovereignty is perfectly
equal in every state—As sovereigns there are no
great or (inall, and if his information had been
right, it was on that principle that the Senate
was originally constituted, but that House was a
representative of every individual citizen. On
the whole, he was of opinion that by agreeingto
the amendment of the Senate, they would secure
the great principle of equality better than by the
bill.
Mr. Boudinot thought the construction he had
given the constitution was a true one—lt support
ed the spirit of (the confederation between the
states, which was on the footing of perfedt equa
lity in proportion to numbers—lt coincided with
the Ipirit of our government, which was equality
—And although by it, the number of members
constituting the House was firft ascertained from
the whole people aggregately considered, with
out refpedt to the division of states, in their poli
tical capacity, yet by the after apportionment a
mong the refpeiftive states in that capacity, the
wisdom of the constitution appealed in thus pro
viding a general government for general purpos
es, and at the fame time making each individual
state (as a state) eflential to the exiltence of that
government, thereby preventing in the nioft ef
fectual manner an unneceflary entire consolida
tion of the union. Mr. B. said he had originally
objected to the bill on account of a toa numerous
and expensive representation, as well as of an
unequal one, but chiefly relied on the last as un
constitutional, and therefore should (till prefer a
1 concurrence with the Senate.
Mr. Gerry observed, that it had been fafhiona
ble to speak of the ratio of 30,000 as a federal
number ; he did not know what name to give to
the amendment of the Senate, unless it were call
ed the fractional number. He then took notice
of an argument which had been used to create
suspicion, that was danger to be apprehend
ed from a combination of the larger Hates ; but
this would appear a weak argument when it was
confidere'd that the power and influence of the
smaller dates are equal in the Senate to ihofe of
the greater ltates—the thing is impossible, and if
attempted it could not succeed.
He wiflied to know whether it was the opinion
of gentlemen, that there was less judgment and
less firmnefs in the House of Representatives than
in the Senate ? He hoped an equipoise would be
preserved in the two branches, and that the ba
lance would not be destroyed by conllantly giv
ing up the judgment of the House to every whim
of the Senate. If a latitnde be now admitted,
that we lyay increase the ratio, before the expi
ration of the firft ten years, the gentlemen in fa
vor of the Senate's amendment may infill on a
ratio of 50, or 60,000 ; but this is ground they
know they cannot yet touch upon ; and the fame
reason that (hould prevent us from adopting this
extreme, operates against the amendment. The
whole expence of Congress, from adopting the
ratio in the bill, will not amount to two cents up
on each citizen of the United States annually,and
as population encreafes it will be lessened, Sure
ly the gentlemen in favor of the amendment can
not obje<S to this trifling expence. They speak
of a liberal policy ; 1 wish they would (hew us an
example by agreeing to the bill with a better
grace than they seem to have exhibited hitherto.
Mr. Murray. The fubjecfl has gone through a
very ample difcufiion. When the question of re
presentation firft came on, the theory of the go
vernment was ably resorted toby those who urg
ed a large representation. Sir, I most heartily
agreed in the principle on which by a large ma
jority this House made 30,000 the ratio. As I still
am of that opinion, I (hall be indulged by this
House while I give my reasons for adhering with
a firmnefs which may be deemed by some tenaci
oufnefs, to a rejection of the amendment of the
Senate.
I voted for 30,000 because I saw in that ratio
the constitutional wishes and expectations of the
people. I deemed the largest possible ratio al_
lowed by the constitution to he the source of na
tional government, and its bell security, "No
thing, fir, which I have yet heard has convinced
ine to the contrary. It is unnecellary to recapi
tulate whatever has been said 011 this point. I
inuft remark, however, that during the difcuilion,
the members of this House who suggested that
principle appeared to me to be convinced. They
seemed to be matters of their own opinions, and
to agree in this idea, without adverting to the
dodirine of fractions, that the sole question was
a point of theory rather than a meal'ure of ex
pedience ; and they decided by a very large nia
290
jority, that in this House, immediately warm
from the very bosom of the people, the ratio ot
30,000 was theoretically correct and practically
ulefiil. The bill was lent up to the Senate, who
returned it with an amendment of 13,000 as the
ratio. 1 voted against that amendment, because
it was an attack upon the principle of an enlarg
ed representation ; and because the idea of frac
tional representation aimed at by the amend
ment, was but a commutation of the evil of frac
tions from one State to another, from the eastern
on the southern j and contained a fuj'tender ot
the principle without an of conve
nience.
Sir, it has been in the 'course of debate
foretold, that that honorable body would be a -
verse to an enlarged representation here. What
ever has been augured, has been verified by ex
perience ; nor can any nun be at a lols to lee
that the temper against large representation,
though not openly avowed, for t-hat would have
been impolitic, has been covertly and luccefsful
ly exerted under the semblance of 1 -quality of re
presentation, by this doiftrine of fractions, it
was sent down into this House in the form ot
jealousy and ful'picion—and it has produced its
effeifts. It has roused the latent and local inter
ests from their plans, and we have had debates
entirely conftrudted 011 the tenets of northern
and southern interests and influence.
A proposition was made by a member from
New-York, ( Mr. Benfon ) and reiterated by
the gentleman from Delaware. The object ot
rhis proposition was to sum up the fractions, and
from the aggregate take seven .members. Sir, if
1 was furprilied, I confefs I was deligliied to fee
men who a few days before had opposed in the
ory the idea of a large representation, come down
with moderation, and fugged this great princi
ple even in a bad form. 1 imagined they were
converted. I voted aj>aind this proposition, be
cause 1 thought it, firft, unconstitutional, inaf
mucb as it could have been contemplated but in
the consolidation of dates ; and because I tho't
it contained a solecism in politics. 1 deemed it
unconditional, as the conditution calls for a
representation of the people of the rtfpsßive
states in a ratio of 30,000 ; and if this had ob
tained it was to be done by collecting the frag
ments of condiments from dates widely separate,
and giving a representation of their fractions
thus divided to that date which had the largest
fraction. Thus, fir, the two from Delaware
would be chosen by less than the condiiution
contemplates, as there are not 60,000; and it is
in vain to fay that the member chosen by 25,000
is elected by the addition of 5,000 in any other
date in order to complete his proper number of
condituents, for they do not eltß him : and if it
be laid that he nevertheless does repiefent them
as his condituents, it can only be by the idea of
a consolidation having pre-exided, which no man
has yet openly averred to be the doctrine on this
subject. The very, firft and mod intelligible
principle of representation in government is that
the representative is rcfponfible to his conditu
ents ; bur, fir, this, though an abdract truth,
mud be shown to the people not in a fiction, but
in a solid and practical mode, congenial with
their habits,and palpable to their underdandings.
In the adoption of this extraordinary proposi
tion, the idea of virtual representation is the on
ly one which at all protects it. No man, howe
ver, who knows the country, will tamper and
trifle with so solid a part of government as that
of actual representation and actual responsibility.
I never, fir, could consent to commute a known
and practical meal'ure of good, for a flimfy (pe
culation which could only have been invented to
serve particular views, and was never thought of
till it was difcovcred in what manner the fracti
ons would affect particular dates.
For these reasons, Sir, I voted against that pro
pofitioti. I (hall now vote against the amend
ment of the Senate, because 1 find no cute, but
a partial one, for the inconvenience of fractions ;
and even this is to be obtained at the expence of
principle. Though this amendment may gratify
some States, as New-Jersey, that may have large
fractions, it throws off the evil from them on
other Slates. The fracftion of Maflachufetts may
be (mailer, but the State of Maryland loses a
member and will have a large fraction. Sir, I
can find nothing in this amendment but the de
sign to accomplish what I humbly conceive an
uuwholefome end by improper means, and (hall
therefore vote against the proposed amendment.
(to be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, January 4,
Several petitions for compensations, pensions,
&c. were read and referred to the Secretary of
War.
Mr. Lawrance from the committee to whom
was referred the petitition of Brigadier-General
Jofiah Harmar, in behalf of himfelf and a num
of other conuuillioned nfficers, praying an aug
mentation of their ]>ay, made a report in favor
of the petitioners, which was read and laid on
the table.Thf committee on tiie petition of John Stagg,
jun. chief clerk in the oftice of the Secretary for
the Department of War, reported that his sala
ry be augmented to the funi of 800 doll srs per
annum, to commence from the lit ot J.inoary
inft. whicli report was laid on the table.
Mr. B. BdUine presented a memorial from the
legislature of the State of Rhode-lfland, praying
a further alluiriptioii of her State debt, which
was read and referred to the Secretary ol the
Treasury for information.
Mr. Livermore of the committee, appointed to
bring in a bill agreeably to the report of. the
committee 011 the petition of George Webb late
receiver of continental taxes in. the ol \ 11
ginia, reported a bill for that porpofe, which
was read the firft time,
A report was read from the Secretary at War,
>n the memorial of Benjamin Lincoln in behall
,f hiurfelf, Cyrus Griffin and David Humphreys,
Commilfioners for treating wiih the Indians,
south of the river Ohio, and referred to a (eiei't
committee of Mr. Ames, Mr. Boudinot and Mr.
Steele. .
Mr. Benfon, laid on the tnble a resolution, to
this effect, that a committee be appointed to
brine in a bill apportioning representatives a
mong the several states, according to the firft
enumeration, &c.
THURSDAY, January j.
Read a second time, a bill granting further
compeufation to certain receivers of continental
taxes, and referred to a committee of the whole
honfe on Wednesday next. '
Several petitions for conipenfations, penfious,
&c. were read and referred to the Secretary of
War.
A petition ot Daniel Freer, praying the renew
al of certain certain certificates of public debt
■which had been destroyed, was read, and refer
red to the Secretary of the Treasury.
The committee to whom was referred lhe re
port on the memorial of Benjamin Lincoln and
others, reported in favor of the prayer of the
memorial, which was read and laid oil the table.
The House proceeded in the consideration of
the poft-office bill.
The fedtion offered by Mr. Fitzfimons which
provides that the stages which transport the mail,
{hall be authorized to carry paflengers was fur
ther difcufled, after confulerable debate Mr.
Barnwell offered a proviso—suspending the ope
ration of the clause in thole states in which cer
tain persons are verted with an exclusive piivi
]ege, by the law of the (late, to carry paflengers
in waggons or coaches, till the expiration
of their patents. Further debate took place on
this proviso, which was finally negatived—the
Ayes and Noes being as follow :
Meflis. Baldwin, Barnwell, Griffin, Huger,
Lawrance, Madison, Murray, Seney, VV. Smith,
Sterretl, Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher,Vining— l4.
Meflrs.Ames,A<he,Benfoii. Boudinot, B.Bourne,
S. Bourne, Brown, Clark, Findley, Fitzfimons,
Gerry, Giles, Gilman, Gordon, Gregg, Grove,
Heifter, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell, Kiuei a, Learned,
Lee, Liverinore, Macon, Moore, Muhlenberg,
Niles, Page, Parker, Sclioonmaker, J. Smith, 1.
Smith, Steelfc, Sylveaer, Treadwell, Venable,
Wadfworth, Ward, Wayne, White, Williamfon,
Wyllis— 43.
The qaeftion was then taken on the propofi
tion offered by Mr. Fitzfimons—which was also
negatived—the Ayes and Noes being as follow :
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Findley, Fitzfiuions, Gerry, Gilman, Gordon,
Gregg, Huger, Kittera, Lawrance, Learned, Li
vermore, Macon, Muhlenberg, W. Smith, Steele,
Sturges, Sylvester, rhatcher,Viiiii>g,Wadfworth,
Ward—2J.
Medrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Barnwell, Boudinot,
Brown, Clark, Giles, Griffin, Grove, Heifter, Ja
cobs, Key, Kitchell, Lee, Madison, Moore, Mur
ray, Niles, Page, Patker, Schoonmakcr, Seney,
J. Smith, 1. Smith, St errett ,Snmpter, Tread well,
Tucker, Venable, Wayne, White, Williaml'dn,
Wyllis—33.
Several new amendments were offi?red, and re-
jeifled
Ic was then ordered that the bill be engrofled
for a third reading.
The house proceeded in the consideration of
the bill relative to the ele&ion of Prefidenc and
Vice-President, &c.—An amendment to the loch
fecftion was proposed by Mr. Gerry—and Mr.
Giles moved to recoin two of the fediions—
but without deciding on either, the House ad-
jojirned
FRIDAY, January 6.
The petition and memorial ot John Churchman, presented a
few days since, was taken into consideration, and, after some de
bate, a motion for referring it to a felctt committee was agreed to,
and MefTrs. Page, Wadfworth and Wayne, appointed accordingly.
Mr. Benfon's motion for the appointment of a committee tote
port a new rcprefentation-biH, was taken into consideration.
Mr. Gerry moved an amendment to the motion by inserting
the ratio of 30,000 ; this occasioned considerable debate : Mr.
AYES
NOES
AYES
Ne E s
Amrs moved another amendment which was to iufcrt 119 mem
bers as ihe whole number to be chof«n by the union. These mo
tions were fuperceded by a motion from Mr. B. Bourne, to refer
the original motion with the amendmetrt propetcd by Mr. Geriy,
to a committee of the whole House, which being agreed to, the
fubj £1 was made the order of the day for Thurlday next.
The Houic proceeded in the consideration of the bill relative
to the eltthon of I'relident aivd Vice-President, &c.
Mr. Gups moved to recommit the whole bill, which, after some
debate, was agreed to, Aid made the order of the day tor Tuesday
next.
Mr. Lawrance reported a bill to ascertain and regulate the claims
to half.pay, and to invalid pensions—this bill provides for a par
t al repeal o| the limitation ordinances df the late Congref y and
makes the most ample provision tor the cases of all those who have
claims on the public juitice read the firft and second times,
and made the order of the day on Wednesday next.
The report on the memorial of Benjamin Lincoln and others,
was taken into consideration—this being in favor of the memori
alilTs, it was moved that a resolution should be adopted purfuaot
thereto, which was for granting a sum of money equal to defray
ing their reasonable and necessary expenc&s —After considerable
debate, a fubllitute for this motion was proposed, in moving that
a committee should be appointed to bring in a bill, appropriating
1611 dollars, pursuant to ihe prayer of the memorial. The
House, without deciding the queflion,adjourned till Monday nexu
LONDON, November 8
On the 3111 ulr. M. de Montmorin went to the
National Allembly, in obedience to orders, to in
form them how the King\acceptance of the con
(titntion had been received by foreign powers.
The letters written in answer to the King's 110
tification by the Emperor, by the Kings of ♦Eng
land and Denmark, by the States-General of Hol
land, by the republic of Geneva, by the Electors
of Treves and Saxony, and by the Dukes of Deux
Ponts and Brunfwick, (imply wiill the welfare of
the King of Fiance and his fubjeOts.
The Eleclor of Treves fays formally, that "as
to any thing else he has no answer to give."
The King of Spain fays in plain terms, that
" the King was not free when he accepted the
cbnflitution."
The King of Sweden " refuted to receive the
packet which was officially sent to him." And
lie alfigned, as the motive of his refufal, " his
own will and pleasure not to receive any iniffion
from France."
M. fie Monctnarin observed, that as soon as
Louis XVI. was informed of this answer, he had
ordered his amballadoi: to renew his application
to his Swedish Majesty ; that if Guftavus should
perlilt in his refufal, to quit Stockholm without
taking leave.
This resolution of the King was highly and
loudly applauded.
The Empress of Ruflia, the court of Rome, the
King of Sardinia, the Queen of the Swiss
Cantons, and the Eledtor of Mayence, have not
returned any answer.
The National Aflembly have decreed thanks
to the King of Great-Britain, to the English na
tion, and to Lord Effingham, Governor of Ja
maica, for his generous conduct in relieving the
planters of St. Domingo, from the horrors of fa
mine, and furnifhing them with arms and mili
tary (lores, against their rebel negroes.
The Prince of Wales, it is reported, has clear
ed ten thousand "pounds by the present meeting
at Newmarket ! ,
HARTFORD, December 26
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at Cape-Fran•
cois, to the Editor, dated Nov. 19, I 791.
" The day before yesterday, a 74gun {hipand
one frigate, arrived at this port, to aflift in quell
ing the disturbances, but have only made them
greater —the officers being of the Ariltocratical
parry, the Allembly have demanded thetn—and
I am inforrped that the seamen have rifeu and
delivered them to the guards of this place, that
they may be sent to France."
BALTIMORE, December 30,
Extratt of a letter from a gentleman at Cape-Fran
cois. to his friend in this town, dated the ift injL
" 1 he mulattoes were driven from Port-au-
Prince by the regiments of Artois and Norman
dy, and were, when the dispatches came off, en
camped at the Croix de Bouquet—Report fays a
bovc ISO of them were left dead in the llreets.
A terrible pillage attended the fire. The women
and children were taken on board the King's
(hips; and, we are told, few have fultained other
injury than the loss of property."
Extrafi of another letter Jr'om a refpettable mercan
tile house in the fame place, to a gentleman in this
town, dated the %d inji.
'' Further particulars from Port-au-Prince have
come to hand since our last. We learn, that from
30 to 32, instead of 27, squares are destroyed,
(the town is coinpofed of 44) and ihefe the most
valuable. All Captain's-ftreet is consumed, and
but very few, if any, of the principal merchants
have escaped. Not one of the fufferets had time
to save his books or papers. We are momentari
ly expe*fling further information. We are, as
yet, quiet here, and have little to apprehend from
the mulattoes. At Fort-Dauphin they have deli
vered up their cannon, and joined our army in
that quarter. We have every reason to suppose
that Aux-Cayes has fuffered the fate of Port-au-
Prince. The infill-gents were in the neighbour
hood of the town, when advices, received last
evening, were dispatched—Fort St. Louis was
291
then in their potTeffion. It is said they had warn
ed the planters to retire to their plantations, on
pain of fire and sword. The whites, at Leo
ganne and Petit-'Guave, are di farmed. Sr. Marc
has, probably, experienced the fame fate."
Philadelphia, January y.
Reports from India, via France, fay, that Lord Cornw;>llis has
found it necessary to retire, Tippoo having laid walte the count!y
in such manner as to impede his march.
At the Revolution Society Dinner in London, Mr. Paine gave
the following Toast " The Revolution of all tub
VVoR L D."
Accounts from Detroit, received by a gentleman from the G?-
nellee country, fay the Indians in the late battle at the Wellward,
amounted to between 3 ar.d 4000 That they were command
ed by one of the Miffalago Tribe, who had been in the British ser
vice the late war—that he planned and conduced the attack
That the account of the commencement and continuance of the
afition, agrees with Gen. St. C lair's letter to the Secretary of War.
A late acconnt from Port-au-Prince, pubhfhed in a New-York
paper, fays, that it was not the people of colour who burned the
town, but that it was dene by the inhabitants—and that it was a
premeditated plan of the Aristocrats ! —
How often is the faying contradicted \n fafl, that no man is an
enemy to himfelf!
The following resolution was adopted in the Houfeof Repre
sentatives of this Common wealth, and sent to the Senate for their
concurrence, on Thuifday last.
That in commemoration of the important and meritorious ser
vices rendered to his country by Ciorce Washington, whose
character and conduct have triumphed in proportion to the diffi
culties thev have encountered, and have attracted the admiration
and refpeft of all nations where valour and virtue are held in esti
mation, there be procured at the public's expence, a full length
portrait painting and marble bust, expreflive of his per foil, and as
far as poflible charafteriftic of his talents.
Refolvcd, That the said painting and bust be depofued where
everthe Legislature (hall deem expedient.
Prejudices are battered down by writers—yet, prostrate in the
dust, they maintain their authority over the multitude. They re
sist reason, Hut they yield to time. They must be fuffered, even in
the counfcls of nations, to wc#r out. No truth is better proved,
than that trade should be free : yet not one nation has fully yield
ed obedience to the principle. Commercial reftri£tions and pro
hibitions are even multiplying, and the hands of industry, (one
would almost tear) are going to be bound fatter than ever. This
is the golden age, tho not in the fabulous sense. The desire of
wealth governs politics, as well as trade ; the aflembly house, as
well as the work-shop. The enquiry, in the former, is only, how
shall we make a law to increase the riches ot the people? The
answer is, by letting them alone—give their industry room to atl
in, without the obftru&ion of government's meddling, and it will
find its own reward. The European nations, unfortunately for
them, and for the world, have colonies ; the system ot commercial
monopoly follows the system of conquest. Tis there that one
abuse is made to produce, and to juftify, another. Every trading
nation needs some naval defence ;—but the ambition and avarice
of the great maritime powers, havtvcairied these burdens to an
oppreflive extreme. A great navy, they pretend, must be kept no
to defend colonies, and seamen must be hired to catch cod-fifh
and whales, at three times their worth, to man a navy. All their
(hips barely fuffice to defend their monopoly; a tenth part of
them would protect a free trade. But it is fortunate for mankind
that the excels of these abuses is providing a cure for them, The
colony and monopoly system of Europe has kindled their wars;
their navies have been the chief instrument and heaviest charge of
them. Their national debts have been contracted, in a great mea
sure, to defray that charge. They have drained all that the mo
nopoly of trade could supply, and more is still wanting; and now
they begin to perccive, that free trade only can furnifh ft.
Before the constitution of the United States was adopted, or
even published, the opinion of the public was fettled on this
point, that the old form of government was carrying us hastily
forward into anarchy and ruin ; men of fenle and virtue w< re
zealous and a£live in using arguments and perfuaftons to get the
constitution received by the people. Then they watched and la
boured long and hard and succeeded ; they felt an affe&ion for
the work they had so much assisted : But now the government is
going prosperously forward, it is to be apprehended, that such
men will withdraw their attention and affe&ion, at least in a
gteat degree ; they will fay let it now take care of itfclf, it is able
to doit—But they may have cause to lament their neglect; a
thousand occasions happen in which a good government would
almost stop Us course if it was not affiftcd by the zeal and virtue
of the men of abilities and merit who live under it.
The only reason aiTigned for enhancing the postage ofnewfpa
pers sent more than 100 miles, fifty per cent, is, that it will pre
vent a monopoly of the business on the part of those Printers who
publilh at the Seat of Government, to the injury of the Printers at
the Southward, where labor and materials in that line, are dearer
than at the Northward. This is one of those bad rules fhat will
not work, both Wavs—for if it would tend to equalize the matter
at the Southward, it will entirely prevent any papers being sent
to the Northward.
The half cent originally proposed as a postage on newspapers,
would be found fully competent to defraying everv expence. All
that is to be considered with refpeft to the contra£l;> tor carrying
the mail, is the weight—the trouble would not be encre-ifed, pro
vided all newspapers were lodged in the poft-office, as they ought
to be—but it has never yet been made to appear that the newspa
pers might not be included in all the mail contrasts, without one
faithing's addition to the expence.
A writer in the Farmer's Journal, printed at Danbury, (Conn.)
fays Were some regulation established whereby editors of pe
riodical works might rcceive commnnications tree of postage, the
publishers of the National Papers would, undoubtedly, re
ceive many entertaining and inftruftive essays, from every part of
the Union, which are now withheld for want of a proper convey
ance.
FOREIGN APPOINTMENTS.
Pierre Francois Barbe de Marbois, Vice-Consul from his Most
Christian Majesty within tfie states of Conne£licut, New-Yorkand
New-Terfev, to reside in New-York.
Charles Gottfried Paleflce, Consul-General from the King of
Pruflia, within the United States of America.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 23/4 pr. £.
3 pr. Cents 1 3/ 1 °
Defcred 6 pr. Cents 14f
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20/6
Indents 12/6
■-.11r n_ _ _ »
Bank Stoek—half (hares 97 per cent premium.
—whole (hares irora 50 to 55 per cent
n6f pr. ccnt.
69 do.
70 do.
102J do.
6a| do.ADDRESS
TO THE CITfZENS OF
WESTMORELAND, WASHINGTON, FAYETTE AND
ALLEGHANY COUNTIES.
REVENUE LAW
By JOHN NEVILLE, Inspector of the Revenue,
Survey No. 4, District Pennsylvania
(CONTI NUED.)
FIFTH objeCtion. 44 The duty in question is a lax on a D<>-
44 meftic Manufacture which good policy would rather en
-44 courage than consider as a fourceof revenue."
Answer. Congress have given strong proofs in every feflioo of
their anxiety to encourage manufactures of all kinds which pro
mise to be fuccefsful. When domestic manufactures aie in their
infancy, it is impolitic to make ihem an objeCt of revenue ; but
when they have attained to maturity, and the produCts of them
are in general consumption, then they become as fair objeCts of
revenue as any that can be imagined. No good reason to ihe con
trary can poflibly beafligned. No interest in the community is
injured by it ; not even, that of thr manufacturer himfelf, if care
be taken to lay a duty on the foreign manufacture of the lame na
ture. In the present instance they have gone further, they have
laid a duty on molafles of three cents per gallon, which being a
foreign raw material for diftillation,the manufacturer from na
tive materials will find it on reflection a solid encouragement to
him. Wherever the duty on the foreign manufacture is greater
than on the domestic manufacture, the difference is a bounty on
the domestic manufacture. It is a general rule, that the duty is
included in the price of the article. If therefore, that on the fo
reign article is greater than that on the home-made article, the
price of the former must rife so much the higher ; and the latter
by being able to be afforded cheaper, will have a proportionable
advantage in the market.
This principle is so clear and so well established, that it is not
poflible to understand and yet to dispute ir, and the confequcnce
of it is, that the law in question, instead of bearing hard upon
the domestic mannfaflure, is a positive, dire£f, and great en
couragement of it. If nine cents per gallon are laid on spirits
distilled from domestic materials, eleven cents per gallon are laid
on those distilled from foreign materials, and an addiThynal duty
of nine cents, making in the whole twenty cents per gallon, on
foreign imported spirits of the lame strength, and more on the
flronger kinds.
Spirits distilled from domestic materials go into market, there
fore with an advantage over those distilled in the United States
from foreign materials, greater, by two cents per gallon, and with
an advantage over foreign imported spirits, greater by eleven cents
per gallon, than if there was no duty upon any of them. Is not
this a solid encouragement to the manufacturer, and would it not
be full as reasonable to complain, that the proposed land tax was
a discouragement and unjust burden on agriculture, as that a con
tribution of lels than half ofthr foreign rate is a discouragement
to the making of spirits at home.
But in fa& the advantage accruing from the law to spirits dis
tilled from domestic materials is ftili greater than has been men
tioned. It is ascertained, that those stills which have full em
ployment, by paying sixty cents per gallon of the capacity of the
llill, do hot pay any more than about five cents per gallon on foi
rits distilled. F
Hence it is evident that the committee have, in this refpeft re
ally mistaken the true effect of the law, which, instead of injuring,
is calculated to promote the domestic manufa&ure : the fame re
mark applies to the presentment of the grand jury of a county of
South-Carolina, the only grand jnry who have noticed the law.
So true is this, and so well is it understood, in some parts of the
United States, that, if I am not greatly mifinformed, there are
persons who intend to begin new distilleries from domestic ma
terials upon a large scale, merely upon the strength of this advan
tage in favor of the country ftilis.
1 he committee point their complaint to the duty on spirits dis
tilled from domestic materials, and seem not unwilling that the
duty on spirits distilled from foreign materials {hould remain.
Will not this clearly prove to us, how liable weare to error, when,
under the influence of a local view of a fubjeft, we censure laws
founded on general information and a knowledge of the circum
stances of all parts of the community? In the States north of
Pennsylvania there are very few distilleries from domestic ma
terials ; but they have heretofore distilled from foreign materials
as much as is produced from all the distilleries of domestic mate
rials in the United States. The distillation of spirits from fo
reign materials is, to the New-England States particularly, a
manufacture ol the firft importance. What would those
Slates have a right to fay, if a duty {hould be laid on their manu
facture, and not on yours of the fame or a similar article ? They
would surely have a right to complain of the unkind partiality of
government. Ought not the citizens of these western counties
to be fatisfied, if they are content, that our spirits {hall pay upon
an average four cents per gallon less than theirs? and can you
doubt that the difference will promote your manufa&ure ?
Your distance from a market, cannot, as is alledged, render
the duty more burdensome to you than to others. As to the part
which you shall consume at home the effect of the law will only
be to add the duty to the price, and the fame thing willl happen
every where else : as to what you may fend to a distant market,
the expenceof transportation will be no greater by the dutv than
it was before; and as you will find an increased price there, in
proportion to the duty, you can lose nothing ; you will even gain
whatever the makers of lpirits in the vicinity of those markets
are able to add to the price by way of advance to the duty.
It appears, then, that you will not pay a larger part of the du
ty than others, unless it can be {hewn that you drink more ardent
spirits than your fellow-citizens in othei parts of the country.
This I hope and believe is not true. It would be an indecent
imputation against you, which could not fail to excite your in
dignation, to represent you as the least fobcT and temperate part
of the people of the United States.
If it be said that other parts of it drink other liquors in greater
quantity, it may be answered, that this is not the cafe as a general
rule, and that as far as it is true, the difference is much more than
made up on the higher duties which are laid on those articles.
Fellow-citizens, I know too well the justice and generosity of
your tempers, not to be convinced, that you will fufficiently feel
the force of this reflc&ion, when it is brought into your view. If
it {hould be even true (as it does not appear to be) that you pay
something more in proportion of the duty in question, than your
fellow citizens in other quarters, how lon* a lift of articles is there
upon which those fellow-citizens as consumers pay heavy duties,
which either affe£lyou not at all, or very little indeed.
Sixth objection. 41 The scarcity ofcalh renders the duty a par
-41 ticuJar grievance. It is questionable whether all the circulating
" ' n 'he country would be fufficient to pay it."
Answer. This, if true, is an objection, not to the particular
duty in question, but to any other duly or tax whatever. It can
not, therefore, be urged as a special or particular objection to this
particular tax. The people of tbis part of the country do not ex
pert to (hare in the peace, security and prote&ion of government,
without contributing any thing to its support. They expect to be
guarded from foreign subjugation, and from savage depredations;
but they are too just to admit that the money ought to betaken
out of the pockets of their fellow-citizens throughout the Unittd
ON THE
States, to Day the troops for their defence, and to purchase their
produce for the subsistence of those troops, without bearing any
part of the burden ; or it must be alledged that you are totally
unable to contribute, and will accept protection from the reft of
tfye people of the United States.
Such expe&ations, fellow-citizens, arc really the amount of
the objection lad stated. You are too reafonablc, and have too
much honed pride and spirit, to be willing to owe your security
to the bounty and protection ot others, without contributiug
your proportion of the neceifary means.
(to bf. continued.)
Bank of the United States.
December 3, 1791.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Bank of the United States
will be opened on Monday the s'h indent.
Transfers of the fubferiptions to tne itock of said Bank may
then be made.
On Monday the 12th instant, deposits will be received, and on
Tuesday the 20th initant, discounts maybe made.
By order of the Prelident and Dire&ors,
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.
All Bills or Notes efFered for Discount (hall be delivered into
the Bank on Mondays or Wednesdays, the Discount shall be fet
tled on Tuefaays and Thursdays, and (hall be made known the
next succeeding days.
At a MEETING of the DIRECTORS of the
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
December 5, 1791.
RESOLVED,
THAT the payment of the portion of the Capital Stock of the
Bank of the United States, confiding of Specie which will be
due on the several Shares on the firft Monday of January next,
may be made at the refpe&ive Banksof Majfachufetts and Nezv-York.
Provided, That any Stockholder claiming the benefit of such
payment, {hall, on or before the firft Monday in January next,
exhibit to the Cashier of the Bank of the United States, a Certifi
cate signed by the Caftiier of the Bank into which such payment
fliall have been made—any thing in the regulations heretofore
eftablifhcd to the contrary notwithstanding
By order of the President and Directors,
BOULTING CLOTHS.
An cxtenfivc Aflo r tment, of verv superior texture, fultable for
every branch of the business, just imported from Amsterdam,
and for Sale by
DANIEL
No. 114, South Front-Street;
Where Millers and others may always be ftipplied with the best
Cloths, and large allowance made to those who purchase in quan
tities to fell again.
Also for Sale, a Quantity of Particular
MADEIRA
Of the firft Quality, fit for immediate use, in Pipes.
Philadelphia, December 6, 1791. [tawim]
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE, &SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
A few TICKETS in 3d and la(t Class of the
NEW-JERSEY LOTTERY.
TO BE SOLD,
On the Waters of Tye Rivek. a Branch of James River, in
the County ot Amherft, and State of Virginia,
About 7,000 acresof rich Land,
Well adapted to produce every kind of grain and grass a fanner
can wish to cultivate, distant from navigation twenty miles.
For terms apply to JAMES ROSE, residing on the Land.
Amherft County, Virginia, Dec. 10, 1791. (4t)
TO B E SO,L D,
BY JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be fccn every day, until five o'clock, ?. m.
Among them are the following :
Folio. T TOMER. Xenophon, Plato, Plutarch, Eufebius, Sozo
rl men, Theodoret, Virgil, Horace, Livy, Tacitus, Pater
cuius, Plinv, Concordantia Lat. Concordantia Gr. Thesaurus Ci.
ceronis. Biblia Junii andTremcllii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps.
Scapula:— Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, Voflii Etymo
logicon, Antiquit. Ecclef. Britannic®, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cyropaedia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phiedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om, Csfar, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voflii Ars Gram. Cluve
rii Geographia, Justinian Code, &c.
OElavo et injra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poeta: minores Gr. Ifocrates, Pbalaris, va
rious editions of Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, AuConius, Buchanan,
Salluft, Curtius, Flows, Juftiti, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hill.
August. Scriptores, Englijh and French Tranjlations of some of the
Claflics, a great variety ot Greek and Latin Grammars, &c. See.
$3" Catalogues may be had of MelTrs. Rice& Co. Booksellers,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
OSober 31. (cptf.)
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, some time in Augull 1 789, a yellow NEORO
MAM, named Abraham, late the property of Nathaniel
Wick/iff, deceased—about forty-five years of age, about five feet
eight or nine inches high, pretty well let, with a iarge wooll> head
and large beard, walks with his knees bent, often complairs of
pains in his feet and ancles—by irade a bricklayer, Hone inafon and
plasterer. He is a very handy fellow as a houfe-waitcr, arid is fond
of such bnfinefs. He is a great dilTembler, and no doubt pretends
he is a freeman. He has been eloped so long thai no description of
his prefeut clothing can be given. It is supposed that he went to
the Northern States, as he often mentioned having friends there.
Twenty Dollars reward will be given to any prrfon that will fe
curefaid Negro in any jail, so that the fubferiber may get him
again; and reasonable charges will e paid—or Thirty Dolled
will be given if heis brough' to Prince Willum County, \'irg i;ia,
to Mr. John Kinchelor, hy
CHARLES WICMUFF, Ad." : r.;(l.ator,
O&ober 12, 1791
292
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,
Y S O N,
WINE,
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co. "
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Faftorv—
where they have now made, and ready for faie, a general adort
ment ofSHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa£tured in Europe, and at a reduced
pr ice from the foft of imported.
They also continue to manufafturc all the above articles
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addreflfed to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the »
Ihortcft notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring Men, at the bid
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Meflrs. Moses Aust i n & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
George MEADE
Has for SALE, at his Stoies on Walnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW pipes of 3 and 4 years old bills of exchange Madeira
WINE, which he will dispose of by the pipe, hoglhead or
quarter calk.
London market Madeira WINE, 5 and 6 years old.
Old Sherry WINE of the firft quality, by the hogfaead or
quarter cask.
Three and 4 years old Lisbon WINE, of a superior quality to
what is generally imported, by the pipe, quarter cask, or laiger
quantity.
Choice old Coniac BRANDY, by the pipe, tierce, or larger
quantity.
A few quarter chests of firft quality Hyson TEA.
He has }uft received by the Pigou, Loxley, master, from London,
a few quarter casks of old Madeira WINE—And
Bv the brig Mercury, Capt. Stevens, from Dublin, a few boxes
of Irish LINENS, low priced and well aflbrted ; a few bales of
red and white FLANNELS, and some GLUE.
A few boxes of Spermaceti CANDLES of the firft quality, and
Burlington PORK of prime quality.
He has also to dispose of, a quantitv of dressed White Oak
STAVES.
He means to keep a constant supply of Firfl Quality Madeira
and Lisbon WINES, and whoever is pleased to tavor him with
tneir custom, may.be aflnred of being well served.
He will, through the Winter and Spring, buy und reded HAND
SPIKES. He is purchasing FLAX-SEED and BEES-WAX, and
will give the highest price for them.
N.B. A few hampers of excellent London PORTER and
Taunton ALE, just received, and to be difpoled of
Philadelphia, November 16, 1791
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER Sc AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcription,onCoff«»i^7cw,
at the. following rates:
ON the specie amount of all sales at au&ion, one eighth per
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, one-halj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-OfKce, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers ac ditto^feventy-five cents per transfer.
(£3T Such persons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and dispatch. His long experience and extensive dealings
in the pnblic flocks, together with a well established correspon
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
Oflober 15, 1791
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant lituation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the sub
scriber now resides; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which are a neat and commodious two story house,
compleatly finifhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, laun
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all finifhed
in the best manner, together with several other neceiTary outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fkillful gardner now em
ployed in putting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
post and rail fence ; a well, and springs of excellent water—the
profpefl is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America—
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mud render it in
a few grrat value, being in a line of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a purchaser
offer before the 15th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indilputable title, clear of all incumbrances, will be made
bv the fubferiber. I will also fell with this piace, 220 Acres of
Wood Land, about 3 miles distant, which will suit well to sup
port the above in wood and timber.
December 14, 1791
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Mallachufetts, mod refpeft
fullv informs (he puhJic, that he has this day completed the
Old and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The" Apocrypha and Index, &c. will be finilh
ed with ail the dispatch the nature of the work, will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subscription Pafers, he begs will
return them to him at Worcejler, or to him and Company at Bofion,
by the lad day of November next, and as much sooner as they con
veniently can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work lias been exa
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and has met
with their highest approbationboth as to the execution of the
printing, its correftnefs, and us chcapnets compared with EnglilK
copies of the fame size and quality.
As this verv laborious and exceedingly expensive undertaking,
is carried on solely at his own i oft, he is led to hope that all those
who wish to pofiefs a large Family Bible, will so far encourage this
laudable undertaking of their countryman, as to add their names
to the fubferiqtion.
Worcejler. Sept. 29, 1791
ICP 7he price of {!:■}
On; half to b? t>
(ep 6w.)
BALDWIN DADE.
ISATAH THOMAS
a tin