fftfj
I
NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED V-.' AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, Yo. fig, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 87, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of Otlober, one
thouland seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT concerning certain FISHERIES of
the United States, and for the Regulation
and Government of the Filliermen employed
therein.
BE it enabled by the Senate aud House of Representatives of
the United States of America, in Congress afTembled, That
the allowance now made upon the exportation of dried fifh of the
ftlheries of the United States, in lieu of a drawback of the duties
paid on the fait used in preserving the fame, 111 all cease on ail dried
fifh exported alter the tenth day of June next; and as a commu
tation and equivalent therefor, there Ihall be afterwards paid on
the last day ot December annually, to the owner of every veflTel, or
his agent, by the colle&or of the diftrift where such vessel may
belong, that ihall be qualified agreeably to law, for carrying on
the bank and other cod fifheries, and that Ihall actually have been
employed therein at sea for the term of four months at the lead,
of thefifhing season next preceding, which ft-afon is accounted to
be from the last dav of February to the last day of November in
every year, for each and every ton of such vefTel's burthen, accord
ing to her admeasurement as liccnfcd or enrolled —if of twenty
tons and not exceeding thirty tons, one and an half dollar, and
if above thirty tons, two and an half dollars; of which allowance
atorefaid,three eighth parts (hall accrue and belong to the owner of
iuch fifhing vcflVl, and the other five eighths theicof Ihall be divid
ed by him, his agent or lawful reprefentauve, to and among the
Several fithermen who (hall have beem employed in such veflel
during the season aforefaid, or a part thereof, as the cafe may be,
in such proportions as the fifh they shall refpeftively have taken
may bear to the whole quantity ot fifh taken on board such vessel
during such season: Provided, That the allowance aforefaid on
any one vcfTtrl for one season, shall not exceed one hundred and
ieventy dollars.
And be it further etia&ed, That on the last day of December
annually, as afotefaid, theic (hall also be paid to the owner of
every filhing boat or vessel of more than five tons, and less than
twenty tons, or to his agent or lawful representative, by the col
]e£tor of the diflri£l where such boat or vessel may belong, the sum
of one dollar upon every ton admeasurement of such boat or vessel ;
■which allowance (hall be accounted for as part of the proceeds ot
the fares of Ivd boat or vessel, and shall accordingly be so divided
anions all pei lons iiuerefted therein: Piovided however, That
this allowance lhall be made only to such boats or vessels as lhall
have actually been employed at sea in the cod fifhery, for the
terin ol four mouths at the least, of the preceding feafoo: And
provided also, That such boat or vessel lhall have landed in the
coui-fe of said preceding fcafon, a quantity of filh not less than
twelve qumtals for even-ton of her admcafuremcnt; the said
quantity of fi(h to be afceitained when dried ar.d cured fit for
exportation, and according to the weight thereof, as the lame shall
■weigh at the time ot delivery when aflually fold ; which account
of the weight, with the original adjustment and settlement of the
tare or fares among the owners and fifhermen, togeiher with a
•written account of the length, breadth and depth of said boat or
vessel, and the time (he has a&ually been employed in the fifhery
in the preceding season, (hall in all cases be produced and sworn
or Sffirmed to, before the said colleQor of the diftrift, in older to
entitle the owner, his agent or lawful representative, to receive the
allowance aforefaid. And if at any time within one year after
payment of luch allowance, it (hall appear that any fraud or de
ceit has been praSifed in obtaining the fame, the boat ur vessel
J uch r al '°™nce shall have been paid, if found within
ihe diftrift aforefaid, shall he forfeited: otherwise the owner or
owners having praQifrd such fraud or deceit, Shall forfeit and pav
one hundred dollars ; to be sued for, recovered and appropriated
in like manner as foifeitures and penalties are to be sued for re
covered and appropriated for any breach of an ast, entitled, '< An
atl to provide more effectually for the colleffioh of the duties im
poted bv law on goods, wares and merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the tonnage of (hips or veflels "
.And be it further enafled, That the owner or owners of everv
fifhing vessel of twenty tons and upwards, his or their agent or
lawful representative, shall previous to receiving the allowance
which is provided for in this ast, produce to the collcSor who is
authorized to pay the fame the original agreement or agreements
which may have been made with the filhermcn employed on
to h, K h * 'u' " before rc< f llircd ' an<l alf ° « certificate
to be by him or them fubfenbed, therein mentioning the particu
lar da>, on which such vessel (ailed and returned on the several
son ?r.K f m 'y i hilve in the preceding filhing fea
co"leftor aforefaid° Wh ' C " ,ha " '»e
.on 1» T herer, ' ae ?> That ™ or vessel of twenty
a?Mwa„ enrployed as aforefaid, (hall be entitled to the
ftaTbfofh y;s Un '; fs lhe dipper or ,„,lUr thereof
lnent In t proceeds on any fi(hing voyage, make an aßree
, ' """"? ° r 1,1 P" nt - w "h «erv filherm,,, employed
ow«r - Z ?l,n L 0n ' y «r r„.,nt of himfelf oi
fr ' A' J? n . adduu "' "ofuch terms of Ihipment as may be a
nll 'l!!,, 1 " agreement exorefs whether the fame uto
forlhe r«f.»n, an>l H» 11 alf„
i proceeds ot such fifhmg voyage or
amour,r m " V a PP erl3,n 10 th * fifhermen, lball be divided
ZZ rr'', 10 " 10 the quantities o, number of (aid
1 ' " IVe caw S hl : •" h ' ch agreement (hall
Mbf. aJem °A C T'." SD C?. V " ,e ow ~' " F fi(hin s vessel.
in agent. Arid it any filhertnan having engaged h.mfelffo, a
voyage or for, eh l„„o , n d „ v fifting veflel, , J fumed
-n agree,n," t therefor as „,, rd , lc! , a ,;., a ' d } *
hLf, " "TT "i. 1 T" J ? d t0 b: P» f ormrd, desert or absent
himfelf. rorn such vcffrl, wuhom leave of the matter or flupper
lb£ »' "gen. such d.-fene, (hall be licble
Saturday, February 25> 17^)2.
to the fame penalties as deferring Teamen or mariners arc fubjeft
to in the merchant's lervice, and may in the like manner, and up
on the like complaint and proof, be apprehended and detained ;
and all costs of orocefs and commitment, if paid by the mailer or
owner, shall be deducted out of the ihare of the fi(h, or proceeds
of any fifhsng voyage to which such deserter had or fhall'become
entitled. And any fifherman, having engaged htmfelf as afore-
Mid, who shall during fueh fifhing voyage, refufe or neglect his
proper- duty on board the iilhing veifel, being thereto ordered or
required by the matter or flapper thereof, or (hall otherwise re
flit his just commands, to the hindrance or detriment of such
voyage, beiides being answerable for such damages ajifing there
by, shall foileit to the use of the owner of fuchvclTel, his hiare of
the allowance, which shall be paid upon such voyage as is herein
granted.
And be it further ena£fced,That where ao agreement or contrast
shall be lo made and figncd, tor a fifhmg voyage or for the (idling
'ea lon,and any Hfti which may have been caught on board such vef
frl during the fame, lhall be de livered to the owner or to his agent,
lor cure, and lhall be fold by said owner or agent, such velfel
(hall lor the term of fix months alter such sale, be liable and an
fwenable tor the (kipper's and every other fifherman's (hare of
such fifh, and may be proceeded again ft in the fame form, and to
the (arwe effett, as any other vessel is by law liable, and mav be
proceeded against for the wages of featnen or mariners in the mer
chant's service. And upon such proccfs for the value of a share or
(hares of the proceeds of fifh delivered and fold as aforefaid, it
(hall be incumbent on thcowner or his agent, to produce a just
account of the (ales and division of such fifh according to such a
greement or contratt, othcrwife ihe laid vessel shall he answera
ble upon luch process for what m2y be the high eft value of the
share or (hares demanded. But in all cales, the owner of such ves
sel or his agent appearing to answer to*fuch process, may offer
thereupon his account of general fupphqs made (01 such fifhing
voyage, and of other lupplies therefor made, to either of the de
mandants, and (hall be allowed to produce evidence thereof in
answer to the demands refpeftively, and judgment shall be ren
dered upon such process, for the balances, which upon
such an enquiry shall ppear : Provided always, That when pi ri
ce fs (hall be i(lucd against any vefTel Phble as alorefaid, if the
owner thereof or his agent will give Bond to each fitherman in
whose favor such process shall be instituted, with fufficient (ecu
rity, to the fatisfaftion of two justices cf the peace, one of whom
shall be named by such owner or agent, and the other by the filh
erman or (ifhermen pursuing such process ; or if either party shall
refufe, then the jullice fiift appointed (hall name his alfociate,
with condition to answer and pay whatever sum (hall berecovei
ed by him or them on such process, there (hail bean immediate
di(charge of such vefTel : Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall prevent any filherman from having his a&ion at common
law, for his (hare or lhares of fifh, or the proceeds theieot as
aforefaid.
And be it further enacted, That the drawback heietofore al
lowed on the exportation of foreign dried and pickled fifh, and
other foreign salted provisions, be and the fame is h.-reby re
pealed.
And be it further enacted, That the monies which (hall remain
in consequence of the abolition of the allowance on the exporta
tion of the dried fifh of the United States, and of the drawback on
foreign dried and pickled fifh, and other foreign lalted proyifions,
be and the fame are hereby appropriated to the payment of the
allowances granted by this att, and in cafe the monies so appro
priated shall be inadequate, the deficiency (hall be supplied out
of any monies which from timsto time shall be in the treasury of
the United States, and not otherwise appiopriated.
And be it further ena&ed, That any ps rTon who (hall declare
falfeiy in any oath or affirmation required by this ast, being duly
convicted thereof in any court of the United States, having juiif
diftion of such offence, shall fuffer the fame penalties as are pro
vided for falfe fweariog or affirming, by tjie ast before mentioned,
and to be iB like manner sued for, recovered and appropriated.
And be it further enacted, That this ast flialJ continue and be
in force for the term of (even years, and from thence to the end
of the next kflion of Congress, and no longer.
JONATHAN TRUMBULI., Speaker
of the Houje of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vxce-Prefidtnt of the Unitca State*,
and Prcjident of the Senate.
APPROVED, FEBRUARY SIXTEENTH, 179-!.
\_ln No. 8a oj this Gazette, uiere publifhedfomefketches of the Debate
on the petition of Mrs. Catharine Greene—At the clofeof those sketches
it was o/ferved, that Gen. Sumpter made sundry remarks on extracts
of letters wrote by Gen. Greene during the late war, w/uch extrafls
are inferred in Gordon's flijtory of the American Revolution. —It hav
ing been observed that the short flatemevt then given, does not contain
the particular ideas which were meant tr> be impreJJeU in bringingJor
ward those extracts—thr following which is a more full account of
what uas delivered, is aferted.]
GEN. SUMPTER. observed, that in bringing
forward those letters he had 110 desire to
criminate or calumniate the character of any per
son, neither was he dilpofed on theprefent occa
(ion even to recriminate, altho highly jullifiable ;
his chief object being that of explaining and de
claring the real itaie of fadls, and ihe letters be
ing intimately connected with the fubjet r t, oblig
ed him to lay them before the committee, who
would judge ol their weight and importance.
The letters from which he read extrads are of
the dates of 28th April, 1 7S1 —id and 4th of May
of the fame year, addrefled from General Greene
to Le Chevalier de la Lu'zerne. Le Marquis de la
Fayette, and Governor Keed of Pennty lvania.
On the 28th of April, General Greene writes
thus to the Chevalier de la Luzerne—
" This diftrefled country, I am sure, cannot
struggle much longer, without more effectual fop
port : fhey may struggle a little while longer,
but they mttft fall ; and 1 fear their fall may lay
a train to sap the independence of the rcit of
345
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
[Whole No. 295.]
America. I have, agreeably to your Excellency's
advice, imj.reHed the itares all in my power with
a icnfe ot their danger, but they have not the
means to make the neceflary exertions. We
S ' s ec beaten, rife and fight again : and the
wnole counti'y is one continued scene of blood
and slaughter."
On the ill of May he wrote to the Marquis de
la Fayette—
" You may depend upon it, that nothing eim
equal the fufferings of our little army, but their
merit. Let >iot the love of fame get the better
of your prudence, and plunge you into a misfor
tune in too eager a pursuit after glory. This is\
the voice of a friend, and not the caution of*
General."
On the 4th of the fame month he wrote to Go
vernor Ileed of Penniy 1 vania
" Those whose true iniereft it wss to haveln
formed Congress and the people to the north
ward with the real ftaie of things, have joined
in (he deception, and magnified the strength and
resources of this country infinitely above their
ability.—Many of those who adhere to our par
ty, are so fond of pleasure that they cannot think
of making the nece(fary facrifices to support.the
revolution. There are many good and virtuous
people to the southward ; but they cannot aiii
mme the inhabitants in general, as you can to
the northward. When ruin appears to approach
any state, they are alarmed and begin to think
of exerting themselves ; but its approach no
sooner receives a check, than they fink back ipfo
a careless inaction. Virginia has exerted her/blf
in giving a temporary support to the army ; but
her pleasure and her policy prevent her' giving
us such permanent aid as her strength and re
sources are capable of affording Maryland has
done nothing, nor can I hear of. any exertiop»
there equal to the emergencies of the war. De
laware has nqt anfvreredjny tetters. These
Hates have few men here/ jp#"tmT«T Have
are daily discharged. "North-Carolina has got
next to no regulars in the field, and few militia,
and these the worst in the world ; for they have
neither pride nor principle to bind them to any
p-rt_y, or to a discharge of their duty. Generals
Marion and Sumpter have a few people who ad
here to them, perhaps more from a desire and
opportunity of plundering, than fro'in any incli
nation to promote the independence of the Unit
ed States. 1 have been playing the most hazard
ous game to keep up appearances in this quar
ter, until more effectual support could be afford
ed. But our number is reduced to a mere fltfa
dow. Tlie war to the northward is nothing :it
is a plain business. Here the war rages like a
fire ; and the enterprize and a&ivity of the ene
my almost exceed belief. 1 have run every rilk
and hazard, and find the difficulties thicken up
on me daily ; and you know I am not of a de
sponding spirit or temper. If our good friends
the French cannot lend a helping hand to save
these finking Hates, they must and will fall.
Here we are contending with more than five
times our number, and among a people much
more in the enemy's interest than our's."
After having finished reading, General Sutnp
ter proceeded.
Mr. Chairman, what could have induced Ge
neral Greene to have made such communications
as these at the time, is to me altogether ir.com
prehenfible, unless the misfortune of his defeat
at Cambden, previous thereto, had alarmed him
and afFetled his opinions in too great a degree.
However this maj be, I conceive it was altoge
ther unjuftifiable and foreign from the real Itare
of things, to advance the sentiments ex]«efled in
those letters, beeaufe they mull: have tended to
mislead the public mind and give an improper
direction to the meafnres of government. Here,
Mr. Chairman, ! would observe, that theprofpecft
of our country was at that moment bright, inso
much as to warrant a well founded hope of a
speedy podeflion of it ; tltis is a circuinftance
within the knowledge of several otlicers of dil-
tiniflion
In one of the letters of the 4th of May, to Go
vernor Reef!, there is a complaint, " that thofc
whose tiue interelt it was to have informed Con
gress and the people to the northward of the re
al itaie of things, have joined in the deception,
and magnified the strength and refjurces of the
country infinitely above rheir ability." As a
proof that this allertion was unfounded I will
oblerve, that picviuus to his return to Soutli-Carolina, and prior to the ilate of his letters, he
was furnifhed with the moll indubitable aiul per
fect information, reliitiv e to ihe strength of the
enemy, and the support he might depend upon
jn men and relources ; and this infotniauon was
founded on experiment and actual obie;vation,
made on llic fpoc by inylelf and hundreds of o
thers palfing through the whole country, viliting
almolt every pelt, and immediately under my
command, and communicated by letters as well
as personal information from officers of conlide
ration and diftintftion, sent for thatpurpofe,who
are at this day living and well acquainted with
the facfts ; ready to vouch, that the lupport giv
en, far exceeded any thing that was promised to
General Greene, provided that he would return
(o South-Carolina.
In the fame letter it is also afi'erted, that there
were but very few militia in the field, thole not
to be depended upon, having it in view rather
to plunder and accumulate the inileries and dif
trelles of the country,than to giveany lupport to
the independence ot the United States: and a
gain, that we were contending with more than
five times our number, and amonglt a people
much more in the enemy's interest than our's, &
that the Hate mud and will inevitably fall with
out the immediate afiiltance of foreign aid—that
he has it only in his power to keep up appear
ances, without the profpeft or hope of luccefs.
In opposition to this account of the itate of af
fairs, Gen. Sumpter laid, that so far from the
numbers of the enemy being five times greatej',
or that the people of the country were more in
their interelf than ours, or that they were lo
infamoully disposed ; he would take upon him
to declare that the reverse was the faift ; and
that the account above stated was not founded in
truth. It is a notorious faift, that the greatest
collected force of the Britilh at Cambden, was
not more than a thousand effective men,or twelve
hundred going to the extent ; and iuch was the
situation of that poll: that no aid or alliftance
from any direction could be given, all their other
ports, in the interior part of the ftaie, being at
that time invelled. Againlt this force we had
then collected in the vicinity of Cambden more
than 3500 effective men, well appointed and molt
happily disposed for attacking or cutting off Lord
Rawdon's retreat to Charleston, which could
have been, and ought to have been effected. This,
Mi". Chairman, must prove that the number of
militia was very refpecftable, and constituted by
far the greatest and molt efficient force for that
particular service. Shall fnch abuse then be i'uf
fered to remain j on the characters of (o
great a number of rel'peiftable and patriotic citi
zens ? Who put themselves under the command
of Marion and Sumpter, and who, under every
disadvantage, in a country over run by a power
ful foe, unsupported, unprotetfed by their own
government, unknown or unattended to by the
general government, thus fubjecft to every incon
venience or difcouragemem, and only supported
by their own zeal and pan iorifm, and by a sense
of love and duty to their country.
1 fay, Sir, that under all these unfavorable cir
comftauces, the citizens of that country did af
fenible, and equip theinfelves, either at their own
expence, or by the importance of their services,
and continued their unremitting exertions, for
more than ten months preceding the date of the
letreis : they were separated from their families
and connections, doomed and obliged to subsist
on what could be obtained within the enemy's
lines. How then can the accounts given in the
letters, just quoted, be reconciled with these
fads ! Are fncli men to be traduced and calum
niated in a stile that would dishonor ruffians >
The very communications of' Congrtfs, offering thanks
to the Militia, were f'/pp' [fed, when even those ac
knowledgements would have been grateful and ani
mating to them. The extraordinary exertions
made by the North-Carolina militia, of which
Gen. Sumpter said he was a witness, entitled
them to the approbation and thanks oft heir coun
try, and not to such inveiftives and afpei fions as
are lavished in those letters.
Ave these to be the rewards of merit and he
roism, for l ilks and lofles, for services and facri
sices of property and life, for exposing themfclves
to every danger, and withholding nothing that
cotild promote the public interefl ? Is this can
dor, Mr. Chairman, to traduce such characters ?
or is it not calumny, involving every epithet of
the blacked opprobrium ?
Having thus far dated the circumstances, and
compared them with the misftatemenis communi
cated by Gen. Greene in the letters alluded to,
Gen. Sumpter concluded by faying, that if the
committee should be of opinion, that the proofs
he had now brought forward were fatfts to be
relied on, they mull operate as evidence to inva
lidate other communications from the fame source
and authority, and verify his firlt aflertion, that
thofc letters do not contain a true ftaretne'nt of
the situation of public affairs at the time thev
Here Written.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FRIDAY, February 3, 179 2 *
In committee of the whole, on the bifl)ery Bill.
[CONTI NUED.3
MR. GERRY having moved to strike out the
words " bounty allowed" in order to in
ferc " allowance made" by' way of accommoda-
tion,
Mr. Murray observed, that the queflion was,
whether a bounty (hould be given lor the encou
ragement of the filhery : the amendment pro
posed by the gentleman from Maflachufetts ( Mr.
Gerry) did not alter the principle—it was (till
" the old cockek hat" on the one hand, and on the
other, " the cocked old hat the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Kitzfimons) had alferted, that
Congress have a right to alter "the drawbacks,
and allow them in any other mode, by which the
citizens may receive back their own money : but
this is not a cafe of that nature ; for the bill fays,
" in cafe the monies appropriated (for th: payment
of the duties) (hall be inadequate, the deficiency
fliall be supplied from the treasury here the
treasury is pledged for the payment of the boun
ties ; and the question is, not on the principle of
changing the drawback, but the giving encou
ragement to a particular branch, at the expense
of the community at large.
Mr. Barnwell observed (among other things)
that those who are bell acquainted with the filh
eries, look on the proposed mode of encourage
ment as the belt ; and that they ought to be al
lowed to use the gifts of the public in the molt
advantageous mauner :—that, if he were him
lelf concerned in the cultivation of any particu
lar commodity, fcr the encouragement of which
a sum were granted, he would be much surprised
to meet a refufal, in cafe he should come for
ward, and propose some more effectual mode of
applying that grant :—that even if the bounties
should happen to exceed the drawbacks, by 8 or
10 thoufond dollars, the number of seamen to be
maintained would be well worth that sum ; —that
whenever the two lioufes of Congress and the
President of the United States are of opinion,
that the general welfare will be promoted by
railing any sum of money, they have an undoubt
ed right to raise it, provided that the taxes be
uniform :—that although it may not at present
be an objecft of great consequence to America to
become a maritime power, yet it is of some im
portance to have constantly at hand a nurferyof
seamen, to furnifh our merchants with the means
of transporting their commodities across the sea ;
that whatever allowance or bounty is granted
upon any particular commodity, must ever be
paid by the whole, for the advantage of a part,
whether it be upon cotton to the southward, up
on filh to the eastward, or upon other commodi
ties in the middle States ; —that, if the people
cannot have so much confidence in their repre
sentatives, as to trust them with the power of
granting bounties, the government must be a
very paltry one indeed. The objecft of the bill,
he said, was only to allow to the fifhermen, in
the manner that would be molt beneficial to them,
the fame sum, that would otherwile be allowed :
—if however, from time and experience, it
should appear that this bounty proved a.i iinpo
fition on government, he would not hesitate to
revoke it.
Mr. Gerry. The State of Maflachufetts asks
nothing more, than equal justice. We do not
come forward, to request favors from the United
States : we only wish, that the fame fyltem, which
is applied to other parts of the union, may be
applied to us. But in examining this queltion,
we wish that gentlemen would not make diltinc
tions, which will not admit of a difference.
The propoled allowance has been called a
bounty 011 occupation, and is said to be very dif
ferent from that encouragement, which is the
incidental result of a general commercial fyltem :
—but in reality it is no bounty :—a bounty is a
grant, made without any confidcration whatever,
as an equivalent ; and 1 have no idea of a boun
ty, which admits of receiving from the person,
on whom it is conferred, the amount of what is
granted. We have inipofed a duty on fait, and
thereby draw a certain sum of money from the
fifhermen :—the draw back is, in all inltances,
the amount of the money received :—this is all
we ask ; and we ask it for a set of men, who are
as well entitled to the regard of government, as
any other class of citizens.
It has been supposed, that the allowance, made
to the fifhermen, will amount to a greater sum,
346
than the drawback on the exportation •
fifh : but I think it has been clearly fl )eWn
this will not be the cafe the contrary' ,
presumable, that the drawback on the fifh w u " ld
on the whole exceed the sum, which i, propo
to be allowed to the fifhenuen ; fo..,«i,n M t
UMght be more, fonietimes less.
1 he calculation is made on general principle
and it is lnipoinbie to calculate to a (ingle cent '
the quantity of fait, to be expended on the fi'h"
cannot be minutely ascertained : but this w aj
heretofore conhdered as a fufficient reason whv
Congress flionld refufe to allow the drawback
they allowed it, though in a different fhape-1
It is now proposed to make a further cotmnuta
tion : gentlemen call this a bounty on occupa".
noil but is there any propofitiqn made for
paying to the fifhermen, or other persons con
cerned in the fifhery, any funis, which we have
not previously received from them if this were
the cafe, it would indeed be a bour.ty .-—but if
we beforehand receive from them, as muchas the
allowance amounts to, there is 110 bounty want
ed at all. 0
If however it really was a bounty on occupation
it would after all be only an indulgence similar
to what has been granted to the landed and agri
cultural interest : —we have laid on hempa duty
of 54 cents per hundred weight ; afld on beer,
ale, and porter, five cents per gallon now I
ask gentlemen, wheiher the profefl'ed defi-rn of
those duties was to raise a revenue, ortoprevent
the importation ofthofe articles ? they were laid
for no other purpose, than to prevent foreigners
from importing them, and thereby to encourage
our own manufactures ; and was not that encou
rugement a bounty to the persons concerned in
producing such articles in this country ? If the
duties had not been laid, the importer could fell
much cheaper, than he now can ; and the land
ed interest would be under a necessity of felling
cheaper in proportion. If those prohibitory du
ties operate as a bounty in favor of railing hemp,
and of brewing beer, ale and porter, I alt, whe
ther, if a bounty weie proposed on every quin
tal of fifh, it might not, with the fame propriety,
be granted ? If we have not a right to grant a
bouiiLy in the one cafe, we have as little right
to grant it in the other.
A calculation has been offered, to (hew that
the proposed allowance will exceed the amount
of the present drawbacks, by io,ooo dollars a
year : but that calculation has been proved to be
erroneous : (uppofe however that this was the
facft, what companion is there -between fucb a
tax on the citizens of the United States, wrfthe
tax borne by the citizens of Maflachufetts, for
the defence of the wellern frontier ? A commer
cial war is waged against the American filheriei,
by foreign nations, who lay heavy duties on tbt
American filh, and apply the produce of tbofe
duties in bounties to their own fiOiermen : and
their fifheries being less extensive than ours, the
duty, thus imposed on our fifh, and beftowedin
bounties to their vessels, operate in a two-foM
proportion to the discouragement of our fiflier
men, and the encouragement of theirs.
I wi(h to know on what principle gentlemen
can expect, that the citizens of MalTachufe't*
lhould contribute 200, 0e0 Dollars, or perhaps 1
greater fuin, for the protection ot the welttrn
frontier against the Indians, when no conn in
tion is made to support the commerce of M* 1
chnfetts, which, without this support, will ens
effectually ruined, as if their velfels were captur
ed by an enemy. The principle is catrie- Jl
ther with refpeCi to the protection of the ro "
tier : we have voted large funis as P re ® nis .
the savages, to keep them friends to the ron
settlers : there is however 110 clatife >nt e co
ftitution, that will authorise a nieafure 0
kind : ic is true, indeed, we have a
crulate trade and commerce with .
tribes ; but does that give us a power to re
the United States tributary to the ■
if we make them inch grants eveiy jeai,
not ill fact become tributary to them .
The gentleman from Virginia
that although this plan ot encoui a g ul £ . oH
lies, may be wife policy in Britain, a* .
all fides surrounded by the sea, yet t
States will not equally find their at . c ° l ! is,
filing the fame plan. The Hate o j;fferent
in point of exposure from the f MaHachofetts:
ly circumstanced from the (late of* s o[ -
we have a vast extent of count' y, 4) » _ to wns
sea const, exposed : the citizens 0 a oC .
along the coalV are obliged to pu> s not
cupations ; and I hope the gf nt '^ olltf d,.i*
wifli that the country (hould be dep p D
the inhabitants driven off to fettle the
teri i r ory. , . Qr .nilv circo" 1 "
The itate of Virginia is ver; h PI •
ftanced with refpetf to a mar ' n< \ jj pretty I ''
such an event take place, j >at coa 6^ c!
cure from depredations : but >' |iicbn stir» » r f
how much the inhabitants of oUg htt° lo °
exposed in a cafe of that kin .' for [he jr tie
forward, and make iome pi'^ eS pc&, ib
fence they have as good a r. c .government will make some arrangements for
their protection, as chat they shall be obliged to
contribute for the defence of clie weflern frontier.
But their commerce, it seems. mull: not be fup
poi ted ! taxes however mull be laid : ajid those
taxes applied to encourage the fanner, and to
bribe the Indians into peace !—ls this fair ?— is
this pursuing a liberal fyltem of politics ? — will
this reconcile the minris of our people to the ge
neral government ?—lf Co reasonable a propor
tion be neglected by the House, it will convince
the citizens of that (late, that it is the object of
crovernmentto destroy their commerce, and to
make them entirely dependant on the agriculiu
ral interest
Here Mr. Gerry read a statement, to fhevv the
diminution of the revenue in consequence of the
failure of the filheries and added,
To support the fifhery, is to support the reve
nue : by that staple, the citizens of Mafl'achufetts
;ire enabled to pay the revenue that is experted
from them ; and, by an attempt to save io,ooo
dollars, government will probably fact ifice an
hundred thousand ; and besides, lore the confi
dence of the citizens of that state.
The only question now is whether this be a
direct bounty, or limply a commutation of the
allowance already granted by Congress ?— If the
latter be the cafe, 1 can fee no reason, why we
fliould refufe our afient to a proposition, which
is only calculated to do jullice to the people con
cerned, and to give encouragement to a very im
portant branch in the United States ; especially
as the proposition will even have a tendency to
encreafe the revenue.
(to be continued.)
TUESDAY, February 21.
Ayes and Noej on pafling the Representation Bill
' AYES.
Messrs. Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon, Clark, Findley, Fitr.li
mons, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Jacobs, Key, KiUera, Lawrauce,
Macon, Madison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Page, Paik.tr,
Schoonmaker, Seney, W. Smith, Sterreu, Sumpter, Sylvester,
Treadwell,Tucker,Venable, Vining, Wayne, White, Williamfon,
Wyllis—-34.
MelTrs. Ames, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Dayton, Gilman, Good
hue, Hillhoufe, Kitchell, Learned, Livermore, Nilcs, Scdgwick,
I. Smith, Sturges, Thatcher, Wadfworth—l6.
Ayes and Noes on the motion t* rrccde from the amendment
of the House, to the bill relative to the ele6lion of a President and
Vice-President of the United States, &c. which was to substitute
in thegth feftion, " The Secretary of State for the time being,"
in lieu of " the Prefidcnt of the Senate pro tempore, and in cafe
there {hall be no President of the Senate, then thfSpeaker of the
House of Representatives for the time beigig," as the officer to
fill the vacancy.
Meflrs. Ames, BarnweH, Benfon, B.'udinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne, Clark, Dayton, Findley, Fitzfimons. Gerry, Goodhue,
Haitley, Hillhoufe, Huger, Jacobs, Key, KitchclJ, Kutera, Law
rance, Learned, Livermore, Murray, Niles, Schoonmaker, Sedg
wick, I. Smith, W. Smith, Sylvester, Tucker, Wadfworth—3l.
Mcffrs. Baldwin, Brown, Gilman, Griffin, Grove, Macon, Ma
dison, Moore, Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Seney, J. Smith, Ster
rett, Sturges, Sumpter, Thatcher, Treadwell, Venable, Vining.
Wayne, White, Williamfon, Wyllis— 24.
WEDNESDAY, February 22
The Speaker and the members of the House,
preceded by the Serjeant at Anns, went in pro
cession to wait on the Prefideni of the United
States, to compliment him on the anniversary of
his Birth-Day.
On their return to the Hdufe, an engrofled
bill, providing far the settlement of the claims
of persons under particular circumstances, barred
by the limitations heretofore eftabliihed—was
read a third time, and palled.
Mr. Gerry laid 011 the table a resolution for the
appointment of a committee, to bring in a bill
for reducing the rates of poltage on newspapers.
The committee to whom were referred, on the
Bth inft. a mell'age from the President of the
United States, and a letter from the Secretary of
State, relative to certain expenses incurred for
the liberation and relief of American sailors, iin
preffed to serve in the Britifli navy, made a re
porr.
Mr. Lawiance presented a petition from sun
dry merchants of the city of New-York, praying
to be indulged in a longer term for the payment
of the duties on teas by them imported from
China—Referred to a special committee, to exa
mine and report.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Livermore's
motion, relative to the indemnification of the
estate of the late Major General Greene, under
certain provisions.
After a fliort debate, and the reading of a
number of papers relative to the business, ihe
committee rose, reported progress, and asked
leave to fit dgain. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, February 23.
A report on the petitions of the tanners, re
fpejfting the exportation of bark, was read —
which ltates that the fubjetft is of high national
importance, but for want of proper documents,
Congress cannot, at present, make adequate pro
vinon in the cafe—The committee therefore pro
pose, that the bufinef* be referred tlc> the next
ieffion, and that in the mean time the duties on
imported. manufactures of leather be enhanced;
laid-on the table.
NOES
AYES.
NOES.
Mr. Macon called upa resolution which he laid
on the table some days lir.ee— in l'ubltanceasfol-
lows, viz
Rcfolved, That 'lie Comptroller of the Trea
sury lay before the Hoi.ie a llateiuent of the ba
lances, il any, due to the United States from in
dividuals, previous to the 4th of March, 1789 —
alio a llatetiient of the lutns of public monies en-
Li lifted to various pei'fons previous to the above
period, and which have not been accounted for.
It was moved to flrike out "Comptroller,"
and insert Secretary before the woid Tieafary—
which was done.
The resolution was then difcnfTed in a debate
of fotne length — a motion to refer it to a ielect
committee was carried in t he affirmative ; ayes 31,
noes 27. —The committee appointed conlilis of
Mefli s. Boudinot, Dayton, Gei ry, B. Bourne, and
J. Smith.
A message was received from the Sennie, with
the bill making further and more effectual pro
vision for the defence of the frontiers—palled
the Senate with amendments.
In committee of the whole on the resolution
refpetfting the indemnifying the estate of the late
Major Gen. Greene, under certain provisions, &c.
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
Mr.Livermore and Mr. Gerry entered into a full
difcuflion of the merits of thefubjeifl—they were
in favor of adopting the resolution.
The committee lose without coining to a deci
sion, and the House adjourned.
FRIDAY, February 24.
After reading several petitions, the House proceeded to the
confideratior. of the amendments proposed by the Senate, to the
bill making further and mo»e eff<£tual provilion for the defence
ot the frontiers—on which the galleries were (hut.
Philadelphia, February 25.
Wednesday the 22d init. being the anniversary
of the Birth-Day of the Presi de nt of the United
States, the fame was observed in this city with
those denionlh ations of joy usual on the return
of this auspicious occasion.
On Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, the 21 ft:
and 22d indants, the two Dancing AHemblies gave
each, fucceflively, a Ball, in honov of this anni
versary—at both of which were present, the Pi e
fideni of the United States, bis Lady and Family
—the Vice-President of the United States—the
Heads of Departments—the Foreign Ministers—
the Speaker, and nioft of the Members of the two
Houses of Congress—the Governor of the State—
the Governor of the Western Territory—and
many other refpetSable Officers of the United
States and of this Commonwealth—and to crown
all, there was as brilliant a display of Beauty as
was ever exhibited in this city.
Elegant entertainments succeeded, when a va
riety of fentinieiual and patriotic Toasts were
g lver ».
The Military arrangements on the 22d instant,
and the exhibitions of the day, did honor to the
Commander, and the refpe<ftive Corps afl'embled
on the occasion.
Recent accounts from Port-au-Prince, byCapr.
Webb, arrived at Salem,fay, " There appears to
be no longer any subordination—The Provincial
Afl'embly and the Municipality would, 110 doubt,
couiproinife matters, if their proceedings could
be free and unawed. The Mulattoes, as a body,
alledge their innocence with refpecft to the de
ftrudiion of the town—their wives—their children
—their property, fuffered in the conflagration ;
but the mob declare them guil;y. 1 lie Mulat
toes wish to return —and, to secure thenifelves,
as well as the Whites, against the outrages of
lawless people—to be put in pofledion of the
torts, &c.—but the mob fay they have formed a
plot to maflacre all the Whites. The troops atft
without much regard to the civil authority, and
the officers cannot controul them. The nominal
commander of the ffcip in the harbour is obliged
to fubinit to the will of his under officers and
crew. If the populace cry out against any one,
as an enemy, the civil arm cannot protect him.
On the 25th of December, three refpeiftable men
were taken up on suspicion of having supplied
the Mulattoes: the Municipality, finding no
proof against them, committed them to jail, in
order thereby to secure them from the violence
of the mob ; but they were taken from the guards
(who prttsndedthey were forced to give them up)
and hanged : two days alter, four others ftiared
the fame fate. Among the fufFereis, were an
Attorney at Law, a Counsellor and his Clerk, and
the Djxftor of the King's hospital. Theft; exe
cutions the civil and military officers beheld with
tears in their eyes, but were unable to prevent
them
• The Senate cf this Commonwealth have patted a refoluiion in
ftrufting their Senators in Congref* to exert their influence that
ihe Debates of the Senate of the United States should be public.
Propofah for inilituting a Bank in Salem (Maffachufcits) New-
Haven and New-London (Conne&icut) ?nd Albany (N.Y.) are
on the carpet.
The persons who were in confinement at Claverack, charged
with the murder of the late (heriff Hogeboom, or of having he.n
aiding or allifting therein, have all been acquitted by a jury of
their couairy.
347
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
The heads of departments are men whodonot
Itand in need of newspaper support. Our coun
try did not trull till it had tried them. Yet on
reading the papers a stranger would ftippofe that
the very worlt men in the country had crept in
to the fir It offices.
The world is bad Enough, but though there
arc a few in it who are mean enough io believe
and wicked enough to circulate the vi)e(t Zan
ders, the world rejects them unless accompani
ed with some kind of proof.
Men are often blamed by their friends with
out a caule—but the advice and even the re
proaches of a friend carry a balfain to the wounds
they give. Are the writers alTuded to of that
Ipirit ? No, they puifon the weapons they Itrike
with. In their eyes; the bejt adts'of the govern
ment are crimes—and why ? Because they se
cure it againff their hostile attacks. They make
lionelt men its friends. It concerns honelf men
therefore, to watch for the government—flnce
the attacks made upon it discover a spirit of re
sentment which it is evident nothing but its
speedy overthrow can appease.
Extraflfrom Lindsay's (Norfolk) Hotel Diaiy> Feb 6.
This day arrived from Savanna la Mar, Jamaica, in 16 days, the
Brigantine Barbados, of Liverpool, I. Brown, Made —who in
forms us that two regiments had arrived Irom England—that the
martial law was taken off, and all was peace and harmon).
Died, in Maryland, Major-General William Smallwood,
formcrlv Governor of that State— a soldier, a statesman and patriot,
honored and revered in public and piivate lite, and whose decease
is sincerely lamented.
—At Providence, Rhode-Island, Mrs. Rfbscca Pitman
Consort of the Rev. Mr. John Pitman.
Errata.— In the production under the Philadelphia head
in our last—line firft, for " space," read place—lß.h line from
the top, for <l And," read For.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 24/4 or. /
3 pr. Cents 14/3
Dcfeied 6 pr. Cents 14J8
UNFUNDED DERT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f 110 do.
Indents 1 70 do.
half shares Bank Stock—lo2 per cent premium
Militia Fines.
THE Collectors of Militia Fines in the City and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and the diftritts of Moyamenfingaud Paffyunk,
are hereby required 10 collect and pay into the County Treasury,
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and deposit their books and
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-street, on or beforetne
fiift day of April next. Whetetore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the said firft" day of April, all Collectors who
(hall fail in complying with this requisition, will be proceeded
against according to law.
Philad. Feb. 23, iyq2
Thirty Dollars Reward.
STOLEN on Thursday the 26th ult. a bright Bay HORSE,
with a Saddle and Bridle ; about 14 hands and an half high,
a darkish snip reaching down his facc. to the end of his nose, a
little white on two of his fret, v ith a white spot under his leit eye,
about the size of an English (hilling, his hind feet turn iij. round
made, five years old, trots and canters well. Whoever takes up
said horse, (0 that the owner may get him again, (hail receive Fif
teen Dollars ; or the above rewaid for the horse and thief, paid by
the fubferiber, living in Pifcataway, about 9 miles from New-
Brunfwrick, New-Jersey. BARZILLAI F. RANDOLPH.
February 22, 1792. (31)
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Public Vendu E,on Wcdnefday
the nth day of April next,
THE SEAT of the late Docftor Lewis Johnflon,
deceased, in Perth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan, wher6 it empties into the bay about 18 miles from Sandy-
Hook, and affords two molt agreeable Situations for Gentlemens'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good collection of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from its fix
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, 111
their seasons. particularly of oysters and chicken clains, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flats before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tally improve
ments; and as Perth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
Ufnted States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the profpeft of its
increasing in value from that circumstance, is by 110 means incon
siderable.
There will also be {old, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the opposite fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm—oll
which there is a framed d weiling-houfe and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and very convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for ihip build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
f a fe. The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
and the lequifite conveyances made by
IoWES R A EED? R 3nd J said E[Utf '
Likewise to be SOLD, at the Jame time and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of East Ncw-Jcrfey, wheie n the pro
prieiaiy house lately stood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled; it affords a grand profpeft of Rartan
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hi-d
---fon's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the East—and
a molt delightful one of the serpentine courfeof the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a rich trafl of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of (lone neatly dressed, the remain-v
of the houie lately burned, will be nearly fufltcient for a new
building; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent water,
with a very convenient ftableand coach-house, will greatly lefTen
the expcncc of putting the place in order for this residence ot *
Gentleman.— There are tew fuuations so eligible, particularly i<>
the fuminer feafon —when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
fuuations, render them places of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment aird sultry air of the foutheru itaies and aeighbourin?cities.
Perth-Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792. (ep6wj
121J pr. cent.
7i£ do.
73J do -
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut
of the City and I iherties.[ A copy of the following beautiful comfto/tticn was offered for infer ti on
intnc lafl number of this Gazette, but previous engagements prevented
itj publication—Such productions can never be out oj fcaftn. j
STANZAS
on the BIRTH-DAY of the
PRESIDENT.
SAID TOBE WRITTEN BY MR. C
O peerage we covet, no sceptres desire,
Nor gew-gaws that garnish a throne;
Yet Liberty loves, on her own native lvrc,
To celebrate sons of her own.
And always with rapture, his virtue die lings,
And exults on the morn of his birth—
Who (hakes every throne of dcfpotical kings,
And gives a new lefibn to earth.
O widely diffufe it, ye winds, as ye blow,
O waft it, ye waves, that they fan,
For the choicest of grists that the gods can bellow,
Is the blefiing of Freedom to Man.
O Washington, hail! whom the breath of pure fame
With praises more sweet (hall perfume,
Than ever embalm'd or exalted a name
In Macedon, Athens, or Rome !
For Freedom, fay what did that foe of the Greek.
Alexander, that Hero admir'd ?
Let the foes, or the friend, whom he maflacred, (peak,
Or the beautiful City he fir'd.
Ye unfetter'd freemen, examine each deed
That made him renown'd and ador'd,
Then mention what race bv his valor was freed,
Or blefs'd by his sceptre or sword ?
Did conquering Caesar Rome's Senate obey ?
Did the Legions disperse at a word ?
Did he halt or letire from a summit of sway
That saving his Country conferr'd ?
Thrn Washington hail! whom the breath of pure fame
With praises more sweet fnall perfume,
Than ever embalm'd or exalted a name
In Macedon, Athens, or Rome!
Did Athens, did Sparta, one Hero produce,
T* extinguish their feuds by his mind,
Or prove to the free the pre-eminent use
Of Union to them—and Mankind ?
Ah no ! if wife Greece but one Patriot adept,
One Leader like our's had enjoy'd,
No lover of Science or Freedom had wept
For Science and Freedom deftroy'd.
Then Wash i ngton hail! whom the breath of pure fame
With praises more sweet shall perfume,
Than ever embalm'd or exalted a name
In Macedon, Athens, or Rome !
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chsfnut-Strcet Wharf %
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kins and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam MolaUes,
Coffee, Coton, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the fiift quality,
Cloves, Caflia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermacaeti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Bollon Beel and Burlingion Pork,
Rullia and Bollon Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
And a few cases old Batavia Arrack,
February 8, 1792
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed estate of GEORGE WANER, con
lifting ot a valuable Plantation and tract of Timber Land,
supposed to contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a dwelling-house and kitchen, a cooper's (hop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The house stands close on a good landing belonging to the said
premifcs ; the reft of the land is well timbered and liep within
one mile of said lauding, and an equal distance from a faw-:nill
and grift-mill and alio of Qumton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Couit-Houfe.
Any perfonthat is disposed to view or purchase the said pre
mifcs, may fee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubferibers near the fame.
MARK MILLER and? r
ANDREW MILLER, $ ExecutorSl
Salem County, 2d mo. 13th> 1792.
N. B. There islikewife a lot ot Meadow ground ot about 25
acrcs, ad joining lands of Abbott Sayres, and others, the property
of said deceased, to be fold in manner as above, by the said exe
cutors. J" J
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
the county of Gloucester, supposed to contain five hundred
and forty acres of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fiiuatc on a
bi anch of Li:lU Egg-Harbour Rivt r, in the townfhipol Galloway.
There is on laid piemifcs a fr«me house and kitchen, a small hay
houfeatld liable. About f:xty acrcs of the land cleared, and about
ouc hundred a .d ninety of woodland, and a cedar fwatnp, chief
ly well limbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (intcifperfed
with frcfti water flowing ftrcaros) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The situation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for -ailing (lock.—Any person inclining 10 purchase said Planta
tion, n«y have poUeflion from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, living at
guinton's Bridge, m the county of Salem; or a further defcrip
i-on may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Jufeph Sloan, Suiveyor, near Hattonfield ; or of
Jamrs Scull, adjoining said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleasant healthy country, within two miles of three grift and'
saw-mills : And three houtes appropriated to divine worlhip, ate
about the fame distance. Terms of payment made easy, bv
Quintan's Bridge, Salem County,
2 d no. 13th, 1792.
American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS TOR THS AMERICAN APOLLO
A new Publication, just commenced in Bcfton,
AH IICIIVSD »Y THE iIItTOR HEKEUf.
> [ e P4 w ]
ANDREW MILLER
[ep 4 w]
TO BE SOLD,
BY JOHN CARE Y,
\ r c. z6 y Pear-Street,
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
BOOKS,
Which may be fecn every day, until jive o'cloth. f p. m.
Among them are the following :
Folic. TJOMER, Xenophon, Plato, Plutaic'n, Eufebius, Sozo-
JLjL men, Theodorer, Virgil, Horace, L>vy, Tacitus, Pater
cuius, Pliny, Concordantia Lat. ConcordautiaGr. Thefaurtis Ci
ceronis. Bibtia Junii and Tremellii, Bible de Martin,Wells's Maps,
Scapulas— Phavorini—Martinii—Hoffmani Lexica, VofliiEtymo
logicon, Aunquit. Ecclef. Si itannicas, &c.
Quarto. Pindar, Cvropicdia, Bentley's Horace, Terence and
Phaedrus, Ovid, Juvenal, Manilius, Ciceronis op. om. Cat far, Su
etonius, Julius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, VofiQi Ars Gram. Ciuve
rii Jultiman Code, See.
Oclavo el infra. Homer, Anacreon, Aristophanes, Longinus,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poetae minores Gr. Ifocrates. Phalans, va
rious editions oj Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibullus, Plau
tus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flaccus, Auionius, Buchanan,
Sallutl, Curiius, Floms, juftin, Val. Maximus, A. Gellius, Hill.
August. Scnptoies, F.nglifh and French Tranjlations of some oi the
ClaflTics, a great variety oi Greek and Latin Grammars, See. See.
Catalogue? may be had of Meflrs. Rice Sc. Co. Booksellers,
Market-street, or of JOHN CAREY.
Oftober3i.* (eptf-)
IMPERIAL HY^JQN,SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-SfTeft,between Chefnut and MfirketStr^ets
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co. "
HAVE just now opened their Lead-War ehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-ilreet Wharf, adjoining their New Fadory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they wairant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured.in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All ordeis addrefled to either of the
above FaCtories, will be thankfully received, and cxecnted on the
(horteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouiing Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791. tf
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street, next door to the Bank, No. 97.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters of Flizahrth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be leoeiued until the ninih day
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in Norih-,Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about fijteen miles; the country through which it will pass. is
swampy, free from ftooei, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at lead in
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable ot being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three feet water.
Good fecuritv will be required of contraflors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, muik produce
certificates (from charaSers ol refpeaabilityj'of their qualifications
for a business of this kind.
By Older of the Prefidcnt and Directors.
Norfolk, "January 21, 1792
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Proteftaot Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of Kew-Tcrfev'
palled November 1791. ''
SC H E
1
1
2
.5
10
3°
9°
l6 7 5
Priae of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
rr —, 5331 I'ckets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
(FT Tms Lottery u com posed of 5334 Tickets, nottwo Blanks
to one Prize, and lubjeft to a deduftiun of twelve and an halfler
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lcmei y 'vet
offered to the public—and it being of fucb evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal lupporr.
The drawing will commtncc on the ferond Monday in Aoril
or former if the Tickets are disposed of, the city of New!
Biunlwick., under the Mifpeftion of Col. John Bayard, President
ACU k ; J\T eS Pd,k ". Ef< 3- Mayor of the uty of A.nbov;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor ol tf)t Manufaflur
mg Socicty of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Manager*, He under oath, and have given fecuritv for the
failhful performative ol their duly. '
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publiihed, and tie
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
TOHN PARKER, ) ' '
PETER KEENON, < Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE S
af t r r ',f' 7'' OfC W l' iCh ; ' rC DOt HrmJnd( ' d within fix months
after the drawmg ol the Lottery, will be conlidered as a generous
donation to the Cburch. & ° 5
Ntw-Bf unftonkj January po, 1792
,fffiJi'"cZ 0 ! , J t jt ALo f' he TH,RD cj the SZ;;*T£
■V <!,c L SI. ED STATES.. Kty ie Mt f lU £d/Ur / ,
348
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
(-P'9 A )
M E.
Dollars is 2000
zoo* j
1000
s°°
200
too
5°
20
4
1000
1000
10C0
1000
1 5 c, °
1800
6;oo
16000
[ep3ii]
SALES
OftherealEftate of JOHN KIDD, late„f tile
Town(hij.i of Benfelein, in the County of Buck
£ (quire, decealed, puvluant to the
of his la ft Will and Testament.
( Tuesday the 7 th of March next will be cxpof.d 10 S
V hy wayot Pubhc Vendue, 0., the prcm.fes_On< cxce'c',-'
mgly valuable ana highly imprOv,d F«m. co, about " ( "
hunored and ninety-lime acrcs, fitua-.e on the i,v , IVta„ aie . '
Winch is creeled a handsome two-story brick house, win a
piazza ) u the- Irotit, two kuchcus, a good barn,(tables, hay-hnuif
and other convenient 9 uthouf A good o,chart: oi thebdU,,
of grafted .run,now in n, prime; a large garden well 1. „ ctd
and in good order; and a (had ai.d herring ti'lhe.v before the do,' '
rh JS place is remarkably * ell timbered, has a fflFcrac% o'm '
now, a large front on tie river, and runs back to the poft-mari "
One other very valuable Farm, adjoin.,.? .heabove ; con,a,
about two hundred and (even acrcs, the greatelt paitof w | lic , ■'
wood-land. There are on this farm a £ood hotife, b rl ,
and other outhouses, w.ih a voung thriving orchard of 'the belt
grafted fruit, and a lhad and he.tin,; fithery. It h as lnn , w
well accustomed tavern; and the ten y belonging to ,t. known bv
the name ol Dunks s, is noted forbetng well kept and much tie
qnented. Both the above places affoid the oeft profits cu tie
r.ver, and are remaikably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, situ
ate in the townfh.p of Southampton, in the luunty aforefaid • o ii
which are erefled two log-houses. There a ItnaK orchard 'and
a great fufnciency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot, containing lour acres, situate on the grrfat post-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miks from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling, house, and work-lhop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the dooi: now in Uie
tenure of ihe Widow Ward.
Also. at the fame time and olace, will lie fold all Ihe remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Uttnfils, and Whia, in liie
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchife
money to be paid down, and the remainder m two yeaily pay.
menls with interest. •
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, C Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZLT, )
(eptm27)
War Department.
January 2, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the inuUaiy invalids
of the Unucd S:ates, that the funis to which they ate mulled
to: fix months of their annual pension, horn the 4th clay of Sep
tember, lygij and wh'ch will heroine due on the day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Comimffioneri
ot the Loans within the iialcs rcfpc6hvtly, under the u:ual regu
lations, v z.
Every application for payment mull be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the state, fpecifying that the, per
son po{Tefling the fame is in fatl an invalid, and aftertaining the
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. C3me before me, one of the Julticesot:he county of
in the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. ( tt. to
whom the original ceitificate in hispofleflion was given, of ft hich
the following is a copy (the ccrtilicate given by the lla;e to be re
cited' That he fei ved (regiment, coi ps or vcflVl) at the timc he
was di fab led, and that lie now resides in the and countv of
and has resided there for the last
resided m
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment by an attorney,the
said attorney, befidesthc certificate and oath before recited, tnuft
produce a fpeeiaf ietter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of (late of do hereby.cootti
tu'e and appoint C. D. of iny lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, a» an invalid of theUn
ted Statts, from the fourth day of September, one thou f iod seven
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninuly-two.
Signed and fealcd
iu the prefcuce of
WitnefTes,
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators mull be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe£live offices, and also of the
time »he invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the. President of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
C-.7 The Printers in the refpe£live Hates are requefled to publito
the above iu their newspapers, for the space of two months.
Annapolis, January 1, 179 2 -
At a Meeting of the Visitors and Governors of St. Joh n's I oliege,
in the Slate of Maryland, on Thurlday the lOih of Novem
ber lad,
RESOLVED,
THAI ihis Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro
ceed to elect a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
That it be the duty of the Principal "and Vice-Principal, lo
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural PhJlofo
piy ; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal shall hereafter be alceriatned with precision, on c>n(i
dcracions of their mutual convenience and refpe£live qualification.
That the Vice-Principal shall be entitled to receive, for his l cr "
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money,
rating dollars at yf6 each, to be paid quarterly.
1 hat persons desirous of, and qualified for the appointment o,
Vice-Principal, be, by public adveitifement. rtqueftcd to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Cairoll of Carro -
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Adi>-
By order of the Board,
JOHN' THOMAS, Prrfid™--,,
X. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit
>rcference on account of religious tcncis or opinions.
As the appointment ot a Vicc-Principal is alone wantc , to
ompleat ihe plan of this feininaiy, the Board will eft"" 1 "
►roceed to the eleflion at the stated time; provided a periou q-J
£ficd, in their judgment, for this important ftajioii, can be p
ured. The pcrfonal attendance of the cand^tfatekjW* 001
x>fuively required, will be obviously proper. .
It may be ufeful to remark, that the-falariesgf a-' :hepr"' l
and teachers have hitherto been paid withentiie pun&uainv , an
that the funds ot St. John's College produce a ee/ta^n aniiu3
come, superior to all the appropriation#, which have fcceo» o* F'
bably will be made.
The Printers of newfpapeis throughout the United SiatCj
are earnestly requeued to itifert the above /efolve and rfinJ ' fr ' 11 ,
and to repeat the publication as often as convenience %v 111 p '''
polis,
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR, 1, f the
A TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at tjft' 0 j
United States, (hewing the Value oi Gold in
Cents, from One to a Thousand Pennyweights — ,
A& of Gongrcf*, afccrtaining the Suodaid and Value
years, picvions lo uh.ciihc