[No. 24, of Vol. IV.]
PRICE CURRENT. DUt. cts. mis. cu.
r v , Oil, Ditto 1 pr. cafe. 2so
quantity, Dol LARs .00 Cents each. Sweeti f eftiirij ; itoi p r . hwt 10 L
PHILADELPHIA, August 22. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 5
■ • - —Spermaceti pr. ,gall» 48
Dlls.Cts. Dlls.Cts. Train 24 27
1 ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 8 Whaie 24 26
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 373 4 Porte> - pr . calk, 533
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. ~ Lo P d doz «33
Allies, pot, per ton, 90 ,00 Amcncan d tto bot.incl. . 4 ,6o
*~ >37 '4° Pitch, pr. bbl. .73
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 j 67 Porkj Burll
ngtou, per barrel, it 11 33
Brandy, common, i 20 Lower county 10
Coniac 1 26 2 33 Carolina g
Brazilctto,pr. ton. 32 34 Peas, Albany pr. buftiel 73
Bricks, pr. M. 5 7 Pepper, pr. lb. 37
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. 1 67 2 Pimento 16
Ditto, pilot 3 67 Raifms, best, pr. keg 9
Ditto, (mall-water, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr.iar 25a
Beer, American, in bottles, Ditto „J b
Pr-doz. bottles included, >4° K,ce pr.cwt. 2,50 t67
1 opr. arre , 467 0n p r . Cartel 233 267
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16 T • ~ . q
.New England ~ R»™, J»m..c., pr. gallon ..8 .22
• « q w I"" «
...... y Windward 83
Merchantable pine 10 ,7 Barbados 83
°'r Country, N. E, 67
Mahogany, per toot 10
The above are the (hallop prices, alt petre, pr. cwt. 13 33 14
r s i jj r j 1 jailafraS pr. ton 6 8
fort ne yard price, add 1 dol- shot P d;
la, 33 cents per ,000. Steel, German pr.lb. 4 9
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. Englifh,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Beef, Hofton, per barrel y - —-American pr. ton .13 33
Country ditto 6 7 -Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
— Fresh, per cwt. 333 467 Snake root pr. lb. 20 42
Butter pr.lb. .6 Soap, Brown per lb. 6
,n kegj 9 10 White 8
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. Castile 11
Wax ,6 Starch 7
Myrtle Wax , Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 560
———Mould, tallow j. Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Dipped 10 Sail cloth, Englilh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
Cheele, En»lifh, pr. lb. ICi Boflon, No. I. ditto 30
Country 8 ic T o. "■ 2 9
Chocolate , 7 ,g Sugar Lump, pr.lb 24
Cinnamon 1 40 26- Loaf, single refined 26
Cloves , Ditto, double do. 36
Cocoa pr. cwt. 14 Havannah, white .7 18
Coffee pr. Id. ,3 10 Ditto, brown, 12
Coal pr. burtiel so 2? Muscovado, pr. cwt. 13 15 67
Copperas pr.cwt. , g; Spirits Turpentine pr. gallon 33 37
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 a ' 1 ' Allum pr. bulhcl 24 27
Cotton pr. lb. t.6 Liverpool 2q
Currants 10 Cadiz 23
ti..!.!, n rr ' ■ ° Lisbon 2.5 27
.! " 13 ' pr. piece 11 33 Ship build. W. O. frames p.ton, 12 13 33
—*:«"« , «93 967 Ditto Live Oak, .5 33 .6 67
Duich fail duck, ,3 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
Feathers pr. lb- 40 4- Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 233 267
Flax ditto 11 j - Oitto 2 feet, 5 33 6
Flaxfeed pr. bufii. 85 g. Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 12 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 4 go staves, Pipe pr. 1000 29
Common, 4 8. White Oak hogftiead, ig 33
■Bur middlings, best 3 Red Oak do. ig 50
Meal, Indian 2 5 Leogan 21 33
-■ ■■ - ditto Rve, c 40 Barrel 10
Ship-fluff pr. cwt. 80 x Heading 26 67
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, best pr. piece- 467
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4£~ -Minks 20 4p
Do. pr. gall. 8 Fox, grey 40 80
Glue, pr. cwt. 2d 21 q D:t'o red 1 20
Ginger, white race, per cwt. 7 Martins 24 1
Ditto, common 7 F'fhcr? 33 67
Ditto, ground pr.lb. —Bears 3
Ginseng, 20 2 Racoons 27 60
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafit, 373 4 Musk-rats 11 2c
Ditto, fine glazed a aver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Grain, Wheat or. bush 80 8 —-Den, in hair «o 30
—-"—Rye "-n ,N. Jer'cy, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1 20
"Oats Carolina, 32 gall. 1 33 1 67
Indian corn 4 urpentinc pi. bbl. 167 2
——-Barley g < acco, J. River, best ioolb. 360 373
" ■ ■■ Best (helled pr. lb. ■ ■ inferior a 67 3
Buckwheat, per bulb. 4 old 4 67
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 146 6 Rappahannock 2 50 3
American, pr. lb. 4 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Herrings, pr.bb). 3 Daik, 2 40
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 1 Long-leaf 240
Hops Edftein-fhore 2 2 23
Hogftiead hoops, pr. M. 15 Carolina, new a 7 3
Indigo, French per lb. 120 .3 ,a, Hyson p" lb. 293 128
Carolina 60 , Hvfonfkn, ,53 67
Irons, fad pr. ion, ,333 —Souchong, <0 q 3
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Congo, 43 50
Bar P r * ton, 82 6 Boht . a> 33 3?
a 4 67 fallow, refined, per bl. 9
tt-V , >73 3i Tin pr. box, 1333 1367
Nail rods 96
Junk, pr.cwt. 4 5 Verdigreafe pr.lb. 47 ,53
Lard, hogs pr.lb. 9 ic V.-rmillion, do. 133 167
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 567 Varnish, per gallon 33 37
in bars 7 .Vine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 10667 200
— white 30 10 67 Lilbon 120 126
" 6 40 6 6 Teller life, pr. gallon 63
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 £ c Fayal 52
Lignum vit s pr. ton, 560 6 Port pr. pipe no 124
Logwood 24 Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
—-—Mnrr p-* 7 33 76 Claret 4 6
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. g Sherry pr.gall. go 12c
— second quality 6 5- 77 80
Madder, best pr. lb. ,6 2 c '-V-«x , Bees pr. lb. 2,5 27
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 233 2 A'halt-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Mast spars ditto 33 67
MolafTes pr.gall. 44 5C COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mustard per. lb. On London, at 30 days, per ioo£ . fieri. 453 33
Hour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 2c — at 60 days 450 67
Nails, Bi. lod. izd. and tod. pr.lb. ic T 7. 7 at 9°° a >' s 41 8
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 Amtterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 41
nil 1 r j ~ 9° days, 4c
' ! n ccd . F r - g a "' 65 67 Government bills, drawn at io
lve " 8? days, per 11 guilders, none at market.
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY fOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
Wednesday, August 22. 1792.
93
■*.0M THE AMERICAN V'JSEU.'-f.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION,
Concerning the public delis.
(CONTINUED.)
IT will not lie questioned, that there i*> in
every walk of life or bulinefs a greater pro
portion of money, than was obfervabie two
years ago. Public works and buildings of eve
ry kind, and of species and values unknown
among us till the present time, aie undertaking
every where. Private buildings, of equal va
riety. and comparative value, are springing up.
The >rice of lands is advanced. The raw ma
terials,though raifeu in much greater abundance,
lell for larger prices. To what cause so pow
erful, so adequate, can these things be ascribed,
as to the sales of part and the re-animation of
the whole, of a public debt, ten times larger
than the amount of all the specie ordinarily cir
culating in the country ?
The relief of some of the States from their
burdens, has been another beneficial consequence
of the funding of the debt. It is but a few
years since one of the mod frugal, vigorous, and
productive counties in Pennsylvania rose against
the collectors of the taxes. The appreciation
and fa!e of the immense mass of federal securi
ties, owned by that State, has enabled her to
discharge all her obligations, though flie has
abolilhed her general land tax, and discontinued
her excise, both of which Ihe has collected for
forty years.
!>ome anxiety has been created by the fliare
of our debt, which foreigners have obtained.
But this was a powerful means of bringing the
whole into its pre fen t beneficial aw ion, by ele
vating its actual to its nominal value. It is
not at all probable, that it will be drawn from
the country. It has been observed, in the inoft
tranquil and prosperous state of Europe, that a
great proportion of che families of those foreign
ers, who have made large inveflments in the
United States, either in the times of the pro
vinces, or since the revolution, have become
inhabitants of this country, even when in its
rudest infant Hate. At this serious moment,
when almost everv transatlantic country feel;
or apprehends disorders, our chances are in
finitely increased. The United States, advan
ced in the means cffubfiftence, of comfprt, and
01 twiv picfe/it to them aa object of
greater chfire in a tranquil liberty, which they
are flruggling to obtain, a teeming agriculture,
and a prosperous commerce, both fortign am!
internal. Conformably with these refle&ions,
we may affirm, that no great object in our af
fairs has failed to attract the notice of the fo
reigners, who have engaged in our funds. The
internal navigation of South-Carolina, North-
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Penn!y*vania,
New-Jersey and New-York, are among the wit
nelfes of this truth. The banks, both national
and State, the turnpike roads, and toll bridges,
the sales of city estates, of cultivated farms,
and particularly of unimproved lands, com
merce, Ihip-building, manufactures, confirm
the fact. Let us continue to exhibit an honest
spirit in our laws and conlßtutions, an efficient
execution of them, and due abflinence from un
neceflary wars, and there cannot exist a doubt,
that we shall draw much more copiously from
the population, the arts, and the funds of Eu
rope, than they will draw from those of the
United States.
There exists in tli« United States one de
scription of private difSculties .and incumbran
ces, which must engage the lolicitude of every
feeling mind, which, by an examination into
the detail and interior of our afEiirs, lias been
led to observe them. The cases alluded to are
those of the citizens of two or three of the
States, who are burdened with heavy debts or
claims, which originated before the revolution.
Whatever they may lie finally adjudged to pay,
the sum may be so great, and due from so many
perion-, as to give it the resemblance of a pub
lic debt : and as in one of those States it has
already occasioned some facrifices of their prin
cipal landed estates, very far below their va
lue, so t will probably operate in the others,
unless some extensive means, abundantly ade
quate to the occasion, cap be brought to ope
rate, before or at least at the time of execut
ing the judgments of courts, ivbich may be ob-
Gained. No resource, competent to the pur
pose, appears at all likely to prcfent itfeif, un
less it be the funded debt or stock of the United
States and of the several State*. The method
by which tiiis de'eription of property can be
rendered mod immediately and effectually fub
(ervient to the iiiterefting purpose of prevent
ing the deftruflion of many families, would
'eeiri to be the fixture of it at a stable unfluctu
ating rate, adequate to its proper value, under
the exiftine circumstances of the United States.
It is manifeft, that infucb aftate of the.market,
the dealers in the debt and others, would fell!
out, and would not buy in again, and that they
would seek objects for their money in the trade,
the manufactures, the buildings, and the lands,
of the country, which might promise them more ;
advantage. A tenth part of die value of the
piibfic debt', applied to the lands of the United
States; tiropid raise them every where to tlieir'
real fp, that the debtor, \rlio mijrht be
uider the neceflity to fell an eftatej could dif-
$ioo
[Whole No. 546.]
pose of his property-not only withoutruinous
f aci ifice, but probably to uncommon advat>tage.
Ihe propriety ol lands and buildings which
might be under this probability of lale, would
fullain no rifqueor injury in felling their eftatcs
for the public ltock.
It may be alledged, that the holders of the
debt will not go into fcferies so remote to make
investments : but there are facts, which appear
to warrant zdifferent opinion. The ot"
New-England have been brought into Pennfvl
vania, for ir.vellmcnt in lands of several kiiid;
—the money of Pennsylvania and Delaware
has been invested in mills and lands in Virginia
—the greater pa tof the iron-works of Mary
land (the most coftlv estates in our country)
were bought and worked by the capitals of re
lldents in Great-Britain before the revolution.
The fame fact existed in one great instance in
New-Jersey The greatelt cedar swamp, on
the waters of the Delaware, that supplies the
Philadelphia market, is owned in New England;
and people and vessels from that quarter, are
annually sent to perform thebufmefs of it. The
American public creditors, citizens oi the uni
ted Netherlands, have recently purchased eight
hundred rratts ofland in spartnfPeiinfylvania,
further from Philadelphia than the banks oi"
James's River, York, or Rappahanock. In
short, if the history of this country were ex
amined, as it regards this Jubjeft, it would de
monstrate, that the landed property of it lias
been conftantiy animated by the application of
the monies of di.tant capitalifls.
LONDON, May 30,
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Monday Mat 21.
RIOTS AT BIRMINGHAM.
SIR ROBERT LAWLEY presented
a petition from certain Difient
eis, 1 ruftees of the new meeting;
lioufe which had been burnt at Bit
mingham, praying for compcnfation
of damages received, &c.
The Speaker cbferved, that as the
limited lime for receiving private pe
ti-tions was expired, and :is, this vat
of that nature, it could not be receiv
ed.
The petition was withdrawn.
Mr. Wh i tbr e a D, jun. rose to m ake
his promised motion refpetfting the
Birmingham riots. He laid, tl.aton
this occasion he confidercd hiuifelf
not only as the advocate for the fuf
fering Diflcnters at Birmingham, but
for the Diflenters in general, and al
io for all the people of Great-Britain,
whose heft and dearest rights were
ftrnck at in the outrageous violation
of the laws, 111 the unhappy affair at
Birmingham — laws which were or
dained equally for the protection of
every fubjert in the kingdom, be his
religious tenets what they may. He
aliened, that the unhappy difference
between the Diflenters and the High
Church party at Birmingham had its
rife in religious and not in political
concerns. He was very diffufe 111 sup
port of this polition, reciting cir
cumftaiices, and quoting various au
thorities in proof of this allertion.
He then, much in detail, recited the
origin, rife, and progress of the ri
ots ; the immediate and ostensible
instigation of which was a hand-bill,
of the molt inflammatory and scanda
lous natine, which had been circu
lated a lliort time previous to the
commencement of the riots ; and
which the magifirates had taken 110
steps about until the morning of (he
14th of July, in the afternoon of
which the riots began ; —on this day
they offered a re ward for the pub
lisher of the hand-bill. Ihe condudt
of thele gentlemen (the magistrates)
during the time ofthe riots, was, he
laid, peculiarly > eprehenfible ; they
ac'ted with fupincnefs, if not worse ;
and in fume inffances they had, in»
stead of 1 e'lraii.ing, absolutely encou
raged the rioters to ac r ts of outrage.
They might, if so inclined, have
crufhedthe mifchief in the bud, bnc
110 steps wete taken ; they even re
lufed the aftiflance of an officer with
his recruiting party, then in town,
who offered with it to quell the riois.
Their exertions wereconfined to pub
lishing advertlf'ements and hand-bills,With vefpeift to the trials of the riot
ers, lie disapproved of the conduct oi
government in them. The witnefles
of the fufferers were permit be
intimidated by the populace, and
therebv prevented from giving pi o
per evidence : some were acqWfed,
though guilty 011 the clearclt evi
dence, and every partiality /hewn
the culprits. The pardon granted to
the rioter Hands, he-compared to that
granted some years ago, for iimilar
reasons, to rhe notorious Macqun k ;
and whenjulUce was fiifferecl to take
its coui fe, and verdicts found for the
fufferers, the damages allowed were
far from being fufficient. Viewing
matters in this light, and which he
hoped the hoofe would fee and feel
with him, he found himfelf obliged,
for the honor of the Church and State
of England, to attempt to explore and
redreia those grievances ; he there
fore would move, " That an humble
" address be presented to his majef
" ty, praying that he will order to
" be laid before the Houle, an ac
count of the information received
" by his ministers concerning the
l< conduct of the magistrates of \Var
" wick and Worcestershire, relative
" to the riots in Birmingham in J uly
" I 791, and what had been the con
« duct of his majelty's ministers in
" consequence thereof, &c."
The motion was seconded by Mr.
Grey.
Sir Robert La wlev said, that he
had received a requiiition, signed by
niany respectable persons among his
conllituents (ot Warwickshire) that
he Ihould, if the charatflers of the
Birmingham magistrates were at
tacked in (he couife of the debate
expecfted this evening', take an op
portunity of vindicating them, and
to express their grateful sense of the
proper conducft of those gentlemen
on the occasion alluded to. His own
opinion on the fubjetft was, that the
Hon. Gentleman was stirring up the
embers of a dying flame.
Mr. Secretary Dundas said, that
to the elaborate declamations of the
Hon. Gentleman, and to his garbled
statement of occurrences, he Ihould
oppose a plain narrative of fa<3s ;
and the Houle, he doubted not, would
come to a proper decifionon the fub
jert. Whatever might have been the
remote causes of the animosities in
queltion, he would not now consider ;
the effecfts were visible ; the operati
on of a mob he thought the word po
litical evil. The latter causes of dif
fention between the J)iflenters and
Church Party at Birmingham were,
he said, more of a political than of a
religious nature ; these had been ex
cited and favored by the perpetual
circulation of inflammatory and fedi
tious writings ; these had prejudiced
the minds of one party againll the o
ther ; and the immediate causes of
the flame breaking out, were, ill,the
notice of the intended celebration of
the French Revolution ; and, adly,
the appearance of the fcandalons and
inflammatory hand-bill. He then de
tailed the steps taken by gentlemen
in the business from the fir 11 account
received, to the execution of the cri
minals The fii ft accounts received
by government were on the Saturday
morning following the commence
ment of the riots, and instantly orders
were iflued from the Secretary of
State's and the War Office, for the
nearest troops to Birmingham to
inarch to that place. These were at
Nottingham, and so expeditioufly
were the orders conveyed and exe
cuted, that the troops were in Bir
mingham on the evening of the fame
day of which the accounts were fii ft
received. Soon after their arrival,
the tumults were quelled. Respect
ing the legal part of the tranfadtions,
Mr. Chamberiayne, Solicitor of the
Treasury, Mr. Justice Bond, and a
Barrister to afllft them, were immedi
ately sent to make the necefl'ary en
quiries j the result of which was,
that 13 persons appeared to them to
deserve to be rigorously and capitally
prosecuted, which they were ; five of
whom were sentenced to die, and of
which number one was pardoned, on
the mod politive proofs of perfect in
nocence. He concluded by exprefl
ing his hostility to the motion.
Mr. VVyndihm was of opinion,
that notwithfbanding what he had
heard, there was something dark and
mysterious in several parts of the bu
finefs, which seemed to caH for an
earnest enquiry.
Mr. Jenkinso'n, in a flioit speech,
defended the condudt of government
in the entire tranfadtion > bethought
they had a<fted with integrity and vi
gor.
After fonie further conterfation
the queltion was put, and the Koufe
divided—Ayes 46 —Noes 189.
fYlajority 143 againlt Mr. Whit
bread's motion. AdjoUruid.
The Proclamation offends—giofsly
offends alt thofi? seditious peifons,
who, with such industrious zfcsi are
endeavoring to sow the feed*- K)f dif
comenc in the minds of the people
and therefore it is natural they Ihould
express their disapprobation of it.
But those who love their country and
admire the conltitution under which
it has so long flourifhed, confiderthis
Proclamation at a mod heceffary inea
fure
| ( is called by the hirelings of the
editious party, " an unheard of fpe
•ies of Inquifitien," and it certainly
is to them an Inquisition that they
have a righc to dread—for neither
their words nor their adions can ho
neltly stand the left of enquiry.
Had Ministry ifl'ued an order that
was to operate contrary to law, there
might indeed be just reason to com
plain ; but whew the Proclamation
enjoins no morethan the conlHtution
warrants —the statutes ena&-—and
the peace of the public requires, he
tnuft be an incendiary whose views
are thwarted, that dares to find fault
with it.
Will any man pretend to fay, that
there are not a (et of people hired
for the purpose of biafling the minds
of the lower class of people, and put
them out of humor with our confti
tution, that they insinuate themselves
into ale-houi'es, taverns and debating
focieties,in order by pamphlets,hand
bills, or oral persuasives to lead the
minds of the populace from their loy
alty and obedience ? It therefore is
become the duty of Ministers to check
this spirit offedition in the beginning
—to nip the treason in its bud, and
bring all such daring incendiaries to
that punishment which the law—not
the proclamation, provided.—The
proclamation is but declaratory, of
rhe law, and the law is a legitimate
ofFspring of the Constitution.
Yesterday the gentleman who has
undertaken to raise the Royal George,
brought up one of the stern gallery
windows.
The Earl of Wycombe is shortly to
be married to Miss Hunt, of Seymour
place, with a fortune of 200,000!.
LITERARY CLUB
On Tuefdav lait this celebrated so
ciety ballotted for a Member to sup
ply the vacancy occasioned by the
death of their excellent founder, Sir
Jothua Reynolds. The following 12
members were present: His Grace
the Duke of Leeds, Earl Spencer, the
Lord Bishop of Peterborough, Lords
Macartney, Lucan, and Palmerflon,
Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Charles Bun
bury, Mr. Bofwell, Mr. Malone, Mr.
Burke, jun. and Dr. George Fordyce :
When the Right Rev. Father in God,
Dr. John Douglas, Lord Bilhop of
Chancellor of the molt no
ble Order of the Garter, proposed by
•he Right Hon. Charles James Fox
and Edmund Malone, Esq. was una
nimously eledted. Sutfh an acceflion
of talents and literature as this vene
rable Prelate brings to the Club, of
which Johnson said—" there is no
Tuch Club as ours," is a proud cir
cumtlance. The number is now com
plete, and it is hoped may long con
tinue so. Eflo ferpitita !
BASSETERRE, (St. Chris.) July 19
CAPTURE OF SERI\GAPATAM
A veflel bound from England to
Dominica, fell in with a Ihip dispatch
ed by Lord Cornwallis from the East-
Indies, with the glorious news of the
defeat of Tippoo, and the surrender
of his capital. The Capt- of the In
diaman hailed the above veflel, and
desired her commander to come on
board, which he did, and found there
Lord Cornwallis's Aid-de-Camp, who
wrotea short letter to '-<overnor Orde,
and enclosed him the Madras fjazette
with the particulars. A gentleman
whose veracity may be depended on,
has arrived here from Dominica :
4 V * "'A\
94
He saw the Gazette, which mentions,
" That Lord CorliWallis pushed on
the siege with the greatest vigor -
The alacrity of the army .in general,
and the alertnels with which the ap
proaches were carried on by Gen.
Meadows, was such, that uotwith
landing every inch of ground was
bravely ana vigorously defended by
Tippod| who commanded in person
levery post ofdanger, the enemy were
drove from all their out-works, and
the Sultan and garrison were confined
to the citadel, from whence he offer
ed to accede to any terms of peace
Lord Cornwallis might dictate Se
ringapatam surrendered by capitula
tion. Tippoo gave up half his do
minions, and upwards of three milli
ons of pounds Iterl.—The day-after
the treaty wa3 signed, the Sultan with
his two sons one of n years old and
the other 7, marched through the
British army, which was drawn up to
receive hi 111—he had a melancholy
but soldierly look—he went to Lord
Cornwallis, and delivering his two
sons to his Lordihip as hoitages for
the performance of the treaty, said,
he hoped his Lordihip would be a fa
ther to them. In the general orders
the day after tlie treaty, bis Lordihip,
after the usual thanks to the army,
mentions Tippoo's gallantry in de
fending his capital in very honorable
terms. —A day or two after tha sur
render of Seringapatam, Lord Corn
wallis vilited the two Indian Princes,
and presented one of them with an
elegant fufee, and the other with a
cafe of pistols, with which they seem
ed highly pleased.— Seringapatam,
with all the Mysore country, is to be
restored to Tippoo ; but all the ex
tensive and luxuriant country between
the Ghauts and the British fettlenients,
remain with the Euglifh—the Allies
are to have the provinces bordering
on their dominions. All the petty
Princes are restored to their former
rights."
PROVIDENCE, August 9
There were diltilled in this state,
from foreign and domeftie materials,
in three months, next preceding the
firft of July last, gallons of
Spirits :—The duties on the Spirits
delivered, from the several diitille
ries, daring that time, amount to
19,395 dollars 7 cents ai mills.
BOSTON, August 11
Extratt of a litter from the Commandant
oj the Islands of St. Peters and Mique
lon. to the Confut of France, in Bojlon,
dated the l\th of July, 1792.
" As we are absolutely in want of
frefh pi ovifions, 1 wilh you would be
so kind as to endeavor to persuade
the Americans to bring us live oxen,
(beep, poultry, See. They will surely
find a market for them, more el'peci
ally with the frigates which have the
calh.
" I cannot conceive what has pre
vented the Americans from bringing
us boards this year. They would
have fold them, for we are absolutely
in want of them."
If the information is well founded,
that a French squadron, bound to this
port, has been spoke with—we may
conclude that tranquility is complete
ly restored in the French islands.
The French fleers in the Well-In
dies, are ftatiuned for three years.—
The squadron expected here, has been
there two years. They of courl'e
need recruiting—and we {hall with
pleasure hail them welcome.
On the 12th of" Oiftober next, will
be completed three centuries since
the immortal Coi.umbds put foot on
the new world — already the light of
ihe old. It is the true asylum of the
Opprefled—the nurse of Genius—and
the school of Liberty.
WINCHESTER, August 13
A letter from Paris (in the new
French lettlement in the Weltern
Country) dated July 17, states, That
intelligence had been received at Fort
Jefferfon of the death of Major True
man, Mr. Freeman, Debachi and Jar
rat. That this information was bro't
by two prisoners, who were labouring
in a cornfield, and made their escape.
The one was taken prisoner at the
time General Harmar was defeated—
the other is William Duer, of Captain
Buchannan*s company of Levies.—
They further inform, that on the
25fh of Juue a party of Indians took
; eight men prisoners, «K-, »
S ha y near Fori fefftiln
when they had :r. a ,J <
some diltance from lhe Kon Pro
vided them—four were ol v,', J '
Chtppewas, and four to the
nefe: that the Shawaikfe b '
four unfortunately affia 4ed
that the Chippewas took theirs h!
to the intent of making
(hem ; that the Indians 01
ed for war, and will not tteat'"
will kill every w |,j te perfonth'a
tempts to go to them, either wj,,
Without a flag; that thpir pre ( '
plan is to cut off the efcons of p , c
fions dettined to the out-potts, and
that means oblige the troops ftati
ed there to forrenders and that !
this purpose they keep two spi es C(
Itanrly out.
ELIZA BETH-TOWN, Augaft ij.
The Stockholders of the Society hr
eftablilhing ufeful Manufactures, it
notified that an annua] Eletftioivfrr
Diredtors will be held at the Court.
House in Newark, oj) the firft Mo;».
day in Odtober next.
_ The Directors of faitl Society ha'
given notice, that they have mai •
choice of part of the counties of i
lex and Bergen for the principal ft
of their Factories, and for the towi
H»ip of Paterfon ; and that it appta
to the said Directors, conducive toil
interest of the said Society, if acwt
able to the inhabitants of the fjj
diftritft, that the said inhabitati
should become a body politicandcoi
porate.
NEW-HAVEN, August rj.
On Sunday the sth inlt. the farm,
house of John Burgifs, E<q. of Guil
ford, was robbed of a silver watch, b.'
two persons in disguise. There were
two young wonten in the houfe,whoo,
the robbers threatened with taking
their lives, if they did not (lifcovirto
them Mr. Burgifs's money—but ihev
refofed to give them any information;
and being attacked by a large dog,
the girls escaped- while the thieves
were defending fhemfelves aaintt
the faithful animal, and' Tor Tear of
being taken, they made a precipitate
flight, with the watch only. A negrc
fellow has been committed tagoal,
on suspicion of being one of the rob
bers. The above watch was ft?ler<
just 21 years before, from the feme
house, and on the fame day of the
week ; all the family then attending
public worlhip.
POUGHKEEPSIE, August ij.
William Wilfon,near ihe Stonyfort'
bridge, Wallkill, in Ulster county
having conceived a violent averlioi
to a young man in the neighbourhood;
an apprentice to a Mr. Agar, on ac
count of his paying his addrelies to
an only daughter of Wilson, o* In
day lalt, as the young man was leav
ing his house, having been lent there
on an errand by his matter, inolt in
humanly, according to a previous de
clared intention, lhot him inuaut y
[dead. Not contented with tli .s Jib
ing destroyed a fellow man, but ar
ther to satiate his ravage barbarity
with the butt end of the muftet cru
elly mutilated and brnifed the sac
of the corpse. The murderer ■ wa
immediately seized, and now in mg
ton gaol awaits his trial and tate
by which it is to be hoped the u ' or
will be delivered from so Icll a »
| Her.
On Tnefday tlie 7' I ' inftant '
iull, of Hamptonburgli, near Bloom
ng-Gro»e, having had fame an
less with his wife at break a.
peifting a familiarity fte ul*
urn to be guilty of with fon> e n*#
bouring woman, im,ne 'hiso*®
wiih a halter, put a period to luso#»
exigence in his orchard.
On the ;d in(l. the son of J««»
Anger, of Gofhen, was » nfof J. U " 3 j
killed l>y an horse running J ,
him, and dafliing his head ag
pott.
BENNINGTON, {VerO '
Tuesday night !aft, a { °}*V~„ tes re?,i» ?nt
companv of the third tni - ?wa? fu?"
now quartered in tiw M™' *"« impr
posed intoxicated 1 en'campw e,,, •,
t r anfgre(Ted the rule? of ot ,j e ad :> :
prelling on the sentry, anc « cornra de < : K>'"
lemn warning to ins rur¥lv f j' in ; t t „ i (ie
trespass on decorum, o ., nlr appe-te
nent of their fen,e< by >£ a*
•- ie exp.cnot reason.
i was 4 * accidental death*
4
>;
/ *.FROM THE BALTIMORE EVENING POST.
BRUTUS (a writer in Mr. Freneau's Nation*
Ga/.eiie) inquires, after comparing (he sup
porters of government to the hireling writers in tin
Englift* papers who are paid Jot their aoufe>" when,
«' arc we to look for the advantages which the
44 people have gained by the conilituiiou of the
« United States ? Is it, he asks, to the profpeous
4 » situation of our mechanics and manufacturers,
t* who on account of severe duties on fait, tea,
and other"neceiranes of life have been un
der the necefliry at raiting their work in oider
«« to support their families ? Is it the mercham
44 whole business is liable to be deranged, and-his
" calculations fruftrated by the opinion ot a fccre
" tary of the treaUrry ? Is it to our commerce
41 more than ever embai railed with vexatious rc
tl gulaiions ? Or i* it to the great body of yco
" manry prevented from felung the produce of
" their farms to foreigners, and having an exciL
" man planted in every quarter of the country,
" like in overseer on a Negro plantation, to pre
vent the firmer from making use of the produce
ti of his own labour." All the laws reipeCtingl
these subjeCts, it seems are exceedingly obnoxious
to the writers in the National Gazette, are abomina
bly bad, ought to be annihilated, and all who had
any concern in their enaction forever excluded font
Con*ref'; then as these genilerrien tell us aimoit in
every National Gazette, we Ihould under the new \
adminijl ration of affairs, enjoy a return of true re- i
publican days,the good days previons to the adop
tion of the conftiiution ; days and times which I
am persuaded, a vast majority ot the people of the
United States, most heartily deprecate. That the
la w for the encouragement of manufactures has de
fers ; that the law for regulating trade and lav
ing duties has defcCts ; that the law providing tor
the payment of the public debt has defeats ; that
the excise law has defeCts, will not be denied by
the warmest advocate for the government : but
can it be doubted that when these defcCls come to
be known, experienced and pointed out, they
will not be remedied. Why do not these reform
ers, who have never yet, through the organ of the
National Gazette, found occasion to praifea Jingle
wteafure of government, why do they not go to work
like honorable men and point out their defcCts.
Why instead of laying their finger upon them one !
by one, and suggesting fome'.hing better in their
stead do they deal always in general declamation
and indijeriminate censure, a mode of writing which
ha* never yet either injlruaed or enlightened man
kind ; a mode of writing which eifeCtually dif
fualifies from judging, and yet Brutus and his
party, requires that the people should pas's sentence.
But what is the veal filuation of things, for that is
a tefl within the knowledge and comprehtnfion of
mechanics, manufacturers, farmetsand merchants,
all of whom it seems are called upon to unite un
der the banners of Br utu s, to pull to pieces the
government and the laws. Are our artizans and
manufacturers, as Brutus implicates declining in
their business and ? No. We alien
that they never were in this country in a more
thriving or growing condition, or at any former
period could they contemplate such promising
prof ie£ls for themselves and posterity. If the ca
lamities in the Weft-Indies have raised the pricc
°ffugar that is not to be a fori bed *o government,
and if they pay a little dearer than formerly for
some other articles, that is more than overbalan
ced by a greater plenty of money, introduced by
the operations of government, by the duties it has
laid ojn imported articles of their refpeCtivc trades,
and the spring which it has given to every effort ot
industry. Ought any order of citizens to enjoy
advantages and not contribute to the support ol
government ? Is trade iujuted, or have the laws
of trade or revenue contracted or abridged it ? as
Brutus further implicates. DireCtly the reverse.
The laws of trade, and for the collection of the re
venue, which includes the banks, have extended,
invigorated and improved evcrv thing refpe&ing,
and dependant on navigation. Witness the amount
of our exports; witness the amount of the tonnage oj
American vejfels employed in our coalting and fo
reign trade,which (hews inconteftibly the irtmenfe
fupcriorit vof the present over the pafl. Bur, con
tinues. B'r utus, the regulations of commerce pre
vents the fanner from felling his produce to fo
reigners ; that is, Congress having laid a higher
tonnage on foreign than American vessels, procures
thereby for the latter a preference in the way of
freight. Tf this be a crime in government, to prefer
our own vejfels* who except such as Brutus would
wish to lee it punijhed. Why is it forgotten by
Brutus, that a great pail cf the wealth of the
Dutch, that much of the wealth of the Eng'.ilh has
been accumulated by freights ; and that the envy!
of the Englifti at feeing the Dutch enjoy almost
exclusively this profitable branch of commerce, pro
duced the celebrated navigation ad, under which
our vefTels groan in England, and for which oui
extra tonnage on their vefTels forms no equivalent
reftriCtion. According to Brut us also, the ex
cise prevents the farmer from making ule of his
own labour. Alk the manufacturers of stills,
whether that branch of business has diminished <j
they will tell us that it has increased since the ex
cise law; a sure and certain proof that its opera
tion has opened to the farmer a more extensive de
mand for the produce of his labour. From these
distinCt and independent faCts, it is evident that
general and individual wealth has greatly increased ;
it is evident also, that the augmentation of money,
the facilities to trade, the uniformity of regulati
ons, pervadingthe United States, and ihe eftabliih
ment of manufactures, ail proceeding from the go
vernment, have raised the United States from a
chaos of contradictory laws and regulations, from
a bankruptcy of credit and character, io-a ft*t>on
which her enemns behold with envy, and hit
friends with admiration, and yet Brutus alks.
where are we to look for the advantages gained by
its adoption. Let us pity such men, wlio amidil
such feenr&xan liA_d.i£fu»«*ei»*rtJ.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
REPRESENTATIVES in CONGRESS.
r T" , HE importance »( a repfefentative govern
meni tothe pAfervation of the rights and
privilege of the people, is idea deeply i m .
prrflVd no the mind of every lioneft intelligent
eitizen qf the United Slates.
This however, is nothing n.ore than a general
pr.nciplc, which in its application may, or may
not Complcat!v answer the expeditions of the peo
ple. On a jutt and deliberate fxercife ot the dut)
which devolves on the voters, depends the wifd*n>
and lnccefs ot future arrangements for the public
ood.—li is not a nicer opinion, that the belt and
•vifeft inititulious are liaolc to abufc—faCts and
xpenence concur to prove that want of capacity
and honelty in thole who arc deputed to tjanfatf
anylpufmefs, public or pnvjtc, will almost inva
riably produce if not mifchiet, in
the end. It is too oilen verified to ef,aue obser
vation, that men a-e ceded to public offices,
whom prudent persons would not emrult w»tfi
the management of their individual concerns—for ,
proof ot this, ler us turn our .attention to
country from. whence the principal part of cur
civil and political inilitutions are derived.-— S'Jy,
do we tneic btl.old men of principle, men of pro
bity and real integrity, difluiguifhed by she
frages of the people ?—Do we there fee m*n of
independent characters and situations, biouglu
I forward, and made the guardians of the public m
teteft ?—True it is> their rcprelentation is grossly
defective; but by far the majority is chosen by
the votes of free eleCtors. Are those immediately
and freely chosen by the people, eleCted for their
wisdom and virtue ?— Let faCts determine.—lt is
a general opinion in. that country, that every man
has his price. Men of extravagance, gamblers,
fpendthrifts and debauchees, are generally necefii
tou>-*— the price of such characters is in propor
tion their circumltances—and so it ever will be
in all countries. If the people will-not be just to '
themselves in their choice ot representatives,they
cannot cxpeCt that their reprefentatires will be
faithful to their infercfts. 44 A good tree will not
bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree
bring forth good fruit." Let every eleCtor there
fore commune with his own heart when about to
give his fuffrage—let him ferioully enquire whe
ther he would entrult the characters that may be
proposed to his cheice, with the management of
any private business of importance? If he would
not, Jet him withhold his vote from such charac
ters. The want of honest principles is an open-,
door, thro' which every species of fraud and mil
managetnent will enter. It is possible to find a
fufficient number of honest and capable men in,
every community, to appoint as the organs of the
nation—and when that is the cafe, and elcCtions
are free, the people themselves are to blame for
the nufchief consequent on giving thejr fufFrages
to persons of no reputation in private life.
Philadelphia, Aug. 22.
' Capt. Boys of the Ship Perseverance, arrived
here on Sunday afternoon from Havre-deGrace,
which place he left on the 19th June, and brings,
intelligence, which corroborates in part the re
port of the success of Gen. Fayette's army;
and it not fully confirmed by the accounts now
rece!ved, they prove it to have been not with
out foundation, as will appear from the follow
ing extradl of a letter from an American house,
in Havre to their correspondent in this city.
" With refpeft to o,ur markets, but little al
terations have taken place since our last; but
our exchanges with all foreignplaccs have taken
considerable favour—that on London has risen
from id to 19, and js ftjll on the rife.
" News is just received [the letter is dated
the I 7th] in town by private letters, and by this
day's paper, that on the I2th inft. a general en
gagement took place between the Auftrians and
the French army under General la Fayette, in
which the Auftrians were beaten, with a loss of
two thousand men left on the field of battle, be-,
fides some prisoners taken by the French with
eighteen pieces of cannou."
The engagement happened near Namur, near
which place the enemy were in great force, as a
falle march towards it was made to mislead
them. ,
There has been another change in the French'
Miniliry—The Miniflers of War, contributions
and ot t;ie interior departments, were displaced.
M. Dumouner, late Minister of Foreign Aifairs,
has been placed at the head of the War Depart
ment; M. Jaiilac is made Minister of Forejgn
Affairs, and M. Mauld'e is placed at the head of
the interior.
M. Gouvion was killed in a Ikirmifli by a re
bounding cannon ball.
Tfie Princc of Liege is dead.
M. Cuftiucs replaces M. Rocliambeau.
The Pclilh army effectually opposed ati at
tempt of the Ruffians to crols the Dniester.—
The latter were obliged to turn back to their
encampment.
The inhabitants of Porentrui have lhewn a
design to allert their independence.
A Indian chief of the Onondago tribe,was in
humanly muidered near the Ofwego Falls, the
27th July last—One Jacob Valentine is charged
with the crime-—and he having absconded,» ttie
Governor of the State of New-York offers 520
dollars reward for apprehending him.
The Directors of the weltern inland lock-na
vigation in the Sate of New-York, having form
ed a board, and chosen Gen. Schuyier,Prekdent,
the work is to be commenced immediately.
A canal has been proposed, down the waters'
of the Brandywine in the State of Delaware—
Coinmiflioners were appointed by the govern-i
;nent to view the grotnd through which the ca- 1
nal should pass- a committee wai latelv choieni
by a large nu'in er of the inhabitant-, met at
Ciiefter, to attend the Commillioners on this
business.
A report is in circulation, that Air. Few de
clines a re-election as a Senator of the Unitjd
States lor the State of Georgia, and that Gen.
Jackson is talked of as Sis fuctelTor.
The Boston papery inform, that great appre
hensions were lately entertained by the inhabi-i
tants of the spreading of Small Pox in t. at
town—This bulinefs is much better managed
in New-York and Philadelphia—a licence to in
noculate when it is most convenient and ad
visable, is generally improved spring and au
tumn, and ierves, experience teftifies, to ar«
nihilate any alarms on account of that dilbrder,
detrimental to the trade, bufinels or supplies of
thole cities.
N0..1.
95
From the various circumstances which are
jlated a.» attendant on the death of Elizabeth
ieevesjwe believe that the following pajticyjfti-,
tffpecling that atrocious murder, aiaybejrSed
m as fatfts.
Mils Reeves had on Wedncfday evening been
□n a short visit to a relation in Coombs's Alley,
which Hie left about eight o'clock, to go home,
alone, and without any thing uncommon having
«>ccurred : from that time Hie was not seen ©j
heard of until early on Thursday morning, when
her body was discovered lying on the mud with
the face down, in the dock near Warder's wharf.
On examining, it was found that the most bru
tal violence had been committed on her person,
and a large wound on the left fide of her mouth,
'and bruises on other parts, that ./lie mult
have fuffered much from the molt fharneful
abuse ; leveral of her teeth were loose. —It ap
peared, from marks of her feet in the mud, that
ihe had moved several steps from the place where
(he was firft thrown, where her comb and a rib
band were found.
Nothing has yet appeared to detect the vil
lainous perpetrators of this infernal deed, but a
bor declared that he saw two men in a batteau
very early in the morning at the particularfpot
where the body was found, who made off upon
his- approach, and went on board afliallop down
the river.
Miss Reeves was about 17 years old, and ap
prenticed to amantua-maker; and when it is
considered that Ihe bore a very good character,
and was remarkable for her amiable deport
,men't and pleaiing manners, the loss to society
I must be the greater, and excite in the brealts of
(every friend to humanity a detcftation of the
diabolical actor of this horrid tragedy.
Her remains were decently interred on Fri
day afternoon, in St. Peter's Church-yard, at
tended by a great concourse of people of both
sexes, lamenting the unhappy and untimely
'detfth of this victim to the barbarity of thole
[ whose pride it fhouldliave been to afford protec
tion to unguarded Innocence.
AljiraH oj European intelligence, received by the UJI
arrivalt.
Some of the citizens ofParis oil the 12th June
appeared at the bar of the National Alterably,
and denounced (accused) tlie ftafF officers of the
Parisian National Guard—mofe corrupt, said
they, than the Kings' Guard, they are more
dangerous—they alked that they might be dif
banded—referred to the committees united.
June 13, A letter from M. Servan, minister
of war, informed the AlfemMy that the King
liad difmilTed him—ha hoped he ftiould not on
this account lose the eftiem of the Alfembly—
and allied permiflion to go agaijift the enemies
of tfie country.
This difmilTion was not well received by the
Assembly—M. Duffiiult, a member, pronounced
an eulogiutn on M. Servan—and a decree was
finally pal Ted in which it is declared that the
loss of this minister is regretted by the Nation.
r A letter from the King informed the Aifem
bly that the MiniP-er of War, of the interior,
["iijd of contributions were difuiifled—and of the
appointment of their fuccelTors—fome murmurs
followed the reading this letter. The decree
of the Aflembly i;i favor of M. Servan, was ex
tended to Meifrs. La Platiere and La Claviere.
M. Dumourier, the new Minister of War en
tered the AlTembly and was received with mur
murs, or rather faint hiftes.
| M. Dumourier informed the AlTembly that
the provisions lent to the army were infufficient,
the army incomplete, the cities unfortified, and
the kingdom unprotected.
M. Charnot denied the unfavorable account
given by the Minister.
•The emiffioii of affignats was carried to
1800,000,000.
June 11. There was a considerable fKirmifti
between the vanguard of M. la Fayettes' army,
and a part of the Auitrian army—it appears
the latter gained forae advantage in the begin
ning of the aflion—but M. la Fayette coming
up with a reinforcement, he retook all the
ground loft, and the enemy retired—the French
followed them upwards of a league—every Ra
tion was retaken, and the French army dis
played on a heigth to offer battle ; but the de
liga of the Auftrians appears to have been on
ly to surprise and cut oft'the vanguard of the
F1 ench—not having succeeded, they retired
Of the French the Lieut. Colonels of the volun
teers ot Cote d'Or, and M. Gouvion, were kil
led.—The Auftrians carried oft" part of their
dead, and left a considerable number on the
fieid.
The above. appears to be the business, on
which theltory i; founded of M.laFayettes' tak
ing Naraur, and killing 2 or 3300 Auftrians.
Accounts from Valenciennes of June 8, fay,
that the whole French army is. in motion to in
vert Lisle. Mystery governs the plans, exact
ness ai d zeal in the execution. Abundance
reigns, and every precaution is taken for its
continuance.—The Prince Biftiop of Liege be
ing dead, intrigues are on foot to make the
[choice erf his fucceflor fall on a Prince of the
House of Austria.—Certain feudal opprcfiions
have been recently lupprefted in the kingdom of
Naples—The Helvetic Body assembled in a
diet pn trie 13th May, have unanimously refolv
ted to ob.erve the ftrifceft neutrality On a re
view "f tlie state of affairs in France, it appears
! thit the ardor of the people in the caule of li
berty, is in full vigor. At the fame time it ap
pear; to be extraordinary that another charge
fh mld take place in the Ministry, and tliatfome
of the moll decided patriots Ihould be difmiiied.
Time will explain all.
The Ruffian shave entered the Polish Ukraine,
but have Been beaten in all the ikirmiflies which
have hitherto taken place. The Kingjo£ Po
land is to command the army i* jerfon
Articles iwrier.iljs-i'aris head of the 7th June
a*, that-the utmost tranquility reigns in that
city—that the public funds have ril'en—that the
riench armies remain inadive, the Ministers
behg determined to equip them formidably be
fore thev commence an attack.—M. de Cu'ftine
has been naused to succeed Marih*l Luckner a:
Commasdsr in Chief of the army on the Rhine;
con fide rable failures have happened in Paris
artd other parts of France, alio in Bremen and
Hamburgh—these have proceeded from too
deep speculations in the funds. A proclamation
against leditious writings ha", been ifiucu in
Ireland. A peace is concluded between the
Doge of Venice and the Bey of Tunis.
Considerable riots have taken place at Edin
burgh, in conleqnence of the Magistrates' in
terpoiing to prevent the populace from burning
Mr. Dui.das in effigy. The military were called
on, and one man killed—the tumult was at
length fupprefl'ed.—Letters of congratulation
have been received in Paris, from the Prelude nt
of State*;, on the acceptance of the
new Conltitution of France by the French King.
Mr. Morris has had his audience of the King of
tue French, and delivered his credentials as Mi
nister Plenipotentiary from the United States
of America.
The farmers of the United States are cau
tioned, in the Maryland Journal, to be on their
guard againift the practice of a cer tain let of
men, who in order to affect the price of country
produce, especially wheat, publilh fabricated
extracts of letters from various parts of Eu
rope, setting forth that the markets in that
country are overstocked, yea glutted with
wheat in such manner that there will be no sale
for 12 months to come. The farmers are ad
vised to have patience and wait till time tells
the truth.
Europeans who admire the splendor and pros
perity of our new government, would be ar:az
ed to hear that there is a disciplined junto train
ed to abuse and bring it into abhorrence. The
French, who are pafllonate admirers of our free
constitution, would be the least amazed, becauie
they have such enemies of order and their con
stitution among themselves. But, at leait, they
understand the views of these men, and are on
their guard again ft them. It is time for Ame
ricans to stand on their defence against the ene
mies of their peace.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED *t the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Bug Heflor, Baker, Cu-ocoa
John, fiurnham, ditto
Schooner Industry, Stiles, Aux»Cayes
John, Love, Jamaica
Sloop Jesuit, Lament, Havanna
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 22if
3 per Cents, 1 tfg
Deterred,
full shares Bank. U. S. 50 per cent,prcm.
£ lhares, 61
Several Favors omitted, Jha/l be attended to
in the next Gazette.
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to tlifpofeol a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Brunfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unexpe&edly returned to the Rettor,
Church-Wardcns and Veftiy-min. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity oi further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of October next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the parts of the state where they
ate applied for, and lecrive the returns As there
are but lew tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lottety, or to take a chance
for the pi izes therein, are requeued to supply them
selves by the firft of O&obcr ; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
thole to the Managers which then remain unfold*
to anlwer the applications of some gentlemen in
the neighborhood, who arepoltponed to this re
foutce for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of Ottobcr, will be conhdered as
at the risk of the holders.
N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of Ncw-Brunf.
wick, is duly ehofen one of the Manager! of the
said Lottrty, and has given (Kurity and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
Treasury Department,
August, 20th, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofah will
be received at the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury until the fourth day of O&obcr next
inclusively, (or the supply of the following articles
of Clothing for the Troop* in the fcrvice of
the United States viz.
FOR thk INFANTRY AND ARTILLERY.
4608 Hata 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 7956 Pair of Socks
4608 Vcfls 4608 Blanket®
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608 Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pan* of Buckles
FOR thi CAVALRY.
360 Caps Pair of Stockings
Coats '44° Shirts
360 Veils 360 Blanket!
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Siork Clasps; also,
720 Pair of Boots laoo Rifle Shirts, to be
360 Pair of Spurs (made ol Ruflia Sheeting.
The ahore Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of"tlu*contractor or contractors, on or before
the day of June, 1793.
The piopofals may eomprife the whole of the
before-rntntioned Clothing, or any one or more
of the component articles ;to be furnifhrd agreea
bly to patterns or fpecuneus, which will be fht wn
at the War Office. Good fecunty will be requir
ed for the pun&ual and faithful performance of
the contract. The payment will be on the delive
ry of the Clothing, or, if. neceflary, such reasona
ble advances will be made a:> the Secretary of the
Trcafury Ihall deem expedient.Bank of the Unite dStates;
RESOLVED, < I
THAT an Office of Difeount and Depoltt, l>r
established in the Cityof Richmond, Staieo,
Virginia.
RESOLVED,
That the 2d Tucfday in September next be ap
pointed for the Eleaion of Thirteen D«re£tors 9™
a Cafbier, for the Office of Discount and DepoGt,
in the City of Richmond.
Bv Otder of the President and Direaors,
JOHN KKAN. Calbter.
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE to No. 128 north
Second-Street, who ehe continue»to purchafe
and fell on Commitfion, Certificates of debt ot the
United} and Individual States, Bank Stock, Canal,
and Turnpike Shares, &c. See.
(J3" Subfcriberstothe Universal Tontine who
have not vet received their Certificates are delired
to call for them
July 18.
TO BE SOLD,
(And pnfftflion given immediately) |
A Valuable FARM, |
PLEASANTLY situated, and well improved,
containing 213 acres, whereof 47 are wood
land, 30 meadow, and 20 more may be made ; the
cleared land is under good fence, and is well
adapted to urafs, and there being so much meadow,
a large (lock may be raised : it is also natural to
wheat, and a proper attention toa well-kept (lock,
will much improve its quality, and be the moll
profitable: it has a young orchard ot »00 apple
trees, a variety of peach and cheriy trees, and a
large garden. Theiearron the premises a hand
some two story ftonc* lioufe and kitchen, an
elegant piaxza ; also, a good barn, with stabling,
cow-house, granary, waggon-house, work-shop,
and fmoak-houfe. The situation is high, pleasant,
and he'althv, and affords some very agreeable pro
fpefts, and is'in a good neighbourhood : it lies on
the main road t6 New-York, about a mile and a
half from Princeton, New-Jersey, and 43 from
this city. The title was examined and approved
by eminent council before thefubferiber purchased.
Tor further particulars apply to the fubferiber, at
No. South Second-street, or at No. 81, South
Wattr-ftraet, Philadelphia.
ISAAC SNOWDEN.Jun.
N. B. Stock for the farm may be had of the pre
sent tenant.
Also, to be Sold, and entered immediately,
A two-story Br;ck HOUSE and BAKE-HOUSE,
in Arch-street, No. 23, 16 feet two inches in front,
and 102 feet in depth. Apply as above,
julv 17.
/ George-Town. ~\
■ A Number of LO IS in every situation which
may beVefired in City of
will be offered for falc by the Commiflloners, on!
Monday the Bth day of October next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, t he icfidue in
three equal annual payments, wiih yearly interest
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'GANTT, Cterk
to the Commifiioners.
\ June 2, 1792
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
June 28. 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Testament ol
the late Rc-v. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
the vith of October next,at Georgetown,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear interest from
the date—That valuable Seat of Land, in Montgo*
mery county, called Mayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acre*, the greatefl part of which
is rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity cf fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 mile*
from the Federal City,and the fame dift nee from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
rematkable healthy pan of the country.
Thr improvements are, a very elegant two (lory
Brick D .veiling House, (with four rooms and a
paflage, or entry, on a floor) and the necefTary out
houses. HENRY TOWNSEND,)
BENJ. STODDERT, } Executors.
(eptO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY OF COLUMBIA.
JULY 6, 1792.
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Rock Creek, deemed by ihofe who have ex
min«d it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
from the Prcfident's fquaie, in the city of Wash
ington—on tide water, navigable for vessels of se
veral hundred bushels burthen.—The stream is
fufficient,the year round,to turn four pair ol stones,
and the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is urmectfTary to dwell on the advantages of such
a situation.
The purchaser may be accommodated with a
few hundred acrcs of land adjoining the Mill-Scat,
if that should he an objett.
> e P3 m t 4.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD (pRICE lC>/.)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Sfcond-Sneet,
THE
HISTORY
O F
New-Hampshire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a geographical dcfcription of the
State —with {ketches of its natural history, pro
ductions, imorovements, and present state of fo
eiety and manners, laws and government.
By Jeremy Belknap, A.M.
This volume compleats the hittory, and is
peculiarly interesting. Subscribers arc delired
(o call for their books.
Treasury Department,
August 10, 1792.
\bTOTICE is herebv given, that proposals will
IM be icceived at the office of the Secretary o
the Treasury, until the twenty-ninth day ot Sep
tember next incluftve, sot the supply of all Rations
which may be required for the ufc of the United
States, from the firtt day ot January to the thm\-
firft day of December, 1793, both days melufivr,
at the places, and within the diftntts heieatter
mentioned, viz.
July 10, 179 2 -
1. Atany place or places betwixtYnk-Town &
Carlifle,inthe state o( Pennsylvania.and Pufburgh,
and at Pitdburgh, Yoi k-Town and CarltfU.
2. At any place or places front Piufhurgh to the
mouth of Big Beaycr Creek, and at the mouth of
Big Beaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth to
the upper talis ol the (aid Big Beaver, and at the
uppei falls.
4. At anv place or places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any plare or places from the said Mahoning
ove' to the Head Navigation of ihe Riv«r Caya
hoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head Na
vigation to the mouth of the said Rivet Ciyahoga,
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt th§ mouth of
the Big Beaver Creek, to the mouth of ihe River
Mufkingum, and up the said River to the Tufca
rowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thence over to
the Cayahoga River, and thence down the said
River to its mouth.
fep.tf;
8. At anyplace or places betwixt the mouth of
the River Mufkingum and the mouth of the Scioto
River, and at the mouth of \he said River Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth of
Scioto River and the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the mouth of the Great Miami, and from thence
to the Rapids or the Falls of the Ohio, and at the
said Rapids.
io. At any placc or placcs bftwixt the mouth o«
the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and at
Ptque Town.
u. At any placc or placcs from Fort. Washington
to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton. At any
olace or placcs from Fort Hamilton to tort St
| Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
X 2. At any place or placts from Fort St. Clair to
Fort Jefferfon, and at Fort J fiVifon.
13. At any placc or places from Fort Jefferfon to
the tield of a6l ion of the 4th of November, 1791,
and at the said field of action.
14- At any place or places from the said field of
action to the Miami Villages, and at the Miami
Villages.
ij. At any place or places from the said Miami
Villages to the Falls of the Miami Rivtr, which
empties into Lake Eiie, and at the said Falls, and
from thence to its mouth, and at its mouth.
16. At anv place or places from the mouth of the
said Miami River of Lake Erie toSanduiky Lake,
and at Sandufkv Lake.
(rntf]
17. At any place or places from \he faidSanoulkv
Lake 10 the mouth ol the River Cavahoga.
18. At anv place or places Irom the mciuth of the
fatd Rivci Cayahoga to Prefquc Isle, and at Prcfque
inc.
19. At any place orplaces from Prefque Ifleiothc
'ftr. rn running into L ike Kiit from towards the
J,idaghque Lake, and ihence over to and at the
iatd Jadaghque Lake, and thence down the Alleg-
to Fort Franklin.
go. At any place or places fromPrelquelfle loLe
Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to Fort
F»ankl n,and at Fort Franklin, and Irotn thence
to Pitifburgh.
22. At any place or places from the Rapids of the
Ohio to the mouth of the W.ibaQi River, and f rom
the mouth of the said Wabalh River to the mouth
of the River Ohio.
r-n
23. At anv place or places on the Eafl fide of the
River Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
River, to the mouth of the Illionois River.
24. At any place or places on the E«ift fide of the
Mirtiilippi, between the mouth of the Ohio and
the River Margot inclusively.
25. At any place or places from the said River
Mai got to the River Yaious inclusively.
26. At any place or places from the mouth of the
laid Wabafh River up to Foil Knox, and at Fo<t
Knox.
27. At ,any place or places from Fort Knox, up
the said Wabafh, to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon
28. At any place or places from Ouittanon, up the
said Wabafh, to the h ad navigation of a branch
,thereof called Little River, and at the said head
navigation of Little River.
29. At any place or places from the said head na
vigation of Little River over to the Miami Village.
30. At anv place or places from the mouth ol the
River Teneflee to Occochappo or Bear Creek, on
j the said River, inclusively.
31. At any place or places from the mouth of the
River Cumberland to Nalhville, on the said River,
and at Nalhville.
And at any place or places within thirty miles
of said Nashville to the Southward, Westward or
Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places, or
within other diftn&s, not Ipecified in these pro
posals, the price of the fame to be hereafter agreed
on betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to consist of the
Following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of pork,
Hal! a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait, }
Twrt quarts of vinegar. (
Two pounds of (cap, >P" 100 ra,,ons :
I One pound of candles, )
B. STODDERT.
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there shall at all times, during tbe said
term, be fufficient for the consumption of jhe
troops at each of the said pods, for the space of at
lead three mon hs in advance, in good and whole
some provisions. \i the fame shall be required.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all loffos
Juftained by the depredations of the enemy, or hv
troops of the United States, thai I be
paid lor at the puces of rhe articles captured or de
stroyed, on the depositions of two or more credita
ble characters, and the certificate of a com mi (limn
ed officer, afct rtainin? the circumstances of me
I loss, and thr amount of the articles for which cofn
penfation is claimed.
The contra# for the above supplies will be male
icither for one year, or for two years, as may appear
96
eligible. Persons difpofeil to contra£l will thcre
iorc confine their offeis to one year, or they may
j make their proportions so as to admit an cltttiou,
| of the term of two years.
I The offers may comprifi? all the places which
r »vf Ween fpecified, or a part of them only.
I- War Department,
August 6, 179?.
INFORMATION is hereby given to ail the
Military Invalids of the United Statts, tha
•, ne fumsto which they arc intuled for fix mom hi
ol their annual penlion, from the 41 h day of Match
WQ2,and which will become due on the sth day
[-)• September 179 a, will be paid on the laid day
Iby the Commiilioners of the Loans within tht
States refpe&ively, under the usual regulations, viz.
Every application lor payment mutt be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
tft. Trie certificate given by the ftate,fpecifying
that the person poffefling the fame is in tact an in
valid, and afccitaining the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled
id. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
orm :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticcs of the
county oj in the slate of and made oath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjejfion was given, of which the following
a copy [the certificate given by the Jlate to be recited)
That he fervei (regiment, corps or vefelj at
the time he was difahled, and that he now rejides v
the and county of and has refiden
therefor the hfl years, previous to which he re
[lied in
, In cafe an invalid fbouM apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certifi
cate and oath before recited, must produce a foe
cial letter fcf attorney agreeably to the following
I form : .
I. A. B. of county of slate of do
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. of my larvjul.
attorney, to receive in my behalf oj my pen fori
for fx months, as an invalid oj the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-two, and ending the fijtk day oj
September, one thoujandfeven hundred *nd ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiftratoTs
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of their
rcfpeflive offices, and also of the time the invalids
died, whose pension they may claim.
By command ot the
President of the United State*,
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeftive States are
requested to publish the above in their newfpa
oers, for the space of two months.
Stock Brokers Office,
N0.45, Grc-n DocK-street, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offci
ins fcrvices to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc to fa
vor him with their business, may depend upon
! hiving it tranfa&ed with ihc utmost fidelity and
j rlifpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
oart of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKF.R.
(1.1.)
May 2
American Lead Manufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE juil now opened their Lead-Ware
housEj two doors south ofWalnut-ftreet
Wharf,adjoiningtheir New Fa&ory—where they
have now made, and ready for sale, a general
aiTortment of SHOT of all fizes,with SH EET and
BAR LEAD, the production of the Mir.es in
Virginia. As thev have employed a number of
experienced Englifti workmen, they warrant it
to be equal in quality to any manufa£lured in
Europe, and at a reduced pTice from the cost ot
i m ported.
They also continue to manufatture all the above
articles at Richmond, in Virginia. All order*
addrefled to either of the above Factories, will
he thankfully received,and executed on the ftiort
eft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouriri;
Men, at the said Mines, where constant emoloy
good wages, and other encouragements will b
given, means of conveyance being provided, anr:
houses for their reception.
For fart fyer particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosfi
Au.st in & Co. at their Fa&ory in Richmond, 01
as above.
Philadelphia, December 1791
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSO N & SOUCHONG,
Of» he very fii i> quality, and lateil importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail, at
Th?rd, between anH Street
To be publijhed by Sn'jcrtplron,
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR. rROCIfniNCS OF THI
Old ,
From September 1774. to March 1789 ;—
An anth ntic and original of
OFFICIAL LETTERS, &c.
written during the. late war;
And e x t r a crs from the
SECRET JOURNALS.
( For particulars, Jce Fropofals at large.)
Subscriptions are received by the principal
Booksellers, and by the Editor,
JOHN CARRY, No. 26, Pear-Street, Phihdelbkia.
WANTED—TO RENT,
A convenient House, in or near the centre oj
the City.—Enquire of Ike Editor*
Witnejfgs,
No. 19,
BOOK S,
PRINTED AND SOLD SY
M A T H E VV CAREv
Allß, Mdrkct-Strut, FkiladdMia '
1. AMK RICA N MUSEU.VI,11 oni 1
/ i. ment in January 1781, to J„ nc ,. *
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and l'„ ' ?
feventetn dollars and three filths.
This work, which is now condufttd en in ,m
prov d plan, containing the hell picces put,Mb,,."
tor and against the proceeding* o( govern*,,,
will betound to contiin at !<•«« „ , <riu '
of political, agr.cultural.and lmftellaneous itr,iu
as any ever publilhed in America, Perhaps,,,
one work are so many viluabledocunvntsictpra.
mg the hiftoty of th: t, country, tollcftcd together.
His Excellency the Piefidenl ol the United Stitci
has declared of it, that " a mote ul .ul literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more delervirg of public encouragemiru/*
The fnbfcription is two dollars and a half p tr
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wilh to
be fnpplied with this work, are requetted to
-omtniflion to friends in the ciiy to lubferibe tor
and receive if Any of the back Lumbers
may be had in orner to complete fels.
2. Smith's Letters to Marrird Women,on Xiirf
ng and the management ot Children.
" We recommend these letters 10 the prrufilol
ihofe to whom they are partirularly additlTed."
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. tot—Price, bound,
62 cents.
3 Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s ccnts.
4. Beauties of Fielding—so ccnts.
5. Beauties of lilair—so c: ins.
6. Ladies' Pocket Lr rary, containing Mifi
More's EfTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Prnntnv.
on's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
swift's Letter to a newly married Lad\,Mis.Ciia
uone on command ot Temper, Mort's. Fables for
he Ladies, Price 6/5.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Pi ice a dol
lar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamesßeat-
tie, L.L D. profeffor of moral ph:l>fophy and
logic in the Marifciial College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. 01 this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: "We
have seen nothing on these fubjc&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or moregentially ufeiul."
N T . B. It is introduced into the Univerfityin Phi
ladelphia.
g. Beauties of Poeiry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
io. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
si. Ncker's Treat ife on the imporonce of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fitihsol a dollar.
12. Examination of the Obfcrvations 01 Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the several Unifed State:,
with the Federal Cinliitution, &c. Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingal. Price three-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jcft Book. Price three-fifthsof
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Snot. Price half a delWr.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulga.e Ui
blc, in quarto—Price, elegantly bound and letter
ed, <10/2 —plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Chrillian's Vade Meciin—Fnce»
quarter dollar.
to. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar.
20. Chriflian Economy. Price a filth of a dollar.
2t. History of Charles Grand ifon, abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar. ,
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys— Price a 1 111
of a dollar. 0
23.* Select Poems, /chiefly American—Pncea
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large affortnieiU of
Books, European as well as American e iu< »
which he will difpnle of on the raoft .eafcwbe
terms. Country gentlemen, who tavor him .
commands, may depend upon heing upp'•
the moll fatisfactory manner. A liberal
to such as purchase quantities tor pobltc libra" ,
or to (ell ap;ain. ~
proposals,
By ISAAC N EAL E,
rOK PUBLISHING Bi HIIIC'" ntt '
(The tmth edition of)
The Travels of Cyrus:
TO WHICH IS
A DISCOURSE upon the JHtVLLy
MYTHOLOGY of ihc eA^f NS
BY THE CHEVALIER RAMSAY.
T-HE Travels of Cyrus having gon, through
1 manv editions ■"
might be said to recommend fovalu
„ rendered useless ; and as * ''Xt Uuli
entirely out of print, the p" r! fpcftiblt
will be little difficulty in P rOCU "" s F P , 0 ,.
Itßof (iibfcribersto.an Amu '"' Edl
CONDITION.
This work will be publUW
umo. on good demy paper, and a neat )r
will contain about 350 pages. p ol iA«<
The price to fubfe. ibers wil lb0"» hlch
,0 be paid on the dehverv of the book,
will be neatlv bound and letters . ncl[)
The work shall be put." P-c
provided there mall be 250 " procu ri«f Tub-
Any petfon fiiofcrlbing or, or^
fcribrrs tor twelve books, ,
for the payment, (ball be enti pie |ucd »
The names of fubfertber. «■»« * P re
the work. . , , of l ke
Subscriptions received
.fiookMlers in Philadelphia and . v ,.
N. B. Gentlemen who may pi ou[ (lrd
the work by procuring ftibfcnp""° t'.e
,0 forward a lill of the name. fublctiD
20th day < f O&obrr ncx<
- RyrlmtP*. tVJTV ,, .
TTBTsold «[. T ® S r of tu D»"
A N ALPHABETICAL L >n<i Merf |,„
A payable on >11 Slatfl; «hil>'«' (
diic imported into ,ht , imported in Sh"
the Rates p.y.bl« ± Tnd."f°'r T
Vefl'els of the United ' Du""
or Vessels; including « , I>b ; c .
which the refpea.»e Art. !«»'
A 1 ' ' j „, v inZ C° !(i
A TABLE for
graduated according powers of A J
And Rlanks for guiinefi at the Tie*'" 1 ?
i nrcelTary in tranMli g c., lc( .
I at the B.uk of the United Sutc.
('Pii