,-7
I
m' i
t
ffjft
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS*:
[No. 52 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, Nom
fa ths <>AZt ri L of the UNIT&D STA TES,
A PUBLICATION upon the enfuinp elec
tion ol Vice-Prefideiit of the United States,
under the signature of Lucius, has appeared in
the public papers. The writer introduces the
fwbj'tt with loine remarks upon the importance
of the office and the necefltty of filling it with a
pcrlon of competent qualification ; The only
competitors wbofe met its he invtftjga r es and be
tween whom he ittppoks «he decifmn rclis, are
John Aaams, Esq. and Governor Clinton ; he
declines a view ot the positive merits of the ref
petlive candidates, and inquires only against
whom there are the feweft exceptions ; ihefe he
reduces to a finglc head, against each—To Mr.
Adams, the prelum prion of his at tachment to a
government by King, Lords and Commons :
To Governor Clinton, Ins opposition to the con
fh tut ion of the United States. —The former he
conceives to be a serious objection and to remain
in its full force ; the latter he concludes is done
away by ihe amendments, and is at any rate the
Icaft weighty ot the two. After magnifying the
enr and dinmiilhingthe other, agieeabje to his
vilhes, he concludes as if his premifej wen ful
iy tttauii:*hr d ,* n«t if ttefc-fjci rd SrJiic s wjlVto
prtferve their government as in its pre ion t form
tle&ve and i i»ed in its powers they cannot
hditate to decide in favor of Governor Clinton.
This I take to be a fair ftatemeni of the publica
tion in question. The mode he has adopted of
ifcertaining the merits of the competitor is fin
giilai ; inttead of contrailing their talents and
characters, he takes a negative view of them and
g : ves Imn the preference against whom lcaft is
clj ct ■ri.
Tii mode <»f inve (ligation is perhapsrhc least
certain < any that could have been dijnfed
i. v • iince nbfetved that scandal is a tax
t: ' ir, n pays for his reputation ; an uni
t( m of principles and com utt generally
in 'f[' aches of malice and envy ; and a
iru :: h ..in independence of cnara&er
ofu i lubjt&s to obloquy and de
tract i I Ih i .it pre font however wave a de
velop<en ruir ch»-. elevs and a eomparifon
of then merits, an> ; confine myself 10 what Lu
cius has *dvanc? *
To corroborate the obje£fcion against Mr.
Adams he obf rves, 11 that his writings entitled
a defenceot the American Confiitmicns and dil
that an Amb. Ifj. or from the United S a;cs, of
the firit iin prove rm ut and heft acquainted with
the nature of their coniluutious, (houid write
a book cxprtfsiy in their drt< nee and vary so
much from.h s obj-£f to piorfucean eutagiiim
cn a goveu.m >Hot Kug Lords and Commons.
Docs this comfort with the principles of com-
Tncn fen(e ? .Sutely Lucius nw{t have very de
fcct.ve optics or his vision would be more per
fect.—l can recommend him to a certain * ha
ia6ier whose fkrll might bf of fervicc to hirti in
ast con d ; hut I apprehend there is a
weakiius oilu rwjfc than in his eyes, and beyond
the reach of mctiiciuc, - r perhaps he claims in
politics what a certain le£t claims in religion
tbe inierprcuiion of texts by a certain l'ght with
in, to which no other can have acc< Is or of
«our(i: loan a competent judgment. But the
gcntlemattobfervesjthat 44 if it cou'd be fuppolV d
that doubtscx.fted upon this point,exiratis from
those publications fbould be fumifln d and ex
traGs only can be furnifbed lor this pu»polV.
How part-.al, how ungenerous a way of judging
ofonts fenti merits, to Iclt6i a few detached Sen
tences trom ditieient parts of his woikj, and
■larftul :heir, in airay in defv rice of a do&rine
*hich the author abhors. What cannot be
proved from this mode ot scrutiny ? any fen'.i
%nt whatever rnay be palmed upon an author
this rate.
It IS the pari of a candid critic to judge of a
Vork in the aggregate when It- hazards a' gene
»l opinion ol a writer; an;) the fame lult will
Bold n, judging of the fcotnnents at an author
1,1 c'tmuiing the merit of his work.
Theinjullice of the conftruflion put upon the
flings of Mt, Adams will be evident to all
Hhopeiufnhem ; the ehara£Kr of .he author
W tbe prolefftd design of his works may have
JWieinHursce with otkers. Mr. Adams was a
"Wureot.ihe United Slateiand wainily attached
otheintertftsof his country ; of irreproachable
|■, c^ ri " ci » a strenuous advocate for ihe
kri; 3 °' mt * n ani * af nong the firft in dif
't» " g i, pretensions of the Britilh Parlia-
I S delegate to the tiill continen
( im(t?7 a '"' s enlightened re a fori and
I IwZJT 1 comrit,ut «'- much to disappoint
i ntaeiignj U our enemies and to encreafe the
, «"»#« and confluence of our friends. He
i fct , *.' rdl ambassador from the Uni.cd
i'Mtee !° ° , rc ;' l P'"» cr ' liurope.-While
!> tfee'om such „e enlnred h.m the
[ afc»_, I 1 •"; < l l,a 'n'ai.cc a» a man, and their
tdTi-ri aT ' f 88 * P 11 ' l offirer. The pro-
Ifcant °' tl: * *" lm ß* wst 'O combat .lie
Wi filTu"",'" B lhr wh °'e power of a State
*kennLl K.p'efrntatives; this h;:d
Ih* a ~ C 311 °' to the CfHiftuuLions of
Z^.r' 0 " cs t Our author undertook
Wein prop °'' d lo tw lnat a ba
fetc is efT- f l! " 'be power of any
"i" H ,K f>o< 'Rovernmrnt : toobtain
' e, 'K<i <h»t the plan uponwhich
. ■I«dSt a . r » r P3 [ r °' ' ccolliiutionj ot the Uni-
Wfcieh ha/k; °' nu<i ; '• m ",'e eligible than any
thisWtxhifc'. l'° deviled ;to illuttrate
' 1 i,. ,V2r ' olls ß ov "nuienttin wbich
WacipleiofUbciy fewqina|ly m ,^ uie
rerrtgn'zed, with a particular view of (heir en -
flruftion ; in which performance theie i& iron}
laeraiur.. and politic?! knowledge than in any
work which had then been published in this
count)y the relult of his rcfearches is conform
able to his aefign, and every rational ants earned
examiner will acknowledge if.—Shall this be
mad an olj-ftion to his re-olecVioh 10 the Vice.
Presidency ?So lar from it, that in my opinion
the Lnitf d Slates are indebted to him lor this aj
well as bis other labors. I am not at prefiiK
d<fpotal to fay much upon Gov. Clintons com
petency to the office. Whoever ctoari-afa the
two characters, either as men and citizens, pa
triots, politicians, or men o! talents and inform,
ation— must differ very widely from me in jud-r.
nient, or decide in favor of Mr. Adams. As to
the performance of Lucius—it bear* the genuine
marks of its origin; it appears to It the effufioa
of paity spirit intended to embariafs the elec
tion by creating a diverfioii in favor of Gove.-,
nor Clinton.
Beware my countrymen of those temporizing
■ politicians, who under pretence of
your inten d are seeking their own ccnfcqucnce •
do not diftiuft thofe-'of your fellow-citizens
whole virtue you f.>ve experienced ind ff w'hofi*
talents you ar<_ fnlfifcienily sppnred. Though
Lucius, like his prediiedor among th* Romans
facrifice the di niciples of honor to the gratifica
tion of his ainbitio.ii—like him I tt u 3 he will
be difappointcd hi his di-Ggiis, and should he
piufecute them the fame length meet a similar
fate - ANTONIUS.
Frem The AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
PRO AND CON.
Argumenti agninjl the Re-eleflwn oj Mr. Adams.
First. HP**? constitution, and the
J- spirit of* the people,are republican.
Mr Adams is for a government of king,
lorcfo, and com.iions.
Second. Since the constitution was adopted,
f.rce his eleffcion and oath to support it, his
writing? have laboriously encleavorcd to dif
guffc his constituents with- republican govern
ment, ard prepare their minds for ?. govern
ment of king, ! ords, and commons.
Third. In his lat?ft writings he bar. declar-
iugeilay towards a well ordered government,
by which the whole scope of his writings, fiuce
he vftit.?d the courts of Europe, Ihew •, that
he means a government of king, lords, and
commons.
These objections, more particularly at the
present juncture, when the spirit of monarchy
is every where waging open or secret ar on
the spirit of freedom, must fink deep in the
mind of every true American. That they
are founded in truth is well known to aii who
have read the ieveral publications of Mr.
Adams, on the fubjeft of government. The
quotations from these works, in the excellent
pieces signed Lucius y have denionftrated, from
Mr. Adams's own mouth, that he is a decided
adversary to republican government ; and if
the constitution is to be,deemed the criterion
of federalifm, that he is more of a real ope
rative antifederalift, than any citizen of the
United States, out of the party attached to
the lame monarchical tenets.
Arguments for the Re-t!e£licn of Mr. Adaju.
First. The name of Adams l as been fub
fcrib.d, along with the name of Washington,
to the laws of the union—a circumstance of
more real weight with an enlightened people,
than any little difference between the repub
lican principles of the one> and the monarchi
cal principles of the other.
Second. If he is hot re defted, it may be
owing partly to votes iu Virginia, who, hav
ing the good fortune to furnifh the citiren
elected by all the states f®r the President,
ought to have no voice in the tlettion of a ci
zen of some other flare for Vrce-PreficJcnt.
Third. Ifheiinot re-ele&ed, it may be
owing partly also to the votes of Nortb-Ca
rolina and South-Carolina. Now it hat been
very clearly, as well as very kindly fhetrn,
by the best friends to the dignity and magna
nimity of thole states, that they ought to vote
against their own republican principles; left
they Ihould be falfely and impudently taxed
with conforming to the opinions of other
states.
Fourth. If he is not re-elected, it will he
tray what every man, who considers the fede
ral conftitutinn as a proraifmg eflav towards
a higher ought most carefully to
(mother ; namely, that the people are in their
hearts attached to fee republican govern
ment, and can'rot be brought, by any art or
management whatever, to give a direct or io
direft countenance to the flavifti principles of
monarchy and aristocracy.
These arguments, in favor of Mr. Adams,
are deduced from several late ftrifture* in the
newspapers, and particularly from a very cu
rious publication signed Marcus. They" will
doubtless have all the influence t!>ey merit, on
the fuffrages which are to decide the compe
tition for the Vice-J?refid(jacy of the United
States. . MUTIWS.
205
\O"N FES SO, No. 34. SoPl'H FIFTH.STRLU\ PH !L ADs L I'H! A
'IBER 28. I 2 .
A7.EITE ~f the UNITED-STATES.
NOT A BENE.
A PUBLIC debt corrupts the people, and
therefore it should not he loifved in a
republic. Tiiis has been proved b\> terrain
newspaper writers, and n dail.r proving in
conversion. Bnt t'lii corr.-pting influence
began on!v when the debt bj -.an to bave cie
dit. Had the new Ongrefs 'r.ve let the debt
alone as the old Conr.rels did, becaule they
bad no funds, in a few years it would lave let
us alone—we Ibould have had no trouble, and
be at this moment out of all danger of beinf;
spoiled and corrupted by a public debt. The
virtue and purity of a government that %>uld
thus have purged off this great mass of foul
matter, would never hevenfter prove the
worse for temptation, nor the worse for the
wear. The conduct of feveial of tb? fiates
had furiiifhrd the new Congress an ufeful les
son-—yet the teaching, even of experience,
I lla<i been loft upon that body. While the
I states kept fhis giant vice of a public debt
trie Conquering. Jo ,t of. tit? lav.-, the
certificates did no more harm many
cnips. \yasfuch a thing as fpeculatiort known
it that time? Did any man buy certificates
ill the debt was put in train of being provid
ed for by (_.ongrefs ? Some persons pretend
[scat Congress is not to be ncculed of entiling
peculation, as they fay the temptation to buy
vas greatest when paper was at the cheapcft,
»nd in that state the price cf paper was the
frioft fubje<st to fluctuation. Th;s, however,
rannot be true—for the cry against specula
tors, it is well known, began with the fund
ing act. No clamor was raised against the
states for leaving the debt unprovided, for,
fuhjeiS: to lie purcbafed up by foreigner*—the
from the nature 3rd number
pt the certificates, was not remarked, nor the
frequent fiinffling of the laws making the
notes payable for land or taxes. The Secre
tary perceiving there were 61 or 86 foi ts of
paper, proposed to ha*e their, funded and re- j
<luced to three only—the fx. per Cent, three
f>er cent, and deferred stock. Y. r ho cannot
iee iii this a fchernc to puzzle buyers autf fel-
i x ;>en fpecuk.tors crept nut oi intn notes, ce
caufe the darlcnefs favored them, and watched
for prey. The ft ate Jaws, it is to be observed,
were so few, so plain, and so unchangeable,
that the holders of notes, the widows and or
phans, like sheep in a fold, were feenre from
the rapacious wolf. But the funding law has
broke down the fence, confufion hair entered,
the widows and orphans are eat up, the pa
tience of the newspaper pat; lots is g»re, and
the republican virtue of our country is going
as fall as its lame and decrepit condition will
permit.—lHnc if/a hcryvut!—Let the halcyon
days oi'ftate power and slate simplicity come
l again, and come quickly, before our money is
ali gone, and the work of corruption quite ac
compli jhed.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 28
CVa Monday the 19th inlt- the following Me-
morial was read in Congress.
To the Pi-elrdent,Senate, and Hoa'e oi'Repre-
tentative* of the United States.
Tilt Addfsfi oj Ike People called Quakers.
IT was the exhortation of the Apostle Paul,
that supplication-, prayers, interceifions,
and giving thanks, be made for all men ; for
kings and for all that are in authority,
we may lead a (juiet and peaceable life, ill all
gocH'niefs a; d bonefty, for this is good and ac
ceptable in the fight of God our Saviour;
conformable wheTeto, our minds have been
brought into a religions concern, that the rul
ers of this land may purfuc such mcafnres as
may tend to the promotion of the peace and
happiness of the people.
\Ve are sensible that the Lord's judgements
are in our land, and being deeply aJefted with
the diftrefled fituatioii of the frontier inhabi
tants, we defn e a solid and careful inquiry
may be made into the cause ; and are firmly
persuaded that if the Counfei antlDireftion of
the Holy Spirit is waited for and followed, the
(Jivine bkffirg will crown the labors of those
who uprightly eHgage in the work of peace.
The disposition which has appealed in the
government to promote pacifc mealvres with
the Indians, hath we believe been generally
acceptable; and as it is consistent with our
religious principles, so it has been onruniforjn
care to admonish and caution our members
Rgainft fettling on lands which have notiee-ii
fairly purehaferf of the original owners ; and
as far as our influence extends, we mean to
maintain this our ancient testimony inviolate,
which from experience has been found effec
tual to the prelervation ef peace with the
natives, who, wi thereat hospitality, cherished
and affiled our fapjjfithers in-their early fet
tlemerit of this cowitry.
\Ve feel cautious not to wove or.t of our
proper line, kut being interefteij in Me wel
:are of tills country, and convinced o t the ex
pedience of further endeavors being used to
eixyihrage tlx iwliaasto toive lor* aid with
f
ft *
*-w<
Moo
[Whole No. 374.]
a full rspraft-n'iti.m and flnf,-n;..nt of t K eir
grievance*, and Mm every jol c;„.:v ,f 0 „-
Cii " *" ti,e:r may be folly ir, v > fti.g
ted J>.d re.novkl: v.c apprehend V „„rduty
a;;aj» to uddrefs you on till* aSfling and im
portant, <«-ca lion ; u V r a lielieft!-ar
_nnrt ol ftriot justice will ever 1)3 a basis of
10, i-1 and laflins; peace.
,Wc refpeflfully £ji;, ra it thcfe tiling* to yoi r
serious CO,indention ; earrteftly defiring'that
through the influence of div ne vrdom on
your councils', you may he made inftrumentnl
to prevent the further cffnPon of human blood,
and that the inhabitants may long enjAy the
Oiefilng of a righteous government-
Signed ip and on behalf of a meeting ap
pointed to rep relent our leligiouj so.
ciety in Pennsylvania, New-Jersey,
Delaware, and part of Maryland and'
Vitginia, held in Philadelphia the 17th
day of th's nth month, I;<)2.
[Here follows a refpeftable lift of names.]
Foreign Affairs.
L o N D O N, Stptember 16 23.
A gentleman who left Paris 0:1 y
we<aSurer. us that I he terriV • acc-vnt-en
tailed in the London papers ot the cb e rUi]
cruelties tranfaeled in that unforf-.oate ccpi.
tal, fotar from being exaggerated, coijie ve
ry (hart of the truth. That 6rr- pe .- we)e
abfohitely murdered by one pretexted jury of
twelre, fitting in one of the priron-. That
three larae waggons were employed without
intermifaon for fix and thirty hoitrs, in car
ry! g the dead bodies out of Paris, and throw
ing the-,it promifcnoufiy into a pit dug for the
purpose. The stench caofcd by the putrefac
tion of the lie?ds and limb; Scattered through
the streets, was become intolerable; and
plagoe. pefHetice, and famine seemed !talki::g
on witß tremendous ft. ides to put an end to
tho<e perform whom fire and l'word have hi
therto spared.
In Paris, the ramen as ufuaT, are amonff
the most ardent in the difpfav of patriotic ac
tions. Frci* five hundred to a tti-Mifard wjj-fc
during ti.e whole day, in m.M.V »i.:-
army. Tnis Service is entirely voluntary,
and they pu~fue it with fleadinefs, which even
the frequent applauses of the populace do not
divert. The wives of many respectable per
sons are thus employed.
During the niaifacre on Monday fe'nnieht
in Paris, an old man was brought into the
hall,where a ibrt of tribunal was held in one of
the prisons, accompanied by a young lady who
had not quitted him for eight days. The
man, who officiated as judge, upon feeing
him, (aid to the people, " Innocent or guilty,
it wilt be unworthy of us to fully our hands
with the blood of this old man." A cry of
" Grace, Grace,'' immediately arose: his
young attendant fell upon his bofnm, and thev
were carried home in the arms of the popu
lace.
At present it is a very dubious point, whe
ther all the blood that has been died by many
succeeding generations to unfetter the mind,
has not been spilt in vain ; and the success of
a criminal project-, whose extent infinitely
fnrpafles what inoft people imagine, will not
plunge the next tentnry into the (hipid fuper
iiition and odious tyranny of the feudal ages.
The Auftrians, since their polief on of the
camp at Maulde, commit the utmcft ravages
in the neighborhood of Orchies and St. Amand.
On the other hand, the Postmaster of St. A
mand, having been discovered in a treache
rous orrei'pondcnce with them, has been cut
to pieces, and his head was carried round the
town
£xtrH' B f of a. letter Jrom Lewes, September 17.
" Upwards of $30 unfortunate emigrants
were last week landed on our coast, who have
had the fury of the elements to contend with,
after escaping that of their countrymen. The
Brighton packets, heavily laden with them,
were driven by the winds far eafhvard of their
ufua] trrci,and with difficulty made Hastings,
Prevenfey, and Eaftbourr.e. At the former
place 011 Wednesday morning "6, all Ecclesias
tics, came on shore, among whom were, the
bifnop of Auvranches, the dean of Rouen, and
several other dignitaries. The bi/liop, with
great difficulty, efcapcd from Auvranthes by
the affillance nf one of his grand vicars, who,
with one ofhis domestics, accompanied him
to Rouen, where they were for some days con
cealed. The populace however having dip
covered them, they were again obliged to fly.
They travelled on foot in disguise to Dieppe,
at which place they arrived in the night, and
took refuge a lew hours in an hotel. From
thence, at the time appointed for the depar
ture of the packer, they 1 .in to the sea fide,
and as it was, providentially for them, high
water, they we.c enabled to put off, and in
stantly got out of the reach of the rabble, wlv»
in one minute afterwards purl'ued them to
tie ibprt. Thebifliop and his gland vicar
were hospitably received at Hastings by the
Rev. Mr. Whitear, who entertained them ti.'J
Saturday, when they left that placc, for Loa*
dou."
a.L'jgiII
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATtVBS.
Tuesday, November 20. *
Debate on the' Resolution offired by Mr. Fitz-
Cmons, on the 19th, refpe&ing a Reduc
tion of the Public Debt See. relumed.
In Committe: tf the Whole.
Mr. Laivrakce in the Chair.
Mr. Baldwin said, when this motion was
laid on the table, he did not feel much oppo
sition to it in his own mind, particularly alter
the explanation given by the mover, that it was
designed merely to obtain information from the
secretary of the treafurv, whether the revenues
of the year would be fufficient to redeem that
part of the public debt, which was by law re
deemable. On attending more particularly to
the expreflions, and from the turn which the
l'ubje& had taken in the difcuflion, he was con
vinced that it was best to strike out the latter
part of the motion, which in general terms di
reiied the " Secretary to report a plan for the
purpose." The etprefiions were too
and indefinite, and on former occasions had been
used to cover much more than was generally
trnderiloodat the time the referenct was made.
If it is only designed on this occasion to obtain
information as to fa<fts in that department,
let the present general words be struck out, and
let the Secretary be directed to report, whether
the revenues of the year are fufficient to redeem
that part ol the debt. If ic is designed that the
secretary Ihould report a new revenue fyfiem,
as he has repeatedly done, l«t that beexpreffed,
that the house at least may understand them
selves. If information on fa<fts or details in the
executive department is the objeit, no one ob
je<fls to it. If legislative opinions, the origina
tion of a law or revenue system is intended, let
it be so expressed. He observed, there was a
kind of political stratagem and finefle sometimes
nfed on such occasions, which experience had
always proved, tended to no good. Individuals,
when they intend to occupy doubtful ground,
in which they are sure they should not be sup
ported by the majority, intrench upon it by de
grees ; at one time a motion is made on one fide
of it, and the luccef* of it depends on their prov
ing, that it is not on the doubtful ground—
at another time they approach it in the fame
manner on a different fide—and at another, on
a different, till finally the whole is surrounded ;
in fh# f*_ye zi'. i°V*., n —
ai m'jjivnn that extreme, as they had before
done on the other,, it is proved that the whole
ground i« already occupied. In this way the
most absurd and mischievous political doiirines
have been eftabhlhed. He was not without his
apprehensions that, by a few efforts more it
would be found, that iome of the most import
ant parts ef legislation were transferred from the
present legiflaturcs to single law-givers. It had
been the conllant object and ambition of indivi
dual men in all parts and ages of the world ;
there is no doubt but it will be as unrelentingly
pursued here, unkfs controuled by those who
feel themselves injured by it. It might be taken
for granted, that there now were, and always
would be, individuals who had no point in this
progress at which the"" would stop ; that they
would croud towards that extreme as far as
polTible.
He needed no assurance that their number
in that house, or in the country, was very
faiall; but they might make much trouble- He
conceived it would b- of much use on f® great
and pradical points in government, for the"ma
jority whose minds,if thoroughly known to each
other, were probably not much apart, to take
an early occasion to express their definite o
pinion : that the necefl'ary fails and details of
office should be reported from the departments.-
bat that legislative opinions, and the ftrutfure'
ox laws, should be sacred to the two branches of
the legislature.
If one executive officer is ordered to form the
laws which relate to his department, the ofti
cers in the other departments mult do the fame
in theits. Laws wnich relate to war, to the mi
litia, &.C. mud l>e formed by the iecretary at
war; those which relate to the poft-office, poft
roads, and the communications between different
parts of the country, mult be formed by the
poft-nafh r-general; those which relate to the
other fubjefi, whether fweign or domestic,
mull be formed by the secretary of (late. There
is no part. t the federal ground, but what is and
mud be co vered by one or other of the executive
departments; if they are to be called on to origi
nate and form the laws which rela'e to their fe
vera! * "pa'' _, icnt», two branch?* j
giflature «iii remain a mere council ofreVifion
to approve or rejeS, or pfonofe amendments!
If the majority do not mean to keep on in their
progref* to this extreme, it is time that it (hould
be understood ; he h.mfelf *as anxious to under
stand how far they meant to go, and what (hare
of legislation was to he claimed as their own.
Ke was ftrocgly pe.fuaded that it cventu .
ally come to this, th» under the idea cf obtain
ing hgntan.l information fro,„ rhe executive de
partments, laws were not to be made there, or
new legislative system. originated ; but only in
formation offsets and details of office. The two
L?m.7f '. fe 't tUre «"«ve laws alrtad,
from rach othe-; and „ each executive
officer to be con filleted in the fame relation to
the legislature, that the two branches are to each
other ? If they an- not, he begged to know the
diftin&ion. A revenue law could not originate
in the senate ; and yet had not an executive offi
cer repeatedly done that in alegiflative relation
to the houl'-, which even the ienate would n»t
prefome to do ?
He proceeded to ofcferve, in the next plae,
hat this was luch a confufirn. oi all principle n
government, that he was anxious to arreit ts
irogrbfs before it had produced any greater ml
hiefs. Though he had never much venerated
he chara<fler of a mere theorist in governmert,
ret, if there was a finale principle iniportftit
:nough in the whole theory, which might \c
onfidcred as an axiom applicable to all circuji
ilances, it was that of the diitribution of the
po jver.% that the legislative, executive and jud;-
:iary should be kept as far as poOible separate
and diftinit. The reason is mod obvious, to
prevent the concert cf improper pji ons in
Forming and executing the laws. If they who
make the laws, could alio have the ag 'rev in the
Execution of them, no doubt, fyftemi
would be constructed and mightily enlarged,
that their love of power, and grandeur, and pro
perty might have full scope, while they were
carrying them into else&. If they who are to
h»ve the agency in the executiou of the laws,
are admitted also to an agency ia the formation
otthem, they will do the fame thing; all the
agency which they have, will bedire&ed to those
objedts. Not to expeJt it, not to be sure of iti
taking place, is to be a granger to human na
ture. Heobferved, that this part of the argu
ment was in its nature, and had been set in so
strong a light by those who had gone before him,
he should not enlarge upon it.
Mr. Baldwin derived his argument in the lad
place from what had already appeared in prac
tice. Though the age of the government, he
said, did not yet admit of it 6 being rich in this
most valuable of all knowledge ; yet, experience
and praAice had already (Irongly fortified the
principles which he had advanced. He then adi
verted to fever* 1 instances to (hew, that wheJt
the laws had received their shape and form ii
the branches of the legislature, they appeared #a
trial to be in general well accommodated to tie
circum(lances of the different parts of the coun
try : but where they had received their {haft
and form out of the legislature, from the hands tf
an individual, they never after could be well ad
justed to th« circumflances of different parts *
the country ; any alterations that had been at
tempted were but ill appl : ei patch-m>rk.—Tri'
a! ha J proved that they were not well shape d.
for they had set very ill on the feelings of the
people
He particularly dwelt on the Import law as an
inftanceof what he intended; that, he laid, w;n
formed entirely in the house in the usual mode
oflrgilhtion, eachmember had an opporttmitr
of confuting it in every stage of its progrefi,
and applying his information in iti proper pis,-,
a? the fyftcm was forming; a hundred minr
were employe I, from car to day. in tdl <si
corner oTthe whole country, to forefee in.-! pr©'-
vide against the evils which it would have to
encounter in practice. In this way it wis made
to be aseafy roflibls to every part of iiie coun
try, and yet efficient Very trifling alterations
had been found necessary, except great increases
of the fumt demanded. A vast burden has been
laid on the people, and yet it fits so easy that
there has never been much complaint from any
quarter.
He wiflied the fame could be said with equal
truth of the other part of the revenue system.'and
should never ceal'e to regret that that system had
*ot been originally taken up in the fame manner. 4
If, said he, that ill omened petition of some of the
public creditors, taken upjuft at the heel of the
fitft feflion in 1789, instead of being referred to
an executive officer in general terms to report a
plan, in which he tellified for hinfelf, and, he
believed, many others would do the famehe
hid no idea of the extent to which it has gone ;
the subject had been gone into by the house—the
system had been formed, and the legislative pro-
Vi.ioi.i. ,r g.id by t;, o fe to whom only it
longed; he believed the finances of this country
would not, at this time have been so intricate a
science—the public credit would have been as
well supported, the debt would have been in a
more simple form; so fu'itle an address to the in
ercfls of individuals, and «f particular states -
would not have been contrived; —the llates
w»uld probably have been allowed, as they had
been always before taught to exped, to finifh
the execution of their fyflems for the payment of
their own debts, and our fellow-citizens not now
have been hunted by the hasfh and troublesome
regulations of an excise system to pay them. If
all this had still been found necessary, and had
originated in public in the legislature, it would
have been accompanied, in every stage of its pro
gress by the information of the citizens, and op
portunity would not have been given for that
legerdemain by which so many of the honest and
industrious who chance not to live within the
lmoke Oi the feat of government,to be conjured
out of so great a part of their hard earned pro
perry. r
But, It is saul, and with -,n apparent gravity,
e -c» member has a, fair a chance of ,ru re
ducingwhit he withes after the fyflem is report
e to the house, as if he was present at the for
mation of it. What fays experience on that point?
„ t jTf " r ot t J ,e^ame persons who hare advo
cated thole references invariablv discovered c
di« ,Z 'Tf' l ° hlVe t ' W fyftems jollied or
diilurbed after they are made ? He needed only
hehtT.? ,hC fchemc ' the and
he bank law, «, ,„ft anc „ ofhis aflenion Wer<;
feeling' K P r ' dc opinion, that parental
perform who may have be.-n ad
work,- it» them ' feel f " r ts,eir own
an vim T u"* "'""ire difficult to introduce
any .mportant alteration in a system which had
b« u con,pleated a:.d proportioned in i tl JtaJ
206
it wasliku uking a linibfrom a bodf'sni at
tempting to add another —the difficulty of the
operation commonly precludes ail attention to
the fubjeft matter.
Ifthe representatives of the people in all the
different parts of the country are to have equal
(hire in the formation of laws, they mud be pre
sent where they are formed, assist in furnifhing
the unformed materials, endeavour to shape them
to their wifhts and the circumftanccs of their
conflituentsbefore the parts become so knit to
gether and compacted as to refufe to take a dif
ferent -flwpe.This right was so important to eve
ry part of the country he cculd not give it up.
His constituents were very remote —their inter
ests and wishes were therefore more out of view,
and never would be attended to out only as they
were brought up by their representatives; they
were therefore the more dear to biin ; he felt it
m»re strongly hi* duty to seek opportunity to
a A for them ;he could not be denied ; —a (hare
in legifiation was what they had a right to, in
their name he demmded it, and ft*mld not give
it up. He could not fee legislative fyllems form
ed of luch vast importance to their inrereft and
happinrfs, without doing all in his power to ap
pear and ast in their behalf. He (bould feel
himfelf to be their betrayerinfteadof their friend
and representative, if he could coufent to it. If
the laws were not to be formed here where he
had his constitutional feat, and expected to dif
chargc all the duties of his high truil, he should
try to find where they were formed, and if pol
fiblc, obtain access there, that he might have
foine chance even as a courtier to croud forward
some opinions while there was a paifibility of
their doing which was denied to him as a
reprefentativc,
Mr. White observed, that the olijeQ of the
jtntleman from Georgia appears to be a very
good one; but he saw no other way ofefFe&ing
it btat by arevifioa oflhelaweftabliflungthetrea-
department: there are such excpiCve pow»
to the head of that department, by that
•law, that, without fny forced conftrn&iQn, tlic
fobftance of tfre proportion, now contended for,
may be fuppo&ed by that law:—he hoped, how
ever, that the main obje.3 of the resolution, ma
king proviGon for the redudioa <rf the public
debt, Would not meet with any embarrassment.
He faggefted amodification of the clause refpe6t-
Ag the secretary's reporting a plan, by adding a
reftricSing clause, that the plan reported should
hare refpeonly to the entitling fundi of thego-
Ternment, without any referrence to additional
taxes for the objeA; to chcck, therefore, that
torrent of abuse, which, in writings and speech
es, were thrown out agaiotl the gorerament on
this very fubjeft:—he hoped there wonld be no
delay in thisbufinefs; but that the present Con
gress would, in season, pass a law, making ef
fectual provision for dimilii&ing the public debt:
such a law, opce pafled, he was fully of opinion
won'd be so eonfonant to the wifee* of the
people, that no future legislature wanld ever do
any thing to check the progress of this ialutary
work.
Mr. Gile> entered into a eo»<H»rji!t2 ?f s he
nw tne rreattffy*(Ttparimeht. TTc
controverted the opinion advanced by Mr.
White, and infilled, in substance, that the pow
er of the secretary of the treasury was mtrely
concurrent, in reiptift to rep«rting plant, with
that of the house.
Mr. White rose to explain; he said he never
had any idea that the house had diverted itfclf of
the right of originating plant: he never conceiv
ed that the secretary of the treasury had t right
to propose any plans or systems to the legisla
ture, urlefs he was called upon to do it.
Mr. Murray, in a few remarks, delivered C
milarfentiments.
Mr. Gerry recurred to the law: he said it was
evidently made the duty of the secretary of the
treasury to prepare plans for the promoting of
the revenue; and that when the house called on
him for his plans, or informatioa, if he was not
then prepared, it would be indicative of want
of capacity, or remifsnefi in duty : but, he «b
---ferved, it by no means followed from this, that
the conflruition of the law, given by the gentle
man from Virginia, is ju!t: the house hat not
delegated one particle of its legillatlve power;
it reserves to itfelf, the full right to call for plans
and information; or to refrain from calling for ei
ther, and when the information is received, it is
entirely at the disposal of the house.
Mr. Merctr and Mr. Page added some re
marks in oppolition to the reference, and then
the quell ion for linking outfacing taken, pafled
in the negative.
THURSDAY, November 22.
In coimnit'ae of the whole ot the bill pro
viding f.ir the rejiftering and recording of
Ihips or veffcls. Mr. Lawrance in the chair.
Tiie hill, was cmifidered by paragraphs.
Mr. Page opposed the clause which referred
to ' (hip; or veflTeh caotured in war'—He
moved that it should be ftruet out, as coun
tenancing a fava-e practice, now exploded
and la:d r ide by civiliaed nations—that it
would be time enough when the UnitedSt ites
flialt be so unfortunate as to (>e involved in a
war, to make provision for the cafe now al-
Vided to, that ro inconvenience couid arise
T" Ml!* ..I'JtUi; that imTeet) it
highly became the legifUture of the United
States to adopt it, as they would thereby
fliew their approbation of the iioeral and be
nevolent sentiments now adopted by the
greatest and mot enlightened nation; of Eu
rope, abolishing the inhuman practice. That
he fuppo'ed the tlaufe had been inferred is
the bill, becau'e it was drawn before this cir
cui.iftance of the benevolent eifpofition of the
nations of Europe was generally known :—lie
hoped therefore that his motion would be
agreed to. It wn, however fame time before
it was recorded, at length
ATr. 1 icKer iecorded the motion, and sup
ported it by argument? similar to Mr. Par,e'<;
'eniarking, that the French nation, though
The qneftion ms then pat, m<f carrtoilKßß
the negative without a division. '
When t'ie bill was repot-ted, Mr.
newed his motion for linking outtheetnjßHl
Sec. repeating nearly his former
adding that as to the objection made t<i m 9
motion on account of its interfering
ca<e of Tiin' of war which may be
He said He felt for the United States nfceeSH
a ca r e was mentioned; hefWt
pre.Ted antl difpi-ited at the idea«f bIMIIMtX
try beina Co perplexed by "*•'—l;~r-yi- ffjjjJ
witfithe Indians, V*l V>t Mtfefcwfl
forwajjttdphe capture of (hips *f war, -Imm|
surely iffiiat be the ohjeit of MBTa
looks to a cafe which cannot hipTmiffffi iltJ
ture, rtiflaut day, it will be time emttgji M 9
some future le<;illature to consider H-r'tMU
for h s par", he hoped never to fee A# toflfl*
States possessed of a navy : at alle*entSjtjfifll
they bad one, it would be nnnecefijaryflß
make regulations refpefting their prim. Mj|9
allured the Hone he wonld not haventaMfflS
his motion, if lie did rot think it hj| dpty, tlffl
perfiil in his attempt to (hew the propriety JM
uniting in sentiments «rd endeavors wttk wH
great en'igltfened nations of tiie world, to pd9
a (top to a favags pffcdice which had beefl
often a inducement to enter mte
He wi fh-*d to take away every paffiUe tempflH
ation to enter into a war, aad whenever
country fliou'd be fa unhappy as ft be
volved in one, he wished, by the iris mln|>3H
proposed, to leflen the sulobtr «jf aaMtIAS
ble evils attending wars. w
$>inflnrrr»f fh' Ql/hrsa' n£Hi r; • ' ,-■•
in tie Jfottfc of Reprefentotives of the Un'u
fed States, on IVednefday Inft, on tb? mo
tion of Mr. Parlter for flriling out fuck
fart of the third Refolu'.ion reported by tie
Committee of the whole on the Pref,tent's
Speech, as refpißs a reference to the .V>
Cretan of the Treasury, oa tit Redufi'un
of the Public Debt.
Mr. Speaker,
I A M one of tliofe members dcfcribed
by the gentleman from New-York,
who seriously wish to pay the public debt
as fact as possible, and receive thenecef
fary information even from the secretary
of the treasury ; but I make a material
diftin&ion between seeking for informati
on, and transferring the power of origi
nating fyftcms.
To give information of the (late of ll)e
Urion, to recommend fucV bu/itc.. <m
the Pi efident may judge expedent; and
to exercise a limit ted negative on the !iv>
ia certainly all the part urhich the con
stitution authorifei the executive to act
in legislation.
The exilt nee of heads of department?,
is authorised in the constitution, and hath
been ercftcd by the ad of the legifliture 5
these departments ate the inftruinenti of \
collecting information, and repolitariesof I
it, as ic respects the execution and effect
of the laws ; and this information we have
a right to command. This, with the
more genetal and important information,
which the members of this House poflels,
are all that is neceflary to enable us to
give the firft form and complexion to our
revenue plans. To prevent the necefntf
of referring the business to an executive
officer, we will avail ourselves of the in
formation depolited in the Sectttanei
offices. ,
This we have unanimously affertfJ.
and yet tlie gentlemen on the othe: li e
of this qneftion, conllantly aigue in a "
vor of receiving information, as 1 v |-
were against it.—We wifli for it as mucn,
and for more important purpofesthani. rv.
The gentleman that tlierijj t
of the Secretary's originating pbm ts im
plicated irt the constitution, and eai.s-?
on us to pro»e the contrary ;no uc ;
thing is mentioned in the comtiuinoi
It isconfeffed that it docs not appear'out, ?
_-afrJ-Bjrt-eflior., therefore the burden of
llfciro'of falls on the gentleman liimftl
Jh« nature of the government, as it
proiibits the other branch from intermed
in the Gift formation of money bills,
ard expreTsly dffcribes how far the exe
cutive power may interfere with the le
#idative, is fufficiently exprelGve of the
folign of the constitution. Legiflativc
authority is in its own nature incommu
;nicable, and cannot be transferred ; a
member of the legislature cannot appoint
a deputy toferve in his place ; if any pow
tr is evclufively veiled, it is that of giving
> the firft complexion to reveitue fy Items ;
r thss is the fpeciiil trust of that branch
which poffefles within itfelf the greatell
knowledge of the people's circnmllances,
and participation of their interefla j and
this influential power is thus guarded for
obvious reafotis. 13ut the conllitutional
principles involved in this question have
been explained with so mush ability by
fcveral ot'<er gentlerotn who have been up
before me,that it is not neceflary to detain
the House longer on that head.
However, another argument which has
! been frequently repeated, and particular
ly ur?ed by the gentleman lalt up (Mr.
> Gerry) requires some further animadver
' funs. It is, that by the law which de
fines the power of the Secretary, we are
bound to refer the revenue bulinefs to that
officer, and to receive the original plans
f-oin him ; that if we do not ait accor
ding to this law, we.will set a dangerous
example of difobe«Tienee to the citizens.
Mr. Speaker, I aik, had the Houie of
ifrrei'c ntat.'ves a right to originate in the
rit indance r venue fyltems, before tin's
l» made ? This I presume will not
kc denied ; if that Houle had the power,
rre not the powers of this Houle equally
lienfive? Can one Honfe of Reprefenta
iws abri-.!f;e or alienate the powers of
Bother Ms this can be done, we may
sway the wnftitutional powers ot
fture Hiiufis to any extent. In fliort fir,
htvc as much |>;>'.vc- now in 'his House,
bapy ir.eßiiit'i ; vtr had in any former
my conduct a« ;■ member is oi.ly
iSri&d by the couftitO'lion, ami by tiie
rulei of the House, which we
change at pleafute by a vote. I have
(nght ow to more on this floor, an o
ir'nal plan, fur the very purpcfe in quef-
BSSfrtfcTTf- s»klT piiiffl'fe ;
™i» a power veiled with every n>t niher,
Mi/tqttent}y with the whole House, and
thry'cannot transfer it to a secretary,
pthe fcMte or to any officer, cr public
kdy on eatth.
The law in qceftion gives a capacity
to the fecrctary to prepare plans when we
direst him to do so ; it makes it his duty
(how far that law is proper, is another
«jueiliou). But the law docs not, nor
cannot, oblige us to call upon him to
do that duty, or reflrain us fiom doing
it ourltlves.
It talk much of our power to
hiifyfteraj; but this is not
*e ; it has been already ob
we might alter or reje£t a
Itous by the Senate, or by
i but it ii our peculiar duty
the original cortipltx
:«ms, and this is, by univer
ftefmed the mod important
1 part of the business.
!ifceinment and virtue, is by
to urged as a fuffjeient fecu
ay influence or danger, that
srife from transferring this
>ty to an executive officer ;
ive no doubt of our
a pretty good opinion of
nt 5 it \i an agreeable thing
ea good opinionofourfel vtrs.
ipprehend, the most venal
hat ever existed, would have
irown integrity, as well as
enough for uj that the con
rowded other securities than
md virtue j our fclf-confi
ight tq> induce us to break
f the constitutional guai ds.
5 other things, I (hall ma ke
tioni upoo the vantages
ges arising from both fides
)• Some of the difadvanta-
arc, that by originating
stems in the house our mea
fluctuating, public credit
or loft, and a flop put
ial prefperity ; and, as the
U P, Mr. Gfcr>ry, has repeat
confulions of the old ro
be introduced. It is ad
icconftitution puts it in the
power of the representatiVes to give the
firft form to revenue plans, if they choose
to do it ; at lealt, that it was optional
with them previous to the law : if, there
fore. they cannot do it themselves without
all thole mifchievons confeqitences, it is
time to change the government itfelf—it
is much better to do so, avowedly and
deliberately, than in this insidious andin
diredfc manner. However, I wish we would
11 7 r rle' le experiment in a few inltan
ces, and if those bad elfeftsare produced,
l ' le . gentlemen's arguments in favour/of
their plan will receive experimental aid.
to the confufions of the
old government, I am at lome loss to
know what the gentleman means ; it is
true, the old Con rrefs was velted with a
confulion of powers, viz. legislative, exe
cutive, fee. but this is not the cafe with
U3 ; the old Congrels had also a confufed
manner of doing business ; they seldom
lud a full house : this circnmltance laid
them under the neceflity of referring much
of their business to the heads of depart
ments ; against doing which, the confe
deration had provided no such express
guard, as our constitution does ; I have
always apprehended, that, from that con
fufed habit of doing business, the pre
fect method of referring legislative af
fairs, to the heads of departments, found
its way into this house ; and it is against,
and not for, that old confulion, that I
contend.
With refpeft to the advantages arifin"
the Secretary of the TYeafury giv
ing the firfl principles, and oiiginal com
plexion to our revenue systems, they are
nated to be great and numerous ; but
they are well summed up, by the gentle
man from New-Yofk (Mr. Lawrance)
who fays, that to this method of doi.xr
bufinels, we are indebted for the retrieved
(late of our national affairs, for all our
wealth and prosperity. Surely if this
proves any thing, it proves too much ; if
the Secretary's influence and abilities can
| do so much good, it is a proof, that if he
j is either mistaken, or wants viitue, he may
by the exercise of this power, do much
hurm. According to this way ofreafoning
Congress mud be responsible for all that
is wrong, and the Secretary have the
credit of all that is done well; will any
pcrfon who fuptwrt* thi-s aflVrHon, pre
tend to si y, that -f entrusting the fe'cie
tary with originating r.fra«.
ney biib, produced (uch important effects
that it does not veil him with the means
of an undue and dangerous influence.
But does the gentlemen believe that
the preient government, vetted with fnch
rxtenfive and eftcdive powers, and poffcf
fed of such ample means, would have left
those powers unexercifed, and those
ritans unapplyed ; that Congress would
have paid no itfpeA to the contradls, and
made no for the debts of the
Uiuted States, if the Secretary ha<J not
or inflated 'lie plans 1 surely this is not a
fuppofable cafe ; nor is it very conliftent
with another obiervation made by the
gentleman, when he told us, that the Se
cretary's preparing apian was attended
with no more influence than' would be
produced by the clerk of this House m
fertiug a clause in a biil—both instances
being equally fubjeft to our control. I
would not content, nor do we permit our
clerk to originate systems; but if we
cannot do it ourselves, it would be much
more confident -and fafe, to trust it with
our clerk, who is»wholly dependant on
the House, and may be liifmifTed by it at
pleasure, and has no patronage conneded
with hig office, than to entrust that potr
er with an executive officer, chosen by the
Prcfident, and dependant on him for his
continuance in office, and having an cn
creafing patronage connected with his of
fice. Certainly, fir, if an officer mast be
paid to originate our revenue systems, we
ought to provide that he should be ap
pointed by and dependant upon the House
of Representatives.
When we reflect upon the fabjeft, and
look rouni us, we will find no example
in the state governments to countenance
our conduit, and theie were the models
after which the government of the Union
w is tormed j nor is it pretended that the
Constitution under which we ad, and
have fvvorn to support, expressly gives a
ny such power, and I am persuaded that
the general Convention which originated
the government of the Union, nor the
State Conventions who adopted it, con
templated no such implication, as is now
contended for in lupport of our piaAice.
(Debate to be continuid,-)
207
MONDAY, November 26,
Mr. Wadfworth, member from Omnc/ti
cut, took hi: sent this dnv.
r^rK 0 /' J° h "^ n, S -a, rrad and
reurrert to the Secretary of y/ar
The petition of William Storv, qnd the B
«ndn, t / Ke Williams ' and 'others,
'° the Secretar y ths
The petition of sundry persons, matters and
Zr^ S e T pl °> od e coaf,!:
J ,'f! r complaints of the duties and
are ftbjeA to, as being extra
vagant, and praying relief: read and referred
roa& d r e ° nthebin " r= 3 ll 'fte the
A !ko.*» reirnburfe certain extra exo-nces
w C^ n,millitmers for of'peace
with the drwfc ln.lian,, was read "the fS
W , and referred to a committee of the
whole to-morrow.
J™?. bl " Providing for the rc s ifterin|r and
ve(r - ls , brought in,
v. ioned, read the thud time, the blank'!
ailed up, ai»d passed. '
In committee of rlie whole,,on the Ml] f or
regnlatis^ foreign coin,, and for other pur-
P "■ Sed £ w 'ck in the chair.
The committee agreed to fuiidry proposed
inendmeitcs, which were reported to the
t t,,e c ,", airlna "- Ti ' e ho,lfe '""k the
Mme into confrderjtion, and adopted them all.
An amendment was raovrd in the house by
Mr. Madison, and agreed to : the hill was
then ordered to be read a third time to-fior-
Mr. Ames presen ted a representation fi 3 ned
\Wrntr M.tftin, 011 the subject of the negro
*t w:is rcad and laid the table
Mr. Murray on the table the following
aiotion : 1 hat the clerk of the honfe be di
reflcd to purchase for the use of the house,
maps of ihe separate States, and of the United
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimon-, a resolution
was that the tomnyffionei s for fettling
t ie acwunts between the United States and
indivH ual States, be Arerted to inform the
house, u what time they shall be ready to
make report; and what obstacles, if any, exist
to obttruft their pregrefs in the business.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Nov. 27.
Mr. v/. Smith, of the committee appointed
for trie purpose, reported
A fjl] to afeertain the fee? demamiable in
the »dm>raltv courts of the United Stsfs and
to amend in part, the a t for the government
of teajiien in the merchants' service which
wauu-ice read, and referred to a committee
, vv ""le house 011 Monday next. Interim,
to be printed.
Mr. of the committee appointed
for *h.? purpose, reported
-4bi!l tor licencing 'and enrolling shins or
+ 1 ? ' 0 * ■MpBWW in' the etaftln*' I 'ade and
i i.4rie<, ard for regulstir" the ( \;r —which
' •a' \>id tf ice and committed iVrr Tur.Day
jiext—loo copies to be printed.
Tl'e e'erk began the third reading of the
bid f'~r regulating foreign coins, nndfor other
purposes—hut, at the request ofMr Page, the
resdiiifr was fufpended,and the bill laid on the
table till'to marrow, forfurther coniidei at ion.
A of the Secretary of State on t';e
petition of John De Neufvilie, was read
which, after recapitulating add examining the
items referred to in the petition, con
cludes with this o;.'nion—That no part of it
ought to be graured.
Aconirr.un'cation from the Governor of
the territory N.W. of the Ohio, enclofmg a
petition of the inhabitants of Port Vincennes
on the Wabafh, praying to be exempted from
the chavjes cf iutvey, was read, and referred
to Meffis. Li verm ore, Muhlenberg and Leo
nard.
The p?t:troij ofjtnncan Campbell, praying
for reasons fet'forth, to be placed on tlie pen
sion liit—was read, and referred to the com
mittee already appointed on iimilar applica
tions.
Mr. Murray called up his motion empow
ering the clerk to purchase maps for the uf"e
ot the honfe—which being taken into conlide
ration, was agreed to.
In (committee of the whole on the report
of thfl Secretory of the Treafu'v, resetting
101 lor destroyed certificates—Mr. Sedgwick
in the chair.
Mr. Lee, after some preliminary remarks
on the pilipoferi and moved sundry
re r o!arion-, which he read, and submitted to
the coinmitte?, as abafis for further proceed
ings in the buftnefs.—
The motion being ftennded, the refoltiiions
wcif uken into confidei ■ tion—after some de
bate, Jhe question being taken on the firft resolu
tion, ic wr»s difygreed to.
A motion Win then made that the committee
rife ; (he committee accordingly rose and the
chairman reported that they had come to no re
folutwn on the fubjcfl ol the report : A motion
w.is then made thai the committer should be dif
cbr.rpcd from any further confederation of the
bi:lin-f« ; this mo:ion was negatived—and the
commit I e had leave 10 fit again.
Mr. Giles moved that a committe be appoint
ed to bring in a bill granting further compen
sation ft) certain receiver* of continental taxes;
laid e>n the tabic.
Mr. Muhlenberg callcd up the report of a fe
left committee on the petition of Moses Young.
The rrport being read, wai made the ojder of
the day for Monday week,
Mr. W. Smith called up the report on ihe ps
• tion of Ch?rlfi and Garanja£ which
wis read, and made the fßer gf the Hottfe on
Tcefdav next.
On motion of Mr. Goodhue, of jbt
Sfcrttjry of fbr TreaOiry petition of th«
exccutori of Edward was read,
aad commitlceof whole House
on Fiigay next. i« ■ ■ Adjou' ncd^
Philadelphia, Nov. 28.
a " d
of the U ft :ted States, for Maffnchu'etts •!!
SnmZ, TLn !^'V'. r . anCi^ Daa!,, Incrfafi>
Moses G;jl, ShepaVci, Dwis'.t Foiv'r'
V/"te?r J - S "T r ' £fccn^'-
I „ " fln 7' Solomon Freeman, wilU-.i
uiv"'- 1 r- nt '' Pe:e s^ovtb,N a .
IU '• c! 'v, L.quire?.
of in Co " erect tar ti,e SWe
S' :hCr Am , e,: . Er q- FJix, Benjamin
vv„ V"' f Sairwl Ockter, {»».
Thp 1 Altcllius WaH - E'q- terkkirc,
Theodore Sed S w,ck, EG,. Jtrijlot, Pele a Coffin,
Esq. AtUrg,-, {lon. David Cobb, Elq.
A (hip ha, lately arrived at W fcafl"et, in
Ca -| rom England. She brings an ac
count that the Duke of Bran/wick had ad
vanced so far towards Paris, aj that he had
fuffered the armies of France to furrcnd
him , and it was expected that he would ne
ver be able to return—their have .'/
Says a correspondent.
That partiescxift inal! governments is incon
trovertible ; pray what brought about a fccood
Ktvolution in the (.'lilted Slates, hut party ? By
party I mean the ccrtifaatc holders, vulgarly cal
led public creditor,. This body of mrn nude
the continent ung with accounts of the dea
den Itate of our public affairs ; that our uhioo
as a fopecj fund," that our commerce was
annihilated, and that the States were devouring
each other ; these weie the notes, but the ground
work ol rbr mutic was or ;l you
pica if avsrice ; and ii may perhaps fee fafeiv
'• '• h »'l not been for the paper de.
mauds agjinft ihe United States, that fccalted
fabric the New Constitution, would never have
met the support that it Hid? Now that we have
got th's constitution, those who were so zealous
in advocating it, difcoverthat it has its dele*la ;
and like the old conudcraiton, they/ear it will
also prove a rope of find, tt remains to thew
by experience how lar it is possible lor a govern
ment to I t stable, lhat is the offspiingoi pany.
VI hen Mr. Adams's Defence of the American
Conttuniions firft appeared —a gentleman ob
(erved that it would be a very popular woik
tco yea is h?rce ; that it contained too many
solemn, ftiibborn truths to n. let general appro
bation at the prefrnt day ; that lime alone could
unfold and enforce their propriety, lullxe and
applicabilily to the constitution o't man. Mr.
Adams hai however lived to fee the truth cfone
important observation verified wiih refpeft to
himfelf, at a much earlier period than could
have been reafomhly expf&cd from the strong
opinion entertained by that gentleman, and o
ther diftinguiftied advocates for the high rc
ja-b:is.ju ofefcifcScr <)] tin. people of this ecntntrv.
The go'gon luad of party frews itf< If in it«
proper form in the foiled States, and there is
the g'-ate't aspiehenfions entertain a by many
of the bi-ftfitends to the liberties of America,
that mertt, abilities, and ferviccs, in the person
of as great a patriot as this or any other country
ever, pioduccd, will be I'acrificed at its ilirine.
The re election of Mr. Adams to the office
of Vice-President, is perhaps as important to
the interests, peace and freedom of the United
States, at this period, as any erent of a fimi—
lar nature ever can he to this country—
especially when if is confide red, that not one
enemy to Union ,or the Constitution is to
be found among his friends—and that the most
a&ive of his enemies are known to poilefs fe»-
timents hostile to both.
The mode cf attacking the Vice-President
of the United States, in publi/hing mutilated
extracts from his writings, is fimiiar to that
of the Atheist, whoaffbrted thatheconldpro\e
by the bibJe il There is no Cod."
A HJi of the Fortuvate Numbers in the Net.*
Brunfwick Lottery, willbe publijhed with our next.
QS* Phi LANTHRoros camelee/tfe fir thit.
day's paper.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED<2/ the PORT?/'PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Edward, Orne, NewburyuPort
Brig Per feve ranee, Brows, N. Brunfwick
Schr. Sea flower, Austin, du(o
Sally,
Dot phin,
Sloop Betfcv,
Polly,
Hickman,
Watson,
DJJRO,
lfozcnao,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Ccntc,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full [hares Bank U. S. 45
| Qiarfs,* 56
Unfunded debr of U. S. 31/6 on the principal
And on the lnfereft up to Ift Jan. 1788, 13^.
THE EDITOR-TO HIS SUBSCRIBERS.
THE Arrearages oj Subjcriptionsfor tins Gazette
have been Jor a long time accnrnu'nting. Iheex
pences oj the publication are great and inevitable, and
have annualh amounted to much moke than the
receipts for fubfeription* ; the eonfeeiuences tnuji be
obvious. The Editor has no other rejource than those
arrearages, todijeharge the debts he has teen obliged
to incur in prosecuting the publication.
He is therefore "necefiliated to repent his applica
tion to those who have received fubjeriptior. money on
account oj the Gazette 0 and those who have not l aid
what is due, to make remittances as Jo on as p<Jfib!e %
On theje receipts, the continuation oj this Gdlctte. on
the plan of an extenjivefy circulating paper u abjo
lutely fufbended.
—JU&
'vtxa***
&ojion Caztte.
Portland t Nov.
Virginia
N. York
diito
N. Carolina.
ei/fl
j e/g
>3/3
per cent. preirCtS. Dlis. CtS.
PRICE CURRENT. llPr .b« >o %
?IR quantity.—Dollars 100 Cents each. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 5
PHILADELPHIA, November 28. Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
Train 24 27
Dlh. Cls. Dlh. Ct>. Wha,c 23 2 ' ]
ANCHORS pr.lb. 7 8 Porter pr. cask, 5 33
Allum, Englifti, pr.cwt. 4 33 London, pr.doz. 1 60
Ditto, Roch pr.lb. 11 American ditto bot.incl. 1 4 1 60
Alhes, pot, per ton, 90 100 Pitch, pr. bbL 173 2
Pear], 137 140 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 10 33
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 67 Lower county 10
Brandy, common, 90 ~ Carolina g
Coniac in Pegs, Albany pr. bufliel 73
Braziletto, pr. ton. « 04 Pe PP er . P'. lb. 3 8
Bricks, pr. M 4 7 Pimento 19
Bread, fliip, pr. cwt. i 67 2 Raisins, best, pr. keg $
Ditto, pilot 3 33 Ditto pr. jar 2 ,5®
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr. box 263
Beer, American, in bottles, Rice pr. cwt. <j
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 40 Rosin pr. barrel 2 78
Ditto pr. barrel, 467 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon j 7
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16 Antieua 1
New England 11 Windward 86
•Oak 14 16 Barbadocs 80
-Merchantable pine 20 24 Country, N. E. 67
■-P.' do ' 12 '3 Salt petre,pr. cwt. >4 33
Mahogany, perfoot 10 Saffairas pr. ton 6 8
The above arc the (ballop prices, Shot ditto 140 141
for the yard price, add 1 dol- -■ Steel, German pr.lb. g
ar 33 ccrl ts per 1000. Englifh,lfliftered, pr. cwt. to
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 267" American pr. ton : *3 33
Beef, Boston, pe. barrel 7 8 Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Country ditto 6 ■) n>ke root P r - lb - 20 42
Frcfh, per cwt. g Soap, Brown per Jb. ;6
Butter pr. lb. >6 Whilc 8
in k-egs 9 i<J £ aftlle M
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. 43 Sniff pr. doz. hot. 4 560
Myrtle Wax W 5$ Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Mould, tallow ~ Sailcloth, Engli(h,No.i,pr. yard, ■
* -Dipped 10 Boston. No. I. ditto 30 I
Cheese, F.nglilh, pr. lb. iq No. 11. 29
Country 8 19 Su^ar Lump, P r -'b 24
Chocolate j8 20 Loaf, single refined 25
Cinnamon E 40 2 67 Ditto, double do. 36
Cloves , Havannah, white 17 18
Cocoa pr. cwt. 16 ! Ditto, brown, 11 >2
Coffee pr.lb. 17 18 Muscovado. or. cwt, 13
Coal p r . bushel 2c ea Spirit.Turpentine pr. gallon 37
Copperas pr.cwt. 167 a ' 1 ' Allum pr. bulbel
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 Liverpool 4-
Cotton pr.lb. 27 37 Cadiz 47
Currants ' ]2 Li/bon 47
Duck,Ruflia, pr. piece 11 ,0 Shl pb»ild. W. O. frames p.ton, 15
Ravens 803 q6- ®j tto Live Oak, jg
Dutch fail duck, lg 20 D'"o red cedar, per foot 33 4 o
r,.,W. J,, b . }» I 6'
Fl«f ee d p.Xlh 'J, ,>. P'"° 3 p"'' drefffd ' '3 'S
Flour c c 1 , 9 Staves, Pipe pi. ic6o , 2
r . P Pr band 4 33 ——While Oak hoglhead, ,0
5 I Red Oak do. * £fg
Sr btfl *46 Leogan °°
Meal Indian 3 Bam ., • 33
——ditto Rye, o t. a '°
Ship-ftuif pr.cwt. «• ? Skin. n7 t ' DS k c 533
Fustic pr. ton, ,o r) be S p , piKe 4 g
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4,3 Fox, grey , 0 g 0
Do. pr. gall. gj g 7 Ditto fed
Glue, p t . cwt . g Martins •.
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 —^-Filher*
Ditto, common 7 Bears 3 -
Ditto, ground pr. lb. ic Racoons 27 '6c
Ginseng, 29 24 Musk-rats lx 2C
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, o 7-1 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 * «
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Deer, in hair Vo ™
Grain, Wheat pr. bu(h a X ar,N. Jersey, 24 gal . p. bbJ . • „
Oat, t'l —Carolina, 32 gall. ,33 , g
t 1 • 0,5 turpentine pr. bbl. i fa #
Barlev COrn , ,5 3 Tobacco, J. River, best joolb. 360 37g
Bed (helled pr. lb. 3 old' 01 3 3 3
Buckwheat, per bulb. 4 o Rappahannock
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 1e» 146 67 Coloured Maryland, j33 8
American, pr. lb. 4 c -Dark,
Herrings, pr. bbl. 3 Long-leaf
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 u Kaftcrn-fbore 2 „ „ 0
Hops ? 7 Carolina, new 2 , 1
Hogfhcad hoops, pr. M. — ®
Indigo, French per lb. 1»e 1 H\fon pr. lb. p g
—Carolina , a « —Hyson skin, 53 6q
Irons fad pr. ton, ,3333 c"'™ 5 ' 5° 93
Iron, Caftmgj pr. cwt, 34, , „ 6 . 43 5 o
Bar pr. ton, tu T ,,,„ ' ' c , 33 '6
P.g 24 26 67 -rfn ' cfined, per Ik. »
Sheet 1?3 Tm . P r box . 13 33 ,367
Nail rods no in Verdigreafe pr.lb.
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 Vermillion, do. . , '5^
Lard hogs pr. lb. 9 ,c Varnilli, per gallon „ 'Jj
Lead, ,n b p,gs p, cwt. 433 567 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, I? 6 22 g 37
■ white ,0 ,n si, T-,"<T „ 120 126
rrd 640 si £ 7 1 eneriffe, pr. gallon g
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 p*^ 1 5 2
Lignum vi tE pr. ton, 560 6 if' j "3 31
Logwood ,0 Ditto ,n bottles, pr.doz.
Claret . *
Mace pr. lb. „ Sherry pr.gall
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. . g Malaga 9 1 s0
■——fcond quality S W.x.Bees pr.lb. 11 80
Madder, best pr lb. ,g 20 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. * %
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, . „ . '3 3°
Mast spars ditto si ,
Molasses pr.gall. q ' COURSE OF EXCHANGE
Milliard per. lb. r On Tj
flour, in bottles, pr.doz. ,2l — eo^ay 3 , 75 ' P " ,00^' ' (lcr '- 4iS 33
Nails, id. iod.\?.d. and 2orf. pr.lb. 1C a t 90 oays 7 |
Nutmegs pr.lb. 7 • g Amftcrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, oX |
Oil, Linfecd, pr. gall. r da V s »
■ Oiivc 6 . bills, drawn at ,0 J
■ 7 ' d 'y» fight, .1 4 °e7m. per guilder,
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR, ! r ~~
AN ALPHABETICAL LIST of ,h, n JOHN (jOULD,
payable 011 all Goods, Warej and Merchan A ' R E S S E it
«ue.n,ported ,n,o the United States ; exhibitin T NFOS -MS his friends and the Dublirf'
v'j,'! P ay ?!' lc °" i hofe imported in Ships <»■• ral ' that 1k continues to carry on h? "r
c ft-
And Bianks for 'he various Pow 's 5 - I wl ' fron > garter of f-aT o
O ceff.ry in tr.nf.ain, Bufrnfft « h 'r A An - V P er '»" trying theaboveir.rJ'' -
-a. Bank of th. Unued *««,. " *' give,,, £
Etfj
*
208
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Fhilakilfhia, Ncvcmbtr *6, 1792.
THE Stockholders of the Bank oi (be United
States are hereby informed, that according
to tfie ftatuteof incorporation, a general elrfhon
for twenty.five Diieftor« will be held at the Bank
of the Umtrd States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Monday the day ol January next, at
ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fefiion of the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the laid Bank 31 e
hereby notified to aflemble in general meeting
•ti the lime place, ihe eighth day ot
January uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prcfideni and DireCloi s,
JOHN KFAN, Caftiier.
BOWEN's FXHXBITXON OF
Wax-Work & Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pine, No. 9, North Eighth-street
First Room—Contains upwards of ipp
elegant Paintings, and about jotyax Figures,
in full ftature—-among-which are Likenefles
of a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenckin chains, an Indian
Chief, and several beautiful young of
different States, ftc. Sec.
Second Room—C6ntains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club,
or the Oyster Supper j and the School for
Scandal, coufifting of twelve female Figures,
making their observations on a young Lady,
who had eloped with,a Footman.
Admittance Ore Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
A further Caution.
ALL per ons are hereby cautioned from receiv
ing of Thomas Mackie &. Co. or any other
perfbn, (our Notts of Hand, given by the laie
James Gardner, ot Wilmington, North-Carolina,
to Samuel jfatfjon, of Philadelphia, al I btai ing daic
tne ig-h July, 1785, amounting in the whole to
£.2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency; the
gieateft part of which said Notes have betn paid
to said Thomas Mackie & Co. in proof of which
the fublcriber? have the deposition of Mr. Jasper
• Mauduit 7ackJon y and other documents which will
fully and clearly illuflrate the matter.
It is therefore e*pe£ted that this notice, with
the one adverafed in this paper in May and June,
1791, will be a fufficicnt caution to the public:
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, ( Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington. (N. C.) Aug. 1,
1792. j
GEOGR A P H Y.
Mathew Carey
Refpe&fully submits to the Citizens of the United
States, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION
An AMERICAN EDITION of " *
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
OJ which theft are the terms :
1. TT (hall be publi(hed in 48 weekly numbers,
X each containing thiee (hefts,or Twenty.four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine papei.
11. In the courle of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame (ize as thofc
tn the European editions, viz. mod of them fneei
maps on post paper.
gdr Re/lies the maps in the Britijh editions, this
pori will contain maps of as many of the United States
as can he readily procured, executed by the heft engrav
ers in the United States.
111. The price ol each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.——fidjr Niad
vance refuired.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
ICO copies are fubferibed for.
V. Subscribers who disapprove of the work, on
the publication of the three firft numbers, are to
Ije at liberty to return them, and (hall have their
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
PerhaDS there is no science more entertaining
and ufeful than geogiaphy. It reveals the disco.
veries of travellers—the remarkable curiosities of
a,I countries, in nature and art—the situation of
provinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, & moun
tains—m fine, the history, manners, customs, laws,
■ ones, revenues, and government of different na-
It is an old observation, that " there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has some concern
with geography," and that a knowledge of this
fcicnce is indilpenfable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatisfaflion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot dil'courfe on the
rnoucommou newspaper topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for geography g ner.lly. With re.
Ipra to the present plan, let it fuffice to remark,
that Guthrie's Geography has be-n long acknow
rdged to be the bed in the English language:
however, the account of America in it has, Irom
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
t've. The errors of former editions will be cor
reflrd, and the defefls supplied, by gentlemen of :
abilities, who have engaged to fuoenmend this
undertaking, and to avail itaemfdves of all the in
format on that can be procured, to render it the
molt complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly solicits the support of his
rplioAA'-citizens throughout the United States: and
as no deposit is required, and evet y fublcribrr w,i!
i '° w,thdr3 »' his name, if, on trial,
he (nonld disapprove of ihe vvoik. he hopes the
friends of Icirnte, and of Amencan ails and m.i
nuhflurei, will cheerfullv and e<n ly patronize thi.<
ule.nl work, the greatcft and rnoft expenfu*, pro.
V» ever yrt <:ttfmptfd in Amcrica, in the typo
graphic:;!l li„ r , the Eru vcl'mcedi;, txrepied.
Th„a,UlfJna, AW. g, f 7C , g , (jawtf}
£3 The JOURNAL 0; the IIiW?D SISSIOA'
7 S^ J tof the UNITED STATES, way he
had of the Edittr htrcqj.
800
r*intid AN».iott a*
M A T H E W C A R*,
Ho. 118, Markct-Strett, Phi laidf hit
i. A MERICANMtJSEUM.frowh.ejjyJ^H
Xx incnt in January 178;, lo
eleven vols. Price, ncailv bound
leventeer. dollars an«S thrct filths. '
This work, which is now
orov.d plan, the best ptccci,
'or dnd a£<i 1 nft the proceediags- of
will be found 10 comain at Irafl »s £
ofpeliiical, agricultural, and
asanyever publilher! in America.
One work are so *i»ny valuable
ingtbe Inftoiy c>f ihis country, colle%<J
Wftjtxcellency the P.eiidcni of the
IWißfclared'of it, that "a more
pU|tk|s never been undertaken in
° n f r "f,' c dofoivmg ft I pul.lic
rlie lUDlcription is two d< ( ilais *|id a
ann. Gentlemen in the country who
be supplied with this work, are reqiirfb-d
to friends in the city to
and reccive ((--—Any of the back
may he iji order to complete (W s .
s. Smith's Letters 10 Married Women,
"'"ft a "d 'he management ol Children'- '•
" We recommend theft letter, tn thtj
thole to whom they arc particularly
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. toi—Price,
62 cents. ■
3- Ipuncan's Elements of centj
4. Beaudts of Fielding— 5 o ccms.
j. Beauties of Blair—jocrms.
~6 ' P° ckct I-iTiry, containing M, t
Mo.e s Eflay*, Gregoi y'» Legacy, Lady Km,
ton « A4«icr,Marchioi)cls oflar t en , Afv . r ;
Swift's Letter tp a nev ly man ted L,-(jv,JVJ< CiJ
pon- on command nt Ttmut. More's r bi',« ( '
'he Lad re*. Price 6/6. ore
7- Smith's Biftory of New-York. p,icet.',l
i«Ji an 4 a quarter
8. Elements of Moral.Scirnce, Ly Jameslieat
tie, l. l d. profeflor of moral philofopf,, 'j
•logic in the Manfehai College. Abe,d<r„...j, ri
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this hook i|„
Critical Reviewers (vol. 60, p. 60X I, ■ ■ „ \r.
■have fcen nothing on these fupj.fls re p, ~„
w°'n P'' r! l" cu ' )lis > more gener.il: i ufrful.". [
..B.lt ts introduced into the Univrifiti J-),,.
'
d of Poetry. Price four-filiU of,
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars,
it. cker'sTreaiifeor> Ihr* import,ineeofßt
ligious Opinions.—-Pi ice JFour-f.i'.hs of a dollar
"■ Examination of the Observations of Lord
»he%eld on Amencnn Commerce—Price, on very
tine paper, c, 81 hs of a dollar. '
•3; TheConftitutiontof.thefeveral United Sta-ej.
with the Federal Conftituiion, &c. Price Jive-'
eighths of a dollar.
14. M'Fingai. Pricethree-erghths of a dolli
15. American Jcft Book. Pi ice three-fifths,
a dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul. Prier half 1
' 7 The Doway Tranfiation of the Vulntc
hi-, !rt Quarto— Pricc, clcgnnly vAn*-«M
cd, go/i—plain, fix dollars. '
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecunt.-.prfa,
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a ruarier dolfer.
ao. Chi iftian Economy. Price a fifth o' a Hollir.
2!. HiSory of Charles Grandifon, abided—'
Price a fixih of a dollar.
| as. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Pricenkiri
if a dollar.
23. S( left Poems, chirOy American—
sixth of a dollar. '
Said Car s* has for sale, a large
Books, European a» well at American
which he will dispose of on the moll ii-afonibjJ
terms. Country gentlemen, who la»or him wilj
Commands, may depend upon being fuppjied id
'he Dinft fatijfactory manner. A liberal alWwaneJj
to such as purehale quantities for public libuiwi'
«r to fell agiin. j
!
Stock Brokers Office,. ,
No. 45, Great Dock-street, Niw-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
ci.:ne!y f«> the I'URCHAot. .\b.oSAtF. of
STOCKS on COMMISSION 1 , Begs leave to oficr
his (ervices to his friends and others, in the 1 in«
ofa Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc to fi
vor him with ihcir bufmeis, may depend upo»
having ii tranfa£led with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton, or any other
part of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
MO,
Mav 5,
PLANS
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold b_v the BOOKSEX.Lr.Rs,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRl'h-!Uh'K.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Of the very fitfl quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retails
No 19,
Thi rd, between Chefnut and Market Stress.
N. B. A jew Boxes efthe above HYSO # forfait-
ADVt.K I litMtNT.
C 3* This Gazette is pMJht l in North Fifti-Stnet,
No. 34, between High avl Mulberry Streets— uihert
the Eailot voui refidts.
A LARGE C,FILAR TP LET.
Suficient/y cu/moous In frrt jrrrral hmirnKVtU.
Enquire as above.
■ » lhe prut of this Gazette is I hret Wltrt '&■
nr.»m~Onc haijtt be pttd'at tie Mm
IC
t
>