A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 88, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, February 29, 1792.
FOR THE GAZFTTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
IF a people are to be governed by force, perhaps they cannot
know too little—the moic ignorance, the more peace and 4111-
etuefi. But in a free country, the people in effc£t govern them
selves. The more knowledge is spread among them, the better.
The reason and good sense ot the public, make the i*fic light to
those who administer its affairs.
Experience haj verified, and is every day confirming thcrfe ob
servations. We are to thank the good (rnfe ot the great bodv ot
the American nation for the happy constitution we enjov. T'ie
people saw and felt the neceflity of a fnmer governmrnt, and their
imderlhndings approved the plan which was submitted to their
eonfideration? All Europe saw with aftonifhmcnt a whole peo
ple quietly reasoning down a deleflive government, and matur
ing a revolution which has diffuf d a lustre on the national charac
ter. As no other people ever did the like, it may not be deemed
arrogant to conclude, that no nation has been Co generally well
informed as to admit o{ it. The latt does more honor to the great
body of our citizens, than victorious fleets and armies ever pro
cured for a nation.
These reflexions afford all the hope we have of the continuance
and profperitv of the national government. At this time, it is
peculiarly consoling to a friend of the country to recoiled* these
ta&s, so honorable to our citizens. For the number and nature of
the late publications against the government and its mealutes,ma
ny of them finally virulent in their Spirit, and profligately bold
in their aspersions, would have an alarming influence upon public
order and tranquility, if our countiymen in general were not great
ly superior both in virtue and discernment to these writers. But
as the good sense of the people caused the government to have a
bring, it may he relied on to support it. It is only necessary to
•warn them that men are not wanting who would destroy it if they
could. Indeed if the numerous writers against its measures bt
their own charges, they may be excused for theattempt. If! rum
its funding law, from the impure fountains of corruption and {pe
culation, flow Jlreams which will poison your country and your prospe
rity, if under the fin&ion of that law plans of opprefjion are laid, equal
ly injurious to the general welfare as any firaflifed under the BntiJ/i ju~
rifdiftion, if tho you took up arms againjl opprefjion, you are (as it is
inftnuated) read\ bridled andf-tddledfor your reprefentatwey, with whips
in their hands, to ride you from one end. of the United States to the other,
The inference is natural and wai rantable, that these writers wilh
to deftmy the government which is the cause of all this evil.
The rvewfpapers have poured fort>h a torrent like the foul Oeci
ipcn.given above. Men of sense and virtue read these effufions
with proper contempt. Theydeferve to be further diicounte
n a need—for tho the public is too well informed to be imposed
upon by these means, yet there is a disgrace fullered by their pub
lication. The moral state of a country may be known, and it is
also considerably influenced by the manner in which political de
putes are managed.
If the chargesagainft men and measures are ufuarllv made tem
perately and supported by argument, you may be iure the people
are thought capable of conviction by those means, and by no o
ther. Th.c people are some improved, and not the worse served
in conference. But when the basest suspicions are insinuated
without any proof, and the moil absurd and unfounded afTcrtions
are solemnly made, the writers mull depend for fucccfs upon the
bafeuels of their readers. The worst of men are the moll ealy to
believe eil repons. If truth is treated with total in
the public papers, no man will doubt that the tendency is perni
cious to morals. The public are in dar.ger of being cjrrupied by
the daily example of men who let their paftions loole, and exert
all their faculties to communicate them to tneir rcadeis. It isthe
business of education to subdue the violent paflions. With every
precaution they are apt enough to run to excess. But this is a
course of v cious education to inipire the fharpell resentments in
the readers brcafts, and to indulge them by t?»e facrificc of the ob
je£U yf thern.
There are some falfhoods which affront the reader by their
grolTnefs. Tlvey (hew bow little the writer refpeds him or h>s
undemanding. A writer in a late infLmmatory production,fays,
" The public debt became so great by the meaiures of the fpecu
-44 latorsto enhance the nominal value of the certificates in their
44 potlcflion. Who can believe (fays he) that they could have a
-44 lifeu to a $th, or even a lOth ot the magnitude, without the in
-44 terference of a system of {peculation ? Not a small portion ot
• 4 them originated, like the mushroom, under cover ot the night—
cf shall we pay taxes to discharge principal or interest of debts,
44 created piincipally tor the emolument of speculators ?"
None who can read, aie fa foolilh as to believe that the specu
lators made their own certificates, or altered the face of them to
increase the futn, and that the funding ad, instead of providing
for an old debt contracted before the newspapers were adorned
wit h the word fpeculatoys, created a new one tor the emolument
ot rhefe men—lf there is weakness enough to believe all this, the
writer has found a market for his work of fallhood. But the dif
cerningreader who will the abfu dity of these aflertions,
wi l be shocked at the profligacy of the auihor, who in the midst
oi them—fays, w The all-beholding eye which controuls the
4i universe pierces thro the deception of these men (fpecuiator )and
" pronounces the pait of their rep« c fcniaiions to be lies."
— Such solemn expretlions in the very ad of deceiving ! The read
er will make his own comments.
It is not easy to believe that the people can be made wiler, or
the government more honest by wicked attacks upon its meaiures
— Free enquiry can do no injury to either. The di feu Hi on of
public queltions cannot be exocded to be kept within the bounds
nt moderation and candor. But writers, even ol loose principles,
(hould be made to pay some lelpcd to truth and decorum.
LONDON, November 19.
THE Spanish Amballador at Peteriburgh has
made a present to: he cm pre f's i n the name of
the society of coimnei ce at Cadiz, of several tons
of excellent Malaga wine. The empress accepted
them very graciooily, and h.is permitted all such
wine to be imported into Peicrfourgh, dutyfree,
during the year ) 7Q2.
Prince Ferdinand of Prussia and all his family
were lately in danger of being poisoned on their
road to Aix la Chapelle, at a;; inn, where some
provisions were dressed in copper veflels : they
were all feizcd in the night with violent pains,
and the princess Louisa was so ill, that her lite
was despaired of. They are now, however hap
pily recovered.
A veilel is now lying in the river, waiting to
carry out colonists for the new eftablilhinent at
Sierra Leona. About three hundred adventurers,
some of them very refpeJtable, are upon her lilt
of paflengers.
At a late meeting of the royal college of phy
sicians of Edinburgh, there were presented ro
them some scarce and curious books from the ho
norable Lord Hailes, with a very polite letter
from his Lordship lo one of the fellows, in the
following words :
" Some time ago you furnifhed me with a copy
of the catalogue of the books belonging to your
faculty. While putting 1113- books in order, I
found three volumes in the medical line, which
are no: in your catalogue.
" 1 beg that the college would accept of them,
not as a present valuable in itfelf, but as expres
sive of my vvifh that private gentlemen would fol
low the example, and transmit the medical books
of which they mny be poflelled to the faculty.
There they may be ornamental, if not tifeful ;
in private hands they are neither. Were this
plan generally adopted, 1 imagine that even in
this narrow country a large accession of books
might be obtained. 1 have always had a fort of
enthusiastic zeal for public libraries, where a
man might have hopes of finding any book con
nected with the studies of the society to which
the library belongs."
The Royal college accepted his Lordfiiip's pre
sent with mod hearty thanks for it, and for the
letter which accompanied it ; the sentiments ex
prefl'ed in which are so jult, and so truly liberal,
that there can be no doubt, if they were gene
rally known they would be as generally adopted.
December io,
The situation of Lord Cornwallis is certainly
to be pitied, opposed by the elements, and depen
dent on the faith of Indian allies. The integri
ty of his mind, and his high martial talents, mult,
however, always render his Lordlhip an objetft
of refpeiti and confidence.
This country, in conjunction with Prussia and
Holland, at prefeni plays the leading part in Eu
rope. The diflinifiion, it mull be owned, is en
viable, and it remains only to improve and se
cure its advantages by a moderate and enlight
ened policy.
The Americans are about to eftablifti a Mint.
This is one of the prerogatives of Sovereignty,
which they have not exercised hitherto, being
content to make use of the Englifli and Spanish
coin, which they procure ill exchange for their
commodities.
Lifoon is at present benefiting not a little by
the access of Englilh persons of diltindiion.—
There are the Duke and Dochefs of Northum
berland, the Earl of Shrewftjury, and laltly the
Margravine of Anfpach, who can afford together
to spend about an hundred and fifty thousand
pounds a year.
On Monday lad arrived his Majefly'sfliip As
surance, from Halifax, with troops ; which place
(he left 24 days ago. She parted company with
the Argo on Sunday in a hard gale of wind. The
Argo is not yet arrived. The Afliirance's palTage
has been the quickell that has been made lately,
having run into foundings in II days from her
leaving Halifax.
A perfoti under imprifoiiment for forgery has
written a letter ro the President of the National
Afl'cmbly, in which he exculpates M. Varnier
from the treason laid to his charge, and takes
the crime upon hiinfelf. This, you will fay, is
a suspicious defence. True, but have patience ;
this affair of M. Varnier is one of the mod mys
terious, perhaps the blacked combination of
guilt, that has sullied the lteps of this unaccount
able revolution. This is not the only letter
behold the history of another celebrated epifHe ;
M. Bazire denounced M. Varnier as guihy of
having written a letter to a Monsieur Noiror, of
Dijon, also in prison, which contained a plan for
a counter revolution, &c.— M. Varnier being
Ihewn the signature, acknowledged the refem
blunce of the hand writing, which hefaid was an
adroit imitation, but denied it tobehis. He was
not shewn the contents of the lettei. M. Bazire
refufed to explain how such a letter came into
his pofleffion till the High National Court should
be afleinbled. M. Varnier, ignorant of the crime.
349
[Whole No. 296.]
is committed ro pi-ifon, where no person is ad
mitted to fee liim, and where l<e remains. L»lt
night the President of the National AlJenibly re
ceived a letter from the Municipality of Auxonne,
containing a declaration and a paper, committed
to their keeping by a Monsieur Voulon, a lock
finith of that town.
M. Voulon had received a letter by the post
from M. Bazire, the Deputy, thanking him for
the communication of M. Varnier's crime, and
the honor he had done him in feletfling him to
be his accuser. Astonished at such a letter, ha
ving never written to Mr. Bazire, knowing no»
thing of any crime or imputation against M.
Varnier or M. Noirot, he flies to the Municipa
lity, where he makes such a declaration, and dc
pofits the letter he had received.
M. Bazire, in his defence, produces the letter
he had received, and which is his authority for
accusing M. Varnier.
Letter, to M. Bazirf.
" SIR,
" MY comrade courts the daughters of Madame
Damont, inn-keeper, in this town ; Monsieur
Noirot, our tax gatherer, lodges at Madame Da
mont's—he is gone to Pontarlier f«r a few days ;
my comrade having been to fee the daughter of
Madame Damont, found her putting Monsieur
Noirot's room to rights ; he saw upon a table a
letter which Monf. Varnier had wrote to him for
a Counter Revolution.
He took the letter, and has given it to me ; I
fend it to my cousin at Paris, that he may deliver
it to you, for the purpose of your accusing the
author.
(Signed) " VOULON."
The Assembly, upon the reading of this letter
were naturally embarrafled and alarmed with a
thousand successive and contradictory thoughts
and opinions upon this dark affair. Will it be
believed that, instead of liberating M. Vamier
who has no longer any accnfer, whose original
accuser is demonstrated to be a lyara.id a forger
for the worst of frauds, that they finiihed with
referringthe papers to the Archives, from whence
they will be taken by the Grand Jury, and pro
ceeded to name the Solicitors of the National
Aflembly in this inock trial. Mr. Garran de,
Coulon was chosen. There was not in favor of
any other person that majority which the Confu
tation requires.
The High National Court is therefore to be,
formed, and to fit at Orleans for the trial of
Monf. Varnier.
The King has refufed his fanAion to the fa*-
guinary bill brought in againlt his brothers, of
ficers, arid nobles, who have placed the Rhine
between them and the usurped authorities, which
seem to only to denounce and provoke ven
geance and forfeiture on their heads !
But when once the High National Court is in
stituted, the Assembly may, according to the
Constitution, denounce and accuse any perfou
before them ; and it is not Monsieur Varnier,
but Monsieur, and the Princes of France, the
Emigrants and the Non-conformifls, who are to
be aecufed at this tribunal. Thus is an engine
of terror eretfled againit the Nobility, the Church
and even the Throne, who having there no ne
gative, no power of pardon, may fee its belt and
molt faithful friends ignominioufly dragged t»
a popular trial, where an accusation is the fore
and dreadful harbinger of a sentence.
I cannot comment upon this abominable at
tempt ; may its violence, its evident injufticc
and fraud defeat iis purpose ; may the Clubs ot
Jacobines, and the Jacobines of the Aflembly,
detedted and detested, give up their horrible en
terprize in delpair ; but let their attempt never
be forgotten !
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, Dfc. 2.
The Commiifioners of the Fund of Extraordi
naries Itated, that the sales of national property
far November, amounted to 156,269.000, making
with the former (ales 1,117,000,000 of livres.
M. the Minister at War, sent along
memorial oij the various objects of his depart
ment, in which he announced his relignacion,
and the King's acceptance of it.
Several Members complained that he had not
accompanied the notice of his resignation with
an account of what the law required of him, ami
moved, " that he should not leave the kingdom
before giving an account of his administration
observing that M. Montinorin was no longer in
their power.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, February 20.
In committee oj the whole, on the t ijhery Hill.
[continued.J
MR. WILLIAMSON.—It has been urged with
_ great propriety, in favor of the bill now
fobmitted to our confidei ation, that the opera
tion of our laws should in all cases tend to encou
rage ofeful industry ; that while we are giving
back the duties on all other foreign goods which
are exported, it would be unjufl: and cruel to re
fufe a full drawback of the duties 011 fait which
may be exported, especially when the cfrcuin
fiances of its exportation, are attended with an
mcreafe of riches and strength to the nation.
Imprefled as I am with the force of these argu
ments, and desirous as I ani to protect and en
courage the native seamen of America by all pru
dent, practicable, and constitutional means, I
lhall-neverihelefs find it 3iy duty to vote for link
ing out the firft fe<!tion of the bill, because it pro
poles to give a bounty for the encouragement of
the veliels employed in the filheries.
We have been told that the name is improper ;
that it is simply a drawback oftheduty upon fait,
and gentlemen have produced a very ingenious
calculation, bv which they attempt to prove,that
in some years it may happen,that the whole duty
onthe fait will not be repaid; but they admit that
in some years the drawback or bounty will ex
ceed the doty. It is certainly their opinion, and
in this we are perfectly agreed, that the money
to be paid will be more than that received, elf'e
there had been no use for so large an appropri
ation. We fhali not trouble th:(i committee with
calculations on this fubjeifK It is conceded that
the encouragement to be given probably; will
exceed the full drawback .of the duty on fait.
In other words a douceur or a proper bounty is
to be given—.let ijs call it one thousand dollars
per annum. Is it within the powers of this Con
gress to grant bounties ? 1 think not, and on 1 his
Angle position, 1 wquld reft the argument.
In the conftitntion of this government there
are two or three remarkable provisions which
seem to be in point. " It is provided that di
redt taxes shall be apportioned among, the seve
ral states according to their refpeclivenumbers."
It is alfoprovided that "all duties, impolls, and
cxcifcs shall be u*nifoxm thioughou-t the United •
States : and it is provided that no preference
shall be given by any regulation of commerce or
revenue to the ports of one {late over ihofe ofano
ther. The clear and.obvioos intention of the
articles mentioned was, that Congress might itwr
have the power of imposing unequal burdens,
that it might not be in their powei to gratify one
part of the Union by oppi effing another. It ap
peared possible and not very improbable, that
the time might come, when by greater cohelion,
by more unanimity, by more address, the repre
sentatives of one part of the union might attempt
to iinpofe unequal taxes or to relieve their con
flituents at the expense of other people. To pre
vent the possibility of such a combination, the
articles that I have mentioned were inserted in
the constitution. Suppose a poll tax ihould be
attempted, suppose it should be enacted that eve
ry poll in the eartern Urates, shall pay a tax of
half a dollar, and every poll in the southern
frares should pay a tax of one dollar. Do you
think we should pay the tax .' No, certainly
We should plead the constitution, and tell you
that the law was impotent and voi.d.
But we have been cold tint Congrefsmay give
bounties for ufeful purposes that is to lay
they may give bounties for all imaginable pur
poses, because the fame majority that votes the
bounty win not fail to call' the purpose a good
«ne. Establish the doiTtriue of bounties and let
us fee what may follow. Uniform .axes are laid
to raile money—and that money is diftribtitecf—
not uniformly ; the whole of it may be given to
the people in one end of the Union. Could we fav
in fuel, a cafe that the fax had been uniform—
I think not -There is certainly a majority i n this
w 10 think that the nation would belftronger
and more independent, if all our labor was per
formed by free men. This object might be pro
moted by a bounty. Let a poll tax be laid ac
cording to the constitution ofone dollar per poll •
in this cafe sixty cents must be paid for each Save'
and the number of slaves beinp- Mo , hei ;
tax would amount to r dollars. To en
courage ,he labor of citizens, let Congress then
give an annual bounty of one dollar to eve-y f, C r
man who ,s a mechanic, who labors i„ the
field. We might be told that the bo-.ty was
fniall, and the objerfl was good, but the measure
would be molt oppressive, for it woold he a clear
tax of rather more than three hundred thousand
dollars on the southern Hates. -
Perhaps the cafe I have pur istooftrong. Con
gress can never do a thiiig that is so palpably nn
jnlt, but this -fir, is the very mark at which the
theory ef bounties seems to point. The certain
operation of that areata re is theoppreflion of the
southern Itaies, by foperior numbers in the nor
thern ioterell. This was to be feared at the for
mation of this government, and you find many
articles in the conftiturioni, besides those I have
quoted, which were certainly intended to guard
us agninll the dangerous bias of ituerfcft and the
power of numbers.—Wherefore was it provided
that no duty lhould be laid on exports ? Was pt
not to defend the great staples of the foutheryi
Hates, tobacco, rice, and indigo from the opera
tion' of unequal regulations of commerce or un
equal indirect faxes : as another article had de
fended us from unequal direct taxes.
I do not hazard much in faying that the pre
sent conllitution had never been adopted with
out those preliminary guardsin it. Eftablifhthe
general doctrine of bounties, and »I 1 the provisi
ons I have mentioned become useless. They va
nish into air, and like the baseless fabric of a vi
sion, leave not a trace behind. The common de
fence and general welfare, in the hands of agood
■politiciap, may supersede every part of our con
ltitution, and leave us in the hands of time and
chance. Manufactures in general, are ufeful to
the nation, they promote the public good and
general welfare ; how many of them arefpring
ing up in the-northern ttates ? Let them be pro
perly supported by bounties, and you will find
no occasion for unequal taxes. The tax may he
equal in the beginning, it will befufficiently un
equal in the end.
We are told that a nuiTery of Teamen may be
of great use to the nation, and the bounty pro.
posed is a very finall one These fir, are the
reasons why 1 have marked this as a dangerous
bill : the molt dangerons innovations are made
under these circumstances. To begin with a
great bounty would be imprudent, and to give
a fmati bounty for a doubtful purpose, might de
serve a worse epithet. HaJf a million of dollars
per annum, would have been too much for a be
ginning, and perhaps a bounty on the use of
lleighs, though they are convenient for travel
ling in winter ; or a bounty on (tone fences,
though they are durable, would not at this time
be prudent. The objetft of the bounty, and the
amount of it, are equally to be disregarded in
the present cafe : we are simply to consider whe
ther bounties may fafely be given under the pre
sent constitution ; for myfelf I would rather be
gin with a bounty of one million per aim. than
oneth'oufand : I wiflj that my conftitnenrs may
know, whether they are to put any confidence
in that paper, called the conßitution.
You will fuffer me to fav, that the southern
States have much to fear from the progress of
this government, nnlefs your strength is govern
ed by prudence ; the operation of the funding
system, has translated at least two millions of dol
lars, from the southern States, that is to fay
from Georgia, th* Carolinas, and Virginia, to
the Northern Stares. The interest of that sum
when it shall be fix per cent, will be 120,000 dol
lars ; but the quota of those States, is at lead
one third of the whole ; whence it follows that
they mult pay forty thousand dellars every year
t . he . form of interest to the northern 'States!
1 hu, it seems, is not fufficienr, and other mea
sures are to be adopted for draining the south
ern States. Bounties to promote the general
welfare, are already brought forward ; we shall
not hear of a bounty for raising rice, or prepar
ing naval stores. If that was the question, the
general welfare would not have fucli prominent
features. Unless the southern Stares are protect
ed by the constitution, their valuable staples and
their y.fionary wealth, must oc-rafion their de
ftrudtion. Three fliort years has this govern
ment existed ; it is not three years, bur we have
already given fenons alarms to manv of our fel
low-citizens ; eltablifh the doctrine of bounties •
set aside that part of the constitution, which re
quires equal taxes, and demand similar diftribu
nons ; destroy this barrier, and it is not a few
fifhertnen that will enter, claiming ten or twelve
thouland dollars, but all manner of persons—
peop e of every trade and occupation may enter
t the breach until they have eaten up the bread
of our children. 1
Perhaps 1 have viewed this project in too fe
nous a l.ght, but if I am p , rri culirly solicitous
on the fubjecft of finance, rhat we do not even
feein to depart from ,he spirit of the constitu
tion, it is because I wish that the union may be
perpetual. Th, several States are now Pretty
well relieved from their debts, and our fellow
cuizens in the southern States have very ttTe
ile wtV" T iional fu " ds : P reft a lit
wi • "'"T ll '' c^ xes > and the remedy is plain
\ ule w o i*Jd shim bounties, as leading to
cl«ngero t „ measures, Fam not inattentive toU*
• 'gument that has been advanced by the ho
350
norable member who firft rose !n defence of
bill. That gentleman tells us rhar u
bu(hel of fait is used in coring a quintal of
If thi. be eftaWifoed, a« Luti
be amended by giving a greater drawback. He
fays, the drawback as it is now paid to the mer
chant, does not operate so 3 s to encourage the
seamen who have n.oft Bee d of such affile
r ' ' S , V r y J P r -° - ab ' C '' " n ' d the Pities may be
relieved by dividing the drawback in the verv
manner that is proposed by the bill. If* it
true that the proposed bounties, .will .not exceed
the average of the drawback that should be paid
0.. fair, why do they contend about names,an.
lels they are fohcitous about the precedent. If
our obje(ft is to encourage indultry, and to m
create our commerce, by fending fifh to a fareiw
market,we must adhere to the drawback ; fori?
cording to the terms of the bill, th* bounty
be paid, thpngh every fifh that is caught, ihontl
be confnmerf in the country ; in which cafe we
fliould be paying a vifionat y drawback, when no
thing was exported ; according to the terms rff
the bill, there is no proportion between the fai.
bour and the reward, so far as the bank sister*
is concerned ; the bounty in all cases beino d,*
fame. " 6
having exercised your patience in objeftjiw
to tins new system of bounties, and having hiijt
ed on some objections to the genera! operatioi
of the bill, so far as industry and enterprise I
may be desired ; I stall in a few words, fubnuV
the out line of a plan that feei.is to comprehend
all the ufeful parts of the bill, without any
culation upon bounties.
If the drawback on dried fifh exported, is not' •
equal to the duty on the fait used in curing'foch
fifh, let rhe drawback be increased to eleven .
cents or twelve cents as rhe cafe may be. Let
us suppose that rhe drawback for the next year
will be equal to the drawback en the last year;
and let that sum of money, being the expected,
drawback, be divided between the f'eamen and
owners according to the terms of rhe bill ; the
accounts mult be made up annually. If the
drawback exceeds the allowance that bad been
made, the difference will be conlidered as advanc
ed to the fifhery, and the allowance for the next
year, mod be fomewhar reduced, according to '
the actual amount ®f the drawback, if the filh
ermen are more fortunate or ninre active* and
the exports are increased, the allowance for rhe
next year must be railed. The rule being fixed
by law, all that remains being pure calculation,
may be done from year to year by the executive.
Every important objedt of this bill that lias been
presented to our view, may be obtained bv fafe
and constitutional steps. Why should a man
rake a dangerous and a doubtful path, when a
fafe one presents itfelf ? If nothing more is de
sired than to regulate and protect the fi/hery,
th»j>ill may be altered ajld accommodated to,
that purpose, if the theory of bounties is to be
established, by which the southern States mnlt
fuffer while others gain ; the bill informs us
what we are to expert.
(TO EE CONTINUED.)
THURSDAY, February 21
Mr. Macon's motion, as amended, reads thus J
" Resolved,, That the Secretary of' the Treafiiry
cauj~n to be laid before the House a statement of
the balances, if any, remaining unpaid, which
'nay have been due by individuals to the United
States, previous to the 4th day of March, 1789;
and whether any and what Iteps have been taken
to recover the fame ; and also a ftatenient of the
sundry funis of public monies, which may have
been entrusted to individuals, pievious to the
said 4th of March, and have not been accounted
for."
The yeas and nays having been called on the
motion for committing the fame, were as follow :
AYES.
MelTrs. Aines, Baldwin, Barnwell, Benfon,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Clark, Dayton,
Findley, Huger, Jacobs, Kitrera, Leai*aed, Li
vennore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Sedgwick, W.
Smith, Sterrett, Fitzlimons, Goodhue, Gregg,
Hartley, Heifler, Hillhoul'e, Stnrges, Sylvester,
Wadfworth, Wayne, Wvllis— 31.
MefTrs. Afire, Brown, Gerry, Gilman, Grove,
Key, Kirchell, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore,
Niles, Page, Parker, Schoonntaker, Seney, ]■
Snrith, !. Smith, Steele, Sumpter, Thatcher,
T read well, Tucker, V r enable, Vining, White,
Williamfon — 27.
AgainlV the resolution as originally propose!
by Mr. Macon, it was objeified, that it was infoi
nial—that the law instituting the treasury cir
parttnent had made every comperent pro v ifi° ll
in the cafe—rhat the duty of the Comptroller
was particulaily designated'—and that ;f he lias
been deficient, the proper mode would he ro rail
him to an account, and if found remiss, liefhonM
be impeached. The resolution contained an im
putation on that officer, and vet no gentleman
had come forward with atry dii etflchargesagaiint
him. It was fnrt her fnid that information .had
been received from the Comptroller on this fuJ
NAYS,jeA—that a compliance with the •"efolution
would operate agnnft the intereft'of the United
States
The officers of the treafiry are proceeding in
this business; no charge of remifsnefs has been
adduced—they have already made greater pio
grefs in fettling the old accounts since the new
government came into operation, than had been
done in many years previous thereto ; and their
investigations receive no interruption but what
arises from the more important bufineis of tiie
present government.
It was enquired what would be tbe effVrt of this
resolution ?—it would bring forward 1000 or
1500 names of persons apparently debtors 10 the
United States ; but the principal part of whom
were either creditors, or did not owe the public
one ng. What is intended to be done as a
consequence of this "disclosure ?—is it designed
that suits shall bs inltitu ted ngainft these per
sons f—that would induce an unprodutfti ve ex
pence, to an amount which cannot now be elti
inated. The Comptroller is empowered by law
to sue every delinquent; but is he to exercise
no discretion in the discharge of his duty —It
had been ilated as a reason for adopting the re
solution, that its object was to afcei tain to what
amount these balances if any-,would fupercetie the
neceflity of additional taxes—but it wasafked,
■would the government be jtilt 1 fieri in adeffing one
farthing less.on. account of these balances, which
inuft be considered in a great measure as fidtiti
ous ?—lt was further said that it was utterly im
poflible for the officers of the" treasury to lfiake
out the statement in question during the present
fefilon.
In support of the resolution it was Paid that it
did not imply either direCtly or indirectly any
imputation againfi: the' Comptroller—the Houle
has undoubtedly-a right to call on any of its offi
cers for information—it is an opinion abroad,
that there are large sums due from individuals',
and the public has.a right to befatisfied that the
proper steps have.been taken to . recover tfiofe
fums-,—thofe fteps'msv have been- pursued, hut
it is not known that they have—furthar it jvas
said that this information was necefl'ary in order
to being able to form a competent judgment of
the state of the public accounts—that :tlie. infor
mation in qiieftion, the Houle had a inoft un
doubted right to receive ; and that it was a very
llrange idea indeed to suppose that it contained
any reflection on the Comptroller, or any other
officer of the Treasury • it was further said, that
no difficulties ought to deter the House from go
ing into the invelligation ; it was immaterial
whofi? names were brought forward in eonfe
quence—the balances due to the public oughtte
be known—That similar objections to'thofe now
offered, will afways lay againit going into this'
invertigation, and in proportion to the urgency
of the enquiry, will be rhe strength and ingenui
ty of those objections—with refpeCt_ to the disclo
sure of names, it was observed that the truth once
known, would let every man's character in a just
point of light—the enquiry, so far from proving
injurious to such characters, appears to be the
moll direCl method to do away the prejndicesar.d
suspicions that have been circulated againit them.
It is said to be problematical whether there are
any balances due ; but if it should appear that
there are, they may be obtained, and a much
greater I'um realized than is now thought ot, and
new burthens on the people to that amount may
be prevented.
FRIDAY, February 24.
A petition from A. M'Call, and others, nier
chants, praying to be indulged in a longer t£rm
for ihe payment of the duties on a quantity of
teas, by them imported from China, —was refer
red to the fame Ipecial committee, who have al
ready uuder confideraiion a similar petition from
New-York.
A memorial was presented, from the merchants
of Philadelphia vsho trade to India, China, and
other parts of Asia, praying ihe interposition of
Congress to protect their trade, by making a
greater discrimination in the duties imposed on
Asiatic commmodities, directly imported from
Asia, and on articles of the fame kind imported
from Europe.— Referred to a committee of the
whole on the state of the Union.
The house proceeded to coufider the amend
ments proposed by the Senate, to the frontier
bill ; —whereupon the galleries were cleared,
and the doors continued for some time fliut.
■ After the opening of the doors,
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole—(Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair) —and
refbmed the consideration ofrhe resolution, pro
posed by Mr. Livermore, refpe<sting the indem
nification of General Greene's estate.
Afier some debate, the resolution (amended as
foil ows) was agreed to ; —yeas, 25 ; nays, 23.
' Whereas the late Major Gen. N. Greene, on
the Bth day of April, 1 783, the more effectually
to procure rations and supplies for the southern
ariny of the United States, became bound as su
rety for John Banks & Co. to Meffis. Newcotrien
afid Collet, merchants, in Charleston ; for the
payment of 57431. 15
the condition of t!ie laid r- ;; :: > , _
the firft day of May, 1786, the . ,f pr ,
cipal and iutereft of the (aid bon .
86881. 6s. (lerllng, was paid by the laid Genei
Greei e :—Therefore,
_' Resolved, That the United Stares {hall indem
n 'fy the eltate of the said Gen. Greene for the
(aid sum 1 ast mentioned, and the inrereltthereof,
or for such sum as (upon due investigation, by
the officers of the treasury, of the tralifaction be
tween John Banks & Co. and Mefl'rs. JNewcomefi
& Collet, in which Gen. Greene was security for
laid Banks & Co.) it fliall appear, that neither
Gen. Greene, nor his executors, /hall have re
ceived any payment or compensation for Pro
vided, the executors of the said Genera] Greene
lhall account for a sum, being about 2,0001. (be
the fame more or ]ess) recovered of John Ferrie,
one of the partners of the said Banks & Co. to
be in part of the indemnification aforefaid, to be
sued for in the name of the said executors, for
the use of the United States."
The committee having risen, and reported the
resolution, as amer.ded—the Houl'e adjourned.
SATURDAY, February 25.
The House proceeded to the consideration of
the amendments, proposed by the Senate, to the
bill making further and more effectual provjfton
for the defenfive protection of the frontiers of
the United States—whereupon the galleries were
cleared.
MONDAY, February 27.
Mr. S. Bourne brought in the enrolled bill re
lative to the election of a Prefidenc and Vice.
Prefidentof the United States, &c. which was
signed bv the Speaker.
The order of the day on the contested election
of the member for the lower diflritft of Georgia
being called for,
Mr. Wayne rose, and after observing that the
last postponement had not afforded fufficient time
to receive the evidence which he meant to bring
forward on this occasion, offered a resolution for
a further postponement to the Monday in
March next.
On -it was unanlmotifly voted that a
feat be assigned for the petitioner Mr. Jackson,
in which he might, either by himfelf, or his at
torney, flare his objections, if any, to a further
postponement.—Mr. Jackson accordingly took a
feat withirMhe bar, and addrefling the chair, of
fered several objections to 9 further postpone
ment. To these objections Mr. Wayne replied ;
and after fundrv observations from various parts
of the House, the question on taking up the order
of the day was put and carried.
The resolution for a postponement was then
further discussed and amended, and finally agreed
to in the following words, viz.
" Refolded, That the trial of the contested
election of Anthony Wayne, returned as a mem
ber of this.House to represent the state of Geor
gia, be postponed to the second Monday in March
nexc " —36 members rose in favor of the motion.
, Mr:. Baldwin informed the House that he had
received certain papers relative to this election
from the fuprenje executive of the state of Geor
gia, which he aiked leave to lay on the table a
greeable to inftruciions.
Many objections were made to receiving these
papers from all parts of rhe House. Mr. Bald
win, after remarking that they contained many
documents which the house mult neceflarily re
cur to 111 the coot fe of the trial—and that he had
so far piirlued his inftruftions, as would fully
exculpate the executive of Georgia from any
charge ofremiflnefs in duty ontthe occasion, took
back the papers.
A report was received on the petitions of the
importers of teas from India, which was in favor
of the petitioners—and proposes extending the
time for payment of the duties from one to two
years—Laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. W. Smith, the laws for the
government of the Wettern Territory, received
f1 om the Secretary of State, were committed to
the committee on the petition of Judge Turner.
Mr. Murray laid the following motion on the
table :
Refslved, That the Clerk, on every Monday
'Horning, call over the names of committees to
whom business has been referred. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, February 28.
A rnefTage was received from the Seriate, informing the House
that they recede from some of their amendments to the bill mak
ing further and more effectual provision for the defence of the
frontiers, disagreed to by the House, and insist on o.hers.
A memorial was read from the inhabitants of Chester county,
(Pennfylvaniaj inlavor of the cxcife law—and praying it may not
be repealed. This wasfigned by fifty persons.
Mr. Murray prefer.ted an addrefsfiom J. Chuichman ; praying,
for reasons let forth, a speedy decision on his memorial' prefenttd
some weeks since, and reported on by a feleft committee.
The House took into confideiation the mefTage from the Senate
—on which it was ordered that the galleries should be Hint.
Tne doors being opened, the House went into committee of
the whole on the militia bill—Mr. Muhlenberg in the Chair.
The committee finifhed the difcuflion of the firft fettiori of the
bill ; the- second fe&ion which dehgnates the exemptions being i
lead; Mr.Sumpter moved that the several defcriptionj therein men- I
tioned should be struck out. I
, r, o*
This mfl'ion v»aj debited without coming to a decision tin .
cTdmsw". 3 ' ,hC C ° m,n,tteeto rife = "-e committee ac-
The Houf,, on motion of Mr. Williamfon, took , lp , he rcp „ rt
*f mecommtttee on the memorial of Jolln Churchman • theZ
ponbm.g.cad-a mot,on f or an adjournment was made and
eas, o
SOUTH-CAROLINA
RFC * n '^"° u S'°J J{ <P , <S<>'<<'fWs, D, rm l,- r 20 , 17QI .
F.SOLVtD, fh , tin O. Urates „t , , tc !„ £> f| be
rcqu.rted to exprd, botn Hmife* . C,,,,cf, I. J
Uu State ot the propriety of Cune.ef* .tfuri h, wi, 'i .
public debt ot this State,* incurred i u th, piofccutio,, t ,f' "th" lite
Ordered, That the >efolution be sent to the Senate for th-r
concurrence. ■ *
By order of the Houf-,
John Sandfoku Dart, C. H.U,
Senate, Drcemhtr 20, 1791.
Resolved, That this Hotile do concur with the House of Repre.
ieniauves in (he above rcfoluiion.
Ordered, Tliat the resolutions be sent to the House of Re re
lentatjves.
Felix WAR LEY, C
A true extract, and which I at-teft.
John Sand ford Dart,
r , Clerk ofthe Houle ot Reprcieniatis/es.
folumbia, December 27, 1791.
Philadelphia, February 29.
On Sunday the 19th inft. Id, this city, for the Cherokee couti
ry, the hx Indian Chiefs who arrived here on the 29th of Dc
cember bfi, together with the Squaw who came with mem. Tiiey
were attended with fix waggons, contain,ug thei, baggage. piuvii
fion, &c. and accompanied by a white girl, who had 1 milieu tne
heart oi one of the chiefs, during his residence in this city: and
it is said, has consented to become his wife.
FX rl T n\°/? let r te - toedCtpe-Francois, 24th January, , 7 q 2j to arc-
J put able houje in this city, received by the brig Pratt, Capt. Florence.
1 Referring to a few lines I wrote you two week-, „go, by war
of Baltimore, I have now to add, that profpetfs here, in ajnioft
every respeCt, are daily growing more diflrelfing : the troops ex
petted from have not yet ariived, and the people are ai
moft ready to doubt their coming,
I am truly sorry that I, as well a* manv others, have been too
langtjine in my expe&aiions, refpe&ing matters being accommo
dated with the Blacks, because I am tearful it may have induced
you to adventure property to this port looner than you would,
other wife have done. The treaty with them is entirely laid aside
and they have again began depredations with additional vigour!
La ft week the Blacks revolted in .he neighbourhood ot Fort Dau
phin, and immediately putto death all the troops, fay fiam 40 t 0
50, that were stationed at a village about four leagues from that
P'W, and have deOroyed all the plantations in that quarter, except
very lew adjoining the town. Two nights ago we were exceed
ingly alarmed, at this place by a fevcre attack on the out polls of
this town, by**!e Blacks, who succeeded in getting possession of
one of the small forts, when they turned the guns on the town ;
but fortunately it was again retaken by a party of regular troops!
-ast night this town was again alarmed by small parties of Blacks
>ut were soon repulsed."
-xtrad of a letter from Cape Francois, dated January 23,1792.
ceivcd per brig Pratt, Capt. Florence.
The drums beating to arms Idil night was occasioned by the
negroes wading through the river, and surprizing a small fori ac
the hospital, which they took, and fired fevera (hot into the
town; fever a 1 whites were killed, and seven negroes taken pri
soners, fix of whom were hanged about 1 hours after, and one
brutally mangled by breaking his arms and legs, made fact to a
cross, and there left to die."
O ne ™ an steal an horse while another must not look ovt
th( hedge.
This proverbial faying is verified in the Philadelphia papew,
by the writings which of I.te have pointed out the ruioous eife&i
resulting from members of Congress being permitted to be Di
ridlors of thp National Bank. Many membejrs of the State Legif*
latures are Directors of the State Banks—and the propriety of their •
conduct has not been qucftioned. Have these fault-finders iuft re
ceived the gift of wildpm todifcern the evil tendency of Congress
men being Bank Directors—and is that wisdom blind of one-,
\ eye, so that they can fee but half the evil ? It seems the Dite&oi* »
of the State Banks have the luck to stand on the blind fide of these
centinels for the public.
Congress has been wicked enough to fund the debt—and fa the -
horn is blowed, and the world summoned to arms to defend re
publican liberty which is finking under its enemies, the monied,
men. Congress is to answer for all ihis. But havernot feieral of the.
Stales evui gone beyond Congress, and given an additional two or
three per cent, to such of the creditors as hold the certificates of
thofe States ? These States, however, are innocent of this mifchiet;
and though what they have done may have increased the evil, the
whole fin lies at the door of Congress.—And what is the fin?
After keeping our creditors 12 or 14 yearsiuut of their dues, we .
prpmife to pay them 1 and to make the promise appear better than .
a score of old promises which we have broken, we fay, we pledge
certain revenues which lhall remain sacred to pay the intercflC
Yet for having done this, certain writers have seen fit to treat the -
government as bad as if it was managed by pickpockets. Thev
infmuate that the debt was not fiyided till it had changed haods.
If the funding ast was a long time delayed, after it was firft dr»
bated, it was not the fault of the advocates.of that act. They
would have been glad to hasten its passage. The length and vio.
lence of the debates spread through the country as general a know
ledge of the a& and its principles as can*be cxpefted to accom
pany any measure of the government.
No New-York papers were received by yeflerday's mall—Some
of the Boston papers reach the Editor about once a month, others
not so often.
The lines addrefTed to a young; lady we arc apprehensive would
give offence—there aie other obje£lions to ihem.
Died lately in Pencader, Newcastle County, State of Delaware
in an advanced age, Mrs. Edwards, consort of the Rev. Mr!
Morgan Edwards.
——In the Western Country, Col. Gibson, of the wounds h<;
received in the action on the 4ch November lafl.
Errata—ln Mr. Murray's fpeerh in our iaft for " the pay.
men: of the Dutiesread bounties : And in Mr. Gerry's, last pa
ragraph, after the word branch, add, which Jlands in need of hie
fapport oj government more than any other branch in the " U/iited
Sraics."
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC. SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 24[6 pr. J.
3 pr. Cents 14^4
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 14/10
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Scttl. and other Certificates 22f Iro r?o.
f"' i <*nts 1 4./" 7° no.
Half (hares Bank Stock— >104 per premium.
By order of the Senate.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS
pr. cent.
71 § do.
74 do -Militia Fines.
r Colle&ors of Militia Fines in the City and Liberties of
Philadelphia, and the diftrttts ot Moyameniingand Pallyunk,
aic heieby required to colletk and pay into the County Treasury,
a J arrca rages of fines, and to fettle and depolit rhtir books and
vouchers m n iy (Jffict, at No. 6t, Walnut-ttreet, on or betore the
lit day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the said firft day of April, ail Collectors who
(hail fail j n complying with this requilition, will be proceeded
against according to law,
Philad. Feb. : 79 1
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Public Vindve,o» Wednesday
the nth day of April next,
r I 'HE SEAT of the late Docflor Lewis Johnflon,
dcceafed, in Perih-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raruan, where it empties into the bay about 18 miles from Sandy-
Hook, and affords two moll agreeable situations for Gentlemeus'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, wth gardens, and
a good colle&ion of fruit Trees of the best kinds. The land is very
fertiJe, and a great part ot it very good meadow ; and from its (itu
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oysters and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the fljts before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments; and as Pirth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within i 3 miles of the sea, the profpett ot its
'"ncreafing in value from that circumstance, is by no m-:ans incon
siderable.
There wil' also be fold, other Lots, within the bound"? of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acre* of Land on the opposite fide
of the river RaTitan—part of which is improved by a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
vooded and timbered, and verv convenient for supplying New-
York and other markers with fire-wood, timber tor ibip build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
fafr. The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
and the lequiftre conveyances m<;de by
Irvwrs mn' R a " d I Truilccs to th- said Eft»tr.
BOWES REED, >
Likewise to be SOLD, at the Jnme time and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of E;ift New-Jersey, wheiecn the pro
prietary house lately stood. The eleg.int situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where th«y disembogue into the sea to the East—and
a most delightfnl one of the ferpenrne course of the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a rich tract of meadow to the Weft.
The gTeat quantity of stone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the house lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large stone cistern, and well of.excellent w*trr,
with a very convenient stable and coach-house, will greatly lessen
the expence of putting the place in order for the residence of a
Gentleman.—There are tew situations so eligible, particularly »ru
the summer season—when the cool sea breezes, and fUvated
situations, render them places of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and neighbouring cities.
Perth-Amboy, Feb. 15, 1792. (^p6w)
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & JUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of every defcriptiotijOnCowOT/^Te/;,
at the following rates:
O>J the fpeeieamount of all sales at au&ton, one eighth pet
cent.
On ditto at private sale or purchase, onc-halj per cent.
On ditto.
Receiving interest nt the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For makingtransfers at ditto, [tventy-fvl cents per transfer,
$djT Such persons as may incline to favor the subscriber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with punftuatity,
fidelity and diftateh. H<s long experience and extensive dealings
in the public flocks, together with a we 11 established correspon
dence throughout the Utmed States, enable him to conduct his
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers.
JOHN PINTARD,
Nero-York, No. 57. Kiiyr-Strrtt.
Oflober t.5, 1791
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed estate of GEORGE WANER, deceased, con
fining ot a valuable Plantation and tra& of Timber Land
fuppofed'o contain be! ween four hundred and 450 acres, about
50 of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a dwelling-honfe and kitchen, a cooper's (hop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The house stands close on a good landing belonging to the said
pfemifes ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile of said landing, and an equal diflance from a saw-mill
and gnft-mill and also of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any perfonthat is disposed to view or purchase the said pre
•mifes, may fee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubferibers near the fame.
MARK MILLER and ) _
ANDREW MILLER, $ txecutors '
Salem Cnuvty, 'id mo. 1792.
N. B. There is Hkrwife a lot of Meadow ground of about ?c
adjoining lands of Abboit Sayrrs, and others, the property
of said deceased, to be fo!d in manner as above, by the fair) exe
• [rp 4 w'l
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE ~~
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, .he title indifputabtf, in
.'Vihc county r.f Gloucester, fnppofed in contain five hundred
and forty jrn 5 of Meadow Land and Cedar ?wamp, fituaic on a
branch of Little River, in thetownftitp ol Galloway
'['here is on said piemifrs a frame houfc and kitchen, a small hay
house and (table. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninetv of woodland, and a cedar swamp. chief
ly Wrll timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow fintrrfoerfed
wi;h frtfti waier flowing flreams) fufneient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The nruation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for raising stock.— Any nerfon in lining to p.trchafe said Plama
lioo. may have poiTefTton from ihe 25'h of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by ""plying to the fubferibe-, I,Cine at
Qmnton's Br.idge, in the county of Salem; or a further descrip
tion may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonfield ■ or of
James Scull, adjoining said lanJs.—The place above mentioned,
n a pleafan: Valtltv country, within two miles of three grift and'
fiw-mills : And three houses appropriated to divine ip, are
about the fame d'Uance. Terms of payment made e 3 f v (, v
ANDREW MILLER.
Sal. ;-:
Quinton'j Br
yd no. 13; ';, \-q
THOMAS PROCTER, Leu',
of the City and Liberties.
['F4" 1
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR bALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chfjnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kit's and Nevifi Rum,
Port-au-Princc, Cap?*-Francois and Surinam Molailes,
Coffee, Colon, a ud Pimento,
Hvfon and Souchong Tea, of fhc fiifl quality,
Cloves, Ciiflia, arid Bolton Chocolate,
Spermaceti Candles and ftraincd Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarv-1.
Boston Beef and Burlington Pork,
RulTia and Boston Canvas,
A few bales-excellent Hop/:,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wirir, in pipes, hogfneads and quarter casks,
And a Jew cases old Butavia Arrack,
February 8, 1792
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the fir It quality—by retail,
No 19,
Third-Siren,brtwem Chcfnut and MarlcrlStrrrts
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, St Co.
HAVE just now opened their L« ad-War I house, two doors
south of Walnut-ft reel Wharf, adjoining their New Faflory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifli woikmen, they wairant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the coll of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders add relied to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
Oiorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, anri
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin&Co.
at their F?&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Phi/ade/jthia, Dccr.mbcr 3, 1791. tf
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMMISSION, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnnt-Street,next door to the Bank, No. 97.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal frynj the waters of Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducting the work, will be leccived until the ninth day
of April ne*t, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thorns.
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will br
about sixteen miles; the country through which it will pafi, is
swampy, free from Hones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to bo thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at ieaft >n
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi.
in drv seasons, by vefiels drawing three feet watf.
Good fecuriiy will be required of contractors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, mull produce
certi&cates (from charaflers of refpeflability) of their qualifications
for a bufmtfs of this kind.
By oidcr of 'he Prefidrnt and Dirr&nrs,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clrrk
fcyt^A)
January 21, 1792.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of (he Lcgiflature of the Slate of New-Terfev'
palled November i"Qi. J ''
1
1
,*)
10
3°
90
j 6?5
CHE
Priae of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
ivs- Ti. 53 ? 4 T,ckc,s > Jt 3 Dollars each, is ,Gooa Dolls.
(PT This Lottery ,s composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blank*
to one Prije, and fubjeft to a drdt.aion ot twe/ve and an half b,r
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Luttei'v vet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal lupport.
The drawing will commence on (he second Monday in ADri!
or sooner if the Ticke.s are disposed of, in the city of New -
Biunfw.rk, under the mfpeftTon of Cot. fnhn Bayard, Prefidcm
° r ' l> , :Pdlkcr - Ef l- Mayor of the cry of Amhov •
Slid Aichibald Mercer, El'q. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society ot New. Jersey.
' ,C j et « S .'° be had of the f°" ow ' n ff persons, who are duly an.
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A liftof the fortunate number, will be published, and the
prues paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, ) ''
PETKR k F.EN°N, ( Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, \
7 h "'' pnz f cs , w^' Ch ' Irf " 0t r,emand '-' 1 ™-<hin fix months
tfter the drawing of the Lottery, will be conf.dc,cd as a genrruu,
donation to the Cburrh. b Ul
New-Bruvfwich, ?o, fq*
• ... • .ith of a Dj, lar
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS,
On the mod important Subic&s
the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written in Holland in the vear 1780,
By the Vice-President of the United States.
Pr BM Powrs to receive Interefl, andforthetra-nifer of the
pr.nc.p,! ofpubhc 4cbU agreeable to the Rules ejlabti/hed in'tbel, a
■' f ° BUnh f' r^r "^oJdrtijLte*, tcbefoUh
, n H, J.% THlßr> SESSION of the S?XATZ
OX ITEO STATES, may be bid of the Editor hereof.
352
M E,
Dollars is 2000
200®
1000
500
200
3000
1000
moo
1000
I S CO
J 800
6700
100
5°
so
4
16000
[ep 3 m]
Of the real Eft ate of JOHN KIDD, late of t i,.
Jownfhipof Benfelem, in the County of Buck*
Lfquire, deceased, pursuant to the Direiftion.
of his last Will and Testament.
OM Tuefdav the 17th of March next will be exoofed >„ q 1
by way of Public Vendue, on the pren.ir,,l?)ne« J'
ingly valuable ana h.phly improved Farm, containing about two"
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the r,ver Delaware
which is ereflrd a handsome two-story brick house, with a n, 0 "
P""a .n Ihe front, two kitchens, a Rood barn, (tables, hay-hoTs?
and other convenient oulhoufs. A good orcbaro of the best k.nJ
of crafted run now in it. prime; a Urge garden w-1| fenced m
and ill good ord.er; and a (had and herringfiihery beforetiicdo
1 his place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficicncv of mea'
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back tothe post-road "
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above; coma,™,
about two hundred and fevrn acres, the grl-ateft can of which i
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, ham, (tables
and other outhoufrs, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a (had and herring filhery. It has lon. been ,
well aceoftomed tavern ; and the ferry belonging to it, know, by
the name or Dunks s, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented Both the above places afford the belt profpefts 011 iC
r ver, and are remaikably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three aercs fitu
a'e in the tow*fhip of Southampton, in the county afotefaid on
which are ereaed two log-houses. There is a (mail orchaid 'and
a great fufficicncy of wood-land and meadow ground. '
One Lot. containing four acres, situate on the great post roa.l
leading frotVi Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log dwelling-house, and work-Oiop »rf
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now ,hl
tenure of the Widow Ward.
>P4 W ]
Also, It the fame time and dace, will be fold all the remainiu.
Stock, Houlhold-Furniture, Firming Utenfiis, and Wheat . n ihf
ground.
N. B. The eondition* of sale will be, one-third of the
mqney to be paid down, and the remainder 111 two yearly oav
mcnts with interest. '
(eptms7)
I. January b, iros
N FORMATION is hereby given to ill the mi.itiry invalid,
of the United States, that the sum« to which they are imuled,
for fix months of their annual pension, fiom the 4th day ol Sep.
tember, 1791, and which will become due on the <ih day of
March, 1791, will be paid on the said day by the Commiffionert
of the Loans within the ftatea rcfpcftively, under the ufml rera.
lations, v\z, ®
Every application for payment inuft be accompanied by the
following voucher*.
id. The Certificate given by the tele, fpeeifying that the per
on paffeffing the fame it in f«£l an invalid, and ascertaining tte
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Jufticesof fhecountyof
in the date of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. tb
whom the original certificate in his DoHrflTiin was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to b«jc
cited) That he served (regiment, corps or vessel) at the lime he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and county of
and has resided there for the last years, previous Id which he
resided m
To cafe an invalid Hiould apply for payment by an attorney,the
attorney, befidesthe certificate and oath before recited, mulk
produce a fpeeial letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. 3. of county of state of do hereby conftl
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalt of my penfjon for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand (even
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand (even hundred and ninety-two.
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Applications of executors and adminiflrators must be accompa
nied with legal evidence of their refpe&ive offices, and also of the
time the invalids died, whose pmfion thev mav claim.
By command of the President of the United States
H. KNOX, Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpeflive states are requeued to publilh
the above in their newspapers, for the space of two months.
Annapolis, January t, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Vifitorsond Governors of St. John's College,
in the State of Maryland, on Thurfdav the 10th of Novem
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro
ceed to ele& a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, fo
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy ; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal shall hereafter be alcertained with precision, on eonfi
derations of their mutual convenience and refpeftivequalifications.
That the Vut. Principal shall be entitled to receive, for hisler
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money,
rating dollars at 7f6 each, to be paid quarterly. .
That persons desirous of, and qualified for the appointment 0
Vice-Principal, be, by public advertisement. requefttd to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace. Mr. Charles Carroll of Carro!'-
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna
polis. By order of the Bor»rd,
JOHN THOMAS, President.
N. B. The fundamental Laws of St. John's College prohibit 3
preference on account of r< ligious tenets or opinions.
A s the aopointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, t®
compleat the plan of this rising fewinary, the Board will certain V
proceed to the election at the stated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important Ration, can be pro
cured. The personal attendance of the candidates, although no*
positively required, will be obvioufiy proper. _
It mav be ufeful to remark, that the falariesof all the profefio'S
and teachers havr hitherto been paid withenfire punctuality; an
thit the funds of St. John's College produce a certain annujl in
come, fupcrior to all the appropriations, which have beeo, or pio
bably will be made.
The Printers of newfpjtpers throughout the United
are eatneftly riquefted to inlert the above resolve and
and ro repeat the publication as ofren « convenience will
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR, ,
AT ABLE for receiving and paving; Gold at the Bank 0 1 '
L'nittrd States, the Value of Gold in D^l' ars
Cents, fr«m One to a Thousand Pennvwfjghts— according '
A6t of Gongrefs, ascertaining the .Standard and Value of Go •
S A
L E S
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, i Executor,.
SAMUEL BE..VEZET, )
War Department.
Witnesses.
Acknowledged before me,