A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENSO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 14, of Vol. IV.]
To be publijhed h Subfcripiiov,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
OR, PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old feoncj/rej'S,
From their firft Mating in September 1774, to
their final DilTolutiou in March 1789,—
COMPRISING, at full length, every impor
tant refoluuon, order, addrel's, declaration,
&c contained in the thirteen volumes of their
journals a concise fummarv of the kin mtereltiiig
oarts-an alphabetical lift ot appointments, pro.
motions, an# refignations-a colleft.ve view ol the
public expenditures, &c. &c.-the whole intended
io serve as a fatislaftory fubft.mte for the original
Journals, which are now out of prmt, and of which
the enure substance, un-mcumbered with official
formalities and repetitions, will here be given in
about one fourth of their present bulk—accompa
nied with mi complete geneial Index :— —
To which will Be added.
A copiout and valuable collection of original
&T6,
From the records ond files of Congress,—
Containing (either verbatim, or in abftraft, as
the cases may severally require) such iiitereiling
pieces referred to in the journals, as may with pro
priety be permitted to be made public, viz. Letters
from the different officers employed in the public
fcrvice during the late war—intercepted letters of
the enemy—communications from governors, state
legislatures, conventions, and committees dis
patches from agents and commifiioners instruc
tions— reports of committees of Congress—and va
rious other authentic documents, tenaing to throw
u light on the important events, to which America
owes her prefect independence.
In the couifc of the work, will be introduced
in their proper places, such parts of the
'tcrd Jowmalo
a$ no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubfcnbed for, the
work will be put to press—to be delivered to sub
scribers in numbers of 304 odlavo pages each, at
one dollak, in blue boards. The Jubfcription
money will not be required for the fir ft number, un
til the publication is begun ; and on the delivery
©f each number, half a collar will be expected in
advance tor the succeeding one. To nou-fubfcri
bers, the price will be raised.
Subscriptions will be received by the principal
jook-felleib throughout the Union, and by the
Editor, JOHN CAREY.
1 No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia. (it)
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
JULY 6, 1792. '
THE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Scat on
Rock Creek, deemed by those who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House may be placed within one quarter ol
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market house in Georgetown, and one mile
irom the President's fquaie, in the city of WaPn
ington—on tide water, navigable for veflels of se
veral hundred buftiels burthen.—The stream is
fufficient,the year round,to turn four pair of stones,
and the tall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is unnectfTary to dwell on the advantages of such
a situation.
The purchaser raay be accommodated with a
few hundred acrGS of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
if that should be an objefh
(epsra i 4 Jul)
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
June 28. 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Tettamentof
the late Rev. Alexander Wil 1.1 am son,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurl
day, the 1 ith of October next, at G eor g etow n,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear intereftfrom
the date—That valuable Seat of Land. in ,Montgo
mery county, called Hayss; the late dwelling
plantation ol the dcccafed, containing between fix
and seven hundred acies, the greatefl. part of which
is rich, heavy umbered land, extremely well wa
tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity c! fine meadow ; —Situated about 6 miles
irom the Federal City,and the fame diflance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
The improvements aie, a very elegant two story
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
pafTage, or entrv. on a floor) and the necefTary oul
houfes. HENRY TOWN&END,)
BENJ. STODDERT, J> Executors.
(eptO) THOMAS JOHNS,. )
Stock Brokers Office,
Great Dock-ftrcet, New-York,
THE bubferiber intending to confine himfell,
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
his Services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their bafinefs, may depend upon
hdving it tranfa&ed with the utmost fidelity and
dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other
part of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed 10.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
Jfcj »
THE Partnerfhipof HAZARD & ADDOMS.
is diifolvcd ; — All persons having demands
on that FIRM, are delircd to call for fettJeincnt,
upon EBENEZER HAZARD, at No. 128, North
Second-Street—ard those indebted to it are ic
queited to make immediate payment to him.
EBENEZER HAZARD,
JONAS ADPOMS.
Philadelphia, July 10, 1792. (tf)
THE UNIVERSAL HYMN BOOK.
Now in the Prcfs, and will be ready for Sale in
ten days, by THOMAS DOBSON, and
A Selection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
xl. RITUAL SONGS ; taken from different Au
thors, for the Use of those who believe in the
Reftorationof all Men. Publifned by Order of
the Convention holding said Faith, met in Phila
delphia, Mav, 1791.
* # * As this is an Universal Hymn Book, the
favor of the Printers indifferent parts, in inserting
the above advertisement, will be acknowledged.
July ii. eptf.
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
July 2fl, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, That there will be
paid at the Bank, after the 10th instant, to
ihe Stockholders, or their representatives duly au
thorized, the following sums, being the dividend
declared from the commencement of the institu
tion to the firft instant, viz.
For each share compieated in the month of
March, Twelve Dollars.
For each share compleared in the month of April
Ten Dollars, Sixty-seven Cents.
For each share compieated in the month of May,
Nine Dollars, Thirty-three Cents.
For each hals-share, Eight Dollars.
By order of the President and Dtre&ors,
(aw.) JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from in February
last, a N'KGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
so years of age; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a pail homespun brceches, and a low
shirt ; "(he fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inches, very
fouare made ; has a mark along fide of his nose.
and one of his infieps has been burnt, which causes
th? sinews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and fecurrs him
in any jail, so that I may get him again, (ball re
ceive the above reward, and have al! reasonable
charges oaid. ROBERT PH.ARCE.
Head Safafras, June 16. 1792. (*epim)
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, living in
Kent County, and State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 2*7 th May last, a NEGRO M A N.
Darned Hark; about 40 years about five
feet nil* inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his head on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
him the followingcloaths, viz. a fearnought coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn stock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
two oznaburgh lhirts, each piectd on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with new tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negro, if out of this
State,and secures him in gaol, fnall receive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and secured as aforefaid, (hull receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward; and il brought
home, reasonable cxpences will be paid bv
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY.
Ck'.flcr-Tourn, June 4, 179'- ( C P 8w ) '
B. STODDERT.
Containing a geographical description of the
St aie —wirh ficetches of its natural history, pio
du&ions, improvements, and present (late ot 10-
ciety and manneis, laws and government.
This volume complcats the history, and is
pe.uliarly interesting. Subfcribcrs arc delired
to call for their books.
Tones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the
United States, on Commission, by Private
Contract, and Public Auftton.—Thofe gentlemen
who may be pleased to iavor them with their
commands, jnay rely on fidelity, fccrecy and di.-
patch. x
Boflon. March, 1792. ( ,aw 3 m )
WAITED—TO RENT,
(£f" A convenient Hovfe, in or near the centre <j/
the City —Enquire ojthe Editor.
Wednesday, July i 8, 4792.
other Booksellers irv Philadelphia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOX D (PRICE lOf.)
By EBENEZER HAZARD,
128 North Second-Street,
THE
HISTORY
AA- -*•»-» -*■ v " *
O F
New-Kampfliirc,
Vol. IU
By JER EM * BEL" NA P, A. M.
53
/ tOM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION,
(continued.)
A Sketch of the general Trade oj the United States.
r ~¥^llE coasting trade has become very great, and <
X the derangement cf the Welt-India trade
inuft extend it exceedingly, during the current
year, from the failure of molaifes. The increafi
ot mdimfa&ures, and foreign icitn&ions on oiher
branches, have contributed to elevate this valuable
part of our commerce; and the former fmanu
factures) will continue steadily to increase its im
portance. The vetfels which take supplies of
flour, and many other articles from the middle
and northern itates, to South-Carolina and Geor
gia, muke very frequent voyages, and they return
Icls than half laden ; but if the planters should
pursue the cultivation of hemp, flax, hops, and
cotton, they may come back with full cargoes.—
A similar lemark may be jultly made in regard to
other ftjtes.
The filherics do not appear to have recovered
their former value ; but it is plain they have in
creased yearly iince the year 1789 —and they are
even 1- w more valuable than they appear to be.
'1 he cisiiumpiion ol oil, whale-bonr, ikins of sea'
animals, spermaceti, and pickled and dried fifh,
is much great« r in the United Siat, s zt this time,
than it was twenty yeais ago. The out-fits of the
filhing vclfcls, too, are moie from the induilry and
relouiccs of the country than was formerly the
cafe. Wherefore the general benefits r< fulling
tiom the fifheries, are probably little less than be
loicthe levolution.
Remote as the United States are from all fo
reign nations,'totally unconnected with their poli
tics aDd having no temptation to wage war for
territoVy, they cannot but advance in commer
cial and agricultural prosperity, if they preserve
order and justice at home. Foreign reftri&ions
will be nectHarily leis rigid, as oeccfions for
luppliesand pacific ferviceslrom the United States
shall arise ; and these occasions mud inevitably
exist in every maritime nation, whichjihall engage
in war, even with a countiy which is not nfell
maritime.
The prosecution of manufa&ures has created
some increase of our foreign trade, and will ex
tend it. If we did not pursue ihat branch of in
dustry, wc (bould not import copper, iron, and
hemp, from the Baltic ; cotton, saltpetre and
White calliooes from India , ami cocoa, oye-wocus,
mahogany, cotton and hides from the Weft-In
dies and the southern part ot the American con
tinent. Some of these importations regular
ly and extensively made ; others are increafuig.
Without them wc should have no intercourse with
some of these countries, and much less than we
now have wth others. In like manner our 111-
tercourfe with fevcral countries is increased by
manufactured exports. The demand tor our pot
ash, distilled spirits, (hips and boats, feeel, malt
liquors, cheese, bar iron, flit iron, gunpowder,
carriages and other articles, occasions a greatei
and more bencficia! trade with many foieign ports.
It is impollible to lay how rapid and how confi
dsrablc the progress of this pait of our commerce
will be. The exported manufaflures of Great-
B.'itain in 1791, -were gieater than ihofc of fifty
years ago, by twice the value of our present ex-i
ports.
It is extremely favorable tj American com
merce, internal and foreign, that a variety of chan
ges have taken place in the affairs of the worjd,
which have opened branches of trade forincily
withheld from us bv monopoly, or other circum
stances. The ast ot separation from Great Bri
tain enabled us to trade to China, Bombay, and
Surat ; and the enterprise of our citizens soon dis
covered the way. The curious perfr&iou of ma
nufacturing machinery in Europe, has made it the
interest of the foreign India companies to fell us
I their piece goods in the markets ot the east, with
out taking them at fecoud hand. The misfor
tunes oi St. Domingo have encreafed our com
mercc in and will have the fame efie£t
upon cotton, and they are driving us rapidly into
an internal trade in native spirits, which will of
course lead to external commerce of the fame
kind. This will appear to be a t matter of great
importance, when ii is remembered, that since the
hie peace, the foreign spirits imported have in
lime years been equal to one fifth of our (xports.
The failure of ship timber, which begins to ap
pear every where in Europe, is enublir.g the Un
ited States to carry on f.iip building upon very ad
vantag«ous terms. The profitable establishment
of several banks of perfect credit with the mod
wary and judicious citizens ind foreigners, is at
once a proof and a great mean of commercial
prosperity. The growth of citics, towns,and ma
uufsftures has given to the fifheries a more sub
stantial basis in a conliderable home demand,!
than ihey foi merly had in a foreign one. The ba
nishment of paper tenders, and ex post facto laws,
ar.d the inteidithon o» laws impairing the obliga
tions ol conttafts, have placcd cur commerce upon
a more honorable and solid footing, than it ever
was before. The mint, the laws regulating sea
men and the fifheries, the appreciation of the pub
lic debt, the {pint ol improvement on roads, ri
vers and canals, the difcovcry of coal near naviga
ble water, the late extension of the post office, the
constant incrcafe of light houses on the coasts, the
innod uftion of auxiliary arts, and above all, the
piogrefs ofjagriculture have given facility, stability
and extention to our tiade, which were unknown
before the revolution, and :n the riillrefsful
i derangements of 1786 ?nd i7B;appeared beyond
the bounds of realouablc expectation.
[Whole No. 556.]
MANIFESTO of the Govfrnment at Brux
-2 l l es tn an fiver to the declaration oj war on the
part of Francs.
PROCLAMATION
Marie Christine Albert-Casimir Princz
Princcfs Royal of Hun- Royal of Poland and I ithua
garia and Bohemia, via, Duke of Saxe- Tefcheu
Archduchtfs of Auflria, Grand Cross of the Royal Order
Duchess of Burgundy, of St. Stephen, Field Marshal
Lorraine and Saxe-Tef- of the Armies of his Majefly the
chen. King of Hungary and Bnhe-
rnia, and of those ef the Holy
Rowan Empire, c3c.
Lieutenant Governours, and Captain*
General of the Low Countries, Sc. <3c.
A FACT I ON, by which the kingdom of
France has for four years been torn asun
der, has jufk prevailed on his MoftChiiftian Maje
sty, to fa nation a Declaration of War against hia
Apostolical Majeftv, our mod honorable Lord and
nephew. The full a6ts of hofttlities seem to be
dire£ted against these Provinces ; and the enemies
of all order and power, who are meditating an
aggreflion so nnjuft, found their hopes ot success
lon the spirit of partv which was unfortunately
i diffeminatcd during the late troubles.
We will carefully attend to the defence of rhofs
provinces with the government of which we are
entruftcd, relying with confidence on the protec
tion of the Lord of Holts, who is pleased to mani
fest the effects of his omnipotence in favor of those
who are inl'pired with a sacred refpe£t for the laws,
and for all powers by him ordained on the earth
for the government of human societies.
We flatter ourselves that everv class of citizens
will be animated with one spirit, and that they
will vigilantly attend to the maintainance of in
ternal tranquility and the prefcrvation of property,
while we order to the frontiers part of his Ma
jetty's troops, full of glory, and crowned by vic
toty under the two last reigns, until the league,
formed between several great powers, (hall oopofe
a mound to the torrent of Unifier pioje&s which
menaces the overthrow of Europe.
We owe it to the faithful fubje&s of his Ma
}efty, to inform them ot the meafires which we
have adopted, during a whole year, in hopes of re
maining at peace with France,; and to warn them
of the innumerable calamities which our enemies
are eager to spread and perpetuate, under the spe
cious veil of chimerical liberty, offered to a cre
dulous multitude, b} an impious fe£t of innova
tors, Jot difant philosophers, as the infallible re
sult ot their mad piojeits. 'i heir's is not to war
with the Ptinces of the earth, hut against the re
ligion of our ancestors, against tocial.order, againit
profperuy, and against ?!1 the comforts which n -
turally flow from it. 1 hey have already, by the
adoption of their absurd fyftcms, plunged their
country into all the horrors of anarchy. Jealous
of the prosperity of those nattorts who flill enjoy
the fruits of social order, they have formed for
their own protection the barbarous projett of in
spiring them with a similar delirium, of propaga
ting their errors, and with them all the calamities
| with which the kingdom of Fiance is at tins time
afflicted.
They have been, during a whole medita
ting and inventing pretexts for the aggreflion on
which they had icfolved. Having driven away
from the bosom of France, by dint of persecu
tions, al! those citizens who were attached to the
eftabliflied religion, and to the hi
therto held facrcd by the fundamental laws of
the kingdom, they have attempted to prevent
them from enjoying in any part of the world, the
fwects of holpitality which men reciprocally owe
to each othtr. We have been extremely caieft l
not to afford the flighted grounds of complaint,
' resolved not to meddle in the least degree, with
the political government of any neighbouring
states. We have taken care to prevent that any
thing fhouJd be attempted, or even written, in
those provinces, against the constitution just efta
bliftied in . ranee ; and as a reward for our ftri6fc
attention to the laws of good neighbourhood, a
horde of factious vagabonds has been assembled
ou our frontiers, resolved on the execution of the
most infernal plots. The mod infamous writings
against religion and against the constitutional au
thority oT the sovereign, have been dispersed in
ihefe provinces. These writings were fubftantial
!y the fame as th." speeches delivered in the midst
of the authorised societies, in which the most at
(.rocious crime* have been recommended as vir
tues, with a view to flatter ihe criminal propenfi
lies of a set of men, in hope* of reconciling them
: to a system, which 111 history will be the disgrace
! of the present generation.
All our remonstrances on this fubjeft have been
i made in vain ; and whilst we paid the greatest at
tention to complaints relative to armaments which
had no existence, and to pretended infuks offered,
to Frenchmen, all kinds of excefles have been mul
tiplied against the fubjeft of his Majesty, and com
mitted on his territories, and we have never ob*
tained on so many obje&s of complaint, any thing
more ?han promises of fatisfa&ion, which have iu
no inftancc been performed ; ana when we have,
on our part, exercised that vigilance, which was
become neceflary on the conduct of emifliarics,
who it was boasted openly, were sent into thole
provinces, on purpose to excite infurrettions and
10 create anarchy, we have been insulted for hav
ing taken ihofe precautions, which were construed
into attempts against the fafety aud liberty of
French travellers. On the other hand, we were
applauded for having given orders to prevent the
allemblmg of the unfortunate French gentlemen
who had emigrated from the kingdom, and to o
blige them to conform moll ftriftly to the laws of
simple hospitality, in order to preclude the pofli-.
bility of iheir arming and forming thcmfelves
into military corps. (Concluded in our next.)PARIS, May 9-
The relations of the unfortunate Dil
lon have publiftied the following
account of his death :
Relation of the siffajfination of M. The
obald Dillon, Marechal dc Lamp, at
Lift, ths 2t)th of April, 1792.
BY AN EYE WITNESS.
I DINED at Gen. Theobald Dillon's
the day of the expedition at 1 our
iiiay. In the course of the conversa
tion, he many times teftified his con
fidence in the good dilpofition and
courage of the ti oops he commanded.
Although I had been for. thel'e fifteen
years his intimate friend, it was not
until after the orders had been given
to the troops, that I knew he was to
march the fame evening.
He quitted me in the afternoon to
go to Gen. Daumont ; at half palt 7
o'clock the troops were under arms ;
they had the belt appearance pollible
—a little before' nine o'clock he went
out at the head of the army, by the
gate of Kiffe. The next day [Stinday
April 29 ] at 9 o'clock, I went to Gen.
Daumont, to alk him if there was any
impropriety iu my going to view»the
army, and if it was not necefl'ary to
have a paflport ? Ire replied in the
negative.
Madame Dillon tcflified great nn
eafinefs for her brother, but he as
sured me that it was without founda
tion ; and from the orders army
had received, an enji.iger.ient was not
likely.
I mounted on horftback, and de
parted by the gate of Fiffe, in order
to fee M. Diil'on. At a place near
the town I met four dragoons, who
\as soon as they saw me made Signs by
their sabres for me to return ; crying
that all was loft—That the army had
been betrayed, and cut in pieces. I
begged them not to fprcad the alarm
in the town : but firft to acquaint
Gen. Daumont, and the principal of
ficers of it.—They soon lefc me be
I returned into town with a
man without an uniform, who relat
ed that his comrade was killed by
his fide : with him was an officer of
the national guards, on a horse be-
Jonging to one of the artillery carri
ages, who also cried that all was 1011,
betrayed, and cut to pieces, but he
could not give any detail of particu
lars.
I took my domestic with me, and
returned again on foot to the gate of
Fiffe. The. street was full of fuldiers
and national guards, who impeded
the paflage of the cuirafliers,\vlio be
fan to enter in crowds with great
iforder. The Swiss of Dieiback,who
guarded the gate, had ereiTted forne
works and stationed patroles on the
outside : in the mean time the caval
ry- entered, raising the cry of trea
son, aristocrat, and a la lantern
The confulion now became gene
ral ; many, without knowing who
commanded, demanded the head of
Kochambeau ; I then went to the
fuburbi ; the infantry nowprefeuted
themselves, but in small numbers ;
the road was covered with cavaliers,
•11 crying treason. Not one wnnnd
ed, not even a horse ; I asked niaiiv
officers and soldiers news of the Ge
neral ; not one could give me any
account of him ; an officer of cuiraf
liers laid, that he was surprised to
hear me ask news of a general who
had led thein to butchery. The de
puty marflial general (M. de V )
said that M. Dillon had given him
orders to charge the cavalry.
soon as he perceived the enemy, he
found them retiring and in general
confulion. Ihe soldiers informed
me it would be imprudent to advance
further ; that the Austrian Huflars
piefled themclofely ; 1 Hopped some
time, and advanced again. I had
not yet heard the i eport of a fufce
nor seen n hulTar, nor any perfontlm
had seen one. The road was now
crouded with carts of baog 3ge and
peasantry, who fled with theirinove
ed thc'c f r° Wn ' 1 a g ain r S tur D
ea, the cnnfufion was now oreat •
the cry ° f UHttrnt, of Rochambeau',
ot traitor, of aristocrat, and noises
from every fide ;„f,
* •> • ■* ne inra:\iiy now
began to enter, and brought in three
or four Auftrians (one in a grey uni
form, striped with green, and ihe o
there in round frocks 1 A i, j
«eps from the gate /hey h"
saw more than twenty fhats through
his body, and a horse grenadier, as 1
was told, gave him a cut on the head
with his sabre, and firec{ a piliol at
his brealt. Then thenatioiial guards
and infantry took poflt'Hion ot hiui.
! saw one of the rtultiinn prisoners
killed, and two or three who were
dif'patcbed, trampled under feet, and
their bodies run through.
I heard the ridicule and the bar
barous fliouts of the foldicrs, and law
them amuie themselves in linking
the dead bodies with their h<inds.
They were crouded in a wheel-bar
row, with tlte officer of engt'necrs.
I Ihudder at the light. The munici
pal officers arrived with a cart, in
which they placed the dead bodies,
and continued to abuse them. It is
two o'clock, and I have not been able
to hear the lead news of (he Genei al,
or the aiftion. Not a wounded mart
has yet appeared, and among ail the
soldiers, not one C:fcivrs to have been
in battle, except a foot ibldier, who
had received ibine fliot through his
hat.
1 remained in the street to observe
the dispositions of the people About
four o'clock 1 went towards Fiffe
gate. In the entrance of the street
the agitation' was great,and the howl
ing terrible. At last 1 heard
the cry of " He's coming, he's com
ing, lo the lantern." I asked, with
a trembling voice; who ? Di}lon,fhey
nnfwertd, the traitor, the at iftofcrai. (
we are going to tear him to pfeces,
be and all that belong to him.
Rocbambeau mult alio perifti, and
all ihe nobility in the army. Dillon
is coming in a cabriole ; his thigh is
alreaily broken, lei's go and finiCi
him. The cabriole soon appeared ;
the General was in it, without a
with a calm and firm look ; he was
cfcorted by four horse guards ; he
had hardly pafled through the gate,
when more than an hundred bayon
ets were ihroft in the cabriole amidst
the mo!t horrible shouts ! The horse
guards made use of their sabres, it is
true, but 1 don't know whether it
was to defend theinfelves or to pro
te»ii the General. The man who
drove the cabriole disappeared, the
horse plunged, and no bayonets had
yet been fatal, when a shot was fired
into the carriage, and I think this
killed M. Dillon, for I never saw him
move afterwards : he was taken from
the carriage and thrown into the
street, when they trampled upon his
body, and run a thousand bayonets!
through it. I neither heard from
him complaints or groans,
Between fever, and eight o'clock I
went to the marker-place, where a
great fire was lighted, in which his
body was thrown. French soldiers
danced round the burning body of
their General ; this barbarous (cene
was intermixed with the 1110 ft savage
howlings. Parties of Swiss were pall
ing and repaliing in good order dur
ing this atrocious scene, with the
greatelt indignation painted in their
countenances. The filter of the Ge
neral was also threatened ; (he chang
ed , her abode four times, being warn
ed of her danger; nobody dared to
shelter her in their hotifes ; however
the night was palled in tranquility. '
, 1 have been lucky enough to save
her from these canibals, and the next
day she set off for Paris.
This is what I have Teen, and what
I am ready loatteit before any tribu
nal.
N. B. The original ofthis has been
dep inted at a Notary's, and a fakh
tui copy delivered to the National
nflembly, signed by the author. If
anv peilon Ihould doubt the authen
ticity o! the above, they may address
then,felves to James Migneret, Jacob-
Pans , or to the family of M
o"' who el 'gage to answer them.
L O N D O N, May 23
STATE OF SWEDEN,
As J<l forth in « litter Jrom Stockholm,
of April 24.
THE cranfadions at the diet of
Gefle having been grossly inifrepre
the h," Wm Le Wdl u "deceive
L a !C bJlc ,n th °fc particulars, h
h« been ltared that the faction in
the order ot Noi/effi, which has for
"l, a v ny -y e r rs < j ppofed the r °y ai autii "
fluenr, r e,K ' qavo, ed to "tend its in
J.uence to the other orders of the
< ate, fucceededMn bringing over to
us party the deputies of the tlergr
54
citizlehs, ancl the whole order of pea
;f;'.nis ; which is.untrue, asthofe three
orders remained constantly attached
!:o the late king, and at the diet of
iGcfie gave him the greatert proofs of
[their love for hfm, and unlimited
'confidence in his wfiidont. What wa«
advanced respecting the propositions
of ihe late king, touching an annual
jlupply of 1,100,000 ounces of silver,
the payment of his private debts,and
the opening of a loan for ten milli-
Jons, is equally falfe. The firft pro
Ipofition was never made by the king,
j hut was an arrangement proposed by
the lecret committee itfelf, aiifl. was
approved ofby the rtates. With re
gard to the fecoiid, i'uch an one could
never have been made, as the king
had no private debt ; and as to the
third, lb far from defiling the open
itig of a new loan for ten millions,
his inajefty had the latisfaJtion of re
nutting to thefecret corrnnitteea letter
ot credit for that fom, which the coi;;-
mitttee had left at his disposal lad
year,but which he had not made ufeof.
The equestrian order,in communicat
ing to the public the protocal of its de
liberations, only ditLwhat was cufloni
ary ; 110 rigorous measures were tak
en to interrupt the publication of the
deliberations of the orders of the
peasants, or to hinder the publication
of the (tate of the finances ; and the
restraint laid on the press was only
confined to the printing of certain
pamphlets, calculated to iniflesd the
public. Many public prints also con
tained an account of some pretended
representations, couched in very
strong terms, which the states of Swe
den madeto the king at the late diet,
refpe<fting his participation in the
affairs of France.— All these reports
are absolutely (aj,fe, as duiinir the
whole time ofthe alTetnhiy, there was
no mention made of France, further
than the paflage in the speech of his
Majesty at the opening of the diet.
SAVANNAH, May gr.
We hear a new edition is preparing
for the Press of Mr. Church's elegant
characterirtical Poem, with notes,
critical and explanatory—of which
due notice will be given.
NORFOLK, (Virginia) July 7.
We are informed by Captain Cock
ran from Madeira, that the ship Illuf.
n ious President, of Richmond, Den
nis Butler commander, bound 011 a
voyage to India was at that Island;
and that in consequence of some of
the sailors belongi 11 g to the lll(jltrious
President applying to the Captain of
the Britiih frigate for pr->tedtioii, al
ledging they were Englilhmen, the
Briton had the audacity to board the
Illustrious President and take out two
sailors with their cheltsand bedding,
(one of them a Swede, by birth) ;
that our Consul there, John Marfden
Pintard, Esq. by hisfpirited exertions
on the occasion, fucceerled in obtain
ing the two sailors, who were de
manded by him of his Excellency the
Governor of that Island, and given
up to Mr. Pintard ; but Captain Hat
good either by uiiilake or on purpose,'
ihosght proper to take his departure!
from Madeira, before Mr. Pintard
could have time to demand the cheits
and bedding of the poor sailors—
Captain Cockran has favored us with
a copy of a letter written to Mr. Pin
taid, by Captain Butler 011 this occa
sion :
" Madeira 14th May, 1792
" John M. Pintard, Esq.
"Sir, 1
RELIE\ ED ar length from the
diruculties so unjuilifiabfy thrown in
my way by Captain Hargood, com
mander of his Britannic Majefty'sfhip
of War, Hyena, I this day propole
(ailing from Madeira.
1 he (pirited exertions you have
made to support the honor and inde
pendence of the American Haw upon
this occasion, calls not only for my
warmelt acknowledgments as far as 1
ain individually concerned, but have
a claim on the thanks of the whole
commonwealth of America, When the
matter is viewed as a public raufe.
I regret not the delay and ex
penfe to which 1 have been put on this
occasion, when 1 confiiler the nianifeft
advantage of having fixed (I hope) a
firm precedent, for the inviolability
of the American flag in this port.
'' Permit tit e further, v Sir, before I
take leave of you, to thank you for
the invariable politeneis and hofpi-
tahty, which we have experience!
trom you "nee our arrival in Madej^
uk to allure you 1 lhall ever retain a
molt grateful sense of them.
" '1 remain, clear Sir,
" Your obedient, humble Servant
(Signed) " DENNIS BUTLER."
B OS T O N, July 7.
Aflafljn-.irions have not ltopped in
Sweden an Englifo paper of May ~
announces 1 iie confirmation qftlie re
port of the allaliination of the Duke
iie Slider, nania— Regent of Sweden.
1 eli ei'day the felecimen and fciiool
committee, attended by a large num.
I>er of the clergy and p: incin-l
zens.vifited the several public fchoois
in this town, and were greatly pleal'-
e<l with the proficiency of the scho
lars. After which the whole partook
at a fuiiiptuous entertainment, pi e .
pared at Fauueil Hall.
HARTFORD, July 9.
THE deftruiftion of Apples, by the
canker-worm in various pans of the
country is a serious and alarming ca
lainity ; and it is the duty of every
man to contribute his mite towardj
retraining and avoiding the evil.
About a year agoa iel'pectablcgeit.
tleman who is more than eigbtyyeaia
of age, remarked to me, " that tbii
species of worrm never touch apnle
trees which stand 011 clay." I cast
my eyes over the orchards in this
tow", and found the
by fait*. In the center of the town,
where the foil is moiliy a pure ftiff
clay, not a tree was affected by thi»
devouring animal, and this gentle,
man informed me, the fad had been
the fame ever since his remembrance.
I have lately made a journey 10 the
and am, by particular ob
servations, convinced of the truth of
the fa<ft. 1 find Wherever orchards
it and on clay, or a cold moid springy
Toil, tJie trees remain untouched. A
gravelly foil is riot friendly to these
worms ; but if the gravel is mixed
with a fofc light earth, the trees (here
on are conliderably injured. On the
01 her hand,'gravel mixed with a hard'
clayey earth never admits the worm.
In snort, the lighter the earth where
the trees stand, the earlier the worms
appear and the more complete ihei'r
ravages. ,
These fadls suggest to farmers the
propriety of chooling such spots on
their farms for their orchards, as do
not admit the worm ; for hard clay
and cold moid earth do not futnilh
this animal with agreeable lodgings.
| 1 would further jnlt hint to far
mers who have not a choice of foils
I for orchards, the possibility that by
plowing or digging up the earth un
der the trees, just before winter, and
exposing the worm to the action of
rain and froft, they may perhaps de
ft roy them or so leflen the number,as
to save the fruit of the succeeding
year.
ALBANY, July 9.
Capr. Guion oft he 3d Ull i ted States
regiment, failed for New Brunfwick
on Thnrfday lalt, on his way to the
western country, with 3 compm.y cori:
fitting of about 60 young likely re
cruits enlisted in this city.
Capt. Piogers' company of horle
failed .from this city yelterday for
New Brunfwick 011 their way to the
western country.
INFORMATION
For several months palt, a port ha'
regularly rode from this city to
Whiteftown, in Herkemer county,
once a fortnight ; ii now gives us great
pleasure to add, that several patriotic
gentlemen on the Genefee country,
have established a polt from Whites
town —who there meets the one from
this city ; and in his circuit, ( w ' ] ' c
is aifo once a fortnight) he P a e '
through Geneva, Canand3qua, C3" a
wargus and Williaiiifbwgo on tie
Genefee-river, By this eftabli(h' lienr i
a fafe and direct conveyance is open
ed between the most interior pan
of the United States to the welt, an
the several states in the union : 6
printers of the Albany Gazette, te
ciliiate thecommunication thusopsi
ed, will receive and take chatg®> <j
all letters and packages, sent to t 1
care (post paid) either for or
the Genefee country or thecoun y
Herkemer,ifnd attend particu'sfy
their being fafely deliveict oi
warded, free of- any thaige o
pence for their trouble.SALEM, July 3.
Capt. Thomas Putnam, of the brig William and
Henry, arrived yeftriday from Copenhagen,which
he lett the Brh of May.
Atikerftrom, theSwedilh regicide, he informs,
h»s been executed, puiiuant to his sentence. He
was publickly whipped thiee different tunes, in
the market places— ignommioufly exposed to view
in the pillory—his right hand was cut olf—and fi
nally he was beheaded, quartered, and exposed
at the common place ot execution. To tiie l<jlt he
gloried in.the deed, by which, he said, he had rid
his country of a tyrant.
PROVIDENCE, July 7
Zxtm3 of a Utter jront a very r efpeclubU mercantile
hvufe at topmhageM, dated May to.
" ,\Ve are convinced it will be abfotutily ;.e
---ceffary that our government encourages' the
American trade, by reducing the duty—ami. our
Mr. Saabye being favored with tiie cor.fulftiip
for your states, we make no doubt may influ
ence it very much."
Yesterday morning a fine Satinoti, weighing
was caught above the great bridge; the
iirltinftance of that lpecies of fitTi having been
taken here.
NEW-BIIUNSWICK, July 10.
Anmverfary of American Independence.
The ever me'n>rab!e fourth of July was ce
lebrated in this city, neither by the ringing of
bells, the discharge of cannon, nor by ti;e noif'y
bustle of a promiscuous croud ; but in focia!
mirth and pleasantry. The morning being un
favorable ; the. orations which were designed
to be delivered, by two members of the Fe
deral Society were omifeti. At 3 o'clock the
Society fat down at Mr. Drake'-, and partook
of an excellent rep&ft ; after which the follow
ing toasts were drank :
I. The President of the United States.
2. The VicerPrefident and both Houses of
Congress.
The Governor and State of New-Jersey.
4. The Ministers of the gospel, and ail pa
trons of virtue and learning.
5. May the love of truth, knowledge and
religion, ever be the chara&eriftics of the Tons
of America.
6. May the 4th of July, ever be celebrated
in fnch a manner as toinfpire us with gratitude,
for the bleflings of liberty.
7. May the union and friendfliip which now
fubiift between the different States, long con
tinue, as the Harbinger of national refpe<st and
felicity.
8. May the allies of this country, enjoy,
without interruption, the bieffings of peace and
freedom.
9. May the arts and sciences be encouraged,
and agriculture and commerce, ever be cherifn
ed by the hand of industry.
10. The fair daughters of America, may
they ever repay the protestors of their country,
and lovers of virtue with their smiles, and long
remain the favorites of heaven.
11. In memory of the departed heroes of
America.
12. May the western wilderness, become the
garden of innocence, and irs savage inhabit
ants the pruners of the olive branch of peace.
13* May the hoary head be refpe&ed through
out the world, and.thstearof sorrow be dried up.
14- The federal society, may lier sons be fa
med for friendiliip, knowledge and the love of
generous deeds.
15. May smiling peace continue her grateful
influence over America, and may ail mankind
partake of the bleiling.
tor the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
' I TORE are some ftri&ures in the Connec
ticut Journal 01 the rich instant, 011 the
fubjeft of the conteftcd eiedtion in the State of
New-York, in which.the writer fays, that votes
in favor ot Mr. Jay were rejected by the can
vassing committee,. 44 because the name was
not orthographically written, and according to
tne latest improvementsv/hile at the fame
time this very committee admitted 44 fun dry
votes which came up under exactly parallel cir
cuniftances with tho e proscribed." The votes
of the rejejffced counties, the writer further fays,
he is informed, were left till the scrutiny had
proceeded lo far as to evince, that the election
would be loiT: to them if the whole were ad
mitted. Tncn were questions made which
would probably have never been moved, had an
evident majority appeared in their favor.—
1 hose that run may read" and " zvayjaring men,
though fools, flial! not err therein
How differently men pretend to Jihink. An ar
ticle in tne National Gazette of Saturdav last,
denominated an "extract of a letter from 'New-
York," in reference to this bufmefs, fays, 44 the
present cafe [that is the agitation which the ci
tizens of New-York are thrown into by the de
ci ion of t.ie majority of the canvafling com
mittc] I take to befi,n..ar to what is sometimes
0 erved in court , where the pleader who
makes the moll noise, has generally the worst
1 e o tie question. It is somewhat extraor
dinary to fee men, who were avowedly hostile
to trie American Revolution in the dark days
•f a ve^ lt: y> now afTwming the garb of patriot
-1 m, and endeavoring to take the lead in go
vernment ; men who but the other day were
"TO P arc^on their country for inimical
conduct, now endeavoring to cftablifh a go-;
ve ™roent b . v committees through the State."
he above remarks from the National Gazette,
verify an observation which lometime since ap
peared in the Gazette of the United States, viz.
/ r' wr ** ers that paper can take both
! of a question, sjkl support each with equal
u and ability >" * or > though societies, or
W J IC are the al rie, committees for the purpose
VI ; u , ert ' n s tf) e present government of the
nited States comprize the efTence of repub
icaniini, yet the appointment of committees to
vin icate tht violated rights of ele&ion, ac
cording to these confiflent and learned writers is
throwing the tory weight into the federal scale! /!"
Philadelphia, July i 8.
Saturday last, the 14th of July, being the an
niversary of the French Resolution, the fame
was noticed in this city by various dcnioiiitra
tions of joy.
JThe velfels in tke harbor were dressed in
their colours ; and a French veJi'el laluted the
day by frequent firings.
Several ielect companies celebrated the an
niversary in a convivial m,inner—and the even
was closed by a brilliant dilplay of fire-works,
which received the applaule or a vast concourle
of ipsitators.
The tallowing tOdfts were drank by the gen
tlemen aflenibleU at Others' Hotel, after par
taking ot a fpteudid repast, Viz.
1. The French Nation ; tiieir Constitution,
and King.
2. May the freedom which dawned on this
clay, encircle the globe.
3- A ictorv to the French armies over the
foes to Liberty.
4- Liberty <Jr Death.
5. The I'. eudcnt of the United States.
6. Agriculture, Parent of Virtue and Inde
pendence.
7. Commerce and Manufactures.
8. T.ie Fair of Francs and America—may
each weave a Cap of Liberty for a hulband
9- Peacc to all the world—may it learn to
pri/.e and preserve it.
10. The Patriotic King, Stanislaus Augustus.
11. The United States—may they prove an
aflylum to Patriots of every part of the worid
12. The Rights of Men.
13* The political virtues of Mirabeau—may
they cover his foibles.
14. The old Thirteen—may the number be
facl"ed to every American mind.
! 1 5- The memory of thole who have fallen in
defence of Liberty.
16, The two new States—may they be a
blefling in Union.
17. Ire Jour. —The Day.
Abjlr&tt offurther European intelligence.
THE Polish malcontents, thpie to
the new coniiitutioin of Poland, receive every
encouragement from the Empress of Ruilia—
and three Ruffian generals are appointed to in
vade that kingdom with 6j,00d men—Poland
has however a fund lately created of 400 milli
ons—The Stadiholdef has been warned by a
letter, of a plot against him—The King of the
French it is laid has made another attempt to
c I cape—[this, is doubted] —In the Austrian army
there are level al corps whose arms are very
dangerous and deftruftive—the Tirolefe are
natives of the county ol Tiro, which lies on
the Alps, these are dextrous mai'klmen armed
with fliort rifles—The Chaifeurs on horieback
and on foot have guns of the fame form with
the Tirole/e, bur longer—The Pandours and
Croats are trained to firing ?.t ma rks, and will
iiit a dollar with a common muiket at a 100
paces diira.it—Jiefe foldie'irs hide thcmfelves in
woods, ravins and behind houses, and fire at an
enemy without b?ing fecn—to these the French
Carabiniers will be opposed.
A long debate took place in the Eritifti House
oi Commons the iltli May, 011 a motion bro'r
forward by Mr. Fox, for the repeal of sundry
proviiions in several of the religious penal sta
tutes —this motion he supported in his uliia
(tile of animation and argument—it was oppos
ed by Mr. Burke and Mr. Pitt—Lord North 1
gave it a partial support.—The House divided'
on the question, when there appeared for the j
motion 63, against it 142 —majority 79.
It is l jid that the Spanifli troops on the fron
tiers of Spam are deserting every day by hun
dreds—The King of the French has fettled the
indemnities due to the Princes, landholders in
Alsace—He has also granted an unlimited leave
of absence to M. Rochambeau—The armydei
tined for the attack of Porentrui had succeeded
in that enterprizc—the imperialists havingeva
cuated the place on the approach of the French
troops. —The Swedifli and French ministers
plenipotentiary were both received in form at
the Britifti court the 2d May, and dejlvereu
their credentials.—The accounts given from
Englifli papers of the late-defeats of the French
troops,correfpondwith thole since received from
Paris, and published there in the most approved
papers—whatever may be thought or said to the con
trary, it cannot bejor the permanent inter efl of a prin
ter to publifa jaljhoods—' A lying tongue is but for a
moment —M. de Carl has taken pofleffion of
Fumes, a city in Flanders—The inhabitants
received the French troops and furnifiied them
with refrefliments—This detachment return
ed to Dunkirk.
Accounts from Lifie fay, Ihit good order is
perfectly re ft o red in the French army—Several
(kirmifhes of in confide rable consequence had
taken place since the late adtions—The accounts
from Marseilles are unpleasant—Savoy is said
to be in a state of fermentation—The King of
Sardinia has lent a large body of troops into the
country, he lavs he prefers feeing the country
in flames to feeing it in a state of inl'urrefljor.—
An account from Holland fays the Empress of
Ruilia is dead—lf so, a most formidable trium
virate will be taken off—Court- Martials are
ordered for the trial of thofc dragoons of the
sth and 6th regiments who ciied out rriajon in
the late actions. M. Servain is appointed mi
nister of war in the place of M. DeGrave—The
regiment Royal Allemand has totally deserted
to the enemy; thelofs of the horses is regretted.
The new miniltry of France are making a
thorough clearance of all the persons employed
in all the departments and offices of state, and
appointing others in their stead—Great suspi
cions prevail, both in Paris and in the army,
that the enemies of the revolution have intro-i
duced their creatures into the court and into
the army—that from these the late misfortunes
originated—and that it is in vain to expect
success till all traitors are propterly dilpofed of.
55
T he National Aflembly of France have cfta
-lined a iund to'defray the expenie of educat
ing the children of parents who have filtered at
at. Domingo—The children to be brorght up in
the piinciples of the constitution.
The Quebec gazette of the 10th Mav,contains
a proclamation of the King of Great Britain,
dividing the Province of Lower Canada into
oiltrifts, for the purpoi'e of chufmg members of
the Legislative Council, and of the Ail'embly—
the writs to bear telle on the 24th May inlt. re
turnable the 10th day of July following.
I he Albany Gazette lay:, that a deputation
from the Chiefs of the Five Nations, are 011
their way to the Miami Village, where a trea
ty is Ih.n-tly to be held by the lioftile Indians.
Thisl deputation is sent under the direction 01
the Superintenc'ant ol Indian Affairs, and char
ged with a meiTage from the Executive of the
Jnited States to the laid Indians, demanding a
Reflation of hostilities until measures can be
taken to bring about a general treaty of peace.
The fame Gazette fays, Cant. Joseph Brandt
returned through that city on the 6th inltant,
from his visit to the President of the United
States. Capt. Brandt has exp relied himielf as
much pleased with the reception he met with
from the Prefiderit, and the polite treatment he
has received during his whole tour. We are in
formed that his belt endeavors will be used to
eilablilh a treaty of friendfhip betweeu the U
nited States and the present hostile tribes of
Indians ; and tliat it is more than probable, on
'lis return home, he will immediately set off for
the Miami Village.
The premiums of the Albany society for the
encouragement of the manufacture of maple
sugar have been awarded and paid, viz. The
lint, of 75 dollars, to Thaddeus Scribner, of
lierkemer county ; he having producedcd 600
jiouuds oj grained maple sugar of superior quality.
The lecond premium, ot 53 dollars, to Comfort
Cook, of Otfego county; this quality was eifual
to the bell muscovado. The third premium,
of 25 dollars, was paid to John Harris and Ray
ner Huntley, of Milton, Saratoga county.
The Lcgiflature of Maiiachufetts adjourned
the 2d inita 111, to the firft Vednefday of No
vember next.
The foundation of a new Theatre in Nor
folk, Virginia, was laid 011 the 4th July.
The violent jiuit of wind oil the firft ioftant
was very extensive ; its efleets were f. verely
felt in various parts of the Union, from the
ltate of Maflachuietts to Cape-Hatteras.
The fate of Mr. Fox's motion for the repeal
of sundry odious penal statutes against the Dil
lbnters from the eftablilhed Churcti of England,
is an event which could learcely be conceived
of at this enlightened period of the world.
A very handsome ac-ldrefs was presented to
General Sumpter, by the officers of the regiment
of Clermont and Clarendon counties, in Souths
Carolina, on his return from attending Congress;
in which they recapitulate iome of ills services
in the field during the late war—thank him for
his defence of the character of the militia of
that state, in Congress, from the afperlions
thrmvh on it in certain letters during the late
war—&hd for the republican sentiments which
he fuj>ported'on the floor of Congress. The
General, ia his reply, thanks the officers for
their approbation of his conduct—that his sen
timents refpe&ing the insidious imputations on
the patriotil'm, moral and military characters of
the southern people, particularly the South-Ca
rolinians, are corroberated by so many testimo
nies against the fallacy Of therji He exprefles
his gratitude for the friendly reception they had
given him on his return, and for their favora
ble sentiments of his public condutft in the va
rious stations to which hfc had been appointed 1
The present posture of a£airs in Europe ex
hibits a more interesting feene, than ever was
before displayed 011 that great theatre of bat
tles, sieges, intrigues, murders, aflaflinations,
enterprize, genius, learning, ignorance, folly,
frivolity, tyranny, ilavery, freedom and what
not.
An universal eftervefcence is apparent —
kingdoms, Hates, and empires are convulsed—
the struggles of reason, right, and liberty have
produced the fermentation—the faeces of des
potism, fuperflition and prejudice will be pur
ged awar, and the pure waters of life, trans
parent and will remain : these
will be imbibed in copious draughts by an en
lightened race of men, who have for ages been
drinking the-inervating and intoxicating potions
prescribed for them by the emifiaries of dark
ness—the traitors to the dignity of human na-;
ture.
Mr. Abraham Hodge has published proposals
for printing a newspaper at Halifax, North-Car
olina, to be entitled, The Nojth-Caro/ina Journal.
Mr. liodge lays, The general and well-founded
complaints that have so long prevailed among a
confidera'ole and refpe&able part of the citizens
of this state for the want of a proper knowledge
of the affairs of government, and a due com
munication of intelligence, being happily re
moved by the late adl of Congress for the esta
blishment of the poft-ollice : and the routes of
the posts being dire&ed through various of the
interior parts of the state, whereby a channel is
opened for an extensive circulation of a news
paper —lie has, by the advice of his friends, been
induced to embark in the present under taking.
The ifliie of the present contest between the
combined powers and the French nation, rauft be
favorable to the rights oi man,
For there can be no doubt that the French will
zealously defend their country, and the revolution
they have accomplished ; their enemies may for a
time be partially fuccefsfu!—but this success will
bring the people, now under the dominion of pre
jadice and tyranny, in more immediate conlaft.
and make them more fully acquainted with, thof
ennobling principles which cannot fail to halve a
powerful influence on their minds. The refuh
will be, under every poflible contingency of th
contest, that the despots of Europe mult in their
own defence, and to preserve any fcmblance o»
power and government, meliorate the conditio*
of the great tnafs of their fubje£l«.
The Pre fide nt of the United States arrived
Baltimore Uil Saturday, on hi» rbute to Virginia.
The Post-Master General of the United
•States, is now on a visit to the various Poll-
Offices in the Northern States.
Account*; have been publiihed in fcveral pa
pers of the capture of Tippo Saib's capital,
Seringapatam, by the forces under Lord Corn
wallis. The whole now appears to be a fabri
cation in London, for jobbing purpoies. Later
and authentic intelligence, ftafes, that Corn
wailis had taken some small fort 1 ?, was on his
march towards Seringapatam, and that Tippo
had made lome proportions for peace, which
were not acceded to.
His Excellency George Clinton, Esq. on the
third inifc. was qualified into office as Governor
of the state of New-York ; and the day follow
ing eiefted Piefiderit of the Society of the Cin
cinnati in that itate.
We are informed in the National Gazette of
Saturday last, that the new regulation of the
poft-ofiice in refpeft to newspapers, is u an un
happy affair, and will make the ensuing general
election not so iatisfactory a touchstone of the
public mind as it ought to have been. For it
is certain that in many places where the infor
mation contained in the papers will not now
I circulate, the elections will turn very differently
from what they would, if the people knew as
much as is known here on the spot."
The Salem Gazette some time ago contained
a remark to the fpllowing purport— u Some
printers, at the feat of goverment, seem to think
that the people at a distance from that favorite
/pot, are so ignorant, that they know nothing."
The author of the above quotation from the
National Gazette, ft undoubtedly well informed;
for it is certainly true that the people in the
different parts of the Union, are determined to
fee, hear and judge for themselves ; and altho"
t!iey have been admonished, catechized,
corrected, berated, beduped, befooled, and
otherwise politely, candidly, honestly and fairly
treated for more than nine months palt, bv the
truly benevolent, federal and principled fup
portcrs of the National Gazette Yet alas 1
alas ! u the elections will turn very differently
from what" thele £ige conservators, of re pub
licanimi had fondly and anxiously anticipated.
Alas ! alas ! that this is true.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENT IN EL,
To the Hon. JOHN JAY, Esq.
BORN, thro' the paths of Fame to move,
Grac a by a grateful people's love,
Whether the helm of State you guide,*
Or bid the lloroi of War fubfide,t
Or, to the clement Virtues dear,
tiom Africk catch the tailing teat §
Or, with a voice, whole dulcet Itrain
Might foot he the fad'ning foul of pain,
O'er the stern courts of Law preiide,sL
Nor Jtem to lean on mercy's fide,
Or, in thy loft retirement blctt,
teel all the Father warm thy bread,
1 h»oe is fair Virtu e's nobleit cause,
Am! thine the summit of AfplausE.
Nor fliall a faction'sJruudjul sway
K'cr tear one laurel'd wreain away :
ro thee the generous heart extends,
tor tbee the patriot prayer aicends,
On thee the ligktjuliußxtgz falls,
For thee the Sacked People calls.
Wiong'd of their hopes the numerous band,
Detcrmin'd wait thy guiding hand,
L'en while degraded Freedom turns
To where defeated Friendship mourns;
Thus when the mionight's vap'ry breath
In clouds obfeure theTylvan heath,
N© ftiains of Mvftck cheer the vale,
No flov. ret fccnis the freih'ning gale,
Till the bricht sun's benignant ray
Dilpcls the gloom, and pours the daw
* A.i member cfthefrfl Congrffs.
t 0 tie of the plenipotentiaries who formed the treaty
of peace.
§ Prefidentof the Jirflfocietyfor the abolition of the
slave trhde.
5 Chief jfvflice of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
The Jo/loiuir.g Lines were zurote under a mezzotinta
print oj the celebrated Dottor Mayhew t of Bofion,
by a native oj that place ; —ai 7do not recollect hav
ing everfeen them in in pjint ) their poeiie mzrit
and the jujlnefs oj the charafler drawn of that real
patriot, will doubtless lead you topublijh them.
Yours, C.
WH ATtho' the artists' curious louch may paint,
And strike an outlide of the ascended faint ;
Deep in our breafls a surer print is wrought,
Who saw him live the Do&rines that tie taught :
Juft.wifeand good—bsFreebom's champion bold,
Truth his Religion,—Ch a r it y his gold !
Such once was Mayhb w—fuch his righteous end ;
Heav'nuow rewards him—Hoi. lis was his ir end!
S. Q.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA*
Snow Ann and Mary t Sweetnam % . Cork
Brig Two SiJltrs. Forte, Virginia
Schooner £hza t Quarles, ditto*
Sloop Speedwell, Smith, ditto.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 9] y
3 per Cents, la y.
Deferred, xtfio
£ /hares Bank U. S. 44 per cent, prera*
Ebenezer Hazard,
STOCK-BROKER,
HAS Removed his OFFICE lo No. 128 north
Second-Street, where he continues to pilrchafe
and fell on Commiflion, Certificates ot debt of the
United, and Individual States, Bank. Stock, Canal,
■ind Turnpike Shares, &c. &c.
85/" Subicribers to the Univerlal Tontine who
t:ave not yet received their Certificate*are deiired
to call for ihenv
J»ly »8.
PHILENIA.
(ep.tf)FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO, .
YOU ave requested torepublifli the following,
being the proceedings of the People of Otfego
County, in consequence of the high-handed in
fringement as they conceive, of their rights of
iuffrage in the lace election of Governor, &c.
I aui the more induced to request this, as the
eonduA of the friends of Mr. Jay, who really
were the majority on this occasion has been very
unfavorably reprefeuted in a paper publiihed
in this city entitled the National Gazette.
The eftimaies of votes, extracts of letters from
New-York, paragraph, &c. in that National Ga
zette are meerly'quotations from the mod viru
lent publications 011 the fubjedt which have ap
peared in New-York ; but have been brought
forward with fotnuch zeal and attention, as to
(hew tbac one spirit actuates the whole of the
junto, who will ltick at nothing to carry points.
Tn the National Gazette of the 14th inft. they
fay, that the measures adopted by the electors of
the State of New-York to obtain redress of their
violated rights " is one of the blefied effe<fts of
that policy, which prpfefl'es to check the levity
of popular government, by the introdudlion of
Toryifin, and coutrouling the predominant spi
rit of democracies by throwing the Tory weight
into the federal scale." The R«folutions, are
spirited, patriotic and federal ; they are a genu
ine exhibition of the spirit of '75.
At a numerous Meeting of the Freeholders of the
county of Otfego, State of New-York,hild the thir
tieth day of fune t at the Court-House, on the fo
let/m occajion of taking into consideration the vio
lent attack made by a majority of the caitvajfcrs on
the SuFFRAGtstf the freeholders of said county ;
Samuel Tubbs, iu the chair. After fame time
/pent in debating, the meeting appointed fames
Applin, Solomon Pier, Darius Warren, Isaac
Stacy, Daniel Johnfton, Jof;ph Cuher,' John
Adams and Rufus Hall, to be a committee to re
port to tht Meeting certain resolutions, proper for
of this county to adopt and pursue,
when after due deliberation, the committee returned
with the following resolutions, which were unani
tnoufiy adopted by the faeeting.
I, T} ESOLVED, That we resent the inflnua
-TV. tions promulgated by vile defamers, of
our being compelled to vote through fear—and,
that we are not in poffeflion of property enough
to entitle us to vote for governor, by the laws
of this State ; that being the language of vajfals
to a tyrant only.
11. Resolved, That we will hold in perpetual
contempt the names of those hardy and chofeu
seven canvaflers, who with deliberate wickedness,
deprived us of the rights of citizenlhip contrary
to law, good conscience and common sense.
111. Resolved, That we will revere the memo
ry of the virtuous four, who protested against the
infalt committed on the sacred rights of more
than c,welve hundred freeholders, whose feelings
are as acute, andj views (in transmitting to pos
terity their invaluable privileges) as liberal as
those of any other part of this State.
IV. Resolved, That we now report to the ci
tizens of this State that there are EIGHT HUN
DRED and TWENTY families now fettled in
the town of Oifego, as per the last return, luoft
of which are freeholders entitled to vote for go
vernor, although falfe and bale men have advi
sed that there is not one hundred.
V. Resolved, That those law characters who
palled through our county procuring affidavits
from vagrant persons, and unprincipled wretch
es, are unworthy our notice, feeing that theit
views were calumny pointed against a valuable
inhabitant among us, the father of our country.
VI. Resolved, That we will pursue with man
ly firmneft such modes of redress as the well
wishers to the State of New-York, fliall advise us
from time to time.
VII. Resolved, That if not advised to the con
trary we will as one man quietly march down to
New-York, and solicit of the legislature our dear
est and highly prized rights, as a teftitnony to
our children that they may fee that their fathers
did not quietly fu'jmit to a precedent operating
in favor of tyranny.
V ill Resolved, 1 hat we consider tlie prefeiu
adminiflration no less an usurpation than that of
the famous Kouli Khan, that being obtained by
the facrifice of one man, this by facrificin iT the
privileges of twelve hundred.
IX. ReTolved, That as it hath been reported
we were unfairly influenced to oppose the re
election of the prelent governor, that we unani
mously deny the charge, and will contradidl that
envious inlinuation by listing the reasons of our
objections as follows.
lit. Because, was he a good man, he has al
ready been too long in that important office.
2d. Because, he was a vigorous oppofer of
that conjlitution that has been the salvation of
our country ; that has made us refpetfable at
foreign courts, and nervous in our domestic ope
rations ; that has raised the soldiers pay from
2/6 to 20/ on the pound. To prevent the adop.
tion of which he came forward with ignorant
obstinacy and threw the State into violent par
A. E.
Your's,
ties, only kept from desperate aifrs by an over
ruling Providence.
3d. Because, he is a man of passion and party,
and of re fe 11 tin en i" deeper than i\\e grave.
4th. Bccanfe, he joined in an advertifemcnt,
purporting to tiie good people of this State, to
bringdown information to of the
lands they wanted to purchase, with their boun
daries and price, and wait fix weeks tor an an
swer. Many went and returned didatisfied, de
claring, that they were only made tools of, to
carry down information of the boundaries of
good lands that the governor's friends l>y bid
ding above them, might engross the whole.
Jth. Because, we humbly conceive that he was
not so ignorant as nor to know, that after felling
at more than three (hillings per acre many large
tracts of lands that others equally well licuated
were worth more than Bd—at which price,he has
fold near Jour million of acres, to Alex. Mc'Comb,
with a privilege of leaving one or two sixths of
the mountains on the hands of the people of this
State, for a trifling forfeiture ; molt of which
land we firmly believe our brethren of New-En
gland, would gladly pay interelt for at the rate
of eight shillings per acre ; which leads us to
consider (his single J'ale, as a facrificeof near one
million of money, not to mention the nature of
the sale, being discouraging to agriculture and
the commerce of this State, as it is now for sale
in Europe—who when they own the foil, will
certainly turn the commerce through their own
government of Canada.
6th. Because, for hidden purpofcs, he com
-111 if honed the infamous Crijwold, in our county,
and since that has made partial and difgulting
appointments amongtt lis—for the purpose we
verily believe of raising a party devoted to his
designs.
7th. Because, a majority of the people of this
State do not approve of him.
Bth. Becaule, JOHN JAY is a better man.
~ 9th. Because, when men in polls of great trust,
are partial to a party, they become dangerous
anil ought to be removed ; as the present in
llance of the canvall'ers att'ords a striking figure.
When our sacred privileges, every other way
so well guarded,were trulted in the hands'of cor
rupt men, they were flagrantly violaied and we
left in a deplorable lituation. Therefore,
10. Resolved, That as we have seen the rea
sons afligned by the fcvm canvaflers for their
conducfi, we are unanimoiifly of opinion, that ic
is a frivolous excuse for such a violent outrage.
—They fay " there was rtafon to fufpedl fraud"
Would those monsters in iniquity destroy us
on suspicion without a hearing ? Why did they
not declare the truth at once—" That they fuj~-
peftedthe box of Otfego would, if cauvejfed, remove
Ciorge Clinton from office," which was certainly
the sole cause they were rejected.
it. Resolved, That we do now pledge our
selves to each other, not to fenarate till the lafc
extremity—that we will pay cheerfully, accord
ing to our abilities, such expence as may strife
in regaining our rights, and fixing a lasting ftig
ina cn tliofe veterans in corruption who have
rended from us that which is more valuable to
poUcrity than our lives ! —Theinfult is too great
for the fouls of FREEMEN to bend to !
SAMUEL TUBBS, Chairman.
JOEL GREEN, Clerk.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Wa ehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-ftreei Wharf,adjoir.ingtheir New Fiuftory
where they have now made, and ready lor sale, a general aCort
ment of SHOT of all with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines iit Virginia. As they have employed a
number ol experienced Enf»lifn woikmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
pi ice from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufaftcre all the above articles at
Richmond, \n Virginia. Ail orders addreTed to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
Ihortcft notice.
N. ii. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Auit.i n&Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
NE V/ TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG "
Of the very fitil quality,and latest importation from Canton, ria
New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chtfnut and Market Streets.
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATFS
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas Eta!;, Efq
Mayor of this Town.
He has furmlhed himfclf with a stock of the bed Liquors and
will use every exert,on to give fatisf.ainh by procuring in 'their
feaion, the best of every Ipecies of provision, and havinf the lame
served u ? tn the most nea, and elegant manner. S
GEORGE H. LEIGH.
TO BE SOLD lIY THE EDITOR
B - kof t: -
Ast 01 Cong,eft, »fceruinm s t he Standa.d and Gold!
56
B O O K, S,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MAT HEW CAREY
Ko. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia. '
X. /\ MLRICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in Janu
JTX aiy 1787, to Dcccmber 1791, in ten vols. Price ii cdl i~
bound and lettered, fixtecri dollars. ' ' V
This work, which is now conducted on an improved plan con'
taining the best pieces publilhed for and against the prosetdio.!
of government, will be touiiri to contain at lead a* great a variet
of political, agricultural, and roifcellaueouseffays.aaany ever pubH
lifted in America. Perhaps in no que work are so many valuable
documents rcfpectiftg tbe hilloiy of this country, colleGed uiee
ther. His Excellency the Prefiiletu of die United States, his del
Glared of it, that " a more ufclul literary plan has never been un.
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving of public cncou
ragemenl." 'The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per anni
Gentlemen in the country who wi!h to be lupplicd with this
work, are requested to give commifiiiin to fnendsHn the citj to
(übferibe for and receive if Awy of the back numbers nuy
be had in orHer to complete (cts.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's Eflays
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchiimcl, of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Ladv, Mu.
Chapone on command of Temper, Morc's Fables for the Ladit<"
Price 6/6. '*
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its firft settlement to
theyeari732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, with a (hort account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the couftitutieu of the courts of jutlicc. Piicc
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l d. pro
feffor of moral philosophy and logic in the Marifchal College,
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book ir.c
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have icen nothing
on these fubjetls more plain, more perfpicuou6, or more gcuciallv
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfny in PhiL-'
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feled
produ&ion< of the molt eminent British and American uocts
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
of the BrittOi edition, in two—Price two dollars.
7. Ncckei's Treadle on tlie imponance of Religious Opinious.
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 ikhs of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the fevcral United States, with the Fe
deral See. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition m i2mo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jcft Book, in two parts, with tvto very neat en
gravings—-Price, bound, three-fifths of a dolLr.
22 Garden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor-—Price, bound iu
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar— plain, half a doilar.
13 The Doway 1 ranflation ot the Vulgate Bible, in quarto-
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50^*2—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Chriifian's Vade Mecum-—Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't,or reflc&ioos for every day of themonih
Pi ice a quarter dollar.
16. Chrilt'.an Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript,
found in the irland of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypfc—Price a fifth of a dollar.
17. History of Charles Grandifon, abridged—Pi ice a sixth of a
dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
19. Selett Poems, chiefly American---Price a sixth of a dollar
Said Carey has for sale, a large allortment of Books, Laro
pean as well as American editious, which he will difpofc of on the
most reasonable term*. Country gem lemen, who iavoi him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied in the molNatufac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to fuclias purchalV quantities
tor public libraries,or to (ell again.
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES
At a meeting of the Directors of the Society for
eitablilhing ufeful manufactures, held at New-
ark, on Friday the eighteenth day of May,
1792, at which time was pafled the following.
Supplement to an ordinance, entitled, " An or*
dinance for securing the punctual payment of
the monies due on the fubferiptions to the so-
ciety for establishing ufeful manufactures."
WHEREAS by the third lection of the ordi
nance entitled, " An ordinance for fecur
ihg the punclcal payment of the monies due on
the fubferiptions to the society for eltablifliing
ufeful manufactures," it is ordained, thatifany
fubferiber or his assigns, (hall neglect to pay the
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their refpedtive fubferiptions, for the space of
three days after the expiration of the time limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the said pay
ments, that is to fay, the second payment, on the
13th day of July, 1 792 : that then and in thac
cafe, all and every (hare or (hares, offuchperfon
or persons, so neglecfting to make fucli payments
as atorefaid, and the monies by them previously
paid, (hall be forfeited, and forover thereafter
veiled in the said directors and their fncceflors
for the common benefit of the said society.
And whereas circumstances render it inexpe
dient to exact full payment of the second inrtal
ment on the said thirteenth day of July next, or
within three days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy gover
nor and directors of the focieiy for eftablilhing
ufeful manufactures, that if the said second pay
ment {hall be made in manner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on orbefoie
the thirteenth day of August next, one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of September next, and one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of Oifiober next, with lawful intei e
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
of July next, that then and in fueh cafe, the'ai
penalty mentioned in the said fedtion, stall i loC
be exacted, any thing in the said ordinance to
the contrary notwithilanding.
A. MERCER, Dep. Gov.
Extracft from the minutes,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk.
£3" The JOURNALofthc THIRD SESSICKof l-'.r SEXJI*
ojthc UNITED STATES, may te hid of the Editor htreoj.