&az(iu ofii $(&&&
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 55, °f Vol. IV.] Saturday, September 29, 1792.
General Poft-Office.
Phi ladelphi a, Sept. 10,1792.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day of November next, m
clufively, for carrying the Mails of the United
.States on the following Post Roads, from the fiift
day of January next, until the firft day of June,
1 794*
In Massachusetts and New-Hampshi re
1. From Wifcajfet to Portland in the diftrifclof
Maine : The mail to leave Wileaflet every Tuesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Port
land the next day by one in the afternoon •—Re
turning, to leave Portland every Thursday by fix
in the morning, and arrive at Wifcaffct the next
day by one in the afternoon.
2. From Portland to Portsmouth : The mail to
leave Portland every Monday and Thursday by
fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Ports
mouth every Tuesday and Friday by ten in the
torenoori : —Returning, to leave Portlniouth eve
ry Tuesday and Friday at one in the afternoon,
and arrive at Portland on Wednesday and Satur
day by fix in the evening.
3. From Portsmouth to Bojlon : From November
firit to May firft, the mail to leave Portsmouth
every Tuesday and Friday, at two o'clock in the
ahernnoon, and arrive at Boft«n on Wednesday
and Saturday by fix in the evening :—Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday and Thursday, by
fix in the morning, and arrive at Portsmouth on
Tuesday and Friday by ten in the forenoon :—And
from May firft to November firft, the mail to leave
Portsmouth every Tuesday, Thursday and Satur
day, by four in the morning, and arrive at Boston
the fame days by fix in the evening; :—Returning,
to leave Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by four in the morning, and airive at
Portsmouth the fame days by fix in the evening.
In Massachusetts, Connecticut and
N e w-York,
4. From Bojlon^by Worcejler, Springfield^Hartford,
Middletown, and New-Haven y to New-York : From
November firft to May firft, the mail to leave Bos
ton every Monday and Thursday, at one o'clock
in the afternoon ; and arrive at New-York every
Saturday an-i Wednesday (the sixth day from its
departure) by ten in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the ahernoon, and arrive at Bos
ton every Saturday and Wednesday, by ten in the
iorenoon : And from May firft to November firft,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wednes
day and Friday, by three o'clock in the morning,
and arrive at New-York every Thursday, Satur
day and Tuesday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Saturday and
Tuelday, by fix in the evening.
In New-York, New-Jersey and Pennsyl-
VAN I A
Between New-York, (by Newark and Eliza
bethtown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepted : The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia at one o'alock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpe&ivelv, the next day after their de
parture, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails of Saturday, which are to arrive at the fame
hour on Monday.
Jn Pennsylvania «WMaryland
6. From Philadelphia to Baltimore : The mail to
leave Philadelphia every Monday,
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
succeeding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
by four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each succeeding day by eleven m the
forenoon.
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by eight in the
morning ; Returning, to leave Alexandria every
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by four o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
In Virginia,
8. From Alexandria to Richmond y Petersburg, Suf
folk and Porljmoutk : The mail to leave A'exan
dria evety Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at
nine o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich
mond every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
by fix in the evening ; at Pe;erfburg, every Wed
nesday, Friday and Monday at ten in the forenoon ;
al Suffolk every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
by fix in the afternoon ; and at Portsmouth every
Friday, Monday and Wednesday, by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Portsmouth the
lame Friday, Monday and Wednesday, at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by seven in the evening ; and at Peters
burg the next Monday, Wednesday and Friday by
eleven in the forenoon; leave Petersburg the fame
days at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Rich
mond the fame days by fix in the evening : leave
Richmond on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
by four in the tnorn ng, and •arrive at Alexrndria
the n xt Wednesday, Fi iday and Monday, by three
in the afternoon.
9 From Richmond, by Williamfburg, York-Town
and Hampton, 10 Norjolk. "I he 10 leave Rich
mond every Monday, Wednesday and: Friday, bv
four o'clock in the mornings and arrive at Norfolk
on each succeeding day, by fve in the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Norfolkevery Wednesday,
Fi'day and Monday, by fix iiKjje morning, and
arrive at Richmond each fucceeo\ig day, by fix in
t'ne evening.
,/n Virginia North-Carolina
to From Petersburg, by Halifax, Taiborough and
Smtfifield.toFayetteville. The mail to leave Peters
burg every Friday, at one o'clock in the afternoon,
and arrive at Fayetteville the next Monday, by
eight in the evening : Returning, to leave Fayette
ville every Tuesday, by four in the morning, and
arrive at Petersburg the next Friday, by eleven in
the forenoon.
Irv North and South Carolina and~Q eor ci a
11. From Fayetteville, by Cheraw Court-
House, Camden, Columbia and Cambtidge, to
Augusta, The mail to leave Fayetteville every
Tuesday, by four in the morning, reach Camden
the ntxt day by five in the afternoon, and arrive
at Augusta the next Saturday by noon : Return
ing to leave Augusta every Thursday, at five in the
morning, arrive at Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, and at Fayetteville the next
Monday, by eight in the evening.
12. From Augusta tc Savannah. The mail to
leave Augusta every Saturday, at one o'clock in the
afternoon, and arrive at Savannah the next Mon
day morning by ten : Returning, to leave Savan
nah every Monday, at two o'clock in the after
noon, and arrive at Augusta the next Wednesday,
by five in the afternoon.
13, From Camden to Statefburg. The mail to
leave Camden every Thursday by four in the
morning, and arrive at Siatefburg by eight : Re
turning, to leave Statefburg every Saturday, at two
in the afternoon, and arrive at Camden by fix.
In Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Con-
NECTICUT
14. From Bojlon to Providence. The mail to
leave Boston every Monday and Thursday, by fix
in the morning, and arrive the fame days at Pro
vidence, by five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Providence every Wednesday and Saturda),
by fix in the morning, and arrive the fame days
at Boston, by five in the afternoon.
(£3T Persons offering proposals for this contra£f,
are desired also to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Boston and Provi
dence, three times a week, and every day >n the
week (Sunday excepted ) in cafe a stage waggon
should run so often between those two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Hartford.
The mail to leave Providence every Tuesday and
Friday, by fix o'clock, in the morning, and arrive
at Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford on
Wednesday and Saturday, by five in the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thursday, at seven in the morning, arrive at Nor
wich the fame days, and at Providence on Tues
day and Friday, by five in the afternoon.
(£3* Persons offering proposals for this contra#,
are also desired to state the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Providence and Hart
ford three times a week, if a stage waggon ihould
run so often between those two places.
16. From Nezv-London to Newport, thence by
Brijlol and Warren to Providence, thence by Green
wich to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The mail to leave New-London every Tuesday,
at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport the
next day by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and arrive
at Providence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
leave Providence on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day by fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New-London : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon : — Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday at two o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wednesday afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November firft to May
firft, every Thursday morning, and from May to
November, every Friday morning, by eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by iix in the
evening of the day of its departure : Returning,
to leave New-London each next succeeding day by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown
by iix 111 the evening.
Jn New-York,
19. Between the city of New-York (by King[-
bridge, Poughkccffie, and the city of Hudson) and
Albany. The carriers, with the mails, to leave
New-York and Albany every Monday and Thurs
day, by four in the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
the evening.
In Pennsylvania
20. From Philadelphia, by Lancajler> York-town,
Car lifie, Shipper[burg, Chamberjburg, Bedford and
Greenjburg to Pittfburg. The maii to leave Phila
delphia every Saturday at noon, and arrive at Pittf
burg the next Friday by noon ; remain there not
less than four, nor more than fix hours, and return
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
I n the State oj Delaware.
21. From Wilmington, by New-Cajlle, CantweWs
Bridge, and Duck Creek, to Dover. The mail to
leave Wilmington every Monday afternoon, by
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Philadel
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five in the
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dover
every Wednesday morning by five o'clock, and
arrive at Wilmingloo by seven in the evening of
the fame day.
Jn Delaware and Maryland.
22. From Chiifliana Bridge, by Middletown.
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Ches
ter-town, and thence to Eafton. The mail to
leave Christiana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
by fix o'clock (or as soon as the mail fiem Phila
137
dclphia is received) and arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Eaf
ton every Wednesday morning by five o'clock,
and arrive at Christiana Bridge in the evening ol
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
Persons ottering proposals for carrying
thii» mail, are desired to (late the terms on which
they will carry it from May firft to November fiift,
by leaving Philadelphia every Monday at half past
nine, A. M. and reaching Eafton ihe next day by
four, P. M.—and returning, leave Eafton every
Wednesday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel
phia the next day by noon : And perform the
fame tour, during the other half of the year, be
tween half past nine o'clock of every Monday, and
noon of the next Satu; day. And also their terms
for carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia and Cheftertown, leaving Philadelphia every
Wednesday and Friday at half past nine, A. M.
and returning the fourth day after by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Annapolis. The mail t®
leave Baltimore every Monday and Friday, at
eight in the morning, and arrive at Annapolis the
fame days by five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Annapolis every Tuesday and Saturday by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Baltimore the
fame days by five in the aiternoon.
In Virginia and Nor th-Carol i n a
24. From Suffolk, by Edcnton> Plymouth, Wajhing
ton and Newbcrn, to Wilmington : The mail to leave
Suffolk every Wednefdav at four o'clock, in the
morning, and arrive at Wilmington the next Sa
turday, by fix in the evening : Returning, to
leave Wilmington every Monday by four in the
morning, and arrive ?t Suffolk the next Thursday
by fix in the evening.
In North-Carolina
25. From Halifax by Blountfville, WilliamJlown t
and Baileys, to Plymouth, once in two weeks:—The
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and ariive at Plymouth
the next day by fix in the evening : Returning, to
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by five in the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by five
in the evening.
26. From Wilmington to Fayettevillc: The mail
to leave Wilmington every Sunday, at lour in the
morning, and arrive the next day at Fayetteville
by five in the afternoon : Returning, leave Fay
etteville eveiy Tuesday, by tour in the morning,
and arrive at Wilmington the next day by five in
the afternoon.
Note 1. If during the continuance of the con
tracts here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails (hould become nCcei
fary, to preserve a proper connexion with other
mails, the contractors are to conform to ar
rangement which for that purpose shall be made
by the Post-Master General, such arrangement not
lelTening the number of hours above allowed for
carrying the mails refpeftively, without their con
sent. *
2. A convenient time not less than ten minutes,
nor exceeding halt an hour,for opening and doling
a mail is to be allowed at each Poll-Office,at which
the tnne»of its arrival and departure is not herein
fpecified.
3 For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in ariiving after the times pre
scribed in any contract, the contractor to forfeit
one dollar ; and for the non-performance of a trip,
double the sum which the value of one trip (hall
bear to the value of the whole number ot trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the post
roads herein described, either in stage waggons or
on horses : but when the state of the roads pre
vents travelling in waggons with the neceflary ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on horses.—
Every mail-ftagc must have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to be carried, under lock
and key.
5- News-papers, as well as letters, are to be
fern in the mails : and if any contractor would
wi(h to be authorized to carry news-papers, other
than those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to the
22d seCtion of the poll-office law) he mull, in his
propolals, slate the refpe&ive fuins tor which he
will carry the mails with and without the emolu
ments which may arise from such separate carnage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York, Massachusetts & Vermont.
An extension oi the Poll roads having been de
sired, from ConnojorharrietoWhites-tozvn, and thence
to Kanandaiqua, in theftate of New-York ; from
Stockbridge to Bennington, in the Hates of MalTachu
ferts and Vermont; and from Rutland to Windjor,
and Rutland to Fairhaven, in Vermont : Propolals
for carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of the contractors) will be r ceived at the General
Pott-Office, until the fifteenth dav of November
next iriclufively.—Perfons offering such proposals,
must state the days and hours when they will re
ceive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contra#.
The contractors, refpeilively, will have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letteis and packets on
these roads, for hire ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own u(r, all the postages which shall
arise on letters, packets and newfeapers by them
carried, at the raies established by law : but must
carry, free of postage, such letters and packets as
by law are, or ihall be declared yVrtr.
For ever) hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greedon, the contra&or ro forfeit one dollar;
and for the non-performance of a trip, one dollar
for eveiy ten miles distance, as far as the failure
extends.
The persons whom the contra&ors fhalldefig
nate for Postmasters, on these routes,—previous to
their a&ing as such, must be approved by the Post-
[Whole No. 557.]
Master General, and take the oaths required by
law. They are to agree for their compensations
wth the contractors, to whom alone they are to
account tor alt the portages they thall receive.
The fame oaths mult be taken by the contra&uii
and their riders who carry the mails.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Post-Master-Genera t.
FROM THE. AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER
(CONCLUDED.)
Paris, May 3, 1788.
" "TT7HILE there, (meaning Amsterdam) I
VV endeavored to get as well as I could
into the state of national credit there; for al
though I am an enemy to uling our credit, but
under absolute necelTity, yet the poflelling-a
good credit I consider as indifpenfibJe in the pre
sent fyftetn of carrying on war. The exiftcnce
of a nation having no credit, is always preca
rious."
" I inicrreW rejoice at the acceptance oi our
new constitution by nine states. It is a good
canvass on which lome strokes only want re
touching. What these are, I think are fuffici
ently manifefted by the general voice from north
to south, which calls for a bill of rights. It
seems pretty generally understood that this
Ihould go to juries, habeas corpus, standing ar
mies, printing, religion, and monopolies. I
conceive there may be difficulty, in finding ge
neral modifications of these, luited to the habits
of all the states. But if such cannot be found,
then it is better to eftabliih trials by jury, the
right of habeas coi-pu , freedom of the press and
freedom of religion, in all caJes, and to
standing armies in time of peace, and monopo
lies in all cases, than not do it in any. The
few cases wherein these things may do evil,
cannot be weighed against the multitude where
in the want of them will do evil. In disputes
between a foreigner and a native, a trial by
jury may be improper; but if this exception
cannot be agreed to, the remedy will be to mo
del the jury by giving the medietas linguae ill
civil, as well as criminal cases. Why futpeird
the habeas corpus in infurreftions and rebellions?
The parties who may be arretted, may be char
ged instantly with a well defined crime: ofcourfe
the judge will remand them; if the public fat'ety
requires that the government Ihould have a man
imprisoned on less probable testimony, in tho e
than in other emergencies, let him be taken and
tried, retaken and retried, while the ner JTc
continues, only giving him redress again!" 1
government for damages. Examine the '
of England, fee how few cases of the ft
of the habeas corpus law have been ' Li../ .
that fufpenlion. They have been cit : r<
treasons, wherein the parties i. 'ght "J*'®
have been charged at once, or : 1 ■ pie/ e S lct
it was lhameful they fnould ev 1 'ive 1 ,
petted. Yet for the few csfe ~ v!i_
suspension of the habeas corpus ha iio.
good, that operation is now beio - haftilA.
and the minds of the nation almoii. ■;> 1 -V» r ;fsf e
live under its constant suspension. Adti*
tion that the federal government wil ■■ e \ras
strain the prelTes from printing any ti> t
please, will not take away the liability -i tii,
printers for falfe facts printed. The di. Jura
tion that religious faith (hall be unpum'iw
does not give impunity to criminal a<fts di<sla:ed
by religious error. The faying there lhall le
no monopolies, lessens the incitements to inge
nuity, which is spurred 011 by the hope of a 1, o
nopoly for a limitted time, as of 14 years : bl
the benefit, even of limitted monopolies, is too
doubtful to be opposed to that of their *fl
suspension. If no check can be found to keep
the number of standing troops within fats
bounds, while they are tolerated as far as neccf
fary, abandon them altogether; discipline well
the militia, and guard the magazines witn them.
More than magazine guards will be useless if
few, and dangerous if many. No European n-a
tjon can ever fend against us fucli a regular ar
my as we need fear, and it is hard if our militia
are not equal to those of Canada or Florida,
My idea then is, that tho' proper exceptions to
these general rules are desirable, and probably
pra&icable, yet if the exceptions cannot be
agreed on, the eftablilhment of the rules in all
cases will do ill in very few. I hope therefore
a bill of rights will be formed to guard the pe j
ple against: the federal government, as they are
already guarded against their state governments
in most instances. The abandoning the princi
ple of necessary rotation in the ienate has, I fee,
been disapproved by many; in the cafe of the
president by rone. I readily therefore suppose
my opinion wrong when opposed by the majo
rity, ars in the former instance, and the totality
in the latter. In this, however, I lhould have
done it with more complete fatisfa<stion, had we
all judged from the fame position."
Paris, Nov. 18, s;88.
" As to the bill of rights however 1 still think
it Ihould be added, and 1 am glad to fee that
three states have at length considered the perpe
tual re-eligibility of the president, as an article
which ihould be amended. I iho" M —-—irecate
with you indeed the meeting o_Cjnt of thebion
tion. I hope they will adoja 4th page.
ment by congress and th»
vcafc X ihould not star a'
raris, July 31, 1788.i
!.
in the plan. But the minorities are too refpcc
table not to be intitled tofome lacrifices of opi
nion in the majority, efpeciallv when a great
proportion of them would be contented with a
bill of fights." >
\
*
i
j
Paris % March 15, 1789
li I cannot refrain from making short an
swers to the objections which your letter states
to have been raised. I. That the rights in
question are reserved by the manner in which
the federal powers are granted. Answer, a
constitutive ast may certainly befo formed ar> to
need no declaration of rights. The adt itfelf
lias the force of a declaration as far as it goes;
and if it goes to all material points, nothing
more is wanting. In the draught of a cdnftitu
tion which I had once a thought of propoling in
Virginia, and printed afterwards, I endeavored
to reach all the great objects of public liberty,
and did not mean to add a declaration of rights.
Probably the object was imperfectly executed ;
but the deficiencies would have been fnpplied
by others in the course of discussion. But in a
constitutive a<st, which leaves foine precious ar
tides unnoticed, and raises implications againfr
others, a declaration of rights becomes necef-
Jary by way of supplement. This is the cafe of
our new federal constitution. This inftmment
forms us into one state, as to certain ohjefrs
and gives us a legislative and executive body
for these objects it fliould therefore guard us
against their abuses of power within the field
submitted to them. 2. A positive declaration
of some ellential rights could not be obtained in
the requisite latitude. Answer, if we cannot
secure all our rights, let us lecure what we can.
3. The liinitted powers of the federal govern
ment, and jealousy of the fubord nate govern
ments, afford a security which exists in no other
instance. Answer, the firft member of this
seems resolvable into the firft objection before
stated. The jealousy of the subordinate go
vernments is a precious reliance ; but ob/erve
that those governments are only agents. Thev
must have principles furnifhed them whereon
to found their opposition. The declaration of
rights will be the text whereby they will try all
the acts of the federal government; 'n this view
it will be necefTary to the federal government
also : as by the fame text, they may try the op
position of the subordinate governments. 4. sEx
perience proves the inefficacy of a bill of rights.
True ; but though it is not absolutely efficaci
ous under all circumstances, it is of yeat po
tency always, and rarely inefficacious. A brace
the more will often keep up the building which
would have fallen with that brace the less. There
is a remarkable difference between the charac
ters of the inconveniences which attend a de
claration of rights, and those which attend the
want of it. The inconveniences of the decla
ration are, that it may cramp government in
its ufeful exertions; but the evil of this is short
lived, moderate, and reparable. The inconve
niences of the want of a declaration, are per
manent, afflicting, and irreparable ; they are
in a constant progreflion from bad to worse. I
know there are some among us who would now
establish a monarchy, but they are inconsidera
ble in number and weight of chara&er. The
nfing race are all republicans. We were edu
catad in 1 oyalifm . no wonder if some of us re
tain that idolatry still. Our young people are
educated in republicanism : an apoftacy from
that to royalifm is unprecedented and impofli-
I am much pleased with the profpeft that
1 . 'aration of rights will be added ; and hope
iii be done in that way which will not en
dangc *be whole frame of the government, o.
any eflential part of it."
Paris, Augujl 28, 1789.
null -j, r.v fay a word on the declaration
ts yo ; I 1? ve been so good as to fend me.
,t ' > far a-, it goes ; but I fliould have
r g' mg further; for instance, the fol
alterations and additions would have
nr ' /*; 4- The people fnall not be de
•ed o :- ; n -d of their right to speak, to
dfte or or!-, ife to publish any thing but falfe
/Ss, 1 r:n- injuriously, the life, liberty, pro
/fert-, ( utntion of others, or affe&ing the
- e confederacy with foreign nations.
/ ' } 4 rafts put in ilfue before any judica
' -re fh?,i be tried by jury, except, 1. in cases of
cn 1, r:1 1y jurifdi<sl ion wherein a foreigner fball
e' mterefted. 2. In cases cognizable before
a r irt-martial concerning only the regular of
- si's and soldiers of the United States, or mem
bers of the militia in a&ual service in time of
war or mfurreftion; and 3. Impeachments al
con^' t " tion - Ar tß- Noperfon
. ,n co "finement more than days
aflSrtiitr shall have demanded and been re
eled a writ of hab. Corp. by the judge appoint
• n °\ more than days after such
wn: {hall have been served on the perfo,, hold
lfg him m confinement, and no order given on
cue exam,nation for hi, remandment or dis
charge, nor more than hours in anv place at
refictence of r*"* mi^Trom ' the
r : r i°/° me Judge a » th °"<"ed to iiTue the
writ of hab. Corp. nor ihai! that writ I* f„f.
anv nl any term exceedi "g -ear, nor in
<>ny place more more than miles di.hnt
in3r e t ftat a" ° r encaln P m «nt of enemies' or
I .11 gents. Art. 9. Monopolies may be allow
ed to perrons for their own productions in lite
si term 7" inventi °ns in the arts, for
ffer t-rm ahT " S u yea "' but for "° ,0 "'
j?ei tv.imland for no other purpose. Art. 1- All
fta " d W o ***
WV,I • expiration of the term for
Ift vo^V a £ and fubfifte " ce 'hall have been
, ° f There rcftricT.ons I
11' „ . glialded as to prevent evil onlv —
However if we do not have them now, I |, ave
n!idenc ( ? ,n my countrvmen, as to be
d'e"nef V Ve have them ' as r ° on ai the
nefXry?' S ° Vernment fta ': render them
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cent?,
3 P" r
P
S Int-off
o
4** per cent, prem.
60
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATED.
AR ISTIDES complaSns.that the AmekicXw
has charged Mr. Jejferfon with being the
patron and promoter ot national dif union, national
irjignificance, public dijordcr and dijcrcdit. The
American however, has oniy alarmed, that
" the rpal or pretended political tenets of that
gentleman Una" to those points. j
The facts which have been established e'ear
lv demonftiate, that in the form in which it is
made, the charge is well founded.
If Mr. jeffertbn's opposition to the funding!
fyltem, to tjie bank, and to the other meafurcs
which are connected with the adminiftjjitjqn of
the national finances had ceased, when thole
measures had received the fanftion of law ; no
thing more cou'd have been laid, than, that he
had tranfgrefled the rules of official decorum,
in entering the lifts against the head of another
department (between whom and himfelf, there
was a reciprocal duty to cultivate harmony)
that he had been culpable in pursuing a line of
conduct, which was calculated to Tow tke feeds
of discord in the executive branch of the go
vernment, in the infaricy of its existence.
But when his opposition extended beyond
that point; when it was apparent, that he wish
ed to render odims, and of course to subvert (for
in a popular government these are convertible
terms) all those deliberate and folenin arts of
the legislature, which had become the pillars of
the public credit, his conduct deserved to be re
garded with a still severer eye.
Whatever differences of opinion may have
preceded those a<sts—however exceptionable
particular features in them may have appeared
to certain characters, there is no enlightened
nor discreet citizen but must agree, that they
ought now to remain uvdijiurbed, To set afloat
the funding system, after the faith of the nation
has been so deliberately and solemnly pledged to
it—after such numerous and extensive aliena
tions of property for full value have been made
under its fan (stion—with adequate revenues,
littleburthenfome to the people—in a time of
profound peace*—with not even the shadow of
any public neceflity—on no better ground than
that of theoretical and paradoxical dogmas
would be one of the most wanton and flagitious
arts, that ever stained the annals of a civilized
nation.
Yet positions tending to that (jifgraceful re
sult have been maintained in public discourses,
by individuals known to be devoted to the Se
cretary of State ; and have been privately
smiled upon as profound discoveries in political
science.
"\et the less discreet, though not least impor
tant partizans of that officer, talk familiarly of
undoing the funding system as a meritorious
work : Yet his Gazette (which may fairly be
regarded as the mirror ol his views) after hav
ing labored for months to make it an object of
popular detestation, has at length told us in
plain and triumphant terms, that "the funding
fvftcm has had its day and very clearly, if
not expressly, that it is the object of the party
to overthrow it.
The American, then, has iuftly, and from
fufficient data, inferred, that Mr. Jefferfon's
politics, whatever may be the motives of them,
tend to national disunion, infignificance, difor
er and discredit. That the fubverlion of the
tunding system would producenationaldifcredit,
proves itfelf. Loss of credit, the reason being
. ® ra , me ' mu(l attend nations, as well as indi
viduals who voluntarily and without neceflity
violate their formal and poiitive engagements.
Infignificance and disorder, as applied to com
mumties, equally with individuals, are the na
tural offspring of a loss of credit, premeditated
ly and voluntarily incurred.
Disunion would not long lag behind. Sober
minded and virtuous men in every State would
all confidence in, and all lefnect for a go
vernment, which had betrayed so much levity
and mconftancy, so profligate a disregard to the
'tfto oj property, and to the obligations of good
* Their support would of course be so far
withdrawn or relaxed, as to leave it an easy
prey to its enemies. These comprize the ad
vocates for separate confederacies; the jea
lous partizans of unlimited sovereignty, in the
; tate governments—the never to be satiated
lovers of innovation and change—the tribe of
pretended philosophers, but real fabricators of
chimeras and paradoxes—the Catalines and
the Casfars of the community (a delcription of
men to be found in every republic) who leading
the dance to the tune of liberty without law,
endeavor to intoxicate the people with delicious
but poisonous draughts to render them theeafier
victims of their rapacious ambition : the vi
cious and the fanatical of every class who are
A^ e ' r ll r , the wi,lin E or the deluded followers
of those seducing and treacherous leaders.
But this is not al!—the invasion of fixtv mil
lions of property could notbe perpet.ated with
dt Jn 1 fh nt rt C 0 5 ' The States ' wl '°*
own ! I f creditors and purckafe, j
own the largest portions of the debt (and leveral
such there are) would not remain long bound
violated th"' 11 v party whictl had so
nerin ! , ! ' ght5 ' The ™nfequencesin ex
bliureH I!" q . U ' Ckly aWaken to a sense of
renrl.fr '' S • ' a " d lntereft such ° f them, whose
or been"i S V have wicked] y embarked,
''-^^^sarjsssss
lias ("aid, that Mr^Tff' 0 - iJllt the Amerl tan
Prompted, or Tc bas bec " the
perfions on men w hn, ' . ~nwa at
nierelv profeluons ftiall V° a(^'on S "°t
—• P otel ' lons » «>all be the t.ue test of pa-
138
triotifm aid integrity Heed never decline a
comparifoH with him of their titles to the pub
lic efteern," and he is ftipported in the affertior
by facts. I : ' ■- <
Not to cfttf or trace those fool and peftifent
whispers, circulating thrWjh
the country, have, as far as was frra&icable,
contaminated some of its faireft and worthiefi
characters, an appeal to known circunfftances
will juftify the charge.
Some time since, there appeared in print cer
tain speculations, which have been construed
into an advocation of hereditary diftinftions in
government. These (whether with, or without
foundation, is to this moment matter of con
jeaure) were ascribed to a particular charac
ter—pre-eminent for his early, intrepid, faith
ful, peri'evering and comprehensively tileful ser
vices to his country—a man pure and unspot
ted in private life, a citizen having a high and
solid title to the esteem, the gratitude and the
confidence of his fellow-citizens.
The firft volume of the " Rights of man"
makes its appearance—The opportunity is ea
gerly seized, to answer the double purpose of
wounding a competitor, and of laying in an ad
ditional stock of popularity ; by alTociating and
circulating the name of Thomas Jefferfon, with
a popular production of a favorite writer, on a
favorite fubjeft.
For this purpose the Secretary of State fits
down and pens an epistle to a printer in the city
of Philadelphia, transmitting the work for re
publication, and exprefling his approbation of it
in a way, which we learn, from the preface of
that printer to his edition of the work, was cal
culated not only to do justice to the writings of
Mr. Paine, but to do honor to Mr. Jefferfon ;
iy diufling the mind to a contemplation of that
republican jirmnefs and democratic jimplicit) l , which
ought to endear him to every friend to the
" Rights of Man."
The letter, as we learn from the fame pre
face, contained the following passages : u I am
extremeiy pleased to find it will be reprinted
here, and that something is at length to be pub
licly said against the political which have
Iprnng up among us." I have no doubt our ci
tizens will rally a second time round the Jlandard
of common sense."
There was not a man in the United States,
acquainted with the insinuations, which had
been propagated, who did not instantly apply
the remark—and the signal was so well under
stood by the partizans of the writer, that a ge
neral attack immediately commenced. The
newspapers in different States resounded with
inventive and scurrility against the patriot, who
was marked out as the object of persecution,
and if poflible of degradation.
Under certain circumstances general expres
sions designate a person or an object as clearly
as an indication of it by name. So it happened
in the prelent cafe. The Javelin went direct
ly to its destination.
But it was quickly perceived, that discerning
and refpeftable men disapproved the step. It
was of consequence to endeavor to maintain
their good opinion.—Protestations, and excuses
as frivolous as awkward were multiplied to veil
the real design.
u The gentleman alluded to, never once en
tered into the mind ! It was never imagined,
that the printer would be so incautious as to
publifli the letter or any part of it—nothing
more was in view than to turn a handsome pe
riod, and avoid the baldnejs of a note that did
nothing but present the compliments of the
writer !"
Thus a solemn invocation to the people of
America, on the mod serious and important
iubject, dwindled at once into a brilliant con
ceit, that tickled the imagination too much to
be refilled. The imputation of levity was pre
ferred to that of malice.
| But when the people of America prcfented
themselves to the disturbed patriotic fancy, as
a routed host, scattered and dispersed by politi
cal sorcerers ; how was it polTible to refill the
hcroic, the chivalrous desire, of ere&ing for
them some magic standard of orthodoxy, and
endeavoring to rally them round it, for mutual
protection and fafety.
In so glorious a cause, the considerations—
that a citizen of the United States had written
in a foreign country a book containing stric
tures on the government of that country, which
would be regarded by it, as libellous and iedi
tious—that he had dedicated this book to the
chief magistrate of the union—that a republi
cation ot it under the auspices of the Secretary
of State, would wear the appearance of its
having been promoted, at least of its being pa
tronized by the government of this country —
were considerations too light and unimportant
to occasion a moment's hesitation or pause.
I hose who, after an attentive review of cir
cumstances, can be deceived by the artifices,
which have been employed to varnifli over this
very exceptionable proceeding mull: undenland
little of human nature must be little read
in the history of those arts, which in all coun
tries, and at all times have served to disguise
the machinations of fa<ftious and intriguing
The remaining circumstance of public noto
riety, which fixes upon Mr. Jefferfon the im
putation of being the prompter, or inftigatorof
detraction, exists in his patronage of the Na
tiona] Gazette.
Can any attentive reader of that Gazette
doubt, for a moment, that it has been fyftema
ticallv devoted to the calumniating and black
ening of public characters ? Can it be a qtieftion,,
that a main object of the paper is to deltroy
the public confidence in a particular public cha
racter, who it Teems is to be hunted down at all
j° r the un pardonab]e fin of having been
the Iteady,invariable and decidedfriend of broad
national principles cf government? Can it be
a question, that the persecution of the officer al.
-tided to, is agreeable to the views of the initi
tutor of the paper >
Does all this proceed from motives purely
disinterested and patriotic ' Can none of a dif
c.ent complexion be imagined, that mav at
'■east have operated to »; ve , n ■
otic zeal! Jt'tulms to
guilhed as tie quiet n.odeft reH * ftln "
pher as the plain fimpfc P^o.
Helhallnot now f or £?
regarded as themtrig u u n „ ir 't ® rft t,n * he
Piring turbulent competitor andlar >'-the at
It has been pertinently remarked by a judi
cious writer, that Cirjar, who overturned the re
public, was the Whig, (urt, who died for it, the
Tory cf Rome ; such at least was the common
cant of"political harangues; the inlidious tale
of" hypocritical demagogues.
WARSAW, July 14. J
WE are' in great spirits here at
present, from a very confident
rumour through the city, that affairs
between this country and Rnffia are
in a train of accommodation->-and
which is a matter that seems to be
generally credited, even among the
superior order of citizens.
Heaven grant the rumour may ha*«
foundation, and save this country
from a wide spreading scene ofblooa
ftied !
COBLENTZ, July 30.
The Pruflian army, compofcd of
152,000 combatants, encamped on the
plains near this town,received orders
at three o'clock this morning to be
gin their march towards Treves, on
their way to the borders of f ranee.
The king is at their head, and "ill
remain with them during the whule
of this expedition.
MENTZ, July 26.
Several convoys paiied through this
place yetterday, intended for the ar
my of the Prince de Conde.
Three French spies wereyeflerday
arretted, in the neighborhood of
Frankfort, each of them had a lettci
concealed, one in his cane, another
in the heel of his boot, and the thir
in the lining of his hat. They * ere
bound, and fattened to a convoy ot
Prussian artillery. It is expected that
they will be speedily executed.
JERSEY, Angnft j.
The importation of pencil In
encreafes every day. Hariafle '<
the populace, they have been ot'
to seek an afyluni in this 1 an .
There ait now near joo in J el
exclusive of the Nobility, who mani
fell a generous ipirit of benevo enc
in the holpitahty with which ti
receive these poor fugitives, an
the readinei/ with which the) ie te v
their wants. „
CATULLUS.HAGUE, July 28.
The immense quantities of provifi
onspurchafed in Holland for the sus
tenance of the Ruffian and Austrian
armies, afford a strong proof of the
care and forefight of those to whom
that department is entrnfted. On
the 13th of this month, Count Kelier
requefled of ihe States General the
free export of the provisions put chaf
ed for the service of Prussia.
LISLE, Align It 4
Several of our derachments,juft re
turned, have had skirmishes with the
enemy, in all of which the advantage
was on our fide.
An officer has received a letter from
a friend in the centre ariny, Hating
that there has been an action near
Longwy, in which the enemy loft 630
men.
VALENCIENNES, July 3r
A corporal and 17 fufueeis of the
regiment of Mauray, who set off from
a poll at one of the gares of Bi ulfels
011 the night of Saturday or Sunday
last, are arrived here. They had
their arms and some ammunition with
them, and laid they were resolved, if
opposed to fight their way.
PARIS, August 6
It is affirmed, that all the French
Princes, except M. Conde, who has
refufed, have done homage to the
new Emperor of Allaceand Lorraine.
M. Definottes, Adjutant-General to
M. la Fayette, is dead of the wounds
which were civically infli<fted on him
on the Terrace des Feuillans, a few
■weeks ago.
M. Duhamel was buried on Tues
day. His corple was attended by
great multitudes of people. One
would imagine that Dillon, Duhamel,
&c. &c. were purposely butchered
with a view to have a fine funeral
procelfion, solemn dirges, a noble ca
tafalque, &c. &c.
M. Bonnecarrere is appointed Mi
nifter Plenipotentiary toPhiladelphia
The Jacobins are now llrongly di
vided. M. BrifTor, lfnard,and others,
want to form a club ofre-union ; they
have been denounced as the causes of
the war, and it is under consideration
whether Briflot shall not be publicly
expelled.
The Poetaster Chinier is the author
of the elegant address delivered by
Mr. Petion at the bar of the august
Diet, as containing the sentiments of
the people at Paris ; and yet this ad
dress is reprobated by all the citizens,
a few ragamuffins, ruffians, and ad
venturers only excepted.
The unfortunate city of Aries, as
well as Marseilles and others, is again
a prey to the demon of civil discord.
The Decree of the difti ic't of Mau
confeil is to be annulled by found of
trumpets, and it is discountenanced
by every one.
The vote of the 48 fe<ftions of Pa
ris, relative to the King's deposition,
must have a prodigious influence up
on the opinions of the reft of the
kingdom : It is the wish, however of
the best friends of liberty that the
Aflembly inay adjourn the considera
tion of this great and momentous
queilion until the close oftheprefeni
.war.
Were they to acquiesce in the vvifh
es of the capital, Luckner and La
Fayette would use all their interest
with the army to protect the person
and dignity of the King, and there
is not a single aid-de-carnp in their
suite, or general officer under them,
but would most readily join them in
any scheme for his deliverance.
The condu<ft of the Auftrians at
Bavay and Orchies, has been equally
impolitic and inhuman fnftead of
conciliating the French citizens by
mildness, they have irritated thein
by the moll violent and attrocious
acts of cruelty.
The Houlans, like the Coflacks, do
no not receive any pay ; ai;d are
therefore under the nbfolnte necefiity
offubfifting theinfelves upon plunder.
A coinage of falfe Louis d'Ors has
been just discovered at Rsomainville.
Tbe Prince de Conde has received
the command of the advanced guard
of French emigrants.
The Compte d'Artois, and M. de
Broglio, have been appointed by the
Duke of Brunfwick to lead the main
body.
M. la Fayette is encamped between
Villers le Roud and Marville,
M. Dillon is encamped at Maulde.
The Auflrians Hill continueto desert
to him in large bodies.
The workmen belonging to M.
Pankoucke's Printing-office in Paris,
have firtsd out five Volunteers for the
Frontiers, to whom tiiey allow a cer
tain daily sum over and above their
pay.
she gardens of the Thuilleries are
still parted off with patiotic ribbons,
flie following lenience was attached
to one of theni yelferday :
" La coleie du *"euple lienta un rubati;
" La couronne du Koitient a un ills."
M. St. C lair commands the emi
grant regiment of the fame name.
The Marquis de Ponibal is to lead
a legion of Kulfian chafieurs into the
.field.
M. Calonne is laid to be in disgrace
with the French Princes.
After M. Petion had delivered his
speech to tile National Assembly on
Friday last, M. Ifnard also spoke on
the fame subject as well as he could,
and his sentiments perfectly accorded
with thole of the virtuous Petion.
He called M. Champion, whom he
denounced to the Allenibly, and to
the whole nation, an execrable fel
low, for having said that he, Ifnard,
was fold to the English—" Wretch !"
cried he, " J)i(leCt my heart, and fee
whether it be Engliih !"
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
AuGOsr 5.
One of the sections of Paris, which
goes by the name of Mirabeau, an
nounced to day a patriotic offering
of 58 volunteers, equipped by them
for the defence of the couutry agaitift
its invaders. These men furnifhed
by their neighbours, some giving
them a coat, others a sword, others
a fufil, &c. marched across the hall
with mncii applauf'e, and their names
read aloud, wefe inserted in the pro
ces verbal. It is by these kind of ac
tions that the sections may serve their
country with honor to themselves,
and not by insulting the law by re
bellious arrets.
LONDON, Augnft 10,
Lord Cornwallis lias fignified his
intention of returning to Europe in
January next. His Lordship will be
accompanied home by Gen. Meadows.
Lord Macartney succeeds EarlCorn
wallis as governor-general in India—
his Lordi'hip will, after concluding
his embafly to China, embark from
thence for Madras.
The diplomatic character of the
new American Minilter, Mr. Pinck
ney, who was presented to his Majes
ty last Wednesday, is reciprocally
the fame as the British Minister, Mr.
Hammond, is inverted with at Phila
delphia, viz. Minister Plenipotentiary.
Mr. Hammond's credentials to the
United States were presented to the
President in October last, upon his
receiving official notification of Mr.
Pinckney's appointment.
The expeuce of the plate which his
Majesty presents to each of his Ain
baifadors, is near qoool.
The Chinese Embaliy is to be upon
a grander scale than is generally ima
gined ; and the commercial effects
are likely to prove of correspondent
importance.
It is to be graced by afplendid mi
litary retinue, which is to bear the
appellation of Lord Macartney' sLegiou.
National Debt
The cominiifioners under Mr. Pitt's
bill for (he reduction of the National
debt, completed the 24th quarter on
the ift of Augufl, 1792. The quan
tity redeemed by them amounted to
nine millions, four hundred, forty
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty
pounds
Capital Bought.
Consols 3 per cent L. 3,286,800
Ditto Reduced 2,896,200
Old South Sea 1,626,550
NewSouthSea 1,250,300
South Sea, 1 751 382,000
It is worth remarking, that seven
hundred and sixty-sour thousand
pounds of the public debt have been
discharged in the last quarter, with
out any i ecourfe to new taxes, but
merely by the effects of the general
prosperity ; and that some of the hea
viest burdens which irrefiftable ne
ceflity had imposed upon the poor,
have been already diminiflied.
139
Philadelphia, Sept. 29.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN NEWS.
The National AlTembly having annulled the
arrete of the feftion of Mauconfeille for de
throning the King, the departments of the mu
nicipality of Paris caused the decree of the As
sembly to be proclaimed by found of trumpet.
Prince Lumbefc, formerly commander of the
guards of the king of France, has lately been lb
hardy as to return to Paris, to fettle some do
mestic affairs. persons were hung at
Toulon the firft of July for aristocracy. Six
others loft their lives at Pertrice on afimilar ac
count.—'Notwithstanding a majority of the Na
tional AlTembly are against the proportion for
dethroning the King, at Jeaft as inexpedient at
the present crisis, a petition is opened at the
Champ de Mars for that purpose, to which about
fifty thousand persons have affixed their names,
and the number was continually augmenting.—
An infurre&ion broke out among the Austrian
troops in Tournay ; in consequence of which
the gates were shut ; the can e or the event
were not known.—Since the decree of the Af
iembly, declaring the nation in danger, was
pal Ted, the number of volunteers that turn out
is incredible.—At the present moment, all that
is wanted in France is Union. A concert of
views and exertions as to one great object, that
of repelling their invaders. A sense of the dan
gers of discord must neceflarily produce this ef
fect—and a coalition will render them invinci
ble —Five hundred and ninety fix millions livres
of the affignats have been cancelled and destroy
ed.—A squadron intended for St. Domingo, con
fiding of one 74, four frigates, and 17 trans
ports, with 8000 men, was at the Ifje of Aix,
ready to fail, by the last accounts.—lii various
fkirmilhes with the Auftrians, the French have
had the advantage. In an action near Longwy,
the former are said to have loft: 600 men. The
armies of Austria and Pruflia were in motion on
their way to France—the citizens were making
the greatest preparations to give them a warm
reception, and to defend their country to the
last extremity. About the 3°th J two
the enemies camps were attacked by M. de la
Fayette—his fuccefswould have been complete,
but for the treachery of three officers who de
serted, and alarmed the Auftrians. He howe
ver killed about 400 of them, and took 3° co ~
vered waggons. The loss of the French was
only three killed and twenty wounded.— I'Lon
don accounts fay, that it is an erroneous repre
sentation that Admiral Paul Jones died in dis
tress. He has left more than a thousand pounds
between his two sisters, now in the North of
England—Admiral Jones li3d a public funeral,
ordered by the National Alfembly. This, it is
said in the Paris papers, was contrary to the
opinion of the American Minister—who is cen
sured in those papers for his conduct, particu
larly for not attending the funeral of that ce
lebrated commander.
Some priests have been? inhumanly butchered
at Bordeaux. An ecclesiastic, 70years old, who
was endeavoring to set the fra&ured limbs of
some people at Limoges, was cut to pieces by
the mob. The Duke d'Orleans drove post, on
the ißfh July, through the Louvre, on his
way to Paris. He was hifled, in his way thro'
the town, by a whole regiment and by the citi
zens. A similar reception awaited him at Pa
ris He has been advised not to attempt any
new schemes, for the National Guards are re
solved to defend the King and the Constitu
tion.
Captain Snake, a chief belonging tothe Mun
fee tribe, who was sent with a message to the
hostile Indians, was killed at one of the Dela
ware towns, after he had made known his bnfi
nefs.
V/e hear from Rutland, Vermont, that the
Printing Office of Mr. Haswell, with all its
contents, were last week destroyed by fire—a
public, as well as private loss.
Last Sunday week arrived in this
city, Capt. Eaton and his company
of Infantry, on their march to Pitif
burg. About sixty of Capt. Eaton's
corps were laifed ih the state of Ver
mont, near Bennington, and thirty
joined them at Ne w-Brunfwick and
frenton, on their way here through
New-Jersey. This party was join
ed by part of Capt. Peirce's company
of Artillery, and the whole detach
ment, coniilting of nearly 200, march
ed from hence for Pittfburg the 21ft
inft. completely accoutred—making
a very handsome and martial appear-
ance,
A beautiful new {hip, built by Mr.
Goffe, for Mr. Wilcocks, and to be
commanded, by Capt. Samuel Smith,
was launched at Kenfingron lad Wed -
nefday, in presence of a verj nume
rous aflembly of citizens, who had
collected there on the occasion.
The State-Honfe, which is ere<stingi
at Trenton, is in conflderabie for
wardnefs. Great exertions will be
made to have apartments prepared, if
possible, to accommodate the legifla
cure at their feflion, which will com
mence in October next. It is one
hundred feet long by fifty feet wide,
with a semi hexagon at each end, over
which is to be a balluftrade; and,
when finifhed, will be a commodious
and elegant building.
9,441,850
On Tuesday next the middle circuit
court of the United States is to be
held at Trenton.
The annual commencement of
Princeton College was held at the
College-Hall on Wedncfday la(t.
So various and contradictory arc
the European accounts, that it is al
most impossible to form a precise or
definiteopinionwith 1 efpeift toFrench,
Polilh, Englifli, Aullrian, or Ruffian,
affairs—Even the intelligence trum
France, or that under ilie Paris head
in the Engliffi papers, is very far from
fatisfying the mjnd. Theie is how
ever one predominant feature whicli
forcibly obtrudes itfelf—the National
AH embly appear to poflefs the confi
dence of a decided majority of the
people—and the people discover as
great, if not a greater fervor in the
cause of liberty, than at any period
since the commencement of the Revo-
lution
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
The several trials which the free
constitutions of the United States and
France have to undergo, arise from a
lawless opposition to the measures
adopted by the conftitutionai autho
rities, in pursuance of those constitu
tions. This fort of opposition has
done much to ruin the affairs of France,
as is solemnly declared by the great;
and good Fayette. Let us take care,
that the attempt begun at Pitifburgh
does not produce similar effects.
Even the Miamifavages, prompted
by rival foreign Indian traders, must
have ienfe enough to fee, that they
have better chances of wounding the
frontier people, so long as their mea
sures go to destroy the government
that proteifts them, and the revenues
afligned to pay our army. Penn.Caz.
It lmift, Cays a correspondent, give
real pleasure lo all the friends to good
government, to observe how extreme
ly watchful the President of the Unit-'
ed Stales is at all times, to discharge
the sacred trust reposed in him by
the Conflitution, with refpetS to the
execution of the laws ; and the ex
ample is worthy of being copied by
the State Governors. For it may be
taken for granted, that people who
will oppose the laws of the United
States, would, on a trivial change of
circHtnf}ances, as readily oppose those
of an individual State. And perhaps
the Executive Power never appears in
so pleasing a capacity, in the eye» cf
good men, as when it is employed in
maintaining the laws. Dpi. Adv.
Hied, in Charleston, (S. C.) MrAnn Timo
thy, aged 65, Proprietor of the S'\ e ' azette
ot South-Carolina. Her loft is a fur jc£t of regret
to an extensive acquaintance.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Mason, Teneriffe
M'Culloch, V Georgia
Britton, Bay of f^onduras
Smith, Antigua
Shepherd, ditto
Jones, Charfcftpn
George, Jsnisilc*
Kir by, Virginia
Smith, ditto
Eaird, ditto
M'Nemana ditto
vVilfon, ditto
Icott, ditto
Sell, ditto
Brig Diana, ,
Plicnbe,
Sch'r A(slive,
Lively,
Phoenix,
Eagle,
Nancy,
Linnet,
Nancy,
Favorite,
Friendlhip,
Sloop Laurel,
William,
Betsey,
Post-Office, Philadelphia, Sept. 29.
LETTERS for the Britifli Packet, Dajhwoei,
for Falmouth, via Halifax, N. S. will be re,
ceived at this Office until Tuesday morning the
2d of October, at 1 o'clock.
*** When the Editor hereoj fuggefiedto Arijlides"
his expectation that heJhould discover him/elfin cafe
his future performances were to contain perlonalflric
tures, the injdrence that every candid mind wouldm.akt v
is obvious—but it required a degree oj penetration, lit
tle short of " fecondfght," to divines rom the circvm
fiance, that the Editor had " withoutfcruple" publifhcd
personalities on the other fide oj the queflion.
(jdT THE Editor of this Gazette earnejlly requests
all those of his Subfcribers y whose accounts are of one f
two or three years flanding, to discharge them as fotK
as pofjibte.
/ill perjom empowered to collefl monies for the paper,
to whom pa\ments have been made } would greatly oblige
him by tianfmitting the J'ums received, and the names of
the fubferfberi who have paid.
While every grateful acknowledgment is due to those
whose punctuality has enabled the Editor thus far to
continue the publication - he is obliged to observe, that
Jo great is the expence attending its prof cution, and fq
large the amount of arrearages, that unless a confdera
'>!e part of that amount is speedily realized, it will be
"npofjiblefor him to continue the Gazette with any re
ference to a diflant and extenfwe circulation.
September 29, 1792.
£ For Proclamation of the President of the Unite <5
States, fee the 4th pageBY THE
PRESIDENT of the United States
A PROCLAMATION
. \-\7HEREAS certain violent
( / VV and unwarrantable pro
ceedings have lately taken place,tend
ing to obftrudt the operation of the
laws of the United States for raising
a revenue upon spirits difti 1 led with
in the fame, enacfted pursuant to ex
press authority delegated in the con
ltitution of the United Srates : which
proceedings are subversive of good
order, contrary to theduty that every
citizen owes to his country and tothe
laws, and of a nature dangerous to
the very being of a government.
And whereas fach proceedings ?re
the more unwarrantable, by rea(on
of the moderation which has been
heretofore shewn on the part of the
government, and of the disposition
which has been manifefted by the le
gislature (who alone have authority
to suspend the operation of laws) to
obviate causes of objection, and to
render the laws as acceptable as pos
sible : and whereas it is the particu
lar duty of the Executive " to take
care that the laws be faithfully exe
cuted and not only that duty, but
the permanent interests and happi
ness of the people require, that every
legal and neceflary Hep should b~- pur
sued, as well to prevent such violent
and unwarrantableproceedings, as to
bring to justice the infractors of the
laws and secure obedience thereto.
Now Therefore I, GEORGE
WASHINGTON, President of the
United States, do by these presents
most earnestly admonish and exhort
all persons whom it may concern, to
refrain and desist from all unlawful
combinations and proceedings what
soever, having for object or tending
to obftruft the operation of the laws
aforefaid ; inafnuich as all lawful
ways and means will be ftridtly put
in execution for bringing to justice
the infractors thereof and securing
ehcdience thereto.
A.ad 1 do moreover charge and re
quire a It courts, niagiftrates and offi
cers <vl it may concern, according
to the th of their several offices,
to exert th : powers in them respec
tively v.-fti by law for the purposes
aforefai.i ereby also enjoining and
reqnliin -.11 persons whomfover, as
the} te ?r the welfare of their coun
try , th< ill and due authority of go
vern mei t, and the preservation of
the p'il ic peace, to be aiding and as
sisting therein according to law.
In 't'tftimony whereof, I have caused
(he Seal of the United Slates to be
affixed to thefeprefents, and Signed
'.he fame -with my Hand- Bone this
fifteenth day of September, in the
year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and ninety two, and of the
Independence of the United States
the seventeenth.
Go. WASHINGTON.
By the President.
Th : Jefferson.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and other
ABookfebers in Philadelphia,
Colleft.onof PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI.
HI lUAL SONGS; felefted from differeni
Auinors, and published by O.der of the Con
ventton hold,ng the Doctrine of the Salvation of
alljMen, met m Philadelphia, Mav 25, 179,.
-f. r,Ce ° f a ,9 ng,c book ' boun d. 3- Bths of a Dollar
■With good allowance to those who lake quantities
AuS " ft 4' ■ (eptf.)
Stock Brokers Office,
<T^liF°Snhf Gr ? t Dock -® r « t . N*w-Youk, '
- I HE intending to confine himfelf
STOCKS V rAvr, PURCHASI " SALE o
STOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave to offer
ofa St'oTk Broker fr Th d ? "h ' hH '" C
KUroker. Those who may please to ta
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2,
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An ELEGANT EDITION oj the
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Ot the OLD ami NEW TESTAMENTS, with the
Apocrypha,
0n a very large and beantijul new T)pe, andfupeijine
Paper.
THE great importance ot the Holy Scriptures,
imereiting to every individual; the divine excel
lence of its do£trincs and precepts, and the beauty
and sublimity of its paflages, have so long made it
a capital object of attention, as to preclude occa
sion or opportunity for eulogium.
The piety or enterprize of individuals has pre
sented this invaluable book to the public in a va
riety ot forms ; in some editions it has been highly
embellished with superb engravings, which have
greatly enhanced its price ; in others it has been
accompanied with voluminous commentaries,
which neceflarily encreafed the size; while a va
riety of plain cheap copies have generally diffufed
the knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
purchase easy to every class.
Without wishing in the lmaileft degree to lessen
the merits ot the various editions, whether plain
or ornamented, which the public are already in
poirtflion ot, it is pertinent to remark, that very
many readers ot taste and judgment have exprefled
a with for a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There still appears room for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in size
and elegance to any bible that has yet been printed
in the English language, and which, leaving the
adventitious circumstances ot ornament or com
ment, may exhibit the Oracles oj God in their na
tive limplicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
I 5 And God said,
d Let there be light: and
there was light.
With refpe£lful fubmiflion to the judgment and
candour of the public, the following proposals are
offered :
I. The woik (hall be printed with the gieateft
fidelity and attention to corre&r.efs both in the
text and marginal references, on a fuperfine Paper
made on purpose, with an elegant new Type call
for the work of the size ot the above Specimen.
11. The work will be comprised in twenty
number.*, making two elegant volumes in Folio ;
to be furnifhed to fubfeubers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want of
punctuality, no part of ihcwork wll be delivered
unlef. paid for.
111. The firft number, containing sixty folio
pages, elegantly printed, will be furnUhed on the
firft Saturday of July next, when fubferibers are
to pay the price of the firft and second numbers,
and the piice of one number to be always in ad
vance till the work ts completed. The subsequent
numbers to be published regularly on the firft Sa
turday of each succeeding month, till the whole
is finifhed.
Q3' Subscriptions will be received in Philadel
phia by the Publifheis, Thomas Dobson, No. 41,
South Second-fti eet, and John Parker, No. 259,
North Second-street; and by all the Bookfellcrs :
in Charleston, by William P. Young ; Richmond,
by Aichibald Currie ; Baltimore, by James Rice ;
Wilmington, by Peter Brynberg ; New-York, by
1 homas Allen ; New-Haven, by Isaac Beers;
Providence, (R. I.) by William Wilkinfon; Sa
lem, by Thomas Cufliing ; Boston, by David
Welt, Benjamin Guild, and Thomas & Andrews.
BOWEN's FXHIBITION OF
Wax-Work & Paintings,
AT the House lately occupied by Mrs. Pine,
in Eight h-ftreet, is now ready for the en
tertainment of the Public- Among a great
variety of Paintings, are a number of
ITALIAN ir FRENCH PIECES,
which are new and very pleasing.
Also, a large collection of
NEW WAX FIGURES.
The Exhibition is open every dav, from nine
o'clock in the morning, until nine in the even
,nS Admittance Half aDollar for Ladies
and Gentlemen, and haljprice for Children..
Tickets for the season, (not transferable)
Two Dollars.
For Sale, at the Exhibition Rooms,
LIKENESSES of the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES, in WAX,
And a variety of Elegant PRINTS in Frames
Se P f - 31 - fentn"
The SUBSCRIBERS to (he
Universal Tontine
Art mfu'mcd, that a general meetin. is to be held
at ihe Staic-Honfc in thiscty, on Saturday the sd
day of November next, at ,o o'clock, A. M.
agreeably to the sixth article of their association.
By order of the Agents,
pi 7 , EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
' S 't lL 15. » 792- (VptN 3 j
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON & SOUCHONG,
of fromT ryfi ' ftqUa, r y ' and lat£ft importation
from Canton, ,» New-Yo.k, by retail, at
No. Ip,
Th 1 rd, between Chefni,, and Market Street,.
TO BE SOLD HY THF FDITDR
A S * L Z H ™" C " UST
Vcffels; indudin, .he addit' PS '
which the rcrpca,veA,ti c , c ; dd ; , i rble. DU ''" "I
graduated according to Latßlank'M* f"n~
And Blanks for the v arious pow " a.mfcfts
neceflary tranfaftm,; Buunef, « L
|« the Bank of the United States Tr " fu '- V or
140
Strayed or Stolen,
FROM the iubLnber, on the night of the 18th
instant. from the inclofure of John Clark.
ot Trenton Township, Hunterdon county, New
ferfey, a Chefnut Sorrel MARE, about nine years
old, fourteen and an half hands high, bald faced,
white feet and eyes, a bunch on her left and near
fide, occasioned by a hurt, small long neck, thin
mane, shortish tail, Ihod all round : Whosoever
will take up said Mare, and return her either to
John Clark, of Trenton, Richard Varian,
New-York, or the fubferiber in Danbury, Fair
field county, State of Connecticut, (hall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD tor the Mare and
Thief, or FOUR DOLLARS tor the Mare only.
JAMES TROWBRIDGE.
Trenton, (N.J.) Sept. 18, 1792.
New-Brunswick
Church Lottery.
THE peculiar circumstances of a gentleman
who had undertaken to difpofeof a propor
tion of the tickets in the New-Bi unfwick Church
Lottery, having, in his opinion, rendered it incon
venient for him further to proceed in the sale
thereof, between eleven and twelve hundred tick
ets are unfxpe£ied!y returned to the Rettor,
Church-Wardens and Veftiy-mcn. This lays the
Managers under the neceflity of further adjourning
the drawing of the Lottery, until the fifteenth day
of O&ober next, that they may have time to trans
mit these tickets to the parts of the state where they
aieapplied for, and receive the returns. As there
are but few tickets besides these remaining on
hand, all persons who are disposed to promote the
pious object of this Lottery, or to take a chance
for the prizes therein, are requested to supply them
selves by the firft of O&ober ; and the gentlemen
appointed to dispose of them, are desired to return
those to the Managers which then remain unfold,
to answer (he applications of some gentlemen in
the neighbourhood, who are postponed to this re
source for a supply.— And notice is hereby given,
that the tickets not returned to the Managers by
the eighth day of October, will be considered as
at the risk of the holdeis.
I N. B. Robert Morris, Esq. of New-Brunf
wick, is duly choftn one of the Managers of the
fa id Lottery, and has given security and qualified
agreeably to law. (eptOi)
ioo Dollars Reward.
LOST on Cambridge Common, Massachusetts,
on the afternoon of the 18th ult. a Morocco
POCKET-BOOK, with a steel clasp, containing
a number of valuable papers, among which were
the following Public Securities, viz.
MaflTachufetts State Notes—No. 2,425, dated
December 1, 1782, payable to Thomas Greenwood,
f° r /* 2 3 I^jr * principal—No. 22.399, dated Ja
nuary 1, 1785, payable to Nathaniel Partridge, tor
£. 10 tor. principal.— No. , dated January
1, 1782, (an ai;my note) payable to Timothy How
ard, for £.8 Bs. id. principal.— No. , a Note
(the number, date, and to whom payable, not
known) for £. 3 oj. 3 d. principal.—One Indent
Certificate for Four Dollars, and a New-Hamp
shire Certificate for about £. 12 payable to John
and Daniel Jcnks ; also a number of Notes of Hand,
one of which was for £. 572 given by Nathan
Bond to Samuel IV. Pomeroy (by whom it was en
dorfedj dated id May, 1792, and pavable on the
1 lth August following ; the others were all paya
ble to the Subscriber. The Securities are checked
at ihe different offices frorti whence they were
iflTued, and the Notes of Hand by the different
Tigners, they can therefore be of no use to any but
the owner.
The Subscriber hereby offers a reward of One
Hundred Dollars to any person or persons
who has found the fame, and will return them to
him, or leave them with ihe Printer hereof, and
no quedions will be aflced.
ABRAHAM FOSTER.
Salem, Majfachufttts, Augujl i, 1792. (epif)
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA
June 28, 1792.
PURSUANT to the last Will and Teilament of
the late Rev. Alexander Williamson,
deceased, will be exposed to Public Sale on Thurs
day, the lithof October next,at Georgetown,
on a credit of three years, the purchasers giving
bond with approved security, to bear intereftfrom
the date That valuable Seat of Land. in Montgo
mery county, called Hayes; the late dwelling
plantation of the deceased, containing between fix
and seven hundred acres, the greatest part of which
jis rich, heavy timbered land, extremely well wa
[ tered, and capable of affording a very considerable
quantity cA fine meadow Situated ahout6 miles
rom the Federal City,and the fame distance from
George-Town, in a genteel neighbourhood, and a
remarkable healthy part of the country.
The improvements are, a very elegant two flory
Brick Dwelling House, (with four rooms and a
callage, or entrv. on a floor) and the neceflary out
houses. K»ENRY TOWNSEND,)
/ ™ BEN J STODDERT, £ Executors.
(eptO) THOMAS JOHNS, )
TERRITORY of COLUMBTA
T July 6, I 792.
HE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Seat on
Rock Creek, deemed bv those who have ex
mined it, equal to any in the United States. The
Mill-House tnay be placed within one quarter of
a mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market heufe in Georgetown, and one mile
from the Present's fquaie, in the city of Wash
ington on tide water, navigable for vessels of fe
deral hundred bushels burthen.—The stream is
fumcient,the year round,to turn four pair of (tones,
and the fall may be made from 25 to 30 feet. It
is urineceflary to dwell on the advantages ot such
a situation.
Tne purchaser mav be srcommodafed with a
evv hundred acres of land adjoining the Mill-Scat,
if that should he an ohjeft
( e P3 ,n 14jul)
WANT ID—TO RENT,
From the last of Odlobcr nrxt,
(3A convenient Houfc, rn or rear lie centre oj
he C ity,—Enquire of the tditor.
psrfof the money to be piW do^ (
thrte equal annuti flt ylArnu u,i «
* tht whole pr, n ,e "' T *«*
JOHJj M'GANTT,CInk
10 tlre
* i»
Jung a, ; Jg,
City of Walhin»oß
Sold by the Bookseuixs '
POBSON, CAREY, y OUm% ff&g.
Treasury Department
is hereby given,
>1 be received at the office of the&!2*
the Treasury, until the i 3 th day of '
inclusive, tor the supply of all ration, wbj,"
be required for the use of the United Sf#* t
.hefirft day of January to the "huty.ft™
December .793, both days inclusive, at S«i Jrfl
in the Stale of Maffachuletls.and thePolofwJft
in the State of New-York.
The rations to be fupplted.are to consist of the
following articles, Vl7.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beet, or £ of a pound of po,k,
Half a jtll of rum, brandy or whifkv
One quart of fait, )
Two quarts of vinegar, (
Two pounds of soap, ( P er 100 rations.
One pound of candles. )
The proposals mav be made for both of iV
above-ment.oned Pofls, or fcparateiy, f„ rSmin ,
field and Wefl-Point.
1 Treasury Department,
N. August, 20th, i -oo
OTICE ,s hereby given, that proposal, ~l|
be received at the office of the Secetary of
the Ireafury until ihe fourth day of Oftobfrnexi
lnclufively, for the supply of the following arcirln
of Clothing for the Troops in the fcrvicc o<
the United States viz.
For thje INFANTRY and ARTILLERY.
46c8*Hats 18460 Shirts
4608 Coats 79j6 Pa lr of Socks
4608 ycfts 4608 Blankets
8668 Woolen Overalls 4608' Stocks
9216 Linen Overalls 4608 Stock Clasps
18376 Pair of Shoes 4608 Pair of Buckiu
For the CAVALRY.
360 Caps 120 Pair of Stockings
360 Coats 1440 Shirts.
360 Vests 360 Blankets
360 Pair of Leather 360 Stocks
(Breeches 360 Stock Clafps;alfo,
720 Pair of Boots 1200 Rifle Shins, tobe
360 Pair of Spurs (made of Russia Sheeting
The above Clothing to be delivered either in
New-York, Philadelphia or Baltimore, at the op
tion of the contra&or or contractors, on or before
the 15th day of June, 1793.
The piopofals may comprise the whole of the
before-mentioned Clothing, or any one or more
of thecomponent articles; to be furnifhed agreea
bly to patterns or specimens, which will be fhewa
at the War Office. Good security will be requir
ed for the pun&ual and faithful performance of
the contract. The payment will be on fhedelive
ry of the Clothing, or, if neceflarv, such reasona
ble advances will be made as the Secretary of the
Treasury (hall deem expedient.
August 6, 1792.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annua! pension, from the 4th day of March
1792, and which will become due on thesth day
of September 1792, will be paid on the laid day
by the Commiflioners of the Loans within the
States refpe&ively, under the usual regulations,viz.
Every application for payment must be accom
panied by the following vouchers.
: ft. The certificate given by the (late, fpccifying
that the person poffefling the fame is in fit} an in
valid, and afceitaining the sum to which as such he
is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the °J tfie
county of in the state of aT "toath that
he is the fame A. B. to whom the original certificate
in his pojjefjion uias given, of which thefoHowin j if
a copy (the certificate given by the fate to be recite.)
That 'he served (regiment, corps or vejje j at
the time he was disabled, and that he now rc J l " e *} n
the and county of and has lejtded
there for the lajt years, previous to which he re
side d in ,
" In cafc an invalid should apply for payment by
an attorney, the said attorney, besides the certi 1-
cate and oath before recited, must produce a pf
cial letter of attorney agreeably to the following
form : . .
I, A. B. of county of ft ate of '
hereby conflitute and appoint C. D. oj wv u j u
attorney, to receive in my behalf of m 1 P™J'°
for fix months, an invalid of the United States,
from the fourth day of March, one trM J dV j c
hundred and ninety-two, and ending lit JJ' '
September, one thoufandfeven hundred and niittty-M.
Signed and scaled
in the prelence of
| H'itnefts.
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of cxecutm- and ad rp l n>
must be accompanied with legal evidi nee o
refpcftiv. offices and alio ■ I the .nc the mv.lid
died, wliofe p nliop .hey may claim.
Bv command of (b<*
'Ptcfident o r the United S"tfs,
H. KNOX. Sccrctan 'J""'
B. STODDERT.
Pr The Printers m the S '""
.quelled to , !U h|.fl. .hi- ab->e « the,, nevrf?"
ers, lor the fpacc ot two months.
p LAN s
0 F THE
War Department,
»
M