a national paper, puitusHF.n ws F> >r.- n ...,.
' ' A,iTT,r a ,r^r,
[No. 48, of Vol. IV
Foreign Affairs.
PARIS, September 7.
AT three o'clock in the afternoon
of the fatal 2d of September, the
sanguinary mob reached the Temple,
where they were met by two of the
commifliuners from the National Af
fenibly. It was with great difficulty
they could be restrained from fur
ther aJis of violence ; they demand
ed the head of the Queen ; the cotn
niiflioners therefore to prevent a
greater mifchief, found it neceflary
to accompany them to the tower of
the Temple, one of their leaders car
rying on a pole the head of theprin
cefs de Lamballe.
The coinmillioners, attended by an
officer nf the National Guard, and
M. Palloi, the manager of the works
round the Temple", undertook to in
form th-e King and Queen of what
was traiifacting, and Thar the people
infilled on their viewing jfofara
cle they had brought. Trie heaJtfTi
the unfortunate vitftim was difplayedl
on their Majesties presenting them
selves at a window. The Queen, and
her daughter Madame Elizabeth, ac
cording to the report ofa violent Paris
print, displayed, for the firft time,
some fcnfibility ; and the King, who
obeyed without any hesitation, said
to one of thecommifiioners— Sir. you
are right.
[We have noticed this remark, in
order ro (he - he base calumnies thai
are propagated concerning these Au
gust Personages. ]
When the mob went to the prison
de la Force, where the royal atten
dants were chiefly confined, the prin
cess de Laniballc went down on her
knees to implore a (ufpenfion of her
late for 24 hours. This was at firft
granted, until a second mob more fe
rocious than the firft, forced her
apartments, and decapitated her
The circumstances which attended
lier death were Inch as makes huma
nity (hudder, and which decency for
bids us to repeat : Previous to her
death, the <nob offered her every in
fulr. Her thighs were cut across,
and her bowels and heart torn from
her, and for two days her mangled
body was dragged through the
ft reets
W hen the Duke of Brunfwick took
pofleflion of Verdun, he sent the fol
lowing; notice to the Atlminiftrator
of the department of La Metife : —
We, the Deputy of the Grand Coun
cil of War of the King of Prulfia, ant
in the name of his said Majefly, en
join M. Gcffin, President of the ' De
partment of La Meufe, to repair to
morrow, at ihree in the afternoon
to the Hotel dc Ville of Verdun, or
affairs relating to his department, anc
under penalty of military ezecuiion
The order was instantly obeyed hi
the Piefident nnd the Procureur Ge
neral. The Duke of Brunfwick'
orders have as much weight as tbofi
of the National Aflenibly.
M. Roland, minister for the hoan
department (blunting for the iniqui
tlesand ruadacres of bis countrvmen
thought fit, on Tuesday, to write iht
ronowing letrerto M. Santerre, daiec
the 4th of September, in the 4th yeai
of liberty:
In the name of the nation, by or
der of the National Aflembly and th<
Executive Power, I enjoin you, Sir
to use all the means placed in you:
power by the law, to secure the'fafe
ty of persons and property ; and yoi
a| e hereby made refponfibie for eve
r y violence done 10 any Citizen
whatsoever in Paris. I fend you i
CP P-V '' ,e law which ordains yoi
'o preserve that fecnrity, and kee.
"P 'hat attention to it which I re
commend to you hereby. I have ac
quainted the National Aflembly am
the Mayor of Paris with the orders
■ ave g,\en you. Roland
Wednesday, November h , i? 9 2.
SEPTEMBER 22.
, n n,^ e ational A "e'nblj finifhed its
.ol ueal career, giving plnce ro the
National Convention, which had that
Horning conflicted itfelf into a b„.
iy, by the appearance of (he nnn.be.
is appointed—a deputation oftheal
embly waiting on them to conduC
h"ri 10 n tl -' e aucJ ' ence chamber it
he rhuillenes to Convention Ha]]
ormerly the (ear of the National Ai
? n \ ' he y proceeded to th'
°f. a P'"ffident, which fell nem
on. on Mr. Petion, the Mayor of Pa
is ; and after lome trifling conver
anon having took place, a mem be,
ofeupand moved the total abolitiot
»f Monarchy in France for ever
vhich was uriiver f a „ y and re ; terac
d ] y applauded from all parts of thi
louse and immediately conftitutet
nto a law. The next was the fuf
)enfion of all judicial appointments
ind that the people should appoin
neir own judges de novo—Mr. Tho
nas . Paine, by his interpreter M
joupilleau, requested the Aflembl*
o appoint a committee to brine up ;
eport on that fubje<ft, as ignoran
mdl vicious people may possibly in
roduce theinfelves to those employ
nenis, without precautions weretak
en to prevent the fame. The n.oti
on however, m i ts primitive state
palled.
n Th .? i"2 n r emion ,hen adjourned
II ill October.
The Duke of Brunfwick's army
lay before Chalons, head quarters of
(jen. Duniourier.
BRUSSELS, September it.
• n i
Intelligence has just been received
nere, which from the favorable na
ture of the accounts from the army
already publifned by authority there
is every reason to believe authentic,
that the King of Prussia took pofleffi-1
" n °f Chalons the day before yester
day. The hi (hop ofthat diocei'e, who
is here, has received orders to hold
himfejf in readiness to set out with
his clergy, 011 the 24th to repair thi
ther, and re-establish himfelf in his
charge.
The emigrants stationed near Thi
onville are all letting out for Verdun
and the environs, and are to be re
placed by 9000 Auftrians, now on
their way fiom Dandan, under the
command of general Derdach. Thi
onville, which has not yet been vi
gorously attempted, is to undergo a
regular siege.
Lille is so blockaded, that no one
can enter or quit it. All the large
artillery have been removed from
Ath to its environs, and general Beau
lieu is encamped within halfa league
ot that city. All the peasants in "the
environs, tender to the Auftrians a
voluntary offer of their services.
French Ecclesiastics are conltantly
arriving here : notwithstanding ihev
are very numerous, they find every
neceliaiy fnccour.
I The Government hasjuft granted
the sum of twenty-eight tlioufand li
vies, to form an eltablifhnient for
them Ath,where they will be lodged,
and will receive a daily allowance of
2J sous. They are alforo be allowed i
20 sous per diem, for the performance
of their religious duties. Id the in
terim, the public fubferiptions pro
vide for all their neceflities.
The French ladies ai'e employed in
making shirts, which are distributed
to thole who arrive, the office of cha
ritable contributions supplying the
linen. Before the conclusion of the
ensuing week, the Archbishop of
Rheims, and the Bishop of Soiffons,
will, it is thought, set out for their
dioceses. We have just received the
intelligence, that the Prussian ad
vance guard is at Rheims.—Another
official Bulletin will make its appear
ance this evening.
An ordinance ps the King of Prof
189
fia is about to appear here in which
fl| the administrative bodies are en
joined to recall their faithful priefls,,
to drive from their territory all the
intruders who have taken the oaths
of the new confticnrion : t
to the churches their sacred vales
lilver ornaments, and titles ; and all'
this is to be done under penalty of a
coniikatton of their property, and of
corporal puniflnnent. The ordinance
is printed,and ready to be distributed.
VIENNA, September 8.
It is (aid that the Empress of Ruf
' on account of the distance and
great expence that would attend
marching her troops into France
wilhes in lieu of the 10,090 men Iff?
is by treaty to furnifli, to pay her,
quota in monej.
HAGUE, September 2J.
Several of the officers who accom
panied M. La Fayette, have palled
ihrough this place with an intention
of going to England, as they do not
wilh to take any share in the cause of
the emigrant French princes. Five
of them have just now s eC out for
Helveotfluys.
AMSTERDAM, September 8.
Though the republic have fully
determined to take 110 part in the
war against France, at lealt til! the
progrcfs of the French armies be
comes more decisive, they however
give them every possible" afliftance.
1 he troops of the flaie are at the
lame time advancing towards the
frontiers— Some of them yefterda
fet out for Breda and Maeftricht. Inf.
menfe magazines are forming in the
latter, and large quantities of ammu
nition are can ied up the Meufe to
Namur and Dinant. llecruinnjr is
permitted also atßois-le-Dnc,in Dutch
Brabant, where many deserters ar
rive daily, who are sent off to the
French Princes.
The state of France continues to
interest, in a'very sensible manner,
■he generality of the people here.
The fortune of every individual ap
pears as if depending en the is
sue the affairs of the country may
have; but great uneasiness is enter
tained left a total difinembermenc of
the kingdom take place, at least, as
every thing at present gives us rea
lon to conclude,if it/hould beeflablilh
ed into a republic. Most minds are
infatuated with the old prejudice
that France cannot be any thing but
a monarchy. This monarchical ma
lady has inferred the minds of many
Frenchmen, and it the National Con
vention decree a republican form of
government, it is much to be feared
that several departments will defert
the common cause. Should this hap
pen, public credit will experience a
molt violent fliock, which will be felt
in other countries, but more in Hol
land than any where else,
| The French niinifter ar the Hague
j lives now as aplairi individual. He
has entered into an agreement with
Come rich Dutch contractors; who
have engaged to supply the French
armies with holies and niuikets by
the wsy (,f Dunkirk— This week a
very large number were lent.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Aug. 1
~i he Grand Signior, having ap
pointed the rartarian Prince liachti
Gherai, who commanded the Tarta
rian forcesduring the late war again It
Ruflia, to the Khau of the Culanf
with a confidei able revenue to fiip
| port his dignity, the Grand Vizier, &
j the reft of the Ministry, invited him
to a magnificent entertainment on
the 19th of lalt month on the Canal,
at which the Grand Signior was pi e
fent incognito. During the repast,
the Tartarian Prince hid the impru
denceto talk in the nioft indecent
[Whole No. 370.]
manner against the Mhiifters w!, 0 h-irl
S' e f iC T ° P" nith 'or
ed„f h-'A e W33 1 nnmediately depriv
• t d, g n, . t - v ' ancl <ent into exile
in the island of iMyiilene.
rnJ fi be f P « rOdUCe ° fgrain in th<? Cnv '-
rons of Smyrna has been exceedingly
o" famine. eo,,, r J » i «
v ir\ °N° °N ' Se P £ - 2 7-
Is are provided ac Dover f
convey su ch ofthe French
to Oftend, as are inclined to go, free
of expense. s '
The Ruffian squadron, lately an
chored in the Road at Copenhagen,
ijAikd. on tlie 7th September to Cron
ltadt.
The Prince of Waldeck, who loft
an arm at the late unfuccefsful at
tempt on Th.onviJie, died a f ewd
lince at Luxemburg.
A detachment of the garrison of
enterfd Mcrzig, a tow,, in
the Electorate of Treves, ontheioth
inft. and aherdedroying a magazine
of corn belonging to the AuttnanS,
plundered the rich abbey of
ien. °
JVI. La Fayette is to be conduced
to the citadel of Wefel.
"I he Y rench emigrants are now per
mitted to at't for themselves. They
form the rear guard of the combined
army, and garrilbn the places taken
The amiable Princess de Lamballe
was in England about two years ago
!'" P j but was not able
to w.thftand the pressing invitation
of the Queen of France, who wilhed
fler to return—and allured her ihc
P erf f (ftl y f'-ee from danger.'-
Who indeed could have iufpedted
the fatal catastrophe of the 2 d Sep
tember > The Queen is inconlolable.
It cannot be denied, that the un
happy Menarch of France has fallen
a vidtim to the vices of his Minirtets
and Minions. By weak and violent
measures they dominated the feeds
of the sedition j but all the odium
was thrown upon the sovereign. The
best of under the manage
ment of bad ministers, ] o ses, never
to be recalled, the erteem of his fub
jeCii Suspicion begets difgult ; dif
gntt begets contcmpt ; and contempt
tails not to exprels itfelf in the most
audacious and outrageous terms.
I hus Louis was precipitated from
his greatness. His final dertiny re
mains yet in the womb of time
No advices of any kind have been
received this day from France, nor
were there any regular accounts yes
terday. J
We understand that an eminent
merchant in the city had an express,
ftat.ng thai.the ci.y of Rouen had
declared, that it was difpoled to ac
cept the conditions offered by the in
vadmg deipots of Germany, i„ pre .
rerence to continuing longer exposed
to the brutal violence of' the panv
now prevailing , and that in confc
qnence oftJiis, and of these ir that the
example might be followed, a body
of men had let off from Paris to chaf
tile the city of Rouen.
The garrison at Thionville have
u"?, tW j- CC fuCCefsful in and
thePruflians wiJl be obliged to com
mence the siege in form, at a consi
derable ekpence of what is oft va
luable rofhem, ii„,e. Montmedi i,
blockaded. The report here is. that
the King of Prussia i s a jf 0 blockaded
but this cannot be exa<ft-
The French Generals appear to
have very good intelligence of the
Duke of Brunfwick's preparations
and movements.
T he Dutch mail confirms the re
port of the Inccefsful forrie made by
the French from Thionville. " The
besieged display nnt only firmnefs,
but thinking themselves out of alldanger of being 'aken, they insult
the besiegers, and approach even so
near, as particularly to direct their
imifquetry agaiuft the camp of the
emigrant French, which is in the
centre of the allies. The son of the
couct d'Artois was very near being
killed by a cannon Ihot ; a person
was stilled by his fide. The artille
ry is played with great effect. Ihe
Auftrians have chiefly exerted them
selves to lay the town jn allies, in
stead of attacking it by a regular
liege."
A letter from a French officer in
the emigrant camp, to his friend, an
emigrant in London, gives t so!
lowing account of the fall ot the
prince de Hohenloe : " New bat
teries had been eredfed, from which
it was intended to bombard Thion
ville, by the fide of the gate of Metz.
The besieged saw the intention, and
thev played their artillery with such
effect as completely te demolish the
■works. Wbile the Prince de Hohen
loe was this diy reconnoitering the
direction of the fire, a cannon shot
cut in two an officer by his fide.—
The prince fell by the shock of the
wind of the ball, and for three hours
every art has been tried in vain to
bring him to life. We fear he is
The firmnefs of the garrifoti is
wonderful. They chiefly direst their
attacks on the French camp, appa
rently in a fort of jrifultingfport, for
they might do more injury to the Au
(trians, who are ported nearer to the
point of attack. But they do it evi
dently to mark to the allies their ha
tred of the French, and their plan
has so far succeeded, that the Austri
an soldiers cannot suppress evident
marks of pleasure, at this condmft.
" So long as they aim at one ano
ther," they mutter, " we hope eve
ry fiiot will tell,"
This-letter we give precisely as it
bas been handed to us. We cannot
answer for its veracity.
The camp of Mods has been broke
lip, and the Austrian army under the
Duke of SaxeTekhen, is expeifted
daily to fall upon Lille or Valencien
nes. All the roads to the former
place have been interceprfd, and the
courier from Paris has been obliged
to return. It appears that the Au
ftrians have friends in the French
quarters, and information of what
ever pafl'es there.
We are afl'ured from Vienna, that
orders have been sent to the com
mandant general of the Netherlands,
that the French Gen. La Fayette
should be well treated.
The following decree has 'been
pa(Ted by the National Aflembly, re
lative to the payments due to the
public officers, and others, in the
towns of Longwy and Verdun.
I. The funis which ought to be
paid from the national treasury to
the inhabitants of the towns of Long
wy and Verdun, salaries of people in
office, and other national purposes,
shall be suspended.
11. n e liquidatingcommiflioner is
iorbidden to give to the inhabitants
of Longwy and Verdun, any bonds,
either definitve or provifionary, or
any orders on the Natisnal Treasury :
and every public agent and paytnaf
ter is enjoined not to pay any sum on
such bonds, either delivered or to be
received.
HI. F.very receiver of the diftricH:
is alio forbidden to receive, in pay
ment for national property, any such
bonds or orders, under the penalty
of responsibility.
Letters si om Madi id, received ) ef
tevday, allert—tnat lince that court
had been informed of the events of
the loth August, at Paris, and the in
iurious treatment his inoft fhriftian
Majesty has received, the fylteinof
neutrality which that government
had adopted, is entirely changed.
Kxtratft of a private letter from
Tliionville, Sept. 8
" T atn now before Thionville,
which we have summoned to. fur
lender, and have received a •TPSfIF
Dade in the French way, for answer,
which will draw upon the inhabi'
tains a vengeance which must un
happily be indiscriminate.
" Mommedi is fallen into our
glands. jhe obstinacy of the de
fence precluded the Caving ( h e inha
bitants from pillage, which during
four hours wa« exercised by our
troops wiih an unsparing rigour ca
pable of difinaying others. Thei
campaign wears the appearance of
tedious (laughter anil multiplied
lieges."
A fleet is fitting out at Breff for
the Mediteranean. It is composed
of the following {hips, under thecom-i
hi and of Admiral Latotiche : LeLan
gtiedoc, of 80 guns ; L'Entrepenent,
74 gtins ; Le Vengeur, 74 ; L'Oi ion,'
74 ; and Le Vigilant, 18 guns. The
cap of liberty is attached to all their
in ai 11-top-gallant-in ast heads. Thisj
fqpiadron is intended to prevent the
Piuffians from entering the Medite
ranean ; it is to be aifideil by a divi
sion from Toulon.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 14.
Ext raft of a letter from Mr. Cathnlan, I'ice-Conful oj
the United States at MarfeilUs, to the Secretary oj
State, dated Mar 24th Auoufl, 179 2 *
u I o r fer to your confederation a very inter
esting matter, explained in full in a memoire
which I have presented to the municipality oi
Marleilles, of" which I fiend you here enclosed a
copy, dated the 19th inft. on the fubjeft of
wheat and flour, to which I beg leave to refer
you. \f e are in the greatest apprehension of
being in great need of thele so neceflary com
modities, and of feeing prices gradually rife
}f*-om £s?> a 54 P er charge of 18,293 MarfeiUes
weight (flour the fame price pr. barrel) which
would now obtain ready money, on the
wharf—*-0 /'65 before next month of Decem
ber, and /70 before March, on the actual
oiirfe of foreign exchange and specie, rising a
gain till sCxt crop in July next.
il This memoire was so well received by the
Municipality, that they have determined to
write a letter to General George Washington,
President of the United States of America, da
fed this day, which T have the pleasure of fend
ing von here enclosed, begging you, fir, to pre
sent to him in the name of the town of Mar
seilles. I hope that the American merchants
on his invitation will contribute all in their
power to supply this town abundantly.
tl You may aflure the.n that brandies will be
at mode: ate terms about /4? a 40 pr. gallon,
gross of 93 lb. Englifb, they will make an ad
vantageous remittance. For my part, in the
Consulate line,as well as in the commercial one,
•hev may rely on all my endeavors to render
'heir voyage and adventures as beneficial as
poflible.
" Tobacco on the contrary abounds now
and can't obtain here mark weight, no
purchasers.
<( I (hall depart for Bordeaux in 2 hour?, to
(be Consul Fenwick—whenarrived, X (hall have
the honor of addrelfing von, and (ending a capv
of this and the municipality letter.
" I am, &rc.
(Signed) STEPHEN CAT HAL AN, jun."
TR ANSLATION.
MARSEILLES.
A in the form of a decree, of SeElion Ao.
j3, of the %rand Carmelites
On this day, August I 1792, the 4th year
of liberty, the citizens of Section, No. 13, to
the amount of 375 voters, being l gallv sfTera
bled in the Church of the penitents, the Prcfi
dent having opened the a citizen ob
tained leave to speak, and addrefled the assem
bly as follows : j
Brethren and Friends,
" The nation that has long been the victim
of oppression and embarrafiment, occasioned by
the enemies of liberty, is now riling in all its
energy to do itfelf justice. Its fufferings, and
above all, the horrid plot to destroy our patri
otic citizen";, has kindled a spirit of vengeance
The dilatory procedure of courts, the impuni
ty of tho'e that have conspired against the na
tion, have alike a&oated the people to <(ake the
Idiftribi'tion of justice into their own hands.
T'e ille-al executions, but neceflary in the
pre r ent difaflrous circumftancesof the country,
seem to have produced some good effects. The
aristocrat, the haughty nobleman, the imperious
egotist have alike trembled, and were glad to
confide:' thamfelves as on a level with thole
true and good citizens, who till now had flood
abnoft: alone in the contest for liberty. But,
brethren and friends, fear ki.ows neither re
medy nor physician : Those men who have o
penly declared their anti-patriotic sentiments
or have shown themselves discontented with,
or even indifferent to, this our glorious .Revo
lution, tortured with removie, cannot endure
the glances of the friends of liberty : they dread
their juit resentment, and to avoid it can de
vise no better means than flight. Notwiths
tanding the mod active endeavors of the mu
nicipality, a multitude of citizens have quitted
Marseilles. Such an emigration may be at
t n ej v.it'i the mcft ruinous effects during the
entiling winter. T'.e existence of l\|arfeilles
I depend* upon her commerce ; commerce alone
feeds us, a.,d when that is ful'pe ded the Iburce
of onr fubfiflence is gone. Marseilles by her
Gtuation is an Emporium of trade, the niasa
zine of Europe. If foreign countries fhoud
learn that Mar seilles is torn by intestine con.
vulfions, they will be cautious how they fuffer
'lieir veU'els to aonroach us, and will fend them
™ ° :psr It it well krtov.-n that the
eat hnrvefts hTve been bad abroad and eve
•lo.v that this article is extrcmelydear. If un
fortunately the wheat cargoes fhouid avoid the
port ot Mar'e'lles, this fine ciry among the firO
>n the lift of French capitals will be in the nt
mod danger. Now fiice it is inconteftible that
commerce declines in everv country whe-v
>eace and tranquility are not eftablifliert, let
us fei iouflv endeavor to put an end to tho'e a
larms which are daily increafin'g, and fprcad
190
ing with astonishing rapidity.to all nations with
whom we have a commercial inretcourfe. It
will, doubtless, be a gloriou* thins for the ci
tizens of SetfionNo. 13, to shew themselves a
inocp; the for em oft in re-eftal''-flung peace and
good undemanding in Marseilles, and to en
fare the fiiefv of life and property. I pro
po't then to the Aflemblv to dccree, f.Ht, that
all citi7en«s of this fedion, indi virtually, keep a
flxift eye upon the enemies ot their country ;
2dly, that every pcrfbn detected in a con'pira
cy liberty or treason ajrainft the coun
try, he denounced bv the c't'zen"; (to whom
such information shall come) to the conftjtnt
ing poweis, that the trial of 'uch per "on may
he had according to law. 3d, That the person
To accused shall not be vi fifed by the citizens of
the feftion without expre r s permjt in writ
ing irom the municipality, or jiillices oi
the pcace. 4th, As often as a private perfbu,
accused of any crime wliatever, fhail be arrett
ed, either in virtue of a mandatory decree, or
in consequence of public clamour, the citizens
of the feet ion fliall protect him till he is conduct
ed to prison ? and they fliaH oppose with all
their power every injury offered to his person.
5. That the minutes of the proceedings of th s
meeting fhalJ be sent to all the other fe<si on 3,
'to invite them to take fimiiar measure*, by
their adherence thereto.
" The Aflembly having strongly applauded
the preceding address and propositions, re r olv
ed unanimously to adopt them in their full ex
.tent. They further decree, tnat thanks dial)
be rendered to the Municipality, to whom (hall
be deputed four comtniflioners, with authority
to aflure the firft marate that all th« citi
zens of the section will not cease to second their
paternal vjews, to refpeft the mandates of their
authority, and that the above resolutions be,
printed and affixed to the certificates of appro*
hation front the other IWtion*.
" The other 23 feftions of the city and the
suburbs have unanimously agreed to the above
declaration, and have made finiilar engage
ments with the citizens of feftion No. 13.
Certified, S:c.
F. GALIBERT, Prudent.
Allem and, See.
" The principal qualifications of merchant",
and the foundation of their calling, have at aJI
times conftfted in forefight, a readiness in calcu
lation and pra&ical speculation.
u The existing state of things requires from
their pati i»>tifm the mod serious reflections in
regard to certain articles indifpen<ably neces
sary for the use of their fellow-citizens, which
we are obliged to receive from abroad, and the
p'entv or scarcity of which either increases or
diminishes the price. These things call aloud
[ for the utmost exertion of their taients and
abilities.
il By means of their ex ten fire co*-refpon
dence, the daily advices they are receiving con
tinually from abroad, and the result of their
computations on foreign prices, they may rea
dily discover what countries will alternately
have it njoft in their power to fupplyotirwants
in the article of corn, according to the quantity
of their annual and refpeftive crops. It is ge
nerally ucderftood that Marseilles is the great
market for whatever grain is consumed, not
only in its own diftridt, but also in the other de
partments of the south of France, Spain, the
Duchy of Nice, and the river of Genoa.—ltaly,
Scicily, the Island of Sardinia, the Levant and
Africa, have been hitherto our main refourcec,
but at rates extremely dear. England, and the
countries on the Baltic, have also contributed
foinething ; but unfortunately the crops are but
indifferent, we may even fay, bid, throughout
the Mediterranean. Spain will have to impo~t
largely for herfelf. The Province of Langue
doc, which, till 1789, rendered us large fnpplies,
as well as to Toulon and its vicinity, has ever
since been incapable of supplying its own de
mands : and there is no doubt but that they
must import for themselves this year. Burgun
dy and the Frarche Cumte do indeed promise a
large supply of beans, but their crops of wheat
are poor, and will prevent them exporting any
farther than Lyons.
" Advice? from Naples of t' e 4th current
(Aujuft) confirm the accounts of bad harvests
in those pa>ts, as well as in Sicilv, where the
exportation will not only be prohibited, but
they are about tc lay duties upon imported
coru. Instead therefore of being supplied from
that quarter, it is to be apprehended that they
themselves will ftaml in need. In such circum
ftatices, it is doubt left inoft prudent for us to
procure grain from more remote countries,and
our iinmedinte duty te take the rioft decided
measures to supply our own wants Ind those of
our neighbour : and to this object, the House
of Stephen Cathelan and Son, the latter ofwhom
is here in quality of Vite-Conful for the United
States of America, has turned its attention.
" Tift - House has been confVmtlv writing for
a yearpaft to its correspondents in America,
during all which time the pro'peft has been
very favorable for difpofmg both of corn and
flonr here to an advantage. Thev have like
wire written to Bourdeaux, to fevcral Spaniih
pots, particularly Cadiz, where their vefiels
are always ordered to flip to enquire what port
in the Mediterranean affords the be ft markets.
Notwithstanding all this, cargoes of the above
mentioned articles have not yet got farther on
towards us than Barcelona ; we hope, hqwev cr r
that from the inducements and additional en
couragements that nre daily held forth, a plen
tiful fupplv may vet lie had. The time, how
ever, from now till the 15th of December (the
• season f<»r froft letting in) is short. Snppofing
advices to arrive in America, ard vefiels to be
laden out in conlequence, it will W? the middle
of February before they can be at 'e-i. But the
navigation not being open till March, the car
goes can nit rea<onah!v be looked for here til!
v ie end of April or Msy, at wh'ch times the
American Sag will tie espofed t" tie deprrda- j
rions of the Algerines; and it is not easy to
find crews coispofed of freemsn that will ex
pore themselves to flavety upcttttny cwifidc-t
---tions whatever. It is only fnr.i t'ie ij:, : ot
November to the 15th of March that American
merchant veffelrcan appear wit). iafetv i„ t .
Mediterranean,
" The Sieur Cathalanjjnn. whoforcfav our
probable wants about the beaming of this
month (August) formed a dcilr.n i f makir«"a
journey to Bou rdeau tc confer w-ith Mr. Fen
wic!:, the America* Consul tl:«ie, on the hke
liefl means to eng..' e our friend nit' e United
Scares to fend to this ,-ort, t#>re tie vi, te
sets in, the greatest priffibie number of vefle.j
laden with and flour.
" But in order to five more (rev; yto Mr.
i r athelan'" conle'entei with t!,e An.ericanColl
- Kounleaux, and mi,ft of all to his letter.
to the government of the United State-, it .
left t . your judpitenj whether it wov'd not be
proper for fciic Mayor and Municipality of
Mar r eilles, to write a short letter (witb tripli
cates) to Gen. WaOiington, President of the
United States, by which his attention nay be
forcibly attracted upon our wants Such a let
ter would have great weight, and mi&ht pro
cure ready and abundant supplies.
" 1 he United States are wholly in wart ot
tafiia, or rum, the usual drir.k of the An.e
cans. Brandy, notwithstanding the high price
it was at last winter, and Dill is, will nevertfce*
lei - afford a profit, and will be at least two and
an half per cent, cheaper after the vintage.—
Ibe American vessels will consequently find
very profitable returns on the advantageous
tales of their cargoes, and we fliall eventually
fee them coming to this port in great numbers,
and establishing a beneficial commerce between
the two nat ous.
" X'he Sieur Cathelan, jun. at all times zea
lous for his country's welfare, submits the pre
ceding memorial to the wisdom and good judg
ment of the Mayor of Marseilles."
r*o the PRESIDENT of the United States of
America.
;iftilhs, "4 th .lugijl, iya»,
the 41/ i year of Liberty.
" SIR,
" Fa.EE nation-, are always in alliance, and
are alike intercfted in affording mutual aid awi
afiiftauce to each other.
" A common interest has already united the
inhabitants of the Airerican States to the ir.tc
refts of regenerated France. Tneir thtve
colored flr.gs are unfurled upon every sea, pro
claiming that the free Ameiicans and F'etich
are brethren. The name of Wafkiriio,■ is as
much revered here as at Philadelphia. It is to
that we add reft oude Ives, in order
to convey the sentiments of our feL,ixr-citi*m
to a nation for whom he has done ai.J fuffeied
To much.
" Commerce is one ot the si ft »:«, j„ tf-, e f,,.
ternily of mankind, and a< - !-
the deftruftive trade of wa 1 , which unit '"in
nately has lieconje necessary in odei to oJUh
filTi the cau r e of liberty, fee citizens ought i«-
verthelefs to leave no pciEb'e mean* nolriei) !o
extend their eoirmercial intfrcourfe, l::d cn
fure the mean"; of (V.bfiltenc:.
" The time will arrive, nnd douht'efs it i*
not fir off, when the genius of Liberty, having
croflVd the ocean, nod iipveren over Fr'inr«,
will kindle over the whole earth that ,'ae ed
fire which now animates our brcafts. Tae
demons of discord will then be chained up for
ever, the sword will be rendered ufelef, «nd
the great bond of i,»tions will be confidence and
biotherly affection.
44 We hare, therefore, to propose to oor
American brethren to form more extensive
commercial connexions with us than hereto
fore. Above all, we pre r ent to their view an
objetft of speculation, which, while it supplies
our wants, offers emoluments to the adven
turer by no means contemptible. The article
of provisions, for which we have contracted,
cannot be supplied during the present year, on
account of the indifferent crops, which are dis
proportionate to the quantities that Marfeil'es
.amiually lays up sitluu: for the u& of ber own
citizens, for the southern diilri£ts of Fiance, or
for a part of Spain and Italy.
u Such being our filiation, have petiti
oned the national alTembly to grant a premium
of fifVy foils per quintal (mark weight) of grain
that lhall be imported from abroad inro the
, southern diilrifts of f ranee ; and we have rea
son to believe that our patriotic legislatorswiji
comply with our request.
u But this is not the only step Ave vi 11 take
in favor of our American brethren. We w!l
pefifion the executive tlie A pier i
ican be prote<3"ed by the cruilirg
veliels of war ; and we have eyeiy r?cfo« to
believe that our solicitations on this subject
will not he fruitlefs.
4< Exert your influence t L en, Sir, to engage
our Arierican b r etbren to export to us the lu
perfiuity of their crops. Be pleased to inform
them that in exchange for their produce, they
will be supplied in our port with oijs and winery
other articles ard commodities
may ft: it their market* Inform them, Sir,
the citizens of Marfeillei will do every thing In
t'leir Dover to encourage the American t»« -,
and that in this instance in particular t "cy '■ 1|
consider a compliance w|th their wiflies a< a
proof of the fraternal friend/hip that en "
tureen tl e two nations.
" It is worthv of vour character, Sir, toe.
vifh foch sent inents—the diffcrn'natton «
which wil! conftitnte the happi^f'* s y c " T '
tion. You have toiled for rho liberty of your
country, and by meriting ihe univerfai c iCwin
of all nations, you have gained that, in P a r '
cular, of the Mayor, Municipal Officer*
: übtic Attorney for the community ot "Via -
eilles. (Singed)
" MOURRAILLE, Map"
[Here follow alfo.ilie signatures rf_ the:
officers of the Municipality of Mancm^-.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
SATUKDaY, Nov. to.
Mr. Hartley, of Pennsylvania, and
Mr. Sylvelter from New-York, took their
feats this dav.
After referring a petition, the house
went into a committee of the whole on
the address in answer to the Frefident't
speech to both houses at the opening of
the session.
Mr. Lavvrance in the Chair.
The committee went through the dif
cuflion of the address, and agieed to feve
ial amendments, which the chairman re
ported to the house : these were taken in
-10 coniideration and agreed to.
Oil motion it was resolved that the ad
dress (hould be prefe*ted to the President
by the Speaker, attended by the members
of the house.
A committee confiding of Mr. Madi
son, Mr. Benfon and Mr. S. Bourne, was
then appointed to wait on the President,
to enquire at what time and place he would
receive the address.
The report of the committee on the pe
tition of the merchant*' of Charlcllon was
taken into couiideration and agreed to—
A committee was appointed to bring in a
bill pursuant thereto.
Mr. Dayton proposed a relolution to
the following purport —That the Secreta
ry of the Treafilry and Secretary of War
be notified that 011 Wednesday next this
hoiile intend to take into consideration
the report of the committee relative to the
caul, s of the failure of the late expedition
limitr tiie command of General St. Clair,
to the end that they may attend the house
to g.ive fueli information as the house may
ft'. ■ ier to requiie.
i moved that the motion should
be i i tie table agreeable to the prac
tice , , - noufe.
r.e nbers urged the propriety of
tak'
immediately.; but others ob
j'A - ,> D iyton confeiited that it
' !i ' "i the laSle 11 IT Monday.
I .le were again fliut, on a
motion to tofunie the reading of the con
fidential papers received from the Presi
dent.
MONDAY, Nov. 12.
Mr. A Hie took his ft at this day.
By the nn tutes of S.ituriay'sproceedings read
this day, it appears that the committee appointed
to wait on the President of the United States, to
know at what time and place it would be con
venient for him to receive the address of the
House, in answer to his speech to both Houses,
imported that the President had appointed Mon
day, (this day) at 12 o'clock.
A communication was received and read from
theTreafury department, containing an account
of receipts and expenditures of public money to
the end of the year 1791.
The memorial of Joseph Warrington, refpec
fing a demand on the estate of the late Major
General Greene, was read a second time and re
ferred to a feledl committee, confiding of MeiTrs.
Giles, Livermore, and Findlcy.
Mr. Giles laid the following resolution 011 the
table.— That the secretary of war be diredled to
cause to be laid before the House an account of
the disbursements made by his department in
the years 1790, and 1791.
At 12 o'clock the Speaker accompanied by
the other members and preceded by the Ser
jeant at arms, waited on the President of the
United States with the following address in an
swer to his f )eech.
Sir,
Tht house of representatives, who al
ways feel a fatisfaftion in meeting you, are
ffuich concerned that the occasion for mu
tual felicitation afforded by the circum
ftjinces favoiable to the national prosperi
ty, (hould be abated by a continuance of
the hostile spirit of many of the Indian
tribes j and particularly that the reiterat
ed efforts for effecting a general paL Jilica
tion with them should have iflued in new
proofs of their persevering enmity, and the
barbarous facrifice of citizens, who, as
the of peace, weie diftinguifh
'"g thfemfelves by their zeal for the public
service.'
In our deliberations on this important
department of our affairs, we fiiail be dif
"ofed to purftie every measure that may
pe didiated by the fincereft desire, on one
and, of cultivating peace, and manlfeft
g by every practicable regulation, our
nevolent regard for the welfare of this
'• fgb.ukd people ; and by the duty we
feel, on ilie other, to provide effec
tually for the fafety and protection of our
iellow-citiz:ns.
' ,ulc vvlt| i legrtt we learn that symp
toms of oppolitiou to the law impofnig
duties on fpuirs didilled within the Unit
ed States have inaiiiicded themselves, we
icfle& with confutation, that they are con
fined to a small portion of oui fellow-citi-
zens.
_ It is not more effcntial to the prcferva
ti°n of true liberty that a government
(hould be always ready to lillen to the re
presentation ot its oonltituents, aiid to ac,
commodate its meafuies to the sentiments
and wishes of every par t of them, as saras
will con fill with the good of the whole
than it is that the jult authority of the laws
(hould be (tedfaitly maintained.
Under this imprtffion, every depart
ment of the government and all good
citizens mud approve the measures you
have taken, and the purpose you have
formed to execute this part of your trust,
with fiimnefs and energy ; and be allured
fir, of every constitutional aid and co
operation which may become requisite on
our part. And we hope that while the
progtefs of contentment under the law
in queftior. is as obvious, as it is rational,
no particular part of the community may
be permitted to withdraw from the gene
ral burthens of the country by a conduct
as irreconcileable to national justice as it
is inconfillent with public decency.
The productive Hate of the public re
venue, and the confirmation of the credit
of the United States abroad, evinced by
the loans it Antwerp, and Amfterda'm,
are communications the more gratifying,
as they enforce the obligation to enter on
fyftematif and effedlual arrangements for
discharging the public debt as fact as the
conditions ofit will permit ; and we take
pleasure in the opportunity to assure you
of our entire concurrence in the opinion,,
that no measure can be more definable,
whether viewed with an eye to the urgent
wi(h of the community, or the intrinsic
importance of promoting so happy a
change in our situation.
The adoption of a constitution for the
state of Kentucky is an event, in which
we join in all the fatisfa&ion you haveex
prefll-d. It may be considered as parti
cularly interfiling ; since, besides the im-;
mediate benefits resulting fiom it,it is ano
ther a'ufpicious demonstration of the faci
lity and success with which an enlighten
ed people is capable of providing, by free
and deliberate plans qf government, for
their own fafety and happiness.
The operation of the law eltabliftii ng
the poft-office, as it relates to the tranl-,
million of nevvf-papers, will m«iit our
particular enquiry and attention. The
circulation of political intelligence
through these vehicles being justly reck
oned the surest means of preventing the
degeneracy of a fiee government, as well
as of recommtnding every salutary public
measure to the confidence and co-opera
tiori of all virtuous cirtizens-
The several other matters which you
have communicated and recommended,
will in their order receive the attention'
due to them. And our discussions will ia
all cases, we trust, be guided by a pro
per refpeft for harmony and ftabilily- in
the public councils, and a defite to con
ciliate more ar.d more the attachment of
our constituents to the constitution, by
meafutes accommodated to the true ends
for which it was eltablilhed.
To which address th« President made the
following Reply.
Gentlemen,
IT gives me pleasure to express to you
the fatisfa&ion which your address affords
me.— I feci, as I ought, the approbation
you manifeft of the measures I have taken,
and the purpose I have formed, to main
tain, pursuant to the trust icpofcd in me
by the constitution, the refpedt which is
due to the laws, and the afiurance which
yon, at the fame time, give me of every
conliitutional aid and co-operation, that
may become requifitc on your part.
This Is a new proof of that enlightened
solicitude for the eftabli(hment and confir
mation of public order, which, embracing
a zealuus regard for the. principles of true
libei ty, has guided the deliberations of
the Ho life of Representatives; a persever
ance in which can alone secure, under the
divine blefiiog, the real and permanent fe
licity of our common country.
G. WASHINGTON.
The House being returned, the above, reply
was read.
The reading of the confidential papers being
resumed, the galleries were cleared.
191
TUESDAY, Nov. 13.
Mr. Hugsrand Mr. Barnwell from South
yarolina, t<v>ft their feats this dav.
( Gin. v/ard pre fen ted petition:, from the fol
lowing per:ous, viz.—Kufu,* 31odget, Henry
"Co-i, and Thomas Davidfon, which were
read, and ieveraily referred to the Secretary
at War.
On motion of Mr. Tucker, the petition of
l). Leyman was referred to the committee 011
t.ie petition cf Tnomas Jorinfon —the petition
of Simeon Keith, on motion of Mr. Leonard,
was referred to the fame committee.
Tne petition of Patrick Knox, on motion of
Mi. W. Smith, was leferred to the committee
of the whole iioufe to whom the report of the
Secretary of the Treaf'ury on the subject of 101 l
certificates was referred.
Mr. Condinof-, of" the committee on the re
port of the Secretary of State refpedling the
boundary between the irate of Virginia and the
Territory of the United States South of the
Ohio—brought in a report, which was read.
Mr. Dayton's motion, laid on the table last
Saturday, relpecting the Secretary of the Trea
sury and the Secretary of War, attending the
houie, to give information relative to the cauies
of the failure of the expedition under General
St. Clair, was taken into conlideration.
Mr. Williamfon moved that the latter part
of the refolutioflj wjiich required the attendance
of the two Secretaries on the houie, fliouJd be
ltruck out. This motion, after a conliderabie
debate, was carried in the affirmative—the fir ft
pai t of the resolution was also disagreed to.
Mr. W. Smith then moved, that the commit
tee of* the whole on the report of" the leic6i
committee, relative to the cauies of* the failure
of the la t*; expedition, be empowered to fend
for persons, papers and records. This motion
was agreed .to.
Mr. Giles's motion, requiring that the Se
<;rQtaryof theTreafury cause to be laid be
fore the House an account of the difourfements
made bv the department of War, i n the years
'7 9 a and 179 1 ~~ was taken into confide ration
antLagreed to. Adjourned.
Philadelphia, Nov. 14.
Late accounts from South-Carolina inform, that
there is no doubt the ele&ors of that state will ge
nerally vote for Mr. Adams, as Vice-Prcfidcnt. A
weak attempt, it is said, has been made by a fifler
ilate, to create an antifederal interest in the back
country in tavor of Mr. tlinton, but that state is
too much attached to the tcdcial government to
placc in so high a ikjtion a pd son profeflTedly. hof
tiietoit, and who, fbould he be ele&ed, would
become the head ol a party tooverthraw it.
On Tuefdav, last week, Mr. Jones made a
motion in the Senate of New-York, for the pro
test of the minority of the canvairers, at the
lateeleftion, to be entered upon the minutes of
that house, but a meflage coming from the As- :
fembly at the instant prevented the confidera-;
tion of the motion—and
Thuridav Mr. Tillottfon moved that the en
try of Mr. Jones's producing a protest aga'mft
the determination of the major part of the joint
committee appointed to cativafs and estimate
the votes taken at the last election, be erased
from the journals—debates aro<e, and Mr. Pre
sident having put the question thereon, it was
carried in the negative—Nays 16—Yeas 7.
In 1788 when it was moved in the Legiflatuie
of South-Carolina to call a Convent ion lor the
adoption of the federal government, a member,
who had been a Virginian, proposed that South-
Carolina (hould wait until lhe f.iw what (leps her
elder filler, Virginia, would pursue ; but this pro
portion was universally reprobated by the Legis
lature, arid it was immediately rcfolved that as the
people of South-Carolina could think and ast for
themlelves, a Convention (hould be called, with
out regard to the mea Cures of her elder filter. At
thai time a letter was received from the Governor
of Virginia, proposing a kind of league of the
Southern States againlt the new Government, but
it was taken no notice of.
A correspondent fays, that every patriotic
citizen mull be pleased at the conduct of the
Chief Magistrate of this Commonwealth, in re
gard to the unlawful combination in the western
counties against the law of the United States
for collefling a duty on distilled spirits— More
particularly as (it is said) he has taken these de
cifivc steps at the instance of the Prelident of
the United States.
A con,efpom 4 ent observes, that (hould Mr.
Adams not have a large majority of the luffrages of
the ele&ors for Vice-President, it will confirm the
truth of the ingratitude of republics. When the
great, eminent, and long continued exertion's and
fcrvices of that virtuous itatefmari are remember
ed, can Americans requite them by a difinifTal
from an honorable station ? Forbid rt, Pairioti Jin.
Ought one vote*, on a doubtful question, to cancel a
whole lite ol fcrvices—arui blot out the remem
brance of John Adams, the Haunch whig, whose
labor and abilities have been unremittingly de
voted to his country's freedom from the com
mencement of the contell with Great-Britain, to
the prcfent time ?
* The tifling vote on the reprefotatioti bill lajl
ftffion \ the bill went up Jtorn the houje ofieprejenta
tives ajtth a ratio of one to every 30,000, which would
hive given Virginia 2.1 memberand more in propor
tion than other Jlates ; the Senate, by the cajhng vote oj
the Viie-Prejidert, altered the ratio to 33,'>00, as
the bill nsw Jlands—for the house of representatives
afterwards thought that latio the mojl proper; but
Virginia has only 19 members; and Mr. Ad dm s, for
having exertifed his judgment on a speculative que [it on,
if to be per/ecuted and disgraced f'h/it Jlute, it is
[aid, is enraged againJl him, and will never Jor give
him fur that vote.
On Wednesday evening last, was married at
Gerinantown, by the Rev. Doctor Blair, Mr.
Isaac Robcrdeau, to Miss Susan Sbippen Biatr.
; Tl.e fliip Diligence, Capt. NeiJl, is arrived at
[New-York, and brings t-» the 28U1
<»i September : By vhich ,it that the
mob nad bro;;c open the jewel-offico in Paris
belonging to the Crown, and ftoieall the jewels
and re/,alia. Some of the thieve ; were cakei ,
but others got off with an immense booty, va
lued at ieveral millions fterjin^.
At Lyons a flmihir icene ot inafTacre has been
exhibited with that at Paris.
M. pumourier's army nas retired with great
precipitation and loss of bayga fV6m t i.:t of
the Auitrians. "I his, lays the JSruiiels account,
gives the combined army the key of Paris, a,i
dilticult paliages being now forced.
It is (aid that the Coinmiflioners appointed to
fettle the accounts between the ieveral States,
will make their report to the Pretident early in
the prelent I'eiHon, in order that pvovifiou mav
be made by the Legislature for the balance due
to particular States. Maliaehuietts and Souti -
Carolina are the two States who are expected
to have the largelt balances.
The Duke of Cumberland Packet arrived at
N'ew-Yoik lall Saturday night. Accounts lioui
London by this vessel are 1101 later lhau the 8 n
of September.
The Chetlerficld (August) Packet arrived at Fal
mouth the 4th of September Iroin New-York.
We hear thai the lower house of aflembly of
Connecticut have palled a bill for conihtuting a
bank in New-Haven.
COMMUNICATION.
The partisans ol faction have frequently cem~
mated themselves in pretending to be friends to
a representative government: The purity of
their lentiinents on this ellential principle of
lepublicanifin may well be lulpeaed, as they
are now exerting every method to vitiate til t
only lource of legitimate authority ; sensible
that the people, unhiaffed and unprejudiced,
will elect and re elect their bell men, their tri
ed and uucoirupted patriots, this party have
lor a long time been indefatigable in difTemi
nating the most peltiient poilor, principles and
lies among the electors ; and men who ilood ai
firm as pillars of adamant,in the darkest hour?
our country ever (aw, have been represented as
conspirators against: the public liberty, because
they happen to be in office through the free and
unbialTed choice of their fellow-citizens !
It was the necefl'ary effc-ft of the funding sys
tem that the public creditors lhould be beiii
fited thereby ; and the circumstances of every
man in the country are rendered more eligible
by the operation of the government of the Uni
ted Stater,; so that after alljthe sophistical de
clamation against both, the greatest grievance
to their enemies is, that they enforce the prin
ciples of justice, public and private.
I Public and private justice are the only bafu
'ofgeneral confidence—and it ought to be se
riously considered bv the citizens of the United
Stares, what will probably be the consequence
ill a very short time of throwing an odium 011
the measures which have wrought fj favorable
a change in the affairs of this country, by ex
cluding from the cdminiftratiou the firmeft and
1110 ft independent patriots of the country.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED a! the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship John Bulkley, Bordeaux
Sclir. Nancv, Newfon, New-London
Annabella, Hare, Weft-Indies
Ranger, Gladding, Newport
Industry, Elmy, Rhode-1 Hand
Driver, Gardner,
Sloop New Forge, Cufiling,
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cir.ts,
3 per Cents,
Deferred,
Full Iharcs Bank U. S. 45
Iharcs,
Unfunded debt of the U.S. 21/6 on the principal,
And on the lntereft up to Ift Jan. 1788, 13J.
ADVERTISEMENT.
G~T This Gazette is pubtijhed in North Fifth-Street,
A'u. 34, between High and Mulberry Streets—where
the Editor now resides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficiently capacious tojiure Jtveral hundred barrels*
Enquire as above.
At a General Meeting of the Sublet ibers to th c
UNIVERSAL TON! INK, held by adjourn
ment at the Siatc-Houfe, in the City of PSnla
dclphia, on Monday, November 12. 1792.
The Committee appointed at the lglt Meeting,
Reported,
THAT, in their opinion, it will be for the in
terest of the concerned, to change the Uni
verfa! Tontine into a general Jnfuiance Company*—
and submitted a plan tor that purpose to ihe con
sideration ol the meeting. The plan having been
lead, it was
Refohed unanimovjly, That the Universal Tontine
Affectation he, and it is hereby changcd from its
original oojedls, and converted into a Society to be
called The Injuranct Company oj North-America.
Rejoined, unanimoujly, That the Secretary of the
late Universal Tontine Affoc'ation procure one
hundred copies ot the aiorcfaid plan, to be
lor the use of the Subscribers, and that the fa.id
plan be further conlidered at the next meeting.
Resolved unanimoujly, That if any ot the original
Subicnbers to the Universal Tontine Allocution,
his, her, or their aflignre or affiances, (hall noi,on
or before the twelfth dav of December next, be
come Subscribers to the Jnjurance Company oj North-
such Subscriber, or his, her, or tneir as
signee or aflignees, (hall recive from the Agents
of the Universal Tontine Afi~>cidtion, the dcpofit
monies paid for his, her, or their shares
lv, togiiher wiih the proportion ot intercft, or
piofit>, if any, acctucd on the capital, deducting
iheiefiom their proportion of the expencts in
curred.
Adjourned, to meet at the State-Hoiife in the
City ot Philadelphia, on Monday ihe 191b ii it.
at 10 p'ejock, A. M
jbxtra£fc from the Minutes,
EB£NEZ£R HAZARD,
Netv-London
M^flachufetts
VJjl ( Int - ° ff
1 3j3
per cent, premfc—— ■ i.i 111 MHj.Qj. Dlls.Cts.
P J? 1 C F C IT P ft F NT ltto P r ca^e 2 $
r K I i» L 0 U K K L 1V / . Sweet, best, in flafk«,pr.box io 50
*** quantity.—Dollars 100 Cents each. Ditto baskets, 12 bottles 5
PHILADELPHIA, Novembi* 14. -—Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
Dili. Cts. Dili. Ct>. xvhsle 28 2 4
ANCHORS pr. lb. 7 8 Porter pr. cade, 5 33
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 4 33 London, pr.doz. 1 60
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 American ditto bot.incl. *4 160
A (lies, pot, per ton, 9° 100 Pitch, pr. bbL 173 2
Pearl, 137 140 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 10 33
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 67 Lower county 10
Brandy, common, ,9° p Carolina 9
Comae in Peas, Albany pr. bulhel 73
Braziletto,pr. ton. 32 34 c PP er > P r - ' • 3
Brick,, pr-M- 4, V P" nento ,8 20
Bread, ship, pr. cwt. t 67 2 Raisins, best, pr. keg 8
Ditto, pilot 3 33 Ditto pr. jar 1 53
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 4c Ditto pr. box 63
Beer, American, in botfle«, Rice pr. cwt. 3
pr.dor. bottles included, 1 4° Roftn pr. barrel 2 78
Ditto pr. barrel, 467 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon 1 7
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 16 Antigua 1
■ New England 11 Windward 86
Oak 8 9 Barbadoes 80
Merchantable pine 17 18 Country, N. E. 67
* '^ a P' d°* xo Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 0*
Mahogany, per foot 10 SafTafras pr. ton 6 8
The above are the (hallop prices, Shot ditto 140 141
for the yard price, add 1 dol- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
l ar 33 cents per 1000. Engli(h,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Brimiw in rolls, pr.cwt. 867 American pr. ton 11333
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7 8 —Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Country ditto 6 7 kc root P r " lb " 2 ® 4 2
—Frelh, perewt. .33 467 Soa P' ® rown P erJb " 6
Butter pr.lb. 16 Ttc 8
in keg» , 10 Castile 11
Candles Sperm, pr.lb. 43 Snuff, pr. doz. bot. 4 560
'I *I\V " S® Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
ta'now 1? Sailcloth,Englilh,No.i.pr. yard, 28
Dipped 10 Boston, No. I. ditto 3 o
Cheese, English, pr. lb. 19 Z No 11. * 9
-Country S 10 Sugar Lump, pr. lb 24
Chocolate 18 20 Loaf, single refined 25
Cinnamon 340 167 Ditto, double do. 36
Cloves , ~ Havannah, white 17 18
Cocoa pr.cwt. 16 " -Ditto, brown, 11 12
Coffee pr. It>. 17 18 Muscovado, pr. cwt 13 15
Coal pr. bushel 10 SpiritsTurpenttnepr. gallon 37
Copperas pr.cwt. j g ? Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 5 o
Cordage. American, per cwt. 767 8 Liverpool 47
Cotton pr.lb. 26 40 , a |? lz 47
Cuirants 12 Lilbon
Duck, RuTia, pr. piec. , Ship build. WO. framet p.ton, i«
■ Ravens 893 p Onto L.ve Oak, ,867
Dutch fail duck, 18 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
r- .» Shingles, 18 inch, per M. t 11 2 67
Feathers pr.lb. 40 44 Ditto . fee., 533 6
fax d.tto ,1 ,2 Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 ~
Flax feed prbufh. 9 0 >»• Staves. Pipe pr. 1000 ,2
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 4 i 3 White Oak hogshead, , 0 „
—Common 4 90 Rcd Qak do . «
Bur middlings, bell 4 Leogan i, „
Meal, Indian s Barrel 10 33
cl"° nZ- 3 Heading J4 „
-Ship-Huff pr.cwt. 80 . Skins, Otter, best pr. piece ,6,
P r - 'on. «° — Minks 28 40
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 33 Fox, grey 40 8c
Do. pr. gall. 8s I 7 Ditto red , 2 o
Glue, pr. cwt. li 33 Martins t
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 Fifhcry 33
Ditto, common 7 Bears
Ditto, ground pr.lb. si Racoons 27 60
Ginseng, l 0 24 Musk-rats 11 so
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, | 7g 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Ditto, fine glazed Deei, in hair 10 30
Grain W he , t pr . bulh 9' Tar,N. Jersey, ,4 gal. p. bbl.
Oat, 44 —Carolina, 32 gall. ,33 ,67
, 3-5 Turpentine pr. bbl. 1 67 2
Barie"v C ° rn , , Tohacco, J. River, b-ft toolb. 360 373
Best (helled pr. lb. 3 3 I 3
Buckwheat, per bulb. 4 ? Rappahannock 3*33
Hemp, imported, pr. toa, lao 146 67 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American, pr. lb. 4 3 Dark, 2 c
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Long-leaf e 40
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 11 Eastern-shore 2 2 23
Hops 9 y —Carolina, new 7 3
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. -old, 33
Indigo, French per lb. ,to j Tca ' "V r fon P r - Ib - 93 >28
Carolina , , ? 0 53
Irons, fad pr. ton, o, Souchong, 5 o g3
Iron, Callings pr. cwt 0 4 - ""S"' 43 50
B " V=on, 9« 77 Si j u, 33 36
P'S .4 26 67 I a "° W ' r l fined ' P" bU 9
Sheet , 73 3 1 Tl " P r - bo *. <3 33 "3 67
Nail rod* V r efdigreafe pr. lb. 47
junk, pr. cwt. 4 5 Vermillion, do. xo* , (5-
Lird, r.ogi pr. lb. 9 10 Varnish, per gallon 30 o-
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. c qo c g, ...
in bars i W me, Madeira, pr. pipe, j 7 6 126
white 10 ,0 Kv t ,2 °
red 6 4 0 gg' Tenenffr.pr. gallon 63
Leather, foal, pr. lb. i 7 2G r«»yal 52
Ltjnum \ itac pr. ton, ; 60 6 P r P , P e "3 33
Logwood or> Ditto in bottles, pr.dot. , a
\» ' , t 3 Claret . 6 1
1 =353.""*- r, ■£'
■>
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 3 3 I
Maa r p ,rs M 6,
Molasses pr.gall. 4? ' COURSE OF EXCHANGE. 1
-———•floor Tin bottles, pr.do, , * '
BJ. tod. ud. and zod. pr.lb. 1C at 90 «ay* 454 3? f
i utmegs pr. lb. y g Vmftcrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 4c
Oil, Lin feed, pr. gall. Z 3 8 '
• Olive Government bills, drawn at 10
■ a V s at 40c 7m per guilder,
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A N ALPHABETICAL LIST „f 'n
VeffcUonhV'unitrf Suie, TadTf"
also,
ncccffary in u la U&"T* P ,° wers °' Attorne.,
« th e B»aK «[ (he = ' y °'
John Gould,
hair-dresser,
INFORMS his friends and the public in gene'
1 ral, that he continues tocarrv on his bufinefk
is usual, at No. i, South Third-Street, near
yiarket-Street, and thanks his former customers
tor the favors he has received.
Said Gould has for rale, an infallible cine for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
ie round to anftver the purpose—He has it ia
vials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar —
Any person trying the above, if not found to
answer the character given, the money will be
returned. [tf]
192
A further Caution.
ALL persons are hereby cautioned from receiv
ing of Thomas Mackie & Co. or any oiht -
person, four Notes of Hand, given by the la:.
James Gardner, of Wilmington, North-Caiolina,
to Samuel Jackjon, of Philadelphia,all bearing dait |
rhe 19th July, 1785, amounting in the whole u
£. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currency; tht
greatcft part of which fa;d Notes have been paid
10 said Thomas Mackie & Co. '-n proof of which
he fubferiber? have the depofiuon of Mr.
Mauduit JackJon, and other documents which wiil
fully and clearly illustrate the matter.
It is therefore expe£ted that this notice, with
the one adveriifed in this paper in May 3nd June,
1791, will be a fufficient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, '> Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792. (lamgiin)
TO BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING on the river Delaware, miles above
Trenton, containing 165 acres; whereon is
a d weiling-houfe, pleafanrly lituated, 36 by 24 feet,
having three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
markable large fpiingof excellent water, accom
modated with a good spring-house ; a bain 36 leet
by 26; a waggon, chair and smoke-houses, besides
other ufeful out-buildings ; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit. The farm is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro'
which the road runs that is known by the name
of the River Road.
On the Premises is also ere&ed,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a never
failing dream ; the mill-hotife is 54 by 24 feet,
has one water-wheel, a pair of burrs and a pa:r of
Cologne stones, rolling fcrecn, bolts for merchant
and country work,&c. and is accommodated with
a cooper's (hop, 18 feet square, near the mill —
which is about 300 yards from the Delaware, and
very conveniently situated to receive wheat, See.
from boats passing down the river. .
There are also for Sale,
20 Acresof Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hizh
healthy country.—For terms apply to the sub
scriber on the premises.
Trenton, 1792.
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey
Refpe&fully submits to the Citizens of the United
States, the following
PROPOSALS
TOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED
OJ which these are the terns :
1. TT (hall be published in 48 weekly numbers,
A each containing three Iheets.or tweiKy-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame fire as those
in the European editions, viz. most of them sheet
maps on post paper.
$3T Bejidei f\maps in the Britijh editions, this
work will contain maps of as many of the United Stiles
as can be readily procured, executed by the btjl engrav
ers in the United States,
111. The price ot each number will be a quar.
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery. No ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as (oon as
700 copies are fubferibed for.
V. Sublcribets who disapprove of the work, on
the publication of the three firft numbers, are to
be at liberty to return them, and (hall have their
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertainino
and ufeful than geography. It reveals the disco
veries of travellers—the remarkable cunofities of
all countries, in nature and art—the filiation o(
orovinces, cities, towns, villages, rivers, & moun
tains—in fine, the tiiflory, manners, cuftoins, laws,
forces, revenues, and government of different na-
tions.
It is an old observation, that " there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has some concern
with geography," and that a knowledge of this
fcicnce is indispensable towards the study of liif.
Tory with advantage or fatisfa&ion. Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannot discourse on the
most common newspaper topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for geographv generally. With re
foeft to the present plan, let it fuffice to remark,
ihat Guthrie's Geography hat. been long acknow
ledged to be the best in the Engiifh language :
however, the account of America in it ha-., from
obvious reasons, been very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor
rected, and the defers supplied, by gentlemen o!
abilities, who have engaged to fupennfend this
undertaking, and to avail themselves of all the irv
formation that can be procured, to render it the;
most complete edition extant.
The Printer carneftly solicits the support of hiJ
fellow-citizens throughout the United States : and'
as no deposit is required, and every fubferiber will'
beat liberty to withdraw his name, if, on trial,
he should disapprove of the work, he hopes the
friends of fcicnce. and of American arts and ma
nufactures, will cheerfully and early patronize this
•jfcfnl work, the greatest and most exprnfive, pro
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in the typo
graphical line, the Encyclopaedia excepted.
Philadelphia t Nev. 2,1792. (lawtf)
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD B
MATHEW CAREy
Ho. 118, Market-Street, Philad- JU '
.. A MERICANMUSEUM.f.om nscommence
I X mcnt .n January 1787, i„ i, lnc , .
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and kucted
cvpnteen dollars and thice firths.
This work, which is now conduced on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces publub d
'or and againlt ,he proceedings of go.ernraent,
will be found 10 contain at lep.fi as gr Ca , a va ., e , y
of political, agricultural,and m 1 frelhncoui tffasv
as any ever published in America. Perhaps in
one work are so many valuable docum nls reform
ing thrhiftory of this country, tolkScd together
His Excellency the Ptefident el the I'mted States'
rias declared of it, that •• a more ufclul lue.ary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
[one more deferring of public encouragemr m "
l lie fubfenption 15 two dollars and a half per
anil. Gentlemen in the cOunity who wilb l 0
be supplied with this work, are liquefied to give
commiflion to friends in the city to lubfcriKe for
and receive it- Any of the back numbers
may be had 111 order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women,on N'urf
;n? aud the management of Children.
" We recommend these leucu to the perusal at
those to whom they are particularly addrclli:d."—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. ioi~Price, bouuc,
62 cenu.
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic—7s cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— .50 cents.
5. Beauties of Blair— 50 cmts.
6. Ladies' Pocket Li' rary, containing Mifc
More'sElTays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pcnnins
ton's Advice,Marclnooefs ol La i ben's Adv.cc
Swi f t's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs. Cha
pone on command of Temper. More'. Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/b.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piiccaddr.
lar and a quarter*
8. Elements of Moral Science, t • James Beat*
tie, L. l d. profefforof moral ph'ilofonhv a
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdr 7
three-fourths of a dollar. Of this r r "I
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628} ! «» Vie
have seen nothing on these fubjefis n><
more perspicuous, or more genei allv ufefu
N. B. It is introduced into the Univcrfity in Phi
ladelphia.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Price four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. N cker'sTreaufeon the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—Price foni-fitths <>f a dollar.
is. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield on American Commerce—Price, on vcrr
fine paper, 5 8 hs of a dollar.
JOHN MOTT.
(iaw4t)
13. The Conftitmionsef the fcversl United States,
with the Jbc. Price fivt
eighths of 3 dnllar.
14 M'Fingal. Pricethree-eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jcft hook. Price three-fifths «f
a dollar. i
16. Garden of [he Soul. Price half a dollar.
17 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto—Price, elegantly bouud and letter
ed, 50/2—plain, fix dollar*.
18. Devout Chriffiin't Vadc Mecum—Pric« •
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar,
20. Chi iftian Economy. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. Hi story of Charles Grandifon, abridged-—
Price a sixth of a dollar.
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third
of a dollar.
23. Select Poems, chiefly American--Pri.ce a
sixth of a dollar.
Said Carey has for sale, a large aflortment of
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will dispose of on the most reasons"??
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied m
the most fatisfactory manner. A libera) allowanct
to such as purchaft quantities for public libraries
or to fell again.
Universal
To be Sold by THOMAS DOBSON, and oiker
Rookfellers in Philadelphia,
A Collection of PSALMS, HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; Teleffed from different
Authors, and published by Order of the Con
vention holding the Doctrine of the Salvation of
all Men, met in Philadelphia, Mav 25, 1791.
Price ol a single book, bound.3 Bthsof a Dollar,
with good allowance to those who take quantities.
August 4. (cptf.)
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-flreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE and SALE or
S TOCKS on COMMISSION, Begs leave 10 offer
his services to his friends and others, in the line
of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to fa
vor him with their buftnefi;, may depend upon
having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fidelity and
difoatch.
Orders from Philadelphia,Bofton, orany other
part of the United States will be ftri&ly attend
ed to.
Ma- t .
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON &SOUCHONG,
Of the very fuft quality, and latest importation
from Canton, Tia New-Yoik, by retail,at
No 19,
Third, between Chefnu- and Marker Strens.
N. B. A few Boxes of the above HYSOX for [ale.
City of Washington,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRI> <s HAN!L
The p r jre of th's Gazette is Ihre: Dollars p'r
annw—One kaij to be paid at the time oj'fukjeribin*.
Hymn Book.
LEONARD BLEECKER-
Ml
PLANS
OP THE
Sold by the Booksellers,