A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS !Y JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELfKIA
[No. 59, of Vol. IV.]
rRCMTHZ AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
No. it.
Covi'iutS from tht Gazette oj tie aqth ulf.
BY the extracts from Mr. jerterfon's letters
lately--publifhed, his sentiments on the con
stitution have been onbofofned to his country
men. The circumstances under which they
were written, already noticed, furnifli the ino(l
fatisfaftory demonstration they were the genu
ine dictates of his heart. That they became
at the time, the fubjeft of public discussion,
must have given him surprise ; but that they
Should navy be resorted to for the purpose of cri
mination, even if his judgment, upon that great
fubjeft, had wandered from a found decision, is
flill more extraordinary. They are however|
fully before tlie public, and whether they de
fierve commendation or cehfure, his feliow-ci
tizens will determine for themselves.
If the political querist fought, as an object of
curious fpedilation, a more concise and sum
mary exposition of them, I am persuaded he
would concur with me in the following, found
ed on these extracts. u That he had become
sensible the wife and-happy ciire&ion of the as-
of his country -required some gr*at change
in her political friftitution? t arid wljon he si -ft
saw the constitution, the refnlt of those able
and experienced councils, to whose care the
modification had been committed, he consider
ed it like all other human productions, contain
ing much good, but not without a confiderabie
alloy of evil. That he prized its good quali
ties too high to urge any step that po&ibly
tend to hazard the system, and therefore wilhed
its immediate adoption hy nine States and esta
blishment as a .government. That he wished
the four other States to hold out, and thereby
form on each fide ar\ independent head, between
whom the necessary amendments might be ami
cably adjuftedi That afterwards and for the
fake of greater fafety, confiding in the virtues
and patriotism of his countrymen, he even ad
vised amendments in the mode proposed by the
instrument itfeif.*
Let the American shew the paffkge in these
or any other letters written by him, which
fhouJd give offence to the most active republican
supporter of the conftitutioq, in that or any
fubfequertt stage : which denounces him the foe
to good government, the friend to anarchy and
licentioufncf>. Let him point out the Ibnti
raent whicn ns; not .rv-a great measure been
verified, by the President in his introductory
speech to ConVrefs, the fiibfequent acts of that
body, arid those of the feverai States. Unhap
pily for mankind the annals of nations prove,
tjiat persons in this station too often err in the
opposite extreme. That those who poifefs wealth J
and power, and even where tliefe gifts have
been conferred by the confidence and favor of:
their countrymen, are too apt to feel for them
selves a different interest, separate from, and
look with an eye of jealousy and scorn upon
those of their fellow men, tof whom the goods of
fortune have been difpenfeet*with a less liberal
hand. In this refpeft indeed the tone of cha
racter displayed in these letters may be deemed
in some measure peculiar to their author. Such
an unfeigned and benevolent regard for man
kind in all their classes ; such an anxious folici
tucle for their welfare, and vigilant attention
to their rights, are rarely to be found united in
any due person. With feeling*; and sentiments
like these, if I miftakenot the man, the felfifh,
narrow, and vam-afpiHng; heart of the Ameri
can never glowed.
The charge then of hoftilitv to the govern
ment in that early stage, so far as it depended
on the secret operations of his mind, has been
i&ewri to be without foundation. His subse
quent condutt has beeil traced for further evi
dence of difafre&ion, and however light and
qontemptiMe the circumstances are on which it
rests, I will pursue it, the more fully to demon
strate the impurity of the motives which dic
tated the attack.
The freedom with Which he has spoken of
some public meafnre*, being a principal fervarit
in the executive department) has been relied
on as a circumstance of unequivocal proof ol
such hostility. The object and extent cf this
po lit ion perhaps I do not fully comprehend :
does the author mean, that a wifely framed go
vernment cannot in its administration adopt an
injudicious ard improper me afore ; or that a
an cannot be friendly to the one and dTap
prove of the other ? If tins is the idea and the
principle IhouM be recognizad, the field of en
quiry upon any future occasion would be much
ahr : d T ed, and the JaVv?- of all parties propor-
* /he Jollocving extract has been /tncejurnijhed me
h the gentleman from tohom I obtained the former.
It was overlooked a fun that occctbon «r tuould ,kuve beer,
hen inserted.
Paris, Jul v 6, 1788.
• - -- n:. .•
" lam glad !r hs n thi' the new lonjhtutivn ure
ceived zi'ifh javor. / ftncerely wijh that the nine fin
conventions may receive and the Jour /all reject it. T/i,
former nil/ Jecure . t while the latter will p
olige them to offer a declaration of lights in order tt
compieat the urjion. We Jhall thus have all its good,
and cur; its principal dejetl. You will of c ourfe he JCo
good as to continue to mark to me its provrefs. I will
than*you* also jor a< exifl a Jiatc as \ou can procure
of the impTeJJinn macc qv the sum of our dorntjhedebt,
tr* t/'it sale of lands and tx federate and Jtate ereriioas
in any other ■>*
Saturday, October 15. 1792.
tionally fliminfbed. Let its Vf.vha.
they mignt, however repngnahf: to the autho
rity under which it a&ed, or fiibverfive of the
rights of those who made and for whose benefit
it should be administered, no controversy upon
these points could be luftained ; no critical
companion could be made, no line of partition
drawn between the one and the other. If thi~
fhoti'd be eftablilhed, the people of
these States would find themselves reduced to a
strange dilemma : the conftitutioo they had
adopted and planned with so much care, as the
boundary of a limited authority, would be con
fiderey as the absolute furiender of all their
rghts. By Intimating every poflible measure
which in the of tiii\e a venal and un
principled majority might carry, its a&s would
become more oppreilhe than those of any exist
ing tyranny, because its administration would,
be move daring;, under the delusion pra&iled on
the people, by seeming to relb on their/ufFrarge.
Or does the author mean that a p<*vfbii by ac
cepting an office in the executive deparjnent,
should lose in the fprritof the corps, the native
rights of a freeman ? that he fnould abandon hi.
own fentiments,except at private confultationr,
and cling to those of the majority? that a man
of grcar worth, rn whom for past services hi*!
countrymen reposed an high confidence, should
throw the weight of his character, into the scale,
to support a measure which in his conscience he
disapproved and in his station had opposed ?
that the members of the adininiftration fnould
form together a close and fccret combination,
into whose measures the profane eye of the pub
lic should in no instance pry ? If this is his idea
let it be avowed ; it involves a principle which
upon public considerations lhould be dlfcufled ;
for I consider it fnbverfive of those upon which
the government tj ilf was founded. That majk
of fejorecy adopted in arbitrary governments,
•or the most appreflive purposes, and which by
some good men has been deemed neceflary to
cover executive operations, has in most in
flances when applied to us been over-rated.
Few cases only and those purely executive, atad
for which the chieftain himlelf should be held res
ponsible, can require it. In general, if it doe;
not cover grofsand fliameful malversations, and
wjiiph should be exposed for wholefotne correc
t.ou to the public view, the most: favorable light
in which it can be held, is that of an empty, fri
volous,and pageant ceremonial of office. Rut it
may be positively affirmed that whenever if in
rerfores with the spirit of responsibility; the life
and foul of republican government, its tenden
cy is vicious, and should be abandoned. So fa 1 "
then from deeming him ceHl'urable, for the free
dom of his discourse upon public measures, to
the extent that I am persuaded he has carried
it, I honor and refpeft him for it. It marks a
firm and virtuous independence of character,
which allures me I may still confide in him with
fafety. The principles he acknowledges, and
the language he ufe.s, are his own ; not formed
upon those of the majority of the corps to which
he may occasionally belong : they are the fame
I know that be pofTefTed before he commenced
the career of public trust.
FROM THE SOUTH CAROLINA GAZETTE,
(PRINTED AT COJLUMBIA.)
A co-rrrfpondevt, who tit eh mode a tour acr'ojs the Ca
rolina f and Georgia, has obliged vi'tvith the follow
ing observations, taken down at Salem, the principal
Moravian town in North-Carolina.
THE most elegant afpe£t of this place is exhibit-:
ed to the traveller approaching it from the
Weft jlong the heighths which arise between Salem
and Shoeber's paper mill. While in triii point of
view the town presents to the eye fifty chimncx
tops. This pUce, though not incorporated by
law, is well guarded against the fatal effe&s ot
firr. A nightly watch is fipported for tne pur
pose from ten o*clrtck to four.
Yon will be treated with no rudcnefs by the
Moravians. They never play tricks of waggery
unoo travellers. It fcemsto afford their principal
men pleasure to walk with vou.converfe with voo,
Ihew you the several bulineifes which are conduc
ed amongst them, and explain to you the philofo
phica4 principles of their machines; and all this
withont discovering the slightest symptom ot jea
loufv, impatience, or relerve.
They waste no flatteries nor congees upon you.
They will not ask you to eat, or dunk ,or smoke,
or play with them. They afFect no compliments ;
and yet you (hall feel yourfelf treated with much
attention and civility. Were the Moravians to
keep open doors and free tables, fpunger? would
make a prey of them, and the inn would be rob
bed of its buftnefs and support.
Their young women collect and worflup very
early in the morning, A Piano Forte enlivens
their devotions. About the fame time their young
men arc employed in the fame manner. The
whole community worlhip together ia the ecenirtg
—men and women—old and yodng —strangers
and fcrvanta. Here the organ is put in blast to
accompany their Hallelujahs !
There are some hopes that the Moravians will
found a new fettlemcnt ir. the next, if not the cur
rent year, on the waters of Long Canes in South
Carolina, Their handicrafts mull make them
eminently uleful to a country so remote from the,
ocean. Moravian establishments, at proper inter
vals,through the interior parts of the United States,
must operate as nurseries for the Republican Vir
tues of Industry, Economy, Tempcrancr and sys
tematic Hah'ts of Life.
153
For tk< GAZETTE vf tUe UNITED STATES,
THE REPUBLICAN.—No. 111.
WHATEVER efFect the preceding obser
vations may have made, the reader Hi!'
believes that the provision for the public debt
has increased the number of the friends and sup
porters of tlie government. 7 here is no doubt j
thole who hold the paper will lie perl'uaded that!
their property would fall with the government |
Their interest is conne&ed with the preserva
tion of the law*. If this be the corrupt influ
ence which is pretended to have arisen with the
j funding law, no friend of the union will hesitate
to avow it. For it may be demanded, what
property would be fafe if the government fhonld
j fall ? The torrent of a revolution sweeps every
I thing away, and our cla?nourers may expect to
! pick up something valuable adrift. Every man
who has property will'"therefore deem it his in
terest, as well as his duty, topreferve the la"ws,
which are topreferve him and his poflefTions.
The funded (tock is the mod easily dcftroyed at
a blow--—but when the work of fucli xaonftrous
iniquity fiiall begin, whst right or what pofTef
<7ou will be fafe, till t:'.e rage or the avarice of
"be perpetrators fiiafl be Weary or ftttsfied?
The corrupt influence complained of by the
party-writers, is therefore the influence of pro
perty. Those who have nothing, ard whole
principles are as light as their purses, talk of a
revolution as of a holiday.
Bad imprefijons are not unfrequently made
Hv negle&i ng to trace what we hear to its prin
ciples. We ilia!! not on reflection much
force to the suggestion thatCongrefs has a secret
influence that can neither be explained nor re
fitted. Admitting the whole tale to be true, as
its inventers have told it. V/hat is this mighty
influence that operates unseen like magic? Car.
a few creditors govern a nation ? They tell us
they are few—and this is the burden of their
fong—for it would deftrov their argument to
make them|Very numerous. They tell us too
the/ are imprudently ostentatious, generallyj
worthless and odious. Their influence, accord
ing to the party writers, must therefore be very
little.
How much then will tliefe men, so few and
so odious, weigh against the multitude of in
dependent freemen ?
But if these public creditors are governed by
ilitereft only, we have the means of judging how
their influence will be used : their interest will
lead them to preserve public order, but not to
invade equal liberty. The laws protest their
property. They have only to maintain the
laws. They have something to pre/erve, but
nothing tc> gain. If a despot therefore should
arise, would he find the holders of the public
debt his friends ? Certainly not. The change
of government would (hake their funds. Thty
of all men could compute the loss of liberty in
pound-, fhillJngs and pence. It is mai>ifeltly
their interest to have the administration con
ducted on popular and reasonable principles :
for any opposition to the laws, or even any strong
symptoms of difcbntent, would alarm their fears
and reduce the value of their stock.
The public creditors are bound to support li
berty by all the duties which bind other citi
zens. Besides which, their property is made
to depend upon its being supported. If they ast:
a part the most purely felfifh, they will oppofe l
the oppreilions of the government, and the in
lurre&ions of the multitude. They will hate
confnfion, but they will love equal liberty.
TwV will keep things as they are, and refill
chaiige.
It has already been remarked, that general
laws are favorable to equal liberty, by placing
the rich and poor impartially on a footing. It
may be added, that whiie such Jaws are main
tai iedj great men cannot rife up to re
publican equality.
In the eye of Jaw, all citizens have equal
rights. Carry the Jaws ftri&ly into execution,
and they will enjoy them with equal security.
But let down the laws, and tfce natural distinc
tions among men, in point of property and know
ledge, find room to operate without restraint.
The citizens are no longer equal. The mar
who has a great plantation, and many fiaves
and dependents, riles high above the common
level. He seizes a portion of that supreme au
thority which has been wrested from the laws,
or more properly from the whole people. The
part he thinks fit to espouse, is followed by all
the uiftrict over which he reigns, as a petty
king. We, in America, have known the laws
-so feeble, that the authority of individuals of
great influence seemed to be <he only means of
preventing the evils of exfreme anarchy. It
will not be said that this influence was not fre
quently used, in the times alluded to, virtuous
ly, and even in conformity with the general
sense of the people. But power is of:en well
used, but rarely laid down with good will. As
the stable and equal laws o r the union rose, the
influence of great men, and leaders of parties
declined. The people how?ver may be said to
have riifen in authority with the laws. The
laws of Congrcfs treat the citizens, whether
rich or poor, with equal favor. ThoJe who are
properly to be called great men, because in un
settled times they had more power than their
neighbors, have seen with no linall ir.ortifka
[Whole No. 561.]
rion the overtbro-v of theii* personal authority.
Thcv dcfcend, loath and mm'muring, to the
common level of citizens. But from thatgrave
where their power lies buried, the Troubkrd spi
rit of ambition .riles and walks the etirfcfc.—
Look round and apply these remarks to the
fierceft an'tifederal leaders. Are tliey not real
ariftocratswliodefecd their prerogatives* agaarft
the equal rights of the people, as well as again#
1 the authority of the laws ? They are impatient
| to fee the people made their equajr, in confe
qnence of the laws having become their superi
ors. They may, and probably they do believe
wbat they fay—but human nature and experi
ence deserve more credit than their pretences.
| If people would maintain a republican
equality, let tliem set a mark on those ftilfe
fr-emis -*■ ho would overturn the authority of the
The way to govern the people against
public order, is to deceive them.' By eonfp!rin£
to take away a part of the power from govnrrt
ment, they ire deluded with tbp idea of having
it ihared among tljem. Nothing U left ppflib)*
to happen. T%elefid?rs would, esgrofs- it aj'.
In a very nsinafrwih
pretend ther? is an equality of pb'wet'ata»on£
the individuals aflentbled- Adrmyt 4 nation,
and all appearances of equality vanift. The
most persuasive speakers dWJde the,
How much power can the individuals of a na
tion exercise in times of snatchy without even
afTembling at all' It is obvious that in thefup
pofed caffe all the government thieriS might be
woulH be of men and rot of lanrsi
It is easy to fee how men may dupe them
lelves in regard to the nature of the laws. They
will be impatient under them, because they are
equal, and therefore to them uriufual. They
wonder to fee a «overi\ment so unlike that
which t'ney liave been used to govern—which
they could influence to make edi<sts or laws tp
exempt real estate? from execution-—to inter
pose between them and their creditor?, especi
ally foreigners, and which in ctfe<sl secured them
all the powers of a genuine arilloctacy.
Such men would not fail to join in the cry,
that the friends of the laws are no longer re
publicans ' and the language of their impati
ence and disappointed ambition, would be not
unlike that ©f disfranchised freemen. But their
clamour, it is to be hoped, will make litfle im
pfefflon. The multitude, who are too busy tt>
judge of c nccpt by *,vhat their
feel, perceive that their industry is prote&ed
and encouraged since the new order of things.
Men who have Jeifare toreafon and reflect more
profoundly on the human chara&et, will not be
at a loss to discover in their true colors the felf
iilinefs and ambition of those who foment oppo
sition to the laws.
EXTRACT.
" A S i careful, candid examination is ne
•iV ceffary in order to form a right judg
ment, so diverting ourl'elves of lelfilh views and
party prejudices is neceffarv f.>r a thorough,
candjd examination. The eye,when filled with
gravel, ruay as well be kept open and look flea
dily in order to diftinguflh colors, as the mind,
when filled with felfilh views and party preju
dices, can examine impartially and diftingullh
truth from error. Party spirit can fee but one
("de: it notonly p. events the discerning of truth,
but likewise the Tpeaking of truth. At the pre
sent day, in this time of ele&ioneering phrenzv,
•there are no doubt many party zealots en both
fides, of !uch poor narrow foul", that they are
not capable of thinking on any thing but witfi
an eve t-> their particular favorite o . Party
prejudice involves the mind; of men in mists of
error, and pours forth floods of calumny; in au
instant it changes men's characters. We lee
it to be the cafe that men who nine months ago
wer--' thought so wife and good that their opini
on:; were made a ftandard,are now called wicK
ed and designing, or else the tools of party."
ANECDOTE.
From Vol. 11. of Miss H. M. Williams*
Letters from France, jufl fublijhed.
PARIS affords oar Authoress abun
dant scope for observation and
anecdote. Of that equality which
now exiffs in France, there cannot be
a more pleasant specimen than this :
A Gentleman, formerly one of the
Garde du Corps, and who very nar
rowly escaped from the fury of the
people on the 6th of Ocfiober, 1789,
came a few days ago to Paris, and im
mediately lent for a hair drefler. The
officer, while he was dressing, told
the man that he thought he remem
bered his face. " Yes, Sir," fpid the
hair drefFer, " and J recoiled you
perfectly—you were in the Carde du
Corps ; 1 saw you on the 6th ofOifio
ber." " Faith," said the officer, " I
efcapcd very narrowly ; I was very
near being hanged."—" Yes, indeed
Sir," replied 'he hair-dresser, " and
I held the cord 1"Foreign Affairs.
1' A R I S, August 8.
IN Fraijcgr the iropofition of iythes
is for ever aboliihed ; the people
have already experienced the happy
«ffe»3s of biing released from oppref
lion. , -
During the last autumn, the nul
ba 11 dine 11 in several pariibes began
their harvcft in a manner expreihve
of their gratitude, both to God and
io the National Afierably.
Their pastor* accompanied them to
the (ielJ ; TtDeum and other anthems
were performed ; and the grateful
eiFufions of the heart ascended to
JHeaven in praif'es and thanksgivings.
The nrail thankful acknowledg
ments were made to their legi/lators,
by whose wife and merciful
every one was about to reap ihe fruits
of his labor ; happy that he could
now call ihe whole produce of- bisj
fields his ovm.
Muiic and dancing and innocent
"feftivity, displayed th rough the Pa
lifii the felicity of its inhabitants.
Is there an Kngliflnnan who reads
this account, J'tit molt earnestly hopes
that tlie period is not far distant,
when his countrymen (hall enjoy ft
milar felicity, and express theii-feel
ings in the fame grateful and devoti
onal manner.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
August 6.
Letter Marjhat Luckncr to the Mb
njJUr at War.
IVitf.viburg, Aug. 4.
" The army of the Rhine is en
camped below VViHembiirg ; detach
nients have been sent out in order to
l'cour the country and bring in intel
ligence. Four hundred Hungarian
dragoons have been cut in pieces in
a fkirtnifl), during which we loft on
ly 25 men, one of whom was a lieute
nant colonel.
' " General Kellernian i» advanced
towards Lauterbourg. The Auftii
aos have crofled the Rhine ; ic was
impoflib!? to prevent their paflage.
" It is certain that we /hall be at
tacked in several different parts at
one ai'id the fame time ; theonly dif
ficulty will be, to diftinguitfi the true
one. 1 have every reason to praise
the discipline and good order of the
I am, &c
troops
(Signed)
August 13
M. Bazire informed the Aflembly,
that several letters had been found
in the King's apartments, among
which was the correspondence of the
Jacobins of Marfeilies to their bre
thren of Paris. 'I hose letters had
been intercepted by M. Blancgillv,
member of the National Aflembly,
and handed to the King. He added,
that M. Blancgilly had previoufl\
written notes in the margin descrip
tive of several persons friendly totlie
Jacobins, confeqtientjy the King's e
nemies
The commiflioners fer.t to fumtnon
M. Blancgilly to apj>ear in his place,
and answer to the charges made a'
gainst hini ; returned and brought
word, that he was gone to the coun
try.
The Afl'embly decreed, that his pa
pers flionld be (ealed up.
Mr. Gohier laid down several pa
pers found at M. la Pone's admini
ftration of the civil lift, fyj. Gohier
observed, that there were nutnberlefs
letters among them replete with adu
Jation, and begging a pa, ticipation
of the civil lid. There is one letter
from an officer, said he, whose name
we lliall not ineniion for theprefent
he is employed in a high capacity in
one of our armies j and he does not
conceal his anti-patriotic sentiments.
The last mentioned le/ter was re
ferred to the Military Committee
with injunctions to adopt the proper
measures to counteradt the rebel's in
tentions.
The comir iffionrrs of the commons
of Pans gave in the st are of thecapi
tal-peace as they fai.l, was perftfl:
Jy restored—all the arillocratic pre(T
es had been destroyed —the Staft' offi
ceisof the Gens d'Armes were in
ctittody the aftaffin's who threatened
the Mayor's life were in sr ons . a
Court Martial to judge the Swiss was
aiiein.bled. ihe Aflembly bestowed
much applause on the sondu.it of the
commons.
M. Thuriot moved, that all the dc
nmHlhed (latues rtiould be converted
to cannon.
M, la Croix conceived it would be
a patriotic decree, that wonld > order
all the brazen monuments ,in the
churches to be melted into artillery.
Not only in Paris, added M. Tha
rior, but throughout the whole em
pire——Whatever is metal in the
churches, national in the
dwellings formerly in the King's po(-
feflion, lb in) Id be melted dqwn, and
made cannon of
Al. La Croix's motion was decree*!
M. Francois moved, that the lands
called common ftlpuld be equally di
vided among the inhabitants of the
neighborhood in which such should
be found.— Decreed.
The lame member moved, that the
property of the Emigrants (hould be
fold in fniall Jots.— Decreed.
A Member read a paflage from a
letter he had received from Brest
" The lorh of August the citizens of
Brest transported 72 priests who had
not taken the oaths.—The ship the
people of Brest chose for their con
veyance had been formerly a Guinea
man ; and the good people ordered
the Captain to make the firlt Spanish
port."—(The aflenibly applauded.)
M. Genfonnet, in the name of the
Committee of General Safety, propos
ed, and the Aflembly decreed, thefol'
lowing articles : —
t. The fix Secretaries of State, ap
pointed by the allembly, are to corn
pole the Executive Power.
2. They are charged to seal and
promulgate the laws of the State.
3. Each Secretary in his turn, and
weekly, is to piefide at the Council
Board.
4- A double copy of each law is to
be made out, signed by the keeper of:
the Seals, and sealed with tlie seal of
State ; ene copy to be depofiied in
the Keeper's Archives, the other in
the National Afleinbly's.
j. The Jaws are to be promulgated.
— The decrees of the National Allein
bly are entitled laws, and are to be
publiflied without any prevjouSifor
mula—they are, however, to be con
cluded thus "in the name of the
Nation, the Executive Council,ad in
terim, order the Adminillrative Bo
dies and the Courts of Jnftice to tran
scribe these presents, &c."
" Luckner."
6. 1 he Seal of State lhall be chang
ed : henceforward it fliall bear the
figure of Liberty, armed with a pike,
with a cap of Liberty at the top,with
this infcripiion, " In the name of
the French Nation."
7. The sentences of the Courts of
Jullice fliall begin thus: "In the
name of the French Naiion."
8. The Officers of Jultice, former
ly called the King's Commiflaries,
fliall for the future be trained Nation
al Commiflaries.
M. Bazire in the name of the Com
mittee de Surveillance, presented se
veral letters and memorials found in
the King s library. The letrersAvere
wriiten from Coblentz to M. Noail
les de Poix, to obtain pay for the
King's guaids at Coblentz— It ap
peared that the King had paid them
even after the month of January 1792.
M. Bazire informed the Aflembly'
that the Prince de Poix had been tak
en in custody, by order of the Com
mittee de Surveillance.
Six o clock in the evening,
1- O N D O N, Augurt i 3.
it of a letter fro?n Paris.
r a- ' hC , C< ' mn, » l,s are in full pof
feflion of all power and authority.
1 hey ha%'e conferred on the Setfions
', e ''S'^ C l of l .i ud g i "g every citizen
who (hall be denounced, and to pass
onih.n what sentence they please.
They have ererted a proviftoharv tri
bunal, to vvhtch they refer every man
lent to the,,, as a criminal, who is
fuminanly judged, and inftamly ex
ccuted £very moment frelh victims
1 u . , " ler lll£ - sword of this new ~i
bunal. Every p er son is politivelv
pi evented from leaving p aris _ A |j
thole who are pollelied of property
,' e r "' a g ene, al conifer nation. Kc
clefiaftics are particularly ferreted
out and imprisoned. Th'e Nol„!i lv
" si - P,i " ce < le P
j Ch '] b °t «as arretted yefterdav
Ahh W n i'i n ° d ° ubr ' be
Abbe Dillon, of an Iris]» family has
been maflacred in Jus own i'J**
Sitting of Tuesday Night
154
Yesterday, twelve Eccleiiaflics were
arrelted who had taken refuge in the
Irilh college. Persecution is, in ihort,
at iis heighth.
" Every liratagem has been em
ployed to excite the fury of the rab
ble again ft the Royal Family, and to
bring them to the fc«ffold. For this
pnrpofe, not only hand bills are in
daily circulation, but the licentious
editors of the Jacobin Journals invent
the 1110 ft grol's calumnies ; which they
know limit remain uncontradicted, as
the Gazettes in the opposite iwerelt
have been prohibited to bepubliihed.
In one of these papers of yelterday,
written by the execrable Gorfas, a let
ter is publiihed, which he fays was
found in the Queen's writing-delk at
ihe time the palace was pillaged,from
her Majesty to the Aultrian Minilter
at Bruflels, recommending a long lift
of prolcribed friends to the royal
call fe, to his particular favor, She
is therein made to write—how much
they are entitled to his protection,
from the services they have done her 1
and the King, and that ihe hopes the i
time draws nigh, when ihe shall be a- j
ble to reward all her friends ; —that ,
(he looks forward with a pleasing :
hope to the time when the Duke of
Brunfwick enters Paris.
! } " By a decree of the military com-
Jinittee, which nominates commiflion
ers to the three armies, they are au
thorised to ijfut mandates of arrest, pro
nouncing the Jufjienfiou and difmijfion 6f
the gekcral and fiaff officers -who may be
suspected ofJavoring the enemy, or
of aiding against the general fafety."
Prince d'Eftefhazy, accompanied
by the Prince de Lichtenftein, is ar
rived in town, incog, from Coblentz.
| As loon as the news of the late com
motions at Paris reached Rouen, the
department fitting there came to a
resolution. That they had taken a fo
!emn oath to be faithfuf to the nati
on, the law, and the Xing ; thar they
had devoted their lives and fortunes
to the constitution ; that the present
legislative aflembly had no power to
alter one tittle of that confticution ;
and that they would neither obey,
nor cause to be executed, any decree
not fan<ftioned by the King. This is
expected to be the cafe with many o
ither departments.
' By the mention of the Prince de
Poix in the National Aflembly on Sun
day, as one of the persons having ac
cess to the King without leave, it ap
pears that the report of his having
fallen a vicftim to the infurretftionsof
Friday last was erroneous.
Bickeftaff, the author of Love in a
Village, the Maid of the Mill, Padlock,
&c, and who might justly be termed
the father of that species nfcompofiti
on, was some time ago seen wander
ing about in Italy, in a Hate of almost
mendicant indigence. A donation
of half a guinea from one who had
known him in better days, was re
ceived by hiin with humble gratitude.
An example this, that abilities when
debased by vice, cannot fecuve to
their pofleffors even the common ne
ceflaries of life.
| When a wells'vairlt,br drain, lias
been inclosed a considerable time, if
two or three pails of water be.thrown
down, the noxious and fuffocating air
will be so tlifperfed and corrected,
that in an hour any person may go
down with fafety.
Great quantities of Wheat are al
ready cue in the neighborhood of
Loudon, and a season more abundant
than the present for that kind of
grain, is not within the memory of
ihe oldest farmers.
August 20.
It is positively aflcrtccl by informa
tion received at a capital houfeinthe
city, that the combined army had en
tered the French territory in Ltixein
burgh, and had commenced their o
perations by the invelture of Thion
ville, the capital of the French in that
Duchy. The force by which it was
attacked could not be refilled for ma
ny days. Thionville is 19$ miles
N. E of Paris.
From Thionville, the combined ar
my aie to move to Far Louis, aftro.ng
town in Lorrain, fortified after the
manner of Vauban ; it is 20 miles to
the eallward of Thionville, and at
this fiegethe King of Prulfia, it is said,
will be prefenr.
Avellel which left Havre-de-Grace
on Wednesday morning, with Gen.
Biion's lady, is arrived at Wrifmouth.
Domestic Articles.
s A L E M, O(Sober 2.
La ft week an atiion on the ci
Traae Act was brought l»f
Court of Common Pie!* at t\ ' he
port ; when it Z d l a n
whether the Court had iunfdi
who determined
firmaiive. Ihe defendant, then a
pealed from this decision to that f
the Supreme Judicial cw,. '
r I,is acc °unt of Con
coid, Maflachufetts, fays << Theav
rage number of deaths annually" fu"
thirteen years past, is 17 or r 3 i a
nuary 1792 there « ere living in ,U
town, feventy-five persons above 7 £
years of age." The census of that
town giv e » 1590 inhabitants.
, The National Gazette of the 10th
jult, gives an extract of a letter from
I Bolton, which represents the oreat
jbody ot the people here as not "well
' fatisfied with the federal government.
| A fuperficial observer would however
be likely to form a different opinion,
'from hearing the people universally
exprefiing their happiness in the pie
fent established order of things, and
from the candid, acknowledgment of
those who at firft opposed the federal
constitution, that they were in an er-
tor
BOSTON, OA. 4.
Captain Spooner, of the lchooner
Phcenix, arrived at Plymouth, Malla
chufetts, on Tuesday lafl, in dajs
from Oporto—spoke oa the Grand
Banks, brig , Capr. Brockhoufe
from Havre de Grace, for Salem, who
confirmed the late unhappy accounts
from France, and added, that Gene
ral Fayette and his family had gone
jto England—Captain Brockhoufe left
; Havre de Grace about the 4th Sep
tember.
HARTFORD, OA. 8.
The deplorable (fate of France, at
this moment, mult excite thecompaf.
fion of every feeling man. The King
deposed by a decree of the National
Aflembly—and both King ami Queen,
with their family, obliged to lh«lrer
themselves in this very Aflembly,
from the lawless fury of the Parisian
populace. The guards of the palace
butchered before ihe threshold, and
the palace rifled by the mob—an ar
my of 200,000 Anltriansand PriiffiaiiS,
headed by the brave and warlike, but
implacable Duke of Brunfwick, de
termined at all events, to penetrate
to Paris and restore the his
throne and prerogatives—diAinion,
suspicion and treachery among the
national councils—fierce animofitv
between the Jacobins and the gene
rals of their armies, and dillradion
throughout the whole nation. A scene
so gloomy and teirible is feldoni un
folded on the theatre of this earth !
As men, as philosophers, and as
citizens, let nspaufe—let us withhold
a part of ouradmiration oflhe French
Constitution, which places legislative
power in a jmgte body of men, uncock
ed and uncoiitrtujcd—Let tis withhold
our enconiiurns on the man or men
who are diftingnifhed for their facul
ty of writing down governments, with
out talents for replacing them with
better fvftems. Let us lament the
obltinacy of Kings, nobles and prie 1:9
in Europe, who, by refufing to relax
in their dominating systems, in pic
portion to theprogrefs of knowledge
and commerce, render their fubjcCfJ
and tenants desperate, and by reit -
ing small amendments of the Conn
tution, blindly expose their countries
to the horrors of war and civil ai' cor
Let us lament that nations, w
they have obtained important aine .'
orations of their government, wl
not stop at any point of moderation,
but rafiily plunge themfel'es into a
narcjiy, wretchedness and ruin.
RICHMOND, (Vir.) Oa. J.
On Monday last ihe Affero.Wj "
ihis Hate met at the Capitol >n 1
city, agreeable to cheGo*ernor s pra
clauiation, when there appeared
full honfe. J hey then prided to
the appointment of their officers,
made choice of Mr. Charles Hay, «
clerk, Thomas Mathews, Esq. f PP ak £ '
Mr. William Allen, .fr.jeant at arTO*
and .Ire Rev. .oenjaJT>.n Bltgro",
Chaplain.
• tPhiladelphia, Od. 13.
By the Jhip Diana, Capt. Goodwin, ivho
arrived at Bojion on the 4th in
35 dayi from BriJlol, the following
intcllizence is received.
•5
PARIS, August 1 J
M MERLIN announced to the As
. fembly, that the Pruftian and
Austrian armies had entered the de
partments of Moselle, and that they
had made thcmffcfves matters of the
a<lvanced pods of Sierck and Rode
mack.
This circuinftance, he added, ought
uot to intimidate the French nation,
but it ought to arouse thein so as 10
adopt a very important tnciafure : He
therefore moved, " That the relati
ons, the wives, and the children of
the etnigrants, should, wiih Louis
XVI. be reserved as guarantees for
the events of the war."
It was accordingly resolved by the
Aflemb'iy, that they (hould be detain
ed as hollages within the limits of
their refpe&ive municipalities.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
August 18.
M. Cabot read a letter from Mau
beuge, from which it appeared that
the foldicrs approved of the proceed
ings of tiie Assembly, and thac they
bad refitted the attempts made by
Dillon, Lauieth, and La Noue, to ex
cite them to oppose tiie Aliembly.—
To the infinuacions of those Generals
they replied, " that their true poin
of rallying was, and always wouli
be, the National Aflembly, and tha
they considered Louis XVI. as a per
juved wretch and a traitor !"—" M
Lameth in vain attempted (said th<
writer of the letter) to gain over ;
few regiments. In vain did he lei
them that 15,00® Auftrians were rea
dy to fall upon tliem. The troop
flew to arms, and ordered their inuli
to play Ca ira !!"
Sunday, Auguit 19.
The AHembly were occupied for
alnioft two hours in reading letters
and addrefles, all approving of the
decree for suspending the King.
The Departinetu-of Guai c'e inform
ed the Aflembly, thru they had caused
the refractory Prftfts to be,exported,
and that tbeyoonfideredthia measure
as tending...tarty much to preferre
public tranquility.
The Aflembly then ordered the
Committee of Legislation to prepare
the plan of a decree for transporting
all the refractory priests out of the
kingdom.
Some private letters from Marshal
Luckner were read, which announced
that he had again taken the oath of
fidelity, and profefled his attachment
to the public eaufe. In a paragraph
of one of these letters, the Marflial
exprefl'es himfelf thus :
" Though the Executive Power be
suspended, I hope I {hall not be or
dered to retire. Had 1 not been or
dered to withdraw from Courtray,
I would, in a little tiqie, have rettor
ed liberty to the Belgians."
LA FAYETTE ACCUSED.
Some soldiers of the army of M. la
Fayette being admitted to the bar,
informed the Aflembly that they were
obliged to make their escape through
a wood to avoid being seduced by their
chiefs, and that they had come to Pa
ris to learn tlie truth refpetfiing the
events of the ioth. Tliey said, that
M. Veneur had written to the batta
lions, in the natne of M. la Fayetie,
to the following purport .
"Soldiers! your confiitution-has
been annihilated ! Seditious men have
filled the measures of their crimes.—
They have caused the Swiss soldiers,
and the comiiiandandant of the Na
tional Guards, to be aflalGnated.—
Wit h fwerds in their hands they have
.compelled the Legif.ative body to de
cree the fufpenfion'of the King. Sol
diers clioofe between ths King and
Petion."
They added that M. La Fayette
•wished to make thetn sign a paper
written in the fame (train, and re
queued that the would pre
vent the perfidious design of this Ge
neral.
M. Merlin presented fifty different
pieces to support their accusation.
Two private letters, and in parti
cular one from the Coumiiffioners
sent to the army, being adduced to corroborate
tnefe charges, (he Ailcmbly immediately palled
the following
DECKEL qv accusation AGAINST M. DE LA
FAY £T'l Jr.
1. It appears to this AflVmbly that there; isjufl
ground for accft&uon against M. de la Fayette,
heretofore Commander of the armyot the North.
2. The Executive Power lhall iu the nioit ex
peditious manner poflible, put the present decree
into t xecution ; and all authorities, alt
citizens, and all foldters, are hereby enjoined, by
every means in their power, to secure his person.
3. The Atfembly forbids the army of the north
any longer to acknowledge him as Geneial, or to
obey his orders ; and lti i£tiy enjoin thdi mo person
whatsoever shall luinith any thing for the troops,
ar pay any f'noiity for their use, but by the orders
of M. Dumourier.
We fhull be imjprmed before-hand of the part
chat the Aflcmbly -will take on the question of the
forfeiture ; tor, in the intermediate time, they are
oy deputations to col left the opinions or no.
LONDON, August 20.
The people at Havic-de-Grace, and from thence
;o Rouen, appear to be pretty equally divided be
tween the Kmg and the enemu s of monarchy.
The letters trom Paris brought by ths last mail,
mention that every thing in tiiat city is in a state
of the gieateft ferment and confufion, that every
hour perl'ons of refpe&ability ate airelied, and
that no one thinks himlclf late ; and that all who
can get awny are doing it as tall as poflible.
There are one hundred, ana thirty persons in
pr'.fon for the bufincU of the x®ih ; there is a very
great probability that they will all be put to death,
.is no doubt they will al l be found guilty of—fide
lity to,the King. The executions are to take place
m the square ot the Caroulal over against the Pa
lace. Among the vi£hms, aie several noblemen
of this country, and the flower of the Swiss nobi
lity, many of the late mimfti ts, and M. la Porte,
the keeper of the privy purse. The trials com
mence this day.
A letter from Oft' nd, dated 22d inft. received
in town this morning, fays, 41 We haye this day
the important news that M. L,a Fayette, and thir
teen of his officers, are carried prifdners of war
into Nimur—you may depend on the authenticity
of '.hisnews."
The Duke of Erunfwick, it is generally credit
ed, marched on Thurfc.ay from Luxemburg!) (ihe
word ol cohimand was given by the King of Pruf
(ia) on his way to Pans ; the diftauce by land from
thence being about 210 miles: It was conje&ured
that the Duke would transport his army by the
river Moftlle, and reach Paris on the ot Sep-
t ember,
The Temple, where the Royal Family of France
are confined, was a fanduary where debtors took
refuge agaiuit arrest— 44 Never," said a Parisian
wit, on feeing the King enter it on Monday—
44 never before did it contain so great a Bankrupt!"
ELECTION.
Return of the number of votes at the election,
held oil Tuefdav fall
CONGRESS.
Candidates.
F. A. Muhlenberg
T. Hartley
J. W. Kittera
W. Fiiidle.y
I'D. Heifter
| \V. Iryine
P. Muhlenberg
T. Scott
T. Fitzfimons
W. Bingham
J. Armstrong
H. Wynkoop
S. Sitgreaves
C. Thomfou
J. Barclay
W. Montgomery
I. D. Sergeant
A. Gregg
J. Smilie
I. Jacobs
R. Johnfton
I. Arndt
W. Rawle
County Commissioner,
ISAAC HOWELL.
Representatives in the State Legiflatttre
City. County. ;:
John Swauwick Robert Hare . . j
•George Latimer 'Tbomas Forrelt""
Henry Kammerer John Lardner
Jacob Hiltzheimer Thomas Paul
Benj. R. Morgan Thomas Britton
Montgsmer-j.—J. Davis, J. Tyfon, C- Evans, J.
Shoemaker.
C/icJtu. John Himium, Dennis Whelen,
aCharles Dihvorth, and Samuel Sharp,
j Sherifffor Chester—Joseph M'Clellan.
i Representatives in the ThirdCongrefs of the
United States :—
Maryland.
John F. Mercer, Uriah Forrest, Gabriel
Christie, Eiquires.
A number of artists are arrived at Boston
from Amsterdam, who are to be employed in
the manufacture of Glass in the Glass House in
that town.
By an officer from the Rock Landing, fays a
.South Carolina paper, information is received,
that Col. McGillivray havingloft the confidence
of the Creeks, has retired with what property
he could collect to New Orleans, there to re
main in a private flation, by order of the Spa
nilli Governor.
From the Pittjburgh Gazette oj Ofleber 6.
u We are informed that theCornplanter,New
Arrow, and of the chiefs and warriors of the
Senecca nation, have set out for the Miami
towns, to council with the hostile Indians,
and to exert their influence to bring about a
peace between them and the United States.
u Sunday last was hanged on the commons of
this place, James Nugent, alias James M'Mul
leni, belonging to Capt. Roctgers's troop of
hoiTe, for desertion and stealing a horse, &c.
the property of the public.
" And on Wednesday, two men were (hot,
lor having deserted ftindry times.''
155
The Prciider.t of'the United States, his Lady
and Famdy aie expected to arrive in town this
•jay.
Joh.v Patton, Esq. iselefted Representative
in Congress for the State of Delaware.
We hear from Nantucket, that the shipping
employed in the wha ring business out of that
place, have been very iuccefsfuJ the past feafou.
One ihrp brought in barrels of oil, and
7000 lb. of bone.
Accounts, from Nova-Scotia fay that the fame
business has been so unfavorable, that the ad
venturers there are alrnolt entirely diicouraged.
The ErigKfh whale fifhery has also been un
fortunate this year.
A Richmond (Virginia) paper of Ottober 5,
informs that four horses belonging to the
mail were drowned the preceding day, in
attempting to ford Pamunkey river—The pas
sengers crofted the river on a temporary bridge
tfre&ea for toot paflengers—the driver narrow
ly escaped drowning.
Extract of a letter from Cape-Francois, Sept. 17.
u The fleet arrived this day at twelve o'clock,
the new General (M. Defparbes) dined on board
the Eole, man ot war. The troops were under
arms, in order to receive him : at 4 o'clock, he
sent word that he would not land until morning.
" At half after five o'clock, however, he
landed, and his landing was announced by the
firing of cannon. The proceflion was dispersed,
this was what he wished to avoid. He went
to M. Blanchelande's, who met hiin at the
Champ de Mars. After resting tor half an
hour, we all went to the Colonial Aflembly, the
the President, M. Danfy, exprelled his regret,
that the intended ceremony had not taken place
on his arrival, and invited him for the next
day to a feaft with the aflembly and civil com
| miflioners. M. Defparbes answered, that he
would not hear of any feafts or ceremonies, that
he was c6me to save the Colony, and that he
had more serious business to <lo than receiving
or igivtertainmeßts; upon jthi* he walked
olf an>imt the plaudits of a numerous gallery,
conf]fting,chiefly of the niofj reputable citizens,
fie bpijg? "with him 6doo ir.en, among which
are 260 dfragdons, of the Regiment of Orleans.
ii Ths fame letter relates, that the Negroes
have been lately beaten at Gros Morne, that fe j
vera! of their encampments have been taken,
that they had 150 killed andjoo made prifouers."
It was the policy of the ancient common
wealths, by public games and feftivals, and by
various devices, to multiply and strengthen the
ties which bind men to society. The fine arts
were encouraged by the public, chiefly with the
view of foftering the enthuliafm of the citizens
for their country. It is surely better to bind
men's hearts than their hands, to engage their
best feelings for a government, rather than to
awe their fears into obedience. Yetfome men.
pretending to be philosophers, wiser than the
ancients, and colder than nature made them,
aHTetffc to dread the influence of opinion in favor
of a popular authority. They fear that a go
vernment, in all its branches purely represen
tative, will poflefs in too great a degree the
£;entleft of all power—the power of doing good,
exercjfed in a manner to gain the affections of
the people. Surely these men would not re
commend a government as more fafe, which
iliould make itfelf justly odious by violating
their rights, and debasing itfelf below the degree
of excellence in which every good citixen de
lights to contemplate the image of his country.
The people however are told to watch, to fuf-
and almost to fear and hate a government
which has done justice to individuals. They
tell us that Congress is more to be feared for
having done justice—those whose threatened
rights have been spared, will be grateful, and
feel disposed to support government. This is
the corrupt and dangerous influence which they
tell you is creatcd, and conjured up a£aiuft liber
ty. Is the world co.ne to such a pass as not to
be shocked when such words are applied to such
a purpose ? Is it pofllble in this enlightened age,
that a government can be chargcd as criminal,
and the people roi)led with alarm, because the
rights of tfie public creditors have been deemed
facrej? The fame writers who reprobate the
fhndiog a&, because it attaches men to fociet)
by tba intereil and sentiment, abhor ftil:
more a Handing aimed force. They would
support the authority of the people thro' their
rulers, neither by the strength of* arms nor of
opinions. The consequence is easily drawn—
they would not have it supported at all. Time
is against the government, for it is new. Ar
mies it has none. Rivals it has many—ene
mies more, some of its own houfehold—lt has
scorned the aid offuperftition—Without nobles,
without a politicalpriefthood, its life is in every
rn'an's hand—lt isfupreme, yet an hoftagewith
the people—Who are they that would incite
them to destroy it? Not the friends of liberty.
The wife and virtuous citizens are protected by
government, but in turn they protect it. They
are the keepers of a sacred depofit—for a re
public io purely ele&ive as ours is, rests on opi
nion. When therefore desperate men attempt
to poison the public mind, it becomes the men
of worth to discharge their trust. They are
bound to resist in themselves and others thefirft
iinpulfes of passion. The sober reflection of the
public seldom errs, and as seldom fails at last to
govern the government. It becomes that so
ber pfiblic to judge whether the tendency of the
late calumnies on men and measures be to cor
rect what is wrong, or to throw down all the
fences of liberty and order.
Total.
8465 a
8647 o.
•85=81 ='
lis 9 I -G
8685 i c
8268 *-"*
6436 | ~ 3
6 234 | £=;
6i J4 |.g,?
4593 l S I
5810 So
5597 5 «
5206 | 2
*9?4 = S
2952 <% S
3732 If
3=46 .3 E
2739 * *
2153 I )
218*
p"
3
2541
377 j
Blind and exceflive praise of-the government
and its measures cannot be expected to serve
any cause. Good men will he disgusted and
cunning men will find grounds for fufp'cion.
But a rational exposition of the principles of a
law and an earnest and frequent appeal to the
sober sense of the citizens on the fitnefs of those
principles and the ufeful tendency of the law, is
always a proper conduct for those to observe
who wish to fee good order maintained.—lt is
COMMUNICATIONS.
doubly necessary to do it when men who wilfully
or ijfnorantly nufripreteut; the delign of a law,
and of thole who framed it, are bulily at work
to kindle (edition—ivlitn they deny facts that
all the world may lee with their eyes, and tell
the people in the bo lorn of peace and in the very
lap of picnty, that the laws of Congress are op
iprellivo and ruinous, that the excile, funding,
and bank laws ought to be repealed, and even
refilled—for their doctrines cannot be admitted
without juftifying the refinance of the laws j
truly in such a cafe it is proper to vindicate the
conduct of Congress—to point out the reasons
of thole laws, to refute the groundsels objec
tions a jainft them, tn appeal to experi
ence, the best judge of men and their
to evince the wiftlom of thole laws by the good
fruits they hai e yielded to the body of the na
tion. Theje tail be nodifputeon the propriety
of doing this olten and with foine degree of
force and earnestness, suited to the fcnle of, the
inifchief of stirring up the people against their
own laws—yet thole who ineelfantly write a
gainst the excise, bank and fnnriing acts, be flow
foul names on those who vindicate those mea
sures. It seems as if the antidote Ihould be sent
after the poison. The soberest attempt to ihew
by facts the uses of a law is denominated puff
ing ; which by the way is fafer than to deny
the fatts which stare them in the face. Advi
sing the people to refpeft the laws and maintain
good order is called lervile flattery of men in
power, fycophantilh, &c. The court—that is
to fay, the lervants of a free people are to be
llandered toVnaniifeft the spirit of freemen and
thole who approve their conduit are base de
pendants or secret enemies of liberrty. Such
are the impudent arts which are using to stir
up mifchief.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Fenno,
I AM a plain man, and not deeply versed in po
litics, bui I arn conscious ot being in truth a
well-wsfher to mankind, and particularly so Co
the inhabitants of thefc highlyjavoted. United States.
It gives me no (mall pain lo lee in some of jhe
I new ("papers, a number ot scandalous refle&iong
thrown out agatuft the pfeTeiit administration ot'
the general government and the conllitutron—a
constitution -which, like the glorious fabric of
heaven and earth, (as far as we may compare letter
things with greatei] was formed in much wisdom
and true patiiotifm. out of a mere chaos—where
we lay in darkness, coniulion, difgiace and dis
tress, which (had 11 continued) was only " the be
ginning of for-row** to us and our poflenty —
whereas now it is the admiration of all intelligent
unprejudiced men in ihe woild who have heard
of it ; and the envy of moll nations, even of those
who hsve not the virtue, power 01 itfoluiion to
iollowoui example. What thofc gruinbletomans
.jmongit ourselves have in view, I know not ; but
however fair their pretention* may be, or how
ever clamorous, their secret views aie ftiongly,
and 1 am afraid justly fufpittcd, by the moie en
lightened and honeit p««rt of the inhabitants of
these ftalv-s, of not being friendly to the pubJic
peace. Perhaps some may want to Rfh in tiou,-
bled waters, even if their country thould pcrilh
in the ilotm. Ii may be envy with others.
From all I can learn, the chief and other offi
cers ot gdvernment were men of the firft charac
ters for probity, intelligence and patnotifm, and
underwent much fatigue and hcait conoding anx
iety in the field of danger and d.cath, rifquing their
all to obtain for this vow happy country, tiec
dom from a most grievous yoke, which neither
we nor our pofteriiy would have been able to
bear.
I have Been at pains to enquire, and from all I
can learn, most or all ibe m< mbcrs of the legisla
tive body, iri both houses, were men of the iiift
characters lor integrity, patrioiifm and intelli
gence, u» the Hates from Whence tiny came : those
!of then pw n vicinity weie ctiliitnly the best
judges of thelr chatfc&erj> ; they must leel the good
or evil of the laws ihey make, more than you or
I, or any others of lei's property, or fewer connex
ions or dependants than thtmfelves. Nothing but
perverse blindnef*, or woife, can hinder any man
from feeing aDd owning thjs ; and what poflib!c
motive could they have lor enabling laws (in the
confcquences ot which themselves and their nu
merous families and connexion's ar< so deeply con
cerned) which in their hear,: and confritnee they
did not thit k to be (upon the whole) best for the
whote family of this great and giowing empire ?
I cannot help fufpe£ting that amongn those un
reasonable enemies to the prelect coflft
there are a few who wilh us again under the Brj_
ti fh yoke, or are inimical to the credit, the glory |
ihe pcace and prosperity of those United States.
PHIL ANT HROPOS.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED ST ATI
Mr. Fenno,
BY this day's Mail I am informed, that the
letter containing 6 per ccnt. Stock addrcfl
ed to me from Bolton, which in a letter of i6tli
ult. was said to be by Post, was not put into the
Poll-Office, but forwarded by a private hand te
New-York, where it was loji. It is but justice due
to the Poll-Office department to make this
matter public,as groundless suspicions may have
arisen in consequence thereof. It is very un
fortunate at this time, that such an error should
be committed, as limilar reports have prevail
ed and in many instances with as little founda
tion.
Ypui's, &rc. SAMUEL EiVIERY.
nth, Oflober, 1792.
No. ok, North Second'Strcct.
UNIVERSITY of PENNSYLVANIA,
October 12, 179 2 -
THE Medical Le&ures will begin on Thurs
day, the firft of November.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Pel),;
Puyraud,
Welsh,
Hawkins,
Newel,
Burke,
Ship Eagle,
Brig La Salome,
Norfolk,
}\e\v 'on,
Sch'r Rebecca,
Sloop Thomas,
Pries of Stocks as in cur /act.
Oporto
Nit*
Cape-Frar.cis
St. Croix
Savannah
Aux-CayesGeneral Poll-Office.
Phi L ADEI.PHI A. Sept. 10,1792.
PROPOSALS will be received at this Office
until the fifteenth day ot November next, in
clusively, for carrying the Mails oS the Lniteoj
States on the following Post Roads, from the lull
day of January next, until the firft day of June,
1794-
lu Massachusetts and N e w-Hamps h i re.
t. From WiftaJJet t<* Portland in the diitnaof
Maine : The mail to leave Wileaflet every Tuesday
by fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Port
land the next day by one in the atiernoon : —Re-
turning, to leave Portland everv Thursday by fix
in the morning, and arrive at Wilcafici the next
day by one in the afternoon.
2. From Portland lo Perijmoutk : The mail to
ler.vc Portland every Monday and I hurfday by
fix o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Ports,
moutb every Tuesday and Fndav by ten in the
forenoon Returning, to leave? Portlmouth evr
iy Tuesday and Friday at one in the afternoon;
and arrive at Portland 011 Wedncfday and Satur
day bv fix in the evening.
3. From Portsmouth to Boston : From November
firft to May firft, the to leave Portsmouth
every Tuesday and Friday, at two o'clock in the
afternnoon, and arrive at lvrftan on Wednefdav
and Saturday by fix in she evening : — Returning,,
to.leave Boston every Monday and Thursday, by
fix in the morning, and arrive at Portlmou; h on
Tuesday and Friday by ten in th<- forenoon : — And
from May, firft to November fit ft, the mail to
Portsmouth every Tuesday, Thursday and Satur
day, by four in the morumg, and arrive at Boston
the fame days by fix in the evening : — Reiuining,
to leave Boston every Monday, Wednesday and
Friday, by four in the morning, and airive at
Portsmouth the fame days by fix in the evening.
Jn Massachusetts, Connecticut arid
Niw-York
4. From Hojlon,by W-orccJltr, Sprivgjield, Hartford,
Middletown, and NcW'Havev, to New-York : From
Noyemkver fiift to May fit ft, the mail to leave Bos
ton every Monday and Thursday, at one o'clock \
in the afternoon ; and arrive at New-York every'
Saturday and Wednesday (the sixth day from its
departure) by ten in the forenoon : Reluming, to 1
Iffive New-York every Monday and Thursday,
at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Bol
ton every Saturday and by ten in the
forenoon : And from May firft to November firO,
the mail to leave Boston every Monday, Wednef- 1
day and Friday, by three o'clock in the morning,;
and arrive at New-York every Thursday, Satur
day and Tuesday (the fourth day from its de
parture) by eleven in the forenoon : Returning, to
leave New-York every Monday, Wedncfdayand
Friday, by one o'clock in the afternoon, and ar
rive at Boston every Thursday, Saturday and,
Tuesday, by fix in the evening.
In New-York, New-Jersey and Pennsyl-
VAN I A
5. Between New-York, (by Newark and Eliza
beihtown) and Philadelphia, every day in the week,
Sunday excepicd : The mails to leave New-York
at noon, and Philadelphia at one o'clock in the
afternoon; and arrive at Philadelphia and New-
York refpcttivcW, the next day after their de
parture, by ten in the forenoon ; excepting the
mails ot Saturday, which are to an ive at the fame
hour on Monday.
In Pennsylvania and Maryland.
6. From Philadelphia to Baltimore: The mail to
leave Philadelphia every Monday, Wednesday
and Friday, at noon, and arrive at Baltimore each
fucrce'ding day by noon : Returning, to leave
Baltimore every Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
b,y four o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Phi
ladelphia each fuccecding day by eleven in the
forenoon.
7. From Baltimore to Alexandria: The mail to
leave Baltimore every Tuesday, Thursday and Sa
turday, at one o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive
at Alexandria each succeeding day by eight in the
morning . Returning, to leave Alexandria ejjery
Monday, Wednesday and Friday by four o'clock
in the afternoon, and arrive at Baltimore on Tues
day, Thursday and Saturday by ten in the fore
noon.
In Virginia
8. From Alexandria to Richmond, Peter/burg, Suf
folk and Porljmouth : The mail to leave Alexan
dria every Monday, Wedncfday and Friday, at
nine o'clock in the morning, and arrive at Rich
mond every Tuesday, Thurfd?.y and Saturday,
by fix in the evening ; at Petersburg, tveiy Wed
ne/day, Friday and Monday at ten in the forenoon;
st Suffolk every Thursday, Saturday and Tuesday
} fix ' n 'be afternoon ; and at Portsmouth every
Friday. Monday and Wednesday. by ten in the
forenoon : Returning, to leave Portsmouth the
f.mc Friday, Monday and Wednesday, at one
o'clock in the afternoon, and arrive at Suffolk the
fame days by seven in the evening ; and at Peters
burg the next Monday, Wednesday and Friday by
e.cvrn in the forenoon; leave Petetfburg the fame
days at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Rich
mond the lame days by fix in the evening : leave
Richmond on Tuesday - , Thursday and Saturday,
by four in the morning, and arrive at Alexrndria
the next Wednesday, Fuday and Monday, by three
in the afternoon.
g. From Rickmor.d, by Williamfbwg, York-Tow),
ai.d Hampton, to Nofolk. The mail to leave Rich
mond every Monday, W.dnefdav and F.iday, bv
tour o'clock ill the morning, and arrive al Norfolk
nn each fucceedmg day, bv five in the afternoon •
heturning, to leave Norfolk every Wednesday,
Friday and Monday, by fix in the morning, and
arrive at Richmond each succeeding day, by fix in
the evenincr. ° J
Virginia a rid North-Carolina.
e \ 0 -* rom P' te " iur g > by HtHfax, TtxrltrouihtnA
SmUhJicld, toFaycltevtile. The mail 10 leave Peters
burg every Friday, at one o'clock in the afternoon
and arrive at Fayetteville the next Monday, by
• ighc in the evening: Returning, to leave Fayette
ville every Tuesday, by four in the morning and
arrive at PeteifWg the next Friday, by eleven in
t nc forenoon.
In NoatnatiSouTH CawlisaWGeo.cia
~IV F ' om , Fayetlfville, by Cheraw Couru
House, Camden, Columbia and Cambridge to
Angiifh, The mail to leave Fayetteville every
Tuesday, by Tour in the morning, reach Can,den
the next day by five in the afternoon, and arrive
at Augusta the next Saturday by noon : Return
■ng to leave Augusta every Thorfday, at five in the
morning, arrive at Camden the next Sunday by
five in the morning, and at Fayctteville the next:
M ondav, by fight in the evening.
1 From Augujld tc Savannah. Th<* mail to
leave Augusta ever y Saturday, at one o'clock in the]
d'ternoon, andamvrat Savannah the next Mon-i
day morning by ten : Returning, to leave Savan
nah evtry Monday, at two o'clock in the after
noon, and arrive at the next YVcdnefday,
i>y five <n the afternoon.
13 From Caiv.den to Starefburg. The mail to
Wave Camden every Thursday bv four in the
morning, and arrive at Statefburg by eight : Re
turning, to leave Stateiburg every Saturday, at two
in the afternoon, and arrive at Camden bv fix.
fn Massachusetts, Rhode-Island avd CttN
NF.CTICI'T. x
14. From Bo flan to Providence. The mail to!
leave Boston every Monday and Thurfdav, by fix
in the morning, and arrive the fame days 2t Pro
vidence, bv five in the afternoon : Returning, to
leave Providence every Wednesday and S;iturda\ ,
bv fix in rhe morning, and arrive the fame days
at Boston, by five in the aliernoon.
$3" Persons offering proposals for this contrast,
are cic fired aff<*> to (late the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Boston and Provi
dence, three times a werk, and every day in the
week (Sanday excepted )in ea r e a stage waggon
mould run so often between those two places.
15. From Providence, by Norwich, to Hartford.
The mail to leave Providence every Tuesday and
Friday, bv Hx o'clock in the morning, and arrive
at Norwich the fame days, and at Hartford on
WcdneCday and Saturday, by five irt the afternoon :
Returning, to leave Hartford every Monday and
Thursday, at seven in the morning, arrive at Nor
wich rhe fame days, and at Providence on Tues
day and Friday, by five in the afternoon.
(£3" Per.sons offering proposals for this contTafl,
arc aifo dtfired to flaic the terms on which they
will carry the mail between Providence and Hart
foid three times a week, if a stage waggon fbould
run so often between those two places.
16 From New-London to Newport, thence by
Brifiol and Warren to Providence, thertce by Green
wich to Newport, and from Newport to New-London.
The m*il to leave New-London every Tuesday,
at two in the afternoon, and arrive at Newport the
next r*ay by fix in the evening ; leave Newport
every Friday at eight in the morning, and ai live
at PVovidence the fame day by fix in the evening ;
leave Providence on Saturday at eight in the morn
ing, and palling through Greenwich, arrive at
Newport the fame day bv fix in the evening ; leave
Newport the next Monday at eight in the morn
ing, and arrive at New-London the next day by
ten in the forenoon.
17. From New-Haven to New-London : The mail
to leave New-Haven every Monday, at eight in
the morning, and arrive at New-London every
Tuesday by ten in the forenoon : — Returning, to
leave New-London every Tuesday at two o'clock
mi the afternoon, and arrive at New-Haven every
Wt dnefdav afternoon by fix.
18. From Middletown to New-London. The mail
to leave Middletown, from November fir ft to May
fir ft, every Thursday morning, and from May to
November, every Friday \jnorning, by eight
o'clock ; and arrive at New-London by fix in the
evening of the day of its departure : Returning,
to leave New-London each next day by
eight in the morning, and arrive at Middletown
by fix in the evening.
In New-York,
ig. Between the city of New-York (by Ringf
br/dge, Poughkeepfie, and the city of Hudson) and
Albany. The carriers, with the mails, to leavt
New-York and Albany every Monday and Thurs
day, by four in the morning, meet, and return to
each place on Wednesday and Saturday, by fix in
the evening.
In Pennsylvania,
20. From Philadelphia, bv Lancafler York-tozcn,
Carlifie, Shtppenfburg, Chamber/burg, Bedford and
Green/burg to Pittfburg. The mail to leave Phila
delphia every Saturday at noon, and arrive at Pittf
burg the next Friday by noon ; remain there not
lels than four, nor more than fix hours, and return
to Philadelphia the following Friday by noon.
In the State of Dei. aware.
21. From Wilmington, by New-Caflle, Qantwell's
Bridge, and Duck Creek, to Dover. The mail to
leave Wilmington every Monday afternoon, by
five o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Philadel
phia is received) and arrive at Dover by five in the
evening of Tuesday : Returning, to leave Dover
every Wednesday morning by five o'clock, and
arrive at Wilmington by seven in the eVenino- of
the fame day.
In De l a ware and Masyl a-np.
22. From Christiana Bridge, Ky Mfddtetown,
Warwick and George-town Cross-Roads, to Ches
ter-town, and thence to Eafton. The mail to
leave Christiana Bridge every Monday afternoon,
by fix o'clock (or as soon as the mail from Phila
delphia is received) and arrive at Eafton by fix in
the evening of Tuesday : Returning, ro leave E«f<-
ton every Wednesday morning, bv five o'clock,
and arrive at Christiana Bridge in the evening o!
the fame day, by eight o'clock.
G-S Persons offering proposals for carrying
this mail, are desired to state the terms on whieh
they will carry it Irom May firfl to November fitft,
bv leaving Philadelphia every Monday at half pall
nine, A. M. and reaching Eafton the next dav by
four, p M.—and returning, leave Eafton cveiv
\\ ednefday by four, A. M. and arrive at Philadel'.
pliia the next day by noon : And perform the
lame tour, during the other half of the year, be
tween half part nine o'clock of every Monday, and
noon Of the next Satu.day. And also their terms
lor carrying an additional mail between Philadel
phia and Cheftertown, leaving Philadelphia every
Wednesday aim Friday at half part nine, A. M
and returning the fourth dav after by noon.
23. From Baltimore to Anmtfo/ii. The mail to
every Monday a „d Friday, at
,JL and arrive at Annapolis the
ame days by fivem the aUernoon ; Returning, to
T £ n "'P ol,s evcr y Tuesday ,„d Saturday bv
rim, d k and arri " at Baltimore the
fame days by five in the alternoon.
V. RCIVJ a avd Nor th-C.uol 1 v ,
Suffolk Cn ' icr :::'° 11 : The mail lu | ea f f
Suffolk every• Wedneldav at four o'clock inlhe
mmivng and arrive at Wilmington the ni xt S,!
l-ave'w-ifm' evrn,n « : '*1: turning, to
tno eveiy Monday bv four ,n t he
b" (t!\'in'the evening.' 1 ' nest Th.i,^
156-
In North-Caroi.ina,
95. From Halifax by Blountfville, Williamjlozvn,
and Daileys, 10 Plymouth, once in two weeks: —The
mail to leave Halifax every other Monday by five
o'clock in the morning, and anive at Plymouth
the nex: day by fix in the evening ; Returning, to
leave Plymouth the next Thursday by five in the
morning, and arrive at Halifax on Friday by five
in the evening.
26. F»om Wilmington to Fayettevill: : The mail
to leave Wilmington every Sunday, at four in the
morning, and arrive the next day at Fayetteville
bv five in the afternoon": Returning, leave Fay
("tteville everv Tuesday, by four in the morning,
nnd arrive at Wilmington the next day by five in
the afternoon.
In Virginia.
Proposals will be received at the Prrft«Ort>ctj
in Richmond, until the 10th day of Novembei next
inclusively, for carrying the mail of the United
States from Richmond to Staunton, —from the 15th
day of the fame month, until the firit day of June
1 794. The maii to leave Richmond everv ?ion
day by fix in the morning, and anive at Staunton
the next Wednesday by fix in the evening : Re
turning, leave Staunton every Thursday at ten in
tlre forenoon, and arrive at Richmond the next
Saturday by seven in the evening.
The pcrfons offering proposals for carry
ing this mail, are dcfired to 11 ate the terms on
which they will carry it, and leave Richmond eve
ry Wednesday at noon, and arrive at Staunton the
next Saturday by three in the afternoon : Return
ing, Staunton everv Monday at leVen in rhe
morning, and arrive at Richmond the next WVd
nefda-y by ten in the forenoon.
Note 1. If during the continuance of the con
trails here proposed, any other times of arrival
and departure of the mails should become neces
sary, to prefcrve a proper connection with other
mails, the coritra£tor« are to conform to sHiy ar
rangement which for that purpose (hall be made
by the Poft-Malter General, such arrangement not
feflening the number of hours above allowed for
carry ing the mails refpeftively, without their con
fen r.
2. A convenient time rot hfs than tei miftvicf,!
nor exceeding halt an hour,ior opening and doling
a mail is to be allowed at each Poll-Office, at which
the time of its arrival and departure is not herein
fpecified.
3 For every half hour's delay (unavoidable
accidents excepted) in arriving after the times pre
scribed in any contra ft, the contra&or to forfeit
one dollar ; and for the non-performance of a trip,
double the sum which the value of one crip fhali
bear to the value of the whole number of trips to
be performed.
4. The mail may be carried on any of the port
roads herein described, either in stage or
on horses : but when the state of the rov.ds pre
vents travelling in waggons with the necelfarv ex
pedition, the mails are to be carried on borfes—
Every mail-stage mufl have in it a box in which
the mail is invariably to be carried, under lock
and key.
5. News-papers, as well as letter*, are to be
sent in the mails : and if anv coiura&or would
wish to be authorized to carry newspapers, other
rhan those conveyed in the mail (agreeably to rhe
22d frftion of the poft-officc law) he must, in his
•oropofals, state the refpeftive sums for which he
will carrv the mails with and without the emolu
ments which may anfe from such separate carriage
of news-papers.
NEW POST ROADS,
In New-York, Massachusetts & Vermont
An cxienfion o' the Post roads having be n de
sired, from (onnojor/iarricfolVhitcs-toiun, and theric<-
to Kanandaiqua, in the {late of New-York ; from
Stockbridge to Bennington, iu the ftatesof MalTachu
fettsand Vermont; and from Rutland to Windjor,
and Rutland to Fairhaven, in Vermont : Propofais
for carrying mails on those routs, (at the expense
of thr contra&ors) will be received at the Genrral
Poft-Office, until the fifteenth day of November
next mclufively. — Persons offering such proposals,
must state the days and hours when they will i<*-
ceive and deliver the mails at each place here
mentioned, and the length of time (which cannot
exceed eight years) for which they will contract.
The contradlors, refpe&ivelv, will have the ex
clusive privilege of carrying letters and packets on
these roads, for hire ; and be authorized to re
ceive, to their own u(e, all the poftagfs which (hall
arise on letters, packets and newfpapersby them
carried, at the rales established by law : but must
carry, free of postage, such letters and packets as
by law are, or shall br declared free.
For every hour's delay (unavoidable accidents
excepted) in delivering a mail, after the time a
greed on, the contractor to forfeit one dollar;
and for the non-pCrformancc of a trip, one dollar
for every ten miles diflance, as far as the failure
extends.
The pcrfons whom the contra&ors lT*a] 1 desig
nate for Postmasters, on these routes,—previous to
their acting as such, must be approved bvthe Post-
Mrltcr General, and take the oaths required by
law. They are to agree tor their com ponfations
with the contractors, to whom alone they are to
account for all the portages thev shall receive.
The fame oaths must be taken by the contra&ors
and their riders who carry the maHs
TIMOTHY PICKERINQ,
The SUBSCRIBERS to the
Universal Tontine
.Arc informed, that a general meeting is to he held
3t the State-Honfe in this city, on Saturday the 3d
day of November next, at to o'clorfc, A. M.
agreeably 'o the fixt-h article of their association.
By nrdcr of the Agent*
EBENEZER HAZARD,
Philadelphia, Sept. 15, 1792. (eptN's)
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Sold bv THOMAS DOBSON, and other
Bookfellcrs in Philadelphia,
AColleftion of PSALMS. HYMNS, and SPI
RITUAL SONGS ; from diffcen:
Authors, and pjjblifheri by Order of the Con
ve'ntion holding the Doftrinc of the Salvation of
all Men, met in Philadelphia. Mat 1701.
Price of a book, bound. 3-3ths of a Dollar,
with good allowance to ihofc who take quantities.
Au SUft 4. (eptf.)
Post-Master-General
To the Public.
TpxlE fiihftriber returns his mn iv r. A
coMplimentt to his f r i c .v-
or the mm, favors he he, nceU,!'*a'll"''
Ipave to inform them that he ha, L *! s "
few fine toned P° n n< * a
■P'ortf. Pianos,
which he will warrant fuDe~init«-
and which he will difpofc of o»
. great number of Forte v, '
imported from London and Dubli- ' atel -'
fuhfcnber to caution the piiblic waV,fr tl?
fill snfimiatiom flfpfcrfopis con,mtr„ j * rf "
theni—who, for a very trifTl d
" Ct " n P e,l 'at ; m ,
the refute of the European tortus?I**1 ** ! ;
reported at a mere trifie, ~i (i
price as a good inftrnment, to the ° rea if"
pomtnicnt o( the ignorant pnrcta&
nerally pays as ranch f or r evr- F
tW N B Mur ina ; CO(l ofa P> od i Urome"t!"
r by ;:c
tuned and repaired in the hfP * in frfuments
the inoft reafoifaMe terms,«»
Un v f KARLES TAWES.
14 J 6 "' Wahmt, near Third-Street.
John Gould,
H AIR-DRESSER
TNFORMS his friends and the public in'wrre-
X ral, that lie continues to carry on his bulinefj
as usual at No South Third-Street, rent
Market-Street, and thanks his former customer,
ior t'ie favors he has received.
Said Ooti.D has for sale, an infallible cure f ( ,r
\\ eak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
he found to airfwer the pnrpofe He ha- it j..
vi. ils (mm one quarter of a dollar to a dollar -
Any perron trV.np the abpve, if not found t»
anf'vef tlie characrer gi, eii, the money willbe
~ '
freafury Department,
Aut. I ST 20th, 1752.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
bp received at the „f ,|, t Srcmaiv of
the Trcafury, ur.til the ljih riay ol Oftybn nnt
tncltllive, lor the supply ol ail rations wtllch mav
te r- quired lor ihe use ol the Dinted iisjtes, from
the firft day ofjanuaivto the thiity.fii II dav of
D-comber 1793, both days inciufive, at SprinjfiHd,
in the Stale ol Mairachiilctts. and the Poll of Wefl-
Pnitit, in the State of New-Yoik.
7 nc rations to be fupplitd, are to con&ft of the
following article, vi?.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J "f a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy of whiflcy,
One qu<ri t of fjlt,
Two quarts of vinegar,
Two pounds ol sap, ( P cr 'OP rations. (
One pound of csridles. )
The prypofaN mav be made for both of the
above-mentioned Posts, 01 feparatcLy, for SDtinr.
■field and Weft-point.
TERRITORY of COLUMBIA.
Tju LY 6, 1792.
HE Subscriber offers for Sale, a Mill-Scat on
Kock Creek, deemed by tbofe who havpex
mined it, equal to any in theUnued States. T'.<
Mill-House may be pieced within one quarter of
n mile of the river Potowmac, half a mile from
the market houfc in Georgetown, and one mile
from the President's fquaie, in the city of Wafh
io^ton —on t ide wafer, navigable for vcflelf of se
veral hundred hufhels burthen.—The ftrram is
Sufficient ,the year round,to turn four pair of ftoner,
and the tell may be made from 2510 30 feet. It
is urmeccfiary to dwell on the advantages offuch
a fit nation.
The pnrfchafrr rftav be accommodated lyith a
few hiindreri acres of land adjoining the Mill-Seat,
it that Ibould he anobjeft. "
,(ep3m 14Jul)
PLANS
OP THE
City of Washington,
So|il by the Booksellers,
DOIiSUM, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRI'MHAfiK.
George-Town.
A Number of LOTS in every situ. lion which
' JL may be in City of Washington,
will be offered lor (ale by the Commiflioners. o®
Monday the Blb day of October next. One fourth
part of the money to be paid down, the refidueJ"
three equal annual payments, with yearly intcrcft
on the whole principal unpaid.
JOHN M'G A NTT, Clerk
to the Commifliooers.
[cptf]
June 2, 1792,
Strayed or Stolen,
FROM the fubf.;riber, onihenigtoof the lSih
instant, from the inclofure of Jobn l * RK '
of Trenton Township, Hunterdon county, • c
Jerfev, a Chefnut Sorrel MARE, about nine year
old, fourteen and an half hands high, ba acs •
white feet and eyes, a bunch on her let an
fid«,l»craf»n»d by a hurt, small long nrtk, lh .
mane, ftiortifh tail, Ihod all round . • /j
---will take I,p said Mare, and retorn her e'tnw
John Clark, of Trenton, Rr a»m-•
New-York, or the fubfenber in
field county, State of Onnefticut, M™,
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD for the M>rc>"
Thief, or TOUR DOLLARS for (Mr M«* '
(AMES TROWBRIDCt-
Trenton, (N.J,) Sep'- 18. '79 2 ' .
ftrr The JOURNAL of the THIRDS £SS '°?
sEXjU *) tktVNITED STATES,
had of the Editor hereof.
KT The price of t*i' Cnzctttis
tnnuy-Om ha/] to be f"'d at the fmc cffiipM-
B. STODDERT.