A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 112, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ot Philadelphia, in the State of Pcnn
fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT to continue in force the Adt, intituled,
" An atft to provide for mitigating or remit
ting the penalties and forfeitures accruing un
der the revenue laws in certain cases," and to
make further provision for the payment ot
pensions to invalids.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Reprcfentatives of the
United Slates ot America in Congress aflembled, 'lhatihe
aSt, entitled, " An ast to provide lor mitigating or remitting the
forfeitures and penalties accruing under the rever.ue laws in cer
tain cases therein mentioned," lhall be, and hereby is, continmd
in full force for the term of three years, fiom the palling of tins
ast, and no longer. Provided, That nothing in the said a£t lhall
be construed to limit or restrain the power of the Pi efidi n> of the
United States to grant pardons for offences againfl the United
States.
And be it further enacted, That the yearly pensions which
have been, or may be, allowed by, or in pursuance of, any ast or
Jaw of the United States, to persons who were wounded and dis
abled in the public service, fball for the space of one year from
the fourth day ot March last be paid out of the treasury of the
United States, under such regulations as the President of the
United States may direst.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, President
pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED, may the eighth, 179 .
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT to provide for calling forth the Mi li
tia to execute the Laws of the Union, sup-
prefa Infurretfions and repel Invasions.
BE it enaQed by the Senate and House of Reprefentativrs ol
the United States of America in Congress alfcmbled, That
whenever the United States fliall k>e invaded, or be in imminent
danger ol invasion from any foreign nation or Indian tribe, it
lhall be lawful for the Piefident ot the United States, 10 call forth
such number of the militia of the Stale or States molt convenient
to the place of danger or scene of action, as hi-may judge necessary
to repel such invasion, and to issue his orders for that purpofr, to
such officer or officers of the militia as he lhall think proper:
and in cafe of an infurreftion in any Stale, against the government
thereof, it lhall be lawful for the Preftdent ot the United States,
on application of the legislature of such State, or of the executive
(when the legislative cannot be convened) to call forth such num
ber of the militia of any other State or States, as may be applied
for, or as he may judge fufficient to suppress such infurreftion.
And be it further enabled, That whenever the laws of the Uni
ted States (hall be opposed, or the execution thereof obftrufted,
in any State, by combinations too powerful to be fupprefled by
the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers
veiled in the marshals by this ast, the fame being notified to the
President of the United States, by an allociate justice or the dif
trift judge, it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States to call forth the militia of such State to suppress such com
binations, and to caufethe laws to be duly executed. And if the
militia of a State, where luch combinations may happen, (hall re
fufe, or be inefficient to suppress the fame, it (hall be lawful for
the President, if the legislature of the United States be not in
session, to call forth and employ luch numbers of the militia of
any other State or States most convenient then to, as may be ne
ctlfary, and the ufi of militia, so to be called forth, may be con
tinued, if necessary, until the expiration of thirty days after the
commencement of the ensuing session.
Provided always, and be it further enafled, That whenever it
may be neceflarv, in the judgment of the President, to use the
military force hereby directed to be called forth, the Prefidem
lhall forthwith, and previous thereto, by proclamation, command
inch infurgeots to disperse, and retire peaceably to their respec
tive abodes, within a limited time.
And be it further enacted, That the militia, employed in the
service of the United States, ihall receive the lame pay and allow
ances, as the troops of the United States, who may be in service
at the fame time, or who were last in service, and ihall be fubjeft
to the fame lules and articles of war: And that no officer, non
commiflioned officer or private of the militia shall be compelled
to serve more than three months in any one year, nor more than
in due rotation with every other able bodied man of the fame
rank in the battalion to which he belongs.
And be it further enafcted, That evciy officer non-commission
ed officer or private of the militia, who shall fail to obey the or
ders, of the President of the United States, in any of the cases be
fore recited lhall forfeit a sum not excteding one yeai's pay, and
not lels than one month's pay, to be determined and adjudged
by a court martial ; and Inch officer shall, moreover be liable to
be cashiered by fenter.ee of a court martial ; and such non-com
xniffioned officers and privates lhall be liable to be imprisoned by
a like fentencc, on failure of payment of the fines adjudged a
gainst them, for the space of one calendar month for ever) five
dollars of such fine.
And be itfurthcr enattcd, That courts martial for the trial of
militia lhall be composed of militia officers only.
And be it further enacted, That ail fines to be affefied, as afore-
Jaid, shall be certified by the preliding officer of the couit mat
ttal before whom the fame shall be afTefTed, to the marfnnl of the
diftrift, in which the delinquent Ihali rcfide, or to one of his
Wednesday, May 23, 175)2.
deputies ; and also to the fupcrvifor of the revenue of the fame
diftrift, who (hall lecord the said certificate in a book to be kept
tor that purpose. The said marshal or his deputy (hall forth
with proceed to levy the said fines with costs, by distress and iale
of the goods and chattels of the delinquent, which costs and the
manner of proceeding, with refpetl to the sale of the goods dif
i rained, Aiall be agreeable to the laws of the State, in which the
fame (hall be, in other cases of distress ; and where any non-corn
miflioned officer or private (hall be adjudged to fuffer imprison
ment, there being no goods or chattels to be found, whereof to
levy the said fines, the mar(hal of the diftrift or his deputy may
commit such delinquent to gaol, during the term, for whicn he
lhall be so adjudged to impriionment, or until the fine (hall be
paid, in the fame manner as other persons condemned to fine and
iinprifonment at the suit of the United States, may Lc committed.
And be it further enacted, That the marshals and their depu
ties lhall pay all such fines by them levied to thr supervisor of the
revenue, in the diftri£l in which they ale collected, within two
months after they shall have received the fame, deducting there
from five per centum, as a compensation for their trouble ; and
in cafe of failure, the fame shall be recovered by ast ion of debt
or information in any court of the United States, of the diftrift,
in which such fines (hall be levied, having cognizance thereof, to
be sued for, prosecuted and recovered, in the name of the super
visor of the diftrift, with interest and costs.
And be it further enacted, That the marshals of the several
diftrifts and their deputies (hall have the fame powers in execut
ing the laws of the United States, as (heriffs and their deputies in
the several States have by law, in executing the laws of their icf
peftive States.
And be it further enacted, That this ast (hall continue and be
in forcc, tor and during the term of two yeais, and from thence
to the end of the next feflion of Congress thereafter, and 110
longer.
JONATHAN TKUMBULI., Speaker
ojthe Houjc oj Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prefldent
pro tempore of the Senate.
APFROV ED MAY THE SECOND, 179 2
An ACT supplementary to the A6l for making
provision for the debt of the United States;
BE ii enaftcd by the Senate and House of Reprefentauves of
the Untied States of America, in Congiels ailembled, Thai
the ter m tor receiving on loan that part ot the domeltic debt ot
ihe United States., which hath not been iubferibed purluant to the
terms proposed in the ad, intituled, " An ast making piovifion
for the debt of the United States," shall be, and it is hereby ex
tended, on the fame terms, as in and by the laid ast ts provided,
to the fi-ft day of March next i and books, for receiving such tar
ther fubferiptions, ihall be opened at the Treasury of the United
States and by the commiflioners ol loans in each ot the said stales,
on the tirft day of June next, which Ihall continue open until the
(aid tirft day of March next inclusively ; tor which purpose, the
said commiflioners, refpeftivelj, are hereby wvefted with the
like powers, and required to perform the like duties, as m and by
the said ast is directed.
And be it lurther-enafled, That such of the creditors of the
United States, as have not fubfcr.bed and Ihall not lublcnbe lo
the said loan, (hall neverthclefs receive a rate per centum on the
amount of so much ot their relpeftivc demands, as well for inter
est a* principal, as, on or before the fitlt day ot March, Ihall be
registered, conformably to the directions ot the laid att, as thall
he equal ts the interctt payable to the iublcr ibing creditors,which
(hall be payable at the fame times and places, and by the lame per
lons, as in and by the said ast is direftecl.
And be it further cna6tcd, That the term for receiving upon
loan that part ot the debts ot the refpett.ve ttates, which hath not
been fubfenbed pursuant to the terms propoted in the ast afore
faid, (hall be, and it is hereby enlaiged on the tame terms, as in
and by the (aid ast is provided, untilihe firlt day ot March one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three inclusively ; tor which
purpose, books (hall be opened at the trtalury of .he Unwed
States, and by the commiflioners ot loans in each ot the said ttates,
on the tirft day of June next, which Ihall continue open until tnc
firft day of March, one thousand leven hundred and ninety-three
inclusively; for wheh purposes the said commiflioners are here
by invested with the like powers, and required to pertorm the
like duties, as in and by the said ast is directed.
Provided always, and be it further enaftcd, That the comnnf
lioner of loans for North-Carolina Ihall not De allowed 10 receive
anv certificate lffued by Patrick Travers, cotnrniflioiier ot Cum.
herland county, or by the commiflipneis ol a,n.y accounts at
Warrenton* . ...
And whereas the United States are indebted to certain foreign
officers, on account of pay and services during the late war, me
interest whereof, puifuant to the certibcales granted to the laid
officers, by virtue of a refolutiori of the United Stales in Congrels
aflembled, is payable at the house ot Grand, banker, at
Paris, and it is expedient to dilcharge the fame ; Be it therefore
enaftcd, That the President ol the United States be, and he here
by is authorized to cause to be-difcliargrd ihe principal and in
terest ot the said debt, out ol any of the monies, which have been
or shall be obtained 011 loan, in virtue ot the ast atorelaid, and
which Ihall not be neceflary ultimately to fulfil the puipofts tor
which the said monies arc, in and by the said ast, autnorized to
be borrowed.
And be it further ena&ed, ThSt ihe Prefidcnt of the Senate,
the Chief justice, the Secretary of State, the Secrciary ot theTrea
fury, and the Attorney General, tor the time being, lhall be com
i»i(T)oners, who, or any three ot whom, are hereby authorized,
wiiW the appiooation ot the Piefident of the United States, to pur
chase the debt of the United States, at its market price, if not ex
ceeding the par or true value thereof ; tor which purchatethe in
teieft on so much of the public debt, as ha, already been, or may
heieatter be purchaled for the United Siates, or as ihall be paid
into the treasury, and so much ot the monies appropriated tor the
payment of the interefl. on the foreign and domestic debt, as ihall
exceed what may be lufficient tor the payment of iuch interelt
to the creditors of the United States, ihall be and are hereby ap
propriated. And it lhall be the duty of the laid commiilioneis
to render to the legifl iture, within two months alter the commence
ment of the firft feifion thereof in every year, a lull and preciie ac
count of all such purchases made, and public debt redeemed, in
pui fudcce oi this ath
445
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prcjidcnt of the United States.
[Whole No. 520.]
And whereas it is expedient to establish a fund for the gradual
reduction of the public debt ; Beit further enacted, That the in
terest on (o much of the debt of the United States, as h-.s been or
shall be pure ha fen or redeemed for or by the United States, or as
shall be paid into the treasury thereof in fatisfaftion of any debt
or demand, and the surplus of any sum or sums appropriated for
the payment of the interest upon the said debt, which shall re
main alter paving such interest, (hall be, and hereby are appropri
ated and pledged firmly and inviolably for and to the purchase
and redemption of the (aid debt, to be applied under the directi
on of the t'refident of the Senate, the Chief Justice, the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General
for the tim-' being, or any three of them, with the approbation of
the President of the United States, for the time being, in manner
following, that is to fay : First, to the purchase of the several fpe
cics of stock constituting the debt of the United States, at their
refpeftive market prices, not exceeding the par or true value there
of, and, as neatly as may be, in equal proportions, until the annu
al amount of the said funds, together with any other provisions
which may be made by law, shall be equal to cwo per centum of
the whole amount of the outftatiding funded stock bearing a pre
sent interest of fix per centum : Thenceforth, Secondly, to the re
demption of the said lad mentioned (lock, according to the
for that purpwfe reserved to the United States, until the whole a
mount thereot shall have been redeemed : and Lastly, after luch
redemption, to the purchase, at its market price, of any other
stock consisting of the debt of the United States, which may then
remain unredeemed : and such purchase, as far as the fund shall
'at any time extend, lhall be made within thirty days next after
each d -y, on which a quarterly payment of interest on the debt
of the United States, shall become due, and (hall be made by a
known agent, to be named by the said commiffnners.
And be it further enabled, That all future purchases of the pub
lic debt on account of the United States, (hall be made at the low
est price, at which the fame can. be obtained by open purchase, or
by receiving sealed proposals, to be opened in the presence of the
commiflioners, or persons authorized by them to make purchases,
and the perfonsmaking such proposals.
And be it further enabled, That quarter yearly accounts of the
application of the said fund (hall be rendered ior feitlement, as
other public accounts, accompanied with returns of the sums of
the said debt, which (hall have been from time to time purchaled
or redeemed ; and full and exa£t report of the proceedings of the
said commiflioners, including a ftatemcnt of the difburlements,
which (hall have been made, and of the sums which lhall have
been from time to time purchased or redeemed ; and full and ex
a6t report of the proceedings of the said commillioners, including
a ftat» ment of the disbursements, which lhall have been made,
and of the sums which dialL have been purchased or redeemed un
der their direction, and fpecify ng dates, prices, parties, and pla
ces, shall be laid before Congress, within the (irll fourteen days
of each feflion which may ensue the present, during the cxecunou
of the said tiuft.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the House of Reprefcntativcs.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prefldent
APPROVED MAY THE XICHTH, 1/92. '
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
NEW-YORK, May 18
Striflures on the Report of a Committee of Congressf f
on the Wefterti Expedition.
IN my notification to the public of the ijth inft.
I'promifed to expose Come palpable errors ill
the report of the committee of Congress on the
late western expedition, in order that a proper
judgment might be formed ofthislegiilativembde
of investigation. But previous to my entering
on the fubj'ed't, it is proper to observe, that 1 was
never, direc'tly or indiretftly, called upon by the
committee to furnifh any explanations, or to ob
viate any of the charges or insinuations contain
ed in this report: that the firft notice 1 had of"
it, was in Mr- Childs's paper of the 12th instant,
nnd that unfufpefling, unheard and unproteiled, I
have been ltretched on the rack of public inveA
ligation, as an objedl deferring' popular refent
inent. 1 But though, from circumltances arising
from 'misfortune and indifcretioii, (not guilty)
my person has been imprisoned, my mind pre
serves in full vigor its native freedom and inde
pendence—nor am I yet so debased, as tamely to
crouch under the lafli of injury, whilst I am sup
ported by the consciousness not only of inno
cence, but of merit, in those particulars which
are made the fubjedi of accusation.
1 fliall now proceed to a confederation offome
of the points, which the committee roundly as
sert as fadts, reserving to a future occasion, such
evidence and observations, as I fliall judge ne
cellary for a full refutation of every part of the
report of the committee, so far as it relates to
my conduct, as contractor for the army.
In order to prove my inattention to the fulfil
ment of the duties of my station, it is averted—
That on the 9th of May, 1791, Mr. Smith atCar
lifle, one of my agents, had no: received any mo
nies from me; that 011 the Bth of May, 1791,
Mr. Kean, another commiH'ary, was in the lame
situation ; and that even so late as the 9th of
June of the fame year, General Nevill, niy prin
cipal agent at Pittsburgh (which was the place of
general rendezvous and deposit) had likewifere
ceived 110 monies.
pro tempore of the Senate.These assertions I aver to be groundless ; and
in proof, I refer to the following copies of re
ceipts, the originals of which are deposited with
Mr. Laban Bronfon, at 57, in Maiden-Lane, for
merly one of my agents under the contract, for
infpecflion of those who may wilh explicit fatis
faiftion on this head.
No. t. Received, Carlisle, 2(1 April, 1791, of
Colonel William Dner, by the hands of Colonel
George Gibfon, five hundred dollars, on account
of provisions to be farnifhed by me to the army
of the United States.
Signed,
500 Dollars.
No. 2. Received, Philadelphia, April 19, 179 1 »
of William Duer, Esq. three hundred dollars, in
poll notes, which I proniife to deliver to Mr.
James Smith, near Carlisle, taking duplicate re
cepts therefor.
Signed, HIPPOLITE MALARTIC.
N. B. The receipt of this sum is acknowledged
in Mr. Smith's account.
No. 3. Received, April 17th, 1 791, of Colonel
William Duer, four hundred and seven dollars
and forty-eight ninetieths, on account of sup
plies for the troops raising at Winchester in
Virginia. Signed, JOHN KEAN.
No. 4. 13th April, 1791, Received of William
Duer, two thoufana dollars, to be applied in pur
chasing supplies for the troops on the western
frontiers, and for which I promifeto account.
Signed,
2000 Dollars.
Exclusive of the above sums, I paid many of
Mr. NeviU's drafts, previous to the time at which
the committee flat eel he had received no money,
as will appear by his account, deposited with Mr.
Bronfon, and made large advances to several
other persons, for supplies, to be furniflied at
Pittlburgh, and other places ; the proofs of which
are too voluminous to be inserted in this publi-
cation.
Here I might reft the defence on these points,
but the following proofs of a more decisive an
ture, from J to 9, prove how much I had at heart
an honorable fulfilment of my contract; and
that the measures which I took for this purpose,
■were not only fuccefsful, but acknowleded by
-public documents, lodged in the war office, which
the committee might have seen, if an impartial
investigation had been the object of their re
searches.
No. J. Inftrutftions to Laban Bronfon
Sir,
The confidence I have, from pad experience
in your activity, and regard for my interest, has
induced me to appoint you my principal agent
for managing all purchases on my account in the
vveltern country, not only on account of the con
trail, but on account of the French emigrants.
7n managi the former, yon will a<ft accord
ing to your own discretion, and for my best in
terefl ; in the latter, you will from time to time
govern yourfelf by such special inftrudions as you
lhall receive from me.
Your principal and immediate attention must
be devoted to fupplyin'g all the potts under the
contraA for the space of four months and pro
curing a complete supply of salted provisions for
the months of May and June next, preferring
pork, if you can obtain it. To enable you to
commence your operations, you have herewith
in Philadelphia bank bills, fifteen hundred dol
lars, and a letter of credit on my agent Mr. Jo
seph Hardy, at Philadelphia, directing to pay
your drafts on him, drawn at not less than ten
days fight, for i;oo dollars. You have likewise
an order on Mr. Ludlow, directing him to pay
into your hands what monies he may have undis
posed of, of my last remittance, and all that he
fliall receive from the French emigrants, who are
under a convention to pay me for provisions sup
plied them. With these resources, and that of
the merchandize in the care of Mr. Swan (and
who must dispose of them under your directions
solely) I have no doubt you will be able to exe
cute the objetfts entrusted to you. If further
means are necefl'ary, inform me instantly, and
you lhall have them.
Immediately on your arrival at Buffaloeor Fort
Pitt, you will give notice to Gen. Harmarofyour
commission, the profpetfsyou have, andtheroea
fures you propose adopting, and you will at the
fame time transmit to me the fame intelligence.
From the funds entrusted to Mr. M'Fat land
previous to his death, and those in the hands of
Mr. Fowler, I am persuaded considerable supplies
mud have been procured. Obtain, as soon as
possible, for me, a state of all purchases or con
tracts made on my account and of the deliveries
in confluence, fpecifying the special nature of
the deliveries, and the polls at which they htive
been received. This you will obtain through
Mr. Israel Ludlow, who is appointed to superin
tend all the iflues, and whose province it will be
to \ifit the refpeftive ports. Although from
Capt. Mills' letter to me it is mod probable that
a fufficient supply has gone to Port Vincennes,
yet it will be neceHary to ascertain this circum'-
stance with precision, and to supply any deficien
JAMES SMITH
JOHN NEVILL
cy in such mode as you may think jnoft advifea
ble.
In short, fir, in executing the business intrud
ed to you, you will consider yourfelf unfettered
by any other considerations than a regard to my
interest which is inseparable from an honorable
fulfilment of my contra# : and you will use eve
ry exertion to retrieve any loss of credit, or re
putation which 1 may have fuffered from the fate
of Mr. M'Farland, or from the scandalous insi
nuations of such persons as wish my contract to
fail.
As the season of the year renders the executi
on of the office you have undertaken extremely
fatiguing, and detaches you from the private
pursuits you had in contemplation, I will allow
you for two months service which you have pro
mi led to devote to me, one hundred dollars per
month, exclusive of your reaf&nable travelling
charges, and before the expiration of that time
I will think of a proper charadierto succeed you.
You have herewith a special coinmiffion for the
purposes mentioned in those inftru»fiions, which
you will communicate when circuinftances may
render necellary, and a general letter of credit
to Mr. Willis at Buffaloe, who I doubt not will
give you any aid in executing the trust reposed
in you. 1 am, &c. yours with esteem,
Wm. DUER.
Mr. Laban Bronson
In order that some parts of this letter may be
more clearly understood, it isneceflary to menti
on that it was written in consequence of a for
mer agent's sudden death ; and the efFetft which
it was fuppoled it might have on the fuppliesof
the army at a very critical period, the Ohio ri
ver was frozen that year much earlier than usu
al ; a small part of the neceflary supplies had
been sent down previous to that event, and a
clamarous representation had been made to the
heads of the Treasury and War departments, of
my utter inability to supply the contradl.
From what quarter, and with what views those
representations were made ; I lhall probably
have occasion to shew at a future period.
No. 6. Return of provions on hand, May 2Jth,
1 791, at and near Pittsburgh.
Total—Twelve beeves, 2356 lbs. of Pork, 792
lbs. of bacon, 3395 barrels of flour, 8628 1-2 gal
lons of whilkey, 23 boxes of soap, 100 pounds of
candles.
N. B. This return was tranfimitted to the War-
Office, and from that department to me.
No. 7. Abftracft of provisions forthearmy, sent
forward to the several pods under the contradt
for 1791 —also, shewing the quantity on hand,
July 28, 1791.
Total sent forward—l 3 bis. of pork, 12257 1-4
lbs. of pork, 17 bis. beef, 39842 lbs. beef, 2674
bis. flour, 1366 kegs flour, 3243 gallons whilkey,
561 kegs ditto, 6028 3 4 gallons ditto, 1549, s
candles, 2150 1-2 lbs. soap, 10 1-2 builiels fait, 197
gallons vinegar.
Total on hand—l 38 bis. flour, 374 kegs of
flour, 1068 gallons whilkey, 16 kegs do. 140 lbs.
candles, 9200 lbs. soap, 43 1-2 buthels fait, 190
gallons vinegar.
The above is exclusive of what has been issu
ed to the troops, at Whelon, BufFaloe, Rackoon
creek, Fort Pitt, (Reed's, Johnfton's and Loyal
Hanon's stations up the Alleghany river) also to
the trfiops on their paflage down the Ohio, and
28 head of beef cattle on hand at Fort Pitt, and
25 head at Mulkingum.
No. 8. Return of provisions on hand the 12th
day of December, 1791 —at Fort Washington.
400 barrels flour, 30,000 lbs. fait beef, 100 gal
lons whiskey, 21 boxes soap, 10 bushels fait.
Iflues at this place per day, 600 rations.
Copy. (Signed) EDWD. EVANS.
No. 9. Extract of a letter from Francis Mentges,
Esq. inlpeftor of the troops of the United
States, to the Secretary of War, dated Fort-
Washington, June 2d, 1791.
" The present contractor has supplied the se
veral ports with good and vjholefoine provisions ;
and great quantities 0} provifton is on hand."
True extratft,
Copy. JOHN STAGG, jun. Chief Clerk.
N. B. This extrad; was tranfinitted to me from
the War-Office.
From the above documents the following fails are clearly
established :
Id. That as early as the 25th of May, there was collected
as Pittsburgh, (exclusive of other articles of supply) 2395 bar
rels of flour, and 8628 gallons of whilkev, which is equal to
469,420 complete rations of flour, and 552,192 complete ra
tions of whilkev; whereas the amount o'" rations required for
the troops whilst on the expedition, did not exceed, byGeneral
St. Clair's requilition, 360,000 rations.
2d. That previous to the 28th day of July, there had been
forwarded to the army (exclusive ol all the subordinate posts,
b:ing in the mean time victualled) 2674 barrels, and 1366 kegs
or half barrels of flour, and 9271 gallons of whilkev, equal to
657,972 complete rations of flour, and 593,344 complete ra
tions of whiskey.
3d. That from the firft of January, 1791, at the time my
contract commenced, to the 2d of June following, before any
of the supplies above dated could 'have arrived at the army,
ail the posts under the contract had not only been fuppliedwith
GOOD AND WHOLESOME PROVISIONS, but that GREAT QUANTITIES
OF PROVISION WERE ON HAND.
4th. That after the return of the army from the expedition,
ar.d only nineteen days previous to the expiration of my con
446
dust, which was on the 3 (ft day of December last, 430 ban
of flour, and. 30, 000 lbs. of beef were on hand at headquarter"
for a garrison of 600 men; which is equal to 122 davs fuonlv
of flour, and J3 of meat. It is unneceflary to mention my
fupphes ot beef, because the reporter acknowledge a pleuti
ful supply of meat : this article being furnilhed from Ken
tucky, is not included in the Pittsburgh returns.
tJhere remain two other cnarges, which require some no-
One, that there a total failure in the supply of horse,
which occasioned the commander in chief to direct i "iurchafe
of betwixt fix and fe veil hundred, for which he ordered mv
a-ent to draw bills on me, and of which I refufed payment
This charge, so far as it refpefts my failure, is as void of foun
dation as the other : But, at present, I (hall content mvlelf
with observing—
lit. That previous to the order issued by Gen. St Clair
Mr. Wilkinsan agent specially employed for this purpose'
was purchasing the number of horses which was judged necel
fa?y for the expedition, when I undertook the supply ; and
that this circumstance was publickly known in camp. '
2d. That I have made attual payment manymonths since
for all the horses purchased by this gentleman, agreeably t»
my contract with him—and
Lastly. That the loss of borfes, and any interruption in the
regular supply of flour, is not imputable to the causes stated
by the committee ; but to some of a very different nature and
for which I am not responsible ; and that probably this want
of flour existed principally on the retreat, after the victors had
got pofleffion of all the pro-vifion—lf the limits of a riewfpa
per would admit of my introducing the whole testimony ne
ceflary to support those points, in that inconteftible manner
which it is in my power to do, other obvious considerations
restrain me from it at this time, I recnlleft on this occasion
an observation made by Dr. Franklin to Mr. Morris, when fu
perintendant of the finances, on a controversy about money
with the Count of Vergennes, in which, after stating the
CouMt's objections, the Doctor Ihrewdly observes, that he
could have easily refuted all he had said, but that if he had
GOT THE BETTER OF THE ARGUMENT, he fllOuld have GOT NO
THING ELSE. I lhallconclude on this head with observing that
the truth of this charge may easily bejudgedof, by the ac
curacy OF THE OTHER PARTS OF THE REPORT OF THE COM
MITTEE On those points where the means of official evidence,
in direct opposition to what they have stated, were within
their reach. As to the last point concerning the due bills is
sued by my agent, and which is the only remaning one which
deserves any comment, I lhall be but short.
The report state s as an article of the contrail, " that the officer*
had an eleitionof drawingthe whole of the rations, to which their
rank entitled them, or of receiving the contrail once of them, in
cash, &c. &r. This is not Jo. There is not a [ingle article of t his
kind, or a Jingle exprejfion in my contrail, which can he tortured
to i mply such an engagement — In proof of this, my original con
trail is left wtth Mr. Bronfon for the perusal of those who with
to be fatisfied as to the truth of this bold assertion. Indeed such
an obligation would be too absurd for any contractor to fubjeil
himfelfto; —for if this eleilion was to be in the officers of ait
army, as the Contractor could not know when their fancy or
wants might lead them to prefer one to another, he would be un
der the neeeffity of double advances for the fame objeil ; one for
the officers rations, theoMeruf cajh to pay for sfiem, if not de
manded, and what would be still worse, he would not only run
the risque of having the undra «vn rations on his hands, but if he
paid for them at the contrail price, have according to an old fay
ing, his labor Jor his pains. All tfiat has ever been usual ill thiscafe
has been for the officers, and Contrailor to agree : which has
generally been done by allowing in cash, not the contrafl price, but
what the ration was c/liinateito coj at the place where the officers
were entitled to receive it ; this order originated in an intention
to make me pay to the officers what they had no right to exad; as
will appear by the following extrail of my agent's letter to mc
on this fubjeil, dated Sept. 26th, 1791.
" General St. Clair has ordered the quarter maflrr of the dif
ferent battalions to include all the rations allowed the officers in
their returns, and direiled the commifTaries to iflue due bills for
the rations not drawn, which it is expeiled will be paid by you.
I should be glad you would give me your direilions on this head,
and let me know at what rate they are to be paid ; for I done
think you ought to fettle them at the contrail price ; there is no
clauje in the contraQ that can oblige you to do it.''
Such are the charges and insinuations made againfl me by the
committee ; and such the evidence I offer to invalidate them—lf
it be asked how Congrels come to direil a publication of this na
ture, tending to criminate individuals without knowing in what
manner the charges againfl them had been fubflantiated, I reply
that the report was foifled in the lafl day of the session, when ma
ny members were absent, and the imagination of the few present
so much on the wing homewards as to prevent the exercifc of
that cool refleilion which in general marks the proceedings of
that refpeilable body : l( Thus wretches hang, that jurymen may
dine." As to the motivesof the reporters they appear fufficicnt
ly obvious. I presume they thought it confiflent with policy
and even with established precedent, that on this occasion some
viilim should be marked out as an objeil of popular resentment.
It would not do to charge Congiefs as the author of the calamity,
because they are Joulbirds which bewray their own nejls.
It would not do to charge the President fat least direflly) be
cause his unremitted attention in executing with the mofl Icrupu
lousexailuefs as well as ability, every pait of his executive func
tions, and a conviilion of this on the public mind preclude a 1
hopes of success from such an attempt. It would not do to charge
general St. Clair; firft, because a former committee of Congrels
had made a very sorry figure in such an attack : —
And secondly, because h.e was present to vindicate h Imfclf -
Who then so proper to attack as mylelf ?—None—Firft, because
was a Contrailor : and Contrafto's, from custom immcmoria..
always bear the blame of loft battles ; Secondly, bccaufe iny mi
fortunes had fubjeiled mc to popular prejudices, and of cour e it
was no great crime to charge me with an additional burt en , n
laflly, because I was absent, and of course not capable ol defend
ing myfclf.
In these points of view (if I may be permitted to use a 1
jocularly a graveobfervationof the committee, arid pel .aps v*
as much propriety at leafl as thev do) their order of a P
pears to have been judicious and their ground of aflionwc c ojin.
Wm. D U E R, late Contractor
Jor the Wcjlern Amy.
New-York, lyth May, 179?
Advantage of a Red No/r.— We hear from En
field, in the upper part of this county, that as tvv
men were crofling a pond in pursuit of a . 00 »
one of them being thirsty, and perceiving a o
which had been cut through the ice by onie
ermen, he stooped down to drink, but en l ? I
fefled of a long red nose, a filh suppose '
some bait, and made bold tofnap at it, " u
man fuddenlv throwing his head bac , <■ r
a Trout which vveighed three pounds tour 0
Keene, (N.H.) March 22.VIENNA, March 7
FUNERAL OF LEOPOLD THE SECOND
ON Friday the 3d inft. the body was opened in
the ptefence of the Imperial pbyficians and
embalmed. The heart was pat into a diver urn,
and the entrails into a brass kettle.
On Sunday at half an hour after two, the A a
lie Parson consecrated the body, and it was car
lied to the Aulic church, preceded by some Au
guftin and Capuchin Friars.
The valet de chambre of the deceased carried
the kettle with the entrails, and another the
goblet with the heart, both covered with black
taffety.
The body was in an open coffin, dreft in a black
robe laced, the head was covered with a hat a
dorned with blue imperial feathers, and the body
decorated with all the orders of knighthood.
When it arrived at the Aulic church, which was
hung overall in black, with imperial elcutcheons,
the body was again consecrated, and placed on the
Lit de parade in the middle of the church, having
on each fide velvet culhions with the imperial ■
crown, sceptre and orb, called the Apple of the em
pire. Mafles were read till noon, at which the
foreign minillers, privy counsellors, and the no
bility of both sexes attended.
The public, who had liberty to pass through
to fee the body, were told by an exempt on pa(-
sing, " Das is der Kcizer"—th*t is the Emperor.
On Monday, at one o'clock in the afternoon,
the heart, after being consecrated again, was
taken up by the two eldetl valets de chambre,
two other eledl chamberlains, and a detachment
of eight German and Hungarian life guards, and
removed to the Auguftin church, received by the
priors and the monks of the monastery, and
placed in the vaults. ...
Immediately after the entrails being conse
crated anew, with the fame attendance as the
heart, were removed by the Bishop, the Chapter
and the Clergy, carried down to the vaults, and
deposited with the usual forms and prayers.
On the 6th, at fix in the afternoon, the fune
ral procession went out of the church, and after
having crofled the hospital, proceeded to the Ca
puchin church.
At seven o'clock the body was taken off the
bier by the valets de chambre ; the coffin was
then (hut, and the beneditfion performed by the
court chaplain, assisted by the matter of ceremo
nies, and the other chaplains, in presence of the
pages, carrying lighted torches, and attended by
the life-guards, lord chamberlain, mailer of the
horse, and three captains of the guards—it was
put into a mourning coach, glazed all round, and
drawn by fix horses. The procession then crofled
Jofephus square to the Capuchin church.
The Capuchin church was prepared for the
funeral, as follows : _
In the middle the bier was raised fix feet high,
■with a black velvet canopy over it, tringed with
gold, and adorned with the Imperial eagle at
each corner.
Round the coffin was placed the rega.ia betore
mentioned, with thd field marshall s llaff, hat,
sword and scars. On the eight steps of the bier
there were three hundred and seventy-two silver
candlesticks, and at the corner silver pyramids,
with seventy-two wax tapers each.
The whole church was hung in black, with
eighty candelabres divided by coats of arms, and
forty-five lustres.
The high altar was covered with a rich em
broidered cloth, having the Imperial coat of arms
trimmed round with mourning, and one thou
sand seven hundred lights round it.
The mourning commenced the sixth, and is or
dered to be continued fix months.
PARIS, March 17
The Auflrian party is completely vanquiflied
for this time, and the only ministers remaining
in office, who are not either difmifled, or who
have not given in their resignation, are M. Du
port de Tertre, and M. Tarbe, and there was
even a rumor that M.Duport has also given in his
resignation. It remains to be seen what will be
the iffiie of this c'ontelt between the Court and
the Aflembly.
M. Deleflart has set out, under a guard of the
Gens d'Armerie, to Orleans, to take his trial be
fore the high court appointed for the trial of Hate
prisoners.
M. de Taleyrand and Perigord, arrived at Pa
ris on Saturday last.
The King has given the red ribband to M. de
la Fayette, M. Maillardot, and d'Erneft.
In the fitting of the National Aflembly on Fri
day last, a letter was read, which states that
Avignon and Aries are in a state of revolt, ad
vanced guards being ported round the latter
place, the walls of which aricompleatly furnifh
ed with cannon ; two thobfand patriots have
been obliged to leave Avignon; the paflage of
Durance was <hut against a battalion of the Na
tional Guards marching to the frontiers ; the
white flag was hoilted, and the patriots were
threatened with a maflacre.
The National Guards of Montpelier,Marfeilles,
Nimes and Orange, were however upon tlie point
of marching when this letter left the Department
du Guard, and the rebellious citizens of Avignon
and Aries were shortly expected to be quelled.
The regiment of Latnark, and a detachment of
the former place, are as much fufpetft
cd of anti-constitutional principles.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE new import law, which has lately patted, was strenu
ously oppoled. Some of the objections were not without
force. It was said, enough is already drawn from impost. It
was replied, this is true of many imported articles, but many
others will bear more ; and it will be ufefnl to our landed and
manufacturing intereits to raise the rate of duties on the latter.
The additional duties ad valorem will ceale with the Indian
war. The urgent necellity ot the public requires the further
revenue, yet it were to be wished that the revenue laws might
have remained fixed, as every change is embarrafling to trade.
Besides, low duties fall on the profits of trade, but increasing
the rate, overcomes old habits of buying and felling, and
throws the duty on the consume it should be. Ihe
merchants will therefore pay only as consumers, and the cre
dits given for the duties, will not deprive them of their trad
ing capital, by paying the duties before they have received them
of the corifumer.
The obj eft ions above noticed, answers to which are just
hinted, are refpeCtable. It is prejumed, however, that with
the candid and discerning, they will yield to a lenfe of the ur
gency of* the occasion, as well as to the other considerations
which have been noticed. # #
But other arguments were urged against the impost, which
belong to the unanswerable class. It was said, without laugh
ing, the additional duties are intended for the Indian war
and you ought to confine your views to the obtaining money
for that end only—vet, behold, you afford advantage to the
farmers, by encouraging the production of flax, hemp, cotton,
and various other things. The manufacturers also receive
protection and encouragement —and to make all these the more
effectual, you make the law on all the articles except those
charged at 7g per cent, ad valorem, permanent—that is, a j
standing law, to be repealed when you no longer like What
an outrage against republican liberty 1 and on this topic a few
hundred dozen high flourifhes were made. The public has had
opportunity by reading the newfapers, to admire the good fenle
and moderation of this part of the debate. The cod-fifhery
too was accused of picking the pockets of the people a second
time—because the law for encouraging that fifhery allows the
money which is paid into the treasury for the fait used in cur
ing the fi(h that is sent out of the country, to be paid back to
the owners of the fifhing veflels, in the form of a bounty on
the tonnage of the veflels. All other articles, on being ex
ported, are allowed to drawback the duties they have paid;
the law making a like allowance to the filliing veflels was called
partial and urtjuft—that was the firft picking of pockets by
the filhery—and as the late law raises the duty on fait, the
principle of the fifhery law required that a further allowance,
in nature of a drawback, lhould be made, in order that the
owners of the filliing veflels might stand on the fame footing
with other citizens exporting dutied articles. Accordingly the
new impost law allows a further sum to those veflels, equal to
the increase of the fait duty. By the Constitution, every ar
ticle is to be exported duty free—(alt fifh may now be export
ed duty free—and this was not only called a partial favor, but
it was strenuously insisted to be a violation of the Constitution.
Another odious design of the new impost law, is to form a
finking fund—lb that the surplus revenue lhall be applied to
buying up the public debt. This called forth no small powers
of eloquence. The debt is hateful—the means of paying it off
are hateful— is improper, in this way and in that
way. There is no manner of doubt that there is the most per
fect consistency of design in those who fay the debt is great, is
increasing, and to be diminished, and yet oppose the rais
ing and applying a revenue to finking it as fact as possible!
The public will be edified, no doubt, by the arguments
against the impost law. It was said, all ¥ou want is money for
the Indian war—and behold, you have rambled over the whole
field of politics to pick up other objeCts of legislation. You
encourage the farmer, the manufacturer, and the fifhery, and
you provide means for diminifliing the public debt. This was
called entangling the bill with foreign matter, and undertak
ing to do half a dozen things at once. Besides all which, the
objeCt of the Indian war is temporary, and your aCt is a stand
ing law.
The force of this censure seems to lie here—you should make
an aCt for one or two years. Then the merchants would have
the plague and vexation of the law, and would find it impossi
ble to make their arrangements on such ground. The far
mers would not produce, nor the manufacturers work up the
raw materials of the country, because an aCt for a year or two,
which would expire with the Indian war, would afford no en
couragement to engage in any new production or branch of
bufinels. A law which would take every man's money, and
yet would proteCt no man's industry as a farmer or manufac
turer, would have no friends or advocates. And all good
citizens being found to hate revenue laws, there is no manner
of doubt that a law on the footing which was contended for,
would be fufliciently detested.
Philadelphia, May 23.
Accounts have been received at the War-Office from Major
Hamtramck, commanding officer of Post Vincennes, on the
river Wabaih, dated 30th March, stating that he had made a
pacific agreement with the Wea and Eel River Indians—and
it was expected that the Pyankefhas would become parties
thereto, These tribes, with their subdivisions of villages,
contain a conliderable part of the Wabaih Indians, who have
hitherto been hostile.
The Revenue Cutter, Capt. Montgomery,' having received
diredtions to assist in piloting veflels in the River, &c. has been
thus employed the week past.—On Saturday evening last she
met with an accident, a Ihip running foul of the cutter while
ihe lay at anchor, carried away her main-mast; but we hear
the injury has since been repaired.
The face of nature has now a inoft pleasing afpefl:, grass
and winter grain appear to load the earth, and there is a fine
profpe A of a redundancy of various species of fruit.
Accounts from Sweden mention the deftrufiion of q/ie
fourth part of the city of Gottenburg by fire, on or abobt the
firft of March. The computed loss is said to be immense.
On the 3d inft. 34 Students, all ps one class, received the
degree of Bachelor of Arts—and ten, the degree of Mailer of
Arts in Dickinfon College at Carlisle.
447
The tm of Boston, at a late town meeting, voted to give
2">ol. per ann. to each of their public Schoolmaltei s«—' -uftere aie
(even of them, and an Uflier to each school; their laiary haif
the above sum, viz. iool. each.
The Hon. Gio. Leonard is chosen Representative in Con
gress for the district of Bristol, &c. Maiiachufetts.
On the PalTaic, or fonie of the stream; that empty therein,
is unanimously determined on by the directors as the perma
nent feat of the manufactures to be prosecuted under the
aufpiccs of the society lately incorporated by the ot
New-Jersey.
One of the veiTels employed in traniporting the free blacks
from Nova-Scotia to Sierra Leona, commanded by Captain
Nicols, has returned from Africa, and arrived at this port af
ter 8 weeks passage. The whole fleet of 13 fail arrived fafe at
the place of deftination—tho' numbers ol the blacks died on
the pallage.
Tiieir landing was at firft opposed by the natives but they
were on peaceable terms when Captain Nicols left them. Ihe
country appears fertile, and on the whole the settlement bore
a promising afpeft, and the enterprize bid fair to answer the
views of the benevolent projectors. No velfel trom England
had arrived. Capt. Nicols has a paper from the Agent, teffci
fying his humanity and attention to the blacks during the
voyage.
One county in the Diftridt of Maine, consisting of 16 towns,
has decided the question of separation from MafTachufetts
v three in favor, and thirteen against it.
William Euftis, John C. Jones, C. Jarvis, J- Mason, F.
Dawes, B. Austin, jun. S. Breck and\V. Tudor, Efqrs. were
ele<sted Representatives for the town of Boften the Bth infl.
ExtraEl of a letter from a gentleman cf the JirJl information at Lijbon,
to his correspondent tn this city, dated, March 18.
After certain intelligence had been received at Gibraltar
that Mnley Yazid had defeated his brother's army on the 12th
of last month, about the end of the fame month the unexpect
ed news arrived there of his having died on the 16 th, in con
sequence of his wounds *. as likewise the death of his anta.;on
ift, Muley Ifliem, who is reported by some to have been killed
in the battle ; and by others, to have died also ol the wounds
he received in battle'. What is aflerted to be less doubtful is,
that Muley Iflama has actually been proclaimed emperor at
Tangier. He is also alferted to be a much more unexcep
tionable character than the two brothers who have fallen, and
more likely to cultivate peace, upon reasonable terms, with
all nations. —The fame letter mentions the 22d instant as the
day agreed upon for the delivering upon of Oran to the regen
cy of Algiers."
ExtraSl of another letter from the fame gentleman* dated Lijbon,
J O
March 25.
u The ameliorations in the queen's health are great. Doc
tor Willis found that the physicians had treated her cafe in a
very improper manner. It seems probable, that, it the fame
treatment had been continued a little longer, she must have
died. At present Dr. Willis entertains hopes of her total re
covery. Yesterday fiie was much better than Ihe has been at
any other time since his arrival, and entirely in her right
mind—lamjuft informed that the Emperor of Germany is
dead. This news was brought by a courier from Madrid to
the Spanifli charge des affaires here."
Extrafl of a. letter from Princeton, dated May 18.
i 6 We have not had the Gazette since last Wednesday week—
please to let us know the cause why they are not Tent as
usual."
The Editor allures his Subscribers in Princeton, that
the papers have been pun<stually Tent to the Poft-Office Mon
day and Wednesday mornings, and the Post-Master has in
formed him that they have been sent on.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
Many true friends of liberty spin an over-fine thread of rea
soning, rather beyond the strength of the ftuflf. They Ihew
how trade produces wealth—and wealth, luxury—and this
again, corruption—and corruption destroys liberty. In this
way we may conjure up ten thousand apparitions ! -Some
astronomers in Europe, of the last century, lived very misera
ble lives, because they found by calculation that within two
million two hundred thousand years, a comet would run bounce
against our earth, and either singe or crack it to its total ruin;
so that it would be no longer a world fit to live in. 1 hose
that fear this ruin of liberty, fliould establish public free
fchools, and support good laws, which will produce good mo
rals, and these will preserve the public liberty and virtue, as
long as human means can have any efficacy on human affairs.
The yeomanry of the country are often addrelTed on the
fubje<st of the many wrongs they fuffer from the national go
vernment. One of the complaints which is made for them is,
that the duty on the tonnage of foreign vefTels is an injury to
the landed interest. Half a dollar a ton on a vessel is alledged
to be a grievous imposition, and discouraging to the free iale
of our produce. Supposing this duty to be lome discourage
ment to purchaiers coming from foreign parts to carry off our
produce in their own veflfels, it operates in an equal degree to
encourage the employment of our own Hiips to go in search of
a market. The power at any time to seek the market, and
to chufe the best of several, affords better encouragement to
the sale of the articles of our farms, than they would meet
with if w« were obliged to depend solely or principally on fo
reigners.
Be fides, the increase of ships and seamen is elTential to the
landed interest in cafe of a war, as the protection of our staple
articles by sea could be no otherwise depended on.
On the whole, the landed men will have no cause to com
plain. It is also very agreeable, to a liberal mind, to observe
that the interests of the northern and southern dates, in this
particular, perfe&ly accord, and are reciprocal.
ARRIVALS AT the PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Mary,
Brig Levan,
Hope,
John,
Catharine,
Snow Mars,
Schooner Isabella,
Sloop Liberty,
Sally,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, ... 22f
3 per Cents, -
Deferred, - 1 3j2
Indents, - - - 12 J3
Final Settlements, - - 18/6
Half (hares Bank. U. S. 50 per cent, premium,
Shares Bank North-America, 1,5 ditto.
SHIP NEWS.
Morton, Tc-ncriffe,
Richardson, Jamaica,
Stockley, Cadiz,
Christie, Curracoa,
Nieds, Sierra Leone,
Langtord, Oporto,
Luce, Boston,
Montayne, St. Kitts,
Drifco, Portfrnouth, N. H.THE Jluito* Gaxbtte mofl
earnejlly requefls t)ut those of his Jubfcribcrs y whose arrearages have
been accumulating Jor more than twelve months % would nuke payment a i
soon as pofjible—at farthejl, bejore the frji day of June next.
Those perjons whoJhall be disposed to patronize this Gazette after
the Poll-Office Law Jhall go into operation, will pltaje to Jtgnijy their
intention to the Deputy Post-Masters in the United States, who are
requejlcd toJ or wardJuchfubfcriptions as maybe received, to the Editor,
previous to the faidjirjl cj Jane. The terms offubfcriftion are
Three Dollars per annum, exclusive of postage—One half to be paid at
ike time of fubferibing, the other half to be advanced at the expiration oj
the firflfix norths.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-casks of LISBON WINE, far
superior in quality to what is generally imported
And a few bales of the very best CORKS,
TO BE SOLD BY
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-calk.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-calk.
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-cask.
MESS BEEF, of a (Superior quality, andrfuch as is fit for
an Eafl-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
114 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c.'&c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792.
For BRISTOL,
"Tin Ship „ Birmingham Packet,
Lesson Simmons,
A remarkable fad sailer, her caigo is all ready—ncverthciefs, to
accommodate thofc who may be diipofed to put freight on board,
it will be taken in. She will fail in a tew days. For freight or
paflage, apply to the Captain on board, laying at Walnut-llieet
Wharf, orto
Those who have goods on board, are earnelUy requeued to
enter them, take out their permits, and give the necelTary direc
tions to their porters to attend the ship.
N. B. The owncis are determined that the fliip fiiall leave
Bristol with the firft Fall (hips.
Alay 14.
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
value, at the option of the paity, will be given by the Com
millioners of the Federal Buildings, to the perfou who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, shall produce to them the molt ap
proved PLAN, it adopted bythetn, for a PRESIDENT'S HOUSE,
to be ere&ed in this Ckv. The (it eof the building, if the art tit
will attend to itj will of course influence the afpett and outline of
his plan ; and it's destination will point out to him the number,
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
ere&ed for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole,
*nd be capable of admitting the additional pans, in future, if they
lhall be wanting. Drawings will be expetted of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and fe ft ions through the building, in fach
direction* as may be ueccHary to explain the internal ftru&ure ;
and an eliiinate of the cubic feet of brick-work composing the
whole mass of the walls.
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT in this Citv, to be drfignated by impartial judgrs,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a MEDAL ol that
value, at the option of the party ; will be given by the Commis
sioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth d3v of July, 1792, lhall produce to them most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted by them, for a CAPITOL, to be erected
in this City ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS,
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to the one they
lhall adopt The building to be of biick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit:
A Conference Room
A Room for the Representatives
-uuate3oo _ zooms
) pcrfons each. ! to be ot
i Lobby or Antichamber to (he 'utter r f u il clcva-
A. Senate Room of 1200 square feet area | tion.
Aii AVuichamhcr or Lobby to the last J
J2 Rooms of 600 square feet ar<a each, forCommitiee Roomsand
Clerks' Offices, to be of hajf the elevation of the former.
Drawings will be expected of the ground plats, elevations of
each front, and feaions ihiough the building in such directions
as may bencceU"aiy to explain the internal ftiufture; and an elti
mate of the cubic feet ol brick-work composing the whole mass
of the wails.
March 1 4, 1792
ADVERTISEMENT
BY VIRTUE of an order fiom John Holmes, Edmund
\V £ ath by and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs. Judgesof
the Courtof Common Pleas for the Count? of Salem, direftim.
us to make Sale of so much of the Lands of Benjamin Cripps"
1,1 the TownlhipofManington, in the Cot-nty ol Salem aforefaid'
as will defray the expences attending the divilion or p.ntition ol'
Lands held in common between Abraham Hewli.no and the
aforefaid Benjamin Cripps, agreeably to an ast of Aflembly &r
In purfuanceof the above order, will be Sold by public Vendue'
a tract or piece of Laud (or as much thereof as will defray the
above expeiiccs) being part of the above, fttuate and bounded bv
Lands of Job Mireeve, the aforefaid Abraham Hew lings, and
others, on seventh day 26th of May next, i 7 g 2 ._At the houf
ol Henry Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem aforefaid bv
WILLIAM GOODWIN, )
THOMAS 1 CLEMENT, (
2Qth April, 1792,
(-P9'j
GEORGE MEADE,
THE COMMISSIONERS.
fufficicnt to ac-"]
£ commodate3oo j these
THE COMMISSIONERS.
4w.ep.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-ilreet, New-York,
Subscriber unending 10 confine him (elf entirely to the
X PURCHASE and SALL of STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave 10 otter his lervices to his friends and others, 111 the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to favor hi in with
thi ir huh nets', may depend upon having it tranfa£ted with the ut
inoft fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, BoOon, or any other part of the
United States will be ftri&ly attended to.
BLEECKER.
(U.)
May 2
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very Hilt quality, and laictt importation trom Canton, via
New-York, by retail, at
No 19,
Third, between Chefnui and Market Streets
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubf:riber, on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEG RO MAN named ROlil N, is 55 years of age,
ltout made, and bred a farmer ; oneof his thumbs much swelled ;
is 5 ftet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloih coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuflran breeches,
a 1 uffled (hiit, an old beaver hat, with Jhoes, (lockings and buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
yeaisofage, flout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with ihe fmalUpox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown short coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
Itockings, a new wool hat, new (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will secure said Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, fnall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
paid
Morris-Town, Aoril 17,1792
April 27, 1792,
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day Of July eniuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY situated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firil rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
lap ot about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, 011 which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook; plenty ot rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and nectirary ou:-buildings ; an qrchard of the be it kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to Dr.
Gibbons, in Arch-street, or Peter Le Bakbier Du
Pl essis, Esq. No. 86, Chelnut-Rreet,Philadelphia ; Mr. Henry
Waterman, at the Walhingron, on the Bristol road; or to
Mr. Joseph Baldwin, at Nefhamany Terry, or Mr. Barnet
Dur een, fame place, Bucks County. The purchaser, payingone
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the re
sidue, paving interest. May 5. (ep.tf.)
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Prottftant Episcopal Church.in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an a£l of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
t Prize of 2000
1
2
5
10
3°
90
1675
1814 Prizes.
3520. Blanks,
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
£3" This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Shnks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubled but the undertaking will meet with the most
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the fccond Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in »the city of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpettion of Col. John Bayard, pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ot Am
boy ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma.
nufa&uring Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had ot the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given (ccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers wil) he publifhrd, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the diawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church.
*** Advcniurcrs in the above Lottery have a chance of morr
than 3 per cent, per month for their monev. To accommndatc
all thole who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, leiters direa.
Ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Poftmallcr, ai New-Brunlwick
and enelofing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for-'
wardrd on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20, 179?
TO BE SOLD,
'T'HAT large, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
-I fubfenber now lives, fnuate in Elizabcth-Town, in the state
ot New-Jerey, within 16 miles of the city of New-York It is
fiiuthcd in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about four
acres ot land-the Garden is large, well laid out, and flocked
with a good alTortment of fruit. For further particulars, enquire
of Witt, am in Philadelphia, John Pintakd,
Esq. in otk, or the Sublcribcr, on the Premiss.
M '.Y. 2 ' ''?ii (tnwgw) ELI AS BOTIDINOT.
THICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, a,,- w.
X be had at the following places, viz.—Samuel Coopet's
Ferry ;at Burlington, °f R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordentown, of Mr
John Van tmburgh ; Mount Holly, ot l.Rrad, Esq. Trenton
of John Singer Esq. Amboy, of James Parker. Esq. Elizabeth
own, of RGray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
the Mana" Ury rV Y M 'T Tl »°^mo.ton Sfotfwoud ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
448
ALEXANDER ROBERTSON,
Dollais is
2000
1000
s°°
200
1000
1000
1000
ioco
1,500
j 800
6700
100
50
20
4
16000
Bank of the United States.
R e S°LVED, That (he Stockholders be, and'he"reby a?f j O .
thorued to compicat their Shates by payment at any timr
before (he periods required by the law 0> incoroo'anon.
Resolved, Tint'each Share so comnleated, (ball be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BanK.t.om and after thc'firft
dav of the inonih next succeeding the day of tomuleatiiu f ucl ,
Shares. ®
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's iniereft upon the Pub
lie Debt transferred to compleatany Share as aforefaid, as lhali
have accrued before the firft day ot the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By order of the Prtfident and Directors,
JOHN KKA\*, Ca[kirr.
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
Resolved, That the specie proportion of the thro pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each thare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of Inch payment, may be madeonthe
books of the Treasury of the United States, or i« the office of any
of the Commiflioners of Loans in any of the Stales, certificates of
which transfers to be depofned in the office in which 1119 specie
proportion of such payment shall be made.
Rcfolvca, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the di-ys of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Caftier.
At a meeting ok the Directors of the Bank ut
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Difcounl ana Deposit be
aulhorifed to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of ihe Bank, and
that the Cafhieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one ot which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full shares, and to all the benefits of the Rcfolutions
of the Board of Directors parted the 21ft instant, relative to com
pleting shares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President and Dirf&ors.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE jult now opened their Lead-War e house, two doors
south of Walnut-fired Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
prire from the colt of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders add relied to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
Ihortcft notiee.
N. B. Warited, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where conitant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Mcffrs. Moses Austin &. Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 1791
FOR SALE,
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New- Jerfey,occupied for many years paftby
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acrcs of land, besides
a tract of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the eait, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of fili
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the mott
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-iinilhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing fo'jr
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding ? very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements oft
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new fton?
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cuiting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-houle, upwaids of i©o feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colleflion of the
choicest fiuits of almost every kind, and several large alparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, weii
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheefc-ioom,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
cessary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jma
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chiefly under the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for c
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the be ft hay, hefi (s
supporting through the fuminer season twenty to thirty home
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper sea ons,
with great pl> nty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frclft watCr
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both o wmc 1
tnay afford a pleasing amusement to the fporifman, as; we as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. c
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red ce ar -«
and rails of chtfnut and white cedar. The purchaser may hav
the improved square feparatelv, or the whole together, as ma
heft fun him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good bun -
ing stone on the river shore. Ihe purchase money, if we 1 ecur >
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded .or
Any peifon deftrous of viewing the piemifcs, may
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, hq. ° ' ?
or Mr. Inallman, Who at present occupies the fa. m-hou «nd
part of the lancl—and uiay know the price 011 app ,ca 1
fuhferiber, a» No. *13, South Stcond-flreet, oppofite-to the wc -
Market, in Phildclelr""*- ' -—
WANTED, tile l ull Volume of the U *" TT '
U>.i te d Status — for vhichSix Dollars will be pa >
The JOURHALof the THIRD SESSIONof
oj Ike UK ITHD STATES, may tc UdoJ the Editor U-ccJ.
JOHN KEAN, Cajhier.