A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 92, of Vol. lII.] Wednesday, March 14, 1792.
SECOND CONGRESS OF THF. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fouith of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT for making farther and more effedtual
Proviiion for the Protection of the Frontiers of
the United States.
BE it enafled by the Senate and Houfc of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflembled, That the
battalion of artillery now in service be completed according to
the eflablifhment, and that the two regiments of infantry now in
leivice be completed to the number of nine hundiVd and sixty
non-com mi flioned officers, privates and musicians each.
And be it further ena6led, That there (hall be raised for a term
not exceeding three years, three addditional regiments, each of
which, exclusively of the commiflioned officers, shall consist of
nine hundred and sixty non-commiflioned officers, privates and
musicians ; and that one of the said regiments be organized in the
following manner, that is to fay, two battalions of infantry, each
of which, exclusively of the commiilioned officers, shall consist of
three hundred and twenty non-commiflioned officers, privates and
musicians ; and one squadron of light dragoons which, exclusively
©f the commiflioned officers, shall consist of three hundred and
twenty non-commiflioned officers,privates and musicians ; and that
it shall be a condition in the enlifttnent of the said dragoons, to
serve as dismounted dragoons, whenever they shall be ordered
thereto : That the organization of the said squadron of light dra
goons shall be, as follows, to wit ; one major, one adjutant, one
quartermaster, one surgeon's mate, and four troops, each of which
ihall consist of one captain,one lieutenant,one cornet,four sergeants,
four corporals, one farrier, one saddler, one trumpeter and lixty
nins dragoons ; and the Piefident may arm the said troops, as he
shall think proper.
Provided always, and be it further enabled, That it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States to organize the said
five regiments of infantry, and the said corps of horse and artille
ry, as he shall judge expedient, dimmifhing the number of corps,
or taking from one corps and adding to another, as shall appear
to him proper, so that the whole number of officers and men shall
not exceed the limits above prescribed : Provided, That the said
three regiments shall be difchargcd as soon as the United States
shall be at peace with the Indian tribes.
And be it further enacted. That the non-commiflioned officers,
privates and musicians of the said three regiments, shall be iulift
«d for the term of three years, unless previously difchargcd.
And be it further enacted, That every recruit, who (ball be in
lifted by virtue of this ast, shall receive eight dollats bounty, and
that the fame {hall be made up to the non-commiflioned officers,
privates and musicians now in fcrvice, who have inlilted for three
years, finer the patting of the ast intituled " An act for regulating
the military establishment of the United States.
And be it further enacted, That the commiflTioned officers,
•who fhull be employed to recruit tor the military establishment,
/hall be entitled to receive, for every recruit, duly inlifted and
mustered, two dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the monthly pay of the com-
Tnilfioned officers, non-commiflioned officers, privates and musi
cians, on ihc military establishment of the United States, and of
the three regiments authoi tzed by this ast, shall be, in future, as
follows, free of all deductions, to wit:—General Staff—A
major-general, one hundred and sixty-six dollars. A brigadier-
General, one hundred and four dollars. Quarter-master, one hun
dred dollars. Adjutant, to do also the duty ol infpeftor, feventy
five dollars. Chaplain, fiky dollars. Surgeon, seventy dollars.
Deputy.quarter-master, fifty dollars. Aid-de-camp, in addition
co his pay in the line, twenty-sou« dollars. Brigade major, to
ast also as deputy infpeftor, in additfon to his pay in the line,
twenty-four doliais. Pnncipal artificer, forty dollars. Second
artificer, twent)-fix dollars.— Regi m e ntal — Lieutenant-colo
nel commandant, feventy-five dollars. Major commandant of
artillerv, and major of dragoons, filty-five dollars. Paymaster,
in addition to his pay in the line, ten dollars. Quarter-master,
in addition to his pay in the line, eight dollars. Adjutant, in
addition to his pay in the line, ten dollars. Majors of infantry,
fifty dollars. Captains, forty dollars. Lieutenants, twenty-fix
dollars. Ensigns and cornets, twenty doilars. Surgeons, forty
five dollars. Mat s, thirty dollars. Serjeant-majors and quarter
mafter-ferjt ants, seven dollars. Senior musicians, fix doilars.
Serjeants, fix dollais. Corporals, five dollars. Privates, three
dollars. Mufici<ms, foui dollars. Artificers allowed to the in
iantry. light dragoons, and artillery, and included as privates,
eight 6 >l!ars. Matrons and nurses in the hospital, eight dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the rations, or money in lieu
foi the commiflioned, non-commiilioned officers, pri
vates and musicians of the additional troops herein mentioned,
filiall be the fame, as described in the afcrefaid ast, intituled " An
•ft for regulating the military establishment of the United States,"
and in the ast pal Ted in the third fefliun of the firft Congress, in
tituled " An ast for raising and adding'another regiment to the
military establishment of the United States, and for making far
ther provision for the protection ot the frontiers."
And he it further enabled, That the forage, to be allowx-d to
the officers of the additional legnnents authorized by this ast, be
the fame as described by the a£ts before mentioned .
And be it further enabled, Thdt the allowance of cloathing for
non-commiffiontd orfigers and privates of the infantry of the said
three regiments, shall be the fame, as is by law established :
that suitable cloathing be provided for the cavalrv, and adapted
to the nature of the service, and conlormcd as near as may be,
to the valueof the clothing allowed tc the infantry and artillery.
And be it turther ena&ed, .That all the commiflianed, and non
commiflioned officers, privates and musicians of the fatd three re
giments, (hall take the lame oath;., shall be governed by the fame
rules and regulations, and in cafcs of difabilies, shall receive the
fame compensations, as are described in the beforementtoned ast,
intituled " An ast for regulating the military establishment of
the United States."
And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for the Pre
sident of the United States, to forbear to raise, or to discharge, af
tet they shall be raised, the whole or any part of the said three
additional regiments, in cafe events shall in his judgment, render
his so doing confident with the public fafety.
Ana be u turther enacted, That the President be, and he here
by is authorized, from time to time, to call into service, and for
such penods as he may deem requisite, such number of cavalry as,
in his judgment, may be necelfary for the prottftion of the fron
tiers : Provided, That non-commissioned officers shall not be al
lowed more than one dollar per day, nor the privates more than
feventy-five cents per day, each person finding his horse, arms and
accoutrements, and at his own risque, and twenty-five cents per
day in lieu of rations and forage : Provided he furnifh himfelf
therewith.
And be it further enacted, That the President alone be, and he
hereby is authorized to appoint, for the cavalry so to be engaged,
the proper commiflioned office**, who shall not exceed, in num
ber and rank, the pioportions afligned to the said three regiments,
and whose pay and other allowances shall not, exclusively of fifty
cents Derday risque of their horses, exceed those
of officers of corresponding rank, in the regiments.
And be it furthrr enatted, That the President of the United
States he authorized, iri cafe he shall deem the measure expedient,
to employ such number of the Indians, and for such compensa
tions, as he may think proper: Provided, The said compensa
tions do noc, in the whole, exceed twenty thousand dollars.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prtjident of the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MARCH THE FIFTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
FOR THE GAZETI £ OF THE UNITED STATES.
SONNET,
NATURE, fwcct mistress of the pensive iniod !
As on the sandy shore I muting (land,
And fee around the wonders of thy hand,
I feel each paflion soothed—each sense refin'd.
The icy plains above the whispering tide,
The dreary woods that bound th' cxtenfive view,
The light blue clouds that Sol's pale lustre hide,
Vary thy charms, and every charm renew.
Thee, when young Spring sports on the spangled green;
When Summer bltifhcs in her rosy bowers ;
When welcome Autumn yellow plenty (bowers;
Or Winter storms amid the altered scene ;
Still let me love—still woo thee to my arms,
For Peace and Virtue bless the Heart that Nature charms.
HENRY.
i.!arch 3, 1792
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
THERE lately appeared in one of the newspa
pers of this city, a translation from a French
paper, which quotes the speech of a Mr. lfnard,
one of the National .Assembly. That gentleman
calls priests monlters, cowards, traitors, murder
ers, and many other names of hatred and re
proach. It may be that such names are applica
ble to the priests in France—though it is to be
presumed that such a general charge on a whole
order of men is as falfe as it is illiberal. It may
be too, that such charges against the priests are
favorably received by the public of France.
Without presuming to decide on either of these
opinions, we know that these rude imputations
on the virtue and public spirit of the clergy are
shocking to an American ear : they tend to in
spire youth with irreverence towards an order of
men, whose lives and labors are devoted to the
imprefling an early love of virtue. The mifchief
of such sentiments is not to be questioned. Their
cruelty is abominable. Our clergy are exel jded
either by law or the general opinion from poli
tical concerns.
Men who do not engage in atflive life, because
it is thought inconfillent with the duties of their
calling to do to, may be fcid to live under the
protection of the general opinion, which in some
measure indemnifies the clergy, by the tefpedt
that is deservedly paid them for their exclusion
from gainful and honorary pursuits. The base
and ungenerous only will offer to dilturb this (late
of things. Accordingly it has been for a century
pad a (landing theme of profligate wit to inveigh
against the clergy.
No one will doubt that the world is the better
for the cftndant and zealous efforts of an order
of men who are geuerally poflefled of goodfenfe
and learning, and whose moral; are exemplary.
Their influence over the mind is that of virtue.
They are so many millionaries scattered over the
couutry, and engaged in diffuling the love of vir
tue and learning, and difcouutetianciug vice and
365
mso
[Whole No. 500.J
ignorance. Their zeal for the canfe of the coun
try,during the revolution, was eminent —Inflead
therefore of calling our clergy by the reproach
ful names which M. Ifnnrd has bestowed on ttie
French priells, they justly merit the title oi the
patrons of learning, examples of virtue, and
friends of good order and their country.
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
MR. DUNLAP,
WHISKY* is a champion against: liberty and
for government. 1 am point blank the
other way—l am for liberty,Jaut for liberty where
it ought to be—in the government itfelf. I fay,
fir, 1 am for a free government —one that is free
to do what it pleases. I want no other article.
I am for a simple government, as well as a free
one. For whom, pray, was liberty intended, if
not for the government and thofc in it ! Was ic
for Tom, Dick, and Harry, fellows that would
lay out their money in grog, lather than give
it to their betters of taste to I'pend in Claret and
Conftantia ? Was it for the people in a body i
Such an absurd idea was exploded many years
ago, and would, happily for the quiet of the
world, never have returned, but for the upftarc
people of America, and the mad democrats of
France. Thanks, however, to certain patriotic
writers among us ! things begin to be better un
derstood : Ourrulers are apt scholars—they make
rapid progress in the knowledge of their rights ;
and let me alone for defending them. 1 will
quickly teach the gentry who rail against specu
lation—against the bank—against corruption, &c.
what it is to live in a free country ; —that is, a
country where the government is free. Freedom
would be a poor thing, if thole who enjoy it were
to get nothing by it. Upon this principle, if the
members of the government speculate, they are
right. They have the best opportunity. It they
take fliares in the Bank, and double their money,
1 alk—who so fit to gather the fruit as those who
planted the tree ?—They are not to blame : they
rather deserve praise for allowing so large a share
of the benefit to their friends. As to corruption,
that remains to be proved ; —and if proved, what
then ? The left government in the world is said to
be carried on chiefly in this way. In short, a free
government ought to be free in all reJpeCis, and
particularly, from being censured. This, I will
maintain, against Whisky or any body elle.—
And, I hereby give notice, that I am ready to
blow out the brains of him, or any of his coadju
tors, who shall hereafter dare to speak of any
other liberty, than the libertyof the government
to do what it pleases. GUNPOVVDEIi.
* See Gazette March 7.'
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman rn the country to his Jriend in Phi-
ladelphia.
" T REGRET, with you, that the newspapers fhouM in any irr-
X stance be ihe vehicles of irreligion and profanetitfs. I
have observed, upon several occasions, that some pieccs of very ah
furd nonsense and infidelity have been retailed, thiough thatchau
nel, to i he great injury of those fuperficial readers, who derive the
grcateft part of their knowledge, both in politics and religion, from
this source. It is to be lamented verv much, that any editor of
a periodical paper, should appear intent upon difleminating prin
ciples of infidelity through the United States, and lor this pur
pole, should fluff his papers with such things from time to lime ;
and it is rather surprizing that those itnpoiuion* (hould be copied
into other papers, as if they merited a second publication.
A pafTage in a certain Gazette, of Dec. 8, ult. which I noticed
amongst other ttafh of a similar kind, in the papers which you
sent me, is a gross imposition as to its original, and a giols insult,
not only upon the Eflablifhed Church in Scotland, but also upoa
mofl of the Proteftani Churches, which generally ague in the par
ticular do&rines reprobated so much in that paper. It is pretend
ed, I observe, that the piece alluded to is a translation from French
Letters, dedicated to the National Assembly ; whereas the tadl is,
t'.iat it is taken from a publication Edinburgh, and has been there
solidly refuted, and at greater length than I think it deserves ; the
misrepresentations being very groli, and the affertior.s, a* to iatts,
perfectly falfe, and indeed, m some tilings, diie&ly the reverfc of
what is there fuggefled. It would not be difficult to txpofe such
fcun ility and impudence in its proper deformity : yet I think the
newspaper is not the most propei place for such exnitmions.
Indeed I cannot but wonder at the indifcietion and afcfurdity
of publishing reflections against religion, or particular systems ot
it, iii a newspaper. Such morceaus ol impiety to be pub
liHicd by themselves, and fold as choice communications front
Pandemonium ; and then their merit will be determined by the
public, and they who approve them, will have the pleafureol pc
rufing them, and the benefit of preserving them. But to publiA*
such things in a Gazette, where we are looking for political infor
mation, 1 s cramming impiety down our throats, whether we will
or not. I hope the generality of your editors of newfpapu* wilt
condu& their papers with superior propriety and decorum, and
let any Gazette, rewatkable for the contrary, have ihr single and
undivided honor of being the xepofitory of profanoicfs and irie-
I igi OH,"
A CITIZEN.CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY. February 7.
In committee bf the whole, on the Fijhery Bill.
(Condujion of Mr. Pacj'j Speech.)
THE framers of the conflitution guarded so
much against a possibility of such partial
preferences as might be given if Congress had
the right to grant them, that even to encourage
learning and ufeful arts, the granting of patent;
is the extent of their power : and surely nothing
could be less dangerous to'the sovereignty or in
tereft of the individual dates than the encourage
ment which might be given to ingenious invent
ors or promoter* of valuable inventions in th<
arts and sciences—the encouragement which the
general government might give to the fine arts
to commerce, to manufa<ftures and agriculture
might, if judiciously applied, redound to the ho
nor of Congress, and the splendor, magnificenci
and real advantage of the United States : butthf
wife framers of our constitution saw that if Con
grefs had the power of exerting what has beer
called a royal munificence for these purposes
Congress might, like many royal benefacTtors
misplace their munificence, might elevate fycho
phants, and be inattentive to men unfriendly tc
the views of government ; might reward the in
genuity of the citizens of one ltate,and negle<ft s
much greater genius of another—a citizen of 1
powerful state it might be said, was attended to
■whilst that of one of less weight in the federai
scale was totally neglected. It is not fufficieni
to remove these objections, to fay as some gen
tlemen have fadd, that Congress is incapable ol
partiality or absurdities, and that they areas fai
from committing them as my colleagues or my
f" e lf—l tell them the constitution was formed or
a supposition of human frailty, and to reftrair
abuses of mistaken powers : the constitution has
been said by some one to be like answers of the
oraclesof old, capable of various and opposite con
ftnitftions, that it has been ingeniously contrived
like some of them to suit two events, a republi
can or a monarchical iflue ; I will not pretend
to fjiy that this is not in some instances too just
an obferration, nor will I undertake to deny that
it was not the intention of some of the conven
tion that such ambiguities might be in their con
stitution, to correspond with the critical and am
biguous state of the American mind, refpecfing
, government ; but I will boldly affirm, that what
ever the theories of that day might lead some tc
think, refpedling the application of monarchical
principles to the govern ment of the United States
no one can at this day pretend that they are ap
piicable to their circuinftances, their disposition!
or interests, or even are agreeable to the wifties
of the people. Even before the adoption of the
conflitution when the rights of men had not beer
so thoroughly investigated as they since have
been, it must be remembered, that whole states
and large and refpecftable minorities in other
states, complained of and objected to the arifto
cratical and monarchical features of the new go
vernment. In vain did the friends of the new
government, friends of order, of union, or oi
liberty, contend that the powers granted by the
constitution, which appeared so alarming, were
such as would never be exerted but when all good
men would acknowledge the neceflity ofexercif
ing them, and that indeed they would be explain
ed or restrained by some future amendments
the sagacious and eloquent Henrvfhook his head
at such promises, sighed and submitted to the
will of the majority, a small one indeed, but
sot etoid from his knowledge of the human heart
what would be done and said in just ification of
every measure which might extend the power of
Congress.
Is it politic and wife then, Mr. Chairman to
exert the power contended for, even if it be'au
thorifed by the constitution ? May not the inter
ference of Congress in the bnfinefs of regulation
the trade of the eastern states excite, if not envy
on account of a fnppofed partiality, a jealonfy
Jelt Congress undertake to intermeddle in the
commercial regulations of other states ? Mav not
Congress with equal propriety undertake to re
gulate the tobacco, the rice and indigo trade a<
well as that of the fisheries ? If they intermeddle
in the buunefs of Tailors, why not in that of ma
nufatfturers and farmers ? Where 1 may ask wirh
my colleague may they not go on in their zeal
and J will add, in their laudable pursuit of pro'
.noun- the general welfare ; and how tot'rlh
may they be mistaken ? If jealonfy of rival (tare*.
*nftead of mutual fatisfaction and pleasure—i'
diftrnft and suspicion of Congress, instead of
confidence in their measures, be the consequence,
how will the union be promoted, or the general
government fecnred ? However virtuously dis
posed the present members may be, and I am,
ready to applaud their honed intentions, let them
consider, Sir, that they had better suppress their
patriotic emotions, than give a pretext for their
( ncceffors to abuse the powers which they now
wi(h to exert for the public good : I know they
will quote the opinion of as wife and virtuous a
citizen as is in the United States : I know his pa
triotism, and know well his true republican prin
ciples ; but Sir, with the freedom of a fellow ci
tizen, I take the liberty of faying that his honest
zeal, like that of the friends of The bill, has led
| bim into a mistake.* That able statesman and
virtuous citizen, like the eloquent advocates of
the bill, has considered the aiSs now quoted, as
a full fantftion for the one before the committee :
but I am of opinion that those atfs had better be
repealed, than give a fantfion to the enarting of
a law which goes to the establishing of bounties,
or drawbacks, or by whatever other name they
be called, which may be nfed to the partial en
couragement of any branch of trade or employ,
ment whatsoever. I (hall therefore vote against
the bill before us, and to get rid of it, (hall vote
for striking out of it the lit feclion according to
the motion now before the committee. As a
member of this House I lliall think it my duty to
protedl the fifheries, and every other branch of
our commerce, the fifhermen as well as every o
ther citizen, as far as may be within my ability ;
but I am not permitted, as a member of Congress,
I humbly conceive, to felettthe fifheries and fifh
ermen as objects of more consequence than any
other branches of trade, or persons employed in
them, left Congress fhouid not only shew a mif
raken attachment, or even if judiciously placed,
excite jealousies and discontents between the
states, and diflruft deftrucftive of their weight
and influence. My constant wish has been to "fee
Congress confined to such acfts as would form a
more perfect union, promote the general wel
fare, insure domestic tranquility, and engage the
confidence of our fellow citizens.
My wish is, that the members of Congress
would leave their refpedtive states in the full en
joyment of every right and privilege they held
before their adoption of the new constitution,
which can be exercised without prejudice to the
general government. Let the legislatures of the
different states encourage as far as in their pow
er, the commerce, agriculture or manufactures
of their refpedtive states ; and let Congress, as
far as can be consistent with the most steady im
partiality, patronize their patriotic exertions by
wife regulations of their commerce with foreign
nations, such as may open as full an intercourse
with those nations as the states may desire. The
emulation of the filter states in commerce, ma
nufactures or agriculture, would lead to the ear
ly eftablifhtnent of that branch of either to which
each state might be best adapted : this rival, .ip
could produce no jealousy, no general national
discontent in the states, 110 localities inCongrefs.
Virginia would not attempt to rival Maflachu
ietts in her fifhei ies or carryingbufiuefs, nor will
South Carolina and Georgia rival the manufac
tories of Jersey and Pennsylvania : each state
may rejoice to fee its filter dates enjoyin<r the
advantages with which Heaven has blefled the n :
and Congress, if confined to fubjedts which admit
not of local considerations, may debate with tem
per and decide with unbiafled judgment. I con
fefs I have wished that Congress pofleffbd the
power that the friends of the bill tell us we do
possess, and tell us we have exerted : but on ex
amining the constitution with a view to my wish,
I I found reason to think, not only that Congress
has not that power, but that it ought not to pof
:r > "nlefs the constitution was intended to
eltablifh a consolidated government on the ruin
ol the State legiflaftures : but this I conceive can
not be the cafe, because the constitution guaran
tees to the states their relpedtive republican go
vernments. The general powers ofCongref* no
doubt ought to be (as they are) adequate to the
pnrpofe of forming n moreperfett union than fub
hlled under the confederation, to establish jus
tice, &c. &c. but as they are bound to guarantee
to the states, their refpedtive republican forms
or government, I cannot conceive how any of
tjiele powers can be employed (confiftentl v with
the ends for which they were given) in diminish
ing the power and sovereignty of the state legis
latures. How Congress can interfere in the 're
gulations refpeoting the merchants and their sai
lors at Marblehead. with more propriety than
with thofeat Philadelphia, Norfolk or Charles
ton, I cannot conceive : nor how this interfer
ence could take place without alarming thele
Hates, I know not. Viewing the bill before us
in this light, Mr. Chairman, I fliall vote against
it, and, as I said before, to get rid of it, ffiafi vote
to strike out the firft fedtion according to the
motion now before the committee.
(TO BE COXTIKUIO.)
J BF * r * R,ON « Secretary °f State, in his Report on th
366
SATURDAY, March IO
An engrolTed « bill declaring the consent f
Congress to a certain ad* „f the ft* * > ° f
land, and to continue for a longer rim*
declaring the aflent of Cn« f? t,mc > an act
"f the states of M»r,£„d<£«? " aC "
■ Hand and
111 e tefpeds the flares of Geo: <ri- an rl r! .
Island and Providence was reaJu
htrd tune, pnfled, and fcnt to the Senate 2
their concurrence. lc lor
TheHoufe proceeded to the consideration of
he meflage received from ,| le President of ,h e
United States on Monday last, w i,b the trai.fl,
tion of the letter from the King of France an
nouncing to the United Sca.es his acceptance f
he New Confhtuuon ; whereupon thefoliowJ
lefolution was moved, viz. °
' Relolved, That this House hqth received
I vv.th fennments of high fatisfatfrion, the notifies!
tion of the King of the French, of his acceptance
of the Conftnution preferred to IHm in the rami,
ofthe nation:—and that the President of'the
United States be requested, in his answer to the
find notification, to express thefincere particip*
tion of the House, in the interests of the French
nation, on this great and important event • and
their w.fh, that the wisdom and magnanimity
dilplayed in theformation and acceptance of the
Conftitmion, may be rewarded by the most p tr .
fedt attainment of its obje<fr, the permanent hap,
pinels of so great a people."
A motion made for the comnii ment of this re
solution, pafled in the negative—yeas 17, nays sj.
A debateof considerable length then tookpl»e
on the adoption of the resolution; after which
a division of the question being called for, the
House agreed to the fir It parr, as far as the words
" important event" inclusive—yeas jo, nays 2.
The question was then taken on the remaining
part of the resolution, and also pafled in the af
firmative, as follow :
MefTi'S. Afhe, Baldwin, B. Bourne, Clark, Find
lev, Fitzfimons, Giles, Gilman, Gregg, Hartley,
Heifter, Key, Kitchell, Ki trera, l.ee, Macon, Ma
dison, Mercer, Murray, Niles, Page, Schoonma
ker, Seney, Steele, Sterret, Sturges, Sumprer,
Thatcher, Tread well, Tucker, Venable, Vinine,
Wayne, White, YVilliamfon—? j.
Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, Goodhue,
Gordon, Hill house, Jacobs, Lawrance, Learned,
Livermore, Sedgwick, J. Smith, I. Smith, W.
Smith, Wadfworth, Ward—l 6.
A committee of five members was appointed,
o wait 011 the Prefidentof the United States with
he said resolution.
The foil owing resolution was proposed and
agreed to, viz.
" That in the cafe of the conteftedeleclionon
the petition of James Jackson, complaining of
an undue election and return of Anthony Wayne,
one of the members returned to serve in this
House for the state of Georgia, the fitting mem
ber have leave to be heard by counsel, at the bar
of this House, on Monday next." Adjourned.
MONDAY, March 12
The trial of the contested election for the lower
diftrit't of Georgia, having been poltponed to
this day,
Mr. [ackfon, the petitioner, and Mr. Lewis, as
counsel for the fitting member, appeared in the
House, and had feats afligned them within the
bar.
Mr. Lewis moved that the trial should be fiir-
tlier poltponed, and alfigned as a reafon,thatthe
evidence had not been received for which the late
postponement was granted.
Mr. J.ickfon opposed a further poltponement,
fllledging that fullicient time had elapsed.
After considerable debate, Mr. Lewis's motion
was put and negatived— 19 members only riling
in the affirmative.
The House then attended to theallegations.—
Mr. Jackson stated the evidence refpedting the
Craniadtions at the eledtion in Effingham County*
having proceeded through that part of the bull'
ness, the house adjourned.
TUESDAY, March 13,
A m efface was recciv ed from the Senate by Mr. Secretary O-'S
w;t!i the Rc-prcfentation bill—parted the Senate with the amcß
'ems. t , . ;
The Honfe proceeded in the trial of the • i
le lower di(ti ;£l o. 1 Georgia. .
Mr. Tjckfon continued the detail of his evidence— ' n f p" IUV
a ftatsment of the tranfflttioiis at the elefctinn in Camden
&c. conlidcrahlc debate took place among trie rnemntis r
the admiflibilitv of several articles ot evidence ot.ere .
petitioner—fume of wMch weie admitted, ol ' ,ei s 111)13 ij ci .
Mr. i >ckf n concluded his allegations an<t comments, v.- • •
ing as evidence the impeachment oi Judge Olbor' ,'' -nnfel.
Senate of Georgia ; this was objected to by Mr. VI aync s
and a debate efifuing among the members, an a j.>uru.ne
place without a decifiou.
ff-r In «h- Av-, ana N«« on pafiing -he MiH«i«.
Gop, iv>n's n.jim- ilioiild liavc sppcareo » mon *j "; e _)rfr.
Mr. SruKf.Es' .I.mc w..» oroiiud m the lift 0 L" en _|,,i
B»i"n i.. Ebr H.n,fe <*\><» u* qucO.on «»«•*« ,
... , , tt i>ear<rd.~Sce tltcW<"*•" i
AYES
NOES,FOR THE GAZMTJi OF THE UNITED A TATtS.
A WORD TO THE WISE
THE Legislatures of Tome of the States claim
a right toinftrurt their Senators in Congress.
But have thev well considered whether this claim
is warranted by the Conltitution, or compatible
■with the duty which their Senators owe to the
Union ? And if it is not, whether it is conli(lent
■with the public good, or their own dignitv, to
attempt to exercise it ?
The Constitution authorizes the State Legisla
tures to choole Senators forCongrefs—& this they
ought seasonably to do—but it gives them no au
thority to inftrurt them after they are chosen ;
and the nature of their trust feenis to forbid it:—
for it is their duty, on mature deliberation and
confutation, when afl'embled, to art what they
111 all judge 111 oft for the good of the United States
in general ; and their deliberations ought to be
free and unbiased. By the Constitution, each
House has authority to determine the rules of its
own proceedings; but they are required to pub
]i(h their journals, except such parts as in their
opinion require fecrefv, and this their conftitn
enrs have a right to expert ; —but whether their
debates (hall be public or private, is a matter of
expediency, of which they alone are the proper
j llcl g es - A CITIZEN.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
"P HE . ,etrer " wnter in y° ur appears to
4 think that the portage on newspapers will
r'-ij-'--- lie circulation of those important vehicles
■ > laiion. That the portage proposed is too
ii . h, <■( mains to be proved—if it should have the
si r ,• ehended by this writer, it certainlyis;
but e eii with this charge, I conceive that the
probability is, that the circulation will be en
creafed—and surely thereby the business is put
on a better footing than it ever has been hereto
fore. The exchange papers of the printers are
to go free in the mail, and the printers may make
their contracts as usual—while by the law they
acquire bright to transmit them by the mail to
their fubl'cribers, they paying the portage, which
it is probable the subscribers will da with chear
fulnefs, if they can by that means receive their
papers with certainty and punctuality.—On the
present precarious footing of the business, it is
demonstrable that the circulation of newspapers
would very soon come to an end.—There is now
a bill before Congress for reducing the rate of
portage on newspapers—and nothing ftiort of a
convitfion that the reduction will defeat the ob
jetl which every member appears to have at
heart, viz. a rteady and puntfiual tranfmiflion and
reception of the papers, will prevent the dimi
nution. The poilnge rauli be adequate to de
fraying the expence—any thing ftiort of that,
will disappoint the public expectation. '
LONDON
cause of truth and justice would be great
ly promoted were a hill to be pafled to pre
sent the rudeness and insolence with which many
barristers treat not only the witnefles but the
person against wliom they may be employed to
plead. How much would that judge deierve the
thanks of his country who Ihould attempt to re
pel such attacks upon diffidence and private cha
racter ?
On the trial of Borrett for counterfeiting the
stamp of the Goldsmith's Company, a ciicum
ftante happened which is worthy notice. Before
the jury were charged, his attorney conferred
with him for some time at the bar, and on his
return it appeared that the wife of Mr. Borrett
had the preceding evening been delivered of
twins.
Mr. Attorney General, who attended to con
du<fi the prosecution, upon being informed of
this fart, immediately addrefled himfelf to the
court, and with generous humanity as great, as
noble, as exalted as everglowed within the brea(t
of man, consented not only that the trial ihould
be deferred tUJ the next session, but that if the
prisoner could find such bail as the court should
be pleased to direift, he was willing that he should
be discharged, in order that he might go home
and afford'comfort to his wife.
Four gentlemen of fortune who were in court,
to whom the prisoner was known, iminediarely
offerer! to become his bail, and on their enterino
iiito a recognizance for his appearance, he vvaf
discharged.
\\ oids would he vainly used in attempting* to
describe the »xq- ifire sensibility with which this
unparalleled liberality of Mr. Attorney General
seemed to touch every heart.
A new inftitotion among the Jews, on theplan
®f out Sunday schools, promiles much utility to
the lower clafles of that people ; as teaching on
their own sabbath is forbid, a certain number of
the male sex are to be inftru<fted gratis in Englifli
reading, writing and arithmetic, on a Sunday,
and a certain number to be apprenticed to trades.
/Vw e / P, i l r , V'-' emS f ° be the P nn 'liment for
, raurlukvt bankrupts in Scotland - were that the
' " f ' r . Wo " ld , be "eceflary to build a fcaffold
■ f , e (treecs, that gentlemen of that descrip
tion might not have far to go.
The rights of women are every day more and
rno.e invaded. A man who was acquitted at the
Old Bailey on Monday, was led out of the court
in violent kyjterics /
HA L I F A X, January' 10.
3n Sunday Jaflr failed, with a favorable wind,
» e Sterra Leon a fleet, consisting of fifteen fail,
Rot' \ the chnrgeof Lieut. John Clarkfon, of the
•Loyal Navy hav.ng on board 1,200 free blacks,
iat have chosen to emigrate from this country
° (he hope of its being more conge
nial to their habits and constitutions, under the
IwTL "° f the Co,n P an y> ] ately incorporated
y Charter in Great-Britain, for the eltablifhment
of a free Colony there.
_ A NEW-YORK, March 9.
J he ttockholdeis of the Bank of Albany, have
p, e .p rr e fo'l owing gen tie 111 en as Directors , viz.
I nilip Schuyler, Abraham Ten Broeck, Stephen
Van Renflelaer, Goldfbrow Banyer, Jeremiah
t u" ' Cornelius Glen, Daniel Hale,
Jo n Maley, James Caldwell, John Stevenson,
Stephen Lnfh, Albert Pawling, and John Sanders.
c « hC 28th m ■ the House of Reprefentativts
of Mafiachufetts proceeded to the consideration
• / fi re P° rt tlle j°' nt committee on the fub
'ildi,,ga bric 'g e vver Charles-River, from
fiii- t0 Ca,,,brid ge—;and, after a free and
rull difcuflion, the question 011 the expediency of
the mealure was determined in the affirmative.
A bill was accordingly brought in.
PROVIDENCE, March i.
The Hon. Genera] Aflembly of this state are
now in feffion.—lt is probable, that at this fefli
on, the following question will be agitated :
" Whether the Legi/lature will recommend to
the people of this State, the appointment of
members to form a Convention for the purpose
of forming a Conltitmion for this Hate ?"
BALTIMORE, March 8.
Tle following Gentlemen were yesterday, defied Direa o rs for
.he Bank of Maryland.
William Patterlon
James Carey
Archibald Moncrirff
Simuel Smiih
Jeremiah Yellott
Robert Oliver,
Philadelphia, March 14.
Ry London papers as lale as the 10th of January, we learn
That all the German princes are declared enemies to France, who
lhould after the 15th of January countenance the aflembing and
arming of the French emigrants. An oath was preparing at Cob-
It ntz, to be taken by all the French emigrants, the substance of
which was, fidelity to the princes, and " an entire devotion to their
orders, for the glory and interest of France."—Great preparations
lor war were making throughout Francp.
The magistracy of Worms had written refpeftfully to the King
of France, that they had ever confidercd the reception of the emi
grants among them only as an ast of common hospitality but
! left his Majesty lhould take it in ill part, they had given orders'
to the Prince of Conde to quit Worms with all his retinue of dif
affected adherents. The Prince Biftiop of Liege is amongst the
most strenuous supporters of the Ex-Princes, supplying them with
every necessary foi war, and promising still more. The govern
ment of the Liegiois had forbid the sale of Montesquieu's Spirit of
laws, and Voltaire's questions on the Encyclopedia—Alltheemi- I
grants in that State were ordered to be equipped by the loih of
January. His Holiness the Pope has been very ill of an apoplec
tic fit, but was recovering—On the 26th of December, a letter
was received at Coblentz from the Emperor to the French Princes
" he allured them of his most ample assistance—and that he had'
given orders to Gen. Bender to line the frontier" ; the authenti
city of the letter was however fufpefted.
A drift look-out was kept in the channel for the (Britifhl Swal
low packet, from India, which il was supposed would bring the
moll important accounts ever received from that country ; it be
ing expe&ed in England the preferit campaign would determine
the fate ol Seringapatam and the Mysore country, Lord Cornwal
l's army, and the whole ol the Englilh tertitoty on Coromandel
coalt The French emigrants at Coblenn weie • preparing to re
t ire toHanau and the Maigi aviate of Anfpach but that the emperor's
notification totheeleftor, " That he co.ifidered even the threat
of invading that ele&orate as an hoftiliiy on the part of the French "
had lufpended I heir resolution. *
A. Z
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
That the circumstances of the United States have been amelio
rated by the operation of the general government, is so abun
dantly evident, that it mud be pcrfeftly astonishing to those who"
compare the past with the present fnuation of our country to hear
any complaints of its admir.iftrafion ; fads are continually occur
ing in relpeft to particular States to prove the truth of the above
remark, and with refpett to the union there is a perfe£l renova
tion. The State ol Maflachufetts from being grievoudy oppressed
with taxes, is now so relieved from public burthens as to fupercede
for the current year, any imposition whatever: before the late
war, the finances of that State were in so eligible a si. nation, that
the government commanded the money of its citizens at a much
lower, than the the legal and current rate of intercil ; from pre
<ctu appearances it is very probable that their public credit will
very shortly be equally favorably circumstanced. The fituaiion
ot other States admits of similar observations.
Can it be poilibiy conceived then that a government which in
its operations has produced such effects fliould be unpopular ? All
our fenus contradict the fuppofitiori— and he that hath eves to
ec, ears to hear, an heaitto feel, and an head to undei stand, hath
all tnefe teftifying continually in favor of the general government
May the State governments be for ever dear to the people • bnt
may they n; ver be gu.ilty of such ingratitude to heaven, as to de
ny the merits of the general government.
367
Robert Gilmor
Charles Garis
Alexander M'Kinn
Richard Cayton
John Holl ins
John O'Donnell.
to ree "" ,ohe fnatc!ic '' -p"»
knock an adverfarv down. So much is said about. 11 L,
would naturally ruppofe that a good deal is done Yet do we
fee that our declatmers with to make tife of the word beyond the
people °thr they come forward and honelHy lay to the
on H ■ h , R l! Cat is th « difference ot eduoti
and if Lf k "? 5 m " Ch 'hose who know ltttle j
and Who know much j- c few, and those *[,0 know little
Romany an anftocracv exilh, which nothing but theTeS
difrnfion of knowledge can remedy.
th r fe mcn prOVe lheir re P u blicanism bv palling law,
to efl.bl.fh .free schools. Let the eduction ot children bCtrtH
common charge. It a man has property and no children, 11,11 he
The more k \°l°'"t °' mU mcn ' s children.
Ihe more knowledge the fater his property. It i> a better p, O .
lecrion than armies-
• r"7f V , C th,S work ,s be e<">. is time loft. It i, „| ant
ing feed which will cqntmue to oear lor ages. All other fecur,
ties of liberty without this are trifling. Let every fiate then di
vide its territory into proper diflnfls, and eftablilh at lead one
school in each Make a beginning, and afterwards carry on the
good work as fact and as tar as polfible. Let the diftnft'b- made
liable toafTeffment for neglect, and let it be made the duty of eve
ry gtand juror, on his oath, to present the breaches of the law"
In this wealthy ano flourifhing city, the experiment could not
tail ; and a beginning made here, would Ihew what might be
one elsewhere. The Philolophers, the Patriots, the friends of
Liberty ought to rouse, and make a common cause against ,„no
be n m,d K V 'l CC ' 'r" eve, y P art of un,ted America provif.on shall
be made by law for educating the children at the common charge
Every good man rejoices in the progress of light and liberty—
ome preach up liberty for the fake of popularity, others preach
in the love of it— whatever the motives may be, dill there is
season to rejoice—for genuine liberty, whatever the medium is
an acquilition to the world. '
The Prcfident of the United States, by a„d with the advice and
cers of the t enatc ' appointed the following gentlemen Offi
ce.s of the t we've companies of Rhle-mek, to beraifod a»reea-
We to an Ast passed the s th inft. for the more effcaual Defence of
PENNSYLVANIA.
Ed ward Butler, of Allegany Win. Faulkner, Walhin»toi.
John Guthrie, WeOmoreland Uriah Springer, Fayette"
Richard Sparks, Allegany J oh „ Cook, Northumberland
....... „ . lieutenants.
VIII i am Smith, Washington Nathaniel Hufton, Wafliineton
John Cumm,ng s ,Weftmoreland Willi.™ Steedman, North" mb
Samuel Vance, Fayette Dan,el T. jennUer/ Allegany
Musk" M '^ m Steele, Cumberland
Rnb,f T ' ?, ai: P i David H- 11 . Wellinoreland
Robert Lee, Northumberland Keafon Beall, Walhington
Benjamin Bigqs. of Ohio
John Crawford, Ohio
Thomas Lewis, Botetourt
James Glenn, Berkeley
Robert Craig, Rutfel '
Wm. Clark, Louisville, Kent.
Patrick Shirkcy, Botetourt
Archibald Gray, Grecnbriar
Stephen Trigg, Keutuckey
1 he late moderate weather having lendered the Delaware atraiit
navigable, a ftiongwefte.lv wind on Sunday last brought into
his port the (e,eral vessels wlucl. had been detained at Marcus
Hook, by the ice.
pn Thursday even.ngiaft, Mr. Thomas Akthovy,
this city daughter ot Mr. John Stille, of
From PELOSI's MARINE LIST.
ARRIVALS at tht PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
.hip Peggy, Flemminfc, Cadi*
_ cres ' , Marsh, Liverpool,
Conception, Stevens, Cadiz
Delaware, Art, Charleston
. J a " us ' Moulton, Newburyporc
Brig Sally, Willi., Qiadaloupc
Hetty, Davls> Cape-Francoi.
Georg.a Packet, Burrows, Savannah
Charleflon, German, Chatlefton
Janus, Rowe, Capc-Francoi»
°"V* . Edgar, do.
F '« i. -f'PP". Bo (lon
fair Hebe, Feinour, Cadiz
mTu"' Hawkins, St. Croix
Norfolk, Shane, Norfolk
Sch. Commerce, Foulk, Aux-Cayc«
Delaware, Knox, Sl . Croix
y Jn.- Veneman, St. Thomas
Friendflup, Welsh, CharU-fton
Sloop Union, Watson, New-York
Two Sifters, Forte, Virginia.
Adventure, B.ihop, Sinipuxent
Illinois, Story, Cape-Francois
Newbern Packet, R.dgeway, Turks-Island
Sa,l y- £ves, St. Kilts
Brig Swallow, Cheefeman, from Boston, is alhore at Nieman's
Creek.
Schooner Two Sifters, Lownfbury, is afliore on Tinicum
A (hip on shore near Egg-Harbour.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 22f pr. J.
3 pr. Cents " jg
Defered 6 pr. Cents 13J6
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 20/6 102* do.
Indents ,gy , g * j 0 "
Half (bares Bank Stock—77 per cent, premium.
| THE Editor of the Gazette of the United Statu, most
earnejlly requefls that those of his fubferibers, whose arrearages have,
ken accumulating for more than twelve months, would make payment as
fotm as possible at farthefl, bef ore thefrfl day of June next.
Those per/or, s who/hall be'dfpofed topatronize this Gazette after
the Pofl. Office Liwfhallgo into operation, willpleafe toJignify their
intent,on to the Deputy Polt-MafWs in the United States, who are
requefled to forwardJuchfubfcription's as may be received, to the Editor,
previous to the faidfirfl of June. The terms of fubfeription tre
Three Dollars per annum, exduftve of poflage—One ha! Fto be paid at'
the time offubferibing, the it her half to be advanced at tit erpirttitn tf
the frjl fx months.
VI R GJ NI A.
C APT AI NS.
William Lewis, Wythe
Hugh Caperton, Greenbriar
James Stevenson, Berkeley
LIEUTENANTS.
I John Boyer, Boretourt
Benjamin Lockwood, Ohio
Benjamin Stiother, Culpepper
"• N S.
ENSI
James Hawkins, Botetourt
Baker Davidfon, Bath •
Hugh Brady, Ohio
SHIP NEWS,
tio pr. cent,
66 do.
67J do.FOR. SALE,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in Nc. w-Jei icy, occupied for many years past by
the fubferiber; containing upwards ot 200 acres ot land, beside.v
a of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main ftrect leading from
Trenton to Lamberion, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
ctf in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the said ftrect on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a fqua»e; which, from the combined effect of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the moil
beautiful and defuable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-fiuifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick,
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing v:ew of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the lalls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-buildings are 3 new stone
coaeh-houfe and stables, fuflkientto contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-house, upwards of 100 feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collc&ion ot the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
spring-house, garden, Sec. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ceflary out-building. The ground is properly divided into small
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chicflvunder the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twentv to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or-
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fi(h usually found in lrefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both of which
may afford a pleafmg amusement to the fpfcrtfman, as weil as a
convenient additioft to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar ports,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded for many
) ears.
Any pei ton desirous of viewing the piemifis, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the iarm-houle and
part of the land—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, a? No. 213, South Second-street, oppofue to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
Philadelphia, March 7, 1792.
S A
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Townfhipof Benfelein, inthe County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, pursuant to the Dire<flions
of his lad Will and Testament.
OV Tuefdav the 27th of March next will be Ixpofed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, (ltuate on the rivet Delaware ; on
which is erected a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza 111 the front, two kitchens, a good barn, (tables, hay-house,
and other convenient outhouses. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted truit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a shad and herring fiftiery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufßciency of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the grcateft part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, {tables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a (had and herring ftfhery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern ; and the fen y belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpt&s on the
river, and are remarkably healthy.
Ohe other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, situ
ate in the townlhip of Southampton, in the tounty aforefaid ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fuffieiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. containing four acres, fituale on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and work-shop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door : now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
(cptlTl27)
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
the couoty of Gloucester, fuppofcd to contain five hundred
and forty acres of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fituatc on a
branch of Little Egg-Harbour River, in the township ol Galloway.
There is on laid ptcmifcs a frame house and kitchen, a fmal] hay
house and liable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar swamp, chief,
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (inteifperfed
with frefh water (lowing dreams) lufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The fmiation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for raiftng (lock.—Any peifon inclining to purchase laid Planta
tion, may have pofleflion from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the subscriber, living at
Qmnton's Bridge, in the county of Salem; or a further defcrip.
son may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joleph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonfteld ; or of
James Scull, adjoining said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleasant healtljv country, within two miles of three grift and
saw-mills : And three hotifes appropriated to divine wor'hip, are
about the fame dillance. Tcrmssof payment made cafy, bv
Quinton's Bridge, Salem County,
2d mo. 13 thy 1791.
*•* Fropofals are publi Hied by McOis. Col li e r & Bun,
Pnn ers, in Litchfield, for printing bv fubfeription, a Collt-aion
»)f A:ie«kan Poems—hart having tern publijhcd, and part otin
tu>-to contain not less than 300 pages—printed on fine paper
wilh 1 newtvpe—Price One Dollar.
Subscription* rcccivrd by the Editor hereof.
L E S
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, £ Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZET, \
ANDREW MILLER
CONTRACTS.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Marek 6, i 792.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals will be received at
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, until £ o'clock
in the afternoon of Wednefdav the 21ft day of March inllant. for
the supply of the following aiticlcs of Clothing for the Troops
in the service of the United Stales, viz.
For the Infantry a/id Aktiliery.
4,608 hats 18,460 (hiris
4,608 coats pairs of socks
4.608 veils 4.608 blankets
8,668 woolen overalls 4.608 flocks
9,216 linen ditto 4,608 stock clasps
18,376 paiis of {hoes 4,608 pairs of buckles.
for the Cavalry.
320 caps 640 do. of stockings
320 coats 1,280 (hirts
320 vests 320 blankets
320 pairs leather breeches 320 stocks
640 do. of boots 320 stock clasps.
320 do. of spurs
Also, 1,200 rifle (hirts, to be made of Ruflia Pneeting.
Of the above clothing, five hundred suits are to be delivered on
the 15th day of April next; one \houfand suits on the 15th day
of May next; one thousand five hundred suits on the 15th day of
June next; and the remainder on the 15th day of July next.—
The place of delivery may be either at New-York, Philadelphia
or Baltimore, at the option of the contra&or or contra&ors.
Proposals will be received for the whole of the above mentioned
clothing, or for any one component article separately; to be fur
nifhrd agreeably to patterns or specimens, which may be fcen at
the War Office.
Good security for the pun&ual and faithful performance of the
contrail will re required. The payments will be on the delivery
of the clothing; or, if neceflary, such reasonable advances will be
made as may be desired.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Englifb workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa£lured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles ai
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to either of the
above Fa6tories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
Ihorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire ofMeflrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Phi/adelflhia, December 3, 1791. tf
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be teceived until the ninth da\
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about sixteen miles; the country through which it will pass, is
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Caoal is to be thirt\-two feet in width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three feet water.
Good fecmitv will be required of contractors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, mull produce
certificates (from chara&ers of refpeftability) of their qualifications
*for a business of this kind.
Norfolk♦ January 21, 1702
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Pub li c Ven due, on Wedmfday
thr nth day of April next,
' I 'HE SEAT of the late Docftor Lewis JohnJlon,
deceased, in Perth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near » mite on the river
Raman, where it empties into the bay about 18 miles trom Sandy-
Hook, and affords two most agreeable fitualions for Gentlemens'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good colle&ion of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from its situ
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oysters and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the fljts before the doors. It is a
(delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments; and as Perth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the profpeft ot its
increa!ing in value from that circumstance, is by no means incon
ftderable.
There will alio be lold, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the oppofne fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved by a farm on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred ond
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and verv convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets fire-wood, timber for ship build
ing, and other ufrs, the transportation by water being eafv and
The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
and the requisite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and > _ „ , .. ,
BOWES REED, $ Trustees to the said Estate.
LHewifc to be SOLD, at the Jame time and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of East New-Jersey, wheie >n the pro
prietary house latelv stood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the watsrs of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where thev disembogue into the sea to the East—and
a molt delightfnl one of the Terpentine courfeof the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a lich trail of meadow to the Weft'
The great quantity of (lone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the houle lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large .lone cistern, and well of excellent waier
with a very convenient (table and cnach-houfe, will greatly ieffen
theexpenceof putting the place in oidcr for the reftdence of a
Gentleman.—There are lew situations so eligible, particularly in
the summer season—when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
ligations, render them places of pleafiog retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and neighbourinirciiies
Perth-Ambot, Feb. 15, 179 a. fcp6 -
f ro^w"]
UUnk Powers to receive M<lntcrHt,Wjt, t/<t>a»,hr 0/ th>
principal of public debt, agreeaHe to the Rules ejlabi-fr.r.i i» i-c 7V-.?.
l * r yJ]'* artm " lt: blanksf grabjlrdfts ofter/i/icales, toieft'eh
lot titter. J
368
By order of the President and Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
*• ( c pt9 A )
FMPERIAL HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
teas,
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, & SPICES,&c.&c.
Of the firft quality—by retail
No. , 9(
TMrd-Sfreet,bet wren Chefnut and Markrt«treen
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on GOMMISSIO N bv
SAMUEL ANDERSON,''
Chefnijt-Street, next door to the Bank, No. q-.
John Pintard,
SWORN-BROKER & AUCTIONEER
PURCHASES and SELLS '
PUBLIC DEBT of every deCcri\>iian,onCommffion,
at the following rates:
the specie amount of all sales at audion, ove eighth pci
On ditto at private fate or purchase, ent-hd] per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving iniereft at the Loan-Office, vrte percent, on the
amount of the interest.
For making transfers at ditto,J'eventy.Jivc ccvtj per transfer.
Such persons as may incline to favor the fubfehber with
their orders, may relv on their being executed with
fidelity and difpntch. His long experience and exttnfive dealing.'
in the public (locks, together with a well eftablifhcd correfpon.
dence throughout the Untied States, enable him to conduct hij
operations with peculiar benefit to his employers
JOHN' PIN'TARD,
New-York, No. 57, Krng.Str,/t,
Oflt T *cr 15, 1791
Militia Fines.
THE Collectors of Militia Fines in the City and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and the riiftrifh of Movamenfingand Paflyunk,
are hereby required to colle& and pay into the County Treasury,
a 1! arrearages of fines, and to fettle and deposit their books and
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-street, on or before the
fit ft day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, That im
mediately from the said firft day of April; all Collegers who
shaH fail in complying with this requisition, will be proceeded
against according to law.
Phitad. Feb. 25, *.792
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL thelanded estate of GEORGE WARNER,^eceafed,eon
fitting of a valuable Plantation and tract of Timber Land,
supposed to contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of which is plow-land and of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a dwelling-house and kitchen, a eooper's (hop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a pood apple orchard.
The house (lands close on a good landing belonging to the said
premises ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile of said landing, and an equal distance from a few-mill
and grift.mill and also of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any person that is disposed to view or purchase the said pre
mises, may fee the place and know the terms, by applying to
the fubferibers near the farhe.
MARK MILLER and ) r
ANDREW MILLER, J ExCtUtorS '
Sa!cm County * id, mo. 1792.
N. B. There islikewife a lot of Meadow ground of about 45
acres, adjoining lands of Abbott Sayres, and others, the properly
of said deceased, to be fold in manner as above, by the (aid exe
cutors. [ C P4 W J
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Epifeopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Leg'fiature of the Slate of New-Jcrfey,
passed November 1791
SC H E
Prize of
t I
t
2
5
10
3°
90
>675
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 DoWs.
$3" This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blank*
to one Prise, and fubjeft to a dedu&ion of twtlve and an half ps
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than anv Lotteiy y ct
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the molt
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in Apn,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of ewr "
Biunfwick, under the infpeftion of Col. John Bayard, Prendcnt
of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ot Am
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manulat ui
ing Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly
pointed Managers, are under oath, and given security foi t> c
faithful performance of their duty. ,
A lift of the fortunat£ numbers will be published, an t
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER. )
PETER kEENON, J Manager!.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, ) ,
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix mon
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a gencro
donation to the Church,
New-Brunfwick, "January «>o, 1792
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR, ? < c
A TABLE tor receiving and paving Gold at the Bank 0
United Slates, (hewing the Value of Gold in D° ars
Cents, from One to a Thousand Pennyweight?— according
Ast of Congrefa, ascertaining the Standard and Value or *o *
53" The JOURS'AL of the THIRD SXSSIONtf tie SEIM
0/ the UNITED STATES, mat be hadof tie litter hereof.
Publilhed, end to be fold bv the Editor, price ith of a
TWENTY-SIX LETTERS
On the most imDortsnt Subje&s,
Refpe&ing the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
Written : n Holland in the year 1780.
Br the V\ c e-Pr esid f.nt of the United States.
|C 7» T u ' price or tk/' - per is 5 DoHtr! per an*- j
halt Üb: : ,:i Subscribing. S
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of rTie City and Liberties.
M E.
Dollars is 300*
200©
100©
100«
1000
100#
1500
1800
6700
icoo
s°°
20©
100
5®
20
4
16000
[ep 3<"]