&tiz&u of§
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 115, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS or the UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia, in the State of Penn»
fylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of October, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT concerning the Duties on Spirits
distilled within the United States.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America, in Cnngrefs assembled, That
from and after the lad day of June next, the present duties upon
spirits distilled within the United States, and on (tills shall cease,
and that in lieu thereof, upon all spirits which after the said day
shall be distilled within the United States wholly or in part from
molaflfes, sugar or other foreign materials, there lhall be paid the
duties following, that is to fay :
For every gallon of those spirits of the firft class of proof, ten
«ents ; —for every gallon of those spirits of the second class of
proof, eleven cents ; —for every gallon of those spirits of the third
class of proof, twelve cents ; —for every gallon of those spirits of
the fourth class of proof, fourteen cents; —for every gallon of
those spirits of the fifth class of proof, eighteen cents ; —for eve
ry gallon of those spirits of the sixth class of proof, twenty-five
cents.—And upon all spirits which after the said day fhal] be dis
tilled within the United States from materials of the growth or
produce of the United States, in any city, town or village, at any
distillery at which there shall be one or more stills which singly
or together shall be of the capacity of four hundred gallons or up
wards, theie shall be paid the duties following, that is to fay :
For every gallon of those spirits of the firft class of proof, /even
tents; —for every gallon of those spirits of the second class of
proof, eight cents ; —for every gallon of those spirits of the third
class of proof, nine cents; — for every gallon of those spirits of the
fourth class of proof, eleven cents ; —for every gallon of those spi
rits of the fifth class of proof, thirteen cents tor every gallon
of those spirits of the sixth class of proof, eighteen cents.—And
upon stills which after the said day shall be employed in dialling
spirits from materials of the growth or produce of the' United
States, at any other place that a city, town or village, or at any
distillery in a city, town or village at which there shall be one or
more stills which singly if only one, or together if more than one
shall be of less capacity than tour hundred gallons, there shall
be paid the yearly duty of fifty-four cents for every gallon En
glish wine mejfure of the capacity or content of each and everv
such ftiil including the head thereof : —Provided, That it shall be
at the option of the proprietor or poffcfTor of any such still, in
stead of the said yearly duty, either to pay seven cents for every
gallon of fpints by him or her distilled, or to pay at the rate of
«en cents per gallon of the capacity tor each and every month of
the employment of any such still ; and in cafe the said proprietor
or poflcfl" <r shall elett to pay either the laid rate of seven cenrs pr.
gallon, of the spirits by him or her distilled, or the said monthly
rate of ten cents, according to the capacity of his or her still or
stills, he or she at the time of making entry of his or her still or stills
»n manner herein after directed, shall by writing under his or
her hand, left at the office of infpe£tion where such entry shall be
made, notify the said election, and if the fame shall be to pay the
said monthly rate of ten cents, shall demand a license lor the
term of time, fpecifying the day of commencing and the day of
ending, during which he or she shall intend to woik his or her
still or stills, which liccnfe shall without delay or expenle to the
said proprietor or pofltffor be granted, and shall be signed by the
fuperviforsof the revenue and countersigned by the officer atwhofe
office application for the fame shall have been made. And in
cafe of an eleflion to pay the said monthly rate of ten cents, it shall
not be lawful for any person by whom the fame shall have been
made, to work his or her still or stills, at any time, within the
year from the date of his or her entry thereof, other than that foi
which a license (hall have been granted, unless he or she shall have
previously obtained another license for such further time, which
upon like application lhall, and may be granted, in like manner,
and if any such person lhall work his or her still or stills, contra
ry to the dircftion or provision aforefaid, he or she shall forfeit
and pay for every such offence, two hundred dollars. And in
every cafe in which any proprietor or pofleffor of a still or stills
fubjeft to the payment ot duty according to the capacity of such
ftili or stills, shall not make elc &ion to pay according to one or
the other alternatives aforefaid ; or shall not duly comply theic
with, he or she shall be liable to pay, and shall pay the said yearly
late of fifty-four cents for every gallon of the capacity or capacities
ot his or her still or stills.
And be it further enabled, That there be in each county com
prehended within any diftri#, at least one office of infpe&ion,
at which cveiy person having or keeping a still or stills within
such county, shall between the last day of May, and the firft day
of July in each year, make entry ot such lhll or stills ; and at
which every peifon, who being a resident within the county shall
procure a still or stills, or who removing within a county, shall
bring therein a still or stills, shall within thiity days after such
procuring or removal, and before he or she lhall begin to use
such still or stills, make entry thereof. And every entry besides
describing each ilill and the capacity thereof, shall fpecity thf
place where, and the person in whose pofTiffion it is,and the pui
pofe for which it is intended, as whether for sale or use in dis
tilling ; and in the cafe of removal, shall fpecify the place from
which every luch still shall have been brought.
And be it lurther enathd, That every proprietor aqd pofleffot
«f a still shall be jointly and ftverally liable for the duly there
upon ; and that every owner of land, upon which any still
shall be woikcd, shall be liable for the duty thereupon, un
less the fame shall be worked by a lawful and bona fide
tenant ot the land of an eflate, not less than for the term of one
year, or unless such owner can make it appear, that the pofTeffor
of, or person by whom such still shall have been worked, was du
ring the whole time of working the fame, a trefpafler or intruder
«n his land.
And be tt further ena&ed, That every officcr of infpettion with
Saturday, May 26, 1792.
in whose survey any distillery of geneva or sweet cordials, fubjeft
to the pavmrnt of duty by the gallon of the spirits distilled theie
on may be, shall forbear to visit or infpeft for a space not exceed
ing two hours in each day, such part of the said distillery as he
may be required by the proprietor, pofleflor or manager of such
distillery to forbear to visit and infpeft, for which purpose it shall
be nrceflary for the said proprietor, pofleflor or manager, to give
notice in writing to the said officer, describing therein particular
ly the part of such distillery, which it shall be his desire that the
said officer may forbear to visit and infpeft, and fpecifving the
time of each day for which such forbearance shall be desired.
And be it further cnafted, That it (hall be in the discretion of
the Secretary of the Treasury to regulate well the mark? to be
set upon thfe caflcs, veflels and packages containing distilled spirits,
as the forms of the certificates which are to accompany the fame,
and that when any cask or vefTel in which distilled spirits have
been contained, shall have been emptied of its contents, it shall
be lawful for the marks thereupon to be effaced by, or in the pre
sence of an officer of infpeftion ; and if the laid cask or vefTel shall
afterwards be used for putting therein other spirits, the fame may
be marked anew.
And be it further enafled, That instead of a notice of twenty
four hours heretofore required to be given of the intent to export
distilled lpirits in order to the benefit of the drawback of the du
ties thereupon, fix hours shall be fufficient.
And be it further ena&ed, That there be an abatement for leak
age, at the rate of two per cent, in every cafe in which the duty
shall be payable by the gallon of the spirits distilled, to be allow
ed at the distillery where such spirits shall be made.
And be it further ena£ted, That the officer of infpeflion within
whose survey any flill shall He, the duty whereupon is payable ac
cording to the capacity of the still, shall indentify by progressive
numbers and other proper marks, every such still within his sur
vey, and the duty thereupon shall operate as a fpecific lien upon
the said still.
And be it further ena£led, That every distiller of, and dealer in
spirits, who may have iri his or her poffeflion, distilled spirits not
marked or certified, pursuant to the ast, intituled, " An a£l re
pealing after the last day of June next, the duties heretofore laid
upon distilled spirits imported from abroad, and laying others in
their stead, and also upon spirits distilled within the United States,
and for appropriating the lame," shall prior to the last day of
September next, leport the spirits in his or her poflcffion, in
writing, at some office of infpe£lion, to the end that such spirits
tnay be marked and certified as okl stock. And that from and
after the last day of September next, casks and vefTels of the capa
city of twenty gallons and upwards, containing distilled spirits,
which lhall be found in the poflefliori of any distiller or dealer in
spirits, except at a distillery where the fame were made, or in go
ing from one place to another, without being marked according
to law, or without having a certificate from some proper officer,
shall be liable to seizure and forfeiture; and that it ihall be the
duty of the several officers of mfpeftion, upon requeil of any
dealer or distiller, to take measures for the marking of casks, ves
sels and packages containing distilled spirits, and to furnifh such
dealer or distiller, free from expense, with certificates to accom
pany the fame : Provided, That it shall not be incumbent upon
any such officer to mark or certify any cask, vefTel or package,
which ought to have been before marked or certified according to
any law of the United States.
And be it further enabled, That from and after the last day of
April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, no distilled
spirits, except arrack and sweet cordials, shall be brought into the
United States from any foreign port or place, except in casks or
vefTels of the capacity of ninety gallons and upwards.
And be it further ena&ed, That no drawback ot the duty on
distilled spirits which shall be exported after the last day of June
next, shall be allowed upon any quantity less than one hundred
gallons.
And be it further enacted, That after the last day of June next,
no distilled spirits shall be brought into th« United States, from
any foreign port or place, in any cask or vefTel which shall have
been marked pursuant to any law of the United States concerning
distilled spirits, on pain of forfeiture of the spirits so brought, and
of the ship orveffel in which they shall be brought.
And be it further enacted, That if the owner or possessor of any
still orftills shall neglect to make entry thereof, within the time
and in the manner prescribed bv the second feftion of this ast,
fucft owner or poflefTor shall forfeit and pay the sum ot two hun
dred and fifty dollars. And if any distilled spirits, except arrack
and sweet cordials, shall, after the last day of April next, he
brought into the United States in casks or vefTels of less capacity
than ninety gallons, all such spirits, and the calks and vefTels con
taining; ihe fame, shall be fubjeft to seizure and forfeiture, and
every inch penalty or forfeiture shall be, one half to the use of the
United States, and the other half to the use of the person ,vho shall
firft discover and make known the matter or thing wheieby the
lame shall have been incurred.
And he it further enacted and declared, That the duties hereby
laid lhall continue in force, for the fame time, and are hereby
pledged and appropriated to and for the fame purposes, as thofc,
n lieu o( which they are laid, and pursuant to the art intituled,
" An ast repealing after the last day of June next, the duties here
tofore laid upon dillilled spirits imported from abroad,and laying
others in their (lead, and also upon spirits distilled within the
United States, and for appropriating the fame."
And be it further enacted, That to make good any deficiency
which may happen in consequence of the reduction hereby made
in the rates of the duties on spirits distilled within ihe United
States, and on stills, so much of the product of the duties laid by
«he ast intituled, 44 An ast for raising a farther sum of money for
the protection of the frontiers, and lor other purpofci therein
mentioned," as may be neceflary, {hall be and is hereby pledged
and appropriated to the fame purposes, to and for which the du
ties, hereby reduced, were pledged and appropriated.
And be it further enacted, Tnat the President of the United
States be authorized to make such allowances for thcit refpeftive
ferv ices to the fupeivifor.*, inspectors and other officeis ol inspec
tion, as he (hall deem reasonable and proper, so as the said allow
ances, together with the incidental expences of collecting the du
ties on spirits distilled within the United States, shall not exceed
seven and an half per centum of the total product of the duties on
distilled spirits, tor the period to which the said allowances shall
relate, computing from the time the ast, intituled, 44 An ast re
pealing aftei the last day of June next, the duties heretolore laid
upon distilled spirits imported from abroad, ami laying others in
their (lead, and alio upon spirits distilled within the United Staies,
and foi appropriating the fame," look effect : And provided also,
I hat such allowance shall not exceed the annual amountof seventy
thousand dollars,until the fame shall befurther ascertained by law.
449
[Whole No. 521.]
And l.c it further enabled, That the ast intituled, " An ast re
pealing after the last day of June next, the duties heretofore laid
upon distilled spirits imported from abroad, and laying others in
their ftead,and also uponfpiriisdiftilled within the United States,
and for appropriating the fame," (hall extend to and be in fuil
force for the collection of the several duties herein before men
tioned, and for the recovery and distribution of the penalties and
forfeitures herein contained and generally for the execution of this
ast, as fully and effectually as if every regulation, reflriftioo, pe
nalty, provision, clause, matter and thing therein contained, were
inserted in, and re-enacted by this present ast, fubjift only to the
alterations hereby made.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
ojthe House of Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, frefident
*•" pro tempore oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MAY THE EIGHTH, 179".
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States
An ACT makingalterations in the Treasury and
War Departments.
BE it enatted by the Senate and House of RepreTentatives
of the United States of America in Congress aifembled,
That there be an accountant to the department of war, who
shall be charged with the settlement of all accounts relative
to the pay of the army, the subsistence of officers, bounties to
soldiers, the expenses of the recruiting service, the incidental
and contingent expenses of the department; and who shall
report from time to time, all such settlements as shall have
been made by him, for the infpettion and revision of the ac
counting officers of the treasury; and the said accountant
shall also be charged with the settlement of all claims for per
sonal service authorized by theadl of this Congress of the 27th
of March last, and of all military lodged in the late of
fice of the paymaster general and commiflioner of army ac
counts, which are not fore closed by the adls of limitation of
the late Congress, and he shall report from time to time, all
such settlements as have been made by him, for the mfpe&iori
and revision of the Comptroller of the Treasury. The com
pensation of the said accountant shall be a yearly salary of
one thousand two hundred dollars.
And be it farther enabled, That the Treasurer of the Unit
ed States shall disburse all such monies as (hall have been pre
viously ordered for the*ife of tlie department of war by war
rants from the treasury ; which disbursements shall be mads
pursuant to warrants from the Secretary at War, countersign
ed by the accountant.
And be it further enacted, That there be a Paymaster to
reside near the headquarters of the troops of the United States.
That it fliall be the duty of the said paymaster, to receive from
the treasurer all the monies which (hall be entrusted to him
for the purpose of paying the pay, the arrears of pay, lubfift
ence or forage, due to the troops of the United States. That
he (hall receive the pay abftrafts of the paymasters of the se
veral regiments or corps, and compare the fame with the re
turns or muster rolls which lhall accompany the said pay ab
ftrafts. That he (hall certify accurately to the commanding
officer, the sums due to the refpeftive corps, which (hall have
been examined as aforefaid, who lhall thereon issue his war
rant on the said deputy paymaster, for the payment according
ly. That copies of all reports to the commanding officer,and
the warrants thereon, (hall be duly transmitted to the office of
the accountant of the war department, in order to be there
examined and finally adjusted at the treasury. That the said
paymaster (hall give bond in the sum of twenty thousand dol
lars, with two fufficient sureties, for the faithful discharge of
his duty, and he (hall take an oath faithfully to execute the
duties of his office. That the compensation to the said pay
master fliall be sixty dollars monthly, with the fame rations
and forage as a major.
a —- -j - -
And be it further enaftcd, That no alignment of pay made
ift-'r the firlt day of June next, by a non-commillioned officer
or private, (hall be valid.
And be it farther ena&ed, That all purchases and contracts
for supplying the army with provisions, clothing, supplies in
the quarter-masters department, military stores, Indian goods,
and all other supplies or articles for the use of the department
of war, be made by or under the direction of the Treasury de
partment.
And be it further enabled, That the Secretary of the Trea
sury lhall direst the fuperindance of the colle&ion of the du
ties on import: and tonnage as he lhall ? judge belt. That the
present office of affillant to the Secretary of the Treasury be
abolished, and that instead thereof there be an officer in the de
partment of the Treasury, to be denominated Commissioner
of the Revenue, who (hall be charged with fuperin tending, un
der the diretfUon of the head of the department, the collection
of the other revenues of the United States, and shall execute
luch other services, being conformable to the constitution of
the department, as lhall be dire&ed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. That the compensation of the said Commissioner
lhall be a falarv of one thousand nine hundred dollars per annum.
And be it further enacted, That in every cafe of an account
or claim not finally adjusted, upon which the present Comp
tr<rller of the Treasury, as Auditor, may have decided, it lhall
be the duty of the Commissioner of the Revenue, and of the
Auditor of the Treasury, finally to adjust the fauie, and in cafe
of difagreeinent between the said Commissioner and Auditor,
the decision of the Attorney General lhall be final.
And be it further enacted, That in cafe of the death, ab
sence from the feat of government or sickness of the Secretary
of State, Secretary of the Treasury, or of the Secretary of the
War department, or of any officer of either of the said de
partments whole appointment is not in the head thereof,
whereby they cannot perform the duties of their said respec
tive offices, it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States, in cafe he shall think it neceflary, to authorize any per
son or persons at his discretion to perforin the duties of the
said refpeftive office 1 ; until a fuccellor be appointed, or until
such absence or inability by sickness shall tease.
And be it further enacted, That the forms of keeping and
rendering all public accounts whatsoever, ihall be prescribed
by the department of the Treasury.
And be it further enacted, Tint in addition to the compen-ations allowed to the Comptroller, Auditor, Treasurer, 3rd
Remitter of the Treafury,-by the " ast tor eftabliflung the ia
laries of the executive officers of government, t;ieir afhitants
and clerks," and to the Attorney General by the " ast tor al
lowing certain compenlations to the judges ot the supreme anc
other courts, and to the Attorney General ot the United
States," the said officers refpeftively lhall be allowed the fol
lowing yearly sums, viz. the Comptroller four hundred dol
lars ; the Auditor four hundred dollars ; the 1 reafuiei foui
hundred dollars; the Reside r five hundred dollars ; the At
torney General four hundred dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the Trea
sury be authorized to have two principal clerks, each ot whom
to have a salary of eight hundred dollars per annum ; and that
the salary of the ch'ef clerk of the department of war, be at
the rate of eight hundred dollars per year..
And be it further enacted, That the reftriftion on the clei ks
of the department of the treasury so far as refpefts tie carry
ing oi} of any trade or buiinefs, other than in the fund"*, or
debts of the United States or of any state, or in any kind of
public property, be abolilhed, and that such restriction, so far
as refpefts the funds or debts of the United States, or ot any
state, or any public property of either, be extended to the
commissioner of the revenue, to the several coramiflioners of
loans, and to all persons employed in their refpeftive offices,
and to all officers of the United States concerned in the col
lection or disbursement of the revenues thereof, under the pe
nalties prescribed in the eighth feftion of the ast, intitled,
" An ast to eftablifti the treasury department," and the provi
sion? relative to the officers in the treasury department, con
tained in the u Ast to establish the post office and post roads,"
shall be and hereby are extended and applied to the tommifli
oner of the revenenue.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House of Representative!.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, P,efident
pro tempore of the Senate.
APPKOVED MAY THE EIGHTH, 1792.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
An ACT relative to the compensations to cer
tain officers employed in the collection of the
Duties of Import and Tonnage.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congress afleinblcd,
That from and after the last day of June next, in addition to
the fees and emoluments which may accrue to the officer- em
ployed in the collection of the duties of impost and tonnage,
by the provisions already yiade, they lhall severally have, and
be entitled to the refpeftive allowances following, to wit :
The surveyors of NewbuTyport, Salem, Saint Mary's, and Wil
mington iri North-Carolina, the yearly sum of one hundred
dollars, each; the surveyors of Beverley, North Kingston,
East Greenwich, Warren, Bristol, Pawcatuck river, Provi
dence, Patuxet, New Haven, Lewellenfburg, Alexandria,
Beaufort, Hertford, Winton, Bennett's-creek, Plymouth,
Windsor, Skewarkey, Miirfree (borough, Nixontor, Indian
town, Currituck-inlet, Pafquotank-river bridge, Newbiggen
creek, the yearly sum of eighty dollars, each; the furvevor of
Portsmouth, the yearly fom of fixtv dollars; the surveyors of
Ipswich, Portland, Newport, Stonington, MidJleton, Bermu
da-Hundred, Petersburg, Richmond and Savannah, the yearly
sum o'~ fifty dollars, each ; the surveyors of Gloucester, New
London and Swanfborough, the yearly sum of thirty dollars,
each ; the surveyors of Hudson, Little Egg-harbor, Suffolk,
Snjithfield, Urbanna and Frederickfburg, the yearly sum of
twenty dollars, each ; the collector of the diftri(ft of Wilming
ton in North Carolina, the yearly sum of one hundred and fif
ty dollars; the collectors of the diftridls of Portsmouth, Glou
cester, Albany, Annapolis, Vienna, Nottingham, York-town,
Dumfries and Louisville, the yearly sum of one hundred dol
lars, each ; the collector of the diitrift of Fairfield, the yearly
sum of eighty dollars; the colleflors of the districts of Mar
blehead, Plymouth, Barnftable, Nantucket, New Bedford,
Dighton, York, Biddeford and Pepperelborough, Bath, W ifcaf
fet, Machias, Newport, New Haven, Perth Aniboy, Great
Egg-harbor, Wilmington in Delaware, Chelter, Cedar-point,
Georgetown, Hampton, South-Quay, Wafliington, Plank
bridge and Georgetown in South-Carolina, the yearly sum of
fifty dollars, each ; the naval officer of the (liftriot of Ports
mouth, the yearly sum of one hundred dollars ; the naval offi
cers of the diftrifts of Newburyport, Newport, Providence,
Wilmington in North-Carolina, and Savannah, the yearly sum
of fifty dollars, each ; the collector of the diftrift of Salem and
Beverley, one fourth of one per centum on the amount of all
monies by him received on account of the said duties; and to
the collectors of the diftrifts of Portsmouth, Newburyport,
Gloucester, Marblehead, Plymouth, Nantucket, Edgartown,
New Bedford, Dighton, York, Bicdeford and Pe iperelboro',
Portland, Bath, WifcafTet, Penobfcot, Frenchman's-bav, Ma
chias, Newport, Providence, New Haven, Fairfield, Perth-
Amboy, Burlington, Great Egg-harbor, Wilmington in Dela
ware, Oxford, Vienna, Snowhill, Annapolis, Nottingham, Ce
dar-point, Georgetown in Maryland, Hampton, Yorktown,
Yeocomico, Dumfries, Foley-landing, Cherryltone, South
Ruav, Wilmington in North Carolina, Newbern, Wafliington,
Ddenton, Plack-bridge, Georgetown in South Carolina, Beau
fort, and Savannah, each, one half of one per centum on the
amount of all monies by them reflectively received on ac
count of the duties aforefaid.
And be it farther ena&ed, That from and after the last day
of June next, the allowance of three fourths of one per cen
tum to the collectors of the diftri&s of Pennsylvania and the
city of New-York, on the amount of all monies by them re
fpe&ivlv received, on account of the duties of impost and,ton
nage, shall cease, and instead thereof, they fha.ll, after that
time, be entitled to one half of one per centum on all such
monies by them refpe&ivelv received.
And be it farther enaCted, That from and after the laftday
of June next, the expense of fuel, office rent and neceflary sta
tionary, for the collectors of the diftri&s of Salem and Bever
ley, Boston and Charleftown, the cities of New-York, Phila
delphia and Charleston, the towns of Baltimore, Norfolk and
Portsmouth, shall be paid, three fourths by the said Collectors,
and the other fourth by the reipeCtive naval-officers in those
diftriCts.
And be it further enaCted, That whenever a collector i'hall
die, the commissions, to which he would have been entitled
on the receipt of all duties bonded by him, (hall be equal
ly divided between the legal representatives of such deceased
collector and his fucceflor in office, whose duty it fball be to
collect the fame ; and for this purpose the said representatives
lha.ll deliver over to such successor all the public or official
baoks, papers and accounts of the said deceased.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the House oj Representatives.
RICHARD HENRY LEE, Prefidevt
pro tempore of the Semite.
MAY THS lICIITH, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prejiient oj the United States.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
A REPUBLICAN government is of all modes undoubtedly
the best. The eflential mark and principal chara&eriftic
of such a government, is, that the people are governed by laws
enacted bv their own representatives. Under this character,
all men furelv will agree to prefer a republican mode. My
education, habits and reflections, have so riveted my attach
ments, that it would be difficult for me to subdue them so far
as to live under any other. I should feel a want
of that firm ground of security which an American treads on.
Like an inhabitant of Calabria, which is often shaken by earth
quakes, I should think myfelf on a thin crust of earth, walking
over caverns of sulphur. For a despotic government can nei
ther enjoy fafetv, nor give it. Accordingly, the zeal of pa
triots and philosophers to preserve republican government, is
not less rational than ardent and universal. The good sense
and virtue of the world seem to be all on the fame fide. The
means which tend to perpetuate this blefling to the citizens of
the United States, cannot be too diligently fought, nor too
firmly established. Knowledge among the great body of the
people, is worth every other security of liberty. It is not only
the firft and best security, but it is absolutely efTential. There
is no fafety without it. An ignorant free people ! a solecism.
Banish knowledge from a republic—the foul leaves the body—
the inert mass will soon corrupt. It is the strength of the
body politic—without it, like Sampson shorn of his hair, it is
bound by the weak, and despoiled by the profligate. Every
school-house protetts liberty more efle&ually than a fort, or a
regiment guards the frontiers.—Why then is it not the firft
care of every American patriot to provide for school*. Year
after year pasTes away, and this work, which it takes a gene
ration to accomplish, is negle&ed. O mighty ignorance, that
haft ere&ed empires and levelled republics with the dust, we
fjar thou wilt outlive all thy enemies ! PHILO.
BOSTON, May X 2.
[The following extradts from letters of Mr.
John Parker Boyd, of this town, now in India,
evince the genius and enterprise of that young
gentleman, and (hew much of that spirit of ad
venture so peculiar to Bollonians.]
" Being well allured that whatever relates to
me, will in foine measure be interesting to you,
I (hall therefore just inform you of my present
situation.
" Fourieenth June last, after having procured
recommendatory letters to the English consul,
residing at the court of his Highness the Nizam,
I proceeded to this capital, Hyderabad, being
4JO miles from this place. On my arrival I was
presented to his Highness, in form, by the Eng
iifti consul : My reception was favorable as my
mod sanguine wishes had anticipated.
" After the usual ceremony was over, he pre
sented me with the command of two Ranfolars
of infantry (each conliftingof joomen) with the
commiflion of Buxy and payinafterof my soldiers.
" I am also indulged with the cloathing : my
pay at present only joo rupees per month ; but
my otlier emoluments will make it 1200 per
month, equal to about 2001. lawful money.
" The Nizam is in alliance with the English
company, and had, when I arrived, taken the
field againfl: Tippoo Sultan with about 50,000 in
fantry, 60,000 horse, and joo elephants. This
was the noblest fight 1 had ever seen ; each ele
phant supporting a large caflle, containing a na
bob or commander, and four servants; the size
of the animals, the glittering of the castles, and
elegance of their equipage, was the molt brilli
ant fight that the eye can behold.
" I am now down to this place purchasing arms
for his Highness ; the method of travelling in
this country is very luxurious, a3 yon must have
heard ; my servants and escorts in all consist of
fifty men, 16 bearers to my palanquin, the other
domestic servants, runners, &c. all but the 20 are
paid by the prince, who is supposed the greatest
in India; his capital, Hyderabad, as 1 have al
ready informed you, is an ancient walled city,
within four miles of the diamond mines of Gol
conda, —it is 450 miles from Madrafs, and 225
miles inland from the coast, and a mod luxuriant
place.
" I do, as you suppose, keep a journal of my
travels, and intend, when more at leisure, to give
you foine extratfts from the fame, which I flatter
myfelf will afford you some aniufenient."
PETERSBURG, May 17.
Several alarming accounts have been received
in this town, of a very dangerous infurre<ftion
among the negroes on the Eastern Shore of Vir
ginia ; the particulars of which we have not been
able to obtain :—Reports state, that about two
weeks ago, the negroes in that part of the state,
to the amount of about 900, aflembled in differ
ent parties, armed with mu<kets, spears, clubs,
&c. and committed several outrages upon the in
habitants. A favorite servant of Col. Savage's,
who had joined them, met his mailer on the
road, took his horse and some money from him,
and treated him in a very insolent manner. Ca
leb, a negro the property of Mr. Simpkitis, was
to command this banditti ; he was also a favorite
servant of his matter's, and had long lived with
him in the capacity of an overseer. A barrel of
mulket balls, about ;oo spears, some guns, pow
der, provisions, &c. have already been discovered
and taken ; the spears it is said were made by a
negro blacksmith on the Ea?ern Shore. A con
fidwable number of the negroes have been taken,
450
and it is expected will be hanged. The militia
have turned out, and are obliged to keep con
iiant guard.
It appears by a letter which has been lately
discovered in Norfolk, from one of the negroes
on the Eastern Shore, that they had concened a
plan with the negroes about Norfolk and Pnrtf
mouth, to commit foine violent outrages in and
about those two towns. The letter Ytates, that
6co of them were to orofs over the bav, at a cer
tain time in the night, and when thev arrived
at these towns, they were to be joined by the
negroes in that neighbourhood—they then meant
to blow up the magazine in Norfolk, and mafia
ere the inhabitants. Since the difcoverv of this
letter, a guard of fifty men in each of the towns
of Norfolk and Portfimouth, has been regularly
kept up; several negroes have been taken up un
suspicion, and lodged in jail, and a number of
guns have been discovered concealed under holl
ies and other secret places, all loaded, mod of
which were Englilh mnfKetswith fixed bayonets.
It is hoped that a timely check will be niven to
this alarming outrage.
The present unguarded situation of our coun
try renders the above circumllances more parti
cularly interesting—and it is hoped will be a
means of urging our rulerito make some (peedy
and effe<Sual provision for arming and organiz
ing the militia, which for three years part has
been mod fliamefnlly neglerted, and has left US
almofl destitute of every means of defence.
PITTSBURGH, May 19
The Fort begun last winter at this place, ft anils
on the Allegheny river, within about 100 yards
of the bank, on a beautiful riling ground, abonc
one quarter of a mile higher up than the old
garrison of Fort Pitt. It is completely stockaded
in, and one range of barracks built, a block-houle
in one of the angles finished, and the remainder
in forwardnefs. Capt. Hughes, ot the 2d United
States regiment, commands the Fort, which, lait
Saturday, the 12th of May, was named Fort Fav
ette. The ceremonial was as follows :—Abouc
two o'clock, the American flag of fifteen stripes
was hoilted on the ftaff of 92 feet in heigluh. The
company ailembled, confilling of the principal
gentlemen of the town, were invited to a cold
collation, and a glass of wine. At thefirft toad,
two pieces of ordnance were discharged, o'd dou
ble fortified twelve pounders, brought to this
place originally by the French, then acquired by
the British, and from them by us—at these dis
charges the Fort received its name—then a treble
discharge in honorof the President of the United
Stares, and fifteen rounds for the fifteen states.
Thursday last a detachment of troops arrived
here from the lower parts of this state, under
the command of Capt. Edward Butler.
NEW-YORK, May 22.
On Thursday the 17th inft. Dr. Smith, a de
puty (lierifF in West-Chester county, was in&M'
manly aflaflinated in the execution, of his offioe,
by John Ryer, at Delancey's Mills. A gentle
man lately from that place has favored us witH
the following detail of circumstances : That tlie
(heriff having a writ against Ryer, met him in a
public house at Delaneey's Mills, and took liim
prifoner—Ryer immediately drew a pistol from
his pocl<et and (hot him dead upon the spot ; he
then presented another pistol, and declared that
he would (hoot the firft person who attempted to
lay hands upon him, and notwithftandinga lium
bar of persons were present, he made his escape
and has not since been apprehended.
The jury fat upon the body of Dr. Smith, and
brought in their verdict lu'tljnlmurder. We bear
that the (lierifFof West-Chester county has offer
ed a reward of 100 dollars for his apprehension.
Philadelphia, May 26.
The President of the United States arrived at
Mount Vernon on Monday the 14th infl.
We are authorised to inform the public, r '' 3
the committee of merchants and wardens of the
port, who were requested to accompany the fu
perinteiidant of the Delaware light-house, &c.
for the purpose of affixing some leading marks
for shipping in the river Delaware, have ftauon
ed a boat with a white flag, upon the eauermo t
part of th-efhoal called Hoi fe-fhoe, in twelve feel
water at low tide, and opposite to the upper part
of League Island ; another boat with a white nap
upon the northermoft point of the shoal calie
Reeves' or Red-Bank Bar, in the fame depth ot
water, between Eagle-Point and Red-Bank, an
a buoy upon the lower part of the shoal ' ale
Tinnycums Spitt, in about 1 3 feet water at low
tide, and nearelt to the canal fide of said Spit
this buoy is about i mile from the lower part 0
Little Tinnycum-lfland. ,
We hear that the Pilots who were on .
last in town, after having held some convention
with the merchants, returned to their r^ thr ®
at Marcus Hook, and persuaded them tod.fperie -
it pilot boats went out of the bay to bring in'
inward bound shipping, and fix other pilot >0
came up to this city to attend theirdutyas 0 l! ' !Extract of a letter from Arthur Donaldfon, one of
the ContraClors for improving the Navigation oj the
Schuylkill, dated the t $tk May, 1792.
" I took paflage 011 Sunday in a boat from
Reading for Philadelphia, as well for the oppor
tunity of observing the effe(ft ot the work which
was done 1a ft season, as for an easy conveyance
to the city. I had the fatisfatfiion of observing
the set of the current at half frerties, and per
ceived that they have a different effect on the
navigation than was generally apprehended.
And I shall be better informed how to remedy
the defeats, in a more fatisfatfory manner than
has hitherto been praftifed. On enquiry of the
boatmen, I find that about 12 boats have been
employed in the vicinity of Reading, each ot
•which has made ten trips, carrying generally
from to 16 tons. Some few lately have not
exceeded 5 tons, since the waters have fallen ;
but they may, I think, be fairly estimated at 10
tons per trip; making in the whole, since the
firft of March last, 1200 tons. The country have
brought in such quantities of produce, that much
remains on hand."
A society for the promotion of Agricultureand
domestic Manufactures, has been recently eftab
lilhed in Culpeper County, Virginia.
Society for establishing Ufeful Manufactures.
Notice is hereby given, That the certificates
for (hares in the (lock of the society are nearly
completed, and will be ready to be delivered to
the original fubferibers, or their legal repre
sentatives on the firlt day of June next.—All per
sons therefore having claims to said certifi
cates aredefired to forward them without delay
to the fubferiber, No, 14, Cortlandt-ftreet, New-
York, that they may be examined and the certi
ficates be prepared for delivery.
Benjamin Walker, Commissioner.
Neiu-York, May 18th, I 792.
In pursuance of a resolution of a Board of Di
retflors, the following extraift from an ordinance
passed 20th January latt, is publiflied :—
" And be it further enabled, That all assign
ments of the certificates lhall be in form tollow-
jng, viz.—
• For value received
certificate or share of flock in the society for
eftablifliing ufeful nianufaftures, do aflign, trans
fer, and let over unto executors, admini
strators, or assigns, all right and iliterelt in
and to the said certificate, mentioned as
follows, viz : —
And ro the ltock therein mentioned, together
with all the privileges and emoluments retailing
from the fame. Witness hand and seal this
day of I 79
Sealed and delivered ?
in presence of 5
At a meeting of the Directors of the Society for
elfabliftiing nfeful Manufactures, held at New
ark, on Friday the 18th day of May, I 792.
•Resolved unanimously, that the town of
Paterfon be located upon the waters of the river
Paflaick, a distance not more than fix miles from
the fame on each or either fide thereof, between
the feat of Mr. Isaac Gouverneur, near the town
of Newark and Chatham bridge.
Resolved, That Mr. Low, Mr. Bayard, and Mr.
Boudinot, or any two of them be and they are
hereby autliorifed to locate the said town within
the limits in the foregoing resolution, and to
make purchafesof such lands as they shall deem
requisite for the purposes of the Society, and to
employ such surveyor or other persons under
them, as they (hall deem proper and neceflary.
Free extract from the minutes,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk
By late arrival 1 ; from France the subsequent intelligence is re
ceived, viz—That the Emperor Leopold died apparently of a
Vomica of the lungs; his sudden death had given room for
many conjectures at Vienna—That his successor was very
sick—That bv the Emperor's death, France will be quiet the
cnfuing fall, and providence will provide for the reft—That
the three ministers, M. Cahier de Gerville for the home-de
partment, and M. Molleville of the marine-department, and
M. Narbonne of the war-department, had demanded and ob
tained leave to relign ; M. Narbonne wilhed war to have
been declared agaiuft the Emperor 011 account of his declining
to give France the explanation deinanded-of him the 12th of
January ; he always giving evasive answers; but M. de Lef
fart and the Kingbeing of a different opinion,compelled him to
resign : The f 1 rft news from France will inform us of the fate
of M. de LelTart, who, it is said, is arretted—That a few days
after the arrival of M. Burgoin, at Madrid, the famous Count
Florida Blar.ca was disgraced and difinilTed—That Count
d'Aranda has succeeded him ; that Minister was advising the
King of Spain to break his alliance with France, and had in
troduced into Spain such inquilitori.il regulations and ways of
governing, that it was dangerous to speak about political af
fairs—that he is not at all regretted—That all his schemes
have fallen with him—and that Count d'Aranda is now re
pairing all the wrongs he has done to the French, and to in
dividuals."
" The a r ticles produced by our farms for many years past,
have been liberally paid for. Agriculture therefore has not
languished—every branch of mechanic industry seems at no
loss for its due recompence—and the state of our public funds
and exchanges do not show any scarcity of money, or want of
zeal to employ it."
named in the annexed
An freaking of the late Emperor of
Germany fays :— u Wherever he himfclf went, tranquility
followed his ftep~. In Hungary every symptom of difcoateut
was done away by his prefence.—ln Bohemia all was made ea-
at his word—Such effects do virtue and justice ever carry
with them
' " By his death, it is much to be feared, very different scenes
may be opened. A young Prince, in the Archduke, and heir
to his crown, may be too fond of war. He may liiten too rea
dily to the inHnuations of the emigrants, and be too hasty to
revenge l'uppofed aifronts upon his territories. 111 short, by
the death of the late Emperor, we may again fee a great part
of Europe deluged in blood. At all events, the loss of a good
man is ever to be regreted, especially in a Prince; and when
it happens through foul means, the instigators and perpetra
tors are all equally tO be detested and confide red as acknow
ledged enemies to mankind."
There has been just publilhed in Boston, a book entitled,
ii The Foresters, an American Tale; being a iequel to the
history of John Bull, the clothier, in a ieries ot letters to a
friend." Wit, learning and humor, are here happily united
in a concise hiltory of the American Revolution.—Publilhedby
Thomas & Andrews.
Extrafl of a letter jrom a gentleman at Gibraltar, to his correspondent
in this city, dated March 1.
" The emperor [of Morocco] Yezid, having made a forced
march, and eluded the army commanded by Ben Alfar, puflied
011 to the city of Morocco, where he arrived about the lecond
of February, but the gates being flint against him, he attacked
the place, and carried it on the 6th, when he committed the
greatest excelfes, and once more gave up the devoted Jews to
plunder ; many friends as well as enemies fuffered from the
rapacity of the army.—On the 12th Muley Ifhem reached the
plain of Morocco, with a considerable army, said to conljft of
thirty thousand men, where the emperor with about halt that
number met them, and after an engagement which continued
from ten to two o'clock, obtained the victory. Oi Ifhem's
army thirteen hundred were killed, and eight hundred taken
priloners, some difperled themselves, but the greatest part re
treated towards Jaffe. The emperor's lofswas inconfiderabl#,
but he was himfelf wounded in two or three places, and the
use he made of his success was to put the prisoners to death,
not one of whom did he pardon. He ordered them to be nailed
up against the walls, and upon the floors where they happened
to be, and he prohibited all persons from administering any
kind of relief to them. He also put to death, without any ap
parent reason, two Christians that had been several years em
ployed by his father as stone-cutters, and two Frenchmen who
had pafled into the country from Ceuta. In lliort, from the
12th to the 16th such a scene of slaughter was exhibited as,
in Morocco, has feldombeen heard of. On the 16th, however,
it pleafetl heaven to put an end to it, for on that day the em
peror died of his wounds."
Extract of another letter from the fame gentleman, dated March i 6. j
" Slema (or rather Selima) who I think will govern at last 1
in the kingdom of Fez, has, upon the whole, an amiable cha
racter. He is humane and temperate, religious and supersti
tious, a dutiful son to his mother, and a lover of peace. He
has declared himfe'f a friend to commerce, and an enemy to
every thing cruel or treacherous. An Alcaide, who had at
tached himfelf to the late emperor in a diflinguifhed manner,
upon the death of his master retired to a fan&uary, but Slema
Cent him a meflage applauding his condu&, telling him lie had
nothing to fear, and exprelling a wifli that, it ever himfelf
should be reduced to distress, he might have a few such faith
ful adherents, as the Alcaide had been to his brother— u By
the best and most moderate accounts the number of people
Yezid (the late emperor) caused to be put to death from his ar
rival before the city of Morocco, until he died, which was a
bout two weeks, exceeded twenty thousand ; among whom
were, without refpeft to age or sex, all who had any connec
tion with the late EfFendi."
The Classes of the
d uring the (econd Cc
SENATORS of
>ngrefs, commencii
2 Years Class.
Mr. Basset t,
Mr. Butler,
Mr. Di cki n son,
Mr. Few,
Mr. Joh NSTON,
Mr. LEE,
Mr. Stanton,
Mr. Strong,
Mr. WiN GAT E
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
Industry is the source of wealth—mines are found to impo
verish a nation, because more is loft by their leaving off work
than is dug out of the earth. Toproteftand encourage in
dustry therefore is the true way to augment the wealth of our
nation. The certain protection afforded to property in En
gland is probably the principal cause of the wonderful prospe
rity and almost inexhauftable resources of that people. Free
and prosperous as our country is, it becomes us to fee whe
ther our laws have not raised some obstacles to t?he industry of
our citizens, and if we discover any such it will be proper to
reform them. Men would not work if others could intrude
into their affairs and controul the disposal of their earnings.
The mode of taxing by arbitrary afTellment which obtains in
most of the States is unfavorable to indultry. In theory it is
right and proper that the contributions to govornment should
be made in the ability of those who pay. But if
this equality of afledment is to be obtained only by laying open
the dealings and private tranfaftions of those who pay taxes,
it is better and would give more fatisfaftion to obtain the sup
plies for the State a furies by some other mode. Equality
however, after all the prosecution of the most drift and invi
dious enquiries is not to be obtained. In some of the States a
man is taxed for the profits of his calling or trade; it becomes
his interest to conceal his gains instead of enjoying the repu
tation that (kill and industry are entitled to. It is scarcely
poflible to imagine a more effectual damp to the spirit of en
terprize ; if a man drains a fwainp, and it becomes a fine mea
dow, the tax gatherers are sent after him as if he had smug
gled the property without paying the duties.
Thele things ought not to be so.
Calumny is an odious vice ; the propensity to it marks a
mind devoted to malignant paifions, and deeply corrupted.
Accordingly the worst and baieft of men are thole who most
readily believe ilanderous reports. The conversation of some
persons turns wholly on the faults and vices of their acquaint
ance. They deal so much in dark suspicions and foul pra&ices
imputed to others that at length it becomes their sole delight.
Virtue, worth and talents, or any clean wholesome fubjeft of
praise, disgusts these Hottentots in morals ; they chufe to live
by carnagc, and to be drefTed in the putrifying spoils of their
vi&ijns. Those who are known to deal much in calumny of
451
the United States,
ing 4th March, 1791.
1 6 Years Class.
4 Years Class.
Mr. Burr,
Mr. Cabot,
Mr. Car roll,
Mr. El lswor th,
Mr. Fos r er,
Mr. Monroe,
Mr, Bradley,
Mr. Gun n,
Mr. Hawkins,
Mr. Henry,
Mr. IZARD,
Mr. King,
Mr. RE ad ,
Mr. Robinson,
Mr. Rutherfurd,
Mr. Lancoon,
Mr. Mor r 1 s,
Mr. Sherman
ten leave us in doubt of the characters they havd traduced,
but they fix our averiion to their own. Worthy perions are
neither very lulpicious nor very censorious. Those who de
light in the (landers against Congress which of late ieein to
rain upon us from the newspapers Ihouldlet a guard upon their
own hearts, left they iliould be tainted with the malignant
paifions which ihfpire their authors. Foreigners and the back
country people on reading the inlinuations against ipeculators
in Congress, and innumerable other vile flanders agaiiilt the
members which touch their integrity as men, wouiu at once
conceive a deep abhorrence of a government infuch abomina
ble hands ; they would conceive them to be men without caa
ratter—without principle, without Ihame. As theie
iions are thrown chiefly 011 the supporters of the funding sys
tem the bank and excise, they are doubtlels intended to pro
duce their full etfedt with those who are averle to those acts,
in order that those who hate the measures may be persuaded
that the men who agree to them are still worle. To all this
nothing can be replied. Thole gentlemen coni'cious of the pu
rity of their characters and views, can only wonder in iilence
at the audacious profligacy of the llanderers.
" The people of America can never be too careful of their
liberty," and of that government on which its exiftcnce de
pends; for, as a late writer, speaking of the French He volu
tion,fays, there is as inseparable a connection between liberty
and government, as there is between defpotilin and slavery.
The people of the United States are now in pofTeflion of
what great part of the European world are laboring to obtain—
a government of their own choice. This is the glorious re
ward of our facrifices in a long and bloody war—this com
pleated the revolution—and while every real friend to the
happiness of mankind molt ardently wishes success to the strug
gles of opprefled humanity in the eastern hemisphere, he will
spurn with indignation every infiduous attempt to blast the
profpe&s of his country, under the auspices of that govern
ment whose basis is freedom, and the equal rights of man.
The funding system is the 44 Att making provision for the
public debt." Had the system made no provision for the pub
lic creditors, we should have heard no complaints; at least
from those who uever trulted their property on the uncertain
ilTue of the contest with Britain. To pay, is the rub, with
those who feel neither for the prosperity, dignity or freedom
of the United States, let their pretences be what they will.
The speculators have bought up the certificates, and they
have centered in the great trading cities, at a price far below
their present value. The blame is thrown upon the funcfing
system, upon its author, and those who supported it.-—ls this
just ?
The delay of the funding law in its paflage was made by its
foes, not by its friends. If then a long space of time was af
forded to draw the certificates from the distant states, the fault,
if any, must fall on those who caufedthe delay. The low price
of the certificates was not owing to the friends of the law.
The opposition was so great as to make it improbable that the
state debts would be aifumed; and it was very doubtful whe
ther the other debt would be funded at all. This hazard de
pressed the price of the paper. The value would have funk
to alinoft nothing, had the law been finally reje<sted. The
price paid for the paper before the law palfed, after allowing
for the rilk, was, poflibly, as much as the true value. Had
the law been reje&ed, the paper would have been left on the
hands of the buyers, and the fellers who now complain
would have received three times as much as the market price.
Would any one have had a mind to make up to the buyers of
state paper their loss, if it had not been afluined.
However, the transfer of the certificates, under such cir
cumstances of disadvantage to the holders, is truly to be re
gretted.
No occupation requires less talent or merit of any kind than
railing and finding fault. It is the opinion of many who know
the authors of newspaper calumnies, that those fucceedbeft iu
this way, who are totally unqualified to ast in any other. To
bawl knave, (peculator, aristocrat, partizan of monarchy re
quires but a trifling (lock of modesty, candor, refpeft, for
truth, decency, or the public tranquility.
Says a correfpondent—lt is not to be wondered at that a
cer tain limner in London was puzzled to find an original from
which to paint a likeness of the Devil. His Satannic Majejfty
is of all (hapes and (izes, and is recognized under all the co •
lours of the rainbow, and all the variety of (hades arising from
their combinations. For the truth of this, I will just repeat
some of the remarks which were made in a retail (tore a few
days (ince :—A piece of linen, devilish yellow—one piece of
dark calico, devilish black —another, devilish grave—ano
ther, devilish gay—another, devilish ugly—and another,
devilish pretty, &rc.—and how common is it to hear it laid,
devilish handsome, devilifti homely, devili(h tall, devililh (hort,
cW?vilifti great foot, and a little devil of a foot! In (hort any,
and all colors, and no colours whatever; any (hape, features,
form or size, are equally descriptive of the prince of darkness,
who, with the greatest facility, accommodates himfelf to the
exigencies of those who are puzzled to fill a gap in their ideas.
By a vessel from Hamburgh arrived yelterday in the afternoon,
an account is received of an attempt to assassinate the King of Swe
den, the 16th March—He was wounded by a pistol, but not mor
tally—the perpetrator is aCapt. Angerftrom of the King's guards,
lately discharged.—Further particulars in our next.
Late accounts from St. John's, New-Brunfwick, fay, that
30 fail of veflels, chiefly square rigged, are building in that
Province.
We h jar that General Wilkinfon has lately established a post
and built a Fort between Forts Hamilton and Jefferfon. The
Fort is called Fort St. Clair, and has a strong garrison, with
several months' provision in it.
Died, in England, the Earl of Bute—aged 79.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS AT THE PORT OP PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Roebuck, Bliss, Brillol,
Brig Eliza, McKay, St. Marks,
Betsey, Eagldon, Cape-Francois,
Alfred, Thompson, Teneriffe,
Mary, March, St. Bartholomew,
Maria, Pepper, Boston,
Sloop Flyin* Fi(h, M'Michael, New-Providence,
Rainbow, Pote, Cafco Bay,
Mary, Larrabo, Bay Fundy.
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cents, ... a/
3 per Cents, ...
Deterred, ....
Indents, ... 12^3
Final Settlements, - - 18/6
Half Ibares Bank U. S. 50 per cent, premium.
Shares Bank North.America, 15 diito.(p3T By the Pofi. Office Ast, ajter the firji of June next, new/papers
Jent by the mail are Jubjed to pojlage oj one cent each paper, Jor
100 miles carriage, or lefs —and jot all dtjiancc* inore ,an an hunured
miles, one ccni and an naif each paper. The p°ft a g e f0 oc paid by the
Subscribers, at the offtcc where the papers are cltiivered. As it
is optional with isubferibers to receive their papers through the medium
of the Pofl-Office, or to contrad zc/M the Stage Proprietors, the patrons
of this Gazette, within a jhort dijlarce of this city, nay find it advan'
tageous to adopt the latter mode.
JUST ARRIVED,
In the Ship Molly, Captain Pitt, from Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter-casks of LISBON WINE, far
fiiperior in quality to what is generally imported—
And a few bjiies of the very best CORKS,
George Meade,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SALE,
Choice three and five years old Bill of Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-calk.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-calk,
Choice old SHERRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit for
an Eall-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choich firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto do.
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORK, of the firft quality, and
U4 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. Sec. &c.
Philadelphia, May 16, 1792
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very firft quality, and latest importation from Canton, via
New-York, by retail, at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnut and Market Streets
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-llreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS on COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer his services ta his friends and others, in the
liae of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafeto favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfa&ed with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be ftrittly attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2
April 27, 1792.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY (ituated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marsh, from which (by an easy
ascent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good manfion-honfe, gar
den, and necessary out-buildings ; an orchard of the best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing; 9 crbp of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to
Peter I.e Barbif.r Du Pl essis, Esq. No. 86, Chefnut-ftreet,
Philadelphia; Mr, Humphrey Waterman, at the Washing
ton, on the Bristol road; or to Doctor Tomb, at NcOiamany
Ferry, Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
interest, May .5. (ep.tf.)
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Striet, BOSTON,
Buy and fell every kind of the Stocks of ihe United State!, on
CommiflTion, by Private Contrail, and Public Auction.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch
Boflon, March, 1793. ftaw 3 m)
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
the subscriber hath opened a
House of Entertainment,
At the Sign of the PRF.SIDENT of the UNITED STATES
la that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas Beale, Efq
Mavor of this Town.
He has furnilhed hi®fell with a flock of the best Liquors, and
W n ,K V l r V X r t,on '? givC by procuring, in 'their
fcafon, the best of every fpccics of provision, and having the fame
served up in the most neat and elegant manner
["w.ftju).] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
American Lead Manufa&orv.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co
Hf V . E J U f ft wT ° P « ned thcir EHO USE , two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory
wnere the y have n <>w made, and ready for fa!e, a Peneral affnrr
mentof SHO r ofall sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD the
production of the Mire, in Virginia. As they have ' nolo' d
number of experienced English workmen, ,hey to be
equal in quality to any manuf a a u red in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cod of imported. reduced
V • T k hcy '!f° CO xr " ue t0 n>anufaa "'-f >11 the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addrefTed to either of the
" ld
S S l , Ui "' p"»'S'S
Philadelphia) -Dicctrttcr 3, 1791.
TO BE SOLD BY
The Ship
Lieson Simmons,
A remarkable fact failcr, hei *ai£o i> all ready—ncverthrlefs, to
accommodate those who may be dilpofcd 10 put freight on board,
it will be taken in. She will fail in a few days. For freight or
palTage, apply to the Captain on board, laying at Walnut-lheet
Wharf, or to
N. B. The owners are determined that the ihip (hall leave
Bristol with the firft Fall ftiips. May 14- (4t)
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby are, au
thorifcd to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
before the periods required by the law of incorporation.
Refolvcd, That each Share so compleated, (hall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profitsof the Ban*,from and after the firft
day of the month next succeeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interest upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued before the firft day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who shall have transferred the fame.
By order of the Prelident and Direflors,
fgpfftj) JOHN KEAN, Cajhitr,
Bank of the United States,
May 8, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay
ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of luch payment, may be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of any
of the Commiflioners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of such payment (hall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firft davs of July and January of each year.
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Caffiier.
( r P9')
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank op
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of Discount and Deposit be
authorised to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
thai the Caftiieis of the said offices give duplicate receipts for such
payments, one ot which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer ol public debt fufficient to complete said (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full shares, and to all the benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board of Directors passed the 21ft instant, relative to com
pleting shares by payment it any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the President & Direflors, JOHN KEAN,CaJhier.
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, on Monday the qth cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
ttout made, and bred a farmer ; one of his thumbs much ( welled ;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a ffiort linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches
a ruffled ftiirt, an old beaver hat, with shoes, stockings and buckles'
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is iq
yea is of age, ftoutand well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the Imall-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown fliort coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
itockings, a new wool hat, new (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will lecure fa id Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the fub
lcriber, lhall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
P a ' d / ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17,1792.
WASHINGION, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
/"y FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of that
V-/ value, at the option of the party, will be given by the Com.
miffioners of the lederal Buildings, to the person who, before the
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to them the most ap
proved PLAN, if adopted bythem.fora PRESIDENT'S HOUSE
to be erefled in this City. The fiie of the building, if the artist
will attend to it, will of course influence the afpeft and outline of
his plan ; and it's destination will point out to him the number
size, and dillr.butioß of the apartments. It will be a recommen
dation of any plan, if the central part of it may be detached and
erected for the present, with the appearance of a complete whole
and be capable of admitting the additional paits, in future, if they
,aD wanj'ng. Drawings will beexpefled of the ground plan,
elevations of each front, and feflions through the building, in such
directions as may be necessary to explain the internal ftruflure •
ami an eft. mate of the cubic feet of brick-work compofin K the
whole mass of the walls. P u ""b '"e
March 14, 17Q2
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia
A Premium
OF a LOT ill this Cily, to be designated by impartial iudir-s
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; ora MEDAL''of that
vaiue, at the option of the party; will be given by the Commif
fift«"rh V (% 1 Bu '' d,n e s > to the P«fon who, before the
fift " day of July, 1792. Oiall produce to them the most ap
proved PI. AN, it adopted by them, for a C API TOL, to be erefjd
in this Ciry ; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
Zl,"I DAL £ r W d " mCd in ---o^onethe;
shall adopt. The building to be of biick, and to contain the fol
lowing apartments, to wit : » ■« » meioi-
A Conference Room ) Sufficient to ac-1
A Room for the Representatives (* co,T)rn odate 300 | these rooms
a 1 l. * • . ) P er sons each. ' to be of
A Lobby or AnUchamber to Ihc latter f full cI
A Senate Room of 1200 square feet area I tion
An Atilichamber or Lobby to the lad J
Clefk° S "Offi°r f ,f,° f 2" a 7hr" Ch> f ° r Roomsa„d
Cle. ks Offices, to be of half the elevation of the former.
eac" frZ gS ,„ W H fA" " Pe u aed L ° f the g rou "<* P'"-. elevations of
as mav be nteeflvf ' r . o, ! g , buildin g in such direft.ons
raaS f I "f la,n the «nternal ftruflure; and a„eft,-
6fThe waUs! compoftng the whole mass
March 14, l^gj
T be hi? ? LOTTERY, are to
rtrv- JR 1 ng places. viz.._ Samuel Coope.'s
I nV> Esq. Bordentown, of Mr
John Van Em burgh ; Mount Hollv, o[ J. Read, Esq. Trenton
Toln of'Tr q ' p ml 7 V '£ f JamcS i>arker ' E(i l- Eli«hrth-
H„m r R .- Gra y, ; T Powl «-Hook, of Col. Smith andllutel £ e
•he T,lroCkm( " to " S F° tr —d ;»d of
452
For
BRISTOL,
Birmingham Packet,
WdilS,
tf the commissioners.
THE COMMISSIONERS
GEORGE MEADE
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
rican Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
9. The Constitutions of the several United States, with the Fe
deral Conflittition, See. Price five-eighths of a dollar.
ti . American Jest Book, in two parts, with two very neat en
gravings—Price, bound, three-fifths of a dollar.
12 Garden of the Soul, by Bifliop Chalenor—Price, bound in
calf and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, half a dollar.
13 The Doway Translation of the Vulgate Bible, in quarto-
Price, elegantly bound and lettered, 50/2 —plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecuna—Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or refleflions for every day of the month.
Price a quarter dollar.
17. HiAory of Charles Grandifon, abridged— Price a sixth of a
dollar.
i - Select Poems, chiefly American-.-Price a sixth of a dollai
Said Carey has for (ale, a large aflfortment of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he will dispose of on the
most leafonable terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being fuppliod in the most fatlsfac
tory manner. A liberal allowance to such as purchafc quantities
for ptrbUe libraries, or to fell again.
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jersey, occupied for wmiy years part by
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a tra& of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is. laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the (aid street on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined effect of fili
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the most
beautiful and desirable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
bandfome, well-fmifhed brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a twoftory brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as inclading the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both (ides of the river. Among the out-buildings are a new fton;
coach-house and stables, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a stone cow-house, upwards of i©o feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved flails, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is agar
f den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ion of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ceirary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jmall
fields, all well watered, highly imptoved, and chiefly under the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, tor se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifti usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclofcd and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar polls,
and rails of chefnut and white cedar. The purehafer may have
the improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
bed suit him. There is an incxhatiftible iquantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured,
and the interest pun&ually paid, will not be demanded for many
years.
Any pei Ton desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be gratified
on applieation to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at present occupies the farm-houfeand
part of the land—and may know the price on application tf> the
fubferiber, a* No. 213, South Second-flrcet, opposite to the New-
Market, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
$T Ihe J;)URNA£of the TlllßD SESSION of Me SEXJI&
oj the USITED S TATES, may bt had of the Editor hereof.
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATTHEW CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia. '
1 ' A MERICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in T an ~
u , ar ] , , l 7 8 7' t °P e « mbcr >79>. in ten vols. Price, ,; M ,?
bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
Thii work, which it now conduced on an improved phn enn
taming the best pieces publithcd for and against the proceeding
of government, will be found to contain at least as great a varied
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous t flays, as any ever pub.
liflied in America. Perhaps in no one work are so many valuable
documents refpefiing the hi (lory of this country, colleSed u>k
ther. His Excellency the President of the United States, h«siie!
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan has never been uo.
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving of public eocou!
ragement." The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per ana
Gentlemen in the country who wish to be supplied With thii
work, are requested to give commiflion to friends in the city to
fubferibe for and receive if Any of the back numbers mav
be had in order to complete sets. '
i. Ladles' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's ElTays
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchioness of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mrs
Chaponr on command of Temper, More's Fables for the Ladies!
Price 6/5. 1
3. Smith's History of New-York, from its fi'ft settlement to
the year 1732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try, with a short account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political state, and the constitution of the courts of justice. p,i cc
a dollar and & quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattie, l. l d. pro
feflor of moral philosophy and logic in the Marifchal College"
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay : " We have fcen nothing
on these fubje&s more plain, more perspicuous, or more generally
ufeful." N. B. It is introduced into the University in Phila
delphia.
.5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feleft
productions of the moll eminent British and American poets-
Price four-filths of a dollar.
6. Blair's Sermons, containing the whole of the three volumes
of the Biitffh edition, in two—Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Treatise on the importance of Religious Opinions.
Price four-fifths of a dollar.
10. M'Fingal, an epic poem, a new edition in 12010.—Price
three-figbths of a dollar.
16. Christian Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript,
found in the island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Apoca
lypse—-Price a fifth of a dollar.
18. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar.
FOR SALE,