— ° J4 ' SOP ' H f'l-IH-SrßF.f.l, Pi! I! DfcLFHi A .
[No. 56 of Vol. IV.]
PHILADELPHIA, December 12
REPORT
OF THE
SECRET ART of the TREASURY,
Refpeding the Redemption of the Public Debt
4 and the Reimbursement «f the Loan made
of the Bank of the United States
Trenfunt Department, Nov. 30, I'i) 2
SIR,
I have the honor to transmit herewith a
Report, pursuant to two resolutions of the
House of Representatives, one of the z\Jl in-
Jlant, refpefling the Redemption of the Pub
lic Debt; the other of the 2 idinjlanl, refpe9-
tng the Reimbursement of the Loan made
of the Bank of the United States, pursuant to
the eleventh fedion of the aS by ivhich it is
carporated; and to be, with the mo/l per
fetl rejpeil,
SIR,
Your mojl obedient,
and mojl humble servant,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury,
Th: Honorable the SPEAKER
of the House of Reprefintatives.
In obedience to two Ilefolutions of the
House of Representatives, one of the
%I ft itiftant, dire&ing the Secretary of
the Treasury to report a Plan for the
Redemption of so much of the Public
Debt as by the Ast entitled " An Ast
making Provision for the Debt of the
United States," the United States have
reserved the right to redeem ; the other
of the 22d instant, diredting him to re
port the Plan of a Piovifion for the
R#imhurfement of the Loan made of
the Bank of the United States, pursu
ant to the Xlth fedtion of the Act en
titled " An Adt to Incorporate the
Subscribers to the Bank of the United
States; the said Secretary refpedtfully
submits the following
report.
TH E expediency of taking mea
furej for the regular redemp
tion of the public debt, according to the
right which has been referred to the go
vernment, being wifely predetermined by
the resolution of the Hosfe of Represen
tatives referring the fubjeft to the Secre
tary, nothing remains far him but to en
deavour to fele£t and submit the mod eli
gible means of providing for the execu
tion of that important object.
With this view, the firft enquiry, which
naturally presents itfelf, in, whether the
exiding revenues are or are not adequate
to the purpose ?
*1 he estimates which accompany the re
port of the Secretary of the 14th instant,
will (hew, that during the continuance of
theprefent Indian war, tire appropriations
for mtereft and the demands for the cur
rent service, are likely to exhaust the pro
duct of the exiding revenues ; though
they afford a valuable surplus beyond the
permanent objects of expenditure, which
it is hoped may, ere long, be advantage
ously applied to accelerace the extinguilh
®ent of the debt.
In the mean time, however, and until
the restoration of peace, the employment
«• at resource t ' l ' s way, malt of ne
«Bitybelufpended; and either the bufmefs
redemption mud be dferred, 01 re
course us 11ft; be had to other expedients.
But did no such temporary necessity
or resorting to other expedients exist,
LiV 't would dill be recommend
ed by weighty confiderations.—lt would
a PP ear > in the abftraft, advifeable to leave
the^ surplus of the prelent revenues free,
to be applied to such casual exigencies as
™ay, from time to time occur; to occasional
pilrchafes of the debt when not exhausted
by such exigencies, to the payment of in
hered on any balances which may be found
due to particular states upon the general
wtlemwitdf accounts; and finally, to the
payment of iatereft on the deferred part
lhe debt, when the period for such
payment arrives.
Wednesday, December 12 . , "
There is a reasonable prospect, that if
not diverted, it will be found adequate to
the ttvo la it important pnnpofes.
Relinquilhing, then, the idea of an im
mediate application of the present reven
ues to t!ie objedl in view, it remains to ex
amine what.other modes are in the option
or the Legislature.
Loans, from time to time, equal to the
iums annually and bottomed
on the iame revenues, which are now
ppropnated to pay inferett; upon
j. m ?' offer themselves as one expe
c tent, which may be employed with a de
gree of advantage. As there it a proba
bility of borrowing at a tower rate of in
terelt, a material saving \#uldrefult; and
even this tefource, if none better could
«. ol, £ ht not to fre neg*feed.
But it is obvious, that to rely upon this
rev iree aW would be to do little to
wards the final exoneration of the nation,
lo (top at that point woultf consequently
be neither provident nor fatisfadory.
1 ne interests as well as the expeftat ions
of the Union require something more ef
feaual.
The establishment of additional reven-
the remaining resource. Thii.ifthe
bulmefs is to be undertaken iu eatneft, is
unavoidable : and a full confidence may
reasonably be entertained, that the com
munity will fee with fatisfaftion the em
ployment of those means, which alone can
be HFedtual, for accomplifliing an end, in
itfelf so important, and so much an objedt
of general delite. It cannot fail to be u
niversally felt, that if the end is to be at
tained, the neceflary means mult be em
ployed.
It canonly be expsdted that care be ta
ken to choose such as are iiabie to feyi-cit
dbjedtions, and that in the modifications
of the business in other refpedts, due le
gard be had to the prefsnt and progref
live circumstances of the country.
A (Turning it as the basis of a plan of
redemption, that additional revenues arc
to be provided, the further enquiry di
vides itfelf into the following branches :
I. Shall a revenue by immediately con
ftitated, equal to the full sum, which
may at present be redeemed, according
to the terms of the contrast ?
11. Shall a revenue be conftituted,from
year to year, equal only to the interest
of the fu.u, to be redeemed in each year
—coupling with this operation an annu
al loan,commenfurate with such sum ? Or,
111. Shall a revenue be constituted each
year, so much exceeding the intend of
the sum to He redeemed as to be fufficient,
within a short definite term of time, 10
discharge the principal itfelf; coupling
with this operation also, an annual loan,
equal to the sum to be annually redeemed,
and appropriating the revenue created to
its discharge, within the term which shall
have been predetermined ?
The firft plan, besides being completely
effectual, would be eventually mod
(economical j but coniidering to what a
magnitude the revenues of the United
States have grown in a short period, it is
not easy to pronounce how far the faculty
of paying might not be drained by any
sudden confiderableaugmentation, whete
foever immediately placed while the ra
pid progress of the country in population
and resource feemsto afford a moral cer-
tainty, that the necessary augmentation
may be made witii conveniences by
fucceflive steps, within a moderate term
of time, and invites to temporary and
partial suspensions, as capable of conci
liating the reasonable accommodation of
thecommunity withjthe vigorous profecuti
of the main design. For these and for o
ther reasons which will readily occur,
the course of providing immediately the
intire sum to be redeemed, is conceived
not to be the mod eligible.
The second plan, though much more
efficacious than that of annual loans, bot-
tomed 011 the revenues now appropriated
for the payment of interest on the sums
to be redeemed, does not appear to be
221
efficaciow. The fchcJule A.
*W' % w th -' cfFed of it to the lit of
•n l u^L lß ° 3 ' whe " th:; deferred debt
will betSftie redeemable in the proporti
ons stipulated. Supposing the invellrnrnt
ot the iiitcreft which is each year liberat
ed, together with that which has been,
and will be released by pu,-chafes, pursu
ant to provifinns heretofore made, in th
ru'"chafe of 6 per cent flr, c i c . a
ptlncipal equal to 2,043,837 dollar, and
7 cents would be funk, and a clear
annuity, equal to 459,212 dollars and
82 cents would be created, towards fur
ther redemptions; but the fund then ne
cessary for the future progreflive redemp
t'on oit the debt, according to the right
reserved, would be 1,126,616 dollars and
44 cents, by 667,403 dollars
and 63 cents, the amount of the redeem
'"7 —So!»ifth!n«rar>re effjjftual than
this is certain!-/ dcliiable, and apnears to
be pra&icable.
The la£l of the three plans be£l accords
with the molt accurate view which the Se
cretary has been able to take of the pub
lic interest.
In its application it is of material con
sequence to endeavour to accomplilh theft
two points: I. The complete discharge of
the sums annually redeemable within the
period prefixed, and the reimbursement
within the fame period of all auxiliary
loans which may have been made for that
purpose. H. The confuting by the ex
piration of that period, a clear annual
fund competent to the future redemption
of the debt to the extent of the rijjht re
served.
The period to which it is conceived
the plan ought to refer, is the firft day
i3»12 ; htjai.fc bfrctt, i!>c firft
payment, on account ot the principal of
the dtferred debt, may rightfully be made.
In conformity to these ideas, the fol
lowing plan is mod refpedtfully submit
ted : Premising that the sum redeemable
for the firft year of the 6 per cent (lock,
bearing a present interest, ia computed at
550,000 dollars.
Let an annual fund be constituted, du
ring the present feflion, equal to 103,199
dollars and 6 cents, to begin to accrue
from the firft ofJanuary, 1793. —Let the
sum of 550,000 dollars be borrowed up
on the credit of this annuity, reiinburfe
able within five years, that is by the firft
of January 1799. The sum bo rrowed to
be applied on the firft of January 1794,
P a y me nt on account of the
prineipal of the debt.
The proposed annuity will reimburse
the fuin borrowed with interest by the
firft of January 1799, a "J will be thence
forth free for any further application.
The sum redeemable the second year,
that is on the firft of January 1795, is
computed at 583,000 dollars.
Let an annual fund be constituted du
ring the second feflion after the present,
equal to 109,391 dollars and 60 cents, to
begin to accrue from the fiift of January
1794. Ler the sum of 583,000 dollars be
borrowed Upon the credit of this annuity
reimburfeahle within five years, that is,
by the firft of Janaaiy 1800 ; the sum
borrpwed to be applied on the firft of Ja
nuary 1795, to the second payment on
account of the principal of the debt. The
proposed annuity will reimburse the sum
borrowed with interest by the firit of Ja
-1800, and will be thenceforth free
for any further application.
Tlie sum redeemable the third year,
that is, on the fij-ft of January 1796, is
computed at 617,980 dollars.
I>et an annual fund be constituted dur
ing the third fcffion, after the present,
equal to 115,955 dollars and 17 cents, to
begin to accrue from the lirft of January
1795. Let the l'um of 617,980 dollars
be borrowed upon the credit oi this annu
ity, reimburfeable within five years, that
is, by the firll of January 1801.
The sum borrowed to be applied on the
firft of January 1796, to the third pay
ment on accountoftheprinci; j! jfthedebt.
y
[Whole No. 578.]
ahe proptif L -;! ammiy will reiuiLupfc
the funri borrowed with iuceicft ty the i!t
of January, i3oi.
iHe sum redeemable the fourth year,
that ison the ill of January i 797, is com
puted at 655,058 dollars and 80 cents.
. Let an annual fund be conftitmed dur-
ing Ihe fourth session, after the prefeut,
equal to 1^2,912 dt.llaisand 48 cents ;to
to aeci uc from tli ■ ilt of January,
J Let the sum of 655,058 dollars
and 80 cents, be borrowed upon the cre
dit of this annuity, reimburfeable within
five years ; that is by the i!t of January
I 802. The Aim borrowed to be applied
011 the id of January 1797, to the fourth
payment on account ot the principal of
the debt.
Ihe proposed annuity will reimbuiTe
the sum borrowed with interest by the ift
of January 1802.
Tile turn redeemable the fifth year, that
in on the lit of January I*9B, is comput
ed at 694,362 dollars and 33 cents.
Let an annual fund be conftituttd dur
ing the fifth feflion, after the prcfcnt, e
qual to 152,743 dollars and 12 cents, to
begin to accrue from the ift of January
1797* Let the sum of 694,362 dollars and
33 cents be borrowed upon the credit of
this annuity, reimburfeable within four
years, that is by the 1 (I of January 1802.
The sum borrowed to be applied on the
Ift of January 1798 'he fifth payment
on account of the ptincipal of the debt.
The proposed annuity will reimburfe
the sum borrowed with interest by the ill
of January 1802.
The sum redeemable the fitxh year,that
is on the firft of January 1799 is comput
ed at 756,024 dollars and 7 cents.
Let an annual fund be conliitutcd dur
ing the sixth session, after the prelent,
equal to 197,680 dollars and 20 cents, tu
begin to accrue from the 1 ft January 1798.
Let the sum of 736,024 dollars and 7
cents, be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimburfeable within three yeats,
that is by the ift of January 1802. The
sum borrowed to be applied on the ill of
January 1799 to G*th payment 011 ac
count of the principal of the debt.
The proposed annuity will reimburse
the sum borrowed with interest by the ift
of January 1802.
The sum redeemable the seventh year,
that is, on the Ift of January 1800, is
computed at 780,185 dollars and 52
cents.
Let an annual fund be constituted dur
ing the seventh session, after the present,
equal to 272,848 dollars and 38 cents, to
begin to accrue from the ill of Januaiy
1799. Let the sum of 780,185 dollars
and 52 cents be borrowed upon the cre
dit of this annuity, reimbursable within
two years, that is, by the ill of January
1802. The sum borrowed to be applied
on the firft of January 180010 the feventli
payment on account of the principal cf
the debt.
The proposed annuity will reimburse
the sum borrowed with interest, by the rfl
of January 1802.
The sum redeemable the eighth year,
that is, on the ill of January, 1801, is com
puted at 826,996 dollars and 65 cents.
Let an annual fund be coallituted dur
ing the eighth session, after the present,
equal to 423,583 dollars and 64 cents, to
begin to accrue from the ift of January
1800. Let th c sum of 826,996 dollars
an<J cents be borrowed upon the credit
of this annuity, reimburfeable within one
year, that is, on the id of January 1802.
The sum borrowed to be applied on the
id of January 1801 to the eighth payment
on account of the principal of the debt.
The proposed annuity will reimbuife
the sum boriowed with interest on the lit
of Janua r v 1802.
The sum redeemable the ninth year,
that is, on the ift of January 1802, is com
puted at 1,126,616 dollars apd 44 cents.
The then existing means for the 'iifcharge
of this sum, arifingfrom the operation ui
the plan, will be
[SiV la ft f>age.~\Foreign Affairs.
LUXEMBURG, Auguftg
THE day b f >re vf'*"' dav,"ttv h.i if* brother
lo ihtk.n ;o! .ii'iC, rfturtuw frn-Ti
wy 10 rej u.i h: army of eui s m our pu-
vi nee.
Puvmus to entering the French territory,
he delivered the following dilcourle to the royal
army of the piinc. s :
44 Sirs, to-morrow, the sgih of Au«uft, we
enter France. The iuc< els of '.he
which areentruikd to us is con iW. ted wi'h the
events of thai day,and oui conduct mar decide
the late of Fiance.
" You are nut ignorant of the calumnies
which our enemies are intcffantly loading us
vith, and the care they take to infnmatc that
our tmuive* for returning to our country, is to
glut our private revenge,
" Ir is by your conduct, Sirs, it is by your
cordiality with which we reccive the wanderers
who fly to our protect.on. that we (hill prove
to Europe that the Noblefle cf France, more il
lustrious than ever from their mi fortunes and
conftaocv, can not only conquer their enemies,
but pardon the errors of their fellow c®untry
men.
" The powers with which we are entrufled
enable Os to make those demands which our in
terest and glorymay inspire ul to ; but we ad
dicts ourselves to French Ciicvaiicis, and tlv ir
hearts, filled with real honor, will never lorgrt
the duty which that njble fttiiiment inspires ■11
them."
T his city has become the perfect asylum of
chath, a d y due not p. fs in which carriages,
loaded with d.ad bodies, are not brought in;
and if reports may be credited, Thionvilie has
not colt the enemy less than 3000 men. The
blockade ol Montrmdi is ftt ll continued by
General Clasrlaiti The King of Prulfia's agents
are ordered to buy up provrfiMns at any pnee
whatever; but imtwii handing thn, th • many
numerous bodies cannot fail of producing a
fpecdy and inevitable fcaiciiy.
FRANKFORT, Sept 24.
/IffaJinMon oflhe Ki:;g of Prussia.
A ciriumilance has occurred here, which has
occasioned much alarm. On application front
the Prince of Condr, a person of the name of
I'Eveq'K, who is by ptofcffion a dcntill, and is
eftabhftifd at Strasbourg, has Skcii aoprehrnded
in conft-quencp of a difcoverv having been made
that he was engaged to affdffinate tlie Kin-' of
Pruflia. 0 .
This person has been employed profrflionally,
in the family ot the Duke ol Wui tcmhurg, and
attended the Dutchels in her late visit to the
Princess Ferdinand of PrulTia. Alter he was
laken into custody, he conf.-flcd the truth of (lie
charge—and added, that he had already received
fifty thouland livres, in part ot the reward which
had been promtfed him for the perpetration of
this horrid crime.
From the measures which are now taking, it
is probable that many additional patticuiais of
this biifmefs will foou be known. It may in the
mean time be considered as an additional evi
dence of the principles by which those aban
doned persons are afiuaied, who have usurped
the conduit ot arfansin Franco.
PARIS, September 17.
The defoi mity of vice, as somewhere observ
ed, i> fufficieut u> procure admirers to virtue.
From this principle, our modern philol'ophcri
are intent on representing their new libertv un
der all Ihe deformity of favagc liceniioufnefj, 111
order that theii disciples may hereafter be
brought to a due admiration of real libertv, as
confident with the happiness of society. Tins
is the only apology we can make for their Of
fering, not to fay encouraging ihofe horrid ciu
tlties which are daily dil'gracing every part of
France.
Every day brings accounts that the new mode
of luminary juflice has laken place in many
parts of the Kingdom. At Lyons all theprifnns
were oprned on the 8 h and loth, as they hail
been at Paris in the beginning of the month* and
the unf.utunaic prifoucrs execut d in ;he
mannel ; a co.ifirmaiion that llrS general mafla.
tie his be; n theeftrft of a concerted plan, and
not of a momentary madness of the people. But
what verv txtiaoidinary is. that finre this
umveifal jail-delivery at Paris, not above ten
days ago, ihere are more than 500 peifons ar
retted and put in prison withnutany legal a£t of
justice. Some arc put in by the aflembly of the
common council, others by the fcftions, and
others by private citizen?.
M. Roland, who we mufl do him the juftiee
to fay, items very attentive to the ju f ticc of the
kingdom, has rrprelenteri ihefe illegal proceed
ings loathe Assembly, and warmlv demanded
that proper mcafures may be taken for prevent
ing them.
The of eiiblVng is almost over at Paris;
for the fact is, there air fcair.e lelt any fub'e&s
to work. M:ny ol our taverns, coffer. h.>i'i fis,
shops, and in,iri'ifa6t')ncs, are flint up, p,,,,1 v
for want of cult im, an,l partly l, l)m a Wlillt ol
fcrvants and workman to attend the m.
The trenches round Parts are nuking a verv
rapid progress, tlv,u?,h we think there will be
Jcarce any ocofion to make use ol them at letlt
before next summer. One of our pat, tots In,,
indeed, taken eft: dual means to his
PrulTian Maji (\v horn anyfurth.r huftile '3c
figns : he has deoofited w,t!, the Alfrmblv twen
ty-five hvrrs, to b- paid to any man that w,II
bring one ol the King's cats, and promiled twen
ty-live Louts d'ois lor his wind, tiesd.
There has cert ..inly hen fomc cnVaaeroent
between t! c arm.cs; l ni , we conlrlV » f tJll _
pot find out from any ol the accounts re,:, tve.l.
which 1-aity have l„ en the conqnrrots. Alt we
fee is, that ciihe, P.ovidmoe has been very k:,ni
(o he French, or tltnr h„, v i, sup, nor j[, ft,,,
a i l ; whe,, «« l"«r or five
» killed in the .oionr, thee are as mj „ v |, u „.
oredi li on in th.- latter.
« As the detail of' those dreadful event,
which have happened in Paris the last week
cat, gratify no mind that deserves to be "rati'
fled, I fliall lay afi.le the intention I had form
ed ot g'VKig th«ir h'ttory, and l])are both voa
33d m r : t Vrecital of scenes which are so
in . to humanity. Even to those who
fee in to dcv I nothing but victims of ordina
ry j! ; ce, who e crimes the verditft of*no jury
CouM ::io.e fully iubftantiate, and whose pu
n llmumt on t not to be lamented from its
infomaHty ; to thofl? the continuance of such
a a > trs i'<mu*w!iat too ltrong, and
t.iey * iit the sword of vengeance fliould
now he ihe*thed. Whatever may we the hearts
of thole w*jo have conducted thisprofcription,
they have the fen e to fee that some other
fueling' than the love of publicjuftice may be
excited, tiujpe, in the murder of de la Roche
foucauit, ti>ey lament a man, wandering a
little thron di error from the true road of pa
triotism, bnt a fine ere friend of the revolution
and jof liberty. Tiiehandof lome inalsonant
aTafiin has taken advantage of this havoc to
gratify private revenge; the profcribers glo
rying in every other deed, but lamenting and
disavowing this. Every precaution is taken
to hinder the repetition of such outrages ; the
feclions have formed a general confederation
among themielves, and each citizen makes
bimfelf re r ponfible for the lofs'and property of
his neighbour; from the in which
this is arranged, together with the patroles
who watch over its execution, the tranquility
of the city is not likely again to be disturbed,
and the seditious are certain of being appre
hended, before any mischievous deiigns can be
carricd into effect.
" Roufleau has alferted, that a revolution
is gained at too high a price, if it costs the
loss of one citizen. This axiom is contemp
tible, because it induces abjedt fubini/fion to
the vilest deipotifm. Liberty may, however,
be purchased at too dear a rate, when honor
and justice are made the facrifice. The ge
neral abhorrence of the are
t.'ie cleateft proofs that both the nationrl ho
nor and justice remain unimpeached, .'ince
every exertion was made by the constituted
powers tc hinder the violation of either.—
Every friend to freedom molt lament, that
its traitors (hould fufl'eranv other punifhnient
than those inflicted by the law, which has, or
ou;;lt to have fufiicientlv avenging powers,
whilst tyrants only are left to all'affinatkins
and proscription.
" Let these who heap undiftinguiflied in
famy on tie iv.tion for this act, if they are
willing to believe it the ast of the nation, re
flect, that li ice the revolution of 17f>9, tiiou
fands have fallen in defence ot those princi
ples which the treason of the court have now
made the principles of any man who has any
attachment to liberty. Let h ; m recoiled, on
the one fide, the maifacres at Nantz, Nifmes,
Montauban, Avignon, Catpentras, and the
Champ de Mars, where the pureit blood was
spilt by the Court and the ariitocraev ; wbilft,
previous to tiiis event, only one man n.-.dbeen
condemned, »nd very tew had fufFered from
the rage of tile people.
" It should be remembered also, that with
the concurrence, nay, with even the itwjta
tion of this court and the ariflocracy at iiojfie,
one hundred and thirty thoul'and Prussians,
Auftrians, Ruffians, and emigrants, had en
tered France; that the Duke of Bru.ifwick
had threatened death to the flighted refiiUnce
and his followers had given serious fpeciinens
of the modes in which they would inflict it, by
cutting off the lioles and ears of the men, and
nailing the lail to their heads; and beiides the
ordinary and allowed cruejties to women,
cutting olf their breasts, and murdering the
infants, &c. that this army was ou its march
to the capital, and had already taken the only
two forts that lay directly on its way ; that
at this moment, the exultation of the arifto
cracv in Paris, became as unbounded, as its
discovery at this time was imprudent, that to
repel rbofe invaders, not only the federates
who were in Paris, but con.lderable detach
ments ot the citizens were preparing to
march, leaving to the meicy of internal foes,
the fate of their and children; under
these repeated provocations, and influenced
by fears which appeared so well rounded, it is
not to be wondered at that so little resistance
was made at firft, to those whose refoiution
had b»en fixed for 10:11 c days to make so ter
rible an example, and in puniihing the guilty
now, furuifh motives to others not again to
provoke so dreadful a vengeance."
L O N D O N, September 17.
The count-, Horn, De Ribbing, Li jenhorn,
and Etrenfchwardt, who were accomplices
with Ankerflroem, in killing the King of
Sweden, have palTcd through Copenhagen in
tneii- way to Italy. Notwithftarding their
endeavors to remain unknown, Count Horn
was recognized at Helfinbourg, and the peo
ple a flailed him with stones, by which, how
ever, he was only slightly wounded in the
foot.
, „. La „ dy who ex ce"s in what Fielding calls
the flip-flop language, in a letter to a friend
from Margate, fay's, " that, though the place
J", upon the whole vast agreeable, the sea-air
has given her a tendency to a little impu
dent fever."
Societencincd is Lord Macartney tp
the hmperor ot China every information're
lative to the state of the Art., and Sciences i„
this country, that the lift fteet of the Philo-
I ot'nn T r r an T not P rintcd when his
Lo.dfltt,, .eft London, ot, Saturday sent
aftei hini to Portiinoutii !
Li the time of Lewis XI Vth one hundred
thoufund Frenchmen took refuge iu this coun
try query are thee more or lets „ 0 w >
PmrVlT'i "\ D ,hat U " b «Mo U s
h s I T ""fortunate
as a ' , ' ' ol> - itas ' 1 " " ,c <P«" "f hismufe ,■
* , ljr "; C in P ; ' ,n '. we men,ton hts douohtv
1 r' ,billy of China.—A tnca'urc
d,iK,e,l hy |i ,,, r 1 and enlighten- d poli cv
" >v, <c,l in 11 s etf, Cts nuy be productive of f
ssr™...al a.tvanta g e,_,h. 1 t Per,,' O 1,.
hc ,norc ,hc cbullttions'of
tabbed tcmpcr.tha.t.LeproduQionsofgciu,.
222
AUGUSTA, (Georgia) Nov. 17.
On Monday last the Circuit Court of the
United States for this diftricl, was opened by
the Hon. Thomas Johnson, one of the AfToci
ate Justices of the Supreme Court of the Unit
ed States, and the Hon. Nathaniel Pendleton,
Dill rift Judge of this diftrift.
Four persons, v.*!.o failed from Eofion to
the liland of Martinique, and from thence to
Savannah in May last, were indi&ed and tried
for stealing on the high seas, near the Island
ot Martinique, a number of negroes, belong
ing to inhabitants of that Island; Samuel
Skinner, of Boston, who was supercargo of the
veiiel, and who appeared'to b®
was found guilty by rliejury, on.his own con
fedion, upon the 16th section of the law for
the purifhm'fnt of certain crimes again il the
United State*, and was feotence'd to receive
thirty-nine laihes, to pay a fine of one hun
dred dollars, all lawful charges of the profe
cutlon, and to stand committed till the Sen
tence was complied with. The other three
prisoners, to wit: Nathaniel Hickman, Ro
bert Watts, and Nathaniel Ridgeway, were
acquitted.
Samuel Skinner, pursuant to the above
mentioned sentence, was, on Wednesday last,
publicly whipped at the Market-house in this
town.
We are informed that a party of white man
from the frontiers of this (late, has of late
made an incursion to the Cherokee nation,
burnt one of their towns, and killed three of
their people—That two of seven Indians of
the aforefaid nation, who had been invited in
to the ibttlemeffts to hold a friendly talk con
cerning the late murders by Indian*-, were
killed a£Warc9smill, in Franklin county, and
a the fame time wounded. These
traniacrions are, no dot.bt, considered by the
doers of them, as striking the balance on Ja
va ge account—it is however aJFuining a great
deal, (to leave humanity and policy out of the
qucftion) for individuals to take u;jon them
lelves to judge (and carry into execution that
judgment) on matters which involve the ge
neral tranquility.
HA R T F O R D, December 3.
A correfphndent retnarks that nothing exhi
bits the human character in a m»re degrading
view, than the violeni attacks made upon the
V ice-Preiident and the Secretary of the Treasury.
That men so bold and diftinguifhcd in the cause
of America during the late icvoluion, so up
right, ingenuous, able, and indefatigable in efta
blilhmg a fyft?m of government and finance for
th? United States, and so much efteeaied and
refprfted bythegr'-at body of enlightened Ame
ricans, that fui ii men fbould be continually abu
lcd, ceniiircd and vilified by a little jattion of
zvtonghcadsy and avowed enemies to the prcfent
ccnftuuticn ot the United States, which has, in
ihiee yeais time, raised us from a wretched
stare of aifcord, and rescued our national cha
ra&er from infamy, is a fa£l no lets surprising
then degrading to humsfl nature.
But why abuse the Vicc-pufiderif, that oro
founcl ftatelman—that ilr.-dy pqtriot ? Why
abuse the Sccrctary of the Treasury, that di/c. i n
infe upright and pcrftver:ng financier ? Dues
not America rifteafy and fatislicjd with bis ad
miniftratioc ? Let the enemies of our peace be
a (lured that if the u>ijejl oj their leaders were pla
ced at the head of the Treafuiy department, he
uouU not dare to change the prrfent f\jiem of _/f
---tiavce. No man who knows the attachment
which the mass of fublUntial Americans have
for that ryfiem, and their determination is well
a- their powerto support it, would venture uuon
the hazardous cxjMiimrnt, The man or men,
who (hak< put lie credit or overthrow the fyf
tcm thit fupporis it, will be crushed in its ruin;.
For the GAZETTE of the UN ITED STATES.
To the LADIES or PHILADELPHIA.
NOTHING has tended more to abate the
influence of the fair sex on the manners
ot men, than the prevailin; pradfcice of card
plaving. Formerly, the character of the ate
was principally conformed to the nature of
their favorite occupations, war and hunting.
The foftneßand fine polity of French man
ners, is corißfledly swing to the women
But cards have flopped the progrefj of this
gentle power, and it is doubtful whether we
are not going backward radier than forward.
Talents are cultivated in proportion as they
are valued. It'a Lady has any thin? to fay"
it would interrupt V.'h'ft to fiiy it. If fte has
nothing to fay, the vacancy oi her mind mav
be concealed at the card-table. Wit and fen
ttment are babbling intruders there. They
are unheard, or heard only to disturb the va
cant solemnity of that pantomime Icene. The
potven of converlation rust for want of use
' ' lrds level the diftinAions of undemanding
and education. A common plea ior cards is
they relax the mind when it is overstrained by
attention to bafinef:. This is true enough,
for a,game or two, played for amufemeut and
not for money. But to play for money, is
ftraimng the miod again—it brings up un
friendly and mciti paflions—it makes beauty
and wit feebie by raising up a set of rival e
motions—the fear of ioiing and the hope of
gam. Ihe queen of trumps seems to the
gambler more sparkling than the queen of
hearts—and in fact we fee that a i.ian tired
of business, rerts himfelf by getting more tired
of cards. He plays till midnight, fill his head
akes, h;s temper is soured, his patience and
his money gone, and an itch for play is co—
trailed, winch brings him every ni.rht to the
gaming-table to lose more money, till lie has
neither money nor merit left.
It depends on the Ladies, and the Ladies
only, to keep this vice, the rival of their
c.iarms, out ofpoiire company. Tboie who
have sense and beauty, e'c iuterefted to do
it; and they are the per'ons to pre/cribe the
regulations oi" manners with the nicll urd-i
---puted authority.
Hoon will lc fuilija. i
the S Y_H r E KI OF
&'/oxt-ffland,
used by Mr.LLoYD, ,n .ak,ngd„w„ ( he Debate,
O Congress. A fyfteni so ealy, t,„t any man ,
n ,?, r hiu' y ? pdC " y ' ,n<i y elvai ly comprehend
t . ball an honi, an,, soon p rJ t„( c U1
n left extent without any i urlh( . r ln |tn,cuon,
than what will b convey.,! a f ew s _
/iJrX r , ART com P" fcd
Jiapu ihaiacicrs, without any of those utiniex.ti .
arbitrary matkl, with wh.n the li
are ohl ged to bu.dtntnet, me
mory, and cmbarrafi their prafttce.
Price to Sublcribera, 0»c Dollar-- 0 Non
ourKcrihi rs, a Dollar and haij,
Sunfcriptiot'i received b, MelTr,. Rice, Book,
fellers, Jvl.irk t- Itreet, and by
His n?/ HN C i AK S Y ' Nv " 26 '
' " " 1,1 the tin, „/
ADV£RTISEM£NT.
Between f),r'mi„T . n
Willi™ iiiplcy l n lhe high Court olCh® nee*
Complatnam, V ry of the State ul N ew .
johnMeng ar ( d o. Jerfcy.
then Defendants. ' p rr J ln
His Excellency the Chancellor.
HPHE Complainant having filed his bill of
■A Complaint againlt the Defendants :n the
month ol September, fevemeen hundred and
nrneiy-one, and .n the laid Billof Compiaiiit riwl
among other things set forth that the ,i d Com.
pi*mam oeing leizcd in his Dem lne aj of fee
of and ma certain Trafl of Laud, Lid to coutatn
•line hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
being ,n the townltiip ot Hardwick ,n the coun
ty of S'lll-x ,n the State of New.Jcrfcy, aid on
the fir it o. Man h Ic.entecn hunded and cighty
five, bargain fell and convey the Tame in fee fim.
pi' unto John Mt-ng and John H'ndctfon ot the
cuv of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, lor the confident ion ot One Thou
fd id Six Kuudrt d Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That on ,be filth day ol the fame month of
March the said leoflees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed 0 f Mou
gac;c ir fee fin)pie ol the said Trait of Land o
teenre the payment of the f.id Kxtecn hnndr.d
pounds, with the lawful intfrell which nrnht
thereon accrue-that in the year fevemeen him
drcd and eighty-fix the laid John Meng and
''"am Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in lhe intent and mrani igof the a&s of the Le
gislature of the Commonwe;lth of Pennsylvania,
and Inch proceedings were had against them that
in the fame month they were duly declared
Bankrupts; and that they the said John Meng
ana W iiliam Goodwill did in some short time
afterwards convey and transfer all their cfbu
both real and pcrfonal, and particularly all their
ngnt and title to the premises above mentioned
to John I'ield, Curtis Clay, Jamei C. fifher,
Jfaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
all of the city ol Philadelphia, fubjea to the
Mortgage so as aioiefaid g'veo to the i:.:d Com.
the faiu John Field, Cuius
Ciay, Ja lies C. fifher, Ila t .c Wnarton, Jo:iu
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
aud in the said Tract of Land unto Benjamin
Toy/n of the city ol Philadelphia, and John
Tov. n, fubj- fcf to the Mortgage aljrcfud —That
on the eighteenth day ol OQober ftv, nteen hun
dred and eighty-five, the laid John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute anoth,r Mortgage
to the f«iid \1 iiliam Shipley for securing the paj
ment ol twelve hundred pounds in certain 11.-
Ilallments—That in the month c 1 January seven.
teen hundred and ctglity.fix, Joliu Town did
bargain and fell in lee simple all hu and
Title to the laid piemil'es, t > the said B.nj inia
Town, fubjetl to tne Mortgagee aforefaici—That
in the month of February leveniaen hundred and
eighty-eight, the f.id 3ei;j amin Town did con
vey 21 1 h's Right and '1 itle to lhe laid premises,
i° John F.eld and Curtis Clay of tht city of Phi
ladelphia, upon ccrtam Trulls unknown to the
Complainant—That the said Benjamin Town
soon alter became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Ptnnlylva
r.ia, did convey all h«seftate r-rl and pcrfonal
to a certain Robert Ralfton— That John Hen
derfon did also in the month ol September seven
teen hundred and beicine a Bank
rupt, and under the bankrupt Jaws of the State
ol Pv-nnfylvania, did and convey all his
eftae real and pctlonal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Ciarkf.n, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doth in
and by his said Bill, pray that those hiivirg
Right to tht laid Ellatc may be decreed to pay
him what i? due on the (aid Mortgages, or that
the equity oi Redemption be forclofed by Uie
Decree oi this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by Richard Stockton, Esquire, being of the com*-
plainants counsel—it appearing to the Court
that the fa id defendants do reside in the Stai«
of Pcunfylvania, without the iurifdi£tion of this
Court; and it appearing further to this Court
that wi its of subpoena have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this that the said
writs of fubpaena have been duly served upon
the f.iid fever. 1 .1 Defendants upwards of one
year from this day ; and that none of the said
Defendants hjve caused h;sor their appemnc#
»a he entered in this Court iu the furt of the said
Complainant : It is therefore ordered by h-s
Kxccllency the Chancellor, th2t the said De
fendants do cause their appcaiance to be «ntered
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules of ihss Court in two months from
this day, or that the Plaintiffs bill be taken pro
coulcfTo agreenbly to the diiedions of the a£tof
the Leg-flature in such cafe made and provided.
■ —The Complainant giving notice and making
publication of th s rule as in and i>v the said att
of the Leg'.fl.'tun: ij. provided.
WILLIAM PATERiON, Chancellor.
Decctjiltr ijly 1792.
(CQ.'Yj
TO Be tULD iiY THE EDUOR,
A TABLE for receiving and paying Gold—
graduated according to Law—ii!ank Manifefts—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
luceffiry 111 tranfa&ing Buuncfs at th« Treafmy ft
at the Bank of the Upucd Stale#.
*CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, December ro.
The petition of Isaac Potts was read, dating
that his premises were occupied on account of
the public during the late war, and considerable
damage sustained, for which he has not received
any compenfatioa, and praying relief—laid on
the table.
Mr. Williamfon of the committee appointed
for the purpofreported a bill to amend the a&
entitled " an ail to promote the progress of the
ufeful arts," was read twice, and referred to a
committee of the whole house on Monday next,
—ioo copies to be printed.
Mr. W. Smith of the committee appointed for
the purpose, reported a bill to eftablilh a uni
form system of bankruptcy throughout the Uni
ted States; read a firft and fccond time, and re
ferred to a committee of the whole on the second
Monday of January next—4oo copies were or
dered to be pruned,
A letter was read from the Secretary of War,
tncloflng sundry communications relative to In
dian affairs from the Governor of Georgia. Some
of these were documents refpeifting certain vio
lences and murders committed by some of the
whse people 011 ch>:£ueiidlj Indians of the Che
rokee natien; a proclamation by the Governor
for bringing the delinquents to juflice; a friend
ly talk from the Governor to the Cheiokees;
and a copy of his orders to march a body of men
to proted those Indians which have been want
only attacked. These were read and laid on the
table.
Amotion being made, and agreed to, to take
into consideration the confidential meflage of the
President of the United States, received by the
Hnufe on Friday last—it was ordered that the
galleries (hould be cleared.
TUESDAY, December 11
After reading a report from the Secretary
ef the Treafurv, on a private petition. A
motion being made and agreed to far going
into a com 111 if tee of the whole on the
from the President of the United States—the
doors of the gallery were fiiot, and so conti
nued during Ihe day.
Philadelphia, Dec. 12.
Extratt of a letter date A Dunkirk. Oflober 2, to a
Mertartilv koufe in this tity.
u The war has approached so near us, as
to he within tie found of cannon in a still
oifrht,tlie city oi Lille,about miles from us,
being befiegefl. Lille, it is said, can sustain a
siege oflix mouths—that is the /ujl Jlrong bar
rier near us in Flanders
The ingenious Mr. Pierce, of Paterfon, (N.J.)
has invented a gimcrack., for exfroiling the Iced
of Carolina cotton from the wool, by which
much manuJ labor is saved. With this ma
chine, it ;* fa'J, one man will clean seven hun
dred weight per day.
A New Yovk paper fays, 11 A gentleman of
who is an inhabitant of, and late
ly from Kingfto:!. formerly Cateraqua, in Upper
Canada, allures us, that the people of that terri
tory arc very dt'fi-ous of having the prohibition
«>n trad- with the United States taken off; and
that their request bring made known to Gover
nor Simroe, he readrlv complied with ir. Their
trade will be by the Wcltern Lakes and the Mo
hawk.
A Humming Bird is now living in Mr.Peals's
Mufeunt.
The Eleftsrs of Present and Vice-Prefi
«knt of the United Stare , who met at Har
riiburgh, Pennsylvania : were unanimous *in
their#choice for George Washington, and
all but one for John Adams.
The Elefton of Maryland, we are told,
fcave been unanimous in choosing George
Washington and Joh;j Adams, President and
Vice-President of the United States.
The Electors of Prefldent and Vice-Piefi
dent for tie State of Conne<stieut, hare voted
unanimously for the Gentlemen who now sus
tain those offices.
The Lle<slors of New York have given an
Unanimous vote for George Washington
and George Clinton, as Prcfident and Vice-
Prefidentof the United States'.
common field nutle*, prepared
in the fame manner a& flax, wtll yield a thread
capable wrought into durable cloih.
Thionvilh* is another Gibialtar ; the Aullri
an<: four large 'floating-bait-ric s,
* hich they flet fa!) down the MofeJle; when
r ppcfite the town, they were received by a hot
*»re. so well <3;r fted, that in a few minutes thty
Were frnt a'l tothe bottom, and every man on
board pcrifhed. It has cod the Auftripns about
£00 men to qet poflefiion of a hill which com
mands the uiwn. On th»s place ihey ereftcd
c >ght b?.ttcries, which the gariifon Tallied fonh
fnd deftro> ed.
General Vend-.'merfch, who bore so confoi
fuoui a part mi the war of the Brabancon Pa
triots, in the year 1790, died at his feat near
in F!ander,b, on the 14th Sept.
lo Ins friend in A, ui jitdford, dated
Odnber the cM, let ivedp:r i/ie krig M./ry.
As to public matters, fonv things are
too horrible to relate, particularly th.-dread
ful maflccrt in 1,. -~ The abomii, ible in
fi. ument that let this on foot, is a member of
the national convention j and I am Lejjicsd
to find that almr.it the whole affembjy are dif
gu£ied at Iks being one oi their body Great
le verity has bee,, poun d out upon him there,
and many call tor a decree of accusation a
gau.lt him ; but others I Bp p refct .„ d s cari ng
it will make too treat a bnftV, h-,e it
by for the prelent. The delations oV nar
ajjproadnn ! L'flv i b;£ e g«J by 3,,-co ' u'-
trians. It it a ftron? cit'v, 48 nilieTfroTn
this : 1:1 It'll weather, the report oftheir can
non are heaid here. It isfopppftd, if no trea
chery takes place, to he able to withtfaud a
siege of many month?, oppoled to an army of
"f-- men - T ' ,e 'ft ' n ft. 6000 women and
children were fentont of the town. The ene
my have thrown into Lisle jxi,oTolb. of iron
— .ave erected 9 batteries „f 6 guns each,
cai rying babs from Ij to 33 1b. Liile has fen?
them m return 57,033 cannon balls—have loft
131 men, and too houses burnt. The mod
horrid part of this f. ege is out of r- e common
line of war The Anftriaos oblige the rei,h
bor.ng peasants to work on their trenches
and fortifications, erecting in the front and
molt exposed part of the army, where many
of the poor creatures arc killed bv t', e ; r own
friends and fellow fubjefts. Or. tT-e n,Vht of
the 2d, 6000 frefh troops were threwn into
the town ; and in two days many more will
be in its neighborhood.
All the fire engine? are Tent offfroni this
town ior thatcity, to afiift i„ extingmihing
the fire kindled by the red hot balK ' it is
da ly expeOed that Spain and all Germany
wi I tsclare war against: France. The diet
of Kauiton is funpofed to have concluded .>-i
tins merJiire. ; s marching her forces
from Poland
" Switzerland, it is feared, will be added
to the number on account of thelare inhuman
m.ii]acre of a great many of their officers ;
and France has declared against the Xing of
Sardinia, and has marched an army into his
dominions : His army has fled before them,
and many of the towns have opened
gates, and-defircd to be under the French go
vernment : But they have declared against
" for Conqtieft," they p>©pcfe only Jet
ting the people free from their king, and for
themselves to form a republic, or any other
government, except a monarchy, they may
choose. ihe anlwer of the municipality of
Lille to t ;e Du»ce Albert of Saxotn, when
f uinmoned to turreuder the town, cleferves to
he preserved—« We have sworn a few hours
ago, to remain faithful to the republic ; to de
fend with all our force and powers. Freedom
and Equality, or to die at our poll \y e
are not perjurers.; Spartans' could not
fcavc cirti' _»red batter."
Extr ac T from the Governor's Speech, delivered
to both h'oujes of the Legijlatuit on Friday lajl.
" I announce to you, Gentlery»en, with pe
culiar pleafu. e,the execution of the law which
provided for the redemption and extinguifli
ment of die debts. As soon as overtures
were made for purchaiing the requisite amount
of the 3 percent, fteck of the United Slate?,
belonging to Pennsylvania, at the rate ilipj
lated by the a<st of afTembly, I issued t: e regu
lar notification to the public creditors, r.nd
you will perceive, from a particular report of
the transaction, which is prepared for your
information, that tiie sales, fcf this object,
have amounted to 986,000 dolJars; which, at
the average price of 12 1-16 in tie pound.has
produced the specie sum of 593,201 dollars &
I cent; that the aggregate of the debts alrea
py redeemed amounts to the sum of 548,988
dollars and 13 cents ; and that there remains
(allowing for certain contingencies) in the
Treasury, the sum of 72,201 dollars and 50
cents, to answer the further operation of the
redemption law, and such new appropriations
as you {hall be pleased to direift. I have found
it impracticable, however, on the terms pre
scribed, to vest any part of this iurj iu°. in the
flock of the bank of North Arnen'cu, accord
ing to the view anddifpofition of t'le Legisla
ture.
u Thus honorably disencumbered from the
pecuniary obligations, that were incurred in
consequence of the late war ; the honest price
of our independence j I cannot conceive (as I
have before suggested) any situation of politi
cal prosperity and affluence, furpajling that
which the citizens of Pennsylvania are invited
to enjoy. From that part of the we ast hof
the community, which conftfts in the debt of
the United States, there will, notwithstanding
the recent diminutions of the capital (reduc
ing it to the eltimated amount of about
167,000 dollars in fix per cents, 187,000 dol
lars in three per cent::, and 218,000 dollarsin
deferred fiock) arise an income, which, toge
ther with the product of the ordinary and per
manent revenues, will be fufficient to defray
the expences of government, and toprofecute
any rational objects of public
Our unliquidated demand against the Union,
may, at the fame time be confdercd, as pro
mising an acce,jfion of productive property;
for, although nothing can be precifeJy ascer
tained in this refpeft, until the final settle
ment of all claims of the sister states, the a
gent, on b-half of Pennsylvania, allures me,
that our accounts boar a favorable afpeft, and
that he has reason to believe, that the princi
pal charges which they exhibit, stand, at pre
sent, in a state of approbation. In addition
to these funds, the arrearages of taxes (a
mounting, exclusively of the known exonera
tions, to the sum of about 537> QO ° dollars)
form a considerable, though, from the nature
of the fubjeft, a temporary resource; and the
operations of the land-oiiice (which, liage the
223
m , ' 4 v A v, 1791, i.ave luought, cf
Ipecie and cc'tiric&tes, a ium e:;c;:-dn;,;
-i 2,0-3 dolors Into the trcu'.u y) may be re
gained with tic mo ft f.inguiiit expectation of
benefit arid'emoiunient.''
" Soon,,very soon, the iift of patriots that
now adorn the theatre of American politics,
and have a claiui to the confidence of their
fe;low citizens, by the hazard-, they encoun
tered in atchieving their Independence, will
be buried with the daft—ami if we can readily
beheve that fucli characters are regardless of
the public interest; those, whofucceed them,
may .» loreeafily be considered as me e panctei s
f;.. the - own bale end';—a with
the pre feu!*, would not probably be followed
try a freer government, but by one that might
l.iM'ifice the liberty and property of the nii»n>
to the lew.
" 7 ' u 't the fuuding fyjlcm ar.d nationa,' bunk wilt
eventually involve the country in almcjl irretrieveabie
calamits niuft be conildered as a prophecy,
the fulfillment c( whidh no good citizen can
wifli, and ol Which no evidence is adduced, or
appears—At present, the cojiltant employ oi
every mechanic—the plenty of our market,
and the increa/ed demand for our {hipping ;
the cultivation of our lands in the country,
and tl)e improved appearance of our houses
in the city, lojudly proclaim that our fituatioa
is prosperous.— And if there be any thing that
di(covers thb to be a delulion', or the phantom
of a dream, hey ought to offer good evidence
before our aflent is demanded against the con
viction of oar terfes." [Coltimb. Lentinel.^
l< God hath done great things for us "
Peace within our walls—Health in every
breeze—l he earth yielding abundant plies
—-Paftnres clothed with flocks—Vallles co
vered over with corn—The Tea refignirg its
treasures—Commerce unfolding her (lores—
Civ'l freedom securing political happiness—
toleration pointing tounivcrfal con
c" —Manufacture?; daily increaling—Arts
Iprejrling theinfeives abroad—-Science great
lyencouraged—Unitedly aik the afcripticois
ot gratitude to GOD : And the bbfoni that
fvclls not with Praise, must be iafenfib'e to
all the feelings, which adorn human nature.
COMMUNICATIONS.
I 4" /liould Teem by the unceasing murmur-
Ings of some people, that the aflairs of the
public cannot be well managed, so lonf, aS their
individual prosperity is not particularly pro*
moted. The general prosperity of the coun
try is, with such per foil s, no indication of
wisdom in its public council?.
Four year? are nearly closed since the meet
ing of the firil Congress under the New Con
ftitutior.—from that time to the present, the
world ha*s been perpetually amufecl with dark
and di'l ial cefcriptions of " woes m emhrio
ripening into life," for tlii-5 devoted country.
7 *>•! ■ i"v s+svt? Lkuu -nearly crtinjAiat.o'4
thro' the Union—-and, alas, alss, forcl'e anti
federal spirit of prophesy, its credit mun be
in a mofr pitiable cafe. The people are so
uncoinpiaifarit, they are so honelt and plain
hear ted—and so true to their own federal
feelings, that the croakings, forebodings, in
fiuuations, lies and flinders oi'thofe, who de
clared that they would have " a change of men
at lea ft, if not d change of measures," appear
to be totally disregarded.
What can more fully evince the funeral ap
probation of the people of public measures,
than repeated re-elections of their representa
tives, the great deliberative council of the
nation ?
But perfect peace is no more to be expected
than perfect wiidom. Hence the scythe of
time, which lops off the. rank shoots of the
weed l ?, which are occafionafty seen in
luxuriant American foil—leaves many bitter
roots, which will he springing up at all times
and seasons—and biennially we may expe&
thev will a flume a front and importance c..»-
and alarming for a time—but so long
as the people arc just, wife and fteadv, Party
in the United States will ever be u porten
tous to itleif alone."
The men influenced by political and ava
ricious views difgraceful to the American
name and character, took advantage of the
ileep into which the people were luK'ed by the
quiet and orderly eib biifhme-nt of our new
government, to low t'ie tafjes of monarchical
principles and predatory Speculations in the
fields where pottlic juflice and public happi
ness were obe . eap.xl. Hence have Sprung
up the Jcif.ionablt do^rrines, that the people
are not the proper keepers of their own liber
ties, that mankind cannot govern themlelves,
that hereditary dignities,pecuniary influence,
?nd military force only, are the only means
whereby they can be kept in nereffarv disci
pline and obedience ; chat public debts are
public bleftings, &;c. with many other exotics
not left poifoneus to the spirit of our repub
lican conflitntions, and the manly independ
ent character of American citizens-. Time
his scythe is mowing down t! cfe nox
ious weeds, and the occasion calls upon all who
Jove liberty and the public good to unite in
rooting them out of our country.
As an enlightened people will seldom or ne
ver be governed or controukd in their politi
cal affairs, by mereprofeffing patriots, without
personal honor ard p-obitv—fo, on the other
hand, artful and unprincipled seekers will
praise the public virtue and intelligence in
exa& proportion to that want of difcernir.ent
and ignorance Which they realize to be the
only tenure on which they ho'd the public fa
vor. Hence you mny observe that limplc,
feafible plans of. diffufim; knowledge among
the great body of the people, are generally
loft, by being overihadowed by plans totally
impracticable from their magnitude. This
r.!;»a.-ikaVnty cn.ftittito- t'c-ii- csceße*.-
' wi '" e s-'.t !! t:ii io
IS""' ante,
tlUr ■ r""
t.. . c,,,,rk a,! ill. t, R . fi: - c _
...cat; o-, ft,-.* .4 the u,i-A p; i
ples ol treed,) u am: civil pnl c\ ->•!„. „• ,
tliL'ic ri.'lii.v uro'e'ii; ei tie
v arm in oi mperhci:il rnimj ,< , T tl.t laWi- de
ductions of unprincipled ruphifc, w ;
tfif faced r.sinc • f (,»
to t!ie purport-, of individual ..;;P /...i
iuit of |KlVfr. '
education alr.i:; cieates the grc , , df
ierence »•.«! inequality in tie relative lira ru
ftai.ces 8f Inarfkir.d, when j a r>i:-,lv e,.j
so the general diiFufion of fcnov r imott"
the people is tl.e only adequsre foundation c'.'j
which t.ie fabric of equal 1 ightscan be- reared.
The materials of Ijuppinefa are perhaps
u-thin the reach of every country—but if
l:ke the United States previous t . the opera
tion of tiie general government, thu/e mate
rials either lie dormant,or are converted into
muniments '>f diftmion, tUud and iujuftitt
reflection embitters puo'ie misery, 'while it
tantalizes the people for their want of wildom
to improve the means of liappinels, obviou'ly
within their power.
Fkihddpkia, Dec. 10, 1792.
At a meeting of the Ibsukanqs Company
of North. America, held this day at the Stat
e the following gettiemen were eledted
Dneftors, viz.
Jofeph^jl],
Thomas L. Moore,
Magnus Miller, John Roft,
Michacl Prager, William Cramond. ,
John M. Nefbit, Walter Stewart,
Sam. Blodfjct, jun. John Leamy,
Matt. M'Contiell, John Swanwick,
Movlan John Barclay,
Ciia:'!es Petit,
ESENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
M. de la Fayette appears to be equally the
aveilion ot the Ariftocrnts and Leveller,both
of the old world and the new—lt is well
known that the French Aristocrats in Ann
nc.i, as well as in Kurops have always corf,
dered lnm as the enemy of every species < f
tyranny—whether of the one, the few or the
many—There have not been wantingtbo ein
thi: country who have attempted to blast his
reputation as the friend of man—and a foreiia
paper informs us that the emigrants at Lux
emburg, attempted to force his apartments
in Shut city—which were at that time not ia
a cattle, but in a private houie—they were
however prevented.
EXTRACT.
" Ignorance is equally the friend of a rfef
potic arid the enemy of * free goveri ment •
wiiCii veiled with puv, e* it i,s tUo tttdft danfe
rowt ,"><? that can attack . ;.r liberties. Vet
how oiten may it entwining tiie laurel
of fancied merit aroitnd the brow of comKifior..
Ed hot,or, and trampling under its feet the 1110 ft
facied rights of man."
The Tables referred to in the Report
of the Secretary of the Treasury lhall appear
in our next.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED# the PORTa/PHILADFI PHIA.
'Sh:p Robert, Jacobs, London
Ncftor, Biikeit, Jamaica
Bug Mercury, Gardner, Si. Croix
Lydis,
Sch'r »it ndlliip,
Sloop Lark,
Chsncc,
Vanfiie,
Cai ver,
Burrows,
Babcoik,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 perCer.ts, a o/j
3 per Cents, ,ij
Deferred,
FulWhares Bank U. S. 40 per ccrit, prem,
'& IWer, 50
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town ot Alexandria
i'nd in a line of direttion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view ot each place,
commanding * profptd of the river and adjacent
country ot Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about .4501 50 acres of Land, lying d:-
reftly on tlie nver, will be fold, with the im
provements, which arc, a two-story framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finifhed, a kitchen, office,
buck smoke-house and dairy, two-story framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ict
houfe, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other no
ceffary improvements ; the whole of the tand
enclofcd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass, Its
contiguity to those three towns must render it an
objett worthy the attention of any perPtn who
wishes to invert money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid io
creafe ol the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies Nearly in a
ccmrai fitoatiqn to each place. The Poiowmack
a? tlvs'fpor has a fine deep (hore and harbour,
capable of receiving vefTHs of any burden. It
may not be improper to observe, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
Wafning'oji and the Maryland fhort-s leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.— Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will fait well to supply the above in
wood and timber. 'J he iitlr may be seen to the
above property, which is indifputablc, and terms
known by application tq the fubfetiber, living
011 the preniiics.
BALDWIN DADS.
Capc-Francoi*
Boston
St. Martins
N. Carolinalit. The amount of the jfftiuity conili
tuted the' third year, which will have been
liberated by rvimbui fitment of the third
loan.
2d. The arrears of interest not previ
ously appropriated, and which are com
puted at 200,000 dollars. There will con
ff que fitly be a deficiency this year of
810,661 dollars and 27 cents, which will
require to be luppiied by a temporary
loan to be reimbursed out of the surplus of
the fund which on the lit day of January
1802 will exilt for future redemptions,
and which surplus will be fufficient to re
niburfe this temporary loan in aboat thir
teen years and an half.
It may be proper to rematk, that this
deficiency upon one year, is fuffered to
txiit to avoid an unncceffary augmentati
on of revenue, materially beyond the film
permanently requilite. No inconvenience
cnfues, because this temporary deficiency
is rtiade up by the surplus of the perma
nent fund, within the period mentioned.
And that fund, from the 111 January 1802,
is, adequate to all future redemptions, in
the full proportion permitted by the con
trail.
The table in the schedule B, herewith
submitted, will (hew in one view the prin
ciples and operation of this plan.
T)ie schedule C will exhibit the means
of constituting the feveial annuities pro
pofed-to be established. From it, will be
seen, that the proposed annuities are to be
compofl-d, partly of taxes to be fucceflive
ly laid, at the refpeftive periods of cre
ating them, partly of the surplus dividend
to be expected on the (lock belonging to
the government, in the bank of the Unit
ed States, beyond the interest to be paid
on account of it, and partly of the funds
heretofore pledged for the payment of in
terest, which will have been liberated up
on so much of the debt, as will have been
extinguished.
The refpe&ive amounts of the taxes to
I>e severally laid, will be:—ln the firft
year 43,199 dollars and 6 cents ; in the
lecond year 109,391 dollars and 60 cents;
in the third year 115,955 dollars and 17
cents; in the fourth year 102,912 dolls,
and 48 cents; in the fifth year 102,743
dollars and 12 cents; in the lixth year
107,680 dollars and 20 cents ; in the se
venth year 109(649 dollars and 32 cents ;
making together 691,530 dollars and 95
cents.
The sum which will have been redeem
ed prior to the firft day of January 1802,
will be 5,443,607 dollars and 37 cents.
The sum redeemable on the firft of Janu
ary 1802, will be 1,126,616 dollais and 44
cents; and the fund which will thenceforth
exist for the purpose of future redemp
tion, (as is particularly (hewn by the
schedule D.) will be 1,210,744 dollars
and 34 cents, exceeding the sum
necefTary by 84,127 dollars and 90 cents—
a fund, which, including the interest from
year to year liberated, will, as already in
<imated, be completely adequate to the
final redemption of the whole amount of
the 6 per cent, (lock, (as well the defer
red as that bearing a present interest) ac
cording to the right which has been re
let ved for that purpose.
In the mean time, a further impression
will be made upon the debt by the iiiveft
ment of the residue of the funds hereto
fore eftablilhed, in the purchase of it; and
it is hoped, that the restoration of peace
with the Indians will enable the applica
tion of the surplus of the existing revenues,
together with the proceeds of the ceded
lands in our Western Territory, to the
fame These, whenever they can
be biought into adtion, will be important
au.s , materially accelerating the ultimate
redemption of the entire debt. The em
ployment of these resources, when it can be
done by increaling the iatereft-fund, will
proportionably k-flen the necessity of using
the resource of taxation for creatine the
proposed annuities, if the government
ihalll judge it advifeable to avail itfelf of
the fubJlHiitr, which may accrue from that
Circumltance.
Having now glvcn a geaera , y j ew of
the plan, which has appeared upon the
whole the molt eligible, it is necekry in
the next place, to present to the confi
de rat ion of the House the requisite funds
tor commencing the execution of it. These
will embrace a provision for the firft annui
ty only ; that alone requiring, by the
flan, immediate provilion. With regard
to a proviljon for the subsequent annuities,
Which is proposed to be fucceflive, the Se
cretary will content himfeif with this ge
-2S o ?Sr , i , °".' th3t He d,Tcernß no in
tnnftc difficulty ,« making provision for
triem, as fail as (hall be ncceflary, with
due convenience to the people, and con
fidently with the idra of abilaining from
taxing lands and buildings(with the stock
and implements of farms) reserving them
as a iefource for those great emergencies,
which call for a full exertion of all the
contributive facilities of a country.
The following means for conltituting
the firft annuity, are refpedifully submit
ted, viz.
Annual surplus of the dividend oa
the ilock of government in the bank
of the United States, beyond thtfintereft
to be paid out of the laid dividend, clti
mated at ' Dollars 60,004
Tax on horses, kept or used for
the purpose of riding or of draw
ing any coach, chariot, phaeton,
chaise, chair, fulkey, or other
carriage for conveyance of persons—
Excepting and exempting all horses
which are usually and chiefly employed
for the puipofes of husbandry, or in draw
ing waggons, wains, drays, carts, or
other carriages for the transportation of
produce, goods, merchandize, commodi
ties, or in carrying burthens in the course
of the trade or occupation of the persons
to whom they refpe£tively belong,and the
horses of persons in the military service
of the United States, viz.
For every horse not above excepted or
exempted, at the rate of one dollar per an
num, where only one is used or kept by
the fame person ; with an addition of fif
ty cents per annum, per horse, where
more than one and not more than two
horses are kept or used by the fame
person—with an addition of one dollar
per annum, per horse, where more than
two, and not more than four, are kept or
used by the fame perfon--and with an ad
dition of one dollar and a half dollar, per
horse; per annum, where more than four
are kept or used by the fame person.
Provided, that this addition shall not be
made in refpedt to hoifes usually employ
ed in public (lages, for the conveyancc of
paflengers.
This progteflive increase of rates on
the higher numbers, has refeience to the
presumption of greater wealth which ari
ses from the pofTjffion of such higher
numbers.
The product of this tax will probably
be abont equal to the lefidoe of
posed annuity, which is43 l dollars and
6 cents. How near the truth thiseftimate
may prove, experiment alone can, in f0
untried a cafe, decide. An aid to this
fund may be derived from the surplus di
vidend on the bank stock, for the half
year ending the last of December next,
which, it is presumed, will not be less than
20,000 dollars. Should a deficiency ap
pear, upon trial, it can be supplied by a
future provision. Proper regulations for
the colle&ion of this tax, will, it is be
lieved be found not difficult, if the tax
itfelf shall be deemed eligible. Its sim
plicity has been a considerable recom
mendation of it. Qualified, as it is, it is
not likely to fall on any but such who can
afford to pay it. The exemption from the
tax, in regard to horses which are appro
priated to the purposes of hufbandty, or
of any trade or occupation, or to the
tiasportation of commodities, feeins to
obviate all reasonable objection.
If, however, there should appear to
the legislature, reasons for preferring a
tax on carriages for pleasure, which, it
may be observed, will operate on nearly
the fame description of persons, the sum
required may, it is believed, be produced
from the following arrangement of rates,
viz. Upon every coach, the annual sum
of four dollars—Upon every chariot, the
annual sum of three dollars—Upon every
other carriag tfor the conveyance of persons,
having four wheels, the annual sum of
two dollars—-and upon everychair, fulkey,
or other carriage for the conveyance of per
sons, having less than four wheels, the an
nual sum of one dollar.
The col.e&ion of this tax will !«r as
iimple and easy, and perhaps more cer
tain, than that which has been primarily
fubmrtted. '
With regard to the second obieft re
ferred to the Secretary, namely the plan
of a provision for the reimbursement of
the loan made of the bank of the United
States, pursuant to the Xlth feftion of
,i, .b y whlch is incorporated, th«
following „ refpeilfullyfubmitted, towitj
That power be given by law to borrow
the sum due, to be applied to that reim
bursement ; and that so much of the di-
Lank as may be necessary, be appro
224
priated for paying tKe interest of the sum
to be borrowed.
From this operation, it is obvious, thai
a saving to the government will result,
equal 10 thedifferencebetweentheintereft
which will be payable on the new loan and
that which is payable on the sum now
due to the bank.
If the proposed loan can be effected, at
the rate of those la ft made in Holland, the
nett saving to the government may be
computed at the annual sum of 35,000
dollars ; which saving, whatever it may
be, is contemplated as part of the means
for conltituting the proposed annuities.
The benefit of this arrangement will
be accelerated, if ptovifion be made for
the application of the proceeds of any
loans heretofore obtained to the payment
suggested, on the condition of replacing
PRICE CURRENT. w, _ DUt.Cts. Diu. o,
Mo I a fie s pr.gall. 4q c
FSt QUANTITY. —Do LLaR 5i oo Cents cach. M u st a rd per.lb.
PHILADELPHIA, December 12. P'l> Bitio pr cafe 2 ' 0
Sweet, best, in fla(ks,pr.box 1050
Dlls.Cts. DUt.Cts. 'Ditto baskets, 12 bottles 5
ANCHORS pr. lb. 7 10 Spermaceti pr. gall. 4 g
Allum, Engliih, pr.cwt. 433 2 4 27
Ditto, ltoch pr. lb. 18 ' Whaie 2 a 24
Arties, pot, per ton, 120 Porter pr. caflc,
- -Pearl, 137 140 7 London, pr.doz. l 6»
Arrack pr.gall. 133 116 —.—American ditto bot.incl. 14 160
Brandy, common, 90 Pitch, pr. bbL 173 2
Coniac 1 1 11 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 11 20
BraziUtto, pr. ton. 32 34 Lower county 10
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Carolina
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. 167 2 Peas, Albany pr. bushel 73
Ditto, pilot 367 Pepper, pr. lb. 38
Ditto, finall water, per keg 36 40 Pimento
Beer, American, in bottles, Raisins, best, pr. keg 8
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 40 Djuo pr.jar 2 3
Ditto pr. barrel, 467 Ditto pr. box 2fa
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Rice pr. cwt.
New England < 12 14 Rosin pr. barrel f
Oak l 4 lf * Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon 1 7
Merchantable pine 20 24 Antigua !
Sap, do. 12 13 Windward 1 86
Mahogany, per foot 10 Barbados 80
The above are the shallop prices, Country, N.E. 67
for the yard price, add 1 dol- Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 00
Jar 33 cents per 1000. Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 67 Shot ditto 140 141
Beef, Boston, per barrel 7 8 Steel, German pr.lb. 9
Country ditto 6 7 Englifh,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Fresh, per cwt. 333 467 American pr. ton Ix 3 33
Butter pr.lb. 16 -Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
in kegs 9 10 Snake root pr. lb. 20 42
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 43 Soap, Brown perJb. 6
Wax 53 56 White 8
Myrtle 13 Cafiile * u
Mould, tallow 11 Starch 7
-Dipped 10 Snuff pr. doz. hot. 4 5 60
Cheese, EngLish, pr. lb. 19 Spermaceti, refitted, pr.lb, 48
IT • Country 3 10 Sailcloth,Engli(h,No.i,pr. yard, iS
Chocolate 18 20 1? a t j ..
n Z. Boston, No. I. ditto 30
tinnamon 240 267 •j V j q jj
p' OVCS *33 Sugar Lump, pr.lb " 24
Cocoa pr. cwt. 16 T erf c j
n , r r , o Loaf, finale refined 25
CofFee pr.lb. 17 18 r\ t , j '. , .
r 1 v , - , ' ——Ditto, double do. 3O
Coal pr. buihel 2C 22 u „ , , • ,0
n r r Havannah, white 17
Copperas pr.cwt. 167 r. • , ,
r r a a „ r o Ditto, brown, 11 12
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 o ~ ,■ % .
, f 0 1 IL ,r 4 ' Mulcovado, or. cwt 13 15
Cotton pr. lb. 27 -37 o • •. t- n 0 J
r„. . SpirttsTurpentine pr. gallon 37
Cunants 12 c i. Aii 1 n 1
oalt, Allum pr. buihel £4
Duck. Rullia, pr. piece 11 33 Liverpool N 54
Ravens 8 93 9 67 Cadiz S°
Dutch fail duck, 18 20 Lisbon $
Feathers pr. lb. 48 Ship build. W. O. frames p.ton, 15
Flax ditto 11 12 Ditto Live Oak, 1867
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 90 1 10 Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 40
Hour|Siiperfiue pr. barrel 567 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Common, 533 Ditto 2 feet, 533 6
Bur middlings, best 467 Ditto 3 feet, drefled, 13 15
— Meal, Indian o Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 32
ditto Rye, 3 White Oak hoglhead, 20 33
-Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. Bt> 1 Red Oak do. 19 50
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Leogan 2t 33
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 Barrel 16
Do. pr. gall. 8o 90 ——Heading 25 33
Glue, pr.cwt. 20 21 33 Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 -Minks 20 4°
Ditto, common 7 Fox, grey 40
Ditto, ground pr.lb. / 10 ——Ditto red 1 *•
Ginfcng, 20 24 ~ Martins 24 1
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, » 70 4. Fishers 33, 67
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Bears 3
Grain, Wheat pr. bufli 1 20 Racoons 27
Rye 66 11 Mufk-rars it 20
Oats 35 -Braver, pr. lb. 67 133
Indian corn 60 Deer, in hair 20 3°
B ' rlc l „ 1 1 6 Tar, N.Jersey, s 4 gal.p. bbl. '
Best (helled pr. lb. 7. Carolina, 3 e gall. 133 >6?
Buckwheat, per bulh. 30 Turpentine pr. bbl. 167 2
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 146 67 Tobacco, J. River, best loolb. 360 3?3
American, pr. lb. 4 • inferior 3 33
Herrings, pr. bbl. 3 old 4^7
Hides, raw pr. lb„ 9 11 Rappahannock ?33
Hops j,y Coloured Maryland, 533 ®
Hogfhcad hoops, pr. M. i 5 Dark, 24*
Indigo French per lb. >so ,53 2 *'3
Carolina i i2O r , 0
[mnt —Carolina,new » 7 3
rons, lad pr. ton, ,33 33 • 31
I*on, Callings pr. cv/t. 3 4 ~ , ,1 , 2 g
~l" 4 fi •——Hyson fkm,
——Sheet S4 >73 33 Souchong, H *
Na ' lr ° d ' 110 l'' —Bohe? S«
Juuk, pr.cwt. 4 5 Bohca. S3
Lard, hog, pr. lb. 4 g 5 t Tallow, re_fined, per lb. 9
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 567 Tw P r box ' 3J ' 3?
in bars 7 Veidigreafe pr. lb. 47 vp
-white 10 io 67 Vermillion, do. 133 2
r< *d 6 40 6 67 Varnish, per gallon 33
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25
Lignum vita pr. ton, 560 6 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. *3
Logwood go
w ac f p l r '? b - ... 9 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. 8 On London, at 30 day., per too/. Iter!. 44°
—— second quality 6 4 at 6o J d ' 43' 33
Madder, best pr.lb. l 6 20 . at qo oay, 434
a s' wrou S^ t J P 1 "* foot, 133 267 Amftrrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, '
"ast spars dmo 33 90 day,, 8 37
PRICE CURRENT.
thefums which may be so ap-li-d c ...
of the proceeds of the loan or loans, which
lhall be made purfuatit to the power above
proposed to be given.
It will also conduce to the general end
in view, if the Legislature (hall think p-o
---per to authorise the investment of the
funds destined for purchases of the debt
in purchases of 6 per cent, dock, at the'
market price, though above p ar . The
comparative puces of the several kinds of
(lock have been and frequently may be
such, as to render it more profitable to
make in the 6 per cents, than
in any other species of stock.
All which is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
SECRETARY of the TREASURY.
Treasury Department, ">
Nov. 30,179 a. j