c a rr'D nAVS KV 7(1 HN FENNO No 6q, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS H\ /OHM tLNM, *o. 09. " <
[No. 10, of Vol. IV.J
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Creditors ol
Edward Mankin, an infolvcnt debtor,
confined in the gaol of the county of Salem, in the
tfate of Ncw-Jcrfev, that the Judges of the Infe
rior Court of Common Pleas for said county, on
application to them made, have appointed the
kwenty-cighth day of July next for the said Credi
tors to appear before any two or more of laid
■judecs, at the town of Salem, to (hew cause, n
any they hare, why an alignment of the said
debtors estate fliould not be made, and he be dit
charged from confinement, pursuant to an Ast ol
AflembJy, paff ct * the 2 4 November last, for
the relief of insolvent debtors then
SJem. "June 25, «7Q 2 - '
Wm. cleland,
boston,
Tranfach buttnefs in the Funds of the United
States;
HANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, kc.
IHT Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June i. (ism H i»m)
advertisement.
I DO hereby give notice to all persons, not to
credit any person or persons whatever on my
■account, otherwise in m) name, or on my credit,
without special order from under my hand au
thorize the fame, as I am determined not to pay
any debt or debts contrufted without such order
being produced
THOMAS JONES.
Frederick-Town, June 5, 179 2 - ( e P4 w )
JUST PUBLISHED,
and to be sold (price 1 of.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the coiner of Third & Chcfnui Streets,
THE
HISTORY
New-Hampfliire,
Vol. 11l
Containing 3 geographical description of the
Btate —with fV.ctches of its natural history,
<iu£Uons, i improvements, an d present state ot so
ciety and rr.anners, liws and government.
By J ertmv Belknap, A.M.
ffT This volume compleats the biftory. and is
pe;u' »rly imerefting. Subscribers arc detired
to Vail for thei* books.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subscriber in February
tact, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
loyear, of age; had on when he went away, a
roand jacket, a pair horpefpun breeches, and ? tow
fliirt • ihe fellow has a yellowilh complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or seven inchcs, very
ftuiare made ; has a mark along fide of his nofc,
-»na one of his insteps has been burnt, wh.ch cauks
«h« finewi to draw. I
Whoever takes uo said Negro, and him
in any iail, so that I may get him again, (hall re
ceive the above reward, and have all realonablc
' charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE.
<thddSafa.ft»s, June ts, 179 ; - ( e P irn )
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, living in
Kent Countv, and State ot Maryland, on
Sunday the 2'th May last, a N E G R O M A N,
named Hark; about 40 years oi age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-biows, and when talking, hangs his hrad on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took with
htm the followingcloaths, vii. a learnoughr coat,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kersey iacket and breeches, two pair of yarn (lock
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
two aznaburgh (hirts. each pieced on one fide,
Xwo pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with tew tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat. .
Whoever takes up (aid Negro, if out of this
Slate,-and secures him in gaol, fhalLreceive FOUR-1
TEEN DOLLARS reward —and if taken witiiin
this State, andfecured as aforefaid, fhall_ receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward; and if Drought
home, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBLRY.
ie 4 , 1791. (epßw)
Cktfier-Tonn,
GENERAL POST-OFFICE
Philadelphia, June 6, 179®-
THE Printers of Newfpapeis in the United
States are deftred to take Notice, That Mr.
franas Btilty, Mr. Daniel Humphreys, and Messrs.
&potfwood and Carey, of tins City, have ceased to
print Newspapers, and of coutfe can receive none
(roin the other Printers free of Postage. The
Printers of Newspapers are thetefore defued to diT
cjnti,'jue fending their Papers to those Gentlemen,
un'efi they (Viould become Suhfcrihers, on the foot
ing of other Citizens.
As divers Printers in other Places may havedif-|
continued their printing of Newspapers, the Poft
maflers irr those places are deftred to give Notice
thereof in the Newspapers in which thev usually
Advertise; that the Newspapers sent to such for
mer Primers may be difconti'iued, and the Pub
lic Vails be relieved from useless Burthem.
. T . pitKERING.
* * Ado ertijements ofonejquare, or left, uiiliH b
-fallithed in -this pap" or.cejor 50 Cents, and itchJui
fquent inJerJion nt 20.Cents.
Wednesday, Juey 4, 1792.
A CONSTITUTION
OR FORM OF GOVERNMENT
FOR THE STATE OF KENTLCKY,
(CONTINUED.)
Stc. 29.TT" VERY rcfolution, order or voir, t.
which the concurtence ot both Hon
fes may be neceflary, except on a question ot ad
iouimnerit, (ball be piefcnied to the Governor
and before it thai! take effect lie approved by bun
or, being di lappi oved, (hall be icpaiTfd by tv.
thirds ot both Houft s.according to the rules and It
imitations prefcriLed in cafe ot a bill.
ARTICLE 11.
Sec. 1. The fupremr executive power of thi
commonwealth (ball be veiled in a Governor.
Sf.c. 2. The Governor (hall be chosen by th
electors of the Senate at the fame time, at thefami
place, and in the fame manner that they are hoc
in dirc&ed to elect Senators, and the said eleQor
lhall matte return of their proceedings in th
choice ot a Governor, to the Secretary for the tirn
being.
Sec. 3. The Governor shall hold Ins omc
during four vears from the ill day ot June nex
ensuing his eh £Vion.
Sec. 4. He (hall be at lead thirty years of age
and have been a citizen and inhabitant of thi
State at lead two years next bctore his ekcon
unless he (hall have been absent on the public bu
finefs of the United States or of this State.
Sf.c. 5. No member of Congress or peifoi
holding any office under the United States, or th 1
State, ihall cxcrcifc the office ot a Governor.
Sec. 6. The Governor shall at flaied times
receive for his services a compensation, whic.
Ihall neither be increaftd nor diminifiicri durin
the period for which he shall have been clc&ed.
Sec. 7. He shall be commander in chief of thi
Armv and Navy of this Commonwealth, and o
he militia except when they shall be called intc
ihe ferviee of the United States.
Sf.c. 8. He (hall nominate, and by and witl
he advice and consent S. nate, appoint ai
>fficers, whose offices are ettablifhed by this con
llitu;ion, or shall be established by law : ant
whose appointments are not hen in otherwise pio
/tded for ; but noperfen shall be appointed to at
office wilh n any county, who fh..l! not have beei
! citizen and inhabitant therun one year next be
ore his appointment, it the county tnall hav
>cen folong crtfttd ; but if it fh-tll not have bcci
"o lon* e vetted, then within the limits ot to
onnty or counties out of which it shall have bec»
aken. ri
Sec. 9. The Governor shall have power to hi
ip ail vacancies, that may happen during the le
:efsof the Senate, by granting committors whic
hall expire at the end of their next fijfion.
Sec. 10. He (hall have power to remit fines
nd torfeiturcs, andgianting reprieves and par
lons, except in cases of impeachment ; in call so
reason, he (hall have power to grant reprieves ur
il the end of the next fefiion ot the General A
emblv, in whom the power ol pardoning fii.
Ie vcfled.
Sec. 11. He may require information in w
.tig from lh. officers in the executive department
upon any fubjeft relating to the duties oi theirrcl
pcflive offices.
Sec. 12. He shall from time lo time give to
the General Aucmbly information of the Hate of
the commonwealth, and recommend to their con
fidcraiion, such meafurcs as he ffiall judge expe-
11. He may on extraordinary occasions
convene the General Assembly, and in cale ol dl ["
agrcement between the two Houses, with relpctt
to the time of adjournment, adj.mrn them to fuc i
time as he ffiall think pioper not exceeding tour
months. , , .
Sic. 14. He (hall take care that the laws be
faithfully executed. .
Sec. 15. In cafe of the death or refignat.on of
the Governor, or ol his removal fiom office, the
Speaker of the Senate (hall excrcife the office oi
Governor, until another (hall be duly qu.lihed.
Sec. 16. An Attorney General (hallbe appoint-
Icd and commiflioned during good behavior; he I
[hallappear for the commonwealth in all crimi
nal protections, and in all civil cases, in winch
(he commonwealth (hall be iritcicfted, in any ol
the fupcrior courts ; (hall give his opinion when
called upon for that purpofr, by either branch ol
the legidature, or by the executive, and (hall per
form luch other duties as (hall be enjoined hun
b> SEC.* 17. A Secretary shall be appointed and
commiflioned during the Governors continuance
in office, if he (haU r '. long behave himfelf well,
he (hall keep a fair register of, and aiiell all the_
official a£b and proceedings of the Governor, ana
(hall v.h n requued, lay the fame and all papers,
minutes, and vouchers relative thereto belore ci
ther branch of the legislature, and (hall perform
such other duties as (hall be enjoined by law.
ARTICLE 111.
Sec i. In ele&ions by the citizens, all free
male citizens of 4ie age of'twenty-one year?, hav
in 2 rcftded in ifce slate two years, or the county
in which i)\cy offer to vole, one year next P«Q Te
the election, lhall enjoy the rights of an elettor,
but no person (ball be entitleo to vote except in
the county in which he (hall adually reside at the
I time of the elc&ion.
Sec. 2. All ele&ions fliall be by ballot.
Sic. 3. Ele&ors (hall in all cafcs except lrc **|
son, felony and breach or fcjrrcty of the peace, be
privileged from arreil duting their attendance at
elections, and in going to and returning from
them.
ARTICLE IV. . I
Sec. 1. The House of Reprefcntatives Ihallj
have the sole power ps impeaching.
Sic. 2. AH i~">c*chmeot» (hall be tried by the
37
Senate ; when fitting for that pin pose, the Senators
ihall be upon oath or affirmation : No person lhall
br convitted without the concurrence of two
ihircteof the members present.
Sec. 3. The governor 2nd all other civil ofh
cers lhall be liable to impeachment for any m'.fde
meauor in office ; but judgment i» such cases fhal)
not extend fuither than to removal from office,
and difqualification to hold any office of honor,
tiuft or profit, under this commonwealth; but
the party conviftcd (hall nevertheless be liable
and fubjeft to indictment, trial and punishment,
1 according to law
ARTICLE V.
Sf.c. i. The judicial power of this common
wealth, both as 10 matters of law and equity,
(hall be veiled in one Supreme Court, which lhall
be titled the Court of Appeals, and in fnch inferior
courts as the legislature may from time to time or
dain and cftabliHi.
Sec. 2. The Judges both or the Supreme and
Interior Courts lhall hold their offices during good
I behavior : but for any reasonable cause which
ffilill not be fufficient ground of impeachment, the
trovernor may remove any of them on the address
of two-thirds of each branch of the Legislature.
They (hall at dated times receive lot theii feivices
an adequate compensation to be fixed by law,
which lhall not be diminilhcd duting their conti
nuance in office. _ _ ■ . ,
Sec. 3. The Supreme Court Hull have origin
and final juriMi£tion in all cafo rrfpefling the t
tics to land under the prclent land law! of Virg
nil, including those which miv be depending 1
the present Suprem ? Court tor the diffr.il of Ken
tncky, at the time of eft abli thing the fa id Suprem
Court J and in all rases concerning contrasts so
bnd, prior to the < ftabltlhing of those titles. Am
[he said court (hall have power to hear and deter
mine the lame in a summary way, and to dire<
;hc mode of bringing the fame to a hearing, so a
oenable them to do right and justice tothe par
its, with as little delay and at as small an expene
is the nature of the business will allow; but th
"aid court (hall, in all such cases, oblige the part.c
o (late the material pans of their complain- am
iefence in writing ; and (hall on the conclufioi
if every cause, (late on the records, the whol
perils of the calc, the question arising therefrom
he opinions of the court thereupon, and a (um
nary of the reafens in fuppou of those opinions.
Sec. 4. And it (hall be ihc duty of each Judgi
if the Supreme Court, present at the hearing of ani
uch cause, and differing from a majority of th.
ourt, to deliver his opinion in writing, to be en
f red as aforefaid ; and each judge (hall deltvei
lis opinion in open court. And the said cour;
hall have power on the detei mination of any fucf
afe, to award the legal costs against either party
ir to divide the fame among the diftercnt parties^
I them ftiall seem just and right. And the said
ourt (hall have lull power to take such steps a:
hry may judge proper, 10 perpetuate tcftimony
II all cases concerning.such titles. Provided thai
jury (hall always be impanneled for the finding
rf such fafls as ai'e not agreed by the parties ; un
cfs the parties or their attormes, (hall *rave then
ight of trial by jury, and refer the matteroflafl
o the decision of the couit. Provided also, that
he legiflaturc may, whenever they may judge it
xpedient, pass an ast or aas to regulate the mode
,f proceedings in such cases, or to take away en
ircly the original jurifdiaion hereby given to the
aid court in such cases.
S»c.«. In all other cases the Supreme Court
hall have appellate jurifdifiion only, with such
•xceptions and under such regulations at the Le
rifljturc (hall make; and the Legidature may fiom
ime to time v.eft in the Supreme and Inferior
Court', or cither of them, such powers both in
jw and equity, as they (hall judge proper and ne
effary, for the due adminiftratibn of justice.
Skc.6. A competent number of justices of the
icace (hall be appointed in each county, they (hall
ic good behaviour, but
nay be removed jHSfnviftion of milhehavior in
iffice, or of any iljPous crime, or on the address
,f both houses of the Legiflaturr.
Sic 7 The judges (hall by virtue of their ot
ite be'confer»ators of the peace throughout the
late The ftvle of all process (hall he, •• Tnc
Commonwealth of KENTUCKY," all profecu
ions (hall be carried on in the name and by the
uthority ot the Commonwealth of Kentucky,and
oncludc aeainftthe peace and dignity of the fame.
ARTICEE VI.
Sec i. Sheriffs and Coroners, (hall at the times
and places of elcrtions ol Representatives, be cho- 1
fen by the citizens of each county, qualified to
vote for Representatives. They (ball hold their
offices tor three >ears, if they (hall so long behave
themfclves well, and until a successor be duly qua
lified : but no person (hall be twice chosen or ap
pointed Sheriff in any term of fix yeais. Vacan
cies in either of the said offices, (hall be filled by a
new appointment to be made by the Governor, to
continue untilthe next general ek£lion, and until
a successor (hall be chosen and qualified as afore-
Sec. 2. The freemen of this Commonwealth
(hall be armed and disciplined tor its defence.
Those who conscientiously scruple to bear arms,
(hall not be compelled to do so ; but (hall pay an
equivalent for pevfonal service.
Sec. 3. The field and ftaff officers of the mili
tia shall De appointed by the Governor except the
battalion ttaff officers who shall be appointed by
the field officers of each battalion refpeftivcly.
Sec. 4. The officers of companies Om'l be cho
sen by the persons enrolled in the lift of each com
pany, a«d the whole (hall be commissioned du
ring good behavior, and during their refidcnce in
of the battalion or company to which
they (hall be appointed.
Sec. 5. Each court (hall appoint its own clci k .
[Whole No. 552.]
who (hall bold his office during good behavior;
but no person lhali be appointed clerk, only pro
tempore, who (Ml not P'°<k ,c * 10 court ap
pointing him, a certificate from a majority of the
judges oftHc'cburt-of' Appeals, that he hath been
examined by their cleric m their prefrncc, and un
dcr their direflion, and ih« ti.cy judge him to bo
well qualified to execute the office ot clerk to any
court of the fame dignity with that for -which he
offers himfell. They fhj.U he removable lor
breach of good behavior, bv the court ot appeals
only, who (hall be judges of the latts as well as of
the law. Two thirdsof the members present mult
concur in the sentence.
Sec. 6. All commiflion* ftiall be in the name
and by the authority of the Stale ol Kentucky, and
he sealed with the Slate fcal, and signed by the
Governor.
Sec. 7. The State Treasurer [ball be appointed
annually by the iomt ballot of both Houses.
ARTICLE VII.
Sec. 1. Members ot the general assembly, and
all officers executive and judicial, before they en
ter upon the execution ot their refpc&ivc omcrs,
(hall take the following oath or affirmation. " I
do solemnly (wear (or affirm as the cafe may be)
that I will he iaithful and true to the common
wealth of Kentucky, so long as 1 continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully exccute to ihe
best of my abilities the office of accord
ing to law "
ARTICLE VII.
See. I. Treason againd the commnnwealih,
(hall conVict only in levying war again!! it.oi ill
adhering to its enemies, giving them aid and com
fort. No petfon shall be convitied ol trealoo,
unless on the tellimony of two witneiTts to the
fame overt afl, or on his own eonfeffioo in open
Sec. 2. Laws (hall be made to exclude frem
office and from fuffrage thof- who (hall thereafter
be eonv.fled of bribery, perjury, forgery or other
high crimes or misdemeanors. The pnvt.ege or
free fuffrage, (hall be supported by laws regulating
elections, and prohibiting under adequate penal
ties, all undue influence ther on from power, bri
bery. tumult or other improper ptaftices.
Stc. 3. No money (ball be drawn from the
reafurv, but in consequence of appropriations
nade by law, nor (ball anv appropriations of mo
ley for the fuppoit of an army, be made for - lon
rev term than one year, and a regular (tatement
fnd account ot the rece.pts and expenditures of all
>üblic money, shall be published annually.
Seo. 4. The LegiQature (hall dirc&l>y- law, in
vhat manner and in what courts, suits may be
nought againfl the commonwealth.
Sec. 5. The manner of administering the oath
1 r aft.mation, (hall be furh as is mod conliit.-nt
vith the confciencc of the deponent, an.l imll be
fteemed by the legiQature the mod folcmn ap
teal to God.
Sec 6. All laws now in force in the itate ot
Virginia, not inconsistent with this constitution,
t Inch aieof a general nature, and no' local to the
astern part of that state, ftiall be in force in this
late, unul they shall be altcicd or repealed by the
:&iflature. „ . .
Sec. ,7. The compafl with th? state of Virginia,
jbie£t to such alterations as may be made therein,
prceahly to the mode prcfcrib d by the fatd co ™-
a&, fhdll be confiderid as a patt of this conltt
ltion.
ARTICLE IX.
See. The Lcgiflaiuie flwll Have no power to
pass laws for the emancipation of slaves without
the consent of the owners, or without paying
their owers, previous lo such emancipation, a .ull
equivalent in money, for the slaves so emancipated.
They (hall have no power to prevent emigrants to
this Hate, from bringing with them such persons
as are deemed slaves by ihe laws of any one of the
United Slates, so long as any person of the fame
ace or defcrtption, shall be continued in slavery by
the laws of this (late. That dicy shall pass laws
to per mil the owners of slaves to emancipate them,
saving the rights of creditors, and preventing them
from becoming a charge lo the county in which
they reside. They fhal! hare full power to pre
vent slaves being brought into this dale as mer
chandize. They fiiall have full power to prevent
any slaves being brought into this state from a fo
reign country, and to prevent those from being
brought into this state, who have been fincc the
firfl day of Januarv one thousand seven hundted
and eighty-nine : or may hereafter be imported
into any of the United Slates from a foreign coun
try. And they (hall have full power to pass fuclr
laws as may be necessary, to oblige the owners ( .
slaves to treat them with humanity, to provide for
them necessary cloathing and provision, to abstain
from all injuries to them rxtendingto life or limb,
and in cafe of their negicfl, or refufal to comply
with the dire&ions of such laws, to have such
slave or slaves fold for the benefit of their owner or
owners
article X.
See. 1. The place for the feat of government
(hall be fixed in the following manner. The
House of Reorefentptives, (hall, during their .el
fion, which (hall be held in the year one thouUnd
(even hundred and ninety-two, chufe by ballot,
twenty-one persons, from -whom the reprifentation
from Mercer and Fayette counties then prcle^
fh dll alternately strike out one, until the lina) ' uer
(hall be reduced to five, who, or a t n rcc Q f them
concurring in opinion, (h?' # nave power to fix on
the place for the of government, to receive
grants from infi.vidvals therefor, and to makefuch
conditions with the propiietor or proprietors of
the land so pitchcd on by thcin, as to them (hall
feern right, and (lull be agreed 10 hy the said pro
prietor or proprietors ; and lay off a town thereon
in such manner as they shall judge mod proper.
(to bf. continued.)FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PETERSB.URGH, Marc;iil6.
COU N'f Rzewlki, General ot the
Polifn army, arrived here lall
nigiu ; and Count Votocki, grand
waiter of the artillery of the lepub
lic, is hornly expected. These two
generals, who are displeased with the
new order of things in their own
country, have been for fonie lime at
Jafly, with Count Befborodko. 'Ihfy
afterwards went to Cherfon on lbme
commercial bulinefs, which has re
tarded their arrival in this capital a
luonih. Astotheir political projects,
circumltances are plainly againlt
them ; and if our court has not ac
knowledged the new conllitution ot
Poland, the long time it has luffered
to elapl'e, without reclaiming its gua
ranty of the conrtitution of i 775>
seems a tacit resignation of a right
ot!<erwife very doubtful with regard
to a free and independent foteign
nation
B E L F A S T, May 1
We are informed that an uflociati
on is forming in London for the pur
pose of forwarding a Reformation to
the Britith Parliament in which fotne
very eminent characters are taking
a lead, and from whom much is ex
peJled.
"DUBLIN, April I.
In tlie'couife of ihe last week, at
Ballinamore, the feat of Thomas
Ormlby, Esq.. four of his labourers
were found dead, having been fuito
cated from the rarification of the air
in the room where they slept : This
.melancholy consequence arose from
a lighted turf having been left burn
ing where there was no chimney for
the egress of the heated air.
There were eight men in the room,
all of whom were infenflble : but
from the fkilful means which weie
adminiflered, four of theni were re
itored to life : The state of the o
thers baffled every attempt of reco
very which (kill could suggest, or
humanity employ ; the organs of re
spiration had so long ceased to act,
that ho new itnpulfe could be given.
The full a if* of liberality from a
Protestant Government toßomanCa
tholics on the continent, was done
by the late King of Prussia, who built
a molt elegant church, farnilhect it
with an organ, and every suitable de
coration for the tif; offuchCatholics,
llrangeis or fubjei'U as were refidem
at Berlin. The compliment was soon
returned by the thiee ecclefiallical
electors of Mentz, Trieves, and Co
logne, the Bithop of Hohenloe, Saltz
burgh &c. So that Lutherans and
Calvinilts, are not only tolerated,but
protected and caielled in all those
itates.
LONDON, May i
HOUSE OF COMMONS, April 30,
A debate, or rather conversation on
the fubjetft of a reform in the Brit ill)
reprel'entation'took place in the Honfe
of Commons this day. Mr. Grey in
troduced the business ; in the course
of his obfei vaiions he reminded Mr.
Pitt of his former declarations on this
point, and considered him as pledg
ed to give a reform his lupport.
The example of a neighboring king
dom, whatever it may fuggelt to o
ther gentlemen, only tended to con
firm him in the opinion, that the de
feats of a conliitution lhould always
be reformed before they amounted 10
a cause for the conliitution being fub
•verted. lie gave notice, that he
should, at an eaily period of the en
faing fefficn, lubinit a motion for a
Parliamentary Reform, and hoped
gentlemen Would not, in the inter
val, omit turning their moll serious
thoughts to lb intei elling a fnbjett.
Mr. Pi! t acknowledged that his
opinion was changed—at the time he
mentioned a reform, the American
war raged, Parliament and the peo
ple then appeared to be opposed, to
rellore union and harmony at that
time, he proposed the measure ; but
such were the resources to be found
in the conlVitmion, that the situation
of the counny was now changed from
indigence and tlillrefs, to affluence
and comfort : The grearefl pnlfible
good therefore which the allotment
of man was capable of receiving,
could amount to 110 moie than that
when he found himfelf happy, he
should take measures to render thai
happiness as secure and duiable as
may be r He objected to the time and
manner of briuginjg forwaid the bu-
fineli
As to the time there were the mofl
serious objections, when miichievous
politicians wei e leti ing opinions afloat
which inuft in their natuie be fiibver
five of all order and government —
when the avowed partisans of this
measure were pel sons who acknow
ledged theinfelves to be the enemies
of monarchy—the aflerters of oui
having no con Hi tut ion w hat ever—i lit
haters of arillocracy—the enemies jol
religion, anil men who were inflexi
bly averse to all subordination and
distinction of ranks whatever.
The manner of bringing it forward
he a Hot honght highly i epreheniible ;
where members, withdrawing theni
felve's from that doty and refponft
bility which their Itations imposed
upon them, fought teditious alloca
tions, deserted the regular Pariia
mentary line of conduct, and put
their names in ihe public newspapers
to resolutions framed in dangerous
and irregular meetings.
Mr. Fox said he held the fame o
piuion now with respeCt to a l'arlia
mentary reform which he had con
llantly and uniformly maintained.
He contended that theie never was a
time mote proper for a reform than
than the present, when we were pro
fonndly at peace, and when the dif
oiders of a neigbouring country g>'»e
us, however neceifary to theinfelves,
an awfiil example of the efFeCts of
anarchy and convullion. Me did not
wifli to be ini funde itood on his po;n ,
for whatever may he the present dis
tress of France—whether by applying
to abltratft principles, they had in ttie
end produced no government (which
was by no means his opinion) yet the
ancient despotism was so deiellable,
that it ought certainly to be removed,
whatever facrifice it may occasion,
France, howeve", furnifhed 110 fubjei't
for ihe imitJtion of this country. It
was the great excellence and glory of
our conltitution, that i was always
fubjetfl to reform, and susceptible of
improvement, and in ihe advance
ments which reason and philosophy
were making in the progress of hu
man Itience, renovation anil amend
ment mult be applied with greater
effei't. In Fra ice, no repair was fuf
ficient ; ihe whole fabric inuft be de
ll royed. But of our co >lli. ulion there
is not a part which has not more than
once been reformed.—The preroga
tives of ihe crown, and the privileges
of both houses of the leg'flaiure, had
undergone various modifications, as
circumllances required them, from
time to time.
Mr. Burke maintained, that there,
was not in this country any focietyi
or body of men who were openly as- j
fociated (or the avowed purpose of
fuppoiting the cause of defpotifiu ;
but that t here were societies for the
support and promotion of anarchy,
and the extinction of our prefeut cun
ftiiution, was known to every one,
and even fantlioned by known and
refpetftable names. — Here (being cal
led upon to name) tie mentioned,
amongst others, Mr. Walkei, of Man
chelter, who was forward in circula
ting Pa i ne's book, com aim ng the mtolt
grois as well as abfmd libels on the
conflitution. Whether the man in
quell ion was an Ameiican or not he
could not tell —He appeared to him
in the light of an atnphi bioos kind of;
an animal, neither quite French, Kn-j
glilli, nor Irilh, but running about!
with ale>tnels to fee what mifhief
m.iy puflibly be done in any. Kisj
plans had lb far succeeded, thai a con
federacy was formed between the;
difaffected here and the J icoliin Club!
in France, that race of Regicides and I
Monllers, whom it was impoflible to
think of without horror. To (hew
the fort of men with which this con
federacy was formed, he gave a CU'
rious description of the p, efent Na
tional Alfeuibly of France. Out of
700 men, joo were attornies, and fl
eers low practitioners in the law.
1 lie grearelt part of the remainder
ronfiited ot (hop-boys, journeymen,
and adventurers. He could point out
60 members who did not psflels 2001.
1 year ainongft all ; and in ihe
whole congregation ihere wei eknown
to-be only j,x men of property, if
38
men of such habits, such education,
ami luch character, were fit for the
puipole of Legislation, let Englifii
meu imitate them, but let them view
iheir comparative situation before
they formed their opinions.
From the turbulent disposition of
the times, he thought this an impro
per uiuiiteiic to agitate such questions.
If the prefeut quertion came in tlie
.hape of a direct pronofition, he would
for one uppofe it ; but con)ing as it
did in an indefinite shape, which
ifrtve encouragement to the views of
lie boldest and molt profligate adven-
Vners, he could not let it pass with
hii receiving from him the moll fe
iious disapprobation.
Mr. Kox recapitulated some argil
uients in wjiich he had been miftin
dei Hood. With regard to Mr. Paine's
writings, he again alledgedthat they
were libels ngainft the conlhtution.
Mr. Burke agreed with Mr. Kox.
whom he termed his Hon. friend
The writings in quettion were libels,
but not fcandalons ; for any man,
provided he were amenable to the
laws of the country, might declare
his sentiments of the conllitution.
Mr. Erikine praising the hiltory of
the confliiution, said that as a law
yer, and as a man, he was bound to
maintain its original principles. Ad
drefling himfelfto Mr. Pitt, he affinn
ed, that ilie people of this country
were not adequately reprelented in
Parliament ; and challenged him to
vote a relolution to that effect. Jt
the conilitution had remained unim
pair ed, there would have been a fpee
dv end to the American troubles. Has
Hot Mr. Pitt receded from his former
principles > He laid the foundation,
ttiey added only a brick or two to form
a luperltlut'ture. When bad men
conspire againll the interests of the
community, good men mull all'ociate.
1 his was lite chief reason for union
which now attracted their attention.
Am I to luppofe (fays he) that men
will content to lop off the rotten bo
roughs, when they have received
thein as an inheritance.' Am I to sup
pole that certain gentlemen will re
laple into the mats of people ? Could
Mr. Pitt Itate the particular fei vices
which all thole that had been advan
ced to the peerage had pei formed ?
rti they bad all borough influence, it
could not be expected that they would
Content to rchiiuuifli their power.
After several other members had
spoken pro and con, the lubje»ft lab
iided at that time.
ADVERT IS EM F. NTS
The adveriifemenis inferied in our
public prints give a kind ot local liif
lory of (lie manners of the age, and,
'in fonie trifling refpefls, this differs
110111 any which pieceded it. A ler
vant in the lull age fonietimes (fitter
j ed his mailer ; but a day ortwoliiiie,
( a young man who wains api .ice, ad
vei tiles that he flatters himj If h: can
\jhaye. Another (provided it is with
a tingle gentleman) has no objctlion to
travel for the I'uminer, and would, ij
required, take care of one horse, be
sides that which he is to lide himfelf.
Another having been used to fami
lies of faihion, has no obj [lion to laie
houis ; and a fourth, having been
used to regularity, and being a Jl.a./j
inan, would prejer a fobar, orderly
and good nai ured family 10 any ot her.
One gene: ous trader emb aces an ear
ly opportunity to inform the public he
fells conjidetubly under piime colt ;
and another is ever alive to the moll
j heart felt gratitude lor favors alrea
jdy received. One gentleman adver
j t i ies tor a gentleman of»j« aflivt mind,
as a partner in the Ay loi ing bufinets ;
| and another tor a partner in a very
1 ucrati ve employ men t, who mull have
! tnfiMuating man net s and an easy address,
las his employment will lead him into
Ijrvauent mtcrcourfe with ladies of the
: fii It fathion.
UMKLfc,* i ON,
) J u,,e 14-
TO THE PRINTER
About three years ago, an English
farmer from YV arwick (hire, artived
in tins town with a wife and nine or
ten 'mall childien ; by my advice
(and <Vr. MiiUr's, late printer) he
went to live i*ihe back iettlements
of this Hate, called Long Cane, ii.
Ninety-Six Uiili iOt, from which place
lie wrote me the rcth of lalt month.
The following is an extract from his
letter.
" I know you ufedi to-be <Vx d
hear of improvements ,i„
back wpods. 1 have
able to treat my neighbor with a
draught of good ale, brewed the be
ginning of last March, a.id.ajlhope
1 think it will keep moll of the f Uttl '
mer. I plained t>e barley and hops
niylelf, and I aifo brewed the beer
and 1 know it to be the bell I have
drank i,n the date." ;
BOSTON, June 23.
Yeftejrday, in the Senate, the quef
tiun, Sh-all^ihe Union Bank bill f> a fs
to be eftgrofled ? was determined in
the affirmative—yeasis, nays 9.
Mfe. COX—the artist,
Of this town, was in Ireland, at
the date of our lalt accounts from
thence, April 6, and in high reputa
tion, continually receiving applica
tions for building Bridges, aud per
forming other efforts of enterprise.
He was then contemplating the cqn
(truction of a dam for the Grand (.'a
nal Company ; and had offers to en
gage in the building of two large
Bridges, one 2000 and another 700
feet long—the timber to be the pro
duction of the American foil. The
iccount publiflied some timeftnce, of
his being engaged in levelling the
monument in London, >?as not au
thentic—the above is.
1 he Cannon, for the ufeof the Ar
tillery of this commonwealth, are now
calling by Col. Revere, at his Foundry
in this town.
DANBORY, June 25.
We have the pleafuie io inform
our readers, that theattempt of Med.
Glover, Beers, and Tomlinl'on, to re
move the l'i efbyterian meeting-houle
in New-,town (as notified in a former
number of this paper) luccceded so
well, less than two hours af
ter the operation commenced, the
building, together with the Iteeple,
was removed entire, eight rods from
its foundation, without the leatt in
jury to the building, or hurt to any
person employed in the undertaking.
>0 lingular a movemeht highly grati
fied Ihe curiofiiy of a numerous con
course of fpeiftators. And ilie plan by
which it was effeifted appealed so will
contrived, that though morMhan an
hundred men were employed in the
operation, it was supposed by the belt
judges present, that fifty men would
have effected it in the fame lpace of
N E W Y O R K, June 29.
Captain Sills of the fl>op Happy
Couple, wild arrived here yesterday
from Edenton, brings the following
account, " That 0:1 the 23d inltam,
nine Frenchmen landed on the beach
of Portsmouth, eight of whom lei out
immediately lor VVafliington ; the
one remaining, said that they belong
ed tq a Kiench Biig bound from Sa
vaunahto France, with 300hogiheads
of Tobacco—That on Sunday the 17>h
June they murdered the Captain and
Mate, scuttled the brig 011 both (itles,
and leti her with a woman on board,
and that on Friday the 24th June,
Capt. Sills, in lar. 20 fell in with
the above brig, & which had been jult
taken pollellion of bj'a British schoo
ner, com mantled by Capt. Eli Ilia Jones,
from Antigua bound to Edenton, who
had put some hands on board, and
directed her lor Norfolk.— Ihe brig
had 5 feet water in the hold when
boarded by Capt. Jones.
ELIZABETH-TOWN, June 27.
A trooper, in Capt. Stakes compa
ny of dragoons, on the march last
week from this place to Trenton,
near Brnnfwick, being invaded by
deep, fell of his borfe and broke his
neck.
NEWARK, June 28.
On Monday the 25th inft. the Foun
dation Stone of the New Academy, jo
he erected in this town, by public
fnfofci ipticn, was laid with Masonic
rites and ceremonies, by defireoxi ie
Governors of tlie Academy.
A vast colicouife of people aliem
hied 011 the occrsfion, and aftei ' ,e
ceremnny of laying theftone, attend
ed Divine Worlhip in the New >e
byterian Church, where the ev '
<Jz\\ Ogden, rertor oftiini'y cboic'i,
le!!\ered an excellent dilcourfc u|t
ibletothe occaliun, from 5
xvi. r6. " How much beitei is " 19
gsc»wU'lom than gold ? and to get
uuderlljuiding 1 aiher than 4 ul\ei-
i-JA handfon-.e collection was made
for the benefit of the Academy, and
a Hymn adapted to the occalloa was
lung.
A procefiion was then formed from
the place of worfliip to the site of the
Academy, where the corner (tone
was laid with Masonic rites; after
which the Matter of Sc. John's Lodge
addrefied the President and Gover
nors of the Academy of Newark;
To which the Rev. Mr. Macwhor-
ter replied :
Mafl er & Gentlemen of St.John' s Lodge,
No. 2, in the State of New-Jersey :
IT has devolved on nie, by the ab
feuce of Mr. Gouverneur, Prelident
ot the board of Governors ofthe Aca
demy in Newark, to make foine re
ply to your polite address upon this
important occasion.
Gentlemen, our cordial thanks are
presented to you, for the generous
and liberal part you have taken in
the encouragement of an inlticution
designed to advance the interest of
the riling and future generations,! he
caule of science, virtue, and our com
mon country.
We rejoice with you that a public
Fpirit, under the direction of reason
and propriety, prevails in this town ;
and that honest industry and donief
tic economy exhibit their effects to
the advantage of the community, and
we hope, will to the felicity of polle
rity.
May this Academy rife and flourifli,
and the ill'ues of it embalm the me
mories of its founders, and of the
gentlemen of the ancient Masonic
order for many generations.
Allow gloomy events to darken the
historic page ; but, let every -vestige
of tbe late unhappy and unnatural
war be blotted from the noble minds
of generous Americans, as this erec
tion is to cover its last traces in this
town
May this edifice be an oblivion of
martial animosities, and the great al
tar of peace, unanimity and love a
inong brothers,
The Governors of this Academy,
honored by the tmft reposed inthem,
will faithfully endeavor, under the
auspices of beneficcnt Heaven, to pro
mote ufeful learning, and fecuregood
morals in this institution ; and dif
fufe far and wide the beams of that
fun of liberty, which has arisen in
this welfern hemisphere, and already
begins to illumine eaflern climes.
May fraternal affection reign in all
brealls, and every man be a brother
to every man ; and the Supreme God
bless every society, inllituied lor the
felicity of mankind, and render you,
gentlemen, the promoters of virtue,
and literature ; and may you long
remain the glory of your country,
and, at lad, be admitted to an un
changeable residence in Manfionsand
Lodges, not made with hands, eter
nal iu the Heavens.
Inscription on the Foundation Stone.
By the blessing or God,
Un,der the auspicious Government of
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
The most beloved Father cf his Country,
President of the United States of America,
(William Patterfon
Governor of New-Jerfev,)
The Governors of the Academy,
(Amidii the acclamations
Of a concourse of Free Masons)
Laid the foundation Stone
Of this Building,
Dedicated to the Patrons of
Literature and Free ?>lafonry,
On the 25th day of June,
In the year of our Lord, 1792,
And of the ./Era of Free Masonry, 5792.
EDICT of the Kino «/ Denmark.
WE) Christian VII, by the grace of God,
king'of Denmark and Norway, &c. &c.
make known by theft presents, That consider
ing the circumstances which occur in the slave
trade on the coast of Guinea, and in the trans
portation of the negroes from thence to our
Weft-India iflandi, and imprefied with the idea,
that it would be in every refpe<st beneficial and
profitable, if the importation of new negroes
from the coast of Guinea could be avoided, and
our Weft India islands, in process of time, cul
tivated by the negroes born and bred in the
llland', accustomed from their youth to the
manner of labour, the climate, and the difpoii
tion of their matters; we, in consequence, have
made fcnous enquiries how far, and wbfn it
might be poffiblq to accomplish the abolition'of
the laid trade- From the result of these en
quiries, we are convinced that it is poflible
and will be advantageous to our Welt-India
lflands, to desist from tlie further purchase of
new negrdes, when once the plantations are
flocked with a Sufficient number for propaga
tion, and the cultivation of their land ; when
pecumanr afl&ancc can be given to those who
want to purchase negroes for lheir eft.-.tes; and
if proper encouragement was to be ji'. ju to
marriage among the negroes, and due attention
paid to their inltruction and morals.
In order therefore, to withdraw our Weft-
India po:i'efHoii3 from thp state of dependance
under which they have heitherto been, and
now are, with reTpcCt to the importation of ne
groes, and to make the importation of negroes
unneceirary in future, we declare our most gra
cious will on this fubjeft, and order as follows:
1. Fro.Titlu commencement of the year 1803,
we forbid any of our fubjedts to carry on the
slave trade form the coast of Africa, or any
other place, except in our Weft-India islands }
so that, after that period, no negro man or wo
man, either from that coast or other foreign
places, will be allowed to be purchufbd bv or
for our fubjefts, or to be transported in our.
fubjefts fhps, neither must they be brought to
our Weft-India islands for sale ; and every
tranfaftion contrary to this prohibition, Jhall,
after that period, be deemed unlawful.
2. In the mean time, from the present, un
til the end ofthe year 1802, it is permitted to
all foreign nations, without exception, and un
der all flags, to import negro men and women
from the coast into our Weft-India islands.
3- For every healthy and flout negro, man
or woman, who, during that period, shall be
thus imported into our Weft-India islands, we
permit the following quantities of"raw sugars
to be exported from our islands to foreign pla
ces, either in our own or foreign ships, within
a year after the importation of such negroes,
viz. For every full grown negro, man or woman,
23001b. weight may be exported ; and for eve
ry half grown negro half that quantity, or
iooolb. weight, without any difference with re
gard to sex ; but nothing is allowed for the im
portation of children.
4. The duty which is fixed by the ordinance
of the 9th of April 1764, and 12 th of May 1777
(which ordinances, in every refpeft that regards
the slave trad.', are hereby repealed), on the
importation of slaves, we rnoft graciously tatye
off, with regard to the negro women, who may
be hereafter imported; but, on the other hand,
we impose a duty of one half per cent, more
than "what is already stipulated, on the sugars
which fliall be exported to foreign places, for
the purchase oi such negro men and women as
are imported.
S- It is, moreover, our will, in order to efta
biiih an exait proportion among the dilferent
sexes, that from the beginning of 1795, and af
ter, the negro women and girls whowork in the
field, and are not house negroes, fliall pay no
poll tax ; but, on the contrary, from the above
mentioned period, a double poll tax lit,ill be
exacted for every negro man.
6. From this present period we forbid, in
the ftrongeit manner, all exportation of negro
men or women from our Weft-India islands,
they alone being exempted from this prohibition
who are expelled bv law ;or such our go
vernor-general and council in the
may, upon very extraordinary occafiofis, think
proper according to circumstances, to permit
to depart-
Wherefore, this, our royal will, being made
known, we order all and every one to conform
to it.
Given at our palace of Ghriftianfburgh, in
our royal palace of residence, Copenhagen,
the 16 th of March, 1792, under our royal
hand and seal.
(Schesl.)
HAGERUP TRANT.
ROSENSTUND GOISCH. ? '
Philadelphia, July
INDEPENDENCE.
''HAIL! Independence, hail!"
On tate's propitious gale
Thy various bleflings waft from pole to pole;
Till all the race of man
Adopt one general plan,
Peace, Liberty and Safety to the whole.
" Hail! Independence, hail \"
" The Rights oj Man" prevail !
Before thy beams the powers of darkness fall,-
Earth shall her myriads fee,
All Independent, free,
And Truth's relplendent glories wrap the
ball ! t
THIS DAY is the Anniversary of that me
morable event in the history of our country—
the DECLARATION of INDEPENDENCE-
Sixteen years have elapsed fmce the United
States took their rank in the fcr.le of nations.
Sixteen years experience have verified the pre
dictions contained in the following extract of a
latter, dated July 3, 1776, written by JOHN
ADAMS, a principal agent in the great work,
Zz now Vice-President of the United States.
(See Universal Museum, for May, 1792.)
" 1 ' ie day is pad. The second day of July,
*776, will be a memorable epocha in the hiftorv
of America. lam apt to believe it will be ce
lebrated, by succeeding generations, as the great
anniversary feftival. It ought to be comme
moi ated, as the day of deliverance, byfolemn
a£ts of devotion to almightv God. It ought to
be solemnized with pomp, shows, games, sports,
guns, bells, bonfires, and illuminations, from
one end of this continent to the other, from this
time forward for ever—You will think me
tranfportcd with enthusiasm—but lam not. 1
am well aware of the toil, and blood, and trea
sure that it will coll us, to maintain this decla
ration, and support and defend these states;
yet, through all the gloom, I can fee the rays of
light and plor —I can fee that the end is more
than worth all the means; and that pofteritv
will triumph, although you and-1 may rue,
which I hope we shall not."
Truth like its divine origin, is immutable
First principles Ihould reft on this balk—hence
the propriety of a frequent recurrence thereto.
39
The universe has pronounced the Eulogy of,
the United States—their government has been
diiUnguilhed by the moll: propitious smiles of a
benignant providence—t.ieir progreis in i'aire
and happiness is without example—On this aus
picious day may they recognize the w iidoili,
virtue and patriotism which uddrelfed the lirit
Congrels in the following extraCi —and while
the sublime lentiments pals in review, mav they
be engraven as with the point of a diamond on
the heart of every American.
Extract from tae Presidlnt'i; Specch to tiie
fcrlt Legiilatuie oftho United State- :
" There is no truth more thoroughly esta
blished than that there exifti in the "economy
and course of nature, an indiflolub e „ union be
tween virtue and happicefs; bctveen duty and
advantage—between genuine maxims of an lio
neft and magnanimous policy, and the solid re
wards of public prosperity and felicity Since
we ought to be no less persuaded that the pro
pitious fniiles of Heaven can never be expected
on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of
order and right, which Heaven itfelf has ordain
ed. And since the preservation of the sacred
Fire of Liberty ; and the destiny of tbe repub
lican model of government, are justly consider
ed as deeply, perhaps as Jtiully staked on the ex
periment entrusted to the Amencanpeople."
This day, being the birth-day of our country,
the fame will be duly noticed by rejoicings and
feftivities similar to those which have hereto
fore celebrated the return of this auspicious
anniverlary.
The uniform volunteer companies, and the
corps of artillery of the city will parade at the
usual time and place in honor of the day ; and
in the evening there will be a splendid exhibi
tion of fire-works at Oeller's Hotel. Prepara
tions for the entertainment of company are
made at the gardens at Gray's Ferry, and at
Hurrowgate ; at the latter a brilliant illumi
nation, &.-C. in the evening.
May the day pass in iuch manner as that
re fle Ction may review the tranfaftions witn plea
lure. _
Sunday at two o'clock, p. m. the mercury in'
tlie thermometer Hood at ninety-one degrees in
the lhade ; there was at the fame time a strong
breeze of wind from the north-weft.
About half after three, heavy clouds began ti
rife from the north and north-weft, and irninei
diately commenced a most tremendous hurriJ
cane, which lasted for near fifteen minutes
with allonilhing violence.
One of the large windows of Christ ChurcH
was blown into the aisle, which, though it wal
during the time cf divine service, did no injury
to any of the congregation. Several houlcs
were unrooffed and many Hacks of chimneys
blown down.
The river exhibited a raoft awful fceiie—the
veflels in the harbor were toiled to and fro in
every direction, and many were overset. &
brig was driven on the bar and remains there
aground ; and a fine fliip lying near Vine-llreet,
was forced from her moorings and overfet—for
tunately Hie had noballaft ; wasdriftedwith the
tide about a mile down theriver,audttiengota
ground : it is to be hoped .she will be brought
off, without having received any material in
jufry-
Through the whole of this furious temped,
we have heard of 110 lives being loft except a
boy, who was drowned by the oversetting of
on« of the boats.
ffe further learn, that a boat from this city
to the Jerfcy Ihore was overset within fifty rods
(/('Samuel Cooper's wharf. There were in tie
J>oat Capt. Scott, Mr. Blake, his wife and four
Small children, a young woman, and Mr. Betis,
in aJJ nine persons, none of whom could fwiii
excipt Capt. Scott.
Tt}e Captain, by the most aftoniflung atu
prajfe-worthy exertions, was able,
tiafy, to save them all. He iwam wit!
| one child hanging round his neck, and one on
eack ajrm ; and he returned to the boat amidst
the boillerous waves, raging in a furious and
frightful manner, and brought the others, whe
ha 4 with much difficulty held by the boat, faii
to. land. '
C. R.
iFor the honor of Captain Scott, an old and
valiant soldier, a son cf Maflacliufetts, this cirJ
cunfftance Ihould be handed down to ""Wrjtw
On the 27 th ult. Capt. Stakes' troop of light
dragoons, consisting of eighty non-commiilioned
officers and privates, marciled from Reading for
Pittfburg.
The following Speech of M. Dumourier, the
French Minister of Wat,was deliveredat the
Jacobin Club, just aftef his appointment.
Brothers and Fritvds^
ALL my'time and attention will hence for
ward be devoted to fulfil ,he will of the nation,
and the object of the choice of a confHtutional
king. I ihall carry on foreign negotiations
with a vigor that becomes a free nation ; and
they ihall lhortly produce a lasting peace, or a
decifiye war. If the latter is the ilfue, I (hall
lay down my pen join the army to triumph or
die free with my brothers.
Brothers,
The weight of the duty I have undertaken is
rmmenfe ; aflift me with your advice. Com
municate to me here, and through the channel
of tr.e public prints, truths, even levere truths
but do not readily credit thoi'e who lhali at
tempt to misrepresent my intentions.
The French language is remarkably fertile in
longs of all kinds upon every li.bjeft. The re
volution has not yet operated lo far in chang
ing the character of the nation as to deitrov
tlieir pre-eminence as a singing nation. Their
Constitution has lately been J mg iJ ud , and that
not in ridicule, but m good earnell, by a person
of refpedtable talents and principles.
_A paragraph in a French paper of the last cf
March, mentions, as an article ol' intelligence
troin Marfeilles,ti>at the refractory priests have
been arretted and Ihippcd for Italy.
The-gentlemen inter dhi tbe NATIONAL
BRANCH BANK, in the difcuflion on the sub
ject ct the Union Bank Ait, have aded with a li
beralty and candor, that mult add dignity and im
portance to their jnftitution ; and muffc effect a re
ciprocity of mutual good oftices, the benefits of
which the community at large will emineuily cx
pcr ic uce. liojion Columbian Ccntir.cl.
There arc now Tu-o Coicn,ors\n Ncw-York % Uy
the writer in ihe papers ol that Stare—Mr. Jay,
Governor by The Pcopic, and Mr. Cli.nton, Oo
\ernoi by The Lav.
A.writer in the American Mercury r favf,-*—
" A number of people have fir fbme month",
pait been digmg, at Wetnerslielc! Rocky-Hift,
lor hidden trealurc —Some of them have civer
Icen tbe Devil \ others, while ctiging, have feerv
what frightened them prodigiouflv ; but none
of tnem have fecn the inone\. To prevent anv
further frtiitlefs researches, we can, from good
authoi ity,inform them that Mr. remove
edhis Strong Box to Pennsylvania." To corrobo
rate which, he introduces the extra&cf a letter
from Lancaster, which has been published in the
daily papers of this city, which informs that a
fanner in that county lately ploughed up a chest
which contained nearly half a bushel of gold !
T he time may arrive, fays Pvlr. Necker,when
fatigued of that ambition which agitates go
vernments, and of the continual rotation of the
/ame anxieties and the fame plans, they may
turn their views to the great principles of hu
manity ; and if the present generation is to be
the witness of this happy revolution, they may
at least be allowed to be unanimous in offering
up their vows for the perfection of the social
virtues, and for theprogrefs of public beneficial
inflitutions.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS.
Eaucation is the discipline of human nature;
without which mankind, 44 born like the wild
alfes coif," encreafe in years and strength, to
little better purpose than to befcourges to each
other.
Providence, with existence, gives us the
means to improve that existence for all the pur
poses of mental, social and political happiness 5
Jut if, like 44 the field of the sluggard," these
means are abandoned to the mere impulse of
natural exertion, it is in vain to expedl those
delicious fruits which depend on the labour of
cultivation.
The blelling of liberty was never a cheap
purchase in the firit inftancc—but to perpetuate
the invafiiable pofleflion, with improvements,
and to hand it down through a fucccffion of
ages unimpaired, requires not only a frequent
recurrence to firft principles, hut also the conti
nual vigilance of an enlightened series of patri-
Jp ts — an vf frequent facrificesef private advan
tages on the altar of the public good- This
cannot be provided for in aiiy other way, thaa
by making ample and cheap "provision for the
education of the great body of the people.
The tranquility of a despotic government
depends on the ignorance of the general mass of
the people, and the monopoly of learning in the
hands of a few—The peace of a free republic
depends on an universal diffufion of knowledge.
Many persons seem to suppose that those who
j agree witli them in political opinions, have made
a monopoly of patriotism—hence the intolerant
felf-fuflicientfentiments of many modern poli
tical writers—While they set up their own dog
mas as the infallible creed of political ortho
doxy, they condemn aii who diifer from tberii
as fools or knaves. One would be led to sup
pose from these writers, that mankind have
groped in Egyptian darkness from the creation
to the present time, without one gleam of light
to chear the gloomy paiTage of exillence.
It is to be acknowledged that the present is
an age of improvement inmanyeflentialobjefU
of human concern—But while we ftudv the vo
lume of human nature, let us not pass over the
chapter of experience ; for what has been, is,
and will- bt agair.—Virtue alone is the only
foundation .of confidenct, that will not fail us.
Married,«! Sav»nnah, Capt. Daniel M'Lane,
[o Miss Susannah Hutchins.
At fame pljce, Mr. Wh.liamVanderi.ocht,
o Miss Betsey Brown/,.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the rORT o/PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Munlon, rarker, St. Vincents
Dijpatck, Fitzpatrid, Jamaica
jinna, ( htirc/ii/l, harbadoes
Scho'r Barbara, Queynatino, I'orto Rico
Nancy, ll'ood, Virginia
Nancv, Wallace, ditto.
Two S/Jlers, Norton, North-Carolina
Newport, Gvr/cn, ditto.
Mpiify Mitchell, ditto.
WilUrm, Kenns, ditto.
Sloop 7ajon, Beck, Turks-ljl'ani
PoJy, Co/lings, Georgia-
FRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 5 , r
3 per Cents, 12 y G
Deferred,
Ha«f lharcs Bank U. S. 64 per cent, prem.
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
July 2d, 1792.
VJOTICE is hereby given, That there will be
IN paid at the Bank, after the 10th instant, to
the Stockholders, or their rcprefentatives duly au
thorized, the so.lowing sums, being the dividend,
declared from the commencement of the institu
tion to the fiift instant, wi.
For each snare compleated in the month of
March, Twelve Dollars.
I For each thare compleated in the month of April
Ten Dollars, Sixty fnen Cents. '
Fur each fharc completed in the month of Way,
Aim Do/Jars, Thirty-three Cents.
For each half-ftiare, Eight Dollars.
By order of the President and Directors,
(=w.) JOHN KEAN, Calhicr.FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MAGAZINE.
THE CELL OF SOLITUDE.
D IM as the fleeting visions of the night,
A dark lower tott'ring clos'd th' extended view ;
While round its spires, illum'd with feeble light,
The flitting bat, and boding raven flew.
Rent was the hanging arch—the domes o'erthrown ;
Nor tread was heard along the distant pile,
Save when the troubled ghost with hollow moan,
Strode flow'.v o'er the long rtffounding isle.
One only cell withstood the waste of time,
'Twas where a turret rear'd its moss clad brow ;
Gloomy it flood in falling pomp iublime,
And fliow'd the mould'ring wrecks around below.
Here on her hand her drooping head reclin'd ;
Wrapt in fwect musing fat the lonely power;
Penftve (he fat and heard the howling wind
Die, faintly murm'ring round her ivy'd bower.
In graceful ringlets fell her amber halt!
Black as ihe raven's plumes her mantle flow'd ;
No cupids round her fan'd ilie sullen air;
No ftftive echo checr'd her lone abode.
Bnt the wild harp that to the blast complains,
Sooth'd with melodious plaint her raptur'd ear j
Deep, solemn, awful roll'd the varying strains,
Such drains the feraphiins with transport hear.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENfINEL,
MR. RUSSELL,
TT is said to be in agitation, immediately on
A the arrival of official accounts of o|en hostili
ties between the Patriots of France, and their
enemies, to set oil foot a plan for rai in<* a body
of American Volunteers, to embark as°foon as
possible for France. The idea was tic fuggefled
from a doubt that the French Freemi 11 are not
able to cope with their slavish enemii —or that
they wanted any thing to Simulate tl ;m to glo
rious conquest ; but merely to evince the grati
tude of Americans—and once more o mingle
their blood with those of their allies, n defence
of the rights of human nature. Shot d the idea
be carried into effect, there is not a oubt that
the government of the United State! and the
individual Hates, will make ample pf>vifion for
the support and transportation of Patriot
Volunteers. Ihe Legislature of Maflachufetts,
now in session, would do themselves immortal
honor, by being the firft to provide, on their
part, in cafe the project succeeded, for those
who would go from this Hate. To ibis fubietft
their attention is requested, by
Jutte 1792. AN AMERICAN.
ExtraS from the address oj M. Marauthon, at the
civic Feflival in Bourdeaux, in December laji.
Jpojlrophe to Stanislaus King of Poland.
; tiie Lithuanian Eagle now at
. T^ tr ?' r,S y ° Ur re ß ard - F'om the banks of
the I iftula to the Borijlhenes, it bears towards
immortal,ty the name of StaniJlau<.-St an i/lau t ,
%vho kindled by the torch ofphilofophj, enflam
cd by the generosity of his nature, glided by
experience and perhaps by the solemn example
Winch tlnsfcene exhibited, delivered a great Peo
p e frjui the yoke of the nobles of his Empire.
May the benign genius of this monarch prepare
for his nation and for himfelf, a new source of
glory ; by sweeping from liis states the remains
of feudal tyranny. Pardon, O ! Staniflau,, if we
point out this great benefic to thy noble foul.—
Pardon if we do not render to thy labours that
plenitude of praise, which thy generosity has
doubt lets a right to demand. But the friends of
liberty are aukward in flattering Kings: And
while they cannot refufe to thy virtues the tri
bute of their cfleem—a salutary dirtruft permits
them not to lavifli on it too much praise."
Bank of the United States,
TTF.SOLv'ED, That the specie proportion of the thirdly.
t^R m v fK n C fc ft M ° nday J"'? n ""- on cach «•»« of
the Bank of the United Sates, may he made at the Bank or at
*>y of the offices oldifcount and deposit; and that transfers of
Cfarf* T 'T Un \"l 'V, rh Paymem> maV bf on the
books of the Treasury of the Unrted States, or i„ the office of any
of the Comm.ffioner, of Loans in any of the States, certificate, of
which transfersto be deposited ,n the office in which the fpccic
proportion of such payment shall be made.
Refolveo,That the transfer books be closed fourteen day. pre
vious to the full days ot July and January of each year
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Caffiier.
»1"-- •
Stock Brokers Office,
T-V, Great Dock-llreet, N e w-Yor k,
HE Subfoiber intending to confine himfclf entirely to the
PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS ON COMMISSION
Begs leave 10 offer his services to his friends and others in ihe
line of a Stock Broker. Those v.-ho may pleafeto favor him with
their bunnefs, may depend upon having it tranlaaed « ith the ut.
moil fidelity and difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any other part of the
United States will beftriftly attended to.
May s
LEONARD BI.EECKER.
('•(•)
Twenty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the fubfenber, on Monday the 9th cur
rent, a NEGRO MAN njmed ROBIN, is 55 years of age,
Rout marie, and bred a farmer ; oncot his thumbs much fwelied;
is 5 feet 6 inches high ; had on when he went away a big purple
coloured cloth coat, a short linen coat, a pair of fuftian breeches,
a ruffled (hirt, an oJd beaver hat, with shoes. (lockings and buckles,
all good. Also, a young NEGRO BOY named SAM, is 19
veais of age, stout and well made, 5 feet 9 inches high, much
marked with the small-pox ; had on when he went away, a big
blue coat, a brown (hort coat, overalls of a mixed cloth, fulled
(lockings, a new wool hat, new (hoes and buckles. Whoever
will fee ure fa id Negroes in any gaol, or bring them to the sub
scriber, shall receive the above reward, and all reasonable charges
paid. ALEXANDER ROBERTSON.
Morris-Town, April 17, 1792.
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing ehe
Pfouftant Epifcopiil Church in the city of New-Biuntwick,
agre< able to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
1
1
5
20
30
90
■675
Prize of 2000
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, it 16002 Dolls.
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubje£l to a dedu&ion ol twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being ot such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal support.
The drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of
New-Brunl'wick, under the infpeflion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ot Am.
boy; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufacturing Society of New*Jrrfcy.
Tickets to be had ot the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance o r their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he publiflied, and the
priz.es paid immediaielv after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those pj izes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church.
*** Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 P er cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all those who may he disposed to purchase Tickets, letters dire&-
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Poftmaftcr, at New-Brunfwick,
and enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April 20. 1792
THICKETS in the NEW-BRUNSWICK LOTTERY, are to
A be had at the following placcs, viz.—Samuel Cooper's
Ferry; at Burlington, of R. Pierfon, Esq. Bordentown, of Mr.
John Van Emburgh ; Mount Hollv, of J. Read, Esq. Trenton,
ot John Singer, Esq. Amboy,of James Parker, Esq. Elizabeth-
Town, of R.Gray; Powles-Hook, of Col. Smith and Judge
Hunt; Cranbury, ot William Throckmoiton Spchfwood ; and of
the Managers in Brunfwick.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVEjuftnow opened their Lead-War e house, two doors
south of Walnut-flrcet Wharf, adj'.iningtheir New Faflory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a genera] assort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engiifh woikmen, they warrant it to be
equal in qilality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They alCo continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addressed to either of the
above Faaories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
Ihorteit notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, whercconftant employ, good wages, und other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses lor their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin&Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond,or as above.
Philadelphia, Dcrt-mbrr 3, 1701.
FOR PUBLISHING BY SURSCR IPTION,
In the Commonwealth of Ma}lachitfetts y
A SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET COMPANION.
IN THREE rARTS,
Part 1./ CONTAINING the duty and practice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and practice of heavy artillery •
to which will be added, an extract of a Treatise on the origin and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an cxpcricnccd Officcr in
the ,tne, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of direflions
lor comporuion, and the method of making artifi ial fire-works
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds us ordl
nance.
By WILLIAU STEVENS, Ffj
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolution, and since in the Militia.
CONDITIONS.
This woik to be pi inted on good paper with a handsome tvpe
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, contain,,,;
upwards ot one thousand pages; illustrated with a great variety
or explanatory plates, executed bv able artifls.
r 1 K hc P /i CC 'r t " h f c ' )be ' s > Dollar each volume—to non-fub
for'r, Cr r, ."I'n u r rach vo!umc : and th " fc who fubfcr.bc
lor fix setts, fViall have a seventh gratis.
fubferibed^for^ 14 " bC publiftltd as ,oon as five hundred copies are
Subleripti on paper, will be lodged with the principal Printers
Booksellers in the United States of America.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
B State-Street, BOS TON,
UV and fell every kind of the Sleeks of the United Statu, on
Commiilion, by Private Contrad, and Public Auflion.—
Ihofe gentlemen who m;v be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dtfpaich
■uolon. March, iiq" ' ,
' ' ■? ' (iaw3m;
40
Dollars is
2000
1060
1000
500
f'OO
1000
1000
1000
1.500
18co
67CG
100
5°
20
4
i6ooo
.n,
In til' S.. j> aloi .- Captain l'i ;r, f.-om Lisbon,
A FEW pipes and quarter ea(i<s of LISBON WINE for
fnperior in quality to what is, generally imported'
And a t'e>v bales oi' she very best COH.KS,
TO BK.jSpLD *Y
George MEADE,
WHO HAS ALSO FOR SAIE,
Choice three and five years aid Billot Exchange MADEIRA
WINE, by the pipe or quarter-calk.
London Market MADEIRA WINE, five vqars old, by the
pipe or quarter-caflc.
Choice old SHEHRY WINE, by the quarter-calk.
MESS BEEF, of a superior quality, and such as is fit for
an Ealt-India voyage, put up in this city.
Choice firll quality REEK, ' ,10.
Ditto fetond ditto do,
BOSTON BEEF, equal to any from that country.
BURLINGTON PORIC, of the firft qualitv, and
114 FLAX-SEED. &c.
Philadelphia, Alay 16, 1792
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG
Of the very fhft quality, and la.cft importation from Cautn'n ,ia
New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chefnnc and Market Streets
APRIL £7, i9aa
TO B£ SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between ijiis da;eand thefirft d*y of July. tiiiog,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY fnuated, and bounded on the East by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 205
acres, 40 whercol is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time; 25 acre?, a rich low boat, »n, reay.be made
very good meadow at an ealy expence. The uplao.l lay> in iht
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marftv, from which 'by an cafy
ascent to the eleared fields.) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing (beam of water runs through this tuft, on which it
a feat for a mill, and in which is good fpt/rt with the net a«d
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good manlinn-hnnle, gar
den, and nectffaiy out-buildiugs; an orchaid o! the b. ft kind*, of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, beating; a crqpol wheatand
rye in the ground, and a spring croo putting in. Appl,y to
Peter Leßmhier Du Pi issls, Esq. No. 86, Chcfnut-ftrrel,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Wateiman, at the Walhingl
ton, on the Brillol road; or to Doctor Tomb, at Nelliainany
Ferry, Bucks Count) . The piirchaifr, pa> ing one third.of tho
price down, may have a term of y<v>'s tu pay the rcfidue, payini
imereft. ' May 5. (ep.tf.) '
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSC RIRLR HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainmeitf,
At the Sign of the PRESIDENT of the UN I TED ST ATES,
In that commodious House lately occupied by Tfomif Bcu'c, tfij.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnilbed himfelf with a stork ot the best L ; qnors, and
will use every exertion 10 give fdiisfaftion by procuring, in their
season, the bed of every fpecics of provision, and having,ihefaroc..
served up in ihc moil neat and elegant manner.
GEORGE H. LEIGH.
SOCIETY (OK ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
At a meeting of the Directors of ihe Society for
eltablilhing ufeftiJ manufatSures, held at New
ark, on Friday the eighteenth day of, May,
1792, at which time was pnlled the following.
Supplement to an ordinance, entitled, " An- or
dinaace for fepnring the punilual payment of
the monies due on the fubferiptions to the so
ciety for eftabli/hing ufeful manufactures/'
WHEREAS by the third fetftion of the ordi
nance entitled, " An ordinance for secur
ing the puniflnal payment of the monies due on
the fubferiptions to the l'ociety for ellablifhrng
ufeftil manufactures," it is ordained, that if any
lublirriber or his afligns, /hall negleiit to pay the
second, third or fourth payment of his, her or
their refpedlive fubferiptions, for the space of
three days after the expiration of the tinip limit
ed by the law of incorporation for the And pay
ments, that is to fay, the feccnd payment, on the
13th day of July, 1 792 : that then and in that
cafe, all and every share or (hares, offuchperfon
or persons, so negledting to make such payments
as aforel'aid, and the monies by them pre.vioufly
paid, shall be forfeited, and forever thereafter
vested in the laid direiSors and their fuccelTors
for the common benefit of the said focietv.
And whereas circumstances render it inexpe
dient to exacft full payment of the second inflal
ment on the said thirteenth day of July next, or
within three days thereafter.
Be it therefore ordained, by the deputy gover
nor and directors of the focieiy for eftablifhmg
ufeful manufactures, that if the said second pay
ment shall be made in planner following, that is
to fay, one equal third part thereof, on or before
the thirteenth day of Ayguft next, one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of September next, and one other e
qual third part thereof, on or before the thir
teenth day of October next, with lawful inteieft
computed thereon from the said thirteenth day
°f July next, that then and in such cafe, the laid
penalty mentioned in the said fetftion, (hall no:
be exatfted, any thing in the said ordinance to
the contrary notwithltanding.
A. MERCER, Dep.Gov.
Extracft from the minutes,
J A M ES GRIFFITHS, Clck.
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE for receiv i:<g and pa\ GoM a' in B t'k of the
United States, (hewing the \ . hu ql Gold in D liar* and
Cents, from One to a Thnuftnd Penny:.- _ Wi—arcoc uip to the
Ast of Congrcfi, afccrtaining the SiaiiJv. ad Value of Gold.
i j