[No. 5, of Vol. IV.]
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, jtne 6, 1792.
TH E Printers 01 Ntwlpapers in the United
States arc deftred 10 t.-ke Notice, That Mr.
frauds Bailey, Mr. Damtl and Meifrs.
kpotfwooi and Carey t ot this City, have ceased to
'Tint Newspapers. and of course can receive none
♦»om the other Primers tree of Pollagc.
Printers of Newfpapcrs are therefore dcfifed todif-j
continue fending their Papers to ihofe (»emlemei>,
uulcf* they ftiould become $ on the toot
ing of other Citizens.
As divers Primers mother Plaoes may havedif
cominued their printing of New (papers, the Poit
mafter* in those places are defned to give Notice
ihereoi in the Newspapers in whi h thev uluaily
Advertise ; that the Newfpapeis lent to (uch for
mer Printers may be discontinued, and the Pub
lic Mails be relieved from ufelet* Burthens.
THE following lections ot the act entitled,
" An ast for raising a further sura of morev
*iir the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, a-e repnb
liftied for the information of all persons, who,
on the 29th day of June next (J 79?) (hall be
poffisfled of M INES.
" Sect. 10. A ;>'D be it further enacted, That
jtV all Wine; which after the said
left dav of June next, (hall be imported into the
United States, (hall he landed under the ca''e of
the infpeftor of the port where the lame (hall be
landed, and for that purpose, every permit for
landing any Vines, which (hall be granted by a
Collector, lhall, prior to luch landing, be pro
duced to the said infpeftor, who, by endorsement
thereupon under his hand, (hall fignify the pro
duction thereof to him, and tiie time when, af
ter which, and not otherwise, on pain of foi fei
ture, it (hall be lawful to land the said Wines.
And the said inspector (hall make an entry cf
all such permits, and of the contents thereof, and
each pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk, cafe, box or
package whatsoever, containing such Wines,
Jhall be marked by the officer under whole im
mediate infpeftion the fame lhall be landed, in
legible and durable characters, with progreifive
numbers, the name of the said officer, and the
quality or kind of Wine as herein before enu
merated and diftinguilhed. And the sard olficer
stall grant a certificate for each such pipe, butt,
lioglhead, calk, cafe,box or package, fpecifvine
therein the name or names of the importer or
importers, the (hip or velT-1 m which the fame
fcall hare been imported, and the number there
of, to accompany the fame wheresoever it (hall
be sent. And if any pipe, butt, hoglhead, calk,
cafe, box or package, containing Wine, (hall l>e
fjund without such marks and certificates, the
(ame (hill be liable to be seized, and the want of
luch marks and certificates (hall be presumptive
evidence, that such Wine was unlawfully im
ported and landed."
" Sea. 11. A id be it further enacted, That
every person, who lhall have in his or her pol
felfion, Wiues which are intended for sale, in
quantity exceeding one hundred and fifty gal
lons, (hall prior to the said lad: day of June next,
make entry thereof in writing at lome office of
inspection in-the city, town or county where he
or '' 1 j lhall reiide, foerifying and describing the
calks, cares, boxes and other packages contain
ing the fame, and the kinds, qualities and quan
tities thereof, and where, and in whose pofleflion
they are ; and the officer of infpeftion, at whose
office such entry may be made, lhall, as soon a
may be thereafter, visit and infpeft, or cause to
be visited and infpefted, the Wines so reported
and lhall mark,or cause to be marked, the calk-'
cases, boxes and packages containing the
with progressive numbers, with the name of the
person to whom the fame may belong, the kind
or kind* thereo,', and words " Old Stock," and
(hall grant a certificate for each calk, cafe, box
package containing such Wine, defcribinp
tnerein the said calk, cafe, box or package, and
rhe V/ines therein contained, which certificate
lhall accompany tiie fame, Wherever it may be
sent. And'if anV person who mav have Wines
in his or her polfellion for sale, lhall not, prior to
the said last day of June next, make entry there
of, as above directed, he or (he, for such omillion
or neglett, (hall forfeit and pay the value of the
Wi.ie omitted to be entered, to be recovered
with costs of fiiit, for the benefit of anv person
who lhall give information thereof, and the
Wines so omitted to be entered, lhaU be for
feited."
RL"N AWAY from the tublciiber, living i,
Kent County, and Stare ol Maryland, 01
Buind»y the 2->th Maylafl, a NEGRO M A N
named'HAaX; about 40 year, of age, about fivi
feet nine inches high, hci a fear over one of his
eye-b.ows, and when talking, hang, hi, |, t ,d on
nne nfle, and looks up—had on and took with
li.ni the following cloath,, vii. . a itarnought coat
fcbJJck and white kersey c«at, cut found, i white'
krrfey jacket aud hiecche,, two pair of yarn flock
-li>gs, the one pair lately footed, and the other not
two ozirtburgh #ii»t«, eachr on one fide'
Iwo pair of iqw-lincn trowfci,, one pair patched
with new iow-liuvft down the fo,e part,, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever lakes up said Ne-j.o, if out of ihi,
State,and fecuu-s him in gaol, Hull receive I OIJR.
TEfcN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
lh>» Slate, and (c ured at aforcfaid, shall receivc
LlGiil DOLLARS leward ; and 1! brought
home, reasonable exornre, will be paid by
ri. at- PEREGRINE LKTHRBURY.
IntJler-Teuji, June 4, 1791. j f p jj w
S/tyfi y ( .s(j X
Xirk'X.iL HL'SLISHfD Wh !)Nr *ip A YS. ANI> SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 6q. HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
Comaming a jjcograplncal defcriotion of the
Stri'c with (ketcitci c»f 114 natural hiftorv, pro
dufiions, iniproveniinand prtfent lble ot lb
cieiy and mantlets, laws and government.
T. PICKERING
This volume complea's the htttory, and it
pe.uliaily intercfting... Subscribers arc deli red
■o call h»r ihrir books.
Wm. clkland,
B O.S TON,
Trinfafis fcru-i-cii ir. the Funds of t'.„s Unitcc
States;
BANK. STOCK, BILLS 01' EXCHANGE, f;c.
£3' Order's from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of tie Union, wili be attended to
with Wjd PuNCTUAiITY.
>»«i. {eptmti
HOUSE OF RthRtSF. ST AT IV F5,
FKJDAY, April J3, 1792.
A notion Jor recommitting the bill to provide jor raif
:"g a further Jum oj H6MC) jor t/ic piolctlion oj tut
trortiers, wa> made t epreceding day by Mr. Sage,
but not decided on—it wai thu dm ogam brought
Jorwtrd by that gentleman, who objened 0/1 the
-1 uLCtijIVH.
J RISE, Sir, to renew the motion which I
lii idjj veltjrd iy 7 that the bill bct'u, c you may
be recommitted. I ohierved then, that having
been reminded of my duty by gentlemen who
laid that they who had not brought a-ny ot-.er
plan of ways and means before the House, if
they objected to tl'at proposed by the Secretary,
'ad not done their d at;, I arose then to {hew
how far I had done inv dutand how far I was
wilHng to go to perform it. I informed the
houie that as I did not approve of the Secreta
ry's third plin (that which the house had adop -
«:d) X had proposed to the leading members (an
expreiiion which gave offence to foine gentle
men, but which I explained as meaning no more
than members who take the lead in biilinefs,
and to whom I confeifed my felf obliged for their
l'er vices, and whom, when they lead rightly, I
was willing to follow) an adoption of the Secre
tary s fecondplan, but not meeting with their
approbation, I then joined my friends in endea
vours to amend the biU; failing in tnis, and
called on to do my duty, I rife to move that
t.ie bill be recommitted. Had gentlemen, Sir,
done what t iey promised they would do, if the
home would apply to the Secretary us t.ie Trea
sury for a plan of waysar.dmeanr', Mould have
no occasion to make this motion. Ti.ey pro
mised that tiiey would freely and boidlyexamine
his report, and lilten attentively to every pro
position which could be opposed to it; but have
they done tnis? No—tney embraced without
hefitatiort the third plan proposed by the Sec.e
tary, as if it were because he feid it was the
belt ol the three, without offering either of the
other two plans to the house, although the se
cond had been proposed by a member from Maf
fachuletts (Mr. Goodhue) before the house had
agreed to apply to Me Secretaryfor his opinion
I hope, therefore, that those gentlemen will
now agree to recommit the bill, that we mav
have an opportunity of trying whether one of
the two other plans propdfed by tne Secretary
or some other, may not be preferable to that
adopted in the bill; or, if not, let us atleaft fee
whether the plan which has been adopted mav
not be Amplified—for there appears no shadow
of reason for repealing an ast fur establishing a
permanent revenue, to rc-enaft it in a bill for
raising a sum of money tbr a temporary pur
pose ; the business of a campaign—uorcan there
be-any propriety in passing a bill for the defence
of the frontiers, which is in fait a bill for the
encouragement of manufactures, and of the
j "!?>?"* *>r encrea( "ig the finking fund,
and also for the introduction of a stamp act.
If the committee of the tfhole will not adopt
the fijft plan proposed by the Secretary, I mean
that far difpufmg of the interest in the Bank of
the United States, which I confers I should pre
ti 'i° , ylng t! f exc °ffive duties proposed in the
tnlro anu which are to be levied by the
Saturday, June i 6, 1792.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO EE 4010 (PRICB tOf.)
By HAZARD anj ADDOMS,
At tbecoiuer of Third & Chefuut Streets,
the
history
N ew-Hampihire,
Vol. 11l
By Je KCM V BtlKNl", A.M.
CONGRESS..
PHILADELPHIA.
17
bill before you—nor the second plan, which was
once so well recommended by t ie member from
Matiuchti ietts—at least I ho r >e they will limplify
t.ie bill, by itriking out what is foreign to its
purpoie ; t iat isj the repeal of the former rcve-
nue law; arid t'ie indirect intrcduftion of a
itamp act, fwe are to have a ltamp ast, and I
have no objection to one, let it be iutroduccd
{airly and openly, and {land by it e!t. For my
part, I think it a fufficient reason to recommit
the bill, to amend it so that it may lhew at one
view not only for what purpose the additional
duties arc to be laid, but what 11. y are. As the
- bill now {land ~ they are so blended with other
• duties, that no man can fee in what manner
■ the sum wanted is to be railed. I know I (hall
be laid to be a bad financier, if I propose to fell
out our {lock in the Bank. I agree that the
Secretary's reason against felling now, when
{locks are so low, is good—but 1 know that 1
lpeak like the reprelentative of plain dealing,
honest republicans, when I propose rather to
Jell out their flock in the Bank, than to lav ad
ditional taxes on them, and encreale the duty
on imports to luch a degree as to introduce
smuggling, which mult be deftruftive eft eir
mora s, ruinous to their revenue, and which
may undermine even their manufactures, which
tnsle dur.es were intended to protect; for, as I
remarked on a former occasion, if \ou go be
yond a certain point in taxing imports, you will
tempt finugglers to introduce articles with
wilich they will underlell the fair trader and tie
manufacturer. I confels, however, that as we
have an interest in the Bank, which may be
ulelully applied to linking the national debt—
I am willing to apply it to that purpo r e—ana
t.iat I prefer the Secretary's second plan to the
one t e house has adopted. If the bill be com
imtted, I (hall be pleaded to find the committee
disposed to adopt that. By the plan now in tiie
bill, we are in the firft inilauce to borrow the
money wanted. Why, if we aie to lay an ad
ditional duty, may we not lay only enough to
pay the idtereft annually, and the principal t»
installments? This, I think, must be much more
agreeable to our conllituents, than to pav the
whole sum required by taxes in one year. 1
fee not why we {hou d encreafe the duties on
imported articles lather tlr. n on tonnage. 1
think an additional duty on foreign tonnage, or,
it Gongre s have the courage to lay it, on ve -
(els of nations not in alliance with us, would
easily raifea sum for the dilcharge of the loan
neceflary on this occasion? and I am of opinion
that it is high time to encreafe the tonnage on
luch vcfl'els; it is more than two years fmce this
houle declared it would lay an additional duty
on the tonnage of veflels of a certain nation, jf
it would not make a commercial alliance with
our States. I know it is laid that such a niea
fure might impede a treaty; but, Sir, 110 na
tion upon earth has a right torefent fuchaftep,
nor can we be injured by retaliation. As to a
I treaty, I doubt much whether we Hand in need
of one. 1 fear the business of treaties is bette<
underftoodeifew ere than here, and that foreign
Ministers might be an overmatchfor us in fuc!.
negoeiations. I had rather regulate our com
merce, so as to induce th country with which
we wilh to trade upon advantageous terms, to
u<s such terms; at all events, I Ihould aim
at encreafing our revenue in this manner. If
we cannot extend our commerce, and at present
1 would avoid an encreale of duty on imports,
I think that the lands in the Weftem Territory
Ihouid be fold, and tonnage encrea'ed, before
we lay any further burthen on imported arti
cle'— i burthen which must be unequally felt
by the different slates. 1 hope, therefore, that
the bill will be recommitted, and so amended,
that it may pass by a great majority.
Mr. Hartley made foine observations in oppo
sition to the motion—the queftiou for agreeing
to which was negatived.
The bill tiien being open to s(mendment<j
Mr. Williamfon objc&ed to the feiftion whicii
exempted books imported for colleges and aca
demic; from a duty—<jnd after Itatinglome rea
son i for his opinion, moved to amend the lectio;;
by striking out tiie clause making this excep
tion—'t lis motion, after some debate, was
agreed to.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
J A S S Y, February 28.
THE refpetftive Minillers who at
tended the Congi ess held here,
left us the 19th of this month, on
which occasion iheKuliians exhibited
a grand dilplay of fire works, which
had a. very noble effert, and were ac
companied by the continual discharge
of 30 pieces of artillery. The win
dows of a number of lioufes were,
however, broke by the report. The
Turks appeared very much surprized
at a diveriion of this nature- Count
ISelborodko afterwards gave a grand
dinner, when the Reis EfFendi dittri
buted theprefents wMch lie had been
charged with by his Court to the Ruf
fian Plenipotentiaries, and other offi
cers of the Legation.
[Whole No. 527.
ST OCKHOLM, April 3.
e have not yet seen any authen
tic Jilt cI 1 hole who are taken up or
fuppoled to be concerned in the ploc
ot the late regicide j they are howe
ver, 28 in number, four of whom the
afialiin himfelfowned as accomplices ;
eight lay under violent suspicion, but
have not yet confelled any tiling ;
one poisoned himfelf i—and, laltly,
1 4 were arretted on fufpicioll,of whom
five are tince leleafed.
1 lie Queen of Sweden is very ill.
T he decealed King not long before
his death desired that the conspira
tors might be pardoned, and the af
faflin himfeif be as mildly puniflied
as the law would admit of.
It is said, that Ankerftrom had at
tempted to starve himfelf' to death,
but that he had been forced to take
nourifhinent.
All the inhabitants of Stockholm
Slave been forbid io have any gun
powder in their houses, or to fell any.
VIENNA, April 4.
The family of our young lovereign
is aflembling agreeably to his uefi.c.
The Arthduchefs Ma. ia I heref'a, and
Prince Anthony of Saxony, her con
sort, arrived some days ago, and the
Archduke Ferdinand, Orand Duke
ofTufcany, arrived here yeltei > ly.
OurCoort havepuklifiied the whole
of the conefpondence wuh France,
contained in forty four quarto pages.
1 be leafon for this publication is
laid to be, to clear our Miniltiy from
the wrong opinion which the Nation
al Allembly may enteitain of them,
uhen, in fact, the Jacobins are only
to blame.
The correspondence begins with
a letter fiom M. de Leflart, and ends
with the note from the Prince Chan
cellor, and indulges the declaration
of the present king, which is to the
following purport :
" That upon this fubje<ft he thinks
exadily as his predecettor, and fol
lows only the prudent rules of pre
caution, without any hottile intenti
ons ; that with refpe«ft to further
steps he fliall be entirely guided by
what his allies shall think neceflary
to do in the present ltate of affairs.
That in the mean time he hoped the
French nation would relcue their ho
nor and independence from the in
fluence of a bloocjihiifty fadtion,
whole only views were to render the
liberty of the Kins;, the fuppoi r of"
the Monaichy, and the relioration
of a permanent Conltitution, mere
names," &c. &c.
M. de Noaillcs, having sent to Pa
ris his resignation of the embarfy
from France, sets of to-morrow for
Lucca, where he purposes living in
a private manner, at leal! till ihe
peace and happiness of his country
are finally fettled. The reward
which M. de Leflart has met with
for his fervires, has afforded a leflon
to M. de Noailles, who is determined
not to expose himfelf io the sam«
leatnient.
HAMBURGH, April 13.
We learn from Elfingburgli, that
10,000 Dalecarlians have entered
Stockholm. This (although not ab
solutely to be credited) leeuis to be
rather confirmed by the Hopping of
the polls frotn that Capital to the con
tinent.
We learn from Copenhagen, that
on the 7th no poll liad arrived from
Stockholm, and that all travellers
were detained at the frontiers of
Sweden. Thus we do not learn what
is going forward there, bur from the
above precaution it is not likely thac
tranquility reigns in that {kingdom.
MADRID, March aS.
M. Gardoqui is Minifterof L'Azien
da and the Indies. The King is not
at all pleased with the pensions and
rewards granted by the late Minister.PARIS, April 21
In the fitting of yesterday evening
the Aflembly, after having taken in
confideretion the formal proposi
tion of the King, declared war againlt
Francis 11. King of Hungary and Bo-
hernia
This decree was carried after a dif
tufiion of two hours, aim oft tiie
unanimous voice of the members. 1 lie
preamble, drawn up during the fit
■ inn by the Diplomatic Committee,
contains a fninmary recapitulation of
hose grievances, of which redress
could not be obtained by the means
of ne«;ociations ; and a declaration
that Fiance, having entered into this
war only to repel the attack of a fo
reign court, and defend its fovei eign
ty, will not cease to inanifeft its res
petft for the rights of nations, and
the laws of that universal fraternity
which it lias acknowledged in iis con
ftkuiion.
A deputation of 24 members was
appointed immediately to carry this
Decree to the King, in order to re
ceive his Santftion.
M. Condorcet proposed the plan of
a National Manifello, which has been
adjourned for three days, in order to
afford the assembly time for delibera
tion.
M. Forfaix has given a most favor
able account of the meaSures which
had been employed by th« National
Treasury to secure for the Nation
those Supplies of real specie, which
may be necefTary to Support the ex*
penfes of a campaign ; and upon his
proposition it has been decreed that
the whole army fhnll in future re
ceive their pay in (ilver.
We need Scarcely add, that this de
claration of a war has given the great
ell Satisfaction to all ranks of citizens,
and may probably have the effect to
reconcile their differences, and diretft
th-»;r-force to a common objetft.
Extract of a letter from Vienna, April j.
" The allaffination of the King of
Sweden causes a great sensation here,
and no doubt throughout Europe.
This event, and its consequences,
mrtft cause a great altetation in the
proceedings of different courts, and
Sweden may be looked upon as Snatch
ed away from the grand confederacy
against France, as Ihe will find enough
to do to quell the discontents which
prevail within herfelf. What our
court will retolve upon is not yet
known : but it is generally believed
that a week or two will shew the joint
intentions of the Houses of Austria
and Prussia."
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, April 20,
In the fitting of the 19th, M. Du
mourier read the following commu-
nications :
Letter jrom M. NOAILLES to the
French MiniJlcr for Foreign Affairs,
April J.
S T R,
" Your dispatches of the 27th of
Marcfi were brouglit to n>e by the
Courier Derville, On the 4th of April.
I immediately obeyed the inftrudii'>ns
contained in them, by viliting the
Count Cobenzel, Vice Chancellor of
State and of Court. I preferred ad
drefling myfelf to him, because I was
sure, by his means, of introducing
whatever 1 chose to the knowledge of
the Sovereign.
" I said every thing to the Vice
Chancellor which could produce a de
finitive explanation, such as you wish
ed. I represented to him how much
our uneasiness increased every day.
upon observing t)ie hostile prepara
tions directed agqinft us.
[M. Noailles, after Tome similar
observations, concluded his address
to Count Cobenzel by faying, that he
had received orders o demand a de
claration by which the Court of Vi
enna Ihotild renounce its armaments
a;id coalition ; and to announce, that,
in default of this declaration, the
French King will consider liimfelfto
be in a (late of war with Atiftria, in
which he would be supported by the
whole nation, who willi only for an
immediate decision.]
" Connr Cobenzel undertook to
juftify his Court from the hostile
■views imputed to it, and contended,
that the reinforcements sent to Brif
gaw were for the prefervatior. of or
der. I observed, that so many pre
cautions, after the concert that was
known to us, juftified our alarms. I
in lifted especially upon the conclusion
of this concert: so contrary to what
we might expedt from a?t ally.
'' The reply of Count Cobenzel
confirmed me in my former opinion,
chat his court did not wifli to attack
us, but would make requisitions—
which it would be difficult to avoid
without a vuar. He laid, that the
concert: was no longer peffonally to
the King of Hungary ; that he could
not withdraw himfelf, but with other
courts ; and, that this concert would
continue till what remained to be fet
tled with France was brought to a
conclulion. He fpecified to me three
points
I. " That fatisfadtion should be
liven to the Princes poUcflioned in
rtlface.
2. " That fatisfaiftion fliould be
given to the Pope for the couiury of
Avignon.
3. " That the neighbouring pow
ers shall have no real'on for the ap
prehensions, which atife 1 from the
prefeitt weakness of the internal go
vernmerit ot Fiance.
" 1 nfked Count Cobenzel, if, for
answer to the representations-which
I had macle him, I'tnighc lay, that
his Court adhered to the official note
ofthe ioili of March. The Minister
perceiving bimfelf Surrounded by the
circle which I had drawn, said, that
he would take directions of his Ma
jesty, and inform me of what he
Uiould be ordered tp fay.
" M. de Bifcheffswerder set out this
day upon his return to Berlin. He
would have begun his journey sooti
er, buc that he waited foi a circular
letter, which will be addielfed to the
coalesced Courts, and probably to the
Slates of the Empire, as Co-States, de
manding from each the assistance ihat
they have propol'ed to give, either in
money, or men, in cafe of war.
" This, 1 am informed, was the
motive of his delay, but 1 haveno cer
tainty upon the fubjedt.
" M. de Bifc loffswerder will flop
at Prague to fee the Prince of Hohen
lohe, and agree with him upon the
time and placefor an interview be
tween the Auflrian General and the
Duke of Brunfwick. This interview
is expected to take place at Leipfic,
in the couifeof a month. Accoiding
10 this opinion, the Court of Vienna
has adopted a plan purely defenfive,
not wit hltanding the endeavors ofthe
Court of Berlin to fupgelt another."
Second Letter of M. Noailles.
" i have waited, Sir, for the an
swer of the Count de Cobenzel He
has just informed me, on the part of
the King of Hungary, that the note
dated March i 8 contains the answer
to the demands which I had been
charged to renew ; and that the dif
pofiiion exprefl'ed in tha: note could
be the less altered since it contained
also the opinion of the King of Pi uS
lia upon the'affairs of France, an o
pinion agreeing in all refpecfts with
that of the King of Hungary."
The President then read the sol
lowing letter from the King :
LETTER FROM THE KING,
" Mr. President
" I entreat you to make known to
the Aflembly that I shall come there
to-morrow at half pall twelve o'clock.
" LOUIS."
On Friday his Majesty came to the
Aflembly, the Members of which rose
and were uncovered as he entered,
and took their feats when he had
reached his place. The King then
spake as follows :
KING's SPEECH
" Gentlemen,
" I have come among you for an
objecft of the highest importance in
the present circumltances. My Min
iiler of Foreign Affairs v. ill read to
you the Report which he made to me
in Council 011 our fituaiioii with re
gard to Germany."
The Minilter of Foreign Affairs,
then went up and (landing by the
King's fide read the report, which the
King had notified to the Afletwb'y.
Minute of the Cabinet Council
of France addrelled to the KING.
"Sire,
" When you took an oath of fidel
ity to the Conftiiution, you became
the object of the hatred of the ene
mics of liberty. No natural tiecould
■top them, no tnotive of alliance ot
neighborhood, of propriety, could
prevent their enmity. Your ancient
18
allies erased your name out ot the
lift of Despots, and from that mo
ment they forget your Majesty's fi
delity. The emigrants, rebels to the
laws of their country, are gone be
yond the frontiers to prepare a guilty
aggression against France. They wish
to carry into its bosom fire and (ward.
Their rage would have been impo
tent if the Foreign Princes had not
seconded and encouraged their
minal manoeuvres. The House of
Aultria has done every tiling to en
courage their audacity.—The House
of Aultria, who fliice the treaty of
1756 has found us good and tdithfui
allies.—This Treaty, Sire, fnbjedtedi
us to the ambitious views of thisHoufe.
She engaged us in all her wars, to
which flie called us as her allies. We
have been prodigal of our blood in
the cruel tragedies of despotism. The
instant that the House of Austria saw
she could 110 longer govern us {01 her
purposes, flie became our enen y.
" It was Austria that had Itirred
up againfl France the relllels Norih
ernPotentate,whof'e tyrannical phren
zy has at lalt made him fall under
thefword of an aflatfin.—lt was An
Itria who in office, of whfch Europe
shall judge, advised one party ol
Frenchmen ro lake up arms againtl
the other. The note of the Court of
Vienna, of the 18th Feb. was in truth
a declaration of war. M. Kaunitz
there avows the league ot the pow
ers against France. The death of
Leopold ought to have made some
change in this ambitious system, but
we have seen the contrary.
" The note of the 18th of March
is the ultimatum of the Court of Vien
na. This note is more provoking
ftiil than the former. The King of
Hungary willies that we fhouid sub
mit our constitution to his revjfion ;
and he does not didemble the projed
of arming Frenchmen against French-
men
" Sire," continues the Minister,
" in charging ine with the admini
stration of foreign affairs yon have
imposed on me the telling you the
truth: I proceed to tell you the truth
It results from this explofure, that
the Treaty of I 756 is broken, in fae't,
by the House of Austria ; that the
maintenance of a League o( the Cow
ers is an act of ho ft ility agai nfl France
and that you ought this indantto or
der M. Noailles, your ambaflador, to
quit the Court of Vienna without
taking leave. Sire the Aultrian
troops are on the March — the camps
are marked out—forti efles aie build
ing : the Nation, by its oath on the
14th of July, lias declared that any
man who (hall accede to an unconlti
-1 utional negociation is ar< airor. The
delay granted to Austria is expired—
your honor is attacked—the Nation
is mfulted— I berefore there remains
for you no other pair to take but Jo
make to the National Aflembjy the
fotrnal proposition of waragninft the
King of Bohemia agd--Hungary.",
The Miniiter having this mi
nute, the King refurafed his f/eech —
Conclusion of the Kin g's Spe ecu.
" You have heard, Meflieurs, tbe
deliberation and the decifjon of my
Council. I adr.pt their determination.
It is conformable 10 the wifti, many
times exprefled, of the National At
fembly, and to that which has been
addrefied to me to be the wish of all
the trench People. Frenchmen pre
fer war to a ruinous anxiety, :\nd to
a humiliating (late, which com pi o
miTes our Constitution, and our dig
nity. 1 have done every thing to a
vert war ; but 1 judge it indifpenfi
ble. 1 come, therefore, in the terms
of the Constitution, to propose to )ou
formally to declare War againfl the King
of Bohemia and Hungary
The President answered
" Sire,
" The aflembly will proceed to de
liberate on the great propofitioi)
which your Majeity has made to ihem
They will address to you, by a mef
<"age, the result of" their delibera-
tion."
The King then retired with his
Ministers, and conducted by the faint
Deputation of Members The Hall
rung with acclamations oTthe people.
The aflembly was adjoin ned to fivt
n the evening
April 19. (Evening.)
a letter from Gen. Luekiicr.
complaining that the War Minister
* #►
had made public a lejter of his,
which was of a confidential natyie.
Read a letter from Mess. Baux, mer
chant at Marseilles, containinginfor
mation that M. Marchand, mailer of
the (hip Le Solide, lias discovered
four lflands in the Indian seas, which
are fully peopled, and abounding in
hogs, birds, herbs, &c. and thac.be
had taken pofleffion of them in the
name of the French nation, and of
Louis XVI- This letter was accom
panied by charts of ilie Ifliuds. The
charts were accepted, but the matter
of the (hip was blamed fur having ta
ken pollelfion of the Islands, as lite
French nation has renounced all cou-
quests
DUBLIN, Ap,il i 9.
On Wednelflay la It Mr. James Nap
per Tandy, was taken into the citf
tody of the ferjeant at arms of ibe
commons of Ireland, and that even
ing brought to the bar of the house,
where, refufing to answer any inter
rogations of the Speaker, he was com
mitted to Newgate ; but, in coiife
quence of the pi orogation of Parlia
ment he was set at liberty about nine
>'clock the fame night.
WOLVERHAMPTON, March 21.
The defetft of some laws are in ma
ny inltances incredible. A Mr.Green,
Cordwainer, of Birmingham, is but
jufl released from a private mad house
at Billion, where he had been sent
by his loving wife, and confined up
wards of twelve months as a lunalic ;
during which time, he aliens in an
adveriilement, the tender fair-one
actually made away with his stock.
in trade, greatest part of his house
hold furniture, and received money
from the Bank, rents, and other
debts, amounting in all to upwards
of 9001. belules absconding with all
his title deeds, and books of accounts.
L O N D O N, March 29
It appears by the following resolu
tion of a Society for promoting the
spiritual and temporal welfare of the
Negroes in the Colonies, upon the
true and rational principles of iufiice,
humanity, and chrifh'anity, that no
means have hitherto been employed
by the rulers of our church or Itaie
for conveying religious inlirudlion ut
thole poor people; and that the
blame thrown upon the planters on
that account ought to be shared with
others ; and we sincerely vvifii the
ineaf ure now proposed may be adopt
ed for all their fakes.
" Resolved, That a petition be
presented to his Majesty, humbly be
seeching him to be graciously pleased
to give directions to the moil Reve
rend the Archbishops, and the Right
Reverend the Bishops, to take into
their conlideration the spiritual wants
of the Negroes and the People of
< olonr in the British \V efl -1 ud i;i Is
lands, and to form a plan confident
with their temporal condition for
their inflrudtion and improvement
principles of Religion
an*d Morality ; and that his Majelly
would likewise be graciously pleaftd
to direct the Secretary of State for
ihe Home Department, to trail fin it
fuel) a plan, when formed and ap
proved, to the several Weft-India
Governors, with inftrut'tions to lay it
before iheir refpecitive Councils and
Aficmblies, and in his Majesty's name
to recommend to their particular at
tention fnch parts thereof as may ap
pear to require the aid and support
of the Legiftature, and thereby obvi
ate a great and {landing reproach to
the British Government and Eft abl idl
ed Church, and render the removal
of the African Negroes to our Colo
nies a real and substantial bieffing to
those our unenlightened and degrad
ed fellow-creatures."
dpril 6. It is Taid, that in conse
quence of what palled in the House
of Commons on YVednefday, the Mi
nister has declared there fliall be 110
more Lotteries.
The Ruffians are evacuating all t ' ie
places taken from the Turks, and a
mong otliei s /fmail is on the point
of being restored. .
From the recall of the regiment ol
Ernefl by the Canton of Berne, ant
rhe resignation of the Mareehal d Af
fry, the principal officer of the Swil»
corps, it is supposed that the other
Cantons will follow their example,
and that the Swiss troops, which aief ,id to be about seventeen thousand
men, of the bell troops in the French
fei vice, will be sll lecalled.
While we are told of lioftile tle
figns and preparations against the
French on the part of Russia, Sweden,
Austria, Prussia, &c. news is brought
of th: Attempt to murder the S-weHiJh
Monarch, the principal Mover, and
the intended Head of the Artociated
Army, in his own palacc.—Though
it may be rsfli to ascribe the death of
a King, according to a natural pro
penfny, to some political and great
deiign, it will be difficult to exclude
the active imaginations of men,
the*recol!eislion, that the deaths of
Leopold and Guftavus have followed
cach otliej, at such a crisis, wich rapi-
It will also be recolleifted that
fanatics are never wanting who will
dare to attempt, like Ravillac and D*
mien, the lives of the bell and the
moll inoffenfive of Princes.
Apr i L 26.
The Cornwallis brings advice fiom Canton,
that a Hock vard, called the lianfale, belonging to
the Dutch, had been burnt. The concerns of
lhat country all over India are by no wans ma
flour.thing ft'ate. There has been a dilturbance
between tfaeEnglilh and French featnen m Can
lon-rivcr, in which the former pulled down the
national colours, and trampled them under leet.
The decision of the National AfTcmbly of
France has accorded precisely .with the general
anticipation. In the fitting of Friday evening
the important Aifcrve was pafled which fandions
the hostilities nffyificc with the King of Bohe
mia and Hungary,.
It was at the fame time resolved, that a mam
fcfto should be immediately publifhcd and dift. i
buted through tjif Cgntitlent, Hating the provoca
tions and the by which the nation was
induced to enter on a v.'ar. It was also proposed
that both the national guards and the troops of
the line (hould take the oath 10 the coriftitution as
picfcribed on the 14th of January last j but this
mw ceremony was deemed fupc: fluous.
The Einprels of Ruflia, it is laid, will fend a
fleet this summer into the Mediterranean. It is
supposed lhat it will convey a number of troops
to the South of France, and co-operate with the
court of Spain iu affi.fing the counter-revolution
in France.
EVENYS IN SWEDEN,
The Dutch mail, which arrived on Saturday,
brings less intelligence than might have been ex
pected from Stockholm, the advices from that
place being of little later date than those last re
ceived. „
They concur in confirming former reports of
the orefeoce of mind (hewn by Gnftavus during
his i'llnefs. It appears, that, while he waited for
the arrival of his furgcons in an apartment ad join
ing to the saloon of the opera house, several of the
foreign ministers themselves, to whom
he said, " I have given orders, gentlemen, that
the gates of the city fnall be (hut. You will,
therefore, not take it ill, if you should be unable
to fend couriers to your courts, until after three
days. Your advices will then be more certain,
lince it will then probably be known whether I
can survive or not." H'S conversation then re
laced to the effects which the accident might pro
duce in Europe ; and the love of tame, which
was always his pre dominant pafiion, was percep
tible in his remarks. s
General Baion d'Armfeldt, one of his mod af
fectionate friends, entered the room, pale with
horror, and unable to utter a word. As he ap
proached, the King, ftretc.hing out his hand to
him, said, " What's the matter my friend ? Be
not so alarmed on my account. You know by
experience what a wound is thu> flatteringly
alluding to the wound which the general had re
ceived in Finland.
At eight o'clock on the morning of his death,
he received the facramcnt. The Queen had taken
leave ot him the evening before. At halt past
ten, he died in great agonies in the presence ot
the firft physician Dahlberg, ot the grand alnjoner
Wallguift, of the chamberlain Borghenllicra, and
of two pages.
The will was opened the fame day at noon,!
in the apartments of ihe young King, by Laflhom,
the secretary of rcvifion , the two princcs his un
cles and the chiefs of all the regiments and ot the
departments, took the oaths to him ; and the usu
al proclamations were made.
The reports in Stockholm were, that the con
spiracy was formed bv an hundred and eleven
persons all noble, refidmg partly in Stockholm
and partly in the provinces; and that the plan
confided of 36 articles, one of which was, that,
" as soon as the King should be dispatched, the
Duke ofSudrrmania, and the persons mod attach
ed to his Majelty, as the generals Taube and Ba
ron d'At mfcldt, the Baron Ruuthand M. Hakan
fon, fhouid be attacked, and their heads carried
in triumph through the ftrcets ; that lieut. col.
Lilienhorn major of guards, should immediately
take the command of the troops in Stockholm ;
that, when the public force was won over, the
constitution should be restored to the ancient prin
ciples of a limited monarchy; that the Prince
Royal should be entirely executive, and commit
ted to the national sovereignly."
The persons arretted are chiefly young men.
Several nobles, who were most forward in the op
pofuion to the King, but who were incapable ol
meditating h:s death, repaired to the palace, soon
after the attempt was known. The King being
informed that th<*C»untMc Brahe, one of th fe?
was in an antl-chamber, making enquiries con
cerning his situation, desired that he might be ad
mitted, and said to him, u though he was undo
circumstances much to be lamented, he regaided
that day as happy lor himfelf, fTnce it had given
him an opportunity of reconciliation with one of
his oldest friends."
By a private letter received at Paris from the
nanks of the Rhine, it appears that the court of
PrufTia had, some time ago, 'ordered the Pruflian
Envoy at Paris to dispatch a courier the moment
that war should be tefolved upon by the National
Afiembly. The fit ft com ier has accordingly beer
cnt with all expedition to HeflTe CafTel, from
whence another was to be inflantly dispatched to
'he Commander in Chief of the army of 15,00 c
Pruflians, waiting (or orders to march into Ltcgc.
which they will easily accomplilh in three day*,.
This army is intende d not only to check the ir
ruption of the French, but alio to keep the Lie
gois in awe, who only wifhtoran other oppor
tunity to break their ictteis.
M de Conde is at B:ng- m with 1,500 men.
There are S.oco emigrants in the vicinity of Co
blentz. The corpa <>l Wut;-enlifin has received
orders from Ihe Landgiave ol HelFe Caffcl to quit
the country ol Hanau in 48 hours.
The Legion ot Mira.beau is still in the princi
pality ot Hohenloe, unprovided with any arms
I cxcept fab res.
Quarters are preparing in the Margraviatc ol
! Baoenfw 8,000 Austrian Horle. Bavaria is full
of troops, but they art- not yet in motion.
Letters from Madrid inlorm, that Don Fran
cisco Monino, Governor of the Councils of the In
dies, and brother to Count de Florida Blartca, is
Ji(graced. lie was ordered, on the 21 (los March,
to quit Madrid instantly, and to repair to a {mail
town called Enniel, in La Mancha. He is de
prived ol all his petitions. At>be d'Heral, Ageut '■
for the French Princes, is aifo on the point oi
leaving Madrid.
One of the public Societies of Ireland have vo
ted, " That proclamation of the Irish Parlia
ment for apprehending Napper-Tandy, Lfq. with
out giving him a luminous, is illegal, and ihall be
brought forward to receive a judicial difcuftion."
In consequence of the unfeeling sarcasms thrown
out agarnit M. Gouvton in the National Afftmbly,
by M. Chodieu, for having dared to complain that
Ins brother was murdered by the soldiers ol Cha
teaux, the sarcastic Legifljtor has been challenged
by M. Gouvicn. They met near Bondy, and
M. Chodieu was killed by the fir ft shot.
While it might he supposed, that under the cir
eumftanccs of a&ual war, in which the French arc
now engaged, they would be glad to unite, and
combine the abilities of their belt Generals, and
those who have been the firmed friends to the re
volution, we find the greatclt degradation cast on
ML de Id Fayette that a rabble could invent. His
bull, which was eretted at the expence of the na
tion, for his supposed fcrvices to it in the begin
ning of the revolution, has been torn down by
|the mob, and ignominioufly dragged through the
llreets of Paris.
On Easter Sunday the new King of Hungary
walhed the feet of twelve poor old men, ar.d his
Queen, accompanied by the Archduchess, thofc
of twelve poor women. In the afternoon, they
visited several ot the churches in Vienna on toot.
The Chevaliei Enio, Commander of the Vene-
tian {quadron cruizing in the Mcditerrancarvagainft
the Tunifi&nS) died lately on board his veffei, and
the command has devolved on Admiral Condul
mer.
They are much disturbed in Poland by a report
that the Empress ot Ruflia, who has long secretly
abetted the enemies of the ncw conflitution, has
now granted ihem her entire and open piote&ion.
The Dutch mail of yellerday brings us the cer
tain accounts of the march of the Austrian troops.
Dr, Willis, shortly alter his arrival in Portugal,
di funded 40 Physicians "at a clap" who attended
the Queen, and nearly as many Friars who fur
rounded'her. If the Dotlor is not upon his guard,
he may have a little phytic adminiltered to him
felf.
A few days fincc died at Vienna, after a long
illncfs, Count Zinzendovff, .Privy CounceUor, and
Pretident ot the Royal Council of Appeal. On
the fame day died, Baron Kfenmayor, Vice-Prcfi
dent ot the fame tribunal.
On Monday the gth inft. Guftavus VafTa, the
African, well known in England as the champion
and advocate lor procuring a fuppreflion of the
(lave trade, was married atSoham, in Cambridge-
shire, to Miss Culien, daughter of Mr. Cullen, of
Ely, in the fame count), in presence of a vast num
ber ot people assembled on the occasion.
The mutual explanations which have palfed be-
wecn the court? of London and Paris on the sub-
jc& of the engagement between the frigates in the
East-Indies, have fettled the lubjeft amicably and
honorably to both.
Extra# of a letter trom the Hague, April 19.
" We learn that M. de la Tou» du Pin Goufick-
lcfs of the French Diplomatic Corps is going to
remove from his post, and he has accordingly de
livered his letters of recall as Minister from France
to our government. He has discharged moil of
his domcft'.cs, but will most likely not return to
his own country, but, like many other French mi
nisters, wait in a foreign climate the return of
tranquility in France.
" Our Government has resolved to furriifh the
frontiers with additional troops, and accordingly
orders are given for the troops in the interior parts
to approach the frontiers fucceflively."
Extra£l of a letter from Berlin, April I©.
{< Since the return of general Bifchoffswerder
our cabinet is very busy, and such arrangements
are making as indicate an approaching march of
troops. The army smiths and other workmen
are fully employed, and yesterday, at the giving
of the word tor the day, the order was renewtd
nottoenlift any French, Alsatians, Lithuanians,
Swiss, or other Germans, who had been in ihe
French service, in order to prevent the introduc
tion of any dti'contented pei sons, and that in f.iort,
no recruit Ihould be accepted without undergoing
a fcvcre examination.
" His Majeily has granted the French General
Heymann an annual pension of 2000 dollars."
[/"or more European articles, fee 4th page
BOSTON, June 7
We hear from undoubted authority, that
there is a majority of the inhabitants of the
Diftri<st of Maine, against a reparation of the
Ealtern Counties from this Commonwealth.
MIDDLETOWN, June 9.
On the 13th inft. if the weather be fair, if
not, the firft fair day following, an attempt will
be made to remove the Meeting-Houfe,inNew
town, about eight rods, with the steeple entire.
As this will be the greatest movement ever at
tempted in this State, it is probable that New
town will have the honor, as well as the profit,
of many fpe&ators on that day, who have not 1
too deeply eleflioned their purses.
19
N E W-Y O R K, Juoe 9.
We liear from Clerkllown, Orange county,that
on the 30th ult. Mr. Daniel Odell, of that town,
was inhumanly murdered at or near Haverftraw,
where a party wcrr met to spend the evening in
jolity : th.it the jury which fat upon the body,
brought in their verdict wilful mdrdei ; and that
one Isaac ]onc§ was immediately commuted 10
gaol, on the presumption that he had perpetrated
:he faff. The w'te ot the deceased, with 5 chil
dren, left the house but a few moments bcforelhe
fatal catastrophe took place.
fune 12. Yefterdav the ele&mn lor Governor
and Lieutenant Governor, was determined in this
city, when GEORGE CLINTON and PIERRE
VAN CORTLANDT, Enquires, were, bv Me
ian&on Smith, David Gellton, Jonathan N. Ha
vens, Pierre Van Cortlaodt, juD. Thomas Tillot
fon, David M'Carty and Daniel Graham, being a
majority of the carivaffers, appointed and declared
Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Slate.
PITTSBURGH, June 9.
For the fatisfaftion of Che public, Capt. Jcffers
has furniflied us with the following intelligence:
Immediately on receiving information at Fort
Franklin of the depredations committed by the
Indians at Reed's Station, I marched, with the
rangers under my command, in order, if poflible,
to intercept the party on their return; but the
diftance-and difficulty of the march, and other
unavoidable obstacles, prevented it; and from
the appearance of the tracks, the enemy had
palled three days before. On the Shenango I
fell in with two Munfees and a Cayuga, who 1
| made prisoners and brought to this place, but
I from sundry circumstances ui their favot, Gen.
Putnam thought proper to release them. A
short distance beyond the Salt Licks, I fell in
with a party of DeUwares, killed two, and
wounded one.
In justice to Messrs. Lord, Wentworth, and
Rofecrantz, volunteers under me, I must ob
serve, that their conduct on all occasions was
uniform and steady, and they obeyed every or
der with the greatest alacrity. Such men de
serve 'the notice of those at the head of our
aftairs
EXTRACT
From Governor Hancock's Speech to'both Houses oj
the Legijlature of Majjachujetts.
" THE means moll likely to continue our
public felicity, are the eitabliftiing and execut
ing such laws, as will tend to support the habits
of truth, integrity, and every moral virtue ;
and by certain, and adequate punilhments, to
prohibit all frauds, and every immorality and
vied: The providing for a regular support ot
teachers of piety, religion, and morality; and
the maintainance of free public schools in the
towns of the state, by which the children of the
poorer will have equal advantages with those
of the richer part of the community. lam ex
ceedingly gratified in being aflured, that these
important institutions arefo generally attended
to by the people ofthis state : And as I consider
our University at Cambridge, as being the prin
cipal source of the learning and intelligence pof
fefled by this community, I cannot but earnestly
solicit you to give it your encouragement and
support. By these, and other measures, which
your wisdom and prudence will dictate, under
the smiles of that Divine Being, who has hither
to afforded us his support, we may hope for a
continuance of our profperi£y, and lor perma
nent public happinels. k
" We live in a country naturally excites
the miud to enterprise; giving encouragement
to industry, and to that fpii it ot commerce,
which tends to command a friendly intercourse
amongst all the nations of the earth, to improve
in the arts, and to render more valuable and
important the vast variety ot bleflings which
we polTefs.
" I have directed the Secretary to lay before
you, such acts and proceedings of the Congrels
of the United States, as have been forwarded to
me. Among them, is an ast lor regulating the
Militia of the States. That ast appears to mc
to be quite consonant to the constitution of the
General Government, and I shall, as Comman
der in Chief of the Militia of this State, take
every measure within my power to render the
Militia refpeftable under it.
" There is also another ast providing for the
proportion of Representatives to be sent from
the States to Congress. Your attention will be
immediately called to the formingdiftTifts fiom
whence thev are to be elected in this State.
You will in this business be pleased to consider,
that having the diftrifts so formed as to give a
center of communication to the inhabitants of
each, will have a tendencyto promote harmony
and unanimity in their proceedings.-"
Philadelphia, June 16.
The last accounts from Europe inform, that
Dr. Willis has pronounced the Queen oi Portu
gal to be in a state of convalefcence —011 which
account there were great rejoicings inLifbon.
The report lately circulated in print, of the
death of Mr. M'Gillivray, appears to be with
out foundation.
The Marquis Vaudreuil, Lieutenant-Gene
ral of the Naval Forces of France, returned the
following haughty answer to the letter of M.
Bertrand (the late Minifterof Marine) to recall
him to his place, on condition of his retracting
his signature of protest as member of the late
National Aflembly of France :
" I have hitherto," said he, u publifhecl my
opinions and principles upon all occasions; and
do you call on me to retradl them, at the very
moment when God is arming all the powers of
Europe to avenge the Altak and the Throne."
A snake was lately seen in Wrentham, Mafla
chufetts, by a Mr. John Frost, which he judged to
be 13 feet long, and 12 inches in circumference.
Mr. Frost encountered the snake with a flick, but
was obliged to retreat behind a tree, when the
snake luckily disappeared*
i i>c i' U li 111 ii /ulc «»; • '
23d of Apiil ]ast, rcfolved* iifctf into a commiitec
f-t Ihe whole, on the means for abohlhing the
African Slave Trade, Mr. Dundas fubmifted a
variety of proportions lor the gradual abolition,
and after confiderab'.e debate the committee role
and reported progress.
On the 25th of the fame month the House again
resolved iilclfinto a cotmiunce on the lame I'ub
l ie£h Mr. DjMvdlf* moved his Hi ft relolutiou^.
•' That k (hall not be lawful to import any Afri
" c?n Negroes into any liritifh Colonies or Pian
" tations, in Ihips owned or navigated by Brmih
" fubjc&s, at any time alter the ftrll day ot J ana-'
" aiy 1800."
Lord Morington moved to ftiike out 1 ' 1800,"
and insert " 1 793 "
Alter much ncbate a division took place on
Lord Marnmgton's motion, " that the trade (hould
" cease on the firftof janua y, 1793," which wa?
negatived by a majority of 49 the numbers
being For it, FO9
Again ft it, 158'
The committee role and reported progress.
The public good is the fnpreme law—this in
thebafis of a republican government —the grand
difficulty always has been, how this fhallbe moll
effe&uaily secured and promoted. Ditto rent
patriots, of equal worth and abilities, have
differed as to the means—but this consideration
weighs nothing with Chronus, who fay, every
mail who does not adopt his plan, is a fool or a
knave.
It is a Client though persuasive eulogium on
the operation of the mealurerqf the general go
vernment, that they have produced throughput
the union as great a degree of tranquility and
apparent profperitv, as ever were enjoyed by
the people of this country at any peripd since
its firft settlement—and as an happy indication
that the people are generally fatisfied
conduct of their civil rulers, it may be noticed
with fatisfa&ion, that in refpeft to the truly ra-._
publican state of Connecticut, the freemen there - *
of have placed on their nomination-liftof mem
bers of Congress, every one of the reprcfenta
tives who have I'erved them in.the prel'ent and
preceding Congrels.
Those eagle-eyed politicians who fee ble
milhes in the fun, fay they are determined to
have a change of men and measures; but the
above circumstance does not do much credit to
their spirit of prophesy at least.,
Beware of that man who pretends to infalli
bility—ynu will find fucli an one a (lave to his
own opinions, and a tyrant in refpe<st to those
ofperi'ons who differ from him-
Times of confufion and anarchy afford the
only opportunities to men of no industry, pro
perty or Ifcnciples, io which tbev stand any
chance oftnending their condition. The United
States have happily paifed through this period
of degradation and distress——but certain writers
appear extremely solicitous to set us afloat*
again, that they may enjoy the pleasure of
wrecking the public tranquility preparatory to
a scramble among the ruins which their storms
shall have made.
If a majority of the Lcgiflature of the United
States, through four succeeding fellions, have
uniformly been oppofcd in their measures by the
wisest and best members, it follows that the
people are totally unqualified to exercise
most important of all republican rights, that ot
election.
What measure of government has not met
with oppoiition ?—lt is as evident as any objedt
of fcnfe can be, that however wife, honest and
patriotic, the minority is cow, always was, and
always will be, that the perfection of their sys
tem was to do nothing. This is certainly the
surest way to escape censure ; it is something
more, for the negative qualities of the minority
are always positive virtues, till they are unfold
ed in action.
PRICE OF STOCKS'.
6 per Cents, 22 f
3 per Cents, J 3f
Deferred, 1 3/3
Indents, l Sj
Final Settlements, *8/6
Half shares Bank U. S. 65 per cent, prem.
Shares Bank North-America, 17 ditto.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT
Sioop Sally, Franklin, Maryland
The Newport, Robinson, of Rhode-lfland, with Jlax
feed, was spoke with by the London Packet, F?azer t
leaky, ana had thrown part oj her cargo overboard.
The /hip Cajlle Douglas was to fail about the of
May from London for Philadelphia.
r ADVERTISEMENT.
I DO hereby give noticc to all persons, not to
credit any person or persons whatever on my
account, otherwise in my name, or on my cvcdit>
without special order fiom under my hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
any debt or debts contracted without such order
being produced.
THOMAS JONES.
Frederick-Town, June 1792. (ep4vv)
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY from the subscriber in February
last, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
20 years of age ; had on when he went away, a
round jacket, a paii homcfpun breeches, apd a tow
fhilt ; the fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
heighth about five feet fix or fev&n inches, very
square made ; has a mark along fide of his nose,
; ana one of his insteps has been burnt, which cause*
| the sinews to draw.
Whoever takes up said Negro, and secures him
in any jail, so that I may get him again, fball re
ceive the above reward, and have all reasonable
charges paid. ROBERT PEARCE,
HeadSaJJafras, June 16, 1792. (*epim)PARIS.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
FRIDAY, .MARCH 23-
' I'''HE Minister for Foreign Affairs
caced the Letter from the Canton
off Bern to the King:
" SIRE,
" The oldest Swift regiment in France .which
ha* remained invariably faithful to it* duty for
More than a century, and whose conduct has been
always irreproachable—the Regimen: of trneit
has just experienced at Aix the molt crufcl of mif
fortuneS. Aflailed by numbers greatly superior,
retrained in its means of defence by the new
law which it had (worn too'aferve, and betrayed,
perhaps, by him whole duty it was to protect it',
the regiment was compelled to lay down its arms
In an open war against your Majefly's declared
enemies, ic w6uld not have Quitted them hut
with life. We will not diltrefs you, Sire, by de
tailing the particulars of the perfidy atrocity
which marked (his disastrous event, antF we" will
not attempt to delcribe to you the deep impres
sion oFgrief. which it has made on us and all our
people.
" Under theiVelfea-mftances we have but one
conrTc to take—that of recalling our regiment,
whose ferviccs can be no longer ufeful 10 your
Majesty.
" The honour of the regiment, and the pro
tection which we owe to it, oblige us to withdraw
ir from a country where the ti eaties on (he faith
of which it c.nne there, are violated with impu
nity. We therefore expect of your juflice, Sire,
that you will be pleased to give orders, that, af
ter redoring to the regiment of Ernest the arms
and the property of which it was despoiled by
an unjult and illegal of violence, a route may
be marked out tor it, by which to withdraw into
its own country.
" Deign, Sire, to call to mind thac our troops
have often merited the favors with which the
Kings your predeceflors, as well as yourMajefty,
have honoured the Swiss nation in general, and'
our Republic in particular.
" We will add no other motive for obtaining
thac this regiment may cross the kingdom by the
ihorteft, the inoft commodious, and the fafeft
road, and be allowed to leave it with honour.
" Constantly animated with the fame attach
ment, Sire, to your person, we fijall not cease to
put up prayers for your happiness, and that of
your kingdom."
The Arte in bly referred it to the Executive
Power to negotiate for the continuance of the
regiment in the French service.
Inconfequenceof newdifordersat Brie-Comte-
Robeix, which threatened to cut off the regular
fupphes of provisions from Paris, the Aflembly
authorized the Executive Power to station two
battalions of troops of the line within the dif
tance of their place of fitting prcfcribed by the
Conftiiution.
Tlie remaining articles on the fequertration of
the property of the emigrants were decreed
The Minister for the Home Department stated
that by accurate accounts transmitted to his of
free there was a fufficient quantity of grain in
the kingdom, or bargained for, to be delivered
at the fever* l ports, to supply the confmnptiou
till after harsefl, and that the only things that
could occa.ion local scarcity were foreftallinjj i„
order to export, and preventing the free circa
iation.
Evening Sitting,
f ° r F °/ ei S" Affairs ,aid before
the Aflembly a copy of a Treaty concluded bv
Monsieur and M D'Artois with the Prince of
Hohenloe, and the Prince of Battenfteim fnr a
regiment of infantry, and another of cavalry tn
be employed hy subsidy in the ferviceof Kra^e
CircfeTS 3 lettCr t0 these Pri »«s from the
Circle of branconia, warning them with
ce.m cafe of non-cotnplia.fce not to fS"
troops to the French Princes nor r n C J urn, I fll
French Emigrants to aflemble in arms or!n
considerable number, in their States -!-R e fe j
to the High National Court at Orleans
CIRCULAR LETTER
Of the mv Minifier at War to the Am,y
" COMRADES,
"IN becoming Minister, I r ■
a ctizen-foldier. It is with you it is bv
that I shall defend the cause of lib" ' 7 7°°;
equality, which unite all citizens as br °f
whicli can never be modified bur f i '3n
good, kis ,h,„ , bat i„ « £ P"""'
«wr turns-superior to one another. .°? lc ,n
ceflary to give command, that w e «s» S " " "?■'
region to the general force a „d will * B? the
fore obedient to your chiefs, because th- 5
moo'intereft requires it of vn.i j . co,n
■welfare depends on it. I fha'll neve r PUbl ' C
TOyfelf from good citizens and .h 1 eparat e
■» ■»» ~.,C Ts d e pir: T.;"V tfr ° f ,!"T
department of the North a narr „f I . ll,e
body called me to the Lfeifla P t o re °f e L e * oral
at Parts a flatterihg proof 0 f rh<. Ic > btai "ed
my fellow-citizens vv^etTthey aDDoi C< : nCe ° f
aiandant of the Fourth Si t " ™S."
soli oil tbefe titles with more pride than the
iMves of defpotifin think of theirs, and I recall
liem only as the means of acquiring anew pub
lie efleesn ami confidence, which are the only re
wards of the friend of Liberty and the Laws.
' J add to :he expreflion of my particular sen
timents, my dear Comrades, the hope which I
receive from the patriotifui of our Legislators,
and the Heady mind, the unalterable resolution
which the King, our Chief, manifefis never 10
ceaie to support our Conllituiion.
Banjc of the United States,
T3 ESOI,VED, That the fppcie proportion of the thirdpav
.» n d " c °" '. he f,rlt Monday of July next, on each (hare of
• Ba "k of the United S ales, may be made at the Bank, or at
any ot the office- of oifcount aud deposit; and that transfers of
pubhc debt on account of loch payment, mav be made on the
books of the Treaty, of the United Slates, or in the office of any
oMhc Cmmiffiooe,. of Loan, in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers tu be depofued in the office in which the Tpecie
proportion of such payment lhall he made
Rctolvcd, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre
vious to the firftdavs of July and Jaouary of each year
B y o^dc, • JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
vef y quality,and latest importation frsin Canton, »ia
Xew-York, by retail,at
No 19,
1 h ' rr !- between Chrfnni and Market Streets
' A LOTTERY,
T°p:oulu«
of the sute -*•***
S C H E M E.
1
1
2
5
10
30
qo
1675
Prize of 2000
1000
s°°
2 go
1814. Prizes.
35 2 ° Blanks.
5 ? 34 Tlckcls > at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls
to p ,'t ;7 1 ' SC .? mpo( J cd J 0f 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
° £ and fub J c£t to a ded-ft'on ot tuelve and an half Wr
cent, whichl is more favorable to adventurers than any Loucrvvet
offered to the pubhe-and it bc,n g o( such evident utility thaH
but lhe UndcrUk "'S with the m o«
in il'nlv d "r K W ll r P u r "i Vr ! y CQmmcnrc «"> 'hf second Monday
\vi n T r 'he Tickets are d,f F nfed of, in the citv of
w-Brunfwick, nnder the infpeftion of Col. John BavarJ I' re
rident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city ot Am
bov ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor o Vhe Ma"
nutaSuring Society ot New-Jersey.
Do-n!f/u'° bCI " d 0t lh f follow,n e pctfons, who are duly aD -
SrSTof tt" duty a " d haVC S ' VCn
ESSf* thC
JOHN PARKER. •)
PETER KEENOY, Manager,
V R Tfi t ANTHONY \V. WHITE,) 8
»* Adventurers in the above Lotterv hav, . <
warded on recent of such letters. ' 1 ' Ckets for '
N?w-Brunfwiclc, April ?o, i7 Q2 .
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALF 79 *"
At any ume between thi, date and the firft day of ]u | y en ' fui
A very valuable FARM
P L oi s ™ tcat'ssaasr
very good meadow at an cafy c'xpcnce V. 0 ' 10 ™' bc mad <:
lap Of about 5 o acres of , ich out marlh,' from wh eh 'i?!'" 'J®
ascent to the cleared fieldO ion s»rr« v wn,c ? ( b y an ej »»y
" IJ V He made, a, a ,T.e To?'"",
never failing Aream of water ru.fs through "hi- tr/ft" L\ A
a feat for a mill, and in which is „ o od fm.r, T ' '*
kt".'
Philadelphia; Mr Hl'mphr-y wlt Chefnut-rtreet,
ton, on the Bristol road or to a " hf v^' alhin g-
Fcrry, Bucks County. The pi* c haf< r ° 31 dhaman Y
Dricc down, may have a term „f vn, ' P V "! K 0 " e thl,d of ' hf
iniereft. V rm °' > C " S to P a X lhe "*<>"<, paying
M'vfep.t I.) '
Twenty Dollars Reward
">c 9 .H cur.
coloured clolh coat, a Ihott linen coat Wn ■* K P ur P lc
a ruffled (hut. an old brave, hat with Ch PP r " fuftlan brccc hes,
»llgood. Also a youn NI;'G V '"Pc m! blKk, ">
years of age, n»ut aid well mader f«, """l { AM ' ij ! 9
marked with theftnall-Dox ■ h,H 'J l ?' s h 'S h > n '"ch
Hue coat, a brown of" T"' 3 bi «
K'" 11,111
Morris-Town. April ~ ASD£R K-03ERTS0N'
I; LOTTED.
Ferry; at Burlington, of R p-1 P cts ' v,z -—Samuel Cooper's
John Van Emborgh ; Mo, ln ' t Hon"' f '°" lt " lnw ». " f Mr.
«f John Sineer, ETq. Amhnv of , ' J'?" d '
Town, of R.Gray; Powlet'-Hont """f Eft l- £l '«beth-
Hunt; Cranbury.ot William Thro-'k- ° e Sn4,tll and J ud g e
'iic Managers iu Bitrofwick. -kmojton Spotfwood ; and of
20
" DE GRAVES.
Doiiais is
2000
1000
1000
1000
ioco
100
50
20
4
J 800
6;og
16000
JUST A a It. IV2 D,
In the Shjp Mollt, Captain Pitt, faun L; -, K|
A FEW pipes and quarter- caks of LISBON \VT\ T - f -
AnH 'TT >' n If I'"*1'"* to w . i,at > • generally Luoortcd—l
a lew bale s of t:i? very best CORKS,
George Meade,
. rao has Also FOR SALE,
w^blT 1 " 1 five years old BUI ****** MADEIRA
WlNt, by the pipe or quarter-ca&.
London Market MADEIOA WINE, five years old, by the
pipe or quarter-cask. - e
by the
.nMu ' a '"f*" 01- <I'J-iiitr, aad filch as is fit for
an East-India voyage, put up iu this citv.
Choice firft quality BEEF, do.
Ditto second ditto j '
BOSTON BEKF, equal to any from that conntrv
BURLINGTON PORK, of the fu ft cualtfv
«4 Hhds. FLAX-SEED. &c. &c. '
Philadelphia, May 16, 179 a
Stock Brokers Office,
, No. 45, Great Dock-ilrect, New-York,
' I ,^. I L S^ bf ' :ribcr inten<l " 1 K •" confine himfclf entirely in ih»
1 PURCHASE and SALE 6* STOCKS ON COMMISSION"
Beg» leave 10 offer hu services u. his friend, and oihcu m ,1'
line of aStock Broker. Those who may pleafeio favor him wuh
- i,k •" »•
May 2,
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD RY
MATTHEW CAREY,
»i 8, Mariet-Slred, Philadelphia.
..A MERIfAN MUSEUM, f.om its commence™, io , anu
1, A 'j, 1 ' 7 ' l , o ? tCCn,i "" 7 9 1 ' in fe " vols - Pr '«, neatly
bound and lettered, fixteer, dollars. y
This work, which is now conduced on an imnrovtd plan con
taining the belt pieces publilhed for and against the proceeding
of government, will be found to comam at le,ft as great a vanePv
"••political, agricultural,and mifcellafleous essays, as any ever pub
j 10 Am " ! "- P-haps in "o one work are so many valuable"
documents refpefttng ih e h dory of ihis country, collected tore
"j Excellcnc y the P'cfident of the United States has de
clared of that .. a morc ufetu , „ tcr , rv pU , ha ,
dertdken in America, nor ooc more deftrving of public cocou
raßement. The lubfcr.ption is two dollars and a half per an,J
Gentlemen in the country who with to be fuuplied with this
fcbfcri w '° comm,lUo " lo frlc "d> in the city to
fiibfcr.be for and receive if Any of the back numbers iLv
be had in order to complete fcis".
2. Ladies' Pocket Lib.arv, containing Miss More's EflTavs
Gregory s Legacy, Lady Penn.ngion's Advice, Marchioness of
Lambert s Adv.ce, Swift's Letter to a newly marned Ladv, Mr*,
Price°6/6 ° U COmm " °' Tcm P er ' Mo «'» F » bl « Ihe Ladies,
3- Smith's History of New-York, from its si. ft fettiement to
he year To which is annexed, a defer,pti„„ „f the c
try w„ h l) (hou account of the inhabitants, iheir religi ou . and
political slate, and the coniluution of thecouitsol justice P,ic c
a dollar and a quarter. . ' cc
4. Elements of Mxiral Science, by James Beattic, l. l d nm-
A^ CI J° m0 D • P h,lofo P h y a,ld logic in I lie Marilchal CoWee
Aberdeen—Price ihree-fnurihs of a dollar. Ol this book the'
on'thefe f [T" S (VO '-, 69, P " (>2K > f ' y :" Wc have fce " '"'thing
ufeful S n'7 eP '' J' o ''' Pr rf H icuou ': generally
delphia iS ml roduccd tmo the University in Phila-
■ 5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feleft
productions of the most eminent iJriufh and American poets—
Fnrc tour-fifths of a dollar.
nl con,ainln '! the whole or the three volumes
- V , c<llt ' or > 'wo—Price two dollars.
7- Vck "'s Treatile on the imponance of Religious Opinioos
Price four-fifths of a dollar. " P
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
iean Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 8 hs of a dollar.
d,?,lr n tuti°n.ofthe several United Slates, with the Fc
w" n ' Pncc fivc - ci ßhths of a dollar.
i°. M'Fingal, an epic'pocm, a new edition in tamo—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
11. American Jdt Book, in two parts, with two very neat en.
gravuigs Price, Wind, three-fifth, of a dollar
cal'. 2 jT| r< ?, Cn °I SoUl ' b >' B, ' ho l > Chalenor-Pricr, bound in
cal. and lettered, three quarters of a dollar—plain, hall a dollar.
3 ihc Doway Transition of ihe Vulgate liibl , m quarto—
Price, elegantly bound and letter.-d, 5 0/s—plain, fix dollars.
14. Devout Christian's Vade Mecum—Price a quarter dollar.
15. Think well on't, or refbaions foreveiyday of themon.k
"rice a quarter dollar.
16. Chrifiian Economy, translated from a Greek manuscript,
ound in .he .(land of Patmos, where St. joh.i wrote the Apoca
lypfe—Pricc a fifth of a dollar.
dolh'r Hiaor >' c, Charles Giatidifon, abridged— Price a sixth of a
P°™s l>y Col. Humphreys—Price a third of a dollar,
tg. Oelett Poems, chiefly American-. -Price a sixth of a dollar
t - i " LV has for a large affonment of Books, Euro
pean as well as American editions, which he will difpofeof on the
mo rca onabie tprms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
common s, may depend upon being fuppiicd in the 111 oil fat sfac
or\ maimer A liberal allowance to such as uurchafe quantities
libraries,or to fell again.
American Lead Manufactory.
r-r a,^ T EPHEN AUSTIN, & Co. '
FT nOW 0 P their Llad-Wa rehouse, two doors
, south of Wa'nui-flreet Whail, adjoining their New Faflory—
Where Ihey have now made, and ready for sale, a general affort
mentot SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mices in Virginia. As they have employed a
num crof experienced Engljfli workmen, they warrant it to be
eqaa in quality to any manufactured in Europe, ana at a reduced
pnee from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addretied to either of the
?i ° VC * ra " or ' cs » will be thankfully received, aud execntcd on the
Ihorteft notice.
.B. Wanftd, industrious, fnber, Labouiing Men, at the said
i ines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
lor further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosis Austin & Co.
at their Faftwy in Richmond, or as above.
Pl>i/idrlphia y Decdtnber g, 1791. tf
A TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
United States, fhrwing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
One to a Thousand Pennyweights—according to t»C
Act ol Congrcfi, afceruining the Standatd and Value of Gold.
TO BE SOLD BY
LEONARD BLEECKER.
' C P9') ,