of§
...
Saturday, May 12, 17^2.
No. 109, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE AMERICAN MUSEUM.
REFLECTIONS on the STATE of the UNION
[concluded.]
rprt*; countrie; fouthof Pennsylvania are remarkably rich
1 in foflils. Coals, copper, iron, lead, and other mineral?
are found in either Virginia, North or South-Carolina or
Georgia, or all of them. Mineral appearances occur every
where. The promotion of manufactures is neceflarv to draw
these forth ; and as they have immense fore ft s of wood and
the molt powerful mill-dreams, there can be no doubt, 'that
they will be brought into use, as soon as those means fli'all be
adopted.
The family manufactures of the middle and interior coun
ties of Virginia, North-Caroli-ia, and the interior counties of
Georgia, South-Carolina, and Maryland, are said to be greater
in value, than the articles of foreign manufactures, which
they use; and were they universally awake to the facilitv
profits, and national importance of this mode of manufactur
ing, they might extend it much further, without impeding
their firming operations, while, at the fame time, they would
provide an use for their agricultural productions.
A fmgle (late, Pennsylvania, has upwards of fifty paper
mills, which work up materials of no value. The manufac
tures from those mills are computed at two hundred and fifty
thousand doUars—the hands employed in them do not exceed
one hundred and fifty, or two hundred. That ltate contaius
about one ninth of the people of the United States, and their
contributions to the expenses of the government and the i'n
tereil of the public debt, are confcquentlv about 400,000 dol
lars. Their paper-mills, therefore, indemnify them for five
eighths of their quota ! It is the duty of government to en
courage the otherftates to do the fame, especially as it can be
done by water means, and not by men diverted from their
farms. The southern states do not want a capacity for this
manufacture, which has acquired an eftabliflunent in Mary-
J and, and has appeared as far to the southward as North-Ca
rolina.
It may be fafcly affirmed, that the manufactures of leather
in the United States exceed in value all our annual bur
dens. We import few or no Ihoes. In each of the two last
years we have procured from abroad no more than 70,000
pair of .hoes and boots, for 4,100,000 of peop!e. If we use
only one pair and a half per annum per person, at fevcntv-five
cent,, they will amount to 4,500,000 dollars, which exceeds
e very demand of the general and state governments. The
hides, flans, bark, lime, thread, bridles, and wax, nav, the
the very heel-pegs, are all drawn from our lands and farms.
Recollecting this, aud similar facts, we cannot question the
utility of mamifaftures to the farmers, planters, and landed
interest If the manufacture of (hoes in this countrv, were
abolilhed, our annual debt to foreign countries would be in
creased to an amount equal to all our public contributions.
Similar observations might be made on several other articles
though no one to so great an extent.
The manufactures of wool in Oreat-Britain have been ftat
edby tneirminifters at 16,800,0001. sterling—and the simple
manufactures of liquors in that country are said to consume
twenty-five millions of bulhels of grain. Were there no other
proof,-, we could not doubt the importance of manufactures
to tbe agriculture- of that country. They nourilh and support
it. We make up all our woo!—our lands produce cotton with
great facility ; and we manufacture liquors as easily as Bri
tam. There is no doubt, that the latter branch already af
fords to our farmers an annual market for 1,500,000 bu(hels
of gram. This is well underltood and carried on
in all the southern states.
i he objection, that manufactures take the people from a
gnculture, is notfolid, aselfewhere observed ; since women,
children, horses, water, and fire, all work at manufacturer,
and perform four-fifths of the labour ; and as many manufac
turers migrate to the United States, it mav be fairly nueftion
ed, whether the (Quantity of agricultural induftrv is not in
creased by the impulse and demand arising from manufactures,
though a few cultivators fliould follow them. And it mav be
alked, whether a fanner does not raise the More cotton, flax
hemp, and wool, because his wife and daughters spin and
Weave them ?
The employment of the new medium, the public certificates
(which may be taken at 1 j,000,0001. fterlin ? J in a country that
formerly had not 3,000,0001. sterling of medium, renders ma
nufactures necefiary at this time. It may be said, lands will
employ it. But farms fold well at the time when 3,000,0001.
sterling was probably the utmofl: extent of our medium, and
cannot therefore give employment to the additional twelve
millions, though they might to a part of it. The firft applica
tion of this capital is intended to be made to the ftianufaffu -
ing of cotton, which is peculiar to the southern states. This
15 one method by which those states will be benefited by even
that part of the public debt, which they do not own. On this
important point more will be said hereafter.
More money is employed in manufafl-ures, than in foreign
commerce, because the gross value of exported article l : is
much lei"", than the gross value of manufactured articles. This
will not be doubted, when itfis remembered, that Ihoes alone
amount to several millions of dollars. These manufacturer
rinnot be deemed less important to the southern landholders
than foreign commerce ; and those proprietors will not be dif
pofcd to neglect foreign commerce, nor will they consider it
Hi lriCiative to their local interests.
u . . extract.
• It is reported of the Sybarite*, that they destroyed all
cir cocks, that they might dream out their morning dreams
v ltncut aifturbance. Though I would not so far promote ef
eimnacy as to propose the Sybarites for an example, yet since
"* v ls j nan so corrupt or foolifb, but that something ufe
u may e learned from him, I could wilh that in imitation
o a people not often to be copied, some regulations might be
na e to exclude screech owls from all company, as the ene
!..u ? ° and confine them to some proper receptacle,
■' ere tley may mingle flghs at lcifure, anti thicken the gloom
of one another."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MANUFACTURES
TT is often saul in conversation, that agriculture
A is the greatest inieielt of the American -peo
ple, and the foundation on which their wealth
and prosperity art fitpported. Thisisjuft, but
3 conclusion is drawn from the principle which
is not equally well founded. We often hear it
i emarked that agriculture being the belt interest,
it is improper to engage in manufactures. This
is carelessly aliened and admitted. But, is it
n tie that the interest of agriculture is injured by
our manufactures?— Our farmers will not easily
e pei fuaded that it is. What is done with (he
wool, flax, cotton, hemp, but to work them up.
All the iron made in the country is wrought in
ir. Would any man, in his wits, recommend
'hat all thele articles, which form the materials
of our in oft valuable manufactures, should no
longer be culiivated or attended to. The far
[ iner would fuffer, and the money of the country
nuift be lent out of it to buy the articles. What
has the farmer to apprehend from the increase
of manufactures ; that he will fell flax, hemp,
cotton and wool, on better terms, and in greater
quantities? The manufactures of the country
have grown up wonderfully since the protetftion
given them by the laws of the United States.
Since that increase, have not the farmers found
the advantage ? 1 hey have—and the new impolt
a<Jt will operate to extend the demand for the
pi oduce of i heir lands. The fail-cloth manufac
toi ies at Boston, and elfevvhere in the state of
Maflachufetts, have made a demand for all the
flax produced and offered at market, and the
price has risen with the demand. The farmers
in that instance receive a direct profit from the
manufactory. This is intended only as an in
stance-—many others might be adduced. They
all tend to refute the insinuations which are often '
made to rouse jealouly, on the thread-bare pre
sence that the eastern and southern states have
different interests, and that the farmers will be
facrificed to the manufacturers.
I he manufactures of the southern states ap.
pear, on enquiry, to be more advanced, as well
as moi e prosperous, than has been believed. But
if it was not I'o, it is hard to fee the damage sus
tained by the louthern states, by the middle and
eastern manufacturers buying their flax, wool,
cotton, hemp and coals, as well as their corn, to
feed them—all which is actually the cafe at pre
sent.
It is much to be wished that a brotherly affec
tion may subsist between tlie citizens of the dif
ferent states. If these remarks, trite as they
may appear, have any tendency to that end, the
delign of the writer will be accomplished.
ACTS, &c,
ajfed at the Fir ft Se/fion of the Second Cangrefs of the United States,
begun and held at the city oj Philadelphia, in the State of Pennfy!.
vama, on Monday the tuenty-Jourth of Ocloiet, one thousand teven
hundred and ninety-one.
Nmcmbcr 8. A N ACT granting farther time for makipjf return
J. A. the enumeration of the inhabitants in the dif
tnft of South-Carolina.
Dec. 16. An Ast for the relief of David Cook and Thomas
Campbell,
23. An A£i making appropriations for the support of go
vernment lor the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two.
Jan. 3. An Ast for carrying into effect a contract between the
United Stairs and the Slate of Pennsylvania.
23. An Ast to extend the time limited for fettling the ac.
counts of the United States with the individual
Stales.
Feb. 16. An Ast concerning certain fifheries of the United
States, and for the regulation and government of the
filhermen employed therein.
to. An Ast to eftabiifh the poft-oflice and post-roads
within the United States.
March 1. An Ast relative to the cleftion »f a President and
Vice- President of the United States, and declaring
the officer who shall ast as President in cafe of va
cancies in the olficcs both of President and Vice-
Prcfident.
An Ast for making farther and more effectual provi
fton for the protection of the frontiers of the Uni
ted States.
19. An Ast declaring the consent of Congress to a certain
ast of the State of Maryland, and to continue for a
longer time an ast declaring the assent of Congress
to certain acts of the States of Maryland, Georgia
and Khode-Ifland and Providence Plantations, so
far as the fame refpefts the States of Georgia, and
Khode-Ifland and Providence Plantations.
Jan,
23. An Ast to provide for the fetilrmcnt of the claims of
widows and orphans barred by the limitations here
tofore eftablilhed and to regulate the claims 10
inralid penGonj.
■)
✓
V
'V
433
[Whole No. 517.]
2}. An Ast providing for the fatlement of the claims of
p ons. " m,cr Pellicular circumttances baricd bv
the limitations ht rctoforc fftahli ed.
71 ' °r """" widow '- °'ph»n 5 , in
vaiuis «tnd other prrfons.
28. An Ast fupplrmcnul totheaft for making farther and
more effrflual prov.iion for the protefttou ot the
frontiers of the United Stairs.
2. An Ast tor fiuiOiing the light-House 011 Baldhcad
N'onh m Ca U ro),nt thC S '" c
"uM&r m ' m • and resu,atin « ,h£Colns of
i 2. An Ast fupolcmentary to the ast for the establishment
public peers'. °' )ighUhoU,M ' b " cons . »»*
A0 S t t^ o New.;^ h, ' h °" rean M —"*«. » 'he
An Ast for ascertaining 'He bound, of a tract of land
purchased by John Cleve. Symmet.
An Ast tor fixing the eompenfation of the door-keep
ers of ( he Senate and House of Reprefcmatives iu
Congrels.
13. An Ast for altering the rimes of holding the circuit
courts in certain diftrifts of the United States, and
for other purposes
An Ast to compensate the corporation of trustees of
the public grammar school and acadcmy of Wil
mington, in the Sutc of Delaware, for the nccupal
tion of, and damages done to the said school, du
ring the late war.
I*. An Ast for apportioning rcprcfentanves amonj; the
fcveral S;ates according to the si.st enumeration
An Act concerning confuU and vice-consuls.
2t. An Ast authorizing the grant and conveyance of cet
tain lands to the Ohio Company of Ailociates
27. An Act 10 indemnify the estate of the late M.ior-Ge
neral Nathaniel Greene, for a certain bond entered
into bv him during the late war.
i. An Ast for railing a farther sum of money for the pro
trfton of the frontiers, and tor other purposes there
in mentioned.
An Ast to provide for callitig forth the militia to exe
cute the laws of tin Union, suppress infutrefttons
and repel invasions.
5. An Ast for the relief ot perfotis imprisoned for debt.
An Ast authorizing the grant and conveyance of cer
tain lands to John Clevei Symmes, and his affociatesj
A to alter the lime of the next annual mectinr
of Congress. "
8. An Ast conccrningthe duties on spirits distilled with
in the United States.
An Ast relative to thecompenfations.to certain officers
employed in the collcft.on of the duties of import
and tonnage.
An Ast to continue in force the ast intituled, « An Ast
to provide for mitigating or remitting the penalties
and forfetturs accruing under the revenue laws in
certain cases, and to make farther provifton tor the
payment ot pensions to invalids."
An Ast supplemental to the ast making provision for
the debt of the United States.
An Ast 'or making competitions to the commiflion
e>s of loans for extraordinary cxpenfes.
An Ast riiaking alterations in the treasury and war
departments.
An Ast making certain appropriations therein fpecified
An Ast to provide for a copper coinage.
An Ast for regulating proctlfes in the courts of the
United States, and providing compenf.tions tor the
officers of the said couna, and for iutors and wit
nrffej.
April
May
An Ast concerning the claim of John Brown Cutting
agamft the United States. 5
An Ast to compensate the services of the late colonel
George Gibfon.
An Ast more effrftually to provide for the national
defence by eftablilhing an uniform militia through
out the Unite d States.
An Ast refpefting the government ol the Territory of
the United Sutes, North-Weft and South of the Ri.
ver Ohio.
Rcfolve directing the Secretary of the Treasury to
turnith the several collcftors with printed Clearan
ces, dating the accounts of the methods that kave
been used to obtain irelh water Irom fait, & c .
EXTRACTS.
" When fortune frowns, and friendfhip stands aloof—when
the forlorn viaim lies stretched on the bed of auguifh with
miferv and want pictured before him—the pleafmg the'vene
rable form of religion presents herfelf to his view—fpeaki
joy and consolation to her humble votary—(hews him thede
lufions of riches, and the vanities of worldly plealure. Hij
groans are changed into triumphs—as his misfortunes accu
mulate, his hopes increase—and the pillar of his fortitude is
the wretchedness of his condition—with the fapeof antiquity
he may fay, "Alas! he fliould ljave perilhec', had he notbeen
undone."
" Pure and genuine religion does not consist in the difguft
mg feveritv of a puritanical outside ; nor does it in the lead
depend on nominal diftinftions, as was formerly imagined !
wlreu the difference of a single letter, in a term of favored or
thodoxy, opened wide the field of controversy where the be
nevolent spirit of christianity was facrificedto theological ran
cour, the church torn into schisms, and her wreatfi of victory
was t.\e blood of her children. As well might the intrinsic
worth and excellence of a jewel be ertimated from the caflcet
in which it happens to be inclosed, as the goodness of religion
measured by external forms, or inferred from modes of faith.
It is built on the love and reverence of the Supreme Being
and an unfliaken belief in the words of sacred truth, joined to
a warm and practical benevolence towards all our fellow be
ings--?iety and virtue are its everlaftmg pillars, faith and
charity being the chief corner Hone."CONGRESS.
V H 1 LA i)|L P H I A
The Rtpartmti* read in the Hon ft of R.4~
prefintat'wte on ¥tttjilfty laj\.
r (.omrniiuc u» enquire into the cauiVf of the
.. Jl. Utiuic of iDc Uie**p«<iin©» under Major-General St. Clair,
have piuLCtdt d lo c xamine all rtiic papers lot uiiked by ihr execu
i.vc department iclaiivrly thereto, (uniliy papers and accounts
turndhed byltic Tj Ccifu'"y"and War department*, with explana-
Mi iib of the fame by the heads ps thole departments in perl'on, to
he.ir the it (timwiy of witiltUVs upoil oarl., and written rcrna.-ks
by Gcncial St. Clair, upon tlic t'afts cllablillied by the whole evi
tlencr, nnd as the rcfult of their inquiries, make the following
BM'ORT :
Ttu-contiaft for the supplies of the army on the rout from
fort Put, was made by Theodofiin Fowler, with the .Secretary of
the Treafui y, and bears date the twenty-eighth day of Ottober,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety, that at the fame time a
bond in the penalty of one hundred tnoufjnd dollars, with Walter
Livirigllon and John Cochran, lecuritits thereto, was entered into
ior the due execution of the contrail.
That oil the third day of January, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-one, the conuaft was wholly transferred from the said
Fowler to Wiiliam Duer, a copy of which transler was lodged
in the office of the Secretaiy of the Treasury; that by letter from
the Secietary ar War, beaiing date the twenty-fifth of February,
one thousand seven bundled jiid ninety-one, addretled to William
Duel, it appears that he was conlidered as the contra&or; that no
corieipondcnce appeals to have taken place fubfcquently to that
tn-.e between Theodoiius Fowler and either the treasury or wai
depaitmcnts —that 011 the sixth day of March, one thouland seven
hundred and ninety-one, a contrail was entered into by William
Duer with the Secretary at War, tor supplying the troops with
provisions until their airtval at Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt, a bond
was at the fame time entered into by the said William Duer for
the due execution of the said conuaft in the penalty of four thou
sand dolltrs, without any fecuiity whatloever.
That the ast making provision for the defence of the frontiers,
received the signature of the Prefideiu of the Un ted Slates the
t'niid of Maich, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one—
That General St. Clair was appointed commander in chief of ihe
army deflincd for the expedition on the tourih day ot the fame
month, and on the twenty-eighth left Philadelphia for Foit Pitt,
at which place he arrived the fixtecr.th day of April, and from
thence proceeded to Lexington, and from thence to Fort Wafli
-.ngton, w here he ariived on the fifteenth day of May-Atthe time
of the airival of the General at Fort Washington, the garrison
there confided of levcnty-five non-commissioned officers and pri
vates fit for duty—the garrison at Fort Harmar of forty-five—at
Fort Steuben of sixty-one—at Fort Knox of eighty-three—and on
the fifteenth day ot July, the whole of the firll United States regi
ment, amounting to two hundred and ninety-nine non-commis
sioned olßceis and privates, arrived at Fort Washington under or
ders from the commander in chief. Gensral Butler was appoint
ed the fccond in command in the month ot March, and immedi
ately proceeded to make the uecelTary arrangements for the re
eruitiii" service ; that he arrived in Baltimore in the slate of Ma
iyland°the twentieth of April, and continued there till the thir
tieth of the fame month ; that he ariived at Carlifli in the slate of
Pennsylvania 011 the ninih of May, and at Fort Put on the twenty
second of the month. It appears that 110 monies tor purchaling
fupphes were furnlfhed at Carlisle, which was the place of ren
dezvous, for the entitled foldierv, on the ninth of May ; and that
Mr. Smith, agent for the contiaaor, was aduely engaged 111 fur
mfhing fuppiies for the troops on credit.
It appeais by letters from John Kean, another of the contrac
tor's agents, that no monies had been received by him on the
eighth of May ; and it appears that on the twenty-third of March,
there was advanced to William Duer, upon the last mentioned
contrail, fiotn the treasury, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars;
that there was advanced upon the firft mentioned contrail, the
sum of seventy thousand dollais, id the following to wit :
March *2d 10,000 Dollars.
April 7th
April 25th >5.000
May 7th
July 20th
It appears (rom the correspondence of Geneial Butler to the
Secretary at War, from the ninth ot May to the ninth of June, re
peated complaints were made of fatal mismanagements and neg
k£ts, in the quarter matter's and military stores department, par
ticularly as to tents, knap-sacks, camp kettles, cartridge boxes,
pack laddies, See. all of which articles were deficient in quantity,
and bad in quality.
The pack fadcles in particular were made in Philadelphia,
which with the transportation, amounted to more than double
the price at which they might have been procured at Fort Pitt,
and were found upcu examination to be unfit for use ; —tne arms
sent forward aDpear not to have been duly examined, and arrived
at Fort Pitt extremely out of order, and many totally unfit lor
use, which circumstance rendered repairs absolutely necelTary, and
added to the delay of the troops at Fort Put.
It appears that a great proportion of the powder supplied for
the use of the army, was not of good quality, though an experi
ment was made by Major Fcrgufon at Fort Put with a howitz,
who reported in favor of the quality of the powder. On the
ninth of June General Neville,another of the contra&or's agents,
informed General Butler, that he had not at that time received
iuy monies from the contractors, for the puTchafe of provtfions,
&c. for the troops, and was obliged to supply them oa credit;
that the country furnilhed provisions in abundance at a cheap rate,
when money was had for the purchase. That (hortly alter this
information was communicated to General Butler, at his requctt
four hirndrcd dollars were advanced to General Neville by the
quarter matter, for the purchase of provisions for the troops. The
troops arrived at Fort Pitt in the following order, to wit:
May 16th, Captain Slough, sixty-nine men.
May iß:h, Captain Powers, seventy-eight men.
May 19th, Captain Ciibbs, forty men : fame day, Captain
Guthrie, twenty-three.
May 25th, Captain Armstrong, seventy-six : fame day, Captain
Kirkwood, sixty-seven.
May 13th, Captain Snowden, one hundred and one.
June 2d, Captain Sparks, eighty-three.
June 3d, Captain Butler, fixtv-one : fame day, Captain Brook,
eighty-two, : fame day, Captain Vanfwearingen, eighty-eight.
June sth, Captain Pike, feventy-three;—Total, including offi
cers and privates,eight hundred and forty-two; and left that plaee
in the following order—Major Fergufon with Capi. Armstrong's
company, about the firft of June. Captain Snowden, with the
troops under his command, on the day of Major Gaither,
•with about {?ve hundred men, 12th day of Jnly ; and on the 22d
August the last of the troopsunder the command of Capt. Phelon,
and General Builer with the Quartermaster-General, ou the 26th
August.
It appears that General Butler had orders from the department
at war to protest the frontiers with the troops under his com
mand, and that the delays in fending forward the troops from
Fort Pitt arose partly from that circumOance, and partly from the
temporary want of supplies of provilions and other neceflarits,
and from the want of the necefTary boats for their tranfportaiion,
which were not in readiness as soon as the troops were. It ap
pears that General Butler adlcd with ability, aftivuv and zeal in
bis command at Fort Pitt, and thai the delays of the troops
cannot be imp" l "* to his want of judgement,- or l\»s i*ant "t
exertion.
The troops met with confiderablc difficulties and delays in go
ingdpwM the river, from the low state of the water,-and arrived
at Fort Washington in the following order— Capt. Muir.lorc;
from North-Carolina, with about fifty men, on the d3y of
Ma;.r Fcrgufon with Capj. Armstrong's company, on the
day of Major Gaither, with the iroops under his command,
on the day of Col. Datke, with the troops under hi com
mand, on the day of and the Kentucky inilitia on the
day'of
The army confiding of about two thousand non-commiM ruled
officers and privates, moved from Fort Washington l«y orders
from the commander in chief to a place about five or lix miles
from thence, called Ludlow's ft nion, where they continued till
the seventeenth day of September, at which time the whole army
amounted to about two thousand three hundred non-comrnifiion
ed officers and privates fit for dutv—l hat the price of iation< at
Fort Washington agreeably to contrail was 6 3-4 9 0l hs of a dol
lar per ration, the price of rations at Ludlow'* station was 15 1-4
901 hs of a dollar per ration.
That tbe inducement? of„the commander in chief to th-.s move
ment, appear to have been to furnifh green forage for the horses
and beef cattle of the ai my, to inftruft the soldiery infield cxer
cife ami other neceflary difcipltne, -and to .deprive them of the
mean* of intoxication which were very plentifully supplied at
Fort Washington, and used to an cxccfiive debtee by the soldiery,
to correct the eXceflive use of which the nioft rigid attention to
discipline was found incompetent.
Mr. Hodgdon was appointed quarter mafler general in the
month of March, and continued at Philadelphia, until the 4th of
June, he then proceeded to Fort Pitt, where he arrived the r .enth
of the fame month—no fufficient causes have appeared to the
committee to juftify this delay, and h'S presence with the army
appears to have been efientialiy necellary previously to that time,
the duties of the commander in chief were much increased in
confequcrjce of the absence of the quarter mafler general and after
a continued expettationof his arrival at Fort Washington, for
more than fix weeks, the commander in chief gave him express
orders by letter to repair to camp without delay.
The receipt of the letter is acknowledged, but the orders con
tained therein were neither answered nor obeyed, and his arrival
at camp was not until the tenth of September. The commander
in chief until that time in addition to the duties of his office, dif
charaed those of the quarter master general, and the military stores
furnifhed bv that department were so deficient from misman
agement and ncgleti, that many things essential to the movements
of the army were either wholly made or repaired at Fort Walh
ington, and even the tools for the artificers to work with; the
quarter-maftcr particularly informed the commander in chief that
two complete travelling forges were sent forward, and upon ex
amination both of them were found to be without anvils, many
other things equally necefTary were either wholly omitted, or un
fit for their intended use. There were fix hundred and feventy
five ftatid of arms at Fort Washington the firftof June, and most
of them totally out of repair. The commander in chief appears
to have been correct and attentive in all his communications with
the Secretary at war, and to have discharged the various duties
which devolved upon him with ability, a&ivity and zeal.
The army moved from Ludlow's Nation on the seventeenth day
of September, and arrived at the place where Fort Hamilton is
now ere&ed, on the day of they employed a
bout fifteen daysbuiMing'that fort, and then proceeded in their
march to the place where Fort Jefferfonis now erected, forty-four
miles distant from Fort Hamilton, where they arrived on the
day of O&ober, and commenced their inarch from ihat place on
the 24th of the fame mon h—that the army at this time confided
of about non-commissioned officers and privates sic tor du
ty ; at this time the army had not more than three days supply of
flour, and were sometimes at one fourth, and fomctimes at one
hall allowance of that article, the deficiences of which allowance
were made up by in crrafingthe quantity ot beef with which they
were plentifully supplied. The army was delayed five or fix
days on the march from Fort JcfFerfon,for the want of provisions,
and the season was so far advanced that fufficient green forage for
the horses could not be procured, from which circumstances ma
ny of the horses were totally loft, and others rendered uofu for
service.—
The orders to the commander in chief to proceed with the ex
pedition, wereexprels and unequivocal, so much so, as in the
opinion of the commiitee to preclude the commander in chief
from cxercifing any discretion relatively to that object.
On the 31ft of O&ober about sixty of the Kentucky militia
deserted in a body, and the firft regiment consisting of about three
hundred effettive men was detached with a view to cover a con
voy of provisions which was expe&ed and which it was supposed
was in danger from the deserted militia, and to prevent further
desertion—On the 3d of November—after detaching the firft re
giment the army consisted of about fourteen hundred effeflive
men, and on the morning of the 4th about a half an hour after
sunrise, a general attack was commenced, and in a few minutes
thereafter, neai ly the whole army was surrounded by the enemy,
the aflion continued about four hours during which several char
ges were made by part of the army, which caused the enemy to
give way but produced no good effect. the attack was unexpected,
the troops having been just difmilTcd from the morning parade,
it commenced uoon the militia who were in advance of the main
army, and who fled through the main army, without firing a gun,
this circumstance threw the troops into some disorder which it
appears they never completely recovered during the action, the
fire of the army wasconftant but not well diretted,and it appears
that a part ofthe troops behaved as well as could be expeftcd from
their state of discipline, and the manner and suddenness of the at
tack ; the commander in chief appears to have been cool and de
liberate in the whole of the action, and the officers in general ac
tive and intrepid—the whole order of march as far as the com
mute are capable of expi effing an opinion, appears to have been
judicious, and the ground for action well chosen ; the retreat was
disorderly in the extreme, after it commenced no orders were
obeyed if any were given, the men having loft all regard of dis
cipline or controul; all the precautions appear to have been taken
for the fafety and comfort of the wounded which the circumstan
ces of the cafe would admit of.
20,000
10,000
The committee have had no competent evidence before
them to ascertain the number of the enemy in action—there
were various conjefhires as to the number, from different
persons from five hundred the lowest, to one thonfand or
twelve hundred the highest.
Mr. Barton a witness examined by the committee con versed
with a chief at Niagara who was in the ast ion, and was by him
informed that the number of the enemy in action was one
thousand and forty and that fix hundred more had convened,
but were engaged in hunting, at the time of the action. He
was also informed that the enemy had not collected in any
considerable numbers'until a few days b.efore the action, this
information appears to be corroborated bv some other circum
stances fufficient to induce a belief of the fact in the com-
mittee.
The Contractors for supplies agreeably to the terms ofcon
traft were to furnifli horses, &c. for the transportation of the
supplies, in this condition of the contrast, there was a total
failure, which compelled the commander in chief to direst be
tween fix and seven hundred horses to be purchased by Israel
Ludlow, one of the contractor's agents, to draw bills on Mr.
Duer, the acting contractor for payment, which bills were
434
eudorfcd by the commander in chief, to the amount Gf about
fevsntcen thotfand dollars, were protested by t!ie contractor,
u id paid at the treasury ; the persons employed by the agent
of the contractors to drive the borfes, appear toiiave been to
tally unacquainted with that bufmefs, and from the want of
bells, hopple-, and other nece(Taries of that kind, as well at
froii other gross mismanagement, many of the horses were
loft, and others rendered unfit for service ; —from which cau -
e> there were no 4 : pack horses fuificient to transport thenecei
fary quantity of flour from Fort-Washington for the use "of
the army 011 their march, this circuinftauce retarded the exe
cution of the expedition.
The officers agreeaK'v to t'le term? of contract had an elec
tion, of drawing the whole of the rations, to which their rank
cntit'ed them, or of receiving the contract price of them i«
cafli, the contractor's agents not being furnifhed with money
for this purpose, gave rife to a general order, by which the of
ficer was directed to receive a certificate flora the contrac
tor's agent called a due bill, of one of which bill? the following
is a copy " Dae Major H. Gaither one hundred and feveu
t/-three complete rations on the route to Miami village as ap
pears by Wilson's certificate." MATT. EARNEST,
for V.M. D'JER.
Fort-Walhington, Nov. 27th, 1790.
This due bill ituied upon the officer's signing some acknow
ledgement of fatisfaftion for his whole retained rations,which
acknowledgment of fatisfaftion forms a voucher for fettle
men tto the contractor, with the treasury department; and
the officer is refufed payment for these due bills at the pay of
fice. All casualties by which these evidences of debt become
loft or destroyed, are the gain of the contractor and the loss oi*
the officer.
It is suggested by the Secretary of the Treasury, though not
with positive certainty, that a fufficient sum will be found dne
from the treasury to the contractors upon a final fettlemc-nt,
to cover all these debts to the officers; the general order
which had the operation before stated, continued in force a
bout five or fix \veeks, and was abolished about the 19th of
O&ober. The privates of the levies received but three dol
lars pay each, from the time of their refpe&ive inlifhnents to
the time of their refpe&ive discharges, and were a&ually dis
charged without further pay or settlement; notes of
were given them, fpecifying the time of their service, and
bearing indorsations, that some advancements had been made
to them in account, without stating the amount, the object of
which is suggested to have been to prevent transfers, the in
tended e*fe<st was not produced by the rneafure; the notes
were fold for trifling confide rations, the real sums due on the
notes were various, from ten to twenty-five dollars, and they
were frequently fold for one dollar, or one gallon of whiskey;
the monies for the pay of the levies did not leave Philadelphia
till the 4th ofD?cember, nor arrive at Fort-Washington till
the 3d of January, 1792, some time after the last inlifted le
vies were known to be entitled to their discharges •* two rea
sons have been afligned by the Secretary at War for this de
lay of payment, the one, because there was no regular Pay
master to the army, and the difficulties of transmitting mo
nies at so great a distance to the army, in consequence of the
want of such an officer ; the other, because it was supposed the
army would be at that time at the Miami village, so far ad
vanced in the wilderness, as not to admit of the practicability
of discharging the levies, the total defeat of the not hav
ing been previously counted upon.
The cloathing for the levies appears to have been of a very
inferior quality, particularly coats, hats, and lhoes, the last
of which in many cases lasted not more than four days, and
better cloathing was furniflied them upon their inliftments in
to the regular service, which was for a tune countenanced by
the commander in chief.
Various modes appear to have been pursued by the officer:
in inlifting the levies, which occasioned great uneasiness and
some confuHon ; a considerable part of the Virginia battalion
was so inlifted, that the terms of their inliftments appear to
have expired the ift of November : the orders to the recruit
ing ferjeants appear not to have been fufficiently explicit up
on this point— vhether the terms of inliftment were to com
mence at the time of inliftment, or at th£ arrival at a place of
rendezvous. The militia appear to have been composed prir.-
ciDally offubftitutes, and totally ungovernable, and regardless
of military duty or subordination. It appears that the com
mander in chief had it in contemplation to commence the ex
pedition at least one month earlier than it was commenced,
with the force he then had, which was not very different from
the real force in a^ion; but was prevented for the want of
the quarter-matter and contractor, and in consequence of the
extreme deficiencies and derangements of the buiinefs ot tho-e
departments, the person sent forward by the quarter-matter
being totally incompetent for the business, and the contrac
tor's agents not being fufficiently supplied with money to en
able them to execute their duties.
It appears to the committee, that in the wilderness "where
vegetables are not to be had, and the duties ofthe soldier un
commonly hard, the rations allowed by law, if completely sup
plied, are infufficient. This circumstance, with others, pro
duced discontent and desertion among the soldiers.
It appears to the committee that there were appropriate
for the use of the war department, for the year one
seven hundred and ninety-one, the sum of fix hundred an
ty-two thousand seven hundred and sixty-one dollars, and ix
ty-one cents, and that there have been advanced b> t.ie tre
fury to the war department, upon that appropriation,
hundred and feventy-five thousand, nine hundred and lix 0
lars, and fifty-feven cents, to wit ; dollars cen s
1791 February advanced 15,000
March ' do. 46,002 20
April do. 100,106
May do. 8c,1 « 9
Jnne do. 55>3?7 44
July do. 39
August do. ! 4>554 59
September do.
Ortober do. 8 '
November do. lo^
1792 January do. 33*753
February do. 43>5 2
March do. '.741 ><>
Amounting to
To which add monies borrowed
from the bank of North Ame
rica on loan without interclt,
575,906 57
And that the treasury has always been in r " d,^ p t " at
the requisite advances upon the request of the -.-ier,
War. It does not appear to the committee in w j;/x, ur fed,
and to what amount tbe'e advancements Jiave ® nor
the accounts not having been yet fettled at t e .. at
was it possible, from the nature of the cafe, t a ? infor
this time, have received any conclude or fetisfaftory at.
mation on that point.
419,3" 1
156,595 s<>From ths foregoing Hate of fails, the committee
fugged the following as the principal causes,
in their opinion, of the failure of the late ex
pedition, under Major General St. Clair.
THE delay in furnilhing the materials and
estimates for, and in passing the ad: for the pro
tetftion of the frontiers, the time after the pari
jng «f which was hardly fufficienc to "complete
and discipline an army for such an expedition,
during the summer months of the fame year.
The delays consequent upon the gross and va
rious mismanagements and neglecls in the quar
ter-master's and contractor's departments ; the
lateness of the season at which the expedition
was undertaken, the green forage having been
previously deitroyed by the fro 11, so that a I'uffi
ciency of subsistence for the horses neceflary for
the annv could not be procured.
The want of discipline and experience in the
rroops.
The committee conceive it but justice to the
Commander in Chief to fay, that in their opinion,
the failure of the late expedition can in no re
fpetft be imputed to his conduct, either at any
time before or during the action ; but that as his
conduct in all the prepatarory arrangements was
marked with peculiar ability and zeal, so his con
duct during the action furnilhed llrong leltimo
nies of his coolnefsand intrepidity.
The committee tuggelt as reasons for leaving
the number of the troops at particular periods,
and the dates of some facts blank, the want of
fufficienc time to complete the report with mi
nuteness, and in some instances, the want of the
neceflary evidence.
The said report being read,
Refolvtd, That this House will early in the
next session proceed to take the fame into consi
deration.
Extract from the Journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY EVENING, May 8
A meflage from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Lear, informed the House that he
had this day approved and signed two aifts, which
originated in the House, viz. An aifl supplemen
tary to the adi making provision for the debt of
the United States ; and an atft making compen
sations to the couimiffianers of loans for extraor
dinary expences.
A mefTage from the Senate, by Mr. Otis, in
formed the Hoijfe, that they have pasTed an act
refpetfiing the government of the territory of the
United States north-weft and south of the river
Ohio.
The committee on enrolled bills reported as
truly enrolled the following bills : An acft mak
ing certain appropriations therein fpecified—An
aift refpec s ting the government of the territory of
the United States north-weft and south of the ri
ver Ohio—An ast refpediing the claim of J. B.
Cutting—Also, a resolve directing pointed clear
ances of particular form for the collectors of the
United States.
The Speaker ligned the above bills and resolve :
the fame being laid before the Prelident, a mes
sage was received by Mr. Secretary Lear, inform
ing the House that they had received his appro
bation and signature.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informed the House, that the Prelident had
notified the Senate that he had approved and
signed two atfts which originated in the Senate—
An atfi to provide for a copper coinage—and An
a<ft to compensate the services of the late Colonel
George Gibfon.
The Secretary also informed the House, that
the Senate having completed the business before
them, were about to adjourn.
A meflage was Cent to inform the Senate, that
the House having completed the bulinefa before
iliein, are about to adjourn.
On motion of Mr. Smith, it was ordered that
he clerk procure such of the laws of thefeveral
flares as are not already in his office.
The Speaker then adjourned the Hoofe, to
meet again on the firft Monday of November
next, according to law.
PARIS,
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
FEERUARY 26.
Marflial Luckner was introduced amid the ap
plauses of the Aflembly, and presented an Address
which the Minister at War read for him.
" The King having called me to Paris, I ea
gerly avail myfelf of my Itay there to renew my
profeffions of respect and gratitude to the Na
tional Aflembly : You have concurred by a de
cree in the honourable mark of esteem and con
fidence, which the King has been pleased to grant
me. My life is the property of the country that
lias adopted me; and I (hall acknowledge no
glory but what I may acquire by artociating my
felf in the triumph of the French, if their laws
and iheir liberty are threatened. Toconfecrate
■without refervc the remainder of a laborious life
to so grand and so juil a cause, will be the best
proof of my profound gratitude to the National
AlieuibJy and the King.
" In concert with the general officers of the
garrison of Stralburgh, 1 have written to the Mi
tt liter at War, to inform him of the situation of
the officers of my army, who have nothing to
lubfilt upon bin 1 heir pay. No complaint from
them has reached hiy ear j but their refignaiion
when they find rhemfelves in real diflrefs. makes
it more peculiarly the duty of their General to
make known their situation to the National As
lembly. They have not the half of their pay at
their own disposal ; and the officers of the ca
valry, on whom there are stoppages for the pur
chase of their horses, have considerably less.
" I may be allowed to flatter myfelf, that to
lay before the Representatives of the French peo
ple, the embarraflment of a part of their defen
ders, will be fuflicient to procure the redress to
be expected from their attention and theirjuftice.
" 1 shall communicate to theMiniffer at War*
111 writing, the measures which 1 think neceflary
to allure the success of the French armies. Per
mit me only to bear testimony to the National
Aflembly of the good order that reigns among
the troops under my command. The soldiers
display their patriotism by their spirit and their
Itricffc attention to discipline."
file President returned an answer to this ad
dreis, and the Aflembly ordered it to beinferted
in their minutes.
LONDON, February 28
We have heard of " proud days for England !
But what a truly proud day was Monday last for
Mr. Pitt ! —A flourifhing Exchequer, an army
and navy establishment to be reduced, and alarge
annua] (um to be reserved for payingoff the Na
tional Debt,and the public to be eased of aoo,oool.
annually in taxes !
The enemies of the Minister affetft to fay, that
he takes off taxes merely to increase his popula
rity* That popularity should be the consequence
of his having aJted so admirably for the public
interelt, is only ascribing to the people of this
country a very moderate ihare indeed of pene
tration, honesty, and common ienfe.
France, the great centre to which every po
litical eye is still turned, continues to be agitated
by all the turbulence and flu&uation incident to
democratical government. The National Allem
bly sometimes bully the Emperor, and at others
affect circumfpecftion and caution ; yet the ge
neral temper of the nation, inquietand dilturb
ed, tends to a&ion. But if they should in real
ity make war on Germany, from whence are
they to draw their supplies ? If the present re
venue of France falls fhori of the expenditure in
times of peace, how inadequate mult it be to the
public exigencies in time of war ? This reason
ing appears plausible : and yet, if a waragainfh
the German Princes confederated against France
and Liberty should take place, it might be found
to be fallacious. There is at present a general
reluctance throughout the provinces to pay the
taxes. Taxes are voted by the Afl'embly, but
evaded by the people. They do not fee the con-
nexion between taxes and liberty so readily as
the connection between taxes and war. Taxes
are as necessary to liberty as they are to war ;
for there can be no secure and permanent liber
ty without a fixed and regular government, nor
atiy fixed and regular government without a re
venue to support it. But the nation at large do
not discern this truth. They rather fancy that
there is a natural affinity between freedom and
exemption from all taxation. Though, there
fore, the French are not a fordid or avaricious,
but an open and a generous people, and though
their vows in favor of liberty are sincere and ar
dent, yet they do not exert the nerve of wealth
[Facultats] so much as they would do in the cafe
ot a war with Despotism, where they would rea
dily perceive money to be neceflary. Nor, were
their resources in money deficient, would the
daring Genius of Liberty fink down in despon
dent inaction. The Americans had little, and
next to no money ; yet their councils held al
ways a sublime course, and aspired to the lofti
eft object of ambition—the eltablifhment of li
berty, by equal reptefentation, for the good of
mankind. If they wanted silver and gold, they
contributed their personal service ; they gave
such things as they had ; horses, waggons, pro
visions and otherammunition. The naked Ame
rican, inspired by the unconquerable spirit of
liberty, found means to elude the grasp of the
proud and powerful Briton, covered with a coat
of mail, and glorying in his llrength.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVALS at THE PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Sally, CalTon, Cape-Francois
Lydia, Vanfie,
Georgia Packet, Burroughs*
Molly, Egger,
Schooner In-duftry, Stiles,
Sloop Betsey, Nelson,
Betsey & Kitty, Billing,
Hope, Anderfon,
Clary, W. Williams,
Nancy, Elhvood,
Frieiidfliip, Thomas,
435
ditto.
Charleston
Liibon
Cape-Francois
New-York
Georgia
St. Euftatia
Virginia
do.
NjrtV.-Caxolina
Philadelphia, May 12.
The fiibfiance of t he lafl accounts f rom France,
received by the Louifn, Capr. Birkhead, is, that
ailignais were at 40 percent, discount in exchange
'01 f" rench crowns—That disturbances had taken
place in Marseilles : the Spanish arms were taken
t ' ,e door of the Coni'ul of that kiugdom
that the Conlul had in consequence taken his de
parture that the national troops had difarined
the Swiss regiment of Herneit—that this regi
ment marched to Roquivaire, Where they were
received as if they had attempted to deltroy the
liation, palled the night in the open air, and were
icarcely able to procure victuals for their money.
The only crime alledged again It them is, their
having always been subordinate to their officers,
and during iheir Hay in Marseilles, had prevent
ed the merchants from being plundered of their
property.—That a hucktter woman having spo
ken difrefpe<stfully of the national troops who
had performed the service of disarming the Swiss,
was thrown into prison—but the people forced
the prison doors, took her out, and hung lier in
piefence of her hulband, at the lamp polt—the
firft female vicftini to the revolution.—That wheat
and flour are much wanted at Marseilles, and
that the crop now in the ground affords a very
unfavorable profpetff—That American wheat
would fetch fifty livres per charge, and fuperfine
flour flxty livres per barrel.
i hurfday last the President of the United
States, attended by Mr. Secretary Lear, fat out
on a tour to the Southward. —We hear that the
President will be at the Seat of Government
by the 10th June.
According to the lift in the firft page of this
paper, one Resolve and forty-four Atfts were
pafled by Congress at the late i'effion.
By a proclamation of his Excellency Governor
Woodley, dated the 12th April, 1792, the im
portation of lumber, of any fort, until the firft
day of Auguftnext enfuiqg, and of flour, corn,
corn meal, and ship ftufF, until the 20th day of
May next ensuing, and no longer, from anyjfland
in these seas under the dominion of any foreign
European sovereign or state, is permitted into
St. Christopher's.
Although the proposition tor afTuming the re
sidue of the State Debts was not adopted at the
late feifion, yet, as it will undoubtedly be renew
ed at the next, there is the liigheft probability
that it will then succeed. The principle on
which the former aflumption was made, applying
with equal if not greater, force to the debts un
provided for, the strongest reasons exist for the
holders of the evidences of State Debts not to
alienate then), for any consideration below their
just value. *
The Charleston Tonfine being converted into a Bank, by the
ftileof the South-Carolina Bank, on the 28th ult. Thomas Jones,
Eft), was unanimously elt£led President ot the institution.
Paffengess in the brig Georgia Packet, Capt. Burroughs, from
Charltfton, arrived yefterdayMr. Poauge, Mr. Parry, Miss
Parry, Mr. Read, Mr. Armour, Mr. Stutfon, Mr. Abercrombif,
Mr. Torrey, Mr. Canfield and Mr. Rittenhoufc.
Married, Thurfdav evening, Mr. Samue l BiooctT, jun. of
Boston, io Mils Rebecca Smith, daughter of ihc Rev. Doctor
VVm. Smith, of this city.
Died, in Charleston, Mrs. Henrietta Rutl£dce, wife of
Edward Rutiedoe, Esq.—Also, at her plantation, C. C.
Panfh, Mrs. Sarah Rutledgi, aged 68.
The length of the Report in thii day's Gazette, has excluded futtiry
articles which would otherwise have appeared.
*»* In the middle column, third page of our la/1, for "a nconjliiu
tiosal," read " constitutional."
CdT By the Pofil-OJficc A3, after the firjl of June next, newspapers
Jent by the mail are fubjetl to poftagc of one' cent each paper, far
100 miles carriage, or lefs—andfor all difiances more than an hundred
miles, one cent arid an half each paper. The pofiageto be paidby the
Subscribers, at the office where the papers are delivered. As it
is optional with Subscribers to receive their papers through the medium
of the Pojl ■ Ojjice, or to contraS with the Stage Proprietors, the patrons
of this Gazette, within a short diflance of this city, may find it advan.
tagcous to adopt the latter mode.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 2 ,/g
3 P" Cents, - . . 12 /g
Deterred, - * . , ~/•
Indents, - . . JB y
Final Settlements, - _ 18/6
Half [hares Bank U. S. 44 per cent, premium
shares Bank North-America, ditto
Bank of the United States,
MAY 8, 1792.
T) 'SOLVED, That the specie proportion of the third pay-
XV meat due on the firft Monday of July next, on each share of
the Bank of the United States, may be made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of dlfcount and deposit; and that transfers of
public debt on account of luch payment, mav be made on the
books of the Treasury of the United States, or in the office of apy
of the Commimoners of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in the office in which the specie
proportion of (uch payment (hall be made.
Resolved, That the transfer books be doled fourteen days pre.
viotu to the firft days of July and January of each year.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby art, jii
thorifed to coin pleat their biiarcs by payment at any tune
before the periods required by tbc law of uicorpoi atiou.
Kefolvcd, Tnat each Share so compieated, lhall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the BaiiK,fiom atiri jfter the firft
day of the month next fuceeedicg the day of complealiii}; such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's intercflupon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as shall
have accrued before the firft day of the month next fucceedmg the
completion of such Share, shall be ieceivcd by the Bank, and paid
to the persons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By order of the Prcfident aud Directors,
'eDttftj) JOHN KEAX. C.ajhicr.
At A MILTING OK THE DIRICTORS Oh THE iJ.VJiK, Ob
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Office* of Discount auo Dcpofit be
juihonfcd to receive ot Stockholders the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments 011 their Shares in the Capital Stock of the Bank, and
that the Calhieis of the said offices give duplicate reeeipis for <uch
payments, one of which receipts, accompanied with evidence of a
transfer of public debt fufficient to complete said shares, upon be
mq produced at the Bank, shall entitle such Stockholders to cer
tificates for full (hares, and t<» all (he benefits of the Resolutions
of the Board ot Directors palfed the 2lit inftdnt, relative to com
pleting fiiares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the Prcfident and f)ire£tors.
JOHN KEAN, Cajhur.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
STATE-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and r# II every kind ot ihc Stocks of the United States, on
Com million, by Pi vate Contract, and Public A»»&ion.—
Those geiulcnun who may be pleased to favor them witn their
commands, mav rely on fidelity, secrecy and difpatcn.
Boflon. March, 1792. (iawgm)
GEORGETOWN (POTOWMAC.)
THE SUBSCRIBER HATH OPENED A
House of Entertainment,
At the Sigft of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES,
In that commodious House lately occupied by Thomas Bcalc, Esq.
Mayor of this Town.
He has furnilhed himfelf with a stock of the best Liquors, and
will ufc every exertion 10 give fatisbftion by procuring, in their
season, the best of every species of provision, and having the lame
served up in the mod neat ana elegant manner.
[lawiftjul.] GEORGE H. LEIGH.
To the Militia of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia and
Northern Liberties, and the Diftri&s of Moyaroenfing and
PalTyunk.
THAT they arc to meet and exercise in Battalion, under their
refpeflive Officers, on the lollowifcg days, commcncing the
lit ft Monday in May :
The Artillerv, and Fiift Battalion, on the 7th day of May,
Second Battalion, on the 8:h do.
Thiid Battalion, on the 9th do.
Fourth Battalion, on the 10th do.
Fifth Bettalion, on the 1 ith do.
Sixth Battalion, on the 14th do.
Seventh Battalion, on the 15th do.
THOMAS PROCTER,
Lieutenant of the City and Liberties of Philadelphia,
'pfefent 'Officers commanding 'Battalions, anil the
Olficeu of fhefeveralCnttipanies, aie to perkjrm their duties re.
(yeflvvely o» ahoye field d^yt-
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Grezt Dock-llreet, Nlw-York,
THE Subfcrifccr intending to confine himfelf entirely to the
PURCHASE and SALE OF STOCKS ON COMMISSION,
Begs leave to offer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please to favor him with
their business, may depend upon having it tranfafted with the ut
most fidelity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other part of the
United States will be ftri&ly attended to.
LEONARD' BLEECKER.
(uo
May 2
Apri l 27, 1792,
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any lime between this date and the firft day of July ensuing,
A very valuable FARM,
PLEASANTLY finis ted, and bounded 01) the Ealt by the river
Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
■watered in a dry time ; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be inade
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland fays in the
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marfii, from which (by an easy
al'cent to the cleared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate expence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water rnns through this trail, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net and
hook ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good manfion-houfc, gar.
den, and neceflary out-buildings; an orchard of ihe best kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherry trees, bearing; > crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Apply to Dr.
John Gibbons, in Arch-llreet, Philadelphia; Mr. Henry
Waterman, at the Walbingion, on the B.iftol road; or 10
Mr. Joseph Bald win, at Nefhamany Ferry, or Mr. Bar net
Du ree n , fame place, Bucks County. The puichafcr, paying one
third of the price down, may have a term of years to pay the ic
fidue, paving iniereft. Mav 5. (ep.if)
THE Editor ofthe Gazette of the Unite* Siaiis, mojl
earne/lly rcejuejls that thsfe of 4ii fubfriiers, wkofe arrearages have
been accumulating far more than twelve months, would make payment as
scon as pof/ible—at farthejl, lejore the frfl Jay oj 'June next.
Those persons whofhall be disposed to patronize this Gaz&tte after
the Pod-Office livjha.llgo into operation, will pleaje tofignity their
intention to the Deputy Post-Masters in the United States, who are
re que fled tojorwtrdjuchfuffcriplions as may be received, to die Editor,
previous to the faidjirjl cj June. The terms offubfiripr.on ue
Three Dollars per annum, excUfite of ptflage-Onehalf to-be paid at
the time of/Jfcribing, the other half to be advanced at the expiration of
the frjl fix months.
J3T WAWTtD, the ttrft Volume of the Gazitti of the
V w, jMf $ TAT * i-! - for Vhich'Six Dollars will be paid bv
the EblYvr. r
Lieu ienan r'i-Office, April 17, 1792.
NOTIFICATION.
ADVERTISEMENT.
£3" TO comprize in the present volume of this Gazette uii the
Law* zvhich arc and may be enafled by Congress in the prefeutfeffion y
,t will be necejfury to extend the numbers to the lafl of May. Ike fourth
volume, therefore, will commence with the beginning of June— and will
be printed on paper of larger dunetfons than the prefenty provided the
Editor's receipts of arrearages fkaH enable him to do it—the price to con
tinue at Three Dollars per annum.
Three years are nearly expired since this publication firjl made its ap
pearance; during which, fcarce/y a f ln S^ c has occurred of re
mijfnefs in punctually dispatching the papers from the Printing-Office
their failures in reaching the fubferibers, have been otoiug to causes
which were entirely beyond the contreul of the publisher. Under the
new regulations of the Pofl-Offite Department, the Subfctibers for the
Gazette oj the United States may therefore pr omife thernjel us
the advantage of the JlrUleJl punduality on the part oj the Editor—
which, aided by that energy we have the greatejl reason to expeel will
diflingufh the fuperintendance of the Gentleman now at the head of the
Pojl-Ojficc Department, will ensure aJleady transmission of Meafpapers
to all parts of the Union.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, March 31, 1 792.
NOTICE is -hereby given, That the intercit tor the quarter,
ending this dav,onthe FUNDED DEBT ot the United Stoics.
Handing on the books of the Treasury, and of the Commiflioner of
Loans for this State, will be paid at the Bank of the United States.
TO BE SOLD,
THAT larse, elegant and convenient HOUSE, in which the
subscriber now lives, (ituate in Eli2abeth-Town, in the ftjte
ot New-Jertey, within 16 miles of the city of New-York. It is
fioiihed in the very best manner, and peculiarly convenient for a
gentleman with a large family. The Lot contains about tour
acres of land—the Garden is large, well la?d out, and stocked
with a good assortment of fruit. for further particulars, enquire
of Wi 111 am Br ao for n,Efq. in Philadelphia, John Pi nt ar d,
Esq. in New-York, or the Subfcnber, on the Prcmif s.
Mav 2. 1 7Q2,
(iaw3w)
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY VIRTUE of an order from John Holmes, Edmund
Weatherby and Benjamin Holmes, Efqrs. Judgrsof
the Court of Common Pleas tor the County of Salem, directing
us to make Sale of so much ot the Lands of Ben j ami n Cripps,
in the Township ot Manington, in the County of Salem aforefaid,
as will defray the expenccs attending the division or paitition of
Lands held in common between Abraham Hew ling and the
aforefaid Benjamin Cripps, agreeably to an ast of Assembly, See.
In pursuance of the above order, will be Sold by public Vendue,
atra&or piece of Land (or as much thereof as will defray the
above expeoces) being part of the above, (ituate and bounded by
Lands of Job Shreeve, the aforefaid Abraham Hewlings, and
others, on seventh day 26th of May next, 1792. —At the house
of Henry Sparks, Inn-keeper in Salem aforefaid—by
WILLIAM GOODWIN,)
JOHN WISTAR and C Commiffioncrs.
THOMAS CLEMENT,
20th Aprils 1792,
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £ . for the purpose of repairing ehe
Protcftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an a£k of the Legifiature of the State of New-Jersey,
paffcd November 179-1.
SCHEME.
1 Prize of 2000 Dollars is
1 i
1
2
5
10
3°
9°
1675
1814 prizes.
3520 Blanks.
«533t Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dol's.
(£3* This Lottery is compofcd of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery vet
offered to the public—and it being ol such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the moll
liberal support.
The drawing will positively comnyrnce on the second Monday
in July, or fooncr if the Tickets are disposed of, in the citv of
New-Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city r*t Am
boy ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufacturing Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets 10 be had ot the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given fccurity for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he publiftied, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
lOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENOW > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
N. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be con&dered as a generous
donation to the Church.
*** Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all thple who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters duel
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Postmaster, at New-Hrunlwick,
*nd enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
Ncw-Brunfwick, April 50, 1792.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Bookseller,
At the Stone House in Second-Street,
The First Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONSs
Confiding of state pafers, and other authentic documents,
intended as materials for an History ef the United States
of America,
By EBEXEZER HAZARD, A. M.
Member of the American Philosophical Society, held at Philadel
phia for promoting ufeful knowledge ; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The deGgn of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular ferie.s of the inoft important and authentic documents re
lating to the history of America, from its discovery by Columbus
to ihe present time, it mult be peculiary interesting toaiiwhow.ih
to acquire a thorough knowledge of this fubjett,
jlprii 4
436
ELIAS BOUDtN'OT.
2 COO
1000
io«o
1000
IGCO
5 00
£CO
100
20
4
1000
j 500
j 8c o
6700
16000
Farms 6c Mills for Sale & Leaf-
TO BE SO L D,
A VALUABLE FARM, fir uate on the Turnpike Road lead
ing from Baltimore-Town 10 Rulei VTown, about 6 1 mile
from the former ; containing about 430 o/ ±ao acres o; good
(aiming sand, 70 or 8J acres of which aie excellent grass ground
about 170 are cleared, upward* of twenty whereof die rr. •
meadow; the re&dite abounding in good umber, and other tre
for encloiure and luel : There are two apple-urcha'ds ihcrror
and buildings. that may do, for the picfen;, (or an Ovciictr u 1
his family.
Also. a Tract of LAND, containing *botit acre . wiibt
two miics of the fame road, and about 18 or vo miles diitaut froi
Baltimore-Town ; about 700 acres wheteof are cleated well
closed and unpioved by cultuie and with valuable ouildin j fun,
excellent meadow, near 20 acres, made.
Alio, a finall FARM, oil » poblicToad lradir>» to (aid towr,
about ilie fame distance thereliom as the last defcribrd laud ; tol .j
taining 103 acres, whereon is aa excellent •pplc-oickud, Uu u'.j
improvements of much valu\
The two firlt above-mentioned Farms are fumiflied with {]. ;
stock of each kind, and all neceflary implements of hulbj.id"
vhich may be had with them ; they are sown with wheat, whu
promises an abundant crop;—the bulincf* of the Ult ol the 1,
has been, for nine years, and is now, conducted bv a lk.;i lulu,.
duftrious Manager, who may be continued iu the i.-una 'cincut
on terms.
A FARM, on the said Turnpike Road, leading from Rifter's
Town .to Wnichefter, Taney-Town, Frederick,and Hager'jTown
whereon is ertrflcd a larje commodious brick house, that ha, Been
used for some yevs palt as a tavern, and, by a tenant qualified tor
that bnfinefs, could be made an excellent ltaj<e ; within a lew
rods of which, and on the main F lis of Petaplco, is jlfo cicctcl
a GRIST-MILL, now in good order for Merchant-Work, witha
new SAW-MILL, and Land therewith
For the title and terms of falc, and the lease, of all or any pat;
of the above valuable prop;rty, apply to
Baltimore Conntv, March 7, 17q2,
BLOOMSBURY,
THAT elegant SEA T at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
ot Trenton, in New- Jerfcy, occupied for many years pall by
the fubferiber; containing upwards of 200 acres oi Und, besides
a traffc of wood-land of about 185 acrcs. at the diitanre of two
miles. The farm js divided by the main ilreci leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two paris r nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly pa t being arable lane, 1* laid
off in convenient fields, and in good farming order. The other
part, bounded by the (aid itreet oft theealt, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined eft.'£tef fctu
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one ot the molt
beautiful and delirable feats in the Hate. The manfior.-hoTife is 4
liandfome, well-fmifhcd brick building, £0 by 40, containing four
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellats, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extenfjve and pleafmg view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including ine falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both (ides of the river. Among the our-buildingSarc a new (Ion;
coach-house and ftablrs, fufScient to contain fix carriages and ten
horses, accommodated with a cutting anrd feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining these is a very complete granary,
rat proof, and a ftonc cow-houle, upwards of i©o feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft loi
hay, &c. Adjoining the court-yard o! the manfion-houle, is a gar
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the higbcll
state of culture, aud abounding with a rich colle&ioa of the
choicest fruits of almost every kind, and several large asparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance from the mar
fion-houfe, and nearly in the centre of the fquarr, is a new, well
buiU, llone fartr.-boufie, accommodated with a largecheefc-room,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
refTary out-building. The ground is properly divided into Jmall
fields, all well watered, highly irripioved, and thuflv under the
most approved grass. Th<s fq»iare has produced annually, for se
veral years part, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, beudefc
fupportiog through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. Ttie river abounds, in the proper feafoos,
with great plenty of all kinds of filh usually found in trefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of whicu
may afford 'a pleasing amusement to the fponfman, as well ?s a
convenient *ddit-ion to the elegance and variety of hi* tablr. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by ijood fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar pofls.
and rails of chefnut aud white cedar. The purchaser may have
the improved fqware separately, or thr whole together, as may
best suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ing flone on the river shore. The purchase money, if welrfecured,
and the interest punctually paid, will not be demanded foi nuay
years.
4w.ep.
Any pei son desirous of viewing the piemifes, may be gratified
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Kfq. of Trenton,
or Mr. Inallman, who at pre fen t occupies the iatm-houleand
part of the lanci—and may know the price on application 10 the
fuWcnber, at No. 213, South Second-lireet, oppofur to the Xev-
Ma-krr, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
FO-R PUBLISHING 8Y SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Comtnon wealth of
A
SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
o R,
THE YOUNG ARTILLERIST'S POCKET WMPANIO.V.
I N TH KEE FAR TS.
Part \ /CONTAINING the duty and practice of light field
artillery.
Part 2. Containing the theory and pra&ice of heavy artillery.
to which will be added, an extra& of a Treatise on the OT 'K ,n an
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer id
Che linr, and who did duty as Judge-Advocate in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ;containing a great variety of dire 10ns
for coinpofuion, and the method of making artist ial fire-wor
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds 0 o*
nance. \
By WILLIAM STEVENS, Ffy.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole ot tr*
late revolution, and since in the Milifla.
CONDITIONS.
This work to be printed 011 good paper with a handfo»etype,
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, fcontain n
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated. with a grea» sai
ot explanatory plates, executed bv able artists.
The prrce to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume—to non- -
fcribers, One French Crown each volume : and thufe *ho cr
tor fix setts, (ball have a feventh^r^Z/j.
This stork fhali be publi/hcd as soon as five hundred copies
fubfenbed for. .1 o T nfeis
Subicription papers will be lodged with the princip '
and Book feller* in the United States of America.
(ep.tro)
TO BE LET,
THOMAS ]ON£g.
m
FOR SALE,
PROPOSALS