A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND "-"- 1 =
' <I)A\5 BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34. NOP I H FIFTH-ti/HEEI, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 58 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, De
BY THE
PRESIDENT »f the United States
if AMEKIC*.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS I have received authentic
information, that certain lawless and
wicked persons, of the weftcrn frontier, in the
state of Georgia, did lately invade, burn and
a to-wn belonging to the Cherokee
nation, altho' in amity with the United States,
and pat to death several Indians of that natior;
and whereas fiich outrageous conduct not only
violates the rights of humanity, but also en
dangers tn« public peace 1 ; and It highly be
comes the honor and good faith of the United
States, to purfueall legal meansfor the punish
ment of attrocious otfenders ; —I have there
fore thought fit to iiTue this my proclama
tion, hereby exhorting all the citizens of
the United States, and requiring all the offi
cers thereof, according to their refpeftive sta
tions, to us« their utmost endeavors, to appre
hend and bring those offenders to juiticc. And
I do moreover offer a reward of Five Hundred
Dollars,for each and every of*the above-named
persons who shall be so apprehended and bro't
to justice, and shall be proved to have afTumed
orexerciled any command or authority among
the perpetrators of the crimes aforefaid, at the
time of committing the fame.
Id tefcimony whereof I have caused the seal
of the United States to be afiixed tothefe
presents, and signed the fame with my
hand. I>onc at the city of Philadelphia,
the twelfth day of December, in the year
of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, and of the Independence
of t»ie United Stvtc3 the Seventeenth.
G. WASHINGTON.
By the President,
Th. Jefferson.
Foreign Affairs.
P A ft I S, Sept. 13
PROCELDINCS OF THE JACOBIN CLUB„
MLe Moine, who was com
. miifioned at the last lilting to
present the plan of a circular letter,
to be traniinitted to all the allociated
societies, in order to make theni
-acquainted with the reason of the
ablolute suspension of the correl
pondence of the societies, commu
nicated the following address, which
it was immediately agreed {hould
be printed, and sent to the allocia
led societies :
" >The Motlier Society has been
obliged to interrupt its coi refpon
deuce since tlie jotli of Augult, not
because it considered that day as
butting an end to plots and intrigues,
but because many of its members
were honored with the public con
fidence, and admitted to places in
the provilionary adminiltrations,
juries, &c. The society, however,
become a lirtle more numerous, is
desirous of renewing an atftive cor
respondence with its brethren in
the departments, pei fuaded that the
present circumstances require more
than ever the molt fraternal com
munication between patriotic foci-
cues.
Since the 10th of August the con
spirators haveexpiated their ciitnes;
the public fpiric has prevailed ; and
the sovereign people recoveiing
their rights, have at length tri
umphed ovet villains leagued toge
ther again'ft their happiness and li
berty. The inhabitants of Paris,
however, have been sensible of the
lieceffity of continuing on their
of keeping flridt watch
over the agents and supporters
«>f the con (piracy of that traitor,
Louis the iaji ! Let us never cease to
dread, friends and brethren, that
new intrigues may fncceed to thole
already tendered abortive. The
"hits, the niufe, and tht fretencf oj
machinations ftitl breathe*! Defpo'ifm
growjs in darkness. Let us Hand
up ready to give i': a deadly blow,
under whatever form it may appear.
" The grand interests of the peer
pie are going to be difcuHed in the
National Convention. Let us not
lole a Tingle moment to
and let it hear the national wifti,
which ought alone to di'rtlt its ac
tions. Let us above all prevent, by
firm meafurcs, the danger of feeing
these new Legislators Oppolo, with
impunity, tlieir interests, or private
withes, to the sovereign will of the
nation. Let inviolability in future
be attached to nothlngbut the law ;
let all the municipal magifttates fee
pntiifhinent placed by the fide of
criroe%. Hetnjmber how final! is
the 11 timber of thofeLegiflators who
have refilled corruption.—vc-y *ev»
indeed can be found in each Legis
lature. Let us be inspired then
with the spirit of the electoral body
of Paris. They alone can save us
from all kinds of despotism, and
from dangers and convulsions too
much prolonged, &c.
" The decrees of that body ex
press, ' That a scrutiny shall be
made of the National Convention,
for the purpose of expelling from
its bosom such fufpetfted members at
may, in their noniination, have es
caped the sagacity of the Primary
Afl'eniblies.
" That all Deputies chosen to the
National Convention, who may have
attacked, or fliall attack, the fi>ver
eignty of the people, shall be de
clared incapable of fitting.
" That all constitutional decrees,
pafled by the National Aflenibly,
shall be lancftioned or revised by the
pebple
" That Royalty fliall be abfolut*-
y al>o 1 i/hc-tt, and (lie punishment of
leath inflkted 011 those Who may
>ro'pofe the re-e(tabliftiment of it.
' That the form of government
/hall be republican.'
" These, friends and brethren,
are the important objetfs which the
electors, the community, and the
prirrtaiy afletnblles of Paris, iVtvite
you to discuss fully, in order that
you may strengthen and support the
National Convention *»ith your
vvilhes refpe&ing them."
Oct OB F R I
The Minifler for Foreign Affairs
informed the Convention, that
the King of Pruflia proposed condi
tions of Peace to the northern and
central Generals ; but the Council
answered, that the Nation would
not listen to his propositions as long
as his ariny was in the country.
M. Equality (the late M. Orleans)
confirmed this intelligence.
The Minister at War communi
cated tothe Convention a letter from
General Moreton. " A strong de
tachmeiH appeared on the 27th be
fore St. Amand. After a vigorous
defence of three hours, the enemy
retired, leaving behind them 40
killed, and taking away a great
number of wounded. On our fide
there were only four killed, and fif
teen wounded, rheindifciplixie of
our troops, who shewed the great eft
courage, \yss the cause that we Jolt
the fruits of this expedition."
POLAND
The fentiinein of liberty is felt
once more ; and the despotism of
Russia unveils its terrors and weak
ness, by the very pains it takes 10
ettablilli its power. The general
confederacy of Poland, united to
that of Lithuania, deltroys, under
the protection of the Ruffian soldi
ers, ilie many jnftiiutions created
by the revolution of the thiid of
May ; removes from every charge
thole who were devoted to thefren
douiofthi.il- country i teieives, or
229
L MJJ Ell 19, Ijy 2.
..uicr forces rhe adhefionsof all the
Palatinates to the new order <if"
things, and binds 1 lie Poles by oath
to relpetl their bondage, and never
lo flwke oft the yoke. The armies
WPoland are to be commanded by
Radian officers. No Pule can tra
vel K present without a paHport,
fignetl by rhe Minister of Kuifia.
All tliofe who fought gloriously for
the canfe of liberty, and who would
fain die in its defence, the Maifhul
Malachowfki, the Prince Jofcph Po
niatovvfki, are delivered over into
the hands of justice, if justice can
rcfide at tribunals created by the
general Confederacy, where 110 law
will be heard but the vengeance and
resentment of Catharine the Second.
In fine, as the moment approaches
for the opening of the Diet, the
i'.i'li-n foqw svrive f every
quarter. It is amidfi the bayonets
of the northern hirelings that Ca
tharine pretends to iflue out the
free will of the Ilepublicof Poland :
and Stnniflaus Auguftus,the pretend
ed King of this pretended Repub
lic, consents to live on a throne
which exposes his fhameful life to
the eyes ef Europe.— dictated
t» him the atft of his fubirnflion, and
bis eternal degradation in the rnoft
abject terms ; and he signed it as it
was presented to him.
October 3
fa it becomes every day more
difficult to guard the prisoners in
the Temple, on account of the
nieafures which they concert toge
ther, and as the rel'ponfibility of
tVe council-general of the com
mons, renders it neceflary for them
to prevent them from escaping, they
have pa(Ted the following decreesT
I. That Louis and Antoinette lhall
be confined apart.
11. That each priloner (hall have
a separate apartment.
111. That their valet de chambre
/hall be arretted.
IV. That the citizen Herbert iliall
be added t;o the five comuiiflioueis
already appointed.
V. The coinmiffioners are author
ized to put in force the decree of
heptehiber 29, and to deprive them
of their silver plate and tableequip
age ; and, in a word, to lake f'ucli
steps as they may think proper, to
prefervje. th.efe hostages of the con
i'pirMf of tyrants combined againlt
the liberty of the republic.
Tfe* King of Spain has lately pub
lished HQ ordinance, ftri&ly forbid
ding the circulation in his kingdom
of all books speaking of the revolu
lion of France ; as well as fans, rib
bons, handkerchiefs, &(c. that may
contain any allusion to it.
Proclamation of a Covncil of War,he!d
at Li/2:, the I 2th of September, I 792,
at unci, ths fir ft year of French li-
berty
" Citizens ! Our enemies def
paiting to take the fortrefs by rules
of at t, menace you in order to ob
tain that end, by a bombardment.
Citizens ! be calm ; remember your
oaths ; be allured, that government
will indemnify you for voor lodes,
and our enemies will prove, that it
is without luccefs they attack a free
people.
By order of the Council of War,
POISSONIER, Sec'ry."
From a Belfafl Pap:r, of Otiober 10
FRANCE
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
October I .
A tetter from the Minjfter for Foreign
Affairs, to the National Convention.
" Citizen Prefidenr, 1 announced
to the National Convention that o
\ei tures for a negotiation had been
made in tliff name of the King of
Prutfia to Gen. Dumourier. I men
'ioned n
e fame rime the decilit n
ol ing Executive Fovcr, which, or
deied the Generals not io listen to
the piopofals until tiie armies of
defpoti had fir ft evacuated the land
of liberty. J'he propuf.ili of the
King ot I'niilia were however re
markable, as they contained a pre
cise acknowldgement of [he nation
al authority, and of the quality of
representative of the nation in ex
ternal relations which had been at
tached formal!} to the political ex
igence of the conUitntiotial King.
Another acknowledgment, no leis
remarkable, was, that the ancient
order of things, destroyed by the
will of the nation lince 1789, was
contrary to the happiuefs of the
people.
" Such an unexpected acknow
ledge-cut ,fpo<tt a neocfly made,with
out any previous negotiation,might
incline us 10 think [hat tlie enemies
armies are in the greatelt dillreTs.
There are, however, other motives
equally prefling, which make thetn
think of peace, a kind of truce was
agreed upon, Gen. Dumourier took
advantage of it, to collecl, and pro
perly dilpofe, (he different bodies
which weie to be joined to his ar
my. He made in quietness, and
with silence, all those movements
which were necedary to give him
a fupei iority, by his situation, and
t<J confine the enemy in theirs.
While he was thus preparing for
his military plans, frequent coin nu>-
nications, that could not but be ad
vantageous to liberty,were establish
ed between the two armies. Gen.
Dumoaiier embraced this opportu
nity of exchanging prifonets of war.
The cartel agreed upon with the
Prufiian Generals was formed ac
cording to the laws decreed by ihe
National Assembly. The emigrant
prisoners were not included in it,
and the Duke of Brunfwick did not
even persist in a remonftrance,which
he had made in their favor.
" A conference on this occasion
look place between the Duke of
Brunfwick, Count de Luchefioi, mS
nilter of the King of Pt-uffia, and
Lieut. Col. Adj. Gen. Thouvenot,
who was charged with conducting
the exchange of pril'oners. In this
conference, the Duke of Brunfwick
exprefled hinifelf almost in the fol
lowing terms :—
" Our nations are nor formed to
be enemies : might not Pome mean*
he deviled for accommodating mat
ters in an amicable manner ? We
are in your country, it is desolated
by the inevitable misfortunes of
war ; we know that we have no
right to prevent a nation from giv
ing itfelf laws, and from tracing
out its internal government —We do
*iot wifti it—we are only interested
for the fate of the Kinp. Afliiie
us, that a place will be afligned to
him, in the new order of things,
under any denomination whatever,
a nd his Majesty, the King of Prussia,
w ill return to bis own itatcs, and
|, e coine your ally."
" The moderation of lan
guage, from a man who signed the
nianifeftoes already publiflied, and
to which the contempt of
nation has done ample
appear surprising. .i'-f
it I I /' » ' r 1 "
" Lieut. Col. Thouvenot replied,
' that the will of the French, re
public would not yield to any fo
reign influence, and that the repre
sentatives of the nation, to whom
the valuable deposit of its honor and
gloiy was particularly entrufled,
would continually persist in main
taining decrees which had been
fan Aliened by general opinion."
" The Duke of Brunlwick ter
minated the conference, by faying
that he would uallium 10 General
Paris, Oft. i.
No.
5 ° '
' „Dnmotuierameiiioii.il on the fob
jeit. This memorial is a third man
ifefto, worthy in every thing ot
the two forme'". Gen. Duuiourier
received it with indignation, in
which we (hare, and which int.il al
so be excited in the National Con
vention, and in all France.
<f It was immediately announced
that the truce was broken, and let
ters from the General, wiitten in a
stile fui: ed to a sn-n lionorc ' h the
noble employment of coi'd. ting
Frenchmen to liberty, \ ocw«f."
answer frOtn the King Proffia s
aid-du-camp, dating, ttt.<t the in
tentions of the King and of 11-c
Duke of Bi un(wick had been niif
linderilood ; that a new conference
was demanded ; and that tlie royal
and Imperial armies would not be
the firft to break the truce. Gen.
Duuiourier refufed to confeiu to
any new conference, or any delay
in the operations of the campaign
unlels the memorial of the Duke of
Brunfwick fliould be fir ft annulled.
Such is the atftua! state of things !
What palled during that circum
stance, will Ihew the French nation
in that refpedtable point of view
which belongs to it. All our pro
ceedings have been marked with
candor and firnniefs. We have a
bandoned llratagem and weaknels
to our enemies, and all Europe mult
perceive in our condbdt, a people,
who set a just value on peace, but
\vho are not afraid of war.
(Signed)
After reading the above detail,
M. Brillot then read the memori
al of the Duke of Brunfwick, which
runs in a similar strain with his two
former manifeltoes. The reading
of it was frequently interrupted
with murmurs, and when thai part
was read, which infills on the Ime
lioration of Louis XVI. to the Roy
al Dignity, the Afl'embly built into
a fit of laughter.— M. Briflot re
fuelled the lilence of pity.
Lettsr ft otii the Commijfionei s ftnt to
Chalous.
" Saint Menehould, Sept. 30, at
nine in the evening, &c. &c.
" In our last letter we gave you
an account of onr arrival at the ar
my of Gen. Dumourier, and of the
effect produced on it by a notificati
on of the wife decrees which you
have already pitied. We now an
nounce to you that we have jult re
ceived intelligence, that the King
of Prussia has raised the camp which
he had about a league from us ;
from the position in which it was,
General Dumourier forefaw, that
the enemy could not long keep their
itation in the mid 11 of the desert
plains of Chaiupaigue, and without
having any communication through
which they could receive convoys
but towards Grand Pre.
" Some days ago General Dumou
rier dispatched Gen. Buernonville
with a body of I 3,000 men, to inter
cept this communication, and that
general, diltinguifhed for his acti
vity, zeal and ability, succeeded in
getting podellion of several consi
derable convoys. He likewise took
more than 100 prisoners, who ar
rived fuccelfively in the course of
the day. All accounts agree in cer
tifying the extremediftrefs to which
the army of the enemy is reduced ;
and General Dumourier formed a
very juit idea of their situation,
when he informed you that they
could not remain long in it.
" It can scarcely be believed that
experienced generals should have
penetrated intothe defarts of Cham •
paigne, had they not entertained a
vain hope that they should be fe
cotided in their operations by a cri
minal correspondence with themal
litems ; but the inemornble day
: dP'tttC 1 o;h has proved, that the
French, while they combat for li
berty,will pei ifli rather than con
sent to any capitulation. The ge
neral, daily informed of details
Which proved their diilrefs, proper
ly judged that by preserving their
situation, they would deftrny theef
feft of any movements which they
might attempt. This anny, f<» for
midable, is reduced one half by its
lick, whom they were obliged to
fend away to Grand Pre. his well
known that there is a general hof
pttal in than town, in which there
is more than 8000. Had General
Dumourier abandoned his position,
and advanced towards Chalons o;
Khelms, they would infallibly have
taken advantage of his movement,
not to attack us, but to pass through
the defile, and to eltablilli canton
ments for the purpose ofpaffing the
winter in one of the moil -fertile
countries. His constant pei Sever
ance lu.s obliged them, 1a It night,
to make a movement entirely 011->
traiy to that which he expected.
" Vhcy have quitted their per?-,'
and the communication between
Chalonsand Saint Menehoiib is now
1 e-e(tabli(hed, which gives the
French army 15 hours for the arri
val of convoys and provisions. Ar
dour and fat isfadtion prevail among
our troops, and our (ituation was
never so advantageous as at present.
The firft movement which the ene
my made indicates that they wifti
to retire through the difiles of
Grand Pre, the only pallnge which
remains to them.
" We shall not enter intoaiiy de
tails of the future plans of Gen.
Dumourier, but we think it our du
ty to inform you, that the utmolt
confidence ought to be reposed itv
him ; that the people of Paris need
be in 110 uneafinefe, and that we
hope in our next to give you ftili
more fatisfatftory intelligence. Peo
ple ought not, however, to exult in
that success which the fate of war
may reverie ; but we are able at
present to give hopes, which result
from the certain distress of our ene
my, and the diseases by which they
are weakened ; from the excellent
condition of our troops, and from
the ardor which they shew to com
bat those tyrants, who wifli to itn
pofe laws upen them, as well as from
the confidence which they have in
their General.
LEBRUN."
" P. S. It wasby mistake that we da
ted our last on the 30th ; the true
date was the 29th, at seven in the
morning. This moment we have
received a letter from General Beurr
nonville, announcing that lince yes*
terday he has ra ken 200 prisoners,
24 waggons loaded with doaths for
the troops, 800 liorfes, and five Emi
grants of the King's household. By
a second note we are informed that
he has killed 27 huflai s with a Prus
sian Commander. The National
Convention will learn these details
with fatisfatftion."
A copy of the letter from General
Dumourier to the King of Pruflia
was then read. In this letter the
General informed his Prussian Ma
jesty, that the manifeftos of tfie
Duke of Brunfwick had been treat
ed with sovereign contempt by the
whole French nation, and that it
was not by threats that a free peo
ple could be conquered. Hfi then
represented to him tb# ath'ttiltages
which would result to both nations
by an alliance of which they were
both worthy, and reqneftecl him in
the name of his own gfory and in
terest, and in tliofe of his ai my to
abandon the caule of the
Emigrants.
Tlie reading of this letter was
frequently interrupted by applau
fcs.
The Minirter for Foreign Affairs
tranfinitted to the Convention a lilt
of those amball'adors and Envoys
who had taken the new oath. The
ambaflador at the court of Denmark
had not only refilled to take it, hut
had written 10 Louis Stanislaus Xa
vier that he would receive no or
ders but from him, whom he conli
dered as the only lawful King of
F ranee.
We learn by an arrival at New-
Bedford, that the siege of Thion
ville was railed bv the Anftrians.—
That the Duke of Brunfwick had
for foine time been stationary at
Chalons, in Chainpaigne ; that it
was the public femiment at Dun
kirk, that General Fayette, in his
flight, had betrayed the cause he
had engaged to iupport ; and that
there did not appear in the French
" CARRA,
" SELLERY,
" BRIEUIl."
(Signed)
Domestic Articles.
BOSTON, Dec. j,
230
Republicans/ of fear of
their invading enenueSr-
A curi efpondent lays—the r«iuf:u
of the House of Reprefematives of
the United States, to admit the Se
cretary of War io b£ heard on the
floor, 011 the lubje.it of the failure
of Gen. St. Claii's expedition, is one
of tliofe traits of jealousy and ful'pi
cion, which though it has a praile
worthy appearance in the theory of
government, is nevertheless, \n prac
tice attended by the nioft flag.ant
ifijuftice ; and evidence* a want of
finnnefs unworthy the rnenibeis of
ai independent Republican Legifla-
ture.
We are informed, that at a late
meeting ot the /Agricultural Society ,
in this lown, a very considerable
lum of money was fubferibed, for
eftablilhing a fund to defray the ex
pence of premiums and bounties
which may be voted by the society.
The Hon. Thomas Russell, on
this occtifion, fubferibed One T'iou
rand Dollars. An instance of patri
otism we deem highly worthy re
cording.
In some of the papers, a doubt
has been fuggelted, ofthe choice of
the Hon. Th kodore SEDGwicK.as
Representative in Congress, from
the county of Berkshire—We have
now the pleasure to atfure the pub
lic, that he is elected j and by a
considerable majority.
tribute of gratitude.
George Whytock, commander of
the (hip Rodney, of London, which
failed from Bolton, oil Thursday the
22d of November, and unfortunate
ly was (hipwrecked on Duxborough
beach, the Sunday morning follow
ing, in the severe snow ftorni, takes
this public method lo return his
mod grateful thanks to the benevo
lent people of Duxborough, Marfli
field, and their vicinities, for their
humane, spirited and generous ex
ertions, in affording him and his
crew their alliltance, in their dif
trefling calamity. To all this tri
bute is sincerely proffered, and par
ticularly to Captain Samuel Debo
na, of Duxborough, for his Angular
ly benevolent, noble and spirited
exertions, who at the rilk of his own
life, ventured into the boisterous
waves, and providentially reached
the wreck, for the kind purpose of
preventing the fufferers attempting
to land in their then situation, but
t» wait until the tide would admit
of their getting fafe'y on (liore, and
to inspire into their almost exhault
ed spirits every pofiible degree of
fortitude, with the afl'urance of a
ready afliftance as fooil as it was pos
sible for help to reach them from
the beach.
(Signed) George Whytock.
for himfelf,family,and fliip's com
pany.
A correspondent aflures lis, that
the Maflachufetts Charitable Socie
tyvat iheir quarterly meeting Ja (I
Monday evening, uiiQniinoufly voted
a blanket for each prisoner now con
fined in Bolton gaol, and as much
fuel as will be necefl'ary to keep
them comfortable during the incle
mency of the season.
NEWPORT, (R. 1.) Dec. 3
Extrutts of Letters from France to a
Gentleman in thh town
" 061 3- Ac present we are at
tacked by molt part of Europe, tlity
have gained little or no advantage
of us yet, and what they do not ef
fect in two months cannot be done
afterwards, as our troops are col
let'ting fait since we have ailuined a
republican form of government.
" We have at present a large bo
dy of troops in aefhial service, and
in a very short time shall have
500,000 men in pay—and they have
in several inftancesaifted with great
spirit."
" Oil. 5. It is this clay reported,
that the king of Prnllia offers to
treat with us and return home ; but
no terms will be acceptid until he
leaves the kingdom."
Tran/lation jrom the Gazette Nation-
tile, printed at Paris, Sept. 27
" The Generals of the Northern
and Centre Armies, have informed
the Executive Council, that over
tures had been made tliein on the
part of the King of l'ruffia, liiani
feftiiig his delire to enter into a rie
g.,--ration. —The Council Rcfolved
that the French Republic will hear
no propofnions, until the Pruffiau
troops lit all fir It evacuate the French
territories."
A letter was read in the National
Convention froinGeneial Wiinpfen
Hating that the liege of Thionville
had been railed.
Di(patches w ere also read from
the Department ofLaiides, inform,
ing the Allembly of an invasion by
llie Spaniards, and requelting that
Coinm illioners iniglube lent 10 B;:\-
onne, on ibe fouiheYn frontiers, to
concert inch ineafures as. tnU>ht be
molt proper for the defence of the
country.
STOCKBRIDGK, (MalF.) Dec. 4.
A correlpondent 1110 ft sincerely
hopes that the Connecticut ' ECHO'
will take proper notice of his Excel
lency's late " SH4I.L Speech,"—
ill order that so remarkably -wife, so
unparallslcdty i/lttflriou, and patriotic
a watchfulwels over the fovt'eign
rights of perfectly Jree, independent,
and totally unconnected and unac
countable State Majelly.uiay be tranf
initted to pollerity, adorned with
that bright ness of genius, that true
and well directed wit, which has
been alined universally, as well as
jullly, ascribed to the author or an
thois of the ' Echo.'—Aud if a
ttranger might be allowed to offci
a hint on the occasion, he would sug
gest the following by way of pre
face.
fball Echo rife—and sing
The praise of Maflqchufetts' King ;
Pals by the deeds of jthn Manur*
" And give the" other John " 1 c'«er.''
* Author of a bowhaflic, laultltgkni ajvertife
rnent, (-chord in the American Menury, printed it
Hartford.
H A* L I F A X, Nov. 22.
On the night of tlie 7th of Sept.
was lit the Light Hot»fe on M'Nutt'i
lfland, at the entrance of-■'helbume
harbor with a double or difHnguifh
ing light from that on Sainbro
lfland—Auid we have great plea
fuie in beinj informed that it provei
equal to expe&ation.
The followingare rhe attgle bear
ings and efthnate distance for the
information of the public :
Bearings distance.
1 from the Light-
House to Berry's
point, - N4O ooE2mile»
2 from do. to Strap
Tubb Rock off
Berry's point,
3d from ditto to
Bell Rock, N 70 00 E 2 1*1"
4th froui do. to S.
End of Western
most jof Ragged
lfland, - NB4 00 B
sth from do. to
Eafternmolt, of
Ragged Island, NB6 30 Eiol 2
6th from do. to S.
W. breakers off
Ragged Island, S 8i 34 E 8
7th from do. to
Cape Negro, 53900 W 9
Bih from do. to
Jigg Rock, S 28 00 W 1 3-4
Lauiude obfefved at the Light-
House by a Mean of two double
Altitudes and one Meridian Alt.
is 43 0 43' 30' North, Variation
Weft >3® 30' and Longitude 63®
o' 8' Weft Greenwich.
FROM THE MAIL.
Mr. Claypoole,
AN extract from a Georgia paper
appeared in yours and the leveral
papers i:i this city, refpeding a
Capt. Hickinan and a Mr. Skinner,
iaid to be of Boston :— In jultice to
several refpeiftable persons of their
profeHion, by tbe name ot .'skinner,
who fail from Bolton, and the citi
zens in general, it ought to be
known, that neither Capt. Hickman
nor Mr. Skinner are Americans, ndr
was the latter ever 3 months in Bos
ton. These persons being said to
be of Boston, has excited some un
happy prejudices againit the ves
sels from that place 111 the Weil-In
dies
Perhaps by giving 'his u place in
the several papers where the orhei
has been inserted, vv ill have a hap
py tendency to remove it, and pre
sent any future incouveniencies an
ling therefrom.
N 70 00 ECONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVEt.
MONDAY, December 17.
The bill received from the Senate on Fri
day last, in addition to, and for altering the
for fettling the accounts between the
United States and individual states, was read
t i ie letond time, and referred to a committee
of the whole Houie ; to be the order of the
day oil the second Monday in January.
A report on the petition of Simeon Thayer
was read ; this report was in favor of the pe
titioner, and was referred to a committee of
the whole for ta-morrow.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Sedgwick
in the chair —The report of a feleft commit
tee to whom the petition of the Executors
•of Edward Carnes, aad the report of the Se
cretary of the Treasury thereon, had been
referred, was taken into conlideration—After
some difcullion of the fubje<X,the report of the
feleit committee was agieed to by the com
mittee of the whole—this being reported to
and adopted by the Houle, a committee was
appointed to prepare and report a bill in con
formity thereto.
A mcflage was received from the Senate,
by Mr. Secretary Otis, informing the House
that the Senate recede from their amendment
to the bill for regi/lcring ani recording ojjhips or
vejjth, which bad been dilagreed to by the
Houl'e —[See the lalt Gazette] —We hear that
the votes of the Senate on this occafi in were
equally divided, and that the Vice-President
gave the calling vote to recede.
The consideration of the confidential mes
sage recurring, the doors of the gallery were
»•»'!! closed.
ESDAY", Dec. 18.
,c presented a memorial from
the i'uium..iioiied officers of the New-York
line of the late army, in behalf of tlieml'elves
and of the privates of said army, ftatipg their
services, the partial coinpenfatioil they have
received, and the balances they conceive
to be still due to them.—This memorial was
read.
Mr I
Mr. Muhlenberg presented a memorial on
the fume fubjeft from the otticers of the Penn
f/lvania line—whioh was also read.—These
memorials were laid on the table.
The petition of John Saidler was read, and
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury,
Mr. Sedgwick, after some preliminary re
marks, stating the iituation of the Report of
the Secretary of the Treasury, containing a
plan for the reduction of the public debt, and
for reimburfmg the loan made of the Bank of
the United States, suggested the propriety of
crating these two objedts; and in order to
l . * moved the following Resolution in
juollmce—
'* Tnat tue Committee of the whole, to
whom was referred the ibbjeft of the rejm
burfcnieitt of the loan made of the Bank of the
United States, be dilcharged from further
considering the fame—and that a seleCt Com
mittee be appointed to prepare and,report a
bill, kujfhoriijng a loan for the purpose,—laid
on the table.
T hs House took into consideration the
Coasting bill, in order to its being engrofled,
but after a few remarks, —on motion, it was
voted that the bill be re-committed to the
Committee which reported the fame.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the House ihou]d
refimie the consideration of the bill to afcer
tam the fees demandahle in cases of Admi
ralty proceeding, in the Courts of the United
States, and for other purpofej,—this motion
was disagreed to.
On motion, the confederation of the confi
dential bunnefs was relumed, and the galle
ries cleared.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
'TMOSE wiio reason against federal measures
A and principles may be met on fair ground
— The federal cause cannot fulfer by fair dif
cuilion. Being ued to defeat on this field,
and the people being well fettled in their refo-
Jution to maintain their own, which is the fe
deral eaufc, tiie enemies of government have
resorted to art and cunniug to obtain what
the solemn decUion of America has denied
them.—Tiiey could not prevent the adoption
of the constitution ; they have therefore put.
inpraftice every artifice to mar it in the ad
ministration.—He is a novice in the history of
parties who does not know that by doing so,
they a (ft according to the laws of their na
ture.
It is probable that a few well-wifliers to or
der and the constitution have co-operated
with men of a different ftanip in some of their
late manoeuvres.—To such men, it is proper
to address lome reflections, to induce them
well to consider the pernicious nature of" the
schemes which they have been drawn in to fa
vor, and kmay be hoped they will not fail to
renounce them.
The papers for more than a year past have
been ftuffjd with infmuations againil the go
vernment and its nieafures ; every thing has
fceen doue to alarm the fears and jealousies of
the people. Direct charges would not do—
they might be disproved—but dark hints are
given, men in oxfice are blown upon by a lide
wind—-prejudices are hunted up and heated
all the greatfyftems of Cj.igrets. The
excise, the funding system, the bank, the ex.
ceilive rare for {peculation are inide to fur
iiiili fubjefts of complaint or alarm.
This mil's of invective against the govern-
cannot have escaped tne notice of every
reader—and t'l2 influence of the newjpaoers
public opinion is too con-iderable and di
to fivTir us to believe that these incen
diary writings h.;ve bsea w noHy without ef-
I.
■foft. By reviewing the conduct of parties
Mole woo have been deceived in iy be unde
ceive;!.
The writer, against govsrnment'have l*c»
accufrdof the ninft fcditious antifcderaiiiin
-t ney complain heavily of this charge, a„d in
turn accule their aecufcrs of aj.r.iij" at mo
narchy ami arirtocracy; they dare°not find
fault with the constitution—the people would
not liftifn to mifchief makers who fiionjd '-e
so impudent. It is neceli'ary to alarm the
people for the fafc-ty of the constitution, and
to persuade them that ill defi-rns are harbored
by its bc-ft friends—thofe who introduced it
and who ifoxv' administer it. Accordingly
they have played upon the multitude, cau
tioning thera au.ainit the arts of the aristocrat'
and the monarchy men. But who are tbev i
They tell us, they are the high flying fede
ralifts—the supporters of the corrupt monied
systems of Conor-Is. Now who are thole sup
porters of the measures of Congress. The
The President, the Governor of Pennfylvariia
and the great body of the people. The pub
lic has fern the Preiident's speech ; his lan
guage agrees with that used by the supporters
of the measures of Congress; he cxprefs'v
tells them that he will do every thing ip his
power to support thole measures—in parti
cular the excite which the iucendiaries have
pretended no free people could or ought to
endure. The governor expressly ascribes the
happy fitnalion of Pennsylvania to the opera
tion of the national government, and fpfcnks
of the confidence placed in th«t government
as well merited. Indeed, the Lcgiflature in
stead of being employed to raise taxes on the
citizens of the State, are chiefly concerned to
apply discreetly the surplus revenue wliiph
they draw from the Treasury of the National
government. The people of this State may
well be supporters of the federal caule as well
as of the government- The body of the peo
ple are in peace and (we have it on the high
est authority in our country) appear to be di(-
posed to support the laws of Congress It is
a poor trick to mention the ill designs of the
supporters of these laws when it thus appears
that the President and the body of the people
are included in this description. It foliows
clearly from a flight view of the conduct and
writings of the lall year that there is a partv
—it is to be hoped, not a large one, opptjfed
to the laws of the union aad to the sense of the
people—who have tried by blackening the
government to make it change hands—riap
pily for our country they have tried in vain.
FROM THE NATIONAL GA7.ETTE.
Mr. Freneau,
THE State of Kentucky having encreafed the num
bcr of the emblematic (tars, and a]}aided an op
portunity of arranging them in a veto foim —/fend
you the following ti'fle on the J'ubjeft. Ihe Na->
tional Motto, which I mijh to include, mi/1 he a. juj
jiticnt apology Jor writing in Latin.
Yovr'tj
Philad. Dec. 10.
# *
# # #
* #
# *
##■##*
Barbara Pyramidum filcat miiacixla Memphis."
Hen male fervili marniora ftru&a manu !
Libera jam, ruptis, Atlantias ora catenis,
Jaftat opus Phario marmore nobilius.
Namque Columbiadx ,faiH monument* parantrs
Vulgarem fpernunt fumere materiam :
Magnanimi coelum fcandunt; peritu^aquefaxa
Quod vincat, celfa de Jovis arce petunt.
Audax inde cohors ftellis E Pluribus Unum
Ardua Pyramidos tollit ad aftra caput.
Ergo, Tempus edax, quamvis dui i/Tima fsevo
Saxa domas morfu nil ibi juris babes.
Dumque polo folitis coguata nitoribus ardent,
Sidei a, fulgeb t Pyi amis ilia fuis.
TRANSLATION OF THE ABOVE.
NO more let barbarous Memphis boast
Base rear'd by flavilh hands—
A nation on the Atlantic coait
(Fetter'd no more in foreign bands)
A nobler Pyramid displays
Than Egypt's marble e'er could raise.
Columbia's sons, to extend a proof
Of their bold deeds to future years,
Disdain to uie such vulgar {tuff;
But, soaring to the itarry spheres,
Materials seek in Jove's blue sky
T' endure when I:rafs and marble die.
Arriv'd among the lhining host,
Fearless, the proud invaders spoil
From countless gems, in asther loft,
Some stars, to crown their mighty toil :
To heaven a pyramid they rear,
And point the fabric with a star.
Old waftful time ! though still you gain
Dominion o'er the brazen tower,
On this your teeth lhall gnaw in vain,
Finding its strength beyond their power —
While kindred stars in heaven lhall glow,
This Pyramid will shine below !
EXTRACTfrom a QUAKER MEMORIAL,
latch to the Lcgijlatu)c of Virginia.
" YOl/R memorialills being informed,
that a chaplain is hired by the aflembly to at
tend the houle during the lefiion, and paid out
of the public trealury, they believe it right
for « iem to express their uneasiness at the
continuance of such a practice ; as well trom
conscientious scruples, as a beliei that it is
inconilftent with the spirit and intention of
the present constitution : they are however
far from wifh ; ng to discourage any from rhe
exercise of religious duties ; but being fully
persuaded that such a&s of devotion would
be as acceptable in the fight of the great ob
je& of adoration and worfliip, were they per
formed at the proper cxpence of thole who
may believe ir necefiary to hnve the alfiftiince
of a chaplain ; so they conceive no inconven
ience whatever can result from its becoming
a private instead of a public expeiiCe."
231
Philadelphia, Dcc. iy.
The electors ot" Proficient and Vice Prefi"
. "t ior the State of Ntw-Hampfhire ha-, iag
e,'ven an unanimous vote fur George Wain
lHgton and John Adams; it appears that tbofe
gentlemen are re-elected Prelident and Vicc-
President of the United States
Benjamin Talliaferro, John King, William
Gibbons and Seaborn Jones, efquirc*, are tlje
Lleftors ot' Prelident and Vice Prelident of
the United States for the ft'ate of Georgia.
The House and Senate of the state of Geor
gia, do 11,>l in the .node of St
nators of the United States,—the Honl"e insist
on 'A joint and the Senate on a concurrent vote.
The latelt accoants from Cape-Francois,
to the I jth Nov. fay that M. Rochambean,
tlie newlv appointed commander in chief, has
lately taken from the revolted negroes their
strongest and mod important posts, and there
is now a profpeift of a complaat reduction of
the Hb.nci.
INSURANCE COMPANY
The fublcviption lor conliitilting the capi
tal {lock of tlie Insurance Company of North
America, amounting to Six Hundred Thou
fiind Dollars, was completed on the 13th inft.
pud the firfi inftallnient paid into the hands
of the Secretary.—The Company being or
ganized agreeably to the constitution, have
commenced the bulinefs of Insurance ; and
tlie Directors intend to petition the Legisla
ture ot the state, for an act of Incorporation.
M. Blanchard, the celebrated itronaut who
lately arrived in tins city from Hamburg, we
hear intends to entertain the public shortly with
an serial excurlion, Ihould fufficient encourage
ment be given to defray the expence.
On the 13th Nov. last the corner ft one of
an Orphan House and asylum for orphans, and
the children of poor and distressed parents,
was laid, in Charleston, South-Carolina, by
his honor John Huger, Esq. Intendant of the
citv.
Ext>ad of a Utter from Bojlon, November 16.
" We have now one of the newly invented
patent Wind Mills ere&ed in this town—it is
30 feeet high and 1 8 feet diameter—it carries
two large grind-il -n.-s, and a laihe for turning
~il forts of iron work.- One hand can grind
eight dozen of axes in one day by means of this
invention.—Our Glass Works are going on ra
pidly—the specimens of window glass already
produced are, if poflible, superior to London
Crown."
A writer in a late New-York paper, fay?
<( I find that a certain'author, under the fig
,natnre of Luciuc,would persuade the Electors
for President and Vice-Preftdent, that Gov.
Clinton, ill consequence of the amendments
the new constitution, though an antif'ede.
;* M> c-w«rai4v-aiul
that the spirit of antifcderalifm is extinct.
A. B. ;
u If that good man had after ted, he saw a
whale on hoffe-back, in New-York or Phila
delphia market, he would be entitled to much
about the fame degree of credence. Sophistry
njay gratify the appetites of some political
gudgeons ; but fads are itubborn things, and
speak louder than words.
"fxempli gratia.--The legislature of thisftate
have lately appointed twelve antifcderalifts,
ele&ors of President and Vice-President of the
United States—This is our whole number of
ele&ors, and all Clintonians."
Saturday last the House of Representatives
of this commonwealth, determined that the
choice of Senators to the Congress of the
United States, (hall be by a joint vote.
A correlpondent observes, that Ihould the
Senate concur with the House of Representa
tives, in their resolution for a joint vote in
the choice of Senators, they would so far an
nihilate their integrality as a branch in the
government—Should they non-concur, it is
probable the state will continue unreprefent
ed in the Senate of the National Legislature—
this appears to be the dilemma—a precedent,
consolidating the two branches of the state
legiflaturo into one—or a partial representa
tion in the Senate of the United States.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Writers who pretend to be believers in the
public infallibility, have repeatedly compli
mented the people, bv faying that while they
jveie ajleep rheir enemies ttole away their pri
vileges.—-Again theie confident writers fay,
that the people being lulled into insensibility,
luffered every species offraud, injustice and
predatory speculations, yea monarchical tares
to be sown among their pure republican wheat
—and from thcfc have sprung up the fafhiona
ble do&rin?, that the people are not the pro
per keepers of their own liberties ! Time
with his scythe ran ft: surely make fad havoc
with such confident principles.
A distant correfpondrnt has noticed with no
tl* of failsfaftiou, tlh>t the Legislature
of the Union has at lengih entered upon the ar
duous bnfincfs of ft aming a bankrupt Juw ; and
he feels strongly perluadtd thai a spirit of genu
ine patriotism, and a god-like sympathy for the
unfortuate and diftrcfTed debtors of the ftveral
Siat« s, wii! Annulate to exrraoidinary exertions
in maturing the fvilem, so that the present ses
sion <>f Co ngrefs, though Qiort, may not c*pirc,
and leave thofc who have little or no hope jiom
any other quarter in a state of übfolute despon
dency.
Thnfc who have turned attention to this
fubjeft, would aid the c,»ufe <»' humani; y hy fub
mittiag the result of their tcflefti ns arid enqui
ries to the public.— Some of the difficulties and
perplexities (and which are conceived to be ve
ry numerous) that will pr( sent tnemfrlvea ; n
difcuiimcr the buiincfc may happily
obviated.
*vcry writ wilher tn the liberty ami happ .
llefsot mankind will r'joice to fee n, e p r<n i.
lion !or fiee pno'ic (chools made oneol the fpe
. iali.l jeci* of attention lor i e Lcgiflaiu.e of
Ptnnly ivjimo, during their preient fdiion It
IS r-rri <tlvtx> 4>e w.,lt>cd, that difputcs about
ibe bitt niorieol advancing this gnat nnpnnc.
men»«i legislation, may nor preeiiu ,- I;v tliin»
bemg ctfeCUd. Certainly ttiort art m»;, v w ., v "
a'id probably many light wa\s toff :>«».,'
tile fame dclign. It is better 10 pegm ti, '
even on ,11 wnpLil.ct and except i'»iw;.ie ,
than to delay it. For eveiy \,n's d y a
wrong don. » i«bl.ay cnmmi.ied «...
posterity. Ti .• law eltabluHing w f, t
luve no fli.bliorn principles winch it will be
bard 10 reform,a» tirncatid expei icncc-niay (hew
•'"'r d«-tc6 On the contrary, ,tis to i H I\-
ptttert tiia' lie inoft matuie lyiteni <*.iii
freqiuni amendments.
7 lie go al putpofe mud be to put tie mean,
of inllmfiion as generally as poHible imo the
hands of the people. Knowltdge like the light
ol In-avrn llioitld be common to all.
This bufintfs is in New-England chitfly l^ft
to the management of the town corporations
which corporations inclnde the inhabitant® liv
ing in a certain diilnft, commonly ?bout fix
miles Icfnare, and amounting to one two or three
thousand persons. The towns are obi iard by*
law to provide fchool-malter s and fchool-nrf*
tresses, of approved chaiadter, and who arc ex
amined and certified to be well qualified. The
time which a town is to provide fc hoofing ij
longer or (horrer in proportion to the number ot
inhabitants. In cule of negled, the towns are
liable to be prelented and fined, and it is the du
ty of all grand-juiois and Ynagiftraies to fee tins
breach of the law duly profecutcd.
In Mafidchuictts, any, number of per foes, ac
cording to their.ronvenience, are formed into a
fchooj diltrift and they draw their part of the
f hool money.—But the diflntb in fume itillan
ces have been so iubuivid d «s to produce ill
e e£ts.— Instead of one two or three i'chools in
a tow»> Tor a Long term. hx or eight. Lave h <n
annually opt nat once, ana in confrquerice the
fcbool money is soon expended aiul the cly -
drcn are leh destitute oi teaching. This deleft
will perhaps be amended in that State, t;nd the
divifiori and the Ichool money so f;*r rcftraimd
that it may not depi ivecbildren of one halt their
fchooliug as the cafe is at piefeut. Id framing
the law in this Siate no doubt an eye will be hiid
to this delefcl. I: will be mccffary to study
the systems of th- States where fchoolj, are esta
blished, and, what is more, to learn the attu.il
operation of thoie fyltems. Bv a due attention
to this iubjeft, fntuie enlightened gcneiations
will call us blcffed.
In No. weinleued a paragraph refpe&ing
a treatise on " King, Loriis ana Commons," &r.
—In No. 56, a paragraph beginning "The zAcn
influenced by poll:ica 1 and and avaricious views,#
&c.—the above, and the lollowing appear 10 be
the productions of the fame hand :
i( NO irtun ffjys the Hartford correfponde nt) who
knows the attachment which the great mas of sub-
Jlantial Americans have for that fyftcm (the piefent
fyflcm ej finance) and their iklerown-ifion uj ivett
as power to fnpport it, would venture upon the ha
zardous experiment (of changing it/' —lilt avo. —
Thii probable fpecuiator talks as if the Joldiers had
been cheated out 0) then couragr* as well a t thr
pay. Others will think it more the language of tnr
pudence than heroijm 1 hat the dealers in certifi
cates and scrip fhouid be attached to J)ferns that have
made then in their own conceit the onlv fubflantial
Americans, no man will doubt. That if theii power
were under no check but their own will, thev would
ufc it not singly in thecaufe of avarice, but in ano
ther that lies near their hearts is equally believed.—
Money is their /do/. Their extravagant zeal and
incenfi to monarchical charaders /hew what is the
fecund object of their prayers and adoration. But
it is well for these /peculating monocrats, who thus
dijiinguifk themselves by all the infolevce of upjlurt
ill-got wealth, that their favorite system rc/ls hot ei
ther on their determination or then power.—lt is
supported by the disposition of the real ma Is of sub-
Jlantial Americans to bear th - ffiem, bad us it is,
as a less evil than tofhake the public faith or flabili
ty with which it is now implicated. T!ii t% ye dror.es
°f f ts the true security ye enjoy for your fu
perciHous fplcndor and lazy affluence- If you desire
not to weaken it advised by your prudence in /lead
of your arrogance and vanity. Forbear to adi the
insult of menaces to the injuries which flill affli J the
ruined patriots whose earnings have enriched yett %
injuries which flill implore the fymapthdic indigna
tion of a virtuous and grateful people.
It is often Jaid the government and not the spec -
lators are to be blamed for the tnjuflice* if any h
been done, to those vjho lent their blood and propc
tv towards eflablifh'ng the liberties of their county ■ '
But what rnufl be /aid if the government has b<en hn
much in the handj oj Jpecu!ators s or too much und
their influence,
SHIP NEWS.
ARRI VliD at the PORT oj PHILADFJ PHI A
Brig Kitty, M'Allilter, St.Euftatia*
Isabella and Ann, Hampton, dit't •
Nancy, Hathaway, Ilifpaniol •
Sch'r Juno, Norton, Bofto.
William, Knox, Halifax
President, Carhart, Virgini.
Sloop Merrimack, Lowel, Newburyport
The brig Ann &: Mary, Sweetman, is u •
rived in the river from Cork, 70 days.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Ccdcj, 20/2 '
3 per, Cents, 12/
Deterred, "J*
Full fliirei Bank. U. S. 37 per ccm. prem
i lharcs, 46
To make room jor the important French in
telligence publijhcd this d&) t Catullus is further pcjl
poned, till Saturday.
Insurance Company.
THE OFFICE of tbc Insurance Company of
North-Aaici »ca commenced bulinefs on
Saturday lad, and will continue open every day
Sundays (xccpied, at No. Ix 9, south Front-Street
where orders, foreign and domcftic,will be duly
attended to.FROM THE COLUMBIAN CiNllS£L,
ODE TO LIBEHTY
•* Thou thou ftidWt rule the Jf !**
Col l i ss,
y 1 1
\JYMPH of the front sublime
£\i Arid eye of fiie !
Benign infpirer of heroic deed;,
For whom the patriot burn.« y the warrior bleeds,
And fweet-breath'd mintltels > tune the warbling
lyre,
Whose radiant smile
Can Mt6*RY ot her giiefs beguile,
Diffo've the leaden tear of woe,
Bid the pale lip with transport glow,
And crown with laurels green (he barren brow
ol Time.
Parent of golden Peace! celestial maid !
Prote&refs ot each holy tie !
Guardian of right#, bv liberal Hope afray'd,
Blest offspring ot Humanity !
The peopled mart, the verdui'd bower,
Grow in the sunshine ol <hy power ;
Thou from the tyrant's surly brow
Canst chafe the unavailing frown,
Bid the triumphant despot bow,
And drag his purpled honours down,
Canst dnvefrom brooding w ea lth the dreams
of care,
And light with lustrous gems the miduight of
I fee thee on the Grecian plain,
Unaw'd by A/ia' s mvriaa train,
Tl>e felf-devoted Spartan* lead,
Than crowns, more rich, than life more dear
Spring dauntless on the Petjian spear,
And in th' unfetict'd arms of glory bleed :
And now with Roman eagles (bar.
On trophi'd Gaba*s defp A rate held,
Rife o'er unwieldy Ajric's powci,
And bid her Alpine viflo> yield ;
And now on Britain's druid coast
Biave all the latiau world could boast.
I view thee on the Belgic strand,
Firm pillar of the gulphy plain,
That from the bosom of the main
Snatch'd the thin foil, and fpiead the sedgy land.
In life's green hour, and nature's prime,
Thro 1 wide Columbia's vari'd clime,
I fee thy flarry banners flow ;
This hand the olive-bough extends,
While that her p'ny shore defends,
And wards with piereingeyethe meditated blow
In laurel'd majeftv serene,
Puie source of ev'ry boon, in ev'ry age a Queen !
But hark ! the rending prayer of pain /
What female flirieks aflault the car !
And whelm the poet's sacred ft rain,
And start the agonizing teai !
Where angel beauty* prostrate lies,
And godlike genius droops his head,
This by the foul-iefs Traitor dies,
That bv delpotic Faction bl< d !
On thee, mild Power, they madly call,
And all thy great endow ments claim,
Yet on thy mangled graces fall,
Apostate* to thy woiOup'd name !
Say, Nymph benign, wh?t ruffian race
Thy pure uublemifh'd glories ftain'd,
Deform'd thy hrav'n illumin'd face,
And ev'iy vcftal charm prophan'd !
To the vile rabble's rage rcfign'd
The lustre ot ihy poliHi'd miud !
Can Gallia's impious sons defame
The viitues of ihy fainted name,
And heap th' aflafliu's deeds on thee!
While to the sway of crimes alone,
High-seated on a recking thione,
They raise the liccns'd hand, and bend th' un-
Uallow'd knee.
Ah ! fee the fam'd difcov'rer \ bows
That head, by dcathlels myrtles crown'd.
And clasps those daring hands tn vain,
Which the world's circle widely bound.
And trae'd th' immeasurable main,
"thro' realms of parching heat, and worlds ol
withring fnowsi-
On the far ocean's defart shore,
His great advent"tons fell;
Vet mouiu thatfivagc deed no more,
No more that fateful flory tell,
e savage scenes on Gallia's patriot close,
In the warm bosom of repose,
His wile, his children, circling round !
By those, at whose behelfc he trae'd
The hostile plain, the foodlefs wafle,
While ev'ry outrag'd virtue flies,
h'd in his life's rich ft ream, the gallant Sailor
lies :
Pierc'd by ingratitude, to eaith he
bow'd,
While the mad clamours of the thankless
crowd
■ aim'd the fad tribute of each weeping wound
Amid the horrors of that morn
How was thy form degraded seen !
With all thy modi ft veftmenis torn,
How chang'd thy love-inspiring inein !
Around t hat brow 's m <jest c height
ev'ry milt that dames the night,
And midst those locks oi fl «wing gold,
An azure wreath of serpents roll'd,
And Irom that lip's ethereal balm,
And on that bread, with bounty warm,
Fell the red drops of treafui'd health,
W r hich from their rubi'd fountainsflow'd
In gems, whose blushing lultre glow'd
Rich with a Nation's vital wealth.
Theu to the criir.c-devoted coast
Thy tutelary power WdS loft :
In the rafli Defpot'a iranficnt hour,
Ok has thy guardian form appeared;
But midfl mad an arch's deaf'ning roar,
Ne'er can thy seraph strain be heard.
NOTES
* The fate of the bearfiful and unfortunate Prin-
C*f' De Lamseile, is toe replete with horror for
the ben »f Poetry or the heart oj Feeling to detail.
X Thtfi real Circumnavigator Motif. Uoucain-
VilCl, u'd( majjacred u>hie he was walking the
Jireets oj Paris, with a Lady.
i The morefortunate Capt.ConK., was murdered
by the/wages of one of thifouthern i/les.
And thou, fuprcme, insulted power,
Wilt quit iiUited Gallia's Ihore,
lar from her purpled vineyards ltray,
Ana irace thy undijeover'd way ;
Or with tiiy great defenderll lly
1-ioin mad Sedition's serpent-eye,
And l>i«i thy irijur'd heroes roam,
Wtieie Justice builds her sacred dome,
Far from ih> havoc-breathing clime,
Siain'd with each foul-polluting crime,
Winch fro.*ri the (way ot Fa£lion grew,
In deeds that Nero never knew,
Uutuifctur'd by the bluth ot lhame,
Unpi&ur'd on the pag£ of Fame.
For thou art social, generous, mild,
Enligtuen'd Reason's tcmp'rate child,
I)oil in the Temple 1 # puie abode
Protect the blameless Priest of Goo,
To the meek matron's bafhful prayer,
lucline ihy truth-dire&ed ear ;
And, when the profp'rous father Aceps,
Defend trom Ipoil his frugal heaps,
And while the weeping midnight pours
11-r ti rrors on the fpe&red hours,
Doftiound hisdangei'd dwelling close,
And calm his offspring to rcpoie.
When the young morn with radiant eye
Peeps thro' the curtain ol the sky.
And o'er the chilly brrafl ot nigUt
Extends her robe of lucid light,
And from her ambei'd tresses throws
Each pendant pearl, that decks the rose,
And, with her inufic-wafting breath,
Flings odouts on the vocal heath,
Thou, to the whittling woodman dear,
Doll all his labouring moments cheer,
And flill his willing talk "prolong,
And soothe him with thy patient song,
Then lead him to the bower of health,
And charm him with the dieam ot wealth.
Thou wilt the Child of Genius raise,
And feed his feeling foul with praise,
And all his paflion'd mind txeite
To pictur'd visions of deligh',
Wilt from ihe vuhure-viccs fly,
And bting mc< k Mekcy's pleading eye,
Sincerity with window'd breast,
And Bounty by rejlcflion blest,
F rm Valour, that at virtue's call
Can bid another Decius fall,
And Justice, with her poizing scale,
Deaf to the villain's bribeful tale.
Unchanging Faith and Friendship
kind,
And Love's best union of the mind,
With ev'ry hope, and ev'ry tie,
Which elevates Humanity.
To thee the timid Minflrel sings,
For thee awakes the Humbling firings ;
Still round her foft submitted mind,
Lov'd Power, thy fond enchantments bind,
While in thy finile of bounty blest,
She hails thee, Sov er eign of the West.
Eojlon, Nov. 26, 1792.
|| Motif. Fayette, and the brave friends oj
Libertt and the Constitution, who accompanied
him.
Soon will be publijhed,
the SYSTEM of
c 7/1 o%t- tfCcmcl-)
Ufcd by Mr.L loy d, in taking down the Debates
of Congrofs. A system so easy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hour, and soon pra&ife it, in its
fulleft extent, without any further inftru&ion,
than what will be conveyed in a few pages,—
the whole ART being coinprifed in eighteen
simple chataclers, without any of those perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other systems are obliged to burden their me
mory, 3nd embarrass their practice.
Price, to Subscribers, One Dollar—to Non-
Subfciibers, a Dollar and half.
Subscriptions received by Messrs. Rice, Book
sellers, Markct-ftreet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Street.
Half a Dollar to bcfiaid at the time of fubferibing.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful fnuation on the Po
lo w mack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire&ion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view ol each place,
commanding a profpcdl of the river and adjacent
country ot Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying dt
re&lyoo the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
dwelling-house, neatly fmifhed, a kitchen, office,
buck smoke-house and dairy, two-flory framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houie, a yard and gaiden, neatly railed and
highly unproved, with a number of other ne
celTary improvements ; the whole of the land
encloltd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. lis
contiguity to those three towns must lender it an
obje& worthy the attention of any pet Con who
wilhes to invest money in a property that mull
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
crease of the Federal Cicy, Alexandria and 1
Gtorge-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central Gtuation to each place. The Potowmack 1
at this spot has a fine deep Ihore and harbour,
capable of receiving veilels of tny burden. It 'I
may not be improper to obfervc, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient «
terry might be ere&ed here to the City of
Washington and the Maryland ihores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.- Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,.,
which will suit wei! to supply the above in*
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indifpuiablc, and terms
known by application to the fubfcribei, living
ou the premises. 6
BALDWIN DADE
ADVERTISEMENT.
Gsf This Gazette is puthjiied in K or th
, ' 34' "'"""n High ana Mulberry i>heel,— where
tie Editor now re/ides.
A LARGE CELLAR TO LET,
Sufficing uLfaavus toJioreJeveral hundred bar,eh,
Enquire as above.
232
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Piuvidence, iir between Providence
and Bolton, a very fm»il TRUNK, covcied
wiih fcal-(kirt of a leddifh colour, with white
fpoi». It contained a quantity of South an J
North-Carolina State Noiei, and a few of the
State of Rhode-Island •, with other papeis,which
can ooly be fcrviceable to the oroprietor. The
Slate note» are ch. eked »t the often from whence
lhrv lilued. Any per(>•!! producing the Tiunk
(wiih iu contents) 10 JOHN MARSTON, of
Jtofton, WILLIAM HALL, of Providrncr,
*|<ir.s PATERSON and BRASHER, New.
' York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in PliiUdeL
phia, lhall receive the above reward, or for any
j part of the property, One Hundred QolUis.
Boston, Nov. aB. > eptf.
advertisement.
Between December ljl, 1792.
William Shipley In the high Court ofChance
Complainant, ► ry of the State of New-
John Meng and o- Jersey.
thers Defendants. Prejenf y
Jiis Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill of
Complaint against the Defendants :n the
month of September, seventeen hundred and
ninety-one, and in the said Bill of Complaint did 1
among other things set forth that the said Com
plainant being ieized in his Demesne as of fee
of and in a certain Ti a£i of Land, said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
being in the township of Hardwick in the coun
ty of SufTex in the State of New-Jersey, did on
the fir ft of March seventeen hundied and eighty
fiv •, bargain fell and convey the fame in fee lim
ple unto John Meng and John Hcnderfon of the
cuv of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver—
That on the fifth day of the fame month of
March the said feoffees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mori
gage in fee simple of the said Trafcl of Land to
secure the payment of the said fixtecn hundred
pounds, with the lawful interest which might
thcieon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighty-fix the said John Meng and
William Goodwin did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the acts ol the Le
giflalure of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and such proceedings were had against them that
in the fame month they were duly dtclaicd
Bankrupts ; and that they the said John M. ng
and William Goodwill did in foine short time
afterwards convey and trausfer all their eflate
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
10 John Field, Curtis Clay, James C. Fisher,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
j all of the city of Philadelphia, fubj. 61 to the
j Mortgage so as aforefaid given to the (did Com
plainant.—That the said John Fteid, Curtis
Ciay, James C. Fisher, Ilaac Wharton, John
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the said Tra& of Land unto Benjamin
Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubj< £1 to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day ol o£tober seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the feid William Shipley for Iccuring the pay
ment of twelve hundred pounds in certain in
it ailments—That in the month cf January seven
teen hundred and cighiy-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee funple all his Right and
Title to the laid premises, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in the month of February seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey ail his Right and Title ».o the said premifei,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city of Phi
delphia, upon certain Trults unknown to thcal
Complainant—That said Benjamin Townjthe
soon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pennfvlva
nia, did convey all his estate real and personal
to a certain Robert Ralftor.— That John Hen
derfon did also in the mouth ol September seven
teen hundred and eightyfe*en become a Bank
rupt, «tid undrr thc bankrupt laws of the Siaic
of Pennsylvania, did aflign and convey all his
eflate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doth 111
and by his said Bill, pray that those having
Right to the said Estate may be decrecd to pay
him what is due on the said Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by the
Decree of this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this day
by Richard Stockton, Esquire, being of the com
plainants counlel—it appearing to the Court
that the said defendants do reside in the State
of P mnfylvania, without the junfdi&ion of this
Court; and it appearing further to this Court
that writs of fubpeena have been taken out ac
cording to the course of this Court, that the said
writs of fubpeena have been duly served upon
the said several Defendants upwards of one
vear from this day ; and that none of the said
Defendants have caused his or their appearance
to be entered in this Court to the fait of the said
Complainant : It i> therefore ordered by his
Excellency the Chancellor, that the said De
fendant* do cause their apDeatance to be entered
to the suit of the above Complainant according
to the rules of this Court in two months from
this day, or that ihe Plaintiffs bill be t?ken pro
confeffo agrrecablv to the directions oF the ail of
the Legiflaturc in such cafc nude and provided.
•—The Complainant giving notice and making
publication of this rule as in and by the said ast
of the Legislature is provided.
WILLIAM PATERSON, Chancellor.
Vectv.btr ljl, 1792
PLANS
or THE
City of Wafliington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, )OVKG, & CRUkSH.IXK.
Stock Brokers Office,
Nn.45, Great Dock-ftrc i, New-York,
'"nHE Sahfcribcr intending io confine hiinfrif
1 entirely to the PURCHASE *kd SALE of
S 1 OCKS on COMMISSION, tit gsieave lo ofttr
his feivices lo hufriends and oilv rs, in ihelit,,.
of a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafe to fa
vor him with their buf.nef*, may dtoend Um,„
having it iranfaaed with the utinuft fidelity and
dilpatch.
Ordersfrom Philadelphia,Bofloo, orany qtheV
part ol tnc United Stales will be Uriftly «i tfn da
;d to.
LtONARD BLtECKhR.
('•'•)
Afav t.
N E W T E AS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON& SOUCHONG,
Ot Ihc very fill! quality, and latest importation
from Canton, via New.York, t»Y retail at
No 19,
1 hird, between Chclnui and Market Sticeu.
N. B. A Jeut Boxes of the aim Hy SOU forfait.
To the Public.
THE fubfcribc begs leave to acquaint the pubv
lie in geneial, and his customers in parties
lar, that he has entered into partnership wub
Mr. HENRY KAMMERER, and that the Print
ing bufinels in ihe Englilh and German language!
is now earned on under the firm ol STEINEK
and KAMMERER, No. 85, in Race-ftreu,
twren Second and Third-llieeis,
The Geiman Newfp-iper will be publiftied hv
[hem, as ulual, on TuefJays, and all kma of P.
iog work, done with care and expedition.
MELCHIOR STElMfci
Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1792.
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER
INFORMS his friends and the public in gene
ral, that he continues to carry 011 his
as usual, at No 1, South Third-Street, near
Market-Street, and thanks his formercuftomers
for the favors he lias received.
Said Gould has for sale, an infallible cure for
Weak or Sore Eyes, which on trial, has and will
he found to answer the purpose—He has it i»
v ials from one quarter of a dollar to a dollar.—
Any person trying the above, if not found to
answer the character given, the money will be
returned. [tf]
A'further Caution.
ALL perions are herebv cautioned from recciv*
ir.g of Thomas Mackic & Co, or any '
pet 1011, lour Nous of Hand, given by t
James Gardner, ot Wilmington, North-C-u,
to Samuel JackJon. of Philadelphta,all bcarng date
the 19th July, 1785, amounting in the whole UJ
f. 2,600 13 3 North-Carolina currcnc th<
4>art ot which said Notes have bteii ;
to said rhomas Mackic Si Co. in proof of which
.he lublcriber* have the deposition of Mr. JtifjieT
Mauduit Jackson, and other documents which wiii
tully and clcarly illustrate the matter.
It is therefore expe&rd that this notice, wiih
he one adverufed in this paper in May and June,
1791, will be a fufficient caution to the public.
THOMAS WRIGHT, )
ROBERT SCOTT, }■ Executors.
MAR. R. WILLKINGS, )
Wilmington, (N. C.) Aug. 1, 1792- (lamgm)
70 BE SOLD,
A Plantation,
LYING on the river Delaware, 2h miles above
Trenton, containing 165 acres; whereon is
a fiweiling-houfr, plcafantly situated, 36 by 24 ♦tet,
having three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near t<? which is a rc-.
mailable large fpnng of excellent water, «ccoin
•nodated with a good spring-house ; a bain 36 !~et
by 26; a waggon, chair and smoke-houses, bdides
other ufeful out-buildings; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit. The farm is well watrrcd, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land,thio'
which the road runs that is known by the name
of the River Road.
On the Promises is also ere&ed,
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, on a never
failing stream ; the mill-house is 54 by 24 feet,
has one water- wheel, a pair of burrs and a prr of
Cologne stones, rolling screen, bolts for merchant
and country work, <scc. and i- accommodated with
a cooper's (hop, 18 teet square, near the mill —
| which is about 300 yards from the Delawaie, and
[very conveniently situated to receive wheat,
I Iroui boats palling down the river.
There arc also for-Sale,
20 Acres of Wood-Land,
within less than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine hi?b
he«4by country.—Vor tenn* apply 'o ihe
jferiber on the premises,
Trenton, Odober, 1792,
THE EDITOR-TO HIS SUBSCRIBERS.
THE Arrearages oj Subscript ions Jor this GazeUi
have been Jor a long timr accnmu'atmg The e*-
pencej oj the publication are great and inevitable,
have annually amounted to much mors than the
receipts Jor fubferiptions ; the eonjeauenus tnujl be
obvious. The bditor has no other refim'ce than those
arrearages, to discharge the debts he has been obligJ
to incur in projecting the publication.
He is there]ore netejjitated to repeat fits applica
tion to thoje who have received fubji fiption money 09
account oj the Gazette, and those who have not p*>*
what is due, to make remittances asJwn as poJfitltF
On ihefe receipts, the continuation oj thu Guitttt, *
the plun oj an exicnjivtly tirntiuiing * gl fl
lutel) fujpcvdtd.
JOHK MOTT.
(11*41)