[No. 90, of Vol. lII.]
READ IN THE HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES, TLB. 7, 1792,
Treajury Department, February 6th, 1792,
Sir,
I HAVE the honor to fend herewith a Report on the fnbje&
•f the Public Debt, pursuant to the order of the House of Repre
sentatives the lft of November, 1791, and to subsequent refer
ences therein mentioned ; and to be, with perfect refpeft,
Sir, your most obedient, and raoft humble fei vant.
To the hfflvora'btc the Speaker
ef the House of Representatives.
Treasury Department, Jan. 1792.
PURSUANT to the Order of the ffoufi oj Representatives of the firfl of
November, 1791, directing the Secretary of the Trerfury, * 4 to re
port to the House the amount to the Loans
propofedby the AH making Provision for tht Public Debt, as welt in
the debts oj the refpeftive States as in the Domejlic debt of the United
States, and of the Parts which remain unfubfcribed, together with
such Measures a t are, in his Opinion, expedient to be taken on the
Sub] eft : the said Secretary reffeftfully submits the following
REPORT.
"'HE whole amount of the domestic debt of the United
JL States, principal and intercft, which has been subscribed
to the loan proposed concerning that debt, by the ast intituled,
41 An ast tnaking provision for the debt of the United States," ac
cording to the statement herewith transmitted, marked A. and
/übjeft to the observations accompanying that ftatmenr, is
vhich pursuant to the terms of that ast has been
converted into stock, bearing an immediate in
terest of 6 per cent, per annum - - 1 4j i 77>450. 43
Stock bearing the like interest from the ift of
Jan. 1801
sfock bearing an immediate interest of 3 per cent.
pe-. annum
Makingtogethec
©f which there stands to the credit of the Trus
tees of the finking fund, in consequence of pur
chases of the public debt, made under their di
rection, the sum of . dols.
The unfubfcribed residue of the said debt, ac
cordingto the statements herewith transmitted,
marked B. and C. and fubjcft to the obfcrva
fions accompanying the statement C. appears
to amount to . . dofc. 10,616,604. 6$
Confjfting of registered debt, principal and in
terest _
JJnfublcribed stock on the books of the commif
(ioners of loans for New-Jersey, Pennfyiva
nial and IVlaryJand, principal and interest
Credits on the books of the Treasury, for which no
certificates have iJTucd, principal and interest
Qutftanding or floating evidences of debt, eftima
»ed per ftatemcnt C. at
Making together
Concerning which some farther arrangement is nccrtfarv.
1 he gieatfft part ot the registered debt, hitherto unfuiifcribed,
uownrd, by (he citizens of foreign countries, moll, ifnot all of
whom appear now disposed to embrace the terms held out by the
atl above mentioned ; extensive orders having been received from
those creditors, to fubferibe to the loan, after the lime for re
viving fubferiptions had elapsed.
A confidence part of the outrtanding or floa-ing debt, con
*lU of loan-office certificates issued between the fir ft of Septem
er'. 1 777 i and thefirft of March, 1778, bearing interest on the
nominal lum. Many of the holders of this species of debt have
come in upon the terms of the ast, but others have hitherto de
c.inea it ; /Hedging, that the special nature of their contract gives
a peculiarity to their cafe, and renders the commutation propo
not 10 fair an equivalent to them, as in other instances. They
° l^e h as had, towards them, a compulsory
k ru ruling the temporary payment of interest, unless
t ev Ihould change their old for now certificate, e(Tentially vary
ing the nature of their contrast.
A resolution of Congress of the tenth of September, 1777, fti
pulati-s in favor of this class of creditors, interest upon the nominal,
»nucad ot thereof principal of their debt, until that principal be dj
ar g*d. This certainly renders their contra£l of a nature more
eneficial than ihat of other creditors ; but they are at the fame
time liable to be diverted of the extra-benefit it gives the n, by a
payment of their specie-dues ; and it may beobferved, that they
ave aanally enjoyed, and by accepting the terms offered to them,
were enabled to reahfe, advantages superior to other creditors.
cy have been paid interest by bills on France from the tenth
September, 1777, to the firtt of March, 1782, while other credi
tors received their interest in. depreciated bills of the old cmiflions ;
an tie terms of the loan proposed put it in th ir power to realise
t. e eneht of interest on the nominal amount of their refpe&ive
ts, at rates from 6. 20-ioodths. nearly to 10. 47-ioodths.
percent, on their real or Ipccie capital down to the last of De
cember, 1790.
It does not therefore appear to have been an unreasonable ex
oe at ion, that they, as readily as any other defcripiion of pub
ic creditors, would have acquiesced in a measure, calculated for
- f a " omniof ! alio V government, under circumstances, in
-e pett to which, it has been demonstrated by subsequent events
t at the accommodation deftred was confident with the best in
n j ptiblic creditors. A large proportion of the parties
intere edl have indeed viewed the matter in this light, and have
•em raced the proportion. It is probable, that the progreji of
t lings will (atisfy the remainder, that it is equally their interest to
r f 'i 3 ' r opportunity be afForded. But it is, never
-1 C f C^ S> l^ m k^ vcs only to judge, how far the equivalent pro
po e 1% in their cafe, a reasonable and fair one ; how far any
crcumllances in tneir claim ma> suggest reasons for moderation
on t eir part ; or how far any other motiv-s, public or private,
011? ){to induce an acceptance. And the principles of good faith
require, that their election should befiee.
*- )a ground, the complaint which regards the withholding
• < ri tetnwotaiy paymeot of interest, except on the onditi«» of a
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 6 9 , HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary ef the Treasury„
Dollars 31,797,481. 22
*°»53 l »303
dols. 31,797,481. 22
6>?95.5i5- »6
3,697,466. 14
dols. 10,616,604. 65
Wednesday, March 7, 1792.
surrender of the old certificates for new ones importing a eontraft
lubftantially different, appears to the S-cretarv not destitute of
foundation. He presumes, that the operation of that provision,
in the particular cafe was not adverted to ; or, that an exception
would have heen introduced as mod consonant with the general
Ipirit and defignof the act. Accordingly the farther measures
which will be submitted, will contemplate a method of obviating
the objection in question.
From the confutation, that an extension of the time for re
ceiving fubferiptions udoii the terms of the ast making provision
or ihe debt of the United States, isdefired by a large proportion
ot the non-fubferibnig creditors; and from the farther confider
at ion, that lufficient experience has not yet been had of the pro
dutfcivenefs ot a considerable branch of the revenues which have
been eftabliQied, to afford the light necessary to the final arrange
ment—it is, in the judgment of the Secretary, advifeable, tore
new the piopofition for a loan in the domestic debt, on the fame
terms with the one which has been closed, and to allow time for
receiving fubferiptions to if unuJ'the last day of September next,
inclulively ; making provision tor the temporary payment of in
terest to such who may not think fit to subscribe, tor the year
1 79 2 > of the like nature with that which was made in the fame
cafe tor the year 1791 —except as to the holders of loan-office cer
tificates, issued between the firft of September, 1777, and the firft
of March, 1778 ; in refpeft to whom it is submitted as proper to
drfpenfe with the obligation of exchanging their old certificates
for new. as the condition of their receiving interest in capacity of
non-fubferibers ; and to allow them, w'.thout such exchange, to
receive the fame interest, both for the years 1791 and 1792, as if
they had fubferibed to the firft loan. It will not be materially
difficult, so to regulate the operation at the treasury as to avoid in
the particular cafe, that danger of imposition by counterfeits,
which was the motive to thegeneral provision for an exchange of
certificates.
11. The amount of the fubferiptions in the debts of the ref
pe&ive States, within the limits of the sum aflumed in each, ap
pears by the ftatrment marked D. to be dollars 17,072,334.
39-ioodths, fubjeft to the observations accompanying that llaie
ment. Consequently the difference between th aggregate of the
sums fubferibed and the aggregate of the sums aflumed, in dollars
45427,665. 61-ioodtbs.
7.088,727. 79
This difference is to be attributed to several causes, the princi
pal of which are the following : First, That the sums afTumed in
l efpeel to certain States exceeded the a&ual amount of their ex
iting debts. Second, That in various instances, a part of the ex
iting debt was in a form which excluded it from being received,
without contravening paiticular provisions of the law ; as in the
cafe of certificates iffucd alter the firft day of January, 1790, in
lieu of certificates which had been iflued prior to that period,
wnich was reported upon by the Secretary on the twenty-fifth day
of February last. Third, Ignorance of, or inattention to the li
mitation of time for receiving fubferiptions. It appears, that a
number of persons loft the opportunity of fubferibing from the
one o» the other of these causes.
1 >«3'>3 6 4- 76
A ftrongdefire that a farther opportunity maybe afforded for
fubferiptions in the debts of the States, has been manifefted by
the individuals interested. And the States of Rhode-Island and
New-Hampshire, have by the public a6ls referred to the Secretary,
indicated a fiinilar desire. The affording of such farther opportu
nity, may either be reftri&ed within the limit, as to amount,
which is contemplated by the ast itfelf, or may receive an exten
sion which will embrace the residuary debts of the States.
1 he firft may be considered as nothing more than giving full
effect to a measure already adopted.
1 he last appears to have in its favor all the leading inducements
to what has been already done. The embarrafTments which
might arise from confli&ing systems of finance, are not entirely
obviated. The efficacious command of the national resources for
national exigencies, is not unequivocally secured. Theequalizing
of the condition of the citizens of every (late, and exonerating
those of the states mod indebted, from partial burthens which
would press upon them in consequence of exertions iu a common
cause, is not completely fulfilled, until the entire debt of every
state, contracted in relation to the w*r, is embraced on one gene
ral and comprehensive plan. The inconvenience to the United
States, of difbui thening the states 4 which arc still encumbered with
considerable debts, would bear no proportion to the inconveni
ence which they would feel, if left to struggle with those debts,
unaided.
15 674. 62
107,648. 63
More general contentment, therefore, in the public mind, may
be expected to attend such an exoneration, than the reveife; in
proportion as the experience of actual inconvenience would be
greatei, though only applicable to parts, in the one than in the
other cafe.
With regard to states, parts only of the debts of which have
been aflTumed, and in proportions ftiort of those, which have pre
vailed, in favor of other states, and short also of what would have
resulted from a due apportionment of the entire sum afTumed ; the
claim to a further aflumption is founded on confederations of
equal justice, as relative to the meafuie itfelf, considered in a se
parate and independent light.
But there is a further reason of material weight for an immedi
ate general assumption. Mpnicd men, as well foreigners as citi
zens, through the expeftatibn of an eventual aflumption, or that in
some shape or other a substantial provision will be made for the
unaflutned residue of the state debts, will be induced to speculate
in the purchase of them. In proportion as the event is unfeitled,
or uncertain, the price of the article will be low, and the present
proprietors will be under disadvantage in the sale. The joss to
them in favor of the purchasers is to be regarded as an evil; and
as far as it is conne&cd with a transfer to foreigners, at an under
value, it will be a national evil. By whatever authority an ulti
mate provision may be made, there will be an absolute loss to the
community eqnal to the amount of such under-value.
It may appear an obje&ion to the measure, that it will require
an establishment of additional funds by the government ot the
United States. But this does not seem to be a necelfary confc
quence. The piobability is, that without a fupplementarv as
sumption, an equal, or very nearly equal augmentation of funds
will be rcquifite to provide for greater balances in lavor of certain
dates, which would be proportionally duninifhed by such af
umption. The destination, not the quantum of the fund, will
therefore be the chief diftin&ion between the two cases.
It may also appear an objection to a total aflumption, that the
magnitude of the object is net ascertained with precision. It is
not certainly known, what sum is due in each state ; nor has it
been poflible to acquire the information, owing to different causes.
But though precise data are deficient, there arc materials which
will serve as guides. From the, returns received at the trcafury,
357
[Whole No. 29 B.]
I a (lifted by information in oilier ways, it miv he ftited without
danger of mater,al error-Tbat the remaining debt, of the llaie.
I over and above the funis already fubferibed, will not exceed the
amount, fpecfied in the Bate,nent D. acro.npauyi.ig this report-
And that, including the sums already fubferibed, thelotal amount
° ;i , H, * matc b'provided for, in the event of a general assumption.
will not exceed dols. 25,403,362. 71 which would couftitute an
addition of dols 3,903,36*. 71 to the Aim of 5i,500,000 dollar*,
already aliumed.
./{-Id » total assumption be deemed eligible, it may still be
advifeable to alfign a determinate sum for each state, that the uc
molt limit of the operation may be pre-eftablilhed ; and it is nt
celiary ,n order to the certainty of a due provision in prop-r time
ul'aff re A° U i', d r r ß '" * on the .Jdfi
lums ailumec}, till after the year 1792.
It will occur, that provision has been made, for paying to each
state, m trull for ,u non-fubicrib.ng creditors, an interest u P on the
difference between the sum..(Filmed (or such fta.e, and that aftu
been fubfenbed ' '° WhSt W ° uM h ' VC bcen T a y ,b 'e> if it had
j" ' h n 'wrll 1 °f ' fanhcr "Gumption, either within the limits al
ready eltabhlhed, or commensurate with the remaining deb's of
the states; It IS conceived, that it will not be incompatible with
the provilion just mentioned, to retain, at the end ot each quarter
during the progress of the farther fubfer, pt.on, out of the money
d.rested to be paid to each state, ihe sum corresponding with the
interest upon so much ol its debts as {hall have been fubferibed to
that period, paying the overplus it any, to the state. An abfo.
lute (ufpenfion of that payment does not appear confident with
the nature of the ftipulatior., included in that provision ; for though
the money to be paid to a state be expr.fsly a trull for the non.
uotcriblng creditors ; yet as it cannot be certain beforehand, that
they will cleft to change their condition, the possibility of it will
not juilify a lufpenfion of payment to the state, which might opc.
rate as a suspension of payment to the creditors themselves.
A farther objeaion to such a suspension results from the idea,
'hat the provision in question appears to have a secondary obje6l;
namely, as a p edge for fecurin; a provision for whatever balance
may be found due to a state on the general fettlemenL of accounts.
The payment direded to be made to a state, is, " to continue until
there Ihall be a fettlemcnt of accounts between the Uni:ed States
and the individual ftdtcs ; and in cafe a balance Ihould then appear
in favor of a state, until provision (hall be made for the said ba
lance."
This secondary operation as a pledge or security (confidently
with the intent of the funding ast) can only b.: superseded in fa
vor of the primary objedf, a provision for the creditors ; and as far as
may be necessary to admit thorn to an etf;dual participation or
it. But as whatever money may be paid to a state, is to be paid
over to its creditors, proportional deductions may, with proprie
ty, be made from the debts of those creditors who may hweafier
lubfcribe; so as that the United States may not have to pay twice
for the fdine purpose.
If it (hall be judged expedient, either to open again, or extend
the aflumption, it will be necefTary to vary the dcfcriptinn of the
debts, which may be lubfcribed, so as to comprehend all those,
which have relation to services or supplies during the war, under
such refttiftions as arc requtfite to guaid against abuse.
In the original proposition for an assumption of the (late debts,
and in the suggestions now made on ibc fame fubjeii, the Sccie
taty has contemplated, aod still contemplates, as a material part
of the plan, an cffr&ual proviflon for the ! ;of the vacant lands
of the United States. He has considered tbn refourci-, as all im
portant mean of finking a part of the debt, and facilitating ulti,
mate arrangements concerning the residue. If fupplementarjr
funds (hall be rendered necessary, by an additional aflfiini|jtion #
the provilion will most conveniently be made at the next feflW
of Congress, when the produftivenefsof the exilling revenues, and
the exicnt of the sum to be provided for, will be better ascer
tained.
There is a part of the public debt of the United States, which
is a cause of some perplexity to the treasury. It is not compre
hended within the existing provision for the foreign debt which
is confined to loans made abroad ; and it is queftiouable, whether
it is to be regarded as a portion of the domcftic debt. It is not
only due lojoreignerj, but the interest upon it is payable, by ex
press stipulation, in a foreign country ; whence it becomes a mat
ter of doubt, whether it be at all contemplated by the ad making
provision for the debt of the United States. The part alluded to, ,
is that which is due to certain foreign officers who served the
United States during the late war. In consequence of a resolution
of Congress, directing their inter ft to be paid to them in France,
the ceitificates which were issued to them fpecify, that " in pur
suance of and compliance with a certain resolution of Congress of
the third day of February, 1784, the laid inteieft is to be paid, an
nually, at the house of Monf. lc\Grand, banker in Paris." Interest
has accoidinglv been paid to them at Pans, down to the 31 ft of
December, 1788, by virtue of a special resolution of Congress of
the 20th of August in that year, fmce which period, no payment
has been made.
It has been heretofore suggested as the op : nion of the Secretary,
that it would be expedient to cause the whole of this dcfcriptioa
of debt to be paid off; among other ieafons, because it bears an
inteieft at fix per centum per annum, payable abroad, and can be
discharged with a saving. The other reasons alluded to are of a
nature both weighty and delicate, and too obvious, it is presumed,
to need a fpecification. Some recent circumftanccs have served to
strengthen the inducements to the m afure. But if it should,
finally, be deemed unadvifeable, it is necessary, at least, that pro*
vision (hould be made for the interest, wh ch is now suspended,
under the doubt that has been stated, and from the want of autho
rity to remit it pursuant to the contra#.
The amount of this debt, with the arrears of intcreft to the end
of the year 1791, is dols. 220,646. 81.
IV. The ad making provision for trie debt of tho United States,
has ;«ppropria'ed the proceeds of the western lands as a fund for
the discharge of the public debt. And the a£fc making provifioa
ior ttie redu&ion ot the public debt, has appropriated all the sur
plus of the duties on imports and tonnage, to the e»rd of the year
1790, to the purpose of purchasing the debt at the market price,
and has authorjfed the President to borrow the further sum ot
two millions of dollars tor the fame objefct. >
These measures f:rve to indicate the intention of the legiflaturc,
as early and as fait as to provide for the cxtinguilhroent
of the existing debt.
In puriuatice of 1 hat intention, it appears advifeable, that a sys
tematic plan should be begun for the creation «nd eftabhflimeot
a finking fund.
(to be cowti NWEq.j9
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
IiOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, February 6.
In committee of the, whole, on the F-ijhery Bill.
[CONTI N U ED.*]
MR. MADISON. In the conflict I feel be
. tween my disposition on one hand to afford
every constitutional encouragement to the fiifhe
ries, and niy diflrke on the other, of the conse
quences apprehended from some clauses in the
bill, I should have forborne to enter into this
if 1 had not found that over and above,
such arguments as appear to be natural and per
tinent to the fubje<ft, others have been introduc
ed, which are in my judgment, contrary to the
true meaning, and even ltrike at the 'chara<fter
iftic principles the exiftihg constitution. Let
me premise however to the remarks which I shall
briefly offer, on the do<ftrine maintained by these
gentlemen,,that I make a material diiiindtion in
theprefent cafe, between anallowanceas a mere,
commutation and modification of a drawback,
and an allowance in the nature of a real and po
sitive bounty. I make a diftincftion also, as a
of fair consideration, at least, between a
bounty granted under the particular terms in the
constitution, " a power to regulate trade," and
one granted under the indefinite terms, which
have been cited as authority on this occasion.
I think however that N the term " bounty" is in
every point of view improper as it is here appli
ed, not only beeaufe it may be offenfive to some,
and in the opinion of others, carries a dangerous
implication ; -but also because it does not express !
the true intention of th«r bill as avowed and ad
vocated by its patrons themselves. For if in the
.allowance nothing more is proposed than a mere
reimbursement of the sum advanced, it is only
paying a debt ; and when we pay a debt, we
ought not to claim themerit of granting a bounty.
It is supposed by some gentlemen, that Con
greft have authority not only to grant bounties
in the ferife here used, merely as a commutation
for drawbacks ; but even to grant them under a
power by virtue of which they may do any thing
■which they may think conducive to the " gene
ral welfare." This, Sir, in my mind raises the
important and fundamental question ; whether
the general terms which have been cited, are to
be considered as a fort of caption or general de
scription of the fpecified powers, and as having
no further meaning, and giving no further pow
er, than what is found in that fpecification, or
as an abftradt an-1 indefinite.delegation of pow
er extending to all cases whatever ; to all
at least as will admit the application of money,
which is giving as much latitude as any govern
ment could well desire.
J, Sir, ha«e always conceived, —I believe those
who proposed t ihe constitution conceived, and it is
still niore stilly known, and more material toob
ferve, t{iat those who ratified the constitution
conceived, that this is not an indefinite govern
ment, deriving its powers from thegeneral terms
prefixed to the fpecified powers, but a limitted
government, tied down- to the fpecified powers,
which explain and define the general terms.
The gentlemen who contend for a contrary
doctrine are surely not aware of the consequenc
es which flow from it, and which they mull ei
ther admit or give up their do<ftrine.
It will follow in the firft place that if theterms
be taken in the broad sense they maintain, the
particular powers afterwards so carefully and
cliftin«ftly enumerated would be without mean
ing, and tn nit go for nothing. It would be ab
find to fay firft, that Congress may dowhatthev
please, and then that they may'do this or that
particular thing ; after giving Congress power
to ra'rfe money and apply it to all put pofcs which
they may pronounce neceflary to the general wel
fare, it would be absurd, to fay the least, fuper
add a power to raise armies, to provide fleets,
&c. In fact t' t meaning of the general terms in
question niuft either be fought in the subsequent
enumeration which limits and details them ; or
they convert the government from one limitted
as hitherto supposed, to the enumerated powers,
into a government without any limits at all.
lt is to be recollected that tht terms " common
defence and general welfare" as here used, are
not novel terms fir ft introduced into this confti
tution. They are terms familiar in their con
ftrti&ion and well known to the people of Ame
rica.
They are repeatedly found in the old articles
of confederation, where altho they are fufcepti
ble of as great latitude as can be given theip by
the context here, it was never supposed or pre-
ended tliat they conveyed any such power as is
now assigned to them. On the contrary, it was
always cotifidered as clear and certain, that the
old Congress was limitted to the enumerated
powers ; and that the enumeration limitted and
explained the general terms. I alk the gentle
men themselves whether it ever was supposed or
ufpetfted that the old Congress could give away
lie monies of che dates in bounties, to encou-
rage agriculture, or for any other purpose they
plea fed. If such a power had been pofTelTed by
that body, it would have been much less impo
tent, or have borne a very different character
from that universally ascribed to it.
The novel idea now annexed to these terms,
Sand never before entertained by the friends or
enemies of the government, will have a further
consequence which cannot have been taken into
the view of the gentlemen. Their conftrudtion
would not only give Congress the compleat legis
lative power 1 have dated : it would do more ;
it would fupercede all the reftricftions understood
at present to lie on their power with reipedt to
the judiciary. It would put it in the power of
Congress to establish courts throughout the Unit
ed States, with cognizance of suits between citi
zen and citizen, and in all cases whatsoever.
This, Sir, seems to be demonstrable : for if the
clause in question really authorises Congress to
do whatever they think fit, provided it be for the
general welfare, of which they are to judge, and
money can be applied to it, Congress mull have
power to create and support a judiciary establish
ment, with a jurifdidliori extending to all cases
favorable in their opinion tothe general welfare,
in the fame manner as they have power to pais
laws and apply money, providing in any other
way for the general welfare—l lhall be remind
ed perhaps, that according to the terms of the
constitution the judicial power is to extend to cer
tain cases only, not to a'l cases. But this circurn
{tance can have no effect in the argument, it be
ing presupposed by the gentlemen that the fpe
cification of certain obje>fts does not limit the im
port of general terms. Taking these terms as
an abrtratfl and indefinite grant of power, they
comprize all the objects of legislative regulation,
as well such as fall under the judiciary article
in the constitution, as those falling immediately
under the legislative article ; and if the partial
enumeration of objecfts in the legislative article
does not, as these gentlemen contend, limit the
general power, neither will it be limitted by the
partial enumeration of objeifts in the judiciary
article.
There are consequences, Sir, still more
five, which, as they follow clearly from the doc
trine combated, mull either be admitted, or the
dotflrine must be given up. If Congress cin ap
ply money indefinitely to the general welfare,
and are the sole and (upreme judges of thegene
ral welfare, they may take the care of religion
into their own hands ; they may eftabli/li teach
ers in every state, county, and parifli, and pay
them out of the public treasury ; they may take
into their own hands the education of children,
establishing in like manner schools throughout
the union ; they may undertake the regulation
of all roads, other than pod roads : in short, eve
ry thing, from the higbeft objedl of state legisla
tion. down to the molt minute objecft of police,
would be throwri under the power of Congress ;
for every objecft I have mentioned would admit
the application of money, arid might be called,
if Congress pleased, provisions for the general
welfare.
The language held in various difcuflions of
this house, is a proof that the dodtrine in questi
on was never entertained by this body. Argu
ments, wherever the fubjedt would permit, have
constantly been drawn from the peculiar nature
of this government as limitted to certain enume
rated powers, instead of extending, like other
governments, to all cases not particularly except
ed. In a very late instance, 1 mean the debate
on the representation bill, it must be remember
ed, that an argument much urged, particularly
by a gentleman from Mafl'achufetts, againii the
atio of one for 30,000, was t hat this government
was unlike the state governments, which had an
ndefinite variety of objects vmhin their power,
that it had a fina.ll number of objects only to at
tend to, and therefore that a smaller number of
reprefencatives would be fufficient to administer
it.
Several arguments have been advanced rofhew
that becaiife, in tlie regulation of trade, indirect
and eventual encouragement is given to manu
factures, therefore Congress have power to give
money in direct bounties, or to grant it in any
other way that would answer the fame purpose :
But finely, Sir, there is a grea: and obvious dif
ference which it cannot be necessary to enlarge
upon. A duty laid on imported implements of
husbandry, would in its operation be an indirect
tax on exported prod.uce ; but will any one fay,
that by virtue of a mere power to lay duties on
imports, Congress might go dire<Ttlv to the pro
duce or implements of agriculture, or to the ar
ticles exported. It is true, duties on exports are
expressly prohibited ; but if there were no arti
358
ele forbidding them a power directly to tax e>t.
port's could nev-r be deduced from a power t 0
tax imports, although such a power might direct
ly and iricidently affect exports
In fhorc, Sir, without'going farther into the,!
fubje*Tt, which I should not have here touched |
at all but for the reasons already mentioned..^*®
I venture to declare it as my opinio.n, that were
power of Congress tobe established in the
contended for, it would subvert the very
on, and tranfinute the very natiure of the limit-■*!
ted government eftablilheil by the people of
rica : — and what inferences might be diavrn or<Jl
what consequences ensue from such a step,
incumbent on us all well to consider. * '/*i
With refpetft to rhe question before the Houiy -t
for linking out the clause, it is immaterial whe
ther it be ltruck out, or so amended as to reft""
on the avowed principle of a commutation sos '>
the drawback ; but as a clause has been drawn
up by my colleague, in order to be i'ubltituted- v
1 ftiall concur in a vote for ilriking out, referv. '
ing to iriyfelf a freedom to be governed in my '
final vote by the modification which may prey ay/
Mr. Bourne (MaflT.) —Mr. Chairman, I think
little can be added after so full a difcuffionof the -
fubje<fc before you. The'objecft of the firft fedioa
in this bill, is intended for the relief of the 6ft- ■
ermen and their owners; they complain that the
law now in force was meant for their benefit, by
granting a drawback on the filh exported; thii '
they find by experience is not the cafe—forthey
fay that neither the fifhermen who catch thefift, '
or the importer of the fait, receives the
back ; and I rather fuppbfe, Sir, it is the cafe
The owners of ths greater part of the fifhing ves
sels are npt merchants, neither do they import
the fait they confunie ; but when the filh they
take are cured for market, they are fold at the
market price ; and it frequently happens, that
those persons who purchase the fifli, are not the
exporters of them, or the importers of the fait —
but a third person, whopurchafes with aprofpect
of felling them at a profit, is the exporter; and
when it so happens, neither the fifherman who
catches the filh, or the importer of the fait, re
ceives any benefit from the drawback, unless the
purchaser (the third person) gives a greater price
in contemplation of the drawback, which I think
is not to be supposed.
Is it worthy the attention of government that
the cod fifhery lhould be preferved?—lt appears
to me that it is. When we consider the labour
and afliduity bellowed 011 this object by our rci
nifters, at the fettle'ment of peace between us and
Great-Britain, and the care then taken to secure
this privilege, as appears by the treaty [He r c
Mr. Bourne read that part of the treaty which
secures to us the fifhery, he then proceeded] and
consider the struggle made to deprive us of this
inestimable branch of commerce, I cannot sup
pose that any one would at this day voluntarily
relinquish it, and fuffer Great-Britain to mono
polize thissbranch, and fnpply the Mediterranean,
.French, and other markets. Great-Britain, at
present, enjoys a fufficient portion of this com
merce, while France is confined to the narrow li
mits of St. Peters and Miquelon. If we relin
quish this branch of" the cod filhery, what is left
us > —Our whale fiiliery is nearly at an end, and
unless government fpeedilv inrerpofes by grant
ing relief, we shall totally lose i . — Does not the
Briiifh government wifti to deprive us of this
branch also ? have not letters or agents been sent
to, the iflind of tyantucket, as well as New-Bee
ford, where this branch of bufinef* is principally
prosecuted, inviting the whale fifhermen 10 re
move,.and offering them permanent fettlemenu
at Milford-Haven, at the expcnce of their go
vernment ?—This mtift be viewed as a great en
couragement, in addition to their bounties on 01.
to a class of poor men employed in thatbufine s.
If the cod fifhery is relinquished, the filhermen
have only to remove to theoppofitefhoreof J™
Scotia, where they will find encouragement " *
adequate to their services—os all which the) at
not unapprised. By encouraging this <• a '
men, your revenue will be encrealed ; for in
turn for the fifh exported, you will receive "g •
coffee, cocoa, indigo, molafles, pimento, cotto .
dying woods, rum, wine, fait, fruit and _ 0 -
articles fubjedl to duty, and con fumed in
country.—And again, your treahiry will re
an excess by the provision in tins bill rot y
fume the greater proportion of vefTels e *P '
in this business, are from 20 to 40 tons—tne
of Marblehead, perhaps, have principal:l e
ones. Suppose thsn a veflel of ;o torl
in a season 600 quintals of fifh (a very
voyage indeed) her tonnage is 75 0 ' ' f 0
drawback 011 exportation would be 7»
that your treasury re.ains three dollar
• this bill, which would be a .ofsonth
Mr. Chairman, I think, upon tne wi ' nen
bv granting this encouragement to th« wQul a
aiid their owners, held out I ". th s„ ' u 10 pc
prove very beneficial to the United Stat'* be
I therefore the section before you
, i Itruck out.
TO BE QON TJ X Vtß.)
t
MSATURDAY, Map. f h 3
The committee, to whom was referred, on the
2of February, the following motion :
" Resolved, That the Secretary of theTrea
fury caafe to be laid before the House a (tate
ment of the balances, if any, remaining unpaid,
which may have been due by individuals to the
United States, previous to the 4th day of March,
1789 ; and whether any and what steps havg been
taken to recover the fame; and also a (latement
of the sundry funis of public monies, which may
have been entrusted to individuals, previous to
the said 4th of March, 1789, and have not been
accounted for —made a report, which, after
(latino to the House the various circumstances
that hud (truck them in the examination of the
treasury books, they concluded by declaring as
their opinion, that it will be iinpolfible to obtain
the report of the state of accounts contemplated
in the above resolution, during the present fef
fion, without greatly retarding the current bu(i
nefs of the department ; and that it will be inex
pedient to take any resolution on the fubjecit
matter of the resolution referred to them.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee appointed,
reported a •' bill for enrolling and licenling ships
and veflels employed in the coasting trade and
filheries, and for regulating the fame.
Mr. Findley presented nine petitions fronj the.
inhabitants of Chester county, in the state of
Pennsylvania, praying a revision of the Excise-
Law.
The House proceeded to the cortfideradori of
the amendments offered by the Senate, to the
" bill to ascertain and regulate the claims to half
pay and to invalid pensions."—Some theyagreed
to, and disagreed to others.
Mr. Secretary Lear delivered a mefTage from
the Prefulent of the United States, together with
* copy of the return made to him of the number
of the inhabitants within the diftrii't of South-
Carolina.
A report from tlie Secretary of the Treasury,
refpeifting compel' 1 ati 011 s to the commissioners of
loans, was read and referred to a felecft commit
tee, confiding of Meflrs. B. Bourne, Mercer,
and Tucker. Adjourned.
MONDAY, March j
A letter from the Secretary of.State, covering
certain arts of the government north-welt of the
river Ohio, was communicated by the Speaker,
and read—and on motion, referred to the com
mitter to wh~oip those before received were re-
ferred
' Mr. Grove, of the committee appointed for the
purpose, reported a bill providing for the finilh
ing the light houfjp on Bald-Head, at the month
of Cape-Fear River, which was read the fir(t and
second time, and made the order of the day on
Tuesday next
A report on the petition of the officers of the
levies late in the fervicte of thf United States-,
■was read, which was in favor of the prayer of the
petition
T|ie Hotife took into consideration the amend
menis-propofed by the committee of the whole to
the militia bill. Some of them were adopted,
others disagreed to—several new amendments
■were made, and* the bill ordered to be engroiled.
for a third reading.
A meflhge fram the Setiate informed the House,
that they have parted a bill providing for the re
lief of certain widows, invalids, orphans & other
persons, with amendments, in which they request
the concurrence of the House.
A nieflage was received from the Preiident of
the United States by Mr. Secretary Lear, com
municating to the Hoi<fe the translation of- a let
ter from the King of France, announcing his ac
ceptance of the Constitution of that kingdom.—
These were tead and laid on the table.
A meflagefrom the Senate informed the House,
that they lnlift on all the amendments proposed
by the Senate to the bill to ascertain and regulace
the claims to half pay and invalid penlions—and
propose a conference on the fubjetfsot difagiee
ment.
A" meflage from the President of the Uni;ed
States by Mr. Secretary Lear, informed ihe House,
that he had this day approved and signed a bill,
entitled, " An acS making further pi ovifion for
the defenceof theFrontievs ofthe United States "
A committee of conference was appointed on
the disagreement between theHoufeand Senate,
refpecling the bill to ascertain and regulate the
claims to half-pay and invalid penlions —Com-
mittee, Meflis. Livermore-, Murray.and Kitchell.
The amendments of he Senate to the bill pro
viding for the relief of certain widows, &x. were
read, and laid on the table. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, March 6.
Sundry petitions were re d and cf^rcd.
A representation from the legifhture of North-Carolina, was
read, rcfpe&ing certain lands ceded to the Indians in the Territo
ry Southwest of the Ohio. "
Mr. Parker Introduced the follow
was hid on the table—viz,
Resolved, That theSccretary of the Treasury be dirc&ed to re
port what money, 1! any, now remains in the treasury, of appro
priations made previous to the year 1791 — distinguishing what
funis remain of the rcfpettive appropriations.
ing resolution, which being
Willizmfon laid the following motion on tTie f : i'-!-
a committee be appointed to report a hill to am-.r-J
law, la tar as to permit the landing of fait at c.K .m -v..
belonging to (he fifheries—and to provide lor the alio
drawback on thcl'altufecl on provisions exoorted.
The militia bill was brought in, engrolfjd, and read the hird
time.
Mr.,Viningthen moved that the bill ftiould be re-committed—
This motion, alter dt bale, was negatived—2B to 27. The House
then proceeded to fill up the blanks—which being completed, the
ayes and noes were called on the palling the bill—and were ayes
31, noes 27. ■ f
Mr. Gerry reported a bill for reducing the rates of postage on
newfpapers—this*bill proposes a reduction of the postage to one
half the rates in the poft-office law.
A report was read from the Secretary of the Treasury, rcfpefU
ing the difficulties which have occurred in the execution of the
excise, &c. and 100 copies ordered to be printed. Adjourned
BOSTON, Feb. 22
LEGISLATURE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
House of Representatives, Feb. 21.
A Bill to incorporate Henry Knox, John Coffin
Jones, David Cobb, Benjamin Hichborn, and
Henry Jackson, Esquires, and such others as may
afibciate with them, for the pnrpofe of opening
a iiavrgable Canal from any part of Connecticut
Rivdr, to communicate with the town of Boston,
was read 3 firft time, and ordered for a second
reading to-morrow, at 4 o'clock, p. m.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
Meflleurs .Printers,
TAM a man of nature—my ideas arenot twified
A by the sophistry of government-makers ; yet
lam for government, and here is my plan. I
have followed naturp, ai}d that sense which na
ture has implan ted in every mail. I would have
a government, but it should not govern me—that
is my fir ft article. My second is, I would govern
itv And thirdly, I and .my government would
govern every .body else according tomy pleafnre.
Here is a plan of three parts, as it (l)ould be and
which follows i.ature ; whereas every other
scheme thwarts it, and may be truly said to be
against nature. lam clear again it an Excise,
therefore I would not submit my property to any
aut-hority.—As to my person, hands off. Ami
to be dragged about in the militia ? or in the
wars ? or to answer mycreditors (worfethan In
dians) in the law courts ? No. lam a freeman
—and shall government, a creature I have made
and pulled to pieces twenty times, lord it over
nie ? No, Meflieurs Printers, I give the world
notice that I will fill the full till go
vernment h'aul in its horns, knd regulate its mea
sures by my three articles of natural law. I will
rail against the debt—the army—the war—the
bank-—the Excise—the P I—the heads of de
apartments. I will cry out re-pobli-can-ifm and
the rights of man, by which 1 dont mean the iaivs%f
the land, nor equal government ; but a govern
ment agreeable to my three articles. 1 will hold
forth loudly about republican virtue and equa
lity—l will inveigh mightily against public faith
— when I am tired of going on foot I will get up
and ride on consolidation. The state govern
ments shall be so wife, so pure, so free, so modest
.and so much in danger, that I will advise the
small states to take away power from Congress
and give it to the large states. Congress and the
public officers shall be painted like devils, except
there should be fotlnd any of them who are among
us who write in the newspapers, like Caius, &c.
these I will praise in poetry and prose. In my
next I will lend you a new song, in which foine
of my heroes are celebrated, to the tune of Oh
my kitty, my deary. WHISKY.
Philadelphia, March 7.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS,
It is hardly poflible to conceive that a more
favorable opportunity than the pre fen t will ever
occur of eftablilhing free schools in this com
monwealth. The public Treasury is full and
flowing; j so that pecuniary aid can be immedi
ately afforded if neceflary, to as great anamount
as may be expetSed at any future period. But
it is pvefumed that disbursements from the pub
lic Treasury will not be neceflary. It may be
queltioned whether on the plan of County Schools
appropriations of this kind, would be equitable
or just. The income of the State applied to dis
charge its debts, support the government, and
for other general purposes, so far as it goes, will
fupercede the neeefluy of taxation for those ob
jects : the way then appears to be fairly open
for an universal tax to support an univerfalplan
of education, so far as to comprehemi reading,
WRITING, GRAMMAR alld ARITHMETIC.
It ought to be taken for granted by all legisla
tive bodies that the people will be pleased with
nieafures which reason and experience shew will
conduce to their interest—but, the public senti
ment is, and mull continue to be in favor of a
general difFufion of knowledge—this they know
cannot be obtained without expence ; and the
supposition ought not to be made that they would
not chearfully incur it, much less fupercede an
experiment in the cafe. .?
359
The cftabiifisment of county schools or aca
demies, will not be of universal utility they
will benefit the more wealthy part of the com
munity—and by the accommodation they afford
to this cjafs, willlelfen the number of those who
feel interested in a more general plan—and,in the
fame proportion, procraltinate the period when
a fv Item for the poor as-well as the rich, shall be
adopted.
It is an imputation on the good sense of the
people, to ftippofe that they 1 would not with chear
fulnefs pay a tax for the support of learning
tor it mult occur to them that the rich wiil pay
more than their proportion, when they consider
that the major part of children are the inheri
tance of the poor anxl middling clafles of citizens.
The plan of education here Contemplated is,
that every person who pays a tax, however finnli,
shall have an equal right to the benefit nS this free
and universal institution.
The wealthy are interested peculiarly iri this
work of benevolence ; for the knowledge of the
people is x\\e ficurity of tranquility underajuft
government—without knowledge, they cannot
appreciate the value and importance of govern
ment—and hence the poflcflions of the rich,
among an ignorant people, are held by a very pre
carious tenure—unless the people are slaves.
The poor and middling clafles are deeply in
terested in this public provision for the education
of their children—For it is tantalizing to fay that
there shall be no diftiniftions of ranks, or exclii
five privileges—and that the avenues to the poll*
of honor and profit under the state and general
governments, /hall be accessible to all, without
diftintSion, who poflefs talents and virtue—while
the paths of learning are not, and cannot be trod
den by the poor.
There is a double security to the liberties of
the people derived from their being well.inform
ed— The firfl: is, it leads legislators to lie cautiou*
in ena<fting laws, led they infringe on the rights
of man—and secondly, it enables the people to
discern the more speedily those errors ordefigns
of an adminiftratioti which have an unfavorable
afpedl on the public interest and happiness. ,
Some old fable tells us, that Jupiter wasfo much
teazed by the prayers of mankind, that at length
he resolved to grant them whatever (hey asked.
But the spirit of discontent was so far from being,
allayed by it, that it broke out in murmurs more
than ever. If this tale were of modern date, we
should believe the author had intended a fling
at us. 1
Some time ago, before the new government
was put in motion, all the cry was—we are a poor
diftrefled nation—there is 110 money, &c. The
revenue and finances are put into order, credit is
revived, and money is plenty—and now the cry
is louder than ever.—We are too rich tQ free.—
Money is too plenty—the people will not work
to earn it. * •
The Lanfingburgh paper fays, that on the no
mination of the Hon. Judge Jay, and Mr. Van
Ranfellaer, as Governornor and Lieutenant-Go
vernor of the State of New-York, at a large meet
ing of the citizens.of Albany, only 5 diflentients
appeared—and that the fame unanimity in their
favor appeared in every place from whence in
formation had been received. "
PRICE CURRENT.— PUBLIC SFXURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT,
6 pr. Cents 2sf pr. J.
3 pr. Cents 14f6
Defered 6 pr. Cents 15J
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f 110
Indents nf 7° Mo
hair shares Rank Stock—los per cent premium.
CONTRACTS.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Mirth 6, 1792.
NOTICE \s hereby given, that Proposals will be
the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, until 5 o'clock
in the afternoon of Wednesday the 21ft day of March inltant. fi»r
the supply of the following articles of Clothing tor the Troops
in the feivice of the United States, viz.
for the Infantry and Artili.ery.
4,608 hats 18,460 shirts
4.608 coats 7,956 pairs of socks
4,608 veils 4,608 blankets
8,668 woolen overalls 4,608 flocks
9,216 linen ditto 4,608 flock clasps
18,376' pairs of shoes 4,608 pairs of buckles.
For the Cav alky.
320 caps 640 do. of (lockings
320 coats 1,280 shirts
320 veils 320 blankets
320 pairs leather breechcs 320 flocks
640 do. of boots 320 flock clasps.
320 do. of spurs
Also, 1,200 rifle shirts, to be made of Ruflia sheeting.
Of the above clothing, five hundred suits are to be delivered on
the 15th day of April next; one thousand suits on the 15th day
ofr May next; one thousand five hundred suits on the 15th day of
June next; and the remainder on the 15th day of July next.—
The place of delivery may be either at New- York, Philadelphia
or Baltimore, at the. option of the contra£lor or contra6lors.
Proposals will be received for the whole of the above mentioned
clothing, or for any one component article fcparately to be fur
nifhed agreeably to patterns or specimens, which may be seen at
the War Office.
Good security for the punflual and faithful performance of the
contract will be required. The payments will be on the delivery
of the clothing; or, if neceflary, such reasonable advance* will bs
made as may be desired.
pr. cent.
72J do.
75 do.PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
March 6.—Dollars 100 Cents each*
AJJCHORS pr.lb. jc 8c £itch, pr. bbL idy^ctd
Allum, Englilfa, pr.c. Pork, Burlington, urf
DitW, Roch pr.lb. Ik ——Lower county jcd
A fee j, pot, pertoo, god iood Carolina grf
Pearl, Peas, Albany pr. bulb. 73c
Arrack pr.gall. id 33c >d6ye Pepper, pr.lb. 44* 47c
Brandy, common, tdiic Pimento t- c
F*T* 1
Bread, Ihip, pr. cwt. id ZBc Xd ?" t0 P r " box .. 4 d
Ditto, pilot 3d67c P r - cv ': 2 1 6 7 c2^P
Ditto, fraall-water 3 6c 4 oc Rof > n bbl. : c
Beer, American, in 1 , f J"""" P r - 8 al1 " 11 "
bot pr.doz.bot.incl.J li S I ™""5 U1 o2"
pr.bbl. 4d6 7 c » J * 80 3C
w f Oak pr.M feet, qdtod « ] ® arbador ' "<
gjMerch.pine M ijd L Country, N.E. s9 c
T ®ap> d°- W joe Salt petre.pr. cwt. lgj33c 14a
S N.Eng. SafTafrasi pr. ton 6d 84
L Cedar 14W Shot 14OH
TAe aine art she SAatlop price j \ £ German pr. lb. g<
Yard prices add id33f w jEnglifli, blistered cwtioc
pr- M. £ yAmericanpr. ton ii3</g3(
Brimfkonrrolls pr.cwt. grf «j (Crowley's pr. fag iod6ji
jjj (Iri(h pr.' bbl. Snake root pr. lb. 20^421
\ Bnflon yd id Soap, Brown 61
« C Country 6d yd White &
B«««r pr.lb. 16c Castile it<
' 1 in kegs tec ite Starch 71
H f ®-P er * P r - 43' Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4<| $d 601
J I Wax 53c 56c Spermaceti, refined, 4$
£•< Myrtle Wax 13c cloth, Englifb,") o
j Mould,tallow Jtc No ». per yard, J
C 2 (.Dipped *iot Boftoo, No. I. 30.
Cheese, Eoglifli, pr. lb. 19c No. 11. 291
Country Btior Kuffia (heeting, pr.p. 121
Chocolate 17c 18c {"Lump, pr.lb 22(
Cihnamom 2d 40c id 6yc aj J Loaf, r, n gle refined 25
Cloves id 3jf < J Ditto, double do. 36
Coal pr. bufliel aoc2«t j Havannah, white 16C17
. _ »*• J ... M 1 .
Cocoa pr. cwt. 67c 11 d 33c
Coffee pr. lb. 17c 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. id6yc
Cordage 'jdS'jc^d
Cotton pr. lb. 27c 36c
Cuiraot* 13c
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piece I\d33c
Ravers 8d 93c yd 67c
Feathers pr. lb. 40c 44c
Flax 10c
Flaxfeec pr. bush. 85c 90c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. s^*3*
Common, 4d 74 c
* Bur middlings,beft 4d 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id id33c
Fustic pr. ton, 20^
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe,
Do. pr. gall. 80c
Glue, pr. cwt. tod zid
Ginger, wbiterace
Ditto, common yd 20c
Ditto, ground pr. lb. gc
Ginseng, 20c 14c
Gunpowder, can- > . .
non, pr. q. c. J o /o *
Ditto, fine glazed $d
'Wheat pr. bufb 90c 93c
Rye 54c 60c
Oats 26c 33c
Indian corn 40c 44c
Barley 60c 63*
Bed flielled pr. lb. 3c
Buckwheat per bush. 40c
Hemp, fo.pr. ton, 120 d 146.67 c
American, pr. lb. 4c $c
Herrings, pr. bbl.
Hides, raw pr. lb„ gc 11c
Hops ? 7 c
Hcgfhead hoops, pr. M Isd
Indigo, French lb. idzoc \d33c
Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
f Castings pr. cwt 3d47c
V. | Bar pr. ton, 82d
2 4 P'g 2 67c
5 | Sheet 1731/ 33c
t Nail rods 96d
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 d
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 c 10c
Lead in pigs pr.c. s</33c sd6yc
in bars 7d
Lead, white iodiod6yc
red 6d 40c 6d 6jc
Leather, foal pr. lb. 14c 17c 20c
Lignum vitae pr. ton, $d6oc 6d
Logwood 24*/
Mace pr. lb.
Mackarel, bed pr. bbl. gd
f cond quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. 16c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Mart spars 33c 67c
Molafles pr. gall. 41c 45c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, io<
Nails, iod\id and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb. 8d
f Lmfeed, pr. gall. $ne
1 Olive 87 c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2dscc
. I Beftfweetin ) ,
— <{ flafks.pr.box \ 10
® | —bafltets 12 bottles
j Spermaccti pr. gall. 48c
I Train 27c
Whale 22c 28c
Poner pr. cask, $d 33c
London, pr. doz. ldfioc
Porter, American) ,
pr.doz. bot.incl. J ><W6oc
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andiiOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,betweenChefuat and MarketStreel*.
PI & QUANTITY
o J Ditto, brown, 12c 16
LMufco.pr.cwt
piritsTurpentine p. g. 33C37
SAllum pr. bu(h.24C2-i
Liverpool 291
Cadiz 25*
Lisbon 25c 274
ihip build. W.O.i , >
frames p. ton, j 12 1
Do. L O. 33c 16^67c
Do. red cedar, p. f. 33c 40c
ihingles, {h. p.
Do. long drefied 12^13^33 f
Icantling, heart, 23^33
Sap 8d 8d 6y c
C Pipe pr. 1000 30 d
3 ; W. O. hoglhead 19 d 33c
> j R.O. do. lgd 50c
< Leogan i6i
n Barrel 10 d
.Heading 26 d6;c
' Otter, best pr. pie.
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, grey 40c 80c
-red 1 d 2CC
£ Martins 24c 1 d
Fifhcrs 33c 67c
» Bears " 3 d
Racoons 27c 60c
Musk-rats 11 c 20c
Braver, pT. lb. 67c i<f 33c
_Deei, in hair 20c 30c
Tar,N.Jerfey, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
—Carolina, 32 gall. 1033 c 14/67 C
Turpentine pr. bbl. id 67c
f James R. be ft 6oe 73c
3 inferior 2d67c 3d
o 67c
Rappahannock 2<f 50c3d
0 J Colo.Maryland $d 33c 8d
U j Dark 2</ 40c
Long-Itaf 2<f4oc
ca j Eastern-shore 2d 2d 23c
C S Carolina, new 2d yc 3d
L old do.
\ Hyson pr. lb. 93*- \d 28c
j Hyson (km, 53 c &7c
2 Souchong, s cc 93c
I Congo, 43c 50c
34c 36c
Tallow, refined 9c
Tin pr. box,
Vefdigr.?afe pr. lb. 47c 53c
Vermillion \d33c\dbyc
Varniih, 33c 37 c
J" Madeira, pr.p. ic6</200<i
j Lisbon 96^1001/
j Teneriffe, pr. gal. 51C60C
W I Fa y al 44 c 49 c
2; J Port pr. p. io6d 67c
Do. in bottles.pr. doz.
»-* Claret 4a'6d
Sherry pr.gall. 90c \dioc
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,longpr.lb. 13C30C
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange f London,
90 cfays i£")
60 days pr.cent. prem.
3° "ay 3i)
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3 g<
90 days 38c
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per n guilders, 4d 44 c
France, 60 days Bcc
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR SALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chefnut-Street Wharf,
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam MolafTeJv
Coffee, Colon, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souehong Tea, of the firft quality, t
Cloves, Caflia, and tfofton Chocolate,
Spermaeaeti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Boston Beef and Burling'on Pork,
Ruflia and Boston Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, and quarter eaflts,
And a few cases old Batavia Arrack.
February 8, 1792
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Public Vendue,on Wednesday
the nth day of April next,
r j ""HE SEAT of the late Dotfior Lewis Johnson,
■*- deceased, in Perih-Amboy, containing TWO HUNBRtD
ACRES of LAND.
This place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Raritan, where it empties into the bay about 18 miles from Sandy-
Hook, and affords two moll agreeable Gtuations for Gentlemens'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good colle&ion of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from i's situ
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
t heir seasons, particularly of oysters and chicken clams, which may
be picked in great plenty on the flats before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments; and as Perth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
United States, and within 18 miles of the sea, the profpett of its
increasing in value from that circumstance, is by no means incon
(iderable.
There will also be fold, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the opposite fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is improved bv a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbered, and very convenient for supplying New-
York and other markets with fire-wood, timber for (hip build
ng, and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
afe. The conditions will be made known at the day of sale,
,nd the requisite conveyances made by
JAMES PARKER and ) A r
BOWES REED \ the said Eiiate«
Likewise t» it SOLD, «t tie Jime time and plan,
£L£V£N ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of East New-Jersey, wherenn the pro
prietary house lately flood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled ; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of the Bay formed by the waters of Raritan and Hud
fon'a rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the East and
a jnoft delightful one of the Terpentine coiirfeof the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a rich traQ of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of stone neatly dressed, and brick, the remains
of the house lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large lone cistern, and well of excellent water,
with a very convenient ftabl£and enach-houfe, will greatly lessen
the expence of putting the place in order for the residence of a
Gentleman.—There are few lituatioas so eligible, particularly in
the rummer season—when the cool sea breezes, and the elevated
fnuations, render them placet of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the southern states and neighbouring cities.
Ptrth-Amioy, Feb. 15, 1792. (epGw)
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the landed estate of GEORGE WARNER,''eceafed.con
filling of a valuable Plantation and tra£t of Timber Land,
supposed to contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of -which it plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. There is
on the farm a dwelling-house and kitchen, a cooper's (hop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchard.
The houft {lands close on a good landing belonging to the said
Dremifes ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies within
one mile of said landing, and an equal diflance from a saw-mil]
and grift-mill and also of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on the
Main, Allaway's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles from
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any person that ii disposed to view or purchase the said pre
mifrs, mav fee the place and know the terms, by anDlvinr to
the fubfciibers near the fame. 0
iMARK MILLER and > r
ANDREW MILLER, J
Salem County, id mo. 13M, 1792.
N. B. There is likewise a lot of Meadow ground of about ?c
acres, adjoining lands of Abbott Sayres, and others, the property
of said deceased, to be fold in manner as above, by the said exe-
CU: ° rS - [ P^v]
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
A VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
' X the county of Gloucester, supposed t« contain five hundred
and forty acretof Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, fituatc on a
branch of Little Egg-Harbour River, in the townfhipof Galloway.
There is on said premises a frame house and kitchen, a small hay
house and liable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar swamp, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acres of meadow (interspersed
with frefti water flowing streams) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The fiiuation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for raising (lock.— Any person inclining to purchase said Planta
tion, may have polTeflion from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, living at
Quinton's Bridge, in the county of Salcro ; or a further descrip
tion mav be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, in
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonficld ; or of
James Scull, adjoining said lands.—The pbee above mentioned,
is a pleafam healtljy country, within two miles of three grift and
saw-mills : And three houses appropriated to divine wor ip, are
about the fame diflance. Terms of payment made easy, by
Quinton's Bridge y Salem County,
2d mo. 1 $th y 1792.
Militia Fines.
THE Collectors of Militia Fines in the Citv and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and thediftritts of Moyamenfingand PaflVunk,
arc hereby required to collefl and pay into the County Treasury,
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and depotu th-ir hooks and
vouchers in my Office, at No. 61, Walnut-street, on or before the
Sift day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, That itn.
m.diately from the said firft day of April, all CollcOors who
(hall fail in complying with this requisition, will be proceeded
againit according to law.
Phihd. Feb. 25,: 792.
The yOU RV ALts ihe THIRD SESSION of the SEKATE
•/ U! "TE D STATES, Ly be h*i*f the Eduer LuJ.
360
[ep4»]
ANDREW MILLER
[fD4w]
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieu
of ihe City and Liberiies.
American Lead Manufactory
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co
HAVE juftnow opened their J.i AD -WARiHor 5 r ' j
south of 'Valnnt-fl reel Wharf, adjoining their New F
wncre they have now made, and readv for f,le. a eeneral r
ment of SHOT of all fires, wish SHEET and BAR LE ATI ill
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As thev have
number of experiinced Engl.fh woikmcn, they J iir ,., P „7' ■'
equal in quality to any manufaSured in Europe, ana „ . ™
price from the eoft of imported. P * " Au «*
They alio continue to manufacture all the aWe artiel
Richmond, tn Virginia. All orders addrefTed to et.her of.W
W '" bC thinkfull y ««>v«d, and executed an £
Iborteft notice. inc
... B " an.tfd,indnftrimi&, fefcer, Labouring Mm, at the faiJ
Mines, where confUnt employ; good wa pl , ,„d other eoeo n „„
menu will be given, means of conveyance being provided ».a
houses for their reception. '
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Mosis AusTiN&r
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above. '
December 3,1791. .
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters of EliiabrK
River in Virginia, to those of Pafqnotank in
or for conducing the work, will be received until the nimh d, v '
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia hr
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County,in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
abeut sixteen miles; the country through which it will p a s, ~
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood.
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at lead in
depth, below the furface of the earib. and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vessels drawing three feet water.
Good fecuritv will b- required of contractors; and perfonj
making application to be employed as managers, must produce
certificates (from characters of refpeQabilityjof their qualifications
for a business of this kind.
By order of the PreMfnt md Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clnfc
Ndrjdkf January 21,1792
SALES
Of the real Ertate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, inthe County of Bucks,
Esquire, deeeafed, pursuant to the JDire&ions
of his last Will and Testament.
ON T Tuesday the 17th of March next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises—One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, (ituate on the riveT Delaware; on
which is ere&ed a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two lutchens, a good barn,ftables, hay-houle,
and other convenient ourhoufrs. A good orchard of thebeftkind
of grafted iruit,now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a {had and herringfifhery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficieney of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the poft«-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, iiables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the brft
grafted fruit, and a (had and herring fifhery. It has long been a
well accustomed tavern; and the fertv belonging to it. known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpefts on the
river, and are remarkably healthy.
One other {"mail Farm, containing about fixty-thre»acres, situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the sounty aforrfaid ; on
which are ere&ed two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufficiency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lor. containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is 8 good log dwelling-house, and work-shop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and Dlace, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of Tale will be, one-third of the porchafe
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments ith interest.
JOHN SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, Exeeutcrs.
SAMUEL BEN'EZET, S
( eotm*?)
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing t he
Proteftaot Epifcopdl Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agteeabje to an ast of the Legislature of the State of New-Jcrfey,
pal Ted November 1791.
*S C HE
t Prize of
1 t 1
1
2
s
19
3°
9°
*675
1814 Pr-rrs.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickcts, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubje6l to a deßu&ton of twelve avd an h&lf per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottety yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the tnoft
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April,
or sooner if the Tickets arc disposed of, in ihe city of New-
Biunfwick, under the infpe6tion of Col. John Bayafd, Prefidcnt
of said city; Tames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New- JerCey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prices paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. R. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix mont ?
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confideied as a generous
donation to the Cburch.
Netv-Brunfwick, January ?o, 179?,
{d7~" The price if this Paper is 5 Dollars per ann.
One half to be paid at SubfcriUnf.
M E.
Dollars is 10®®
2000
ioo®
ioo®
100®
IOO®
15©®
i8o»
670®
1000
s°o5 °o
20®
lO*
,5*
CO
4
1600®
|*tP 3 m ]