A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JO/IN FENNO, No. 69, HICH-STREF.T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 98, of Vol. lII.]
SECOND CONGRESS OF THF. UNITED STATES.
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city ot Philadelphia, in the State of Penn
sylvania, Monday the twenty-fourth of O&ober, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
AN ACT providing for the fettleinent of the
Claims of Persons under particular circumfl.au
ces barred by the limitations heretofore elta
bliflied.
Section i. T)E it enafled by the Senate and House of Repic
jD fentatives of the United States of America in
Congress aflembled, That the operation of the resolutions of the
late Congress of the United States, pal Ted on the second day of
November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, and the
twenty-third day of July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
feven, so far as they have barred, or may be construed to bar the
claim&of any officer, soldier, artificer, sailor or marine of the late
army or navy of the United States, for personal services rendered
to the United States, in the military or naval department, (hall
from and after the pafiing of this ast, be suspended, for and du
ring :he term of two years. And that every such officer, soldier,
ait:ficer, sailor and marine having claims for services rendered to
thr United S:ates, in the military or naval departments, who (hall
Exhibit the fame, for liquidation, at the Treasury of the United
S an s, at any time during the said term of two years, shall be en
titled to an adjustment, and allowance thereof on the fame prin
ciples, as if the fame had been exhibited, within the term prescri
bed bv the aforefaid resolutions of Congress : Provided, That no
thing herein (hall be construed to extend to claims for rations or
substance money,
Sec. 2. And be it further enabled, That no balances hereaf;er
to be certified, as due from the United States, shall be registered in
any other name, than that of the original claimant, or of his heirs,
executors or administrators ; and such balances (hall be transfera
ble only at theTreafurv, ty virtue of powers aftuaily executed af
ter such registry, exprefling the sum to be transfe»red, and in pur
suance ot such general rules, as have been, or (hall be prefciibed
for that purpose.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje of Reprt fentat'ves.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President vj the United States,
and Pre/ident oj the Senate.
APPROVED, MARCH THE TWEN' TV-SEVENTH, *79--
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prefidevt of the United States.
PHILADELPHIA
ON Monday last week, the Chiefs and Warriors of the Five
Nations aflembled at the State-House, and were welcomed
to the city of Philadelphia, in an Address delivered by the Go
vernor. Three of the Chiefs made a general acknowledgment for
the cordial reception which they had experienced, but postponed
•heir formal answer until another opportunity. The room in
which they airemblcd, was mentioned as the ancient Council
Chamber, in which their Anceftcrs, and ours, often met to
brighten the Chain of Friendship ; and this circumstance, together
with the presence of a great part of the Beauty of the city, bad an
evident effect upon the feelings of the Indians, and seemed, paiti
cularly, to err.barrafs the elocution of the Farmer's Brother. —
The following is a copy of the
GOVERNOR'S ADDRESS
Chiefs and Warriors ojthe Five Nations !
Brothers !
I AM happy in receiving your vifu ; and, as Governor of the
State of Pennfyivania, 10 giving )ou a cordial welcome to this
city.
Brothers '
Nothing contributes more to flrengthen and preserve the frirnd
fh:p of nations, as well as of individuals, than a tree and constant
mtcrcourfe; rnd I hope that the good understanding which has
hitherto subsisted between your Nations and Pennsylvania, W»Vi,
byYuch means, be rendered as beneficial, and as lasting, as the
Sun.
Brothers!
My pleasure in feeing you here is grest'y encreafed, by com
paring the confidence and attachment, which are shewn in your
visit, with the unhappy spirit of discord, by which some of the
Wcflern Indians are actuated.
Brothers !
In this very Hftufe your Fathers and the Governors of Pennsyl
vania have often aflembled, to express their regard for each other,
and to brighten the Chain of Frienafhip.
Brother s!
It mult be pleating to us to imitate so good an example : while,
as inhabitants of ihe fame country, it will always be our interest
to prefervc inviolate those bonds of faith and honor, by which our
anceftois were united,
Brothers!
You know thar the people of Pennsylvania consider war a* an
enerey io the happiness of t/he human race, and peace as a source
o. various hleftings. Yoa will therefore believe, that wefinoerely
deplore the calamities which are felt by both the parties engaged
in the prelent confl 6t; and are dcfirous to behold every cause of
•oiu.itjr and refenun'ent done away.
Brothers !
j ou are come to listen to the Councils of the great Father of
t. nion; lcr the truths which he will unfold make a deep im
pre uon on y*oi\r minds, and induce you to believe that the citi
zens of the Crjitfd States <ire rtrongly difpoied to promote the
their Indian brethren.
Brother s /
Once r^ orc I bid you wclcome : The President, whose pro
v 'iKe it i ;q nc g oc j a r c an j conclude ticaties, has directed his ofii
Wednesday, April 4, 1792.
cers to provide for your accommodation, comfort, and (upport,
while you remain among us; but I (hall, likcwife, be happy t<>
teffify my elteem for your Nations, by every mark of attention,
which it is in my power to bestow.
Brothers!
t know the kindnef? with which you treat the (Grangers that
visit your country ; and it is my sincere wilh, that, when you re
turn to your families, you may be ible to afluri- them, that th
virtues of friendfhip and hospitality are also pradifed by the citi
zens of Penrif^tvania.
P A R I S, December 23.
NF.W DIPLOMATIC ARRANGEMENTS
THE King has recalled M. de Vergennes, Mi
nister Plenipotentiary to the Elector of
Treves ; M. de Montezan, Minister Plenipoten
tiary at the Court of Munich ; M. Berenger, Mi
nister at the Diet ofßatilbon.
M• de Talley rand, Ambaflador at Naples ; M.
Dofmond, JVlinifter Plenipotentiary in Ruflia ;
and M. Q'Kelly, Minilter Plenipotentiary with
the Eletlior of Mayence have given their dismis
sion.
M. Delahoufe, Minister Plenipotentiary in
Denmark, enjoys such a had (late of health asdif
ables hint from continuing his functions any
longer.
The King has appointed M. de Choifeul Gouf
fier to the embafly in England, which was vacant.
M. Barthelemy, Minister Plenipotentiary at
the court of St. James has been appointed Am
baflador of France in Switzerland ; a courier
has been sent him with orders immediately to
to repair to the place of his deftinaLion.
M. Hirfinger, Secretary of the Embafly atCon
ftantinople, is set out for London, in quality of
Charge d'Affaires ad interim.
M. de Mouftier, Minister Plenipotentiary with
the King of Pruflia, has been appointed to the
Embafly at Conllantinople.
M. de Segur, Ambaflador at Rome, has orders
from the King to go to the court of Berlin, in or
der to treat and liegociate the affairs of France
there
M. Abbe Louis is named Minister Plenipoten
tiary in Denmark.
M. Bigot de Sainte Croix, Minister Plenipoten
tiary with the Eledior of Treves.
M. de Affiny, Minister Plenipotentiary with
the Eletftor Palatine.
M. de Monteil, President of the Department of
Jura, has been appointed Minister Plenipoten
tiary with the Elector of Mayence.
JVI. de Marbois is named Minister at Ratifbon.
M. de Mackow, Minister Plenipotentiary at
Florence. And
M. de Maifonneuve, Minister Plenipotentiary
wih the Duke Wirtemberg.
Feb, 3. Almost all the accounts from Germany
agree in representing the Emperor as preparing
to form a numerous army 011 the frontiers of
France and as fee ure of being fuppor.ed by the
King of Prussia, not in favor of the French emi
grants, but the claims of the German Princes.
Monsieur's forfeiture of the regency was for
mally proclaimed at the Hotel de Ville on Sun
day la ft.
The rumours of the Kings intended flight, are
rtill kept up, but they begin to lose their effed
by repetition.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF FRANCE, Jan. iB.
M. Brifl'ot, in a long speech, endeavored to
prove the necessity for going to war. Herepre
fented most of the Princes of Europe, as " pro
(trated at the feet of the National Aflembly of
France the Emperor, however, appeared to
him, to have adopted an attitude lei's humble.
He therefore proposed that vigorous war (hould
be carried on ajainft the Emperor ; that it was
the part of the Assembly, " Parcere fubjettis ct
debcllare fupcrboi."
The speech ofM.Briflbt was ordered to be printed
The Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the
aflembly that the French envoys were received
in a becoming manner a,: the court of Madrid ;
that an afi'urance was received from Count Flori
da Blanca, that Spain would never ma.Ve war on
France, but in cafe of a pofiiive attack ; and
that the removal of certain French citizens from
Tournay, which had been the fobjetft of a com
plaint, was on account of their refufal to c.om
ply with certain regulations which the law requi
red—Referred to the Diplomatic Committee.
VIENNA, January ai.
Great preparations are going on in the niTe
nals, and all the German regiments have orders
to prepare theiiifelves to march.
3 8 9
[Whole No. 506.]
L O N D ON, February 4
M. Bonille lias Dot luccecded in his
rions for 10,000 Hessians for the emigrant Princes,
but the Landgrave is (aid to have agreed to lec
them have all 1 lie malefactors at a Louis d'or a
head. This is certainly much more ceconomical
than Mr. Pitt's plan of ti anfportation to Botany
Bay.
Major Houghton, when he wrote to the com
mittee 01 the African Aflociation, informed them
that he had penetrated iooo miles up the river
Senegambia. He has traiifmitted an accurate
diary of dittances and latitudes.
Rulfia hawing now no competitor forthe throne
in Prince Poteii'kin, the Great Duke will certain
ly rightfully and peaceably (ucceed to the crown
of that mighty empire. His own good qualities
merit, and his talents for making thole happy
over whom he may rule, render him a woahv
fucceflor to the immortal Catharine. There is
no one who knows the magnanimity and muni
ficence of the la(l mentioned Pi iucefs, that would
willi her d >ys ro be shortened one moment. But:
come the time when it may, it will not be the
worle tor Old England. I"he Great Duke bears
the British much good will ; and his miniiters
will not be wanting to uphold him in it.
We are well informed that the spirit of his
Majesty's speech will soon take effect, as we un
deritand that the minister hasfignified to the ad
miralty his Majesty's intention ; the fame to the
Secretary at war. The guard-ihips, we hear,
will be reduced to seven—three at Portsmouth,
three at Plymouth, and one at Chatham.
The regiments are to be reduced to their ef
tablifliment, the fame as before the armament of
1787, in favor of the Stadtholder, which will be
equal to the reduction of fix or seven regiments.
Wherever the French emigrants have afleni
bled in any number, the people have been very
naturally led to inquire into the cause of leaving
their own country, and from inquiry to forming
a judgment of their motives and principles. This
judgment has been so generally against them,
that the people of Srafburgh, affirm, they havt
executed orders for more than twenty chotifand
national cockades, forthe inhabitants of the ad
jacent German States.
These circnmftances, perhaps, as much as the
finances of France, have made the Princes who
at si.-st received them, glad of a pretext to get
rid of such dangerous guests. What rendered
the conduct of the Princes the more obnoxious,
was their folly and extravagance, which raised
the price of provisions wherever tliey refilled.
The state of the emigrants forces, lime com
pelled to quit the dominions of the ElecTtor of
Treves, is become still moredefperate :h 111 ever ;
they are now greatly dispersed, and have ftif
tained a considerable diminution of numbers ;
and thus, probably, ends the enterprize of a
counter revolution, which has for two jears em
ployed so many various reports.
EDINBURGH, January 30.
We have frequently taken notice of the perni
cious effects of i'pirits on the lower ranks of the
people. When gin was fold in England at the
fame rate whiiky now is in Scotland, the manu
faifluvers were ruined ; the poor-houses were so
crowded with emaciated and useless objects, and
the poor rates were so much increased, that th£
landed gentlemen, and overseers of the poor,
petitioned the Legiftature for heavy duties on
fpirliuouS liquors, which were imposed accord
ingly, and happily since that period the people
have drank wholcfoine malt liquors. We have
seen that the American Congress have introduced
an Excise Law, to put a flop to so deftrutftive an
evil; we have also seen that the Legislature of
Ireland has taken the most vigorous plans for the
lime pnrpofe ; and it is with the greatest plea
sure we now fee the Courts of Law in Scotland
adopting similar measures. It appears from se
veral late trials that many of thecrimes that have
been la ely committed, have taken their origin
from this deftrutftive vice,and Sir John Sinclair's
Statistical Account of Scotland, too evidently
shows that it is the cause of the ruin of the mo
rals, and the increase of the poor raies, in the
parishes in Scotland. It would certainly be of
great utility to get a higher duty intpofed on dis
tilled spirituous liquors in Scotland, and to give
more encouragement to the brewers of malt li
quors, as is now the cafe in Ireland.CONGRESS.
PHILADE L P H I A.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
TUESDAY, February 21, 1792
IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOII.
On the Militia Bill.
[concluded]
A MOTION by Mr. Fitzfimons, to exempt per
sons who are not able to arm and equip
themselves, from any penalty on that account,
while that disability continues, occalioned loine
debate.
Mr. Sumpter entered into a general considera
tion of the fubjeiS—He denied thatCongrefs had
any right to interfere vviih tlie regulations of
the several dates in respect to the militia—their
■whole power refpecfts only the calling the mili
tia into adhial service, in cases of invalion, infur
redlion or rebellion—and when thus called into
service, they may provide for the organizing and
arranging them in companies, corps and battali
ons—and it is the duty of the general govern
ment then to provide them with the means of
defence—but they have no right to fay that the
militia previous to beingthus called out, (hall be
at the expence of arming themselves. He hoped
the bill would take a different direction,-and that
Congress would not so far interfere in this bufi.
ne(s as to defignat-e the persons who (hall bear
arms, and tt> fay how they lhall be armed.—lt
seems to be the opinion of foine gentlemen, ac
cording to the observations which have fallen
from them, that the militia service (hall be im
posed on" a comparatively fin all part of the citi
zens ; and this inequality is to be encreafed by
obliging those persons to be at the expence of
arming themselves.—He hoped that such injus
tice would not take place.
Mr. Niles adverting to the constitution, ob
served that it appeared to him, that a provision
for arming the militia was reserved to the ltates,
io far as it refperfis the common defence—He
considered the requisition in the bill as operating
like a capitation tax ; and this species of tax he
observed, was to be afleiled only in a certain way,
agreeable to a particular clause in the -constitu
tion He concluded by moving that the clause
in the bill which contained this provilion for
arming, should be struck our.
This motion was negatived
Mr. Fitzfimons withdrew his motion, which
provided for a certificate from two jultices of the
peace—to admit a fubltitute, which provides that
they shall be excused if in the judgment of the
comminioned officers to whose company they be
long, theyare not able to furnHli thenifclves.
This substitute was adopted.
Mr. Kitchell moved that the clause should be
struck out, which provides that the calibers of
the guns should be of one bore. He observed
that this provifioii was unneceilary, and in faifl
impossible to be complied with.
Mr. Sumpter alked what was to be done with
the arms which the militia now have in their
Jiands, are they to be thrown away r—-Befides,
he thought the provision inconsistent with the
actual state of the military force of the country,
the laws for the regulation of which, contem
plates the enrolment of rifle-men among the re
gular forces of the country —Adverting to the
expence which would attend this provision, he
observed it was almott totally impracticable to
.carry it into execution.—He hoped it would not
be agreed to, as it would involve an enormous
and unnecefl'ary expense.
Mr. Murray offered Come similar remarks—he
did not conceive that the excellency of the mi
litia of the United States confuted in their being
armed all with mulkets of the fame bore. He did
not consider the bill in the light that some gen
tlemen appeared to—it was in his opinion meer
ly a provision to keep alive a military germ, that
stall when occasion calls spring up and difFufe
its influence among the people in such manner as
to furnifhthe nioft competent means of defence.
Mr. Wadfworth objected to the motion—he
said this was one of the very few good refula
tions left in the bill, and to strike oiu this w7>uld
render the militia a fallacious reiource of defence
and effectually destroy every idea of uniformity!
Mr. Kitchell's motion was negatived.
The motion to expunge the exemptions was
seconded by Mr. Dayton.
Mr. Boudinot opposed it—he urged in brief
the several reasons which were offered on a for
mer occasion in support of the exemptions.
Mr. Dayton said it appeared to him unreason
able to exempt persons from militia duty, and
from paying an equivalent too who from their
ilation in life are belt qualified to pay tliofe equi
valents ; it appeared to him to be unjust and im
politic.
Mr. J. Smith opposed the motion—he observed
that the experience of the eastern States where
the militia is on at leaf* as resectable a footing
a<s in nny part of the union, was againlt the fpi
nt of the motion—there various exemptions aie
made—and the prejudices of the pepple were in
favor of the pra<ftice--many exemptions are neeef
fary and many characters in society cannot and
ought not to be compelled to bear
ters of the gospel, &c. To combat thele preju
dices, he said, would belittle better than attack
ing a windmill.
.several other gentlemen-spoke on the fiibjecft,
The motion was finally negatived.
The third fedlion being read,
Mr. J. Smith moved that'thefe words, after the
word " companies—ln fitch manner as the Prep
dent of the United Slates Jha// fee proper to direct,"
(hould be (truck out. He observed, that as the
President of the United States has (by the Con
rtitution) no command over the militia till they
are called into adtual service, he cannot with any
propriety be inverted with this power—it lays
with the legislatures of thefevera! states, said he,
to make the provision requisite in this cafe—The
executives of the several (lares mud be more
competent to determine the number of regiments,
&c. into which-their refpedtive militia's should
be divided.
Mr. Lawrance said the conrtitution, by invert
ing Congress with the power of organizing the
militia, appears neceflarily to have included the
power in question.
Mr. Livermore said he was in favor of linking
out the words, on iwo accounts—He did not
know how the power could b& exercised—and
he was opposed to retaining phrases which, how
ever founding and pompous they may be, con
tained no meaning—this he conceived to be the
cafe in refpecfi 10 the words in question—For they
propose to invest a powei in the President, which,
said he, I do not fee how he can exercise ; or if
he can, certainly not with so much propriety as
the legislatures of the several states.
Mr. Hillhoufe was opposed to striking oat the
words—He said he could conceive of no disad
vantage which would result from giving the Pre
sident the power of making a uniform arrange
ment of the militia—lt appeared to be neceflary,
in order to his being able to determine how to
call them into service, Ihould public exigencies
require it, in such proportions and draughts as
{hall be most equal to the people, and molt con
ducive to the public service.
Mr. Page observed, that it appeared neceflary
to retain the clause, in order to effecting the ob
jetsfc of uniformity—for if the power is inverted
in fifteen different bodies, or individuals, it can
not be expeifted that they will ever agree in one
uniform plan.—Nor did he conceive that this re
"illation would in the least interfere with the es
sential powers of the several states—He was as
much averse as any man from abridging any of
the powers of the several states, but this regula
tion would not interfere with those powers, in
any manner whatever.
Mr. Seney was in favor of striking out He
thought it was a fufficient reason to rejedl the
clause, that the President could not be supposed
so competent to the business, as the authority of
the federal llates. 1
Mr. Snmpter was in favor of striking out—The
scope of his observations was, that the United
States have power only to fay how the iniliiia
shall be organized, but it must be left to the se
veral states to carry the plan into execution.
Mr. Lawrance stated the difficulties which
would result from want of uniformity, in cafe
of the militia's being called into actual fei vice.
Mr. Niles, observed that the relative bounda
ries of towns, Hates and districts, rendered the
uniformity contended for, impracticable ; and
therefore the clavife is nugatory—a great varie
ty as to numbers, in the companies and regimen:s
of the continental army, atftialTy exiftedduring
the late war, and yet no difficulty occis>r«d from
that circnmftance.
The motion for striking out was carried.
It was then moved to insert in (uch manner
as the legislatures of the refpe&ive states fliall
direct"—this was agreed to.
Mr. Gilman moved, that the clause in the 4th
fe<9ion, which provides that the Aids Ihall be tak
en from the line, and the words " with the rank,
of major," should be struck out He observed,
that in the regular service, on the principles of
economy this arrangement takes place but he
conceived this would be unneceflary in the mili
tia, if not injurious to the service. "
This amendment was agreed to.
The 6th fedion, which fpecifies the times of
muttering and training the mi'itia, fovs that the
artillery, light infantry, troops of horse, See.
(hall rendezvous four times a year, and the reft
of the militia twice a year.
Mr. J. Smith rose to enquire the reason of the
diftintftion between the coriDanies.
Mr. Barnwell moved to add a proviso, author
izing the (tates to pass laws enjoining musters as
oiten as they may fee proper.
Mr. Boudinot answered Mr. [.Smith's enquiry
—He (aid the obje<ft was to form a nursery of
oincers for the militia, whenever detachments
(nail be suddenly called into atftual service.
390
Mr. J. Smith objected to Mr. BarnWil's p.
so—He conceived that the dates already j
poflsffed this po»er.
. The proviso, after farther debate, was nerj.
tived.
Saturday, March 31.
A bill, in,addition to the art providing f ttrr rle| le
government of the territory North-Well 0 f the
river Ohio, was twice read, and made the order
of the day for Wednesday nexr.
A resolution for indemnifying the ftaceof Ma
ryland for a certain funi of money advanced to
discharge a contracft made by N. 11. Moore,' for
the purchase of a number »f horses for the ser
vice of the Ut.ved States duringtlielatewar was
referred to a felecft committee. '
A bill was reported by the committee to whom
the petitions from the tmftees of fiindry acade
mies had keen referred, and read the fn ft time.
A memorial and initrudlions from the legifla!
ture of the cdmmon wealth of Massachusetts, re
fpecfting the afiurrvprion ofthe residue oftheftate
debts,were read, ->nd laki 011 the table.
Mr. \V. Smith laid on the table a rel'olutionef
the two houses of the legiihture of the state of
Sonth-Carolina, on the fame fubjecl.
The amendments of the Senate to the militi*
bil'. were read—and on motion, ordered, that
one hundred copies of the bill and the amend,
ments, be printed for the use of the House.
In committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of the T reafuary on the publicdebt.
The fifth refolntior., in the following words,
leaving out September, was agreed to, after con
fide' able debate—33 to 2j—viz.
That a subscription for a further loan in the
debts of the individual states, be opened and con
tinued to the firft day of September next, not t«
exceed in the whole millions of dollars, in
the proportions following, chat is to fay : In
the debt of New-Hampfbire, Maflachufetts,Rhode*
Island, Connecticut, New York, New-Jerfey,Ma
ryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Caroli
na, Georgia. < Provided, That the interest
on such loan shall not be payable before the
day of : And provided, that when the sum
to be afTjtned by any state, (hall not be fubferib
ed by the holders of any of the evidences in
which the fame is made receivable, the state shall
not be entitled to receive interest on thereGtiue.
The sixth and seventh resolutions were agreed
to without a division.
The eigh'h resolution is in the following words
That the interest on so much of the doniefiic
debt as has been or may be purcbafed for the
United States, or as {hall be paid inu> the Trea«
fury, and so much of the fuin appropriated for
the payment of the interest on the foreign and
domestic debt as (hall be over and above what
may be fufßcient for the payment of such inter
est, {hall be appropriated in the fi r ft place, to the
purchase of that part of the public debc, which
bears an interest of three per cent, per annum.
And the part of the said debt, the interest where
of is deferred, until the said fund, with such ad
ditions as may be madeto it, {hall ainounttorwo
per centum of the public debt, bearing a prefait
interest of fix per cent, per ann. until the whole
shall be redeemed. And thenceforth to be ap
plied to the purchase or redemption
part of the public debt may remain undercharg
ed, until the whole (hall be extinguifted. The
said funds to be applied to the purpufcs alorf
faid, bv the comnnlfioners hereafter mentione >
under the approbation of the Present ot t e
United Stares. , ,
Thi* resolution being read, ecca.Wied a ueoare
till after 3 o'clock, when the con>niniee ro
without taking the final queftiou, ai.U me »ou
adjourned.
MONDAY, April 2
The report of the committee 011 ("■-
Treasury's report, containing n 1 a ~, c °
of of the duties on impotts .
nage, also amount of die <expm' s '.
Unireti Stares, wIU«^ propofcV thar f.l a e „
of the amounts of the duties, and o 1 c. rre >arf
should be pobli/hed— t ie
should be directed to report to the :', u '.- )ec .
quantities and value of the exports f ' |' u; j ()|) (1)
tive (hues, any thing in a former u- o_ • '
the contrary, notwithftandmg, wa
confiderption, and agreed to. United
A meflage from the President 0 t )e
States, by Mr. Serret»ry Leai. mOl
House that the President has approved •
An atffc for finiihiug the lig 1 " ' oJ ' e
Head, at the motith of Cape teai ' C . ecre , ar jr
A raefTage from the Senate, by ' p. c fident of
Otis, informed the Howfe that the
the United States has approved anfl 11, d,O
bill, entitled, an a(ft to eftabln.ia i- »
regulate the coins of the United .•! ?• - ecre[3 rf
in committee of the whole, on t■ • j e bt.—
of the Treasury's report on the T P'' j nC ocoi-
The Bth refoJution. was read, andtak
fideration. ■ ,j,;c res*
Mr. Madison moved an alteration 1 >f ;
lution, by ftrikingout the words which . »the 3 per cents and the deferred debt, and to
lubftirute the words public debt—This amendment
was agreed to, and the reflation adopted, as
thus amended.
The ninth resolution was alio agreed to.
The resolutions being gone through with, the
committee rose and reported the fame with the
amendments
The House took the report of the Committee
into consideration.
The firft resolution being read, Mr. Giles re
newed his motion to add the following ciaufe, as
an amendment, viz.
Except that condition in the act, which ren
ders the debt, so far subscribed, fubje<st to re
demption by payments not exceeding, in one
year, on account of both principal and iuterefl,
a proportion of eight dollars upon the hundred,
on any certificates which shall beifl'ued according
to the terms therein fpecified : whichcondition,
so far as it relates to any part of the debt, which
may hereafter be subscribed, shall be abolished.
This motion occasioned a very lengthy debate.
Mr. Mercer, Mr. Giles, Mr. Murray, and Mr.
Findley supported the motion—Mr. Boudinot,
Mr. Hillhoufe, Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Benfon, Mr.
Lawrance, and Mr. Hartley oppnfed the motion,
which was finally negatived.—The ayes and noes
being demanded, are as follow—
AYES.
Meflis. A (he, Baldwin, Brown, Clark, Findley,
Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Heifter, Jacobs,
Kitchell, Kictera, Lee, Madison, Mercer, Moore,
Murray, Page, Parker, Seney, J. Smith, Sumpter,
Tread well, Veaabie, White, Willis.— 27.
N O E
Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Boudinot, FitzHmons,Gerry, Gilman,
Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley, Huger, Key, Law
rance, Learned, Livermore, Macon, Muhlenberg,
Niles, Sedgwick, W. Smith, Steele, Sterrett,
Sturges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker, Wadf
worth, Ward.— 30.
The question thep being put on the firft ref
lation as reported, it was agreed to.
The second resolution was agreed to.
The third resolution being read, which pro
vides for filling up the fiibfcriptions in the ttate
debt*, of the sum wanting to cotripleat the firft
afluroption. Mr. Madison moved as an amend
ment to adopt the clause moved by Mr. Giles, to
be added to the third resolution.—This motion,
after some debate, was withdrawn, and then the
$ueitju>i! on the resolution was put and carried.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, April 3.
Mr. T.ivermrre, of the committee to whom was referred the
memorial of the Illinois and Wabafh Land Companies, brought
in a report, which was read, and laid on the table.
A letter was read from the Secretary of War, enclosing sundry
petitions which had been referred to him, returned, pursuant to
the orders of the House.
The House resumed the consideration of the report of the com
mittee of the whole on the public debt.
The fifth rcfolution prececding cdlumn, under Saturday's
head] was read.
Mr. Key said he should vote for the resolution, but should con
sider himfelf at liberty to withhold his final alfent in cafe the sub
sequent arrangements of the buiinefa should not appear compati
ble with the interest of his conllituents.
Mr. Sheredirre moved an amendment in thrfe words, " whether
d'ifcharged by said states refpe&wely, or undifcharged"-'-thts mo
tion was not seconded.
Mr. Siurges moved that the blanks should be filled up—this
motion being seconded, occasioned some debate, and was nega
tived, 32 to 26.
Mr. Mercer then renewed the motion offered by Mr. Sheredine.
This mo ion gave rife to a long debate ; in the course of wh:ch
Mr. Madison moved an amendment, by adding after " respec
tively," thrfe words, f< since the treaty of peace." The motion,
as amended, was further debated, and at length negatived—ayes
22. noes 30.
The question on the original propofuion being then put, that
was also negatived—29 to 26. Adjourned.
NEW-LONDON, March 15
ExtraQ of a letter from Aux-Cayts, dated Feb. 14,
" Since my last there has been several planta
tion!) wholly burned, and a number that have
had part of their buildings and part of their
canes destroyed ; we are not able to fay the ex
adi number, as the Mulattoes have the entire
possession of the plain, except the white encamp
ment which is about two miles out of town. Sa
turday last arri-ved from France, via the Cape, a
transport (hip and schooner' with three hundred
• infantry and about thirty artillery men ; who
■with about three hundred militia of this place,
we expedl will march to-morrow or next day to
the plains, in order to attack the Mulartoes.
There was an attack on Tiberoon the 24th of
'lift nioiy h, wherein the Mulattoes were defeated
-—they c;ime on very determined, in two divifi
. ons, till they were within pistol (hot, when the
■firft volley offmall arms was fired from the Fort,
• which threw them into d'iforder, and they re
treated with gre3t precipitation, leaving 25dead
near the Fort. This is the only place on this
• fide of the island which they-have not attacked.
More troop* are daily but the few they
ba*e now, together with tfie inhabitants, makes
the town perfectly fafe—as they have two French
ami one English Frigate in the harbor, and the
town Well fortified." ,
tOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
Please to injert theJoVotoing fines in your next Gazette, rohich zoere
ocoafioned by reading qn extraEi of a letter in your laji, and you will
oblige your humblefervanty A. R.
HIGH pay —long speeches—and long feflions,
Provoke complaints, with harsh expreflions !
Should Congress serve for smaller pay,
Who would compose that body, ptay ?
Would the y be men of real merit,
Of talents prov'ri—of manly spirit ?
Or poor and cringing tools for Kings ?
Or rich, and lord-like strutting things ?
Could men, whose talents at the bar
Exceed the pay of Congress, far;
Do&ors and merchants leave their
As delegates to make parack: ?
Can honor keep a man from starving ?
Must he not now and then be carving ?
Will he so honest be, and nice,
As not to cut a single slice ?
From Government not take a fop ?
When thirsting, not receive a drop ?
Britain pays not a firtgle (Killing—
Her menders are forever swilling.
Royal fops her boroughs swallow,
And minifteria) taxes follow !
The labourer is worth his hire,
To due rewaids let each aspire !
And let freemen pay their friends
As well as Kings—on this depends
Whether the freedom they have got,
Shall last to endless time, or not :
Or starved, look out for royal bounty,
And be forgotten in each county !
Long speeches may long feflions yield ;
But 'gainst great errors they may shield.
Long feflions may much money coil—
In short on s, freedom may be loft!
Whoever values free debate,
'Gainst long speeches fbould not prate :
Whoever views with real glee,
Cash coming from the treasury,
Which, circulating round the land,
Returns into that very hand
Which paid it there, for the excise,
Or impost duty, is not wife;
If with great pleasure he don't view
The (urns which thence the Congress drew—
But why should he (hew discontent,
Who never paid one (ingle cent ;
Yet oft, for any trifling trafli,
Receiv'd a (hare of this fame cash ?
Cease to complain without a reason,
I'll tell you when to cry out-4-Trcafon! ! !
PITTSBURGH, March 24.
Capt. Cafs, of the 2d United States regiment, marched f'om
this place on Tuesday last, with a detachment of men for Fort
Ft nk.lin : this detachment will augment that garrison to 120 men,
and of which Capt. Cafs is to take the command.
Capt. Hughes, with a fine company of men, arrived here on Sa
turday last from the Eastward.
Philadelphia, April 4.
By the sHip William Penn, from London, European accounts
are received to the 9th of February. They state that a fire has
consumed nearly one third of the city of BrufTcls. The business
if M. Talleyrand de Perigoid, the new Minister to the Court of
London, it is said, is to confer with the Bnttlh Ministry on the
fubjeft of a standard foi weights and measures. The people ol
England and Scotland are taking measures in the fev.ral towns to
piocure petitions to Parliament against the slave trade.
The Emperor is come to a resolution to bring the dates of Bra
bant to reason. The monument ot Mr. Howard, the benevolent,
i« t» be a fuU length figure of the man—lo be placed along-side of
Dofior johiifton's, and is to colt thirteen hundred guineas. The
fubjeft of the trial of Mr. Hastings was mentioned in Parliament
the 6th February—lome difficulty having occurred, a bill for
foftening the rigour of several acts, particularly of a and 28 of
George 111. and for regulating the mode of deciding contested
rleflions, wss brought in by Mr. Burke, and read the firft and se
cond time.
Mr. Fox moved for leave to bring in a bill for removing any
doubts refpe£ling the fun&ions of juries in cases ot libels—this
motion was carried vcm. con.
The Protellants of Ireland appear to be alarmed at the ftcps
nurfuing by the Catholics to recover the rights of men, of which
they conceive thcmfelvcs to have been long deprived in that coun
try. Meetings have been held in various places to prepare and
(ign addiefli s ro the King, the prayer of which that he would
" maintain unimpaired ihe Pioieltant ascendancy in Ireland."
Oilier meetings are held, in which unanimous resolutions are
adopted to infttuft their representatives in Parliament to support
the repeal of fnch laws as militate againit the interrft and freedom
of the Roman Catholics. The new Conllitution ol France is pub
licly fold in V enna. By the latest returns it appears that France
cmtains 150,000,000 acres of land, and 27,190,000 inhabitants.
The Spamlh troops are said to desert in great numbers. Paiis is
under no apprehensions from a want ot grain ; and tho' money is
fcatce, the manufacturers of that city are lull of employ. The
Emperor of Germany is making timely alterations for the better
in the condition of his fubje&s, particularly that of the lower
clafTes : he fees that the empiie ol lupcrftiuon is decaying and
going to ruin—and that the surest way ol preventing dangerous
innovations is a timely reform of aucient and obvious abuses.
The whole sum of aflignats cancelled amounts to 398 millions.
The Britilh army is to be reduced 2,0c0 men j 50 men from each
regiment; the number of the regiments is to continue the fame.
Negociations lor peace bitween Spain and Morocco, are said
to be renewed. The Dutchefs of Yoik is to be naturalized ; in
order to which, (he mull /wear that (he will never be a member oj
Parliament. In a message from the King of the French to the Na
tional Affemblv, on the 28.h January, he informs them that he
has demanded an explanation of the Emperor within 15 days.
Marlhal Rochambtau. in an addiclsto the Alfcmbly, infoi med
them that the French army would be riady to take the fieid be
fore their enemies—that ihe troops of the line are completely re
flored to order and discipline — that the National Guards poflefs
the greatest ardor, but are not so well difciphned as llic former,
owing to their recent arrival on the Frontiers—that he was of opi
nion that the command in the field to be given to otfccers
of the line—and that the fo|dicis (hould he paid in money. His
speech contained the waimeft piofeffions ot attachment to ihe
Conllitution, and was received with applause. Jan. 31. A re
port from the military committee, relative 10 the w;(h cxprcded
by M. Roch«mbeau, that Mellrs. d'Aubcterre, d'Averhoult, and
Dumas, might serve under him—it was rclolved in the negative.
Of ihe French emigrants, those of them who arc embodied are
llatiored at Cappel, Reochen, Obeikircti, Oppenan ; tlufcaiiKMUt
391
A REPUBLICAN.
3,000 ; in Hie town of Ofcerkirch are 300 foMlers of the regi
me"t.o{ Berwick. M. Conde is lodged in the Abbey, from which
he lias expelled the Monks; he has with him abou. 200
horses. Two Imperial regiments, commanded by M. xic Co
hourg, are arrived, and four more are exptfcted. With relpett to
the war in India, it ispiobablc '.h it the orders sent horn fcugland
to make peace, will arrive in fcafou to prevent much more flout
ing in that country.
■Bntifh papers, by the last vcflels, mention the refufal of the
queen ot Portugal to interfere 111 the i.ffaus of France, in conle-
quence of overtures of that nature from the Court ol Ruili..—
that the King of Sweden has at last accepted the uot.fiv a .ion IroiA
Louis the XVlth that he had accepted the conliitutiou.
It is extremely difficult to form definite ideas on European af
fairs. from the accounts presented in the papers —particular ly re
fpe&ing the difpolition.of foreign powers in regard to France.
The French nation appear determined to piepare ior tlie woift ;
indeed they can, having nothing to fear from external attack —
and, united among themfeives, they will be equally kcure inter
nally.
On Saturday lad it was determined in the bouse of Repiefenta
tives of the State Legiftature, by a majority of two only, that the
members to represent this St Ate in the Lower lioufe ot Congrcli,
should be chosen, not in diftri&s, but by the State at large.
A letter from Knoxville, in Cumberland county (territory south
of the Ohio) mentious the completion o? a Carding-Machine in that
place, which will card an hundred weight of cotton per day, with
only the attendance of one hand. Six hundred weight ot clean
cotton had been produced on half an acre of land, in that country,
but upon a moderate calculation, an acre would produce one thou
sand weight.
Some accounts are mentioned in London papers of the celebn."
ted French circumnavigator Peyroufe being still alive with lome ot
his crew on a defart Island in the Indian occan.
The King of Pruflia (fays a London has declared that
Loins the XVlth having accepted the conftituiion, prevents his
adfcing in favor of the emig» ants.
The African society in England (or aftaciatiori for promoting
discoveries in the interior parts of Africa) have at present 111 their
employ, Major Houghton, successor to the celebrated LedyarJ, in
exploring those inhospitable climes. This gentleman, in a letter
to rhe focietv, informs them that he h*s penetrated one thousand
mi'es up the river Senrgambia. He has also tranlmitted an accu
rate account of the dtftances, bearings, latitude's, and iongiludcs
of the fevera] places he has visited.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship William Penn,
Harmony,
Sally,
Earque Prudence,
Tobias,
Minerva,
Brig Munton,
LitileSarah,
Schooner Polly,
Prifcilla,
Nancy,
Sloop Clara,
Maiia,
Richmond,
New-York Packet,
(£3H Sen ex is rcceivcd, ami fnall appear as loon as pofliMe.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
««/" P r -Z
lif
12/6
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defcred 6 pr. Cents
% UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates igf 95 do.
Indents 12J' 60 do.
Halt (hares Bank Stock—so per cent, premium.
Bank of the United States.
At a meeting of the Directors op the Bask or
the United States, March 30, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Offices of DifctJunt ana Dcpofit be
aulhorifcd to receive ot Stockholdeis the 3d and 4th Specie
Payments on their Shares ill the Capital Stock ot the Bank, and
that the Cafhieis of the laid offices give duplicate receipts tor luca
payments, one ot which receipts, accompanied with evidence oi a
transfer of pub ic debt fufficvnt to complete laid (hares, upon be
ing produced at the Bank, (hall entitle such Stockholdei s to cer
tificates for full (hares, and to all the benefits of the Refolutiont
of the Board of Dire&rirs pa (Ted the 21ft relative to com
pleting (hares by payment at any time before the periods required
by the law of incorporation.
By order of the Prcfident and Direttors.
JOHN KEAN, Cajkier.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,]
March 31, 1 792. J
XTOyiCE is hereby given, That the intereii for the qu-irter,
l\ ending this day,onthe FUNDED DEBT ot the United States,
(landing on the books of the Treasury, and of the Commiflioner ot"
Loans fox this State, will be paid at the Bank of he United States.
(ep.tf)
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON, Boek/sller,
At the Stone House 10 Sccond-Strcet,
The Ftr ft Volume of
HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS-.
Confiding of state papers,'and other authentic documents,
intend, a as mateijaU for an History of the United States
of Amek IC a,
By EBENEZER HAZARD, a. m,
Member of the American Pliilofophica) .Society, held at Philadel
phia foi promoting ufeful knowledge; and Fellow of the Ame
rican Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The dcfign of this compilation being to preserve and exhibit a
regular series of the most important and authentic documents re
la; ing to the history of America, from us difcovcry by Columbus
to the prcfent time, it mull be peculiary intercfting to all who with,
(o ■ qui re a thorough knowledge of this fubjett.
April 4.
INFORMATION.
A NEGRO MAN by the name ot CATO VERNON, en-
Itftcd in Co). Greene's Regiment of Blacks, early in the late
War. He fui vivetl the War, and fettled as fuppoled, in or near
Philadelphia.- If he will apply to the Editor hereof, he will
be irtloimed of fotncihing contidcrabJy io his advantage.
April 4. (ep-V)
Jofiah,
Olman,
Kins,
Miller,
Welch,
Here,
Parker,
Lowr/,
Davis,
Smith,
Wallacr,
M 'Williams,
Johrifion,
Block,
Baylev,
London,
do.
Bourdeaux,
St. A'idero,
Cadiz,
SVtrlburnc,
S'.. Vincents,
Jamaica,
N. Ca'iolma,
Virginia,
do.
do.
Aux-Cayes,
Virginia,
New-York,
105 pr. cent.
60 do.
do.
(cp.\m)PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA
PER QUANTITY
April 3.—«Dollaks 100Centscach.
ANCHORS pr. lb. 7 c 8c Pitch, pr. bbl
Allum, Englilh, pr.c. 3^73c id Pork, Burlington,
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11c
Ashes, pot, per tor., 90d 100 d
Pearl, *4°^
Arrack pr. gall, id 33c id 67c
Brandy, common, id 26c
Cogniac id 50c
Braziletto, pr. ton. 37d33c 4cd
Bricks, pr. M. 4d $d
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. 1 d 88c id
Ditto, pilot 3<af 67c
Ditto, small water 36c 40c
Beer, American, in 1 ,
bot.pr.doz. bot. incl. J 1 C
— pr. bbl. 4d 67c
c/ 3 f Oak pr.M feet, gd rod
I Merch. pine 16d 17d
<( Sap, do. 8d 50c 9 d
O ! N. Eng. nd
ICedar i±d
The above are the Shallop prices ;
Jor the Yard prices add 1 d 33c
pr. M.
Brimstone rolls pr.cwt. 3d 33 c
b* C Irilh pr. bbl,
2 < Boston
ca ( Country
Butter pr. lb.
• in kegs
2 fSper. pr. lb.
j | Wax
g i Myrtle Wax
~j | Mould,tallow
Cheese, Englifa* pr. Ib.
7 d 8 d
6d yd
10c 12 c
53 c 56c
»3 C
1 1 c
Country 8c ioc
Chocolate 17 c 18c
Cinnamon* 2d 40 c 2d 6 7c
Cloves 1 d 33c
Coal pr. bushel 20c 22c
Cocoa pr. cwt. 33c
Coffee pr. lb. 18c
Copperas pr. cwt. id6:c
Cordage jd 67c B*/
Cotton pr. lb. 26c 40c
Cuirants 13c
Duck, Rulia, pr. piece 1 \d33c
Ravens 8d 93 c 9 d 67c
Feathers pr. lb- 40c 44c
Flax 10c
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 85c 90c
Flour, Super, pr. bbl. $d 6c
Common, 4d 74c
* Bur middlings,beft 13c
Meal, Indian 2d 67c
Ship-ftuff pr.cw. id \d33c
Fustic pr. ton, 20^
Gin, Holland,pr.cafe,4^4</33<:
Do. pr. gall. 80c
Glue, pr. cwt. 20d 2td 33c
Ginger, whiterace *]d yd 33c
Ditto, common yd 2cc
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 9c
Ginseng, 20c 24c
Gunpowder, can- > j
non, pr. q. c. o 'o t
Ditto, fine glazed 4d
"Wheat pr. bush Qsc id
2 R ye s°c 54c
Oats 26c
Indian corn 40c 44c
1 Barley 60c 63c
J Best fnelled pr. lb. 3c
{_ Buckwheat per bush. 40c
Hemp,fo.pr. ton, i2o<i 146. 67c
American, pr. lb. 4c 5c
Herrings, pr. bbl. 2d 67c
Hides, raw pr. lb.. 9c 11c
Hops 27 c
HoglKead hoops, pr. M isd
Indigo, French lb. \d2oc \d33c
Carolina 40c id
Irons, fad pr. ton, 33c
("Cartings pr. cwt 3^47c
| Bar pr.ton, 67c
O Pig- 24d 26d 67c
£ Sheet 173 d 33c
Nail rod's 96d
Junk, pr. cwt. 4^s^
Lard, hogs pr. lb. gc 10c
Lead in pigs pr.c. $d 33* $d6yc
in bars yd
Lead, white \odlod6yc
red 6d 40c 6d 6rc
Leather, foal pr. lb. 1 \c 1 yc 20c
Lignum vitas pr.ton, $d6oc 6d
Logwood 24^
Mace pr. Ib. yd 33c 6~c
Mackarel,beft pr. bbl. 9^
ftcond quality 6d 67c
Madder, best pr. lb. t6c 20c
Marble.wrought, pr.f.
Mad spaTS 33c 67c
Mo lades pr. gall. 46c 50c
Mustard per. lb. 87c
Mahogany pr. foot, 10c
Nails, \od\2d and 20d 10c
Nutmegs pr. lb. 3d
'Linieed, pr. gall. 50c
Olive 87c
Ditto pr. cafe, 2d $cc
1 Best sweet in ) ,
>— fla(ks,pr.box
j —baskets 12 bottles $d
■ Spermaceti pr. gall. 48c
J Train 24^27*
22c 28c
Porter pr. cask, $d 33c
London, pr. doz. id 60c
Porter, American > ,
pr.doz. bot.incl. $ * 4 fl 6ct
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS,
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Sticet,belween Chcfnut andMaiketStreets.
i A 73c °d
hil 33 c
i^d
9' 1
>• 73 c
Lower county
Carolina
Peas, Albany pr. bush,
Pepper, pr. lb.
Pimento
44 c 47c
» 7 C
Raisins, best, pr. keg jdfld
Ditto pr.jar 3d
Ditto pr. box 4<J
R:ce pr. cwt. ?d 67c
Rosin pr. bb!. id 33c id 67c
f Jamaica pr. gail. 112 c
1 Antigua gq>c
J Windward 80c 83c
1 Barbadoes 77c
Country, N. E. 59c
Salt petre, pr. cwt. isd 33c 14d
SatTafras pr. 1011 6d 8d
Shot
f German pr. lb. 9c
w jEnglifh, blistered cwtioaf
American pr. ton ; 13033 c
'in. ( Crowley's pr. fag lod 67c
Snake root pr. lb. 2CC 42c
Soap, Brown 6c
White 8 c
Castile lie
Starch 7 c
SnufF pr. doz. bot. 4d $d6oc
Spermaceti, refined, 48c
Sail cloth, English,") ~
No 1. per yard, J
-Bpfton, No. I. 30c
No. 11. 29 c
Rufiia (hefting, pr.p. 12d
'Lump, pr. lb 22c
cxt Loaf, single refined 25c
J Ditto, double do. 36c
Havannah, white 17c 18c
to Ditto, brown, 1;c
_Mufco.pr.cwt \^d\6d^c
Spirits Turpentine p. g. 33c 37c
( All urn pr. bush. 24c 2 c
j 29c
< 23c 24c
4/5 ( Lisbon 25c 27c
Shipbuild. W. CO , 1
c | 12d 13033
frames p. ton, J ooa
Do. L O. is<i 33c i6d6jc
Do. red cedar, p. f. 33 c 40c
Shingles, fli. p. M. 2d 33c 2d 67
Do. long dressed
Scantling,heart, 2 3^33 f
— Sap 8d 81i 6y c
r Pipe pr. 1000
; W. O. hogshead igd 33c
> J R. O. do. iydsoc
j Leogan 16d
fe Barrel 10^
L Heading %6d 6jc
"Otter, bed pr. pie. 4467 c
Minks 20c 40c
Fox, g r ey 40c80c
red id 20c
Martins
24c id
33' 6 7<-
F i fliers
3 J
2JC 6oc
Musk-rats nc2cc
Beaver, pr. lb. 67c id 33c
Deei, in hair 20c 30c
,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. id
arolina,32 gall.
pentine pr. bbl. id 67c 2d
£ James R. bell 3d 6cc 73 c
• inferior 2dSyc %d
Bears
Racoons
Tar,
~C:
Turi
*" Rappahannock td $cc3d
O J Colo.Maryland §d 33c 84
Dark id 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
cb Eastern-shore
O I Carolina,new 2d jc $d
.old do.
f Hyson pr. lb. 93c 28c
</5 I Hyson skin, 53 c 6jc
2 i Souchong, 50 c 93c
H I Con g°> 43 f 5 0c
34c 36c
Taliow, refined 9 c
Tin pr. box,
33 c 6 7 c
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 47c 53c
Vermillion 1 dbyc
Varnish, 33c 37c
' Madeira, pr. p.
Lisbon 96*/ lood
Teneriffc, pr. gal. 51C60C
M Fayal 44c 49 r
•Z <J Port pr. p. io6</67c
Do. in bottles.pr. doz. qd
Claret 6d
Sherry pr. gall. 90c idzoc
Malaga 77c 80c
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25c 27c
Whale-bone,long pr.lb. 13C30C
COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
60 day! 4|^ pr,Ct ; a U r " der
30 days 2§) * ar '
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder,
90 days
Government bills, drawn at 10
days per 11 guilders. 4d 44c
France, 60 days Bcc
Bank of the United States.
March 21, 1792.
RESOLVED, That the Stockholders be, and hereby arc, au
thon(cd to compleat their Shares by payment at any time
before the peiiods required by the law of incotpo ation.
Refolvpd, That each Share so compleated, {hall be entitled to
draw a dividend of the profits of the Bans, from and after t he fir ft
dav of the month next succeeding the day of compleating such
Shares.
Resolved, That so much of the quarter's interest upon the Pub
lic Debt transferred to compleat any Share as aforefaid, as (hall
have accrued before the fiift day of the month next succeeding the
completion of such Share, (hall be received by the Bank, and patd
to the perlons who (hall have transferred the fame.
By oider oi the President and Direttors,
(eptiftj) JOHN KEAN, Caper.
STOLEN,
T T 7"ITHIN a few days last part, from the Subfcribcr, the sol-
VV lowing NOTES, issued by the Treasurer of the Common
wealth of Mailachufetts: No. 18721, Dec. 1, 15,
payable to Phineas Lyman ; No. 18379, Nov. 1, 1783, f. 36 4,
payable to William Lyon; No. 1301, Dee. 1, 809,
payable to Nathan ie l Wr ight ; No. 16239. Aug. 1, 1783,
16—No. 71, Oct, 1, 1781, £'.48 1, payable to Dottor
Samuel Ware.
140^
Whoever will apprehend and secure the Thief or Thieves, so
that he or they may be brought to justice, shall receive a reward
of Twenty Doliars; and whoever will produce the above
Notes, and retutn them to the fubferiber, shall receive a reward
of Oa e Hundr ed Dol lars, and all ncceflary charges.
Precaution having been taken to prevent their ever being paid
to the Thief or Thieves by the Tieafurer abovementioned : All
persons therefore are cautioned not to purchase the above Notts,
of any one offering th m for sale.
Northampton, Feb. 2Q, 1702.
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Carolina,
or for conducing the work, will be leceived until the ninth dav
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
abwut sixteen miles; (he country through which it will pass, is
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
garrd in dry seasons, by veflels drawing three leet water.
Good security will be required of contractors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, must produce
certificates (from charaftersof refpettability) of theirr qualifications
tor a business of this kind.
By order of the President and Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clrrk.
Norfolk, January 21, 1792. ( e P r 9 A )
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, & Co.
HAVE just now Opened their Lead-War ehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoiningtheir New Fatlory—
where they have now made, and ready for (ale, a general affort
mtnt of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mir.es in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced English workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa£lured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. Ail orders addressed to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and execnted on the
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, sober, Labouiing Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of MefTrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at the-.r Factory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, December 3, 17<
A LOTTERY,
TO raise the sum of £. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfw\ck,
agreeable to an a& of the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey,
paiTed November 1791.
SC H E
1
t
s
5
id
3 d
90
*675
Prize of
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
£3* This Lottery is compofcd of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjrft to a dedudion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the moil
liberal fopport.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in Aoril,
or fooncr if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Brunfwick, under the infpeftion of Col. John Bayard, President
of said city ; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy;
and Archibald Mercer, El'q. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New-Jersey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be publiftied, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PET hR kEENON, C Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be confideied as a generous
donation to the Chureh.
3 7 if
(h?* Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their monev. To accommodate
all thole who may be dilpoled to purchase Tickets, letters dircO
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Post-Master, at New-Brunf
wick, and enclosing good bills will be attended to—and Tickets
lorwarded on rereipt of such letters.
Ktw-Bruxfivick, January ?o, 1795
A TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
TABLE for receiving and paving Gold at the Bank of the
United States, (hewing the Value of Gold in Dollars and
Lents Irem One to a Thousand Pennyweights-according to the
O' c,>,, g rcr «>»fce:-tainingtheStandaid and Value of Gold.
39 2
4 t NATH. WRIGHT.
M E.
Dollars is 2000
2000
1000
500
200
1000
1000
1000
ioo«
15*0
1800
6700
100
5°
20
4
16000
[en 3m]
FOR SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION',
On Wednesday the i»h day of April next, at the Hoof- ,f
fcrlr" 0 "' thCCi ' yo ' Pert:i - Aml °>< « P'iva e
A FARM .containing about four hundred .er« „f up!,n<i an(l
- 1. fait meadow, lying within three qtu.iers of a rritle cf f, A
city ; is » gri at part bounded on the found, and on a
Tr°M W r •" 3 g r°° d m '" fcaL Thc,f Jre farm li vr
n el'gible fituattons for building, with delightful p,„f, t - s
cellcnt brooks and fpnngs ; a large apple o,chard. ;,„d f. Illlc j, .
trees of other kinds, and a fufficient quantity ol fire-wood Tl *
foil is good for grass and molt kinds of grain, and n ,air« f mi n
expence, from the convemency of the fait meadov, and other ad
vantages of manure, be made equal to any farm in Xew terfev
It will be fold all together, or in two or thrte div.ftor,, as t i,'"T7
appear best to suit ihofe inclined to purchase.
}or further particulars, previous to or at the time of tale annlv
to the fubferibers. JOHN HALSTFD and
■4 ; ) MATTHIAS HALSTi D.
FOR SAL K,
BLOOMS BURY,
elegant SEAT at the Falls of Delaware, in the vicinity
A of Trenton, rn New-Jorfey,occupied for m?ny years paftby
the fubfenber; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, befidcs
a tract of wood-land of about 18$ acres, at the distance of two
mile?. The farm is divided by the main street leading f rom
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts nearly
equal in quantity; the eaftwardly pa-t being arable lanfl' uJaid
off in convenient si: Ids, and in good farming oidcr. The other
part, bounded by the said street on the east, and by the river . a
the weft, forms afquare; which, from the combined effect of li g
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the molt
beautiful and desirable teals in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-finifhed brick building 5 o by 40, containing J-> ur
rooms on each floor, with excellent cellars, and a twoftory brick
kuchen ; and commanding a very extcnfive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the out-bmldings are a new stone
ccach-houfe and stables, futftcient to contain fix carriages and ten
horse.*, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca*
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining theft is a very complete granary,
rat proof ', and a stone cow-house, upwards of igo feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved flails, over which u a roofoy loft for
hay, Zee. Adjoining the court-yard of the mansion-house, is gar,
den of about two acres, extending towards tlto river, in the higher
state of culture, and abounding with a rich colle&ioa of the
cnoiceft fruits of almost every kind, and several large afpnagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient di fiance from the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well*
built, itone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large checkroom,
spring-house, garden, &c. a complete stone smoke-house, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
cetTjry out-building. The ground is properly divided inio Jma'l
fields, all well watered, highly improved, and chitilv und r the
nioft approved grass. This square has produced annually, for se
veral years part, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, brfides
supporting through the fummcr fealon twenty to thirty homed
cattle, and eight or ten horfep. It contains also two beating or.
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper fedfans,
with great pl< nty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl; both of which
may afford a pleasing amusement to the fponfman, as wejl as a
convenient addition 10 the elegance and variety of his table. The
whoL of the land, except the wood-land, is inclosed and divided
by good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar posts,
?nd railsof chcfnut and white cedar. The purchaftr may have
the improved fq iare feparaiely, or the whole together, a may
best fun him. There is an inexhanftible quantity of good build
ing stone on the river shore. The puichafe money, if well fetured,
and the interest pun&ually paid, will not be demandtd fox rnlay
years.
Any pei son desirous of viewing the p»emifes, may be gratifi A
on application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. o* Tienion,
or Mr. K-allman, who at present occupics ihe fatm-boufeand
part of the lane—and may know the price on application to the
fubferiber, at No. 213, South Second-street, opposite to the New-
Mai ket, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
Philadelphia, March 7, 1792. ( c P l 0
WASHINGTON, in the Territory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF a LOT in this City, to be designated by impartial judgrf,
and FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS; or a M£DAL of iU
value, at the option of the party; will be £iveu by the Commit-
fioners of the Federal Buildings, to the perion who, before the
fifteenth day of July, 1792, shall produce to tbcm the mod ap
proved PL AN, if adopted by them, for a C API FOL, to be eroded
in this City; and TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY DOLLARS
or a MEDAL, for the Plan deemed next in merit to ihe <»ne they
shall adopt-, The building to be of buck, and to contain the lo*-
lowing apartments, to wit;
a ~ f n ) fufficient to ac-]
A Conference Room f , lforo i .vferooms
* tj rur. r > commodate3Co , tncicroot >
A Room for the Rcprefentatives pcrft>na cac h. '10be of
A Lobby or Antichamber to the latter 1 * 11 l^va "
A Senate Room ot 1200 iquare feet area I lloD *
An Antichamber or Lobby to the last J .
12 Rooms ot 600 square feet area each, for Committee Roomsao»
Clerks' Offices, to be of half the elevation ot the former.
Drawings wtll be expe&ed of the ground plais, elevations o
each front, and feftions through the building in such cirec ion*
as may be neceflaiy to explain the internal ftiuftuie; and anc
mate of the cubic feet of brick.-work composing the wbolc uu *
of the walls,
tf THE COMMISSIONERS
March 14, 1792
WASHINGTON, in the Tsrritory of Columbia.
A Premium
OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, or a MEDAL of
value, at the option of ihe party, will be given by t e 0
milfioners of the Federal Buildings, to the person who, be ore •
fifteenth day of July next, (hall produce to thrm the mo. a
proved PLAN, it adopted by them, for a PRESIDEN * s ' '
to be e»e£led in this Cuv. Theft;eof the building, n [
will attend to it, will of course influence the asp 61 an out 11
his pian ; and it's destination will point out to him the n'
size, and distribution of the apartments. It will be a
dation of any plan, if the central part cf it may be dctac c ,
erected for the present, with the appearance <»f a c:ornp.e' c l^|< .y
and be capable of admitting the additional paits, in future,
shall be wanting. Drawings will be expected <>( the grow'
elevations of each front,and fe&ions through the bui ou 'r' u £j urc ;
dire&ionsas tnay be necessary ro explain the in.una n o<r the
and an estimate of the cubic feet ot brick-work com>• j
whole mass of the walls,
tj THE COMMISSIONED-
March 14, 1 792.
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold, on COMM I S
SAM UEL ANDERSON,
Cl]cfnui-S:rccl,ncxt door to the N'- ?,•