&az((U
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FF.XNO, No. 6q, HIGH-STRFF.T, PHILADELPHIA
[No. ii, of Vol. IV.]
BANK of the UNITED STATES,
July 2d, 1792.
NOTICE is hereby given, That there will br
paid at the Bank, after the 10th instant, to
the Stockholders, or their representatives duly au
thorized, the following sums, being the dividend
* s c>red from the commencement of the infhtu
tion to the fuft instant, viz.
For each (hare completed in the month of
March, Twelve Dollais,
For each share compleated in the monthof Apn;
r en Dollars, Sixh-frven Cents.
For each share complcated in (he month of May,
Kim Dollars, Thirty-thrrr Crvtt.
For each hals-share, Eight Dollar*.
By order of the President and D>re£lor«,
f 2W .) JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Creditors of
Edward Mankin, an infolvcnt debtor,
confined in the gaol of the county of Salem, in the
ftatr of New-Jerfev, that the Judges of the Inte
rior Court of Common Pleas for said county, on
application to them made, have appointed the
twenty-eighth day of July next for the said Credi
tors to appear before any two or more of said
j udgis, <t: the i 'wn of Salem, to ftiew cause, if
any they have, why an afiignment of the said
debtors rfl-te should not be made, and he be dif
chai torn confinement, pursuant to an Ast of
A fie . Iy, n fT <i tht 24th of November last, for
the, ' ';i 'ilvent debtors then confined.
Sa:n-. j uric 25, 1792,
JUS- PUBLISHLD.
AND ro EF. SO t D (price ICif.)
By HAZARD and ADDOMS,
At the corner of Ttiird & Chefnut Streets,
THE
HISTORY
New-Hampshire,
Vol. 11l
Containing a wographfcal description of the
(Ketches of it* natural history, pro
ductions, improvements, and prefeot staLe of fo
eiety and manners, laws and government.
By jERtM* Belknap, A.M.
(j;3" This volume compleats the history. and is
peculiarly interesting. Subscribers are delired
to call for their books.
Thirty Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY, from the fubferiber in February
lalt, a NEGRO LAD, named PHIL, about
•20 years of age; had on when he went away, a !
Tound jacket, a pair homespun breeches, and a tow
(hirt; the fellow has a yellowish complexion, his
.heighth about five feet fix. or seven inches, very
-square made; has a mark along fide of his no<e,
and one of his insteps has been burnt, which causes
the smews to draw.
Whoever takes uofaid Negro, and secures him
in any jail, so that I may get him again, shall re
ceive the above reward, and have all rcafonable
charges paid. ROBERT Pr. ARCE,
Head Sajfafras, June 16, 1792. (*epnn)
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, living in
Kent County, arid State of Maryland, on
Sunday the 2*nh May last, a NEGRO MAN.
named Hark ; about 40 years of age, about five
feet nine inches high, has a fear over one of his
eye-brows, and when talking, hangs his hrad on
one fide, and looks up—had on and took will,
him the following cloaths, viz. a fearnought coal,
a black and white kersey coat, cut round, a white
kersey jacket and breeches, two pair of yarn flork
ings, the one pair lately footed, and the other not,
two oznaburgh shirts, each pieced on one fide,
two pair of tow-linen trowfers, one pair patched
with new tow-linen down the fore parts, and an
old felt hat.
Whoever takes up said Negro, if out of this]
State,and secures him iu gaol, shall receive FOUR
TEEN DOLLARS reward—and if taken within
this State, and fccurcd as aforcfaid, shall receive
EIGHT DOLLARS reward ; and it brought
home, reasonable expences will be paid by
PEREGRINE LETHRBURY
Chefter-Tou'r, June 4, 1791. (ep 8w )
W 7 m. cleland, I
BOSTON,
Tranfa&s business in the Funds of the United
States ;
BANK STOCK, BILLS of EXCHANGE, Zee.
Orders from New-York, Philadelphia, or
any other part of the Union, will be attended to
with Diligence and Punctuality.
June i. [fp\m & awzm)
ADVERT I SEME XT.
IDO hereby give , notice to all person?, not to
credit any person or persons whatever on my
account, othcrwife in m\ name, or on my credit,
without special order from uuder my hand au
thorizing the fame, as I am determined not to pay
any debt or debts contrstted without such order
being produced.
THOMAS JONES.
Frederick-Town, Jvve 5, 1792. (pp4w)
*** AdvotiJmcnts ofoneJquarc>oT less, wr' be
tubhjhed in this paper oncejor 50 Cents, and tachfut
jcqueni insertion at 20 Cents.
A CONSTITUTION
OR FORM OF
FOR THE STATE OF KENTUCKY,
[com ci. uded.J
ACTICLE X.
Sec. 2. r T~ , HE general aflembly ?nd the supreme
X courts (hall within five yea is, hold
their sessions at the place so pitched upon by the
said commiflloners ; and the feat of government
so fixed, fhaJ 1 continue until it friall be changed
by two thuds of boih branches of the legifiature.
The commifiioners, before they proceed to ast,
ihall take an oath or make affirmation that they
will difeharge the trufl reposed in them, in such
manner, as in their judgment (hall be most bene
ficial to the state at large.
ARTICjLE XI.
Sec. 1. That the citizens of this state may have
an opportunity to amend or change thisconftitution
in a peaceable manner, if, to them u shall seem
expedient ; the perft>ns*qualified to vote for repre
sentatives, (hall, at the general election to be held
in the year one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-seven, vote also, by ballot, for or againfl a
convention, as they (hall severally chufe to do ;
and if thereupon it shall appear that a majority of
all the citizens in the llaie voting for representa
tives, have voted for a convention, the general
aflembly shall direst that a similar ballot shall be
taken the next year; and if thereupon it (hall also
appear that a majority of all the citizens of the
Hate, voting for representatives have voted for a
convention, the general alliembly shall at their next
feflion, call a convention, to consist of as many 1
members as there shall be in the house of repre
sentatives, to be chofcn in the fame manner, at the
fame places and at the fame time that rcprefenta
tives are, by the citizens entitled to vote for re
presentatives, and to meet within three months af
ter the said election, for the purpose of re-adopting,
amending or changing this conttilution. If it
shall appear upon the ballot of either year, that a
majority of the citizens voting for rcprefentatives
is not in favor of a convention being called, it shall
not be done until two thirds of both branches of
the shall deem it expedient.
(*3O
ARTICLE XII.
That the general great and essential principles of
liberty and free government may be recognized
and eltablilhed ; we declare,
Sec. 1. That all men, when they form a social
compact. are equal, and that no man or set of men
arc entitled to exclusive separate public emolu
ments or privileges from the community, but in
confederation oi public services
Sec. 2. That all power is inherent in the peo- j
pie, and all free governments are founded on their
authority and instituted for their peace, fafety and
happiness. For the advancement of these ends,
they have at all limes an unalienable and indefea
ble right to alter, reform or abolish their govern
ment, in such manner as they may think proper.
Sec. a. That all men have a natural and inde
feafible right to worship Alfloighty God according
to the dictates of their own consciences ; that no
man can of right be compelled to attend, erect or
support any place of worship, or to maintain any
ministry against his consent ; that no human au
thority can in any cafe whatever, control or inter
tere with the Tights of confcicnce ; and that no
preference shall ever be given by law, ro anyre
lgious societies or modes of woifbip.
Sec. 4. That the civil right*. privileges or rn r
pacitics of any citizen shall in no wife be dimi
uilhed or enlarged on account of his religion.
Sec. 5. That all elections shall be free and equal.
Sec. 6. That trial by jury shall be as heretofore,
and that the right thereof remain inviolate.
Sec. 7. That printing prelfes shall be free to
fvery person who undertakes to examine the pro
ceedings of the legiflaturc, or any branch of gov
ernment ; and no law shall ever be made to re-
train the right thereof. The free communication
ol thoughts and opinions is one of the invaluable
rights of man, and every citizen may freely speak,
write and print on any fubjeft, being refponlible
for the abuse of that liberty.
£ec.JB. In prosecutions for the publication of
inveftigatingthe official conduct of officers
or rwen in a public capacity, or where the matter
publifhrd is proper for public information the
truth thereof may be given in evidence. And in
all indi&ments for libels the jury shall have a right
to determine the law and the fa&s, under the di
rection ot the court as in other cases.
Sec. 9. That the people (ball be fecu.rc in their
persons, houses, papers and poireflions, from un.
rcafonable fcizures and fcarchcs; and that no war
rant to fcnrch auv piece or to seize any persons or
thing®, (hall iflfue without describing them as
nearly as may be, nor without probable cause
supported by oath or affirmation.
See. 10. That in all criminal prosecutions, the
accuO d hath a right to be heard by himfelf and
his counsel : to demand the nature ana cause ol
the accuiation against him, to meet the witneflcs
lace to face, to have compulforv proccfs for ob
taining witnefles in his favour : and in prosecu
tions by indtftment or information, a speedy pub
lic trial by an impartial jury of the vicinage ; thai
he cannot be compelled to give evidence against
himleif, nor can he he deprived of his life, liberty
or property, unlcfs by the judgment of his peers,
or the law of the land.
Sec. 1:. That no person (hall for any indicta
ble offence be proceeded against criminally by in
formation ; except in cases arising in the land or!
naval forces, or in the militia when in a&ual ser
vice, in time of war or public danger, or by
the court j"pr opprtfTion or mifdcmcanor
in office.
41
Satuyday, July 7, 1792.
Sec. is. No person ftalUfqr the fame offence,
be twice put in jeopardy of his lite or limb, nor
dial 1 any man's property be taken or applied to
public use without the consent of bis reprcfeiita-
tives, an<d without jufl compensation being pre
viouflv made to him.
Sec. 13. That all courts shall b<* open, and eve
ry perfou for an injury done him in his lands,
goods, pe.rfoti or reputation, (ball have remedy by
the due course of la w ; and right and justice ad
miniltered without fair, denial or delay.
Sec. 14. That no power of Infpending laws
shall be exercised, unlcfs by the legiHaturc or us
authority.
Sec. i£. That exceflive bail shall not be re
quired, nor exceflive fines imposed, nor cryel pu
niftiments inflicted.
See. j6. That all prisoners (hall be bailable
by Efficient sureties, unless for capital offences
when the proof is evident or presumption great ;
and the privilege of the writ of habeas corpns,
(hall not be suspended unless when in cases of
rebellion* or inyafion, the public (afcty may re
quire it.
Sec. 17. That the person of a debtor, where
there is not (Irong presumption of fraud, (hall not
be continued in prison after delivering up his estate
for the benefit of his creditors, in such manner a s
(hall be prescribed by law.
Sec. 18. That pojlnor any law
impairing contrails shall t>e made.
Sec. 19. That no person shall be attainted of
treason or felony by the legvflature.
Sec. 20. That no attainder shall work corrupr
lion of blood, nor, except during the life of the
offender, forfeiture of estate to the Common
wealth.
Sec. 2j. The estates of such persons as (hall
destroy their own lives, (hall descend or vtft 3s in
cafe of natural death, and if any person shall be
killed by casualty, there (hall be no forfeiture by
reason thereof.
Sec. 22. That the citizens have a right in a
peaceable manner, to aflemble together for their
common good, and to apply to those inverted with
the powers of government for redress of grievances
or other proper purposes bv petition, ad&refs or
remonstrance.
Sec. *3. That the rights of the citizens to bear
arms in defence of themselves and the State shall
not be questioned.
Sec. 24. That no {landing army shall in time
of peace, be kept up without ihcconfentof the
legiilature, and the military shall in all cafe? and
at all times be in ftri& subordination to the civil
power.
Sec. 25. That no soldier shall in time of peace,
be quartered in any house, without the consent al
the owner, nor in time ot war, but in a manner
to be prescribed by law.
Sec. 26. That the legislature shall not grant any
title of nobility or hereditary dillinftion, nor cre
ate any office the appointment to which shall be
for a longer term than during good behavior.
Sec. 27. That emigration irom the State shall
not be prohibited.
Sec. 28. To guard against tranfgteflK>ns of the
high powers which we have delegated, WJ£ DE
CLARE, that every thing in this article is except
ed out of the general powers of government, and
shall forever remain inviolate ; and that all laws
contrary thereto or contrary to this conflitution
shall be void.
SCHEDULE.
That no inconvenience may arise from the cfla
blifhing the government of this State, and in 01
der to carry the fame into complete operatioi
it is hereby declared and ordained,
Sec. i. THAT all rights, adtions, proferut.iohs
claims and contra&s, as well of individuals as o
corporate, (hall continue as if the said go.
vernment had not been eftablifh«d.
Sec. 2. Thar all officers civil and military n.iw
in commifTion under the State of Virginia, fhal'
rontinue to hold and cxercife their offices until the
10th day of Augufl next and no longer.
Sec. 3. That until the firft enumeration fha'l
be made as dire&ed by the sixth fe&ion of the fit 11
article of this confhtul'on, the cour,ty of Jelferfon,
shall be entitled to el>& three Representatives ;
the county of Lincoln four Representatives ; the
county of Fayette nine Representatives ; the coun
ty of NeKon fix Representatives; the coun'v of
Mercer four Representatives ; the county of Madi
son three Representatives; the county of Bourbon
five Representatives ; tjie county of Woodford,
four Representatives ; and the county of Mason,
tvo Representatives.
Sec. 4. The General Aflembly (hall meet at
Lexington on the 4th day of June next.
Sec. 5. All returns herein direfied to be made
to the Secretary, fh ill, previous to his appoint
ment, be made to the clerk, of the supreme court
for the diftri&of Kentucky.
Sec. 6. Until a Sea! fhali be procured for the
State, the Governor (hall be at liberty to ule his
private seal.
Sec. 7. The oaths of office herein directed to
be taken, may be adminiflered by any Julhce of
the Peace, until the I.egiflature lhail otherwise
di refit.'
Sec. 8. All bonds given by any office** within
the diftn&of Kentucky, payable to the Governor
of Virginia, may be prolecuicd in the name at the
Governor of Kentucky.
Sec. 9. All offences a gain ft the laws of Virgi
nia, which have been committed within the pie
fent diifrift of Kentucky, or which may he
committed within the lame before the firltd/v of
June uext, shall be cognizable in the courts ol this
S;ate in the fame manner that they would be, if
they were committed within tins State, after the
said fifft day of June.
[Whole No. 535.]
Fkc. io. At the ele&ions herein directed to b<?
he,ld in May nest, the Sheriff of each county, or
n» cafe ot his abfvnce, one of his deputies fhalj
preside, and it they neglect or refufe to ?h«r
said ele&ior.s fh?l! be held !>y any one ot the ju!-
tices of the peace fur the county where such rrfu
fal or negle£t shall happen • each officer holding
such election having fir(l i3ken an oath before <x
justice of the peace to conou& the said cle£Vion
with impartiality, Hiall have power to p Imjuifter
to any person offering to vote at Inch elcfrion, the
following oath or affirmation, tC I do (wear (or
affirm) that I am qualified to vote for Represen
tatives in the county of agreeably to the
conffcitution formed for the State of
ana such officer ill all have a light to refufe to re
ceive the vote of any person who shall lefufe to
take the said oath or make affirmation when ten
dered to him. And the said clettions foil I be
1 held at the fever.il places appointed for holding
courts in the different counties.
Sec. 11. The government ol the commonwealth
of Kentucky, shall commence on the fir ft day of
Tunc next.
DONE in convention at Dandle, the nineteenth
day of April, one ihoufand levcn hundred
and ninety-two, and of the independence of
the United Statrs of America, ih? fixternth.
BY ORDER OF THE CONVENTION.
SAMUEL M'DOWELL, P. <
Attest. Thomas Todd, c. c.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT JOURNAL
Mess. Printers,
By ivjertrng the jell owing obferyations in xour vjeful
Journal, you will one of \our o'd cvjlowers,
and do an cjjentialJertjce to the public.
Notwithstanding the many and fre
quent cautions given the public, with re
fpedt to the dangerous nature of copper ; I
have rarely oblerved any precautions given
concerning the poifonoqs nature of lead, which
is to be avoided more cautiouily, as its poison
ihough perhaps flower in its efibdfcs, may yet
prove as fatal, or even more certainly so than
that from the copper.
Lead enters various compositions, and form-:
many of the utenflls in common uie ; and in
this country the health of its inhabitants is
much more exposed from the deleterious quali
ty of the lead, than from that of copper.
Afmall quantity of lead received into the ha
bit, is capable of producing lpafms and convut
fions, tremors and pallies, it interrupts the ie
cretions, retards circulation, and injures the
nerves.
So virulent is the poison of this metal, that
it is said that where the ore is wa(hed and imelt-
Ed, it proves fatal to dog"., cats, and fowl:,
which are kept near the works—every kind of
beast feeding upon the grass over which the
(team of the fmeltingore partes, live but a short
time.—The workmen and thole who dig the
ore, are (hort lived, and molt commonly die
paralytic—those who work the oxyd or calx ot
this mineral are lo lubjeft to the colic, that the
disease is known by the name of the painter's
colic.
Tiie potter also who is familiar with the pre
parations of lead in his glazings, rarely fails of
carrying vilible marks of it in his countenar.ce,
and of the complaints of it? deleterious c rfedts.
Only three grains of lead to the gallon of
new rum which a regiment of soldiers made
free use of, produced a molt terrible complaint
of the colic, of which a greater part were down
at the fame time.*
Some by a practice of fitting with their feet
on ftiset lead, which was before the lire,
have been aflfe&ed with the palsy in the legs.
Preparations of lead in oil, and other loluti
ons of lead applied to large lurfaces denudated,
or even to so fniall a part as the nipples, when
excoriated, have been known to produce acute
pains at the ftomac'i, colic, loss of appetite, fla
tulence and deprelfion in the nurse, and in the
child put to fuck, (without proper precaution)
violent gripes, andeven convulsions; but more
frequently are these effects by the use
of the sugar or fait of lead, for the cure of thrush
or fore mouths in infants.
Many have experienced pernicious effe&s
from only working on oil cloths made with dry
ing oil, prepared with lead. And I have re
peatedly known fatal effects produced by lodg
ing in a confined room, newly painted with lead
en pigments.
Printers have Tome times become paralytic
bv handling their types, which consist of" a porti
on oflcad.
The vintners or wine fellers, in order to ren
der their harsh wines vendible have recouvfe to
a horrid diabolical practice, and /requentiy (oft
en and sweeten them with some preparation of
lead ; so ftroug is their passion for
they are loft to all the feelings of humanity, and
prepare a fatal poison, of which there can be no
miftrufl in thr>lc who arc to endure the fatal cf
fe&s.
If the observations on the nature of lead up
on the human constitution are well founded,
(which I believe cannot be confuted as they de
pend on fa<sts ;) —then it concerns every indivi
dual to take the caution, as all perhaps arc
leiVconverfant with some or other of
I the saturnine preparations, many of them un
| thought of and never fufpecled. I write unto
I you nurses, that; while you are cpnfulting theiliverfion andamufementofyour little innocent:,
you may not introduce a fatal poilon into their
habits, by putting some painted poilonons toy
into their hands, which have some lead or othei
poisonous paint upon them and only covered
with a flight varnish, which is soon rubbed and
walhed off in their mouth?, and lb much poison
introduced into their habits, as to become a
source of a long train of evils if not eventually
fatal.
I writ? unto you honest retailers, tobe atten
tive and ever jealous of your pewter meal'ures,
many of which have a great fliare of lead in
their coinpolition, and if acid liquors are per
mitted to remain any time in tlicm they will
be ttrongly impregnated with thepoifonous salts
of this mineral, and rendered extremely dange
rous to thole who drink the liquors.
1 write unto you cooks, that you be careful
of your pewter vessels or copper tinned there
with, that you do not fuffer your (harp or poig
nant fauces tobe prepared or ftandin tliofe vel
fels.
I write unto you pve and pastry makers that
you not only disuse pewter but that you be a
ware of your common courser earthen, whole
glazing is oflead and easily corroded.
J jrrite unto you painters, that ye bo cauti
ous of the poison, on the ufc of which your sub
sistence so much depend l ;, that you abstain from
that too eommwi practice (from a mistaken
idea) of taking by way of antidote, a double al
lowance of spirituous liquors ; for one devil is
not call out by another, else is satan's kingdom
divided.
Therefore be admonished while working your
lead to use spirits fpa'ringly if at all, and instead
of your ufnal nips, take half a jill of sweet oi!,
which will be found a great preservative to
health.
Now I write unto you limners, and thole who
use the pewter paints, that ye may take the a
bove precautions, and in particular that while
you are studying your devices, you do not hold
your pencil in your mouths, nor as it is too cul
toinary to clean it with your mouths.
I write unto you whohave devoted yourselves
martyrs, to Sir Richard, that ye may look well
to it, that old Saturn by an untimely stroke of
his sharp scythe, does not rob Sir Richard of his
facrifice.
To you bacchanalians, that the god you serve
may not be diflionored, nor robbed of the glory
which would be shortly due to him wore it not
for the interposition of this rapacious mineral.
Lastly, I write unto you vintners, wine fel
lers, who make use of this poison to disguise
the acid of your wine, that you may consider
the justice of your damnation, how inevitable !
how aggravated ! for it fwiftly comes from
that Hand,which is termed the avenger of blood,
and lingereth not. ANTI-SATURNUS.
* It has been observed that the colic has been lejs
Jrequent in this country Jince the introduction of earthen
instead of pecuter plates ; but perhaps the introduction
of iron tea kettles, inflcad of the copper, lined with
pewter, may be confidcred as jilutary a change in this
refped.
/ROM THE RATIONAL GAZETTE.
AN EXTRACT'
Mr. Freneau,
" A S a fubferiber and well-wisher
-1 V. to the National Gazette, I take
the liberty of advifmgyou against em
ploying much of your paper in re
plying to the court paragraphs, which
appear in the Gazette of the United
States. There needs no second Daniel
to interpret for that paper. A para
graph in favor of the excise can easily
be traced to a gentleman who holds
a poll under that virtuous system in
Baltimore. The eulogiums on the
fame fy(tein,in the Pittsburgh Gazette,
bespeak their author in every line ;
the eflays in favor of perpetual debt
flow from the brokers and their
friends—the difguftful adulatory in
a nfe is applied to the adminjlration,
not to the constitution ; for these are
different things, as times go."
Tor the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
IT has long been the opinion of
many peifons, friends to liberty and
the equal rights of election and re
presentation that the National
Gazette so called, is a paper efta
blifhecl by a junto for electioneering
purposes—and to subvert those fyf
terns, which though in their infancy,
l>a\e tranquilizer! this country, and
produced a moil aftonifliing change
in iis profpecfts and situation.
The National Gazette of the 4th
instant—a day that ought to be sacred
to union, harmony and pleasure, ap
pears to juftify the observation, 'bat
benefits conferred on fonie minds
ttreiijgtlien their obduracy,
" A> sol's blest beams turn vinegar more four.',
I have read the fevera] columns of
that paper and cannot find one idea
honorary to the people of the United
States, favorable to its government,
or to the persons adminiflering the
lame : On the other hand between
five and fix columns are filled with
abuse of the government ; while the
people are reprefemcd as the weak
lieedlefs dupes of a few, who have
tricked them ouc of ,their property
and liberties by purfuading them to
adopt the conllitution of the United
States.—All this however is but a dust
railed to cover tbe advance of the
main de/ign, which is nothing less
than to oitj/ from the government al
most every man now in the adminis
tration.— 1 have attempted a dilfecftion
of the principal parts of this extraor
dinary publication of the 4th July—
and it is at your service :
WHEIIEAS the government of the
United States in the firjl dawn, of its
exillence, fay the writers in the Na
tional Gazette, has diverged from its
republican principles,and in uirnaidin
a<sts has explained away all the limi
tations of the conllitution r and " pre
cedents and phrases" have been
" fliufßed in without being adverted
to by candid or weak people, the dit
ped part of tlie majority," though
anticipated and discerned by us, the
then dormant, but penetrating guar
d ians of liberty—And whereas " the
public niind in a heedlsfs and unfcttled
itate," (i.) while we were eichernot
in the country, or were otherways
bitter employed, " let the press" hold
up to view the advantages of peace,
liberty and fajety under the auspices
of a firm republican government, e
(tabliflied by the people theiufelves ;
without any attempts on our (2.) part
that were fuccefsful,to persuade ihem
that there was 110 neceflity for any
union, justice or harmony in theflates
—And whereas the debt incurred for
the general defence ought to have been
annihilated a: the ceilation of hoflili
ties and the declaration of peace ;
inflead of which, the government of
the United States, agreeable to the
constitution, but contrary to our nd
vice, opinion, or judgment in the
cafe, lias contumaciously, and in de
fiance of every principle of our creed,
funded said debt on terms advanta
geous to the holders thereof, and to
the government, bnt without one
farthing's immediate benefit to us, who
never owned a (hilling of it, and who
never did, or ever can, or will flake
a doit 011 the iflue of any contelk what
ever, for the public good And
whereas the Congress of the United
States, consisting of the Hotife of Re
presentatives, chosen by the people,
and the Senate, with the President of
the United States, chosen also by the
people, have parted '* an atfi making
provision for tbe debt of the United
States," in such a manner as "to let
the whole be such a mystery, that a
jew only can underlVand it; and have
let all possible opportunities and in
formation fall in the way of theje few,
to clinch their advantages over the
many,"that is, the people. (3.)— And
whereas " the members of the legifla
live body," chosen as above, by the peo
ple, are deep gamblers, and can " al
ternately speculate and legislate, and
legislate and speculate, and fell and
buy and buy and fell," till by such
arts they have " speculated the pro
perty of their constituents into their
own hands," which, like arms taken
from an enemy, they will turn against
their constituents—And whereas a
debt thus constituted and applied will
contribute to the ends which these
gamblers, tricksters and speculators
(4) have in view, viz.
ift. The poflefl'ors, the "favorite
few" whether within or without the
government, will g% through thick
and ihin to support it in all its ufur
paiions and oppreflions.' (j.)
2d, Their money will give them
consequence and influence even a-
(i.) Ihet? arc no greater contemners rtf the
people, than those \vho under a pretence of amm
tng thctn on account of the dangers which thre'rZ
c n their liberties, arc constantly reproaching then}
with their ignorance oF what concerns their peace
and freedom—while at the fame time they never
devise or propose any praflicablc modes of en
lightening them—five a reprobation of the clergy,
and an a b use of all the iyftems of education extant,
and of those parts of the -Union where the mott
ample means of mlhuflion are enjoyed .
( a■) I; cannot be said with truth that tire confti"
tutmn has been unattended to by its enemies, ouc
moment since its p.omulgation-the partisans
who commenced their attacks on it before its a
dopttnn, have since betn'conftantly. as they now are
Keepmg up a random fire at the fvftcin, the so
vernment, and its administration.'
(3 Rytt? many, in the junto ftilc. is alxvavs to
be under flood the peop/r,—another immaculate
compliment on the p to pU and on the *,« whom
they have repeatedly honored with then fuffrages.
(4.) Thcfe epithets are juftifiable in the Nation.
<11 ij^zeue—they are there in point !
(5 ) The public creditors are here rentefen'ted
hefc ' U " dc,ft - Tool in
■ e ,a^e 01 the gooie which laid a golden eg-.
42
mong thsfe who have been tricked
out of it (6.)
3d, An hereditary ariftcicracy will
be ready prepared againlt a proper
occasion,
4th, Great taxes will ensue, numer
ous offices, oppression, resistance, a
STANDING ARMY, &C. &C.
And whereas Come fa<fts refpecfting
the excise have-been published in va
rious parts of the United States, and
fat'ts being a mltcfeiv to our insinua
tions and reprefentatious—it becomes
neceiTary to ftifie these facts by saga
cious ftvggeftions respecting their 01 i
gin ; though the devil who has often
deceived us (7.) knows that we know
nothing about it ; and whereas the
people of the State of Pennlylvania
in contempt of many wholesome ex
hortations for?nerly given by us, and
our connections, on the superior ex
cellency of a government constituted
with one branch only, have seen pro
per to new model their constitution
upon the plan of the national govern
ment §nd many other things have
done, which we mufl disapprove—and
have left others undone, which we
fondly anticipated would have been
done—particularly at their last session
have omitted to dillurb the union,
by not encouraging refinance to the
laws of the United States ; and at tiiis
moment encourage the " apes of Bri
tish" nobility by not carrying the law
against horse racing into execution,
while at the fame time an excise is
collected in the State: And whereas
the National Bank is a machine that
gives facility totradeand commerce ;
affords a general accommodation to
the public, in the payment of the
revenue, and in a thousand ways con
duces to the interests of the people,
while at the fame time it promotes
that of the men immediately con
cerned in it, and in this way is an in
stance of the wisdom of the govern
ment—and whereas the United States
benefiting by this institution, are sub
ject, as a stockholder, to a proportion
of the charges and expences attend
ing the fame—and though it is an in
dependent corporation, yet members
of Congrel's being chosen by the
stockholders directors of the institu
tion, is a dire (I violation of the con
stitution of the United States—And
whereas " all this corrupt specula
tion and avaricious jobbing have pol
luted the infant character of our go
vernment, and is a mortifying cir
cum'.lance to [us] its real Iteady re
publican friends ; and as the con
duct of those whose integrity and fidelt~
ty have yielded to the allurements
of diflionorable gain is the more un
pardonable and odious, when com
pared with the purity, the disinter
estedness and the magnanimity of the
example at the head of the govern
ment's.) And as much is to be hoped
from a pruning and lopping offofrot
ten branches from the tree ofgovern
ment —for though we hate it both
" root and branch," yet we find it is
prudent fometime3 to fay that we will
"carefully l'pare the treeitfelf ;"(9.)
And whereas the people of this coun
try are in great danger of enjoying
too much peace, tranquility and civil
freedom, of finginga requiem to their
former sorrows, and of " sleeping too
soundly at the sleeping hour"—And
■whereas " [nice the glorious and konora
ble peace of 1783, (10.) artifice and de
ception has efftfted one revolution in favor
of <the ye w, (11.) another revolution mufl
and will be brought about in favor of the
pkople —Now therefore to effect
this valuable and important purpose ;
to support and maintain our proper
characters, and to prove the truth of
that ancient record, which fays that
the fans of Anarch will never ccafe from
troubling, Know ye, That as the peo
ple of this country, injuied and op
pi efied by a diflant government over
which they had no controul, once as-
(6.) 1 his is consonant to human mtuie—the
people according to thef'e writers, have To little
underllanding as not to be able 10 distinguish their
friends from their enemies—nay, lake the latter
for the former.
(7 ) " Ihe devil was a lyar from the begin
ning."
fB.) This is evidently teeth outwards, a mcer
f,;|vo—its covfijlency with the general tenor of the
National Gazette of the 4th of July, u too obvious
to escape notict!
(q.) Partizans who taik about another revoluti'
on, 4t spare the tree !IV
(1 o.j "1 his is undoubtedly a flip of the pen
(11) It is here tlicy let the cat out of the bog,
fociated, combined and formed con
rait tees ot correlpondence f ur h „
laudable pnrpofeot counteraiW; I
designs ot diltaiit J J
we prcpofe that the people fnould
form foc.et.es in every county of the
United Stares, upon y/TOz/ar principles
for the purpole °f "P'eveuting abuses
power,( 12. j encroachments
upon the hbert.es of the people''
made under the admimltratic, of that
government which the people them,
lelves have adopted, established and
confirmed-, hns to arm the people
again ft the people. Societies tb„
formed for .nltruding the people
(lin their natural and political
rights, would deserve the title of
Friends to the People !" We<ta
not propose that theft societies should
be feledted by the people, by a deli
berate choice ; that they ihould be
confined to any particular objedts, be
under the diiection of any particular
rules or principles, take any oath, or
be under any obligation to obfe'rve
the laws or the conltituiion—Such bo
dies we find are not to be trolled, &c.
(12.) Silent encroachments! for about nine
months part we hive conttanily been told <»t the
open and during »ttacks upon the liberties ol the
people ! —
(13.) That 11 according to (he creed of the junto
— No, rather let the foundation of freedom and
virtue, be laid in the education of the rifmg gene
ration—tbis will enable (he people 10 discern bci
tween those who are their real friends, and those
who feck, only their own pnvau aggrandizement.
BOSTON, June 28- J
FRENCHWAR.
Englifli papers as lace as 30th April
[received by Capt. Norton from Li
verpool] mention, tbat the declara
tion of war against the King of Hun
gary and Bohemia, was formally pro
claim ed throughout Paris, 011 thea-iit,
am id ft the greareit concourse of peo
ple ever seen on such an oceafion—
That the Ruflian fleet would pafi the
found in a few days, and rendezvous
either in the Downs or atTorbay;
but none of the Britilh ports were ex
pected to be open for their reception
—That the French commerce wis
likely to fuffer in the contest, as pri
vateers from various States would
rendezvous at Oftend, and (ailing un
der Brabant colours, would pick up
[the merchant fliips of France—but
that great preparations were making
in France, for the immediate capture
of tbat place.
Every recent letter from Spain
brings some new inrtance of the grow
ing spirit of revolt in that country.—
It firft manifefted itfelf in Catalonia,
where the hardy disposition ofthe na
tives is proverbial. Caltille and Ar
ragon have followed the example,
and if the recitals which have reachei
us be well founded, Despotism and
the Inquisition have both seen their
day.
Lad Saturday was brought into this
town, by Benj. Joflyn, esq. ofNew-
Braintree, a-Calf of eleven months
old, weighing, alive, 840 pounds.
ALBANY, June 21.
Tlie following is the CHARGE of the
Hon. Judge Cooper, to the Grand
Jury of the county ot Otfego, at
the opening of the Court of Com
mon Pleas for that county, on the
19th instant.
Gentlemen of the Grand Jury,
LONG custom, as well as ihe (It
tute laws of our (late, renders it ne
celTary that, before you leave the bar
for the purpose of taking upon you
the important charge of correcting
the errors of the country, you flioul
receive from the court every inK"
mation relative to your duty, t
the bench may be poliefled of—as we 1
personal as official —'o serve as wac
tuaries to your deliberate procee
ings. But, gentlemen, as you art
brought forward from the e,a .
parts of the county, much more >
reafonablv to be expelled from yo
own knowledge of right and wrong,
and careful enquiry after the honor
and true interest of the country, t
what possibly can be given „
charge by the court-Therefore^!!
only fay, that it is our durytocha g
yoa» enquire after, and your
to prefenr, every species 01 P
lottery. Gentlemen, we chnig y ■
ro have a careful eye over dtforderly
taverss and every breach 0. t P
I lament with you, at the
couraging profpec'f, ccca.ior.-'
CRITO.flagrant violation of your public l ight
when the free and fair fuffrages of
neartwelve hundred freeholdcrshave
fallen a facrifice to parry rage—con
trary to the mild language of our
laws, which never convi<st upon'a less
evidence than is required to acquit
contrary to the given opinion of the
great and learned law characters of
the state, have your hone ft endeavors
for a favorite administration been
fruftrated. —But, gentlemen, as you
ate nioftly from the eaitern llares,
and have been educated with high
notions of liberty, let me request and
charge you, that you fliew forth your
erteem for civil government by qui
etly fubinitting to your fate.
.And further, gentlemen, as divers
malicious reflexions have been call
en my charaiter, as making use of
undue influence at. the late election,
I submit to your enquiry, my conduct
therein.
The seriousness of the 03th you
have taken, together with your na
tural inclination to support anilmain
tain the civil laws, renders it unne
cellary for the court to charge you
further on the occasion.
A report has been for some days in
circulation (but wants confirmation)
that the hon. E. Clarke, lieut. gov.
of his Britannic majeft's province of
Lower Canada, is appointed governor
of the island of Jamaica— that lieut.
gov. Simcoe succeeds Mr, Clarke in
the government of Lower Canada—
and that fir John Johnson is appoint
ed lieutenant governor of Upper Ca
nada, and succeeds Mr. Simcoe in that
government.
• The person who has been in con
*ment in the goal in this city, for
It', ral months part, on a charge of
counterfeiting the bank bills of New
Y.irk, and who has been indiifted in
,' of the counties of this rtate,
for that offence—was, at the late cir
cuit cpurt, taken to Saratoga, and
from thence to Wa(hington, to an
swer so indictments in those counties
—but not brought to trial in either,
on account of a deficiency in the pan
nel of jurors in the former, and the
.want of the evidences in the latter—
has made his - escape from the (heriff
of VVafliington.
LANSINGBUR G.H, June 3;.
At ten o'clock this morning arrived here,
sttesded by an escort of refpe&able inhabitants
of this place, the hon. John Jay, esq. chief-juftice
of the United States. On this occasion
every citizen feeling a becoming zeal to express
his good wilhes to the man of their choice, ap
pointed a committee on their behalf, who wait
ed on his honor at Piatt's inn, andprefented him
the following address.
7*o John Jay, Esq. Chief Juflicc of the United States.
s 1 R,
W E beg leave to address you in the simple
style of freemen ; and in the name of the citi
zens of Lanfingburgh, to congratulate you on
your arrival in our infant settlement.
Fully impreifed with a sense of your paifi
otifm, we embrace this opportunity of exprelf
ing our gratitude for your unwearied exertions
through the struggles cf an opprefiive war, and
your eminent services as a fiatefman and mini
ster at home and abroad.
Our refpefl for your character in the digni
fied office of Chief-Jullice of the United States,
and our regard for your person as a man pof
fefling the confidence of the j>eople, give us the
jnoft lively hopes cf Ihortly embracing you as
the chief-magiftrate of this state. Nor can at e
refrain on this occasion from exprefling our fin- 1
cere regret and resentment at the prostitution
of thole principles of virtue, patriotism and du
ty which has been difpfayed by a majority of the
can vailing committee, in the wanton violation
of our most facrcd and inestimable privileges,
in arbitrarily disfranchiiing whole towns and
counties of their fuffrages.
It was, perhaps, little contemplated that the
constitution of thisftate, which you had so great
a share in framing, fliould, in the firft instance,
to your prejudice, be in so flagrant a manner
violate*.
However desirous we may be of feeing you j
fill the ollice of governor of this state, we only
v/ifli it from the free fuffrages of a majority of
the electors : &at majority you have, <»r>d tho'
abtife of power may for a time deprive you and
the citizens of their right, we trust the facrt <
flame oi liberty is not To far extinguished in
ho oms of Americans, as tamely to submit to
wear the lhackles of slavery, without, at least,
A flruggle to shake them off.
"With the highest re!pe<sl we are your devoted
friends and very humble servant",
C. Lansing, "]
D Lake, | £
C. Selden, g
J. Dole, !
J. E. Dickinson, J ~
To which he made REPLY.
To the Gentlemen ef the Committee,
GENTLEMEN,
PERMIT me to request the favor of you
to prcfent to my fellow citizens of Lanfing
burgh, my warm and sincere acknovledgments
lor the honor they have done me oa this occa
fion ; and to iflure you, gentlemen, that the j
manner in which you have conveyed their ferv»
timents, add to the fatisfaftion which they in
spire. Their approbation encreafes thepleafure
with which Iretieft on my endeavours ro serve
the cause of liberty and my country ; that cause
iii which their ardor and' their iirmneft have
been diftinguiihed.
The various bounties of heaven to the people
of this Hate have afforded them abundant reaton
for gratitude, harmony an A content; and every
event is to be regretted, that tends to introduce
Gireitinftanced as I am
•ord and complaint.
in relation to the one you mention, I find niv
felf retrained by coniideratlons of delicacy
from particular remarks. The citizens of the
state know tiie value of their rights ; and it is
to be expected, i swell as'fmcerely to be wilhed,
that their cltoi ts' to alfert and maintain them,
will on every occalion, be marked by temper
and moderation, as well as by constancy and
zeal.
In whatever flation or situation I maybe
placed, my attachment to my country will re
main unabated ; and I shall always be happy In
opportunities of my refpcdl and best wilhes for
the citizens of Lanlingbjirgh.
JOHN JAY.
IVIJay left town at five o'clock, fuitaWy
attended to the ferry at Troy.
NEW-YORK, July 3.
Lalt Lord's day, between three and
four o'clock p.m. we were visited with
a severe (quail of wind, accompanied
with some rain.
Mr. Wade, ship-carpenter's, boat*
which contained hinifelf, wife, bro
ther, two children, and a young man,
were overset oppose to Yellow-Hook,
a few miles from the city, and all
were drowned except the young man,
who clung to the boat.
Also, another bnot, with three men
and two boys, was overset and all
drowned.
Also we learn that a sloop, contain
ing sixteen or eighteen person were
all drowned in consequence of this
tremendous gull.
Tis reported that several other
boats were overset, and persons loft,
the truth of which we cannot avouch.
Much damage has been done to hou
ses, orchards, &c.
It is indeed a melancholy reflection,
when we cotlfider the number of per
fotis drowned in taking their plea
furesi on the Sabbath. Every year,
since the peace commenced, produced
some awful warningof the like kind.
Boats are crowded with people going
to different quarters on that sacred
day, for their pleasures. May these
be a warning to irreligious triflers !
A stranger, viewing our ftrects, our
public walks, roads, boats, &c. near
the city, might be apt to interrogate,
Have they no magiflrate< in New-York ?
Tell it not in Cath I
The Portrait of Mr. Hamilton, Se
cretary of the Treasury of the Uni
ted States, painted for the citizers of
New-York by Mr. Trumbull, has
been received, and for the present,
placed in the City Hall. It mnft af
ford much pleasure to the gentlemen
who promoted this undertaking, to
know, that this elegant specimen of
Mr. 'rruinbull's abilities, is reckoned
lone of the finert pi oduiftions of his
pencil
Philadelphia, July 7.
Wednesday, being the anniversary of the po
litical birth day of our country, was ufheredin
with every demonstration of joy due to the oc
casion, which gave freedom to a world—Con
gratulations, becoming freemen governed by
eqnal laws, were exprefled with a cordiality,
which freemen only can feel—Bells and cannon
but feebly proclaimed the sentiments of citizens,
who, conscious of the advantages which result
from political and religious liberty, revere the
return of that day, on which they emerged
from the horrors o'*fervitude to the blefTings of
independence. Among the offerings at the Al
tar of Freedom —we beheld with lincere fatis
fa&ioa the homage paid by all orders of men to
the Military Defender, and Civil Guardian of
his country.
Congratulations were offered to the President
of the United States by the foreign Miniiters—
the officers of the militia, and many refpe&able
citizens.
The Society of the Cincinnati, headed by
their President and Vice-President (the Gover
nor and Chief Justice of the state) went in pro
ceillon to pay their refpe&s to the President of
the United States.
A-. entertainment in honor of the day, war
given at Oellers's Hotel, by the Cincinnati, tc
which the Heads of Departments and Foreigr
Miniiters were invited, who favored the Socie-
ty with their company.
After dinner a number of patriotic toasts
were given.
At the meeting of t'.ie Cincinnati, the follow
ing gentlemen were c'lofen officers for the en
ruing year : _
His Excellency General Mifflin, PrefkJent:
the Honorable-Thomas M'Kean,Vice-Pre(ident
Major M'Conael!, Treasurer ; Captain Patton,
43
AfllftantTrcafurer; Captain Howell, Secretary;
Captain Ball, Alliftant Secretary*
Reprefentativei ta the general meeting, to be keld in
ni./-j./i . • -
Philadelphia, in May next.
Col. Murray ; Major Mackpnerfort ; Major
M'Connell ; General Mtfylan, and - General
Stewart.
Standing Committee.
General Harinar ; Col. North ; Captain
Wig ton ; Major Sproat; Col. Johnfton ; Ge
neral Stewart ; the Hon. Robert Morris.
The Pittsburgh Gazette- of* June 3Q, fays—
A party of Major M'Cuily's levies killedan In
dian a few days ago on Pine creek, up the
Allegheny river.
Tiiere has been no depredations committed
on the frontiers of this State and Virginia this
foine time pad.
Monday 25th ult. arrived at Carlisle from
Philadelphia, on their way Weftard, between
and ;4po Troops, under the command of
Major Jofepli A Hie ton.
from the Territory of the
United States, South-Weft of the Ohio, inform
us that Governor Blount has lately been among
the Indians in that quarter, and held public and
private talks with the Chiefs and Warriors,
who unanimously expressed great contrition for
the depredations committed since the treaty of
Holfton, and their firm refolurion to prevent
any in future.
A few days only, previous to the above con
ference, several of the people were tomahawked
and scalped.
The weather proving unfavorable Wednesday
for displaying the Fire Works at Oellers's-—
The exhibition has been postponed, to the f4th
of July, the Anniversary Of the French Revo
lution ; on which day it is expe&ed there will
be a general rejoicing in every part of the Uni
ted States. F'd- G az -
His Excellency Jofiah Bartlett, Esq. is cho
sen President of the State of New-Hampfliire.
Letters of the 20th ult. received from Cape-
Francois, inform, thatfmce the publication ot
a proclamation made by the Governor, refpeft
ing the people of colour and free negroes, many
of them have returned to the camps command
ed by M. de Rouvray and M. de Fontanges.
Preparations were making for a general at
tack on the revolted slaves.
M. de Blanchelande had visited the Weft cor- j
don, and had gone to St. Mare.
The Governor, by the proclamation above
mentioned, in strong language, calls upon the
white inhabitants, people of colour and free ne
groes to recollect, that certain information has
been received from France, that the Allembly
had paired a decree on their political state,
which decree was fandtionedby the King on the
sth of April. That the Colonial AJTembly hav
ing received a copy of it, through their com
millioners, had wifely exprelTed their refpedl
for it, and determined to abide by the decision.
He hopes that the people of colour and free ne
groes will equally rcfpedl the decision of the
mother country ; and urges them all to put a
(top to their divilions, and unite in the common
cause.
' The UniveiTity of Glafgoiv it is said has fub
jcribe'd, and actually tranfinitted to the Na
tional Aflfcmbly, the sum of two thousand ponnds
sterling.
On Sunday last a boy bathing in a brick pond
near this city, suddenly disappeared, having
funk in a deep hole, trom whence, with difficul
ty he was taken out; it isfuppofed that he must
have lain in the water 20 minutes. After 3
hours persevering exertions in the use of proper
means, he was restored, and is now well.
1 * 7 .
On Monday, the 2d inft. in pursuance of pub
lic notice, a meeting of the Subscribers for o
pening a Canal and Water Communication, be
tween the rivers Delaware and Schuylkill, was
held at the State House, for the purpole of e
lecting aPrefident, Managers, Treasurer and
I Secretary, and palling such Bye-Laws as were
! considered immediately neceifary for the regu
lation of the Corporation, when the Rev. Dr.
Smith, was choien Chairman of the meeting ;
William Barton and Charles Heatly, Judges of
the Ele&ion, and Peter Baynton and William
Moore Smith, Tellers. On casting up the votes
it appeared that the following gentlemen were
duly ele&ed.
Robert Morris.
Managers.
David Rittenhoufe, Cadwallader Evans,jun.
Samuel Powell, Richard Peters,
William Bingham, William Smith, D-D.
John Nicholfon, George Clymer,
Francis Johnson, A. J. Dallas,
[ Walter Stewart, Benj. R. Morgan.
President.
Treasurer.
Secretary.
Philadelphia, 3d July, 179 2
SIR,
THE Paper which I have honor to transmit
herewith to your Excellency,fhews the number
of Barrels of Flour, shipped for exportation at
this port, in the months of April, May and June
last.
With the greatest refpeft, I have the honor
to be, Sir,
Your obedient, and
Humble Servant,
JAMES READ.
His Excellency Thomas Miffljk,
Governor of Pennsylvania.
State of the Shipments of Flour, at tie Port of Phila
ladelphia, in the months oj April, key anJ June,
' 79 2,
C BARRELS OF? 5 F.',RRFLS OF 5
l FLOUR. 5 C MIDDLINGS. 5
boo
4 '"
Shipped iu
April,
May,
June,
52,77 i
57,794
whole am'nt. 161,344 |
Philadelphia, 3d Juh, 179*
JAMES READ, Inspictor.
His Excellency Governor MirrvN.
By the arrival of a vefiel at New-Tori:, f.
X.ifboii, information i ; received that Dr. Willis
has pronounced the Queen of Portugal incura
ble, and in confeqncnce has taken his departure
for Londou.
t€ Of the genius of children for particular
fludicfo much is laid in general, and to very
few of it appear, t!:at a prudent per
son will not be very apt to fuipeft that his chil
dren will exhibit the symptoms of it which are
■denied to the bulk of mankind. There are, no
doubt, occasionally fbme gigantic minds which,
applying to a particular itudv, outflnp their
competitors in the race ; but, untef.we believe
in innate ideas* how can we expert that the
mind fliould be determined to anv particular
train of thinking, till ideas have been infufed
into it by fome«xtraneous circumstances which
dire<ft and determine its deci?ion. Whoever
expects a child's genius to unfold itfelf so com
pletely, that it seems almolt predestinated to a
particular pursuit, will, I fear, but ill coufult
his own or his children's comfort."
Shit MhWS.
ARRIVED at the PORTo/PHILADELPHIA
)chooncr Nancy,
Aflivc, Luke,
Nartly, Block,
Sloop Resolution, Rhodes,
New-York Packet, Bailey,
6 per Cents, 21^
3 per Cents, 12^6
Deferred, 13/
Hi a res Bank U. S. 45 per cent, prcin.
SOLDIERS, Mariners, and militia men's pay,
lands, and claims on the public,
SHARES, in the Banks, in the Canals,and Turn
pike Road,
NOTES of hand, bills, bonds, and mortgages,
with or without deposits,
BOUGHT, fold, or negotiated, at No. 2, in
Fourth-street below Maiket-ftreet, by
Who tranfafts business in the public offices for
country people and others,by virtue ot a power
of attornev, or bv personal application.
24 Dollars Reward.
RUN AWAY the 30th March lad, a NEGRO
WOMAN, by the name ot CHLOE. She
is five feet two and a half inches high ; quick
spoken; upper tooth open ; no eyr.brows at all ;
is about 30 years old, but looks much younger.
She is well stocked with cloaths, long gowns, jack
ets, &c. She is now pairing for a free woman, I
undeiftand, and has changed her name—Whoever
takes her up, so that the owner gets her, shall re
ceive the above reward ; and if brought home, all
other reasonable expcnces, from the fubfenber.
JOHN PUZEY.
Somcrfct County, mar Princcfs-Ann %
Maryland, 1799.. (*iaw4w)
Philadelphia, July 7, 179?.
FOR the information ot Merchants and the Mas
ters or Commanders of*veflels, are published
the following extra£ts from the Law for eftablilh
ing Poft-Offices and Post-Roads within the United
States.
In ftflion 10, it is enafled that there fiiall bo
chargcd u for everv letter or packet brought into
the United States, or carried from one port there
in to another by sea, in any private (hip or veffef,
four cents, if delivered at the place where the fame
shall arrive ; and if din fled to be delivered at any
other place, with the addition of the like portage,
as other letters are made fubjeft to the payment
I of by this act."
Tench Francis.
Wm. Moore Smith,
1418 Bar re]
EXT a ACT,
George,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
SECURITIES
CERTIFICATES, granted by the public, and
ic old and late paper monies,
FRANCIS WHITE,
PHILADELPHIA
GENERAL POST-OFEICE,
In feftion 12, " That no fhipor vefiel, arriving
at any port within the United States, where a poll
office is established, shall be permit;ed to report,
make entry or break bulk, till the mailer or com
mander shall have delivered to the postmaster, all
letters directed to any person or ptrfons within
the United States, which, under hiscare or within
his power, shall be brought in such (hip or veflel,
o her than such as are dirc&ed to the owner ct
consignee : but when a vefiel Avail be bound to a
nother port, than that, at which ftie may enter, the
letters belonging to, or to be delivered at the said
port of delivery, lhall not be delivered to the post
master at the port ol entry. And it shall be the
duty of the collc£lor or other officer of the port,
empowered to receive entries of fliips or vcflTels,
to icquire from every master or commander ot
luch fliip or vessel, anoaih or affii mat ion, purpos
ing that he has dehrcred all such letters, except a»
alorefatd.!'
In feflion 13, " That the poflmafler to whom
such lctteis may be delivered, shall pay to the
matter, commander, or other peifon delivering
the fame, except the commanders of foreign pack*
ets, two cents for every such letter or packet; and
shall obtain from the perfoti delivering the fame,
a certficate fpecifving the number ot letters and
packets, with the name of the Ihip or vefTel,
and the place from whence ftie lail failed ; which
certificate, together with a receipt for the money,
fhill be with hi* quarterly accounts, tranfmittcd
10 the Poftmafter-Gcoeral, who shall credit the
amount thereof to the po 11 master torwardijig the
I'dine."
For general information, the 14th u£lion is
lifhed, 44 Arid be it iuither en®£ked, That if any
pci son, other than the Poftmalter-Gencraf, or his
deputies, or perlonsby them employed, lhall take
up, receive, oidcr, diipatch, convey, carry or de
liver any letter or letteis, packet or packcts, other
than ne-wfpapers, lor hire or rewaid, or shall b*
concerned in fating up any toot t>r lioife post,
waggon or other carnage, by or in which any let -
:er or packet shall be carried for hire, on any efta-r
blifhed post-road, or any packet, or other veifcl
or boar, or any conveyance whatever, whe-eby the
tevenue otlhe general poft-olnce may be injured,
every person, offending, shall torleit, for every
inch offence, the sum ot two liuudred dollars.
Provided, That it (hall and may be lawful for eve,
1 v pe son to iend lctteis or packets by fpccial pick
fenger.
Jamaica
Virgitita
do.
CharUJlon
New- York
(i«w6w)FROM THE GEORGIA GAZETTE.
The ESSAYEST.
" And catch the manners living or they Parr.
IT has often been remarked by travellers who
have visited this country, that the Americans
are lei's national than any other people ; which
observation is undoubtedly pretty generally true.
There feeins to be a natural propensity inalmolt
every human being to think more favorably of
himl'elf than of his neighbor ; of ascribing to
hiinfelf virtues and qualities the poffefiion of
which he is unwilling 10 allow to others ; and of
detracting from them excellencies in which he is
notoriouily deficient, and to which he can never
liopero aspire by any subsequent exertions. This
inclination ptedominates in the mind in propor
tion as thecaufes of it are more or less powerful,
more or less numerous. It reaches not only to
individuals and private societies, bin extends its
influence to States and nations. Thus we fre
quently fee a foreigner so strongly prejudiced in
favor of his country, from which perhaps he was
transported for crimes that are a disgrace to hu
manity, redden with anger at a supposed asper
sion againlt his countrymen, by whom he had
been treated with the greatefl contempt, which
he very justly merited. That the Americans are
exempt from national prejudice isfar from beiug
the truth. The inhabitants of altnofl every State
in America are diflinguifhed by fame particula
rities, either of speech ®r behavior, peculiar to
themselves. The inoft apparent national dif
tintfions appear to exist between the natives of
the New-Engiana States and the inhabitants of
all the others, from their frequently (ligmatiz
ing each other with the faiirical appellations of
Cracker, Yankee, Lovers of Fork and Molafles,
bad Pronouncers of their own Tongue, and many
other such like elegant epithets. " Particular
instances ought not to juflify general conclu
sions." Therefore that behavior which charac
terizes a few in any State ought not to be indis
criminately attributed fa all, nor (lamp their
national character. To judge of a whole peo
ple by a tew individuals argues want of experi
ence, an unacquaintance with men and manners,
and a mind clouded with prejudice and absorbed
in ignorance. " There are good as well as bad
in all societies." If a parallel were drawn be
tween the northern and fourhern States, hy bal
ancing the advantages and disadvantages on both
fides with regard to the use of cant words and
'he fcaje might preponderate in favor
of .the former, tor there the greatefl attention is
paid to learning, which is conspicuous in the
number and diversity of excellent literary insti
tutions eltablifhed in every part.
The convet fation of many of mv fellow-citi
zens, at certain seasons especially, turns entirely
on the meetings and exploits (past, present, or
10 come) of the Sons of St. Patrick, St. Andrew,
-St; George. I could wish to observe to those
who have been born in countries under the flip,
posed patronage of any of the aforefaid Right
Worfliipful Personages, but have left them to
take their final residence in America, that it
would better become them to acknowledge their
new father St. Tapiniany, who is a father to them
by the fame rule that " a friend in need is a
friend indeed," and who is so far from the
ftrictneis of their former patrons that he lias ne
ver attempted to enforce any other rule than
that " every man fliall do as he pleases." But,
if there is any excuse for the natives of Europe
what are weto think of those who, as well as
their lathers and grandfathers before them
weie born in this country, and yet have searched
their pedigrees to find out which of the European
Saints they belong to ! There is Chriflopher
Bogherty, a pretty equal mixture of German and
Inlh, but perceiving that the Germans seldom
frolic for their Saint, and indeed hardly know
his name, he,in thedialeJt of his mother's family
(wears he will join the Sons of St. Patrick, for
he lias been drunk with them more as two times
ar:a '/\ A "', l m y "eiglihor Jonathan Gregor, def
ended on both fides from the fird fettle, s of
New-England, is determined to join the sons of
.St. Andrew , for, « «dds f watu p !t> as sure a]
J>ia.<es, it hiuft be tarnation clever fun-," though
the mixture in honed Jonathan's blood is such
as would puzzle a good jockey, with all his
knowledge of quarters, eighths, sixteenths. and
thiu>-feconds, to ascertain what proportion of
« is Scomfli. But enough-The countries of
Europe were all peopled by emigrants, and as
we are now a nation, let us not be alLamed of
out name, nor the dation we have taken
"Wherelibertyis there (honld be our SantrT^
but if, tin willing to acknowledge the country
thac gives us bread, we ought not, in ~orfn.it of
our or.gin, to dop in Europe, but p'rccecd to
Asia whence we are delcended From a pair who
h Ve i C ° mi " Ue;l in the enjoyment of a pa
there * "° Wn how to P ri " ir > when j
o RE SOLD QY THE ED
A Tv Ror ' kof
Cents, fr«m One to a Thousand ' l . >llars ™ (i
A«of confer,^,, nin3 , h^a--^^; he
3- Smith's History of New-York, from its fir (I settlement to
the year i 732. To which is annexed, a description of the coun
try with a fiiort account of the inhabitants, their religious and
political (late, and the conftitutien of the courts of justice. Puce
a dollar and a quarter.
4. Elements of Moral Science, by James Beattic, x. l. d. pro
feMor ol moral plulofophy and logic in the Marifchal College
Aberdeen—Price three-fourths of a dollar. Of this book the
n r.h'r f ßt ' v,c .. wers (vol 69, p. 628) fay : " We have seen nothing
on these fubjefts more plain, more perspicuous, or more generally
"iii- ~ B ' 11 IS "Produced into the University in Phila'-
oclphia. 1
■5 Beauties of Poetry, British and American, containing feleft
productions of the mod eminent Britifti and American poets-
Price four-filths of a dollar. e
B ' air ' s S"" 10 " 5 . containing the whole of the three volumes
he Bntffh edition, in two—Price two dollars.
7. Necker's Trotife on the importance of Religious Opinions
Price four-hllhs of a dollar.
8. Examination of the Observations of Lord Sheffield on Ame
"can Commerce—Price, on very fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
ilpm! r ft- 0 " o"" of the several United States, with the Fe.
Gondiiution, &c. Price five-eighths of a dollar
io. M'F.ngal, an epic poem, a new edition in limo.—Price
three-eighths of a dollar.
Ame ' lcan Book, in two parts, with two very neaten
gravrngs—Price, bound, three-fifth, of a dollar
,2 Uarden of the Soul, by Bishop Chalenor-Price, bound in
«)f and lettered, three quarters of a dollar-plain, half a doilar.
3 Ihe Do way Translation of the Vulgate Bible, in quarto—
Price, r.egantlT hound and lettered, s ofz~.plain, si* dollar.
Devout Chnlf lan's Vade Mecum— Price a quarter dollar
Pricea qu"L W do,ra';. ~or rCnCa '° nS °f"—onth.
.6. Christian Economy, iranflated from a Greek. man ß rcrint
iyp?.-pricV^f p :zz. whcrc Sr - joh " wrotc ih < a -» :
dollar. H ' a ° ry ° fChatUsGran^ron ' abri < i gtd—^Price a sixth of a
o' slftp y Humph revs—Price a third of a dollar.
Said r Po "i». chiefly American-— Price a sixth of a dollar
Dean M" a 2 ' arse 3<r ° ,tm ™t of Books, Euro,
pean as well as American editions, wh.ch he will dispose of on th
comman l" 1 terms. Country gentlemen, wjio lavorhim with
manter 1 " 3 A j!r n 1 T" beM,g ,Upplle(l
f<»r pub h c ihranesr 3 10 fel I^"n' ° *-«•
twenty Dollars Reward.
R™ from the fubfrriber, on Monday the cith cur
IV rent, a NEGRO MAN named ROBIN, is c-years" of a?e
is c frnK,' "h . a f ?' mcr ; Oneof his thumbs much swelled •'
poured i !hou
fcriber, ihall rec-iv'e >hr K 7 8 '. r bru ' s them thf r«>h
er, receive the above reward, and all reafonablc char**
Morrii-Town, A[wil V™ NMR ROBSRTSO.V?
tor,
A LOTTERY,
r T I O raifc the sum of £, 750 fpr the purpose of rcpairingehe
-1- Protcftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Biunfwick,
agreeable to an ast of the Legislature of the State of Ncw-Jerfey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
1
1
2
5
to
3 0
9°
167.5
Prize of 2000
1814 Prizes.
3,5 20 Blanks,
.5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each,'is 16002 Dolls.
ThisLottrry is compoJed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prise, and fubjeft to a deduction of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lottery yet
oiieied to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the mod
liberal support.
I he drawing will positively commence on the second Monday
in July, or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the' citv of
New-Brimfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, Pre
sident of fa id city ; James Pat ker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Am
boy ; and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Ma
nufacturing Society of New-Jei fey.
1 ickcts to be had ot the following peifons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, aud have given fccurity for the
faithful performance o r their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will he publifhrd, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE,)
X. B. Those piizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lottery, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church.
*** Adventurers in the above Lottery have a chance of more
than 3 per cent, per month for their money. To accommodate
all thole who may be disposed to purchase Tickets, letters direct
ed to P. Keenon, Manager, and Postmaster, at New-Brunfwick,
: >nd enclosing good bills, will be attended to, and Tickets for
warded on receipt of such letters.
New-Brunfwick, April so, 1792
books,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
MATHEW CAREY,
No. üB, Market-Street, Philadetpkia.
'• yA MERICAN MUSEUM, fiom its commencement in Janu-
J. X ary 1787, to December 1791, in ten vols. Price, neatly
bound and lettered, sixteen dollars.
This work, which is now conduced on an itjipr.ovf d plan, con
taining the best pieces publithed for and against' the proceedinirs
of government, will be found to contain at lead as great a variety
rn?°j' 1 ' Ca '' a S r ! cullll ™'> an<l mifcellaneouse(Tays,as any ever pub
lilhed in America. Perhaps in np one work are so many valuable
documents refpefling the history of this country, colle£Ud toge
ther. His Excellency the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that " a more ufeful literary plan has never been un
dertaken in America, nor one more deserving of public encou
ragement." The fubfeription is two dollars and a half per ann.
Gennemen in the country who wi(h to be fupplicd with this
work, are requeued to give commission to friends in the city to
(übfcribe for and receive if Any of the back numbers may
oc had in order to complete feu.
2. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss More's Eflays
Gregory's Legacy, Lady Pennington's Advice, Marchioness of
Lambert's Advice, Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady, Mis
Chapone on command ot Temper, More's Fables for the Ladies'
Price 6/6.
44
Dollars is
20C0
1000
JOpO
I COO
1000
503
SOQ
100
53
20
4
ioco
1 500
1800
6700
16000
TSSfS £ 'SSSS/SSTT*^
M John Singer, Esq. Am boy, of .T»m r . fc. * r «Wort,
Tnwn, of R.Gray; Powlc-Hook, of CnJ *l" MhAh »
Hunt; Cranbury, of William ThrockmoiionSjStwoS
the Managers in Brunfwick. FrMWeqd; 10 j 0 f
American Lead ManSwT
S-T EPHEN AUSTIN &r n ' *
H AVE jujfnow opened the,rLEAD-W.4R FH ' 0 ,.„ , ' ,
south of Walnut-llreet Wharf, adjoining their New Fa A
wnere thev have now made,and ready for fair w
ment of SHOT of allies, with SHEET and
produehon of the Mires in Virginia As thev hr' thc
number of experienced Knglifh'workmen, thcy
equal in quality to any manufatlured in Europe and « , 1
price from the cost of imported 'educed
fhorteff noti c'e.'' »>«> « t
N. B. Wanted indubious, sober, Labouring Men,,, ,1, e f 3 id
Mines, where cpnftam employ, good wages, and other ene.u r a»
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided and*
houses for their reception. '
Forfurther partio.larsenquire of MefTrs.M MOSs1 s ,W TII(J , fo
at their Fadory in Richmond, or as above.
Philadelphia, Dece.rn.ber 3, 1791. f
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-ibeef, New-York
to confine himfeH entirely to ,he
1 PURCHASE AND SALE of STOCKS on COMMISSION
Be gs leave otter h„ ferv.ces to his friends and others.
ine ota Stock broker. Thofc who may pleafem favor him * K |,
a cjr' "W depend upon havi Dg it tranfaflcd with the Z
molt fidelity anp dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any other n ir t of th.
Lnued States will be ftri&ly attended to.
LEONARD BLEECKER.
May 2
Bank of the United States,
T3 ESOLVED, That the specie proportion of the
XV ment due on the firft Monday of July next, on each (hare of
the Bank of the United States, may he made at the Bank, or at
any of the offices of discount and depofn ; and that transfers of
pub ic debt on account of Inch payment, may he made on the
books of the Treafurv of the United States, or in the office „f 3r „y
of the Commiffioyers of Loans in any of the States, certificates of
which transfers to be deposited in die office in which the fprcie
proportion of such payment ftiall be made.
Refolveri, That the transfer books be closed fourteen days pre.'
vious to the fit ft davs of July and January of each vear
By Order, JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
Apr i l 27, 1702.
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
At any time between ihis dateand the firfl day of July ensuing-,
A very valuable FARM,
T)LF.ASANTLY situated, and bounded on the Eafl bv t!)c river
A Delaware, 17 miles above Philadelphia; containing 203
acres, 40 whereof is firft rate Timothy Meadow, which may be
watered in a dry time; 25 acres, a rich low bottom, may be made
very good meadow at an easy expence. The upland lays in ifup
lap of about 50 acres of rich out marfb, from which (by an easy
alcent to the clcared fields) 130 acres of excellent upland meadow
may be made, at a moderate cxpence ; 30 acres of woodland. A
never failing stream of water runs through this tract, on which is
a feat for a mill, and in which is good sport with the net anfl
book ; plenty of rabbits and small game ; and on the flats, abun
dance of wild ducks in the season. A good mansion-house, gar
den, and ncccflary out-buildings ; an orchard o{ the brft kinds of
apple, pear, peach and cherrv trees, bearing ; a crop of wheat and
rye in the ground, and a spring crop putting in. Applv tr>
Peter Le Bar bier Du Plessis, £fq. No. 86, Chefmit-ftrrct,
Philadelphia; Mr. Humphrey Waterman, at the Waftiing
ton, on the Bristol road ; or to Doctor Tomjj, at Nefhamany
Ferry. Bucks County. The purchaser, paying one third of the
price down, may have a term of years to pay the residue, paying
intcreft - May 5 . (cp.tf.)
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON and SOUCHONG,
Of the very fit ft quality, nnd latest importation from Canten, via
New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Thir(3, between Chefnut and Market Streett,
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Street, BOSTON,
BL t, j and fell every kind of the-Stocta of the United States, on
Commiflion, by Private Contra#, and Public Au&ion. —
Tkofe gentlemen who fnay be pleased to favor them with tjicjr
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy and dispatch.
Bojion f March, 1792. (tawjm)
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
In the Commonwealth ofMa/fachuJtttSy
A SYSTEM for the DISCIPLINE of the ARTILLERY
in the UNITED STATES of AMERICA;
OR, 0
THE YOUNG ARTILLERISTS POCKETCOUP AXIOS
IN THREE FARTS.
Tart i. OBTAINING the duty and practice of light field
artillery.
Parti. Containing the theory and pra&ice of heavy artillery :
to which will be added, an extract of a Treatise on and
principle of Courts-Martial, wrote by an experienced Officer in
the line, and who did duty as Judgc-Advocatc in America.
Part 3. Laboratory duty ; containing a great variety of di regions
for composition, and the method of making artificial fire-work*,
and the formation of ammunition for the different kinds of oid-
nance,
By W ILL lAM STEVE N5, Eft.
An Officer in the American Artillery through the whole of the
late revolution, and fincc in the Militia.
CONDITIONS
This wotk to be printed on good paper with a handfomc typ".
neatly bound and lettered, in three pocket volumes, containing
upwards of one thousand pages; illustrated with a great variety
of explanatory plates, executed bv able artists.
The price to fubferibers, One Dollar each volume—to non-sub
scribers, On* French Crotvn each volume : and those who fubferibe
for fix feus, (hall have a feventhgratis*
This work fhali be pubiifhed as Joon as five hundred copies arc
fubfenbed for.
Subscription papers will be lodged with the principal Printers
Boakfeikrs in «hc United States of America.
I