A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 84, of Vol. lII.]
FROM THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT
PUBLISHED FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF
THE CITIZENS OF THE DELAWARE STATE;
Pursuant to an Order ol the Convention oi the 31H l)ec. 179'
(CONTINUED FROM THE CAZETTE OF FEB. 4;
12 XTO lands or tenements Ihall be fold by a (h-nff, upon a
IN judgment and execution, except in tne cals ot mortji
ces and recognisances, unless it be found upon anlnqu.fuion held
by the valuation ot four judicious and fiibftaiitlal ftee holders, up
on their oaths or affirmations, and under then l)a,,ds and seals.
that their clear vearlv rents and (irofits beyond all reprizes are
not fufficient within seven years to fatisfy all debts and damages
•with coils of fuiti, recovered against the defendant, Ins heirs, ex
ecutors or adnnniltrators ; upon which inquisition Ihall he m
dorfed a lift of all debts and damages, and all the reprises con
sidered by the freeholders in finding the inquest. No deed (hall
be executed by a iheriff to the purchaser ot lands or tenements,
unless the proceedings refpe&ing the sale thereof shall be iirlt ap
proved by the court from which the execution iflued.
Whenever a person, not being an executor or adminillrator,
appeals from a decree ot the chancellor or applies for a writ of
error, such appeal or writ shall be no flay ot proceeding in the
chancery, or the court to which the writ ilTues, unless the appel
lant or plaintiff in error ftiall give fufficient fecuriiy, to be appro
ved refpettively by the chancellor, or by the clerk of the court
from which the writ itfues, that the appellant or plaintiff in er
ror (hall profccute refpe6lively his appeal or writ to etfedt, and
pay the condemnation money and all coils, or otherwise abide
the decree in appeal 01 the judgment in error, if lie fad to make
his plea good.
14. No writ of error (hall be brought upon any judgment
heretofore confeffed, entered, or rendered, but within five years
from this time ; nor upon any judgment hereafter to be confcff
ed, entered or rendered, but within fivt- years after Ine conk-fling,
•entering, or renderia* thereof, unless the person entitled to iuch
wiit be an infant, teme covert, lion compos mentis or 4 prisoner,
and then within five years exclusive ol the time of luch difabillty.
15. The equity jurifdi£lion, heretofore exercised by (he judges
of t tie common pleas, fhali be separated from the common Jaw
jurifdi&ron, and veiled in a chancellor, who shall hold courts of
chancery in the several counties ot this 7 lie chancellor
shall hold his office as long as he shall behave himielf well there
in, «\nd shall be removeable as judges of the supreme court and
common pleas are bv this constitution to be. The prothonota
taries ot the several counties shall be clerks in chancery m their
icfpe&ive counties.
16. The judges of the common pleas, or any two of them, shall
compose the orphans court ot each county, and may ex rcife the
equity jurifdi£lion heretofore exercised by the orphans courts,
except as to the adjusting and fettling executors, administrators,
or guardians accounts, in which calc they shall have an appellate
iurildidion from the sentence or decree ot the regifler. This
court may issue orocefs throughout the State to compel the atten
dance of witnefles. Appeals may be made trom the orphans
court, in cases where that court has original jurifditStion, to the
supreme court, whose dccifion shall be final.
17. An executor adminiilrator, or guardian, shall file every
account with the regiiler for the county, who shall as loon as con
veniently may be, carefully examine the particulars with the
proofs thereof, and adjuil and fettle \he fame according to the
verv right of the matter and the law of the land ; which account
so fettled shall remain in his office lor infpettion ; and the exe
cutor, adnnniflrator, or guardian shall within three months alter
such settlement, give due notice in writing to all persons entitled
to (hares'of the estate, or to their guardians refpc£iively, if re Tid
ing within the State, that the account is lodged in t ie said office
tor irifpe£tion ; and the judges of that court shall hear the excep
tions of any person concerned, if any be made, and thereupon
allow no demand whatever againfl 'he eitate of the deceased, un
less upon coniideration of all circutrtftances, they shall be fully
convinced that the fame is therewith jullly chargeable.
jB. The rcgiilers ol the several counties ihall refpe£lively hold
the regifler's court in each county. Upon tne Litigation of a
«aufe, the dcpofition of the witneiTes examined shall be taken at
large in writing, and made part of the proceedings in the cause.
This court may issue process throughout the State to compel the
■attendance ot witnesses. Appeals may be made from a register's
court to the supreme court, whole deeifion shall be final.
19. The prothonotaries of the common pleas r.ay iffae pro
cess as heretofore, take recognizances of bail, and sign confef
fions of judgment; and the clerks of the supreme court shall have I
the like powers. No judgment in the fupretne court or com- !
mon pleas held for one county, Ihall bind lands or tenements in
another, until a teflatuni fieri tacias being iflued, shall be enter
ed, of iccord in the office of the prothouotaiy of the county
wherein the lands or tenements are situated.
20. The judges of the common pleas shall by virtue of the r
ofihccs, compole the courts of general quarter ieffions of the peace
and goal delivery within the several counties. Any two of the
said Judges shall be a quotum.
21. The Governor shall appoint a competent number of per
sons to the office o fjuftice of the Peace, not exceed iAg twelve in
rach county, until two-thirds of both honfes of the legislature ihall
by law duett an addition to the number, who fhill be comtnif
lioncd for seven yeais, it so long they shall behave themfclvcs well;
but may be lemoved by the Governor within that time, on Con
viction of misbehaviour in office, or on theaddrefs of both houses
of the legislature.
22. 1 he ftvle in all process and public a&s shall be, THE
SI ATE OF Dt.L AW ARE. Prosecutions shall be carried on in
the name of the State, and lhal| conclude againfl the peace and dig
nity oj the State.
ART! CL E VII.
Section i. There shall be a court, (tiled, The High Court of
F.rrori and Appeals, which (hall consist of the Judges of the Su
preme Court and th< Common Pleas, and of the Chancellor. Any
t' ur of the Judges of this couit may proceed on bufmefs ; but any
i mailer number m,iv open and adjourn the court. If any ot
them has tendered judgment, or passed a decree in any caule be
fore removal, he shall not fit judicially upon the hearing of the
fame in this court, but may assign the reasons upon which such
judgment was ren- end. or such decree palTcd. The Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court lhall preside, except when he cannot fu ju
dicially; and in such cases, or in his absence, the Chief Juflice of
the Common Picas; but if lie is so difqualilied or abknt, then
the Chancellor shall prefidc; and if he is so difqualificd or absent,
'Wednesday, February 15, 1792.
rn thf next eldest Judge, according to prioruv in date of com
miffi >ns, if present, and not difqualified as atorel'aid, lhall preside.
This Court shall have power to ilfue writs of error to the Supreme
Court, and to the Common Picas, and to receive and determine
appeals from interlocutory or final decrees of the Chancellor. Er
rors lhall be a(fign£d, and causes of appeal exhibited in writing
speedily, and citations duly feived on adverse parties.
f To be concluded t" our next. ]
FOR THE GAZEIiE OF THE L'MTED STATES,
EXTR'ACT
FROM A POEM, NOT YET PUBLISHED
HOLD, Atticus, 'till that grave Do&or pass ;
E'en meanness in her trade's a very ass,
Compar'd 10 him—imposing on mankind
His giavity tor parts—tor sense refin'd.
Say, is your friend, your father, brother, ill ?
Pr.iy trust not him—-except you wish to kill:
If so, 'midst all the Quacks that crowd the town,
There is not one, for killing, better known.
Who Atticus when languidiing in bed
He saw his friend ? Who would not weep him dead,
Should this grave Owl be call'd to give the potion,
And launch him to eternity's wide ocean ?
liut to be candid-—all ill will apart;
Some lay the Doctor has a generous heart.
And friend, in truth, molt noble proof indeed '
I've heard, how he would Ireely purge, and bleed
A beggar, in the twinkling of a thought ;
And ask him, only all he had—a groat.
Yet can I give another mark of merit,
And (hew his tenter, fympathizmg spirit.
Nan, lhameful fare ! was mighty ill, and poor ;
This man, with meafur'd ttep, pafs'd by her door ,
Straight was he cali'd—he tuin'd his head about,
And law—a creature with 9 tatter'd coat !
On Hill he ibtelv march'd ; the wretciied mat#,
Diftra&ed with the thought oi dying Nan,
Puifu'd ; o'ertook him, pray'd, intreated, cry'd —
But Jtubborn as a bull's, remain'd his pride—
" Here Doctor, here's a dollar, will you come ?"
" Yes," said thegood man, smiling, " lhcw the room."
So back they went---" there 011 the floor," he cry'd,
There's Nan, poor thing !" and wrung his hands and figh'd.
The Do&or felt her pulse, and found her—dead;
Then mighty wifely shaking W\sfmall head,
Oblcrv'd, 44 the woman's very well, I find ;
" She's gone, and lelt this wicked world behind :
" So, fir, I thank you much tor what you've paid,
" Good-bye—you'd belter get a coffin made."
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STAIES.
MAGNETIC TIDES
SHOULD Congress defray the expence of a
voyage to the Magnetic point in Baffin's $ay,
who knows but a set of observations may be made
to explain, in some degree, the nature of this
■wonderful effect.
It seems to be proved by the principles of ge
ometry, that the magnetic needle has an univer
sal direction towards two magnetic points, and
that the magnetic points perform revolutions in
certain given times : it is also found by experi
ence, that many changes have taken place on the
furface of the earth—at one time and place the
sea makes rapid encroachments 011 the lands, at
at another time it defertsvery extensive dillritSs
—these changes are found to take place accord
ing to the revolutions of the magnetic points ;
and as this the cafe; there is ten thousand to
one in favor of the fame cause having an influ
ence as well upon the waters of the ocean, as up
on the direction of the magnetic needle.
Many opinions of learned men, such as Bttffbri,
Goldsmith, llay, Raynal and others, tend to con
firm the truth of the observation, that the furface
of this globe is luhjeCt to perpetual change by
real'on of the rising and falling of the ocean,
which would seem to be governed by laws as cer
tain and uniform as the common tides.
Diodorus, Sic.uliis, Plato, Aristotle and others,
besides the Kgyptian l'riefls, describe a continent
as large as America to have exitted about twen
ty-five hundred years ago, many days fail west
ward from Europe and Africa ; this great coun
try, they fay, was afterwards covered with wa
ter—Surely ttiefe lovers of truth would not pub
lish a fallliood. Many of the moderns think A
nierica answers the defci iption of the country ;j
yet the generality of hiltorians who treat of the
new world,, have pafled this account in silence.
It is certain there are large bodies of petrified
fea-lhells oil many mounrains of America, a proof
that it malt have continued many years under
the sea.
An inundation is well known to have buried
in modern times, with astonishing rapidity, the
half of Friezland ; it is said that something more
than sixty years ago, the church steeples of eight
teen villages near Mardike teftified the unhappy
event, they then appeared above the furface of
the sea, but have since yielded to the force of the
waves.
333
[Whole No. 292.]
The Baltic Sea lias destroyed and overwhelm
ed aiming many others, Uie famous port of Vi
neta ; and covered by flow degrees, a laioe por
tion of Pomerania, The German ocean gradu
ally encroaching on the ihores of Holland, over
whelmed the ruins of an ancient citadel of the
Romans, which had formerly lieen built on that
coalt, and which is now actually under water.
In the faine manner the sea washing the coast
of Norway, is well known to have' detached se
veral little islands from rhe main land ; and is
itill making daily depredations upon the conti
nent of Europe as well as Asia.
In some parts of the East-Indies, it is known
that the ocean in modern times lias encroached
four hundred leagues on the land, so as to cover
the low grounds and transform the tops of moun
tains into iiland.
Hence, after knowing the peiiodical revoluti
on of the two magnetic points, it is found they
cannot meet twice en the fame meridian under
(ivethoufand years; «n<l knowing the quantity of
acres ot. the furface of the globe, and the pro
portion between land and water, it is found there
is every year throughout the world about two
millions of acres covered with the sea in fotns
places, and about as much defened by it in others.
By the laws of nature and of nations, new
found lands are tiniverfally allowed to belong to
the Prince whose fubjeift makes the 'firft discove
ry ; as the author of the foregoing system is
a citizen of the United States, should the
addition of two millions of acres annually
on this account be claimed by this country, our
territories would soon become much more exten
sive than the largest empire in the world. X.
FROM A LATE HALIFAX PAPER.
WHENEVER a measure is proposed, which
affecls the interest of society, or even the
happiness of auy particular description of indi
viduals, who form a part of that society, an un
questionable claim results, from that relation in
which we stand to each other, as the offspringof
one Univerlal Parent, of pointing out those evils
and inconveniencies that may arise from the pro
secution of that measure, more especially, when
it immediately concerns those, who, from their
unfortunate situation, cannot have the means of
that information which is eUerifial to the form
ing a proper ellimaie of either their present or
future happiness. In fufch inftaitces humanity
will lend her aid, and the Chrittian then conli
ders himfelf of 110 country, but a citizen of the
world, and that the inhabitants of the remotelt
regions, as well as thole dwelling in the fame
diltrict with himfelf, are his neighbours and
countrymen, whenever their dillrelles demand
his friendly afliltance.
The attempts which are now making to in
duce the Blacks, who in general are'comfortably
fettled in this country, to remove ro the Coalt of
Guinea, led me into this train of reasoning ; and
( did hope some abler pen would have undertak
en the subject in behalf those unfortunate peo
ple, who, probably, will fall vitfims to the mis
taken principles of commerce, if not warned of
iheir danger, and the perilous iltuation to which
they will inevitably be exposed.
Of the policy arid justice of the measure, as ic
refpecfts this country, I shall nor, at present,
make any remarks further than to observe, that
it wears an unfriendly afpeit, as it will remove
from the Province a number of valuable settlers,
and therefore ought to be discountenanced, uti
le fs it was evident that thofc who are the imme
diate objects of it would be .placed in a happier
or more comfortable lituation.—But of the pro
pofols offered by the Sierra Leone Company, I
will fay, they are too vague and indefinite a»
the baiis of a Colonial ellablifliment, and howe
ver refpetflable the members of that Society may
be, either for their probity and humanity, it is a.
circnmftance of very serious cor.sequence (hac
the Blacks fliould be told, that the terms of set
tlement—the time they will be victualled, .and.
the manner in which they are to be provided
with such neceflaries as are eflential to their ex
istence-—are neither ascertained nor pointed out
with that clearness and precision, which they
have an undoubted right to expetft ; without fay
ing any thing relpeiSing those other privileges
which, as members offociety, they havean equal
and common claim fully to participate in.—Be
sides, the country to which these devoted people
are to be fenc, notwithstanding the fertility ofits foil, and the variety of products it is capable
of affording, is of all others the molt to be dread
ed, for the conltant thunder, rain and ftifling
heat which prevails at least four months in the
year, produces such a corrupted air, that, in a
few hours all animal food is reduced to a state
of putrefatflion, and such of the wretched inha
bitants who survive owe their preservation to
confining themselves within doors, to avoid the
dreadful pestilential infection ofthe atmosphere.
The tornadoes in that part of Guinea are fright
ful and astonishing, for the most horrible dark
ness comes on at noon-day, and nature, in a mo
ment, puts on a dreadful, awful appearance,
which fills the minds with horror, and makes e
ven the brute creation to tremble.
About the year 1787, an attempt was made to
form a settlement at this very place, by fending
a number of Negroes from and about London.
The success of that enterprize and the melan
choly fate of the unfortunate advenurers, can
not be more correiftly stated than from the fol
lowing extra# from the proceedings of the ve
nerable society for propagating theGofpel in fo
reign parts, and with which 1 shall for the pre
sent conclude. PHILANTHROI'OS.
\The Extra fit iv'ill appear in our next. J
RESOLUTIONS passed in the late GENERAL ASSEM-
BLY of the COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES,
Wednesday, Oft. 26, 1791.
THE General AflemblyofVirginia, confidcring it as one among
the important privileges of the pecple, that the doors of the
Senate of the United States should be open when they are exercis
ing their jndicial or legifiative funftioos.
Resolved therefore, That the Senators of this Commonwealth
in the Senate of the United States, use their utmost endeavors to
procure the ad million of the citizens of the United States to hear
the debates of their house, whenever they are fitting in their legis
lative capacity.
Resolved also, That the Senators of this commonwealth in the
Senate of the United States, use their utmost endeavors to procure
the admiflion ot the citizens of the United States, whenever the
Senate ftiall be fitting in its judicial capacity.
November 1,1 79** Agreed to by the Senate.
Tuesday, November 8.
Resolved, That the violation of the seventh article of the treaty
of peace on the part of his Britannic Majesty, has been highly in
jurious to the citizens of this commonwealth, and that measures
ought to be taken by the federal government to enforce the due
execution of the said article of the treaty.
Resolved, That the memorial from the counties of Princess
Anne, Norfolk, Nanfemono, and Isle of Wight, with the above
Tefolution, be transmitted by the executive of this commonwealth
to the Prelident of the United States.
November 14, 1791. Agreed to by the Senate.
Thu RsDay, December 15.
"Whereas considerable expences have been incurred by this
commonwealth, since the adoption of the federal constitution, in
the necessary defence of the frontier* from the invasions and de
predations of the ravages: and whereas one ot the essential objefls
of the said constitution is to provide tor the common defence, in
order to promote which, this commonwealth has relinquiftied
many valuable sources of revenue :
Resolved, That the applicatiorvof the executive to the general
government for a reimbursement of the (aid expences, is not only
jult and proper, but discovers a laudable zeal for the interest of
the commonwealth, well deserving the approbation of the General
Aiiembly, and they are requested therefore to persevere in their
den>ands ; and to insist on a compliance with them.
December :6, 179 1 * Agreed to by the Senate.
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
THURSDAY, February 2, 1792.
Tht amendments of the Senate to the P oft-Office Bill
•were taken into consideration by the House.
of the amendments was to strike out Ex-
rter• from the general route of tlie port.
Mi. Gilman rose in opposition to this amend
ment-.
I hope, said he, the alteration will not be a
greed to—when this bill went up to the Senate,
a "r/l'- 1 ' ormeC ' Was comm i t ted to a committee
conlilting of a member from each state—that the
alterations were made in that committee, and af
terwards agreed to in Senate without much de
bate. In that committee this fubjert was very
\J 1 al '' gentlemen who were
then in favor of the amendment, are now on fur
ther enquiry, decidedly againfl it. This I think
a good reason why the House ought not to con
cur. But, fir, I beg leave to offer some reasons
why an office should be established in Exeter-
It is a compact town of considerable trade and
ome navigation—it has a direst trade with Bos
ton, and vends considerable quantities of dry
goods—this trade would be greatiy facilitated
by haying the stage pass through the town But
what is of more importance and more extensive
in its operation, arises from the neceflary com
munication which is kept up between that town
and other parts of the (late—this will be perfert-
Iv understood, when gentlemen are informed
that the records of the state, the secretaries and
treasury offices are kept there—that the records
and treasury of a large county, comprehending
both Portsmouth and Exeter, and extending fifty
or sixty miles into the country are also kept there
—and that the judicial courts of the county, the
state and the United States, set there at appoint
ed periods—lf is there the governor convenes
his council to consult on public affairs—and it is
from that place a communication should be kept
up between the state and the general govern
ment—from these circumstances it appears that
it would be very convenient not only for Exeter,
but for a considerable part of the state to have an
office established there ; and as the neceflary
communication between that and other towns
would afford frequent opportunities to fend and
receive letters by private conveyance, a doubt
can hardly exist that such an arrangement would
be productive to the revenue—this 1 believe to
be the opinion of the post-master general. Sir,
the distance from Bolton to Portsmouth does not
exceed seventy miles, and that perhaps the best
. road within the United States of equal extent—
the objection therefore that the stage cannot pass
through in a day, can have no weight, it is too
absurd to deserve a serious refutation—the differ
ence in the diltance between the present route
of the mail, and the one proposed through Exe
ter is, pasting through Kensington, about three
miles, or by Hampton-Falls, about five miles
the road through Kensington is a good carriage
road, the stage ran that way about five years ago,
before the proprietors contracted for the trans
portation of the mail—it was then a pretty good
road, since which it is much improved—it was
therefore a falfe aflertion to fay that the road
through Kensington or Hampton-Falls is bad—
and 1 am persuaded that the mail passing that
way could not be injurious to Portsmouth. But,
fir, the opposition to this measure arises from a
rivalfhip between the twotowns—Before the war,
the courts and offices jufl now mentioned, were
held exclusively at Portsmouth—on the com
mencement of hostilities it was found conveni
ent to temove them to Exeter, where it has been
thought expedient to continue them—but this
has excited a degree of jealousy in the minds of
some persons, in the interest of Portsmouth, who
are perpetually on the watch to oppose any pub
lic measure calculated to promote the interest or
convenience of Exeter—lf this alteration takes
place, letters going to Exeter will be liable to a
portage of 20 or 25 per cent more than by the
present arrangement, and as the cross-post will
set off but once a week, letters may lie fix or se
ven days in the office at Portsmouth—this will
preclude the people of Exeter from the benefit
of a port, and they will be obliged to fend their
letters by private conveyance as they now do.
By the original conftrucftiou of the bill, the ex
pence of transporting the mail would belefs than
by the proposed alteration, as by extending the
route of the principal mail about three miles fur
ther, the travel of the cross-post is shortened 14.
I therefore hope the people in that part of the
state will not be deprived of rights naturally aris
ing from their situation, by the prejudice and
misrepresentation of those who wish to injure
them, and that the amendment will not be-aereed
to.
Mr. Livermore—l {hall agree to the amend
ment made by the Senate in this bill, to strike
out Exeter, and to carry the mail by the accus
tomed route, through Hampton, which is the
nearelt way, ;is gentlemen have heretofore dat
ed, by about five miles ; and it is also the bed
road, more especially in winter, when the snow
is deep, being a road more used, and consequent
ly the paths better kept open. And as the bill
provides that a mail (hall be carried from Ports
mouth by Exeter, to the interior parts of the
state, 1 think the town of Exeter will be well ac
commodated, without the deviation of five miles
betoie mentioned. As the flage carriages that
carry the mail three times a week, between Ports
mouth and Bolton, in the summer season, carry
many pafl'engers from Portfmonth and from Bos
ton, and other places, a deviation of five miles,
and in a worse road, would be a very great in
convenience to such paflengers. The distance
from Boston to Portsmouth, by the usual route,
is about 6; miles. This is a pretty long journey
to be performed with a stage waggon in one day,
which is the cafe in the summer season ; but five
miles added, may induce the neceflity of travel
ing sometimes after night, which would be at
tended with inconveniency to the paflengers,
beiid.es hindering the mail from arriving at the
appointed hour. The inconvenience would also
perhaps be greater in winter, in proportion to
the number of paflengers, and in refpett to re
tarding the mail, as some part of the new pro-
Pi, route is confiderablv more liable to be
blocked up with snow, for'want of travelling to
keep it open, than the old route.
Portsmouth being a place of considerable com
merce and navigation, it is important that the
mail mould arrive at its proper times, and as ear
ly as potfible. The letters for Exeter are few,
compared with the number for Portfniourh. The
post-master bas ftafed the amount of the poftao-e
of letters for Exeter, pafling through his office at
334
l ortfinoutli, to be about fifteen dollars and
half, in eleven months from the firft of Tanuarv
179' ; a *U'» v ery inconsiderable indee<fcompar
ed to the amount of portage received for let-en
delivered in Portsmouth during the f ame period.
Mr. Thatcher : I feel myfelf, f lr , as !itde ;
t ere (ted in the present queition as it is possible
far the gentleman just now up, from New-Hamn
fhne (Mr. Livermore) Indeed I have no other
inrereft in this matter than what arises from a
desire to accommodate the greatelt number of
people—and so far I confefs I feel interested •
for any general measure that does not efFedi
this gives a certain degree of pain. If the fails
that have been stated be true, and the ar 2u
ments drawn from them in support of the a.
mendment, be conclusive, I certainly should be
interested in favor of it ; because it must imme
diately affect my constituents.— But, fir, the
facfts are not true, nor the reasoning just.' Sir
the real matter in. dispute between Portsmouth
and Exeter, has not yet been understood— and I
ctkiceive it to be simply this : shall the mail from
Boston arrive at Exeter about two hours earlier
on the fame day, than at Portsmouth ; or shall
it arrive at Portsmouth firft, and to Exeter the
next day, or within fix or seven days after'
This, fir, is the real queftion—for whetherit
partes through Exeter, or through Hampton as
it now does, it will reach Portsmouth on the
fame day it leaves Boston, and about the fame
hour, if the hour of arrival at Portsmouth be
fixed at eight o'clock in the summer time, the
post may accomplish the route through Exeter
with ease—and lie will do no more if he pafles
through Hampton : this brings us t6 an exami
nation of the reasons offered in favor of the
amendment, which go altogether to shew that if
the route be established through Exeter,the mail
will not arrive at Portsmouth on the fame day
it leaves Boston—and consequently the mer
chants at that place will be injured—and not on
ly so, but 'tis said, the Portland mail will be de
layed another day. Did I believe, iir, tberewaj
the least shadow of reason for this apprehension,
I should be the firft for agreeing to the amend,
ment ; but, fir, 'tis all a pretence, a whim in
vented for no other reason, than to prevent the
mail's arriving at Exeter before it does at Ports
mouth.
The gentleman (Mr. Livermore) has said the
route from Boston to Portsmouth through Exeter,
is about five miles farther, than through Hamp
ton — he does not pretend to fay it is more ; I
verily believe the difference is rot more than
three miles—if it is so much as that ; but for
the fake of the argument I will admit there it
the difference contended for by the gentleman ;
we will examine the question on that fuppoli
tion, and fee if there arises a probability that
the increased distance will prevent the arrival
ofthemailat Portsmouth on the day it leaves
Boston. It seems to be agreed that the old route
from Boston to Portsmouth is about sixty four or
five miles ; now 'tis a facft, fir, that prior to the
building the bridges across Mystic and Beverly
rivers the stage palled this route in a day—al
though at Beverly Ferry it was detained from
thirty to forty minutes where it now partes in
two, and,it was obliged to go round by tbe
town of Mystic—which is two miles farther than
where it now crofles on the bridge ; by these
bridges then we may consider five miles taken
off the whole distance—so that admitting the ob
jection of the addition of five miles, as the gen
tleman wifhestohave it, the mail may now pass,
in a day, from Boston to Portsmouth through
Exeter, with the fame ease and certainty that ic
did before the erection of these bridges, through
Hampton Falls—the route contemplated by the
amendment ; and I must ,beg leave further to
observe, that a bridge is about to be thrown
across Merrimack River, which will considerably
add to the facility of parting ; and may well be
counted upon as a further deduction of the dif-
ance
It has been said by the gentleman from New-
Hampshire (Mr. Livermore) that the road from
Portsmouth to Newbury-Port is a good road ; I
agree with him in this point ; I am as perfectly
acquainted with the road from Portfmouih to
Newbury-Port as he can be—l know every patch
of sand, or rock in the way, that can
carriage ; but as good as it is, I presume he will
acknowledge there is more sandy heavy rpad for
wheel carriages, in this part of the line than all
the reft of the way to Boston ; so that fon-ething
oughtto be carried to the credit of the Exeter
route becatife it avoids this sand. 'Tis said the
road through Kensington to Exeter, is blocked
up with snow in the winter time—granted as to
some particular seasons ; but the fame is also the
cal'e as to Hampton road ; 1 have often knov*w
the Hampton road so blocked up that the ft32e
could not run for several weeks , this was rhe
cafe last March, and I was then informed that
the road through Kensington and Exeter wa»
paflable for the ltage earlier than the Hamp'c n >
and here to be noted thete is a cm' 1 ' 3 ?
near-half a mile in length in Hampton, o*er
which the passing is not only difficult in the * in "ter time, but very dangerous if paflaule at ail,
as some tides flow it two feet and more ; I pall
ed it last March in this situation : This incon
venience however will be avoided by palling
through Exeter—and no part ot that route is lo
bad in the winter time as this caufway ; 1 have
heretofore travelled in the winter time through
Xenfin«non and Exeter on being advil'ed ic was
the belt road of the two ; and tliough there was
much snow on the ground we found no anlicul
ty in getting along—Hence, fir, 'tis evident to
me that the mail may easily be carried from iiol
ton, through Exeter to Fortfmouth 111 a day —
and that the objetfion founded on the increale
of distance is a mere pretence, originating m an
tinwillingnefs, in the minds ot some people, iliac
the mail flyiuld arrive an hour or two looner at
Exeter than Portsmouth. . .
The gentleman (Mr. Livermore) has laid it is
a principle of the bill, that the mail shall be
carried in the molt direct road from place to
place, and that it will be a deviation from this
principle to go through Exeter: 1 his, lir, is
not ftridtly true—no such principle has been ad
hered to but in a qualified sense ; and it has
been departed from whenever it would accom
date any considerable number of people. 1 willi
here to remind the Houle of Springfield in Mas
sachusetts—and Middleton, in Connecticut ; in
the former inllance the direct route from Wor
celter to Hartford is not through Springfield ;
but a deviation of near ten miles is made to ac
commodate that town : and in palling from Hart
ford to New-Haven a deviation ot tour or five
miles (if I am mistaken, gentlemen from that
State will corredt me) is made for the purpole
of accommodatingthe town of Middletown ; ma
ny other instances of this nature might be ad
duced—and why lliall not a small deviation be
now made in favor of Exeter, especially since no
inconvenience will result therefrom to Ports
mouth ! 1 can fee no real'on.
In order to convince ihis House that the mail,
an paffiug from Boston to Portsmouth, ought not
to be carried through "Exeter, the gentleman has
read a Jetter frem the Polt-Mafter at Portsmouth,
slating the number of letters that pass in a year,
by a cross pott, to Exeter ; by
which it appears the number indeed is very small.
Hence he would draw an argument that the bu
siness between Boston and Exeter is trifling, and
not of confeqnence enough to juftify so small a
deviation in the mail line of three or four—or,
as the gentleman contends, of five miles. But,
Mr. Speaker, this is strange logic ! and a very
different conclusion results in my mind from the
contents of the letter. The letter may be evi
'dence how little business is carried on between
Portsmouth and Exeter, and that consequently
there is no reail need of a port between thefetwo
places—but it does not contain she shadow of
evidence that there is no commercial business be
tween Boston and other places in Maflachufetts
and Exeter. If a gentleman in those places wish
ed to write to Exeter, he would never think of
putting his letter into the Portsmouth mail—he
inuft know that ii is liable to lay fix days in the
poft-ofKce at Portsmouth, and perhaps longer—
while various opportunities, by a private con
veyance, would pjrefent within that time.
I have hitherti? admitted the additional dis
tance, by going through Exeter, to be five miles
—b«t, fir, fitice the\jnail ttage pafles Merrimack
river, about four miles above the old ferry (the
gentlemen of the house acquainted with that part
of the country know the places I refer to) I can
not agree that this additional dittance will be
more than three miles, if so much. But, howe
ver this may be, I trust I have (hewn to thefatif
fa<flion of the house, that whether it be five or
three, it cannot produce any inconvenience to
Portfmoi)th,but mast be highly beneficial toExeter.
There is another consideration, fir, thai ought
to have forne weight in deciding this question —
which I will mention, & fay no more—it is this :
A letter that goes from Boston to Exeter, thro'
Portsmouth, will ttand charged twenty-five per
cent, more than if the mail was carried diredlly
from Boston to Exeter—while, on the other hand,
the postage of a letter from Boston to Poftfmouth
is the fame, whether the mail pafsthrough Hamp
ton or Exeter—because, in both of thele routes,
the distance from Bofton'to Portsmouth is more
than sixty miles, and Ihort of the next grade of
postage. For these reasons, fir, 1 hope the house
will disagree to the amendment.
Mr. Smith (N.H.) observed, that he was sorry
to find his colleagues differing in opinion on the
Jubjeft under consideration. He had no preju
dice in favor of one of the towns (Portsmouth &
Exeter) above the other.—He only wished the
bill might, establish that route which would best
.accommodate the ttate at large. He conceited,
when the fituatiori of New-Hampshire was consi
dered, it would be evident that the bill as pa (Ted
by the House, was better calculated to answer
this purpose, than it would in cafe the amend
ment proposed by the Senate (hould be; adopted.
He remarked that the trade of the greater part
of that state had been, and probably-would con
tinue to be with Bofton—thit if the general line
of the post-road fliould be eftabliflicd through
Exeter, it would be to the people in the interior
part of New - Hampshire, a saving of at least 25
miles in the dillance between them and Bolton—
that the trade of Exeter, though within ij miles
ot Portsmouth, was principally with Bolton—that
it the amendment proposed by the Senate fliould
lie adopted, they would be deprived of any be
nefit from the eltablifhment of post-roads—that
the route would be so circuitous, that the people
in the interior parts of the state would probably
in future, as they hnd in times past, fend their
letters to Bolton, and to the fotnliward, by pri
vate conveyance, rather than by post ft was
easy to fee that the revenue by this means would
be injured—that this circumstance would serve
to account for the Itatement read from the polt
mafler at Portsmouth, of the frnall number of
letters sent from his office to Exeter. It was his
opinion that the revenue would be oreatly in
cieafed, by taking Exeter into the main pott
road ; and that a contract for carrying the mail
from Portsmouth to Boston, might in that cafe
be obtained for as fin all a sum as by the road now
used—He could not fee how this would injure
Portsmouth, though it might not prove advanta
geous 10 the poft-malter at that place—How far
the House might think it their duty to consult
the particular interest of that officer, he would
not pretend to fay. He had reason to believe
(though he could not speak altogether from his
own knowledge) that the account given of the
road by one of his colleagues and the gentleman
from MaHachufetts, was a jnft one. — Upon the
whole, considering the amendment as not calcu
lated to promote the advantage of the Hate he
had the honor to represent, he fliould vote a
gainst it.
MONDAY, February 13.
Mr. S. Bourne, from the committee on enrolled bills, informed
the Speaker, that the committee, on Friday last, wailed on the
President of the United States, and presented to him, for his appro
bation, the bill to eftabhfh the poll-office and post-roads within
the United States.
A committee was appointed, pursuant to Mr. Sterret's motion,
to bring in a bill to continue in force an ast declaring the assent
of Congress to certain acts of the States of Maryland, Georgia, and
Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations.
The House relumed the consideration of the hill relative to the
election of a President and Vice-President of the United States,
and declaring the officer who (hall ast as President in cafe of va
cancies in the riffices both of President and Vice-Prefident.
After some debate, on a motion made to amend the bill, by the
addition of a clause to confine the number of electors to the num
ber of Senators and Representatives in Congress at the time such
electors shall be chosen—the bill, together with the proposed
amendment, was ordered to be recommitted to a committee of
the whole House, and made the order of the day for to-morrow.
The House then resolved itfelf into a committee of the whole on
tbe representation bill—Mr. W. Smith in the chair.
The ratio of representation was fixed at thirty thousand by the
committee—Yeas 30, Nays2t.
A motion made by Mr. Mercer, to fubdifute the fird day
O&ober, 1792, indead of the 4th day of March, 1793, as the pe
'riod after which the representation is to be increnfed, gave 1 rfe to
a short debate ; the committee rose without taking the vote on
this motion, and reported progress. Adjourned,
TUESDAY, February 14.
The fifhery bill was brought in enrolled, and signed by the
Speaker.
Mr. Sterret reported a bill, declaring the assent of Congress to
a certain ast of the date of Maryland, &c. which was read the fird
and second time, and made the order of the day for Monday next.
In committee of the whole, on the bill relative to the elefton
of a President and Vicc-Prefidcnt, &c. Mr. Muhlenberg in the
cnair.
The motion for inferring a clause to redri£t the number of the
electors to the number of the present Senate and House of Repre
sentatives, was negatived.
Mr. Sturges observed that he supposed the clause had been re
jr&ed on account of its being indefinite and complex—-he there
fore renewed the motion in a more funple form. This motion,
after some debate, was negatived.
Mr. Gerry then moved a clause which provides that the num
ber of ele&ors shall be equal to the number of Senators and Re
prefentalivcs the dates shall by law be entitled to at the time the
President and Vice-Pielident shall enter on their refpe&ive offices.
A proviso was added,.by which the exiding numbers of Congress
shall regulate the number of the electors, in cafe th£ apportion
ment of Representatives shall not nave been compleated agreeable
to a preceding ennmeration. Tim amendment, with the pro
viso, was, after further debate, agreed to.
The committee then rose and reported this amendment to the
House—the House took the fame ; the question being divided,
the firft part was carried in the affirmative—ayes 29 —noes 21.
The proviso was then put and agreed to-—and the bill ordered
to be read the third time to-morrow.
Mr. Mercer had leave of absence for three weeks.
A mefTage was received from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis,
informing that the Senate have passed a bill regulating precedes
in the judicial courts of the United States, and providing com
pensations for jurors and witnedes.
The Fishery Bill was presented to the President of the United
States for his approba ion. this day. Adjourned.
FOR THE GAZETI E OF THE UNITED STATES.
IT seems to be as easy to form a recipe to write a good flinging
piece against the government, as \o make a pudding. Minis
terial puffers, the pomp and parade of government, court syco
phants, parasites, worshippers of power, See. are all prodigiously
smart sayings. Like common swearing, they give a life and bold
ness to writing, Which raise it a mile above the sneaking vulgar
(tyle. You may be sure the writer of a piecc abounding with
those excellencies, wears a cocked hat, and impolesfilence and re
fpeft in every company, which has the happiness to oemadewiler
bv his wisdom. It is really an happy thing to fee these lafhiona
ble phrases brought over sea to relifti our insipid politics: they
have long needed spicing. A formal fellow, who is in the old
homefpuu way, after reading a smart piece in the newspaper, told
me he did not know what the foohfti fellow (there he meant me,
for I wrote the piece) could mean by those huffifh, outlandish
terms of abuse on the government. Why, said he, and was there
ever such a fool betore, do we not make the government
and unmake it at our pleasure ? The public governs the Congiefs.
The considerate, and very often the mconfiderate opinion of the
public, is obeyed.—He was going on in this strain—but I thought
he talked so queer ly, that I left him abruptly. Z.
335
Philadelphia, February i
By the bft accounts from France it appears, that a report had
been . .related in Paris, of the King's intending to escape from
the kingdom. This report badexcred great nneafinefs m the
tourt— to do away the tmprrflions it might have made, a letter
was written to the Mayor by the tylinilter of the h'.rne depart,
mcnt, at the command of ihc Kir.g.
1 he King has written to his brothers, urging them by every
motive that can influence good citizens, to return 10 the bosom o' :
their country ,n peace.
There are great appearances of warl'ke preparation on the part
"f the emigrants—the Emprelsof Ruflia favors their designs it is
laid—.this, however, is an old (lory. S.ime fpmted decrees againlt
the emigrants have pasTed the National Alfembly,. and have been
presented to tr-e King tor his approbation; he has fulpepded his
decision, till the rcfujt of the itieafures he had tak.-rf were known.
The States of Brabant have agreed to acknowledge the fovc.
ol the Emperor's Council ; hv whicli means" it appears
that peace and confidence are fully reftorcd.
The English papers contain very lengthy and minute details of
the movements of their army «nder Lord Corriwdllis in the Ealf-
Indies. After an action with Tippoo, in which the English jolt
300 men, his Lordship was obliged to retreat from betore Serin
gapatam, and suspend his grand for the present.
Authentic extraff of a letter from a gentleman of the tejl information at
Havre, dated October 15.
<c Our harvest has not turned out quite lb well as last ye«r. We
shall he in want, not here but at Nantes, Bordeaux, and Bayonne.
Those provinces mull depend upon Grangers for supplies; for the
more fertile parts of France have not idea of succouring
those of a contrary description, and if they had, the means of
transmitting their produce are ohitrufted. About fifteen days
since the English opened their fea-poits to us; notwithstanding
which, I have reason to think that the inhabitants of the United
States will not be disappointed of a good market in fending their
grain to the above mentioned ports."
Another letter from the fame gentleman, dated Oft. 27, men
tions as follows " Virginia tobacco is ieihng from 34 to 40
livres per cwt. This is reckoned a good price,"
A motion was lately made in the Aflfembly of the State of
South-Carolina to request their representatives in Congress to use
their influence to obtain a repeal of the exctfe—The motion was
negatived by a majority of two only !! !!
N. B. It does not appear that any fubllitute for the excise was
proposed.
What would be the effect of a transfer by sale to the Northward,
of all the public Securities now in the Southern States, fays a cor
respondent, time only can disclose.
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS,
The conftitutfon of the state of Mafiachufetts, has made it ex
pressly the duty of the legislature to patronize and encourage the
UniverHtv at Cambridge. Such a fait will aflift future historians
in wr ting the history of this age. It is owing to the annual grants
of money by the legislature of that Hate, that the University ot
Cambridge has grown up tofuch celcbiity. That state will demht
lefs pursue the policy which the wife example of their forefathers
and their constitution have made so refpeftable—and by continiir
ing their public affiflance in money, extend the fame and ufeful
nefs of that ancient leminarv of learning. It is to be hopeo that
every state will turn its attention to this important object. It is
much to the honor of the state of North-Carolina, that they have
applied five thousand pounds to the cftablifhmcnt of a Univcrfity.
These instances do honor to our country, in our eyes and in thole
of foreign nations ; and they tend, by spreading igeneral know
ledge, to give the greatest degree of security to our liberties.
In this country, time and prosperity travel together. Without
being a prophet, with pen and ink a man may compute with to-*
lerable certainty, the grade of our advancement at any future pe
riod. There is some danger in this very fecuiity—We talk of our
happiness as a nation, as of a property which we hold by deed—.
a blefling which misfortune cannot interrupt, nor our toolifhjea
loufies and rivalfhips spoil after we have got it—But we run one
hazard—breaking the Union—Heaven defend us.—The idea aU
molt flops the pulse of the heart. But as common danger makes
friendfhips, fecuntv breaks them. In the American Dictionary
disunion (lands for every word of evil import—lt becomes every
good American to cultivate national fentinients, and to support
with all his powers a free federal government, which if it lads,
will make us the happied, and if it falls the most degraded wretch
ed people in the universe.
In consequence of the funding fydem, the southern dates expe
rienced a general refurre6lion of the credit of their paper se
curities; but conceiving that the circumstance was merely the
temporary inflation of a balloon, as soon as it appeared to rife,
those dates feaiing that it would fall again, cut the firings, and lep
it ascend-—Hence we may account for two millions of dollars, ac r
cording to the calculation of a learned gentleman, having found
a stationary point in a higher latiiude.
For 'tis an old and juJI opinion,
Good.paper from the Svuth dominion ;
Like eagles when full jledg'd tuillJly t
And perch beneath a northern Jky.
How often, and how solemnly, is Congress warned againften*
croaching on the state governments—these warnings and admoni
tions are heard from the legislators both of the general and date
governments-—they are presented on every occasion, " line upon
line, and precept upon precept," in doors and out. Yea, it has
been said, " better difTolve the union than encroach on the state
governments"—Very well ; but let us now advert to the other
fide of the exhibition—here we find no apprehensions, dangers or
terrors, are entertained—although the odds againdthe general go
vernment are as 14 to I—and the indances of dates attempting to
legislate for the union, are flagrant and numerous.
What conftru&ion mud difpaflionate, difintereftcd persons,
friends to the union, on the present confederation, put on such
condutt !
[The following lines were omitted in the l&Jl Gazette for want of room. ]
Allowance, or a bounty, which to pay,
Kept a decision five whole days at bay ;
To guard the conftiiution, how absurd,
To quibble Jive whole days about a word !
New-York papers received by yciterday's mail were da
ted, some in January—others thefirftof February.
PRICE CURRENT.—PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
24/7 P r - L '
M/ 8
"5/
6 pr. Cents
3 pr. Cents
Defered 6 pr.Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22\f 110 do.
Indents 13/4 14V 7° do,
halt snares Bank Stock— 103 per cent premium.
i? 3 P r - cent.
?3j do.
75 do.Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR ALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Lh-'jnut-Street WharJ t
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kins and Nevii Rum,
POl t-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam Molalles,
Coffer, Coton, and Pimento,
Hyson and Souchong Tea, of the firft quality,
Cloves, Cassia, and Boston Chocolate,
Spermacsti Candies and {trained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarel,
Boston Beet and Burlington Pork,
Ruflia and Boston Canvas,
A few bales excellent Hops,
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Vlartin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogsheads and quarter caflcs,
And a tew cases pld Batavia Arrack.
February*B, 1792.
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
Of the firft quality—by retail,
No. 19,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market Streets.
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN A U S T I N, & Co.
HAVE juflnow opened their Lead-War ehouse, two doors
south of Walnut-street Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where they have now made, and ready for sale, a general aflort
ment of SHOT of all sizes, with SHEET and EAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they hjve employed a
number of experienced Engliih workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufa&ured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to maDufa&ure all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia'. All orders addrefled to either of the
above Fa&ories, will be thankfully received, and execntcd on the
shortest notice.
N. B. Wanted, industrious, sober, Labouring Men, at the said
Mjnes, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being piovided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire ofMeffrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fa&ory in Richmond, or as above.
Phi/adelfhia, December 3, 1791. tf
John Pintard,
SWORN BROKER & AUCTIONEER,
PURCHASES and SELLS
PUBLIC DEBT of evcrydercription,onCoOT»i^7o«,
at the following raies:
ON the specie amount of all sales at au&ion, one eighth pei
cent.
On ditto at private faleor purchase, onc-haj per cent.
On remittances, ditto.
Receiving interest at the Loan-Office, one percent, on the
amount of the interest
for makingtraosfers at ditto, feverty-five cents per transfer,
£3" Such persons as may incline to favor the fubfcnber with
their orders, may rely on their being executed with punctuality,
fidelity and~difpatch. His long experience and extcnfivc dealings
in the public (locks, together with a well eftablifticd correspon
dence throughout the Unued States, enable him to condutt his
operations with peculiar benefit ro his employer?.
JOHN PINTARD,
New-York, No. 57, King-Street.
OBober 1.5, 1791
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters ot Elizabeth
River in Virginia, tothofe of Pafquotank. in North-Carolina,
or (or conducing the work, will be received until the ninth day
.of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg ; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedingcr, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; bv
John Cowper, df Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
about sixteen miles; the country through which it will pass. is
fwampv, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at least in
depth, below the furface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vefiels drawing three feet water.
Good fecuriiv will be required of contra&ors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, muffc produce
certificates (from characters of refpe&ability) of their qualifications
for a business of this kind.
By Older o( the President and Direfiors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk.
( C P : 9 A )
Korjolk, January 21,1792
Annapolis, January 1, 1792.
At a Meeting of the Visitors and Govcrnofs of St. John's College,
in the State of Maryland, on Thursday the 10th of Novem
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Board, at ihc quarterly meeting in May next, pro
ceed to elefl a Vice-Pi incioal of St. John's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teach some of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, certain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy ; and that ihe departments of the laid Principal and Vice-
Principal (hall heieafier be ascertained with preciflon, on confi
deralions of their mutual convenieneeand refpeffive qualifications.
That the Vice-Principal (hall be entitled to receive, lor his ler
vices, a falaryof three hundred and fifty pounds, current money,
rating dollars at 7/6 each, to be paid quarterly.
That peifons dehrous of, and qualified tor the appointment of
Vice-Piincipal.be. by public advertisement rcqurfl d to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles Wallace, Mr. Charles Carroll of Carroll
ton, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon. all of the city of Anna
polis. By orderof the Board,
JOHN THOMAS, Piefident.
N.B. The fundamental Laws ot St. John's College prohibit all
preference on account of r ligious tenets or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted, to
compleat the plan of this rifir.g seminary, the Board will certainly
proceed 10 the eleaion at the dated time; provided a person qua
lified, in their judgment, for this important (lation, can be pro
cured. The personal attendance of the candidates, although not
pofitivelv required, will be obviously proper.
It may be ufeful to remaik, that the falariesof all the profelTots
and teachers have hitherto been paid withentire punfluality ; and
that the funds ot St. John's College produce a certain annual in
come, superior to all the appropriations, which have been, or pio
bably will be made.
G-j The Pnntr-sof newspapers throughout the United Sta'c
are earoeftly requeliertto tnlert the above resolve and re ma -k,-
and to repeat the publication aj often as convenicncc will pcrmi
Public Securities,
Bought and Sold,on COMMISSIO.N, by
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Chefnut-Street,next door to the Bank, Xo. 97.
A LOTTERY,
TO r-sife the sum of {. 750 for the purpose of repairing the
Proieftant Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable 10 an ast of the Legifiature of the Stale of New-Jetfey,
palled November 1791.
SCHEME.
o
1 Pri
1
2
5
10
3°
' 90
'675
[cp4 w ]
1814 Prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
fcT This Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prire, and fubjett to a deduction of twelve and an hulf per
cent, which is mare favorable to adventurers than any Lotteiy yet
offered to the public—and it being of such evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted but the undertaking will meet with the molt
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April,
or sooner if the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Brunfwick, under the infpe£tion of Col. John Bayard, President
of said city ; Tames Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Ainboy;
and Archibald Mercer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society of New- J'erfey.
Tickets to be had of the following persons, who are duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
faithful performance of their duty.
A lift of the fortunate numbers will be published, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery.
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER KEENON, > Managers.
ANTHONY W. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing of the Lotteiy, will be considered as a generous
donation to the Church. 1
New-Brunfwick, January 20, 1792,
Of the real Estate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Township of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, pursuant to the Diretslions
of liis last Will and Testament.
OX Tuesday the 27th of March next wiil be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the premises — One exceed
ingly valuable and highly improved Farm, containing about two
hundred and ninety-nine acres, situate on the river Delaware : on
which is erected a handsome two-story brick house, with a new
piazza in the front, two kitchens, a good barn, (tables, hay-house,
and other convenient outhouft s. A good orchard of the best kind
of grafted iruit, now in its prime; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a Ihad and herring firtiery before the door.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficieucy of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the post-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two bundled and seven acres, the greatcft part of which is
wood-land. There are on this farm a good house, barn, stables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the best
grafted fruit, and a ihad and herring fifhery. Ic has long been a
well accuftonaed tavern; and the feriy belonging to it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the best profpe£ls on the
river, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acres, situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the jounty aforcfaid ; on
which are ere&ed two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fufnciency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot. containing four acres, situate on the great post-road
leading from Philadelphia to tfew-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and work-fliop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houlhold-Furniture, Farming Utcnfils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
]OHN T SWIFT, )
JOHN M. NESBIT, C Executors.
'fptrT>o ? l SAMUEL BEXEZET, )
TO BE SOLD,
THAT beautiful and elegant situation on the banks of the Po
tomack, adjoining the town of Alexandria, whereon the fnb
fenber now resides; about 25 or 30 acres will be fold with the
improvements, which area neat and commodious two (lory house,
compleatly finifhed from the cellar to the garret, a kitchen, launl
dry, meat-house, dairy, two story barn, and ice house, all finifhed
in the best mauner, together with'feveral other neceliarv outhouses,
the yard and garden neatly paled, and a fkillful gaidner now em
ployed inputting it in fine order; the land well enclosed with a
po(t and rail fence ; a well, and fprinjs of excellent water the
prospect is equalled by few, and excelled by none in America
its contiguity to Alexandria, the Federal Town, and George-
Town, having a fine and full view of each place, mud render it in
a few vearsof great value, being diredlj in a lint of communica
tion from Alexandria to the other two towns. Should a pm chafer
offer befoie the , s th of February next, a cheap bargain may be
had. An indisputable title, clear of all incumbrances, will be made
bv the fuofcnbei. I will also fell with this place, 220 Acres of
U ood Land, about 3 miles dlftant, which will suit well to | ut) .
poit the above in wood and timber.
Drccwter 14, 1
T? AWAY l.oin the Subfcnbcr, l.v.n* tlknbo-ouah,
W,X y ° PP ,hc *eht of ,he *o.h ß o i
' an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN MORRIS
cloth T : ° ok J wUh him * "»l<k ha,, homespun
doth coat and breechcs, corduroy peket, two pa,r ftockmgs t,o
homespun touts, two pa,r (hoes, and some fummercloaths ' It Is
supposed he went on board fomc veffe!, as he was f tcn K oi'„» i„ a
RdTZdw'r' vcfft L s ih « were ,ying st ihe Ki»r™»r
American Apollo.
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR THE AMERICAN APOLLO,
A new Publication,juft commenced in Boston.
ARE RECEIVED BY THE EDITOR HEREOF.
336
Dollars is 2CCO
Prize of
200#
1000
500
»oo
100
50
20
4
SALES
January 2, 170*.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all rhe military invalids
of rhe United States, that the sums to which they are intr.lcd
lor fix months of their annual pension, iiom the 4th day of Sen
tember, 179*, and which will become due on the sth day of
March, 1792, will be paid on the said day by the Commissioners
of the Loans within the states refpe&ively, under the usual regu-
1000
1000
1000
1000
1500
1800
6700
16000
[ep 3 ir.]
BALDWIN DADE
BENJAMIN HOLME.
War Department.
lations, v 2.
Every application for payment must be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
lft. The certificate given by the Rate, fpecifying that the per
son pofleffing the fame is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining :he
sum to which as such he is annually entitled.
2d. An affidavit, agreeably to the following form :
A. B. came before me, one o* the Jufticesof the countvof
is the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B. to
whom the original ceitificate in hispoffeflion was given, of which
the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to be re
cited) That he served (regiment, cot ps or veftifl) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the arid countv of
and has refidcd there for the last years, previous to which he
resided in
In cafe an invalid should apply for payment bv an attorney,tfc e
said attorney, btfidesthe certificate and oath bejife recited, must
prod uce a special letter of attorney agreeably to the following form:
I, A. B. of county of state of do hereby consti
tute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney, to receive in my
behalf of my pension for fix months, as an invalid of the Uni
ted States, from the fourth day of September, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one, and ending the fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninetv-two.
Signed and sealed
in the pretence of
Witnefles,
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and ad mini ftrators mud be accompa
nied with Irgal evidence of their refpedive offices, and also ot the
time the invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command cf the President of the United States,
H. Secretary of War.
The Printers in the refpe£live dates are requested to publifti
the above in their newspapers, for the space of two months.
POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, Jjnu&ry 1792.
ESTABLISHMENT 6f the MAILS for the Ysantyi,
£-3 IN mv ad vertifement of the 9?h inft. I mentioned the
precise lime of elo/ing the different mails, at this office; and
notice, that letters inuft be left hats av hour earlier y that there might
be time to make up the numerous mails. For all letter* are to
marked—account sos them entered in a book—and transcripts of those
accounts made out, to fend to the refpeffive poft-maflers. But as feme
gentlemen have not adverted to tin t notice, and to prevent mil
takes in future, I request those who are pofTefTed of my adven.fe
ment of the gth,todeftrov it, and attend to \v'r ich
I have marked the times at which 1 iters mull be Ujt at the ojic
to evfure their going in the mail of the day.
The EASTERN MAIL will be dosed on
1 v
Monday*
Tuesdays I at eight o'clock in the morning, and rcich
Wednrfdavs New-York at two o'clock, P. M. pneach
Thursdays and | succeeding day.
Fridays J
The Msll from New-York will be closed there on the fame
days, and at the fame time in the morning; and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuefdavs "J
Wednesdays i
Thursdays }■ at one o'clock, P. M.
Fridavsand I
Saturdays J
The SOUTHERN MAIL will he elofed on
Mondays at nine o'clock, A. \I. (reaching Baltimore
Wednesdays and each succeeding day at 3 o'clock, P. M.)
Fridays and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
Tuesdays )
Thursdays and > at one o'clock, P. M.
Saturdays )
The MAIL for the EASTERN SHORE of MARYLAND,
as far as CHESTERTOWN, will be closed 011
Mondays ") at half past (even o'clock in the morning
Wednefdaysand > (reaching Chellertown on each fuccfctam;
Fridays ) day) and
Arrive at Philadelphia on
TuefHavs ) , , _ ,
Thursdays and Cat onc oc^ P- M- summer, andatiWO
Saturdays " ) °' clock > p - M - in winter.
The MAIL for CHESTER-MILLS and EASTON, willlwc
Philadelphia every Monday with the other Mails tor the Eaftera
Shore, and return with the fame every Saturday from November
lft to May lft, and every Tnurfdav the reft of the year.
The MAIL for DUCK-CREEK DOVER,
will also leave Philadelphia every Monday with the EafternShore
Mail, and return with the fame every Thursday throughout the
yeir.
The MAIL for PITTSBURG, will leave Philadelphia every
Saturday at half pad nine o'clock, A. M. and the Mail from
Pittfburrr w iU arrive at Philadelphia every Friday at noon.
As there are fever a 1 places of the fame name in the United
States, the merchants and others are requcfted to be very particu
lar in the direction of their letters ; and when letters are oot tor a
poll town,the ncarell poll town to the place ought to be mentioned.
ROBERT PaTTON, Post-Master.
Holy Bible.—Royal Quarto.
MR. THOMAS, of Worcester, Malfachufctts, most refpefl
fully informs the public, that he has this day completed
OKI and New Testaments of his Royal Quarto Edition of the
HOLY BIBLE. The Apocrypha and Index, See. will be
ed with all the dispatch the nature of the work will admit.
Such Gentlemen as hold Subsc ri ft ion Par**s, he be£ s W1
rctumthem to him at Worccjlcr, or to him and Company'at Bop
by the laflday of November next, and as much sooner as they coo
- can.
He is happy to inform the public, that the work has been ex l *
mined by many gentlemen, clergymen and others, and 3S
with their highest approbation; both as to the execution of t
printing, its corre&nels, and its cheapnels compared with £"o"
copies ol the lame size and quality.
As this very laborious and exceedingly expensive
is carricd on solely at his own cost, he is led to hope that aii c
who wish to pofTefs a large Family Bible, willfo far encouragc l
laudaUle undertaking of their couutiyman, as to add their nafff*
to the fubfeription
H'prccJlcr, Sept. 29. 1791
IC7" The price of this Papcris 3 Dollars ptr W--
One half to b: paid at Strb/cribiug•
ISAIAH THOMAS.