A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAY:. AND SATURDAYS BY fOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 91, of Vol. lII.]
REPORT of th: SECRET ARY of the TREASURY,
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE
PUB L I C
[l'ONCHin£D,j
A N obvious basis of tlrs eitabhfbnient, which may be iinrae-
JT\. dujely contemplated, is uie a mount of the imerelt on so
much ot the debt as has been, or thai! he, from tune to time, pur
chased, or pa'd otf, or received in discharge ot any debt or de
mand of the United States, made payable m public fecunties—
over and above the interest of anv n w debt, whicn may be cre
ated, in order to Juch purchase or payment.
The purchafesof the debt already made, have left a sum of in
tereit in the Treasury, which will be encrcnfed by future pur
chases—certain funis payable to the United Slates in their own se
curities, will, when received, have a fimilat rtfetfc. And there is
ground to calculate on a saving upon the operations which are in
execution with regard to the foreign debt. The sale of the Wes
tern Lands, when provision (hall be made for it, may be expelled
to produce a material addition to such a fund.
It is therefore submitted, that ir be adopted as a principle, that
all interest which (hall have ceased to be payable, by any of the
mc-ms above fpecified, ihall be set apart and appropriated in the
mod firm and inviolable manner, as a fund tor linking the public
debt, by purchnfeor payment; and that the said fund be placed
under the diieCtion of the offtcers named in the lecood fe&ion of
the a£l making provision for the redu£lion of the public debt, to
be by them applied towards the purchase of the laid debt, until
the annual produce of the said fund Ihall amount to two per cent
of the entire portion of the debt which bears a present interest of
fx per centum, and thenceforth to be applied towaras the re
demotion of that porti«n of the debt, according to the right which
has been reserved to the government.
It will deserve the confederation of the legislature, whether this
fund ought not to be so vested, as to acquire the nature and quality
of a proprietary Uuft, incapable of being diverted, without a vio
lation of the principles and fan&ions of property.
A rapid accumulation of this fund would arise from its own
operation; but it is not doubted, that the progreflive develope
ment of the rtfoutces of the country, and a redu&ion of the rate
of interest, by the progress of public CTedit, already exemolified
in a conliderable degree, will speedily enable the government to
make important additions to it, in various ways. With due at
tention to preserve order and cultivate peace, a strong expe&ation
may be indulged, that a redu&ion of the debt of thepountry will
keep pace with the reasonable hopes of its citizens.
All which is humbly submitted.
. K
5 P) N N CTJ O Cl
,'R c* O *0 ?0 O CJ - ® O O JO
«S * . T °J. *I°° "O <J> - 0"> -« ©J
*»3 *0 O Oj" «0 tC 4*oo 6*-> r£
2 *— P5 fs Ci PQ f- «0 OV« « 0> Qi
i~! *e ° to O «
Q« « ■*» co « «
[
I M
CO
I "IT
I r
i
i
I «
>P CON NC> -<#« o\<o el 00 00 00 OOC I CO
• S si «) o* -. *t*oo Ci o\*© O 1 O
NM c F« — CO O O J CO
f- -r ps co «>*© Seo 1 - ~
-" ~ ■**» TT r-.tr> « « , o wo
i ffl« oi 00 .vo CO ' *o
Q"3 - o~
CO w tooo OO 1000 O oo TfsO 1000 CO
- el - " T u: CO «
CJ
2 2
so O
Vta
M O *
» e " 22'
u 3 -,
Z 60 V
255
"is
o O ,o
W ,£"
H
«n* O *C — «- •» M « W)N<J|
£•" co t*. o> CT> i»» o» eo» <n
co ©
R t
55 Vo
z f jf «.
—, to Z C\
J Jsjr 1^
« *C M
MV. o .
-° i t
CT>
CO - CO CO 00 C cove « 'i 4 1 r~
" - -D COO IN •« IO C 5 010 o~> ~OC r- Ci
J C VO o CC O0 o :-3r-0 O") Ol C)
—«"o6 di o" c«vo i o cooo vo r «c i- o co
-£ CT) cococcoco-'on CI CO
On CM - CI Ol COOI O
G<N »*" I
co
o*
*o
f
-r*
*««')' «000 ct \£> NCO eu
- ci ■-« co r-.\c
K
v>
KD o
-3^
b 16
<3
u- t*s * *®
< o*C ° s
U K-i «
£ S.
m C cf -7
*» O u *■»
Pol!" 1
*>'■<-<£ a
•S ° u-a
CS-5 5
i *> £
5-5
o £>0
w - i; •*
O
« 2 CN
w « •-
H-Sf- "
< *s»x fe
J
00
-t* O « - r- - O Cs\ - =*3 co
\J ~ -^r 1 -7" c- CO 1000 •"> COOO
■K.-S
<o<2
-w
• !1« pi di oo - oo v di c.
1/5 t* ct VO O -* cm lOCi" <iO
ra o m o « O
— ~ a-. ~ 4* »7 - <o tC.cnn«oo
COC CD'! t--VC Or- OI — iO ~
Q « •* c» C* rqi «
c§ «-o „ 5
|\i J= -* = - 2
J: 1 5— jl «>
S *t= c
hZ2o!uZ2»;aS>Z<oU
The amount of Stock funded ,at the Treasury to 30th Septem
ber, 1791, has been ascertained with accuracy, but at that time
many fubfcriptioiis had been made which have not yet been ad
jured for want of proper poweisof attorney and other document*.
It is therefore probable that on settlement of ail the loans, the
amount will be found foinewhat different from what is now re
presented.
The iums funded at the fe>/eral loan-ofßccs, it is presumed, are
.'ifcertaincd with accural \ ; but as the loans had not been adjofled
i'i all instances when the returns were made, fomc immaterial
differences wiil piobably hereafter appear.
Treasury Department,
ftfgij}cr y s-o]jicc. t September 30. 1791.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Regijlci
ST ATE MENT of the R" cist t* e d and Unsubscribed Debt
oj the United States, which remained unfunded upon the cloje oj the
Loan on the 30th of September, 1791.
REfcISTEERED OJ UNFUNDED DEBT. Dols.
The amount ot this debt, as stated to
Congrcfson the 3d March 1789 4,598.462, 78
i is
sued in exchange for Loan-Ouice
and Final Settlement certificates,
cancelled by the Auditor of the
Treafury,from 3d March 1789, to
DEBT.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the Treasury.
4,716,376. 45
Saturday, March io, 175)2.
There have been certificates iflued to Doh. Its. Dots. Cts.
invalid penfioneis and others, en
titled thereunto, on final feitlc
mrnt in purluance of arts of Con-
Rrefs of the prclcnt and late go.
vet nmeiit
Of the Taid debt, there has been
loaned as follows, viz,
From the opening of the
loan to 31ft ot Maich
1 79 1
lft April to 30th June,
1791
lft July to 30th Sept
Which being deduced leaves a
balance,
Principal sum due to the several cre
ditors on the treasury books 5.378,082. 62
1 he filtered due on said debt to 31ft
Dec. 1 790, is as follows, viz,
Airenrages to 31ft Dec.
1 787
Three )ears interest from
lft January, 1788, to
31ft December, 1790 968,054. 76
Registered debt principal & interefl
UNSUBSCRIBED DFBT.
The debt uufuhfcribed upon the
books. Ne«v-Jerfey, Pennsylvania
and Maryland, amounts to
Credits on the treasury books to in
valid pensioners, and several corps
foi which certificates of registered
debt are vet to be iflued.
invalid pensioners.
For the amount due to them, under
the ast of Congress, providing for
the payment ot their arrearages 55,152. 76
The following corps have credit on the
treasury books,being for certain certifi
cates of final settlement, returned to the
trrafury and cancelled, and which cer
tificates had illucd to the non-commis
sioned officers and soldiers of said corps,
refpe&ivcly for their pay.
4th regiment Pennsylvania artiller),
Corps of light dragoons,
Invalid regiment,
Artillery artificers
Willet's regiment,
Hazen's regiment,
Baldwin's do. of artificers,
Corps of fappcrs and miners,
Armand's legion,
Leo's legion,
4tll PENNSYLVANIA REGIMENT.
Capt. North's company, 487. 67
Lacy's, - - 1,062. 97
Franklin's company of militia,
Individual creditorsof theStatesof Penn
sylvania and Maryland, have credit on
the Treafurv books, being for certifi
cates of final settlement returned to the
Treasury, and cancelled, and which
certificates had illued to them refpett
ivrlv.
Bv Benjamin Stelle, commiflioner
of Pennfvlvania, - 54,36. 66
John White, Maryland, 693. 89
86,1 1.1-9*
Intcrcft upon the foregoing credits, 21,529.72
Treasury Department,
RcgiJlcr'sOjficc, 30th November, 1791.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Rcgijlcr.
ESIMATE cj the OUTSTANDING DEBT, on the 30M
September, 1791, viz.
The amount of the Domestic Debt of the United States, as stated
by the Secretary of the Trcafury in his report of the 9th Janu
ary, 1790, to the House of Repiefentanves, relative to a pro
vision tor the support of the Public Credit, is as follows, viz.
Dols. its.
Liquidated and loan-office debt as per sche
dule C.
Interefl thereon to the 31ft December, 1790, as
pr. do. D. -
Additional sum for (inking the continental bills
of credit, and for the difchargeof the other
parts of the unliquidated debt,
From which dedu£t amount as per A.
3^>797>4 8 '- 22
Amount of the registered debt
and credit with iutereft,
per do. B.
Dols.
Not 1. —The balance above stated to be outftandins; probably
exceeds the real sum. In the original eftiniate the old emiflion
bills were computed at 40 lot 1, but they have been provided tor
361
134.883.18
9.443.722.41
'.37':D78. 37
1,088,466 6o
1,611.194. 82
'4>°7».639. 79
88
-1,417.73*- 6 +
»2,539. 7°
3.134- 9«
J ntcrcft
846- 37
l.oog. 83
3.803- 35
386. 28
*>565. 42
11,267. 49
281. 28
4'6- 93
834- »7
593- '7
280. 67
6.i3°-55
Dollars, 6,919.138. 51
27.3 8 3>9'7- 67
13,030,168. 20
2,000,000.
42,414,085. 87
'6,919,138. 5>
38.716,619. 73
3,697,466. 14
Balance outstanding,
at too for ~ There arc aifo loan-office certificates which were
lent to public ofiicers t.. he applied to the public feivice, and
Which were supposed to have been so applied, hut v. hich h —
hncr, upon feulemeniS of the,? accounts at the Treasury, be,,,
returned and cancelled.
In addition to this, payments in public securities are expeflert
to be made into the Treasury, which will thereupon be cancel!, ,I
And it is presumable that m thetourfeof the *ar, sums have been"
olt and dettroved which are included in the eltimate. But as
mere is lome arrearage of interest not included in the calculaiion
and as there are certain claims on rhe Treasury, the event or
amount of which is not yet determined, it is not possible now to
make a precise eftimale of the difference betwee.i the sum com
puted to be outlhnding and what will be really found so.
JOSEPH NOURSE, Jtegiftr.
Treasury Department,
RcgiJlcr'sOJJict, Nov. 301791
2 Pr>s.= i i 2 5
Z' O -» ~ w bj "-C <—< —<• « <"> 3 L.
~o 5 : =r = £j
— • —» <-.r-T3 1
SJ Tc b <VT * rvj
M
o- w n
s -•
A) 3
U
2 ' A Bto
I liiijrjijitjhl Hi
8 1! lil iI! g§g |s a ft,
5 -
00
Co |
to
00
CO
o>
to
2
u>.
•4*
tO
Vj
en
o>
o.
CT>
to
Oi
Oi
09
Oi
00
to
00
Co
Co
o
CO
Co
iJ
6.795. 1 815- 2 6
"!° ; *' B •».
cri oicOA » o 2 s
o Co OlC* ■<£> O-t O K CA i. A ZZ »^er
J3 4* 0 s ! |-' Co Oi 'P 00 « 5J
O 6> C 2 6» K CO ~ --J ';i N5 "o <> P> d
£ s ' 000 Co tfl - o *>
o 00-J* OCTi Oi - CO 00-VDCC ~ L -
n
Ca Ot 00-fck OOCo Cr. vj oo w —
w »Joe o Co C>C* - ~ C/i . » '
15,674- *>2
.o\
Co
«n
00
Cft
to
CrtK> " co 'oo O -<5 a
o - a 2 ACo o c
ooioj W O § oo'so 00 o - -■ 5. 2 ST
o m 0,03 Ocn b>i. M 6»' o " 2 - a I
o 1 O "» -»
0 O ' O-vjVO o o ' v? S
. . . . Cc^l
-ij? o> oi P ? 5-f s
00-O «to O) u, •* » 1
COCO '3
Co O
vLvL•
I. The sums marked [a) in the column of remaining debts are
inserted upon recent official communications.
11. Those marked (b) are founded upon official ftatemenrs some
time since received, and reported to the House of Representatives
on the 9th of January, 1790, adding interest for the subsequent
period.
111. Those marked (c) are founded on informal information,
but such as is deemed fubllantially authentic Sc. accurate. Theefti
mate for Rhode-Island includes a sum not ascertained, which has
been cancelled in conlequence of former laws of the State, enjoin
ing the creditors to bring in their certificates and receive payment
in paper-money, but has been revived by a late law of the State,
diretling the sums paid to be liquidated according to a certain
kale, and dedu£led from the original amount.
IV. That maiked (d) is founded on a report of a committee of
the eleventh November, 1791, to the House of Delegates of Vir
ginia, compared with a former return to the Treasury and other
information.
107,648. 63
V. That marked (e) is founded upon a (Vatement of the Comp
troller of North-Carolina, of May 20th, 1790.
VI. That marked [J) is founded 011 a itatement of theTrea
fitrer of Georgiaof the 30th of April, 179 c, compared with other
information.
VII. The sums expressed in round numbers are not meant to
be understood as precilely accurate but as very near the truth.
VIII. The foreign as well as the domellic debt of the States is
included.
Treasury Department,
January 23d, 1792.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
IT is curious to iee how much men are gavern*
ed by popular opinion, even in matters which
are susceptible of the ltridteit proof. It is natu
ral to expetf among men of ienfe and proper*
ty a close attention to their intereits, and that
of all men they ihould be the lead liable to be
duped by a kind of faffiionable frenzy. Yet the
rage for banks is an example of this frenzy.
The reasons for setting them up!in various plac
es, fh&w that the minds of men are too deeply
infecfted to be cured by reasoning. Experience
will probably be found the only cure. The men
of property by fniarting severely will be made
to believe that credit has its limits, and that thole
[Whole No. 2 99.]
c/ 5
Eft
>?o W
s
•3 o " M
S.§s H
- O ®*®
Er cr —
C c/ 5
aJ 1
"~*. w r—«
" " 15 w
S»* 3 G
>-° 2
S n « "O
05 O Js> -J
C „ -• —
s r : o
glBgH. «• r Q
t) I ?« </5
5 2:3 1 O 5 ">
8? |>C|-P=-3°'
c.: ? Fv3? s's
CM r, ._.
t 3- t -1
t no
2 3 Z
C" > »
n> ~t
-J M
«. — *0
«
O _d
so w S
-• s n>
vo
Co
Co
o>^
A t£>
Cl " V." (O - -
owU 10 o "£»-
O o — -t*
" ' C~> CO "to o~>
VO VO VO <T)
4*. nf». 00 O) - O0
0> *-* w ►*
O 0--I 4k. Zn <0
4i. -
CO w
** ■ *« V_» Co
-jo R-. a *
-J — 3 e 3c?
* - 6» * 3 *
I? 3
->« n
. i
NOTES.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary oj the Treajury.
ON BANKS.
II 0 =
°3 »o
« n 2
() u
o 2.
« a o
O S «§Tiusitl are contracted ani not extended by the
over multiplyingthefe institutions.
Is the incre&fe of banks-likely to be ufeful to
the trade and circulation of the country ? ' Many
are eitabliflfcied—more are expe<fted. Great er
rors of opinion on this head will end in gre/at
losses of property, as well as confufion public
and private.
A bank.is doubtless ufeful, and alinoft indis
pensably so to a trading nation—For by such
means a man may make use of his credit as well
as his money. His means of trading are increal
ed in that proportion. He gains a new faculty
and this resource iricreafes internal circulation.
The removing many of the obstacles which Mag
nate the circulation of >the precious metals, is
more ufeful than an iucreafe of* their quantity.
A good bank is so much confided in, that it
may lafely circulate its notes to the ainouut of
two or three times its capital.
One great and principal resource for this fafe
ty and credit is, that all the money in a place
will be lodged in its vaults for fafe keeping—You
have then all the credit and all the advantage
of credit which there can be. Divide that spe
cie however between several banks, what follows !
It ieems to be underltood that two banks will be
found as goodragain as one. Ihe reverie perhaps
is true. A new bauk produces no new deposits of
specie. . 1 here is not a dollar more money added
to the circulation. A new bank divides the de
posits of specie, and of course diminishes the ad
vantages of ci edit. For it is manifeft that two
banks with finaJl capitals, will do less than one
bank with both capitals. The common demand
for specie may be such as to drain the small ca
pital to the lalt dollar, and in the critical events
which the changes of trade and politics are cun
itantly producing, such a small hank certainly
will be shut up, unlets it contracts its dealings
within fiich limits as to be lafe. Two banks in
one town will do this for fafety, and their mutu
al fears will narrow the circulation within what
one bank could support. Suppose for illuftrati
-011, a single bank in a town where three hundred
thousand dollars is the amount of the ordinary
specie deposit. The bank with a capital of as
much more, is exposed to the least hazard in its
dealings that the nature of things will permit.
It is altogether improbable that the whole specie
be called for at once. And this improbabi
liiy gives to the bank paper its utmofl circulati
on. The place has the whole advantage of its
ci edit as. well as money. Let us fee whether by
e.lablifhing three banks instead of one, the town
has more than the whole—Let each bank have
three, hundred thousand dollars capital Here
then is three times the former capital, and each
bank has but one third part of the deposits If
each bank goes on lending its bills, the circula
tion will be over-done three fold—of course the
bills will be returned, and each bank confined to
the limits of its part of the circulation. As it
will have only a third of the deposits, it will be
obliged in prudence to confine itfelf still more.
Tho one bank might not be exposed to any great
risk of having the whole specie taken off, each of
the three banks will be exposed to it every day •
and can guard against it only by contracting its
dealings in proportion to the risk. It may hap
pen any day that 100,000 dollars specie, the a
mount of deposit in each bank, lhall be demand
ed ; but it would be strange that 300,,000 should
be. The rifle is not divided between the three,
tho the profit is. Each runs the whole risk, and
i aS /- J ° ne , third . only of the Source against it.
Beiides the ordinary banking risks, each inftitu
non is in danger from the others—and this arti
ficial danger is perhaps equal to all the others.
Numerous independent banks are besides unfit
for extensive circulation, and as they occupy the
local circulation they neither give accommoda
tion forgreat distances nor permit ittobe given.
It may be said truly that two banks will „ff er
double the amount of loans, and that this facili
ty will induce many more persons to borrow
If however the notes when lent out cannot be
Kept out cii culating, they will be returned to the
*1! This will defeat the views
of the bank, by depriving it of the profit arifine
from the use of its credit as a capital. If an e> .
tra sum, that is double the amount of the notes
which one bank with the whole specie of the
place would chose to circulate, fliould be thrown
on the public, and kept circulating in consequence
ai,tlilio,lal b a«k, the nn (chief
la!l the community. Doubling the- a
mount of the circulating medium, will inevitabl v
depreciate the value of money. Debts will h
paid with less value. * " be
rile specie in the country, with rhp n-m. e
the baukof die United States, will probably be
found fuflic.ent for every-purpofe of trade and
e.rculation Adding what the bank, already efta
bhflied will circulate, it cannot be believer/ha
theie is any necessity for new banks. They c in
e ° lller than pernicious. They will f t '
perty afloat, and bring us in danger of f h
f.f.on and distress a, '/f,,! " h
The following Petition is no-ui biftrs Congress
To the honorable the Senate and Hpufe of Re
pefematives of the United States of America,
in Congress affenibled.
r T < H£ officers of the Maflachufetts line of the
American army, in behaif of ihemi'elves,
and the foldieis of the laid line, who were en
gaged to serve during the late war, beg leave re
fpec r tfully to represent,
That in consequence of; the refolmion of Con
gress, recommending to the several Hates to pro
vide payment for the troops railed in them re
fpeitively for ihcir services, until the expiration
of the year 1780, they received prornifibry notes
fiom the (late of Maflachufetts for the arrears of
pay due to them within thac period. And al
though the time has expired in which the prin
cipal of the said notes became due, they have re
ceived but an ineonfiderable part either of prin
cipal or inierelt, five years ofintereft being now
due 011 a certain description of them.
from the commencement of January, 1781, to I
the termination of the war, their accounts were |
fettled by a counnifljoner appointed from Con
giefs. This commiflioner ifl'ued certificates as
certaining the balances duetothem refpeiftively,
and declaratory of an interest of fix per centum
to be annually paid thereon.
Had it been poflible for them to have received
an attual payment at this important moment,
when they were to re-enter life, under the dif
• advantage of having the habits of their former
occupations impaired by their military pursuits,
then property and connections deranged and
loft, their families involved for a neceflary fup
poit, it would have proved more advantageous
to them than any subsequent relief, perhaps in
the power of government to afford them. Jn
ftead of this, they retired patiently from the
field, pofleffing only the evidences of their claims,
to contend with all the evils incident to their si
tuation ; in a confidence, strengthened Jby the
afiurance of their beloved General, that the time
would come when they ihould " receive ample
and complete justice."
From the imbecility of the Confederation no
funds have been eflablifhed to support the credit
of their certificates 3 and they have been left to
take their value from public opinion : The army
have consequently realized no more from these
evidences of their demands than the value so
(tamped on them by the public voice.
Under the government of the United States
they engaged in the service of America, the re
cords of this government contain the evidence
that they have served with faithfulnefs. And as
the people of America are now happy in a con
stitution, formed with a design, and endowed
with the powers, to " eftabjift justice," the
prayer and the objecft of this petition is, that
Congress will be pleased to consider the nature
and degree of compensation which your petiti
oners have received from their state and from
tl, eU n ion, a,K * la^e uch orc ler thereon as your
wisdom shall direct that the contract between
the country and the army may be faithfully and
honorably performed.
And as in duty bound J,hall ever pray.
( C °Py-) B. LINCOLN,
CONGRESS.
PHILADELPHIA
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, February 7.
Ln committee of the whole, on the Fi/hery Bill.
M [continued.!
r M E n,an in this House is '"ore
of the if 3 " /c P toencou > age thefifheries
of the United States than I am : nor can any one
mo e fincerelywijh to encourage the bold, active
and enterprizing adventurers in that branch ot
our commerce to persevere in it, than I do : be
ng sensible of the importance of their traffic in
peace, and of their defence of their country,and
annoyance of their enemies in wa r but, s"r
much doubt whether Congress can <;i ve that en
couragement to tlie.fifoeries to whTch they are
entuied, and which policy would lead the gene
al government to give, were it not reltrided by
the constitution. *
I consider Sir, the constitution as intended to
remedy the defeats of the confederation to a cer
deuer df' ee ' 2 **'' °" ly ' 35 Would l«ure the in
rated ft.tr" ai, . d .S e " e « I welfare of the confede
!j • w,t iolu endangering (he fovereiVn
ty and independence of the individual ilate^l
deh glC ?'i lh^ re f ore ' was authorised to pay the
debts of the Union, and to regulate com merce
Proper and'd 3 ' PU ' P ° fC and pa ' tly to, » ,reve im
proper and dangerous commercial combinations,
362
. jeaJoufies and altercations betwe»n
but Congress was not e„rr U fted.with'Sj Am 5
non of exports which could admit of ™
' fition which might be didWd fc* " ?!^ 0 '
"° r M h S Conßrel ® P ern 'iited to lay arty
COllld by any poflibility operate n ' h,ch
Aates in genefa,. It &
drawback be not allowed on the fairr a* , a
ing fifh, there will be in fact a silK
portion "■
ports of each slate against the pnfifbjlitv f
iial rei?riiftion by
. .....feW,I,„ Con-grrfs
the exportation of rice, indigo, tobacco &?
any other artkle € xported frL any slate! btcaufe
this might be done to the injury ofthefta'te who
iUch duty would operate, aVto tje
and aggrand.fcme.u of some particular-ftati S
competitors more favored by the -eneral •»«,
ment, or poflefling more n,fl, l ence"in the debates
ofCongrefs : and that the states are alf„ ;,T
v Jnally retrained from laying fnch duties with'
out the consent ofCongrefs, to prevent
might producejealoufi.es, commercial combina2
thlr rhi Pft T' at ' en S th ' civil ;1'
that this reft net ion, ,f ,t be intended to prevent
partiality, therefore cannot extend to autborifc
diawbacks, which may be productive qf partial
X??r\"l A u thcir confct l uci »: jealousies ;
that if drawbacks be granted at all, they omjht
to be universally extended to every article which
is or can be exported from any of the states, hav
ing in its compofuion a dutiable ingredient ■ that
hence fliip?, and other veftfels, 4c. (hould hav e
drawbacks on the fails, cordage, iron, fre.Antit
inay also be said, that as to the duty on fait that
is amply repaid to the merchant by the price an
nexed to his fifh ; the sums laid 6ut in fait and
tifh together, form a capital on which he takes
care to have a fufficieut profit. Thofejnerchant»
employed in this traffic, if allowed a drawback
would have a preference toother merchants,who'
import largely, pay heavy duties, and have B0
other advantage than the usual advanct on their
goods. The exporter of any article, with adraw
back, most have an advantage over bis fallow-ci
tizens who purehafe thro' necessity many dutiable
article*, and are obliged to confuina> them with
out any other benefit than the use of them. 1
mention this, because it has been said (by Mv.
Ames) that having made the men of Marblehead
pay for fait, they have a right to demand themo
ney expended in that fait, on the exportation of
their fifh : for it would be as reasonable for the
man who had eat his fifh, on which his fait was
expended, or who had used any other article for
which he had paid a duty, to claim of Congress
a return of his money expended therein, as the
exporter of fifh ; the only differnce js, that if
both were paid the exact sum so expended by
them, the exporter of fifh would get twice paid ;
the purchaser or consumer of his fifh would pay
him for his fait therein, as if it were substantial
fifli, and the slate for it as mere fait : here then
is a field for partiality,difeontentand complaints,
which the constitution wifely guards against. It
canuot, therefore, be to any purpose to tell us
that a bounty, or allowance as it is now called,
is preferable to a drawback, as there is not so
great room for fraud in the one as the other :
nor can it be of importance to fliew that the filh
ermen have not the profit to which they are en
titled ; that their services in the last wardeferve
rewards, &c. their country fiiared with them the
glory of their gallant behaviour ; butthey alone
received the rewards they aimed at—the J2OO
/hips they took was a conipenfation for services,
and a reward for those exploits. It is true they
annoyed the enemy ; it is certain their prizes
fowetimes fed, armed and cloathed our irmies ;
but it is not said that they did not receive pay
ment for l'urnifliing those things.
But here we are a/ked, is it not of great conA.
quence to the United States, to employ those bold,
flcilful feainen in our service, that we may enjoy
the commercial ad vantage theygive us in peace,
and their powerful assistance in war ?—To this
I reply, that it ought firft to be proved that Con
gress has the power and authority to give the-n
the encouragement demanded ; andeveni"° n
greis have that power, it ought to be (hewn that
it can be extended to the benefit ot the failo^ so
some of the states, and not to those of every state.
It may be said that Congress may with as muc
propriety give bounties to our hunters in t
vveftern country, to raise up a nursery of fol" er
as a barrier against the Indians, and to pionio.e
the fur trade, as to give drawbacks and bountif
to the fifhermen of the eastern states with
to encourage fillieries, and to raise a n ,!r el 7 0
feainen for their defence against enen'ies v'lo m J
invade our eastern frontiers. Indeed, it e e
be the object in view, we might as well 2 ne 0 ,
ties to sturdy landsmen, to be ill readings a
conftauc training for war.
Indeed, Sir, 1 confefs I am not altogetliei
vinced, that if Congress have this power, 110
to be thus exerted ; because it is note eai
that thole liilieiuien would not be more pi 0
/ro the United States, if they were cultivating the
lands which now lie walle, and raifiug families,
which wouid be of ten times more value than
their fisheries. A n fery of virtuous families,
which will produce ioldiers, sailors, hufoandmen
and statesmen, must be preferable to amcrd mi -
i'ery of sailors, who generally live iingie, and of
ten periih at sea. 1 always look upon the loss of
a crew to an infant republic, as the loss almoit
of a new ilate.
I speak of this question, hdftvever, ns a citizen
of the United States, as a member of this House.
Were I to discuss it as a citizen of Mali'achufetis,
and in their legislature, I ihould fay, as rue ttate
is nearly filled with inhabitants, arid our (if:"' - ,
men iucreafe our Commerce in peace, protect as
in war, and indeed even enrich us by their jiri?-
es, it is our iiuereit t6 encourage them to the
viniolt, and to prevent their going into the ser
vice of other countries. I might therefore, as a
member of f the legislature of that ilate, do all in
my power to procure bounties for ihein, and in
deed for all the failcris belonging to that Hate ;
but I Ihould not think of applying to Congress
for their alfiftancc, not only becaufel doubt their
right to afford it, but because I ihould look up
on it as in fume degree derogatory to the sove
reignty and independence of the ilate. 1 ihould
look upon such an interference of Congress as a
step towards swallowing up the powers of the
state governments, and as confoiidating the dif
ferent states into one government, which the wife
and virtuous in every Hate always protefled a
gainlt as dangerous to their liberties ; the fear
of which consolidation prevented many £ood
men from voting for the adoption of the new
government.
(Remainder of this Speech in our next.)
MONDAY, March j
A written meflTagewas received from the Prcfi
dent of the United States, by- Mr. Lear, as tol
lows:
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the House of Representatives,
KNOWING the friendly interest you take in
whatever may promote the«happinefs and pros
perity of the French nation, it is with pleasure
that I lay before you the translation of a letter
which I haVe received from his inoft Christian
Majesty, announcing to the United States of
America, his acceptance of the constitution pre
sented to him by his nation.
G. WASHINGTON.
Tranflatiop of fletter from the King of France, of
Sept. 19, 1 791
Very dear, great friends and allies,
WE make it our duty to inform you, that we
have accepted the Conllitution- which has been
preferred to us in the name- of the cation, and
according to which France will be henceforth
governed.
We do-not donbt that you tale an interest in
an event so important to our kingdom and to us;
and it is with real pleasure we take tbisoccafion
to renew to yoU afl'uratKres of the sincere friend
fliip we bear you.—Whereupon we pray God to
have you, very dear great friends and allies, ir
his jufl and holy keeping. Written at Paris th(
19th of September, 1791.
\r a •• *
Your good Friend and AHy,
(Signed) LOUIS
(Signed) MONTMORIN
The Unittd*&tates of North-America. '
TUESDAY, March 6.
Ayes and noes on palling the Militia Bill—
AYES.
Messrs. Ames, Afhe, Barnwf#, Benfon, Botidi
not, B. Bourne, Clark, £'itziimons, Gerry,
Giles, Goodhue. Gordon, Groves, Hillhoufe,
Key, Kitchell, Lawrance, Lee, Learned, Madi
son, Moore, Muhlenberg. Murray, Sedgwick, W.
•Smith, Israel Smith, Steele, Stenet, Sylvester,
Venable, White, 31.
NOES.
Mefl'rs. Baldwin, S. Bourne, Brown, Findley,
Gillian, Gregg, Griffin, Hciiter, Livermore, Ma
con, Mercer, Niles, Page, Paiker, Schooniuaker,
Seney, Jeremiah Smith, Suinpter, Thatcher,
Tucker, J'readwell, Vining, Wadfworth, Ward,
Willis, WiHt§infon, 27.
WEDNESDAY, March 7.
A bill for reducing the rates of postage on
newfpapqrs, was readafecond time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house, on Friday
next.
Mr. Page, from the committee appointed, re
ported a bill, to enable John Chuchnian to pro
secute certain oblervations for the difcovcry of
the variation of the Magnetic Needle ; —a»d also
a bill enci easing the penalties for copying charts,
maps, &c.—which were read a firlt lime.
Mr. Vining prefehted a memorial, signed with
the names of near {ixty respectable merchants of
this city, in opposition to the memorials lately
presented from the merchants ol New-York and
Philadelphia, who trade to India and China.—
Referred, as the two lalt mentioned, to the com
mittee of the whole on the llace of the Union.
The Kotife took up the amendments, pro po fed
bjr tii~ Senate, to the *■ bill tor the relief of cer
tain widows, orphans, invalids, and oilier per
rons; and considered the (ante,
agreed to loine, and disagreed <o others.
A relolotion, some time lines laid on the table,
was then called up—viz.
" Refelved, That the Secretary of the Trea-
Itiry be directed to repoi t to ihe House the
i>id Ma/us, by which, in his opinion, the addi
tinnal ftiins neceliai y tor the public service ought
to He railed."
, r hts rtffolution gave rife to a warm and ani
ni ed debate, which continued to a late hour,
wl en the House, without taking t.lie quellion,
adjourned.
THURSDAY, March 8.
A bill to enable John Churchman to prosecute
a voyage of discovery towards the North Pole,
was read the second time, and made the order of
the day for Monday next.
A report on the memorial of the Ohio Com
pany ol Ailociates, was tead.—Tlie (übftance of
which is, that it would be inexpedient to exaJt a
fpecific compliance with the original contract—
that the sum paid by the contractors, is about the
price contemplated by government in future sales
of the Weilern Territory—that it would be ex
pedient 10 relii.quifn the balance that remains
due, &c. This report was referred to a com
mittee of the whole 011 Tuesday next.
A memorial was read from Henry Laurens,
and referred to Mr. W. Smith, Mr. White aud
Mr. Clark.
The refohuion reporred by a feledt committee—
That the Secretary of the Treasury be diretfled
to report his opinion to the Honle, on the belt
mode of raising those additional supplies which
the public service may require for the current
vear, was further dil'cufled—after debating the
hibjetft till 3 o'clock, Mr. Vining called for the
Ayes and Noes, which were as follow :
Mefl'rs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon, S. Bourne,
B. Bourne, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Gordon,
Hillhoufe, Huger, Jacobs, Kitcbell, Lawrance,
Learned, Livermore, Murray, Schoonmaker,
Sedgwick, Seney, W. Smith, Steele, Sterrett,
Stui ges, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tucker, Vining,
Wadfworth, Ward, Wayne—3l.
Messrs. A(he, Baldwin, Brown, Clark, Findley,
Fiizfimojjs, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Heifter,
Key, Kittej-a, Lee, Macon,' Madison, Mercer,
Moore, Muhlenberg, Niles, Page, Parker, Tread
well, Venable, White, Williauifon, Wyllis— 27.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, March 9.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear—communicating the copy of a statement
of the expenditure of public monies pursuant to the a£t providing
the means of intercourse between the United States and foreign
nations ; this statement was read and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill declaring the assent of
C-nngrefs to certain aftsof the States of Maryland, Georgia, and
Rhode-lfland and Providence Plantations, which impose a small
duty on tonnage fpr the purpose of clearing obftru&ions in the
navigation ot those States. —Mr. W. Smith in the Chair.
A motion was made by Mr. Giles to strike out the firft clause
which declares the assent of Congress to the law of Maryland ;
after (bine debate in which the motion was lupported by Mr.
Giles, Mr. Goocihue and Mr. Gerry ; and opposed by Mr. Senev,
Mr. Stcrrctt, Vir. Murray, Mr. Ames, Mr. White, Mr. Niles, Mr.
Wadfworth aud Mr. Fitzfimons.—The motion was put, and ne
gatived ; the committee proceeded through the other it£lions,and
then reported the bill without amendment.
The blank for the continuance o,f the ast was filled with three
years —and then it was ordered that the bill be engroifed for a
third reading.
The House took into confidcration the report of the committee
of the whole on the petition of Catharine Greene
A lengthy debate ensued, which continued till a quarter after
three o'clock—and the House adjourned without a decision.
Peter Pindar, whose nag is by no means unpleasant when
confined to proper fubje&s, thus happily hits off the prei'ent situ
ation of our Gallic neighbours :
Brimstone and Sin are downright out of fafhion,
France is quite alter'd—now a thinking nation ;
No more of penitential tears and groans !
Philosophy has crack'd Religion's bones!
NEW-YORK, March 7
Yffterday failed from this port the brig American Hero, Capt,
M'Dougall, for Havre-de-Grace, with whom went pailenger Mr.
Henry, of the Old American Company.
His mod Chriitian Majclly's Packet the Franklin, Monf. Orfit,
commander, will fail from this port for L'Orient on the 181 h inft.
The mail will be made up by Mr. Simond, No. 41, Wall-street.
Philadelphia, March * 10.
The Secretary of theTreafury, we are informed, has directed
all the Colle&ois of the Revenue to receive no other notrs but
thofeof the Bank of '.he United States, and to pay all the monies
they may receive into that Bank and its branches. Measures are
also taken to make that institution and its dependencies the depo
sitary for all the public monies, and the channel through which
they are to flow in all payments from the public for the interest of
the debt, salaries to officer. l -, &c. which will add irrmenfely to the
specie capital of the Bank, as the public money will lie frequently
uncalled tor, a considerable time, while the arrangement will af
ford a convenience to the government, and to its creditors. The
Secretary has likewise fubferibed for the five thousand (hares al
lotted to the government.
The noble Ipirit of Cartal Makiitgfas pervaded every part of the
Union. A Con>pany has been incorporated for the purpose of
connecting Cooper and Santee rivers by a Canal of one and twenty
miles in length, m South-Carolina. The (urn supposed to be ne
363
AYES
NOES
LONDON.
to rr.n-
t!»ii cxtcnfive work, is flj,6aol. ftciling
I wfniy-five tier cent, aie allowed by the Lcg:tUure 111 tollAor
all monies advanced i;y ftockholdcrs.
Fx'7a£l oj alctitr jrom Portland, dated Feb. 1792
" The 1'm.... \\ „•. 11 vi }.■ <. i!, <&■.'. cai'f.' inauv ..
: !■" ih s w» y : ;u>d. Inm <orrv to '*y *<i
j"aloufy begins to appear, which I hope may n.jt imeriupt
present happiness of our govcnn.ne»H.
IC This, I conceive, in fnrttt mcafure, may be ast routed t
want of genuine information ; the proposed tax on uewfpap
thiok mnft certainly enrreafe ir
tl Surely that government which has reduced us from an " U n
digested inhfs" to a regular body politic, that has rrttofrd.p iL
lie credit to * degree of refpe&ability which has aitomfheu
Europe, and whose ingenious policy has been patterned 6v M e
great and exteiifive kingdom of France, whose legiQators are per
haps fomc of the firft characters in the world—furejy, I fay, luch
a government should by no means be reprobated.
" But certain it is. some members of the community are so loft
to the feelings of felf-intereft, and the support of civil focieiv
(which is the elTence of human happineTs) thai they unadvifediy,
nay, knowingly and wittingly, blast their own reputation JV
ExtraS of a Utter from Cape-Francois, dated 6th of Februar\, 17021
. J /... . . L—' — *» - " ' 'J"
received by the brig Hetty, Cast. IV. Davis
" We have at lad the pleasure t« advise you, that 1 ioo men are
arrived from France, and will be followed wiih49oo more : tnofe
forces would have been here sooner, but the transports were or
dered to stop at Cadiz to take up a lum of money for Government.
This arrival keeps up our spirits : it was high tim<° to Hop the
murders of the mulattoes at the south part ot this The
Assembly sent immediately 400 men to the Cayes St. Louis, where
the Mulattoes ast in a horrid manner. It has always been told,
that in the whole there are 18000 destined for our aiTiftance ; but
wc begin to doubt it will be too extensive, & are very sorry to arid,
in some regard too late, the negroes having deftroved this last
month a vast quantity of plantations, and put fire to the ripe sugar
canes—the only hope left to the planters entering again 011 their
property, to make a small revenue to-live on-
li All our produce is raised to exorbitant prices; sugar go to
1321. coffee 25 to 30s. cocoa 15 to 16s. molafles 100 to 120s. per
velt. flour 6 dollars, rice 26 to 28I."
The sum of money received at St. Domingo, from France is
stated at t,000,000.
APPOINTMENT.
Prosper Witmore, Elq. Afliftant Poftmafler-General, in the
place of Jonathan Burrall, Esq. resigned.
*** Proposals are publilhed by MelTrs. Col li e r & Buel,
Printers, in Litchfield, for printing by fubfeription, a Collection
of American Poem&—part having been and part origi
nal—to contain not less than 300 pages—printed on fine paper
with a new type—Price One Dollar.
Subscriptions received by the Editor hereof.
Sundry Favors Jiecellarily postponed,
PRICE CURRENT— PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 2pr. ~j.
3 pr. Cents 14J
Deforcd 6 pr. Cents m/ 9
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 22f 110 do.
Indents > 70 do.
Halt [hares Bank Stock —90 per cent, premium.
Jones & Burroughs,
STOCK-BROKERS,
State-Street, BOSTON,
BUY and fell every kind of the Stocks of the United States, on
Commiflion, by Private Contract, and Public Auction.—
Those gentlemen who may be pleased to favor them with their
commands, may rely on fidelity, secrecy aud dispatch.
Bojlon, March, 1792. (iaw3m)
FOR SALE,
BLOOM SBURY,
THAT elegant SEAT at the Falls ot Delaware, in the vicinity
of Trenton, in New-Jcrfey, occupied for many years past by
the fublcriber ; containing upwards of 200 acres of land, besides
a tra6l of wood-land of about 185 acres, at the distance of two
miles. The farm is divided by the main street leading from
Trenton to Lamberton, and Philadelphia, into two parts, nearly
equal in quantity ; the eaftwardly part being arable land, is laid
otf in convenient fields, and in good farming order. Thd other
part, bounded by the laid street on the east, and by the river on
the weft, forms a square; which, from the combined etfeft of situ
ation and improvement, is generally allowed to be one of the most
beautiful and defnable feats in the state. The mansion-house is a
handsome, well-fiuiftied brick building, 50 by 40, containing four
rooms t>n each floor, with excellent cellars, and a two story brick
kitchen ; and commanding a very extensive and pleasing view of
the river, both above and below, as well as including the falls, and
also of Trenton and the neighbouring feats and improvements on
both fides of the river. Among the outbuildings are 3 new stone
coach-house and ftablrs, fufficient to contain fix carriages and ten
horles, accommodated with a cutting and feeding room, and a ca
pacious loft for hay ; adjoining thele is a very complete granary,
rat praof, and a stone cow-house, upwards of i®o feet in length,
containing thirty-one paved stalls, over which is a roomy loft for
hay, See. Adjoining the court-yard ot the mansion-house, is a gar.
den of about two acres, extending towards the river, in the highest
state of culture, and abounding with a rich collection ot the
choicefl fruits of almost every kind, and fevcral large aiparagus
beds, highly manured. At a convenient distance froin the man
sion-house, and nearly in the centre of the square, is a new, well
built, stone farm-houfe, accommodated with a large cheese-room,
spring-house, garden, See. a complete stone fmoke-houie, corn
cribs, waggon-house, a capacious ice-house, and every other ne
ceflary out-building. The ground is properly divided into small
fields, all well watered, highly impioved, and chiefly under the
most approved grass. This square has produced annually, for se
veral years past, upwards of sixty tons of the best hay, besides
supporting through the summer season twenty to thirty horned
cattle, and eight or ten horses. It contains also two bearing or
chards of good fruit. The river abounds, in the proper seasons,
with great plenty of all kinds of fifh usually found in frefh water
in this climate, and with a variety of wild-fowl ; both ot which
may afford a pieafing amusement to the sportsman, as well as a
Convenient addition to the elegance and variety of his table. The
whole of the land, except the wood-land, is and divided
?y good fences, great part of which is formed of red cedar ports,
»nd rails of chHnut and white cedar. The purchafcr may have
he improved square separately, or the whole together, as may
)eft suit him. There is an inexhaustible quantity of good build
ng stone on the river shore. The purchase money, if well secured,
nd the iutereft pun&ually paid, will not be demanded foi many
-cars.
Any pcifon desirous of viewing the picmifes, may be gratifi-d
m application to Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. of Trenton,
>r Mr. Inallman, who at present occupics the tarm-houle and
tart of the land—and may know the price on application to the
jbferiber, at No. 213, South Second-street, opposite to the New
market, in Philadelphia. JOHN COX.
Philadelphia, Marcif 7, 1792.
urd sayings a _
I'O pr. cent.
70 do.
73i do -
(epit;CONTRACTS.
T . TREASURY DEPARi MEKr, March 6, 1792.
Oi is hereby given, that Piopofals will be received at
i- ine Othce.of Ihe Sevretary of the. Treasury, until 5 o'clock
111 tne afternoon of WedncfdAy the 21ft day of March iiulant, for
Che tup ply of the articles til Clothing tor the Troops
in tiic feivice of ,s ates, viz,
For t!:c It; , a :j r k y and Artillery.
4,608 hats 18,460 shirts
4,608 coats 7>&56 pairs of socks
4,608 velts 4,608 blankets
8,668 woolen overalls 4,608 flocks
Q/216 linen dmo 4<6bß flock clasps
18,376 pairs of (noes 4,608 pairs of buckle?.
For the Cavalry.
320 caps 640 do. of (lockings
320 coats 1,280 (huts
320 veffs 320 blankets
320 pairs leather brecches- 320 flocks
640 do. of boots 320 flock clasps.
* 320 do. of fpnrs
Also, 1,200 rifle shirts, to be made of Ruflia sheeting.
Of the above clothing, five hundred suits are to be delivered on*
the lj'.n day of April next ; one thousand suits on the 15th day
of May next; one thou fa nd five hundred luits on the 1 sth day of
June next; and the remainder on the 15th day of July next. —
The place of delivery may be either at NVw-York, Philadelphia
or Baltimoie, ar the option of the contra&or or contta&ors.
Propolals wil. be received for the whole of the above mentioned
clothing, or for any one component article fep-irately ; to be fur
nifhed agreeably to patterns or fpecimcns, which may be fcen at
the War Office.
Good fecuuty for the pun&ua) and faithful performance of the
con trad): will be required. The payments will be on the delivery
of the clothing; or, it necellary, fach reafouable advances will be
made as mav he desired.
Joseph Anthony, & Son,
HAVE FOR S ALE,
At their Store, No. 5, on Chejhut-Street Wharf 9
A FEW puncheons choice old Jamaica Spirits,
Grenada, St. Kiti3 and Nevis Rum,
Port-au-Prince, Cape-Francois and Surinam MolafleS/
Coffee, Coton, and Pimento,
Myfon and Souchong Tea, of the firft quality,
Cloves, Caflia, and Bo ft on Chocolate,
Spermacaeti Candles and drained Oil,
Salmon and picked Mackarei,
Boston Beef and Burlington Pork,
Ruflia and Boston Canvas^
A few bales excellent Hops r
Myrtle Wax Candles,
St. Martin's Salt,
Madeira Wine, in pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
And a few cases old Batavia Arrack,
February 8, 1 792
American Lead Manufactory.
STEPHEN AUSTIN, Co.
HAVE just now opened their Lead-Warehouse, two doors
south of Walnul-Itreet Wharf, adjoining their New Factory—
where thev have now made, and ready for falc, a general allort
ment ot SHOTof all sizes, with SHEET and BAR LEAD, the
production of the Mines in Virginia. As they have employed a
number of experienced Engiifh workmen, they warrant it to be
equal in quality to any manufactured in Europe, and at a reduced
price from the cost of imported.
They also continue to manufacture all the above articles at
Richmond, in Virginia. All orders addrefled to either of the
above Factories, will be thankfully received, and executed on the
lhorteft notice.
N. B. Wanted, indubious, fobcr, Labouring Men, at the said
Mines, where constant employ, good wages, and other encourage
ments will be given, means of conveyance being provided, and
houses for their reception.
For further particulars enquire of Messrs. Moses Austin & Co.
at their Fdtlory in Richmond, or as above,
December 3, 1791
Dismal Swamp Canal Company.
PROPOSALS for cutting a Canal from the waters of Elizabeth
River in Virginia, to those of Pafquotank in North-Caroiiiia,
or for condu&ing the work, will be leceived until the ninth day
of April next, by Robert Andrews, of Williamfburg ; Thomas
Newton, jun. and Daniel Bedinger, of Norfolk, in Virginia ; by
John Cowper, of Gates County ; and Benjamin Jones, of Cam
den County, in North-Carolina. The length of the Canal will be
abeut sixteen miles; the country through which it will pass, is
swampy, free from stones, and covered with heavy wood. The
Canal is to be thirty-two feet in width, and eight feet at least ia
depth, below the I'urface of the earth, and capable of being navi
gated in dry seasons, by vcffels drawing three feet water.
Good ficnrity will be required of contraflors; and persons
making application to be employed as managers, tnuft produce
certificates (from charaflers ot rcfpeflability; of their qualifications
for a business of this kind.
By oidctof the Prelidem and Directors,
WILLIAM A. BAYLEY, Clerk
( C P'9 A )
Norfolk, January 21, 1.792
Annapolis, ]<uiu.»ry 1, 1702.
AtaMeetingof theVifitors and Governors of St. John's College
in [he Stale of Maryland, on Thurtday the 10111 of Novcinl
ber last,
RESOLVED,
THAT this Bpard.at the quarterly meeting in May next, pro.
cred to deft a Vice-Principal of St. John's College.
" That it be the duty of the Principal and Vice-Principal, to
teacli Come of the higher Authors in Latin and Greek, ctrtain
parts of the Mathematics, Logic, and Moral and Natural Philoso
phy; and that the departments of the said Principal and Vice-
Principal shall hereafter be alcertained with precision, on consi
derations ot their mutual convenience and refpe&ive qualifications.
That the Vicc-Principal (hall be entitled to receive, for his ter
vices, a salary of three hundred and fifty pounds, current money
rating dollars at 7/6 each, to be paid quarterly.
lhat pcrlons delirous of, and qualified (or the appointment of
V ice-Pnucipal,be,by public advcilifement rtqueftrd to make ap
plication to Mr. Charles WaPace, Mr. Chai les Carroll of Carroll
ion, and Mr. Alexander Contee Hanfon, all of the city of Anna
polis. By order of the Board,
*1 n Ti r J JOHN IHOMAS, I'refident.
N. B. Ihe fundamental Laws ol St. John's College prohibit all
preferenceon account ol religious teneis or opinions.
As the appointment of a Vice-Principal is alone wanted to
complcat the plan of this rising seminary, Board will certai'nlv
proceed tothe e left ion at the Hated time; provided a person qua
i.hcd, in their judgment, for this important Itation, can be pro
cured, lhe perfonaf attendance of the candidates, although not
polittvcly required, will be nbvioufly proper.
It may be ufcful to remaik, that the falariesof all the profeffors
alio leachcrs have hitherto been paid with entire punfluaiity ; and
that the kinds of St John's College produce a certain annual in
come, iupeiior to all ihc appropriations, which have bceu, or D.o
liably will be made. • I
IMPERIAL HYSON,SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
REFINED SUGARS,COFFEE,&SPICES,&c.&c
O'f the firft quality—by fetail*, -
No 19,
Third-Street,between ChHinit and Market Streets
Of ihe real Ellate of JOHN KIDD, late of the
Town (hip of Benfelem, in the County of Bucks,
Esquire, deceased, purfuAnc to the Directions
of his 1 ali: Will and Testament.
O>J Tutfday the 27th ot March next will be exposed to Sale,
by way of Public Vendue, on the piemifes—One exceed
ing! v valuable ai>d highly unproved Farm, containing about two
hundred.and ninety-nine acres, fuuate on the river Delaware; on
which ii ere&ed a handsome two-story brick houfc, with a new
piazza m the lront, two kitchens, a good barn,(lables, hay-house,
and other convenient out houfi s. A good orchard of Ihe belt kind
of grafted i ruit, now iu iis pri me ; a large garden well fenced in,
and in good order; and a shad and herring fifliery before the cfoor.
This place is remarkably well timbered, has a fufficienev of mea
dow, a large front on the river, and runs back to the pott-road.
One other very valuable Farm, adjoining the above ; containing
about two hundred and seven acres, the greatest part of which is
wood-land. There are 011 this farm a good houfc, barn, stables,
and other outhouses, with a young thriving orchard of the belt
grafted fruit, and a ibad and herring fiftiery. It has long been a
well accullomed tavern; and the ferry belongingto it, known by
the name of Dunks's, is noted for being well kept and much fre
quented. Both the above places afford the bell profpe&s on the
river, and are remarkably healthy.
One other small Farm, containing about sixty-three acrcs, situ
ate in the township of Southampton, in the sounty aforefaul ; on
which are erected two log-houses. There is a small orchard, and
a great fuflFiciency of wood-land and meadow ground.
One Lot, containing four acres, situate on the great pofl-road
leading from Philadelphia to New-York, and ten miles from the
former. On it is a good log d welling-houfe, and work-shop ad
joining, with a well of excellent water at the door: now in the
tenure of the Widow Ward.
Also, at the fame time and place, will be fold all the remaining
Stock, Houfhold-Furniture, Farming Utensils, and Wheat in the
ground.
N. B. The conditions of sale will be, one-third of the purchase
money to be paid down, and the remainder in two yearly pay
ments with interest.
(eptm27)
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
/\ VALUABLE PLANTATION, the title indisputable, in
ihe county of Gloucefler, supposed to contain five hundred
and forty acres of Meadow Land and Cedar Swamp, situate on a
branch of Little Egg-Harbour River, in the township ol Galloway.
There is on fa id premises a frame house and kitchen, a small hay
house and stable. About sixty acres of the land cleared, and about
one hundred and ninety of woodland, and a cedar swamp, chief
ly well timbered, and about 300 acrcs of meadow (intei fper fed
wiih frefb water flowing streams) fufficient to supply one hundred
head of cattle.—The situation is allowed by judges, to be capital
for raising flock.—Any pcrfon inclining to purchase said Planta
tion, may have pofleffion from the 25th of March ensuing. The
terms may be known by applying to the fubferiber, livinc at
Quinton's Bridge, m the county of Salem; or a further descrip
tion may be had, by applying to Richard Wood, senior, 111
Greenwich; or Joseph Sloan, Surveyor, near Hattonfield ; or of
James Scull, adjoining said lands.—The place above mentioned,
is a pleasant healthy country, within two miles of three grift and
saw-mills : And three houses appropriated to divine worship, are
about the fame diflance» Terms of payment made eafv, bv
[e P4 w
Quinton's Salem County,
2d mo. 13 th t i 792. <
A LOTTERY,
* if
TO raise the Cam of £. 750 for the purpose ot repairing the
Protefta-nt Episcopal Church in the city of New-Brunfwick,
agreeable to an a£l of the Legislature of the State of New-Jerfey|
parted November 1791.
1
1
2
5
10
30
9°
>675
1814 prizes.
3520 Blanks.
5334 Tickets, at 3 Dollars each, is 16002 Dolls.
(M Tins Lottery is composed of 5334 Tickets, not two Blanks
to one Prize, and fubjett to a dedu&ion of twelve and an half per
cent, which is more favorable to adventurers than any Lotteiy yet
offered to the public—and it being of l'uch evident utility, that it
cannot be doubted bui the undertaking will meet with the mofl
liberal support.
The drawing will commence on the second Monday in April
or looner it the Tickets are disposed of, in the city of New-
Brunfwick, under the infpe&ion of Col. John Bayard, President
of laid city; James Parker, Esq. Mayor of the city of Amboy •
and Archibald Mcrcer, Esq. Deputy Governor of the Manufactur
ing Society ot New. Jerfcy.
1 ickets to be had of the following persons, who arc duly ap
pointed Managers, are under oath, and have given security for the
1 al lnrul performance of their duty.
A ha of the fortunate numbers will be publifhcd, and the
prizes paid immediately after the drawing of the Lottery
JOHN PARKER, )
PETER kEENON, < Managers.
ANTHONY \V. WHITE, )
N. B. Those prizes which are not demanded within fix months
after the drawing ol the Lottery, will be confidercd as a generous
donation to the Church.
Ncw-Brunfwfcky January p.o, 1792
Thirty Dollars Reward.
OTOLEN on 1 hurfday the 26th ult. a bright Bay HORSE
1 T'n h "t Saticlle d Br,rfie : about 14 hands and ail half hipti'
a dai k'lh imp reaching down his lacc to Lhe end of his nose a'
little Wh.re on two of h,s feet, * ith a while spot under ins left eve
about the fizc of an English shilling, hi. hind sect turn in. round
made, five vears old.tro.s and canters well. Whoever takes up
laid horse, lo that the owner may get him again, (hall receive Fif
teen Dollars ; or the above rewaid tor lhe horse and thief, pa,d by
the lubfcnber, living in Pifcatawav. about q miles fro,,, \> w _
Brunfwick, New-Jerfry. BARZILLAI E. RANDOLPH
revruary 22, 1 ;g2. / »
364
E ' A
S A
L E S
JOHN SWIFT, ")
JOHN M. NESBIT, C Executors.
SAMUEL BENEZET, )
ANDREW MILLER
SC H E
M E.
Dollars is 2000
Prize of 200®
1000
s°©
200
10G
5°
20
4
TO BE SOL 3.
BY JOHN CARL y
AO. >6, i'EAR .St jui '
A COLLECTION OF
Scarce and Valuable
books,
Wh:ch may be fcen every day, uvti! five o'clock p
Ft!,J. TTO\IER,XeiM,pI„,n, Pl a ,«„ Pluta,: i,, Enfebius, Son,
IX men, fhcodoret, ViVpil, Horace, Livy Ticiu p
cuius, Pl'riy, Concurdantia I a,. Concordaillia G,'. Tntfmm'r'
ceroim. Biblia Junu and Tremtllii. Bible dc Manin,WrlK\y "
Scapula— Phavoritii—Mai tinii—Hoffmani Lcxica V, 111 •
10gic.,.., Ai.tigui. Ecclet ' " tl >" no -
gaar/o. Pindar, CyropKdia, Bentley's Horace, Termc , J
Phffidrus, Ovid, Juvcrial, Mamlius, C.ceron,sop. om C*far k"
etomus, Julius Pollux, Hcderici Lexicon, Voffii Ars Gram C\
ri. Geo S raphU, Julfc.iiar. Code, &c. ' Cluvc "
OHavo et injra. Homer, Anacreon, Ariftoohanes,
Theophraftus, Hefiod, Poelae minores Gr, liberates, Philari? *
rims editions as Horace, Virgil, Terence,and Ovid Tibullin Pi"*"
t U ': L ? C Z a ' Mar, . ial » Claudian, Val. Flatus. Aufonins, Buch,n*T
Sailuit, Curtius, Howas, juftin, Val; Majtimus, A Geiltus Hft' l
Ausuft. Scriptores. Engfi/h and French Tranjlati> m u s f„ me ' o(
Clafucs, a great variety of Greek and I-atin Grammars, & c
£3" Catalogue.- may be had of Mdfis. Rice & Co.'Bonkfrlit,.
Market-street, or °f JOHN CAREY '
Oft" 1 "" 1 - 3'- ; (ro'f.)
Militia Fines. *
THE Collectors of Militia Fines in the Citv and Liberties of
Philadelphia,and thediftriflsol Movamenfmgand Pjflyuok
are hereby required to colleS and pay into the County Treasury'
all arrearages of fines, and to fettle and depnlit their bnoks afid
vouchers in my Office, at JJo. 6t, Walnut-ftrcet, on or beforethe
fiift day of April next. Wherefore Notice is given, Thai im
mediately from fie said firft day of ApriJ, all Colleflors whn
(hall tail in complying with this requiGtion, will be pnweedtd
against according to law. •
Phibd. Feb. 25, *.792.
To be SOLD peremptorily, at Purlic Vendue,on Wednesday
the 11th day of April next,
SEAT of the lare Docftor Lewis Johnflfo,
A deceased, in Perth-Amboy, containing TWO HUNDRED
ACRES of LAND.
1 his place is bounded southerly for near a mile on the river
Rantan, where ir empties into the bay about \ 8 miles from-Sandy-
Hook, and affords two raoft agreeable (itudtions for Gcntlemcns'
Seats. There are now on it, two brick houses, with gardens, and
a good colle&ion of fruit trees of the best kinds. The land is'very
fertile, and a great part of it very good meadow ; and from its fili
ation on the river, has the advantage of fifh of different kinds, in
their seasons, particularly of oysters and chicken clams, which tnav
he pickcd in great plenty on the flits before the doors. It is a
delightful, healthy situation, capable of genteel and tasty improve
ments ; and as Perth-Amboy is one of the best sea-ports in the
United Slates, and within 18 miles of the sea, the prospect of its
increasing in value from that circumstance, is by no means lucon
fiderable.
1 heie wil' also be (old, other Lots, within the bounds of the
city, and about Five Hundred Acres of Land on the opposite fide
of the river Raritan—part of which is unmoved bv a farm—on
which there is a framed dwelling-house and barn, with an orchard
of grafted apple trees, and will contain about one hundred and
fifty acres ; the remainder will be fold in convenient lots, well
wooded and timbeied, and very convenient for supplying Ncw-
York-and other markets with fire-wood, timber for Ihip build
ing, and other uses, the transportation by water being easy and
fafe. The conditions will be made known at the day of fa!e,
and the icquifite conveyances made by
fPDAwI
Likewise to be SOLD, at the fame time and place,
ELEVEN ACRES of LAND, adjoining the above, the pro
perty of the Proprietors of East New-Jersey, whereon the pro
prietary ho life lately flood. The elegant situation of this spot is
hardly to be equalled ; it affords a grand profpeft of Raritan
Bay, and of t lie Bay foi med by the waters of Raritan and Hud
son's rivers, where they disembogue into the sea to the £afl—and
a mod delightful one of the feipeutine courle of the Raritan river,
for several miles, through a rich tra£fc of meadow to the Weft.
The great quantity of {lone neatly drefled, and brick, the remains
of the house lately burned, will be nearly fufficient for a new
building; and a large stone cistern, and well of excellent watrr,
with a very convenient ftableand coach-hpufe, will greatly lelTen
the expence of putting the place in order for the residence of a
Gentleman.— There are tew situation;, so eligible, particularly in
the summer feafoti—when the cool sea breezes, 2nd the elevated
(ituatioris, render them places of pleasing retreat, from the confine
ment and sultry air of the louthern dates and neighbouring ci'ies.
Perth-Ambox, Feb. 15, •1792. (ep6w) ,
1000
100©
1000
IOO©
1530
1800
6700
16000
TO BE SOLD AT PRIVATE SALE,
ALL the lauded estate of GEORGE WARNER.Heceafed, con
fining of a valuable Plantation and tratt of Timber La"d>
supposed >.o contain between four hundred and 450 acres, about
90 of which is plow-land and 15 of drained meadow. 1 here is
on the farm a dwelling-house and kitchen, a cooper's (bop and a
large barn ; a well of water at the door, a good apple orchar .
The house Hands close on a good landing belonging to the fai
ptemifes ; the reft of the land is well timbered and lies wit nj
one mile of laid landing, and an equal distance from a saw-mi
and grift.mill and alio of Quinton's Bridge, bounding on t c
Main, Allawav's Creek, in the county of Salem, five miles 10m
Salem Court-Houfe.
Any person that is disposed to view or purchale the fa' P
mifes, may fee the place and know the terms, by apply ul S 10
the fubfciibcrs near the fame.
MARK MILLER and ) £ XCC utors.
ANDREW MILLER, J
Salem County, 2d mo. 13th, 1792.
N. B. There is likewise a lot of Meadow ground or a •
acres, adjoining lands of Abbott Sayres, and others,
of said dcceafed, to be fold in manner as above, by the 31 c
' r pu-' 1
cutors. —-
Public Securities,
Bought arid Sold, on COMMISSION', by
[epjjm]
TO HE SO Lp BY THE EDITOR, fihc
A TABLE lor receiving and pavmg Gold at the B'nk o.
United States, fbewino; the Value of Gold,in D-> 1 ar s 3
Cents, from One to a Thousand Penny weights—accord ing i" 1
A6l of Congress, aiceitaming theStaiulaid and Ydiueot G<"
(fT B/at,i Power, t„ reave
[nine pal of hnblic J?r(. agreeable to the Rules fjl>ibhjittd int t
'urx Department: *4'Jq Ul.mks fJ *
THOMAS PROCTER, Lieut,
of the City and Liberties.
JAMES PARKER and > „ „ . .. ~. r „ ,
BOWES REED, Trufteestothc said Eftalf.
SAMUEL ANDERSON,
Che^fnnt-Street,nnct doo r to th* Bank. N T <>. 01-