NAIIONAL IH. I'.t.'Sllr.l) \V?.PH£SPA*S ANj > SATURU..YS li Y 'sOUS FENNQ, No. 69, HiOUSTRI'.E'T. PHIL A Ui- l.l'HI A
[No. 46, of Vol. IV.]
v ore ism Affciis.
v a :L: .. - t A
* i S>, .'iugurt 5?.
WE are informed from T«iin,thatj
thtf events of the loth of Au-i
gult have had an effect there very un '
favorabU to the French entile. It
tvas reported there, that the head of
Louis XVI. had been cut off", and car
ried through the streets of this capi
tal on a pole. The clergy declaimed
in all their pulpits against this iiifuk
to Kuyalty, and produced fuchan ef
fect upon their hearers, that we are
allured not less than three millions
oflivres have been raise 1 tiieie by
fubfcripnun, to enable his Sardinia;}
Majesty to alfitt the French Princes,
his sons in law.
Preparations are making at Triers
for the P;dlige of 25,000 Pruflians,
who are dniij expet'ied :hers:. and
.. :, -.vfiei! joined v. it'll qu«>r:il» k or
troops to be furnifhed by the Circle
of the Lower Rhine, and the Eledto
rate of Triers, are to proceed to re
inforce the great central army.
On the 18th of Augnlt, a body ofj
6000 Hessians, under the; command of,
their own Sovereign, the Landgrave
ofHefle Caflel, began their march
from St. Goar, and by noon reached
Sinnneren. Next day they arrived
at Kitchberg on the Hundfburch, and, j
without hairing, continued their
march towards Triers, where they
•wait for further orders.
The French Emigrants encamped
at Kuoz, (truck their tents very early
in the morning of the ißth of August,
and began their inarch for the Duchy
,of Luxemburg. The French Princes
hitrr riwir lwail qii»a»niit.W»t
liredimus, near the city of Luxem
burg
A young woman of the name of
Lacombe was among the ranks ofthe
patriots who boldly stormed the Pa
lace of the Thuilieries, amidlt the
havoc made by the fire of the Swiss
guards
Whilst the battle raged, (he fought
as if (he had been equally a (tr mger
to fear and to humanity, but when
the enemy was overcome, and resist
ance was at an end, (he appeared in
the amiable garb of humanity, de
fending from violence and outrage,
men who, having thrown down their
arms, confeffed themselves vanguifh
ed, and sued for quarter.
la one place (lie saved 70 Swifsfol
4iera from immediate (laughter, and
collecting a chosen band of Federifts,
(he put heifelf at their head, and
placing these 70 men in the centre,
protected them through crowds of
people who cried out for their blood,
which they said ought to be (hed, to
revenge the death of the brave patri
ots whom thel'e Swiss had jlain.
But this truly gallant Amazon de
clared, that thole who (hould attack
these disarmed prisoners rriuft fir It
take her life :—nor did (he quit them
till (lie had conveyed them 10 prison,
and thus (ecured them from every
oilier vengeance lave that of the law.
The Federifts of the 83 Depart
ments, who had witnelled both her
braveiy in the attack, and her huina
nitj after victory, bellowed upon her
a civic crown, as the reward of her
virtues. She appeared, 011 Saturday
Jaft, at the bar of the National Afieni
bly, and presented this crown to the
Pieliderit, as homage paid to the pa
tiiotifm of the J^/egiflature.
She was invited to fit within the
bar ; and honorable mention of her
and her offering was made in the
journals.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
August 26.
M. Servan, Minister at War, ap
peared at the bar, where he read a
letter from Marlhal Luckner, con
taining an account of the capture of
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMbER 7, 17 n2.
the town of !,onpwv by the c ievsiy j t-.' r.c.' *ir v:'s :v>pl;-hhl
,S> :f.v.hic\i imel'y-f'w:. i.V ,-A. . ; J i 5. Z>.>. ~c'' /.. r
patriots, iiy tins letter ;r appeared, 1 I'/i. henvan tranfmitred to t!. : A! i
that the enemy, to the number, as is j '.eirri'iy tlie copy of a letter wbicli be
thought, or 60,000 iuc 11, pr 1. inteil ..id «> 1 i en to Marlhal Luckner, re
themiel ves before the place 111 1 ihe ; [lie town of 1, taken
2lft. 1 lie liege tailed far .botrf tit'- jby i.. eiK'uiy. The niiniUer in thai
teen hours, . tiring which ti-ne they ; -iter cor : plained loudly of the bafi
kept up a continual anil heavy tire el> of th.fe who lb fliamefuily capi
ot bombs and artillery, which alarm-]' dated whilethe ramparts were Hand
ed the citizens and administrative bo-; ing, and while had soldiers to
dies so much, that they ituveaied the'< et'end them. He teftilied his fur
coniniandant to give up the town and . ;'ri !e cr ;he little refiltance made by
garrison ; giving way to thcii f'olici-j> jc bei'ngeJj, and requeued the Ge
lations, he obtained an honorable ca- j. '.'ra:, in rife be had not already done
pit illation on the morning of tue 22c!. s,, tq form a court martial to inveili
The 4ußrian» ei)ter-d Longwy wjih-j gate , 'mutely the conduift of the oi
out committing the frnalleft on rage ; *.f rer» employed i'i this aff-iir, in or.
and it appeared that they in - iiit to; ; r t*.at if found guilty they might
take jx.ii'tffion of the po(t .re toy. ]eig • 'niniutifly deprived of thai
which had been abandoned by .' it- 1 lift v Ich they could net p.H"e.-v<
mi LucV .••• in 01 dei obat'i v I■Hi - ' '• !•„. iyr.— Tills letter vv.::i mucl
I • ' f '
alterwai lay liege to l'*iitan»iJle. -7 p'ahuet,.
M. Dosser, President of the Milita The battalion of La Sorbonne an
ry committee, alarmed at the canle- ounced that they had burnt the co
qtiences likely to result from this lours which had been presented to
loss, declared, that nothing but the them by M. La Fayette. .
cowardice or treachery of the garri- Two JuflKes of the of Mont-'
foil could have enabled the eilemy to medi tranfinitted to the Allembly an
get podellion of it. The place, he account that all their colleagues hac'
laid, was in excellent condition to emigrated.
withstand a liege. It was defended
by seventy pieces of cannon, and ex
cellent calculates. It contained abun
dance of wood neceflary for conltruct
ing works to defend again!! bombs
and had a garrison of 3,500 men
" however," added M. " le;
us not be too rafli in condemning tin
Command;™ until we have fulficieiii
proofs of his treachery."
" The Commandant is a traitor,"
. cried mil r-'viwl ' £ )>'l
- ! his name."
The Minilter replied, " M. Dela
vergne." ,
W. le Cointere lequefted, that the
Minister at War, the Military Com
mittee, and the Extraordinary Cotn
lnifiion, (hould be obliged to declare,
" Whether rhey have means fuffici
ent to save France from the. dangers
of this invasion." He gaveau opini
on refpeifting Mar/hal Luckner,which
was not much in favor ot that Gene
ral, and concluded by proposing,
that 30,000 of the National Guard of
Paris, and of the neighboring Depart
ments, Ihould march in eight days to
the Frontiers."
M. Choudieu thought there was no
occaflon for being so soon alarmed.
He endeavored to point oijt the im
inenfe resources of France, the supe
riority of iis forces, and the danger
which the enemy would run by pe
netrating into the kingdom, as they
would Jbe prevented from the possibi
lity of returning by the camps of Se
dan, Mouzan, Maulde, Maubeuge,
&c. " If we abandon ourselves to
fpair," said he, " it will be the fiire
means of ruining our canfe."
The Aflembly, struck wirh the
force of these observations, palled on
to the order of the day. J
! August 27.
The fitling commenced this morn
ing, by the reading of dispatches
from the ajdminiftraiive bodies of the
town of Montinedi. These dispatch
es stated, that the news of the cap:
ture ot Loiigwy, instead of damping
the courage and patriotifni of the ci
tizens of Moutmedi, had inspired all
hearts with a desire, or ratberathirtt
for vengeance, and that they had
paired the following decrees :
1. The gates of the Upper and
1 Lower Town (hall remain ihut;
2. As the town, though in a stare
of war, is not yet besieged, the biifi
nefs of the police lhall be conducted
by civil officers.
g. The moment the enemy appear*,
all useless atid fufpectedpeifons mutt
quit the town,
This degree, communicated by the
181
W A R S A W, Aqguft 18
Horse patroles parade the llreets
conjtantly to keep good order.
Prince Joseph Poniatow/kj' has re
feired a lerter of thanks from the of
ficers who ferveci -tinder him, expref
iive of their regard and elteem for
, imn.
i We have accounts from Carcaw,
ijhat Woiwode, which it was fuppof
•>«!(! <1 tongiv anpofe. baa- n&u
illy acccprerf die
Targowicz.
BRUSSELS, August 26
The circumitances which have
reached us refpeifting the lurrender
of the town of Longwy, add infinite
ly to the advantage of this firft luc
cefs, fmce it leaves none of those re
grets which are commonly insepara
ble from vitfrory. The befiegeis, as
one may fay, fuffered 110 lo!s, and
there were only a few of the laborers
wounded.
His Excellency Count Clairfayt
having on the 2rft, advanced with
his army Longwy, eretfed
some batteries, which the besieged
endeavored to destroy by keeping np
a violent fire during the whole of
next night, buc their guns having
been badly pointed, our batteries
wei e opened at the break of day, and
a great number of bombs were thrown
into the town, which set fire to it in
feyeral places, but the besieged fountl
means to extinguish the flames.
The night followingrecommenced
their fire, ltill without e(fe<st, while
ours did considerable execution. In
the mean time his Excellency Count
Clairfayt sent a trumpet to fuinmon
the Commandant to Surrender ; but
this being refufed, the army began
to make neaer approaches, upon
which the besieged offered to capiiu-
I late.
DUBLIN, September t.
Thursday came to be tried before
thf Hon. Mr. Juitice Cr- okfhank, at
Tri'lee, an adion bro(*gnt by Henry
Arthur Herbert,Efq.claiming 20,000).
damages against George Duff, Esq. a
Major in the jßth regiment of loot,
for criin. con. with, and taking away
his wife. This trial commenced at
nine in the morning, and continued
till live in the evening, when the ju
ry, who were very refpeCtaMe, retir
ed but for a few moments, and bro'i
in a verdi<X damages I 5,000!. Coun
sel for the plaintiff Mefl'rs. Curran,
Egan, Franklin, Rice, Emmet and
Blennerhdflet. —For the defendant,
Hore, and O'Driicol.
Whole No.
■ ! r vs-rc!i a i i i 1 .1 c
I , •
which is tjjree pern:; iiritHh id ll
fc'rpHch e*#.i»n, making at theprefe - .
rate one lixih at rhe alue, or r6 per
cent rift liuce ili • i mprtfofpient of
the King' in the, XeuipJe Vower ; —
:i phenomenon that rhe
molt experienced fpeculatiitt. A iii
nurs have aifo coiiiiccrably risen in
their value ; and, in addition to <-'l
ihis, the influx of gold and fin er bul
lion troui England into b ranee con
tinues ; for we find in the London
entries of Thursday, an exportation
nude by the buuft of tiourdien, to
Calais, of 25J,0q0 ounces of li!v v 'f
coin
L O N D O N, .August 31
Mr. Paine beirU* n-ow ;» Ficutli ci
i izea, is expected to be ele&ecl'a mew
!xer •of <>:• u >urf«i.Ceuvw.
tioii
The ali'ertion, that the new {yflem
in Krance lias overthrown all pence,
law and order there, is so obvioufly 1
untrue, that it is scarcely iieceflary
to coiitraditft it. Before the new fyf
tefn, there was 11a peace in Krance
whenever money could be extorted
hir war ; no law, but that which a
corrupt court formed, and corrupt
judges admihillered ; and no order,
but that of promotion at court, fpr
crimes "against the country. What
ever the new fy!tem may have done,
therefore, it has not overthrown peace,
law and order. In town fucli afler
tipns will very soon cease, except front
those who have an interelt in pro
moting them ; but in the country,
where society is thin, an 4 'nen ar<
nm i«i«ii.it uptirr irequcul iuotigUt i«u
■ 7* • -jt %
lite pui'j. vle <>f keeping pjte villi eac!
other, they will continue till 'lie agi
tations of the French revolut ion are
over, and only the bleffingsof it fhail
be felt or heaid of.
3,11011 o
Lord Gower lias 011 every occa/ion
received the most hatidfoine treat
ment from the French lniuiltry, »nd
his flay in l aris has been no other
wise delayed, than from the many
formalities which the law now re
quires to obtain palTports, and the
number which were of cotirfe requi
red for so large an eltabliflitnent.
The Venetian ambaflador was re
leased from hisarreft on Sunday latt,
and obtained the pall'poris he requi*
red. On Tuesday he arrived at Ca
lais. and yeftcrday in London, which
seems 10 be the general refuge of the
foreign nobility. His excellency pre
ferred corning inco this country, be
ing apprc henfive of travelling through
i the southern provinces of France oil
I his return home.
We havejuft received letters from
Stockholm, dated Augnft 17, which
inform us, that in a Council held at
Drottnengholm on the 15th,the Duke
Regent made a very pathetic speech,
in which he declared, that in conse
quence of the late King s request 011
his death bed. he had promised to
pardon all the conspirators, except
Ankarltroin ; he therefore ordered
that the fentcnce against Horn, Rib
bing, LiMjehorn, and Ehrenlward,
Ihotild be changed into banifhmenc
for life, and the reft either confined
I for a certain term, or pardoned,
j The following proclamation has
been iflued by 1 lie National Aflembly
upon the taking of Longwy.
" Citizens,Longwy is taken,or giv
en up.—The enemies advance. They
flatter themselves, perhaps, that they
(hall find every where cowards or
traitors. They are deceived. Onr
armies are indignan of this attack,
and their courage is roused a-new.
Citizens, parutki their indignation.
The country calls you, Go."
The killed in I'aris, on the loth of
Anguft, are now (lured, were
~ /- y ' I
j O o. j
>' f i> r r. .M s 11< />
September 4.nearly 12,600, of whom more than
8000 were of the people. The Swiss,
it seems, weie nearly all drtink ; and
one of their fii It inducements 10 fire
was 1 tie difehajgc of tome mufquets
from the windows of the Thuilleries,
by pei sons in their uniforms, hut who
weie not Swils. Believing their corps
engaged, they then fired immediate
ly, before i hey had hesitated.
The allied armies have only to take
Thionvil'ie, Sedan and Montinedi ;
and then there will be no fortrefs on
that fide to prelent an obltacle to
their match into the heart of France.
THION VILLE,
Now inverted by the A oil tip lis and
Frisian* 1 , is a very itrang town of"
Kra,ice in Luxembuig and capita) of
a bailiwick. It was ceded to France
by the treaty of the Pyrenees, and is
aJvantageoufly seated on the river
Mofelie, over which there is a bridge,
defended by liorn work, 14 miles
north of Metz, and 19s mrrth-eaft of
Pat is. Long. 6. 15. east ; —lnt. 49.
31. north.
VERDUN,
Which has recently futrundei'ed to I
the Duke of Brunfwick, is an ancient, I
strong, and considerable town of
France, in Loiratn, and capital of
the Verdnnois, with a bishop's fee,
ihe title of principality, and a strong
< citadel. It vas foiiiierly afi ce and
fvial city, divided into the Upper
ii- Lower towi.s, and is a place of
: >rtauce for the defence of C ham
ic ihe winds are 1 so strong here,
rlit y durst not raise the cat lie
i... to a proportionable height ; but
it is remarkable for its length, its two
choirs, and its four lleeples. There
ai e Abbeys, collegiate wii b the
p.u ifh churches ; and the molt curious
ft ruptures besides, are the bi(hop\
palace, the town house, and the Je
itift s college. The inhabitants a.e
nafed for the fine fweet-metrs they
make. It is feai ed on the river Mease,!
which runs through the middle, 42
miles S. W. of Luxemburg, and 150
E. of Paris. L«ng 5. 23. £. Lar. 40.
32. North.
It is divided into an npper and
lower town, the firlt of which is a
fortified place and the object of con
—Within the rampaits of
"Jjntif m iiiijiiix&fi t* r
> only ten are exposed to the
Jombs. Ihe walls may be
round in about fix minutes
J hey are protected by fifty pieces o(
cannon : nd fix mortars, the latter of
which are also secured from bombs.
— The garrison consists exatftly of
eighteen hundred men ; all useless
persons are removed from it ; they
have a well of joo feet deep: cis
terns filled with rain-water, and pro
vihons for thwe months.
Jumping Joe, executed last Fri
day at Kennington, was one of those
fellows who are deemed geniuses in
their way He was near sixty jears
e, had been fifiy-fix times tried
lonies, and had hanged forty
•companions. He obtained the
Ifcuf Jumping j oej i roi „
, which «a> so great that he
d leap ,nto the hafket of a (la ee
eoach, and out again, while the car
nage was running at the r ate of
eight m.les an hour. He was also
ChTiTti as f° r h |£ Ving rpeiU flXtec "
Chuttmafes successively i„ confine
">cnt, and probably no ; nnmerril,
The war with Poland being finifli
ed, and i he affairs of that kingdom
on the p.,, lt of being regulatfd Z
£jg. h i, .« r „,/ lh ?££ b Je
Rnfl.a will reinforce the body of
troops «hick are to march a.ainf
witlT' VV ' ,h 25,0 °° n,e "' f ° "hat S
e an aimy of jo,ooo ;o afljfl
tie operations of rhe Allies.
A vciy curious circumstance will
happen in about eight years When
Int^wT,fle adOP 'r dthe G,^>ri "
™ found nec'edary
t<> of r c " ,eila nt'-y. The
«i"*-*
Virginian birt, c "; 2 f"»np, is s
icyi vears since n' . n . rc alf ' fonie
unce, in ti U j country.
i Don Frederic de Cravina, \»lio is
lariived in town fiotn Plymouth, tra j
vels at the expense of the court of
j Madrid, tor the purpose of viliting
| the navies of foreign nations, thofcj
jof England and Holland efpecialiy.
j His visits, however, are made in the
iinoftopen manner, and we may gei
j more by the strength of
sour navy, than by concealing any
i preparations, which he can fee con
cerning it.
What a fpctfacle was Paris, and especially
the place of action, on the evening of the loth
j of Auguit ! Labour and trade were interrupt
ed, the wo'rklbop and the counter deferred —
Amid apparent disorder, there was aftrong mix
ture it' ifrmternity, -
geaaoe, i.eneioijty, and barbarity ! Evtrv tircet
in arms, yet no outrage committed in the {beet;.
Bui 1 , aln ! the citi zen was grievouHy and too
otteu afflicted at the fight of patriots d>ing or
wounded, borne home by their comrades, and
followed bv their weeping family. Every eye,
every itep was directed to the palace which sent
forth volumes of 'moke. TheCarouzel appear
ed to be avail burning furnace. In order to
enter the palace it was neceftary to cross two at
its wings, which were reeking in their embers,
and to trample either on burning beams, or o»
bodies not yet cold. The court of the prince
was but another afpeft of the lame picture ; it
presented the ficadeof the palace battered fror
top to bottom by the national cannon, some of
which (fill eemcd to threaten the too long
abode of Roval vice. Here too the dead lay
ft re wed. But how describe the vestibule, the
flaii-caf'e, the chapel, and the apartments ? It
was ho: ror not to be exceeded. Yet even thi*
io ror might be endured, by recollecting who
had been their inhabitants. The walls and
loors were stained with blood, covered with
hioker weapons, and the limbs of nijpi, min-'e ■!
with torn garments, royal rohes, velvets Work
ed in gold with fleur-de-lis, furniture broken,
'nattered V3les, bottles diltributed to the met
cenary executioners of the despot, and dead bo
dies at every step !
J he palace gate leading to the terrace was
' °bftrufted by heap? of dead, almoil naked, and
as if still biting the dust, tlieir hahds gra'ped in
age to have fallen by the sword of the people.
Every alley of that noble garden, the admira
tion ol foreigners, and the pride of nature ard
of art, presented nothing but more dead and
more; some under the trees, feme extended]
beneath the llatues, and others strewed over
with graft and the flowers of the garden ; and
to give the last touch to this fearful scene, the
wooden barracks Of the Swift ail on fire, and
tle flames lighting thole who were losdinr nu
merous carriages brought to take away tbe
dead from the Place de Louis XV. By the fide
of this scene of horror fat Louis XVI.' the au
thor of all these lamentable tragedies, at a we)
replenished table, in the room of one of the
committees of the National Affembl*. eating
' ru -l» m the mmmnv tS
silent and enraged wife } (he biting her }ip,
not having been better fecondcd in hateful
crimes and deplorable guilt.
No part of the pa i ace 0 f the Thuilleries is
urt favewhe,. the cannon struck, and which
can be repaired ; but the barracks which R,r
---[ nunded It, and which spoiled its appearance,
thJn- ? ? ne< ! t0 flames > and are levelled with
ground. It is most likely that it will be
Bu",ef i n fU , tUre t0 * hHjl for ti,e aOembly.
Bu.eaus for the national business, and apart-1
Re* theMinifterS and P '' sfide »< o^tlLj
Domestic Articles.
RICHMOND, October 27
On 1 hurfday rhe annua] ballot for
nvenior of thi g commonwealth took
(' n ' e hou Jf ° f delegates ; when
his Excellency Heauy Lee, Esq.
to fill ,hat imponant and
dignified office for the enfuifig year
comment,ng the fir It day 0 f Decern!
ber next. '
WINCHESTER, (Vir.) OA 2o "
authentic imo« m , tlon -/'
a gentleman from Knoxville
£:zvr th i f ihe ohio^Si
tace he left on the i 2 ih infant we
" faVored ""*> the follo'wimr
ntei citing particulars :
On the 7th of September Tnhn
■Vatis rendezvoused 500 Creeks and
"h/n Y nd declar ed war again!!
he tinted States. A part of ' h
■ e^fe to Th• toWns Ponded to be ad
euers to G P '° Ceedi "g. ™d wrot ,
euers to Governor Blounrot Watts*.
air .
»rote a 1.,,. 7 also, in Council
»■.Ugnrt Bl"3r™£
|>'en g„i,,g to Warj and defire j jJU
S®SKigs
,h *y agreed ',1 1 me COU,,cil
">'l. uh. f, , the re,,d «*oo S on tb,
making wai - , owed pnrpole o
Creek nation Ar° " u ,ie,, g er to th,
nat,on ; firing them to f ur
182
nifti alt the warriors tlury could spare
—and dilpaiched a frciichniaw and
a Halt bieed io leconnoitie Cumber
land, who, on their reiui 11, were to
ferv« as pilots, I heie intended spies,
in Head of fulfilling the object of their
mitfion, acquainted the people of
Cumberland with the true Hate of
affairs, and warned them to be upon !
' heir guard, whereupon General Ro-j
bertlbn ordered two-thirds of the mi-
litia of that country into- actual fe
vice. The Hanging Muw has inform
ed Governor Blount ih:it, on the 19th
of September, (the.day appointed, as
mentioned above) about 1000 Creeks
ai)d'ChejHjtef>es affemblfd at th<* Ruu-',
on iwJ%bft.il
lutely marched again ft ihi'fettlement
of Cumberland. No information of
rheir having made an attack on that
place had been received at Kuoxvilk
on the nt-h inllant.
" Ihe Frenchman) and Half-Breed,
above-mentioned, were lately em
ployed by the Spanilh Governor, to
carry letters to the Creeks, Chero
kees, Chickafaus and Choc'taws, en
couraging them to come to Peirlaco
la for arms and ammunition, and in-
Itigating them to make war with the
United States.
" About the latter end of July, a
Treaty was held at New Oi le.tns, be
tween the Spaniards and the Creeks,
Cherokee's, Chickafaws and CJiotftavv s,
at which the former offered them
aims and ammunition, to go to war
jgainft the; United States, and tojd
them it would be for their interest so
to do—they also made them lavge
presents of goods. The Creeks, and
Cherokees of the Lower Towns, re
ceived their Talk.
Certain intelligence had been
received at Ktioxville, that a Spanish
agent resided for Tome titweat M'Gil
livray's house, who inveigled him,
together with a number of other
chiefs of the Creek nation, to attend
a Treaty lately held at New-Orleans
—and that they are now 011 their
way home from that place.
" Governor Blount has ordered
[near one half of the Holltein and
French Broad militia into actual fer
»ice, under the command of Briga
dier-General Sevier." j
I roip this derail of appears,
that the return of Watts, as menti
oned in a former paper, was merely
a finefle. r r '
About the 6ih instant, some Indi
ans attacked a flation on Little River
and killed three inen.—And, about
the Bih or 9th, a paity of them fired
on {ome persons coming from Ken
tuck)', killed one and wounded ano-
ther
MUM THE FARMERS JOURNAL
dvice to Farmer;, from re own eXf eruntt thisprrfent
Fytat.
IRS t, maki? your ground mellow and rich, .nd
then plant your cum hut two feet apart each
way, arid hul „„<■ k clnt ,j ln , hj j,. ttm „ t he way
dvc (iII c t and hoed it without plowing ; and
. When my corn was ripe, J mtafintd feyeral rods
} . n t'»nd mejluied theicorn ejca& y, and had tnou
i r n a bufht los cars 10 a tod ol ground,and it was
rhil Ifyiildit. 18 nib its of (hcllcy
Corn lo a hulhel of ears : And nnonthiH in paiticu
|ar I cut up eleven fuckers when thoporn
; " let, and dm d them, and put their, in tire barn,
and here were Icven then Iclt, and e..< h
one had an ear o' corn and one had two cars which 1
: f'ght ears produced , 774 kernels and all from on.
r| nt : And h»d a large load of ihe tops on about
one hondnd rods ol ground.
And I am of opinion, that the ground would
Dear to have been planted only one loot apart, aud
therefore might have yielded m .re than it did.
EIIJAH HAWLtY
Neaif eld, 09. 3, ,- Qa
PHILADELPHIA, November 7.
' i COMMUNICATION.
: I Perhaps the present is as intcrettirg a period
; as any that has or will occur in the hiftorv of
~ us country. It is a fart too notorious to be
■! at the moment when the people of
j the United States were in so wretched a litua
icrrrf > r I ° f ' :nion ' S° ver,, nient, and
theV were a,moft 'endy to will, for
tl* Gariix and Ocita," of .. M tv
I -'On,; us was as llrenuous in oppofirion to the
only means that appeared adequate to our lal
vation, as ever the citizens of America were
tbe mea,ure! ' ot their open enemies : This
party wrote and did more (for the time) to pre
vent the adoption of the new constitution, than
tne patriots did to lave their country from fo
.,e'g" ty, , ann '":~ l " going counter to'the advice
and machinations ot this antifederal junto, the
people laved themselves from a „ thAorrors „f
di union anarchy and Havery-thev placed their
dom"wfri s C°f P ror P er »tv, peace and free
fteos • j ' a , VC L tont " lU£d to attend their
Zl'T Wl * persevere in supporting
dffl« ? W " Ch haVC Kt " f! e mL.s of
v Vk B - t V e i cluud ' ; that relied on their prof
tß'-'Mfi ili Wl " Cuntinuc ,0 fl'me « ilb
-a.mj luitre, to tiie perfect day.
CONGRESS.-
hovsfOF representatives
Monday, n„v. S) ~9 2
T®' Ht.u'e aflernblcd purfuanr »« ••
'enr ; rie,!t ~ t ' le t'-i-uwing inttiibeii belng""^
•ttMStE** l *~ J *
Gc-rrv, Mr."Bourne l»-
W,, Yn/' Lc "" ard ' Mr - 'i'totcherl- £"
ward, and Mr. Ainss. ' '
RheJt l/l rd—Mr. Bourn.
It;r n oni~ vi;-. Nile? ami Mr. Smith
»£!z£: h £2*> «r.
Mr A D.mon'~ Mr ' B ° Udinot ' Mr * Clwk .
1 ""'f.lv.wu—Mr. Muhlenberg, and Mr. Fit,.
Ifimoo*.
Key, »„<J Mr. Morr,,.
White ' Ml "Madison, Mr. V«.
nable Mr. Parker, Mr. Gile<, anrfMr. C
and Mr. f Mtr Mr -
JSfctSr* T, " k "' **-•**
Gtorg't,p—Mr. Baldwin, and.Jfr. WlUit ,
A quorum being p,*^
ed to bufiiief* \ t
Mr.Leonard, * new member from
Maifachufetts, appeared, productd bii
credentials, was qualified, ind took lis
feat.
A mefTage was sent to the Senate, by
the clerk of the House, to inform them
thru a quorum of tlie House were afTem
bled, and ready to proceed to bulinefs.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, it was
relolved, that a committee be appointed,
to join with such committee as may be
appointed by the Senate, to wait on the
I i efident of the United States, to notify
him, that a quorum of both houses are
ailembled, and are ready to receive fiore
him any communications he may be ple;>f
ed to make.
Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Key, and Mr..
Moore, were appointed the committee.
A meiTage from the Senate, by Mr.
Otis, their secretary, informed the house,
that a quorum of the fenatt beinfj afiem
bled, in the abfeuce of the Vice President
of the United States, they had proceeded
to the choice of a Prelident of the Senate
pro tempore, and that Mr. Lanjjdon was
eledlcd.
Oil motion of Mr. Boudlnot, it ws»
resolved, that the House proceed to a
joint ballot, for two chaplains of difFc.cnt
denominations, to officiate, interchangea
bly weekly, during the feflion.
This rciolution was sent to the Scnati,
Mr. Smith (S. C.) presented a petition
from ftindry citizens, merchant* of South
Carolina, complaining of the exorbitant
fees exadled in the admiralty court of
that state, &c.— Read, and referred t»
M'. ) Mr. ani
Mi. White.
A communication was read from the
Govei nor of Georgia, enclosing the pro
ceedings of the lsgiflature of that state re
lative to filling the vacancy in the Repre*
fentation of that state, in Congrefe; ty
which it appeared, that John Mifledgc,
Esq. was elected.
A message from the Senate, by Mr,
Otis, informed the House, that the Senate
have concurred in the resolution, for a
joint committee to wait on the President
«f the United States, and have appointed
Mr. lsard and Mr. Strong—also, that
they have concurred in the refolutiou of
the House for the choice of chaplains, and
have ele&ed the Right Reverend BiiWp
White.
The House proceeded to eled a chap
l.Wn on.then part j the batinu Stctig
ledled, it appeared, that the Reverend
Do&or Green was chofcn.
Mr. Boudinot, of the committee ap>
pointed to wait on the President of ll,e
United States, reported to the House,
that the joint committee of both houses
had waited on the Piefident, ivho inform
ed them, that he would meet the two hou
fef> to-morrow, in the Senate chamber.
On motion, it was resolved, that th.
Clerk cause the members to be furiJilhe
with thiee newspapers, such as the) (■><"
chuft, to be delivered at their refpectue
lodgings during the session.
Adjoined till to-morrow, " o'clockTUESDAY, Nov. 6
Mr. Page and Mr. Griffin, from Viigluia,
Mr. Kittera, of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Gordon,
from New-York, took theirleats this day.
A mellage was received from the Senate, by
Mr. Otis, informing the House that the Senate
are now ready to receive the President of the
United States—and that they have provided
feats for the accommodation of the members of
the House. —The Members of the Hotife ac
cordingly repaired to the Senate Chamber, —
where, exactly at twelve o'clock the President
of the United States arrived, attended by his
Secretary and Aids, and accompanied by the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of
War—When he delivered the following* Speech
to both Houl'es of Congress.
fol/jw-CifucM »j the Sen4ie> and
$f lie Htm/i (jj Rcprejcntatives,
fT il-Jfeaw «f the n,
with which I meet you on the present occasion,
thatiu felicitating you on a continuance of the
Batjenal prosperity, generally, I am not able to
add to it information that tlie Indian hostilities,
which have, for some time pall, diftrefl'ed our
jorch-weftern frontier, have terminated.
■ Yon wilJ, I am persuaded, learn with no Icl?
(oncern than I communicate it,- that reiterated
endeavours, toward? effe&ing a pacification,
have hitherto illued only in new and outrageous
proofs of perlevering hoftilityon the part of the
tribes with whom we are in contest. An ear
ned d»fire to procure tranquility to the fron
tier—to flop the further efrufion of blood—to
arrest the progress of expense—to forward the
prevalent wi(h of the nation, for peace, has led
to ftremjous efforts, through various channels,
to accomplilh these defirablc purposes : in
making which efforts, I consulted lei's my own
anticipations of the event, or the fcrupies whiuh
&me confederations were calculated to inspire,
than the wish to find the o-bjeft attainable; or
if not attainable, to ascertain uncauivocally
that l'«ch is the- cafe.
' A detart-ofthe rileafures which bare been ptir
fued, and of their conlequences, which will be
aid before you, while it will confirm to you the
fant of success, thus far, wiH, X trull, evince
-hat means as pro'per and as efficacious as could
iave been devife'd,have been employed.—The if
Cue of some of them,indeed,is Hill depending; but
a favorable one,though not to be despaired of,is
notprojnifed by any thing that has yet hap
pened.
In the course of the attempts which have been
*iade, some valuable citizcns have (alien vifiims
to their zeal For the public service.—A fanthon
commonly refpe£Ud even among savages, has been
found, in this inftan'ce, inefficient to prote£t from
maflacre the emissaries of peace :— It will, I p le _
fume, be duly considered whether the occasion
does not call for an exercise of liberality towards
the families ol tile deceased.
It nvjft add to your concern, to be informed,
that besides the continuation of boftile appearan
ces among the tribes north of (he Ohio,fame threat
mng symptoms have of late been, revived among
iome of those south of it.
A part of tb<■ C l '" roJcV&ir know Hy »Vj» <-» t .
of Chickamagas, inhabiting five villages on the
r<iiineffec river, have long he'cu in the
♦ommitting depredations on the neighbouring fet
ilements.
It was hoped that the treaty of H-.lfton made
with the Cherokee nation in July, 1791, w< uld
liave prevented a repetition of depredations.
— But the event has not answered this hope.—
The Chickamagas, aided by some banditti oi ano
ther tribe, in their vicinity, have recently per
pctrat. d wanton, and unprovoked hostilities upon
the citizens of the United States in that quauer.
The inlormation which has been received on this
hibjeft will be laid before you.— Hitherto defen
sive precautions only have been Aricily enjoined,
and observed.
It is nor understood that any breach of treaty.
or 3 Kgreflion whatfocver, on the part of the Uni
t' d States, or tht »i ns, is even allcdged as a
pretext tor the Ipirtt of hoftiluy in this quarter.
1 have reason to believe that every pra&icable
exertion has been made (puifuant to the provision
by low tor that purpofej to be prepared for the al
ternative of a profeeution of the war, in the event
a f*|iure cf pacific overtures. A large propor
tion of (he troops authorized to be raised, have
een recruited, though the number is (till incom-
Pete ; And paifli'have been taken to discipline,
2nd put them in condition for the particular kind
of lervice to be performed.—A delay of opera
t'Ons (hefides being dictated by the measures
'en were pursuing towards a pacific termina
tion of the w,>r) has been 111 itfelf deemed prefer
a!'<e to immatuie efforts. A statement, from the
proper department, with regard to the number of
troops railed, and some other points which have
been fuggefied, will afford more precise informa
t "on, as a guide to the legislative consultations ;
2nd among other things will enable Congress lo
J u ge vvJitther additional ftimulous to the
recruiting service may »ot be advifeable.
In looking forward to the future expense of
t. e operations, may be found inevitable,
derive confoiation from the information I re
•eive, that the product of the revenues for the
present year is likely to fupercede the receflity
• additional tmrtliens on the community, for
* 1C ler y:ce of the ensuing year. This, howe-
* 1 ' *11 be better ascertained in the course of
on ; —-iind it is proper to add, that the
nation ailuded to, proceeds upon the fup
on of no material extenlion of the spirit of
< ity.
/ cannot dismiss the fuhjedl of Indian affairs,
v, tnout again recommending to your consider
ation the expediency of more adequate provi
■on lor giving energy to the laws throughout
°ur interior frontier; and for restraining the
c °miniiT)onof outrages upon the Indians; with
out which, all pacific plans mult prove nugato-
0 enable by competent rewards, the em-
P o.Vment of qualified and trusty persons to re
-1 c them as agents, would also contri
ute to the preiervation of peace and goo<
neighbourhood.
If in addition to these expedient?, an eligible
P an could be devised for promoting civilizatioi
'<*uions the friendly tribes, aud for carrying oi
- tr.-.ae Wiia then}, upon % foale e«ual to their
wants, and under regulations calculated to pro I
teet them from imposition and extortion, it<
I influence in cementing their intereih with our"
could not cut be contkferable.
Tile prosperous Jtatc of our revenue has been
intimated.— This would be still mere the cafe
were it not for the impediments which in torn.'
places continue to embarrass the collection «t
the duties on spirits diftiiied within the ■-United
states.—l'heie impediments have letfeneri, and
are lehening in local extent; —and as applied
to Hue community at large, the contentment
with the law appears to be progieflive.
But fymptotns of increased opposition having
-lately manifefted thenlfelvej in certain quar
ters ; 1 judged a t'pecial inteipofityjn* on my
part proper and advilable, and under this im
.pre.'lK>n, have iflued a Proclamation, warning
•againlt all unlawful combiratioiis and proceed"
mgs, liinng ebjir ul.ject or tiding ti» ob
itruft the opet ation of the law in queflion, and
announcing that all lawful -Ways and r.-.eans
would be ftriftly put in execution tor bringing
to justice the infractors thereof and letufinr
obedience thereto. "I
Mealures have also been taken for the prose
cution of offenders : and Congress may be al
lured, that nothing within conftiiutional and
legal limits, which may depend on me, lhall be
wanting to aflert and maintain the just autho
rity of the laws. In fulfilling this trust, I shall
count entirely upon the full co-operation of the
other departments of the government, and upon
the zealous support of all good citizens. !
I cannot forbear to bring again into the view\
of the legislature the fubjeft of a revision of the i
Judiciary system. A representation from the i
judges of the lupreme court, which will be laid I
befoie you, points out some of the inconveni
euces that are experienced. In the course of
the execution of the laws, considerations arise
out of the It nature of that system, which, in
some cases, tend to relax their cfiicacv. As
connected with this l'ubjert, pvnvi£on» to faci-
Mate tlie taking"us bail upon proVeffes cut of
the courts of the- United States, and a supple
mentary definition of offences against the con
stitution and laws of the Union, and of the pu
nilliment for luch offences, will, it is presumed,
be found worthy of particular attention.
Observations on the value of peace with other
nations, are unnecefTary. It \voa)d be wife,
however, by timely piovifions, to guard again ft
those a*fts of our own c itizens, which might tend
to disturb it, and to put ourselves in a condition
to give that fat,station to foreign nations,
which we may Sometimes have occasion to re
quire from them.—l particularly recommend
to your consideration the means of preventing
tho% aggresSions by our citizens on the territo
ry of other nations, and other iufra&ions of the
law of nations, which, furnishing juit Subject of
complaint, might endanger our peace with
them—And, in general, the maintenance of a,
friendly intercourse with foreign powers, will
be presented to your attention by the expira
tion of the Jaw for that purpoSe, which takes
place, if not renewed, at the close of the pjeSent
ieJfion. I
In elocution of the authority given by the
legiilature, measures have been taken for en
gaging some artists from abroad to aid in the es
tablishment oi our mint ; othen have been em
ployed at home.—Provision has been made of
the requiiite buildings, and theie are now put
ting into proper condition for the purposes of
the eftablifhment.—Theie has al/o been a small
beginning in the coinage of half difmes ; the
want of small coins in circulation calling the
fit ft attention to them.
The regulation of foreign coins, incorrefpon
dency with the principles of our national coin
age, as being eilential to their due operation,
arid to order in our money-concerns, will, I
doubt not, be resumed and compleated.
It is represented that some provifioris in the
law, which eftablilhes the Post Office, opej ate,
in experiment againit the trahfmlllion of news
papers to distant parts of the country.
Should tins tipondue enquiry, be found to be
the fa<st, a full con Vision of the importance of
facilitating th,e circulation of political intelli
gence and information, will, I doubt not, lead
to the application of a remedy.
The adoption of a constitution for the Hate
of Kentucky has been notified to me.-—The
legislature wi'lfhare with me in the fatisfaftion
which arises from an event interesting to the
happiness of the part of the nation, to which it
relates, and conducive to the general order.
It is pioper likewiie to inform you, that since
my laijt communication on the fubje£t, and 111 fur
ther execution of thea#s feveraliy making pro
vision for the public debt, and for the redu£tiou
thereof, three new loans have been effected, each
for three millions of florins ; one at Antwerp, at
the annual intercft of four and one half per cent,
with an allowance of four per cent. in lieu of all
charges, and the other two at Amsterdam, at the
annual intercft of four per cent, with an allowance
of five and one half per cent, in one cafe, and of
five per cer-t in the other, in lieu of all charges.
The rates of these loans, and the circumllances
under which they have bern made, are confirma
'tions of the high state of our credit abroad.—
Among the obje&s to which these funds have been
directed to be applied, the paymsnt of the debts
due to certain foreign officers, according to the
provision made during the last fcfiion, has been
embraced.
Gentlemen oj the House of Representatives,
I entertain a iirong hope that the Ifate of the
national finances is now fuffictcotly n>atured to
enable you to enter upon a systematic and effectual
arrangement tor the regular redemption and dis
charge of the public debt, according to the right
which has been refeived to the government.—
No measure can be more dtfirable, whether view
ed with an eye to its intrinsic importauce, or to
he general sentiment and with of the nation.—
Provision is likewise requisite for the leimburfe
ment of the loan which has betfn made of the Bank
>f the United States, pursuant to the eleventh fee
ton of the act by which it is incorporated. In
u!fi'lingthc public stipulations in this particular
it is expc£Ud a valuable Caving will be mai-t
183
Appiop.iatlon- lor (he current fcrvlce of ihi
cn uni£ year, and for fucii extraordinarys as ma\
piovllioi), will demand, and I douhmo..
win y OUr tal |y #tlfm i ou
Ct'Tlfmcn vjthe Senate, and
«■/ the HQUjt of J<tpte/ei:tut,,rs,
£ content myicif with rec.J:ir.g your atten
tion, generally, to fucli objects, 1 ot p.ivticular
i»d in my present, as have been incited in
my wrmtt communications to yon.
_ Various temporary lajvs will expire durin"
tneprefe.tre.l-on. Among t which
regulates trade and intercouric wuii ti-e li.dian
tn'je-,, will merit particu.ai not.ee.
lit? refuhs of your common deliberations hi
thertd, will, I tryfi, be productive of ttiid end
advantages to our : ; iuch
« by tunciHatiiiE more and niorrf thcif ulti
mate laa'rr.ge, will rend to Itfeiigthcn ai.d ton-
»ttAchu*ot to ; that ■coi-.ilitutionA)
gevrfinnsint, updfc under divlfe provi
dei«tej miterially depend their union, theiri
fafety and their happineft.
[ Still further to promote and secure thcJe in
[eftinable endc,there is nothing whichcan have a
more powerful tendency, than the carcful cul
tivation ofharmony, combined withadueie
gar-.i tu stability in the public councils.
G. Washington.
United Stalls, Aovcj/iher 6, 1792.
After which the President, accompanied as be
fore, retired, and the Member* of t.hr Houfc re
turned to their hall—where the ..Speech was read
by the Clerk, and ordered to be primed—and
then'the House adjourned.
Mr. Few no,
to re-pubhjit the following parody on the piece
" Philamhiopos," which appeared tn your
Gazette qJ Satuiday—with the following note an
nixed. p
fRCM THE. GIN I HAL ADVERTISER.
. £.a c *i,
WHII/h the fuppreflion of those prefTes in
hran.q which fomented internal divisions,
!)«iS given liiller scope to writer* in favor of equal
liberty, and rendered accounts, thro' the medium
61 1 uncji papers, lather high colouied in the caule
of icpublicanifm ; and while, on the other hand,
the prejudices,. fuppoitd to influence the English
j publications, may tend to obkure the faiihfu?de
| linea.Tinn of the proceedings in that countr.y, we
laie nevtnhelels capable ot dilcerning, that the
people of trance have improved upon the origi
nal principles of their revolution, by a bold Hep
to rational repubheanifm, and a dereli£lion of the
gothic fyftern of inviolability in the fubrtmc < xe
cutivc—that the new conftiturion is about to be
amended upon these principles—and that there
mains of prejudice aie overwhelmed in the voice
of rc«(on.
At to the late excefles, they are the natural cf
fe&s of the itmgs of old wounds, received ft una
the hands ot delpotifm ; but what are the tempo
rary ills of a slate of eonfufion, or even anarchy,
compared with the miicry <>ccafioned by the gat
ing yoke and rivetted fetters of (lavcry, when eve
>n(l action, mutt t.c in umfon
with a ryi ant's pleasure, and where life, liberty and
property are within the voitex ot inviolable loy
alty ?
'i he critical (Ituation of affairs in France, while
it calls forth our belt wifhea lor an happy issue, af
fords a striking exam pie ol the exccffes that may be
expedited from the efforts of men, riling from op
preflion and breaking the ihackles in:pofcd on
them by lawless ambition.
Let Americans attend to the exprefiive me
nu nlo— and by carefully watching over their
rights and liberties, t ran knit 10 tin if posterity
freedom in its purity—the best gift of heaven.—
Let them be cautious of being led into the snares
of thofc aspiring ariftocrars among themselves,
who, ambitious to rife above the heads of their
fellow-citizens, talk of freedom, while the woift
or ticfigns rankle in their bre.ifts—who with to let
us ?n torpid security, the better to enslave us.
May America continue that happv countiy,
wher the supremacy of the people;*,the bell secu
rity for their liberties, shall always be fupenor to
the restless cfloris of an aspiring few.
PHIL ELUTHERIA
* ONE of the firfl principles of repub!ic«nsfm
is, rhat the law is supreme—to suppose that a
different supremacy may exill, is to set up two au
thor.i*es. Shakespeare has italcd the consequence
of si»;?» a state of things in the following nervous
line* ;—
—My foul achei,
To know, when two authorities are up,
Jupreme, how soon confttfon
May enter 'twixt the gap of both, and take
The one by the other.
We need not go beyond the mountain? to find
men who consider the restraints of laws enacted by
the feprefentatjves of the people, as an intolerable
grievance—but imagination cannot paint the hor
rors .ojf such a scene as must inevitably ensue in a
tree country, where the fuprcmacy of the laws is
deni' ci; Liberty almolt expires in the contempla
tion—confidence is annihilated, and cxiftence
hangs up*n a thread.
$Jailadelphia, Nov. 7.
The following members of the Senate of the
United States, convened in the Senate-Chamber
on Monday ltft, purluant to adjournment, viz.
F ROM
! Neui-Hampjhire,
MaJJachuJctts,
Rhode- JJlana,
Connecticut,
Neiu-York,
New-J erf
Belaud: c,
Virginia,
Kentucky,
North-iarolina }
South-iaroii.i
Georgia,
Mr Langdon, Mr. Wingatc.
Mr. Strong, Mr. Cabot.
Mr. Foster.
Mr. Sherman, Mr. Strong.
Mr. King.
Mr. Dickinfon,Mr. Ruiherfurd.
Mr. Read.
Mr. Monroe.
Mr. Brown, Mr. Edwaids.
Mr. Hawkins.
Izaid, Mr. Butler.
M;» Few.
FROM A COX 1 KS»OK])r ftf.
The late King of Prufiia uled to fay, that
* Le Boa Dieu eft Tonjours cUi cot£ des gros
3atailfons f " 41 Providence always favored the
ltroogelt BattaJions."—TWs remark ieems to
have been veiified in the Polish revolution—
i id from present appearances, we apprehend
it will not be lyng before it is verified in the
French revolution. The twelve members of
the National All'embly digging a ditch round
Paris and moistening the earth with the sweat
of their brows, may make a fine figure in fcif
tory or in a mez-zptinto print, but will make
but little figure the invading armies.
Our CitrrcjpQidi nt max recollect that ihere is tn an
old t'Ouh the follow ing rcmti rk, 44 the race is not always
to the ju-tjt, not the buttle U> the ft rang."
A correspondent on reading the following af
ert'rot? in the National Gazette of Saturday iajft,
Via." InfteCharter us the Bank ttf
I there is an article or ciault expressly prohibit
ing members of Parliament from being national
hank-direftors," had the curioiity to examine
Beawes' Lex Mercatoria—and in page 333,
found that the following is an article of th»
Charter of the Bank of England, viz- 4< any
Member ot the Hotife of Commons may be a
member of this Corporation."
" A gentleman who was lately in Paris, and
had an opportunity ot oblerving the proceed
ings of the National Aflembly, informs us, that
lie never saw bufineis so quickly dispatched by
any public body ; and, favs our correspondent,
the trut!. is, that comparatively speaking, there
is no difference of opinion amongst the French
patriots." Gen. Adv.
According to a statement in a London paper
of the 30th Augutt, upwards of nine millions,
four hundred thousand pounds of the Britiih
National Debt have beeu funk by the opera
tion of JVIr. Pitts Bill, which was enacted tlx
years since.
We are ij> hourly expectation of the most i.-
terefting Intelligence from Europe ; the lait
Paris accounts are to the 4th September only }
a period of two months has since elapsed.
F.xtraEl of a UtterJrom Majfachufetts, OS. 31.
" Our Congrels election will take place next
Friday, the 2d November—from all appear
ances, there will be a very extraordinary una
nimity among the electors—rhe people feel the
advantage of the measures of the general go
vernment, they are ready to acknowledge
theins and those who have been the instruments
ot their happiness, they will not forget to honor
with their fuffrages—hence you may expei'fc
that the present members of the house, I mean
all those who have not publicly declined, will be
r e-elected. There ha? been some manoeuvring
W> prevent a re election of the Vice-Prefidcnt ;
but it will not work—it is to the very great ho
nor of this uniform patriot, that where lie' is
most ultimately known, he is themoft refpe&ed
and beloved—so that I believe he will have eve
ry vote in this state, as well as in the other
dates.—l have been well inform
ed tmit rite oppoiition to Mr. Aoartts iV nut a
new thing—his independence and integrity have
always drawn a line of separation between hirrv.
and the parties of the day. This was the cafe
in the Congress under the confederation—and
sb long as felfilh and dogmatizing spirits ex iff,
so long will virtue and abilities be the object of
censure to those who seek their own advantage
in preference to their country's welfare."
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Mary, Gardner, Copenhagen
Bergman,
Simmons,
Webb,
Nicholas,
Vaughan,
JVliller,
Commerce,
Brig Hannah,
Nymph,
Chester,
Columbus,
Florida,
Falman,
Guyer,
Martineau,
Makins,
Canby
Eve.
Ze-
Sally,
Kcziah,
ScbivCarltofl,
Andrew,
Polly,
Franklin,
Fox, _ -ency,
Sloop Hopp, Trimbles,
Price »JT Stacks as in »ur la ft.
TO BE SOLD,
. A Plantation,
Ly ING on the river Delaware, miles above
Trenton, containing 165 acres; whereon is
a d welling-houfe, plealantly fnuated, 36 by 24 feet,
having three rooms with fire-places on the lower
floor, and four above, one of them with a fire-,
place ; a kitchen adjoining, near to which is a re
markable large fpnng of excellent water, accom
modated with a good fpnng-houfe ; a barn 36 feet
t>y 26; a waggon, chair and fraoke-houfes, besides
other ufcfol out-buildings ; a large orchard, chiefly
of grafted fruit. Thctaim is well watered, and
has a proportion of wood and meadow land, thro*
which the road runs that is kuo,wa by the name
of the River Ro,\d.
On-1 be Prcmifq} is aJfo ereAc(L
A Grift-Mill,
In the midst of a good wheat country, 00 a never
faiiing ftrearn ; ihe mill-house is 54 by 24 feet,
has one waier-whcel, a pair of burrs and a pair of
Cologne itones, rolling screen, bolts for merchant
and country woik, See. and is accommodated wuhi
a cooper's (hop, 18 feet square, near the mill—
which is about 300 yards from the Delawaie, and
very conveniently fitualcd to receive wheat, &c.
from boats pa fling down the river.
There arc also for Sale,
20 Acresof Wood-Land,
within less "than a quarter of a mile of the above
mentioned Plantation, which lies in a fine high
healthy country. — For term* apply to the sub*
fcriber on the prcmifcs.
TrctHCn, OSctfT, 179 a.
*
*
Liiboa
Aux-Caye*
Cape-Francois
Halifax
St. Thoqu*
do.
Martinico
St. Marks
Port-au-Prince
Cape-Francois
Virginia
Cape Francios
di
litto
Port-au-Prince
JOHN MOTT.A DUBLIN ANECDOTE.
A FEW years ago, a woman who
rented a snug house in Dublin,
alarmed the neighbourhood wiih ;i
strange llory of a gholt, drelled as a
female in black robes, that opened
the curtains of her bed, lurrounded
by an illumination like lightning, and
with a countenance labouring under
fume heavy burthen, beckoned the
woman to follow her. f lie person
haunted, called in two relations to
sleep with her the next night ; but
they were also equally frightened
with, grojs.ru and an uncommon nolfe,
and left the house next day.
The occupier of the house flill per
filled, that (lie was not only haunted,
but threatened by the ghost ; and to
this (he made the ntoft foleinu oaths
as well ;is imprecations, and accord
in.'ij 10' k lodgings in a neighbou
ing fti eet.
The Itory having abroad, linn
lreds were daily drawn by curiofits
into the ft reel where the hannied
house wag : and it becoming the tub
jert (ifconverfation everywhere, Mr,
Nolnn so well known for hispoe'ic.il
and political abilities, took up a (port
ing; bet, that he would fnffer himfclf
to he locked up in the house one whole
night, without the company of any
human being. About nine o'clock
he went, and was flint up ; but for
the fake-cf defence agninfi any iu>
proper practices, he took with him a
dog and a cafe of loaded piltols, and
was not released till fx o'clock next
morning, when he was found by his
companions fad asleep.
The following elegant ftanzss will
belt (hew the fit nation of his mind
durirg the time of his vigils, Suffice
it to fay, he saw no ghost, though he
heard a great deal of noise, and loud
ly threatened to /hoot the si.st one
who fliould approach hiin, whether
of this world or of ihe other. This
discreet gholl defifled, and the people
got rid of their fears in that neigh
bourhood.
STANZA S,
» « 3 - e-M——A- tu.UMtu> kA*wi
If from the cearmenti of the silent dead
Our long departed friends could rife anew ;
Why feel a horror, or conceive a dread,
To fee again those friends w bom once we knew ?
lather of All! Thou gav'ft nor. to our ken,
To view beyond the allies of our grave ;
'T*» not the idle talcs of bul'y men
That can the mind appal.—The truly brave,
Sealed on Rtdfon's adamantine throne,
Can plate the Soul, and fears no ills unknown.
O! if the flinty prison of the gfavc
Could loose its doors, and let the spirit flee,
y not return the Wife, the JuJl, thfc Brave,
Aod set, once more, the pride of ages free ?
Why not restore a SoiraUt again ?
9r giVrtVt, A'ttiW)!, irfihifrC of men »
In this lone room, where now I patient wait,
To try if fouls departed can appear,
O could a Burgh efcapr. his prison gate,
Or could I think Latouche'% form was near.
Why fear the (hades which long must be
Sacred to Freedom and to Charity? ,
A little-onward in the path of Life,
Aod all inuft ftietA in death their mertafframe;
A few ftiort fliuggles end the weai.y ftnfe,
And blot the trail m-mortal of ou. name
Torn from the Promontory't lofty brow,
In lime, the ro ttd OA itfclf lit, | ow .
INTERESTING ANECDOTE,
A GENTLEMAN was known by
Ji his «eai eft and dear eft friend
his vile, "ever 10 lie down jdoii his
pillow fouie years before his death or
raise his head from it in tlie morning
without repeating the short Hymn
annexed to this anecdote; and lome
times he would inadvertently burst
into ejaculations in company, wiien
two or three lines of it were diltintf*
ly heard before he recollected him
lelt ; the cause at that time was un
known j but- after his decease, a pa
per was found in his bureau to the
lollowmg purport y ou wil]
longer be lurpi.fed at iny involun
ta»J» effuflons of feeble gratitude to
the Attn, g h, y which hroke fonh
WUonalJy in gay company, when you
ifhall read, that many years since, the
dread of approaching poverty, di
grace, humiliation, and defertiou <
friends, had brought me to the fat;
resolution of putting an end to nr.
exigence Conscious that 1 had b '
misfortune >jiou a numerous famdy
by my own imprudence, difiipatioti
and pride, 1 considered my punilh
tnent as an atft of jtrltice. The del
tilled moment arrived, already had I
loaded, primed, and cocked—when,
strange to relate! though 1 had not
read a page in the Bible for years,
a reflec't ion came suddenly act oik my
mind —" Jesus of Nazare h," laid 1
'o nryfelf, • was a man" (foe ' f '"' r
believed his Divinity) "acquainted
with furrows, endured a life of po
verty, was exposed t (( public fcsirn
and derision, fiiffered pain of body
and agony of mind, and had nothing
to reproach himlelf with—yet this'
Reformer of 'he morals of mankind,
bis benefactor to society, this illus
trious pattern of fortitude, patience,
in<l humility, was bv an unthankful
world put to death ; he w :ss ct ncified !
—but he crucified not himfelf !" Re
peating rhel'e lad words a second
rime with unufnal energy, p' ide. dis
dain, shame and contempt, of my in
ability humbly to in itaie thi4 (Hiking
example of bearing afflictions man
fully, produced a paflionate conflict
of mind, in which paroxvfm 1 madly
(lung the pistol to fonte distance from
pie : to add to the afFe< r tirrr
went off onheaid but by my affeCti
ona:e wife, who kept the
fectrt ; her consolations teftored nte
to temporary tranquility,hut the work
of Providence was nor vet compleed ;
not a week had elapsed, and fettled
•melancholy was again taking pofl'ef
lion of my foul, when a letter an
nounced the death of a distant rela
,iion, and fumnioned me to the read
ying of his will, by which he had be
queathed me ftifticient not only ro
jclear rite of all incnnjbrances, but to
enable me, with the alliftance of a
considerable surplus, to exert my abi
lities in the line of my profefllon, for
the genteel support of my family, and
even to aim at a moderate indepen
dence. which you will find I have at
leng'h acquired.
RISE O my Soul ! the hour review
When, aw'd by guilt and fear,
Fhou durit not Heaven for mercy sue,
Nor hopt for pity here !
Dry'd are thy tears, thy griefs are fled,
Di r pell'd each bjtter care ;
For Heaven itfelf did lend its aid,
To snatch thee from dt fpair I
Then hear, O God ! thv work fulfil ;
And from thy Mercy's throne
Vouchfafe me fbength tc do thy will,
And to resist my own.
So my foul each power employ,
Thy mereies to adore,
Wh.lft Heaven itfelf proclaims with joy
One Its ued fw*>«r more 1
NEW TEAS.
IM PERI A L,H YSO N & SOUCHONG,
Ofthe very fi.fl quality, a „d | atc ft importatton
Irom Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No 19,
Thud, between Chcfnu. and Market Steels.
N.B. A few Boxei of the above HYSON/oe/L/e.
Universal Hymn Book.
To be Soldl by THOMAS DOBSON, and chc,
A Bookfellcrs in Philadelphia,
Colleftionof PSALMS, HYMNS and SPI
RITUAL SONGS; fe,' c «, d from d.^e^
numors, ai.,l publilhed by Older of ihe C 0.,-
ho 'ding the Doflnne ol the Salvattori of
all M«n, ma in Philadelphia, Mar 25, , 701 .
'n'" ' l ;""" d '3-8ihM.f a ilollar,
w ih good allowance to thole who lakequa,,lines
- - '
Stock Brokers Office,
THH s 4 h Gr |" Dock-llreet, Nsw-Yo*k, '
pHKSuMcriber intending,,, Cl>ll fj lie himfr „
STOCKS ol'rnu\iVc RCH ASE AND SALI: <>'
KIKS 0N COMMISSION, Beg,leave 10offer
LEONARD BLEECKEF.
Wiv ,
63<" The prii e of I his Gazelle is Ihrtc t.
V>" kaj ta be paid at tktimi off.h/riltnt"
184
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey
Re fpe&fully fuhmi'S to the Ciuzi ns of the United
Stairs, the following
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
At, AMf RICAN tDJTION of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED.
Of which these are the terms :
j. TT fV»all hi publifhfd in 48 * rekly numbers,
X each containing three (hects, or t wrn -v-foui
pa a's, of le'.trr pies}., in quarto, pnnttd with new
yoct on fine •<*pe».
11. iu the robrfc of ihr work will bedi livrred
about thirty large maps, oi the («me file at tholY
in the European editions, viz. molt of them Iheei
maps on poll i>aoe«\
Beftdes the maps in the Britipi editions, this
work' will contain maps »f as many of the Unit d States
as can be readih procured, executed by the bej\ engrav
ers in the United States.
111. The price of each number will he a quar
ter dollar, to he paid on delivery. (£3"' No ad
vance required.
IV. The work will be put to press as soon as
700 copies are fubferihed lor.
V. Sublet iters who disapprove of the work, on
the publication of the three fuft numheis, aieto
be at liberty to return them, and fhail have their
money repaid.
VI. The fubferibers' names (hail be prefixed as
patrons of (he undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertaining
and ufeful than geogtaph\. It reveals the disco
veries of travellers—the remarkable < tiriofitits ti\
all countries, in nature and art—the situation ot
provinre.% cmcs, towns, villages, rivers, & moun
tains—in fine, the hiftnry, manners, euftoßps ] #V vs,
forces,' revent#ts, and government of d fTeicnt n>-
lions
If is an old observation, that 44 there is not a
son or daughter of Adam, but has fume concern
with geography and that a knowledge of this
science is indispensable towards the study of his
tory with advantage or fatisfaclion, Indeed a
man unacquainted with it, cannpi difcoui fe on the
mrtft common ncwfp iper topics of the day without
betraying his ignorance.
So much for peography generally. With re
fuel to the present plan, let it fufTice to remark,
that Guthrie's Geography has been long acknow
ledged to be the heft in the English language :
however, the account of America in it ha , from
hvious reasons, bet n very erroneous and defec
tive. The errors of foi mer editions will be cor.
refttd. and the delefts supplied, by gentlemen of
abilities who have engaged to fupenn'end this
undertaking, and to avail themselves of all the in
format'on that can be procured, to render il the
most complete edition extant.
The Printer earnestly foltcits the support of his
fellow-citizen* throughout the United States: and
as no depofk is required, and every subscriber will
l>c at liberty to withdraw his name, if, on trial,
he should disapprove of the work, he hopes the
friends of science. and of American arts and ma.
nufa&urev, will cheerfully and earlv patronize this
ufefnl work, 'he greatest and most expensive, pro
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in the typo
g I ne, the Encyclopaedia excepted.
Philadelphia, Nov. 2, 1792. (tawtf)
BOOKS,
PRINTED AND SOLD BY
M A T H E W CAREY,
A'o. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1 • A MERICANM L'SEUM,fiom its cornmence
lY. ment in January 1787, to June 1792, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound <md lettered,
seventeen dollars and three fifths.
This work* which is now condu&cd on an im
proved plan, containing the best pieces published
L for and against the proceedings of £Ovcrnraent,
will betouud to contain at lead as g»e<>t a variety
of political,agricultural, and miscellaneous e flays,
as any ever published in A merit a. Pet haps in no
fifir w-nk fbm»nv vaiual'-tadocum nts re'p'tt
!ng the history of t his country, collect d together.
His Excellency the Prcfident of the Untied States,
nas declared of it, that •« a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving ot public encouragement."
The fnbfcription is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who wish to
be fupphed with this work, aic requested to give
'com million. to friends in ihe city to sub fieri be for
and rcceive if— Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete fcts.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women,on Nurs
ing and the management oi Cnildieti.
" We recommend these letters (o the oerufa! of
those to v\ hom they are particularly arid?<ffed.'*—
Monthly Review, vol. 38, p. 101 — -Price, bound,
62 cents.
3. Dunc.in's Elements of Logic—-75 cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding—-50 cfrnis.
,5. Rcauties of Blair— -50 cm(<>
6. Lad-es' Pocket Library, containing ATifs
Moie's ElFays, Gregory's Legacv, Lady Penning
ton's Ad vice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lad v.Mrs. Cha
pone on command ot Temper. More's Fables for
•he L*>du o, r r'ice 6/fe.
7. Smith's Jiiftory of New-York. Price a dol-
Jar and a quarter.
8. Elements of Moral Science, by Jamejsßeat
tie, l. l d. profeflor of moral phil'jfophy andj
logic in the Mar;lchai College, Aberdeen—Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Of th<s book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69,1"). 628) fay : " We
have seen nothing on theie lubjr&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful." 1
N. 13. It is tntrodaced into the Univerfityin Phi
ladelphia.
9- Beauties of Pociry. Pricc four-filths of a
dollar.
10. Hlair's Sermons. Price two dollars.
11. N> cker't Treat ife on the importance of Re
ligious Opinions.—-Price four-fifths of a dollar.
;t.f.)
12. Examination of the Qbfervations ofl.od
Sheffield or\ *rican Commerce—- Price, on veiy
fine paper, 5.81*1* of a dollar. ,
>3- ThtConftftutior-jofthcfrv ~M'
■villi the Fedt ral'Conrtiiudo,!. & " H "
tit a drlldi. ' '
■4- M'Fmga!. Price three-eighth of. a
dMu mt,,ca " Jut aook - f-cutu...;,,, ;
■6. Garden of the So»l. p,;„ , ~
■7 FhcDow,yTr«fl.„ion ofthrVll | ; c =;
'•I- ,in quart..- P-ife,ei<- : ;a nl |y bound amU *
•d, jO/N-flun, fix d..l! al > "lla.c .
>8 Devon, C..rill:, a -» Vade Mi i utn.-.p,..,
quarter dollar. ,lci *
,?• «**?«<■
rrkr a uxrh »( t .lollar o £ o—
:..i Vafc 9 '- bz -^
2.3- S-'lefl chit-fly Ameriuii-. p,:„
ivilt of a dollar. - r,l « 1
Snd Cu:, lm!n.(.K a r •
iJofkß, f.tiro]), an >s wt-U 3S A«, t , ~, „
wh.ch he wiU difp.,l, of on J.- , nil : i
'errr, . Country gentlemen, wbotave, him
command* may depend upon t eing supplied
the nit.lt fali.fac'orv inline.. A liheul a |
io Inch as put- h if- qi.antncs loi libij,,,,
kirto fell »« ii,i 1
Grand Family Bible.
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPT lON
An ELEGANT EDITION oj tht
SACRED SCRIPTURES
Of ihc OLD n.d NEW TESTAMENTS, wuh ilis
Apocrypha,
On a very l.rgt U ,,J Uavn/ul new T p,, tMfiit.Jlw
Popci
the grett importMicr of ihe Half Script®*,,
intending to cvrty individual; ihe Amtt tjceU
lencr ol its dofirin< s a>.ri prec.pt*, and Kit beauty
and fut»liroMv of its fd naitv
a capita] okjeftof jtientinn, ui to piesJSiFocct.
fion or oppouuqity i\w eulou'utl.
1 he p'fiy or en-er prize of individuals has pre.
ff.n.te.ri th s invaluable book to ihc public tu a va
riety of so' rrj ; in Tome editions it h.s been highly
embelLfhed with superb which have
greatly enhanced its price; in oit/ers it has been
jaccojri painirtd wijh vol'nmous commentaries,
Ivhich neccflarity encrcafed thcfi/c; while a va-
I riety of plain cheaocop es have gem rally diffufed
ihe knowledge of the Scripture, and made the
ourchafe easy to every class.
Without wishing in the smallest degree to Ic(Ten
the merit* of the various editions, whrthrr plain
or ornamented, which the public aie already in
poflVflion of, it is pertinent to remark, that ver/
many readers of talie and judgment have exprelled
: a wish for a Family Bible unencumbered with ad
ditions. There ft 11 appears ioom for another
edition on a beautiful new type, superior in size
[and clearance to any bible that has yet beeifyinted
|in the Fnglifh language, and which, leaving the
adventitious etrctim (lances of ornament or com.
ment, may exhibit the Orachi vj God in their na
tive limplicity.
SPECIMEN OF THE TYPE.
5 And God said,
"Let there be light: and
there was light.
With rcfpeft'ul fubmifljon to the judgment and
of the public, the following propofali art
oflered
I. The wotkfhallbe printed with she greatefl
fidelity and attention to corre&nefs both in ihe
text and margin 1 relerences, on a fuperfine Paper
made on ptitpofe, with an elegant new Type call
for the work of the size of the above Specimen.
11. Tlie wotk will he comprifcd >n twenty
number?, nvk'ng two elegant vQlumrs in Folio;
to be furn'fhed to fubfeibers at one dollar each
number. To prevent any complaints of want of
punctuality, noprit of ihework wll be delivered
unlrf paifl for.
111. The fi.il number, eomainiing fixtyfoil#
page,*, el gjnily printed, wll be on the
fiift; Saturday of July next, when luofcrioe:* *ie
to pay the price of the full and second numbers,
and the pi ice of one number to be alwa\? in ad
vance till the work is completed. The f u ™ f 9 u J nt
numbers to be pubiifhed regularly on the full j
turday ot each fuccecding month, nil ihe w 10 e
is fin i (bed.
Subfrriptionl will be received in Philadrl
phia by the Publifhcrt, Thomas Dobson, N 4'.
SouthSecond-ftreer, and John Park**,
North ; and by all the 1 '
iri CWlcfton. by William P. Y"ung; R"l"™ n >
by A.ch,ha!d Currie ; Baltimore, bv Ja™ fs
Wilmington, by Peter B'vnberg; New- or • .
Thomas Allen ; New-Haven, bv If"'' " <
Prov.ritnre. (R. I.) by Willi.m W.lkinfoo;
Irrn, bv Thomas Cnfhintr ; Boston, v
Weft, B. njar.iin Guild, and Thomas & A" 1 '
John Gould,
HAIR-DRESSER.
TNFORMS his friends and the P ul) '' c r
1 w|, th»t he continues
■is 11 fa*\ at No I, Souti Tb ' ' ..cotnei.
Marker-Street, arid thanks hts former
for t'ie f-ivors he has received. .....
Said Gould has for fair, an mfa lw j'J
Y.'c ik or Sore Eyes, which on tn , j(
he found to anlwer the pnrpoft--«
vials from one quarter of a do! tar to
Anv perron trying the above, if «*»• wi „„
anftver the character given, the mo
returned. ,
PLANS
of rhi
City of Washington,
Sold by tiie Eooksilk".
atfitfO.V, >WA-C. O