KDA V S By JOHH FEN NO, No. 34, NOP CH FIFTH-STREET, ~ "
[No. 5> of Vol. IV.] Saturday, December 22, 175,2.
Fe, tkeG.ilf.rtc. oj the UW'IXLD STatcS.
I" F perseverance can fnpply the want of
JL judgment, Mr. Jeflfcrfon has an excellent
advocate in the writer ofhis " Vindicatioh."'
But I if bis last attempt 11 not fouud
■to involve lliil more deeply the character he
wishes to extricate.
To repel the- imputation on Mr. Jtft'.-iTon,
arifuig from the advirt* which he gave toCon
jrrefs refp4ftingthe debt to France; he not only
lajors to (hew, that taken in all its circqm
ftances it is not of the exceptionable com
plexion ar:rlc•- which it has been represented,
but endeavors to infufe a belief, that the
finfe of the extract originally communicated,
has been altered by the interpolation of cer
tain words as well as by the fuppreUion of a,
part of the paragraph, from which the extraTt
is derived.
Tt will flrike the moll careless observer, as
not a little extraordinary that a person (who
bn un lertakins to state the contents of a let
ith precise accuracy, and even to detest
jte verbal deviation, mult be under
o have access to the original)—Tiould,
ntnJujf tn-t-lu public eye a itct
mfcript of that original, content liim
ith giving his own paraphrase of it, and
I expect that this would be accepted, up
ftrength of his afTurance, that it ex
hibits the genuine contents of the letter, on
the point in dispute contained in one para
graph only—" That the arrangement of the idea
is the fame, and that in fubjiance, nothing has
been added to, or taken from it," thus mo
■deftly offering his own con/lruflion of fubjiance,
the very thing in question, for the thing it
•feif.
That the extract, as given by me, is tor
reft in every materia/ expression, is proved by
the statement in the vindication. That it
is literally correct, I must continue to believe,
until something more to lie depended upon
than coujlruQhc fubjiance,is offered in lien of it.
The information I pollefs, is drawn from
two sources; one a memorandum in the band
writing of a friend, which was given to me as
an exact tranfeript of the words of the letter,
and which was copied verbatim, in the second
of these papers;—the other, a document of
mqucftio .able authenticity.notj o.ng since con
sulted, wh.ch ffates the contents of Mr. Jei»
ferfon's letter in the'following form :—
Mr. Jefierfon suggests that " if there is a dan
ger of the public payments not being punctual,
whether it might not be better that the discon
tents which would then arise, should be trans
ferred from a court, of whose good will we
have so Diacb need to the breasts of a private
' company."
- " That the credit of the United States is
found in Holland, and that it would probably
not- be difficult to borrow iw that country the
whole sum of money due to the court of
France ; and to discharge that debt without
any deduction, thereby doing what would be
grateful to the court, and eftablifiling with
them a confidence in our honor."
This statement in the document alluded to,
serves to confirm the memorandum, in form
as well as substance. Speaking in the third
person, it represents Mr. Jefferfon as fuggejt
ing, " whether it might rot be better, )kc."
whence it is natural to infer, that speaking in
the firft person in the letter, the terms are,
< 4 1 submit whether it may not be better, &C.'*
The form of conveying the idea by way of
question, is common to both vouchers; and
the word u whether", which is also common
to both, p efuppofes the words u I fugged,"
or " I submit," the last being the most accu
rate, and in that view the most likely to have
been used.
It is observable, also, that the fame state
ment difconne&s the two proportions, and
gives them a diftin<sl ar>d independent afpe<st.
The conjunction " But," which is alledged to
be in the original, does not appear in that
statement.
It is poflible, never thelefs, that some imma
terial departures from literal preciflon, may
have found their way into the transcripts,
which are relied upon. But while this con
cefllon, as a hare poflibility is made, it is not
intended as an escape from a rigorous refpon
/ibility for the eflential accuracv of the diJ
clofure. If there be in what has been com
municated as a literal extradl, any expreflion
the leajl matei-a/ i tending to the crimination of
Mr. JefJerlou, which is not to be found in the
original, it is admitted to be inexcufabtp.—
But not having been podTefled of the original,
as has been several times stated, any acciden
tal variation of exprelijon, not affecting at
aH the sense of the quotation, or not affecting
it diiadvar.ta; poufly to Mr.JefFerfo'?,cannot be
admitted to be of moment; in regard either
to the merits wftned fcuffion,or to the fairnefs
oi- procedure. To press such a variance, as
an objedti' n, is to cavil, aud to betray a con
icioufnefs ot weakuefs.
Now, it happen?, that the variance, which
is alledged to exist, it" it has any influence up
on tie mean in 5 of the piA'age, has one favor
able to Mr. Jetferfon; taking it for granted,
that his Apologist has given a true account of
it. This will be seen by carefully contrail ins
the phraseology in the two cases.
The extra ft, as stated by me, is in these
words—" 1) there is a danger of the pui/ic pa<t
vur.ts not being punctual, I submit whether it may
not be better, that the dijcentents winch would then
prije.jiould be transferredjrom a Court, of whcfr
good mil w have fomuct need, to the breajls or *
m ivate company."
Theftatement in the vindication represents,
that Mr. Jefferfon, Having stated the pro
fofition as abave (referring to the propofitiou
for the purchase of tiie debt) obfeives further
upon it, in its relation to this country, that if
/here be a danger our payments may net be puticlua/,
it might be belter, that the d'Jcontents ivktch would
then arije, fhcald be transferred from a court, of
XL'kofegoed will we hnefo much need, to the breafis
fff aptivate company."
All tiie material and exceptionable phrases
are the fame in the two statements—The on
fydm, f s ffet in 1.-ff
Mr. Jefferlbn is made to fuimit in the mode*
formofa "whether it might not be better."
the identicalfenti.r.ent or advice, which, in the
lalt, he is made to convey in the affirmative
tone of an observation, that " it might be bet
ter"—The la ft mode of expression is certainlv
stronger than the firft, and if the feiitiniant
conveyed be, as it undoubtedly is, an impro.
per one, the censure due to it is entreated by
the greater degree ofdeciiion with which it
is exprefied, as being an indication of a more
decided state of mind concerning it—This re
mark, which might otherwise appear nice and
critical, is naturally drawn forth by the at
tempt to have it undo/flood, that the words
" I fuimit whether," which are said to have
been interpolated, have an influence upon the
sense of the clause injurious to Mr. jefferlbn.*
The result i". that the alteration of terms
said to have been mad#, if real, inuft hare
been casual, because ic either does not vary
the sense, or varies it favorably to Mr. Jfcf
ferfon and confequentlv that the charge
which has been brought, rests upon him in its
primitive force, unmitigated by the alledged
change of terms.
In like manner admitting the statement of
whafc-is said to follow as a part of the fame
paragraph, to be truly represented in the vin
dication—it either corresponds with the view
I have heretofore given of the matter, or it
implicates Mr.Jefferfbn in greater reprehenfi
bility than lias been yet charged upon him—lt
either presents an alternative proportion pre
dicated upon the supposition of a Jlate of things
differentf rom that which is the basis of the fir ft,
namely, the danger of a deficiency of means
for pundlual payment, and in that cafe does
not derogate from the firft or proceeding
upon the supposition of the fame [late of things,
it contains advice to Congress to avail them
fclves of the yet found state of their credit in
Holland, treacherously to induce individuals
upon the invitation of the government to lend
their money on the ordinary terms, for the pur
pose of making full payment to France, in
order to guard her from loss, and preserve
her confidence, in direst contemplation of not
being able to render the stipulated justice to
those individuals. If this was the advice of
Mr.Jefferfon,it leaves his condufl without e
ven chose flight extenuations which have been
supposed to afford a semblance of apology.
It takes away the feeble pretexts deduced
from the offer having originated with the
Company, and from their gaining a considera
ble boon in the firft purchase.
The last, I acknowledge, is the construc
tion best warranted by the ftrudhire of the pa
ragraph as delineated in the vindication.—
This, as it there Hands,would be the most ob
vious and natural reading.—lf there be a
danger that our payments may not be punc
tual, it may be better that the dificontents
which would then arise (houJd be transferred
from a Court of whose good will we have J"o
much need to the breasts of a private compa-
ny. But still it has occurred to me that we
may do what is preferable to accepting the
proposition of" the Dutch Company. VV - J may
find occafton to do what wouid be grateful to
the Court of France, and establish with them
a confidence in our honor. Our credit is good
in Holland— .:ay it not be poflible then to
borrow there the four and twenty millions
due to Franc?, and pay them the n-hole debt at
once. This, belides transferring the d.fcon
tents, to be fexpefted from the want of punc
tual payments, from the Court of France, to
the breads of individuals would ha\e the fur-
ther advantage of laving that court from any
loss on our account. It is in this sense only,
that the firft suggestion can be considered as
over-ruled bv, or absorbed in the lad, and
that Mr. Jefferfon can be said to have dis
countenanced the proportion made by the
Dutch Company. If tins be the meaning in
* The zvords u might not be better," are also
said to have been interpolated—though all but the
not" are in the quotation made by the Vindi
cator ) a ffecjmen of his accuracy.
233
} ~
tended to be contended for, no pains will be
taken to dispute it j and the comment will be
left to Mr. Jetfcrlon's molt partial admirers.
• rT Wl 'lter.of the vindication continues to
inlift,that Mr.Jefferfon was only the vehicle of
communication, afligning as reasons for this
afiei tion that the tranfaftion had taken place
between t!ie parties, before any mention was
made ot it to him, and that in communicat
ing it to Congress he only made known to that
f body the desire both of the company and of th e
'rench Court ; That the opimon which he gave
rose out ef the proportion, aim in furthering of the
views oj tt.t parties, and that in fact no ilea [ton
fould be formed on it, either by the Congress
or himfeif, without a comparifun of the par
ties as creditors of the United States. But
these reasons do not prove ihat Mr. Jeflerfon
was onlv the vehicle of communication ; they
prove th« contrary ; that he was both the ve
hicle of communication, and the patron, though
iiot the author of the proportion. The precise
difference betweeu being the mere vehicle, and
heiii" both the vehicle and the patron of a propo
rtion coniifts in this ; that in the tirfi cafe
th» rtaci.iwthing mo-" c«rJ;->ani
pi'wpofition—in the lait he gives an o
frnion arijinv out of it; in furtherance of the views
of the proposers; which is exactly, what is ac
knowledged to have been done byMr.Jeflerfon.
The plea that there could be no immorality
or indelicacy, in efpoultng a proposition coming
from the parties interested, amounts to no
thing. Tbe charge is not, that advice was
given to accede to the proposition ; but that
advice was given to accede to it upon a ground
whick was dijhonorable and unjujl. It is the con
dition upon which tile acceptance is advised,
that constitutes the culpability.
In No. 4 of the vindication, the attack up
on Mr.Jeflerfon is said to proceed {ram private
revenge. In No. sit changes its nature, aid
becomes an attack upon printiples ; a monarchi
cal plot against the republican character of tbe
community. How long, and how often are
the people of America to beinfulted with this
hypocritical rant ? When will these political
phapifees learn, that their countrymen have
too much dHcernment to be the dupes of their
holtjtw andoftentatious pretentions ? Tliat the
citizens of the United States know how to
tliftUjgaifli the men wtio fervt theirs, fucntt
thofd to ho only flatter them, the men who
have substantial claims to their confidence,
from those who study to conceal the want of
qualities, really solid and uleful, under the
malic of extraordinary and exclusive patriot
ism and purity ?
It is curious to observe the pathetic wail
ings which have been produced by the an'u
madverfions in these papers. It would seem
as if a certain party considered themselves as
the sole and rightful censors of* the Republic ;
and every attempt to bestow praise or blame
not originating with them, as an usurpation
of their prerogative, every ftri&ure on any of
their immaculate band as a { bieach of their
privilege. They appear to think themselves
authorized to deal out anathemas, without
measure, or mercy, against all who dare to
swerve from their standard of political ortho
doxy, which are to be borne without retali
ation or murmur. And if any symptom of
either lliews itfelf, they are sure to raise the
dilmal cry of persecution ; themselves the
firft to a flail, and the firil to complain. But
what is not permitted to men who have so
clearly established a title, little less than di
vine, to a monopoly of ali the patriotic vir
tues !
The onlyanfwer, which is due to the feint
of offering to enter into arrangements, for
ascertaining whether the writer of thele pa
pers has in the instance under coniideratton
been guilty of milreprefentation—and the
breach of an official duty—is to remind the
public that in my firlt paper I declared my
felf willing to be known on proper terms to
tlie officer concerned. To this I adhere, in
the spirit of the original intimation, but I
deem a personal disclosure to any subaltern
of his, improper ; nor do I perceive that it is
in the present cafe necelTary to an investiga
tion of fadts. The writer of the vindica
tion admits in fubllance what is aliedged, and
as to his collateral statements, it has been
shewn that they imply more blame on the
character meant to be exculpated, than was
originally charged. I forbear any comment
on the ii decency of naming upon conje&ure
the peri on who has been named as the author
of the e papers, or upon the palpable artifice
of nviking an avowal of them, by that parti
cular jjc'i son, the condition of a disclosure of
the name of the writer of the vindication.—
Indecency and artifice are the proper wea
pons of such adversaries.
For the GAZETTE oj the UNITED STATES.
ON THEATRICAL AMUSEMENTS.
SUMPTUARY laws, or Jaws to regulate
the expences of t;:e citizens, are justly
condemned. They are tyrannical and odious
in their nature; and generally fail in the ex
ecution., They may k© expe&ed to languiih
between life and death for a time-am! then
as they are repugnant. to tatioiial Irbeitv,
drop into negleft.-»Do&or Franklin l-ai uj?.dc-
KMne very jtift remarks, fuewing how ih^de
fire of pofieffing certain finery inert* r v . ( | t | ie
teniale labor that was to pavi'urit. Kis ideas
ave been publiflied in inoft of o»,r (ijzetln
and need not be repeated. When a mantakes'
tne pains to earn money, he seems to have the
best right to fay how. lie will spend it—or if
he chnfes to lock it up, and not ijiend it at all
lie has the exclusive right to do it. '
What then aie we to fay to laws prohibiting
the Tneatre ? It is a law to prevent expence
m ainuiements.—Why Ihould not other amule
ments be prevented for the fame reafoo. They
all cost money. And as to morality, borfe
racing, or a militia review, or a feaft to cele
brate the 4th of July, do not probably cost less.
or aid morality mo re, than a tr»gedy or a co
medy. Y e t it would be thought rather an
alarming exercise <Jf pov.it to retrain us by
' ;iw ' rnm going to places *lief«,jt is probable
bets may be laid, or merry, perhaps ludeoerft
songs, may be sung, or labor mav hedrav.-n oif
for a whejr {Vy to lfare a: a cro'wl. or ro de.
" r "y its vigor hy er» elfivedrinkilig, 'file pi in»
ciple that umufements which may produce
immorality are to fee prohibited, will carry
the government that adopti it to ury Jrcat;
lengths. Yet this principle is coatendtd frr
bv very sober ami worthy persons, in rigsrd
to the theatre, who would be ft*rtled *t i|j
beißg carried as far as it will bear. * •
Is it not better therefore to leave.people at
liberty to fp«nd their money as t JC7 chulfc,—
Tiiey *ill lears prudence—or if they (houid
not, their imprudence will afford awarning to
others. But if that Qiould fail to warn them,
prudence is a Quality of the mind, and is not
t« be provided by law. If the liberty which
as free agents the citizens are entitled to e*'-
ercife in the disposal of their meney, ihould
produce breaqhej of the peace, w any other ,
violations of law, there are ast» enough jind
magistrates to apprehend, try And puniA the
offenders. Either let the lit*« against the
Theatre be repealed, or let the system of pro
hibition be carried thro', so as to break iiji ail;
amusements which are liable to any alu e-
Mr. Russeli,
IN Mr. Kreneau's National Gazette,
there is an indirect, but lufiici
ently intelligible infitiuatioß, that
the old republican fpiric of Ameri
ca, has been rather obfmred for
some time palt in the Ncvi-Enpland
States.
The persons throughout the uni
on who liill feel and reverence the
old republican spirit are not a few.
—It is evidently the delign of the
writer of the paragraph alluded to,
to create a jealousy against the New-
England principles, and, to effect
that, it is endeavored to ftigniatife
them as anti-republican.
Polfibly local prejudices, (which
alas ! are not quite dead, though
dying,) may alfift the currency of
this infinuatiou, and parties without
believing may not blufli to afFec't to
believe it. Therefore some nntice
of the slander seems properfrom cit -
cumrtances, though none is due to
it from its weight. Such as examine
afiertions with care may be easily
convinced, and such as do not, ate
not worth the convincing.
Men of inqniry will search for the
anti-republican spirit of the New-
England dates in their constitutions
and laws, their institutions, or their
manners and cuftgms. If this evil
spirit should not appear in auy of
these, where does it lurk ? This is
bed known to the malignant para
graph-writer who ltigmatifes a dif
trift of country containing more
than a million of people, all free.
Anti-republican principles mult
be supposed to intend such as are
oppolite to a jlift equality of rights
and of power.
The constitutions of the New-En
gland states breathe the fpixit--of
pure repubiicaii--eqtiairryrE;ie<fti
ons are ires—are freqnenc, and th«
right of fufFrage is not confined to
landholders, as in Virginia, but is
extended to almost all the citizen*.
of full age, who also may be chosen
to office. The laws divide eitafes
without even favoringthe eldest son
—they protedt no rich or greMnia»
CATULLUS.
[Whole No. 581.1
FROM TO& LVLVMB.'/Hf IHMIXSZ.in his eflate against bis creditors--
they provide tor the poor, and what
is far better, they prevent the in
crease of poor by providing schools
for the children. Not content with
protecting the many from the few
by equal laws, and by aboliflling
diltinciiuns—ihey afford, by means
of che public (rhools, all the aid ot
the laws to ei.able the poor to be
come rich,, and the humble to raise
themfehes to eminence. Let thole
who prattle about the late obfeuri
ty of the republican fpirit'in New-
England (hew, if the} can, In what
inltitutions ot the filter'flates it ap
pears with mote ufeful splendor.*
The iiiftitutions and political ha
bits of New-England do not evince
a monopoly of power and rights by
the few again It the many. I here
was a time in 1774 and 1775, when
the whole people of New-England
fpoke,-through their town-meetings,
the language of determined riefilt
ance to tyranny. Then it appeared
to the whole continent, that the
town corporations in the eastern co
lonies wete so many orderly repub
lics, admirably adapted to the pre
firvation of equal liberty, because
they served to collect, to mature,
and to give a momentum to the fen
timentsof the people—and not less
adapted to maintain good order even
after the'authority of the lawsceaf
ecl. In faifi, they flood for a time
indead of laws and government,and
during the whole war eminently af
filed the dates in the druggie. Yet
this didri<ft of country, though fill
ed with petty republics which actu
ally reduce republican principles to
practice, and make them familiar
to the multitude, is pretended by a
writer, who probably never saw it,
to have declined from its republi
canism.
Is there in the general state of
New-England manners, any thing
to warrant this infinoation ? The
tenure of lands is in fee limple—
lease eftatcs are almost unknown.
Small, but independent freeholds,
form infinitely the greatest propor
tion of property and influence. A
foil, too rugged for any but free
hands to til], is found on number
]efs|trials, unprofitable when en
grofl'ed into great plantations. It
must therefore remain in the hands
of a numerous yeoinaury. These
are their rights, and the world has
seen with what an high spirited con
sciousness of their worth the New-
England farmers have defended
them. Are these the men, who not
only nnderftand but who feel their
rights, with whom the republican
spirit is obscured ? It is true their
habits are favorable to order they
enjoy too much to desire the over
throw of a government which pro
tects their rights, and extends their
happiness. But without meaning
to charge sentiments unfriendly tn
republican liberty upon the people
of the fuuthern states, New-En<rland
may vouch her constitutions" and
laws, her political habitg and insti
tutions, and the general state of pro
perty, manners and society, as well
as the recent events of the revoluti
on, to prove that the ardor of her
zeal is not abating, and is not infe
rior to their own.
NEW-ENGLAND
NOTE
* If any /hould be of opinion that too much
ftrcfs is 'aid upon the use of public schools to
preserve equal liberty, they foould know that
Plato and the wisest of the Ancients rated
education at no left price.
All, fays Pj,ato, who have meditated on
the ait ofgoverning mankind, have been con
vinced that the late of empires depended on
the education given to youth. What aie tie
fohd foundations of the tranquility and hap
pinefs of States'? Not the laws which regu
late their confiitution,or which increase tlieir
power, out the institutions which form the
Ciusens md give activity to their minds—
ijot t ie laws which dispense rewards and pun
-1 laments, liut the public voice when it makes
an exact distribution of contempt and esteem.
When the nature, advantages, and defects of
t'ied.Berent torms of government are care
v,„. ih ,11 find that the dif
toTXlE* ,"TT ofa
to destroy tie best ot conditions, or to rec
tify the 1110 ft defective.
■'~A7 RAf T.
NV nrrccdeat c,„ Ju lt,fy an improper con
, A " c ni which dtc unjust in ihem
"'Vl\ f A K ,V "'j m by time, ihould
uc\cr be fuffcied to coniinuc."
Foreign Affairs.
LONDON, September 21,
WE have auihoiity to allure our readers,
thai a very fl«mei\i»g invitation has been
sent from France to General Walhtngton, to take
the Command in Chief of its Patriotic Army.
We have no less confidence in declaring, that if
another campaign ii. had in F«anct, this icnown
ed soldier will make it against. the hod of inso
lent foes now confederated to destroy the liber
ties of mankind, and those principles which have
rendei ed America more valuable than all the reft
of the Globe. If that Saviour of his Country,
and Giver of Freedom, accepts the call, he is ro
form a part of his fluff from some of his old
brother officers.
We exped every day to hear thai Confct-efs
will deliberate, on the piopricty of afiiiling
France, as also to what amount.
If WASHINGTON goes to Fiance, every
TYRANT will soon quit it ! !!
LxtraCl oja utter fiom Calais. Sept. 15.
Mr. Thomas Paine, after a of three
hours, arrived here from Dover. The
di erent treatment he met with at the two sea
ports, is such as ought to make an Eugiilhman
b!ufh for the chara&er of his nation.
On the name of Paioe bring announced, the
fold»e> y at the gates were drawn up, and the of
ficer on guard having embraced him, presented
him with the national cockade. A very pretty
woman, who stood by, dtfn ed she mi zlu have
the honor of putting it on h»s hat, exprefling her
hopes that he would continue his exertions in
favor of Liberty, Equality, and France. This
ceremony being over, he walked to D'cflcin's,
(whose ftrect is now called Rue dcl'Egalit*, for
merly Rue du Roi) atttended by men, women
and children, crowding round him, and calling
out. 11 Vits Thomas Paine !" He was then con
duced to,l he town hall, and there prefenitd tp
the Municipality, who, with the greatest affac
non, embraced their new Reprefcntative. The
Mayor then addrefled him in a (hort speech,
which was interpreted to him by Mr. Audibert,
to which Mi. Paine (laying his hand on his
heart) replied, faying, his life frould be devoted
to their service.
At the inn he was waited upon by the dif
ferent persons in authority, and by the Piefidrnt
of the Constitutional Society, desiring lie would
attend their meeting of that night. The whole
towu would hjVe been there had there been
room ; the hall of the ' Minirnej' was so crowd
ed, that it was with difficulty they made way
for him to the fide of the President. Over the
chair he fat in was placed the bust of Mirabeau,
and the colours of prince, England a-nd Ame
rica, united. A speaker acquainted him, from
the tribune, of his elefticn, ainidll (he plaudits
of the people. The women did not spare their
hands, and, for some minutes, nothing was heard
but Vive la Nation, Vivt Thomas Paine !" in voi
ces male and female. They have appointed an
extra meeting in thechutch to-morrow, m honor
of their Deputy to the Convention, the Minima
being found quite lutfocating,from the concoui fe
of people who attended yellerdav. To-night
there is to be a play, at which a box is to be re
fervtd for the Author of the Rights of Man, the
ohjr6t of ihc tnglifh Proclamation.
Every thing here has the appearance of peace
and quictaefs. The aifcnalt, are well supplied,
and able to stand a two years siege.
P. S. Mr. Paine has leccived a letter from the
National Aflembly, which he is fa id to be an
fwcring from hence. He will not probably be
at Paris so soon as he thinks, lince he has been
ele£led for Abbeville and Beauvais, as well as for
Calais ; and they will hardly let him pals with
out paying htm some mark of their attention.
FREDERICKSBURG (Virginia) Dec. 6.
We feel much concern in relating a melan
choly accident which happened on Wednesday
evening lad Mr. Abner Vbrnon, of Si af
ford, in attempting to foid the Rappahannock
at the tails, was thiown from his hoife and
drowned. —He was a man ol a mofl amiable
temper, cheerful and kind to every one, Heady
in his principles, pure in his morals ; esteemed
and refpe£ted by his numerous friends for his
great integrity and ufefulnefs, and who, now
sensible ol his worth, lament his loss with fmcere
and general furrow.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec, 22
Extract of a letter from Brigadier Gene
ral Wilkinfon, to tbe Secretary at War,
dated at Fort Hamilton, 6th Novem-
ber, 1792, 7 o'clock P. M.
" Just as I was about to dispatch this,
I icccived a letter from Major Adair,
commandant of the Kentucky mounted
infantry, of which the enclosed is a copy:
The check which the enemy experienced
in this little affair, will produce good ef
fects, and the event refle&s honour upon
the major and the yeomanry of Kentucky;
but the immediate consequence will be an
entire stop to the transport of forage to
the advanced post, as our pack horses ate
either destroyed or disabled, and the rifle
men dismounted. In this situation, lam
perplexed by difficulties, as from try ig
norance of the designs of government,and
for the want of explicit orders, I am at a
loss whether todirea the purchase of more
pack hoifes, or to encourage the riflemen
to remount themselves. On these points
I lliall duly dehberate, and will make such
decision as my judgment may dired, re.
lying confidently on the liberality of go
vernment, for an excuse, (hould I err; and
in the mean time, I shall urge forward the
transport of forage from Furt Waftiing
*°n to tins post, by every means left in my
power.
234
As tills affair happened near to and in
fight of Fort St. Clair it may be enquired
why the commanding officer did not sup
port major Adair ? The answer is ftiort,
and will, I hope, prove fatisfaCtory-"The
gavrifon under his command is posted for
defence, and not offence, and altho' it ap
pears that in this initance to have hazard
ed would have been judicious, yet as 1
have considered it fafeft for the national
int«reftsto confine my subordinate officers
by rigidorderstodtfenfive measures solely,
they are bound to hazard in no cafe what
evci, does not immediately and es
sentially interest the faftty of the trust
.which may be confided to them ; and it
may be added that in the instance before
up, the attack, was a raoft daring one,
neither the number or ultimate
obje&of the enemy, could be developed,
before it was discovered that Major Adair
was a full match for him.
I have this moment dispatched twenty
tif my mounted infantry, who will reach
St. Clair before day light, to aid in
bringing in the wounded and the weary.
Copy of a letter from Major John Adair,
to JSrigadier General Wilkinfon, dated
Fort St. Clair, November 6, 1792.
S 1 R,
This morning about the firft appear
ance of day, the enemy attacked my
camp, within fight of this post, the at
tafekwae sudden, and thejenemy came on
••with a degree of courage that bespoke
them warriors indeed, foroe of my men
were h#nd in hand'with -them before we.
retreated, which however we did about
eighty yard# to a kind of stockade intend
ed for stables ; we there made a Hand, I
then ordered Lieut. Madison to take a
party and gain their right flank if poflible,
I called for Lieut. Hail to fend to the
left; but found he had been flatn ; I then
led forward the fnen who stood near me,
which together with the ensigns Bucha
nan and Flinn, amounted to about twen
ty-five, and pressed the left of their center
thinking it absolutely necessary to afiift
Madison. We made a manly pu(h, and
the enemy retreated, taking all our hor
se( except five or fix. We drove them a
bont fix hundred yaids through our camp,
, where they again made a (land, and we
fought them some time, two of my men
were here (hot dead.
At that moment I received informati
on that the enemy was about to flank us
on the right, and on turning that way, I
saw about 60 of them running to that
point. I had yet heard nothing of Ma
dison I then ordered my men to retreat,
which they did with deliberation, hearti
ly cursing the Indians who pursued us
close to our camp, where we again fought
them until they gave way ; and when
they retreated our ammunition was near
ly expended altho' we had been supplied
from the gariifon in the course of the
action. I did not think proper to follow
them again, but ordered my men into the
garrison to draw ammunition. I return
ed however, in a few minutes to a hill,
to which we had firftdiiven them, where
I found two of m.y .men fcalpcd, who
were bro't in. SioCW-tl began to write
this, a few of the etdPtoy appeared in
fight, and I pursued them with a party
about a quarter of a mile, but could not
overtake ihem, and did not think proper
to go farther. Madison, who I sent to
the right, was on his firft attack wound
ed, and obliged to retreat to the garrison,
leaving a man or two dead.
To this misfortune I think the enemy
are indebted for the horses they have got;
had he gained their right flank, I once
had pofleffion of their left, and I think
we (hould hare routed them at that stage
gf the action, as we had them on the re
treat. I have fix killed and five wound
ed ; four men are miffing, [ think they
went off early in the action on horseback,
and are, I suppose, by this, -at Fort Ha
milton. My officers and a number of
men diftinguiffied themselves greatly.—
Poor Hail died calling to his men to ad
vance. Madifon'a bravery and conduct
need no comment; they are well known.
Flinn and Buchanan acled with a cool
ness and courage which dots them much
honor. Buchanan, after firing his gun,
knocked down an Indian with the barrel.
1 hey have killed and taken a great num
ber of the pack-horfeg. I intend follow
ing them this evening some distance, to
ascertain their route and strength, if pof-
I I»i i>.{ V {..v. 1
fible,
bout fifty of n;v men fought with a bra
very equal to any men in the world, and
had not the
on bee
as a
place of fafety for the bafhful, I think
many more would have fought well.
The enemy have no doubt as many kil
led as myfelf; they left two dead on the
ground, and I saw two carried ess. The
only advantage they have gained is our
horses, which is a capital one, as it disa
bles me from bringing the inteiview to a
more serious and fatiafaftory decision. I
am foriy I cannot fend you belter news,
and am, fir, yours, &c.
Copy of a letter from JamerSengrirve, Efq
to the Secretary of War, dated St. Ma,
ry'j iid Nov. 1792.
SIR,
Beitig just arrived here from the con
ference ground at Colerain in company
with forty-five of the principal chiefs of
the Creeks on a visit to my residence, and
finding a boat departing for Savannah, I
drop you a line in haste to inform you,
that every thing hath gone favourable
beyond my most sanguine expectation.
I had present at our meeting the chieft
of eighteen of the principal towns in etie
Creek nation, peace and friendlhip with
the United States they cor.sum, and de
clare pointedly against joining the nor
thern tiibes orany others red or white
against us. The whole particulars you
(hall have without delay. In the mean
time I am happy in being able to fay that
every thing is in a most pleafino state be
tween the Creeks and our country.
hope you will excuse this, as I zrow
furronnded with a very nojfy but J
ere W of Red Kings and Chiefs.
Ext raft of a letter jrom General Wilkin U
Fay t- 6th November, 179-4
DEAR SIR,
" I have the pleasure to inform you, that
Major Adair* has this dav had a ffrurt and
honorable brulh with a body of savages, sup
posed to be double his. number, near to Fort
St. Clair, and that after several turns of forti
tude and a {harp contefl- for two hours, he fi
nally kept his ground, tho' the enemy carried
off the great body of his horses during the ac
tion.
4< I lament that Capt. Hule is among the
flairi ; hut for the consolation of his f Tends,
and of the friends of all who have fallen, they
fell gloriously, and sleep in the bed of honor—
Madison is again wounded—lf he continues
his career, he will be a distinguished warrior.
Be pleased to inform his brother that his
wound is flight. Enclosed are the r.ames of
the killed and wounded. Major Adair has
done no more than I expected, that is, he has
combined courage to conduit, and done honor
to the state of Kentucky.
N. B. The. enemy left two dead on the
field, and were observed to carry off many.
Hale, Matthew Englifli,
Isaac Jett, Joseph Clinton, John Williams,
Robert Boaling.
Wounded—Capt. Madison, Thomas Hickr
man, Aaron Adams, Luke Vorifs, Richard
Taylor.
* Capt. Adair commanded, a company of about too
mounted volunteers, called into service from the Jhte
of Kentucky, to escort provisions/cut from Fort Wash
ington for the fupp!\ of Fort Jejfcrfon.
LEGISLATURE OF PENNSYLVANIA,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MefTage from the Governor on Tuesday last.
To the Senate and House of Reprefentat:+es of
the Genual Ajfembly of Pennsylvania.
CE NTLEMEN,
THE Representatives of this state, fifth*
Senate and House of Reprefeniaiives of the
United States, have anxiously lug-gefted to me,
the Tieceflity of making feme further' provision
for the accommodation of Congress; as thep'f
fent building will certainly be inadequate tor
that purpose, when the ratio of representation,
established by a late ait, (hall take effect.
difpofi.ion which the legiflaturc of Penafylvani*
has uniformly cvinced to promote the cafe and
dignity, of the members of the different depart
ments of the general government, assure me, that
you will pay a cheerful attention to thisr fubje£U
I (hall only, therefore, observe, thdl the proposed
meafute may, perhaps, be accomplished, with
out incurring the expencc of a new building,
either by enlarging that which Congress now
oecupics, or (as the legiflaturc, on a former oc
casion, aurhoiifed) by surrendering, for the use
of the General Government,the State-House and
the adjacent offices.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
(Signed)
Philadelphia, Dec. 18,1 79«
WEDNESDAY.
A letter from James Pemberton and Jo a
Kaighn, was read, requeuing a copy ot the pe
tition of a number of the citizens of the Frenc
Weft-Indies.
The peti.ion of the DireOors of the
Company of North-America, was read i e .e
cond time, and referred to Mcffrs. Swanwic »
Forreft, Turner, Everlcv, and Gallatin, to re P
A mo'ion was made by Mr. Gallatin in i
following words, viz. . ,
Rcfolvtd, Thai a committee be appointed w
cnouiic into the propriety of lowering t e
of-roproved lands within the boundaries o t -
purchases made of the Indians prior to I ie y ea
i *»85.
'The mtfTag-: from the Governor, read o«
Tucfday, v»as referied to a committee.
D-ed in this city, Mr. John S. Hutton,
aged one hundred and ten vears. Mr. Hutton
bora on Long-Iflund, in the U* of New-CONGRESS.
MOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 19.
A letter was read from the Secretary of War,
aommunicatiag, pursuant to orders from the
iprefident of the United States, dispatches from
Brigadier General Wilkini'on, containing an ac
count of a recent attack from a party of Weft
,crn Indians, on an encampment of American
troops under the command ot Major Adair, near
Fort St. Clair, in which the Indians were repulf
cd —and a letter from James Seagrove, Super
intendant of Indian affairs to the Creek nation,
giving an account of a favorable termination to
a treaty or interview held with the Chiefs ot
that nation.
Ivlr. Sedgwick called up his motion, laid on
the table yesterday, for discharging the commit
tee of the whole on that part of the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury which relates to
reimbursing the loan made of the Eank of the
United States, and to appoint a fele& commit
tee who should report a bill making provision
in the cafe.
This motion was agreed to, and a committee
confiding of Messrs. Sedgwick, Lawrance and
Murray, were appointed.
In committee of the whole on the bill to regu
late trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes.
Mr, Dayton in the chair.
1 He "bill was read through, and then eonfi
dered by paragraphs. Sundry amendments were
made. The committee proceeded through the
discussion ; they then role and reported the bill
with those amendments, which were laid on the
tabic, and the house adjourned.
THURSDAY, Dec. 20.
A Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the petition of LudwicKuhn, was read. This
re. ort was against the prayer of the petition.
Mr. Murray presented a memorial of sundry
of the Officers of the late Maryland line of the
Army, in behalf of themselves and the privates
of tht fa id army. The objeA of this memorial
is iinidar to those from the Officers of the Penn
sylvania and New-York lines, whieh is, compen
fition for tl:e depreciation and loss fuflained by
them 0:1 t! - certificates received for their fervi
a . This menforial was read and laid on the
tubl., with the others.
t. Steele laid a resolution on the table, to
the foilv>win.- purport, viz.
Twut lrv.irtee be appointed to prepare and
brin; '1 io reduce the military eftablifti-
.t jd'States""to
liietn
or corj.. , iingeachof non-com
mi (lion ed 0. ;srs,privates and i®nficians, with
such proportion of comtfiij/Loiied officers as the
President may tnmk proper to continue infer
vice.—And to repeal so much of an a<st palled
the sth Marc!?, 1792, entitled, "An ast for
making further a;:d more etfrftual provifiun
for the protection of the Frontiers of the
United Stater," as may contravene this in
tention.
This motion, Mr. Steele said, he was influen
ced to bring forward, from two motives. The
firfl was to afford more effectual protection to
the frontier?—the other was, that by this reduc
tion a sum of money might be drawn from the
War Department, to be applied to the reduction
of the public deht, so that a necefiity for new
taxes, to that objeii, may be fupercedeci.
The fele& committee, to whom the coasting
|>ill had been re-committed, reported sundry a-
Aendments, which were taken into eonfidera
tion by the House, and all of them agreed to.
Mr. Clark objected to a clause in the I 2th
fe&ion, which enjoins that every change of
the matter of every packet or ferry-boat, shall
be reported at the custom-house the firtt oppor
tunity. Mr. Dayton stated the inconveniencies
to which the matters and owners of the small
copfting craft and packet boats belonging to the
ttate ofNew-Jerfey would be particularly expo
sed by this injunction, where the mailers are
very frequently changed. To remove this ob
je&ion Mr. Goodhue proposed to insert thele
words, ferry-beats excepted. This motion wai
adopted.
It was then ordered that the bill be engrofled
for a third reading.
The amendments reported by the committee
of the whole to the bill to regulate trade and in
tercourse with the Indian tribes were taken into
consideration.
Objections were made to the fifth fe<sKon,
which contemplates legiftating, and punilhing
crimes committed within the boundaries of the
Indian countries—it was contended that the ca-
mentioned were fully provided for by trea
ties, or by the laws of the refpe&ive states; the
whole ground, it was said, is covered by these
provitions; and therefore there appears an im
propriety, if not an absurdity, in ena&ing, in a
Jubfequent law, that certain punishments lhall
be infli&ed for certain crimes, which are fufiici
ently recognized by the several treaties already
formed ; that the attempt would operate unjust
ly, the provifious may reach our own citizens,
but cannot affedt so fully as they ought the Sa
vages. It was moved that the whole fe&ion
ihould be struck out.
Inoppofition to this motion,it was said, that
the power of the general government to legis
late in all the territory belonging to the Urnon,
not within the limits of any particular Hate, can
not be doubted : if the government cannot
Wiakc laws to refuain perfens fioni going out cf
the limits of any of the state?, and commit mur
ders and depredations, it would be 111 vain to
expeil any peace with the Indian tribes. The
power ol Cougrefs to legislate, independent of
treaties, it wa: also said, must be admitted for
it is impossible, that every cafe Ihould be provid
ed for by thofc treaties.
The question being called for, Mr. Glarl; rose
and observed, that he conceived it "w as of im
portance that the house Ihould vote with th.'ir
eyes open; and to enable them to do this, he
said he Ihoultl read the ordinance of the late
Congreft pasTed in 1787, refpe&ing the fettle
nient of the wtillem country. He observed that
he believed very few of the members had turned
their attention to it. He accordingly read fueh
parts of the ordinance as'he thought essential to
the point, which was to (hew that the clause of
the bill now toiler consideration, would is it.
operation violate the solemn ftipulatiom with
the settlers contained in the ordinance, as full
provision is contained in the ordinance to insti
tute all civil and criminal proccfTes.-The motion
for striking oui ihe fe&ion was negatived. The
amendments of the committee of the whole were
agreed to with some amendments.—Various i'ub
fequent amendments were moved with various
success, some being agreed to and others reject
ed. Without fimihing the diicuilion of the bill
the house adjourned
FRIDAY, Dec. 21-
Mr. Hartley called up the petition of Capt.
William Maekay, tor second reading—i 6 was
aecoidingly read, and un motion of that gentle
man, tefened to the Secretary of War, to report
theieon.
A bill making appropriations for the ftipport
of government i'or the year 1793, w b'<"h was re
ported vefterday, was this day read twice, and
referred- to a committee of the whole Houfe-4
Mr. Steele proposed 'hat the bill Ihould be polt
poned to the fuft Monday in Januiy—He oH
fcrved that he bad laid a motion on the table ftff
a commiticc to report a hill to redu< e <hq mili
tary tilablifhmcnt of the United States—This
appropriation bill makes provision for the pre
sent cftablifhmrnt, and if it is a&ed upon, and
pa (Ted immediately, it will prtclude an oppor
tunity sot difcufling the merits of the proporti
on contained in the motion which he had made.
The motion for the firft Monday in Janua
ry, was negatived—-Mr. Steele then moved,
the last Monday in December, which being
put was carried.
Mr. HeKter and Mr. Moore were appoint
ed as the joint committee on enrolled bill-., on
the part of the House.
A meflage was afterwards received from
the Senate informing the House of their con
currence in the resolution for the appoint
ment of a joint committee on enrolled bills,
and that they had appointed Mr. Brown on
their part.
Mr. Sedgwick reported a bill providing for
a re-imburfement «»f a loan made of the bank
of the United State-?, which was twice read,
and committed for Monday next.
'The House re funwd the con fide rati on of
the bill to regulate trade and intercourse with
the Indian Tribes ; a motion to amend the
fifth fe&ion by altering the clause which
make«? it felony for any citizen, or citizens of
the United States unlawfully to invade any
Indian settlement, to fine and imprisonment
for that crime—occasioned conliderable de
bate.—This motion was finally fuperceded by
one to recommit the bill —which being car
ried—it was recommitted to the fele<st com
mittee which reported it ; on motion, Mr.
Baldwin and Mr. Murray were added to the
committee.
regiments
Mr. Gerry moved the followingin
—That the compiittee be inftrufted to report
a chufe making additional provision for the
ellubliftiment of permanent agents to reficle
among the Indians which now are, or may
her-after be at peace with the United States;
alio tor carving on trade with such Indians,
U'lrier tie direction qf the President of the
17.1: ted State-;—and for an adequate supply of
nr-ccfiarv articles 00 jull and reasonable terms;
a> J under such regulations as to guard them
a;;ainft inipolitiiß »rd extortion. This mo
tion was hi.tfw the ta.Ue.—Mr. Gerry gave
notice that he flfcllild'Call it up <m Mondiy
ncxf
A ; ""T:ori <A-a4read Iroin R.obert Ralfton, af
figrit ;Ti n.,s Bjrcfuy—and referred to the
S.v; :uiy <jl Irrafui'y.
In ton.;-. ofthr wholr on the bill to af
eertair. Nif lees .1 -u 1 i in cast'S of ad niit alty
proceedings 1: to couitsot the United States,
and for oih r ;,ui p..:.'..—Mr. Dayton in the
chair—The Coir.', .. farther prognft'in
the'difcuffion ps the Ui: - .. i. rnfe without fimlh
ing it, and hid Icuve to hi. ngain. Adjournrd,
Philadelphia, Dec. 22.
Extrafl of a letter from. Mr. Fenwick. Cartful of the
United States at Bordeaux, to the Secretary of
State, dated Bordeaux, 11M 179 2 *
44 It was decreed the 6th in ft. that, after
the firfl: day of October, all Tobaccos tuat
were fubjeft to a duty of iSliv. 1 \* r cei't
fliould pay roli.per cent, and such as paid 2511.
per cent, duty,fliould pay 1211. All other lo
baqcu of whatever country, fliould be admit
ted 011 paving a dutv of 15 P er quintal.
Tims American Tobacco stands favored in
the duty sfi.per cent-imported in French vel
fels, and 3 livres if imported in Amen can
bottoms direst from America.
" The administrators of the liripoit <iave
given general orders to the Directors ot the
Cuftorn-houfes, to admit no merchandize or
productions whatever, to the payment ot the
duties, without a certificate ot their origin.
This certificate mnft be from the French
Consul in the port of the expedition; or m
cafe there ihould be no Consul, by a Nutu. ->i
Justice of the Peace.
" This information is lntereftmg tot.
Merchants throughout the United States.
235
By accounts from Pittlburgh, it appears
that the Indians with whom General Putnam
hud fnade a treaty, had arrived at Legion
ella, the winter quarters cf the army under
th«command ef Gen. Wayne.
i no fnbficription lor the Bank of* Alexan
ti ia, in Virginia, was filled in less than two
hours.
We hear that the electors of Pnefident and
Vice-Profident for the ftatc of North-Cai o
-I'na, gave a unanimous vote for George
\Vashin3ton aud George Clinton.
An account from Cape-Francois, of Nov.
15, f.\"s—Yeitcrday two whites, one a deserter
of tlx? Cape regiment, and ten negroes taken
prisoners in the attack of Ouaminthe, arrived
here at about four in the afternoon, guarded
a company of horse guards. They were
conduced to the national commifliorrer, who
ordered tliem to prifou. An immense crowd
accompanied tliefe twelve unfortunate peo
ple, and notwithstanding the efforts of the
guard, they had scarcely turned the firft cor
ner, when a band of soldiery enraged by the
fight of the deserters, ft ruck them with their
fwords—thcfe Wows were the signal of death
for all the others, who were butchered on the
spot.
A Conne&icut paper fays—A person lately
from Canada, informs, that a few nights pre
vious to his leaving that colony, three Britifti
soldiers deserted their post, and took with
them their fire-arms, dec. that they werepur
fued by four Indians, who overtook them the
next day, when the deserters firing on the In
dians and killing three of them, continued
their route. The Indian who escaped, we
learn, is a Chieftain.
Drury-Lase'New Theatre measures 198
feet in length by near 150 in width. It is to
be finilhed iq September J.793—and the lirlt
performance will be there the last day of that
vs-r.r.
A writer in a New-York paper, addressing
himielf to Mr. W. Willcocks, a writer of a
number of political efTays, supposed to be le
velled at Governor Clinton, and the antifede
ral party, politely advises Mr. Willcocks to
44 extract the political louse froin his ear,"
which makes such a scratching on rhe tym
panum, as leads the patient to suppose all the
world to be in arms, and every one a rogue
that does not believe as he does.
The audience the Theatre in Boflon,
being enraged at the unseasonable interrup
tion of the entertainment by the Sheriffs ar
rcfting Mr. Harper, broke the Arm? of the
Governor's to pieces, whichhad been fixed on
one of the fide boxes.
COMMUNICATIONS.
There are some of our party writers who
appear to have veryjhort memories—the men
in Congress who have formed the majority on
all the great questions, are called Jpccu<'ator'i—
but these writers forget that these .'peculators
have repeatedly received the luffrages of the
people; they forget that all their slanderous
epithets bellowed on the majority of both
houses of Congress, and on the adminiflxation,
headed by the President of the United States,
fall ultimately on the people ; they forget that
while they pretend to be republicans, and yet
revile the organs of the public-will, they ex
pose the most detestable of ariftocratical sen
timents ; they forget, that while they pisfefs
to be superior to the influence of avarice, by
maligning those who poflefs more property
than themfelVcj,' they discover more than one
bad passion—Envy and Avarice united ; in
short, they Jorget that, this one opinion is
deeply rooted in the mind of every confident
republican —That the leader: of parties, ar?
in general, Tyrants in disposition.
The National Gazette gives us to under
stand that the mate to a party, is loft in the
late contest for the office of Vice-Prefident.—
The fact is agreed, and it is not hard to fuel's
who the losers are. A mate is certainly a
convenient thin? and contributes not a little
to the free enjoyment of liberty of speech.—
For instance, how could anv man without a
mate fay Governor Clinton is a good federal,
ift, and on that account to be preferred to
JMr. Adams. If a p ; vfician should iccoin
mend ratsbane to a sick man he would have
need of a mate. A man that has occasion
to Say—Do not trull the conftitutior to its
friend-, its enemies will serve our turn
better, would find his utterance greatly aflift
ed by a mate ; But if his argument fliould
take another turn he might get along without
a mate. There is for example, no propri
ety in uiing any difgui'e when a man would
infill that the bodv politic is a monster, and it
is proper to cut off an arm or a leg or even
an head, if it has more than one—or that it is
lethargic and a little rats-bane would give
the nerves a gentle twinge. That would be
speaking out plainly and with a becoming
boldnefsT—They might even go farther and
urge that for such an operation on the Confli
tnt'ion no friend or admirer of it would be a
fai'e performer or surgeon. A fal'e tender
ness might prevent the proper i ,-:afures of
decision. Where then was the u.-fitnefs in
r this known desperate ftatc- of the constitu
tion in turnin.s our eyes to one who could be
relied on to do the needful—who like Hanni
bal has vowed eternal hatred to Rome, and
who is of a tern; i that neither time nor con
descension can change.
A certain fort of people, if old f.'yings arc
true, (hould have good memories The writers
for iiie laflion 3re afraid r.f a monarchy and no
b.Mtv, and a dcfpotiftn-Libcityi«goin -to fuf
icr robbery, and maiming and rape. "liicv hear
the poor virgin'# cries,and turn om very punctu
ally like, a watch to keep the r>cace when it u
not broke, and billow no frcail ptaife on th:m
ft,*cs for making so much diflurt»nce
order. 1 hey (ell us too they have found <hie
and charged ibe ofK-f»d< rs-—and whe are tbev >
The Irdci -illits, ihe idolaters of the conftmuiui ,
the believers in its abfoluie perfection.
These i-dolater*, itfeenis, are in amhulh
for an oppoiuinity to throw down and dcltrov
1 heir own idol, ai>d to commit wliat *hey derm
facnlege»-Whil« the unbelieving .eim's, who
lay that <his id>4 is not divine, but men; wood
and ctay, arc -{hacked at die very Thought of this
intended impiety. It is to be hoped inr the
fdke of our country, that its frame ol govtro
men: it betier put together than this fiory.
There is perhaps do opinion in which mankind
are more generally agreed than this, that know
ledge and virtue arc the only durable basis of a
free government. An ignorant and ferociou*
people, irom a strong sense of perlonal or gen
era! injury, w$ often be induced to roufc from
a stupid apathy under the power of despotism,
and in a paroxysm of their frenzy may hur
their opprefifors to perdition—but like men in a
storm who have thrown their compass overboard
after effecting the deftrusjon ol their oppreflors
they are perfectly at a los» what course to (leer
next — s he consequence has been, almost invaria
bly, that thole who have diftinguiihed them
selves the most in the work of deftru<stion, how
ever incompetent to contrive a system for the
security of the freedom thus acquired, are vested
with powers, which theyfeldom fail to exercise
for their own particular advantage, and in the
end establish a worse despotism than the people
have just demoliihed.—Thefe reflexions may
enable us to account for the nnhappy issue of ma
ny revolutions which have taken place in
the world — Ignorance can destroy what is bad,
but it can never effetf what is good.
The general light and information of the peo
ple oi the United States enabled them justly to
estimate the privileges they enjoyed previous to
the late revolution—these made them alive to
every attempt oc the part of Great Britain to
abridge and deilroy those privileges. The pa-,
triota and" lV~es of our country let .before the
people life and death, blefling and curling—but
their labours would have been in vain, their
writings a dead letter, if the public mind had
not been properly prepared to receive and justly
to appreciate the words of truth and found rea
soning had the people been ignorant, they
would never have conquered their local prejudi
ces, their almost inveterate habits, and by a An
gular magnanimity, which nothing butfuperior
wisdom could have inspired, have formed that
bond of union, which proved the rock of their
fafety, enabled them to brave the ft or me that
beat against their freedom, and finally carried
them to independence, peace, liberty and fafct).
On knowledge and virtue then are taifed the
pillars of this rising republic—these mull i'up
port the edifice—and it is the firft of legislative
duties to make provision to encreafe, as our num
bers encreafe, and to perpetuate the means of
knowledge among the people; and he is unwor
thy the name of patriot, let his pre tendons be
what they will, whodifcovers a luke-warmnef*
on this lubje&.—lt ought to be a perpetual ob
jed; of attention to our civil fathers—and till
the business is began in earned there will remain
a most unpardonable deficiency in the dilchurge
of legislative duty —Let a beginning be made,
if it is on the fmaliell scale it will be a begin
ning—and the feed once sown it will take root;
the bleflingsof knowledge once enjoyed, become
asneceffary to human happinefsas the light and
heat of the fun are to human existence.
LOCAL PREJUDICES.
Some years ago a gentlemen who came from
the higlands of Scotland, was invited to dine
with Mr. , in the environs of New-York—
eveiy thing, as a was (hewn to him ; *
pear tree on which there was fame lemarkdble
large fiuit, fc« med to attnft his notice; Mr,
aflked him il ever he had ften any of ih«»t
fi7C before, he answered decidedly that they werg
nothing tike equal to what grew in the Duke of
Argyle'sgarden at Jtrverary. Nettled with thu
reply he went out after dinner, while tiir bottle
was lall ply ine round the'-able, and deurcd bis
gardener to cuf some of ihe Urjjt ft gourd.% oi
pumpkins, which He could find, and to tie them
neatly with packthread, upon the brancho of a
trre which be pointed out ; (hit done, whtu
twilight'approached, he told hi* guest, that hg
had forgot to shew some pears that weie
certainly largei than any Scotland —he look,
ed up at them with aftonifhinent, and ex claimed,
J dinva douU kut what they are nearly aj bi£ at t/if
Duke's.
A Londoner being lately at Brillol, was
shewn every thing remarkable there, whether
the production of nature or ait. but as every
thing in that city was, in his eiiimaiion unequal
to any of a fnnilar nature n London, he wat
at length led to St. Vincent's iocki ; being dik
ed what he thought of thele ttupendou* monu
ments of natural magnificence ? he replied,
" they was hvartmg enough—but they wcie no
thing to ihr I " " k
bulk*
ARRIVEDa' the PORToj PHILADELPHIA.
Sch'r. Weympuih, Lcincdcau, N. York
IlaLella, M'Keevir, C. Fiaucoi*
Sally, Loverirtfl, do.
"PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deterred,
>ul 1 iharet Bank U. S. 35 per cent, prem
TO SUBSCRIBERS.
THE Editor hjormi his Suhjcribers on the Eajt
trnjhou of Maryland, that jncc tht provision made
by the roJl-MuJUr General for tranjmtting neuj
pjpers wrckly to that quarter—this Cazrtte hat
leen pmiQmlly depofitei in the fojl Office o) thn
city, et<er\ Saturday.
Suhfirtbers, wlii'fe accounts are r,J a year's Jtand
tng, and upwards, ere tnjormed that unlef, their ar
rearages are paid in one month fravt this
Editor will be under the faiijul necejfity 11J dijUn
tinning their papeis.
20f
1 1/10BENNINGTON, (Ver.) Dec. 7.
BY the poll from Onion River,we
are informed, that the follow
ing melancholy accident lately hap
pened at Milton, on the river Moile ;
seven young men atteinp ii.g lo'crols
the river in a canoe, were by some
accident overl'et, and four of them,
viz. two by the nalne of Soper, one
Owen and one Irifli, were unfortu
nately drowned.
We hear from Rutland that the
Council of Censors, having complet
ed the business of their appoint
ment, adjourned on Friday lad with
out day. They have ordered their
proceedings, with the constitution
as proposed to be amended, to be
publiflied in the Vermont Gazette
and Journal, as speedily as may be,
for tne perusal of the public.
Samuel Hitchcock, Lot Hall, Le
muel Chipman, and Paul Brigham,
Efq'i s. are chofeii ele<siors for Preli
de lit and Vice-Prefident.
BOSTON, Dec. 8
On Wednesday evening last, by
virtue of a warrant iflued by Jul
tices Greenltfaf and Barrett, on the
complaint of the Attorney-General,
the Sheriff of this county arretted
Mr. Harper, one of the company of
Comedians who for fomeftime past
ha*e entertained the inhabitants of
this town, as guilty of a breach of
the law against Theatrical enter
tainments—and held him to bail to
appear the next day before the Jus
tices, and recognize for his appear
ance at the next Supreme Judicial
Court. At the end of the second
a«ft of the " School for Scandal"
which was then performing, Mr.
Harper came forward on the stage,
and read a card from the Iheriff,
informing Mr. Harper, that unless
the performances of the evening
were flopped, he should apprehend
forthwith all the persons of the
company. Much agitation ensued,
and the resentment of the citizens
at what they conceived to Vie a vio
lent and untimely nieafure, t!Hoo
vered itlelf in several spirited pro
ceedings, and a loud call for the
performances to go on : Bnt, at the
particular requelt of the perform
ers, the audience dispensed with the
entertainment of the evening, and
peaceably retired ; firft refilling to
accept the admiflißii money, Mr. H.
offered to return.
The next clay, Mr. Harper appear
ed before the juflices to recognize.
The coutt, for the gratification of
the citizens, was held in Faneuil-
Hall—when the Attorney-General
read a special order from the Su
preme Executive, direi'ting him to
make tlie complaint on which the
warrant was iilued, and then read
the complaint. On Mr. H. being
put to plead, Mr. Otis, one of his
counsel, objeded to the legality of
the warrant as contrary to the 14th
article of the Declaration ofßights,
which requires, that no warrant
lhall be illued, except upon com
plaints made upon oath : anet- the
complaint upon which the present
warrant was illued not being made
upon oath, the warrant con fee 11 e 111-
ly was illegal. Mr. Tudor, the o
ther counsel for Mr. Harper, fup
poited Mr. Otis's opinion—which
was combated by the Attorney-Ge
neral with imich candor and fair
nefs. Ihe opinion of their honors
being desired, one of them (Mr.
Barret) acceded to the validity of
the defendant's counsel. —In confe
quei.ee of which Mr. Harper was
liberated, much to the fatisfaiftion
of a numerous and resectable au
uience.
A CARD
Mi. I IiPF.R, imprefled with (be
livclieft emotions of gratitude, pre.
jents to the citizens of Boston, and
Ih V v"t- V ' ' hctril, »^ofunfeigned
[ n ' a,iy favors : And
while be laments the neeeffity be is
Under, thus early to leave this hos
pitable capital, he fltall ever bear
in remembrance the obligations he
is under for their liberality, bene
volence and candor.
- Aln > It'J I.M-.MI.N !.
{_)- ? ' ''t ' 1 >>1 ~ri l', ■/ «*
/« L.U., «, ;i ,
,r ■ ' AR, ' F <U-!-4R TO Irr
u.\ uh.a'e.
Insurance Company.
THE OFFICE of the Insurance Company of
North-America commenced business on
Saturday last, and will continue open every day
Sundays -xcepted,at No. 119, south Front-Street
where orders, foreign and domeftie,will be duly
attended to.
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.
Phi i.ad el phi a, November 20, 1792.
THE Stockholders of the Bank of the United
States are hereby informed, that according
to the statute of in.orporation, a general elc&ion
for twenty-five Directors will be held at the Bank
ef the Unifd States, in the city of Philadelphia,
on Mouday the seventh day of January ntxt, at
ten o'cock in the forenoon.
And puifuantothe eleventh feftion o\ the
Bye-Laws, the Stockholders of the said Bank ate
hereby'notified to tffemble in general meeting
at the lame place, on Tuefdav the eighth day ot
uext, at five o'clock in the evening.
Between December iJt, 1792.
William Shipley In the high Court ofChance
Complainan', ry of the State of New-
Jfohn Meng and o- Jerfcy.
thers Defendants. Prejenf,
Ilis Excellency the Chancellor.
THE Complainant having filed his bill of
Complaint against the Defendants in the
month of September, seventeen hundred and
ninety-one, and in the laid Bill of Complaint did
among other things set forth that the said Com
plainant bring ki?ed in his Demesne as of fee
of and 10 a certain T rati of Land, said to contain
nine hundred and thirty acres, situate, lying and
being in the township of Hardwick in the coun
ty ol Snllex in the State of New-Jersey, did on
the fir ft of March seventeen hundi ed and eighty
five, bargain fell and convey the fame in set; sim
ple unto John Meng and John Henderfon'of che
citv of Philadelphia, William Goodwin and
John Town, for the consideration of One Thou
sand Six Hundred Pounds in Gold or Silver—
Thar 011 the fifth day of the fame month of
March the said feoffees above named did execute
unto the said William Shipley a Deed of Mort
gage in fee simple of the said Tract of Land to
secure the payment of the said fxxteen hundred
pounds, with the lawful intercft which might
thereon accrue—That in the year seventeen hun
dred and eighty-fix the said John Meng and
William Goodwii did become Bankrupts with
in the intent and meaning of the a£ts of the Le
gislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and such proceedings were had against them that
in the fame they were duly declared
Bankrupts; and that they the said John Meng
and William Goodwin did in some short time
afterwards convey and transfer all their eftatc
both real and personal, and particularly all their
right and title to the premises above mentioned
to John Field, Curtis Clay, James C. Fiflier,
Isaac Wharton, John Kaighn and Arthur Collins
all of the city of Philadelphia, fubjeil to the
Mortgage so as a fore fa id given to the said Com
plainant.—That the said John Field, Curtis
Clay, James C. Fifhcr, Isaac Wharton, John
Kaighn and Arthur Collins soon after bargained,
fold and conveyed all their Right and Title of
and in the said Tract of Land unto Benjamin
Town of the city of Philadelphia, and John
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgage aforefaid—That
on the eighteenth day of O&ober seventeen hun
dred and eighty-five, the said John Town and
Benjamin Town did execute another Mortgage
to the said William Shipley for securing the pay
ment oftwelve hundred pounds in certain in
stallments—That in the month cf January seven
teen hundred and eighty-fix, John Town did
bargain and fell in fee Pimple all his Right and
Title t6 the (aid premises, to the said Benjamin
Town, fubjeft to the Mortgages aforefaid—That
in the month ol February seventeen hundred and
eighty-eight, the said Benjamin Town did con
vey all his Right and Title to the said premises,
to John Field and Curtis Clay of the city of Phi
delphia, upon certain Trusts unknown to theal
Complainant—That said Benjamin Town the
loon after became Bankrupt, and in pursuance
of the bankrupt laws of the State of Pennlvlva
nia, did convey all his estate real and personal
to a certain Rob#rt Raffton—That JtJttn Ileti
derfon did alio in the month of September seven
teen hundred and eighty-seven beeomc a Bank
rupt, and uuderthe bankrupt laws of the State
of Pcnnfylvania, did ailign and convey all his
cftate real and personal to David Lenox, George
Hughes, Matthew Clarkfon, Peter Baynton and
Richard Bache—And the Complainant doih. in
and by his said Bill, pray that thofc having
Right to the said Ellate may be decreed to pay
him what is due on the said Mortgages, or that
the equity of Redemption be forclofed by the
Derreeof this Court.
And now upon opening this matter this dav
by Kir hard Stockton, Esquire, being ofihe- com.
{halT'r <° <he Court
f pr" d defendants do rtfide in the State
«• iVnnfylva.na, without the j.irifdiaion of this
Lo.irt ; and it appear,n g further to this Court
that wilts o. lubpoena have been taken out ac
corr.,„R to th e courfc of lhii that |he fa|d
w.usof fuopcena have been duly feved upon
the sam lever a I Defendants upwards of o,e
>rar rom this dav ; and that none of the said
Defencms li„vc ca.il.d his or their appearance
to be rntered m ,l, !s G.u-t to the suit of .he said
l: rt ' h " ef ° n °" lcreri b V hf s
' -> h.iii i"* that the said Uc
rn.Wsco c r htlr ?poc .„ anc , [Q be , mci( . d
loth'-' 1!' r V£ ' Com " !ai ""'t according
"lb, , lilt sos tliii Court ln tw „ n ,„ mhs ~J;
th'-s d., v , or tiu, ,he P..i b' l ! 1-,. ■ u
confribj to I iie (! ■ h T° (
thrl.fginjtur.-inlucb.ar, "
-Tl.eC„,„p!.
S t cZl^ L l AM PATERS ON.
" ' W ' r ■?<>»• cp
'i-r The price of thi< Gazette is Three /j,v
fo£]': m ~- one U,J " hc «<*<' <>*< */%'.
■Vo,tk Fifth-Street,
By Older of I lie President and Dirc6)ors,
JOHN KEAN, Calhicr.
ADVERTISEMENT
236
J
Seen mill he publifked,
thi SYSTEM or
Ufe<3 by Mi\Lloy b, in taking down the Debates
of Congress. A system so easy, that any man,
of ordinary capacity, may clearly comprehend
it in half an hour, and soon pra&ife it, in its
fulleft extent, without any further inftru6lion,
than what will be conveyed in a few pages,—
the whole ART being comprised in eighteen
simple characters, without any of those perplexing,
arbitrary marks, with which the learners of
other fyftcms are obliged to burden their me
mory, and embarrsfs their pra&ice.
Price, to Subscribers, One Dollar—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and ha/J.
Subscriptions received by Messrs. Rice, Book
fellers, Market-flreet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear-Strrcr.
Half a Dollar to be fiaid at the time of fubjeribing.
A GREAT BARGAIN.
FOR Sale, a beautiful situation on the Po
towmack, adjoining the town of Alexandria
and in a line of dire&ion towards the Federal
City and GeorgeTown,in full view of each place,
commanding a profpeft of the river and adjacent
country of Maryland and Virginia, for many
miles; about 45 or 50 acres of Land, lying di
reftlyon the river, will be fold, with the im
provements, which are, a two-story framed
d welling-houfe, neatly finished, a kitchen, office,
brick smoke-house and dairy, two-ftorv framed
barn, a well of excellent water, and an ice
houle, a yard and garden, neatly railed and
highly improved, with a number of other ne-
CeflTary improvements ; the whole of the land
enclofcd with posts and rails, tenor fifteen acres
laid down, with different kinds of grass. Its
continuity to those three towns must render it an
objedt worthy the attention of any person who
wishes to invest money in a property that must
enhance in value, in proportion to the rapid in
crfafe of the Federal City, Alexandria and
George-Town. This property lies nearly in a
central situation to each place. The Potowmack
at this spot has a fine deep (bore and harbour,
capable of receiving velTels of any burden. It
may not be improper to obfervc, that men of
judgment think a profitable and convenient
Ferry might be erected here to the Citv of
Wafiiington and ▼ Ire Maryland shores leading to
Baltimore aod Philadelphia.—Also to fell, 215
acres of Wood-Land, about three miles distant,
which will suit wel! to supply the above in
wood and timber. The title may be seen to the
above property, which is indisputable, and terms
known by application to the fubferiber, living
on the premises.
December 12 th y 1792
200 Dollars Reward.
LOST, at Providence, or between Providence
and ISofton, a very small TRUNK, covered
with seal-skin of a reddish colour, with white
foots. It contained a quantity of South and
North-Carolina State Notes, and a few of the
State of Rhode-lfland ; with other papers,which
can only be fcn iceable to the proprietor. The
State notes are cheeked at the offices from whcnce
they issued. Any person producing the Trunk
(with its contents) to JOHN MARSTON, of
Boston, WILLIAM HALL, of Piovidence,
Messrs. PATERSON and BRASHER, New-
York, or Mr. SAMUEL EMERY, in Philadel
phia, (hall receive the above reward, or for any
part of the property, One Hundred Dollars.
Boston, Nov. 28
BO WEN's EXHIBITIONS OF
W ax- VV ork &Paintings,
ARE open every day and evening (Sundays
excepted) at the House lately occupied
by Mrs. Pint, No. 9, North Eighth-street
First Room—Contains upwards of 100
elegant Paintings, and about 30 Wax Figures,
in full stature—among which are Likenefles
of a number of the principal characters in
America; Baron Trenck in chains, an Indian
Chief, and fevera) beautiful young Ladies of
different States, ttc.&c.
Sicokd Room—-Contains eighteen large
Wax Figures, which form a Sociable Club,
or the Oyster Supper ; and the School for
Scandal, consisting of twelve female Figures,
making their observations on a young Lady,
who had eloped with a Footman.
Admittance One Quarter of a Dollar each
Room.
GEOGRAPHY.
Mathew Carey
Rcfpcftfully fuhmiis loihc Citizens of the United
Sratrs, the following
proposals
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION
An AMERICAN EDITION of
Guthrie's Geography
I M P R O V t"l)
Of zul id, thtji are the terms :
1. TT (hall be publiihcd tn 48 weekly numbers,
1 each containing three (heels, or twenty.four'
patjes, ol letter press, in quarto, p. tnted with new
types on fin» papei.
II In tho rourfc of the work will bedelivered
-•onju thirty large maps, of the fame size as thofc
m the European editions, viz. moll of them Quel
maps on polt naper.
llci'tdis Ir i n the Bri'ifh editions, tiii
•'" I " ' 0l "' V'' Uni,;d States
- '«■ - it ri': ihe i'rjt (rig rav
&S in t
j . -ill he a nuar
?. „.. „ " ' • ' Q-J A o ad
\~r - . ' : ;I ■ ' 0n as
' ' 1 ■ V • i" . hi*'.; -.J..
BALDWIN DADE.
cp 2 m
3. Duncan's Elements of Logic— cents.
4. Beauties of Fielding— cents.
5. Beauties of Blair—so cents.
6. Ladies' Pocket Library, containing Miss
More'sEflays, Gregory's Legacy, Lady Penning
ton's Advice, Marchioness of Lambert's Advice,
Swift's Letter to a newly married Lady,Mrs.Cha
pone on command ot Temper. More's Fables for
the Ladies, Price 6/6.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Piice adol
lar and a quarrer.
8. Elements of Moral Science, byJamesßeit
tie, l. l.d. profeflfor of moral philosophy and
logic in the Marifchal College, Aberdeen Price
three-fourths of a dollar. Ol this book the
Critical Reviewers (vol. 69, p. 628) fay: We
have seen nothing on these fubjr&s more plain,
more perspicuous, or more generally ufeful."
N. B. It is introduced into the Univerfuy in Phi
ladelphia.
eptf.
9. Beauties of Poetry. Pricc four-fi/ths of a
dollar.
12. Examination of the Observations of Lord
Sheffield 011 American Commerce—Pricc, on very
fine paper, 5 Bths of a dollar.
1 3. The Constitutions oi the fevcral United States,
with the Federal Constitution, &c. Piice five
eighths of a dollar.
1 7 The Doway Tranflatrbn of the Vulgate Bi
hl , in quarto—-Price, elegantly bound and lettej-
s°f 2 —plain, fix dollars.
18. Devout Christian's Vade Mecurn—Price »
quarter dollar.
19. Think well on't. Price a quarter dollar*
20. Chi iftian Econoiry. Price a fifth of a dollar.
21. History of Charles abridged-
Price a sixth of a dollar. K
22. Poems by Col. Humphreys—Price a
of a dollar.
23. Selett Poems, chiefly American—a
sixth of fc.dQflar.
Said Carey has for fa le, a large assortment ©f
Books, European as well as American editions,
which he will difpole of on the most reafonabU
terms. Country gentlemen, who favor him with
commands, may depend upon being supplied ia
the moil fatisfactory manner. A liberal allowance
to such as purchafc quantities for public librarici
or to (ell agiin.
For Sale, at No. 34, North-Fifth-Street.,
An ALPHABETICAL LIST of the Du(i*i
payable on all Goods, Wares and Merchan
tc imported into the United States; exhibiting
,r Rates payable on those imported in Ships or
VefTcls of the United States, and in Foreign Sh ps
VcfTels ; including the additional Duties '•
which the refpeftive Articles are liable*
. 111
VI. The futiferibers' names be
patrons of the undertaking.
Perhaps there is no science more entertains?
and ufeful than geography. It reveals the disco
veries of travellers—the remarkable curiofmciof
all countries, in nature and art—the fituam )n ot
provinces, cities, towns, villages, rive.s, &
tains in fine, the h: if or y, marine rs, cuflomi, laws
forces, revenues, and government of diffeieut nJ
tions.
It is an old ohfervation, that " there is not a
. Ton or daughter,of Adam, but has some tourer*
| with geography;" and that a knowledge 1 of th„
, fctence is inditpcnfablr towards the Audy of lui«
lory witlv advantage or fati»fa£l>nn. Indeed •
man unacquainted with it, rartnot difcotilfe on the
moll common newspaper topics of the day Without
betraying hii ignorance.
i So mntli for geography gen«r»liy{ With re.
Tpea to the prefeit plan, let itfjfSce to remark,
■ that.Gmhne's Geography has been long ack»o*«
jledgcd to be the best in the £rigUfl» language;
however, the account of America m it
Obvious reasons, been very erroueou, and defec
tive. The errors of former editions will be cor*
rested, and the defefls supplied, by gemleme«o#
abilities, who have engaged to fuperintendttii»
undertaking, and to avail themselves of all the in
formation that can be procured, to render it th«
moll complete edition extant.
. The Printer earnestly folieits the fnpport 0 f hi,
fellow-citizens throughout the United Stages: an A
a» no deposit is required, and every subscriber «iH
be at liberty to withdraw bu name, if, on tr#j.
he Ihould disapprove of the work, he hopes,hi
friends of science, and of American a«t« and ma.
nufaSttres will cheerfully and early patronizethi,
ureM work, the greatest and mod expensive, pro.
bably, ever yet attempted in America, in the typo,
graphical line, the Encyclopaediaexcepted.
Philadelphia, K'ev. «, ,;g 2 . (t'awtf)
800 K S,
PRINTED AND BOJ. D BY
M A T H E VV CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street, Phitadelphi*.
1. A MERICANMUSEUM,fiom itscomrtence.
/iment in January 1787, to June 1701, in
eleven vols. Price, neatly bound and lettered
feventeet. dollars and three fifths.
This work, which is now condutf rd on an im.
provrd plan, containing the best pieces published
for and against the proceedings of government,
will be found to contain at leal) as great a variety
of political, agricultural, and miscellaneous elfrvj
as any ever pu'blifhed in America. Perhaps i n '„ o '
one work are so many valuable documt nurefp<ft.
nig the hi (lory of this country, collected tcether
His Excellency the President of the United Slates"
has declared of it, that '« a more ufeful literary
plan has never been undertaken in America, nor
one more deserving of public encouragement."
The fubferi ption is two dollars and a half per
ann. Gentlemen in the country who widi to
be supplied with this work, are rcqucllrd to give
commission to friends in the city to fubferibe for
and receive ir Any of the back numbers
may be had in order to complete sets.
2. Smith's Letters to Married Women,on Nurf
•ng and the management of Children.
" We recommend these letters to the perusal of
those to whom they are particularlyaddtcffcd."—
Monthly Review, vol. jB, p. 101—Price, bound,
62 cents.
10. Blair's Sermons. Pricc two dollars.
11. Nccker'sTreaiifeon the importanceof Re
ligious Opinions.—Price four-fifths of a dollar.
14* M*Fingal, Pricethree-eighths of a dollar,
15. American Tcft Book. Pricc thret-fifths ot
16. G
11a of the Soul. Pricc half a dollar.